

a
HAPPY DAYS
HAPPY SNAPS
-
.
SSil.a
|§®ilslS
mm
• . i
> t
:,: ««
.
l\vm«
Of all Kodak dealers
and
“Click” goes your Kodak
—and a vivid little picture
is yours for ever! You’re
taking the fun and the
friendships and the holiday
spirit back home with you
—to enjoy over again when-
ever you want to.
The Pocket Kodaks are
smart new models, compact,
light and efficient in every
detail. Just what you need
for week-ends.
£
v
g
X9t
No. /, for pictures 2\ x inches. Price .... 52/6
No. lA, for pictures 2J x4\ inches. Price .... 57/6
Kodak
u
(Australasia) Pty Ltd.
379 George Street, and 108 Market Street, Sydney.
“The Block,” ?**4 Collins Street, Melbourne.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
Flinders Street, Townsville.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
East Street, Rockhampton.
162 Queen Street, Auckland.
40 Princes Street, Dunedin.
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
681 Colombo Street. Christchurch.
The Bulletin
dkhvf- rvu&o Tomxjo ftalhvwte .
Vol. 51.—N0, 2608,
Wednesday, February 5, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'VY/RITE for the Library Catalogue and
” terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
STOTT’S CAN TEACH YOD HOW TO
WRITE CERTAIN-TO-SELL STORIES!
Many students pay for their Complete Course before
it is finished. Send this Coupon for Free Brochure,
“Successful Authorship,’’
To STOTT’S Correspondence College,
100 Russell-street, Melbourne.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 306 ..
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
VN,
S>
HW 3
aW this yeai*.
-AND FOR YEARS TO COME YOU'LL
USE THE SAME BLADE FN YOUR
ROLLS RAZOR
9he ONE-Blade SAFETY
AUTOMATICALLY STROPPED 6- HONED
Obtainable at all hiffh-class Stores. Chemists and Tobacconists. THE ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, MENDES CHAMBERS. CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Learn to
DRAW
Anyone can learn to draw success-
ful ly, provided an aptitude for
study is shown and an earnest
endeavor is exerted to master the
fundamental principles of drawing.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF
DRAWING
teaches you these principles in
easy, concise and interesting les-
sons. Every Student’s work is
corrected and criticised hy Mr.
Weston personally.
The great advantage of Mr.
Weston's method of teaching
drawing )\v. post is that
pupils are taught to DRA\
- —not to .copy,
„ A
r
v.
Wnoras .
&
mim*
Former pupils of the Weston School are now well-known Cartoonists in Australian Newspapers,
and many Weston pupils make money by sketching long before they complete the course.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we will forward you Mr. Weston’s booklet, entitled
"THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,” which tells all about the course and gives examples of
lessons and specimens of students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING.
85 UNION HOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
4
HOUSE ELIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
TILTH.
KILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE
• •
11
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
.Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
The Lindsay Choir
Three books from the Fanfrolico Press,
London, force a glance at a remarkable
family. The Fanfrolico is, of course, Jack
Lindsay; but it is probably as a family
affair as much as individuals that somebody
will someday discover the Lindsays for
Australia.
“Discover” is not belated. In a sense the
Lindsays are very well known. They have
a talent for getting publicity. They are
talked about. If the collective ear doesn’t
alternately burn and glow there is nothing
in old wives’ tales. But it seems doubtful
whether they are really known for what
they are—a sort of artistic conspiracy dedi-
cated to chant in scattered choir a peren-
nial paean to Beauty. That is not a damning
indictment, upon those who may regard
them as an attrition rather than a tradition.
The discords of dunghill and sex that, in
my opinion, they rightly turn loose in their
masculine chant, carry an emphasis that to
many must be more memorable than the
song. It is easy to read, or overhear, that
the “London Aphrodite” heads the expurga-
tion list in Boston and that an American
citizen had been fined for having read
aloud from it; much easier, for instance,
than getting hold of the journal and reading
it, or having a look at Norman Lindsay’s
paint and etchings instead of swallowing
the Mother Grundyisms Upon them, or
examining Percy’s delightful landscapes, or
Lionel’s Spanish etchings, or Daryl’s water-
colors, or Raymond’s promising oils. But
anyone who does take the trouble to do
this must be impressed at once by the way
Beauty is exalted. There is coarseness, but
it is not commonness. The coarseness is
open and unashamed. It comes as an anti-
dote to the poison of this age’s furtive dirt
and Peeping Tom pornography. There is
something robust and manly about it. It
is in the Rabelaisian heritage. And it is
minor. The swell of the song is Beauty.
The three books that tempt this hasty
look round are The Miambs of Herondas,
translated by Jack Lindsay; The London
Aphrodite, edited by Jack Lindsay and P.
R. Stephensen; and Madame Life’s Lovers,
by Norman Lindsay. Each is arresting—
the “Herondas” for its revelation of Jack
Lindsay’s increasing mastery over the blank
verse form and the essence of the drama;
the “Aphrodite” for the stingo in its scorn
of the precious modernists and for more of
Jack Lindsay’s blank verse drama and
gustful humor; the “Lovers” as a philo-
sophical narrative which is at once an en-
gaging piece of writing and an interesting
experiment in dialogue. Additionally, the
“Aphrodite” has vigorous, if wordily clut-
tered, criticism by Jack Lindsay, whimsical
prose by Norman and Phil Lindsay, and
prose or verse of quality by Liam
O’Flaherty, Kenneth Slessor, Karel Capek,
Norman Douglas, Aldous Huxley, T. F.
Powys, Brian Penton, Sacheverell Sitwell,
P. R. Stephensen and W. J. Turner. The
most notable thing about it for the purpose
of this review is the sureness with which
Jack Lindsay’s work dwarfs the rest in
both the “q’s.” Personally, I get very little
kick out of many of his lyrics, but his more
serious verse and his poetic dramas, “The
Damned Deities,” “The Failure” and
“Hate,” have a power of life-giving and a
beauty of expression not readily matched
in any other Australian poet. His char-
acters are especially fine, and so is his
control over them. They move about like
men and women. The den of thieves that
act out “The Failure” are every inch as
choice a bunch as Norman Lindsay’s
“Thieves’ Kitchen” crowd. Zac, the half-
wit failure, who slits the throat of one of
the party who had bullied him, is alone
enough to indicate that a truly great
dramatic work may be expected from Jack
Lindsay’s pen without further notice. The
end of this brief comedy is uncommonly
good:—
Zac ( rising ) : I’ve had enough of you,
Sniggling Ned. Beware of me. I killed him.
I killed him though ye’d all scorn to suspect it,
And I’ll kill all of you that treat me as he did
With cuffs and curses. Aye, I will, I’ll kill you.
I’m a man now as much as any of you,
And there did I show it....
Not but what I’ll beg
Your pardon, Mister Jeremy.... You don’t
despise me,
Do you now? the way they always did....
Killing is easy once you get a start,
I never thought it was when ye all taunted me
For being a shiverer. Why don’t one of you
speak ?
I feel it’s all wrong somewhere, though I can’t
tell
Whereabouts... .you’re hard ones to please
Mister Jeremy, won’t you say something?
I don’t want to be paid, I’ll do it for nothing,
I always wanted to be a great hero,
And now if only you’ll say something
please....
Jeremy: Take him upstairs and hang him from the
window.
Tie the rope to the bedstead where Charles lies.
Hugh : Aye, aye, sir.
Ned: There’s some rope beneath the stairs.
Jeremy: Hurry, we must be far by dawn.
Ned: Here, Zac.
I often thought I’d like the job of hangman,
I’d meet so many friends in the way of business.
Hugh : Aw, it’s a fine night to die on. Come
along, sonny.
Zac: I knew’ something was wrong. Why don’t ye
admire me?
Ye all always said I was a coward....
(They pull him out.)
That same robustness burgeons in the
“Herondas,” where Jack Lindsay’s power of
interpreting bold humor gets to fine heights.
Anyone short of a lady Sunday-school
teacher who doesn’t get a rush of laughter
out. of the second mime is welcome to my
birthright without any haggle over the pot-
tage. The book has a colorful introduction
by Brian Penton, too deliberately shocking
to begin with, but warming up to a good
bit of writing. The story of the other
volume of the trio, “Madam Life’s Lovers.”
is told throughout in dialogue, with itali-
cised interjections from the author breaking
any possible monotony and doing away
with merely explanatory dialogue. The
author’s fancy for taking sides against his
characters is, however, a doubtful business.
They speak well enough for themselves.
Now the cables announce the coming publi-
cation by Faber and Faber of Norman
Lindsay’s novel “Red Heap.” It is to
appear in April, and the publisher’s reader
lias forecasted that it will create an im-
mense impression. John Dailey, who sat up
nearly all night to read the MS. of it, told
me that months ago.
A word is necessary for Fanfrolico print-
ing. Every one is a fine piece of book
making. The “Herondas” is more. It is a
pleasure just to carry it about.
CECIL MANN.
Hymns, New and Otherwise
Of course “Songs of Praise” is, as Dr,
Keith Barry suggests (R.P. 25/12/’29), an
admirable book. In some directions it
shows improvement on its many predeces-
sors. But so far as I know it has not
received official recognition from any Court
of the Church for which it is designed. For
this fact there may be more reasons than
one, and possibly good reasons.
Dr. Barry, in his sweeping condemnation
of modern hymnody, raises many interest--
ing points, more perhaps than he imagines.
For example, there is the sentence, “Theo-
logically speaking, our hymns belong to a
past age, when it was considered quite
correct to enter church on a bright Sunday
morning with sentiments such as
Weary of earth and laden with my sin
I look to Heav’n and long to enter in.”
What have our Anglican friends to say to
this? It has been the custom of the Church
of England for the last 300 years,
and still is to-day, to enter God’s House
with this very sentiment. Whether the
compilers of the Book of Common Prayer
and its recent revisers knew as much of
Christian theology as a writer who derides
the sentiment of penitence, need not be
discussed; nor whether the Church of Eng-
land has based its Order of Service on some
true understanding of the psychology of
worship. Much is involved in these
problems. But the universal practice of
a great church at the present time is surely
worthy of a little more consideration and
respect.
“Here We Suffer Grief and Pain” has been
a very popular hymn with children for
over 100 years; so Dr. Julian says in his
Dictionary of Hymnology. Dr. Barry
derides it. There is an old saying that
the pew is perhaps the best judge of a
sermon; and it may not be amiss to con-
sider the Sunday-school scholar the best
judge of a Sunday-school hymn. This
hymn certainly came up to one of the
recognised principles of modern pedagogics
—it had an intelligent point of contact with
the child heart and the child mind. Dr.
Barry is obviously an optimist—as all wise
men are. Nevertheless, all wise men recog-
nise that there are still innumerable chil-
dren in the world who might well sing
“Here We Suffer Grief and Pain.” Why
should they be denied a simple and true
expression of their daily thoughts and feel-
ings? Dr. Barry suggests as a more suitable
hymn for Sunday-school children the
immortal verse of Robert Browning, “The
Year’s at the Springy” etc. For senior
scholars it might not be impossible, but
the spectacle of tiny tots wrestling with
Browning would be too much for the
gravity of most teachers.
It is evident that to Dr. Barry the main
elements in a satisfactory hymn are literary
and musical excellence. No one of course
despises these virtues. But are there no
other standards even more important than
these? The value of a hymn is surely to
be estimated by its religious appeal and its
spiritual power. If Moody had attempted
his magnificent work on the basis of plain-
song and chorale, and if General Booth had
gone down to the slums of London with
Browning and Bach, what would have hap-
pened? To highly cultured musicians a
certain type of hymn may be an “infliction”
and may “beggar description.” To humbler
folks it may be a ladder reaching up to
Heaven; and if so, why should it be reviled?
The suitability of a hymn, both in words
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Every statement made by Anthony Horderns’ is supported by “Truth in Advertising!
they’re coming to
Anthonym
(The Senior Store)
L
1M
CKNS
£
A
\
KJ / / / v - y r
M// / v_
-~A. V
iS
SO"
oA
6 emm
SALE
—and the only reason they’re not coming from the East is
because that’s the Pacific Ocean. Why ? Because of
genuine reductions from genuine prices, the values are
incomparable. For example, the items below.
Important Savings in Men’s Mercery
The men’s work shirts that are listed below are Anthony
Horderns’ own make —an assurance that each shirt is cut full
and strongly sewn. British fabrics and reliable weavings are
factors which make for longer life in workmen’s wear.
4/11 Striped Harvard Work Shirts, 4/6
These men’s shirts have yoke shoulder, collar and pocket.
Price 4/11
Sale price 4/S
5/3, 5/9 Double Back Shirts, 4/9, 5 3
These are men’s striped Harvard work shirts with 6in. double
backs, collar and pocket.
Prices 5/3 and 5/9
Sale prices 4/9 and 5/3
With 9in. double back.
Prices 6/6 and 8/-
Sale prices 6/- and 7/6
6/6 Khaki Work Shirts, 5/11
Strong wear is assured in these fine shirto, with collar and
pocket.
Price 6/6
Sale Price 5/11
5/11 Grey Twist Work Shirts, 5/6
These are Harvard shirts, tough and durable, with collar and
pocket.
Price 5/11
Sale price 5/6
w
The men’s pyjama suits which appear on this page are cut
full and excellently finished. They are made of splendid
wearing British weaves.
7/6 Striped Pyjamas, 6/9
Made of summer-weight flannelette.
Price 7/6
Sale price 6/9
10/6, 14/6 Poplin Pyjamas, 8/6, 13/-
Men’s summer-weight pyjamas in dressy stripe^.
Price 10/6 and 14/6
Sale price 8/6 and 13/-
13/6 Oxford Pyjamas, 12/6
Men’s striped pyjamas; stout weave; excellent wear assured.
Price 13/6
Sale price . . . 12/6
Men’s Undershirts Reduced
Now is a good time to buy a quantity of underwear. The
prices are low and the quality excellent.
7/6, 8/6 Flannel Undershirts, 6/9, 7/9
Cut full to allow for shrinkage; in natural Dark Grey or Cream.
Prices 7/6 and 8/6
Sale prices 6/9 and 7/9
Also heavy-weight Cream flannel.
Price 9/6
Sale price , 7/6
1/9, 2/3 Athletic Singlets, 1/6, 1/11
Men’s white cotton singlets; elastic knit; no sleeves; bound
with Art Silk. Sizes 34 to 44 inch chest.
Prices . . . 1/9 and 2/3
Sale prices 1/6 and 1/11
Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carnage.
Anthony Horderns
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Owners are daily
duplicating Marquette’s
early per-
formance
records
m
H
*' >-. M
: fill
'.a Mm
izi+xrzjn
•tat
m
Xt*
S 8
'HE few short months which followed the intro-
-*■ duction of Marquette to Australia have been
remarkable for the swift acceptance of this Buick-
built product of General Motors by a motor-wise
public. Grit and pluck are qualities which have a
tremendous appeal to Australians, and there is no
doubt of the public approval of the business-like and
competent manner in which Marquette set about
establishing itself.
The more so, because Marquette’s performance
records were simply taken in its stride. Owners
daily duplicate them whenever necessary. No special
preparations are required.
Marquette—great performer
that it is—answers the de-
mands of its driver with the
stout heart you would expect
of a car engineered and built
m
$
Ma#
by Biiick. And in its nonchalant response
you sense instinctively the stamina, the
staying power, the endurance so vital in
Australian motoring.
The Marquette is distributed through-
out Australia by Buick dealers. As does
every General Motors car, it carries the
General Motors Warranty. Its cost can
be spread out over a convenient period by
means of the G.M.A.C. convenient pay-
ment plan. Important, too, is the fact
that Buick service stations throughout
the Commonwealth are equipped to serve
Marquette owners.
Golden Marquettes are now touring the Common-
wealth. Their distinctive color makes it easy for
you to pick them out: watch them on the street and
on the road! Local dealers are arranging demon-
stration rides —treat yourself to twenty minutes in this
great performer!
Prices from £365
(Subject to Change Without Notice)
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
METROPOLITAN MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
BOYD EDKINS, LTD.,
109 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
PRESTON MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
114 Franklin Street,
MELBOURNE
CITY MOTORS, LTD.,
95 WaymcAith Street,
ADELAIDE.
OLDFIELD MOTORS,
Munster House, Murray Street, PERTH.
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane • Sydney • Melbourne * Adelaide • Perth
Mamuette
BUILT BY BUICtL
It s a CjCTiCTdI Motors Car — look inside and note the difference !


Hawaii
A GLORIOUS HOLIDAY IN
EVERYBODY’S REACH
Honolulu is only a fortnight away; an island paradise of romance
and haunting music, a flower-strewn paradise; and what delights,
enrapturing pastimes, diversities of scene, and native life, like the
diving boys, await you here.
Hawaii offers you the world’s finest climate, luscious tropical
fruits, active volcanoes, interesting inter-island cruises, palm
shaded beaches, all forms of sporting life, golf, tennis, fishing—
the most perfect holiday you will ever have. You should arrange
to stay at least a week.
Special return excursion steamer fares now available. Modern
hotel accommodation 15/- to £3 per day, with meals. Through
travellers pay no extra to break the journey at Honolulu.
Send us your address and we will forward to you descriptive
booklets of the Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in colour.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept. IV Sox 1627 8.8., G.P.O, SYDNEY
and music, must surely be determined, to
some extent, by its appeal to those who
use it.
(REV.) J. B. GALIDWAY.
Those who have writhed in hymnal agony
owe much to Dr. Barry. He gets support
from many clerics. Recently, in Adelaide,
Edward Lucas, the ex-Agent-General of his
State, at a Methodist Conference expressed
a pious hope for a decent book of hymns.
Rev. W. A. Potts, also of Adelaide, laid
it down as a fact that the Methodist
book contained “bad poetry, poor music
and worse religion.” Rev. Brian Wib-
bcrley, Mus. Bac., prays for a book to
suit all Christians. Rev. R. J. R. Delbridge,
of Childers (Bananaland), says, “I feel
there are many hymns that ought to bo
scrapped.” Yet he goes on to say (and
this is a polite indictment, surely): “Much
of our singing of hymns is commensurate
with the level of intelligence of those who
sing them The majority of ministers
are with you in your argument that a
•revised book is badly needed.”
I would like to lay odds that not a dozen
thinking men or women gifted with an ear
for the poetic could rise from a half-hour’s
reading of a hymnary and honestly say that
he had “had a feast of fat things.” Dr.
Barry has covered his subject so well that
it seems an impudence to add to his on-
slaught, It seems to be a pity, though,
that the glorious language of the Psalms
should be twisted and murdered for the
sake of finding a rhyming version. For
instance, after conning Psalm xxiii it is
nauseous to listen to: —
The Lord’s my Shepherd, I’ll not want
He makes me down to lie
In pastures green. He leadeth me
The quiet waters by.
If this is not sacrilege, then this writer has
no idea what sacrilege is.
SCOTIA.
About Mrs. Eddy: Final Extra
Joseph F. Turner, of the Christian Science
Committee on Publication, says (R.P.
15/l/’3O) in effect that E. F. Dakin’s bio-
graphy of Mrs. Eddy is not “well balanced
and scientific.” In support he affirms:—
The publisher of the book declined an offer from
the authorities of the Christian Science Church to
check the manuscript for accuracy and veracity.
To accept such an absurd offer meant de-
livering the book into the hands of the
Publication Committee, which is simply a
press bureau, with a highly-paid manager
whose headquarters are in Boston; and
whose chief work is to warn the faithful
(if necessary by inserting articles and para-
graphs paid for at advertising rates) that
another “attack” has been launched against
the Church. The faithful thereupon auto-
matically do not read the “attack.”
A quite modest country home in Concord (N.H.).
Modest? It was originally a farmhouse.
Mrs. Eddy bought it in 1892 and imme-
diately had it remodelled. She added bow-
windows and verandahs, built a porte-
cochere at the front of the house and a
tower at the south-east corner. She also
added a fountain, a boat-house and a fish-
pond with a fine clump of willows. Gradu-
ally more land was added to the estate,
the stables were enlarged and a house was
built for the gardener. Modest?
The most important item in the list of
charges against Mrs. Eddy is that her
officials lived in constant dread of excom-
munication. “All have been amply dis-
proved time and again,” says Mr. Turner.
I have been collecting evidence for and
against Christian Science for 20 years, and
concerning each of the items mentioned I
have ample evidence that the charges have
not been disproved. As for the officials
who were “excommunicated,” can Mr. Tur-
ner deny that any person named in the fol-
lowing list was not “excommunicated”:
George W. Barry, Richard Kennedy, George
H. Tuttle, Charles S. Stanley, Daniel Spof-
fard (these five before the actual chartering
of the Church on August 23, 1879), Miss A.
A. Draper (secretary of the church), Mrs.
F. A. Damon and eight others, who revolted
in 1881 against what they termed the “ebul-
litions of temper, love of money and the
appearance of hypocrisy” of their leader;
Mrs. Abby H. Corner, who attended her
own daughter in childbirth, with the result
that the mother and baby died (Mrs. Eddy
promptly denounced her in the Boston
“Herald”); Dr. Ebenezer Johnson Foster,
adopted by Mrs. Eddy as her son and vir-
tually excommunicated in the spring of
1896; Josephine Curtis Woodbury, who had
an “immaculate conception,” in exemplifi-
cation of Mrs. Eddy’s theory of “mental
generation.” This was too strong for Mrs.
Eddy, who disclaimed the lady and called
her child “an imp of Satan.”
As for Mr. Turner’s pooh-poohing of the
claim made by Dakin that “Mrs. Eddy
was indebted to P. P. Quimby for some
ideas contained in Christian Science,” at
this moment I have by my side a photo-
graph of the title page and part of the
first page of a manuscript from which Mrs.
Eddy (then Mrs. Glover) taught a Mrs.
Wentworth the system of mental healing
which she ascribed to P. P. Quimby. I
wonder if Mr. Turner can “demonstrate”
away the facts that Mrs. Eddy (then Mrs.
Patterson) was a patient and a pupil of
Quimby; that she publicly defended his
theory in the Portland “Courier,” Novem-
ber 7, 1862; that, on the death of Quimby,
she wrote a letter, dated February 14, 1866,
in which she asserts that by Quimby’s
methods she cured herself of being “a help-
less cripple”; and lastly, that Mrs, Eddy
sold copies of a Quimby MS. to her early
students for 300 dollars each?
T. L. W.
The remarks of Joseph F. Turner are
such a tissue of ingenious evasions that it
is difficult at one sitting to nail them all
down. He says Mrs. Eddy was not in
the habit of taking drugs; but her own
directors admitted (“Christian Science Sen-
tinel, ’ January 26, 1929) that she “em-
ployed, in a few instances, an anaesthetic
for the purpose of temporary relief from
extreme pain,” He denies that she built
a palace, but he omits to mention that she
left personal estate valued at 3,000.000
dollars, although she spent her life preach-
ing the non-existence of material things.
He denies that Mrs. Eddy was indebted foi-
lier ideas to P. P. Quimby, but he omits to
mention that she wrote an introduction,
signed with her own name, to Quimby’s
“Questions and Answers,” and that in sub-
sequent copyings the introduction, possibly
in a moment of forgetfulness, became
merged with the text and that she copv-
righted the treatise in 1870, under her own
name.
However, none of these things matters
very much. The really important point
is that Mrs. Eddy died, a fact which, appar-
ently, Mr. Turner does not deny. The
logical fulfilment of Mrs. Eddy’s philosophy
of life was immortality here on earth, a
belief which many of her followers, notably
Mrs. Stetson, enthusiastically held up to the
time of their founder’s demise.
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
The Structure of Asia, edited by J. W.
Gregory (Methuen). The professor of geo-
logy at Glasgow University, well known for
his contributions to the White Australia
controversy, here collects the latest data on
the geological and geographical history of
Asia. A book solely for the technician.
In The Shadow, by Tod Robbins (Elkin
Mathews and Marrot). A French family
loses its head, a masterful mother. The
reactions of the loss on each member of
the household are traced in. detail, with
the sardonic humor of the true humanist.
A brilliant piece of psychology, artistically
handled.
Thor stein of the Mere, by W. G. Colling-
wood (Heinemann), gives a picture of the
English Lake Country as it was a thousand
years ago. The writer is England’s leading
authority on the place and period, and he
imparts a vast amount of antiquarian infor-
mation in the course of a thrilling yarn about
the _ Norsemen who inhabited Westmoreland
during the wars of the Saxon kings.
,'f he Wasted Island, by Eimar O’Duffv
(Macmillan), was written after the Irish
insurrection which culminated in the shell-
ing of Dublin and before the Free State
settlement. It is issued now in a revised
form, but its note of puzzled hopelessness
remains. The interest and value of this
vast passionate book consist chiefly in its
brilliant statement of the Sinn Fein case
against England and in the picture which
it gives of Lascelles, the aflluent Dublin
youth who, after being educated in England,
turned rebel. Clumsy and over-discursive as
a novel, but a valuable historical document.
The Way of Echen, by James Branch
Cabell (John Lane), is chiefly a cry of dis-
illusionment. Alfgar gives up liis splendid
kingdom of Ecben, and all else, to follow
liis appointed lady in domnei, and towards
the end of his life finds her:—
So the old romantic knelt, and he kissed the hands
of this girl who appeared, after all, quite nice-
looking in an unpretentious fashion.... For to the
eyes which time had given him the face of one
woman was very much like that of any other woman.
There is a personal significance in this some-
what hackneyed theme. Cabell has found
his literary Etarre. He has nothing new
to say, and so he will never write another
book—he is too old at 50. That, anyhow,
is his present idea; but his admirers will
remember that the pursuit of the star of
fame is rarely abandoned in this casual
manner and be consoled.
The Self-named William Shakespeare, ■ by
Alfred Mudie, and Shakespeare’s Sonnets
Lmnasked, by Bertram G. Theobald
(Palmer). Books that ardent Baconians
ought to rush. The “unmasking” in the
second is done through cipher and acrostic,
which go to show that even sonnets can be
made to prove anything. The other book
is amply described in its full title- “The
Self-named William Shake-speare The Prince
of Wales Born Legitimate but Unacknow-
ledged : Son of IT. M. Queen Elizabeth and
the Earl of Leicester: Baptised in the False
Aa me of Francis Bacon; Philosopher,
Dramatist, Poet and Arch-Martyr. There-
after Named Viscount St. Albans.” None
but a glutton would ask for a more complete
revelation.
Witch Hunting and Witch Trials, by C.
L’Estrange Ewen (Kegan Paul). A careful
and eminently sensible inquiry into the
indictments for witchcraft in Britain be-
tween 1559 and 1730. The writer briefly
sketches the" Biblical and other ancient
origins of the sport, details the curious
methods of discovery employed in England
and Scotland, and gives a list of hundreds
of abstracts of indictments, with sample
summonses and court records of eases The
book is much more valuable than the average
inquiry into the history of the black arts
in Britain through being untainted by relig-
ious or other prejudices. The author evades
details of the more loathsome features of his
topic but indicates what they were leaving
logically arranged facts to ‘tell their own
grim story. The book has considerable wry
huinoi, but even that springs from plain
statement of fact, as, for instance, the typi-
cal prison record that Rebecca ’ West ‘ of
Lawford, spinster, did entertain “three’evil
spirits, one in the likeness of a grey cat
called ‘Germany,’ another in the likeness of
a white cat called ‘Newes,’ another in the
likeness of a young man called ‘her hus-
band. The volume, admirably turned out,
is quaintly illustrated with contemporary
drawings. r *
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluie
tdrily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unhss stamps accompany.
Australian: Thanks; and nobody knows
better than we that the change was called f0r....
W.S.A.: Thanks, thanks; we could fill the column
with those words this week. And then our grati-
tude wouldn’t be exhausted. ... E.R.R.: Can’t quite
swallow it. But there’s merit in the telling....
V.1.L.: Too tiresomely sophisticated.... Hinemoa:
Spoiled by the patchy dialect or whatever it i 5....
R.E.8.; The melodrama is too thick. .. .F.O. : Very
well written, but you don’t make us believe you.
. ...1.W.: No, with regrets; the characters don’t
ring true. ... Wigan : Poor stuff.... John E.: Yes,
but what did he do it for?. .. . J.P.M.: See “Wild
Cat” page 15/1/’30.. . .Weed: Quite true. But
don’t forget the conditions under which those men
live and work. If they were brought up in a
High Court atmosphere they simply couldn’t do
their job... .X.0.E.: Clad to hear your “short”
story of 328 foolscap pages entitled “Redeemed; or
Justice Succeeds,” was read by the Governor of
Tasmania. Now we know what Governors are for.
. ...L.C.: “Moonlight” mere moonshine....
H.G.McG.; “Tasmania” pure tosh.... K.C.: Imagery
rather rocky... .Nullaroo: Needs an injection of
Voronof No. 1... . S.S.: Has merit, but seems unneces-
sary after sundry poets on the same theme. ... M.L.:
Long way off the target F.W.A.; Official weight-
lifter carried it to the flames. .. .T.R.: Have hopes
for you. Get over that airy-fairy complex and
lash out with a bit of feeling.. . .Sam Slocum: “How
the Heck” indicates that you ought to cut down
your movie allowance... .P.M.0.: Have smelt things
like that before and disliked them violently....
M.C.D.: Try again ; but you’ll have to watch rhyme •
closer and tighten the contents up....1v.G.: Wobbles
like an ungirthed saddle... .M.W.Y.: “Ultimate” is,
more of a pen-ultimate. . » .C.S.: Even a sonnet needs
to move. ...K.W.: Glad to know, anyway, that
Dusk is that season ’twixt the day and night
When every creature slippeth off in haste.
It speaks well for the banana industry. . . . A.M.M.:
Can’t let the blue wren do his wooing here....
E.L.M.; “Enclosed please find rough verse.” Same
to y0u.... D. 11.: You'll have to seek the Beauti-
ful a little longer. No evidence that you’ve found
anything like her... .Rapassi: Might be good advice,
but it’s not much as verse.... R'.B.J.: “Shop-dom.”
Not to mention Muse dumb... . Fanuela: Lack only
feeling. .. .Joseph Pendeen: Suspect Helen has been
dieting. She’s uncommonly thin.... Sandy: Both in
need of smelling salts. .. .K.K.: Can’t spar up any
confetti for that wedding. .. .G. 8.: Second stanza so
good that it nearly carried the poor other ones in.
. ...B.I.: Quite well done, but that’s the best that
can be said for it....G.W.: Sunday morning idyll of
Suburbia :
Ten o’clock. All’s well.
The wife’s snoring like Hell.
I’ll quietly get up^
And bring her in some sup,
And a tea-cup ;
For all week for me
Does she not first get up?
I bring in her tea.
Says she,
“Who made these slops ?
I’ve a good mind to ring the cops.
- It might be poison.
It’s certainly slops.”
. ...H.W.8.; Doesn’t carry conviction... .S.S. (Bris-
bane): Hereby certify that “O.B.” (B. 22/l/’3O) is
not yourself.. . . K.L.S.: Can’t place the Milne parody.
... .C.W.P.: Have heard that idea before. ... A.W.lf.:
No room for old tales retold... .O.B.: One for
William:—
They got the poor old man drunk ;
Ninety was poor old Bill ;
But pint after pint the brave old man sunk,
And he drank it with a will !
. ... J.A.li.: A conventional ort of an evening, isn’t
it ?. . . .8.05.: Has a pleasing lilt in it. Have another
shot.... Sunburnt Digger: Falls off at the end, after
buoying up hope... .S.A.P.: “Summer Storms'’
failed to put out the old furnace... .L.L.8.: Regret
to hear that verse stated to have been burnt got
back to you. That’s the worst of writing on as-
bestos paper... .J.C.McD.; Treatment is good, but
thought is wood.. ...Belly R.: Really a bright idea.
Pity it has been patented by all the publishers of
tripe. ...R.M.L.; Desire’ to “the lady in stone with
life endow” and take her with you “’neath a shaded
bough” approved by Religious Editor... .G.H.W.:
Can’t use the verse, and what’s the covering letter
all about?... .R.F.K.: Ancestral tree barren....
A.V.S.: Explanation accepted... .G.R.: Tired of Tales
that turn out to be dreams... .A.S.: “June’s Secret”
is now February’s rejection.... H.M.C.: Tall, even
for a tiger yarn... . G.E.: Story with almost the
same title was in Christmas Bulletin. .. .Z.V.W.:
Just one of the miracles that don’t happen....
E.K.P.: No “Luck”.... V.W.: You’ve wasted enough
blood for a small Avar... .G.T.: “Googy came”—
and went.. . .1.H.; Neither quite suitable.... H. 8.:
Chronicle and fairy-tale ill-matched.... L.L.W.: Story
of dalliance with a “blonde fathead of a waitress” off
the menu. .. . J.K.J.: Red-headed stone-age men are
not the fashion they were.... A.D.: No port for
“Ships that Pass”. .. .E.A.C.: Put it aside to grow.
. ...S.S.S.: Uns-s-suitable... .M.E.S.: Note that you
reserve the copyright. Wouldn’t infringe it for
worlds... .P.M.Q.: A fir£t edition of Conrad’s “Out-
cast of the Islands” would be worth about a pound.
. ...K.W.: Joyce, the author of “Ulysses,” is a
Dubliner, born Feb. 2, 1882. .. . J.A.: Marie Stopes’s
books have been published by Blackie, Heinemann,
Cape, Putnam and Gill ; Hicks and Co., 315 Pitt-
street, Sydney, are publishers’ agents, and you should
write to them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.U.S.: More Ethiopian than Australian ... .C.D.:
The week’s worst... .S.YV.: Landlady would have a
worse grievance if you showed her that drawing. ...
A.M.C.: Spoilt by vague and unnecessary lines....
W.G.R.: Nothing funny in the nipper’s retort....
R.S. : Might suit some other paper... .D.A.K.: Same
applies to y0u....D.5. Lots of room for improve-
ment... .T.P.: Insignificant.... E.G.P.: No use for
Fatty. .. . N.T.: Details of uniform may be correct but
nothing else i5....H.R.: Very juvenile. .. .E.N.8.:
Don’t let a few rejections discourage you ; study is
the word. . . .H.S.W.: No more of those atrocities.
. ...J.S.: Hopeless drawings; antiquated gags....
T.0.D.: Almost invisible pencil sketches perpetrated
on note-paper... .C.M.: Too rigid... .F.L.H.: That
joke was disinterred at Jericho.


ŵ


The Bulletin
Vol. 51. —No. 2608.
February 5, 1930.
ANOTHER CRUSADE GONE WRONG.
“The Beaverbrook -Melchett scheme for forcing Freetrade on the Empire was talked out in the Commons, members pointing out that an insuperable obstacle
was the self-governing dominions’ tariff walls.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21 ) t George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : SO Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. Od.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Od.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: lOoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE REMARKABLE LINDSAYS—
By Cecil Mann .. .. .. .. 2
HYMNS, NEW AND OTHERWISE—
By (Rev.) J. B. Galloway .. .. ..2
MORE ABOUT MRS. EDDY 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY REASON . . .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Confer! Confer! .. .. 8
BUBBLE AND BURST OF HATRY—
By James Edmond . . . . . . . . 8
“THE BULLETIN’S” THANKS . . .. 8
THE GREAT GAME OF MAKING JOBS .. 8
COMMONWEALTH STOCK AT 85 . . . . 9
FUDDLED, MUDDLED JURIES . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoon by lan Gall) 10
POVERTY POINT 11
THE SAMSONS OF 1930
A drawing by Percival . . .. .. 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..13
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
SULPHIDE CORPORATION 18
VICTORIA NYANZA SUGAR 18
N.S.W. BLUE METAL QUARRIES . . . . 18
MYER EMPORIUM (S.A.) 18
ANOTHER LIFE OFFICE—A WARNING '.. 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
WESTRALIAN SOILS 28
GRADING WHEAT 28
EELWORMS ON PLANT ROOTS . . . . 28
EGGS BRANDED AND OTHERWISE . . . . 28
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 31
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . . . 32
PEN AND PICTURE .. ‘ 35
NEWEST TALKIES 35
GOSSIP OF THE INKY WAY 35
PHIL MAY’S CONTRACT WITH “THE
“BULLETIN” ' 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 36
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
ROSEHILL RACES 39
EPSOM RACES 39
SHEFFIELD CRICKET 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
New Serial—" Men Are Human”—
By Vance Palmer . . .. 47, 51, 52
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. ..48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
Two Complete Stories—
UNTOLD TALES OF BULLY HAYES—
“BEAUTY AND A BUCCANEER,” by
Albert Dorrington . . . . .. 55, 57
“DAN AND SAM,” by W. E. Brenton .. 57, 58
VERSE —By Roderic Quinn, R. Crawford, Elsie
Cole .. 52, 58
NEXT WEEK.
“The Goat Plaintiffs,” by F. Hives and
G. Lumley.
"At Emu Plains,” by J. H. M. Abbott.
Vance Palmer’s Prize Story, "Men Are
Human,” magnificently illustrated by
Daryl Lindsay.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1930.
CONFER! CONFER!
The Bulletin has already insisted that the
only way to reach a satisfactory and last-
ing settlement of the trouble in the coal
trade is for the parties to meet again, and
still again if necessary; and it has suggested
that Justice Isaacs might crown a long
career of public usefulness by taking the
part of mediator. To this the “S. M.
Herald” replies that the only way to a satis-
factory and lasting settlement is by crush-
ing the Communists. The crushing of Com-
munists may be as necessary as the “S. M.
Herald” says it is; but what shall we do if
the Communists next take it into their
addled heads to go fire-bugging? Shall we
say that the proper thing to do is to neglect
the fires that have already broken out and
concentrate on the men who caused them?
The obvious thing to do will be to put
out the fires, lest they get entirely beyond
control; after that to prevent further out-
breaks, all the time dealing firmly with
every incendiary. That is the correct pro-
gramme now.
Very few of these northern miners are really
Communists: nine-tenths of them are hard-
working, law-abiding Australian citizens with
no political bees under their caps. But
for nearly 12 months they have been suf-
fering under what they believe to be a
wrong. They had an award in their in-
dustry. In the face of that award the mines
were closed. The Bulletin believes the
award was all wrong, and that the owners
of many of the mines could not afford to
pay the award rates. But that does not
alter the fact of the award, or that Ihe
miners had, or believed they had, a griev-
ance in the closing of the mines. They
had been duped and deluded by the legis-
lation under which the futile award was
made; they have been cruelly duped and
shamefully deluded ever since—by Theo-
dore and the other vote-catchers of the
Labor party before the last election, and
since then by one award after another as
futile as the first. Can we really wonder
very much if their faith in the law wears
thin? Surely our first duty is to reclaim
these men, to strain every nerve to get
them back to work, and so end those con-
ditions which are driving them into the
arms of the Communists.
Of course the law must be maintained.
But it is no use humbugging ourselves into
the belief that we shall get at the real
Communists, the international mischief-
makers, by gaoling the men who go out
and foolishly commit crimes of violence.
That is why any plan for ending this
trouble by wholesale arrests will fail—the
wrong people will be arrested.
It is true that without any conference
at all hunger may force the men back to
work on terms satisfactory to the owners.
But that will not be a satisfactory settle-
ment. Next to the storming and seizing of
the mines, nothing would suit the Soviet-
party better. Maybe in the present insuffi-
cient development of their plans, nothing
would suit them as well. They would have
a thoroughly discontented community to
work upon. They would be able to point
to the failure of the law to do what it
promises to do. The one argument on the
other side that seems to have any weight
at all in this connection is that the miners
may realise that disorder does them no
good. There would be force in that if they
had been disorderly throughout. But for
seven months there was no violence, no
disorder whatever. And that got them no-
where. Order or disorder, the Bolshevik
will inevitably put it to them, they can
get nothing out of the existing social sys-
tem. Of course, it is rubbish. But it is
plausible rubbish, and it will find men in a
peculiarly receptive state of mind.
A cable message which the “S. M. Herald”
itself published last week was to the effect
that some Soviet grand council or
other in Russia had instructed its
agents of revolution in Australia to
concentrate on the unemployed. Of
all unemployed they will find the men who
believe they have been locked out from
their employment the most dangerous in-
struments. Compared with the removal of
this large body from the influence of the
internationalist wreckers, nothing else—not
even the resuscitation of the coal trade—
is of much consequence. If it could be
done by the removal of the corps of mis-
chief-makers, The Bulletin might let the
plan go. But there is not the faintest hope'
of success that way. Not one of them has
been gaoled during the recent troubles, and
not one of them is likely to be. On the
other hand, the gaoling or even the shoot-
ing of a few miners now and again suits
the revolutionary purpose admirably: and
the better known and more notoriously
well-behaved these men the better. The
one thing against which these wreckers will
work in vain is a good steady job. Put
a man in that, and the roving revolutionary
will find him deaf nine times out of ten.
Hence the supreme importance of getting
these mines at work. And the entire weight
of public opinion ought to be brought to
bear upon the more sober section of both
employers and employees to bring this
about. If starvation is not to have the last
word, there must be a conference, assuming
(as we may) the ineffectiveness of courts
and awards under any known law, and
peace through starvation will breed only
trouble.
“THE BULLETIN” AS AN OPTIMIST.
John Bull supports a Trade Commissioner
in Australia, though the fact isn’t widely
known, and a report alleged to be his work
has appeared. The gist of it has been
cabled this way, with some newspaper
comments. Its general effect is that there
is still room “for considerable additions to
British exports to Australia.” It is added
that, “while deprecating continuance of over-
borrowing, assets and potentialities justify
a greater national debt than exists.”
It is unfortunate that J. Bull speaks to
Australia with two voices, which are equally
confident and fatherly, yet wholly disagree.
One voice says that Australia should
buy more British goods, though this little
community is already the second-best ex-
ternal customer for British goods, and that
our efforts to encourage the making of
things for ourselves by means of the tariff
amount to an iniquity. The other is a
financial voice which says that the habit
of borrowing to pay interest, instead of
doing with less imports, has become dan-
gerous, and that loans are “off” to a great
extent.
According to the latest published official
information (1928-29) the Commonwealth
possessed more sheep than it ever had
before, produced more wool than it ever
did before, and had more acres under
wheat than ever before. And it fell into
a bigger hole than it ever fell into before,
having to commandeer the banks’ gold re-
serves for the first time. This wasn’t be-
cause the external loans fell off to a greater
degree than ever before, but because the
refusal of £1 in London is a greater’embar-
rassment to the Australia of 1929 than the
refusal of a million would have been to
the Australia of 1908. So the Scullidore
Government wisely got busy on the tariff
(though unwisely it didn’t get busy
enough), recognising that, however fine the
assets and potentialities and natural re-
sources may be, they are the kind of
reinforcement which doesn’t reach the
battlefield soon enough. In other words,
the Scullidores resolved (though it is feared
that they didn’t resolve hard enough) that
Australia must import a great deal less of
manufactured goods, and, if the loss falls
on Britain in a great measure, it can only
be regretted that the Old Man didn’t
manage better.
In making these few well-chosen remarks
The Bulletin isn’t joining the ranks of
the pessimists. In its belief that Australia,
provided it cares to exert itself, can do
without new external loans except for re-
newal purposes, and can gradually pay off
old ones, it is almost the only optimist in
sight.
THE BUBBLE AND BURST OF HATRY.
The great collapse of the Hatry group of
companies in England has been so far
cleaned up that the loss has been set down
at £13,500,000. Something else has been
summed up and divided, Clarence Hatry’s
share being 14 years in gaol, while three
directors of minor importance divide 15
years among them. Another director fled to
his native land of Italy, and Italian law has
decided that he is comparatively safe while
he stays there, as the country’s extradition
treaty doesn’t bind it to surrender a sub-
ject of its own for trial abroad. Still, it
isn’t bound to refuse him, and some day
when it wants a loan it may hand Mr. Gial-
dini over as a sign of good feeling. Though
the smash was of heroic dimensions, it took
a very short time in preparation. The
Austin Friars Trust, which was the big dog
of the menagerie, was founded in 1927.
The objects for which the companies were
formed and the work they were supposed
to do are rather indefinite. One of the main
purposes of the Austin Friars Trust was
“the acquisition of shares in existing steel
companies,”—not the making of steel—and
it raised £4,000,000 for this purpose. In
other words, it was a “holding company,”
which is a fashionable kind of thing, and
not unknown to Australia. This industry,
in its more advanced form, consists in
creating several companies, the chief visible
employment of each being to hold the shares
of another, or part of the shares of several
others. Then the position may be rounded
off by the establishment of a parent con-
cern which will hold the shares of the lot,
and dabble in outside interests as well,
singly or in partnership with kindred spirits,
either neat or diluted.
In the course of its exciting career the
Hatry combine brought discredit on a
moderately respectable industry—the flota-
tion of loans. Its general attitude was that
it was a bright young financial child with
all its future before it, and capable of
securing money for its clients on better
terms than worn-out contraptions like the
Bank of England. It was on its first legs,
while they were on their last. Its dealings
were mostly with municipalities, but it
might have worked up to undertaking a
£10,000,000 loan for Theodore and mislaying
£5,000,000 of it if its career hadn’t left off.
Its ’ loan branch had two chief failings.
Sometimes it didn’t account for the money,
and sometimes it accounted for it twice
over, printing the receipt in duplicate and
pawning the extra lot with confiding bankers.
The world is strangely well furnished with
bankers who are wonderfully confiding when
approached by an elegant crook clad in dyed
garments from Bozrah. There is still an
element of mystery about the Bidwells,
youngish and superbly-hatted gentlemen
from the United States, who nonchalantly
dropped forged bills on the counters of
leading London banks, and had them dis-
counted till all was blue, including the
bankers. The great difficulty about dupli-
cate debentures or double-barrelled scrip
is that documents of the sort require to be
registered some day, and that is almost
certainly fatal. Even the best swindler can’t
postpone registration for ever on the plea
that he has an urgent appointment, or that
his dog is sick.
There were 56 charges against Hatry and
Co., but only three of the least intricate,
dealing with swindles on municipal corpora-
tions, were pushed to a finish at a cost of
£6666 13s. 4d. each. The other half-hundred
were put in cold storage as a matter of
economy, but they will apparently be avail-
able should the present conviction be upset
on appeal. Thus the public is left short
of valuable information as to how to go
and do likewise. Everything began with
the disap jiearance of li millions of the
four millions which the Austin Friars
Trust raised for a gamble in steel shares
It may have been a dull affair of backing
the wrong horse, that being how trust
money is liable to go, but even then it
would be a satisfaction to know the name
of the horse, and how much it lost by. Very
occasionally the funds go in backing the
wrong woman, but it takes on an average
15 women to equal one horse.
- This reticence leaves the story in the
same unsatisfactory state as the typical
mammoth steal of fiction. The novelist
doesn’t tell how his fraud was worked be-
cause he can’t think out the way to do a
mammoth lf one of the tribe ever
did think out a way he probably dropped
fiction on the spot, and fled like a hunted
hare to the Stock Exchange, and made a
success instead of getting into gaol, so his
secret died with him. Dickens depicted
Merdie as a financier of unparalleled pro-
portions, and his fall, which was as unex-
pected as his suicide, left London practi-
cally in ruins. Yet apart from the fact
that he owned a bank, the sort of thing
which might happen to anybody, his activi-
ties were left very indistinct. Lever’s
Davenport Dunn was also a vast fraud of
the rather hazy sort who owned a bank.
He had all his plans laid for leaving his
creditors in the lurch without either bolt-
ing or going to gaol or sinking into
poverty. His methods weren’t clearly ex-
plained, but he proposed to retire to the
House of Lords as an honored swindler—
only Grog Davis slew him. And Walter
Besant devised a Yankee oil millionaire of
the largest size whose fortune vanished in
an hour leaving him with a dishonored
cheque. His man of business did it, but
what the man of business did with it was
very badly explained. Clarence Hatry
and his pals are left in a rather similar haze.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Thank You.
On Thursday morning people in Sydney
and Melbourne were combing those cities
for copies of The Bulletin’s Jubilee Num-
ber; and orders were coming in for further
supplies from every other Australian capital.
It is regretted that it was not possible to
satisfy the entirely unexpected demands.
The Bulletin had hoped that the issue
would be well received. It was not pre-
pared for such an overwhelming reception.
But quite as gratifying was the flood of
messag'es of congratulation that poured in
upon this 50th anniversary. One gave par-
ticular pleasure. It was from the N. S.
Wales Institute of Journalists, through A.
H. Chisholm, the president:—
It is a peculiar pleasure for me to tender
on behalf of the Institute of Journalists
fraternal congratulations to you and your
associates on The Bulletin’s jubilee.
This, it seems to us, is a distinctive and
distinguished event in the history of Aus-
tralian journalism gnd Australian litera-
ture. To say anything more than that would
he more or less superfluous; but at the risk
of stressing the obvious, I should like to
say that the Institute of Journalists realises
that The Bulletin has long been a vital
force in Australian journalism, and is no
less vital to-day.
All this is very heartening. The Bulletin
was never so completely satisfied that it is
a national institution; and it never quite so
fully realised how many thousands beyond
the office get satisfaction and pleasure out
of its successes. No paper could possibly
be paid a greater compliment.
Two things The Bulletin said last week
it would strive always to retain: its youth
and its honesty. After the magnificent suc-
cess which has attended its 50 years of
effort, and especially after the wholly un-
expected demonstration of warm goodwill
of the past fortnight, it would be un-
generous not to add a third: faith in its
own great country.
♦
The Great Game of Making Jobs.
The “department-building” game, so popu-
lar in Australia, is quite a good game
while it lasts. Whether the country can
stand it much longer is doubtful.
The N. S. Wales Main Roads Board,
created by Parliament a few years ago on
the understanding that the new board would
not develop into a department, is a recent
case in point. Six years of skilful manipu-
lation of red tape has built up a near-
department, an organisation that threatens
to become a department almost any day;
and no one seems sufficiently interested to
make a noise about it.
John Garlick left his position on the
Main Roads Board to join the Civic
Commission. The Commission’s term ex-
pires this year, and the chairman of the
Main Roads Board receives a mere £2OOO
a year. What is going to happen when
Mr. Garlick goes back to the board?
When the local-government system was
launched more than 20 years ago Mr.
Garlick was officer-in-charge of the local-
government section of the Public Works
Department. His stock-in-trade consisted
of an office and an office-boy, or there-
abouts. To these an accountant was added,
and then things started to move. They
moved to such good purpose that a special
Minister was soon needed to answer for the
new Local Government Department to
Parliament.
The Main Roads Board was ostensibly
created to distribute certain moneys to local
governing bodies. It was not Parliament’s
intention to rob councils of the powers
acquired, or to take the work away from
the Local Government Department. Yet
such is the trend. The Main Roads Board
has moved into its own offices, and now has
a large staff in Sydney and scattered
throughout the State. The next step is to
show Parliament why the board should
become a department—with a Minister for
Roads—and to show the Public Service
Board why men controlling a rapidly-
expanding Government undertaking are
entitled to larger salaries. The huge staff,
the voluminous correspondence—an increase
from 300 to 4000 files in five years—all the
good old arguments will be altered to suit
the case. Past experience goes to show that
it is unlikely that anyone will think to


THE NEW PRIVILEGED CLASS.
“The interim award made by Judge Beeby in the Federal Arbitration Court having been set aside by the High Court, his Honor made a further interim award.
Justice Rich has now referred the question of the validity of the second award to the High Court, which will deal with it on Feb. 17. The award will be suspended
till that date.”
inquire into the necessity of all the work,
or to suggest that the board remain a
board. It is still less likely that anyone
will suggest that the Main Roads Board
go back to the Public Works Department
and that the Local Government Department
be jettisoned.
♦
Commonwealth Five Per Cent. Stock
at £B5.
On January 25 Commonwealth 5 per cent,
stock in Sydney was at £9B 15s. 6d., while
the figure in London was about £B5. The
astounding reduction to the latter figure
was not justified by either the facts or the
probabilities.
Yet it is quite logical that our securities
should be worth less abroad than they
are in our own market. Here interest
is payable in paper money, which
we have. Abroad it is payable in
gold, which we can get by selling
the surplus of exports over imports.
But in this land and in this period of in-
sufficient production and much indulgence
in foreign luxuries, there is no surplus to
sell. And the gold which is dug out of the
ground now is only a drop in the bucket
compared with the gold which is due annu-
ally to the foreign creditor.
Moreover, the Australian half of the
eleven-hundred-million-pound debt has a
sinking fund for its repayment, 'while the
foreign half hasn’t. Nominally, they both
have, but the sinking fund is paper money,
good here and good nowhere else. When a
loan falls due here a part of it can be
paid out of the fund, and it is only neces-
sary to re-borrow the balance. Of the 10
millions which are shortly falling due on
these premises it is expected that a million
will be met with our own accumulations
which are waiting in the Treasury. In
1927-28 this country went 54 millions
further into debt abroad and reduced its
debt by three millions here, which
was the clearest intimation J. Bull had ever
got that the paper sinking fund doesn’t
benefit him unless something heroic is done
to right the balance of trade. He must
have figured out that a £lOO Australian
debenture payable in England has thus be-
come worth considerably less than one for
the same amount payable in Australia, even
if they look alike.
Unless the new tariff does something
handsome to squash imports and restore
confidence outside, the prospect is dismal.
To approach a market which values our
10U at the present figure is harrowing.
A Cure for Comrade Shelley.
A typical “comrade,” imported from Prus-
sia, who went by the name of Joe Shelley
and described himself as an atheist and
Communist, turned a contemptuous eye
recently on Australian law in West Mait-
land police court. The charge, which he
hardly professed to deny, was one of in-
citing Australians to kill other Australians
in connection with the coal disturbance.
As he put it: “If by no other way the
working class can achieve victory, then
bloodshed is necessary and inevitable.” Like
all his kind he wholly failed to explain
what good a “victory” of the sort they
have in view would do the “working class,”
but went on the simple principle that if
a fellow seizes the other fellow’s apparatus
and damages it considerably in the seizure,
that gives him undoubted capacity to
run the apparatus at a profit. The
Court, having taken a look at the im-
portee’s previous convictions, ordered him
to serve two months in prison, where he
might make converts, and three months’
additional if he failed to enter into a
trifling bond to be of good behavior, and
not perform when the law has its eye on
him. He replied, in effect, that he treated
Australian law with the contempt it de-
served, and would enter into no dashed
bond.
This episode showed, for the manvth
time, that the law hasn’t yet got the faint-
est idea how to deal with its imported
Shelleys, or with its local ones either. The
sentence should have been seven years, with
the option. Said option should be that
Shelley might leave for his native land
(or any other land which wanted him) at
any time (passage provided) under his
promise to stay away, and with the assur-
ance that his full sentence would be wait-
ing for him if at any time in his life he
came back. It would be much better to
know exactly what he would get than to
return on the chance of what a Judge, who
had probably forgotten about the case,
might give him. And on his return no
appeal should be allowed except on the
plea of wrong identification.
Out of this method might grow some
adequate idea for dealing with the con-
victed Communist of native birth who
couldn’t be deported. For instance, he
might be disfranchised in the fullest sense
of the term, and if he was confined to the
State of his birth it would greatly diminish
his activities. Should he leave that State
for foreign parts the door could be banged
against his return. It would be so much
the worse for foreign parts.
The central idea is to overcome the seri-
ous difficulties in the way of deportation.
Federal law may be unable to deport any-
body, but it couldn’t reasonably prevent
somebody deporting himself.
*
What Do the Scriptures Say?
An Anniversary Day sermon of which
the following is a published newspaper sum-
mary is attributed to the rev. and eloq.
T. E. Ruth, of Sydney:—
“ ‘The ideal of White Australia is against
every doctrine of the Christian faith. White
Australia is contrary to the fatherhood of
God, the brotherhood of man, the dignity of
labor, and the stewardship of wealth’....
He also attacked the multiplicity of Govern-
ments.”
But who affirmed that there is or ever was a
brotherhood of man? Certainly it and the
equally important sisterhood of woman are
difficult to fit in with the command given to
the Hebrews in Deuteronomy (chap. 7),
that when they entered Canaan they should
maintain the purity of the race by making a
most unbrotherly muss of the previous
inhabitants.
Further, it seems like holding a candle to
the Devil for Mr. Ruth to join with the
adherents of Moscow in denouncing State
Governments. Palestine, which was, and is,
less than half the size of Tasmania, was
subdivided by Providential arrangement
into two kingdoms and a dozen tribes with
their vague tribal administrations, to say
nothing of some Phoenician monarchies and
the Philistine confederacy.
As to White Australia, the purpose, if
the Church could only see it, is of the
highest and noblest order. We don’t want
to hate the strange nigger, so we keep him
out, just as we keep the cow out of the
drawing-room and the four-legged ass out
of church. Familiarity breeds contempt and
later leads to hatred, while distance lends
enchantment to the view.
The statement that the nigger’s exclusion
is “against every doctrine of the Christian
faith,” including baptism and the resurrec-
tion of the dead, is an exaggeration. The
deceased nigger can resurrect in his own
country just as Well as here.
It would be a change for the better if
few clerics would preach against the next
new loan, using the simple text: “Owe no
man anything.”
#
A Defect in the Jury System.
Dear Bulletin, —The increasing popularity
of murder as a-method of settling domestic
and other squabbles is focussing public
attention (if any) on the means employed
by our legal system of investigating the
merits of the survivor’s action.
It has not been shown that any satis-
factory substitute can be offered for the
jury system. It is doubtful, indeed, whether
there is one. Nevertheless, where there is
dissatisfaction, there is usually some reason,
however slight, which will bear invest
tigating.
In the average criminal trial, counsel for
the Crown puts before the jury evidence
which must establish the guilt of accused
beyond all reasonable doubt. To prove the
case against the accused it may be necessary
to call many witnesses, all of whom are
usually examined by counsel for the Crown,
cross-examined by counsel for the accused,
and then possibly re-examined by counsel
for the Crown. When all this evidence has
been put before the jury the accused is
at liberty to call evidence to prove his
innocence, and usually does, when as a rule
the same procedure of examination, cross-
examination and re-examination of wit-
nesses is gone through. At the close of
this evidence counsel for the Crown
addresses the jury on the evidence. He is
followed by counsel for the accused. The
Judge then sums up the evidence for and
against the accused and advises the jury
as to- any points of law involved.
The whole of the evidence and the
Judge’s summing up is committed to
writing, and is available for constant refer-
ence to everyone but the doubtless con-
fused and muddled jury. No man engaged
on the case, however highly trained in the
law, is expected to retain it in his memory.
He can and does repeatedly refresh his
mind on abstruse points. Yet the jury,
professing, and in all probability having,
no knoAvledge of law or legal matters, is
expected to retain every important point
and give a decision which may involve a
man’s life.
The way out of this situation is to pro-
vide every juryman with a copy of all
matters concerning the case which have
been committed to writing, with the ex-
ception, of course, of evidence disallowed
by the Judge.
Anticipated objections that criminal trials
would be lengthened, that expenses would
be greatly increased, and that the jury by
reason of its lack of legal training would
be little better off, are met by the obvious
statement that there is no matter which
affects the community more than the per-
sonal safety of each member, and that no
pains must be spared to ensure that a man
should lose neither his freedom nor his life
without the most complete inquiry.—Yours,
etc., Infra.
The Communist’s Assistants in Silks.
The picture-papers found a new heroine
last week. Not a “beautiful leader of the
underworld” this time, but “a pretty Mel-
bourne society girl” who “fluttered through
the glitter of Continental cabarets and
casinos and the silken symphonies of salons”
—until her relatives intervened and she was
packed off home by a French solicitor with
the help of the British Consul.
To a reporter she gave a very self-
satisfied account of her adventures. She
was to have gone to a finishing school in
Switzerland, but decided that “it did not
promise any thrills,” so she went on to Lon-
don “with a girl pal” and presently found
herself in Paris. There she made the
acquaintance of a Hungarian baron. Hun-
garian barons are two a penny, but this one
happens to be “a popular member of the
Parisian younger set,” and “he and I had
a glorious time” on the Riviera and else-
where :
“I stayed at the magnificent Provencal
Hotel, dressed myself in the most wonderful
gowns, and led the revels at all the places
of amusement. On the beach they chose me
as queen of the sea. I won the high-diving
championship of the South of France; won
an aquaplaning championship and received
numerous invitations to appear in films as
a diving beauty. Then I quarrelled with my
fiancd, so I planned to go away for awhile.
I owned a Bugatti motor-car, and set off
on a whirlwind tour. When I tired of the
motoring trip I rushed back to Paris, and
stayed at the best hotels.”
Naturally, there were financial embarrass-
ments :
“One night I won 25,000 francs, but in
the new casino at Nice I lost 10,000 francs,
and going on to Monte Carlo I lost another
25,000 francs. I had spent about £lO,OOO in
six months, and when cheques of mine began
to be dishonored —about 80,000 francs’ worth
—I realised that I had gone through all
the money I had. My mother made it right
about the cheques, but she insisted that I
return to Melbourne.”
This product of the jazz age is, no doubt,
an extreme specimen of her type, but the
type is fairly common. They do more to
spread discontent among honest folk—par-
ticularly the many who, in the pass to
which things have come in Australia, cannot
get work—than all the Communist spouters
in the country. Perhaps nothing can be
done to civilise our rich barbarians, but
the sobering influence of taxation might be
tried on those who spend Australian money
Uke water abroad.


SHELL
MOTOR OIL
AND SPIRIT
STILL
SUPREME
Hi
ff*j
t i y
©
SSSB.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Federal arbitration developed some more
kinks last week. Chief Judge Detliridge
ordered various wage-cuts in the distressed
dried-fruits industry, reducing “the Powers
35.,” devised, as he put it, “to provide against
the lag of wages in failing to overtake a
rise in the cost of living between periods
of adjustment,” to 6d. a week. At the same
time wages in other industries were in-
creased by order of the Court, “a period of
adjustment” having arrived. The new
arrangement will, incidentally, add £95,000
per annum to the N-S.W. railway wages
bill. As the bill is already in a very
tight place it is now a question of find-
ing out how to dispense with a few more
employees.
Prime Minister Scullin, who is doing his
honest best and getting assorted language in
return, issued an appeal to all parties con-
nected with the Newcastle coal stoppage to
obey Judge Beeby’s new interim award
in spirit as well as in letter, and
resume coal-production at the old figure.
Yet it was agreed that the coal-export
business couldn’t go on without a big
reduction in price, to which it was pro-
posed that owners and miners should con-
tribute Is. per ton each, and the Federal
and State Governments 3s. If coal can’t be
produced below the old boom-time price
there is little sense in appealing for un-
saleable production.
British Labor’s Naval Conference is not
going well. The Tokio correspondent of the
“Daily Telegraph” says that if Japan does
not obtain a 10-10-7 cruiser ratio it will
withdraw. At Washington in 1921 the
proportions were fixed at 10-10-6; and since
then Britain has made the Singapore base
a go-slow job, while the U.S.A. has given
up hope of fortifying the Philippines, thus
improving the Japanese position even on the
old standard. Italy’s attitude is also worry-
ing the warship-scrappers. Copybook senti-
ments, however noble, are a poor safeguard
against the needs and ambitions of fighting
races with over-population problems.
Within a few weeks three banks have
materially cut down their dividends because
the boom is off, and pastoral cos. have fol-
lowed suit. The banks have raised their
deposit rates, in the hope of attracting more
of the money which is so scarce, and are
charging more for the money they have on
loan to employers and others. Should they
fail to get in more money they may have
to call in loans and close up some employers.
Mr. Scullin is himself reduced to turning em-
ployees adrift. If it were possible for Judge
Beeby to instruct, or even request, him to
keep going with the old staffs and at the
old rates, the Prime Minister might decide
that the only way to evade the spirit and
the letter of that unreasonable man would
be by resignation.
Theodore announces a 6 p.c. conversion
loan to cover the £10,637,360 of Common-
wealth money falling due on March 15. The
return to 6 p.c. is a calamity, and one from
which The Bulletin has long striven to save
the nation ; but loan-mongering politicians and
land-booming newspapers have had their way.
Another £60,778,860 of Commonwealth six-
per-cents. will mature on Dec. 15, and
£31,898,177 of State flotations at the same
rate of interest will require attention. A
saving of one p.c. on these transactions
would have reduced the interest burden by
£1,033,000 p.a.; and it could have been
accomplished had the politicians come out
of their fools’ paradise in time. Ceylon
recently placed a 5 p.c. loan on the London
market, and it was oversubscribed at par.
As the picture theatres in Melbourne have
reduced their tariff considerably, it is im-
probable that the Hogan Government will
get the estimated £70,000 from entertain-
ment tax for the five months from Feb.
1 to June 30. No ticket sold at less than
2s. is taxable under the Vic. impost, and
Is. prices are being quoted.
DOWN—BUT NOT OUT.
“At last Queensland seems to be overcoming its apathy towards the plight of the Wool Industry;
deputations, consultations and suggestions for relief are the order of the day.”
QUEENALAND: “The sooner I get this animal back on to his feet the better for both
of us.”
Beaverbrook, the newspaper billionaire,
still chases the bubble reputation with his
idea that the Dominions should let in all
British and Indian and other empire pro-
ducts free. Encouragement is desperately
scarce, but a shred came recently from the
Kyabram branch of the Vic. Country party,
which is bossed by Farmer Allan. The
branch was persuaded to declare for empire
Freetrade “subject to the fact that Australia
must have customs revenue, and essential
industries established on a firm basis under
tariff protection.” It might be put that
Beaverbrook is against hanging, and Kya-
bram is against it also except in the case of
criminals.
The Westralian Nationalist and Country
parties have renewed the alliance which was
dissolved in anger six years ago, “finding
themselves in entire accord on all im-
portant matters of policy,” especially the
all-important matter of dishing Labor. Id
the Assembly that has just been sent about
its business, there were 12 Nationalists, 10
Cockies (counting Maley, who hasn’t been
“endorsed”) and Jack Smith, of Nelson, who
leads a party of one ; the Laborites numbered
27. If the Government is beaten and the
Agrarians win more seats than the Mitchell
group they will claim the Premiership for
their leader, Thomson. They expect to gain
two farming-cwm-miriing constituencies, but
two won’t be sufficient.
Railways Commissioner Webb, who is to
leave S. Aus. in May, was interviewed the
other day by Adelaide “Register,” which
has yapped at him unmercifully. The dia-
logue, as published, consisted of a single
question and answer :
■“What do you plan to do when you return to your
owr. country ?”
“Just as I have done since I have been here —what
I damn well please!”
Terse, but incorrect. Australian Railway
Commissioners are never allowed to do what
they “damn well please”—the politicians see
to that.
Gandhi is reported to have told a journ-
alist that he will attend no more congresses
until he is invited to one for the purpose of
considering the obliteration of British rule in
India. Meanwhile he will devote himself
to undermining the oppressor by making
India independent of the oppressor’s goods.
To that end he is spinning his own cotton
loincloth by hand at home. Patriots run
in all shapes, yet no one pictures a white
specimen of any country, whether he was
called Obrenovitch, or Garibaldi, or Tell,
agitating a hand loom and making cotton
cloth in order to hit the tyrant a woodener
in the solar plexus.
The Bavinshaw Government has been
baited into announcing that it will with-
draw food relief from the northern miners
unless all “black” declarations are removed.
The police in the affected district were; de-
clared “black” after the Rothbury business,
and the silly ban has been extended to
hotels, stores, newspapers and their readers,
and even ministers who have conducted ser-
vices in the police camp. Mt. Isa (Q.),
where there is a beer strike, is also suffering
from a bad attack of the “black” disease.
It is expected that the Moore Government
will bring in legislation to protect the vic-
tims of these childish boycotts.
The Chinese Consul-General is doing his
compatriots no service by suggesting that
they are worse treated in this country than
in other lands. In many respects they are
a long way better off. The Kuomintang is
practically the Government of the I lowery
Republic, and it has a propaganda section
which is considered to be the prime mover
behind the revolutionary society of liylam
domestic servants in Singapore, one of whose
tenets is the establishment of a “South Seas
proletarian State.” The Singapore Govern-
ment treats the Kuomintang as an illegal
association, and raids its meetings, rwnety
per cent, of Australian Chinese belong to the
Kuomintang, and suffer no disabilities
thereby. .
Thus far nobody is taking any visible
interest in one of the most important
political happenings that N. S. Wales has
ever faced. Under Lang the Labor party
lias frankly announced its intention ot
abolishing the Leg. Council and doing with-
out liny second Chamber at all. Bavin last
session put through a bill to reform the
Council; and in order to put the reformed
Chamber out of the power of this or some
future Lang, a referendum was provided
for. If on this referendum the public says
“Yes,” the new Council will come into
being, and, as far as it can be managed, only
another referendum can destroy it. The
Bulletin, of course, votes “Yes.” To vote
“No” might mean handing over the Govern-
ment absolutely to some Red mob that
might temporarily grab power—by crooked
means or otherwise.
A familiar paragraph reads that some
big school is terribly overcrowded and out
of and that plans for a new edifice
have been prepared, but that the children
must lead the unwholesome and germy life
till a loan turns up. One city paper
recently contained three notices of the sort.
Ir is taken as a matter of course now that
the Australian parent won’t supply Ms
child with civilised surroundings- for educa-
tion unless he can charge the child, and
the child's posterity, with the cost.
British Labor-Freetrade Minister Thomas
has allowed it to be dragged from him that
his Government isn’t likely to repeal the
duty on motor-cars —£33 6s. Bd. per cent.,
which is pretty solid Protection —or even
the duty on tyres, a recent innovation. In
fact, the Government won’t take any duty
off, but it would .shudder (at present) to
put one on. Britain is growing to approve
of Protection so long as the thing is called
“safeguarding of industry.” Even a number
of food duties remain, though the mention
of “taxing food” causes a shudder.
Westralia’s Country party protests that
the special Federal grant of £192,000 for
roads (added, of course, to the State’s share
of the £2,000,000 p.a. promised in an expen-
sive moment by Bruce-Page) is being “spent
on rushing men out to certain parts of the
country to do jobs under day-labor condi-
tions —and at day-labor cost.” But this, it
adds bitterly, is nothing new: —
Prior to the last general election many road gangs
were rushed into certain constituencies just in time
to enrol as electors. This was a breach of the agree-
ment with the Commonwealth Government, the
Federal Minister refused to pay, and the taxpayers of
Westralia had to bear the cost, which ran into many
thousands of pounds.
Another point is that motor-lorries will speed
over the day-labor roads to steal traffic from
the State railways.
In the revision of the regulations under
the Vie. Audit Act (as consolidated with
other statutes) the old-fashioned form of
applying for an advance to the Treasury
has been retained. The officer asking for the
advance of money to pay accounts to the
public creditor begins: “I do myself _ the
honor to apply,” and so on. Still, he isn’t
obliged to wind up with, “I have the honor
to be, sir, your most obedient humble ser-
vant,” and that’s a blessing.
“Cleaning up ‘the movement’ ” is not rank
humbug in South Aus., though it usually
is in N. S. Wales. A special conference,
summoned at Adelaide to deal with the report
of an investigating committee that the last
Leg. Council pre-selection ballot was “crook,”
did its job honestly and (considering that a
State election is near) with courage. So
many Labor functionaries were indicted that
it was decided to take their cases alpha-
betically, and D. H. Bardolph, winner of
the ballot, and K. E. Bardolph, his brother,
were expelled from the party. D.H. is
president of the Clerks’ Union, and was an
Adelaide City Councillor; K.E. was presi-
dent of the Trades and Labor Council.
Minor culprits were censured in stinging
terms by the serious-minded Makin, Speaker
of the House of Reps., as chairman, among
them being Senator O’Halloran, who was
chief returning-officer. O’Halloran let the
ballot rip and went to the races.
ESTRANGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.s.w.
“At the Balmain Town Hall Mr. Mahony, ex-
M.H.R. for Dailey, made a bitter attack on the
Federal Government. Mr. Theodore in his reply dealt
scathingly with Mr. Mahony, remarking that some
people were only on the platform to praise themselves
and inflame the electors.”
Time was they formed as staunch a pair,
’Mid Labor’s come-to-stay men,
As Jonathan and David were,
Or Pythias and Damon.
Time was when to his cobber’s aid
Each would have sprung instanter
With menacingly lifted blade,
But —tempora mutaritur.
Once Ted to Bill, as Bill to Ted,
Was dearer than a brother,
And either would have freely shed
His coat to give the other.
Yet now their grog they’d hardly drink
Out of the same decafiter.
A melancholy thing to think
How tempora mutantur!
“No seat?” said Bill. “Your cruel luck
My finest instincts rouses.
I can’t endure to see you stuck;
Take mine—it’s safe as houses.
Whoe’er in Labor’s name appears
Must win it in a canter.”
Ted’s eyes grew wet with grateful tears.
But tempora mutantur.
’Tis grand to give a friend in need
Your all, but, oh ! ’tis rotten
To find your altruistic deed
Is utterly forgotten ;
To sense the scorn where once you knew
Nought beyond friendly banter.
But times must change—and points of view—
And coves get metamorphosed, too,
As tempora mutantur.
IFORD.


THE SAMSONS OF 1930.
EACH OF THEM: “So, my friend, we’ve found something in which we can co-operate at last.”
Poverty
Point
Caesar s Ghost”: A recent statement by
an English critic that “a good scream is
an actress’s best asset” reminds me of an
Australian actor-manager whose question
whenever lie met you was. “D’ye happen to
know laddie, of a play with a good scream
in it? He wanted that sort of play for
his wife.
Stage superstitions. For many
years Offenbach’s “Tales of Hoffmann” was
not given in England, because it was beiii"-
performed at the Ring Theatre, Vienna the
night (Dec. 8, 1881) that house was burnt
to the ground with a loss of a thousand
lives., Harry Rickards would not allow
Tosti's “Good-bye” to be sung in any of his
theatres, because it was sung the night before
his first Sydney Tivoli went up in smoke.
“Sock”: The Bulletin’s jubilee recalls
that on the day the red sheet, then lily
white, burst on the world the most im-
portant event that has happened in Aus-
tralian theatrics was occurring in Sydney.
At the old Royal Maggie Moore was busy
laying the foundations of the Firm’s for-
tune. J. C. Williamson himself was
with her, but it was young Maggie’s charm-
ing personality that was drawing in the
shekels. It is only a year or so ago that
she left for ’Frisco, to die there. The boat
people didn’t know. her, and had her boxed
up in a small cabin till influential friends
came to her rescue. A word to the skipper
and she was given the best cabin on the
boat. It was festooned and draped and
banked with flowers, and there was a glori-
ous bouquet waiting for her at the top of
the gangway. She went out like a queen.
“C.Y.”: Did anyone recognise in the pic-
ture of Seeta Devi, movie actress (B.
22/l/’3O), Elsie Forrest, a Randwick girl
who went to India with a Geach Comedy
co. in 1907 and married a potentate there?
As Maharini of Tikari she revisited Sydney
a few- years ago, and caused a mild sensation
with her Hindoo dressing, blazing jewels and
native retinue. The Courts in London wore
busy last year trying to decide whether or
not her lord and master could have her
allowance stopped and his family gems re-
turned to him. “Her Highness” has been
a figure in London for the past few years.
She has given song recitals, etc., but does
not seem to have been persona grata at
Buckingham Palace, as other Australian
Maliarinis have been.
“C. Cafeteria”: We have had film stories
ad lil. about devoted sons who post across
America or have their voices radio-ed in’
order to lighten the last hours of dying
parents, but now it has actually happened.
When the well-known tenor John Coates
learnt that his mother, aged 91, was dying
in Bradford (Eng.) he cancelled a pas-
sage to the• States and stayed to croon the
songs of his boyhood at her deathbed. The
difference between the real life story and
the screen fiction is that Coates’s voice is
something that might really soothe a dying
person, whereas the Sonny Boys of the
cinema usually sing in voices that would
make any self-respecting invalid rise and
demolish the serenader.
“Cine Ma”: Neither the Australian nor
tne Canadian censorships are the worst wor-
ries of the American producers (B. 22/l/’3O)
The palm for sabotaging the sublime art of
the screen goes to Asiatic Governments
India slashed “The Volga Boatman” to
bits in order to prevent the local Communist
from learning new points about the technique
of revolution from the scenes of Soviet vio-
lence In Singapore “The Iron Horse” was
severely hamstrung because the glorification
of Uncle Sam’s railroad development was
regarded as business propaganda inimical to
the prestige of British firms. In Shanghai a
speech by Minister Wang on extra-terri-
toriality was banned because it held out hopes
to the native of yellow men some day rulin fr
white men in the foreign settlement instead
of the other way about. But Japan is the
sharpest thorn in Hollywood’s side. Nippon
regards kissing as a disgusting habit, and all
osculations are carefully removed from im-
ported celluloid. The Censorship Board at
lokio is the embarrassed possessor of 3000
feet of assorted clinches pasted together by
an American film man. They were the em-
braces excised from pictures last year.
“Say Bo”: While the legitimate theatre
continues to pin its faith to high jirices and
half-empty houses, coupled with appeals to
Governments for remission of amusement
taxes, the movie people are making sensa-
tional reductions in admission fees. Union
Theatres has just announced a 50 p.c. cut
in prices. The favorite legit, argument is
that such things can’t be done where flesh
and blood actors, orchestras, scene painters
and stage assistants have to be paid allegedly
enormous salaries. As a matter of fact, the
big * cl “®mag have larger pay-rolls than the
old-fashioned theatres. Their scenery is as
elaborate or more so, their artists are as
numerous and in many cases just as highly
paid, and their orchestras are invariably
larger. One recent legit, show, for which the
usual prohibitive exactions were asked, con-
tained a cast of 11 people, not more than
two of whom drew above a tenner weekly.
Bad habits are difficult to change.
“L. de R.”: Creating the right atmo-
sphere for Follow Through,” the Firm’s
next musicomedy offering at Melbourne
Boyal, is giving producer Blackman far more
concern than any mere Mexican, Canadian or
eighteenth-century theme. “Follow Through”
deals with the important topic of golf; and
approxi mately two-thirds of the audiences
wid be expert critics of every point in the
play. Wherefore Blackman lias engaged
champion golfer Ivo Whitton to put the
principals and ballet right about the esoteric
subtleties of the Game.
Top-o’-Bill”; Most amazing two minutes’
silence occurred in a Melbourne suburban
theatre recently when the manager came on
the stage and asked the audience to stand
meinor y of Jack Kearns, comedian, who
bad amused them on so many occasions.
V\hen the audience settled in its seats again
‘•be Jazz band struck up and a full vaude-
ville bill got under weigh. Which was exactly
as It good old-timer like Kearns would have
wished.
“S.T.S.” : Adelaide Repertory Theatre is
contemplating a change of home. As the
first of its kind in Australia, then under
the really more appropriate name “Literary
Theatre,” it played in the basement of the
University Conservatorium; its founder, the
Lnglishman Bryceson Treharne, was on the
staff there. Then it tried suburban halls,
but, needing a central home, has for some
years been in the Victoria Hall of the
Y.M.C.A. For the sake of more space,
easier access and (it is hoped) better acous-
tics, chairman Archibald Strong will now
lead a migration to a quite new Australia
Hall in Angas-street.
“Aix-Les-Coogee”: The Firm promises a
revival of “The Belle of New York.” The
cast won’t be anything like it, but here’s
what I’d like to see: Ichabod Bronson, Ber-
nard Manning, whose Mikado was the best
bit of G. and S. seen here for many a day ;
Harry Bronson, Sydney Burchall, who has
C i? m ri his own in “The New Moon” ;
the Polite Lunatic, Cecil Kellaway, because,
whatever managers may think, the part must
be played by an actor and not a red-
nose comedian; Cora-Angelique, Marie le
varre; Blinky Bill, Leo Pranklyn, who
couldn’t be bettered as the Bowery tough;
The Belle, Marie Bremner. Mamie Clancy,
Cissie Fitzgarter, Doc Snifkins, the Portu-
guese Twins and the rest should not be
difficult to find—but Fifi Fricot! If there’s
a “lady from France who dance like zis in
a ‘naughty mannaire’ ” available in any musi-
cal comedy co. I’ve seen lately I’ve missed
her. Elma Gibbs, given a voice, might
do. She was the Australian Patsy—the one
you could hear.
“Whitehall” : A cable says :
Mr. Oscar Asche has turned novelist. His first
effort is entitled “The Joss Sticks of Chung.” Chung
is a modern pirate who seizes ships and throws the
passengers overboard.
I first .saw Asche as Maldonado in “Iris,”
a play in which he bullied the heroine and
smashed the furniture. For over 20 years
his favorite part has been Petruchio in “The
Taming of the Shrew,” and I have seen him
as Haaj in “Kismet,” as Attila in Binyon's
play, as Abu Hasan in “Cliu Chin Chow,”
as Ali Shar in “Cairo,” and in many other
violent roles. It would be interesting to
put a competent psycho-analyst on to this
heavyweight genius and see if science has
any explanation of why his mind runs so
persistently on roaring at people, cudgelling
them and throwing them about.
‘C.M.”; A Tait offering for the coining
virtuoso season will be Louis Graveure, the
American baritone. Graveure began as an
artist, became a sculptor, found he had a
voice, lost it and rediscovered it in Africa,
where he had gone to seek for health. He
made his debut in song in 1915.
“Spokeshave” : That hardy perennial Alex-
ander Watson will be back under the Grave-
stock management in April. Amongst the
suave elocutionist’s repertoire will be a
potted version of “The Everlasting Mercy”
of Masefield, a prime favorite with audiences
on previous visits._ Another Gravestock re-
quisition will be pianist Backhaus, the most
adulated performer in tho 1928 season.
“Boobaroo” • Will Rogers, of the talkie
Ihey Had to See Paris,” was here in the
flesh in 1903. lie was with Wirths’ Circus
as a rope-spinning cowboy. On present
.arrangements he will be here again—on a
lecture tour as soon as his movie contract
expires.
“C.M.”: A suspicion grows upon me that
the prophecy that British producers would
take the talkies by the forelock has failed
to come off. There are fewer English pic-
tures showing in Australia than ever before.
Film-magnate Thring recently went to the
Cold Land to bfiy British goods. He found
that hardly anybody in the business knew
anything about them, and that the total out-
put of English talkies for the year was 30
as against 50 apiece for the six largest
American firms. What actually is happen-
ing js that Hollywood is not so much Ameri-
canising the universe as being inter-
nationalised itself. Recently I listened to
an English social comedy delivered in
faultless Oxford tone, and the brand was
Hollywood. Another was a drama of the
Royal Air Force, in which the characters
were all British, and it too was produced
in Hollywood. Whether we like it or not
America is still the world-metropolis of Film-
dom, just as it is of Fords.
THE INEFFICIENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A recent novelty in talkies was ‘Curiosities.’ In
it are strung together bits out of dead and gone
movie dramas.... The love technique of our rude
forefathers was painfully inefficient.” —Shadow Shows
(B. 15/l/’3O).
How clearly inept were our fathers of old,
In the light of our modern inventions,
Alike in the .struggle for fame or for gold
And the stress of more tender intentions,
A tribute of poems, of sighs or of tears,
So respectfully paid from a distance,
Sufficed, it appears, after months (if not
years)
To break down a maid’s modest resistance.
But to-day we’re not so highbrow,
And no movie fan’s forgetting
That a sonnet to an eyebrow
Lacks the punch of “peppy petting.”
How dreadfully dull were our fathers of old
In pursuit of their amorous chances,
So primly correct and so cautiously cold
In their lumbering, clumsy advances.
Not theirs to enlist in their strategy weak
The o’erwhelming attack of the caveman,
Or the neater technique of the movie-trained
sheik,
The appeal of the permanent-wave man.
But to-day we make it snappy;
Just a breather for inspection
Or some conversation scrappy,
And—he’s tasting her complexion.
And yet though they loitered, our fathers
of old,
And their methods no movie would star
here,
To slate their efficiency seems over-bold.
For at worst you and I —well, we are here.
If slowly they came .to the feast, as per-
force
We must grant the conviction grows
stronger,
As. daily I con the long list for divorce,
They certainly stayed a bit longer.
VICTORIA.
HA SEN.


For fast
economical transportation
AS#
~C?''
PATONI
i;r
-I • .v/v
.11
n
J »
1
3
K
CHASSIS
COMPLETE
WITH
FIVE
TYRES
ECONOMY— speed —long trouble-free
service—these are the all-important
factors the alert business man looks for
in the truck unit he buys.
In the New Superior Whippet Six 30cwt.
Truck, these main elements of profitable
commercial transportation are found to
a greater degree than in any other truck
at the price.
Such mechanical advantages as full
forced feed lubrication, 4-speed forward
transmission, 6-spoke steel artillery
wheels, extra big mechanical-type 4-
wheel brakes, and exceptional operating
economy, result in dependable perform-
ance with an absolute minimum service
cost.
Arrange with your nearest Willys-
Overland Dealer for a complete demon-
stration of this low-priced truck.
QfN 1
SUPERIOR
Whippet 6
30 CWT. TRUCK.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. "Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
df
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
Ask the Man
Who’s Been There
and he will tell you that “the best
holiday he ever had” was at
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
Book now for the snow-sports
season.
Particulars at
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
E. B. Wareham,
the new chair-
man of the inter-
state steamship
owners’ union,
had a very nar-
row escape of
being a public
servant. As a
youngster he de-
livered telegrams
a t Townsville
(Q.) ; but he
found another
job in the local
office of the
A.S.N., and he
has been chasing
passengers and
cargoes almost
ever since for
the last 35 years
with the Adelaide
Steamship Co,
first in Queens-
land, now in
Sydney.
Alfred Edden,
sometime N.S.W.
Minister for
Mines, who died
in Sydney at
close on 80 last
week, began earn-
ing his living,
like so many of
the earlier Labor
members, as a
boy underground.
In his case it- was
in a Staffordshire
mine, where
the ten-year-old’s
E. B. WAREHAM.
wage was ninepence a day—a 12-hour day at
that. Edden came to Australia in ’BO and
worked as a miner until he won the Northum-
berland seat for Labor in ’9l. Kahibah
made him its member three years later and-
he sat in no less than 10 Parliaments. Edden
was Minister for Mines from TO to T 3. He
left the party over the conscription issue.
Airman Chichester, who left London on
Dec. 20 and arrived at Sydney on Jan. 30,
is English-born, though he has spent about
half of his 34 years in M.L. His father is
the Rev. Charles Chichester, rector of Shir-
well, North Devon ; the son is a Marlborough
boy. He is a cousin of Sir Edward Chichester,
10th baronet of the line, who served with
the Naval Brigade throughout the siege of
Ladysmith. His wife, who died at Wellington
(M.L.) the day after he had started on his
solo flight, was a daughter of the late M. F.
Blakiston, of Ardingly Hall, Sussex; they
were married in 1923.
Charles Joseph Scrutten, just dead at
Macarthur River station, near Darwin, was
the last survivor of the Jardine expedition
which 66 years ago trekked from Rockhamp-
ton to Cape York. Scrutten was 90 when
he passed out.
A daughter of the late John Winthrop
Hackett, to whom Westralia’s infant Uni-
versify owes so much, was called to the
English Bar the other day. Hackett himself
was a barrister, admitted in two Australian
States as well as in England and his native
Dublin, but he never practised, and if he had
he would never have left such a fortune _as
the control of a daily newspaper brought him.
The “West Australian” was a modest enough
proposition when he first acquired an interest
in it, but it grew as fast as the State in the
early ’nineties and proved a goldmine for its
proprietary.
11. M. Green, who wrote for the Jubilee
number that fine history of The Bulletin
in relation to the short story, has a volume,
“Outlines of Australian Literature,” almost
through the press, and Whitcombe and Tombs
will publish it. Green, who once upon a
time was on the “S. M. Herald” and “Sydney
Telegraph”—in those days the “Telegraph”
was an aviary of bright young Sydney Uni.
singing-birds—followed Le Gay Brereton as
head of the Univer-
sity’s great Fisher
Library. He is a bai
rister who has nevei
practised law.
Justice W. F. Webb,
who is to be tin
Judge of Queensland’s
new Industrial Court
which is replacing the
Board of Trade and
Arbitration, is, like
almost every other
Judge appointed of
late years in Queens-
land, a local product:
and, as with about
half the others who
have come into promi-
nence, Warwick had
something to do with
either his birth or his
training. In Webb’s
case it was the train-
ing. The arbitration
job isn’t new to him :
after he had done all
sorts of things for the
Government —he be-
gan as Public Defen-
der and went on to
be Crown Solicitor —
he reached the chair
of the State’s old
Board of Trade. He
is still only 43.
Ben Eielson, killed while aeroplaning
in northern Siberia, will be remembered
by the 150-odd boys of the Young
Australia League who toured America
last year. An official banquet was given the
party in New York by D. M. Dow, secretary
for the Commonwealth in the U.S.A.; a
distinguished Australian, Hubert Wilkins,
and Lieut. Eielson, who was pilot in the
trans-Arctic flight of April, 1928, were invited.
Wilkins was unable to come, but Eielson
turned up and spoke, impressing all who
heard him with his whole-hearted admiration
for Wilkins.
Mat Caldwell, of Gympie, panned his last
prospect recently. Born in Scotland, he began
his mining career in the Kilmarnock collieries,
and followed the same game for a time near
Maryborough (Q.). Underground manager
in the South Phoenix at Gympie for a time,
he passed to the New Zealand Junction as
manager, and later took over the West of
Scotland, Queensland’s deepest mine. After
a spell in copper at Mt. Hector, in the Glad-
stone hinterland, he returned to gold at
Gympie in the No. 1 North Columbia. The
end came at 72.
It seems a long way from the forecastle of
a Norwegian sailing-ship to a university
chair; but Professor T. Hylton, of Hobart,
has compassed it. In his native Norway
he was an insurance clerk for a short
period till the lure of the sea drew him.
in 1914 he was at Broken Hill; he left
there to become a pressman in Zeehan and
Hobart. A few years ago he was appointed
lecturer, in Economics at Hobart University
and now occupies the chair.
Ex-Inspector David Graham, once of the
Queensland mounted police, who reached his
90th birthday in Brisbane this month, must
be the doyen of that famous force. A North
of Ireland man, he served in every part of
the State, one of his most important jobs
being the command of the gold escort from
Georgetown to Croydon and Normanton
when the goldfields of the Gulf country
were turning out the precious metal by the
ton. In later days he was in charge at
Chai’leville, in the south-west, when the
Kenniffs murdered Constable Doyle and
station-manager Dalke. The murderers took
to the bush, but were finally netted by
Graham’s men.
An unusual sort of Anglican parson was
W. G. Marsh, dead in Adelaide. Born in
the U.S.A. 88 years ago, he was an evan-
gelical preacher from boyhood. He came to
Australia 61 years back, and claimed to
have been the founder of the Y.M.C.A. in
Melbourne; certainly he was, in 1872, the
first general secretary for all Australia. At
44 he took orders, and was chaplain to
the Bishop of Melbourne and a rector at
JUSTICE W. F. WEBB.
Armadale (Vic.). Then he moved to S.A.
to succeed Canon Farr at St. Luke’s.
John Duncan Clunies-Ross, the last sur-
viving son of the sometime “king” of the
Cocos Islands and the uncle of the present
Governor of the 23 happy isles, died the
other day at his farm, Grovetown, Marl-
borough (M.L.). John Duncan w T as born
in 1856 on the Cocos, but at nine was sent
to Holland and later to Edinburgh for his
education. He qualified in the law but
threw it up in his early twenties and sailed
for M.L., where he settled down to farming.
The Rev. C. W. Chandler, who has been
getting into holts with some of his brother
parsons, chiefly because he wanted Archbishop
Wright to authorise him to conduct services
in another man’s parish, is a vigorous young
man who describes himself as “chief” of the
“Social Crusade Mission” —“in defence of a
cause and for the advancement of an ideal.”
“Naturally,” Chandler
tells The Bulletin,
“a set of intellectual
drifters and pathetic
has-beens fail to un-
derstand a man \yho
is marching straight
for a Christian objec-
tive. I am no damned
wowser, wire-whisk-
ered or otherwise. I
am a straight and per-
pendicular Australian
citizen, believing in
my job, and I am pre-
pared to stand up to
any R. W. D. Weaver,
Minister for Mines,
or any Premier Bavin"
who, in my opinion,
seeks to coerce the
workers of Australia
by socially immoral
and most un-Christian
means.” Chandler says
he never asked for a
“license” to operate
in another man’s
parish; all he sought
was an “authority to
officiate.”
“Ces” : The Arthur
Knight Wallace who
went through a commu-
ist wedding ceremony
at Broken Hill in
1908 with Elizabeth Ahern, “socialist agita-
tor and spinster” (B. 29/l/’3O), is the pre-
sent Labor member for Albert Park in the
Vic. Legislative Assembly. Wallace served
in the Boer War with the Australian con-
tingent; Mrs. Wallace is still a prominent
Labor worker.
Police-Inspector Isaac Morrow, who passed
out at 84 last month, was a North of
Ireland native who joined the N.S.W. force
as long ago as 1864 and retired in 1906.
He formed one of the escort of the Duke of
Edinburgh, and was a witness of the attempt
on the Duke’s life at Clontarf by the mad-
man Farrell. As a sub-inspector at Mudgee
he was in the hunt which led to the capture
of those notorious outlaws the Governors.
Fourteen of the 65 members of Vic.
Assembly are over 60. There is just about
the same proportion of sexagenarians in the
Uppish House, but, then, elderly gents are
expected there. Still, the landlords do not
look so pronouncedly ancient as they once
did, nor yet so squattocratic.
C. W. Chandler, the freelance Anglican'
parson who hopped into the Maitland miners’
trouble and made things no better, though
an Australian, is a newcomer from Auck-
land (M.L.). For a couple of years past he
has been offsider to Jasper Calder, who is
described by his late sparring partner as
“sporting parson, he-man. rough-rider, play-
actor and general good fellow.”
Vic. Treasury will get about £16,000 in
probate from the estate of J. G. Robertson,
a squatter who carried on at East Mount
Mitchell, Lexton, Western District. He left
real and personal estate worth £160,000.
T. G. Moore, who recently retired'
from the auctioneers’ rostrum of the Gee-
long Wool Exchange after 36 years’ service,
had knocked down £22,000,000 worth of wool
under the hammer during that period. He
has missed officiating at only one sale during
his term.
There are seven Macs, in the new Vic.
Assembly—Macfarlan, Mackrell, McAdam
McDonald, McKenzie, McLachlan and Mc-
Pherson. The Uppah Chambah holds three,
McGregor, McNamara and McCann.
Joe Holmes, a Westralian M.L.C., now on
his way to Maoriland for a holiday, has
devoted most of his life to the meat indus-
try and kindred pursuits. His father wois
a police officer in the old “bond-or-free” days.
Joe arrived in politics as long ago as 1897
as M.L.A, for Fremantle, and held a port-
folio for a few months in the first post-
Federation Ministry four years later. But
he soon resigned it, finding office irksome in
that it involves haying colleagues as well
as opponents. After his Fremantle seat had
gone uncompromisingly Labor, Joe trans-
ferred himself to the Upper House, where
the absence of any necessity for team-work
is more suited to his temperament. He holds
reactionary opinions on many subjects, is
never afraid to express them, and is a robust
believer in and champion of his native State
wherever he goes.
G. H. Clarke, well known in the extreme
North as manager of Models, Ltd., Thursday
Island, spent his childhood at the Coen, in
the days when Queensland’s northernmost
settlement was a steady gold producer. Later
he went still further north, to Possession
Island, where a reef was being worked.
(Captain Cook stepped on that reef when
he planted the flag that took possession of
“the whole of the eastern seaboard of Aus-
tralia.”) The future Mayor of Thursday
Island started his job as an office boy for
Brown and Campbell.
“2nd Divvy”: Sir Harry Batterbee, who
was appointed Assistant Under-Secretary for
the Dominions last week, was in Australia as
trade adviser to Admiral Field of the Special
Service Squadron. A big job, as the S.S.S.
was chiefly travelling in British motor-cars.
He is a tall, lean, sad man of 50 with the
mask-like countenance and parsonical manner
of the born departmentalist. As a Colonial
Office official lie had the delicate job, during
the war, of releasing A.I.F. prisoners in
British gaols whom Billy Hughes had
decided ought not to be there..
Dr. J. S. Battye, who runs Westralia’s
Public Library, Museum and Art Gallery, is
a native of Geelong, who began what was to
be his life’s work as an assistant in the
Melbourne Public Library in the early
’nineties. He is an enthusiast at his job,
stronger on the literary than the art side, and
has published a useful history of liis adopted
State and one or two other works of reference.
He has a splendid building for housing his
exhibits, and the floor space in the library
would make the custodians of Sydney’s
cramped P.L. gasp with envy. Battye’s
diversions are honorary positions at the Perth
Uni. and Masonic functions.
Just completed his fiftieth year of service,
A. Filmer, who, as officer in charge of the
instruments at Melb. Hospital, handed the
forceps to Charles Ryan, Thomas Fitzgerald,
R. A. Stirling, George Syme and a dozen
other famous surgeons of their time. Filmer
remembers the days when modern antisepsis
was unknown and leading sawbones scarcely
bothered to wash their hands before starting
on the job.
There was one man in Melbourne
who viewed with disfavor the opening of
the new Spencer-street bridge to pedestrians.
He was E. Buckingham, the ferryman, who
lias averaged 36,500 crossings annually in the
last five years.
Speacock, Prendergast and Toutclier are
the only three pre-Federation members in
Vic. Assembly. The Leg. Council has no
members who were on its roll earlier than
1904.
“Lex”: Justice Avory, who, according to a
cable, sat, while sentencing Hatry and his
co-swindlers, “like
a figure of stone,
and spoke in his
characteristic low,
steely voice, which
makes every word
a whip-lash,’' has
been on the Bench
in almost every
Old Bailey cause
celebre for the
past 20 years.
Vaquier, Mahon,
Stewart and the
slayers of Con-
stable Gutteridge
are some eminent
murderers who
have passed
through his hands,
and lie tried the
blackmailer ITohbs
the other day. He
is a tight-lipped
acidulated - looking
little lightweight,
like the late Lord
Brampton (Haw-
kins, J.), and crim-
inals dread him
even more. He
made his name as
a Treasury Coun-
sel (or, as we say,
Crown Prose-
cutor), which may
have something to
do with his notori-
ous mercilessness.
DR. CHARLES
BAGE, chairman
of the Felton
Bequest (Art)
committee, Mel-
bourne.
Of tlie 30 Laborites in Vic. Assembly 15
enjoy perquisites of some kind, and of the
six in the Uppish House four have been
provided for. The 15 allocations in the
Assembly include six salaried and two
honorary Ministerships, two places on the
railway standing committee, three on the
committee of public accounts, and the chair-
manship of committees. In the Plush House
two Labor men are salaried and two are
honorary Ministers; the other two are on
the roll of Executive Councillors in respect
of past services.
THE LITERARY POLICEMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A recent applicant for a position in the Federal
police force mentioned that his ambition to be
an author went hand in hand with his desire to be
a constable. He had one literary masterpiece to his
credit, but an imbecile Sydney publisher had turned
it down.”
A copper on point duty by the day,
I’m a Marcus Clarke or Lawson every night;
Burns a frenzy in my eye as I wave the
traffic by,
For Calliope has flashed upon my sight.
A copper after copy, all I see
Suggests a plot or, at the least, a par.;
Yon motor’s rippling bonnet fairly clamors
for a sonnet,
Or a lilting lyric a la “T. the R.”
The island where pedestrians wait the trams
My mind invests with palms and dusky
belles:
Thus I pay her meed to Beauty in the dusty
hours of duty,
But later change from Sherlock Holmes
to Wells.
The feet of Johns at which the ribald mock
Can dance iambic measures; and the fin
That halts the reckless driver can write
stories worth a fiver—
If they’d only print them in The
Bulletin.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Tee Essbie”: “Are you looking for a
young lady?” a young man walking down
Palmer-street, East Sydney, was asked the
other evening. The youth replied bitterly
that he was not; he was finished with girls—
finished with everything. A few hours later
a watchman picked up the gentleman’s hat
and coat on Brown’s wharf. In a coat
pocket was a letter containing these harrow-
ing sentences, and a lot more:—
Languishing in despair I east one more reflec-
tion on this world of woe. Jealousy has deposited
his deadly venom in my breast and my opponent
triumphs in my downfall. In a few more hours I
shall be as one who was not. Farewell, world, and
SUITED HIM DOWN TO THE GROUND.
IRATE LADY: “If you don’t come in at a more respectable hour you can stay out all
night in future.”
SOGGY HUSBAND: “You dear old thing (hic!). I wondered if you’d mind!”
all I hold most dear; let those who know me drop
a pitying tear.
The search for the body lasted till next morn-
ing In the afternoon the water police were
notified that the body had been found in the
lock-up at Darlinghurst. The disconsolate
one had tried to do the drowning with beer.
* $ * *
“Meteren”: Three times the firm had tried
to grab the piano after giving up the chase
for instalments. Each time the carters
found the front door barricaded, though
they’d made sure that Mrs. Paynobody
was at home. Then the creditor resorted
to strategy. Mrs. Paynobody and the
kids were at lunch when a grimy over-
ailed figure with an outsize in wrenches
poked his head in the back door. “Lookin’
for a gas leak in the terrace, Missus,” he
explained, “an’ I want to make sure your
pipes are good-ok.” Mrs. Paynobody piloted
him to the gas-stove and bath-heater, but
there was a shortage of leaks. “Give us
a look at the meter and I won’t worry you
again,” said Gaspipes, who had ascertained
that the meter was outside the front door.
The eldest child was instructed to unbolt
the front door and be ready to bolt it up
again after the toiler had passed through.
Three burly carters followed the door in as
it opened, and the faithless Gaspipes already
had his Hands on the piano. Mrs. Paynobody
was still eloquently broadcasting when lorry,
piano, Gaspipes and his confederates disap-
peared.
* * * *
“Bombex”: One of the multitudinous uses
to which the aeroplane is being put in Aus-
tralia is the conveyance of bees to spots too
distant to be supplied in any other way.
There are interesting possibilities in the
traffic. Those who
have had to do with
the carriage of bees
by rail know that
sooner or later
something happens
to liberate the in-
furiated cargo.
Some day when a
hive of bees gets
loose in an aero-
plane the world
will be afforded
one of the greatest
exhibitions of stunt
flying on record.
There seems an
opening here for
the bureau of
Scientific Research.
A cross between
the bee and . the
homing-pigeon should solve difficulties of
transport, and at the same time allay the
apprehensions of aeroplane pilots.
* * * *
“A. Ckeese.it” : It happened in King-street,
Sydney. The courtroom was tense with
a dramatic stillness. The face of the
wretch who clung despairingly to the rail
was ashen and drawn. His fate was in the
balance. The jury filed in with the demeanor
of an undertaker who has arrived to screw
down the body. The verdict was delivered.
The Judge passed sentence and sniffed. The
poor devil had been ordered, to all intents
and purposes, to return to his wife; and
everyone in the court knew what that meant
after two hours’ experience of her in the
witness-box.
* * * *
“Zero” : Even the ring at Randwick would
offer fife ter vun against the recovery of a
lOs.-note thrown through the porthole of a
steamer entering Sydney Heads. It has
happened, however. A lady passenger tidy-
ing up her cabin before disembarking
crumpled up a receipt given her by the
purser and, forgetting there was a lOs.-note
attached to it, jettisoned the lot. A boat-
man came on the sodden papers floating on
the water. As the name of the ship and the
purser’s signature appeared on the. receipt,
he returned his find to that official, who
sent it along to the owner.
* * * *
“X.S.” : The record long-distance fraud has
just been aired in a Melbourne court. A
garage proprietor in Ashfield, Sydney, re-
ceived a ’phone call from a Mrs. Brown, who
said she had just got a message that her
father was dying in Melbourne and she must
go there at once. She explained that she
hadn't enough with her for the fare but it
would be available on arrival in Melbourne.
The trusting taxi man conveyed his charge
across the border and landed her outside
her “home.” The lady went inside, and
emerged to say that her parents hadn’t £45
in the house but that it would be ready
next morning if he called. H'e was there on
time but the £45 wasn’t; there was no such
family as Brown at that address. The
woman was subsequently arrested and dis-
charged, his Worship remarking that it was
a despicable business but he had no juris-
HUSBANDS ARE JUST LIKE THAT.
GLADYS: “I suggested to my hubby before we were married that we should settle
all our quarrels by arbitration.”
BERYL : “And did it work?”
GLADYS: “Not very well. He wasn’t a bit fair about it — he wouldn’t agree to mother
being the arbitrator.”
diction, the car having been procured on the
wrong side of the border. Departing from
custom, the picture-press has not obliged
with the heroine’s portrait, but no doubt she
is young and beautiful.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A Sydney S.M., probing for
reasons for an assault, was told: “I wouldn’t
ha’ minded ’im callin’ me jist a liar, y’ Wor-
ship ; but ’e called me an unmitigated liar,
an’ I was mitigated last week.” Delicate
magisterial inquiries elicited the explanation
that the accused had gone to confession and
that something had been said about mitiga-
tion of sins. Repat. had a client who, unable
to return to his pre-war occupation, was
advised to undergo vocational training. “All
right,” the warrior said with the utmost
cheerfulness, “but I never had much of a
voice.”
•!* *!* 'i*
“Salabon” : Legal tender in the Solomons
is a difficult matter owing to the natives’
distrust of paper money. I strolled into the
Commonwealth Bank at Tulagi, presented
my passbook and asked for a fiver. To my
horror the clerk counted out 100 shillings
and handed them across to me in five neat
piles. I mumbled a remonstrance. “Sorry,
old chap,” was the reply, “but we haven’t
seen a note for days.” Some trading com-
panies issue five pounds’ worth of shillings
rolled in long sealed paper packages. These
packages sometimes travel all round the
Islands, passing from schooners to plantation
stores and native villages. It is nothing out
of the way for them to be returned unopened
to the issuing office after a year or more.
“Meteren” : Though an untenanted “Ladies
Only” was bang up against the smoker we
boarded at Coonamble, a prim-looking spin-
ster ensconced herself in the corner seat.
We reminded her courteously that she could
have the whole of next-door to herself, but
she meekly replied that smoking didn’t annoy
her and she had no objection to cards. Neither
did the odor of beer start a retreat when
bottles were passed round. The shock came
as she bundled her luggage out on the
Dubbo platform. “I really tnought commer-
cials were entertaining,” she said scornfully.
“Tamest lot of yarns I’ve ever heard!”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide City Council has dis-
covered another way of making a bit out of
motorists. At present its only parking
revenue consists of the fines (gracefully
camouflaged as voluntary contributions of
some named amount) it exacts for a stay of
over half an hour in one spot. Some of the
quiet squares all day, the parklands outside
the Oval during a match, and the broader
streets during the evening are free stands.
Private individuals have risen to the occa-
sion, and offer attention, including a pad-
locked wheel-block, for a bob. The city
dads think they might just as well get that
bob.
* # * *
“Nosrac”: “Murkah” (B. 22/l/’3O)
nominates Australia’s fastest train, the
Caves (Sydney-Mt. Victoria) Express. He
says it does the 35 miles between Sydney and
Penrith in 40min., which is equal to 524
m.p.h. That is good, we’re not denying.
But for a long run the Commonwealth’s
fastest train is the 5.30 p.m. express
out of Spencer-street, which covers the 130
miles from Seymour to Albury in lSOmin.,
averaging 43.3 m.p.h.—our longest non-stop
run. It has to slow down frequently to
change the staff; and its weight is prac-
tically double that of the N.S.W. Caves
express. From Newport box to Geelong,
39 miles, is given 45 minutes, averaging 52
m.p.h. But these short spurts over favorable
stretches of One are not fair comparison;
it is point to point that counts.
“Feng-Shui”: It grieves me to learn that
the United States Government has decreed
that in future no member of the army, navy,
diplomatic or consular corps serving abroad
shall take a drink. The wife of an American
consular agent in Shanghai mixed the divi-
nest cocktail in “the East.” It was an Ameri-
can naval officer who invented a drink which
became de rigueur in all clubs in the Philip-
pines. I have met few Americans abroad
who were averse from an occasional spot.
In fact, it is the opportunity to indulge in
the habit without being regarded as a crimi-
nal which drives many of them away from
home. They will now be in the same posi-
tion vis-a-vis a drink as the British civil
servant is with regard to sex. In pre-war
days an English weekly, wishing to restore
its failing circulation, started a campaign
against the allegedly immoral relations of
British officials with native women in the
Crown colonies. Eventually a regulation
was introduced making the continence of
colonial officials, most of whom are bache-
lors, a condition of their retention of their
jobs. It placed their careers at the mercy
of every sly informer with a wowser bent, and
in consequence many a promising young man
became either a hypocrite or unemployed.
* * * *
“Ewol”: A cobber and I were attached
to a Tommy Signal co. in Palestine, our
headquarters being a two-storeyed building
in an ancient city near the Dead Sea. The
military governor was a member of the old
nobility and a good sport. He employed
several Syrians as clerks. On one occa-
sion he celebrated a victory, or it may have
been his birthday; anyway, we heard the
sound of a scuffle and voices raised in anger
overhead. Immediately afterwards a clerk
rushed in, his face as white as paste. “Mon
Dieu,” he cried, “de Governor he drunk; he
trow some books at me; he call me a
ruddy Syrian blankard and say I have not
brains enoof to get out off my own ruddy
vay. Mon Dieu!” he concluded fervently,
“he svear not like Eenglish gentleman, sar —
he svear like Australyun!”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Two New Guinea boys re-
cently concluded a course of education in
the State school at Ivanlxoe (Vic.). One
is a native of Micronesia and of a primi-
tive type; the other is a son of the chief
of Lubiai, New Ireland. They went through
the ordinary curriculum in order to qualify
for teaching in the Mandated Territory. One
of the masters, W. C. Groves, who was for
four years at Rabaul, took charge of them
on behalf of the Commonwealth Government.
The chief’s son passed his qualifying certifi-
cate examination and the other missed by a
hair’s-breadth.
“Strict Veg.”: A delicate, operation was
performed successfully at the Melbourne
Hospital the other day. It involved the
grafting back on a factory-girl’s head of
the entire scalp, torn off in a machine. The
accident' cannot be taken as a text in favor
of the short-hair mode. The lass was closely
shingled.
* * * *
“Piecrust”: A run of misfortune was
experienced by a pickpocket convicted at
Carlton (Vic.). He selected a crowded
tram, jolted against an elderly passenger, and
acquired a pay-envelope with £2 10s. Un-
luckily for him the conductor chose that
moment to look round. Sikes left the car
with speed, only to feel an iron grasp on
his collar —a detective had been riding two
seats behind him. Undaunted still, Bill
shaped up, and invited the other to get him
to the lock-up if he could. He had not
noticed that they were directly outside the
Royal Park police station. Six months!
* * * *
“Stellsby”: The Alert didn’t go down
“with all hands” (B. 22/l/’3O) ; there was
one survivor, Ponting, the cook. Satisfied
with his issue, he then left the sea and for
many years haunted the London and Til-
bury docks selling bottles of eucalyptus and
also his book (presumably ghosted) on the
Alert affair. He also cashed seamen’s advance
notes on a 5 per cent, commission basis and
prospered. The last time I saw the shrewd
old party was just prior to the war, and
for all I know he may be thriving yet.
SOLVED AT LAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Lord Chief Justice of England, with all the
majesty of his position, recently gave his considered
opinion that ‘drunk means drunk.’ ” — “S. M. Herald.”
The knot’s untied by commonsense,
The riddle has been read;
Uponi the darkness murk and dense
Judicial light is shed.
For weary years both Bench and Bar
From definition shrunk.
When asked to be particular
And give a ruling regular:
When was a person drunk?
It might have seemed a simple thing
To give an answer there,
But lawyers to tradition cling
And so ’tis passing rare
To have the obvious defined
By heads beneath a. wig—
To verities the legal mind
Is deaf and dumb and also blind;
Plain facts it cannot twig.
Bill might have been as full as eggs,
As corned as he could be;
Mayhap he couldn’t use his legs,
Or spell “cacophony.”
He might have been so plainly boozed
With all the grog he’d sunk
That when the cops had William noosed
The beer from out his bluchers oozed—
But was he really drunk?
From magistrates’ to higher courts
They threshed the matter out,
And judging from the Law Reports
The thing remained in doubt
Till one supreme authority
Cut through obscuring junk:
“The point is very clear,” said he,
“A man who goes upon the spree
Is drunk when he is drunk!”
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.


“Quill”: Parliamentary retorts? Jack
Cochrane, member for The Rocks, got off
a good one in the untidy N.S.W. Parliament
which had Henry Willis for Speaker. “Thank
God, I always use the language of a gentle-
man !” said the supercilious one. “As
learnt by his valet!” countered John.
* * * *
“Prickly Jack”: An uncanny, snake-like
movement of the rails is known in the ser-
vice as rail-creep. Sometimes 10 to 15 miles
of line will start to move over the sleepers,
one line of rail going in one direction and
the opposite line in the other. To restore
the allowance at the joints for expansion
they must he pushed back to their original
position and fastened to the sleepers with
rail-anchors. The technical explanation of
this mysterious movement is the application
of brakes and the thrust of locomotive
driving-wheels. But why do the rails shift
like this on the Nullarbor Plain, where
no brakes are applied, and why does the
south rail go west and the north rail east?
* * * *
“Hamer” : The Sydney home of the Com-
monwealth Bank, which fronts Pitt-street
and Martin-place, is to be extended to Rowe-
street as a duplication of the present plan,
which means that Post-office Chambers, long
included in the bank premises, are to go.
This building used to be known as Shark
Chambers, and in later days when it housed
SHE’D DO.
HINKS: “Is that your new secretary? What’s she like on her job?”
JINKS: “Oh, fair! She spells atrociously.”
HINKS: “That’s good! I never can spell that darn word myself.”
unions like the Actors and the Writers and
Artists (precursor of the A.J.A.) it was
called “the Little Trades Hall.” At least one
of its tenants combined a glowing patriotism
with precarious finance. His voice was heard
uplifted one day, and the curious occupants
of other offices who turned out to see what
was happening beheld a little red-faced man
pointing indignantly at a stranger who cow-
ered before him. “Haven’t you heard there is
a war on?” the red-faced man thundered.
“Tell your miserable employers, if they
must send a debt-collector to me, to send a
returned soldier !” And tearing the bill to
fragments, lie cast them scornfully at the
caller—who looked quite 65 —and retired to
his den.
* * * *
“John B.”: A Yankee warrant-officer we
met in the Rue de Rivoli wasn t greedy tor
limelight like the heroes of Hollywood war
films. He looked smart in an officer s cap,
Sam Browne and leggings, and we tossed
him a beautiful salute. “Naht entitled,
Aussies!” he said, waving a deprecatory
hand ; “nalit entitled.”
* * * *
“Avril” : I was in a Darlinghurst butcher’s
shop when an urchin dashed in and demanded
a “penn’orth o’ dog’s meat an’ two cliumi)
chops.” The butcher produced the chops,
hacked off a long fringe of mutton, dropped
it on the sawdusted floor, retrieved it and
papered it, sawdust included. “’Ere, ’ave a
’eart, Mister,” the youth petitioned. “That’s
me dinner!”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The latest horrible warn-
ing promulgated by science is that motorists
who use tarred roads are laying themselves
open to cancer. Investigation into the
vital statistics of those engaged in tarry
trades has revealed a high incidence oi:
the dread disease and the inference is that,
if statistics were taken amongst motorists
in parts where asphalt roads are the rule,
it would disclose the same thing. Personally,
I have changed my route and drive daily
into Melbourne through Richmond. That
enlightened suburb long ago announced that,
regardless of cost, it was going to replace
all its tarred surfaces with concrete; and
the job is very nearly finished. Yet I know
that within a month somebody else will
solemnly warn me that I am now simply
inviting an attack of warts or shingles or
something.
* :!: *
“Dog- Barker” : Someone on a Manly ferry
asked why the Japanese tack the word
“Maru” on to the names of all their ships ;
and the Oracle explained that 60 years or so
ago, when Japs owned nothing more im-
posing than a fleet of junks, it was their
custom, as it is to-day with the Chinese, to
paint an eye on each side of the ship’s
bows so that she could see where she was
going. This was the “Maru.” When ships
under steam, home-built and otherwise, be-
gan to go out under the Japanese flag the
word itself was substituted for the painted
symbol.
jjc sj: Jk
“Lysander”: Based on knowledge of
human nature and mother’s pride in little
Gertie, a novel living is knocked out by a
family partnership of Thespians who travel
northern N.S.W. and the coastal towns of
Queensland as far as Townsville. They an;
three only, but they present full-staged,
myriad-legged spectacles, pantos, and revues
year after year in town’ after town; the
children of the various towns filling the
stages.with dancers and providing the myriad
legs. The co.’s modus is to train ambitious
local kiddies in stagecraft and fancy danc-
ing, and to take the “houses” as their
reward. Choruses and ballets are un-
limited, for every member means an admir-
ing following of relations, friends and scof-
fing enemies who will pay real money for
seats to see Gertie dance, sing, or muff both.
Important parts in the revues are doubled,
trebled and quadrupled by the trio of entre-
preneurs, and sub-important roles go to speci-
ally promising youngsters. The shows given
are quite f.a.q. (fairly rough q.), for the
kiddies practise and rehearse with passionate
fervor, and the Thespians gve them careful
and assiduous attention for weeks before
performances.
“Pawang” : Melbourne newspapers recently
reported the quaint adventures of Arthur,
a boy of five with a penchant for running
away from home. In his latest escapade
Arthur was found on the Sydney express
without a ticket. Handed over to the
Travellers’ Aid Society, lie gave an assumed
name and exhibited a bold front until bed-
time came, when fear of the dark, fear of the
THE NEW HEREDITY.
“Where does she get her good looks?”
“Her dad.”
“Handsome man, eh?”
“No — chemist.”
big policeman and a multitude of other ter-
rors caused him to break down, give his
right name and clamor tearfully to be taken
home. Arthur has bolted from the parental
nest no fewer than six times. In despera-
tion his mother took to locking up his
trousers, but Arthur got round that remedial
measure by purloining some of his sister’s
clothes. The worried lady says she will have
to think of some other method of keeping the
wanderer at home; and if she is wise she
will take him to a reputable psychoanalyst.
I suggest that Arthur is suffering from a vast
variety of compulsion neuroses: vokepliobia,
or fear of home; claustrophobia, or fear of
closed spaces; nyctophobia, or fear of the
dark; gynophobia, or fear of women or
some particular woman ; and so on, ad lib.
* * * *
“Fourwalls” : The Bourke-street Synagogue
was closed the other day and given over to the
wreckers. The site was acquired and built
on in 1845, when there were only 80-odd
Jews in the colony. Melbourne Jewry is using
a temporary synagogue near the old place
while waiting for the completion of its new
temple out St. Kilda way.
* % * *
“The Ghoul” : A native of Hobart return-
ing to the old city after several years’
absence sees many changes. What was once
Temple House, the residence of the only
Jewish Rabbi in Tasmania, is now occupied
by the Y.M.C.A.; the former Girls’ Indus-
trial School is now the Trades Hall; old
Melbourne House has become a business col-
lege, and offices have crowded out the beauti-
ful itone building in the grounds'of historic
St. David’s Cathedral which was once the
Deanery. The old Bell Inn, where Marcus
Clarke wrote most of “For the Term of His
Natural Life,” has been demolished, the site
being given over to shops; and the Har-
vest Home Hotel, of which Jennings, the
fattest and heaviest man in Australia, was
proprietor in its great days, now figures as
a quiet suburban villa with a new front.
One familiar feature remains—Stoke, the
castellated stone house built in a very large
area of park and garden ground by Chief
Justice Dodds. Much of the old C.J.’s land
has been subdivided; the mansion itself
stands desolate.
$ *
“S.T.S.” : On a recent visit to England I
was struck with the invariable way in which
it is Up to London, from anywhere. Even
Oxford and Cambridge, which insist that it
is an ascent also to either of their univer-
sities from anywhere, concede this point;
with the odd result that an undergrad who
visits London is travelling “up” both ways.
Australia is just as strong in the exact
opposite. All the capitals being practically
at sea level—though so is London, for that
matter- —any traveller has always .gone “up-
country,” and every busliman talks of going
“down” to the city. Only the railways have
brought the old idea, and insist on a “down”
train being one away from the city. So do
the trams in Adelaide; you are bidden to
“Hail up car,” though it may be coming
citywards, down quite a steep hill.
$ $
“Gregor”: Old South Coast (N.S.W.)
identities are recalling a mystery of 1880
which has' never been solved, and are won-
dering whether science or the modern sleuth
can suggest anything. There was a
gold-rush that year, and Assistant Govern-
ment Geologist Young, a colleague named
Schneider, and two prospectors, Casey and
Towers, were on their way to the scene.
They left Bateman’s Bay one afternoon in
a boat steered by Lloyd,' the owner, having
also aboard an unknown man who was down
on his luck and wanted to get to Bermagui.
They were next seen the following morn-
ing near Corunna Point, close to Bermagui.
The same afternoon their boat was found
on the beach. An attempt had obviously
been made to smash in its bows with heavy
rocks, while embedded in one of its seats
were two revolver bullets. Five coats and
hats were found near by, with scraps of food
scattered about, but of the men themselves
there was no sign, and to this day it has
never been learned Avhat became of them.
The theory is that Young, Schneider, Casey,
Towers and Lloyd were murdered at lunch
by the sixth man, who took their bodies out
in the boat, dumped them overboard and,
returning to the beach, made off into the
bush, after having tried to sink the boat.
* iji :!'• ❖
“C.A.8.”: Canberra has an Old Colle-
gians’ Club, which is claimed to be unique
of its kind. There are 79 members, and
the institutions represented include “Shore,”
The King’s School, Sydney Grammar, Sydney
High, St. Ignatius and Newington; Mel-
bourne Grammar, Scotch College, Wesley,
Geelong and Xavier; Prince Alfred and St.
Peter’s; Brisbane Grammar and Too-
woomba ; Friends’ High and Church Gram-
mar. Kingsmill, Latham, Earle Page and
Robert Garran belong to the club, and so do
Bruce, Abbott, Duncan-Hughes, Littleton
Groom and Marr, though these five are not
at present exercising the privileges of mem-
bership.
$ sj: Jfc
“Kappa”: The cables have been buzzing
about a disease spread by parrots, and Uncle
Sam has whipped up a score of recent cases,
some fatal. There is nothing new in this:
psittacosis is the name of the trouble. Cases
have been reported from time to time over
a period of 25 years, to my knowledge,
and from Britain as well as the U.S.A.
The causatory organism has points of re-
semblance to the bacillus of typhoid; the
symptoms in the earlier stages are chiefly
of a broncho-pneumonic type. Cases are on
record in Australia, but the disease is so
seldom encountered here that there is not
the slightest need for a slaughter of family
pets.
* * * $
“R. Volt”: The most impressive story
told about the King’s broadcast was of a
heroic Yankee who, when a wire was acci-
dentally broken, held the two ends together
for half an hour so that his fellow-citizens
should not miss a single word. Why he
didn’t twist them together isn’t revealed. The
incident reminds me of how I restored Im-
perial communications after Von Mueller cut
the Cocos-Perth cable in 1914. When the
Emden raiders weren’t looking I took a
long breath, dived into the Indian Ocean and
held the broken strands together with my
teeth for 24 hours.
* * * *
“Piecrust”: There is a young German
now in the Maliee who will get on. He
arrived in Melbourne with nothing but the
clothes he stood in, deserted his ship, and
though ignorant of English found his way
30 miles to a countryman. He had the
address on a slip of paper, and turned up
walking almost barefoot. He worked a year
in the neighborhood, making every penny
a prisoner, and then paid an instalment on
a place that was going cheap—the house was
full of rats and white ants, and the ground
over-run with blackberries. Not too proud
to beg, Fritz went round the district asking
everyone “if dey had anyt’ings to gif avay” ;
and in this manner he collected a few old
implements and tools. He whaled into the
blackberries early and late, bought a goat
and a horse, and lived on bread and treacle.
He cleared that place, sold it for £l5O more
than he had given for it, and went straight
for the. wheat country. He told me he had
tried five times, both from Germany and
England, to get to Australia, and I for one
am glad he succeeded at the sixth attempt,
even if he broke the law in doing it.
BURNS AT RATISBON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The songs of Robert Burns have been banned by
the educational authorities in the famous Bavarian
town of Ratisbon as ‘immoral and calculated to
corrupt the innocence of impressionable children.’ ”
Cable.
The Frenchmen stormed tli’ historic spot,
As Browning hasn’t failed to tell,
But that was vi et armis, not •
With rondeau or with villanelle;
With sword and flame and screaming shell
They left the tricolor thereon,
But Scotia’s bard the cits repel
And hurl him back from Ratisbon.
He sang of whisky, quite a lot,
Of lasses, too —uncommon well.
Soused he occasionally got
And all too oft in love he fell.
Still, that was but a bagatelle
A century and a half agone—
And is it virtue’s citadel
To-day, I wonder, Ratisbon?
Docs Fritz eschew the foaming pot,
The brew from Munich vats they sell?
Is Gretchen trained from girlhood—what?—
Artless caresses to repel?
Is childhood so impression’ble
That “Ae Fond Kiss” grim censors con
And gutturally mutter “Hell!
’Tis stuff too strong for Ratisbon.”
Aweel, my patriotic Scot,
Best join me in a dram to quell
That indignation fierce and hot,
That honest wrath wherewith you swell.
He’s read from Thrums to Tierra del
Fuego, Spey to silver Swan,
Yet now with Teuton book and bell
They ban your Burns at Ratisbon!
N.S.W.
*
T. THE R.


d
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
,(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue. assured and no
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The New Moon"
Criterion “Journey’s End”
otath Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “Follow Through”
New Comedy “The Land of Promise”
£ lvou Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
« —
Some day this critic will arise in joyous
spirit and say what he really does think of
such a production as “The Balcony” at
Sydney Turret. He is stayed now only by
a doubt as to whether ordinary critical stand-
ards should be applied to such theatri-
cals. After all, these people are only ama-
teurs. Shouldn’t the soft pedal be put on?
True, they are competing in an open
market against the commercial stage.
True, they invite attendance by advertise-
ment and demand real money for admittance.
True again, there is nothing very meek
about them. On the contrary, their con-
tempt for the commercial is always the
loudest plank in their platform. They are
it; and yon get a great deal of grandiloquent
snobbery for your sixpence. “Remember, the
Turret is run for Art, not Gain.” “The Turret
movement is a national movement.” “The
duty of every good Turretian is: To think
Turret —talk Turret—and support Turret.”
“The uplift of Dramatic Art in Australia is
an essential to the life of the country.” No-
thing meek or modest about that. Yet there
clings a thought that the soft pedal is in
order.
Let it be so. Here is the play with which
the Turretians are trying to keep the wolf
from the door of Art. A balcony-flat is
taken by a writer and his wife. The lady,
carrying on a love affair, arranges with her
lover that she shall get her husband out of
the way for the night, and will bang a red
lantern from the balcony if the coast is not
clear. Her plans go astray. The husband
returns early; the light fuses. Hit into the
outfield for a liar, the lady heaves herself
over the balcony just as the lover appears at
the door, where he is shot by the husband,
seated, left. What a play! What a sieveful
of skimmed milk! And it is not only a bad
play, it is thoroughly badly acted. Players
who don’t know even their words, let alone
their characters, move stiffly about in self-
conscious artiness. That is the whole sum
of it—it is arty.
Even now this Showman is left with a
doubt. Is it or is it not critical dishonesty
to keep on the soft pedal like this?
“Divorce,” the drama which Richard Bel-
lairs has put on at Sydney Opera House,
must rank as one of the most ridiculous
plays since the exit of bellowdrama. A play-
wright named Francis Bernard Vaughan is
credited with the authorship of this so-called
“mighty drama.” Whatever else Francis
Bernard may be, he is a champion jerry-
play builder. Anyone versed in the works of
Florence Barclay and Edgar Wallace, with
a passing knowledge of those Sabbath papers
that specialise in sordid stories of marital
infidelity, should be able to write as good
a play any day in the week, and twice as good
a one on Sunday. Styled as a denounce-
ment of the divorce system, it is a compound
of slightly disguised ecclesiastic propaganda,
slapstick comedy, lurid melodrama and song-
andance. In addition to a plot that weighs
heavily on an audience’s gullibility, an over-
labored theme and vapid characterisations,
the piece is overcharged with cloying senti-
mentality, and the dialogue scores laughter
when it should score tears.
The story introduces Mr. Manners and
Herbert Lockwood, once married to each
other, but since divorced and remarried.
Accidentally they meet for the first time in
a score of years in the study of a priest
who has rigid ideas about any cutting of the
marriage knot. There they bemoan the fate
of their two children whom they mislaid
after their separation. A frenzied young-
man flourishing a revolver and bearing the
limp form of his sister, rescued from a
house of ill-fame, makes a sensational entry,
pursued by a snarling pack of toughs. The
priest intervenes, orders the mob outside,
and offers his protection to the ex-street-
walker and her brother (a dope fiend, by
the way). Then the churchman discovers
that the pair are the neglected and lost
Lockwood children —victims of the divorce
system. Despite their previous lamenta-
tions, the parents, confronted with their
daughter, do not exhibit any inclination to
take her to their bosoms. The spurned
maiden thereupon expires from a broken
heart in their presence. Overawed by the
corpse, the parents make a feverish attempt
to claim their son when he is ushered in,
but the drug-wrecked youth, after laying his
father out with a straight left, flees from
the study. He is brought hack next morn-
ing by the priest, only to be snapped up on
a murder charge by a waiting detective.
Adjuncts to the story are a low-comedy Irish
servant and a youth and damsel who stray
in to get married and manage to squeeze in
a few songs and dances. There is also a
Gallic-looking lawyer who argues like n hesi-
tant undergrad, with the priest on the sub-
ject of divorce.
Considering the little aid they got from
the script it was a wonder the players held
the audience as well as they did. Richard
Bellairs did very well as the younger Lock-
wood, and as Patrick, the servant, Bertie
Wright was always bright. Vivian Edwards
imparted to the priestly role as much dig-
nity and feeling as was possible in the cir-
cumstances, and Eva Moss made a tolerable
Mrs. Manners. Frank Foster bordered on
the ludicrous at times, and the rest just
managed to keep their end up.
¥ ¥
Those who heard him at Croydon, Sydney,
last week will vouch for it that Steele Rudd
is equally at home as a mirth-provoker upon
the platform and on the printed page. He
gave the first of a series of story-talks
which he proposes spreading over various
Sydney suburbs, and within ten minutes he
had his audience in the kangaroo-infested
bush of his boyhood. He read, but he did so
in an easy conversational manner that gave
a fine realism to the Rudd family, their
neighbors and their vicissitudes. In no
time the starch-shirted figure of the author
had slipped away ; in his place sat Dad him-
self yarning whimsically through his whis-
kers to a group of fellow bushwhackers.
He retold many old familar yarns—the story
of Cranky Jack, of the fight between Dad
and the old man ’roo, of the swagman with
the bearskin cap who pinched Dad’s pants—
and they seemed better than ever. After a
short interval, during which the chairman,
N.S.W. Treasurer Stevens, stated that he
and Steele had re-enacted offstage the scene
where the parson pours portion of a flask of
firewater down the dying swagman’s throat,
Steele read an extract from “The Miserable
Clerk.” This he followed up with an account
Trotter tells Stanhope and Hibbrl a good un in the “Journey's End” dug-out at
Sydney Criterion.
of the opening of the school at Emu Creek,
ending with the story of Dave’s first love
affair. Altogether a rare night’s entertain-
ment.
Melbourne continues to pay George Wal-
lace the tribute due to genius by filling the
Tiv. A secondary but solid attraction is
Argus, a young Australian with an aesthetic
face and an ability to read the mind. The
popular belief is that telepathic turns are
worked by means of accomplices scattered
about the house. Whether this is so or
not this paper wotteth not, but it wasn’t the
case when Argus revealed the number on
The Bulletin’s car license the other night.
Other items on an estimable bill are the
Reopetes, the feminine half of which whistles
well, sings ill and plays a violin abominably
while her friend carefully turns her about
in midair as if he were grilling a chop
mysteriously endowed with the gift of song.
Marshall Crosby, in a collarless shirt and
a fine old baritone, expresses his burning
desire to drink naught but the fresh fluid
of mountain streams, sleep under hedgerows
and for ever go wandering on and on. After
which, one hopes, he goes out and buys
himself a beer.
¥ ¥ ¥
“To What Red Hell” ceases at Mel-
bourne Bijou on Saturday, and with it
Gregan McMahon’s meritorious effort to
re-establish intellectual drama in the
wrong place. The McMahon enterprise
suffered from several complaints. The
producer could not make up his mind
whether he was leading the public up to
higher things or furiously pursuing the movie
audiences to drag them from their lairs.
The Bij. was not an ideal location for high-
brow plays, and the co., while thoroughly
artistic, lacked any overwhelming personality.
In the immediate neighborhood George Wal-
lace is playing to packed houses, and only
pedants will deny that he is an artist, too.
The Fuller firm is being much abused for
closing down on the Gregan enterprise, but
nobody suggests that Allans should stock
themselves up exclusively with Beethoven
pianola rolls or that Robertson and Mullens
should fill their windows with Shakspeare
and Rousseau.
¥ ¥ ¥
Frank Neil’s comedians folded up “Nightie
Night” on Saturday and silently stole away
from Melbourne King's, bound, it is reported,
for S’Africa. The city’s only panto, ceased
at the Playhouse on the same date. “Turned
Up,” at the Royal, is in its last few days.
The company will, turn its talents to “Follow
Through” on the Bth. The new vehicle for
Gus Bluett and Cecil Kellaway looks from
the advts. to be as like its predecessor as
two new Ford cars. “The Land of Promise,”
but not of performance, is still on at the
Comedy, where the caveman appeal of Leon
Gordon is always sure to fill the house what-
ever the quality of the play.
¥ ¥ ¥
Gustav Slapoffski and the Yic. Prof.
Orchestra have now removed their instru-
ments to the Plaza, St. Kilda, where they
are giving well-attended Sunday concerts.
That insufficiently-honored master of a melo-
dious fiddle, M. Tarczynski, is still the star
item qn the programmes. The orchestra was
recently asked by a leading movie firm to
play for a talkie. This was a poser, as the
organisation lias been active in propaganda
against the evils of preserved music. Also,
the movie-parlor proprietors have not been
ungenerous, lending their buildings and
musicians from their own orchestras. Nobody
seriously believes that the flesh-and-blood
musician is doomed, least of all those talkie
entrepreneurs who have been watching the
behavior of their audiences closely.
* ¥ *
Premier Hogan is unlikely to get as much
out of his new amusement tax as his statists
informed him that he would. Union Theatres’
reply to the imposition was to reduce the
prices of most of its seats below the level
where it is liable to be hit by the tax. As
the F'ederal tax-gatherer fixes the same
minimum, Mr. Theodore will have something
to say to Mr. Hogan when they meet.
¥ ¥ ¥
Adelaide shows are all talkies at the
moment, the Majestic having given up the
struggle and wired itself to compete with the
other central six houses. The most striking,
because the most original, of the lot is Hal-
combe’s fast bowling shown in slow motion
at the Regent.
¥ ¥ ¥
Sydney Fullers, which is threatening to go
over to the squawkies in the near future, will
shortly be evacuated by the Ernest Lotinga
co., which has occupied it for some time with-
out casualties. Last week’s presentment was
a revival of “August, 1914,” a sketch of the
war, which has little in common with “All
Quiet” and similar publications. The ver-
satile Lotinga is again the soul of a lively
show, though his audiences are beginning to
wish he would not introduce himself as the
same character in every comedy he puts on.
Kathleen Barbour is a delightful heroine,
and the remainder of the co. are well worth
their oats. The M.L. circuit is the next hop.
* * *
Muriel Starr’s is the latest of Sydney
shows to take the count. What hope there
was for Miss Starr repeating an earlier
success at the Palace petered out when she
put on that dull bit of moralising “The
Enemy.” It lasted a little over a week,
drawing attendances that fairly represented
its merits. The Firm, though it permitted
the Starr ads. to appear as if they were its
own, had no hand in the show, and conse-
quently did not have to dip to meet the
debt that must have been pretty stiff at the
finish.
¥ ¥ ¥
The attractive “Trespasser” is still going
strong at Sydney St. James, proving that
it isn’t only slush in the movie line that
can be depended upon to fill the house. The
State bill includes another George Bancroft
gangster effort, “The Mighty” and “Salute,”
this last a really terrible piece of work.
Why it was ever released in Australia beats
this Showman ; they’ll possibly learn to pick
them better after a while. “The Virginian”
at the Capitol, “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
(Royal), “Shanghai Lady” (Haymarket),
“The Dance of Life” (Empress), “They Had
to See Paris” (Empire), “The Love Parade”
(Prince Edward) and “Bulldog Drummond”
(Crystal Palace) are other current offerings.
¥ ¥ ¥
The colossal offensive the movie magnates
have put up since the advent of the talkies
may yet prove a blessing to the Fii'm, in
Sydney, at any rate. From having several
too many theatres, employing large staffs
and drawing mostly thin houses, J.C.W.’s
have got down to two theatres, Majesty's
and Cri. One result is that selection of
pieces can be more drastically done; there
is no temptation to give any likely old thing
a fly. On the Other hand, it isn’t a matter
of mere temptation with the talkie houses.
There are so many of them that everything
Hollywood cares to send along has to go
on. It is doubtful whether any house not
forced by necessity would put on such a
thing as “Salute,” for instance, and there
are plenty such. How the legit, might profit
if it takes the hint is well proved at the
Criterion. Carrillo’s good show lately had
a great run there, and “Journey’s End,”
which followed and bettered “Lombardi,
Ltd.,” as an entertainer, is carrying on the
good work. The frothy line of stuff that
has to fill the Majesty’s is apparently harder
to select, though some recent offerings have
been excellent of the kind. “New Moon,”
which had improved with wear when this
Showman last saw it, is now in its second
month and still doing well. An interesting
revival follows, the Firm having decided to
resurrect “The Belle of New York.” Most
of the Fuller opposition went talkie long
ago, and it is on the cards that its remain-
ing outpost, the vaudeville house, will do
likewise at the end of the present season.
With only two legit, houses running, both
owned by itself, the Firm should not have
any trouble in keeping the wolf away. In
any case, it has its own interest in the
talkie business.
¥ ¥ ¥
A rough verse this Showman saw in manu-
script the other day had the germ of truth
in it. The writer called for someone who
would lift the theatre back to its old place
by “throwing a good hoot,” or words to that
effect. A good hoot is badly needed, often.
Instead, around Sydney shows at least, there
is never any demonstration stronger than a
dignified silence. The applause at a good
many shows is smugly hypocritical. Audiences
that walk out and say the show is rotten
have just clapped it at the curtain. Yet
if they had been made victims of any sort
of confidence trick they’d scream for the
police. The theatrical confidence trick doesn’t
lie in misleading advertisements; theatrical
advertisements always have been misleading.
It lies simply in players who don’t know their
parts masquerading as actors. If a batsman
went out and tried to boot the ball to the
boundary, he’d get what was coming to him;
but apparently an actor can walk on and
serve as a sounding box for the prompter and
nobody thinks of heaving a good honest hoot
at him. It is a common practice to make
first nights mere glorified dress rehearsals;
in fact this Showman has been asked by a
legit, house, since out of the business, not
to go along to a matinee opening for that
reason. The amateurs, however, are the
prime offenders. Usually they open with a
helter-skelter rush that might last for ten
minutes. Then comes an unholy pause that
lasts intermittently throughout. The result
is a stilted performance embarrassing to any-
one with an ounce of feeling. A good hoot
would clear the atmosphere, and do the
stage a much needed service.
“Craiser”: Frank Neil is Australia’s most
loyal employer in the stage business. Jeffer-
son Tait, Field Fisher, Rosa Duggan, Lily
Molloy, Paul Longuet, Leslie Woods and
Nina Dacre were with him in his first com-
pany of comedians devoted to the cause of
American farce, and it is the same galaxy of
artists who are making his latest season a
success at Melbourne King’s, six years later.


MORE
ana
better
%
Im
aC$ VER ’S
lI YE^^
country
Country if
mk:G I
mm® a
&
Hitt**
Hil
v(ERS
11
II .4
IW-G^
•a®
71.8
CIGARETTES
and Js for V-
■— also■ in tins oP
• ~ affi' K &>■
re ss Vt \ t c'- <v
<d^
*»<** , j *f>"
»! < <s>srt?s>'
■’s
v^ C
\V^
7*?)
A v
io^ Qt xV e .^^cV & '
&*
S&
& v “
«F\ C „ tfl
, t ttV ee
\& <%s&& .
{or
,^ c
or 6
r
Made in
Your Own Country
at the Garden Fadoru
• R-aleiqh Park.
bu Wd.&H.O'Wills
(Australia,] Ltd.'
VIRGINIA-
CORK-TIPPED


DIARY
FOR 1930
NOW
READY.
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 9i x 6^
Price 107-
Post, 1/- extra.
8J
(
y-:-t
uS
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
I
i
Pioneer
Pre-Tested Belting
Throughout every process of manu-
facture, from rawhide to fiinished
belt, there is constant expert super-
vision and inspection. This close
attention to every detail ensures that
the quality and workmanship are of
the highest order. Ev6ry Pioneer
Belt is thoroughly tested at each
stage of its manufacture, and be-
cause of these painstaking methods
we are able to guarantee it against
breakdowns under specified load.
PIONEER Leather Belting
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (our only city address).
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves
£ £ £ £
1918.. 367,869 25 p.c. = 262,500 76,969 362,083
1919.. 319,232 15 „ „ 157,500 86,807 437,007
1920.. 5,559 Nil 2,685 439,881
1921.. 32,926 Pref. sp.c. F 30,000 2,917 430,890
1922.. 87,241 4 > 408 440 > 222
All Shares.
1923.. 215,163 15 p.c.= 157,500 60,000 447,885
Reserve disclosed, £100,000.. 547 885
1924.. 84,142 Nil 183,942 448,085
1925. .116,698 | o^- 7 - p,^ 46 ’° 00 | 65,600 454,183
1926. .187,683 10 p.e. = 105,000 60,000 476,866
1927. . 99,665 j j. 23>181 50 8,350
1928.. 124,192 lOp.e. = 105,000 - 527,522
Hidden reserves disclosed, £424,261.. 951,783
Fixed assets written down, £377,522.. 574,261
1929.. 188,228 15 p.c. = 157,500 21,000 583,989
The outstanding features of the latest
accounts are (1) the disclosure of £424,261
of inner reserves, (2) a deep cut of £377,522
in the book value of fixed assets, (3) an im-
provement of £64,036 in the final profit
figure, and (4) a lift in the div. from 10
p.e. to 15 p.c. Though for years it had
been known that not all the half-million or
so at which “sundry creditors and credit
balances” figured in the sheet w r as outside
debt, some of it being internal provision for
contingencies, the board had never disclosed
the respective amounts. When the books
were ruled off in 1928 the composite item
appeared at £504,474; the latest accounts
show only £104,980 coming to sundry credi-
tors, and no less than £424,261 as specific
reserves, including provision for taxation.
For what purposes these surplus earnings
have been earmarked is not mentioned,
but reserves are seldom what they look
where a mine is concerned. Although
plant has been maintained in a state of thor-
ough efficiency by annual expenditure charged
to working exes., and regular allowances
made for amortisation, the board considered
it wise to make a special cut of £377,522 in
the book value of fixed assets, reducing the
figure to £784,172 at June 30 last; and an
assault was made upon “accumulated pro-
fits” for the purpose. Most of the writing-
down was in respect of the mine,
Broken Hill; it stood in the books, together
with the Junction, at £526,786 at June 30,
1928. At the same date Cockle Creek works
figured at £383,183, and the Seaton Carew
plant at £253,678.
One effect of the adjustment of accounts
has been to exhibit a much stronger financial
position, as this next comparison shows: —
1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Liquid assets 1,387,570 1,034,948 1,098,939 1,233,001
Liabilities. . 551,922 519,527 505,056 105,684
Surplus. . £835,648 £515,421 £593,883£1,127,317
The improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus was £533,434. That includes £57,072
recently invested in a mine in Wales. Thus,
excluding this investment, the surplus now
amply covers the whole of the 600,000 £1
pref. shares, which have priority as to capi-
tal without further participation in surplus
assets, and the balance was equal to 15s. Bd.
for each of the 600,000 15s. ords. At the
previous balance the surplus was scarcely
sufficient to cover the pref. capital alone.
Now that the co. is relieved of direct
expenditure on account of the fire at the Cen-
tral, that property has again become an
important contributor to profits; most of
the spring in last year’s net earnings was
due to a rise of £2 in the average price of
lead (£23 2s. 5d.). During the year 134,722
tons crudes —about the same as in the year
before —and the last of the old slimes (19,365
tons) were put through the mill for 24,839
tons lead concentrates and 37,188 tons zinc
concentrates, both of higher grade.
Here is a comparison of milling results and
assay values;—
Leadies.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
IQ9f . J 425,743 oz. 5,836 tons. 1303 tons.
1 ( 41.4 oz. 56.8 p.c. 12.7 p.c.
iQ9R i 890,984 oz. 12,518 tons. 2501 tons.
iazo ) 42.5 oz. 59.7 p.c. 11.9 p.c.
-1Q97 J 1,104,758 oz. 15,903 tons. 2,653 tons.
I 43.7 oz. 62.9 p.c. 10.5 p.c.
IQ9B i 1,399,086 oz. 17,644 tons 2,734 tons
1 ( 50.5 oz. 63.7 p.c. 9.9 p.c.
iQ9Q j 1,333,395 oz. 16,312 tons 2,147 tons
ia \ 53.7 oz. 65.7 p.c. 8.6 p.c.
Zinc.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
1 no- J 113,946 oz. 806 tons. 5,500 tons.
\ 10.0 oz. 7.1 p.c. 48.5 p.c.
1096 J 217,059 oz. 1,577 tons. 11,535 tons.
( 9.2 oz. 6.7 p.c. 49 p.c.
19 9 7 ( 268,419 oz. 1,920 tons 14,677 tons.
( 9.0 oz. 6.4 p.c. 49 p.c.
199 g J 339,096 oz. 2,096 tons 19,535 tons
( 8.6 oz. 5.3 p.c. 49.5 p.c.
1929 S 272,671 oz. 1,563 tons 18,635 tons
( 7.3 oz. 4.2 p.c. 50.1 p.c.
The metallic recoveries, 81.9 p.c. lead,
91.4 p.c. zinc and 88.1 p.c. silver, were lower,
owing to the highly oxidised condition of
the dump material. Costs were £l4 17s. 3d.
(up 7s. 3d.) per ton of lead cons, and
30s. 6d. (up 4s. 6d.) per ton of zinc cons.
But these increases were more than offset
by lower returning charges paid to the
smelters at Port I’irie and the improvement
in the assay.
Recently the capacity of the mill was
doubled, increasing it to 6000 tons ore per
week, in order to treat product from the re-
opened B. H. Prop, and Block 14 cos.’ mines.
This and the co.’s new Diesel power plant
are expected to offset the rise in costs, which
would ordinarily follow the exhaustion of
the old slimes.
Ore reserves at the Central are put at
886,822 tons, and there is more yet to be
measured up below the 1400 ft. level. On
the written-down book value of the mine the
calculated reserves represent a profit of less
than ss. per ton. The Junction mine, a
comparatively low-grade proposition bought
for £75,000 after the fire in 1923 to help
in the treatment of the Central’s slimes, has
been sold to the North Co. for £20,000
The next comparison shows the steady
growth of the co.’s industrial activities at
Cockle Creek. For the 12 months to .Tune
30, 1928, profits from this centre are said to
have exceeded those from the mine:—
Cement
Sulp. Acid, Superphosphates. Clinker,
tons. tons. tons.
1924 . . 13,560 19,192
1925 .; 15,822 29,074 4,505
1926 .. 18,333 34,833 24,328
1927 .. 20,770 33,879* 42 884
1928 .. 20,541 37,919* 68,375
1929 .. 22,997 4f.954* 52,985
*High grade.
Although competition has narrowed profit
margins in the super, and cement markets
the _ expansion of the figures is encouraging.
Owing to the coal trouble only one of the
two cement units, which have a combined
capacity of 100,000 tons p.a., was continu-
ously at work throughout the term.
At the zinc works at Seaton Carew (Eng.)
19,872 tons concentrates, etc., was distilled
for 7990 tons spelter and 12,732 tons of re-
tort residues, which is a slightly lower
out-turn than for the previous year. At the
co.’s new mine in Wales the shaft is down
to the 400 ft. level, and the plant, to treat
up to 125 tons ore per day, is expected to
take the feed this month. The total cost of
equipping this property is put at £lOO,OOO.
The idea is to ensure a supply of concen-
trates at Seaton Carew when the Board of
Trade contract expires at June 30.
Dividend prospects will largely depend
upon the course of metal prices. In this
respect the board hopes that the activities of
the Zinc Cartel and the Lead Producers’
Association will have a steadying effect. The
scrip has been affected by the general de-
pression on _ the Stock Exchange, and
the ords., which were priced at 19s. a year
ago, are now around par. For the prefs.,
which carry a non-cumulative 10 p.c., buyers
at par fail to attract sellers.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 1,699 Nil 1,699 4,486
Reserves.
1924.. 37,179 12J p.c. = 32,500 4,679 193
1925.. 10,408 Nil 10,408 10,601
1926.. 43,699 171 p.c. = 52,500 —■ 1,800
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 „ ~ 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44,963 15 „ „ 45,000 16,921
1929.. 62,338 15 „ „ 45,000 17,338 34,259
*l3 months.
This co. is in the sugar-growing, -milling and
-refining business at Miwani, Konya, East
Africa, so its earnings are not subject to
Australian trading conditions. It was pro-
moted in 1921 by George R. Mayers, now its
managing director, and has thus far made
verv good progress. Mayers, who had had
Queensland experience, took a lease of some
6700 acres, bought the confiscated plant of
the old German sugar factory at Pangani,
Tanganyika, picked up a lot of railway
material cheap, put the lot into shape and
then invited the Australian public in. The
public put up £160,000, the promoter took
£lOO,OOO in scrip for assets and backed his
claims with £40,000 in cash for shares.
The table picks up the story from the time
manufacture began. A fire on the property
of outside growers affected the 1925 figures,
but deliveries caught up with mill capacity
in the next year, when the profit reached
14.5 p.c. on average capital, followed by
25, 14.9 and then 20.7 p.c. last year. So
the 15 p.c. div. was repeated with ease,
making an average of 13.3 p.c. over the last
half-dozen years.
The improvement of £17,375 in the latest
profit figure is apparently due to a better
price for sugar; cuts in costs following im-
provements to the plant and milling prac-
tice helped. Crusliings (80,982 tons) were
5445 tons better than the previous year’s;
but the increase represented immature cane
from two areas that were burnt out during
the term, and the sugar content of the wdiole
crop suffered from the semi-drought which
affected the previous year’s figures. Here is
a comparison of crushing and milling figures :
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown .. 14,774 55,713 45,299 41,436
Cane purchased . . 5,299 40,737 30,238 39,546
Sugar (white) pro-
duced .. . . 1,385 8,018 5,700 5,723
Altogether there was an increase of only
23 tons in the output of whites. The price
paid to outside growers (13s. lOd. per ton)
was lid. more than in the previous year.
The co.’s market is a local and tariff-pro-
tected one. It shares the trade with three
other mills, and presently another competitor
will be in the field. But since there was a
sugar shortage last year, owing to local pro-
duction failing to keep pace with increased
local consumption, there is apparently plenty
of room for the newcomer. The management’s
chief anxiety is the extent, if any, to which
the tariff on sugar is likely to be reduced
when Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika link
up under one control, as they are expected
to do presently. Subject to this, and pro-
vided the plant has been kept thoroughly
efficient, and adequate provision made for
depreciation, the chief factor likely to affect
earnings in the immediate future is fluctua-
tions in seasonal conditions.
Last year £17,004 as against £14,045 in
the previous term was set aside for deprecia-
tion, making the total so provided £86.961.
Also 10s. per ton on all cane harvested from
the co.’s own plantations is charged against
manufacture. The amount thus involved last
year was £20,718, but actual cultivation and
harvesting cost only £16,460; the difference
(£4258) was written off development, reduc-
ing that item to £41,968. Since the figure was
£43.825 at the previous balance, evidently a
further £2401 was spent under that head
during the year. The point there is that if
the value of the property has been increased
by the amount spent on development, then
the £29,037 written off against this expendi-
ture to April 30 last represents an inner
reserve.
Finances are comfortable, as this next
comparison of balance-sheet figures shows: —
1925. '1928. 1929.
Paid capital . . .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liability on land .. 3,404 855
Other liabilities .. 34,982 27,892 8,626
Mill 165,475 152,171 142,162
Land, buildings, etc. .. 45,902 47,337 47,517
Rolling stock, tramways,
plant, etc 63,347 82,100 88,434
Plantation development 52,434 43,825 41,968
Sugar stocks . . . . 5,975 21,307 27,692
Book debts .. .. 2,856 12,214 18,665
Cash, etc. . . . . 12,997 9,214 13,948
Including sugar stocks the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£51,679) was £37,691. Land for which
the co. paid £3 per acre was recently reck-
oned to be worth £B. Incidentally, the co.
has the right to convert its 9300 acres into
a 999-years’ lease after £50,000 has been
spent on improvements, and that point was
passed long ago.
During the current term miles of heavy
rails are to be laid, the Oruba pipe line
duplicated and further improvements made
to the mill and equipment. It is expected
to put 92,000 tons of cane through the rollers,
and there have been “ideal growing condi-
tions.”
The scrip, which was at 435. a year ago,
recently sold at 40s. 9d. After allowing for
the final div., the return at the current
price is 7.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The
backing amounts to 225. 3d. per share in
net tangibles, all but 3s. sd. of which is in
fixed assets, worth what they can earn.
N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal Quarries.
Nomi-
, Dividends To Re-nal Re
Nov., Profits. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
1922.. 14,777 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10,299 4,478 615
1923.. 16,349 10 „ 10 „ 11,824 4,525 5,140
1924.. 18,449 10 ~ 10 „ 15,000 3,449 8,589
1925.. 20,815 10 ~ 10 „ 18,193 2,622 11,211
1926.. 25,808 10 „ 10 „ 19,462 6,346 17,557
1927.. 34,178 10 „ 10 „ 22,917 11,261 28,818
1928.. 33,803 10 „ 10 „ 25,000 8,803 37,621
1929.. 33,934 10 „ 10 „ 25,000 8,934 46,555
When this co. took over Prospect, Minna-
murra and Bombo quarries eight years ago
the board mapped out a vigorous programme
of development, and paid capital advanced
by annual steps from £112,711 in 1922 to
£250,000 in 1927, when a fourth quarry at
Bass Point was equipped. Capital has
remained unchanged since. The expansion
was hastened by developments in road con-
struction and concrete work, which resulted
in a strong demand and good prices for
metal. Thus the new capital has been able
to earn very satisfactory returns, and share-
holders have had a steady 10 p.c., sweetened
with trequent new share issues at par. For
the roost part these have been equivalent to
small bonuses, the scrip having long stood
at a premium in the market.
Last year, after setting aside £6OOO for
taxation as against £7200 in the previous
term, net earnings were maintained at 13.5
p.c. on average 'capital compared with 13.5,
14.8, 13.2, 11.4 and 12.8 p.c. back to 1924.
That is counting as profit £1250, making
±_,j(JO in all, put by for the amortisation of
leases, and £6500 which was added to the
depreciation reserve, raising it to £34,250.
All the reserves are used in the business,
and, after allowing for the final div. and
including taxation with outside liabilities,
the whole of shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) are represented by quarries,
freeholds, leases and plant, worth what they
can earn. Obviously, therefore, a great deal
depends on the value placed upon fixed assets
and that is largely a matter of guesswork ii:
the case of a quarry. Hence the “Wild Cat’
does not attach much importance to the
reserves, which are labelled nominal in the
table and total £46,555.
As an investment the enterprise should
therefore be judged on the outlook for profit*
rather than on the security for capital. In
this connection the plant is regulaily re-
ported in good working order; the cpiality of
the stone is right, and the quantity claimed
to be “inexhaustible.” The factors most
likely to affect earnings are a falling off
in the demand for metal and the course of
prices. These in turn largely depend upon
activity in constructional work, public ex-
penditure and competition. The last can
be expected to further strengthen, and no-
body can be exactly certain what that might
mean in these troublous times. Also we
are in for a period of curtailment in ex-
penditure, both public and private. Those
cos. best equipped financially and otherwise
will come through with least damage to
earnings.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Owing on Minna-
murra .. ..£16,275 £2,325
Overdraft . . .. 1,614 20,662 £23,561 £23,165
Other creditors .. 6,518 15,753 27,610 26,185
Fixed assets .. 131,840 217,371 299,672 309,505
Stocks . . .. 3,651 3,099 5,804 7,354
Book debts .. 25,735 48,983 52,199 47,394
Cash and sundries 909 2,375 1,525 980
Last year £9833 more was spent on fixed
assets than was written oft'. To do this and
reduce the debt by £lB2l the.board drew
upon liquids for £3BOO net, and upon sur-
plus earnings for the balance. Thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£6378, including
stocks) was £1979 lighter than at the close
of accounts in 1928.
Since the . books were last ruled off
nominal capital has been increased to a
round half-million, but so far no announce-
ment concerning a new share issue has been
made. However, whispers have been heard
about negotiations for the purchase of Wes-
tern Blue Metals, Ltd., which came on to
the market with 100,000 £1 shares in May
last. The money was wanted to buy pro-
perties containing basalt deposits near
Rydal, Ben Bullen and Weinga.
The 64,407 prefs. carry a cumulative 10
p.c., have priority as to capital and partici-
pate in new share issues. Last year’s profit
was over five times their annual require-
ments and the backing amounted to
£4 12s. Id. in net tangibles. The market
prices them at 235. 6d. as against 255. 6d. a
year ago. The return at the current figure
is 8.5 p.c. The ords., which were 245. 9d.
12 months ago, are now at 21s. or there-
abouts. At the latter figure the return is
9.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends N
Prefs. To Re- Re-
July, Profits. 7 p.c. Ord, serves, serves.
£> £f £ £t £>
1924.. 54,092 23,956 8 p.c. = 16,000 14,136 58,792
1925.. 38,411 27,790 5 „ „ 10,000 621 59,413
1926.. 30,534 27,790 Nil 2,744 62,157
1927.. 39,409 27,790 5i p.c. = 11,000 619 62,776
1928.. 36,061 27,790 ' Nil 8,271 71,047
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil 43,715
This old busiuess —it used to be James
Marshall and Co., founded over 80 years ago,
and built up by James Marshall and the
Taylors—passed into the control of the big
Myer Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne, in 1928,
when the 200,000 ords. issued were purchased
at 30s. a share. Following the change, the
share-market, influenced by the success of
Myers in Melbourne, increased its bid for the
co.’s 7 p.c. prefs. (the only class of stock
available to the public) ; but so far results
have been disappointing.
Of course, it has been a year of reorgani-
sation and clearance of old stocks, and, to
make matters worse, conditions in S.A. were
very gloomy for the greater part of the term.
The chairman says that trade expanded
gratifyingly; but the change in the co.’s
merchandising policy—it now aims at a
quick turnover on small profit-margins— cut.
into gross profits in the first stages. Profit
on trading account (£217,657) fell away
only £2886, but exes. (£217,199) were
(Continued on page 20.)


i»t EMPIRE TOBACCO
CO R.P ORATION L I M I T E D
(Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1908.)
AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL, £250,000
Divided into 150,000 Ordinary Shares of £l each, of
which 146,000 are issued and fully paid, and 100,000
Preference Shares of £l each, of which 15,000 are at
present being issued, the balance being held in Reserve.
Third Series of 3000 Freehold Bonds of
£35 each offered for Subscription.
Do you realise over £7,000,000 is spent annually on tobacco in Aus-
tralia? The tobacco industry is earning big profits. This Corporation
gives you an opportunity of sharing in this wealth. Tobacco produc-
tion has been established in New Zealand since 1926. To-day over
1800 acres are returning an average yield of £BO per acre.
AN INVESTMENT THAT YIELDS
IMMEDIATE RETURNS.
Most people are to-day seeking attractive, safe investments for their
surplus cash which will give a greater return than Bank Interest,
Government Bonds, Debentures or Mortgages. Empire Tobacco Cor-
poration Limited Freehold Bonds offer such an investment. The
Corporation pays interest at thd rate of 6 per cent, per annum for
the amount paid up on Bonds — 8 per cent, per annum on Fully
Paid-up Bonds until the ensuing planting season ; and conservative
estimates for future years set the annual dividend to Bondholders at
not less than 25 per cent.
o*
w J&fi***.* oi
,et
« c „» * ; r<svs- >
\> otv * c V «et a<vcL s , e^ otv
<>*£■«*>s, ** r°* ** **&
?&&*s&*>
* »* £> 8 ' ** <«° tf*
.. ** ?to
otv
d> /
L
m
m
\\
V
a
A
\
\\/ 1
Wi
\\ N
;\
RE
to a acco
IS*' i
wjfc
jr^.
■if
nf[
2»
k -oW
v k V
■se
■/MMj///*,,
OBJECTS OF THIS CORPORATION.
To develop the planting and curing of tobacco on a commercial scale in
New Zealand, where it has secured large areas of ground specially adapted
to the growing of tobacco leaf of the highest grade of quality.
Seven hundred and fifty acres of this land, which have been proved
eminently suitable for tobacco culture, have been appropriated to this Issue.
This land is now being prepared, and will be planted in various blocks under
expert supervision by the Corporation’s thoroughly experienced growers.
To ensure the greatest success for the Bondholders by the growth of the
most suitable and highly-graded leaf, approximately 50 acres of tobacco
of different varieties have been planted this year, the results of which
exceed the most sanguine expectations, the Plantation Manager estimating
a crop for which £lOO to £llO per acre will be obtained.
ESTIMATED PROFITS.
The best flue-cured leaf is worth up to 3/6 per pound. Growers in the
Nelson district usually obtain £BO to £lOO per acre, which independent
authorities' state shows an average net profit per acre in New Zealand
of £55. To arrive at a very conservative estimate, it has been assumed that
instead of £55 per acre profit, the profit per acre, allowing for the cost of
replanting, will be only £35. At this figure each Bondholder would receive
£B/15/- per annum on each bond (which represents an area of a
quarter of an acre), and this equals a dividend of 25 per cent.
NO INCOME-TAX IS PAYABLE ON THIS
PROFIT UNDER EXISTING LEGISLATION.
BONDS FOR THE SMALL OR LARGE
INVESTOR.
Bonds are offered on either terms or cash for this attractive and profitable
investment.
(a) Gash: £35, carrying a guaranteed dividend of 8 per cent, per annum
until the commencement of planting.
(b) Three Months’ Terms: Payment of £5 on application, and the balance
°;. within three months thereafter, carrying a guaranteed dividend
ot 8 per cent, per annum until the commencement of planting.
(c) Deferred Terms: £5 Deposit, and 20 monthly payments of £l/10/-,
eacii instalment and the said deposit bearing interest at 6 per cent,
per annum until the bond is fully paid, and thereafter 8 per cent,
per annum until the ensuing planting season.
DIRECTORS:
HUGH ROSS MACKENZIE, of Auckland, N.Z. (Member and
late Chairman of the Auckland Harbor Board).
THOMAS McINDOE, of Auckland, N.Z., Company Director.
JOSEPH SOLOMON EMANUEL, of Auckland, N.Z. (Man-
aging Director of the Reliance Loan, Mortgage and
Discount Corp., Ltd.).
WILLIAM CHISHOLM WHITNEY, of Auckland, N.Z.
(Director of the Colonial Ammunition Co. (N.Z.) Ltd.).
PERCY DOUGLAS JONES, of Auckland, Merchant.
SECRETARY:
H. MAHER, Dilworth Buildings, Customs Street E., Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN ACCOUNTANTS:
HOLT AND THOMPSON, “Sirius House,” Macquarie Place,
Sydney.
PLANTATION MANAGER:
EDWARD Y. OWEN, late Field Instructor and Tobacco
Grader to W. D. and H. O. Wills (N.Z.), Ltd.
BANKERS FOR AUSTRALIA:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY,
LTD.
AUSTRALIAN ATTORNEY:
LESLIE JAMES THOMPSON, Esq., “Sirius House,” 23
Macquarie Place, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
304 Dilworth Buildings, Customs Street E., Auckland, New
Zealand.
BROKERS:
AUSTRALASIAN BROKERAGE, LTD., National Building,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tels.: MA 3795, MA 2384.
Cables: “Embaco,” Sydney.
SEND FOR THE FULL
PROSPECTUS.
It is possible here only to indi-
cate the bare outline of the
tremendous possibilities which
await this industry. You are
urged to send for the full pros-
pectus immediately.
*
*
f POST
/ THIS
TO-DAY!
f Australasian
Brokerage Ltd.,
Box 3357 P.P., G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
f Kindly post, without obligation to
f me, a copy of your prospectus cover-
f ing Empire Tobacco Corporation Ltd.
* Freehold Bonds.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 5/2/’3O.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die. travel or disappearj has had over 40 years experience
n the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets—over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
DIRECTORS:
THOS. BUCKLAND F. N. YARWOOD o. E. FRIEND
JAMES MOIR (Chairman) Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. Y. T. Whittle, .Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
FORESTRY
BONDS
During the past two or three
years hundreds of thousands of
pounds have been invested in
Forestry bonds and shares.
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly’*
for February will discuss some of
these ventures, and show what
Forestry results have been in
S. Australia.
It will show that figures which
have been quoted are grossly mis-
leading.
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly” is a guide
no Australian investor, great or
small, can afford to be without.
It is independent and plain-
spoken.
Let it help to save you from
losses.
FEBRUARY NUMBER NOW
ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/C. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Go., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
# * * *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and' 1 European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* % *
FOR SALE. —One of the best Hotel Businesses
'll North Tasmania. £4OOO. L. J. Smith, Hotel
Broker, Ulverstone, Tas. — Advt.
* 4= * $
Pioneer Wood Pipe is proving itself a remark
ably durable conduit. Pipe lines that have been
down for over 20 years are found to be in practically
as sound a condition as when first installed. In
addition to this factor of durability, Pioneer Wood
Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive, costs less than metal
pipe and is easier and cheaper to lay, transport and
freight. Write for illustrated data book to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Mpree.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
fire, marine, accident,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
11 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
£32,716 heavier, mainly due to reorgani-
sation. Salaries, it is said, called for £64,624
more than in the previous year. Net profit
was only £458; thus reserves had to be
drawn upon for £27,332 to pay the pref. div.
The new control has adopted a bold policy,
and the drastic alterations made in the nature
of the business have no doubt involved much
non-recurring expense. The board claims
to have taken a long-distance view of things,
and declares itself satisfied with the position.
Extensive clearances of stocks at the com-
mencement, in order to build up an immediate
goodwill as well as to make way for newer
lines, no doubt have cut into profits. Stocks,
too, may have been taken into last year’s
account on a different basis.
During the four years prior to Myer’s
entry, there was very little in the business
for the ords. That, however, may not all
have been due to poor trading results. The
Marshalls and the Taylors floated the busi-
ness into a public co. in 1918, but the ords.,
and therefore control, had always been in a
few private hands. Five years later £141,573
of reserves was capitalised, and in the fol-
lowing year (1924) 100,000 7 p.c. A prefs.
were offered and snapped up, thus making
paid capital £597,000. The new capital was
used mainly to reduce the debt; later
alterations were made to the Rundle-street
property, and a new building was put
up adjoininig the furniture warehouse in
Stepbens-place. But though it all looked
like progress, visible earnings have not
responded j in 1924 9 p.c. on capital was
netted; since then the ratio has never
exceeded 7 p.c.
Last year nominal capital was increased
from £750,000 to £1,250,000 by the creation
of 500,000 new ords. It was originally
intended to issue 150,000 of these —100,000
to Myers (Melbourne) and 50,000 to the.
S.A. public. The trend of profits, however,
caused the directors to cancel the latter part
of the proposal, so paid capital increased by
only £lOO,OOO during the term.
The n.ew capital and an extra £121,324
of outside money got in went mainly into
premises, fittings, etc. Also, the co. is going-
in extensively for manufacturing locally its
own merchandise. It was stated at the meet-
ing that six factories had already been started
in Adelaide. Early in the term the co. bought
Holdens’ old King William-street freehold
for £30,000, and the remodelling of this and
the main premises cost a good deal of money.
Extensive renovations and additions to build-
ings have been carried out, and much of the
old equipment was discarded and new fittings
purchased in order to increase selling facili-
ties.
The result is seen in balance-sheet move-
ments :
1927. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. . . £597,000 £597,000 £697,000
Overdraft . . . . 96,363 1 a „ 0
Other liabilities .. 81,070 ) 1 86 - 04 - 3 307,869
Freeholds and leaseholds 351,747 351,201 495,578
Furniture, plant, etc. . . 59,979 57,462 112,467
Stocks . . . . 256,882 264,897 296,240
Book debts .. .. 211,117 214,785 158,490
Cash 6,381 7,893 5,551
On freeholds, leaseholds, etc (£495,578),
£144,377 more was spent than was written
off, and the book-value of furniture, plant,
etc. (£112,467), increased £54,825 during
the year. Stocks (£296,240, upf £31,343)
are at the highest figure since 1924;
nothing is said as to the basis of
valuation. Debtors (£155,490) are down
£56,295. Including stocks the more or less
liquid surplus (£152,412) was £148,618
lower than at the close of accounts in 1928.
The A and B prefs. rank in that order for
a cumulative 7 p.c. and have priority as to
capital. The net tangible backing amounts
to £7 Bs. for the A’s and £2 3s. 2d. for the
B’s. The market prices the former at par,
while for the latter buyers offer 16s. 4d.
without attracting sellers. At 17s. they
would return 8.2 p.c. The ords. have net
tangibles of £1 4s. sd. behind them.
Australian Liberal Assurance Co., Ltd.
Without exception the experience of the
life offices floated during the post-war boom
has been a sad one. Some have become
derelicts and fallen into the hands of the
liquidator, while others have sought a way
out of their difficulties by amalgamation.
Amongst the survivors are many which are
still facing what looks like an impossible
up-hill fight, and the “Wild Cat” knows of
none that have yet earned a bonus for policy-
holders.
Notwithstanding all this and the particularly
discouraging outlook at the moment, the
prospectus of still another co., the Australian
Liberal, has been issued; and the promoters
claim that, because they are in touch with
many reputable field representatives who are
willing to join the staff, one of the greatest
obstacles to the new co. has already been
overcome. Nominal capital is £lOO,OOO in
10s. shares, of which 40,000 are offered. No
consideration is payable to the promoters.
This, it is stated, is “indicative of the expec-
tation of future success.” Certainly all the
life offices that have been incubated here
luring the last decade are fettered with a
heavy burden of intangibles; but this has
been due not so much to the consideration
paid to promoters as to the cost of share
selling and the heavy expense of gathering an
adequate premium income. One result of
this and the consequent absence of bonuses
is usually a heavy crop of lapses and sur-
renders, which mostly occur before pre-
miums sufficient to cover the cost of writing
the business has been gathered; and thus
capital is bitten into. How serious this has
become is made plain by the fact that of the
£18,509,222 of ordinary Australian Life busi-
ness which from one cause and another went
out of existence in a recent year, no less than
£10,607,440 was on account of forfeitures.
The co. proposes to specialise in “excep-
tionally liberal” combined benefit policies.
Moreover, all its policy contracts are to
provide for special hospital and disability
benefits, for which extra premiums will not
be charged. These additional benefits must
mean heavier claims, so unless the manage-
ment is able to offset increased outgo by
savings in exes., it is clear that profit earn-
ing will be more than usually difficult. In-
deed, unless the tables of premiums to be
charged have been compiled by an actuary to
meet the needs of the case —and the pros-
pectus does not say that this has been done —
there is no certainty that the co. will be
able to earn any profit at all on its special
benefit policies. Incidentally, this form of
insurance has become popular in America,
but larger than ordinary premiums are
charged.
Management will be in the hands of Percy
.T. Hynard, who until a few years ago was
in control of the life department of the
A.P.A. Then he became general manager of
the Great Pacific Life, a small concern re-
cently taken over by the Federal Building
Assurance. This latter co., by the way, was
last week put into compulsory liquidation.
The prospectus, dated Jan. 1, 1930, makes
no mention of the co. having entered into
any contracts, though whether it has shn?e
done so is another matter.
A 6 Per Cent. Loan!
The average return from all Common-
wealth short-dated bonds on Dec. 19 last
was £5 16s. 3d.; it had increased to £6 4s.
7d. by the end of January, when the average
return over the whole bond market was £5
19s. 9d. In the circumstances it was im-
possible for the Federal Treasury to keep
the market thinking in terms of 5i p.c. or
even p.c., even by issuiug paper at a
discount, as it did, a few months ago. So
the Treasurer has accepted the inevitable
and announced that the 6 per cents., issued
at £9Bi six years ago, and maturing on
March 15, will be converted at par into
6 per cents, due March 15, 1937. After
allowing for the repayment of £1,100,000 of
the maturing paper from the national debt
sinking fund, £9,500,000 remains for con-
version. Also holders Of the £60,000,000 6
per cents., due Dec. next, are given the
right to convert at par into the present
issue. The Dec. 6 per cents, show a redemp-
tion return of £6 11s. per cent, at current
market prices.
Of course, as much new cash as can be
got will be accepted, especially since the
underwriters were recently left with a couple
of millions of the last 51 p.c. conversion.
The present conversion, which will not dis-
turb the market, should be successful. In-
deed, the repayment from the sinking fund
will make a little more cash available for
investment.
Two unavoidable consequences of the pre-
sent .state of affairs, which has been brought
about mainly by over-borrowing and over-
spending, .are higher interest rates and re-
stricted credit. To right the position we
are now compelled to restrict both borrow-
ing and spending, and this is beginning to
reflect itself in trade depression.
Incidentally, a Ceylon 5 p.c. loan matur-
ing 1960-70. was recently oversubscribed in
London at £99. Australian 5 per cents., due
London 1945-75, lately sold as low as £B3.
It is plain therefore that the London market
is unfavorable to Australian borrowing at
the moment. The Federal Government may
yet have to come on to the local market
for the cash requirements of itself and the
States.
Heaven knows The Bulletin can’t be
blamed for the mess the finances of Aus-
tralia are now in. For over 20 years it has
seen this coming, and for 10 years past it
has warned politicians and public that the
pace was being prodigiously accelerated. Now
a few untoward circumstances coming to-
gether have produced this serious warning
of a very handy crisis. But to merely say,
as so many seem inclined to do, that ihings
are bad, and business rotten and prospects
shocking is not going to do anybody any
good. Even realisation that we must change
our habits and live less extravagantly, is
not enough. We shall have to work, too;
anTl the best way to encourage work is to
encourage hope.
The New England tinfields (N.S.W.) are
having a doughy time. The total value of
tin and minerals won on Emmaville in 1929
was only £22,000, whereas five years ago it
was over £70,000. Last year the dredges
recovered 60| tons oxide valued at £B3OO.
alluvial workers got 67 tons valued at £B4OO,
while the reefs yielded 38 tons worth £4ooo—
all 165 J tons, worth over £20,000. Arsenic
(over 50 tons) and about £lOO worth of wol-
fram made up the balance. Mounting costs
and declining tin prices were the chief
troubles. For the 10 years to 1922 a mil-
lion’s worth of tin alone came out of Emma-
ville.
* * * *
The fine swag picked up by the promoters
of the Whitworth group of more-or-less
mines at Irvinebank and thereabouts (N.Q.),
which have now practically ceased work
after spending some £50,000, has evidently
inspired others. A small group of old Her-
berton shows have been bunched together
and put before the public under the name
of the Herberton United. The prospectus
speaks of 100,000 shares at 6s. —Is. appli-
cation, Is. allotment and calls as required
—and mentions that £3700 is to go to the
vendors, although the flotation is to be paid
for out of money subscribed. The only
reports given about some of the shows are
paragraphs from Government Geologist Ball’s
reports, written some years back, and now
of very little value. Some still more ancient
descriptions given by Jack and Skertchley
are added, and are of less value. A vague
statement is made that “there are places
promising for an occurrence of new ore
bodies and deserving of a trial.” No doubt
about it. And for that very reason all the
money subscribed should be kept for pros-
pecting, instead of being paid away to
vendors.
* * * *
Chillagoe smelter is collecting many small
parcels of ore from as far afield as Clon-
curry. The management is keeping an
anxious eye on all the sources round about.
A geophysical survey has been made at
Mungana, and now the indications are to be
tested by the diamond drill to see what they
are worth. A great deal will depend on the
market price of metals, for mining in the
north is expensive and cannot stand up to a
low metal market. Nearly all the “mining ’
is really gouging.
* * * *
“O.B.” : The Federal Government’s guaran-
tee of the Wiluna loan has surprised many
people in the West. They claim (1)' that
the State Government should have obtained
guarantees from the co. that sufficient capital
was available to bring the mine to the pro-
ducing stage before it committed the country
to the expense of building a railway costing
nearly £500,000, and (2) that the Golden
Mile and South African cos., which hold
shares in Wiluna and have substantial cash
reserves, should have been asked to find any
guarantee required and not the Common-
wealth. In their opinion the Wiluna co.
should have found any additional capital
wanted. The financial house making the
advance to the co. is believed to be the New
Goldfields Consolidated, Ltd., which holds the
biggest wad of Wiluna shares.
* * * *
This month will see the Golden Horseshoe
(New), Ltd., at full swing on the vast tail-
ings dumps of the old mine in Kalgoorlie.
The dumps hold about two and a half-mil-
lion tons of sand with an assay value of
is. lOd. per ton. A5O per cent, recovery
at a cost of 2s. 6d. per ton is spoken of;
that would leave a profit of Is. sd. per ton,
less depreciation of retreatment plant. A
very up-to-date outfit has been installed, and
40,000 tons a month should be dealt with.
The tailings will be sluiced into the plant
with a hydraulic nozzle and agitated with
cyanide solution. Oliver filters separate the
slimes from the solution, precipitation by
the Merrill-Crowe process following.
* * * *
, Another attempt is being made —this time
in London—to raise capital to mine at
Edjudina (W.A.). This goldfield has several
miles of workings, which have shown good
average yields at shallow depths. Years ago
a mile of ground was selected for trial b;s
Perth speculators, but lack of funds nipped
the enterprise in the bud. At that time
values at depth were said to be all right.
The doubt is whether the shoots are big and
plentiful enough to warrant development.
* * * *
Sand Queen-Gladsome goldmines (W.A.)
are being given another trial. Gordon Lyon
and a few Perth and Melbourne friends
acquired this show some years ago and
reckoned that it would pay divs. right away.
It didn’t and hasn’t done so since. Still
there is a fair-sized shoot in the bottom, and
troubles which have so far barred profits
are believed to have been overcome.
* * * *
January -was the first month in which the
Alluvial Tin group restricted its output.
In December its seven mines yielded 483
tons of t. 0.; January’s total is 413 tons
which includes 14 from the co.’s eighth and
latest, Kramat.
Austral Malay has also restricted its out-
put, but since the decision to do so was
arrived at late in January it has had no
influence on the month’s figures. The out-
put from five mines was 196£ tons against
167 for December. Austral’s youngest
Puc-hong, which began on the overburden in’
November, seems to have got amongst the
real stuff, for the January return was 42
tons from 124,000 yards, approximately
•7Glb. per yard. This was responsible for
the spring in the January total. Austral
Malay’s share in restriction of output will
commence with an aggregate cut of 32
hours weekly by the dredges of the five sub-
sidiary cos. The parent questions the wis-
dom of the step, but is willing to give it a
flutter, though if the movement proves in-
effective a return to the old working methods
will be made. Meantime it has been decided
to conserve the co.’s finances ; no div. is to
be paid for the current quarter. Ulu Tam
and Thabawleik will also pass the buck.
* * * *
Guinea Airways, the very profitable sub-
sidiary of Guinea Gold, announces that it
has instituted a passenger service between
the beach at Salamoa to the goldfields aero-
drome at Wau. This will be in addition
to the combined passenger and cargo ser-
vice which has been operating for the past
two years from Lae, some 18 miles north
of Salamoa.
The co.’s chief pilot, Captain Cross, is
to go to America and Europe to test special
machines designed for the transportation of
heavy machinery for Placer Development.


IfW want MORE
than TRANSPORTATION
w
: i
If transportation in a limited
sense were all that an auto-
mobile could provide, any car
would do, and the cheapest
would be the best.
The difference between the minimum in
transportation and the maximum in motoring
is exactly what sets the Chrysler-built De
Soto Six completely apart from others in
its field. It explains why the De Soto Six
has broken all sales records for a first-year
car.
De Soto Six has style, stability, speed,
smoothness. It is flexible to a degree never
before achieved in a car of its price. Its
comfort and luxury of appointment are
self-evident. Safety and ease of control
are assured by weatherproof four - wheel
hydraulic brakes.
De Soto Six is capable of such distinctive and
versatile performance that nothing less than a
demonstration can do it justice. We
shall be glad to arrange this demon-
stration to suit your convenience.
Q
»-
De Soto Six
(M CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
'AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
New South
Victoria . .
Queensland
Wales Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
• . . Automobiles Proprietary, Ltd., Melbourne
Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand .... New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
T asmania
Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
D. 267


Chevrolet values
are now providing
the buyer of the low-
priced car with those
■;>
M
advantages he now demands
fds
fsd
The fact that the people who are
buying motor cars to-day are keener
judges of value than ever before
cannot be denied. They are becoming
expert at matching money with what that
money buys ; they understand that the sum
paid for the motor car of their choice is an
investment in motoring satisfaction, not merely
the price of a machine.
That is why public opinion regards Chevrolet
as the outstanding value in the low-price
area. Its merit is not cheapness ; rather it
is preferred because of its array of fine car
features.
For Chevrolet knew that the universal trend
toward multi-cylinder ed motoring had its
origin in the desire of motorists for something
better. The weight of public opinion made
itself felt; engineers and motor owners agreed
that to be really fine, really satisfactory, a
motor car must be powered with an engine
having at least six cylinders.
And so, with a powerful six-cylinder valve-
in-head engine as the basis of its all-round
fine car design, Chevrolet provides other advan-
tages to satisfy the demands of discriminating
motorists.
? f t 'i
Roomy, comfortable bodies upholstered and
trimmed according to the dictates of best
motor car practice —look inside and note the
difference ! Outside, these same bodies pro-
claim their value to every eye. They are
clean-cut, streamlined in the modern mode,
with bright paint work and glistening chrome-
plate, skilfully designed by men who make
it a business to produce motor cars whose looks
appeal.
All this, of course, with characteristic
Chevrolet economy. Your local dealer will
arrange to show you the model of your choice,
suiting your taste in open or closed models
and in seating capacity. He will explain the
convenient purchase plan and the warranty and
service facilities which safeguard your motoring
investment. Above all, he will demonstrate
the performance qualities which have caused
over a million Chevrolet Sixes to deliver, irre-
spective of territorial or climatic conditions,
a degree of all - round satisfaction
which makes enthusiasm natural.
CHEVROLET
FOR. EVERYBODY EVERYWHERE
It's a GENERAL MOTORS Car
—look inside and note the differencel
PRICES from £225.
Prices given subject to change without notice.
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane. Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide. Perth.
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
John McGrath, Ltd.,
155 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Stokoe Motors Pty., Ltd.,
559-565 Elizabeth St., Melb.
City Motors, Ltd.,
95 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd., 900 Hay St., PertU.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., et*.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Kus9
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS-—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS —COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel W T earing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and !
Foundries i
Sydney, N1S.W.
Perth, W.A.
Branch (
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
I l ei an i
° re *kfast
Tariff I
if desired /
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
BORIGIN
ALITIES
NO JOY-RIDERS FOR HIM.
SIMINUTIVW VAMP: “Where y’ goin, Ginger?”
GINGER: “I ain’t goin’ nowhere, and I ain’t takin’ nobody nowhere neither.”
“Finn”: A city girl, sitting opposite two
brown sons of the soil in a Vic. train, be-
guiled the time by manicuring her nails.
As she filed and polished and inspected and
filed again, Bill and Jim could hardly hide
their amusement. At the junction the flapper
left the train. “How’d you like her for
“Mundowie”: Binghi was on his way to
join the mob in a corroboree, having been
summoned by smoke signals. It was a hot
day and a dry track. In his hand he carried
a couple of boomerangs, and on his-shoulder
a long, thick bamboo. “What are you going
to do with that?” a stockman asked. “Make
keeps?” said Bill, jerking his thumb towards
the departing back. “That poley! replied
Jim. “A fat lot of use she’d be to pick
thistles out of a bloke’s fingers in harvest-
time !” .
* * # *
“Wanderer”: Visitors to the Mandated
Territory were being shown round the native
school at Ra.baul. Told that the pupils were
taught pure English, one of them picked out
a small “monkey” and asked him his name.
“My name is Tomat,” was the reply. ‘ Where
do you come from?” was the next inquiry,
to which the boy answered “I come from
Madang.” “Wonderful!” gushed the listen-
ers, with one exception, a shrewd young
woman, who decided to put a question on
her own account. “How old are you?” she
asked. “Me no savvy that pelar talk-talk,”
said the urchin, returning to the lingua
franca of the islands.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: That 90-year-old axeman of
“Rotom’s” (B. 15/l/’3O) must be a handy
lad, and I regret it is 100 late to introduce
him to Tom Crutcher, of Narrabri (N.S.W.),
who died a few years ago as the indirect
result of an accident, aged 92. Up till a
couple of years before his death Tom drove
a bullock team, hauling logs and sleepers in
the Pilliga Scrub. He was never too old to
couple a pair of unbroken steers and yoke
them single-handed, and if he went into the
bush and found no cutter with a load of
logs for him, he would cut them himself.
At S 5, while crossing the railway yard at
Narrabri West in the dark, he fell into the
pit of a locomotive turntable and injured
himself so badly that he lay there in drizzling
rain for most of the night. A few months
later he. had so far recovered that when he
got into holts with a youth of 70, over an
argument about something which had hap-
pened in 18S8, it took five men to prise
them apart. Like most of the tough old
pioneers of the Liverpool Plains, Crutcher
was a native of the Maitland district.
*:* * *
“Vella”: Black brother in the Solomons
is picking up the ways of the white man,
and these sometimes provide an unexpected
casus belli. Tommy, a Malaita man employed
on a plantation, encountered a Vella native,
and being in an affable mood greeted him
with a “Good morning, mate.” The local
citizen said, “Good night!” Tommy, a slow
thinker, pondered the matter for a day or
two, and failing to recall an instance of a
white man replying to a “Good morning”
with a “Good night,” arrived at the con-
clusion that he had been insulted. That
point settled, he sought out the other bird
and gave him the father of a hiding. A
harassed planter, to avert the inter-tribal
disturbance threatened, induced the stickler
for conventional courtesies to pay a moderate
solatium for injured feelings. But Tommy
is apparently still brooding the ethics of the
case. Every time he meets a stranger he
challenges with a “Good morning” and listens
suspiciously for the response.
THEY ALSO SERVE WHO ONLY STAND IN WAIT.
FATHER MAGINNES: “Hogan, how is it I never see you at Mass?”
CONSTABLE HOGAN: “Sure, Father, if I went ye would have no congregation. All the
boys would be down at Casey’s pub.”
gunyah?” “Baal gunyah,” said Binghi;
“that feller waterbag.” Setting it down on
one end, he drew a plug from the other, and
tilting it gently took 'a long drink. “My
word, that lubiy cool,” he said. Then he
shouldered the bamboo again and went on
his way. Half a mile in the rear followed
Maggie. Her waterbag was a short length of
a small hollow limb stuck on top of her pile
of luggage.
* * * *
“Jimmy Geebung”: Against the faint pink
of the dawn, three solitary nigger-heads of
'cast-up coral stood stark-
ly on the reef. They
were a quarter of a mile
from where I lay in the
dry white sand, alongside
a narrow runway. A
tournifortia-tree rustled
its foliage above me. A
black shape went patter-
ing along the runway,
clearly outlined against
its whiteness. Several
more came; then a con-
tinuous stream of them,
waddling precariously,
some with wings out-
stretched. As they
reached the edge of the
beach, which fell away
abruptly from the bank,
they rose and disappear-
ed in the gloom. I fol-
lowed the track inland
for some yards, flashing
a torch. On a wide bare
patch beneath the squat
tournifortias, hundreds of
dark forms crouched or
shufH e d towards the
water. Always more
came from out of the
scrub, until the dawn
lightened. Then I saw
fewer and fewfer. By
daylight not a sign of
life showed where an
hour before thousands of mutton-birds had
taken flight.
* * # *
“Sea Nomad”: E. W. P. Chinnery, the
Government anthropologist, who has spent
21 years in New Guinea, reports the dis-
covery there of stone pestles and mortars
similar to those of ancient Egypt. After
this I suppose that ordinary observant blokes
who have suggested in The Bulletin that
Egyptian expeditions visited most of the
islands won’t he so universally laughed at.
My own humble opinion is that by far the
strongest proofs of association with the land
of the Pharaohs are to be found on the
island of Mer, Torres Strait. Before the
missionary came the men of Mer were
spiritualists and astrologers. They had
mapped out the stars and could sail by
them. They were agriculturists, and knew
to perfection the seasons as affecting tiie
crops and the sea. All these subjects were
specialised in by the Egyptians. Another
very strong link in the chain was the mum-
mification of the dead; the Mer method was
practically identical with the best-known
Egyptian pi'oeess. And might not the vast
walled fishtraps round the shores of Mer
and Eroob have been the work of forgotten
Egyptian colonists?
* * * *
“Woorak” : An Albury man spinning for
fish in the Murray got a shock when a brown
snake shot out from the river bank and,
wriggling like fury, fastened its mouth on
the bait. The fisherman pulled his boat
to the bank and there killed the reptile.
Snakes have been hooked before, but rarely
have they jumped from river banks to attack
passing spinners.
H! ❖ ifc
“Ostrich”: The mist “Trevdee” saw after
a car had passed (B. 22/l/’3O) was dust,
and it vanished so quickly because he drove
through it. His experience is commonplace
compared with that of a motorist in Eng-
land, where the atmosphere sometimes plays
fantastic tricks. In Sussex during the winter
months white and thick sea-fogs hang at
certain levels, and one drives out of them
on top of the hills and under them in the
valleys. The motorist in question was doing
30 m.p.h. down a Sussex hill when he met
a car coming—on the wrong side. He
sounded his horn and drew in to the left,
only to see the other do the same, its lights
coming straight for him. When it was. three
yards away he trod on all brakes, shielded
his face and waited for the smash. It never
came, and when he opened his eyes no car
was visible. The lights he had seen were his
own reflected from a vertical wall of fog;
the body of the car was a shadowgraph of
his own, flung on the curtain by a car behind.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE OLD QUARRY.
[FOR THE BUĹETIN.]
The range in the east flings its shadow across
The sombre dark green of the plain,
And reaches a field of wild barley and oats
That have flourished and grown since the
rain.
There are cockatoos flying, pink-breasted and
white,
With a delicate rose-tinted crest;
A dismal old quarry gapes wide at my feet
Where I dream of the past as I rest.
It’s fifty long years since the quarry was
worked;
Here the old navvies slaved with a will,
And the rock dust was wet with the drip
of their sweat
As they handled the hammer and drill.
You can still see the lines where they drilled
the great holes,
Half-circles as straight as a die
That reach from the top to the roek floor
beneath —
And the wall is a hundred feet high.
There are clumps of small bushes that - grow
by the stones
And thrive on ground barren and hard;
There’s a shadowy pool in a cleft in the
rock
And a kingfisher sitting on guard.
A ribbon of herbage is fringing the rim,
Nibbled short by the rabbits and stock;
A cow has been greedy and ventured too far,
And her bones lie beneath on the rock.
The swallows have nested in snug, sheltered
nooks
That the weather has worn in the wall;
There’s a supplejack vine whose long ten-
drils entwine
A cypress-pine slender and tall;
There are crannies and seams, like the lines
on a face,
Where boulders stand rugged and stern;
And a drip of clear water runs down from
a crack
To freshen the green of a fern.
There’s a high mound of ashes that’s mantled
with moss
On the spot where they split up the wood;
A carpet of Capeweed, bright yellow and
green,
Is spread where the steam engine stood.
Some broken old shovels are lying about;
Their blades have been worn to a V
And the nose of a bellows pokes up through
the sand
Where the old blacksmith shop used to be.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAILAME.


ft
mb'
-S~
nr
<m
m
w
Goodyear Popularity is Backed by
Over One Hundred & Fifty
Million Tyres
So overwhelming is Goodyear popularity that every year Goodyear is called upon to
build many thousands more tyres than any other maker. This leadership has been
won upon the roads of the world with actual performance the deciding factor.
Goodyear’s deep-cup, sharp-edged All Weather Tread gives you a safe grip on every
hill and a powerful pull on the long level stretches. The Supertwist Cord gives the
tyre body longer life. Combined, these two features provide, in a superior way, every-
thing that a perfect tyre should have. That is why More People the World over ride
on Goodyear Tyres than on any other make.
VOU PAY NO MORE FOR GOODYEAR
TYRES AND TUBES MADE TN AUS-
TRALIA THAN FOR ANY OTHER MAKE.
GOOD
30-22 D


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
'•.ransacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
SILVER
W
In the
Squai'e
Glass
bottle with
GREEN LABEL
Equally famous are BOLS Vei'y Old
HOLLAND GIN ir\ tke Stone Bottle,
arxd BOLS Supe.'f.Vve LIQUEURS • •
'9%
ft
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
“E.S.”: Though Marcus Sparkes, of One-
horse Town, was blacksmith, wheelwright,
carpenter, painter, undertaker and J.P., the
town didn’t provide enough 'work to keep him
going, so now and again lie took a job at a
neighboring station. While there he added
paperhanging, upholstering, and engineering
AN INVESTMENT FOR POSTERITY.
BILL: “What’s the good of keeping your old calendars, Mac? They’re no good now.”
McTAVISH: “Ye’re wrong, mon; they’ll come richt again — Ah’ve proved it!”
to his other callings, and sometimes
he mounted a horse and gave a hand
at mustering. He was helping with
the lamb-marking at a place a few
miles out from the homestead, when the
local constable inconveniently arrested Loppy,
the wood-and-water joey, for being drunk and
disorderly. “I can’t go in; we’re busy and
short-handed,” said Marcus on being informed
of the case. “Fetch the nuisance out here
to-night, and we’ll declare this log the bench. ’
The trooper and his prisoner arrived for
tea, which Loppy enjoyed with the rest.
Then Mr. Sparkes put on his judicial air,
and sat on the log. Loppy, lolling against a
tree, which was the witness-box, pleaded
guilty. “I ought to fine you the maximum,
said Marcus severely, “for causing so much
trouble when I’m away; but seein’ it’s your
first offence for several weeks, I’ll let you off
with five bob.” Then Loppy got a job at the
yards, and they worked together till the lamb-
marking was finished.
* * * *
“Left Choke”: Australia’s finest game-bird
is the wild duck, and in certain seasons and
places wing-shooting as good as any in the
world may be enjoyed. Then the water gets
low, and the weed feed which makes up so
much of the duck’s commissariat grows scanty.
The morning after an easy half-dozen have
been bagged there will not be _ a feather in
sight. The birds have got the tip from some-
where and have gone where the rains are
falling. There in the replenished lagoons they
can be found in thousands, perhaps half a
continent away from where you were shoot-
ing them the day before yesterday. Similarly,
when bare paddocks blossom into blue grass
three feet high on the coming of the rains,
kangaroos and plain turkeys which have been
vainly sought for months suddenly materialise
in battalions from nowhere. Radio is not
more wonderful than this bush telegraph
system.
* * * *
“Caradoc”: There are simpler ways of
getting lost than by walking in a circle. I
was cycling along the Murray Valley in
search of harvesting work. Things were
not quite down to rock-bottom and I was
making town-to-town stages and camping in
pubs. Then came one of those sudden fierce
rainstorms that turn the river flats into
quagmires and dirt roads into soup streams.
It was not possible to push a cycle, much
less ride it with heavy swag up, and dusk
found me still tramping water-logged pad-
docks with machine on back. A line of
trees indicated’ a river or creek, so I plodded
across country to their shelter, and made a
brutally cold camp crouched under a low
bridge. Crawling out at sunrise, I soaked
the mud off my cycle by immersing it in the
creek and plugged slitheringly down the
road. Just round the bend, five minutes
from where I had gone to earth in the
darkness, was a fine large township with
pubs to burn.
MORE FOOL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
“What’s your noise — what’s crawling on you?”
“It shays to ‘wait here for tramsh’ an’ — hic—I doan’ want a tram!”
“Bindoomah” : Recent paragraphs concern-
ing homing pigeons remind me that an old
Queensland cocky w ? ho was a bit of a fancier
used his pigeons to maintain a post
between his farm and the railway station,
some 20 miles off. When he went
in with the cream, he would take
a couple of birds with him. . If
any pressing news or instructions
were required during his absence,
he attached the message to the
fowl, which delivered it under the
half-hour.
* * *
“Jimmy Geebung”: We lay in
the luxurious shade of the pisonia-
trees, watching the combers break-
ing far out on the reef. The mile-
wide stretch of water between the
coral-sand beach and the edge of
the reef was barely rippling. Occa-
sionally a round black object
broke the surface near the ledge
of rocks. We knew it for the head
of a green turtle. She wanted to
come ashore to lay, but it was yet
too light. The tide was rising and
gradually more water covered the
ledge of the reef. Still the turtle
cruised about, just below the sur-
face, raising her head to gulp the
air. We saw her danger before
she was aware of it herself. Lazily
his dark outline nosed this way
and that, first the sharp edge of
the dorsal appearing, then the long
curved blade of the tail. He must
have scented meat, for he bore
directly towards the turtle. He
was still a hundred yards away
when she rose for air again. It
seemed that she would never see
him. Now both disappeared; and
we wondered what grim game went
on in the half-shallows. Quite
unexpectedly a hurtling object
shot several feet above the water.
With her great flippers thrashing
madly, the turtle fell back into the water,
her flat shell throwing up showers of spray.
Again the long shadow showed for an in-
stant, its tail flashing in the sun. This time
the turtle leaped yet higher, but her flippers
bad ceased to thrash, and folded back as
she fell into the water. Did she realise that
there was no escape?
* * * *
“Toggle” : Example is better than precept.
I travelled along the Mitchell Rabbit Board's
fence between Charleville and Tampoon (Q.).
The first boundary-rider I met had 12 chil-
dren ; the next, 11. Presently I encountered
the boss, who boasted 13, and that afternoon
I met a chap with a liare-lip. Seeing a by-
track, I left that netting fence, and chose a
different road to ride, to my wedding.
* * * *
“Morkrum”: A typically Australian inven-
tion was the fence-wire telephone. The idea
first occurred to Rabbidge, a Sydney man,
during a visit to Thorndale sheep-station,
near Nyngan, in 1889. The commercial in-
strument being unsuitable, Rabbidge returned
to Sydney and constructed a portable com-
bined transmitter and receiver of his own
design. This was tried on Thorndale station
and proved a great success up to about 15
miles. It was handv for communicating
with out-stations, boundary-riders, etc., and
was adopted far and wide. In 1897 it was
estimated that 19.000 miles of this “system”
was in use in N.S.W., Victoria and Queens-
land. Rabbidge’s portable design was after-
wards purchased by the Silvertown Electric
Engineering Co., of London, and the fence-
’pbone was introduced and extensively adopted
in America. Netting spoiled the fence for
this purpose; the currents leaked down the
mesh to earth. Then the P.M.G.’s depart-
ment stepped in, and the top-wire telephone
is now a rarity.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Mt. Gambier (S.A/) people
draw the visitor's attention with pride to
the presence of albatrosses and gulls on
their lakes, 17 miles from the sea. But sea-
birds can be found as far inland as Lake
Tyrell, near Sea hake (Vic.). Gulls are
numerous there 220 miles from the ocean.
* * * *
“Brown Leghorn”: Every year hundreds
of thousands of swallows are hatched out on
the high banks of the Murrumbidgee and
the Murray. Examining a nest to-day I
was surprised to find four dead young swal-
lows. Inspection of about 100 nests revealed
an average of four dead per nest. The fowl-
tick is doing it. The first nest I took to pieces
was made of Plymouth Rock, Silver Wyan-
dotte and guinea-fowl feathers, evidently
gathered from the nearest homestead half a
mile away. There is this much consolation,
that the winter rains and swollen rivers will
destroy the pest.
* * * *
“Deejay” : I recently saw a number of ibis
trapped in a drying dam, where the mud
had been churned up till it was a creamy
quagmire. They had evidently been feeding,
and even their wings had become coated. I
have seen most birds so trapped, but thought
the ibis was alive to this danger.
* * * #
“Riverina”: The abos. may be of Dravi-
dian descent—their tradition teaches, that
they came originaUy from a land lying to
the north-west of Australia. But Moula-
mein, a place-name mentioned by “Merrigal”
(B. 18/12/’29) in support of the theory, is
not an abo. coinage. Old-timers thereabouts
used to speak of an Indian pioneer as the
one who founded and named the town—
after the Burmese Moulmein, of course. He
held much land in the vicinity; but his arri-
val was so far back that he is only a
name, even to the ancients. It has been
suggested he was really an Englishman who
commemorated a previous sojourn in India
by giving his runs labels from that country.
Other stations in the district are Chah Singh
(I fancy the final h is not now used) and
Tchelcry—both unmistakably of Indian
origin.
THE NEW POOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first I came to Tinklebah
To keep the station books and store,
I felt as gay as a galah,
For me life promised nothing more.
Moleskins and bluchers, shirts and pills—
These last provision for all ills —
Eye lotions, stirrup-leathers, too,-
And eke of spurs a pair or two.
Of these and many another item
I was the lord —ad infinitum.
When first I came to Tinklebah
The swaggies padded on the hoof.
To them I was a very shah
Since none of them had aught of oof.
But, old-time custom said I must
Bestow on each a pint of “dust,”
A fist of “brown,” a pinch of tea;
I did this very graciously.
While some ivho merited it fully
Would get a “banjo” from a woollie.
For, after all, the station paid,
And there’s no pleasure so intense
As feeling that you’ve rendered aid
At some poor other cow’s expense.
So we wmuld part the best of friends
And seek once more our destined ends,
The swaggie to the wide horizon,
And me to mixing rabbit p'ison.
Believe me, there is joy serene
In following up the day’s routine.
But cripes, the times have altered. Now,
Though sundowners are thick as ever,
No more on foot the tracks they plough
But snort up, riding in a flivver. ,
The old-time rations not enough.
Free oil and petrol is. their bluff;
“Wot, ain’t got none, yer blanky wowser,
W’y don’t yer start er flamin’ bowser?”
It’s up to me to say ta-ta
(I’m much afraid) to Tinklebah.
N.S.W.
FY7.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon fi’om the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Handy man, Sydney, father of nine children, wants
odd jobs or gardening.—446s.
Station bookkeeper (42), N.S.W., returned soldier,
certificated, has been tutor, seeks position.—446l.
Station manager (30), married, desires position
manager or overseer; exp. all branches; certified
sheep- and wool-classer.—4472.
Married man (31), N.S.W., exp., wants permanent
job on station or farm. —4470.
First-aid man (40), S.A., Gallipoli and France,
exp., wants job anywhere Australia.—4479.
Scot (24), now in Islands, wants position private
sec. or organiser; knowledge accountancy, business
certificates, stenographer.—4soo.
Single man (27), exp., small capital, wants a start
wheat farming, shares. —4487.
Young lady, diploma for typing, shorthand and
bookkeeping, wants position country, N.S.W. or North
Vic., warm climate essential.—4476.
Married man (35), no children, 20 years’ sheep
experience, wants pos. boundary rider, or would take
charge small property.—4soB.
Cabinetmaker and French polisher, open to con-
struct furniture by contract; anywhere in Australia.
—4422.
Young man (N.S.W.), not strong, wants job,
willing to take on housework. —4447.
Chemist (24), sober, honest, wants permanent work
Sydney.—4449.
Accountant, Sydney, disengaged, part- or whole-
time position.—4so2.
Lady wants position as companion, lady-help or
housekeeper, N.S.W. central west; can ride, drive
m0t0r.—4463.
Queenslander (24), good education, wants job as
bookkeeper, sec. or tutor. —4460.'
South Australian (35) seeks job in Islands or as
book- and store-keeper anywhere.—44s9.
Well-sinker (Q.), wants contract work anywhere.
Also expert at windmill erecting.—44sB.
To buy book dealing with rope throwing and
spinning.—4436.
To buy, Sydney, old-style 4-post cedar bedsteads
or posts alone. —4437.
To buy MSS., prints, maps, diaries, books, relating
to early Australia and Islands. —4474.
To buy “Wanderings of a Simple Child.” —4481.
To buy books on aviation and back numbers of
“Flight,” “Aviation” and similar periodicals.—4slo.
To buy first editions of Australian books, prose or
verse, and Bulletin and “Bookfellow” publications.
—4540.
To buy copy of “Australian Merino Studs,” by
“Bruni” : good price.—4s42.
To buy small quantity native weapons, spears,
boomerangs, etc. —4535.
To buy textbook on cultivation, preparation and
commercial production of rubber. —4518.
To exchange vols. 5,6, 7 and 8 “Australian
Stud Book” for vols. 1,2, 3 and 12.—4494.
To exchange banjo and case, good London make,
for engineer’s micrometer. —4468.
Maoriland woman would like correspond with
lonely English people interested in literature. —4485.
Words of “The Two Grenadiers” and “Ethiopia
Saluting the Colors.” —4537.
Words of verse “I had them in my hatband.”—
4532.
Information Sought.
(1) In trading, is it possible to make a
profit of 100 per cent.? Or a loss of 100 p.c.?
(2) If an article is bought for 2s. 6d. and
sold for ss. o d., what per cent, profit is
made? —4519.
(1) By buying at £1 and selling at £2
you make 100 p.c. gross profit. But from
that has to be deducted expenses; what is
left is net profit. It is possible to make
100 p.c. loss. If you bought a horse and
it died before earning anything for you, it
would be a 100 p.c. loss. Note that whereas
if you buy for £1 and sell for £2 it is a 100
p.c. profit j if you buy for £2 and sell for
£1 it is only a5O p.c. loss. (2) 120 p.c.
In 1927 I entered into a contract to pur-
chase land in South Aus. from a co., £5
deposit and £1 a month. I do not wish to
continue and am willing to forfeit what I
have paid, but they say I must go on. Is
this so? Gan I claim that the agreement is
void, as it was signed on a Sunday / —4430.
Having entered into a contract you- are
bound to complete it, unless the contract pro-
vides otherwise. The Act of Charles 11.
dealing with Sunday work provides that no
tradesman, workman, laborer, etc., shall
exercise the business or work of his ordinary
catling on the Lord’s Day, but it is highly
improbable that an agreement for the sale
of land could be upset because it was signed
on a Sunday.
Where can I learn etching in Melbourne?
—4586.
There is no institution in which instruc-
tion can be got, but you might secure help-
ful advice from one or more of the follow-
ing : Victor Cobb, Commonwealth Dept, of
Zoology, St. Kilda-road; John Shirlow, 16
Park-avenue, Glenhuntley; Harold Herbert,
142 Russell-street; Herbert Rose, 17 Auburn-
grove, Armadale; Miss Jessie Traill, 74 Bay-
road, Sandringham; Charles Nuttall, 339
Collins-street; Miss Catherine Ilardess,
Swinburne Tech.
(1) Should a miniature Pom. two years
old be given raw or cooked meat? (2) How
often should he be bathed , and in what? —
4482.
(1) Most Pom. breeders say raw meat. A
little toast and milk may be given in the
morning and a little raw meat at night.
(2) Once a week or once a fortnight (accord-
ing to climatic conditions, nature of skin,
etc.), in hot water, to which a little washing-
soda has been added. Sometimes a little
kerosene —a tablespoonful to the bucket of
water —may also be added, and rubbing the
skin once a month with a little olive oil
is beneficial.
I wish to join the naval dockyard police
in Vic. (1) Where to apply f (2) Qualifi-
cations ? —-4560.
(1) District Naval Officer, Port Mel-
bourne. (2) Naval dockyard police force
is a constituent part of the Navy, and is
invariably recruited from time-expired ser-
vice men.
I have an old Pom. whose breath is offen-
sive and whose teeth seem to be getting loose.
Any treatment ? —4566.
Symptoms point to pyorrhoea—fairly com-
mon in old dogs which have been fed liberally
on meat and fish. It may be necessary to
extract loose teeth and cleanse and dress the
remainder; a vet. should do the job.
A formula for brewer’s yeast suitable for
use in the tropics? —4so4.
Boil 2oz. best hops in 4 quarts water for
half-hour; strain and let liquor cool to new-
milk warmth. Put in a small handful of
salt and half-pound brown sugar. Beat up
lib. best flour in some of the liquor, then
mix all well together. On the third day add
31b. potatoes, boiled and mashed and let stand
until next day. Strain, and it is ready
for use. Stir frequently while making and
keep near a fire. Before using stir well;
it will keep two or three months in a cool
place. This yeast is very strong; half the
usual quantity necessary for baking is suffi-
cient. It may be kept in a temperature as
high as 104 degrees Fahr.
Cost of electricity to towns, as supplied
by the Burrinjuck hydro-electric scheme is
3d. per unit. (1) What lighting power does
the unit represent? (2) What lamp or
apparatus consumes one unit? (3) Average
life of an electric bulb?— 4443.
(1) and (2) The B.T.U. (Board of Trade
Unit) is the unit of electrical energy. It
equals the power of 1000 watts flowing in
a circuit for one hour. One B.T.U. will have
been expended when 33 30-watt. lamps have
been alight for one hour or 8 similar lamps
for 4 hours. A single 30-watt lamp would
consume one unit in 33 hours. A 1000-watt
radiator consumes one B.T.U. in one hour.
(3) It varies considerably with conditions
of use; under favorable conditions, at least
1000 hours.
(1) Length of span of Sydney Harbor
bridge? (2) When completed, will it be
the longest span in the world? —4sl9.
(1) 1650 feet. (2) No; the Hudson River
bridge now under construction at New York
will have a span of 3500 feet.
Can members of the Aust. Military Forces
use their titles m private correspondence?
Wliat is the rule governing retention of
titles by officers who have retired and the
use of titles by civilians on the reserve list?
Does the same rule apply in the British
Army? —4339.
Paragraph 317 of the Australian Mili-
tary Regulations and Orders, 1927, is ex-
plicit : “Officers are forbidden, to add the
titles of their military rank to their sig-
nature to correspondence or other docu-
ments, except when signing in performance
of military duty.” Apart from this, there
is no regulation restricting the use of the
title of their ranks by officers of the Military
Forces in civilian positions, irrespective of
whether they have served in the A.I.F. or not,
and whether they are on the Active List or
the Reserve of Officers. The same applies to
officers who have retired from the Military
Forces and been granted rank on retirement.
It is, however, customary with many officers
who are no longer on the Active List not to
use their military titles except in connec-
tion with their miltary capacity or official
functions. The same principles apply in the
British Army.
(1) What methods other than dredging
and sluicing arc employed for the recovery
of alluvial tin? (2) Are losses of fine tin
sufficiently large to warrant a more expen-
sive process which would recover the finest
grains of ore? (3) Would a process which
would recover all ore but cost, say, half as
much again in handling costs per ton of
dirt, find favor with dredging or sluicing cos?
—4415.
(1) In the case of deep leads it is more
economical to mine the tin ore. (2) The
loss of fine tin which occurs during the
working of most alluvial mines is not great.
(3) It is unlikely.
(1) How can one join the French Foreign
Legion? (2) Length of service and pay?
(3) Could an intending recruit get a good
idea whether he ivould be accepted without
leaving Australia?— 4sBo.
(1) Only in France at a recruiting depot.
The military there are the sole judges of
physical qualifications. (2) Minimum term
of service is five years. Pay is very small.
(3) No.
(1) What country is the heaviest-taxed
per head of population? (2) Business
address of the co. which is about to grow
coffee in New Guinea ? —4350.
(1) The United Kingdom is credited with
that doubtful honor, Australia coming next.
Figures for 1926-27 (the latest available)
are: U.K., £l4 11s. Bd. per head; Australia,
£l4 55.; France, £7 6s. 7d.; Germany, £5
10s. 7d. (2) Amalgamated Coffee Planta-
tions, Yorkshire House, Spring-street, Syd-
ney.
(1) How to go about transferring my sav-
ings from the Commonwealth Savings Bank
to a bank in London? (2) Any exchange
on money so transferred? If so, what, would
£lOO be worth after the transfer? —4496.
On application, Commonwealth Savings
Bank accounts are transferred to the Lon-
don branches of the Commonwealth Bank.
If he so desires, depositor can withdraw
the balance of his Savings Bank account
here and transmit the amount to any bank
abroad by draft. (2) The ruling rate of
exchange (at the moment of writing £1 13s.
9d. p.c. premium) is charged on transfer
to the Commonwealth Bank, London, but the
balance continues to bear interest provided
it is not withdrawn immediately upon arrival
of depositor in London. At time of writing
£lOO transferred to London for payment on
demand would be worth £9B 6s. 3d. in
London. The price varies: at present it is
shrinking.
(1) Can persons other than licensed elec-
tric contractors repair defects in the electric-
light service of a N.S.W. private residence?
(2) Is a householder allowed to do such jobs
in his own home? (3) Qualifications for
a license?— 3B36.
(1) A license is not' required for the re-
placement of a lamp or a fuse. Repairs to
defects other than these in any premises may
be carried out by: (a) a licensed electrical
contractor, or (b) a licensed electrician, em-
ployed by a licensed electrical contractor, or
(c) an unlicensed person so employed, pro-
vided he is constantly supervised by his
employer. (2) Not unless he holds either
an electrician’s or an electrical contractor’s
license. (3) A typewritten memo can be
got from the Local Government Dept., Syd-
ney ; it is too long to reprint here.
(1) As the result of a death in England I
have had an annuity left me. Does payment
start from date of death? (2) I cannot get
a copy of the will nor any particulars, ex-
cept a letter to say the annuity has been
left. What can I do? (3) lam doubtful
about the solicitors; would it be wise to
report the case to the Law Society? —44B9.
(1) A will speaks from the death of the
testator, but payments out of the estate can-
not be made until stamp duty is paid and
probate is granted. (2) A copy of the will
can be obtained from the Registrar of Wills,
Somerset House, Strand, London, at the
rate of sixpence a folio (90 words) for an
ordinary copy or ninepence a folio for a
certified copy. (3) You do not appear to
have any professional misconduct to report.
(1) Is there any way of mahing ice for
home use by chemical process? If so, in-
gredients, and can they be obtained from
country chemists? —4378.
It is practically impossible to make ice
without the use of an extensive plant, but
there are freezing mixtures with which a
very low temperature can be easily and
cheaply obtained. One of these consists of
5 parts of ammonium chloride and 5 parts
of potassium nitrate dissolved in 16 parts
of cold water ; this will produce a tempera-
ture between 5 and 10 degrees Fahrenheit.
Any chemist can supply the ingredients.
Would a sailor with long experience in
American whaling craft have any chance of
getting a job with an Australasian whaling
enterprise? Names and addresses of cos.
that might be tried, and how are whalers
paid ? —4464.
The cos. engaged in pelagic whaling in the
Ross Dependency, either Norwegian or
British, bring with them all the men they
require, except a few laborers picked up in
Hobart or N.Z. There are two firms opera-
ting in New Zealand, but only in a small
way. Cos. in process of formation which
might be aproached are the Pacific and Ross
Sea Whaling Co., 24 Waiter-street, Dunedin,
and the Australian Whaling Co., 16 Bar-
rack-street, Sydney; they will probably em-
ploy Norwegians in the key positions and
recruit the rest of their labor locally. A
whaler’s pay depends largely upon the catch,
and it is impossible to give even approximate
figures.
(1) Number of children attending State
primary and secondary schools in N.S.W.,
latest available figures? (2) Number attend-
ing N.S.W. denominational, secondary and
primary schools? (3) Annual cost per
pupil in N.S.W. State schools, latest figures?
—4341.
(1) Primary schools, 316,722; secondary
schools, 22,641. (2) No separate figures
available for non-State primary and second-
ary schools; total, 85,000. (3) £l4 7s. Id.
(1) llcno to make a cheap but lasting
kalsomine? (2) How to color home-made
kalsomine blue, brown or lavender?— -4369.
Take six quarts of thick lime whitewash
made from the best lime slacked in hot
water. Mix turps and linseed oil, half a pint
of each, and stir in the mixture while the
wash is hot; then add half a pound of
powdered alum. Stir the mixture slowly
until it is thick enough, and then put it on
. with a wide brush. (2) For blue, a small
quantity of Prussian blue should be added
to - the mixture ; brown, add burnt umber ;
lavender, make a light blue and tint it
slightly with vermilion.
(1) What State has won the greatest
number of Sheffield Shield cricket matches?
(2 > Holders of the bowling and batting
records for the ivorld? —4302.
(1) To the end of the 1928-29 season,
N.S.W., with 148 matches. (2) There are
no official world’s records of the kind.
How to join rubber and leather? —4293.
Dissolve by the aid of heat 1 part india-
rubber in naphtha (taking care that the
latter does not ignite) and add 2 parts
shellac; melt until thoroughly mixed. Pour
the mixture while hot on to metal plates to
cool. When it is required for use melt it
and apply with a brush.
A-B and Y-Z are playing five hundred. A
deals. Y calls six hearts. B calls six no
trumps. Z passes. On the fifth trick B
leads clubs for the first time. Y plays the
ace and then leads the joker, calling clubs so
that the king will fall on it and clear the
way for Y to make the remaining tricks in
dribs. It is suggested that Y, not being the
declarer, cannot use the joker in the manner
indicated, but that it. is reserved for the
declarer of no-trumps to lead the joker and
call a suit. Is this correct? —4302.
Hoyle is explicit; the leader of the joker
“names the suit which he elects it to repre-
sent, and the other players must follow suit
accordingly.”
How to make fluid magnesia? —4439.
To a boiling solution made by dissolving
16oz. of magnesium sulphate in 6 pints of
water add a solution made by dissolving 19oz.
of sodium carbonate in the same quantity of
water. Boil the mixture until the gas ceases
to escape, stirring constantly. Then put it
on one side to settle. Pour off the liquid
and wash the precipitate on a cotton oi-
lmen cloth several times with warm water.
Mix the precipitate with a gallon of water
and again filter it, when it is ready for use.
I have a fox-terrier with eczema in all
four paws. Any way of treating it? —4600.
It is no easy job. The diet should be
carefully arranged; give him green vege-
tables, and gravy or salads may be mixed
in a mash. Thoroughly cleanse parts with
hot water containing a small quantity of
washing-soda; then apply a solution of
chloride of lime and boracic abid —a table-
spoon of each in a pint of warm water.
If after a week’s treatment there is no im-
provement, used a two per cent, solution of
nitrate of silver. The dog should get | occa-
sional doses of Easton’s syrup—2o drops in
a little water.
Brief Answers.
Farmer: (1) No; he has no rights to
sell until letters patent are issued, but he can sell
the invention and contract to sell the patent when
issued. (2) and (3) Yes, provided the implement
ia not the subject of a patent granted to someone
else.... M.L.: (1) “Principles and Practice of Show-
card Writing,” by Blair (165.) ; “Ticket- and Show-
card designing,” by Pearson (4s. 6d.) ; “Standard
American Show-card Book” (125.) ; all Dymock’s,
Sydney. (2) Penfold and Co., 88 Pitt-street. ...
H.G.: Quite solvent and a good bonus-payer....
W.C.: (1) Still doubtful of them; but this is a
rotten time to sell, though there will probably be
worse. (2) In 10 classes (a) go into the fifth and
(b) into the fourth.... L.H.: Henry Jones, Carlton
Breweries, A. Horderns, General Industries. But your
required return is higher than the first or second
rank of stocks will yield you... .Investor: Don’t
know about 2, but you bought all the others at
inflated prices. This, however, is no' time to sell.
No. 3 needs to be watched very carefully... .E.S.L.:
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. Any qualified doctor could perform
the operation... .L.S.: Dealers and collectors have
large stocks of the Canberra stamp, and it would be
hard to obtain more than face value. As a spec,
they are not worth holding... .E. 8.: Get in touch
with Superintendent of Horticulture, Dept, of Agri-
culture, 605 Flinders-street, Melbourne. .. .R.V.C.:
Pearce, the sculler, is Australia’s only world cham-
pion at present. .. .J.F.E.: No commissions in the
Permanent Forces can be obtained except by gradua-
tion at Duntroon... .Carramar: Berger’s “Cement
Sealer”; John Danks and Son S.E.: Impossible
to tell you without an overhaul. Go and see your
doctor. If you smoke or drink, cut it out for a few
weeks and note result... .C.8.J.: There is a federa-
tion of Parents and Citizens’ Associations ; member-
ship is voluntary and the associations are independent
of any central authority. You can get copies of regu-
lations and draft rules from Department of Educa-
tion, Sydney... .P.T.W.: Apply direct to Commissioner
of Police, Brisbane D.P.: The use of dogs or goats
for carrying loads is prohibited in N.S.W T.K.:
Pimples on back of neck are often due to scurf.
Wash hair with soap and warm water every day and
back of neck three times a day. Give skin plenty
of sunshine.... 0.L.: Pioneer Amateur Film-
producing Club, care J. W. Heming, Thomas-street,
Strathfield, Sydney... .M.C.M.: (1) Full conditions
can bo obtained from Chief Censor, Common-
wealth Films Office, Sydney. (2) Writers must pre-
sent their plots with all details ready for production.
P.V.: Information not obtainable locally; write
Amalgamated Engineering Union, 110 Peckham-road,
London, 5.E.15 J.T.M.: Radiator cones are com-
posed of high-grade fireclay.... A.C.S.: (1) There is
no legal impediment to the marriage of first cousins,
nor any medical objection if a good family history
is shown on both sides. (2) You are wrong ; such mar-
riages are not forbidden by the table of kindred and
affinity in the C. of E. prayer-book E. 8.: (1)
“Price Waning” was William Astley. (2) “Tales of
the Convict System” (1892), “Tales of the Early
Days” (1894),' “Tales of the Old Regime” (1895),
“Tales of the Isle of Death” (1898) and “Half-biown
Bob and Tales of the Riverine” (1898). (3) Appar-
ently because publishers do not think there suf-
ficient demand for his writings nowadays. (4) “The
Adventures of Ralph Rashleigh” was reviewed on
the Red Page, August 7, ’29 W.L.: Only about
4s. 6d. The bank would pay you face value
C. : If original, the water-colors are worth from
two to three guineas each; stories, of no value....
D. : Print has no value H.C.J.: (1) A three-
quarter billiard-table is 9ft. by 44ft.; room re-
quired, at least 17ft. by 13ft. A full-size- table is
12ft. by 6ft. ; room required, 24ft. by 18ft
P.C.8.: (1) Figures regarding imports and manu-
facture are not available. (2) It is used by paint
manufacturers, lacquer manufacturers, in making
printing ink and to color boot-polishes. (3) Price
in Sydney and Melbourne, from 9d. to Is. per lb.
wholesale. .. .S.S.: Gloria Light Co., 34 Market-stieet,
Sydney Laton: Write (1) Naval Board and (2)
Air Board, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne W.G.:
Sorry, but the N.S.W. Lotteries Act prohibits us
from furnishing the information... .N.M.: Idea may
possiblv appeal to lamp-shade or lamp manufacturers,
leadlighters, stained-glass makers or firms specialis-
ing in patent signs. Before approaching them take
out a provisional patent... .N.R.R.: Pelorus Jack
was a toothed whale that used to meet steamers
entering Pelorus Sound, South Island, and accom-
pany them for about five miles, gambolling across
the bows. He was protected by Order-in-Council
and by a clause in the Fisheries Regulations. He
died about 1912. .. .C.M.P.S.: N.S.W. Registrar-
General is entitled to make exhaustive inquiry into
any old-system title submitted to him to be brought
under the Real Property (Torrens) Act, N.S.W. It
is essential that the title should be in order; once
brought under the Act it becomes indefeasible. An
appeal to a Judge in Equity would, no doubt, be met
by the same demand to put the title in order.
Impossible to estimate cost... .P.A.: After the revo-
lution in Austria-Hungary in 1918, Slovenia,
Croatia, Dalmatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina declared
their independence, and joined with Serbia and
Montenegro in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and
Slovenes, also known as Yugoslavia.... Cut Up: It
rests entirely with department. Write to Director,
ask for personal interview... .T.J.M.: An action to
recover a simple contract debt such as the one
referred to must be brought within six years. ...
A S.: Get in touch with Cook’s, Challis House, Martin-
place, Sydney J..T.F.: Unless it was specifically
declared to be irrevocable, the power of attorney may
be revoked by deed. Any solicitor would draw the
thing up for you. . . .A.D.S.: Yes ; often in dysentery
and pneumonia. Sometimes advised for people who
have lost their appetite. There are substitutes
Murray: Write Advances for Homes Branch, Govt.
Savings Bank of N.S.W., Castlereagh-street. .. .D.A.:
(1) Very little indeed, except in exceptional house-
holds (2) Unfavorably. (3) Yes, in most households
and manv hotels. (4) Yes. There is a rigid color bar
in South Africa... .F.T.: If you can turn out regular
consignments of good clean sheet mica free from
ironstains, send details and samples to Frank Ham-
bridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney. Price depends upon
quality; no fixed price is ruling in Sydney
A E B • Try Odylen ; Fassett and Johnson, Chalmers-
st're'et,' Sydney... .L.F.G.: Yes, ore of the assay-
mentioned would be considered very rich in Aus-
tralia and pay handsomely to work. F. Hambndge,
22 Bridge-street, could give you an idea as to value;
he buys all classes of ores and metals W.Y.: Ar
agent provocateur is a provocative agent; one em-
ployed to associate with suspected persons and hi
simulated sympathy lead them on to commit them
selves (Many others mailed.)


V /A
cmctah
ofScience
Illustrating the construction of the "New Process ’
Columbia Records. "A” is the new smooth playing
surface, free from scratch. "B” is the hard centre
"'•core which makes Columbia outwear all other records.
- ~ and we'll tell you
why Columbia Records
are better /rrrrrrrT
• .... w
DO you know what causes the scratch or surface noise
common to ordinary phonograph records —and why you
never hear it in a Columbia Record?
Then split an ordinary phonograph record in two —so that
you can get a good look at the inside of it —and you 11 see the
reason. It’s made of what is known as “solid stock” —the core and the playing surface are made of the same
material. The shellac and other materials needed to make the playing surface are mixed all through the
record. These materials are pressed together under heavy hydraulic pressure.
Consequently, when the pressure is released, the fibrous material on the surface of the record expands and
that’s what causes hissing and surface scratch when you play it.
Now examine the illustration above. It shows how Columbia’s “Laminated Process” not only gives the
record greater tensile strength —it proves how this exclusive Columbia process absolutely prevents objection-
able surface noise and scratch.
First a core of tough, fibrous substance. Then, on each side, a layer of especially prepared paper. On this
paper is built Columbia’s playing surface of shellac and other ingredients.
No fibrous particles can work from the core to the playing surface of a Columbia Record to cause surface
scratch —because it is insulated by the paper layers from the core containing the fibrous material.
No other record is made like it—no other record sounds like it—and most
important of all—no other record wears as long!
oA few chosen Records we recommend you to hear
04337 (Wiener Blut—Waltz
(8/6) (Johann Strauss)
Bruno Walter, Conducting the Berlin State Orchestra.
04169 f Blue Danube —Waltz
(8/6) i (Johann Strauss)
Felix Weingartner, Conducting the Royal
Philharmonic Orchestra
04267
(8/6)
Shenandoah —Sea Shanty
(Thiman)
The Meistersingers—Prize Song
(Wagner)
04135 r
(8/6) |
II Bacio —The Kiss (Arditi)
La Boheme—Mi Chiamano Mimi
(Puccini)
W. H. Squire, ’Cello Solos
02835 1 The Lute pla y er
(6/-) (O’ Star of Eve
Harold JVilliams, Baritone
ZMaria Kurenko, Soprano
02573(The Two Grenadiers
(6/-) lOn the Road to Mandalay
Fraser Gauge, Baritone
ftll Ilf Sinfonia —Overture
(8/6) i (J- C. Bach)
Willem Mengelberg and Concertgebou'w Orchestra
04220 f Ave Maria (Schubert)
(8/6) (Aulin)
Efrem Zimbalist, Violin Solos
02811 ( Abide With Me
(6/_) (The Promise of Life
Fraser Cjange, Baritone
Columbia
MAGIC NOTES
fRAOt MAR*.
oAsk your Dealer for a Copy of the Columbia general Catalogue, comprising a "Library of the World's West 3'usic”
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney. „ m
VIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-126 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


Qet t&e 'hlgh&tt ptvduc&n
po&u£'£e pcm, j&u*- fow£d.
CHIC-A-VITE
Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
15th to 26th April, 1930.
ELEVEN DAYS FIVE NIGHTS
£14,000 PRIZES
ENTRIES CLOSE:
EXPORT BUTTER and CHEESE
WINES
HORSES (including Trotting Events)
CATTLE
PIGS
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS
DOGS and CATS
AGRICULTURE (including Fruit and Apiculture) . .
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) . .
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS
£14,000
3rd to 12th February
4th March
Bth March
1 Ot'h March
1 oth March
1 Ith and 1 2th March
I 3th March
1 4th March
14th March
24th March
Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
WESTRALIAN SOILS.
“Goomarin” : A word to those who come
from eastern States to grow wheat in West-
ralia, or, for that matter, shift out of their
own district.
Don’t assume that because a given soil is a
good yielder in your own district, one of the
same appearance will yield as well in another.
It might in five cases out of ten ; in the other
five you’d pick a loser.
A case in point is that of a farmer who
bought a block of open red soil, paying a stiff
price, because it looked exactly like a 24-
bushel block he had sold in South Aus. Dur-
ing the last two years he has averaged three
bushels.
Generally speaking, morrell land is to
be avoided, and stiff clay calls for capital
and patience. The best soil for a sure and
quick return on money invested is the half-
sand half-clay found on the margins of the
heavy forest land. It is cheap to work, and
while it will not give the 40-bushel returns
possible from the heavier land it will yield
a good profit in normal seasons if the farmer
know's his business.
EXCELLENT WESTRALIAN RETURNS.
“Tuart”: Westralia will again produce
more wheat than any other State this year.
A 40,000,000-bushel harvest is possible, and
but for a dry September the 50,000,000 bushels
hoped for w r ould probably have materialised.
Mention of crop competitions ((B. 22/l/’3O)
prompts a reference to the Gnowangerup
district’s achievement. Mr. C. E. Cockram
won the R.A.S. prize with 50 acres of
Yandilla King, estimated to go 46 bushels.
Another paddock of Yandilla King was judged
at 43 bushels; a field of Bena went 41
bushels; and Nabawa returned from 38
bushels down. The competition average for
16 farms was 35 bushels. All thisl on land
which not so many years ago was available
for conditional purchase from the Crown for
10s. per acre, payable in 20 years.
Gnowangerup is a “wet” district, and the
“wet” districts have done better this year
than the “dry” districts. In other seasons
the reverse has been the case.
GRADING WHEAT.
“Yeoman - ’: While the elevator system
admittedly lends itself to the grading of
wheat, grading under Australian bulk-hand-
ling conditions does not appeal to me. The
increased price for the graded wheat will not
compensate for the extra expense involved
and the dockages that would be imposed.
t Grading is essential in Canada and the
U.S.A. because _ of the wide variation in
types and qualities of wheat harvested there.
Generally, less than 40 per cent, of . the
Canadian crop grades No. 1; the balance is
divided among Nos. 2, 3 and 4 grade, No. 4
grade is not millable. In the “mixing” busi-
ness No. 2 grade disappears. It is w'orked
in with No. 1 grade by exporters at the
expense of growers who are paid for No. 2.
Australian wheat is a white wheat pur-
chased overseas for blending purposes. The
whole of the season’s crop, sold on the f.a.q.
standard for that season, generally commands
a higher price than Canadian No. 1.
“C.C.” (B. 8/l/’3O) says that under the
present system it does not pay to produce
the best sample. He is wrong. A good
quality sample pays every time. The most
objectionable foreign substance in a sample
of wheat is smut. The mere fact that care-
less farmers can get a smutty sample off to
the local buyer as f.a.q. is not an induce-
ment to others to grow a smutty crop too.
Smut may mean a loss of anything from 5
per cent, to 25 per cent, of the crop.
A plump, shotty sample weighing 641 b. to
the bushel-measure means a gain of one bushel
per acre in weight alone in a 15-bushel crop
compared with the out-turn of the same crop
if the sample weighed only 601 b. It will
thus pay farmers to grow and market the
best possible sample.
Grading under the bag system is hope-
lessly impracticable. Bag-handling has many
critics, but it is more economical than
bulk-handling in N.S.W. if the elevators had
to recoup interest on capital cost, including
capitalised losses, maintenance, and all
other overhead charges, as well as working
expenses.
MAKING THE HOUSE FLY-PROOF.
“U. Murray”; In the way of personal
comfort and health the greatest return which
it is possible to get in these dear days is
that obtainable from fly-proofing one’s house
with wire-gauze. And; the cost is a trifle —
as trifles go these times.
In my own case I had to deal with one of
those rambling country rookeries which, like
a potato in a wet summer, have been) throw-
ing out “second growths” for the last half-
century. The outside walls are 108 yards
about, and 10 doors and 22 windows had to
to be dealt with, while there was a 40ft.
verandah to be made into a sleep-out. Not
counting the cost of my own labor the total
expense was under £l2; and my own labor
would have been well paid at another £6.
So an average farmhouse should easily be
proofed for a tenner; including the veran-
dahs.
One detail which keeps down the cost
greatly is to dispense with shutters outside
the windows. Over these I tacked pieces of
gauze, with a narrow cleat round the edges
to keep them shipshape and prevent any
unravelling. These cleats; which I used on
all cut edges, I made by cutting in two the
little battens sold to cover joints in beaver-
board or plaster-board, giving, when so cut, a
strip one inch wide and one-third thick. Little
more than a shilling’s-worth of wood makes a
door just as good as you can buy. If you
are prepared to do the whole job at once, the
purchase of the gauze in rolls from one of
the city station-supply houses will be found
to save pounds.
If one can’t afford to do the whole thing
straight off, do it door by door, window by
window, as you can. No real comfort or
cleanliness is possible without it. And what
a blessing to the womenfolk !
A GOOD FREEZING" MIXTURE.
“Alf Alpha”: A “Coolgardie safe” is a
handy contrivance on the farm, but it will
not give the low temperatures required almost
daily during an Australian summer by the
farmer’s wife out back.
Here is a mixture which will give a tem-
perature approaching freezing point at a
very small cost and a minimum of trouble.
To a gallon of water in a kerosene-tin or
other suitable receptacle* (it should have an
old bag tied round it) add 31b. of ammonium
chloride (sal-ammoniac) and 51b. of washing
soda, and stir well to dissolve. Insert a billy
containing the butter, etc., into the mixture
to freeze. There will still bf room for a
bottle of something for dad when he knocks
off.
This mixture is superior to, and less costly
than, the usual salt-nitrate formula.
CAPE TULIP.
“Lucerne Flea” : The Cape tulip is one of
the worst of the many noxious weeds we
have to contend with. Other weeds smother
crop and pasture, but a weed which does
this and poisons stock is doubly damnable.
Cape tulip is easily identified. It comes
up in the early spring as a green shoot;
this is followed by four long, narrow, fleshy
green blades, in the centre of which rises
a single stalk bearing a single salmon-pink
flower with four petals. It blossoms in late
spring, dies down and grows up again in
the following winter. The root ends in a
small onion-like bulb with a brown, fibrous
coating.
The curse was introduced in South Aus.
many years ago by a pastoralist who planted
the harmless-looking bulbs in- his garden at
Clare. To-day some 1000 square miles of
country is more or less badly infested. Cape
tulip grows anywhere, but prefers the best
land, on which it crowds out nearly every-
thing else. Horses turned out to graze on
it begin to lose condition and scour; when
worked they are liable to collapse and die
suddenly. Cows usually sicken and die
slowly; sheep are seldom affected. If hay
is grown on tulip country the binder must
be set to cut at least nine inches above the
ground ; if this is not done the tulip becomes
mixed with the hay.
As to controlling and eradicating the weed,
for a few years it looked as if sub. clover
would do the job; but three dry years in
succession, combined with summer thunder-
storms which sprouted the clover seed only
to parch off in a few days, have spoilt S.
Aus. clover stands, although the tulip wasn’t
affected. But cultivation—where thorough
—is winning the fight. On one property
which became a regular tulip nursery for
many years, all the creek flats have been
put under lucerne ; the higher land has been
set apart for hay crops or let out to share-
farmers. This has brought the tulip under
control.
EELWORMS ON PLANT ROOTS.
“Halcyon” : “Hatter’s” remark (B. l/l/’3O)
that “eelworm disease is due to bacteria in
the soil” is interesting but inaccurate. Eel-
worms are not bacteria but very small round-
worms, related to the round-worms of sheep,
dogs, humans, etc. They are chiefly found
in l loose, warm, sandy soils of a well-drained
nature and are never of any consequence in
heavy clays. Potatoes, carrots, tomatoes,
pumpkins, melons, cucumbers, beetroot, beans,
figs, carnations, dahlias and many other
plants of an edible flowering or ornamental
nature are attacked. Most grasses, cereals
such as wheat, barley, oats, rye, maize or
sorghum, various varieties of cowpeas, the
peanut, the Laredo soy bean and the velvet
bean are resistant.
Plants badly affected are dwarfed, wilt
readily in hot weather and are usually a
paler green than healthy ones. Seedlings
and even older plants may be killed in quick
time if severely attacked. The roots l of
diseased plants show numerous more or less
rounded swellings within which are the
eelworms, feeding on the plant juices.
Control of the disease is rather difficult,
but the following measures all assist: —
(1) Never plant potato tubers or seedlings
showing eelworm-gails. Raise your own seed-
lings if possible, as clean land is often first
infected by using diseased seedlings from
nurseries.
(2) Treat seed-beds, before sowing, with
carbon bisulphide, at the rate of 14-2 oz. per
square yard. Make four evenly-spaced holes
eight inches deep to every square yard of
soil. Pour into each, through a funnel, about
a quarter 'to a half fluid ounce of the liquid
and cover quickly with moist earth. Leave
for several days, then aerate thoroughly
before planting the seed. Do not use a flame
near the carbon bisulphide, as it is very
explosive.
(3) If preferred, water the seed-beds,
before sowing, with formalin, at the rate of
one gallon to 50 gallons of water. Cover
with bags moistened with the formalin
and leave for several days. Then aerate
thoroughly before sowing.
(4) Flooding, or complete drying-out, of
the soil for three weeks will destroy all the
eelworms.
(5) Steam sterilisation is the very best,
but is generally impracticable.
(6) Give the plants every encouragement
in the way of water, organic matter or ferti-
liser to enable them to stand up to attack.
Sulphate of potash is particularly useful.
(7) Prune out any excessive top-growth
so as to give the roots a better chance to
keep the top supplied with water during the
hot weather. If the fields become very badly
contaminated with eelworms, rotation must
be practised, using, say, a winter cereal,
followed by a clean cultivation during the
summer to dry out the surface soil before
again coming back into a susceptible crop.
THAT SEPARATOR FLOAT.
“Kell”: Dairy farmers who have experi-
enced trouble with the quality of the cream
produced would do well to look to their
separator float. Investigations on the North
Coast of N.S.W. proved that a leaky float
was responsible for second-grade cream in
numerous cases. A float with a hole in it,
though that hole may be so small that it
cannot be seen with the naked eye, becomes
filled with fermented milk and will infect
every pint of milk treated.
The seam where the two sections have been
soldered together is the most likely place
for the leak to occur. If a defective float
is placed in a basin and boiling water is
poured on it a gas will form inside the float,
and in finding its way out will make a hiss-
ing noise. A similar result will not be
obtained by immersing the float in cold
water. A brown deposit similar in appear-
ance to rust will sometimes tell of the
existence of a leak, but there may be more
than one. To make certain the boiling-
water test is essential.
The purchase of a new float is the best
remedy, but there is an alternative. Drill
two large holes in the top of the float, pour
in a strong soda solution and immerse in
boiling water for 10 minutes. The float
should then be wgll drained and heated to
drive off all moisture and gas. After re-sol-
dering it .should be again tested in boiling
water.
Another cause of “cheesy” cream is stir-
ring the milk or cream with a wooden stick.
No precautions will prevent this baton, in
time, becoming milk-saturated and infecting
all the milk or cream with which it comes
in contact. The remedy for this taint is to
use a metal stirrer.
POTATOES 4ND TOMATOES.
“V.J.S.” : If you live in the Upper or Cen-
tral North Coast districts of N. S. Wales you
can grow excellent crops of potatoes and
tomatoes on frost-free country in the autumn.
Certain conditions must be complied with, .
however. Especially in the case of tomatoes.
Bordeaux must never be off the plants from
the time they see the light of day until the
first picking.
Every week, wet-and fine, it is advisable
to keep the spray going to prevent late
blight and other fungus diseases. The cli-
matic conditions there are then most favor-
able to the growth of these crops, but they
are also most favorable to the germination
of the fungi, responsible for the spread of
late blight. Hence the judicious and con-
tinued use of the spray pump. But the
crops that can be grown and the prices
generally ruling in Sydney make it worth
while. It is the best time there also- to apply
artificial fertilisers.
EGGS, BRANDED AND OTHERWISE.
“Te Babarantiko”: “Yeoman’s” remarks
(B. 8/l/’3O) about eggs in Adelaide do
not apply to fruit of the hen sold in Sydney.
The old hackneyed remedies he suggests only
seem obvious to the uninitiated; the seller
of graded eggs through agents Or grocers
would get no better price than the poultry-
man who gathers eggs haphazardly.
My experience includes ownership of a
large N.S.W. egg farm. My eggs were graded
and sent to market thrice weekly. I was to
get top prices, and I did —for a while. Pre-
sently I found myself receiving the highest
price for one box and a penny less per
dozen for the bulk of my consignments.
Boxes which had gone missing after being
used but once came back containing chaff,
supporting my suspicion that “case” eggs
had been packed and traded under my guaran-
teed brand, marked on lid and both sides
of each case. My protests merely brought
excuses. In desperation I arranged with a
grocer to take all eggs from my farm. Put
immediately in cold storage, they came out
indistinguishable from new-laid.
New South Wales poultrymen generally
oppose branding their eggs for market. Re-
cently, in London and elsewhere abroad, I
observed the sale of branded eggs in
operation. Nobody objects or cares, and
branding doesn’t matter. In July last “Best
English” eggs retailed at Is. 9d. per dozen;
eggs stamped “Danish” were Is. 6d., and
other eggs, according to grade, could be
bought for Is. Identical brands of eggs sold
on street stalls at as much as fourpence
per dozen below shop prices. I tried “Best
English” and “Danish” eggs often, and could
perceive no difference except in the price.
These eggs were somewhat small—like
locally-sold N.S.W. eggs, since the choicest
are exported.
For its consistently high egg prices Syd-
ney has always been a dumping-ground for
eggs from all Australia. Particularly from
South Aus., where the wheat farmer vir-
tually gets his hen fruit for nothing.*
MOULTING.
“Jack Point”: Already fowls are begin-
ning to shed some of their feathers, denoting
an early moult. Now is the time for the
poultry farmer to get out the special mark-
ing leg-bands and do his culling. It is safe
to cull all early moulters and send them to
market. In about 97 per cent, of cases the
birds which moult late are the ones that
lay the most eggs in a year, and lay when
prices are best.
(Continued on page 31.)
FARM ACCOUNTS.
On February 19 “The Bulletin” will commence a series of plain talks
to farmers about book-keeping and accounts.
It will begin at the very beginning, and will proceed step by step until
every farmer who studies these articles should be able not only to keep
accounts for himself, but to tell what a balance-sheet really means when
some traveller talks to him about it.
The primary object, however, will be to enable every farmer to keep
simple books covering his own affairs, so that he may know precisely how
he stands and what progress (if any) he is making.
It is hardly necessary to say that this will put him in a far better position
than he would otherwise occupy if at some time or other he has to seek
an overdraft or other credit.


nonqoiu *p
j« suirep aip ptud
I> I
V 7
k
'W 7
v:
minuuiiHnlll
Ml
r
r
tj
3ACIJ IRIMjUM) s|SHa^
PSI
T!
HE New Mobil oil was
introduced to the motoring
world about a year ago . . . It
was produced because modern
motors demanded a super-
lubricant.
Before its introduction
remarkable results were
achieved in tests in the labora-
tory, on the road, and the speed
track. In these tests it was
proved that the New Mobiloil
1. Stands up better and lasts
longer.
2. Gives up to 20% increased
oil mileage.;
3. Ensures as much as 20%
more power.
Now, the great Mobiloil-
buying public have secured
these results in their own cars.
The foremost figures in aviation
and motoring have won out-
standing successes with the new
lubricant.
They have substantiated
every claim ... No wonder
that more and more motorists
are saying, “Give me the New
Mobiloil”—the greatest lubrica-
tion investment.
The New Mobiloil is now
available at 2/- per quart in bulk
—slightly higher in country
districts.
The
New
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
REGD.
The World’s Quality Oil
OM3


;
When
other cigarettes
lose their savour
u
the cigarettes
that always satisfy.
or
®PMSS
GIG2VRE-TTE-S
MADE- IN LONDON
f&t
W
K
i
m
1
m


j
To ease your
aching feet
Lightness and comfort are out-
standing features of this supple
Abbey Shoe. Soft and restful,
it has an upper of pliant calf—
with no toe-cap. And it is
built to suit Nature. It curves
over the instep arch, eliminat-
ing all tightness at the lacing
and allowing fullest muscle
freedom.
The sides are low-cut but
close-fitting. The flexible sole
is made of the toughest leather
obtainable.
Three widths per size.
ORDER BY POST.—Both full and
half sizes available each in narrow,
medium or wide fitting. Specify
width and length. Ask, also, for
the correct Abbey preservative
polish (6d. per tin), or a convenient
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf . . 39/6
Black Box Calf . . 37/6
Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 162.
Sayers
Green
df
Seal
Remedy
POB ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains lcc. Carbon Tetrachloride per scc. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixley Brisbane
Dalgety & Co Melbourne
Gollin & Co Adelaide
Gollin & Co Perth
King Lawless, Ltd Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding sce. and acting as
Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
Of course she’ll
keep her good
complexion
she uses
Cntienra
Soap and Ointment
No matter how much the
skin is wind-burned this
CUTICURA combination
will allay irritation and
roughness of the skin, and
at the same time cleanse
and soften
the face
and hands.
Soap Is., Oint-
ment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each
free.
Address:
"E. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S.W."
; d)
ft
PAXTON HILL RABBITRIES,
St. Neots, England,
arc shipping the world’s best full-pedigreed,
first-quality Angora rabbits for wool-farming
at competitive prices. Bucks and does of our
Grand Diploma and Gold Medal strain now
ready. Cable Address: ST. NEOTS, SIXTY-
FIVE.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED.
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
FREE!
THe New CRUMP Book
TOPDRESSING
For Profit
4th Edition 80 Pages Advice Results of Tests,
Also Articles on Care of Sheep, etc.
etc.—
CRUMP MACHINERY CO. PTY., LTD.,
12 Carlisle Street, St. Kilda, 5.2.
Victoria.
WRITE
NOW.
ẁ
ẃ
e
It is all a matter of. stamina. The . bird
that can carry her feathers the longest is
possessed of the greatest stamina; the weak-
ling drops her feathers and stops laying
early. And only good-sized birds moult late.
You will also note the. fine red comb, free
from beefiness, of the late one, as well as
her bright eye, her short, well-shaped beak,
straight legs of good color carried wide
apart, and long back.
If you have a bird that still keeps on
laying whilst almost devoid of feathers,
breed from her. and the best cockerel that
money will buy.
ANIMAL WOUNDS.
“Wrash”: To guard against : animal
wound festering, as soon as possible pre-
pare a weak solution of water and phenyl
and another of warm water and lysol. Cover
the wound with a pad' of cotton-wool wrung
out in the lysol solution, and holding it in
position thoroughly cleanse the surrounding
skin with the phenyl. Next clean the wound
with fresh pads soaked in the lysol, at first
using them wet, but finishing with one
wrung dry.
Treat the wound with tincture of iodine
or an antiseptic powder of one part iodo-
form to four parts boracic acid and band-
age up to keep off flies and dirt.
When an old festering wo'und ■ has to be
treated, syringe with, a warm lysol solution,
and when well drained apply a mixture of
one part hydrogen peroxide to four parts
warm 1 water.
COLLAR AND BREECHING.
“Marshmallow”: Steadying heavy farm
implements downhill by letting the horse pull
back against the collar is bad for horse
and harness and can easily be avoided. Har-
ness the horses w r ith dray saddles and breech-
ing chains besides the usual collar, etc. Hook
the . breeching chains up close to the drag
chains, so that there is just sufficient play
for the horses to move freely. Instead of
the collar pulling on the horses’ necks it
will be found that the breeching will tighten
the chains on to the hames and pole strap ;
hence sore necks will be avoided.
WHERE RINGBARKING PAID.
“Tangaloli” : “Larrapinta” on ringbarking
(B. 8/l/’3O) is •unconvincing. It is an
accepted fact, especially in hilly timbered
country, that as soon as trees are dead
after being ringbarked the grass grows im-
measurably sweeter, and that where gullies
never held water for any appreciable time
they become permanent running streams. I
know of one estate on the western slopes of
New England (N.S.W.) where about six
years ago it took 10 acres to carry a sheep
and the gullies never held water long. There
is now a sheep to the acre, and they fatten ;
and the gullies are always running. And
all the effect of ringbarking.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) When flag smut affects a wheat crop
is it likely to reappear another year or spread
to clean land? If so, how can one get rid
of the disease and prevent its recurrence?
Will growing a crop of oats clean the trouble
out? (2) While growing is Sudan grass
harmful to stock feeding on it? (3) My
Border Leicester rams will not mate with
the ewes. Can anything be done? —4130.
(1) If flag smut is present in a crop it
is likely to appear on the same land in sub-
sequent years. A little spread may take
place on to clean areas by means of wind-
blown spores or by spores which pass through
the digestive tracts of animals. The growth
of an oat crop is a very useful measure in
the control scheme. The N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture issues a leaflet which
contains much information on the disease.
(2) Sudan grass is not harmful to stock at
any stage of growth. Occasionally, however,
Sudan grass seed contains seeds of sorghum-
Sudan hybrids, and plants produced by these
seeds are likely to cause poisoning if grazed
before they come into flower. (3) The dis-
inclination of the British longwool breed
rams to work during the summer, if it is
very hot and dry, is being specially noticed
in N. S. Wales this season. It is recom-
mended that the mated flock be yarded, if
convenient, several times a week during
mating, for preference in a temporary yard
in the paddock to save dust. The rams
should not be too fat at mating, but should
be in strong active condition. And they
should not be allowed to remain away from
the ewes in another part of the paddock.
If low in condition a few of the rams at a
cp be removed and fed on crushed oats
(41b. daily) and chaff for a week. The use
of mvigorators” is not recommended.
Best month for planting English potatoes
m the Lower Burdekin district (N Q V
4394. . ’
If the seed-potatoes are in good condition
the mam crop may be planted in April.
Where water is available for irrigation plant-
ing is permissible in May and .June.
(1) Where can I obtain particulars regard-
ing peanut-growing in Queensland? (2)
Does the Government make grants of land
for this express purpose? (3) Where to get
information regarding selection of land and
advances to settlers under the Queensland
Agricultural Bank Act? —434B.
(1) Get in touch with the manager, Pea-
nut Pool Board, Kingaroy. (2) No. (3)
hrom the officer-in-charge, Inquiry Branch,
Lands Department, Brisbane.
The proper way to top tomatoes to make
them bean-? —4565. -
Topping does not make tomatoes bear.
1 runing and topping bring fruit to maturity
earlier than unpruned plants l and increase
the size and quality of the fruit. Topping
is carried out with the object of - preventing
further gr6wth of plants, hence further pro-
duction _of flowers and fruit. The method
of topping is to nip, out the growing point
two or three leaves above the sixth or seventh
bunch of fruit, when the plant lias, been
grown on a single-stalk system.
The drill I am using for planting onion
seed m our Queensland district drops the
seed too thickand onion seed at 375. 6d
a pound is a big item. This is an irrigated
area , so ice don't have to plant thickly fo get
a stand. Gan you suggest anything? —429B.
Go carefully oyer your machine in order
to ascertain that no leakage is taking place,
and that it is adjusted to the correct size
of seed. It will sometimes be found that
the gauge at which it is. recommended to
sow the various .seeds is slightly in excess of
that required in actual planting operations,
consequently you will have to retard the
shutter until the necessary adjustment has
been obtained. The best way of doing this
is to lay down on a level piece of ground a
strip of hessian, set the gauge at what is
advocated, put the machine in gear and run
it on the length of the hessian. You will
then see whether the amount of seed dropped
is insufficient or more than sufficient for
your purpose. The .Queensland Agriculture
Department uses the machines of the make
you mention in all its experimental work,
the range being from oats to turnip seed,
and has had perfectly satisfactory results.
The pipe connecting a spring with a tank
on my property is apparently coated inside
with rust. I don’t want to remove the pipe
at present; how can I soften the water? —
4579.
You might try adding lime to the water
in the spring to the extent of one or two
grains to the gallon. But without a
full knowledge of the mineral contents and
physical character of the water it is not pos-
sible to prescribe any exact treatment. Even
the application of lime as indicated involves
the use of apparatus for regular dosage.
Who discovered (1) anthrax vaccine, and
(2) the carbon tetrachloride treatment for
fluke in sheep?' (3) When was inoculation
for plcuro-pneumonia in cattle first used, and
by whom? (4) Has any special method of
treating stock for disease been discovered
at Glenfield ( N.5.W.)?— 4359.
(1) Pasteur, in 1881-82. (2) Mont-
gomery, member of the Royal College of
Veterinary Surgeons, working in Wales a
few years ago. (3) Between 1850 and 1852,
by Willens, a Continental veterinarian. (4)
Yes, a great amount of work in disease in-
vestigations have been done at Glenfield.
Particulars are contained in reports by the
Director of Veterinary Research.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Toggle” : Whenever there is a small opera-
tion to- be performed on a horse’s head, even
it it is only to drop in a little eye-lotion, it
is best to rope and throw him. Not only is
he easier and safer to handle that way, but,
when the job is over, he is no worse-mannered
than he was before.
“R.A.D.”: In parts of Queensland and
Westralia rickets are caused by cattle eating
the young shoots or leaves of zamias. The
way to kill zamias is to cut them off at the
ground, and make a hole in the centre of the
stump. They rot away when wet weather
comes, zamias being very soft inside.
“Tamornie”: Watch well for bot-fly eggs
now. I find equal parts of castor oil and
kerosene, touched lightly under the jaws and
inside the forelegs, effective. An application
lasts for several days.
“Roseworthy”: A spray to nip grass-
hoppers in the hopper stages on pasture land :
Dissolve lib. arsenite of soda in hot water
in one vessel, and 41b. treacle in warm water
in another. When cool mix together and
dilute with 16 gallons of water. Seventy-five
or eighty gallons of spray to the acre are suf-
ficient. Spray first on a strip of grass for
about 30ft. in front of the advancing swarms,
and then directly on to them.
“Disc Harrow” : It pays to keep the spray-
pump water clean. If the strainer is worn
pour in through a well-shaken chaff-bag, and
save stoppages to clear the nozzles. If a
blockage does occur, relieve the pressure
before turning off the tap to investigate. An
extra minute is better than a burst hose.
“Bad Australian”: The Grimm variety
of lucerne, which is a great favorite in
northern U.S.A. and Canada, might well be
given a trial by farmers on our N.S.W.
tablelands or the colder southern areas. This
variety was evolved in the rigorous climate
of Minnesota, where it is regarded as the
best of all for hardiness, productivity and
nutritive qualities. In western Canada
Grimm has yielded as much as 9971 b. of seed
from a measured acre.
“Notwen” : Don’t discard old manure bags
especially on irrigation blocks where couch
is usually hard to keep in check. Peg them
firmly over obstinate patches of the grass
and leave for some weeks. I have found
this method more effective than the expensive
one of hand weeding, which is apt to be done
so carelessly that portions of the roots remain
and grow strongly.
“Bushman”: To make an emergency
ladder for the farm, select a plank from 12in.
to 15in. wide and as long as needed. Mark
it off in two-foot lengths, and saw out a
section about 3in. wide and 4in deep at each
section, on alternate sides, this forming the
footholds, at about a decent step on both
sides. Nail a cross-piece at top and bottom
of the plank to give a grip. This quickly-
made ladder will outlast many dearer and
longer jobs.
“Specker”: Pullets should be penned sepa-
rately from the older birds and fed on a
more fattening ration. Milk, whether skim
or dried, is an appetiser, and therefore
doubly useful. A moist mash also entices
the birds to consume more food, and should
be fed once a day.
“Brebis”: To remove a broken axe-handle
quickly, saw off handle level with head;
bore through the section of handle left in
the head with fin. auger bit, insert key-
hole saw and cut along the wedge both ways
from the hole. What’s left of the handle
will then drop out.
All root vegetables can be transplanted if
care is used. Do the job when two or three
leaves are on. using a pointed stick for the
hole, and washing the root down with water.
If the plant gets too big the tap-root breaks
and the root forks. Thin them young and
double the number of rows. If intending to
transplant, sow at first wide enough to
transplant in between. It’s easier and
quicker, thinning and transplanting at the
same time.
“Tamornie”: Try this mixture for green
feed when sowing : Half-bushel of golden tares,
quarter-bushel rye, lib. Bokara clover and one
bushel Algerian oats. Work the ground
thoroughly, harrow lightly and roll after
drilling. Don.’t plant deeply. As a milk pro-
ducer it is hard to equal.


i£emom
The centre of Queen s/onc/e
v d/shnpu/sf>ec/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
dsf
Wot fl
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests y
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central o'SO—JO Lines.
I
i
dd
) Saving
Time
in Sydney
SO many interesting things to do and
see in Sydney that every minute
must be considered precious—essential
that your hotel be absolutely central —
in a word, that it should be “The
Australia,” which is socially and geo-
graphically the centre of Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIA
Capital Paid Up, £422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel,
Sydney"
Illustrated
Folder sent
on request
V
Comfort & Service
at Low Cost
■ Quiet refinement, perfect service,
superior cuisine—these things make
the Grosvenor a good place to live
in—for a day or forever. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms, spacious lounge,
yale locks on every door. Tariff,
from £3/10/-.
»GROSVENOR
cJldelaides Finest Unlicensed Motel
Opp. Railway Sin. North Terrace. ADELAIDE
SMOKE-OH!
WARNING.
If you find your love so deep,
That you wish to marry,
Remember you may have to keep
Two, and one to carry.
* #
. It begins to look as though the last word
in the coal dispute won’t be said until they
drag a woman into it.
“Shorthorn Typist Wanted.”—' “West Australian .»
Wanted, no doubt, for what they call a
cow of a job.
* ¥
“Aeroplanes are to co-operate with Victoria’s Bush-
fire Prevention Commission in future.”
Flames always did attract Moths.
# ¥
“The 12,000 miners who, because the industry
could not keep its market, were dismissed last
March, had been earning an aggregate of £35,000
m wages a year.”— “S. M. Herald.”
It was no doubt the difficulty of living
on less than £3 a year per man that made
them so annoyed over Jock Garden’s limou-
sine.
H- *
There is discussion as to whether Mel-
bourne’s new bridge should be called “Spen-
cer-street” or “Batman.” It is generally
agreed, however, that a bridge across the
Yarra by any other name would smell as
sweet.
# *
OMAR — CO-RE.’B VERSION.
A roomy tourer parked beneath the bough,
Fizz, and some chicken sandwiches and thou
Beside me smooging in the wilderness,
Provide a ’tec with evidence—the eow!
H. W. H.
* *
THE LIMIT.
We managed to swallow the yarn about
the honest politician, and also the one about
the snow-shoveller 4 who made a living at
his trade in Darwin. In fact, it was not
till we were told of the flippant little
NO PICKIN’ AND CHOOSIN’ THERE.
“Whatcher makin’ all that row outside the girls’ winder for?”
“Go away! I’m serenading!”
“No, yer don’t. Lizzie’s the oldest, an’ she’s goiter go off first afore Sarah"
dapper who went to Bondi for the sole
purpose of surfing that our cherished gift
of credulity uttered a despairing moan and
expired.
* *
The, question is whether some of our Test
possibilities are fit, or are only liable to
take one.
* *
Many a motorist has taken a girl for &
ride only to learn that all that titters is
not bold.
* *
“The disease known as the yaws has
broken out in the Islands.” In Australia, of
course, the form known as the “What’s-
yaws” breaks out every summer.
Many a burglar’s son follows in his
father’s finger-prints.
¥ *
R.I.P.
“Young Stamplicker will be absent to-
day !” said the Chief Clerk.
“H’m,” observed the boss, trying to recol-
lect which Shield game was on. “Another
grandmother’s funeral, I suppose?”
“No, sir,” said the Chief Clerk firmly.
“His own!”
* #
Tom , Tom, the punter’s son,
Bought a car ere the race was run.
The race was fast, and Tom’s horse ran last.
A book took the car from the punter’s son.
1980.
There was bitter grief on the out-back
selection. “Must you go, son?” pleaded
dad. “Look at poor old mum’s tears. Have
a heart, Dave! Have a heart.”
Young Dave was deeply moved, but his
face remained stubborn. “I must go, Dad,”
he repeated, and moved towards the selec-
tion Ford. “It’s me only chance. It isn’t
that I want to see Melbourne or go gay, but,”
and his lip trembled, “all me life I’ve
wanted to see a horse, Dad. When I’ve seen
one I’ll come back home and feel more con-
tented like.” Without trusting himself to
say another word, he threw the car into gear
and was off.
* *
Eggs are like motors, in a sense,
A bad egg often stuns
A politician’s eloquence.
It hits him, and then runs.
* *
THE GREAT GOLF WAR.
“The N.S.W. golf war is still raging. Indeed,
during the past 24 hours the battle has grown in
intensity.”— “S. M. Herald.”
(From our Special Representative at
the Front.)
J. T. Lang, M.L.A., marched in last night
in charge of a detachment from the Trades
Hall. “I dunno what this war’s about,”
he said while digging-in on the first green,
“but if it provides a chance to be offensive
it’ll do me. Scullin’s a blanky pacifist, and
Bavin’s left off answering back. Grr!”
The crack Umteenth (“Domain Agita-
tors”) Division, which was the first to go
into verbal action, has performed prodigies
in seven different languages—German pre-
dominating. “Ve’re out to vin,” said Com-
rade Dugald Rafferty, interviewed in a
bunker after a hard day’s blither; “an’ ve’ll
do it even if der vimmens and childers have
to starve. Here, vcre’s me Government dole?”
Base lI.Q. at Rose Bay report that the
Caddies’ Strike Corps has entrained. This
unit, like that other storm formation, the
Boy Wheelers of Wallsend, have a hard-
Avon reputation for being ready to strike, and
strike hard, on any pretext, or none.
The men are excited by a rumor that Pre-
sident W. A. Windeyer, of the Country and
Suburban Golf Assoc., has donned his
Empire trousers, and pledged himself not to
change them till Victory crowns the cause
of Justice, and Humanity.
Stop Press.
The Australian Party is in action
under the joint leadership of the
U.S. Movie Interests, Federal
Labor and the Right Hon. W. M.
Hughes. The party is attracting
attention by fighting on both sides
at once.
Later :
Judge Beeby has issued his usual weekly
interim award. He directs that the comba-
THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN.
tants shall drive in future from the 3rd,
9th and 14th tees with putters. Niblick
play to be from bank to bank and not, as
hitherto, out of sand. The Rose Bay’ caddies
to be paid £1 an hour whether their employ-
ers like it or not. The 19th hole to be
eliminated, W. A. Windeyer to change his
trousers and Comrade Rafferty to learn
English.
Later still :—
All parties are disregarding the Beeby
and every other award, and (while com-
pletely in the dark as to the issues at stake)
are settling down to prolonged and bitter
jawfare.
10-2-4.
THE HUMAN TOUCH IN OUR
NATIONAL GAME.
“The lot of an umpire is sometimes made very
unhappy.” —Cricket umpire in “Sportsman.”
Bowler: “Howzat?”
Umpire: “Out.”
Batsman ( earnestly ): “No, no! Not
that! Recall your cruel word, Smithy.”
Umpire: “Sorry, Bill, but you were out
a mile.”
Bowler: “Bad luck, Bill, old man.”
Batsman : “I wonder if you realise what
you’re doing to me, Smithy"?
Try and put yourself in my
place. Visualise yourself
walking miserably to the
pavilion, head down, ears
ringing with the barracking
of the multitude. Think of
the no-good 'remarks the
sporting writers will make.
Please. Please, Smithy.”
Umpire ( wiping away
tears) : “You’re making it
very hard for me, my boy.”
Bowler: “I feel that I’m
to blame in a way, Bill.”
Batsman: “You can see
how the bowler feels about
it. Ask the wicket-keeper
what he thinks. Ask point.
Ask anyone.” (He wipes a
tear away with batting-
glove.) “It’s frightful !”'
Umpire : “I know just how
you feel, Bill, but I gave you
out. llow can I take it back,
now ?”
Batsman (wildly) : “It’s
frightful! Imagine the talk
in the pavilion! Dinker, st.
Scrooper b. Tosser first ball!
I’ll have it thrown up at me
for weeks!”
Umpire: “Oh, my boy, my boy! You’ve
made me feel positively miserable!”
Bowler: “Gosh, I’m sorry, Bill. If I
could do anything”——■
Wicket-keeper ( diffidently ) • “Please accept
the sincere apologies of one who, though
a stranger to you, sir,. feels his position
deeply.”
Batsman ( shaking hands all round) : “I’ll
try to forgive and forget, lads, as a good
Australian should. But -it’s hard—very
hard.” ( Blows nose, straightens shoulders
manfully and walks slowly to pavilion.)
Fairleigii Bright.
* #
WORDS OF POWER.
He may be rough as bags or sand; his
grammar Very much at fault; we like the
man who grabs our hand and brings us
sharply to a halt by yelling '“Comenava-
drink!” The very world of him we think,
and prize him as a long-lost brother when
he adds “Warrerboutanotber ?” He forms
a friendship that endures who knows the
way to ask “Wassyour.s?” who snaps (while
no word runs to waste) “Givittaname” or
“Avataste,” varied with “Sonthedrinksonme”
or a glib “Wassitgointerbe?”
He adds, when drinks are duly slain, a
cheerful “Fillemupagain,” a “Jessonemore”
or “Thissismirie.” A man he is, one half-
divine, who, though he be not versed in
Horace, knows lovely words like “Deochan-
doris.” Words that, when drinks go round
and round, have kegs of comfort in their
sound.
A virile air he spreads about; his ev’ry
whisper is a shout. Strange “open sesames”
he knows to caverns where a rich wealth
glows—the gems of comradeship and mirth;
the richest jewels of the earth.
When I this mortal coil have shed, and
down the rocky stairs am led, my soul
shall cast aside its fears when, in a greet-
ing brisk, it hears, “Ere —stopanaveagargle-
bo !” or “Owdaglassolagergo?” And, knowing
I have met a friend, I’ll make that spot
my journey’s end. For (as I often tell the
wife) the best spot is where spots are rife,
and there’s a pal to share a glass and help
the fleeting moments pass. And if old Satan
EXPERIENCE DOES IT.
“By jove, but my wife has altered!”
“In what way?”
“When we first got married , if I came home drunk she
thought I was ill; now if I come home ill she
thinks I’m drunk.
makes a fuss about our halting by the way,
we’ll simply get him drunk with us—get him
so frivolously gay that he’ll forget his pur-
pose fell and make his home a Merry Hell:
For there are magic powers, I think, in
“Nameyerspot” ov “Avadrink.”
Percy Pawnticket.


5
m
g
I
y\\ v\ \' \V'
£
R
a
r=o.7
®3g
IM
ya
\
VP.
s a
y,/..;
ft
«
%fff
W”CIEN. WORTH.
umm:
PORT
OWN BOTTLING
MAS HARDY £ SONS LTD?
AIDE,MELBOURNE tSYONEH
South Australian wine.;.;—
NET I PINTG FLUID OZS
OJkSOS
m
rii
m
"C2rzs/oczra.He Pioneevs"
HARDYS WINES OF TINTARA


pinnacle of aualitij
m
mmm
m
mmm
tot*.
,c
v
■; .'
.v-''°
£
v
£
A
O
D
*
0
ss
v
m
Prove
for yourself
the truth of our
claim that REX'PYE
stands absolutely supreme
in quality. As you open the
can. note the delicate aroma and
the clear, firm jelly. Note the
fresh colour of the meat and its
perfect texture —no gristle or
scraps of inferior meat. REX'
PYE never goes dark and stale'
looking in the can; for the raw
materials are the very choicest
meats, perfectly cooked. REX'
PYE is the finest meat in the
world.
Always say REX-PYE
REX-PYE
In lib and J4lb hygienic cans.
DC3ITT JONES PTV. LTD.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon.


§;.ilT}ISN'!A
MAGNAVOX
■ IT ISN'T
DYNAM
{With « bow teKoM)
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker
Moderaielp Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
§§§
MURI
msBM
i
■
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
WHY LADIES
SHOULD NEVER USE A RAZOR
WV‘
It is the razor that turns a youth’s first downy
growth into a stiff, coarse beard. It makes hair
, grow faster and thicker —that is why men must
shave daily soon after they commence using
f razors. Skilled chemists have perfected a per-
fumed, velvety, hair-removing cream, specially
designed to solve this important problem of the
/ modern woman’s toilette. You simply spread this
cream on as it comes from the tube, after a few
minutes rinse it off and the skin is left beautifully
soft, smooth and white, without a sign of hair No
blunt ends remain to shadow the whiteness of the
skin, such as razors leave —especially when the hair
is dark. This cream —called Veet —has been used
by thousands. Every day more and more women
are turning to Veet to save them from the stiff,
coarse growth the use of a razor induces. 2/6
and 4/- (double size) per tube at all chemists.
Pen snd Picture
The
STATE
THEATESSY
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“Sweetie” (Paramount) is lively song-
and-dance froth with half 1 an inch of college
life at the bottom for body. Nancy Carroll
sings as badly as ever and gets away with it.
The theme song, allegedly written by “Biff,”
the school football captain, is an illegitimate
love-lyric that even the dogs will delight to
bark. The “Alma Mammy” burlesque of
Jolson goes a long way in reclaiming Holly-
wood from its maunderings in the Vale of
Tears, and, incidentally, "suggests that the
star _of the slushiest sentimentalist is
happily on the wane. The only relation-
ship those items bear to the plot is that they
are numbers in rehearsal for the forthcoming
school revue—the mere mention of which
should be enough to give the sophisticated
the full strength of the plot.
“Why Leave Home?” the Fox musical-
comedy version of “Cradle Snatchers,” re-
tains the characters and theme of the ori-
ginal, but differs from the stage play in
almost all other respects. But the pro-
ducers have turned out a brisker and more
ticklesome picture than would have been pos-
sible had they merely transported the origi-
nal to the screen. Mainly what they have
SUE CARROLL, in
“Why Leave Home?”
done is to
overcome the
natural limi-
tations that
hamper a
stage play.
The three
young girls
who in the ori-
ginal appear
only at the
end of the
last act are
rescued from
that obscurity
to take pro-
minent parts,
and that adds
much to the
gaiety. The
picture opens
with them
f r at ernising
with a trio of
college boys.
The boys, out
of funds, are
tempted by an
offer from three middle-aged women (each
with a neglected-wife complex) who are
anxious to pay them substantial sums for
their services as temporary partners. The
boys succumb and sidetrack the girls, whose
charms have meanwhile attracted the hus-
bands of the older women, and who, piqued
at having been turned down by the others,
are content to accept the aged _ rivals. The
wives receive the students timorously at
first, but after learning a few of the latest
dance steps their appetite for high life is
whetted and they decide to visit a cabaret.
Of course, they arrive at the place selected
by their husbands, but as it is a masquerade
affair the two parties do not immediately
clash. When, however, one of the wives
does recognise her husband the picture is
at once electrified into a cross between an
uproarious French farce and the mix-up
of “A Midsummer’s Night Dream.” A
highly diverting film, it can be commended
to those in need of a rib-tickling tonic.
Americans are more interested in the negro
than Australians are, because there is always
a chance that he may become so numerous
that he might win a presidential election; in
which case there would be hell to pay, and
the White House would need to have its name
altered. But in “Halleujah” (M.-G.-M.),
King Vidor has not fallen into the error of
sentimentalising his Afroamerican. He has
taken him as he is, stuffed him into a good
strong plot and let him work out his own des-
tiny, set to the simple beat of savage exist-
ence. The result is a fine achievement, dull
only if you haven’t the patience to let a pro-
ducer work out his theme artistically A fine
piece of acting is provided by the big, handsome
buck nigger who goes to the Mississippi
wharves to sell the family cotton crop, is
seduced of his money by a “high yaller” (half-
caste ) vamp, shoots his brother accidentally in
a melee, returns home in an agony of repent-
ance, turns preacher, becomes a dusky
Atbaniel to the same Thais when baptising
her at a huge mass christening ceremony,
murders her companion, serves a term in the
penitentiary and finally returns to picking
cotton. Behind this story is the background
of Mammy and Sambo wriggling their bodies
in elemental expression of their emotions,
writhing their hips in the dance (just like
their aristocratic white relations), singing,
laughing, praying, howling to God for mercy,
confessing their sins in droves at revival
meetings and being washed white as snow
by being dipped holus-bolus in the river.
How well Vidor has worked inside screen
limitations is shown by the fact that, although
the rich, deep voices of the entirely negro
cast are mainly unintelligible, the action is
easily followed.
“Flight” (Columbia), “an all-talking epic
of _ the air,” is A 1 for kids because the
flying scenes reach the highwater mark of
such productions. As a play it would be
beneath contempt even if contempt were
buried a hundred feet underground. Lila Lee,
the star, is so emotional, and so much of
her emotion is located in her throat, that she
is as uncomfortable to watch as an operation
for appendicitis. Nor can any relief be
obtained by listening to Jack Holt and Ralph
Graves, whose voices are far less easy to
understand than the noises made by their
aeroplanes. As to the) plot, more history is
made, the gallant airmen being depicted drop-
ping tons of bombs on Chinese villages,
although the cables haven’t reported Uncle
Sam as having let off so much as a curse in
any of China’s recent wars.
“Love Never Dies” has already been
examined here; but having had to see it
again in the course of a bill, this Showman
implores forgiveness for repeating that it is
priceless of its kind.. Royal Air Force officers
weep copiously and refuse to eat their dinner
because one of their number has been injured
and they are only induced to forget their
grief when Miss Moore puts on a funny cap
and juggles with some bottles. Also a British
general delivers his orders like Julius Super-
bus Knight going to the lions with Mercia;
and he finishes up with the remark Nelson
is said to have signalled at Trafalgar. It is
to be hoped that Hollywood will next turn to
the doings of the Anzacs at Gallipoli. Never
did this country stand more in need of a good
laugh than at present.
The Inky Way
Thorold Waters, musical critic of Mel-
bourne “Sun” and editor of “Musical
News,” has gone on the European tour. It
is presumed that he has left behind enough
leading articles denouncing Dr. Floyd, critic
of the “Argus,” to tide his paper over the
interval.
“Lao-dah”: A bright reportress of Melb.
“Herald” fancied that that paper’s readers
would like to know what Bernard Shaw
thought of Australia; so she sought an inter-
view. This was refused, but the secretary
wrote that if the lady would write down her
question on a sheet of paper, leaving space
for the answer, the great man might or
might not reply. So she sent along her
question: “When you see the word Aus-
tralia what does it suggest?” “It suggests
Australia,” was G.B.S.’s reply.
“L.A.”: In this Central Queensland city
of 32,000 population, we have a splendid
School of Arts well stocked with oversea
matter, but in the past 12 months there has
not been a copy of two of Australia’s best
known and most popular journals, “Aussie”
and the “Woman’s Mirror.” Both are filled
every issue from cover to cover by Aus-
tralian writers; yet a School of Arts that
can find £2O a week for salaries can’t afford
lid. a week to introduce two such publi-
cations, not to mention the old “Australian
Journal” and other local products. Such
committees could put two copies of every
Australian periodical on the tables; it
wouldn’t hurt them a bit and it would be a
great help to Australian Inky Wayfarers.
Dropped by the Inky Wayside, James
Mitchell, doyen of Maoriland journal-
ism. As a cub he was associated in cover-
ing a famous banquet in Dunedin to Jas.
Macandrew, Superintendent of Otago. The
report ran into 30,000 words. Mitchell had
67 years of journalism, and was 83 at the
end.
Something suspiciously like a precedent
has been established with the elevation of
E. A. McAlpine from sub-editor to editor of
Sydney “Telegraph Pictorial.” Such a reward
for tenacity and good work is the rarest
form of appreciation in Sydney journalism.
He is one of the few survivors from the days
of the old “Telegraph.”
Neville Montagu, the Sydney solicitor,
holds the agreement under which Phil May
came to Australia. It was signed on Sept.
15, 1885, by Philip William May and Wil-
liam Henry Traill, in London, and was wit-
nessed by Haddon Chambers, the playwright.
When Traill arrived in England The Bulle-
tin was quite unknown, so every conceivable
thing relevant to the matter was set out in
a document that ran to eight foolscap pages.
But the whole proposed business was to be
scrapped if the said Philip William May
did not get a satisfactory report concerning
the co. from the Bank of New Zealand in
London. (There weren’t many telephones in
those days, else a ring might have saved
a lot of.ink.) The most interesting part of
the agreement, however, relates to payment.
“For any single drawing being a political
or other cartoon of careful finish and in
which likenesses if any are well preserved,
if such drawing be sufficient to fill one I
whole page of the company’s Bulletin
newspaper five pounds (£5).” For wliat
were called “compiled drawings,” making in
the aggregate one page, the said Philip Wil-
liam May was to be paid seven pounds (£7).
The figure shows where May stood in
the art world at the time Traill dis-
covered him. Within three years he had
made such a reputation on The Bulletin
that London was willing to pay him £5 for
a single line.
“Bore-Belle”: The theatrical critic is not
the only one to kindle wrath. On a North
Queensland paper I concluded a heavy day’s
work on the show with a write-up of the
pigs. I didn’t know much about pigs, but
remembering that an onlooker had said they
were a nondescript lot I thus described
them. Next issue’s leader page held the
winning pig’s half-column pedigree. The
pig man was a shareholder in our paper.
That’s how I came to start on my unsuccess-
ful effort to walk round the world.
Unk White is the latest of the black-
and-white men to venture overseas, where
a remarkable/ number of the tribe have
fallen into affluence. White came originally
from Maoriland in an incursion which
included George Finey, the Lynches (Guy,
the sculptor, lately landed in Paris), Noel
Cook and sundry others. In some of his
work Unk can do better than them all;
somebody ought to grab him for book illus-
trating.
Ralph Ainge-Jolinson, dead in Sydney,
was the managing editor who reorganised
the ancient Melbourne “Punch” for F. W.
(Skinwool) Hughes and helped later to"
negotiate its sale to the “Herald.” He
assisted Billy Hughes to invent the National
Federation, and during its boom period was
its publicity man and editor of publica-
tions. His last big job was to attempt re-
vival of the Rockhampton “Evening News.”
He revived it as a paper, but evidently not
as a commercial proposition, foj: the Rock-
hampton “Bulletin” absorbed it and its
weekly pups the other day.


■
BY APPOINTMENT.
THINK
before you drink
there is only one best, and it is Gordon’s
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute purity;
a reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded for
over 150 years.
Gordon’s Gin is produced in London, England, by the
original process of distillation from the original recipe,
the secrets of which belong to the HOUSE of GORDON
and have been handed down through generations ! It
is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has the largest sale at
Home and throughout the World, having no rival for
Purity or Quality*
df
G©ipdl©i® v $
6IN
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
Gordons
i
dry Gin
The Heart
of a good
cocktail
Guaranteed
distilled in
London, England
The Largest
Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Chev.”: Some of the damage deliberately
done to motor-cars has an economic motive.
If you leave your car too close to the exits
of Melbourne theatres you are likely to find
a couple of “flats” when you come to pick
it up. Taxi-men resent this private incur-
sion intp an area which they regard as their
particular domain. If you park your ’bus
anywhere outside the territory which an un-
licensed car attendant has made his own
you are liable to the same fate.
* * *
“Trochus” : Great Barrier Reef Fisheries,
of Sydney, has taken up leases of a con-
siderable stretch of the Barrier from the
Queensland Government, and will pitch its
base at Heron Island, east of Gladstone.
There is a turtle cannery already operating
there; other islands to the north, as far as
Cleveland Bay (Townsville), are to be used
for exploiting the great reef’s resources.
* # * '■ *
“C.Q.” : Rupert Jeffkins is looking for a
suitable site for an all-Australian car factory
in Melbourne. He plans to make a 15. h-p.
light model and he hopes to market it at
under £250. He claims to control many
unorthodox features, including a carburetter
to give 50 m.p.g. .Jeffkins, who. has worked
with the Hudson, Stutz and Overland firms
in U.S.A., proposes to make a dash round
Australia in his first completed. machine.
He made a car in 1917 whose pistons, he
says, are still in working order after 80,000
miles.
% % ❖ *
“Izack Ananias”: One runs across some
queer business slogans. One painted over a
butcher’s shop familiar to me announces
“Fresh Pork and Civility.” Even more arrest-
ing, I think, is a sign I saw on a far-away
beach during the Christmas holidays. It
said “Worms for Hire.” I did not go further
into the matter. I have bought worms out-
right, and souvenired them, too,, when times
were hard. But a hired worm is a puzzler.
How far would my responsibility as a baillee
commit me if my hired worm was damaged
or wholly abstracted by a fish?
* * * *
“Esters”: Someoqe has been taking a
census of the Australian wine trade with
Britain. This country is third on the list of
wine purveyors to the mother country, Portu-
gal coming first and France second. The
trade, which Jell off in 1928 owing uo
Exchequer juggling, recovered sharply in
1929, the imports for the first eight months
of the year being 700,000 gallons above the
1927 figure. Even that is 2i million gallons
short of the tally for the peak year, 1927.
The figures for last year were 1,000,5 w
gallons, not quite half as much as the Portu-
guese imports and over 500,000 gallons below
those of France.
* * * * *
“Ex-Euclaite”: “Murkah” is talking
through his neck when he says that Eucla
(W.A.) was rubbed off the map by the in-
vention of the automatic telegraph repeater
(B. 18/12/’29). It was not until the East-
West railway had been built for some years
that it wms decided to abandon the coastal
route and run the telegraph line along it.
Right up to then a staff" of four tele-
graphists, two linemen and a mechanic were
kept at Eucla. “Murkah” says that the staff
left about 1906, because an auto telegraph
repeater only needs attention four times a
year ; I wonder if he knows of any instru-
ment which will repeat fast, speed stuff
without requiring constant attention.
* * * . *
“Murkah”: It is a blameworthy fact that
Australia hasn’t one . radio-beacon on its
lengthy coast-line. Most overseas passenger
vessels are equipped with directional appa-
ratus, but in Australian waters it is use-
less. The radio-bearing is a godsend to a
fog-blinded vessel, and would have saved the
Riverina and Kanowna. The commonest
method is that in which the ship transmits
for two minutes. A land station replies
with a bearing, and this is followed imme-
diately by a “cross-bearing” from another
station. A trifling addition to existing land
and ship installations, is all that is necessary,
and Australian shipping cos. would welcome
the idea. _ *
“Bill Bowyang” : If the required capital is
forthcoming, M. T. Cox, of Mt Game.
(N.Q.), intends to put Queensland canned
sardines on the market. Cox is a native ot
Heligoland, and before coming to Australia
was employed for several years in the
sardine industry on that rocky speck. Dur-
ing his journeys in Barrier Reef waters,
chiefly between Bowen and Thursday
Island, he saw immense shoals of sardines.
If he is successful with his scheme it will
be a blessing for the peanut-growers around
Cooktown, who can supply the most suitable
of all oils for the preservation of the fish.
The canning factory may be at Cairns.
**■ * *
“Cavendish” : “Australians will not smoke
Australian tobacco which, it is claimed, has
an aroma of eucalyptus,” Dr. Rivett, of the
Council of Industrial Research, told a Federal
Parliamentary committee the other day.
“Claimed” seems a queer word for such an
officer to employ; “alleged” would surely
have been better. Nobody should claim it
who isn’t opposed to the progress of the
industry. Something similar used to be said
about honey, but not by Australians. Forty
years ago most new-comers in S. Africa
smoked the tea-leafy Transvaal tobacco and
the dusty Kaffir article wryly and spoke of
it disparagingly, as not to be compared with
the American leaf. Nowadays Rhodesia
exports tobacco to most parts of the world,
including Australia. * #
“Charinga”: One reason why we import
tinned crabs from Japan. There is in exist-
ence in Queensland a regulation decreeing
that female crabs and those under lOin.
must not be sold. Around Cairns there are
a good number of fishtraps, and often their
boxes are full of crabs. What is the fisher-
man to do with females and small fry? Ir
he throws them overboard they are likely to
get into the traps again, where they some-
-1 times eat the fish and always cause extra
work. So naturally he drives his gaff through
their backs and heaves them overboard.
Whatever the object of the regulation it
doesn’t seem to be attained.


L
I
&
shackled"!
rubber tires—a wet slippery
JLy pavement and danger ahead!
Without Weed Tyre Chains, you are
almost as helpless to control your car as
a man bound hand and foot.
Weed Tyre Chains prevent skidding
accidents. They insure safe driving
always —in mud, sand, or slippery clay
—wherever road conditions are treach-
erous or uncertain.
Weed Tyre Chains grip and hold on
any road. They provide sure traction so
that every turn of your motor is trans-
mitted into actual mileage. For all pas-
senger car, truck or bus tyres in regular
or “Weed American” patterns.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y.. U. S. A.
fra
30
K
i
i
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
Tshe
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
rF
y
■*
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,100,000
Total Assets
£47,431,823
495 Offices and Branches in
Australia.*
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House. Strand*.
è
™ E Stump Jump Disc Cultivating Plough
10-DISC
SIZE
CUTS sft.
14-DISC
SIZE
CUTS 7ft.
Supplied
with
levers for
either
team or
tractor
use.
5’,...*
’#V A
Slliiillilil
■
msm
m
m
- ■ ’ ~ . "V'j
mima
IMS
:
Spl
111
8P?
3®
The
Summer
fallowing
implement
supreme.
Deals
effectively
with
Paddy-
melon
and other
heavy
weed
growths.
Ihe Sundercut ’ has a greater sale in Australia than any other disc implement. It works successfully in any type of country, amongst stumps
and stones, in hard set fallow, in virgin Mallee soils, and in fallow rank with weeds. The alternate 18 and 20-inch discs set with undercut, cut
a level bottom and leave a lumpy tilth ideal for moisture conservation. Differential Cog Jump allows high jump without increase of draught.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Descriptive Folder, Price and Terms posted free on request.


Win
pppujimj^^
'h .
i /
n
'/jL
1
m
&
v*
U 1
111
(UlUlLt^
MORLtY
NO* flOUt
\
A<a
HOI3I WWllfii- *f
THE MARRIAGE OF
THE “WHITE HORSE
M
“ WHITE HORSE ” is Real Old Scotch. First matured
and then blended, it is again matured and re-blended,
so that the whisky becomes properly married. This
marrying of “ WHITE HORSE ” is a very lengthy process
and the result is a right noble spirit of subtle and dis-
tinctive aroma and bouquet, soft, smooth and very pleasing
to the palate, without a trace of kick or bite.
As a heart tonic and digestive, “ WHITE HORSE” stands
supreme. It is the brand most favoured by Scotsmen in
their own country and they are the greatest connoisseurs
of whisky. Could you make a wiser choice when choosing
whisky for yourself?
Screw-cap bottles —no corkscrew required .
ftlwmsKY


nes
NATURE’S REMEDY, HEALTH-GIVING AND REFRESHING.
Burgoyne’s Fruit Saline is world-
famous for its wonderful health-
giving properties—it is an agree-
able, invigorating and cooling drink,
and is a speedy cure for Bilious-
ness, Sick Headaches and all fever-
ish conditions. Acting, too, as a
mild aperient, it cleanses the system
of all impurities.
All chemists sell Burgoyne’s
Fruit Saline. Keep a bottle in the
house; all the family will enjoy it.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR
BURGOYNE’S FRUIT SALINE.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
NOW A PRODUCT OF TOOTH’S.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Amounis is doing remarkable things in his
eighth year. He looked rather cheap the day
Manfred gave him half a furlong’s start and
a bad beating in the A.J.C. Derby, but he
has since proved himself one of the greatest
milers Australia has ever seen. He was by
no means in first-class shape for the Rosehii!
Stakes, w.f.a., on Saturday, and many
thought Gay Ballerina would beat him at
a difference of 101 b., the betting being 7 to
4 Amounis, 9to 4 Gay Ballerina. But
when Pike called on Amounis the little
Maoriland filly could not pace it with him,
though she tried gallantly; and the grand
old Magpie gelding cantered in. ldngths
ahead, in Imin. 39sec. for the mile. Eton
Blue surprised by running third; Vaals,
after leading for a few furlongs, turned it
up in the straight and came in last.
The Rosehii] Handicap produced an ex-
citing finish. Promara made the pace sizzling
hot, and led into the straight by several
lengths. Tiring, she interfered with Octem-
ber (6 to 1) just when it looked as if that
unlucky customer was about to win at last,
and Patadawn (6 to 1) and Prime Don (9
to 2) ranged alongside. Only the judge could
separate them, and he gave it to Pata-
dawn by a head, Octember being placed
third a head behind the favorite. Patadawn,
who was ridden by Darby Munro, has been
very successful at Rosehill.
Booth, the local trainer, had a good day.
He saddled up two winners, the Moabite
gelding Lebanon (5 to 2) in a division of
the Maiden Two-year-old Handicap, and
Luita (4 to 1), who races in his daughter’s
colors, in the Flying Handicap—the Eve
Paddington party, who backed their mare
again, were unlucky to strike Luita in her
best form. But Booth, together with Bartle,
the stable jockey, was denied a treble, his
own horse Crown Area (7 to 4) being beaten
by the country mare Urunaway (S to 1) in
the Carlingford Mile. Urunaway, who be-
longs to Mat Sawyer, is by Thar Lap’s sire
Night Raid out of Uvarsi, and she is pretty
good. Two course records were established
—lmin. 12-jsec. for six furlongs in Luita’s
race and 2min. s|sec. for ten in the Rose-
hill Handicap.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Prince Verderer; next,
Leisure Hour.
Canterbury Handicap: Octember; next,
Eden Hall.
Highweight Handicap: Greenloch; next,
Moorgas.
Campsie Handicap : Urunaway ; next, Prime
Don.
**• * *
Jack Holt credited wool-firm magnate J.
M. Niall with the Epsom (Vic.) Handicap
last Saturday through the agency of Standard
Bearer, a four-year-old half-brother (by
Crowdennis) to Royal Charter. I orm pointed
strongly to Standard Bearer, who had run
Mondiaga to half a head in the Foundation
Cup at Williamstown on the previous Mon-
day. With “Tich” . Wilson as pilot, the
rather awkward-looking chestnut was backed
for all the money available at 6 to 4, and
started a trifle shorter. Gracwin (9 to 2)
and Bonny set the pace until supplanted by
Cave King, who led Standard Bearer into the
straight by three lengths. Wilson then shook
up the favorite to such good effect that he
vanquished Cave King decisively by a neck.
Standard Bearer gave indications of stamina,
and if the distance had been farther than a
mile he would have demoralised the opposi-
tion.
Neoxina divided favoritism (at 5 to 2)
with Lucky Saint in the juvenile event and
won handily. She is owned by a son of the
late David Syme, founder of the “Age.”
David was a dour Scotchman, brought up on
stern Presbyterian lines, but “S. A. Rawdon”
does not find a love of sport incompatible
with professional and business dignity. (He
has retired from medical practice, but is a
director of the family organ.) Neoxina
made good use of an uneven start, whereas
Lucky Saint was retarded by one of the
barrier ropes being caught in his jaws.
M. S. Cooper, who races Lucky Saint in
conjunction with Ben Chaffey, is having
wretched luck with the brother to San
Antonio. Minor places w r ere filled by Fai-
eonette and Sassaby, half a length behind
Neoxina, while the inaptly-named Lucky
Saint was a close fourth.
It wasn’t Humpty Dumpty, but the hot
pot, Seegur Ghat, who had a “great fall” in
the Brush Steeple. After two previous
faulty jumps, Seegur Ghat unseated his
rider a mile from home. Left in command,
Humpty Dumpty cleared out from the field
and scored by 20 lengths from old Blarwyn,
with Nam an indifferent third. Last August
Humpty Dumpty annexed a hurdle race and
TOO EASY.
“Hits him where he likes. He’s a wonder!”
“No pfear. It’d be a plurry wonder if he missed a pfeller that size!”
a hedge steeple at Wagga. In October, he
finished second to Home Made over the
battens at Randwick. So poor was the Lime-
light gelding’s Melbourne form, however,
that punters let him go out at 15 to 1. They
are still scratching their heads in puzzlement.
Dave Price, who in the dimming past
trained such turf celebrities as Machine Gun,
Pink 'Tin, Subterranean, Midnight Sun and
Royal Scotch, annexed the Epsom Purse with
Aleman, a natty colt belonging to soap-
maker F. W. Kitchen. Fine condition
enabled Aleman to wear down Darcy Eccles’s
representative, Kendler. Most thrilling of
all was the finish in the last event. Backed
from 5 to 1 to half those odds, Idle Time
conceded Benjamin such a big start from
the straight entrance that success looked
impossible. Bob Lewis never ceased using
the whip, and squeezed Idle Time home by
half a head. Not since his Melbourne Cup
victory on Trivalve in 1927 has the veteran
been so heartily cheered.
**• * *
Greenline is a very fine sprinter, but not
many (Sydney people would consider him
capable of conceding 41b. to Amounis over
the straight six furlongs at Flemington.
Yet the V.R.C. liandicapper has given
Greenstead’s son lOst. 21b. in the New-
market Handicap and Magpie’s 9st. 121 b.
Mollison has 9st. 91b., Aussie (still over-
rated) 9st. 71b., Merab the same, Figure
9st. 61b., and Strogoff Bst. 131 b. Perhaps
the pick of the handicap is Gay Ballerina,
Bst. 71b. It is a fair lump of weight for
a three-year-old filly, but Gay Ballerina can
carry weight, and Chantress won at the
same age with Bst. 91b. Holdfast is also
well in with Bst. 61b.
The quality of the Australian Cup field
may be judged by the fact that Second Wind
heads the list with 9st. 31b. and is not
badly treated at that. Kidaides is nicely in
with Bst. 51b., and Octember, third last year,
has only 7st. 31b. Abergwain, who was
second in the Perth Cup to Coolbarro and is
said to have been unlucky, looks attractive
with 6st. 111 b. He is by Lanius —Ortega,
and is related on the dam’s side to that great
stayer La Carabine. Gay Ballerina and
Abergwain may be a double worth specking.
* * *
For Williamstown on Saturday :
C. F. Orr Stakes: High Syce; next,
Greenline.
Wyndham Handicap: Mondiaga; next,
Standard Bearer.
* . * * *
“F.J.A.”: After having been confined to
his bed for several months with heart trouble,
E. A. Connolly, the most spectacular figure
in Victorian racing, has recovered sufficiently
to potter around his garden. “Con.” intends
witnessing the autumn racing in Sydney, and
will send Dark Man and Broken Doll across.
The disqualification sustained over Broken
Doll’s running some time ago embittered
Connolly against the Melbourne turf rulers,
and his friends say he will race no more in
the Vic. metropolis. Recently he erected a
fine tombstone over the grave of P. O’Hanlon,
who, as jockey, shared punishment for
Broken Doll’s alleged inconsistent form. Not
long after his license was restored, O’Hanlon
was fatally injured in a race at Caulfield.
* * * *
“Aintree” : After all, the proposed altera-
tions in the conditions governing the Liver-
pool Grand National have been shelved. All
that has been done to cut down the crowfWl
fields of late years has been to raise the
nomination from £5 to £lO, while the final cost
of starting the horse still stands at £lOO.
The race is now so well worth winning (the
first in took £13,000 last year) that anyone
with a decent jumper and £lOO is inclined
to have a fly at it. There is always a
chance, and it has happened often enough
that the most hopeless of outsiders has
fluked home over the terribly stiff course
after all the cracks have fallen.
* * * *
“Thormanby” : As usual when Australian-
bred horses go to England, Strephon (now
Strephon II.) will open his racing career
in the old country as a five-year-old, though
he will not have attained that age until
after the Ascot meeting. The reason is
that January 1 is the official birthday for
horses in England, while Australian nags
are dated from August 1. Strephon is
entered for the Ascot Gold Cup and the
Coronation Cup, and in both will meet Lord
Derby’s Fairway, considered the best horse
in England for the last two seasons. Another
good one in both races is Ortello, the Italian
champion, who has proved himself one of the
best on Continental racecourses. He is
French-bred, going back on the dam’s side
to France’s St. Simon, Rabelais.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Welterweight. Jack Carroll, of Melbourne
(lOst. 4Mb.), dealt out a full hand to
the plucky Queenslander, Bill Richards
(lOst. 31b.), at Sydney Stadium, the police
ordering a halt in the twelfth round. Carroll
made the pace from the start, and his quick-
firing left was rarely out of Richards’s face,
while rips and swings to the body gradually
sapped the Queenslander’s strength. A left
to the face sent Richards down for nine in
the third round, but thereafter he adopted a
smother that caused Carroll to waste a lot of
energy in trying to break through. In the
sixth, Richards became a mere punching-ball,
but he was a trier all the time, and in the
ninth and tenth his pluck and strength still
gave him a chance. He carried the fight to
Carroll and several times shook him with
solid rights to the jaw. It was a dying effort,
however, and he was on the floor again at
the end of the eleventh. Carroll let loose a
two-handed battery of blows to head and body
in the next till the Law stepped in.
The Ins and Outs
The selection of the Australian Eleven in
Sydney last week caused less than the
usual amount of recrimination. If there are
one or two inexplicable choices, the side
promises to be a formidable one. Most
admirers of a great all-round cricketer, one
of the best bowlers in Australia to-day, will
query the omission of Oxenham. Fairfax’s
figures cannot compare with those of the
Queenslander; whether for batting or bowl-
ing; yet Fairfax goes in. Certainly he is
a fine big youngster and a trier.
The inclusion of Ponsford is also question-
able. On performances this year and last, the
veteran Ryder should have had the call on him.
Oldfield, not the champion of three years
ago, has to carry the burden of chief stumper
with a recently maimed hand. H'ornibrook,
one of the best lefthand bowlers Australia
has seen—eight years ago—has been given
his long-delayed chance.
H'urwood is the bowling discovery of the
season, and with his spin, break and con-
sistent length should do great things on Eng-
lish wickets. Bradman, Jackson, McCabe,
Wdodfull and Grimmett were certainties from
the beginning, while all Australia acclaims the
inclusion of Kippax and Richardson. Of the
others, Walker is a brilliant young stumper,
and T. Wall the best of the speed merchants
in sight and one that may come off under
overseas conditions. In : a’Beckett, the side
possesses a good spin bowler, a first rank
batsman and one of the best off-side fields-
men in Australia.
The Board of Control, while sending a
treasurer in addition to a manager for the
first time, has characteristically shied at the
expense of a 16tli player.
* if . * *
“Bramall Lane”: Lord Hawke, who in
spite of his reputed conservatism is one of
the acutest judges of cricket in England,
as he was one of the best captains, has
been telling an interviewer that if the Aus-
tralian bowling is no better than that avail-
able in England, the skippers of both sides
have an anxious time ahead of them. The
confession of England’s weakness carries
some satisfaction for the Australians. It is
early yet to talk, but on present indications
our bowling is likely to be better than we
imagined possible at the beginning of the
season. Whether the new entry in Britain
may not also provide surprises cannot be
forecast.
The Queeusland-Victoria Sheffield match
in Brisbane provided another of those traves-
ties of cricket to which the Australian
public has been lately so much exposed,
occurrences which call' loudly w' interven-
tion. Sent in by Ryder on a wicket
drying in hot sun after heavy rain, the
home side collapsed for SO against Iron-
monger and a’Beckett, the lefthander, bowl-
ing under ideal conditions for him, taking
7 for 35. Towards the end the Queenslanders
were trying to get out and the Victorians
to keep them in, and the farce ended in the
last Queensland batsman deliberately knock-
ing down his wicket. When stumps closed on
Saturday, Victoria had lost 3 for S 2, Ryder,
missed off Oxenham in his first over, being
35 n.o. Ponsford (15) again failed, Hur-
wood disposing of him and Hendry (6) for
12 runs, while ILornibrook dismissed Rigg
(13).
* * * *
The passing of Jack Ryder from the Aus-
tralian XI has been accepted by the ex-
captain of Australia in the sporting spirit
one has learned to expect of him. He has
reason to lament the lamentations of some
of his friends. One of these, 11. L. Hendry,
who may be regarded as one of the most
fortunate cricketers ever selected for an Aus-
tralian team, wrote in a Sunday paper that
Ryder had been “jockeyed” out of the team
by his two co-selectors, this being due to the
jealousy of South Australia and N.S.W. The
disgruntled one also averred that Woodfull
would meet with the same fate at the hands
of the team selection committee in England.
As Woodfull has been selected skipper by
the Board of Control, no one else can depose
him from the job. The statement is on a
par with the first —hasty, ill-advised, and
based on incorrect premises. The joke of it is
that Hendry, now so exigent in the matter
of Victorian rights, is himself a N.S.W. man.
(Continued on page J t l.)
FRIDAY NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How strange and wonderful is Friday night,
So rich in visions, glamorous and gay,
So crammed with prophecies of rare delight
To be fulfilled —perhaps—on Saturday !
For I have dreamt in moments such as these
Of stricken bookies, beaten to their knees,
Who ask for time; of bags that bulge no
more
And pockets lined as ne’er they were before
By fancies, gifted with a winning way
They mostly seem to lack —come Saturday!
How fair and fanciful is Friday eve,
When logic loses for a time its sway,
And the lulled senses, eager to believe,
See nought but triumph won on Saturday!
For I have listened with fore-hearing ears
At such a time to unbegotten cheers,
That soon will greet my century inspired,
The bowling collared and the fieldsmen tired
Of chasing balls that then I neatly play,
But mostly seem to miss—come Saturday.
Flow false and futile is a Friday night,
With all its pretty pictures to display
That commonsense too soon will set aright
And show for what they are—on Satur-
day!
For I have learned to know that they are
lies.
These F'riday fancies ; I am growing wise
By way of disillusionment, and yet—
It’s comforting at times just to forget
In Friday’s dreams of giants, while I may,
The midget that I am—come Saturday!
VICTORIA.
HASKN.


: \
Lt.
\v
-"N X
\
s s
s«s€n
r
4
/
/
7
?s
':•••• v
.*':•••> ••■ •:*:•* ?
a as
'• $S
V. .V. '• ■ ■•• •>•- ; \
gggggll
•spp
nr
AGAIN ADOPTED
EXCLUSIVELY
N
CHAMPIONSHIP
Tournament
now inpmgi'es'S
,<+r-
I***
*


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
Australia’s Popular Natural History Periodical.
Non-Technical - - Fully Illustrated.
VOL IV. PART 1. (January-March) NOW READY.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS:
THE LYRE-BIRD AT HOME J. R. KINGHORN, C.M.Z.S.
ALONG AUSTRALIA’S NORTHERN STRAND A. A. LIVINGSTONE
THE FIGHT AGAINST INSECT PESTS KEITH C. McKEOWN
HABITS OF CUCKOOS K. A. HINDWOOD, R.A.C.U.
INHABITANTS OF THE DEEP T. C. ROUGHLEY AND G. P. WHITLEY
THE ANTIQUITY OF MAN ...... PROF. A. R. RADCLIFFE-BROWN, M.A.
From all Booksellers or direct from The Australian Museum, Sydney.
SINGLE COPIES, 1/1 posted. ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION, 4/4 'posted.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4£ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
fN the heart of the enter-
prising City of Brisbane
there stands a store of
rare repute—distinctive—
different.
•5 Messrs. Pike Brothers
Limited are universally re-
cognised no less for their
high quality and style
standard than for their
high business ideals.
<1 Gentlemen of fine Dress
who cherish distinctiveness
know that this modest
little emblem stands for
everything high class in
Gentlemen wear.
sfd
PIKE
BROTHERS LTD.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE TOOWOOMBA
CaERT*, "Has s-he stuck?”
qert *." Wont she so ? ”
G»ERT \ (t WHAsT ARE you DOING*?
&EIET ! "oh just HAMiNq
A r>e st’ 1
The Ins and Outs
Although there were only a few drops
of rain on what was to have been the
third day of the Victorian-N.S.W. match
at Sydney Cricket Ground, the cotton-
wool cricketers declined to risk their
averages on the covered pitch. On the
Tuesday, when a start was made, the
wicket was an ideal batsman’s pitch,
on which N.S.W. managed to make 330.
Bradman (77) and Allsopp (65) belted the
bowling heartily, while Fairfax, after a
streaky start, warmed up to get 64. No
one took any liberties with a’Beckett, who
got 2 for 57, and bowled splendidly. With
only 24 hours to go on the Wednesday Vic-
toria ran up 222 for three wickets against
the innocuous N.S.W. attack. Ponsford
again failed, Hendry (95) and Ryder (100
n. 0.) contributing most of the score. The
match was drawn. One outcome of the game
is likely to be that the captains will be
deprived of the right of deciding on the
fitness of the wicket (a Sheffield Shield rule)
and the power handed back to the umpires,
as under Marylebone laws.
¥ : sfs * ' *
“W. G. Snort” : It was noticed when the
captains and umpires came back from in-
specting the wicket at Sydney Cricket
Ground after rain had delayed the beginning
of the match, that some of them looked as
if they had seen a- creditor. The reason
was that when the canvas cover was lifted,
the pitch was actually clothed in grass
blades. It was the first time in the memory
of any present that a turf wicket had been
seen with whiskers on, so it is small wonder
the captains refused to play that day. Next
morning, the dried mud patch now dignified
with the name of a turf pitch had been bar-
bered, so it was a case of “On with the
dance.”
* « ❖ ❖
Maoriland made a much improved show-
ing in the second Test against Gilligan’s
Englishmen at Wellington. The All Blacks
made 439, Dempster (136) and Mills (117)
giving the side a great start. Woolley’s
7 wickets for 76 in that big score is eloquent
of his bowling skill. England got 320
(Duleepsinhji 56 n. 0.), M.L. responding
with 4 for 164 (Dempster 80 n. 0.) before
closing. England lost 4 for 107 when the
match was drawn.
* * *
“Aigburth”: Lancashire has a curious
affinity for outlanders where her cricket is
concerned. For many years a good propor-
tion of the Red Rose side was made up of
men, like Johnny Briggs for one, from Notts
and other English counties. Then Kermode
se' the fashion for “colonials,” and
,bj was followed by another Australian,
Dr. Poidevin, who played as an amateur, of
course. E. A. McDonald was the next, and
the latest addition to the cotton county team
is Gordon Hodgson, a fast bowler from
South Africa. Apart from the county, Lan-
cashire League cricket also believes in import-
ing talent. At present playing with various
clubs are Australian Arthur Richardson,
Afrikander Blanckenberg, and cullud gen'm’n
Constantine from the West Indies.
9 * * $
“Bumpk” : Halcombe, the Westralian* fast
bowler, who was no-balled six times in the
match against Vic., was an equally knotty
problem to the umpires of the Speck. Play-
ing at Hobart against Tas. he was no-
balled 10 times in one over, but when he
changed to the other end, the second umpire
expressed himself as satisfied, although he
had given a yerdict against the express on the
previous day. As far as can be judged from
the slow-motion picture which was taken in
Melbourne, Ilalcombe’s deliveries are O.K.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Gabba”: The long feud between Leo
O’Connor, for years captain of the Queens-
land XI, and the pannikin bosses of the
governing body came to a head the other day,
when the anti-O’C. executive appointed Dr.
Nothling skipper of the Bananaland side to
meet Victoria in Brisbane. Nothling wasn’t
having any, so the junta had, perforce, to
call on O’Connor again. There were rumors
that lie refused the job, but in answer to all
inquiries both he and the junta made noises
like a dead jellyfish. Then the storm burst.
In a communique the junta stated that
though it had asked O’Connor to inform it
if he would play, lie had still maintained the
silence of the tomb. Therefore _it had no
choice but to throw him out. This has been
done, and Queensland deprived of the services
of one of the most reliable opening batsmen
and wicket-keepers in Australia, and one
whom many good judges accounted worthy
of a place in the Australian XI.
The Watermen
“Blade”: N.S.W. rowing followers are
wondering whether Mosman Club, in spite of
the fact that its champion crew has dis-
banded, will not create a record by walking
off with the State premiership for the ninth
year in succession, thus wiping Sydney’s eye.
So far this season Mosman has amassed
224 points to 108 by its nearest rival, Syd-
ney. There are still 248 points to be gath-
ered, but since Sydney will be prevented
from taking part in most of the events in
which these will be scored by reason of its
King’s Cup engagement the leaders seem
likely to hold on. Mosman’s new first eight
includes only one of the original crew, Syd
Raper, who was emergency for last year’s
winners of the cup. He will row six, and
his experience should help to bring on the
remainder, youngsters recruited from maiden
and junior crew r s. J. Byrne, a 20-year-older,
is stroke.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Stretcher”: Among important rowing
events looming in Sydney is the women’s
four-oared championship of N.S.W., which
is set down for decision on February 16.
With exquisite appropriateness, the flappers
and their chaperons will stage the tussle
on the Parramatta River at Hen and Chick-
ens Bay. It is only gilding the lily to point
out that it will be a scratch event.
* * *
“Shell” : To rowing men, the chief interest
in the Anniversary regatta or. Port Jackson
was the revived professional sculling race.
It was a glimpse from the past to see George
Towns, four times winner of the world’s
championship, at work in a racing shell
again. Youth had to be served, however, and
the old champion, who retired undefeated
after beating Canadian Eddie Durnan on
the Nepean (N.S.W.) in 1907, finished second
to C. B. Williams, of Newport, who was
giving the veteran 25sec. start.
* * * #
“Shrewsbury”: Oxford has been taking its
long string of defeats in the boatrace very
seriously. So much so, in fact, that it has
been conducting a heresy hunt, and has
thrown out two Australians who rowed in
last year’s crew against Cambridge. These
are R. H. Dutton and J. A. Inglis, the
latter the Geelong lad who was acclaimed
as one of the best men in the boat last year.
Now it has been discovered that he is “too
rugged.”
Racquet and Bawl
Moon finished up his triumphal progress
at Melbourne by winning the Australian
championship singles from Hopman. As
Mrs. Molesworth, a former women’s Aus-
tralian champion, and Miss Hood won the
women’s doubles, while Miss Hood also won
the junior women’s singles, Queensland had
what the punters call a good meeting. The
outlook for the Davis Cup team is improved
by Moon’s victory. Most of the matches in
Europe will be played on hard courts, and
the Bananalander has shown time and again
that on these he is among the world’s best.
* * $ *
“Top Spin”: The Australian Davis Cup
selectors have announced that they will sub-
mit five names to the association. It is prac-
tically certain that four players will go, pro-
bably Moon, Crawford, Willard and Hopman.
Though the temperamental Crawford has
been off color, there is no one in sight fit
to supersede him. He is one of the selectors,
which should help, though the rule did not
work in the case of cricketer Jack Ryder.
* * * . *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : These tennis addicts
have a hide! Because the second Test
match at Lords will clash with Wimbledon,
the pat-ball artists are asking that the Test
game be transferred to Leeds, and the third,
scheduled for the Yorkshire city, be played at
Lords after Wimbledon has finished. The
question of the gate lies behind the request,
but there doesn’t seem any reason to worry.
The public that follows cricket wouldn’t walk
across the street to watch a tennis match if
there were no cricket, and even if there were
not a chess or croquet game to relieve the
monotony.
* * * #
“Dotty”: Some inspired ass in England
has issued a tennis handicapping roster
embracing the great players of the past
and present. Since many of them are only
names to this generation it is difficult to
see where the handicapper gets his data.
Not many of the old hands will agree that
Cochet and Lacoste would have to owe 50
while R. F. and H. L. Doherty are placed
on the owe 40.3 mark. Australians
at least will wonder whether the scratch
men would have much chance of catching
Norman Brookes, who is allotted an owe
40.2 handicap. The cream of the joke—for
that is what it amounts to —is the allotment
to Helen Wills of an owe 15.3 penalty,
while Suzanne Lenglen, who never failed to
defeat the American when they met, is
pushed up on the owe 3.6 line !
The Nineteenth Hole
“Bolshie”: The red standard of rebellion
is now fairly flung to the golfing breeze in
N.S.W. The N.S.W. Golf Council, which
is run by two big metropolitan clubs, stole
a march the other day on the 14,000 mem-
bers of the country and suburban clubs by
registering a State Golf Association, under
terms which gave the two clubs aforesaid
equal representation on the executive with
all the others in N.S.W. combined. How-
ever, the suburban association has sent round
the fiery cross, and already such leading
outside organisations as Manly and Bonnie
Doon have cast in their lot against the
usurpers of the N.S.W.G.A. The latter claim
a trump card, in that the two big clubs con-
trol the only two courses in N.S.W. officially
declared to be up to championship golf stand-
ard. Bonnie Doon and Manly have recently
altered their courses to comply with cham-
pionship conditions. It is now not impos-
sible, unless a compromise is reached, that
N.S.W. may see two rival sets of golf cham-
pionships being held annually.
s}: & # ifc
“Sandringham”: One of Victoria’s leading
golf events is the Sorrento annual meeting.
A big field turned out the other day. The
Sorrento Cup went for the second time in
succession to that great golfer Ivo Whitton.
The event was over 36 holes scratch, and in
the first round F. W. Hill, a lefthander from
Queensland, came home on the bit with a
74. Whitton was two down, but in the
second round finished three strokes ahead
of Hill, with an aggregate of 152. The mem-
bers’ handicap showed an unusual result,
three players, with handicaps of 11, 12 and
10 respectively, tieing with a net card of
70 each.
% ❖ * *
“Elsie Ghee”: I am convinced that to
appreciate the fine points of golf it is neces-
sary for the associate to be married. Not
a playing afternoon passes without a wordy
battle-royal between two or more of my
wedded colleagues, the casus l)clli being
usually the golfing opinion of “my Bill” or
“my Tom.” “My Bill,” vociferates Mrs. Bill,
“says you can pick the ball up!” “Of course
and indeed,” shrills Mrs. Tom, “but you lose
the hole —my Tom told me so!” Whereupon
Mcsdames George, Dick, Harry and Cuth-
bert cloud the issues with interpretations
attributed to their respective spouses.
* * * #
“Nunc Dimittis” : A shiver of apprehen-
sion ran through Sydney male golfing circles
last week when a local daily announced
that the latest wear for associates on the
links would be “pantees” instead of skirts.
To be truthful, there will be some semblance
of a skirt, but, as the journal points out,
this will be split on either side and in front,
“the ‘kickout’ displaying the neatest pantees
possible, finished knickerbocker style, with a
smart buckle just above tbe knee.” Consider-
ing that 90 per cent, of our associate golfers
are decidedly of Junoesque physique, as
reference to any illustrated paper will show,
I feel it incumbent on me to resign golf in
favor of croquet or Badminton.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: That suggestion as to
collecting admittance fees from spectators
on Sydney golf courses (B. 22/l/’3O) is a
reminder that it is stated that Hagen and
Kirkwood are to adopt American methods in
this regard when showing on the public
Moore Park links in Sydney. In the land of
the free, a Boanerges with a megaphone
accompanies the collector. When the cash is
refused, Boanerges bellows out the name and
occupation of the victim for the delectation
of the crowd. The hitch in the scheme seems
to be that there is no infallible method of
getting the right name and address. Another
is that in Australia the bellower would
certainly be given in charge for offensive
behavior, if nothing worse happened to him.
* * * *
“Hoylake” : Time was, and not so long ago,
either, when it was considered the hallmark
of an outsider to appear on the links in
sartorial magnificence. Comfortable and
rather shabby clothes were de rigueur for the
elect, and the professional who dared to appear
in knickerbockers (Harry Yardon was about
the first to dare so greatly) was looked on as
a person above his station in life, if not given
a hint that it might be as well to seek
employment elsewhere. Now the reverse is
the rule. Modern costume on the links is, in
many instances, calculated to make a bird of
paradise hide himself in abasement. Farrell,
the American pro., recently received a prize
of £5OO for the best-dressed golfer in a
tournament. As Johnny failed dismally in
actual play, the good old rule that the greater
the swank the more horrible the golf held
good.
*!> -!* $ : ! ;
“Ibn el Issar”: This comes from India,
which, once famous for its tiger stories, is
nowadays making a brave showing with the
golf variety. Two players were driving off on
the Cawnpore links into a strong wind. Qne
cut his ball heavily, and after going straight
for 50 yards, or so the pill gradually sheered to
starboard, the ratio of the curve increasing
as it flew. The drive finally struck the
ground nt?ar a hole exactly at right angles
to the one originally driven for, and, still
continuing the “off-break,” curled across the
green and threw itself into the tin. To the
usual penalties for holing out in one special
celebrations were added, and there was no
more golf played that day at Cawnpore.


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, CM*
V.-S:
JO
/ tell you I'm right,
—its an Omc^a."
«$S5v
»
%!■<:
■
V
no
M
Q/hainst the %ars
with an Omega
It’s always right. It’s kept correct
time from the day I bought it.
You get one yourself--mine has
never cost me a penny for repairs
EXACT TIME F
K LIFE
\
M \
\
wil
■^s s DUcO -
tori
si*.
"The sooner
you SIMONIZ
Your Car
the Better!”
DUCO
in its
Beautiful Vivid
Colors Protected
by SIMONIZ
of wise motor-
ists will tell you to
Simoniz your new car so as
to keep the colors from fading
and make the finish last
longer.
Simoniz, easily applied, with a
cloth, provides a beautiful sur-
face of protection that lasts for
many months. Simoniz stands
the wear and tear the finish
usually gets, and keeps it bright
and new.
If your car is dulled and
worn looking, Simoniz
Kleener will quickly and
easily restore the appa-
rently lost lustre and
renew all colors.
INSIST ON SIMONIZ
—and always drive a good-looking car.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
s
T
R
A
L
I
A
sfd
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT —
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.’*
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
1 w YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
“SIMO
Ft
7T
A.)
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”; Not content with his recent
world’s record for a 10-mile spin in Maoriland,
“Wizard” Smith intends to better it, having
discovered a new beach by comparison with
which the first is as a mullock heap. The
new find is at Oreti, near Invercargill, and
offers a 20-mile stretch of sand so much
harder than the Ninety-mile that Smith is
confident he can touch 170.
* * * *
“Bumble” : The arm of the law is some-
times as long as its ears. The other day
the notice of the Huntly (M.L.) police was
called to the fact that a person named Smith
had put up a record motor-car run near
Auckland. They then recalled that a summons
had been issued against a person of that
name in 1924 for dangerous driving, but
had not been served because the sinner had
returned to Australia. However, they made
no mistake about it this time, and Smithy
was duly called to account. The beak
sportingly dismissed the charge because there
was no evidence of identification, but the
police are feeling very chesty.
* * * *
“Hotham”: In spite of rumors of police
interference, the Victorian Light Oar Club
will hold its third annual Grand Prix over
200 miles of Phillip Island road on March
24. Cars will be divided into four classes,
850 cc., llQOc.c., 1500c.c. and 2000c.c. The
road circuit to be taken has been ex-
tensively altered and the locals are throwing
£2OO to add to the prizes donated by the
club, which will include a special champion-
ship trophy for fastest time. Entries will
be taken up to February 26.
* * * *
“Yank”: This year’s race for the Indian-
apolis (U.S.A.) 500-mile motor-speed event
will be run on May 30, and will be the first
under the conditions already adopted in
Europe. Hitherto, the Americans have stuck
to tiny, one-man racers for motor-racing.
The new rules call for a two-seated car of
the powerful roadster type, with a maximum
piston displacement of 6 litres, or 366 cubic
inches, and other restrictions too numerous to
mention. This type has been knocking spots
off American records.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Two shining cycling lights of
other days twinkled as feebly as a Sydney
gas jet at the Sydney Velodrome last week,
when George Horder and “Plugger Bill”
Martin rode an exhibition match of three
heats. Both were record-holders in their
prime, but only Horder’s name remains on
the hooks, he having done a half-mile
unpaced from a standing start at Sydney in
55 l-ssec. a generation ago. Horder was a
bit too good in the final sprints for his
older opponent.
* * * *
“Roller”: The success of R. W. Lamb
since his return from America is proof that
the Victorian ex-amateur cyclist has lost no-
thing of liis capacity to reel the miles off
behind motor pace. In a recent five-mile
spin with Keith Oliver, of Tasmania, at
W. G. MACKENZIE, the Sydney R. C.
oarsman, who has been selected as
stroke of the club crew which will
represent N.S.W. in the King’s Cup at
Adelaide in May.
Sydney Velodrome, the Victorian put up a
track record with Bmin. 26 4-ssCc. Before
Lamb went to America he had several great
tussles in Melbourne with Hubert Opper-
man, honors being about easy, with Opper-
man the better over the long distances. The
pair are to meet in a series of matches in
Sydney shortly, and should effect some
changes in the record books.
Miscellaneous
“Hotham” : The Australian athletic cham-
pionships in Melbourne saw local athletes
at the top of their form. Jim Oarlton fol-
lowed up his 100 yards record on the first
day by cutting out the 220 in 21 3-ssec., a
run which lines him up with N. J. Grehan, of
Queensland, for the best Australian per-
formance over the distance. It is only 4-ssec.
worse than the world’s best. G. R. Hyde, of
Victoria, hoisted another Australian record
in the three-miles run with 14min. 35 l-ssec.,
beating Englishman A. Shrubb’s long-stand-
ing figures by 17 2-ssec. Dr. Peltzer was the
only one of the visitors to show up on the
second day, the German champion turning
the tables on “Tickle” Whyte, who had
previously beaten him in the mile, over the
880 course. The doctor’s time was lmin.
57 l-ssec. Lermond was again off color.
Victoria won the championship by 9 points
to 7 by N.S.W., Queensland and South Aus-
tralia each scoring a single.
* * * *
“C. Bumpkin”: The athletic sports meet-
ings in Melbourne struck some new notes in
athletic fashions. Peltzer wore over his
white _ running shorts a dark-blue costume
reminiscent of an able-seaman of a sub-
A. HURWOOD, the young Queensland
bowler, who, omitted from his State
side at the beginning of the season, won
to the Australian XI at the end of it.
marine, and the American Lermond paraded
in a pale-blue confection caught in at the
waist and feet. The local champions for the
most part wore their office trousers, but a
few who had been to the Olympic Games
were as wondrously arrayed as Peltzer and
Lermond. It wasn’t only on the athletic
side that the women contestants were out-
classed.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: A Maoriland message
announcing that professional ped. Jack Fitt
had won a half-mile from scratch in Imin.
53 2-ssec. added the gratuitous information
that the spin was a world’s record, beating
Frank Hewitt’s lmin. 53|sec. made at
Christchurch (M.L.) in 1871. Two years
ago, American Lloyd Hahn did the half on
an indoor track in lmin. 51 2-ssec. In the
open, our present visitor, Dr. Peltzer, has
recorded lmin. 51 3-ssec., and American J.
E. Meredith lmin. 52 l-ssee. All three are
amateurs.
* * * *
“Triple Peel” : Once more the All Blacks
have reeled back baffled before the stern
might of Australian brawn and sinew.
Capping the glorious defeat last winter of
the M.L. Rugby players in Sydney comes
the news that the Australians overwhelmed
the Maorilanders in Melbourne at croquet,
winning the Test series by 22 matches to
5. The .struggles were grim, but no one
was ordered off, and the Zambuks had a
comparatively easy time.
“Battledore” : Though Badminton is played
in Australia and Maoriland, it has not yet
attracted the same measure of attention as
croquet and wrestling, to mention two closely
allied sports. The battledore and shuttlecock
of our youth, played over a high net in a
marked court, is said by those who pro-
fess it to be a really engrossing game. At
any rate it has attained a great vogue in
Britain, where there are now nearly 2000
clubs affiliated to the British, Irish, Scottish
and Welsh Badminton unions. That the
Irish should have cottoned to it says some-
thing for Badminton. In a long experience,
the writer has never known an Irishman take
to a game that hadn’t a kick hidden in it
somewhere. Further, Badminton is the only
sport which demands a capital letter to its
name. This because it takes its title from
the famous Gloucestershire estate of the
Dukes of Beaufort.
* ' * * *
“Backwoodsman” : Maoriland bowlers must
have good nerves. Someone has sent me a
photograph of the Barnet Tiki, a trophy
presented for competition among M.L. bowlers.
Christchurch, holder of the gadget, managed
to beat off a challenge by Wellington and
retained the monstrosity. This is a carved
wooden figure in the best Maori-Byzantine
style of art, with a dash of Futurism and a
soupgon of Epstein thrown in, and looks like
a cross between a Greek wrestler and a
disgruntled cuttlefish. Its appearance in any
Australian bowling club at the end of a long-
hot afternoon would certainly send half the
members off to sign the pledge.
* * * *
“Topping Lift” : The past fortnight has
been one long orgy for the open-boat sail-
ing addicts. N.S.W. retaliated on Queens-
land for winning the 16ft. Australian cham-
pionship by annexing the 12ft. skiffs’ title
on the Brisbane River. It was a tough go,
Schemer winning for N.S.W. by 29 points to
22. In Adelaide, Sunny South, holder of the
title, won the 14ft. championship for
South Australia. Since Scandal, also a
starter in this race, and winner in 1927 and
1929, belonged to the same club as Sunny
South, the Grange Dinghy Club to wit, that
institution takes permanent possession of the
cup which accompanies the championship.
**■ * *
“Sheerline”: N.S.W. representatives in
the series of races for the 21-ft. restricted
yachts which will be held on Port Phillip
from February 15-22 are to be: N.S.W., I.
(J. Kendall skipper), N.S.W. 111. (J. L.
Milson skipper), Pixie 111. (G. Lloyd
skipper). The two first were specially built
for the event by the N.S.W. authorities.
N.S.W. 11., also specially built, failed to
conform to measurements and was with-
drawn. Yachts and crews will leave this
week-end for Melbourne, where they will find
a formidable lot, including the Tasmanian
holders of the cup, waiting for them with
their tongues out.
* * * *
“Splash”: Australian swimmerettes have
once more got back on to the world’s record
list on which Fanny Durack figured so
prominently. The Federation of Amateur
Swimming has passed the record for 1000
metres put up by Edna Davey, of N.S.W., in
the Sydney; Domain baths last March. The
damsel’s time was 15min. 46 4-ssec., or
3 4-ssec. better than Miss E. Mayne’s swim
in Britain in 1926. Among the men the
record is held by that eminent amateur Arne
Borg, whose time, 13min. 2sec., may be taken
for comparison with the N.S.W. girl’s feat.
H= * * *
“Bung”: To the old world, Australia
would seem to be the last possible abiding
place for ice-hockey. Yet quite a lot of it
is played in N.S.W. and Victoria on artificial
and natural ice in season. The two States
are now negotiating with a view to sending
a team to Britain, and there should be no
trouble in raising funds on this side to de-
spatch 11 players and a manager. It is to
be hoped that the players will be able to
return via Canada, the admitted world's
champion at this sport. A few games there
should put the final shine on the polish sure
to be acquired on the British tour.
* * * ijc
“Birkenhead Park”: The British Rugby
side which is to tour M.L. and Australia is
to be selected by February 24. It has been
officially announced that Wakefield, the
famous forward who has led England against
the All Blacks and the Waratahs, will be
skipper. A little past his prime, he is still
a great player and an inspired captain. The
side will include the cream of British foot-
ball drawn from the four British Unions. It
will leave for M.L. on the Rangitata on
April 11, and will quit the Dominion for
Australia on August 8. Five weeks will be
spent in this country, and two Tests will be
played, as against four in Maoriland.
* =!=
“Blue Chalk” : After the first shock which
British billiard players and followers experi-
enced over the extraordinary performances
of Walter Lindrum, there has been growing
up a feeling that the time is ripe for once
more amending the laws of billiards in the
direction of limiting breaks. Not only
Walter and Smith—who has beaten him in
two successive games—but half a dozen
other players have been passing the four-
figure mark with monotonous regularity. The
great increase in scoring is due, of course,
to the substitution of composition balls for
ivory in the big professional games. Uncer-
tain and variable as the ivory ball is from
day to day, according to temperature and
weather conditions, there is a feeling that
a return to it might relieve the present weari-
some orgy of high scoring. Limitation of
hazards and cannons has about reached the
possible, if the game is to be preserved in its
essentials. One suggestion is that the oval
table, tried years ago and abandoned, be
returned to. Personally I suggest oval balls.
I’ve played a lot of billiards on out-back
tables with them and can certify they do not
lend themselves to breaks of 1000 and over, j


KNOWN THE WORLD OVER TO
MEAN ALL THAT IS BEST IN
BALL & ROLLER BEARING DESIGN,
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE
The SSCSIP Organisation is of inter-
national character and is the largest Ball and Roller
Bearing concern in the world, offering the most thorough
Anti-friction Engineering Service of to-day. olfiCSfF Bearings are
manufactured in 14 great plants, situated in seven different countries, and the
SCSIF Iron Ore Mines, Forests and Steel Mills produce special SSCSIP Steel. SCSfF
offers technical advice and information based upon a world experience and upon the findings of the
various sjiCSIF Research Laboratories, situated in three countries. Wherever there is Industry, there also is
§§CS[F ; in every Country and State in the world you will find an Sales Office, of which, to-day, there are over 200.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN TO THE USER OF ANTI-FRICTION BEARINGS?
It means that, by specifying gnCSLF, he brings all the knowledge, experience,
resources and service of this great Organisation to bear upon his individual
friction problems.
£C3P
Single Row,
Non-Filling
Slot Ball
Bearing
Double Row,
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearing
SCSI?
Taper Roller
Bearing
Double Row,
Self-Aligning
Roller Bearing
é
ê
THe SKF Ball Bearing' Co., Ltd.
MELBOURNE: 595 Bourke Street
Adelaide: William Adams & Co., Ltd.
Brisbane: William Adams & Co., Ltd.
Perth: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.
Hobart: Charles Davis, Ltd.
Launceston: Knight & Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd.
SYDNEY: 45 King Street
Newcastle: Gray Shedden & Co.
Ballarat: J. R. Harrison & Son.
Bendigo: Holland Bros.
Sale: S. Lacey & Sons Pty., Ltd.
Geelong: J. C. Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd.


Three years of service
have established Pontiac
as pre'eminently
a reliable car
WHEREVER you hear owners and garagemen talk you
* * will learn that their opinion—based on facts ! —•
is that Pontiac is pre-eminently a reliable car.
Owners will tell you of its freedom from trouble, its
lack of need for repairs, and its consequently low main-
tenance cost. Garagemen know that it is rare for a Pontiac
to require other than purely routine adjustments and that
the negligible demand for replacement parts is remarked
upon throughout the trade.
Pontiac’s reliability and long continued trouble-free
operation are the natural results of its inherent sturdiness
and staunchness—qualities that, combined with its dis-
tinctive appearance, its many exclusive mechanical features
and its riding and driving ease, are turning an increasing
number of discriminating buyers to this fine product of
General Motors.
There is a Pontiac dealer near you, wherever you live.
He will gladly demonstrate Pontiac to you, and tell you
how easily possession may be made yours on the G.M.A.C.
convenient payment plan. He will tell you, too, how
your satisfaction in Pontiac ownership is doubly ensured
by the General Motors one year Warranty.
Prices from £298
(Subject to Change without
Notice)
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
i Brisbane • Sydney - Melbourne • Adelaide • Perth
Big car features
combined in no
other car of its price
1. A 200 cubic-inch L-head engine.
2. The Harmonic Balancer.
3. The G-M-R cylinder head.
4. The cross-flow radiator.
5. Automatic Temperature con-
trol.
6. Fully counter-weighted crank-
shaft.
7. Aeroplane-type interchange-
able bronze-backed bearings.
8. A 1| inch carburettor, includ-
ing an internal economizer
and an accelerating pump.
9. A petrol pump, in place of
the conventional vacuum tank.
.0. Special patented expansion-
type piston pins.
11. Full-pressure lubrication.
12. Crankcase ventilating system.
13. Internal - expanding 4 - wheel
service brakes of the most ef-
ficient type.
14. Special moulded, non-squeak
brake bands. Positively no
squeaking when stopping.
15. Smart, specially designed
bodies.
16. Flaring mudguards—7o inches
between outer edges.
17. Unusually high radiator of
distinctive design.
18. YV type windshield on closed
models.
19. Coincidental ignition and
trasmission lock.
20. Individually mounted instru-
ments, including petrol gauge.
21. Foot-controlled headlights.
22. Small wheels with ten massive
spokes.
PONTIAC
It’s a Qeneral Motors Car — look inside and note the difference !


§2 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath-
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘Fifmac,”
Sydney.
•aPENGERS/j
§ food (p
r f | n | a nls.l nva,,ds^ nd Aged
I u, BENCERS FOOD 1 1 >
m »nckis™« f NGIAnD
fd
Food
He«tL Tha.uk Mask.
for the Aged.
Benger’s Food is an abundant
source of nutrition for aged per-
sons. Those whose digestive
powers are impaired will find it
very soothing and comforting.
Taken at night Benger’s induces restful
sleep.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
I FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Unde?
Royal
.Warrant
f
To H.M.
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1920,
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limitad
SYDNEY.
F 4
\r
CHAMPAGH*
'•hariesllcidsieav
Reims
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerits—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Chcese?
The State will now take to wings, and
air-force blue will be the fashionable color,
for our new Governor, Sir Philip Game, is
a vice-marshal of the air. When the Gov-
ernor and his wife arrive they will be
breaking new ground, as neither of them has
ever visited Australia .before, though an
uncle of Lady Game, Sir Henry Wigram, is
in Maoriland’s “Who’s Who” —he is that Sir
Henry Wigram who founded the aeroplane
school at Christchurch. Riding and yacht-
ing are the two favorite pastimes of his
Ex.-eleet, and Lady Game is devoted to
gardening. Two sons, Philip and David,
18 and 11, and a small girl, Rosemary, com-
prise the family.
Sir Philip saw service both in the South
African and in the World War. From the
first he came home with the Queen’s Medal
with five clasps; in the second he won a
C. 8., a D. 5.0., the Crown of Italy and the
Legion of Honor, and was mentioned six
times in dispatches. In 1919 he was made
Director of Training and Organisation at the
Air Ministry, and later he was given com-
mand of the Royal Air Force in India.
He was born in Worcestershire, his wife
(Gwendolen Margaret Hughes-Gibb) hails
from Dorset; and their home has been in
beautiful Somerset. The Macquarie-street
residence is to be refurbished for them, and
they will not arrive till the job is done —pro-
bably in May.
Tight little yellow dahlias and gay gail-
lardias nodded’ debonairely at one another
down the long tables in David Jones’s when
the Victoria Leaguers lunched to the greater
glory of Sibella Macarthur Onslow. The
C.B.E. that came home to her when King
George sent out his latest packet of honors
was the excuse seized upon to honor the
reluctant lady, who is shrined in the esteem
of the august society. Though the turkey
and salad were mostly ruminated over by
woman, men of dizzy eminence and mature
vintage were to be seen here and there,
Premier Bavin among them. Oratory is not
one of Mr. Bavin’s talents, and his words
proposing the toast of the guest came leaden-
footed. But he seems to have that rare
thing, a gift for friendship, and this shone
out golden through the murk. Padre Micklem
backed up the eulogy, first of Miss Onslow
as a citizen of Empire, and later of the
League as a maker of Empire citizens. Then
the lady, in a speech that combined dignified
humor and high ideals, returned thanks to
the applauding multitude over the illuminated
address presented to her by the League. Not
on the programme, but appropriate from a
geologist, came a verbal bouquet from Pro-
fessor David to the Premier. To him the
hearty good wishes expressed by this great
authority on our coal resources must have
been as welcome as an extra skip from Roth-
bury.
At the party, among the celebrities of
the highest order, was Sir Percival Marling.
This nice old boy is entitled to sport a
rarer decoration. It’s a V.C. won during the
■war in the Soudan in 1882. He is among the
oldest living holders of the precious gun-metal,
and, in addition, can fly the Queen’s Medal
with five clasps and the King’s Medal with
tw'o. With him was Lady Marling, who
looked a dear under the upright feather
pom-pom on her hat. She, by the way, is a
cousin of Lady Stonehaven. Next week the
two sail back' to Gloucestershire, where Sir
Percival is High Sheriff. The McMillan
lady, very precise over a black ostrich tippet,
was being repatriated after her travels; so
was Mrs. Walter Swinson, who wore a high
swathe of orange feathers around the crown
of her hat. She has just come back from
visiting her mother and ’cellist sister Bessie,
who is now married to an Italian Count and
lives on the shores of Lake Maggiore.
Dame Eadith Walker is patron of the
newly-formed Women Pioneer Society; Mrs.
Lingham, of Manly, is president; Mrs. IT. B.
Wilkinson, of Manly, who shares with Hope
Johnson the distinction of being descended
from Capt. Gidley King, one of Governor'
Phillip’s landing party and afterwards
Governor of N. S. Wales, is also a prominent
member. Miss Laycock is a charming
treasurer who makes paying-up a pleasure.
There was a sweet-faced lady with white
liaif at the opening of the Women" Pioneer
Club who viewed .the proceedings tranquilly
and proved a mine of interesting informa-
tion. She was Miss Grace Kennedy, great-
granddaughter of Andrew Hume, and a
great-granddaughter, too, of that gallant
John Raworth Kennedy who was killed
w 7 hile exploring the northernmost part of
Queensland —he is the man around whom the
story of the devoted aboriginal Jacky Jaeky
has been woven.
Miss M. Lockyer, of Point Piper, is
another pleasant-voiced pioneer. Her father
planted the British flag in Westralia in
1826. When this became known to <)ne of
the gentlemen present he eyed her curiously,
and then hazarded an inquiry as to her age.
“I am 86,” she said. “And my mother was
my father’s third wife,” she added by way
of further explaining the long bridge.
The Pyrmont Soup Kitchen is an answer
to those who cry with a loud voice that so long
as the sympathetic help the down and out
he’ll contentedly remain a down and out.
Into 36J Union-street drift all kinds of
human flotsam: doctors, dentists, chemists,
lawyers of more fortunate days when the
world was just as fresh and young to
them as it is to us. They can stay at the
kitchen, which is a hostel as well, for a
month. Hot baths and plenty of soap and a
clean bed (the beds are sprayed every
day) work almost a miracle in a man, de-
clares that little battler for good, Mrs.
Donald Macdonald, who is the mistress of
the soup-pots. Her husband, Padre Mac-
donald, is the founder and host of the way-
side inn, and these two devote their days
to the good of their fellows. “No trouble to
get them to go to a job,” said Mrs. Mac-
donald. In one recent happy week 42 job-
less men found themselves with work to go
to. Their hallelujahs, she says, nearly car-
ried the roof off. The men who haven’t
found an outside job generally volunteer for
'work about the place. Besides soup the
kitchen dispenses hospitality in the way of
dripping, bread and old clothes. It is now
laboring with a deficit of £350, which the
plucky little matrofl is trying to reduce by
a personal canvass. She’s a shy little lady,
but this Letter believes she’d face the tigers
at Taronga and ask them for half their
dinner-meat for her stock-pot if the regu-
lations would allow it. Next time you are
overburdened with dripping, old clothes or
have a spare five shillings, remember 36i
Union-street, Pyrmont.
Amongst the passengers for Maoriland on
Feb. 6 is Miss Agnes Stops, of Duston,
Northamptonshire, who toured these parts
some two years ago. She is an artist and
craftswoman who specialises in needlework
pictures, and is an active member of the
Federation of Women’s Institutes, founded
in England 15 years ago. She is going
across the Tasman at the invitation of
leaders of the movement, whose object
is to provide recreation and interests for
country women, taking with her a loan
collection of handiwork sent from head-
quarters in England.
Four maids in green followed the gleaming
satin and lace of Marie Courtenay up the
long aisle of St. Mary’s when she became
Mrs. John Malone, of Ashfield. Lionel
Courtenay, of Elizabeth Bay, squired his
daughter, and Kevin Malone stood by his
brother, and Mrs. Courtenay superintended
the cake-cutting in admirable frocking of
black lace.
Constance Paul, who sails this week for
Europe by way of Arabia and other exotic
lands, is one
o f Sydney’s
notable women
painters. Her
portraits o f
Burley Grif-
fin and Pam
Gordon, which
were among
the entries for
the Archibald
Prize, caught
the eye of the
critics and
showed in the
one case
strength and
in the other
delicacy o f
treat ment.
The journey
on which Con-
stance is now
setting out is
to be filled
with hard work and study, a sort of post-
graduate course after her years in South
Kensington and Paris. May Moore made
this picture.
Dagmar Thomson looked very stately in
her ivory satins as she trailed a shimmering
four-yard train up the aisle of St. James’s
last week. Over the satins flowed tulle of
great length and breadth, and frangipanni
and stephanotis shed their fragrance on the
air as brother Bert steered the magnificence
to the altar. Here Rupert Scammell was in
readiness with the ring, and as soon as the
soaring voices of a full covey of white-
robed choir boys and the melody of Padre
Micklem permitted, the circlet was clicked
into position. This Letter thought Dagmar’s
sister Nell looked even more attractive than
usual in the pink moire that she wore in
common with the other two bridesmaids,
Brenda Brown and Joan Higgins. Pink and
white blooms decked the church, and at the
Ambassadors Mrs. Thompson welcomed her
guests in night-blue georgettes.
Cupid’s arrow has lately been aimed at
Ellie, elder daughter of the J. J. Shannons,
of Wyndham, Merriwa. The man is Dr.
Kevin O’Hanlon, of Queanbeyan. Both are
graduates of Sydney ’Varsity; Ellie is one
of the foundation alumni of Sancta Sophia
College. , . , .
This Letter proudly holds up the girl in
this Dayne photograph as a fine Australian
example of athleticism and good humor.
She is Tory Wicks, and when the N.S.W.
Women s
Hockey team
leaves Aus-
tralia she will
go as its cap-
tain. This is
something of a
distinction, as
it is the first
hockey team to
set forth in
quest of over-
se a s laurels.
Pretty an d
pleasant Mrs.
F. .T. Davy, of
Darling Point,
sails with the
team as mana-
ger as well as
counsellor and
friend. First
the Austra-
lians go to S’-
Africa, where
they will take part with English and Scot-
tish teams in an Empire Tournament. Then
Europe, where they play in Germany, with
England to follow. Ivate Ogilvie, of the
Rachel Forster Hospital, travels with the
team to represent the All Australia Council.
You don’t have to be a millionaire or a
duke, or the friend of either, to go yachting
in the Mediterranean these days. Any Aus-
tralian wishing for such a cruise, or for a
midnight-sunlit corkscrew in and out and
about the fiords of Norway, can do it this year
not only in comfort, but with something like
home surroundings; for two Orient liners
familiar to Australia, the Orford and the
Otranto, are to be taken off the trade routes
during the spring and converted into plea-
sure yachts. Per day the cost of these
cruises is from about 335. It is so reason-
able, and is attracting so many of this
Letter’s friends, that its writer shatters
three nibs in sheer envy.
The principal of St. Paul’s goes off next
month for a tour of Europe with Mrs. Garn-
sey. Already the two are caught in the usual
deluge of tea. Last week St. Paul’s W omen s
Organisation, of which Mrs. Garnsey is the
popular president, said its farewell in the
Arts Club. Here Mrs. Frank Albert, who
has been elected acting-president, hostessed
in marvellous oyster-grey satin frocking,
caped and fringed and worn with a grey
felt hat that started in the new way well
off the lady’s eyebrows, its back brim finish-
ing at the nape of the wearer s neck. Mrs.
Garnsey made her entrance and exit m a
smart black and white ensemble, though
enthusiasts had hoped she might .make her
departure, Maori-fashion, wrapped in the rug
which together with a cushion and a cheque
was thrust upon her.
One of the few dances of last week was
held at the Cavalier in aid of the Ellen
Desailly Kindergarten. Mrs. W. H. Fennell,
who organised the flutter, combined beige
lace and almond-green moire in her gracefu,.
frocking. A gold cigarette-holder was the
subject of a lueky-number competition, the
Cavalier orchestra played tunes old and new,
balloons “dipped and drifted like satm
moons,” as Oscar Wilde puts it, and the
dance was not only a success of finance but
of that much more evasive thing—gaiety.
Mrs. Stephen Herford, hard worker in many
causes, was present to represent her pet
’garten. Ida Powell, Mrs. Ron Allen and
Mrs. Stanley Miller were the treasurers, and
each was hostess to a large party.
Gallant young Geoffrey Hyman, -who,
though knowing he was a weak swimmer,
went to the rescue of a girl eftught by the
undertow at Tamarama Beach—his act un-
doubtedly saved the girl from drowning
although he could not bring her ashore and
was himself drowned —belongs to a family
that has known other tragedies. Many years
ago a lift accident caused the death of two
boys who were accompanying their aunt on
a shopping excursion; they were the only
sons in their family, and their mother’s hair
turned white in a few days. She was a
notable beauty, and with her prematurely
grey hair was still magnificently though
rather pathetically beautiful. Those boys
were uncles of Geoffrey.
Mrs. Ron Waley is back on a holiday visit
to her parents, the knight and his lady, of
Elizabeth Bay. Before she married her
English cousin and went to live on the Foggy
Side, Eileen Waley was one of Sydney’s
prettiest and smartest girls. She returns just
as pretty and perhaps a trifle smarter, and
having sampled this city’s dancing floors is
off south to see how much enjoyment can
be wrung from Melbourne.
The Naldera is booked from bow to stern
for March 1, when a ball in aid of the Limb-
less Soldiers’ appeal will frame a welcome-
home to Chief Justice Street’s lady, who is
president of the appeal committee. The com-
pany is providing the boat, the supper and
the music. Any other expenses should be
wiped out by the spoils of the bridge party to
be held in the drawing-room of the Town
Hall on February 10.
Relations in Sydney are grieving over the
death in Portland, Oregon, of Mrs. Bert
Sinfield, who before marriage was Fanny
Rogers, daughter of Captain W. C. Rogers,
a pioneer of the Macleay. Her husband,
two sons —one Dr. Sinfield, of Glen Innes,
the other Lieutenant Sinfield —and numer-
ous brothers and sisters scattered up and
down the State are in mourning. The hus-
band used to be known on the Macleay and
Hastings as an eloquent Methodist preacher.
On her way home to Queensland Mrs,
Nikolai de Nadejine (one time Nell Tritton)
passed through Sydney with her Russian
baritone husband last week. Husband is
handsome, and is credited with a voice of
Chaliapin quality, and Nell’s eyes are as
starry as when she did newspaper work here
a few years ago.
There’s a great run on soap and curry-
combs these days, for every dog-owner worth
his salt is getting the family pet into trim
for March 1: 'on that date Be Kind to
Animals Week commences. The R.S.P.C.A.
has planned a programme starting with a
gymkhana at the Horses’ Home, Little Bay,
on the Saturday. There will be a special
service at St. Andrew’s on the Sunday, on
the Monday Henry Braddon will preach the
gospel at Farmer’s, and a lunch at the
Millions Club and a pilgrimage to the Dogs’
Home at Waterloo are other fixtures. The
financial backbone will be supplied by the
three-weeks shop run by Miss Compton Legge.
This letter can’t —and doesn’t want to —
promise more than a short life for the
Greek silhouette which the fashion-mongers
have wished on to us. Long-all-the-way-
round dresses girdled just below the bust
give even an impeccable figure a dying-swan
look. There’s a kind of blatant modesty in
the length belied by the scarcity of material
in the shoulder-strapped bodices and slashed-
out backscapes. Godets and flares spread
skirts out fanwise about the heels and toes,
and Heaven help the incompetent partner
who gets a slipper tangled among the pleats.
Legs, after all, have character. This writer
didn’t realise it till she saw at a last week’s
fashion-display a row of mannequins who
apparently had no limbs below the arms.
And think of the miles of chiffon and
moire that go to the making ap of these
elaborately-fashioned evening gowns (night-
gowns had nearly been written). In former
years, though skirts were voluminous, mate-
rials were reasonably cheap. Now —well, it
couldn’t be done on poetry. Even Alfred Lord
Tennyson’s yearly output of sonnets wouldn’t
have paid for one black moire, intricate of
moulding and lavish of godet, seen at this
show.
An Australian woman suggests that
Maoriland may have a queen of her own
some day:—
The North Island of this country is as green as
a miracle could make it. The cattle are superb—
the En-Zedders really ought to worship the Cow. If
Strawberry knew her own power she’d be challenging
Joseph Ward for the Prime Ministership, and the
Cabinet would consist exclusively of Jerseys and
Priesians —though what Strawberry and Polly would
get out of it I don’t know, unless it might be
white satin sheets for their bedding and four-legged
georgette pyjamas.
Hamilton is as beautiful as a poet’s dream. To
stand on the bridge over the Waikato and look at
the reflections in the jade-green water, fringed with
trees and flowering shrubs and beflowered landscape
gardens, was to be back again at Lucerne. The
scene only needs a colossal figure of St. Francis of
Assisi blessing the lake.
Wire-whiskers, dear? No, there aren’t any. The
farmers are like our younger pastoralists who come
to Sydney to stay at the Australia and go to Rand-
wick to see the M.L. horses get in earliest. Outside
Hamilton is the biggest dried milk factory in the
world. When I looked at the inland seas, and lakes
and lagoons of cream, I gasped “It’s a dream, I
don’t believe it.” .
But You know I’m crazy on cream for my
tea, and, stopping for four o’clock on one occasion
I asked the blessed damozel in attendance for some.
“Oh,” she replied, “we haven’t any cream,. It’s
not asked for.” “And your country is almost sub-
merged in cream,” I mused aloud. “Have you any
vodka?” She went away to find out, and, returning,
gravely replied: “We are just out of it, but expect
some in the evening.” Somewhat suspicious, I
asked with a pained expression, “Is there Holy Grail
to be had?” She went away, and the proprietor
himself came and explained: “It’s the close season
for those birds, Missus. You won’t find any for
sale at this time of the year.” We looked hard at
each other and I think he scored as a leg-puller.
OVERHEARD.
She ( off-handed ) : “Sorry I can’t go with you on
Sunday, Billy. I’d love to, but Dick is taking me in
his ’plane.”
He (sour): “H’m —another fly in the ointment 1”


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1045 of 1929.
BETWEEN LANCELOT ALBERT LIN-
FIELD Petitioner and GERTRUDE
ELIZABETH LINFIELD Respondent
and HARRY RICHENS Co-respondent.
TO HARRY RICHENS late of Fitzroy
street Tamworth.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Lancelot
Albert Linfield has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a disolution of his marriage with the
above-named Respondent on the grounds of
your adultery with her AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixteenth day of April One thousand
nine hundred and thirty and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
Dated this 16th day of January, 1930.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] D. C. DEAN,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Richard Denis Meagher, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1045 of 1929.
BETWEEN LANCELOT ALBERT LIN-
FIELD Petitioner and GERTRUDE
ELIZABETH LINFIELD Respondent
and HARRY RICHENS Co-respondent.
TO GERTRUDE ELIZABETH LINFIELD
late of Tamworth.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Lancelot
Albert Linfield has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
your adultery with the above-named Co-
respondent AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Sixteenth day of
April One thousand nine hundred and
thirty and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this 16th day of January, 1930.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] D. C. DEAN,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Richard Denis Meagher, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
FREDERICK LINSDELL, DECEASED.
DURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice
dated the 25th day of November 1929 and
made in an Action in the matter of the
Estate of Frederick Linsdell deceased (late
of 34 Cadogan Road Surbiton and formerly
of 37 Dawson Road Kingston-on-Thames
both in the County of Surrey who died on
the 30th day of December 1928) Linsdell
against Jordan 1929 L. No. 2345 whereby
the following inquiry was directed, namely:
“1. An inquiry who upon the death of
the said Frederick Linsdell became benefici-
ally entitled to any property of his as to
which he died intestate and for what estates
and interests and in what shares and pro-
portions and whether any such persons are
since dead and if they died entitled to any
vested share or interest who are their legal
personal representatives.”
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said in-
quiry are on or before the 15th April 1930
to send by post prepaid to Mr. Wilfred
Andrew Carmichael Boodle of 3 Arundel
Street Strand London W.C.2 England (a
member of the firm of Messrs. George C.
Carter and Co.) their full Christian and sur-
names addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims or in default
thereof they wall be excluded from the bene-
fit of the said Order unless the Court or
Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by
their solicitor before Master H. W. Jelf at
the Chambers of the Judge Room Number
315 Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
on Thursday the Ist May 1930 at 12 o’clock
noon being the time appointed for adjudicat-
ing upon the claims. A claimant not resid-
ing in England or Wales must send with
particulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in England or Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this 18th day of December, 1929.
HERBERT W. JELF,
Master.
Note. —The persons more particularly in-
quired after are the Testator’s brothers and
sisters, namely, William, Charles, Henry,
Mary Ann and Sarah and their children or
issue. It is believed that the said Henry,
Mary Ann and Sarah went to Australia
many years ago.
George C. Carter & Co., 3 Arundel Street,
Strand. London, W.C.2, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
- Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
otce 'deV‘ v '
*£?«« 1
U st<
\s
XY V.
uS^
»«*?£ tVi° r ° o { a c-
W'V As ot I ° a „■, v e
t»e*» dS *ese
*U * • * Ot
D V aUU e ani
o
tr..s> v ,s *-£
Wt ">* „«•
cl
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by THE CLYDE EN-
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.S.W., largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
FOR CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer-
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering
Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
Limited, Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
Legal Notice.
’ | '0 GEORGE MOORE of Alberton in the
1 State-of South Australia Cook’s Assist-
ant.
AND TO ROY JOY of Semaphore in the
State of South Australia Clerk.
TAKE NOTICE that citations bearing
date the 23rd day of August 1929 have issued
from the Supreme Court of South Australia
against both of you citing both of you to
appear and answer the petition of Horace
Stanley Bell of 18 Glyde Street Norwood
wherein he alleges that each of you has been
guilty of adultery with Florence May Bell
of Gloucester Street Prospect in the said
State the wife of the said Horace Stanley
Bell In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition and pronounce sentence in respect
thereof AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within
42 days from the date of this publication
to attend in person or by your proctor
solicitor or attorney at the office of our said
Court at Victoria Square Adelaide and there
to enter an appearance.
W. L. STUART.
Master.
Kevin Leonard Ward, Epworth Building,
Pirie Street. Adelaide, Solicitor for Horace
Stanley Bell.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS
LE CHATEAU FRONTEHAC
CHAMPS ELYS&S
54 Rue Pierre Charron
Latest Hotel of Refinement
J. G. MctraiUer. Managing Director.
Skin ~u
Irritation
0 Neglect of any rough patch
or persistent irritation may
easily lead up to serious skin
trouble. Applications of
Zam-Buk every day will do
you a lot of good.
This refined herbal oint-
ment soothes and purifies
the underlying tissues. It
stops pain and irritation,
and quickly eradicates der-
matitis, eczema, psoriasis,
etc. Get a box to-day!
IL 6 » 3/«
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed'
s 1
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention#
Office;: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
n»>
ilium


m
•-V-
-1111l
St.CecV&e
W
—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST* GEORGE Delicacies
New Zealand;?
Greatest Delicacy-
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£lOO down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £ 100 that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
Cbmmonwealtl) Savings Bank of Hustralia
{.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VA NCE PALMER.
ILLUSTRAiriOH& E»V
DARYL* LINDSAIfi
Synopsis : Old McCurhie, incapaci-
tated with a broken collar-bone,
grumbles at his luck in having to send
station-hand Duncan in with the buggy
to meet Boyd, who is returning to
Abernethy station after years at the
war. Boyd had left Abernethy before
the war to study law in Sydney, where
he enlisted. There were other rea-
sons for his going. His mother had
been dead some years, and his father
had proposed marrying again. Also,
old McCurdie’s dominating energy had
rather overwhelmed him. Meanwhile,
McCurdie had married, but his young
wife had never become quite recon-
ciled to station life. McCurdie, who
had represented his electorate in Par-
liament, had lost the seat over too-
pronounced utterances during the
war, and financial troubles had made
him sell out various station and other
interests and concentrate on Aber-
nethy. The story begins with him
' anxiously awaiting Boyd’s return. He
is delighted, but uncertain, and this
uncertainty of how they will now get
along together is shared by Boyd. Met
by Duncan, Boyd is being driven out
of the township, when a girl waves
to him from a passing car. He asks
Duncan who she is, but Duncan is
too busy getting the horses under con-
trol to answer.
CHAPTER IV.
At Abernethy.
BOYD McCURDIE awoke in the room
that had been his as a boy, and as
he lay looking at the stained pine
walls, with the dark knots showing in the
wood, he had a sense of having slipped back
into a timeless world. Nothing, not even
the position of the furniture, seemed to
have changed since he had left. This room
at the end of the verandah must have been
kept intact for him, together with all the
things he had outgrown: the spurs hanging
over the looking-glass, the gaudily-covered
annuals on the bookshelf, the felt hat with
its plaited band behind the door.
His eyes came to rest on an enlarged
photograph at the bottom of the bed. It
was his father on Spinifex, the lean chest-
nut he always kept for a camp-horse. What
a marvel the old hack had been at push-
ing a fat bullock out of the mob, keeping
on its tail like a dog, and dodging when
it dodged! His father looked springy and
alert, alive in every nerve, as if he had
just pulled up with inflated nostrils and
bird-bright eyes in the middle of a rousing
gallop. That was how Boyd remembered
him; but the night before he had seemed
a little balder and greyer, heavier on his
feet and with just a suggestion of paunchi-
ness about the waist-line. Showing his
years a bit! There had been nothing
forced, though, about the exuberance of his
welcome. It had come as a surprise to
Boyd—its warmth and simple friendliness,
touched as it was with emotion. He had
not known that his father was counting so
much on his return. Was the old man
lonelier than he had ever admitted, and
did he expect him to throw the law over-
board and stay on indefinitely at Aber-
nethy?
Ada had hinted at that in her light,
glancing way. He tried to sort out his
impressions of the woman his father had
married, but they were confused and un-
certain. He was still under the spell of her
lazy, musical voice and the flattering way
her china-blue eyes had turned to him
whenever he spoke.
“Keeps in the background, and doesn’t
try to run things,” he told himself. “She
and the old man have grown together,
somehow.”
Taking his towel he went down to the
lagoon, feeling that life at Abernethy would
be easier than he had anticipated, at any
rate if he did not stay too long. A heavy
shower had fallen overnight; the ground
was spongy underfoot and there were mush-
rooms on the cropped slope below the
garden. Although it was Sunday morning
the men were already astir. From the
saplings at the end of the horse-paddock
a mob of colts came racing in with a
blackboy at their heels, and at the cowyard
young Jim was milking with Larry Byrne.
Duncan, plodding beside the dray, was
bringing down from the gallows the car-
case of a bullock that had been killed the
night before.
Boyd plunged into the clear, cold water
beneath the windmill, frightening the two
pelicans that were floating on the still sur-
face. An icy chill struck through his body,
penetrating his very brain, but when he
clambered out on the bank to dress, the
warmth of the rising sun touched his skin
with an enlivening glow. In the freshness
of early morning every outline seemed
sharp, and every bush and tree alive to the
roots. The walls of the pise homestead,
and of the men’s quarters, a little distance
away, stood out with surprising clearness
against the background of green, and the
flocks of galahs showed vivid splashes of
rose-color as they wheeled from one patch
of herbage to another. Something was
stirring in Boyd McCurdie’s veins like a
bud in its sheath. He had not realised how
torpid his senses and how fatigued his mind
had become till now, when warm streams
of life were beginning to pour through him.
“A new world!” he thought vaguely,
stopping to look at the night-horse that was
feeding at the top of the bank. “Born
over again! I wonder if that’s one of old
Sarah’s foals?”
BOYD McCURDIE.
At the meat-house Duncan and Thorp,
the overseer, were hauling fragments of
carcase out of a dray and slapping them on
the salting-tables, while the hide, neatly
folded, hung dripping on the wires by the
gate. There was a cheerful casualness in
the overseer’s greeting. A slight, capable
man of thirty-five or so, with pale eyes,
fair, cropped hair, and a reddish moustache
that drooped at the corners, he had spent
most of his adult life at Abernethy, yet he
always contrived to suggest that he was
tied to the place by some elusive bond of
honor alone.
“About time you came home, Boyd,” he
said with a smile. “I’ve been waiting for
someone to step into my job and leave me
free. It’s up to me to put my own brand
on something now.”
With his cream shirt stained by the fresh
blood, he sliced the fragments of beef on
the block, tossing them over to Duncan
to salt, and giving information about the
place between blows of the chopper. Old
Farquhar of Warra had died; young Fai-
quhar had taken his place and gone in for
sheep. There weren’t many stations around
that hadn’t changed hands in the last few
years. Only a few of the old brigade le-
mained—Cameron of Magnus Downs,
Mooney, and the two Kavanaghs, who had
taken up selections on Abernethy when the
first subdivisions were made. People were
all talking of wool now, and he himself
had his eye on some good sheep country
that was being opened up on the Culgoa.
Listening to his disjointed talk it be-
came evident to Boyd that everyone ex-
pected him to stay. He could feel a host
of small influences exerting their pressure
on him, tightening their grip imperceptibly
and deflecting his will. A reaction against
these outside forces passed over him. He
did not want to be merely his fathers son,
following submissively at the old man’s
heels. He wanted time to think, to dis-
cover the self that had been split into two
fragments on the anvil of war, to make his
own decision about what he was going to
do with his life.
At the kitchen-tank someone was filling
a bucket and the plash of water caught
his ears as he passed to his room. He
stopped short and saw a girl watching him,
smiling unsteadily and flushing to the roots
of her dark hair. There was the grace of
something shy and wild about her, a grace
he remembered better than her features,
which were rather vague—snub nose, brown,
liquid eyes and an uncertain mouth. One
of Duncan’s daughters, of course! He re-
membered the little figures squatting on
the form in the old school-room, their feet
tucked beneath them and their dark hair
falling over their slates. Remembered them
a little later riding up the track to meet
ROGER McCURDIE.
the coach when he was coming home from
school.
“Ella!” he said, going over to her. Or
is it Josie? The two of you were so much
alike I never could tell one from the other.”
The girl laughed, showing her white, even
teeth. She was Josie, the younger one.
“You’re kidding, aren’t you, when you
pretend you can’t tell?” she said.
“Perhaps so,” he agreed. “I could pick
you out by that little scar on the chin
where you fell against the steps. But what
are you doing here?”
She was the housemaid, she told him, and
sometimes she cooked when Miss Carmody
was away.
“For a while I was working at Karoola,
she added. “But I came back. It’s more
like home here.”
“And what about Ella?”
“Married,” she said with a ring of pride.
“Mrs. Fallon she is now. They’ve got a
horse-station over near the Warrego. And
Jim’s a stockman here on Abernethy.”
He did not remember Jim for the
moment. He was thinking of summer even-
ings after tea, the scent of oleanders open-
ing, and the shrill sound of voices as the
two girls came racing over the paddock
from the tin hut to play with him in the
dusk.
“Jim was only a kid when you left, ’ the
girl explained. “But he’s near sixteen now
and can ride anything they give him. Jeff
Thorp says he’s as good as a man.”
She had picked up the bucket and was
standing with her body braced to support
its weight, her eyes watching him with a
defensive shyness. Evidently she wanted to
prolong the conversation and a dozen ques-
tions were trembling on the tip of her
tongue, but she did not know how to put
them into words.
Boyd himself was a little confused as
he looked down at her, for pictures of the
youngster she had been were forming and
dissolving before his inner vision. Dark
eyes gleaming behind a clump of bushes
in the dusk; brown, bare legs twinkling
across the paddock as she raced home ahead
of him! And how wonderfully she had
ripened into womanhood! There was little
beauty about her except what came from
health and a clear olive skin, but her slim,
mature body in its loose holland frock had
an unseizable grace about it, and her head
was poised like a lively bird’s. Hardly a
trace of the dark blood in her, but for the
faint smudge at the roots of her fine, wavy
hair. '
“Here, let me carry that bucket in, he
said, reaching over.
“It’s all right,” she told him, flushing.
“No. Let me.”
Over on the other verandah he saw Ada
standing in a flowered wrapper, eating a
ripe fig, and the inscrutable smile in her
eyes made him feel a raw boy again. The
woman always seemed to see the comic side
of every encounter. Yet when he came in
to breakfast she said nothing facetious as
he expected. She was too happy in dis-
covering that he could drive a car, and
that she would no longer be dependent on
the buggy when she wanted to go out.
There was an unusual animation in her
voice as she asked him about his military
experiences and the places he had seen in
Europe, and her glance hovered about him
comprehendingly as if she understood all
that lay behind his light replies. At the
head of the table, McCurdie, his cheeks
ruddy from the razor, lifted the covers from
the steaming steak and cracked jokes about
his injured collar-bone.
“Always used to fall on my feet, once,”
he was saying. “Now I come down like a
dead limb. I’d give ten years of my life
to get a couple of stone off my weight, and
feel that the horse beneath me didn’t groan
every time I hoisted myself into the
saddle.”
But his complaints about his increasing
weight and the difficulty of getting a horse
that would carry him were not to be taken
seriously. Radiant and well satisfied with
himself, he sat chewing his food with teeth
that were still sound, secretly proud of the
fact that he could keep up with any of the
men when there was hard riding to be done
among the timber. Even in town, when
his companions were growing flabbier every
day from lounging about in padded chairs,
hadn’t he kept fit by walking to the baths
for a swim every morning before break-
fast? Hadn’t he travelled out to the butts
on Saturday afternoons and held his own
with the younger men? Wrinkles of humor
gathered about his eyes as he twitted Ada
with her fondness for lying about in a
kimono, and challenged Boyd to test his
sight in a shooting match; but, the old
man added, that would have to wait till he
could lift a rifle to his shoulder. Quite
(Continued on -page 51.)


Exactly Right are Catanach’s Prices Always
24,875. —Fine 4-Dia-
nioiid Ring, 18ct. gold
and platinum mille
grain set, £l6.
24,869. —3 Fine Dia-
monds, in 18ct. gold
and platinum mille
grain setting, £25,
24,923. —Unique design,
finest quality blue-
white Diamond, white
gold and platinum
centre, stone in square
effect, £45.
24,915. —Dainty clus-
ter effect, Fine Dia-
monds, white sold and
platinum, £2O.
May be had with split,
step or leaf shoulders.
24,872. —D ain t y 3-
Diamond Ring, 18ct.
gold and platinum set,
£5/10/-
U 3
CT\ W\
24, D.L.50. —Distinctive “De Luxe” Wrist Watch,
15 jewels, in 9ct. gold, £5.
Corner Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street.
Melbourne, C. 1.
BSq
\ *i
z i
24, D.L.69.—Gent’s “De Luxe” 9ct. Gold Wrist
Watch, luminous dial, lever, 15 jewels, £7/15/”
(W. McF.)
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckleus
Eliza bethan
Ten Rooms
[?] C[?] [?] for [?]
Bu[?]
So[?]
Lady Stonehaven went off during the
week by the Nairana to participate in the
gaieties that will attend the summer visit
of the Fleet to Hobart. The G.-G., who
travels aboard the H.M.A.S. Australia with
N.S.W. Governor de Chair, will have bed
and board on the flagship during the full
cruise.
Daphne Akhurst, who bore off the laurels
in the women’s singles at the L.T.A.V. cham-
pionships, received a double set of congratu-
lations before returning to the Harbor City.
The second lot were in anticipation of her
w r edding to Roy Cozens on February 26.
At a dinner at the Hotel Alexander the
bride-elect, arrayed in begonia-pink chiffon,
said thank you for a silver teaset to friends,
w T ho included the Frank Peach couple, of
Sydney, Mr. and Mrs. L. A. Baker, Mar-
jory Cox and other players.
Property around the Sorrento-Portsea
area has been soaring in price; lately one
of the landlords turned down an offer of
over £20,000 for his holiday shack that looks
out upon the bay. The class of residences
now being erected in the fashionable seaside
resort are in keeping with the value of the
sites. The last to be added to a whole bevy
of beautiful homes is that of H. C. Cornforth,
who guides Vacuum Oil interests here. The
near-Spanish mansion is so built that a cen-
tral dividing wall would turn it into two
separate blocks of lounges and upstairs bed-
rooms, with all the latest devices in built-in-
furniture and color schemes. The bathing
box on the beach below must have cost as
much to model as a comfortable cottage. The
adjacent dwellings of Sydney Myer and of the
Baillieu family make an equally imposing
show. Blairgourie. another feature of the
landscape, formerly of the estate of the
late Dr. Blair, is now owned by a well-
known cakemaker. Sol Green’s place, Ship-
ley, attracts by the loveliness of its garden.
The David Carnegies’ holiday residence.
North Esk, is another luxurious dwelling, and
so is the one owned by Harry Howard Smith.
The Merson Coopers and Mrs. Hammond
Clegg are among others who resort to their
cottages by the sea for summer. The home
of Walter Hiscocks on the part of the sea
point known as the Sisters, lias historical
associations—here Commander Collins landed
in the early days. In the grounds are the
graves of certain sailors of his expedition.
Still this sun-baking craze remains a bit
inexplicable. Shapely limbs are always
pleasant to see, but to watch a pretty, fair-
haired girl endeavoring to dye herself to
chocolate tones isn’t nearly so pleasant.
At Portsea the bathing time between eleven
and one is a fixed function during the holi-
day season ; the back beach, where the break-
ers roll in from the ocean, divides attention
later on. During the A.N.A. week-end the
sands around the pier furnished the gayest
of scenes. Bathing togs and caps were of
the brightest hues; children, mostly in
green or red, with even more vividly-colored
rubber animals, mingled with the bathers or
paddled about in just as cheery-looking
canvas canoes. Beyond the pier the speed-
boats skimmed, and venturesome spirits
perched upon attached aquaplane boards tore
along their wild career. The dozens of striped
and futuristly-decorated beach, parasols stuck
every few yards seemed reflected in the
pale green sea. Not many of our sex are seen
in the backless bathing garment; but mere
man has got as near as he can to it in a new
fashion that seems to be mostly straps on
either side of the backbone.
One Sabbath Lady Stonehaven, her two
schoolgirl daughters, Sir Percival Marling,
V.C., and Lady Marling motored for the day
to the popular resort and lunched with the
Mayor and Mrs. Harold Luxton. Before
and after the meal they were on the beach,
where Ava and Ariel Baird joined the
bathers.
Flinders, which is rather far for a motor-
trip besides being a bit expensive for mere
week-enders, is looked on as the ideal sea-
side resort for the rest-seeker. There is
no mad rush to the surf and there are no
hectic nights. Golf is the chief recreation,
and the links are of the best, with a rugged
hillside and a fine view of the ocean to
repay the climber. Among recent visitors
are Professor and Mrs. Gunn. The Field
Naturalists’ Club went collecting specimens
there during the A.N.A. holiday.
A Beauty Quest will be included among
the devices to advertise the coming carni-
val in aid of the Queen Victoria Hospital.
The judging is going to be no light job, for
some enterprising person has been drawing
attention to the number of beautiful women
there are of 40 and upwards, and the
discovery has disposed of any notion of an
age-limit for the belles except the minimum
one of 18. Entrance is by photograph.
Susie Tolhurst annexed the Ladies’ Cham-
pionship honors at the annual golf tourna-
ment held at the Sorrento links. This is
her third successive win and she must have
amassed a really fine show of trophies by
this time. There was the very best of
weather for the fixture and competition was
keen. The dance engineered by Mrs. Merson
Cooper and Mrs. George Bowcher at the
Sorrento Hotel for the radium fund of St.
Vincent’s Hospital was an acceptable bit of
festivity, which went with a decided swing.
Mrs. W. J. Wearne ran a sweets and novel-
ties stall in connection with the hop, and
Mrs. Maloney directed another side-line to
swell the takings. Mrs. John Goodall and
Victor Baxter lifted voices most acceptably
in song during intervals in the jazz.
Though we are supposed to be passing
through a period of financial stress “Full
ship” is an everyday response to those who
try their luck at the shipping offices for
a passage overseas. Each company has a
long waiting list, in case any intending
passenger should cancel a date. Amongst
early voyagers aro Valerie Hennessy and
Iris Connolly, off to Honolulu.
Dreamthorpe, the beautiful residence of the
Hodges lady at Macedon, was handed over
the other day for a fete in aid of the dis-
trict cottage hospital of Gisborne and Riddell.
There were well-stocked stalls arranged be-
neath the spreading English trees, and the
Mitchell lady visited the Mount to give the
function an opening push. Maidens in Kate
Greenaway frocks vended bunches of locally-
grown lavender.
The Quamby, Club was the scene of a
bridge-and-tea gathering, marshalled by Mrs.
Angus McPhail, of Two Bays, Somerville,
during the mid week. Blue agapanthus and
pink-tinted gladioli provided the floral back-
ground and rose and lilac blossoms in gilded
baskets were arranged about the tables.
Black chiffon and lace upholstery, the som-
breness relieved by a glimpse of faint pink
beneath, was worn by the hostess. Her
daughter, Mrs. C. R. V. Seaton, down from
a Queensland station, sported a rosy-hued
straw hat to contrast with a frock of cham-
pagne-toned ninon and lace. Mrs. Harry
Emmerton, a symphony in black and white,
received many greetings after her sojourn
in the East; Mrs. F. W. Eggleston and
Laura Nyulasy, her co-travellers, were in
the offing. Littleton Groom’s lady, who is
spending some weeks in Melbourne, was
present with her daughter Jessie. Mrs.
R. A. Staughton, Mrs. Horace Wimpolc,
Mrs. George Langridge and the Best lady
were likewise of the bidden.
Margot Begg, 8.A., looks out from this
Lafayette picture. An ex-student of the
old-established
Girls’ College,
Clyde, she has
lately returned
from Britain
and the Conti-
nent, where
she passed
about five
years in teach-
ing and secre-
tarial duties
with plenty of
holiday jaunts
in between.
While she was
away s he
added to the
study of teach-
ing the accom-
plishment of
interior deco-
ration. She
has joined the
staff of the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College.
Yet another Melbourne girl goes to India
to be married. The bride to be is Doris
Parbury, second daughter of the William
Parbury couple of Toorak, and the husband-
elect is Alec. J. Happell, of the Indian Civil
Service, Madras. The ceremony takes place
there on February 20, and C. G. Parbury
left by the Chitral to hand his sister over.
The wedding gown will be of white satin
moire fashioned with a double train. Pink
taffeta will be worn by the bridesmaid, Betty
Parbury, who is on a holiday in Ceylon.
The first aerial picnic in Victoria took
place on Foundation Day, when members
and friends of the Aero Club proceeded to
Cowes, on Phillip Island, in 12 assorted
machines. It took them an hour and a half
to do a two-way journey which would occupy
a motor-car most of the day and involve a
ferry trip.
Bishop Armstrong tied the knot for
Bessie Williams and Arthur Robert Procter
at Christ Church, South Yarra. White satin
enveloped the leading lady, and yards and
yards of white tulle were anchored by trails
of orange buds over her fair shingle. The
three ’maids were in almond-green crepe
georgette with millinery in two shades of the
same color. There were some Tasmanians
among the numerous guests at the evening
celebration at No. 9. The newly-weds leave
for Scotland next month by the Orford.
The Voice attended to Leatli, younger
daughter of the C. W. Simmondses, of Mal-
vern, and Colin Leckie Wischer, second son
of the Paul Wischers, Kew, at the kirk on
Thursday night. The wedding raiment was
in the white and green that is the moment’s
favorite blend. A necklace of crystal wan-
dered down the bride’s well-cut satin gown,
and the effect was softened by a head-
covering of lace. Sheaves of apricot-tinted
gladioli contrasted with the early-leaf-toned
frocks of the two ’maids.
Dr. Arthur J. Day and Muriel Elizabeth
Barnard were married on January 25 at
Melbourne Grammar Chapel. Both rendered
good service during the war. Lace of beige-
pink tint with tulle veil of the same hue was
the bride’s choice ; her ’maid, Wilmer Barnard,
furnished a contrast in wrappings of pale-
green chiffon allied to straw millinery.
The maid in
pensive mood
i s Patricia
Clarke,
younger daugh-
te r of the
Frank Clarke
couple, of
South Yarra.
An attractive
society girl of
the younger
set, she lends
a hand in
p h i lanthropic
functions.
Lately she had
a fascinating
trip with her
fat h e r t o
Europe by
way of Java
and the Far
East.
A cable from Paris records the wedding
of Morva Davies, of Melbourne, and M.
Auguste Rolo, of Alexandria, Egypt. The
ceremony took place at the British Con-
sulate. The bride, whose dad is manager
of the West Melbourne branch of the E., S.
and A. Bank, went to the Continent about
three years ago to have her fine contralto
voice _ polished up for a professional career.
She is booked to make her appearance in
opera very shortly, and it is understood that
her marriage will not interfere with her
ambitions.
Phyllis Adeney announces her engagement
to Robert Blair, now on the last lap of a
medical course at Ormond. Phyllis is the
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Alex. Adeney,
of Kew.
Weather conditions were at their best for
the. Williamstown Cup meeting on the A.N.A.
holiday, and so were the beautiful flower-
beds and grassy lawns, a credit to secretary
Nagle.
Hardly had the first Malice contingent of
holiday guests returned home from their
three weeks by the sea when 300 more
women and children from the Outback took
their places. The C.W.A. extended a wel-
coming hand to the party, which was dis-
tributed around comfy bayside residences
at Aspendale, Black Rock, St. Kilda and
Queenscliff. A picnic in the Botanical
Gardens will be among the entertainments
for this bunch of visitors, who will have
as varied and jolly a time as the first comers.
The Royal Society of St. George is hold-
ing a reception at the Hotel Windsor .on the
18th in honor of Archbishop Head.
Although the summer has been much
cooler than the average, feminine covering
is gradually being reduced to a minimum.
Even stockings are disappearing. At one
fashionable tea gathering of the week the
grown-up daughter of the hostess Wore no
hose with her ninon frock. Millinery, too,
it would seem, is going into the discard;
several shingled damsels have taken to doing
the Block of afternoons hatless. The Hari
and Happi coat, a near relation to the kimono,
is regular wear, and should the weather con-
tinue to warm up, the back-to-nature move-
ment may yet bring us within easy distance
of the fig-leaf.
Last week the educational exchange sys-
tem brought hither a bunch of nine women
teachers culled from England and Wales.
Mrs. R. A. Staughton, of the Victoria
League, boiled the billy in their honor at the
exclusive Alexandra Club on Friday after-
noon. Among other Leaguers present were
the Maudsley lady, the Allen lady and Mrs.
Angus McPhail.
Mrs. Geoffrey Palmer intends giving a
musical recital early in March. Muriel
Campbell will assist with her violin and
there will be some of the newest items on
the programme.
Napier Waller and his wife are expected
to be back from Europe shortly. Both,
artists have been making a further study of
tlie stained-glass craft, in which they have
already done some fine work. At St.
Matthew’s Church, Geelong, a beautiful
.window has just been completed by Mrs.
Waller to her own design.
In the cramped and ill-ventilated Queen’s
Hall on Saturday night a packed house
sweltered for three hours while the Art
Theatre players under J. Beresford Fowler
presented “The Heartbreak House” of
G.B.S. There are some delightful bits in
this fantastic comedy, and though it flopped
a little in the last stages the players put
up a commendable show. Mr. Fowler was
the blunt old salt, Captain Shotover. Flor-
ence Cheers and Hettie Feuerman, his daugh-
ters, Ariadne (Lady Utterwood) and Mrs.
Hushabye were all up to the mark; and
Linda Newcombe fitted in nicely as the
broken-hearted Ellie Dunn. Dudley Riddick
and Graeme Castles headed the male sup-
port. Mr. Fowler set his tiny stage well,
especially in the garden scene, and the
feminine portion of the cast was attractively
upholstered.
Beatrice Day was one of the few mem-
bers of the Gregan McMahon players to
find another berth on the closing of “To
What Red Hell” at the Bijou. She steps
into a part in Leon Gordon’s own play
“The Poppy God,” which is due at the
Comedy Theatre about the 15th. Leon’s
wife, Nancy Gordon, and Mary Macgregor
will be the only other women in the cast.
The late spring and mild summer in Mel-
bourne have had their effects upon our tree-
lined streets; never have the oaks, elms
and other imported growths shown a finer
foliage. Already there is promise of a
rich blooming of flowering gums to add a
dash of crimson, pink and white to the
greenery. At intervals along the roadside and
central rockeries from Prince’s Bridge to
beyond Brighton the gums are already
ablaze.
Professor R. J. Berry left the Melbourne
Uni. staff to become medical director of the
Home for Mental Deficients at Stoke Park,
Bristol, and the other day it was announced
that Miss L. Barling, his former assistant
in research work here, had accepted a similar
position with her old chief overseas. She
leaves very shortly. There are about 2000
patients at Stoke Park, and the research
work will be highly important.
Barwon Heads Golf Clubhouse, which
commands a fine view of ocean, river and
lake, narrowly escaped destruction by fire
last week. As it was, the garage and six
cars went up in smoke. There being no
local fire brigade the guests lined up and
did their bit with a vigor that kept a
roof over their heads.
A new woman’s club, promoted by Miss
Bansgrove, came into being on Thursday
evening with cards and dancing. The Oxford,
as it is christened, is in Te Arai-avenue,
East St. Kilda, and was formerly the guest-
house known as Oakleigh Hall. Miss Ban-
grove purposes running it as a meeting place
for those devoted to arts and letters, as well
as the merely sociable pursuits of dancing
and bridge. Residential quarters will be
provided, together with community rooms
and there are tennis courts.
The Alister Clark couple set off during
the week for a Maoriland tour with their
relative Heaton Rhodes, sometime M.L.
Minister for Defence, who has been renew-
ing acquaintance with Melbourne. In the
intervals of turning out new varieties of
roses at his celebrated garden, Mr. Clark
finds time to be president of the Moonee
Valley Racing Club.
The new wing of the Janet Clarke Hall,
Trinity College, is well advanced. Despite
desultory additions from time to time, the
hostel has long been unable to accommodate
all the undergrads who wished to reside
therein. The W. T. Manifold legacy will
alter all that; and under the terms of the
gift ample facilities must be provided for
teaching domestic science and homecraft.
Madame Nadefinc, who was Nell Tritton,
of Brisbane, returned to Australia by the
Nestor after five years’ absence abroad, and
is introducing her husband, the Russian
baritone, to her old friends. Before Nicholai
Madefine took to singing he was on
the staff of the Russian Embassy in
Rome. Some of his musical talent may be
inherited from a grandfather who played the
guitar at the Courts of Queen Victoria and
Napoleon 111.
After an absence of over 20 years Mrs.
Wallace Burgess is paying a visit to her
homeland. She was Anna Newton before
she married and settled in Kenya Colony,
where her husband holds a responsible posi-
tion in the Department of Native Affairs.
He is taking nine months’ furlough, aud
the pair are staying with the lady’s sister,
Mrs. Bert Sweet, of South Yarra.
Will Dyson’s first show in the U.S. will
be at Hollywood, where his etchings should
find favor and purchasers. Later he will
stage an exhibition in New York before leav-
ing for London. Will really prefers a roof-
tree in liis own homeland, but daughter
Betty, who went ahead to take an art course,
• has set her mind on a London flat, so they
will give it a trial.


EM© 1M THE
HEALTH
MORMIMG
THOSE who take Eno’s “Fruit
Salt” know the joy of a sparkling
morning draught which both stimu-
lates and invigorates. It starts you off
feeling that all’s right with the world.
More important --- Eno keeps you
feeling right all day long. It increases
your zest for work and play.
For Eno promotes that perfect inner
cleanliness on which really good
health depends. It gently yet
thoroughly eliminates from the system
the food waste and poisons of yester-
day. It keeps the blood-stream clean
and vigorous. Eno contains no purga-
tive mineral salts, so that its regular use
does not form an indispensable habit.
Follow the lead of countless healthy
people all over the world—-start your
day with a glass of water sparkling
with a dash of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores
ē
f
ENOS
fct
FRUIT SALT;
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE 6i CO. LTD. SYDNEY. N. S.W.


SAFETY ALWAYS!
The SAFEST and BEST INVESTMENT for every prudent man is
A LIFE POLICY WITH
A.M.P. SOCIETY
IT SECURES:—
Provision for your old age. Protection for your family.
A Profitable Investment.
Assets - £76,500,000
LARGE ANNUAL BONUSES. The whole of the Surplus is
divided ANNUALLY among the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
Acting General Manager.
/PLANT and STORES
"1
9NININ
HTMiSimi
comprising:
Buildings, Machinery, Turbines,
Air Compressors, Boilers, Elec-
tric Motors, Switchgear, etc.,
Gyratory Crushers, Tube Mills,
Winches, Locomotives, Rolling
Stock, General Stores, Pul-
leys, Shafting, Piping, Valves,
Etc., Etc.
and
Stores, comprising Assay Goods,
Belting, Bolts and Nuts, Elec-
trical Material, Hose, Machinery
Spares, Pipes and Fittings, Wire
Ropes, Rock Drills and Parts,
M.S. Bars and Plates, Drill and
Special Steel, Wire and Wire
Screens, Boiler Spares, Engine
Spares and Mill Spares.
Also Pulverised Coal Equipment [practically new}
capacity 3 tons o£ coal per hour
A special Sectional Catalogue is prepared, giving details
and photographs, and may be had on request. Prices
also on application to —
EVANS DEAKIN St CO. LTD
ENGINEERS AND REPRESENTATIVES
g RYAN HOUSE - CHARLOTTE STREET, - BRISBANE
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE;
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Commencing Saturday Next.
FOLLOW THROUGH.
With GUS BLUETT, CECIL KELLAWAY.
COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
THE LAND OF PROMISE.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
X MELBOURNE.
Two Splendid Talkies. See ! Hear !
BEN LYON and SHIRLEY MASON in
THE FLYING MARINE.
(Australians Films Talking Feature.)
Also See! Hear! JOSEPH SCHILDKRAUT as
THE MISSISSIPPI GAMBLER.
(Universal All-Talking Picture.)
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
A DVERTISER, who has had 20 years’ ex-
perience as buyer for large Australian
firm of Jewellers and Silversmiths, etc., de-
sires similar agencies. Well acquainted with
home and foreign markets, and possesses
expert knowledge of packing and forwarding
regulations, for Australia and New Zealand.
Write Box 3128, Watchmaker, Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician, Drury House,
Russell Street, London, W.C.2.
ADELAIDE’S
Leading Residential House.
THE GRAND COFFEE PALACE,
HINDLEY STREET.
All Modern Conveniences.
Motor Garage Attached.
Open Day and Night.
TARIFF .... £3/10/- per week
Land Wanted.
WANTED to purchase, block unimproved
™ freehold land, about six to thirty acres,
on river Darling. Write
A. S. HIRST, Bank of N.S.W.
Adelaide, South Australia.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
TO EDWARD JOHN MOORE formerly of
Acland in the State of Queensland
Butcher whose whereabouts are un-
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane aforesaid
No. 618 of 1929 by LOUISA KATHARINA
MARGARETIJA MOORE your wife in
which she claims a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you and custody of the children
of such marriage and by her petition filed
herein alleges that on the eighth day or
ninth day of October One thousand nine hun-
dred and twenty-four you deserted her and
have since continuously so deserted her for
five years and upwards AND it has been
ordered that service of the Writ and Peti-
tion on you be effected by filing and stick-
ing up on the notice-board in the Registry of
the said Court at Brisbane a copy of the
said Writ and an office copy of the said
Petition and by the insertion of this notice
in the Sydney Bulletin newspaper pub-
lished in 'New South Wales and in the Too-
woomba “Chronicle” and Brisbane “Courier”
published in Queensland aforesaid. If you
desire to defend this action you must within
thirty days from the last act done as afore-
said enter an appearance to the said Action
at the Registry of the said Court and in
default of such defence judgment may be
entered against you.
DATED this 25th day of January 1930.
[L.s.] D. M. O’FLYNN.
Deputy Registrar.
Leonard, Power and Power, Solicitors,
Ascot Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane,
Agents for E. WL Cleary, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff, Toowoomba.
is ip
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Archbishop Duhig gave up his home at
Manly to enable a host of poor kiddies to
have a seaside holiday. Many were given an
outfit of clothes, too, before leaving town.
Some of the 550 youngsters stayed for a
week, others longer. Mrs. Copley, president
of the Catholic Daughters of Australia
League, supervised, and there were many
voluntary helpers. Children of all creeds
participated.
There was but a wet-weather attendance
for the second bite at the Australia Day meet-
ing at Ascot. Mrs. Isaac Moore was in
navy and w’hite; Mrs. A. C. Halford in
black satin marocain; Mrs. A. A. Baynes in
autumn brown ; Mrs. Hannibal King in jade,
scarlet and yellow Oriental-patterned silk;
Mrs. W. H. Buchanan in flame and black
georgette with large black hat; Mrs. Alec
Jardine in grey and blue French faille;
Tessa Reading in blue and ivory, and Eileen
Moore in burgundy and grey.
Yvonne Banvard’s company is playing
the “Virtuous Cheat” at the Royal, to be
followed by Somerset Maugham’s “Rain.”
Frank O’Brian’s “Revellers” are at the
Empire. Elsewhere the talkies have it all
their own way.
When George Archie Blackman and Millie
Garner were married at Mowbraytown the
bride wore ivory mariette and silver lace,
with a veil of broidered Brussels net.
Beatrice West ’maided in pastel-silk lace
over salmon pink.
Hector Macdonald took Jean Ann Miller
to wife in the Chapel of St. Margaret’s High
School, Albion. The bride was in white
crepe-satin romaine, and broidered tulle veil
with a chaplet of orange blossoms. Ailsa
Ladewig ’maided in a picture frock of
duck-egg green and a picture hat banded in
silver.
At Toowong, Lorna Hiron became Mrs.
Eric Robinson in ivory Tuscan net and
Chantilly lace with a Tuscan net veil. Edna
Hiron, Mary Bayley, Joan Gargett and Jean
Harper ’maided in powder-blue mariette over
pink with large hats of pink and silver.
Cinnamon-brown crepe de Chine was the
bride’s going- away frock; the honeymoon will
be spent on the Northern Rivers.
At All Saints’ the knot was tied between
George Bock and Florence Lyle Bisley. The
bride was in white satin beaute and cut
tulle veil, with Juliet cap. Zena Avery and
Vera Clancy ’maided in rose-colored georgette.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
On Foundation Day the public flocked to
the H'enley Beach carnival in thousands. His
Ex. arrived in the afternoon, and was wel-
comed by Mayor Mitton. A procession,
yachting and swimming events were among
the fare provided for holiday-makers.
The Adelaide R. C. meeting at Victoria
Park drew a large crowd. Eastwyn pro-
vided the tote sensation of the afternoon with
a dividend of £49. Chairman James Hall
was assisted by his daughters in entertaining
guests at afternoon tea. Gwen, who recently
returned from England, wears the neat push-
back shingle that recalls Norma Shearer,
the movie star. The heat always brings out
a crop of colorful raiment, and bright red
frocks, with hats and shoes to match, blazed
upon the lawn in dozens. Long skirts were
favored by many ; some had points that ab-
solutely trailed fore and aft. Brown hose
worn with white shoes were plentiful, a
style that can hardly be called becoming.
Grumblers about the quality of wireless
musical programmes we have always wflth
us. The Elder Conservatorium has taken a
hand now. But there are fears that this may
lead to the bill of far* being too high-class
for the crowd, the Con. director’s opinion of
jazz music being below zero.
There are unemployed in all trades, but
those who can bring their plight most pro-
minently before the public arc the musicians,
whose services have been dispensed with at
the city picture theatres. Combined orches-
tras play in the streets, and the sympathy of
the public is quickly roused.
Mrs. Jule Wendt, who returned recently
with her husband after a residence of some
years in England, is issuing invitations for
an at-home at Eothen, East-terrace, on
Wednesday next.
Dr. Pulleine’s pretty daughter Itty will
leave by the Largs Bay this week for Eng-
land.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Crowds motored to Bunbury for the
South-West tennis tournament, an annual
fixture commencing on Foundation Day.
Private courts are loaned to help the club
cope with its 600-odd entries. This year Mrs.
Fyfe, of Mt. Lawley, carried off the women’s
singles, while H. D. Stapleton, of Collie,
won the men’s ditto. On the first night of
the tournament Dr. and Mrs. Flynn gave a
dance. Another attraction was a cabaret-
cwm-picture show where one could fox-trot
through the juiciest melodrama. On Sunday
night everyone went up the estuary to snare
the succulent crab and crack his claws round
a huge bonfire. Swimming, fishing and sup-
pers on the back beach were minor high
jinks, and the trophies were distributed at
the tennis ball on the. 27th. Among the
visitors were the Bunning family, Mr. and
Mrs. Sam Harcourt, Louis Pirenne and his
pretty wife, Margaret Officer, Chrissie Dodds,
the Teedc twins, Myrtle Herbert, R. C.
Reitze, Howard Bonner, Cecil Lamb, Mar-
jorie Hearman and her brother, Grace Grant,
Poppy and Tinka Salom.
A cloud of gloom hangs over the yacht
clubs and many friends are mourning for
Joseph Boocock, Laurie Firth and Phil
Summers. The yacht Wattle, owned and
skippered by the last, foundered at midnight
about four miles from Rottnest. Gordon
D’Arcy, the only survivor, made a gallant
swim for help to Rottnest in the dark and the
early dawn, while Summers, also a strong
swimmer, chivalrously stayed with Firth
after Boocock had disappeared. An unavail-
ing search for the missing men, in which the
Fisheries launch, many private craft and the
Klemm monoplane took part, was carried on
for three days.
Four teams of mermaids representing
North Cottesloe, Bunbury, Cottesloe and
Perth strove for supremacy at the seaside
carnival with a life-line on land and in the
surf. North Cottesloe were adjudged the
winners on points, and annexed the Water-
man Cup as their spoil.
The graceful black swans which originally
gave our river its name are seen no more in
the lagoon by Mill Point and the rushy
swamps about the foreshore. Still, there are
some in the Zoo, and last year director Le
Soeuf sent away two pairs to England on
the Moreton Bay, where a specially fitted
pen containing a pond had been prepared for
them. They were a gift from the Agent-
General to the Worshipful Company of
Vintners and are being acclimatised at
Goring on the Thames.
Mrs. Tymms chose the Karrakatta Club
for a farewell at-home for daughter Enid.
The bride-elect, with her bridesmaid, Rona
Marfleet, leaves on the Westralia for Mel-
bourne, where wedding-bells will ring on the
15th. The club was festive with gerberas,
zinnias and cool, green palms. The hostess
wore a smile of welcome above a gown of
old rose and black, with gold stencillings.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This is a portrait of Miss C. M. Ward.
8.A., of Tas.
University, and
probably the
busiest woman
in Hobart
during the
month of
January. Miss
Ward is the
secretary of
the Tasmanian
branch of the
Austral ian
Federation of
U n i v e r s ity
Women, and
did the hard
collar work,
under the cap-
able pre s i-
dency of Mrs.
McP he e, at
the biennial
conference.
Hobart did its best to give the visiting
delegates of the A.F.TJ.W. the time of their
lives during their conference in the Speck.
Of course, work was the first consideration,
and the meetings were always crowded, but
play wasn’t neglected by any means. There
were receptions, dinners, luncheons, motor
excursions and what not. Among the dele-
gates were women of such distinction as Dr.
Marie Bentivoglio (Ph.D. of Oxford). Freda
Bage (Q.), president of the conference, Dr.
Constance D’Arcy (N.S.W.), Acting-Pro-
fessor Gladys Marks (N.S.W.) and Dr. Con-
stance Ellis (Vic.),
Mayor and Mrs. Soundy gave the women
graduates a reception in the Botanical Gar-
dens on the first day of the conference, and
Government House entertained them at morn-
ing tea on the second day. There was another
reception by the University Council at the
Museum. Hi s Ex. and Margaret O’Grady
were present, and besides local notables you
could meet Bishop D’Arcy-Irvine, Professor
McCallum and his lady and Mr. and Mrs.
Barrow Cadbury, with their daughters.
iHail, rain and icy wind rather spoiled
one’s comfort at the T.A.J.C.’s meeting at
Elwick. Dr. Lindsay Miller and Mrs. Miller
dispensed tea to shivering guests during the
afternoon —the tea-house was the one bright
spot in the landscape. Margaret O’Grady
looked smart in black cloth, with smail
gold waistcoat and sable choker; Mrs. Miller
also sported black. Most of the other women
were in tweeds and furs, while some
enveloped themselves in the unbeautiful but
entirely seasonable macintosh. A good
many mainland visitors braved the arctic
conditions.
Victoria League folk have been busy lately
with entertainments. Young Mrs. R Blair
Hay organised a big bridge party at Had-
ley’s. Tea was served in the dining-room,
and 52 tables in the lounge were occupied,
to the benefit of the league’s funds. An-
other Vic. League entertainment was Mrs.
Walter Gellibrand’s at-home at Lachlan
Vale, Ouse. The garden was crowded, and
clock-golf, tennis, bridge and music, with
tea on the terrace, made a cheery programme.
Matron McGillivray has been appointed to
the Mothercraft Home, to the satisfaction
of her numerous Tasmanian friends. Matron
Geevcs was farewelled at the Imperial by
the staff and members of the Child Welfare
Association before her departure, with Sister
Montier, for Fiji to take up child-welfare
work among the. islanders.
The Allan Wilkies provided a delightful
postcript to their first performance of “The
Rivals’’ by inviting many of their friends
and patrons to stay behind and have a
bite. Mr. Wilkie and Miss Hunter-Watts
received their guests, in full make-up, as
Sir Anthony Absolute and Lydia Languish.
The Norwegian airman Haakon Qviller
says Hobart reminds him of Norway. Miss
D. Cadbury on her arrival here found the
same resemblance. If they saw us in winter,
with snow on the hills, they might find the
likeness even more marked.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
V. Carrington, the newly appointed Govern-
ment Resident for Central Australia, is
well known in Darwin, where he was in the
Government service; and he and his wife,
formerly Pearlie O’Keiffe, left a host of
well-wishers here, who are pleased to hear of
his promotion.
At the summer meeting of the N/T.R.C.
six of the seven races fell'to favorites. The
Byrne brothers, of Tipperary station, rode
three firsts and four seconds.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co 4,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O,
Excellent
Cuisine
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
W&W26.
mOS^R'AtIAN
ZINC
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANI BRANS
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association [B:
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a let Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
obviously he was delighted with the atmo-
sphere of harmony that hovered over the
table, delighted with his wife’s tact, and
with the prospects that opened up ahead.
But above all he was delighted with his
son’s bearing, and the fact that they could
now talk together as man to man.
“You’ve come Lome,” his eyes repeated
assuringly. “Everything will be different
now. We’ll get along like a couple of polers
in the one team.”
Boyd was not so sure. In spite of his
affection for his father he had a sense of
detachment from him, a distrust of the
cheerful vigor that carried everything be-
fore it. The veiy look of the big dining-
room, with its kalsomined walls covered
with photographs of stud stock and water-
colors done by old Hurley, the tutor, re-
minded him of the domination he had
suffered from as a boy. Those solitary
meals when he had sat opposite his father
in silence, afraid that the smell of
cigarette-smoke would be detected
on him, or that the thunder-cloud
on the old man’s forehead would
burst in torrents of anger because
he had left a saddle out in the
rain! He had always felt a little
furtive with his father, never quite
himself. Even now he could not
imagine living in contact with that
powerful will without being bent
by it gradually, or else goaded
into exasperating conflicts.
But these thoughts were a mere
flicker on the surface of his mind.
He was too stirred by the vivid
impressions that came crowding
in on him wherever he turned his
eyes to let them trouble him.
Josie had come in from the
kitchen and was clearing away the
breakfast things, her feet moving
softly over the linoleum; his
father was lighting his pipe and
talking about a visit to the stud-
paddock; Ada was twiddling her
sun-hat between her fingers as she
stood at the door, waiting to show
him her rose-garden. The eyes
of all three of them were fixed on
him as if his homecoming
had brought a stimulus to
their lives. For the time
being he was the centre
of a buoyant, genial world.
The future could look
after itself.
CHAPTER V.
Father and Son.
During the days that
followed, Boyd slipped
into the life of the place
as easily as a man into a
warm bath after a tiring
journey. His early boy-
hood had been the most
vivid period of his life, and
it was pleasant for him
to loaf about, evoking
memories from the smell
of hides in the saddle-
room, the sight of a rusty
gun in the corner of the
office, and the clatter of
horses being brought into
the yards at daylight. He
was content to live for a
while in his senses. It
was as if he were recover-
ing an old gift, a power of
finding intense delight in
the shapes and surfaces of
things; and as he watched
a flight of ducks by the
lagoon, or rode across
country to one of the
dams he used to swim in,
he felt the breath of a
recovered world in his
nostrils, its tingle and sharpness in his
blood. The past few years were a dream
that was slipping from him. It was extra-
ordinary how far away that Syrian desert
seemed, and how dim the faces of the men
whose tent and mess he had shared. It
was as if his mind was automatically rais-
ing a screen between him and all that had
happened since that bleak dawn when he
had marched down to the transport with
the crowd and slipped out to sea.
Preparations were being made for the
spring muster. Ropes were sorted out and
greased, saddles overhauled, and batches of
fresh horses brought in from the outlying
paddocks to be drafted out and handled, a
haze of fine dust hovering over the yards
every day till noon. McCurdie, his injury
healed, strode about the place giving orders,
a riding-whip in his hand and Bruno follow-
ing like a shadow at his heels. There was
a swing and energy in all his movements.
He had forgotten about his political defeat,
forgotten about the money he had lost in
oil, and was as intent and preoccupied as
if he had never had any ambition other
than a life among cattle.
“The boss has found his punch again,”
said Larry Byrne, watching him put one
hand on a low fence by the yards and
spring over. “All right for him, but not
too good a prospect for the rest of us!
We’ll be kept moving at the double from
now on.”
It had always been a secret grievance
with the overseer and his mate that the
place had to be run short-handed. Men had
left to go to the war, and none had been
“She had picked up the bucket... .her eyes watching him with a defensive shyness.”
taken on to replace them. Larry himself
had been away for a couple of years, but
a slight dose of gas had sent him home
eighteen months before, and he had come
back to his old job with some of the energy
taken out of him and a feeling that a man
who looked too far ahead was meeting
trouble half-way. A dark, sunny-eyed young
fellow of twenty-three, with a joke always
on his lips, he had plenty of capacity, but
no ambition to be anything but a good
unionist. “Stick to your own crowd,” was
the principle he lived by, “and don’t worry
about collecting stripes or property.” There
was nothing wrong with wages, as long as
they were high enough, and, anyhow, a
man might strike it lucky if he took tickets
regularly in such lotteries and sweeps as
were going. He laughed at Jeff, who dreamt
of a place of his own, and was always brood-
ing over a map that had all the country
likely to be resumed for selection neatly
marked in red ink. This map was the
overseer’s inseparable companion, and even
when camped out on the run he carried it
with him, studying it under the shade of
a tree at noon, or by the fire at night when
the other men were curled up in their
blankets. McCurdie had once promised to
lend him a thousand without interest when
he was ready to take up land of his own,
and that promise had kept him faithful
to Abernethy for years.
“But don’t take up a block that will starve
you out when the first dry spell comes,”
McCurdie had warned him. “Look before
you leap.”
And the overseer, who had an instinctive
dislike for leaping, assented.
He had looked long and earnestly,
though, and was still looking, in spite of
Larry’s gibes.
“Heard any more about that thousand?”
Larry chiacked him.
. “No, but don’t you worry, my boy,” Jeff
fended. “I’m not the sort to be caught
with a hatful of chaff. It’ll be there when
I want it, and I’ll be making a call on it
soon.”
“All right,” was the grinning rejoinder.
“When you move, I do. It’s up to me to
go with you, Jeff, and see you through the
first year.”
But he had no belief that Jeff would cut
free, even now that Boyd had come home;
he knew the cautious character of his mate
too well. Besides, there was something in
the spirit of Abernethy that kept people
rooted, no matter how much they wanted
to get away. Hadn’t he himself come back
to it, when all the world lay open ahead of
him? And Miss Carmody had been house-
keeper for the last eighteen years, while it
was even longer since the Duncan family
had drifted there and settled down. There
certainly was a power about the place for
holding, people, though Larry did not know
where it lay, for he and Jeff were conscious
of doing the work of four ordinary men,
and McCurdie had certainly never offered
them a bonus on their wages.
Yet one had only to see the old man
moving about the yards of a morning,
setting the place in motion for the day, to
divine one of the reasons why Abernethy
held people. There was something
contagious about his gusto for his
work. In spite of the way he
roared when the wrong gate was
left open, or the wrong horse
drafted into the round yard, there
was the spirit of -play in him,
and when once a burst of anger
had passed he was quick to rally
Duncan about his hankering for
a quiet plug, or young Jim on the
way he swaggered about in his
new leggings and riding-breeches.
His roar might come from the
depth of his lungs, but his laughter
rose from the pit of his stomach
and lasted longer. It was never
more infectious than at such
times as these, when they were
setting out for a clea'n-up of the
run, a muster was a game in
which everyone was keyed up to
secure the largest possible number
of young calves for the branding
and fat cattle for the road, and
it was important that Abernethy
should be at Magnus Downs,
Barradene, Warra and the other
stations around. Even Larry and
the overseer accepted this tacitly,
no matter what ironical things
they were moved to say about the
boss in their leisure hours. Be-
fore they read the racing news in
the weekly paper they turned to
see what price the Abernethy
cattle had brought in the Home-
bush markets, and it was with a
sense of personal loss that they
watched the grass wither on the
mulga ridges during a dry spell
and the gilgais turn to mud on
the blacksoil plains.
There was no doubt of the way
McCurdie could infuse loyalty
into all about him. Not loyalty
to himself, he always insisted, but
to the place—that place which to
the passing eye looked so much
like the other places around, and
yet was a mysterious entity with a
character of its own. To McCur-
die, at least, those few hundred
square miles of barley-grass plain,
mulga ridge and brigalow flat
were personal and alive, bound
together with a name that could
rouse emotional vibrations in his
mind. Abernethy! He would as
soon think of selling it as of cut-
ting off his right hand. It was
not an asset, like some of the
other places in which he was inter-
ested; it was part of himself. Just
as Boyd was part of himself. The
onfy solace for him in leaving the
place would be the thought that
his son was carrying it on, grow-
ing into it as he had done
They rode out through the sparkling
morning air, Jeff and Larry Byrne ambling
on ahead, followed by Duncan and the
boy, while McCurdie and Boyd brought up
the rear. The horses danced like cats over
the springy turf, quartpots and hobble-chains
jingled, tobacco-smoke rose lightly in the
blue air. There was a yelp and a rush of
feet as the dogs spied a rabbit in the thin
grass and tore after it in a pack.
“Get to it, Bruno!” shouted McCurdie,
standing up in his stirrups and giving
Warrior his head.
(Continued on next page.)


Investing for Immediate
Income Plus Extra Profit!
You want your Savings or Investment Fund to earn an income
that you will receive now, and not at some uncertain time in the
future. You want definite interest and an income that is a profit-
able return on your money.
Collateral Trust Secured 8% Participating Gold Debentures”
will answer your requirements. Security that affords absolute
safety for your funds; immediate income of 8% per annum
payable every three months—plus a participation in profits up
to an additional 4J%; the right to secure the return of your
money after one year if you want it; an investment in which you
can place any amount from £ I 0 upwards.
Surely this is an investment that is well worth investigating.
Our Booklet, “Investment or Speculation—Which Do You
Choose? tells about this unusual investment opportunity and
explains the difference between investment and speculation.
We_ will gladly send you a copy free and without
obligation, and as we employ no salesmen, your
answer will not be followed by a call.
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY!
of-AustreUla.. .CtmitecL.
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send me your booklet, “Invest-
ment or Speculation—Which Do
You Choose?”
Name
Address
>ra
K
3
a
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
From Stores,
Chemists and
Hairdressers.
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges that last and
give a cleaner, far,
far better shave.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Kirby Beard and
Co., Ltd., Raven-
hurst Works, Bir-
mingham, Eng.
Also London, Red-
ditch and Paris.
KIRBY. BEARD &C? L|d
IJ
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
4t*
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
m
: 4
u
S»
■
i
THE PLUM RAZOR.
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo,- 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and guaranteed kept in order for two years
free of charge.
Post Free to any address.
Other Specialties:—
PLUM Strops 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each
Strop Dressing 1/3 per tube
Shaving Cream, Giant Size .... 2/- per tube
Shaving tablet, round 6d. each
Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Witch Hazel—after-shave Liquid
Cream 2/- bottle
Oil of Roses Hairdressing .... 1/3 bottle
Crystallised Brilliantine 1/3 jar
Excitement showed in McCurdie’s eyes
and the blood crept up his neck as he
pounded after the dogs, watching out for
the holes that were hidden by the grass.
No memory of his broken collar-bone dis-
turbed him when there was an excuse for
a gallop in the air. And in spite of his
jokes about his weight, he had a secret
conviction that, though he might be fifteen
stone on the scales, he was a good deal
less in the saddle. When had he ever given
a horse a sore back or made it think twice
before taking a log?
Just now he was a little above himself,
with a bubbling mind and a spring in his
body that was felt by the horse beneath
him. He was back again into the spirit
of those mornings, twenty years before,
when he was teaching Boyd to ride, and
the sight of the boy, sitting loosely on his
brown, shaggy-haired pony, made his heart
swell like a pigeon’s breast. The only thing
missing was the crowd of blacks who had
made mustering-time a season of festivity
and had come down in troops to take their
share in it. No trouble about labor then!
They were as eager as children to partake
in the excitement, and were satisfied with
a little tobacco and a fill of beef and flour
for the crowd when the fun was over. But
there were few of that sort about now.
The ancient camp across the creek was in-
habited by a handful of gins and old men
who had all the laughter dried out of
them and looked as desolate as their own
mangy dogs.
“Where are the young fellows gone?”
asked Boyd, recalling names that were
familiar to both of them.
“Died off,” McCurdie told him. “Dis-
eases and bad grog. Can’t stand up to our
civilisation, poor devils!”
There was a flicker of irony in his voice,
but only a flicker. How could he doubt
the survival of the fittest when he remem-
bered being surrounded by a hundred
armed and angry myalls, who had chal-
lenged his right to build a homestead on
the site of their traditional camp? He had
used the strong fist with them then, and for
a while there had been threats and even
reprisals, but he had won them over in
the end. Who could have worked better
for Abernethy than they did in those first
years, when capital was scarce and drought
always looking on the skyline? And now
the bulk of them were gone and Abernethy
stood secure. It was a law of life, and not
a matter to grow sentimental about.
Lolling easily in their saddles, or loung-
ing at noon by some waterhole, with their
quarts of tea beside them and their pipes
lit, McCurdie and his son began to approach
one another tentatively over the tract of
shadowy country that lay between them.
It was not an easy business, for they had
never been completely at home in one an-
other’s company, and the memory of their
early conflicts sometimes came disturbingly
between them. How acute and exasperat-
ing those conflicts had seemed then! Black
enough to darken the sun, for the boy at
least. A few of them still lived in his mind,
coloring his present vision of his father
and hardening the lines of the tough, good-
humored face that smiled at him through
the tobacco-smoke. There was the dark
mood that had come on him the after-
noon he had found his father standing over
his favorite cattle pup with a shot-gun. It
had been plugged for killing chickens, he
was told abruptly as his father thrust the
gun into his hands and ordered him to run
back with it to the office. That night after
a stormy scene he had camped out by the
creek, vowing he would never sleep beneath
the station roof again; but when he
appeared at breakfast next morning,
hungry and sulky, the old man affected not
to notice his rumpled clothes and hair.
Then there was the nervousness that had
always filled him when he was mounting
a young horse with his father anywhere
near. He could still hear that roar coming
from the rails of the yard: “Into the saddle,
boy! D’you want him to think he’s got
you cowed? Why can’t you mount a horse
without flapping the stirrups like some
damned monkey playing with a swing?”
Stinging, contemptuous words, that had
cut into his sensitiveness like a whip and
made him hate his father! But only faint
scars remained now, and the old man was
doing his best to efface them. There was
a twinkle in his eyes as he lay with his
head propped up by his elbow, trying to
extract the humor from things they had
shared together in those days.
“Drop the idea that there’s an}' difference
between us,” his diffident manner said
plainly enough. “No need to treat me like
a heavy father. You’ve grown into a man
and we’re on a level now. Though God
knows you’ve seen more of the world than
I ever have or will.”
While the mustered cattle drew into
shelter from the noonday sun, and the other
men lay stretched on the grass with their
hats over their eyes, they talked on desul-
torily, gathering up the threads of the past
and trying to knit them together. The
cicadas chirred in the dried grass; the loose
bark creaked on the gums overhead; the
saddled horses stood with drooping heads
switching off the flies. Over everything was
the sheen of early summer, a faint shimmer
in the air, a sense of vapor rising from the
moist ground, a feeling that the clumps of
sandalwood on the further edge cf the
plain were swimming in pools of watery
light. It was very pleasant and idyllic,
Boyd felt, this lolling at ease in a
spacious and sun-drenched world, with no
ë
Gleaming Waters.
Night dwells now by these gleaming waters
Where, no longer at rest or play,
Grown-up folk with their sons and daughters
Pass glad hours of their lives away;
For tired and brown,
Up hill and down,
Home, home they’ve taken their way to town.
Echoes no more of their lifted laughter
Back to them now the distance flings;
Only a wind remains that, after
All their tumult, still softly sings.
Sings as it sways,
On shoreside ways,
Oak-trees and saplings with tops ablaze.
Girls, their foreheads with wild flowers
wreathing.
Boys that frolicked in shallows clear—
Smoke from their picnic-fires unwreathing
Tells alone of their pastimes here;
Tells on, tells on,
Of how, hours gone,
Their young hearts glowed and their young
eyes shone.
Home have they gone, those merrymakers,
Rest and slumber ’neath roofs to find,
Flower-forsakers and tree-forsakers,
Leaving this loveliness behind;
Yet beach and hill,
Look where I will,
To me in the moonlight seem peopled still.
Yielding my mood to fancies airy,
Passing the magic hours away,
Every leaf seems a dancing fairy,
Every fern-frond a shining fay—
Green, green of cloak,
’Neath gum and oak
They merrily dance, a madcap folk.
Here, lone-strolling by gleaming waters,
Ripples breaking upon their brink,
Little I care what the sons and daughters,
Sires and dames of the world may think,
As ’neatli the moon,
While breezes croon,
I watch the flashing of fairy shoon.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


say CILBEYS
GIN
t 43
o
o
«i ?V. >»
' / >
tl's
•a
%
i
v
\
P
//
«
CILBEYS
Order of Merit
-
z
«d
Q
&
1
£
ts
A
<?
v
Kw
3V
Y*
It
rtQi
0»OlT
DRY GIN
102
NO INCREASE
IN PRICE
South African T.T. Races
January Ist and 2nd', 1930
Winners Again Use
LODGE
PLUGS
175-c.c. Class (D.K.W.), Ist.
250-c.c. Class O.K. Supreme, Ist.
600-c.c. Class (Rudge), Ist.
Also Record for Course and
Record Lap of 90 m.p.h.
This is only an-
other instance of
Lodge Plugs
superiority. Buy
yourself a set of
Lodge Plugs now.
and replace those
old half-alive plugs
you are using.
In sealed metal
box,
6/9
m
m.
m
6
m
m
m
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.,
RUGBY, ENGLAND.
Factory Representative,
F. W. CAVE,
Box 629 F.F., G.P.0.,
Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
|D^^EDjUM^WOMENj
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
.Y HAIR
<o * EED
HERE'S
•umy-
fd
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfroM&rCs CMEX/CAN'
IdkUtuU Stain,
’-REMOVES THE GREY'*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fP
Motorists
<IZ *
Have you seen the “Keystone” Ratchet Sets?
They stand alone for accuracy, wear-
resistance, compactness and appearance.
Set No. 555, as illustrated, has 8 sockets,
made of case-hardened, specially-treated steel,
in the following sizes: 7-16, i, 9-16, f, 11-16,
f, g and 15-16 inch.
Also included is a screwdriver, a 7in. drop
forged steel ratchet handle and an Bin. hex.
handle, which may also be used as a long
adapter. Nickel-plated case.
These sets will be shortly selling at 10/6,
owing to increased manufacturing costs, but
for a limited period we are offering them at
8/6. Postage extra.
Packet weighs 31b.
oris)
SYDNEY 51 Bathurst Street
MELBOURNE 582 Collins Street
ADELAIDE 116 Waymouth Street


sgegir
I
Br ,
PROGRESS
POINTS TO
i
;
J®
■ :
m
. •
■
V - : ; v
■ : :
r
K
■ i
,*c *! i 1
■
BB w «lf.
■BMBaUfc- f
sstero-
■i I
■HHr- . : . ,:,/' i :;'■'
■ H ■.
1 ■ h.--%&yj |p l S
">;.. "-Y* rv
I
■1
I
Ml
r U
mt
Fleetmaster is the obvious answer to the
need for absolute flexibility, speed and
efficiency in rapid transportation. It is a
truck which will bring operating costs
down to the lowest price per ton mile
possible. It will pay you to ask the
nearest Republic agent about it.
i
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLE LTD., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


Tried
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair.
sfd
Macassar OH
A. HOWLAND k SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Str-eet, London, W.O.I.,
England. o.t.p.c:.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under th'e Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq. :
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office-
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining an J Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant —
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 I 3 I for your reservation.
Untold Tales of Bully Hayes —
Beauty and a Buccaneer.
ALBERT DORRINGTON
TELLS ABOUT ANOTHER OF “THE LAST
OF THE BUCCANEERS’ ” ADVENTURES.
SLANTS of light from the open windows
of the Shellers’ Arms lit the beach on
the pier side of the island. The wolf-
eyed seaman sprawling under the lone wind-
twisted palm rose to his elbow swearing
absently. A sound of fiddles and women’s
laughter reached him. Later came the tinkle
of glasses, and then the soft sliding of silk
as the dancers swept into the beflagged
little ballroom.
A waiter with a heat-troubled face, a
towel over his arm, peered from the door-
way of the hotel longingly. The beach was
his temporary respite from the steaming air
of the cook’s pantry. Between the toasts
he generally managed to cool off on the
strip of shingle that fronted the hotel.
Observing that the landlord was busy
inside the bar, he strolled, fanning his face
with the towel, towards the windAwisted
palm, where he could catch the breeze that
ruffled the waters of the straits.
In the turn of an eye he saw the wolf-
eyed man watching his approach. He
halted, his round Irish face betraying his
surprise.
“Captain Hayes, by the Holy! Sure ye
don't mean to say”—-
“I’m down and out, Con. The gang at
Darwin are holding my brig for a matter of
seven hundred pounds, money owing for
stores and rig. Blast ’em. I had to skidoo
to save myself being sliot-in for a number
of other things.”
Within the bars that dot the coast- and
river-towns of Queensland, Con had many
times met Hayes. They had borrowed and
had owed each other money without mis-
giving or embarrassment. And now Con
stared in awed silence at the man whose
name was known from one end of the
Pacific to the other—blackbirder, buccaneer.
Thieves and blackguards were plentiful
enough; but this wolf-eyed ruin in the
threadbare pilot coat and the torn shoes
was unlike all the rest —he was still a fac-
tor to be reckoned with. It was the unex-
pected in Hayes that struck into the imagi-
nation of friends and foes alike.
“Maybe, skipper, I could hand you a feed
if you’d come to the back door of the hotel,”
Con ventured. “The cook’s a decent sort
of a Chink.”
The wolf eyes glared at Con. “When I
eat, my lad, it’s in the best room, with the
roast and the wine.” Then in a less hurt
tone: “Thanks all the same, Con. I'm
all right here, listening to those cursed dudes
in that dance-room. I’d like to have the
lot uiuLr my hatches,” he added bitterly.
“I’d let ’mn up on deck to breathe twice
every Sunday.”
“Ah, now, lut you’ve always been kind
to people of quality, skipper,” Con wheedled
appeasingly. “Sir Benjamin and Lady
Izzard’s leading the mob. Landed here two
days ago. They’re on their way to India.”
“Old Blowfly Ben!” Hayes growled con-
temptuously. “While I was amusing myself
pinching niggers and selling ’em alive to the
sugar sharks, Pen was running an insurance
fraud somewhere, filling the place with weep-
ing widows and orphans. Who are the
others?”
Before answering Con glanced back fur-
tively at the lantern-lit verandah of the.
hotel. His voice was low as he spoke.
“Sue Sellars. You remember her dad, old
Dan, who used to run a stall at Belmore?”
“Sue!’’ The buccaneer jerked himself
upright under the palm, eyes narrowing to
slits v "That flash-fingered little pickpocket!''
“Kind to the poor, all the same, skipper!”
Con defended with gusto. “Tipped me a
fiver this evening for the good of my soul.
No man or woman between here and Hades
ever thought of poor old Con Sullivan to
that extent before. A flash pickpocket she
may be, skipper ; but ’tis not my pocket she’s
pickin', nor yours either!”
“Bravo, Con!” the buccaneer guffawed in
spite of himself. “She’s the niftiest little
privateer that ever cut a purse.”
“She has brains where you and me have
only pumpkin seed, skipper. And listen to
this! She landed in Townsville a while back
with one pair of shoes and a nice little frock
she found in the cabin-trunk of a honeymoon
widow. That and her face were all that
stood between Sue and the beach when she
stepped into the Grand Hotel.
“She left Townsville for this island a
month later,” Con chuckled, “with enough,
clothes and jewellery to satisfy the Queen
of Bagdad. ‘Does she like men?’ you ask.
She does not. Women are Sue’s meat. That
old goldbug Lonegan, from the Towers,
stepped like the Caliph Ilaroun into her
cabin late one evening. About such things
as timber in shafts or mud in buckets old
Bill Lonegan knew plenty. But about
women lie knew less than a canary.
“As I say, Bill stepped like the Sultan
of Arabia into Miss Sellars’s cabin. He got
what no sultan or flyweight millionaire ever
got before!”
“What?” came from Hayes in the palm
shadow.
“A show-down before the whole ship’s
company and passengers. Sure she had Bill
babbling on his knees, with old Jim Flynn,
the captain, standing by like a goat at a
funeral to uphold the respectableness and
dignity of his ship and passengers.”
The buccaneer listened and nodded.
“What’s her excuse for being here?” he
asked.
“She’s going to her brother Henry, the
shipowner in Batavia.”
“Her brother!” Hayes chuckled. “Old
Dan Sellars never had a son. What else?”
“That’s about all, skipper. Now the
Izzards have taken her up. The old dame
wants her to go with them to India.”
“Family jewels?”
“Not on view,” Con told him. “Lady
Gizzard’s a nit sniffy about the Thursday
Island crowd. She doesn't wear the sapphire
and ruby custards away from home.”
“She’ll want ’em in India,” Ilayes told
him. “I guess they’re somewhere at the
bottom of the bag. When’s she leaving?”
“To-morrow or Thursday. And the bet-
ting is, skipper, that Sue will go with her.”
After forcing a couple of cigars and the
loan of a pound on the stranded buccaneer,
Con returned stealthily to the hotel.
Hayes was alive to the fact that he was
not the only occupant of the beach. During
Con’s brief stay his seaman’s eye had roved
in the direction of a restless figure reclin-
ing in the. deep shadow of the pier.
Crawling beside the silent figure, the buc-
caneer assumed a friendly attitude; bluff,
hearty and ready-tongued, his manner
invited confidence.
“Hey, kid." he hailed. “You’re trying to
sleep it off, I guess?”
“The Bulletin” can’t always print two of its best stories
in one issue. It definitely promises to do so next week. “The
Goat Plaintiffs,” by F. Hives and G. Lumley, is the most
humorous story printed in any paper in the world for many
months past. And “At Emu Plains” is an unusual contribution
by J. H. M. Abbott throwing a flood of light on one phase
of the convict system of a hundred years ago.
It was a young, serious face that met
his straight, searching glances, a boy of
twenty, with the mark of the city on his
threadbare tweeds and linen.
Ilis reply to Hayes was disconcerting:
“I'm minding my own business. When I
need your society I'll buy a penny stamp
and let you know.”
An amused grin touched the buccaneer’s
mouth. “Easy on those penny stamps,
sonny.” He pitched one of Con's fat
cheroots into the boy’s lap. “Try a smoke.
Let’s be sociable. I’m on the beach, too,
and feeling it worse than you. My name’s
Ilayes. My ship’s in pawn and I’m dead-
broke !”
The youngster in the frayed tweeds sat
bolt upright in the sand. It was as though
someone had snapped a pistol in his face.
“Hayes!” lie gasped. “Bully Hayes?”
“That’s it, sonny—without the Bully.
Never mind the yarns you’ve heard about
me. I’m just a plain sailorman trying to
find my feet again. Please smoke that
cigar I gave you.”
The young man began to smoke, absently
at first, then hungrily.
The buccaneer considered him for a space
—the dreaming eyes, the shapely hands and
a face that reflected recent tortures of
mind.
“No work for the likes of you up in
Thursday, sonny. Those hands of yours
might have plucked a few daisies ; they never
reefed a sail or steered a ship. Why did you
pick this beach, son?”
“I wanted to bring a girl-friend home.
She’s up here looking for employment.”
“You may find her, son, but that’s not
to say you’ll take her back home. If she’s
pretty, the Chinks or other man-eaters will
get her. If she’s ugly, she’ll pass to a
beach of her own among the suds and the
spuds. Don’t worry about a woman, son;
there’s another ’bus coming along.”
The cigar flattened between the young
beachcomber’s milk-white teeth. His fine eyes
flamed dangerously.
“No other woman like her will pass me if
I wait an eternity!” he said passionately.
“I’ll bring her home if I die. No man on
these God-forsaken banks shall sully her
name!”
“Easy, son,” the buccaneer soothed. “You'll
meet her, maybe, when you least expect.
What’s your trade?”
The youngster stirred uneasily. “I write
for the press,” he admitted reluctantly.
“Sea chanties, among other things, you may
be interested to know.”
Hayes scowled. “You mean to say you
write that blow-the-man-down stuff? Holy
Peters! That trade won’t put rings on
your little girl’s fingers.”
Between them fell a silence, in which the
soft boom of surf on the outer bars sounded
like the passing of ghostly chariot-wheels.
Peals of laughter came faintly from the
hotel, interspersed with the scrapings of
violins and the rhythmic poundings of a
well-worn piano.
“A fine happy bunch over there,” Hayes
commented, jerking in the direction of the
lights. “Mopey and wine and the easy life,
sonny. A pack of good-for-nothing bounders
who never earned a real bob in their lives.”
Again the silence.
“You see. sonny.” Hayes went on at last,
“we’d stay here till Gabriel toots the trump
if we waited for people to rush us with
jobs or bring the music a bit closer. To-mor-
row, probably, when we join the band of
free-soup suckers outside Sam Lee’s chop-
suey, a cop will start shoving us off the
footpath. Then you, or me, maybe, will
knock him cuckoo into the ashcan because
we ain’t used to being shoved and messed
about. A bit later on,” the buccaneer con-
tinued, gloomily, “a reinforcement of cops,
black, brown and yellow, will reach for us
on this beach. There'll be scrap number
two, and a long roost for us both in that
filthy little quod back of the palm scrub
over there!”
“A long roost,” the boy echoed absently,
throwing away the half-smoked cheroot.
“Among the opium-bugs and bhang-
chewers of this unholy shell-heap. And
those stinking Rotumah men ! Take it from
me, sonny, we’re booked for the vermin
heap unless we make a break now!”
A touch of horror darkened the young-
ster’s eyes. “That’s rotten,” he commented
at last. “I don’t mind a bit of a famish on
a clean, warm beach. But getting into the
nigger pen will be the limit.”
“Your limit, son. And what about this
little girl that’s probably scrubbing and
mending for some 1 slattern of a half-caste
woman? Burying your head in the sand
may be good exercise for the neck, but it
doesn’t prevent nice girls becoming slushies
in kanaka boarding-houses!”
Came another silence followed by peals of
laughter from the hotel. The wind had
dropped suddenly; a few hurricane-lamps
winked across the straits, where a small
fleet of luggers rode like ducklings under
the lee of a big store-schooner.
“You see, sonny,” Hayes went on in a
lowered voice, “if I go into the pen it will
be for a worth-while job. Let me put it
this w r ay.” His hand fell almost caressingly
on the youngster’s shrinking arm.. “If I
walk into that hotel yonder, and merely
announce that I’m Bully Hayes, bent oil
shooting the first man who getsi in my way,
the whole crowd will have a fit, including
that pop-eyed clown Martin Gannon, who
runs the pub. Do you believe me?”
“I do,” the youngster agreed. “One look
at you in your present state would be
enough for most people.”
“Well,” the buccaneer laughed, “I’m
going to do it. And I’ll tell you this,” he
added quickly. “There’s more real bullion
and jewellery in Gannon’s house to-night
than you’d pick up in most country banks.
The Izzard crowd is there. And, as old
Becky is on her way to an Indian durbar,
you can bet your Sunday socks that the
pinkies and the winkies are going with her.
For the sake of harmony we’ll call it fifteen
thousand quids’ worth. No woman of Becky’s
weight and feelings could be presented to
India’s princes with less than that on her.
What about it. son?”
“A stick-up!” the youngster groaned.
“A beastly, cold-blooded stick-up, Mr.
Poet. You can join me or stay out. All
I ask you to do is to stand by the front
door and wave this one!”
In the turn,' of a hand the buccaneer had
unshipped two heavy naval revolvers, one
of which he thrust into a shaking hand.
“All I ask, Mr. Poet, is that you wave
the blamed thing like a black sausage at
any pushful person who tries to duck out
of the ballroom before I’m through with
Becky’s small-goods. Believe me, son, you
won’t have to shoot. In fact, I’d rather
you didn’t. The minute they know I’m in
the house they’ll honk like geese and call
for the doctor.”
Like a prodded buffalo Hayes stood up
suddenly, his powerful frame silhouetted
against the hotel lights, and glared down at
his companion.
“Are you coming, kid, or shall I do the
trick alone, and leave you to your stomach
pains and your sand-pies?”
For a moment the youngster remained
dead to Hayes’s appeal. Then, with the
bound of a lashed steer, he was on his
feet.
“Give me one of those pistols. I’ll hold
the front passage while you go after the
stuff. If we work fast,” he added, with a
slight break in his voice, “we’ll beat the
police.”
The ballroom of the Shelters’ Arms was
reached from the main passage leading from
the Parade. It was crowded with local well-
wishers and friends of the departing Izzards.
It was between dances that Clem Simp-
son had called upon their pretty visitor
from Sydney, Mliss Susie Sellars, for a solo
ballet. Everyone knew, he said, that she
was queen of the Parisian style of ballet
interpretation.
Sir Benjamin pounded the piano top with
an empty champagne bottle, while the whole
room cheered for the adorable Susie to give
’em just one flutter.
A slender, fairy-like figure was gently
projected from the crowd near the exit
door. There was no doubt concerning Sue’s
poise and daintiness. She smiled on the
half-demented gathering. Under the flower-
ing lamps her hair was a sheaf of twisted
gold, her oval face with its melting eyes a
maddening dream for lonely men and artists.
It. was just at this point that the big gold-
framed mirror on the west wall of the ball-
room was shivered by a revolver shot. A
voice that resembled a second blast of gun-
fire rang above the pandemonium within the
room.
“Hands up, everybody, and keep ’em up,
or, by the holy fires, there’ll be cripples and
dead men for the next waltz!”
Reflected in the splinters that was once
a mirror, men and women saw a bearded
intruder with a wolf-glow in his eyes. To
them he looked like piracy and bloody
hatches; like gun-butts slamming on the
skulls of howling kanakas and boys.
No need for women to scream out that
Bully Ilayes was holding the door! The
men whose hands had closed over the necks
of bottles knew it. And their fingers grew
limp, their throats dry. No one moved a
hand.
For one nerve-breaking instant the buc-
caneer remained in the doorway, a gaunt
spectre of massacre. The malice in his
burning eyes was real enough, the hate of
one hungering and thirsting while others
fed and drank.
His movements had been swift. No one
knew better than he that only speed and a
thunderblast voice would avail. But even as
his glance travelled down, the polished floor
of the ballroom he saw that the dainty,
dancing feet of Sue had vanished through
an exit door on the left.
The snarl of a tiger shook him. He turned
with a fierce gesture to a figure standing
at the entrance.
“Ahoy, there, Sydney!” he trumpeted.
“Shoot any man or woman who tries to
leave before I give the word!”
“Aye, aye, skipper!” came from the slim
figure at the entrance.
A leap carried Hayes up the steep stairs
to the carpeted landing above. For an
instant he glanced right and left. Three
rooms east and three rooms west! Damn
them! Which one belonged to the squalling
cat Becky downstairs?
The click of a closing latch found his
ear. With a bound he reached the door;
his shoulder was against the frail panel, his
seaman’s list grinding at the door knob.
“Sue! Are you in there?”
Came the soft rustle of a skirt across the
room. “Yes, Bully; I’m here.”
“Open the door, Sue. I’m in on. 'this one.
D’ye hear, Sue?”
“No, Bully.”
Hayes sucked down a crimson oath. Then:
“If you don’t open the door, I'll blow the
damned panels in!”
“Blow, my bully boy, blow!”
A strain of silvery laughter reached him
from inside, challenging, maddening.
(Continued on page 57.)


Hanking;, Public Corupaaies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. •• £ 529,988
Preference Shares .. .. •• 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares . . 703,125
Ordinary Shares . . • • • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
IlillTCn INSURANCE
Uni I ELU company ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
- - £1,000,000
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United" is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. 11. E. llobinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bumsu Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUN WICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LiMITED,
ADELAIDE.
{Lbe IDomtnion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
AH Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a tvomgu. needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
AN INTERESTING TRAVEL ROUTE
'HE ideal route to Canada, United
*■ States or Europe traverses the
Sunny South Seas, carrying you via
Auckland, Suva and Honolulu to
Vancouver, or by Wellington, Rara-
tonga and Tahiti to San Francisco.
You may then cross to Europe, plan-
ning the whole trip in advance with
the-
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melb. C.l.
oV**
tt
m
W.
w
'mWm&xigsM
7M
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION Royal Mail Lines.
in?*
!C
am
/,mu
mm
■. -m,
BURNS PHILP TOURS
lllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllH
The GARDEN of the EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the popular
vessels S.S. “MARELLA,” 8500 tons;
M.V. '‘MALABAR,” 5000 tons.
I RETURN FARE, £Bl
BURNS PHILPeC? LI?
7 BRIDGE ST SYDNEY , AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
fiJk.
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21.150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.'
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
Newspaper
&/> e
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier” gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country.
Tested campaigns have proved the “Courier” to yield 75 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined.
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. Dr Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
Shipping, eic.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor . . 15,000 tons, Feb. 25
tßunic . . 12,500 ~ March 1
JDemosthenes 11,500 ~ March 15
tCeramic . . 18,500 ~ March 25
"Ulysses . . 15,000 „ April 18
class only. f“Cabin” class only.
{First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety § Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
1 Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE, via BVRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA — Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening:
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
PARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, ■ Return, £7/£/•
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/■
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, JE3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIT ALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parhelia
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
- Steam3lilpi
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as Der dailv papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Briiise Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
vour fancy, write to the Manager, who will
uiote you price for the original.
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.


BUY YOUR CAR
FROM US BECAUSE-
This is our plan: we sell you a car,
which is fully yours, to use how you
like, where you like and as much as
you like. But before you buy it we
tell you in writing how much we will
pay for it when you want to sell it.
So you don’t have to sell in a hurry
and at a sacrifice. And you can use the car right up to
the last day before selling it. Write and fix this up
now and the car and your driving licence will be
ready the day you land —will meet the boat if you
like. And we will lend you one of our instructors for
three days free of charge if you like. We started
this plan years before anyone else and none of our
imitators offers anything approaching our terms.
AUTO AUCTIONS
BURLINGTON GARDENS
OLD BOND ST. LONDON W.I
World distributors of the Blackburn Bluebird Light Aeroplane
“TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING”
South Australian
Perpetual Forests L t
MESSAGE No. 1.
A CONSERVATIVE POLICY
Conservatism is an important part of the policy
of the Directors who control this Company and the
trustees who watch bondholders’ interests.
Every promise made by us can be fulfilled. We
are content to let official forestry records tell our
story for us, and show that our investment is
inherently sound and solid.
sd
This is Your Protection.
To distinguish
South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.
from those companies now using similar
names, we have registered for the
Company’s exclusive use the title design
illustrated above, and the “Pine-tree”
trademark shown. Literature published
by us always contains these designs.
South Australian
Perpetual Forests Ltd.
Bowman Buildings,
King William Street, Adelaide.
(Plantations: Penola and Mt. Gambier,
South Australia.)
POST THIS COUPON WITHOUT DELAY I
To South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide.
Please forward your booklet “Tree Farming” to—
Name -
Address
“Listen, girl!” he whispered. “I’ve got
something to tell you, something you’ll be
glad to hear!”
There was no response. He drove at th
flimsy panels. The door crashed; he fell
inside, his guard arm up as one risking a
possible thrust of steel.
The room was empty. An open window
looked down on a -plantation. Within foot-
reach was a water-cistern.
“Dished!” he grunted, dropping down
from the window to the tank.
A black-tracker could not have followed
faster on the heels of the quick-running Sue.
Once outside the plantation gate he pelted
down the soft road, his eye catching the
first flutter of a skirt as he rounded a
bend in the sandhills.
“Stop running, Sue!” he bellowed. “The
whole blamed island is on the jump. You’re
heading straight for the pen!”
It came to Hayes that Sue was heading
for the scum side of the .island, to seek
refuge under the rafters of the “joint”
kept by “Jumbo” Hamimura, one of the
bone-breaking, eye-gouging pocket monsters
from the Jap pearling fleet on the banks.
Hayes knew her capable of taking any way
of escape.
Where in hell was she leading him?
Suddenly the dark palm-crested lane
showed a gash of light. Within the gash
stood an old sergeant of police cleaning a
service carbine. Behind the sergeant was
the low-roofed police station. Sue halted
within hailing distance.
“Hey, Constable! Stop this big beer-
lizard from chasing me! There’s been a
hold-up at Gannon’s. I’m the only one that
managed to get out and tell you!”
Sue’s far-carrying voice put a brake on
Hayes’s frenzied rush. It was the old ser-
geant’s movements that decided Kim. A
second and younger officer appeared unex-
pectedly in the lamplit doorway of the lock-
up. Sue was pointing down the road to
where Hayes stood.
Swearing fiercely, he turned and padded
through scrub in the direction of the north
beach, where he could get aboard one of the
luggers anchored off the point, and find
shelter from the hornet’s nest he had roused.
“May Ibe sliced and scissored! It’s me
that’s, always providing chances for others.
She took hers, anyway!”
* * * ;jc
The police at Thursday Island recorded
the fact that the notorious Bully Hayes
had escaped from the island in the pearling
lugger Nancy Free. There was no shadow
of doubt that he carried with him the almost
priceless emeralds and rubies belonging to
Lady Izzard.
As no one in the hotel had been in a
position to identify his confederate, it was
taken for granted he had decamped with
Hayes.
The whole island turned to Miss Sue Sel-
lars in appreciation of her gallant effort
to notify the police of Hayes’s conduct.
Only a girl of exceptional courage would
have risked leaving the ballroom under the
menace of Hayes’s deadly weapon. Lady
Izzard was in part consoled by the fact that
the jewels were well covered' by insurance.
“You dear, dear girl!” she cried, holding
Sue in her arms. “I was simply paralysed
with fear when that ruffian fired at the
mirror. I hope we shall see more of each
other when I return to Sydney. I wish
you could be always near me.”
There was no doubt that Sue had made a
hit with the Thursday Island crowd. The
shelters belonging to' the fleet at Goode
Island presented her with five pearls of
matchless lustre for her bravery in ridding
tho town of the pestiferous Hayes.
Two days after Lady Izzard had departed
in a 8.1. steamer for India it was learned
that Miss Sellars had received a call from
Sydney, where her father was lying dan-
gerously ill. The visit to her brother Henry
m Batavia was cancelled.
The pier was packed when the steamer
moved away south. Cheer after cheer rose
ea 9“ time Sue’s hand waved an adieu.
~ The ship shouldered her way down through
the Barrier mists, her decks awash with
the driving swell. There were few passen-
gers! on the cargo-littered spaces between the
funnel-stays and the fo’c’s’le head. The
well-lit saloon proved more inviting with
its card-hungry crowd settled for the night.
Light bells had sounded from the bridge.
Almost immediately afterwards a sharp
scuffling of feet occurred near the engine-
room door. The first mate, followed by
two greasers and the purser, appeared
haranguing a tall, starved-loolung youth.
Further blows and curses appeared imminent
as they approached the bridge steps.
Half-way across the deck the youth
whirled with almost maniacal energy, beating
off the greasers and mate with straight
blows.
A pair of dainty white satin shoes* pat-
tered up the saloon steps. The shoes car-
ried a girl lovely in shimmering blue and
gold, her hair of twisted gold.
She paused in horror at the scene before
her, let fall upon the struggling mate and
purser the detonation of her startled eyes.
“Why are you beating that young man?
she asked. Her languid pose vanished. The
heat of her anger mounted to her cheeks.
“Beating him!” The mate, a big, round
man, wiped a bruise under his right eye.
“I haven’t had a chance yet. I’m sick to
death of stowaways and cockroaches. _ I m
tired of rooting ’em out,” he complained.
The girl with the gold-twisted hair grasped
the mate’s arm. She thought they were
behaving horribly.
The purser interposed half-heartedly. “But
lie’s a stowaway, Miss Sellars —hasn't paid
his passage, you know.”
“Oh, is that all?” she drawled, and from
her purse drew a number of notes and
tossed them contemptuously at the bewil-
dered purser. Then, with her intriguing smile:
“Find a cabin for the unfortunate young
man, please. You surely don’t want to kill
a boy for trying to get home!”
The purser fawned. “Certainly not, Miss
Sellars. Cabin twenty-three is unoccupied.
He can move in straight away.”
Later on the purser dug out a suit of
white duck and passed them to the tattered,
coal-grimed stowaway in cabin twenty-three.
He also intimated that dinner would be
served him qt once.
An hour later cabin twenty-three found
himself under the starboard awning, gazing
at the large white stars that crested the
long blue shadow of the Barrier. Beside
him leaned the girl with the twisted-gold
hair, and the mouth and, eyes created for
lonely men and artists to dream about.
“So you tried your luck on the pearl
banks, Len? Not a good place for poets
or hairdressers. I didn’t know you’d chucked
your writing job.”
His face flushed at her inquiry. “The
thought of money didn’t bring me to Thurs-
day, Sue. The last star went out when you
left Sydney. My little world of wooded
bays and heights, visions of enchantment
when you were there, became sterile as
death in your absence. So I made the run
north in the hope of meeting you on your
return from Batavia. Instead, I met that
half-pirate, half-devil Bully Hayes!”
Cabin number twenty-three paused as one
screwing up courage for a damning confes-
sion. “I was with him in that ghastly stick-
up at Gannon’s!” lie whispered hoarsely.
“You with Hayes!” Her voice was a
suppressed scream. “Oh. Len dear, this is
more than I can stand!”
Len held her quivering shoulder desper-
ately. “It was Hayes’s fault, Sue. I was
mad at the time. Sleeping on the beach
shook me badly. For two whole days I
never tasted food. Easy, dear; don’t cry!”
Sue recovered herself slowly. “I’ve always
remembered one bit of poetry you wrote,
Len,” she said at last. “It was about not work-
ing too hard when you get old. My brother
Henry’s made things easier for me.”
She paused to fan her cheek. “So for a
while you won’t have to worry so much
about selling your poetry.”
A silence. And again Sue;
“I may not know poetry from a leaf out
of a street directory, Len. But I like the
bit you read out to me a night or two
before I left Sydney to see Henry in
Batavia.”
“Which one?” he a'sked simply.
“It was about a poor sailor who wanted
to mend his fortune. ‘One more trip with
the buccaneers’ —you remember—it said.
He wanted to raise the wind and smell the
sea again before he got too old. ‘.Just one
more trip to singe the King of Spain his
beard.’ ”
Len raised a clenched hand. “I’ve had my
trip !” he cried. “Never again !”
Sue fell into a gentle melancholy.
“Somebody’s beard got singed, too!” she
sighed. “But it wasn’t the King of Spain’s. ’
Dan and Sam.
W. E. BRENTON’S PLEASANT
STORY OF A WOMAN AND TWO MEN
ĕ
THE weather-worn grey of the unpainted
hardwood and the patches in their
shingled roofs revealed the age of the
little single-roomed shanties, and the moss
on their squat chimneys. They were built
on the level ground above the bed of the
deeply-sunk creek, and sheltered by ancient
red-gums—trees that had been there long
before the country was settled.
A brushwood fence surrounded the gar-
dens about the shanties. In one was a cow,
which was Dan’s, and in the other were
fowls, which were Sam’s; they swapped eggs
for milk, meeting at the dividing fence,
where, one with eggs in his hand and the
other with a billy of milk, they argued hotly.
It duln t matter what about as long as they
argued. Their voices would rise and their
eyes gleam, and the torrent would pour
forth unchecked and unheard. Sam had the
greater command of words, Dan the louder
voice, but neither was able to out-talk the
other. At last Dan would shout, “If you
know so much, you oughter be able to tell
where Rose is. Now tell !” At which Sam
would look vaguely about him, rub his nose
and pause, while Dan looked at him trium-
phantly. “I wish I could,” Sam would say
miserably. Then Dan would stride away,
conscious of victory, and they would resume
digging or raking.
They were never idle when at home, but
with bent shoulders and absorbed eyes were
always doing something, as much from habit
as necessity. Bushmen both, most of their
time was spent working for the neighbors,
though rarely were they on the same job.
Dan had always been a laborer, but Sam
once had been a farmer somewhere. He had
married Rose, who was a relation of Dan’s,
which he assumed gave him the right to de-
mand where she had gone. Sam, it seemed,
had been married a couple of years when the
farm had failed him and Rose had left. Or
it had failed after she had left; nobody
knew which, and nobody now remembered.
Some people thought it had failed because
of loss of incentive to make it pay; but
most people thought that this was nonsense,
because, as everybody knows, money is more
important than feelings, and nobody without
it has the right to indulge in sentiment.
Which was why Dan was always able to
silence Sam when Rose was mentioned.
At any rate, when Sam came in one
night Rose had gone. If she left a letter
to explain why, Sam never mentioned it;
nor was there any scandal. He went on
with his work as if the flitting of a wife
was quite in the ordinary way of things.
Vague rumors were heard that Mrs. Sam
was doing something in the city, but to all
curious questioners his invariable reply, after
a pause during which he rubbed his nose,
was: “I don’t know where she’s gone. I
wish I did.” Then Sam had disappeared.
The township at which he had finally
pulled up was on a main line between two
important cities. Every night and morning he
and his neighbor heard a speeding express
and saw it rush past an opening in the
scrub; saw it, that is, when they looked
which was not often, and all it did then
was give them the time of the day. They
never saw a newspaper; to read, that is,
though San\ could read and Dan could spell
out the letters; their only use for papers
(Continued on next page.)


Made by the Worlds most
expert craftsmen
Every Kropp Razor turned out at
Sheffield, England, is hand-forged from
solid bars of steel. Kropp means razor
perfection—a far keeper edge than you
get with ordinary
cast steel or
machifle - Stamped
fazors. Buy a
Kropp and enjoy
shaving comfort for
a lifetime.
'^Jhe
KROPP
never requites grinding
Individually tested, and fully guaranteed. Black,
Ivory or Xylonite handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London,
£
ALL-BRITISH
AVOID
SUBSTITUTES:
Every genuine
Kropp stamped
“ Made and
ground in
Sheffield,
England”
It keeps out writing
" ——■ —t—w"■"■■ ——— mmm
The longer you
use a ‘Swan’ Pen
the more you will
appreciate the
perfect writing-
qualities and its
constant relia-
bility which have
made 'Swan 1
craftsmanship
world-famous.
V 5.F.2300
' Black or
Mottled
(with flip)
r Jade
(with (,'lip)
30/-
Coloured ‘Swans’ from 22/6
(Other Self-Filling ‘Swans’ from 17 6
Black or Mottled)
“ F ne-Poynt” P.nci f f om 7/6
Self-Filling ‘ Blackbird ” Pens f om 9 1-
Of Stationers and Jewellers
Illustrated Catalogue postf/ee
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
Loridoii, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
A fa agin’ Agents and R pair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMj ANY,-LTD.,
18i, Clarence Street, Sydney.
I&WAN
PEN
ASK TO SEE THE NEW COLOURED “SWANS”/
K (A.)
Never a Sign of Superfluous Hair!
K
W
THIS FREE COUPON, or
copy of same to be sent with your
name and address and 3d. stamps.
Mrs. HUDSON: Please send me free
your full information and instruc-
tions to cure superfluous hair.
Address, FREDERICA HUDSON
(Desk 9P), No. 9 Old Cavendish
Street, London, W.l, England.
Lifelong misery gone for ever
| AM a thankful woman who looks back on long
years of dreary misery, years when ugly masculine
growths on the chin and lips made the ashatlled to
go out, made me sit at home in helpless tnv>‘ of
my more fortunate sisters. No one who has not
suffered as I did can realise the dreadfulness of this
awful disfigurement. Yet now I am free of my
trouble, free for ever, and I have been free for years.
If you suffer as I did ; if, as I did, you have tried
every so-called remedy in vain, this may sound
incredible. I cannot blame you. I, too, had despaired.
I, too, had come to the conclusion that nothing,
not even the painful electric needle, could bring a
real cure. But I was cured in most extraordinary
circumstances. My husband, who was an officer in
the Indian Army, managed to save the life (if a
Hindoo soldier. As you know, the Hindoo religion
absolutely forbids its women to have a sign of hair
except on their heads, and this humble sepoy, seeking
to show his gratitude, whispered to my husband the
sacred secret which keeps their women free from
trace of disfiguring hair. When my husband told me
I thought it was useless, but in my despair I tried
it. Naturally I imagined that the hair would grow
again as it had after everything else. I looked for
it daily for months, but from that day to this 1
have never seen a sign of my one-time affliction.
This Hindoo secret cured me completely.
My experience was so wonderful that I determined to
pass on the secret recipe to all my fellow-sufferers.
Now many have tried it and it has never failed to
bring permanent relief. Therefore to any lady who
will send me this coupon, or a copy of it, with your
name and address and three penny stamps to cover
my outlay for posting, etc., I will send quite free
full information so that you may for ever end all
trace of embarrassing hair by the wonderful method
that cured me. Please state whether Mrs. or Miss,
and address your letter to Frederica Hudson (Desk
9P), No. 9, Old Cavendish Street, London, W.l,
England.
IMPORTANT NOTE. — Mrs. Hudson belongs to a
family high in Society, and is the widow of a promi-
nent Army Officer, so you can write her with every
confidence. Address as above. xB(>7
was to paste on the hessian lining of their
shanties.
One night when they entered the township
they saw more people than usual around the
post office. It "was some time in _ August,
1914. They heard somebody mention war,
and when they were on their way back to
their shanties they heard cheers. After that
they heard people talking of little else but
war, till it. became as ordinary a topic as
the price of wheat and wool and spuds. The
only result war had for Dan and Sam,
though they didn’t see the connection, was
that they got more work to do, and at rising
wages, and had to pay more for their few
necessaries.
They had a lean time when the war was
over, for everybody wanted at first to be
good to the young men who had gone away
to fight. In other ways things were just the
same, as far as they could see. The express
trains rushed by the same as they used
to, though the engines seemed to be getting
bigger. More motor-cars hummed along the
main road, and overhead an aeroplane passed
nearly every week. They scai’cely glanced
up at it now, for it was not of their world,
which was in their little gardens and inside
them, and all that was inside them came
out when they swapped eggs for milk, and
argued till Dan shouted his unchanging ques-
tion about Rose, and Sam paused to rub
his nose and reply that he didn’t know where
she was, but wished he did.
Then Sam got a job with the contractor
who was reconstructing the long-neglected
main road. He did not know it was be-
cause of the motor-car, and would not have
bothered if he. had known. All that troubled
him was having to step aside to allow the
things to pass. Because a couple of dozen
w£nt hack and forth during his working
time he told Dan that the road ought to
be closed till the job was finished, and some-
thing that was nearly a grin broke, his face
when metalling compelled them to get off
on to a side track.
One day after a night of rain a big limou-
sine was stuck on the side track, and thv>
driver sought the help of the workmen to
get it out. As Sam approached, a woman
looked hard as Sam, then suddenly drew
back. And when the car was free she turned
and studied him through the window at the
rear. Sam hadn’t noticed her: he was
spreading metal as if there was nothing else
in the world but loose stones and a ringing
fork.
The following Sunday he and Dan were
doing their weekly wash at a pool in the
creek under one of the redgums when they
heard the hum of a motor cease on the track
above and behind them. Presently a young
man in livery appeared on the bank and
called down, “Is one of you chaps named
Sam Webster?”
“That’s me!” said Sam, rising stiffly.
“I was told to give you this.” And he
threw a letter down for Sam to catch.
When Sam picked it up and read it he
looked at Dan doubtfully. “It’s from Rose, ’
he said. “She wants to see me.”
Dan held up a dripping shirt and eyed it
sourly. “There ain’t anything to argue
about in that, is there?” he demanded.
“What’s ter stop yer?” And as Sam went
slowly up the bank Dan resumed his
washing.
The villa was surrounded by a garden, its
beds trim, its lawns closely mown, its paths
of yellow gravel cleanly swept. Within, the
villa was luxurious. In the drawing-room a
woman was seated at a table writing a letter.
Though apparently she was over fifty her
figure was still youthful, albeit the brown-
ness of her hair suggested art rather than
nature. Her face was but slightly lined,
its flesh firm, the skin clear. Her eyes were
cold: the eyes of a woman who knew what
she wanted and generally got it.
For all her studied composure there was
nervousness in her fingers as the door was
opened and a maid announced a visitor.
When Sam stepped in she closed the door
softly. Then for a moment they looked with-
out speaking. More than twenty years had
passed since they had seen one another ; years
that had bowed Sam’s shoulders, greyed his
hair, deepened the lines in his face, yet left
something within him unchanged.
It was the woman who spoke first.
“You know me, Sam?”
Pie nodded absently as if looking at some-
thing far behind her.
“I recognised you on the road the other
day!” she said.
“What day?”
“The day you and the other men helped
to get my car out of the mud.”
“Is that why you want to see me?”
“I believed you were still a farmer.”
“I lost the farm twenty years ago.”
“You ought to have let me know,” she
said a little reproachfully. “I had a feeling
that you might lose it: you are not clever,
Sam.” He let that pass as if granted. “I
wanted you to .sell it and join me,” she
answered, her voice trailing away.
“I mortgaged it for you,” he said. “That’s
how I lost it.”
She nodded as if half-regretting the fact.
“Yes. You see the result.” She indicated
the room with a wave of her hand. “I
knew I had a flair for business, Sam. It
was easy from the beginning. But you in-
sisted on staying on the land, a hewer of
wood and drawer of water.”
“Is it to tell me this that you sent for
me?” he asked, ignoring the rich Airnishings
and her complacent satisfaction. “Why
didn’t you get a divorce?”
She looked at him sharply. “Why should
I? There was nobody else. All I wanted
to do was make money.”
“And now that you’ve succeeded?”
“I want you to be a laborer no longer.”
“Is that all?”
“Isn’t it enough?”
“No,” was all he said.
She lowered her eyes and they hardened
“You despise money?” she asked, with a
little shrug of a shoulder.
“No. But I think more of other things.
I could have made the farm pay if you
had made it worth while.”
Her face stiffened. “And yet you are
still a laborer!”
“That’s what I appear to be. ... But it’s
not to tell me that you’ve made money that
yon have sent for me.”
Her hands shook slightly as she folded a
sheet of paper, and for a moment she did
net answer. Then: “I sent for you on
Richard’s account.”
“Richard’s account! Who is Richard?’
“Our son.”
“Our son ! My son!” He paused and his
eyes gleamed. “Why didn’t you tell me?”
“The law. It’s very unfair: it gives
the father first claim over his children. You
would have made only a. farmer of him.”
“Where is he?”
“I sent him away a few days ago—till
after I had seen you. He is of age,” she
added. “So you can no longer claim him.”
“Does he know of me?”
“Only what I haVe told him. I’ve said
nothing at all to make him think ill of
you.”
“Nothing except that his father was and
is a failure. And what have you made of
him?”
“Above all, I hope, a gentleman,” she
said definitely.
“By which you mean something that de-
spises a laborer? You want me to —what?”
“Give up working as you have been doing.”
“And live on your bounty because I’m
the father of your son?” A hard gleam
came into her eyes. “Have you told him?”
“No,”
“Then you need never tell him. I’ve
never seen him. I don’t wish to see him.
He might be like you !”
Without another word he turned and left
the room.
Dan came in a little later than usual on
Sunday night. He felt that he didn’t want
to come in at all. He milked his cow and
took the billy of milk to the fence before
he realised that he was the victim of habit,
and, growling at himself for a fool, he col-
lected Sam’s eggs. Nothing he did seemed
to have the same interest, and he did the
customary things merely because his
arms and legs seemed to have taken charge
of affairs themselves. Even in his sleep he
was aware of some invisible trouble weigh
ing on him, and after an uncomfortabl
night he rose with the first streak of dawn.
“Thank the Lord I've got a job to go to !”
he mumbled when he put on his hat.
Stepping out he stumped to the gate, deter
minedly keeping his eyes from Sam’s shanty.
But he could not help seeing it as he turned
to shut the gate : and then he gaped. There
was a trickle of smoke rising from Sam’s"
chimney!
Thinking some tramp had taken posses-
sion, he reddened with anger and strode to
the fence.
“Who's there?” h,e shouted.
The door opened and Sam appeared.
“That you. Dan?” he called.
“When did you come'back, Sam?”
“Last night, late.”
"Did you find out where Rose is?”
Sam rubbed his nose and paused. “I
found out ichat she is. I wish I hadn’t.”
Old Blood.
His blood grows thin: Love cannot mingle
His essence with it as of old ;
His warmest love-dream scarce will tingle
A dreamy minute in the cold.
Ripe is he for the passing. Shady
His life is, and the hours are slow :
How fleet they went when with his lady
His heart was a hunter long ago !
R. CRAWFORD.
The Alien Note.
Thousands of years this wind has
His sandy tttne of gladness,
Up the hill and over the hill
And dOwii the hill iii madness;
Thousands of years the wild gi-ass grain
Has ripened and died and greened again
Where no steps fell,
While the harper rippled his airy strain
And night and day swung well.
Still do the tea-trees chatter near
(The same wind sets them talking)
Where walls of our kindly home appear
And human feet go walking.
But, ash-grey out of the gleamy fern,
Stript, dead saplings, erect and stern,
Poles stab the sky
Oh, what have living leaves to learn
From wires that thrum on high!
Thousands of years the old wind played
With never a note of sadness,
Up the hill and over the hill
And down the hill in madness;
Now falters above sweet blades and briers
A sigh of sorrowful, vague desires,
Desolate, lone.
The wind plucks sound from man-strung
wires,
And they moan they moan.
victoria.
ELSIE COLE.
In Haven.
O Mariners, O Mariners,
O Brothers of the Sea,
Safe-havened in this sheltered bay,
’Tis well awhile to be!
When we took ship bright boys we were
Who now are weary men,
For round and round the world we’ve sailed
Again and oft again.
Gay shipmates, years and years agone,
We heard the four winds call,
And glimpsed a star Adventure lit
To make us rovers all.
Through toil and peril, heat and hail,
Till we grew worn and wan,
That high-set star, that wondrous star,
For ever lured us on.
Towards it we steered, on, ever on,
Full-sailed with dipping bow
But Mariners, O Mariners,
Where is that high star now?
Though, lured by it, wide seas we crossed,
And sped from coast to coast,
Bong, long ago it paled away
And vanished like a ghost.
Then, Mariners, C) Mariners,
Since idle proved our quest,
Safe-liavencd in this hay awhile,
Let us contented rest.
N.S.W,
RODERIC QUINN.


teas
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HUJLM£» as OHI/RCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. OHice—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
fAMf/inn u/cft ti e ufiirc
i/VMiUKU WE-01, N. 0. WALCO
V'ctoriau Ollier—"Chancery House,” 485 ltourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Asrents: Messrs. ET.OEK, SMITH & CO., I/l'D., Adelaide, B.A.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc,, from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185//.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment hnd expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
, ' f
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER’' may he
obtained at all interstate agencies oj
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
Kins William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
0. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
I T is thus, judged by the use made oj
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
PROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “ The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average iSTet Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
1 and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Sauare ’
BW 6179. 4 ’
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
VI
i
ffn
EYES
bell of
<jYES tell of character and
personality. Eye* tell el
I 1 health elao. If the whites
have lost their brightness,
are dull and lack lustre, you may
be sure your health as well as your
beauty are being impaired by poisons
spreading through your system—the
result of Constipation. Headaches,
biliousness and tiredness, are other
HEALTH
manifestations of constipation. The
safest, surest way to conquer constipa-
tion is to take Beecham’s Pills. Their
corrective action has made them the
world’s approved regulative medicine
l Get a box to-day.
SEEGHAMS
PILLS
WORTH A
GUINEA A
BOX
V
I
Tuesday, February 4, 1930. 64 Pages—3d.
COMMENCJNG IN THIS WEEK’S ISSUE
EARTH-BATTLE
A Brilliant New Serial by
DOROTHY COTTRELL
The Now Famous Author of “SINGING GOLD,**
that remarkable Australian story for the serial
rights of which the “Ladies Home Journal”
(America) paid £lOOO.
EARTH-BATTLE "
A story of Men and Moments in Queensland.
You will enjoy every chapter of this fascinating
and descriptive Australian tale.
ė
ę


AA/hat the
TEN-THOUSANDTH MILE
Reveals -
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
1 -
FULL
SIZE
ftYMOVTH
AT the 10,000-mile mark a
Plymouth owner looks back
with satisfaction and views the
future with assurance.
In Plymouth he enjoys the one
car in the lowest - priced field
that is built" to standards that
make it a permanent pleasure
to own.
The brilliant performance lasts.
Motor and chassis remain quiet
and efficient. The weatherproof
hydraulic brakes need no equalising,
no oiling and no attention ... they keep
right on delivering smooth, quiet and
positive stops.
There is a remarkable freedom from the
minor annoyances, the minor adjustments
and repairs usually regarded as inevitable
in cars of low price.
The full- size Plymouth gives full- size
comfort and satisfaction... for as long
/
TTTrrr
m
TJ,
W
TT'W
'V
&
ami'
/C?i Ijßfl {f
>£/\nvb
*8
r\
/£
7
s•£.• ' :V.*::is
wwwS'W
,3*3:1
PLYMOUTH 4-DOOR SEDAN.
as you reasonably expert to drive a
motor-car. More than one hundred
and fifty thousand Plymouth owners
already are enjoying low - cost trans-
portation that is beyond anything they
ever dreamed of receiving for so low
an investment.
Talk to the Plymouth owners among
your acquaintances. Then let your local
dealer give you a demonstration of
Plymouth performance.
CHRYSLER
w
MOTORS
PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane s Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. AttWood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand . Todd Motor Company Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Lid., Rabaul
