

ixiutth
mm
•II:
SHU.
:::::::
IHHHHi
HUH
:hUS:
in;;:
iiiia
UHH:HI
r„::
P gWARDEg
50MEDA©
:::::
P'l
z- Perth it
II
i=l i
11l
iiiiiiii
Hi: :
I
ii
f/."
rUi
a:::
m ii
FINE _
Miiezir&fe
%
h :
r:::
HIH
u:::
ii
: ii?:::
e iill!
AS EXCLUSIVELY SOPPUED TO THE
u:h
InPGR^LINSTITiITG
£ I/OcstSnD Clubs
liii
JohnDewdroSons^
Distillers PERTHiScotUwl)* LONDON
::::
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND*
"’ Tj 1 -.lt. T«i iu»(n.,i*o. ef r.i ce****c**«f**'* ‘* rfl
1
iUtHflt
twin
yijtvij)?®
llllißS
l:i:il:::l::HH
:
::::
uni
lUUiUUUUUailSlttliMJiiUftUU&ftttuifeiMiiflMMiiiMaiiHiaMHiiiM
jkjk
Dewar's
The BUlletin
$d
VoL 51.—N0. 2640.
Wednesday, September 17, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'T’HE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
* now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Wanderer’s Song, ever gay and glad,
Still cheers the way when his heart is sad-*—
With tightened belt as he trudges along.
He lifts his soul in the Wanderer’s Song.
It vdices his challenge and flaunt at fate
As hungry and chilled he halts by your gate-
The Wanderer’s Song is gratitude pure,
For Warmth and Woods’ Great Pfeppermint Cure.
Oik
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPONV !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please, send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Na me ... -
Mo Address
S-. 8. 314 *
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
It* &
jpjl
mM
THE BREAKFAST
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce stim-
ulates the appetite
for breakfast.
Just a few drops
with the eggs and
bacon ah ! what
a delightful zest.”
* *
\u\m$
,4l' !
I
THE IDEAL GIFT FOR
A MAN
ROLLS
RAZOR
The British ONE BLADE Safety Razor that
strops and hones itself and saves -the cost
of thousands of wafer blades.
The Rolls Razor stands alone.
THE BEST SAFETY RAZOR IN THE
WORLD.
Imperial No. 1, 50/-; No. 2, 40/-
From all high-class store,s.
Illustrated Catalogue sent post free to any
address.
Distributing Agents:
Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
D. Reddan & Co., Melbourne, Victoria and
Tasmania.
Misselbropk & Co., Brisbane, Queensland.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDIMEY.
Opposite Union Club antl Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ECZEMA
ELIEF from th®
pain and dis-
tress of Eczema
is complete when you
apply Zam-Buk to the
affected part.
Soothes at the first
touch and quickly
heals. Unequalled for
all skin diseases.
□
50
Subjects Weekly,
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING,
0N ALt AT “The Australasian 5
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians appreci-
KACTi WEEK.’ ate, arid their friends overseas, too !
"&WAM” IHK
FOR “SWAN” PENS AND ALL PENS
‘Last Drop,” 2/
"•wSWSf
S«,«. » o- finttl Pens 4
40z., 1/3
2|02., 9d.
l£oz., 6d.
400 z., 5/6
300 z., 4/6
2002,, 3/6
BLUE-BLACK, RED, GREEN, VIOLET, BLUE.
Sold Everywhere.
Australian Agents: PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., ISI Clarence Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The Red Page
(in the “Wild Swan,” just published by Robertson
and Mullens).
’Called in those days a sharp-shooter; to-day he
would be a sniper, i remember this man well. I
met one of his daughters . lately, but I did not
mention that I had known her father, or knew what
he had been. He had a large family and many
grandchildren, and as a paid killer of the black he
was but one of many.
The Hunter of the Black
Softly footed as a myall, silently he walked,
All the methods of his calling learned from
men he stalked :
Tall he was, and deeply chested, eagle-eyed
and still,
Every muscle in his body subject to his will.
Dark and swarthy was his color ; somewhere
Hampshire born;
Knew no pity for the hunted —weakness all
his scorn;
Asked no friendship, shunned no meetings,
took what life might bring;
Came and went among his fellows something
like a king.
Paid each debt with strict exactness, what
the debt might be ;
Called no man employed him master;
master’s equal he;
Yet there was not one who sought him, none
who held his hand,
Never father, calling, bade him join the
family band.
Tales and tales were told. about him, how,
from dawn to dark,
Noiselessly he trailed his quarry, never
missed a mark,
How the twigs beneath his footsteps “moved
but never broke,”
How the very fires he kindled “never made
a smoke.”
Men would tell with puzzled wonder marked
on voice and brow
How he’d stand a moment .talking, leave, and
none knew ho.w,
“He was there. .and then had vanished,
going as he came,
Like the passing of a shadow, like a falling
flame.
Once (I heard it when it happened) words
were sent to him
Of a lone black on Mamoosa —O, the hunt-
ing grim!
Through three days and night lie tracked
him, never asking sleep;
Shot, for him who stole the country, him
who killed a sheep.
Tomahawk in belt, as only adults needed
shot.
No man knew how many notches totalled up
his lot.
But old stockmen striking tallies, rough and
ready made,
Reckoned on at least a thousand, naming
camps decayed.
Time passed on. and years forgotten whit-
ened with the dust;
He whose hands were red with slaughter
sat among the just.
Kissed the children of his children, honored
in his place,
Turned and laid him down in quiet, asking
God His grace.
MARY GILMORE
Out with the Theatre!
The theatre has lately been getting some
bad blows in Europe, and serve it right.
It has become too feeble and futile for
words. To go from the street into a
theatre nowadays does not mean entering
into a fuller, richer life; it usually means
leaving life behind. At the present moment
it is hardly possible to discover a full-
bodied play in London after the most
vigorous search. There is a ragged per-
formance of “Othello,” which has some in-
terest because of the work of the negro,
Paul Robeson; there is the solemn Ulster-
man, St. John Ervine, being heavily-light
and English in “The First Mrs. Fraser”;
there is a poor comedy of Sacha Guitry’s.
For the rest, it is mainly a matter of thin
farces and revues. Plainly the theatre
wants a little fresh air let into it.
On the other hand some of the recent
talkies and silent films have been full of
vitality. I have always had a prejudice
against the screen, but I am beginning to
see its possibilities. One of them is the
way it can open new sources of drama.
Talkies like “Hallelujah,” and some of the
productions of Potemkin, make most
modern dramas look like the fantasies of
a sick schoolgirl. What vigor these films
show! What an uprush of life! There
is the energy of creation behind them, and
they are struggling towards an art that will
have some body in it, that will stimulate
people instead of merely helping them to
digest their dinners.
The trouble with the theatre is the way
it, has become dominated by the West End
play, the Broadway drama. It is a peculi-
arly'artificial and local thing, this West
End play. It derives from the eighteenth
century comedy, when fashionable society
had a polish about it, and brilliant things
were really said in drawing-rooms. Bui
who imagines that the blades of Congreve
lounge about the flats of South Kensington
nowadays? And while these modem plays
have lost their content of robust and
polished wit, they keep the form of smart
dialogue. The same sort of people sitting
about on sofas, the same .young men being
facetious about the difference between
Oxford and Cambridge, the same servants
answering bells! Raffish young peers whom
it is necessary for someone to capture in
marriage; doggy flappers who hint at
wonderful depths of experience but who
have always gone into life at the shallow
end; incredible, pompous butlers! You
know them all, and yet you are not expected
to remember them. Their outlines fade
into a mist as soon as the curtain goes
down.
And the production is always the same.
I here is no depth in the stage. The char-
acters fall into a line parallel to the foot-
lights as soon as there is any scene. They
wander about and pick up illustrated papers
in non-drama tie moments. Action is
achieved by a menial bringing in tea, or
the telephone-bell ringing. If only one of
these dramatists had the initiative to set
an act in the street or at the entrance of
a railway station. But that would be life,
an outrage ot the drawing-room conven-
tions. It would bring in problems for the
West End dramatist. “I’ve never seen a
duke, or even a peer,” one of them said to
me lately, “but they’re damned easy to write
about. Tou can find all about, the way they
live in other plays.” Imitations of imita-
tions !
Meanwhile moving-picture producers are
letting the robust life of a wider world into
the theatre. They are hampered, of course,
by the tyranny of Hollywood, but they have
the ideas, the energy, and the imagination,
and little film-societies are springing up all
over Europe to help them. I have been
astonished in London by the number of
intelligent people who never go near the
theatre but are always keen' to see any
really good American, Russian or German
film. And there are more of these than
one would suspect from the advertisements
in the papers.
The theatre is a decadent institution at
present, and no one will do living drama
any good by standing up for it. Let it go.
with its shabby, gold-ornamented mauso-
leums, its stupid managements, its silly con-
ventions, and its ideal of South Kensington
small-talk as racy dialogue. In Australia
we have suffered from these influences par-
ticularly, and ought to be glad to see them
brought to dust. It would do no harm if
all the theatres were closed for 10 years,
their entrepreneurs turned into some other
industry, their conventions forgotten. Then
the spoken drama would eornq to life again.
It would create fresh audiences and build
new theatres.
LONDON.
VANCE PALMER.
An Educationist at Sea
The main thesis of “Sfax” (B. 6/8/’3O)
seems to have been that “education can
impart knowledge and do no more than
that.” The moulding of personality (or
character) is outside the teacher’s sphere—
outside anyone’s apparently, as we are all
turned out of our little patty-pan moulds,
finished to the last hair, from, I suppose,
some celestial oven. And the patty-pans
are the same ones as were used by this
conservative Chej in the Stone Age.*
Looked at in the rough, I suppose people
have always had, and always will have, their
humanity in common. Broadly, certain
things will always please us, make us
frightened. Our instincts remain with us,
and appear to alter little basically. But
“Sfax’s” deduction from this is interesting.
Because mankind, as a whole, is thus and
thus, it matters not how the individual
child is treated—he cannot escape from
that mould wherein he was poured. Billy
Smith he is and Billy Smith he will remain.
One admission that “Sfax” makes, how-
ever, rather gives his case away. Billy
Smith, we are told, is 'capable of assimilat-
ing information. If he is a dirty-minded
little boy when he comes to school, says
“Sfax,” he cannot avoid being a dirty-
minded old man when he dies. Yet he
may know considerably more! What I
want to know is, how is Billy going to keep
what he knows from influencing other
spheres of his life—in short, “modifying his!
personality”? How is he going to keep
his mind and his character in water-tight
compartments? Suppose he comes up against
Havelock Ellis in his student days. Is it
not conceivable that he may begin to feel
that his own attitude to sex was rather
silly and unenlightened? He may even
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—ALWAYS at Anthony Horderns'.
Made to Measure Suits
Genuinely Reduced at
Anthony Horderns
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Regular Now
Regular Now
%•#5/5/-
Here is an opportunity that every
man will welcome. A Made to
Measure Suit at a saving of
nearly £2.
The Suitings comprise all our regu-
lar lines priced at £7/17/6 and
£6/15/-. They include the latest
and most fashionable English
Flannels, Tweeds and Worsteds in
the newest weaves and colors and
conservative dark greys; also fine
quality Indigo dyed; also Serges.
Our skilled tailors cut and make
these suits in our own workrooms
—perfection of fit and finish is
guaranteed and no extra charge is
made for unusual size or style.
Come in at once, or, if inconvenient
to call personally, send for our
range of patterns and self-
measurement form, which brings
our tailoring service to your home.
Prices £6/15/- £7/17/6
Reduced t 0... £5/5/- £5/19/6
You can use our D.P.S. if more convenient
We will take your measurements and finish the suit
to your entire satisfaction. You pay a deposit , and on
completion of payments, which you may make to suit
your convenience, we will deliver it in the usual way.
You pay no extra, but get the advantage of these low
prices.
jkjk
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED. SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
80x2712C, G.P.O,


The Ford Truck is ideal
for the Owner- Driver!
Simplicity of Design is its Keynote
WHEN a delivery vehicle represents
its owner’s means of livelihood;
when the loss of a day’s work
through mechanical failure means loss
of a full day’s earnings, then simplicity
is of vital importance to the truck buyer.
Simplicity of construction, added to fine
materials and workmanship, makes the
jk
"Drive a Ford and bank
the Savings ”
Ford 30 cwt Truck ideal for
the owner-driver. The sturdy
Ford 4-cylinder engine (40
brake horse power) is simple
in design and has few working
parts —all big and strong for
heavy service. Freedom from
repairs—characteristic o f the
Ford Truck under the hardest
working conditions—has
brought genuine praise from owners
from Cooktown to Perth. An owner-
driver writes from Oakleigh (Vic.) * '"My
Ford Truck has been splendid under
all conditions. Its speed, power and ac-
celeration under load are amazing. It
has done 8,500 miles and has not cost
one penny for maintenance. Its perform-
ance can be summed up in three
words economical .... capable . . . •
simple .”
Give your nearest Ford Dealer an
opportunity to prove the simplicity and
economy of this splendid truck. Inspect
it carefully, point by point—then drive it
yourself to test its capabilities and ease
of control.
*(iVame and address supplied on request ).
jf TRUCKS AND
| TRACTORS ARE
| BRITISH EMPIRE
I PRODUCTS
I
1
%
ssss
m
SS®
w 1
SPRINGING SYSTEM simple and
strong. Heavy part of springs bolted
to frame, flexible ends attached to
axles —reduces road shocks and un-
sprung weight.
/S %
tiZ- —' K
mi
//////////?
ELECTRIC SYSTEM simple and safe.
Heavy-duty battery with POSITIVE
terminal grounded to prevent corros-
ion. (Negative is usually grounded),
Distributor dismantled in four seconds
and is impossible to reassemble in-
correctly.
FUEL SYSTEM simple and sure. Dir-
ect gravity petrol feed through only 18
inches of steel tubing from welded one-
piece steel tank. Exact and even fuel
distribution to each cylinder.
For Lowest-cost Ton-mile Transportation
Uie 30cwt.
FORD TRUCK
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.


“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
for
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 135 Sussex Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
come to accept sex as a vital and joyous
thing, instead of a rather smutty joke. Is
this not a modification which frequently
happens in religion and politics?
Billy’s reaction to information must surely
be admitted. And the sort of reaction will
be determined by two things: (1) Inborn
capacity; (2) the way in which that in-
formation has been imparted; in other
words, “methods of education.” If Billy
had had Havelock Ellis’s views expounded
to him by a man who considered them un-
dean and deeply shocking, or if they had
been discussed with the single-mindedness
of the scientist, or with the emotional fervor
of an Apostle, would Billy’s reaction in
each case have been exactly the same? It
most certainly would not, no matter what
the brain capacity of the Cro-Magnon
Man, the elephant, the cockroach, or even
“Sfax ” himself.
L.S.
Australia for the Australian Novelist
Cecil Mann (B. 27/8/’3O) states: “The
number of persons who believe that you
can live in Australia and write authentic,
not to say great, literature wholly about
Peru and the Peruvians is as amazing to
me as my modest theory to the contrary
appears to be to them.” Might I venture
to point out that one William Shakspeare
lived in England- and wrote authentic, not
to say great, literature about Venice,
Florence, Denmark, the ancient Romans,
Athenians and Egyptians? One Dante
wrote authentic, not to say great, literature
about the Infernal Regions, where he had
not been to time of writing; and Milton
did likewise about Heaven. Tolstoy wrote
great literature about the Battle of Boro-
dino, at which he was not present; and
Zola wrote near-great literature about
Sedan, purely on hearsay.
The fact is that some of the greatest
literature has been written about places
with the geography, customs, language and
appearance of which the writers had the
barest nodding acquaintance, and I venture
to assert that if Peru ever produces a great
natural genius he may conceivably write
great literature about Australia. I fancy
that the fallacy in Mr. Mann’s contention
lies in his overlooking the true nature of
reality. A sense of reality does not consist
in a photographic knowledge of irrelevant
details, but in a grasp of the broad essen-
tials of human nature. An Australian with
a poor grasp of those essentials will write
tripe about Australia, while a Peruvian with
a firm grasp of them might write great
literature on the same subject. That is
what makes Anatole France’s fantastic
“Penguin Island” more real than the most
severely localised of Arnold Bennett’s
novels. I have not read “Haxby’s Circus”
but if it is as real as Mr. Mann says,
obviously that is not because Katharine
Prichard spent a few weeks travelling round
with Wirth’s. Otherwise, Mr. Wirth him-
self would have been more competent to
write it.
M. G. S.
A Censorship Pamphlet
The Censorship and Public Morality, by
Brian Lloyd and George Gilbert (Angus
and Robertson), is welcome as yet another
attack on what it mildly calls our fatuous
literary censorship. The authors manage
some nice undergraduate shadow-sparring
over terms, shape up in a manner that
indicates the right sort of training in the
“To the Pure” gymnasium, and succeed in
echoing various things that quite deserve to
be echoed. They get in a fair punch occa-
sionally, too; but there is much of this sort:
But we are not Americans that we should submit
to such forms of meddling with individual liberty.
We should contest all such organised intolerance.
Why these puritans should arrogate to themselves a
license to control public opinion is known to them-
selves only.
The writers are obviously trying to curb
their feelings; but why do so in opposing
such a dangerous institution of vulgarity
as this so-called “system” of censorship?
According to the statement of the Collector of
Customs of New South Wales the departmental
instructions to Customs officers set out inter alia that
the test to be observed is “whether the average
householder would accept the book in question as
reading matter for his family.”
Which, say these writers, is clearly moral-
ising. It is just as clearly rot. Anybody
conscientiously acting on such a regulation
would ban not only almost all literature,
including air the best literature, but some-
thing like three-quarters of the “creative”
books in circulation. Anyway, our present
censorship does not act on that regulation;
but while such a regulation remains it is
always likely to be acted upon. It is, like
the whole censorship, too loose altogether;
and it is for adding to the outcry against
this poor substitute for official courage that
these writers deserve the reward of seeing
their little pamphlet read.
If they really want the reply to the ques-
tion which they set up but don’t make any
serious attempt to answer, “Where will this
fatuous censorship lead us?” they will find
it in the “Sydney Morning Herald,” Aug-
ust 30.
The Acting Prime Minister (Mr. Fenton) to-day
amplified his statement made on Thursdav that it
was time a censorship was exercised over the opera-
tions of correspondents who sent misleading and
defamatory reports of Australian affairs to Great
Britain.
He said that if the Commonwealth Government’s
existing legislative powers were not adequate to
impose a strict censorship on such people, he thought
it might be possible for the Federal Ministry to
enter into an arrangement with the wireless and cable
companies to exercise the discretionary powers vested
m them.
Mr. Fenton added that he had received a cable-
gram from London which stated that almost all the
newspapers there, with the exception of the “Times,”
had printed exaggerated views on the resolution of
a committee of the Labor movement in Sydney in
favor of the repudiation of Australia’s war debts.
Apparently the “Times” was the only sensible news-
paper in London.
He said: “Certain newspapers, out for sensational-
ism, seem to blunder along and create trouble in
this and many other countries.”
Australia will stand even that if this petti-
coated politician cares to try it. Australia,
gulled into believing it is a free country,
will stand anything.
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
Peeps at the Politicians, by Ellen Wilkin-
son (Philip Allan). No doubt some one of
the members of the British Parliament pil-
loried in this book has already remarked
that with women getting seats in the H'ouse
gossip was bound to start before long. That
is what it amounts to.
When a gushing visitor to the House of Commons
asks with enthusiasm, “Oh, who is that nice young
man with a golden moustache?” you know without
turning round that she means Oliver Baldwin.
However, it is bright journalism and makes
breezy reading and there are additional
glimpses of the great by Low and others.
Sunday Mornings, by J. C. Squire (Heine-
mann; Dymocks). A selection from the
writer’s London “Observer” book-review
articles; and, whatever may be thought of
Squire as an “original” writer, there will not
be much question, on this evidence, of his
gifts as a reviewer. His work at times
speaks rather loudly of the circumstances of
its birth, but on that point he gets in ahead
of criticism with a sympathetic survey of
modern essayists—Chesterton, Belloc, Lynd
and others —nearly all of whom do their work
under the conditions that affect his own.
But his criticism is sane and sound, and
his reviews are of just about the right length
to satisfy without going very deeply. That
he can go deeply enough within that length
is proved by his chapter on the Cambridge
“Shorter Bible,” a little masterpiece of
slating.
Gondolas Pass, by Helen Mackay (Heine-
rnann). There is something disconcerting
about this deliberate going behind scenes in
one of the world’s great show-places, Venice.
“Poor men should earn bread there unload-
ing cargoes of myrrh and purple and ivory,
on sunny, breezy quays of alabaster, from
carved ships with rested wings.” But the
poor live there much as they do in most
other places, and a good deal more poorly
than in some. It is not a chapter of misery
altogether, for there is a certain sunniness
about the writing that contrasts nicely with
the semi-biographical story of White Paws,
whose laughing father failed in his bread-
bakery business, and whose mother died,
leaving her at 15 to mother an assorted
bunch of little people. A brief, human
document.
In The Water Gypsies (Methuen;
Dymocks), A. P. Herbert re-states many of
the opinions which “A.P.H.” has proclaimed
in “Punch.” The good qualities of British
workers, male and female; the tyrannies of
Socialism and State officials; the delights
of bar parlors; the absurdities of racing;
the folly of betting. He has a wonderful
knack of making the reader see what he
sees in a phrase; and he sketches with that
economy of effort the residents of Hammer-
smith, a night at “the dogs,” the people who
live on Thames barges, skittles-players in
action, the frequenters of Bloomsbury
studios, and dozens of others who come in
contact with his brave and pathetic little
servant-girl heroine, Jane Bell. The novel
satirises many abuses, for Mr. Herbert is
a born reformer; and chiefly the British
educational system which leaves the poor
to get their culture from films and Sunday
newspapers. Its dominant note, however,
is the power which class still exercises in
England.
“A Loaded Legacy,” by Geo. S. Beeby
(Angus and Robertson), reads like a play
that has taken the wrong turning. Young
Fergus Campbell, an English tourist, is at
Kosciusko when he learns that his late
father has left him £500,000 provided he
marries one of four specified women, or
“some other woman whom a court of com-
petent jurisdiction declares to be of good
birth.” So he returns to England. Sir
Robert Pyke, a dyspeptic little statesman
from Australia who falls off horses, is “as
approachable as a hedgehog with a head-
ache,” and uses the expletive “blithering
blazes,” is an old friend; but most of the
other characters are stagey, and notably the
polysyllabic man-seryant Pickering. A
feature of the book is the dialogue, which
is extremely bright throughout in the effer-
vescent manner of drawing-room comedy. It
is unfortunate that this clever Australian
writer should have chosen England, with
which he is obviously unfamiliar, as a setting
for his novel. “Piccadilly Street”; “The
Towers,” with its two butlers (as incredible
as a Vatican with two Popes) ; “Aldgate,
nearly opposite Australia House” (it is
miles east of Australia House), and other
slips of the sort do much to ruin that confi-
dence which should exist between every
author and his public.
«
“Chance th’ Ducks”: How is it that the
Australian, usually the most undefeatable
of optimists, as those who met him in the
A.I.F. will testify, turns to gloom and
tragedy when it comes to constructing a
story or writing a set of verses? Queens-
land’s Authors’ and Artists’ Association held
a competition lately for the best short story.
The judges gave it as their opinion that,
while the standard of the contributions was
generally high, there was “a marked fond-
ness for tragedy in the themes.” Yet 252
yarns came in from places as far apart as
M.L. and Westralia, and in the whole bunch
there was “a marked absence of humor.”
A large proportion of the stories from Syd-
ney “dealt with the problem of the eternal
triangle.” The Darlinghurst complex, of
course, but even there the triangle is far
from eternal.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
P.R.H.: Certainly, let’s hear what you’ve tribution,” what do you think another might call
got to say 0. I. Saye: No space just now for ? R.W.: Yes; duly appreciated Doug: Had
half a column about the misconduct of Solomon and*?, add tbe = You ’ n to d ° be * ter
Sheba v 44 • w n -w , . , , , than that... .C.C.M.N.: “I thought I heard the first
' •• - 'f; • Well wntten > but y° u don t lnake us faint stir of spring.” “So did 1! ” said the Religious
e ie\e i s true... .F.E.F.: Ditto; and you’ve Editor, sharpening up the razor.... Exile: Good, but
beaten it out too thin... .G. 8.: The Dunbar only in places.... G. A.: Too much of a personal
was wrecked at the Gap, South Head (Syd.), nlatter - Send to the writer... .P.G.H.: Immature,
on August 20, 1857; one survivor The Duncan but the verse scnse is there all right.... Bellerive:
Dnnhar „ , , . Another stirring instalment:—
X/Unoai piled on a reef at Las Rocas fS , Americ , ni
* America), FORMIDABLE PUGILISTS OF THE ’EIGHTIES
October 7, 1865 ;no lives lost V.C.: Walpole
Island is situated about 150 miles east by south
from Noumea (New Caledonia) and is a little over
000 acres in extent. It contains guano and is leased
by a commercial syndicate. Population about 106
(six Europeans) ... .1.L.Y.: Beatrice Grimshaw was
born at Cloona, County Antrim, Ireland, and has
written over 20 books dealing with the Islands.
Address: Rona Falls Cottage, via Sapphire Creek,
Port Moresby, Papua,.. .F.0.D.: Just f.a.q
/wig: No real anguish in the bullocky’s lament.
. ...H.W.: Pity the best of it is private consumption
stuff R.H.F.: Not bad enough to be called “No
Good” but still not g00d... .E.H.: Nothing shaping
like a_ winner in the “Thoroughbreds at Randwick.”
Dixie: You make heavy going with the Vision.
. ...M.8.: Straight detailed description not of much
use... .M.T.W.: Meet the wicked lady at the p.o.
Responsive: Too much so, and you take too
long over it... .G.C.: Can’t follow you on the
celestial flight.... R.M.: Idea fair, but you don’t
catch up with it.... Will C.: Opening notes ring
false.... Caltyr: Title’s the best part of it....Bsar:
Spasms ’ describes them... .A.S.: Spring has already
been officially welcomed... ,J.M.: Hope:
Brass Hat gets it.
Brass Hat wins.
Brass Hat’s past it.
Brass Hat grins.
And despair:—
What’s happened to the bookies?
They can’t be seen about,
For the dirty blooming rookies
Have gone and cleared out!
Janisel: No market here for that sort of thing.
.... J.D.: Nothing usable in the batch 0.K.F.:
What’s the editor done to you?... .L.E.: Sorry; full
up with sporting items for this column this week.
....Forty-five: “A Summer’s Day” too much
like many others Thistledown: Try dealing
with something you know and feel J.McC.: Glad
to hear from you again, though the verse isn’t up.
F.M.: No buyer for the “Scarlet Cargo”
A.F.A.. A subpoena is a writ commanding
attendance in court, on a certain day therein
named, under penalty. In criminal cases the
subposnas are usually to give evidence or to produce
documents H.A.: “Wenn Gott sagt: ‘Heute,’ sagt
der Teufel: ‘Morgen’ ” is an old German proverb mean-
ing “When God says ‘To-day,’ the Devil says ‘To-
morrow’ ”... .R.M.: Call at Adelaide Public Library
and consult “Henley’s Twentieth-century Formulas”
or “The Scientific American Cyclopedia of Formulas.”
... .E.T.: Reads as if it were deliberately written for
the basket... .Cessbee: It has to join the unemployed
Governor... .J.C.P.: “Elaine” started off very well,
but age beat her towards the end J. 0.: Bradman
will be charging us space rates if we use that about
him Fysh: No new whines in “Dave’s Lament.”
E.R.R.: Too fragmentary E.M.S.: Avoid long
and involved sentences and inaccurate use of words.
W.R.: That tooth doesn’t bite J.F.F.: Fight
yarn knocked out... .H.T.R.: You jump from past to
present tense with the agility of a wallaby
W.C.G.: “Gold and Silver”—neither... .J.O’C.: It
won’t do, but it has power,.. .8.M.D.: It would
give anyone the blues L.C.: A long way to go
yet D.P.: Nothing arresting in Brown’s burglar.
E.L.: Not the variety of orchid we cultivate.
I.A.K.: If you yourself think it “a feeble con-
AND ’NINETIES.
Endowed with grit and
Strength for the strain
Were Sullivan, Michell
And Jake Kilrain.
In punishing rounds
Of a slashing mill,
Grim muscular pugs.
Of daring and skill,
Sidestepping and feinting
In a sensational bout,
Scientific Jim Corbett
Wore Sullivan out.
Of Jefferies’ battles
Old memories cling—
A warrior bold of the
Famous prize ring.
{Next Week: “Skating.”)
E.G.: True but trite... .W.0’8.: Wallows in
woe... .L.M.8.: Uninteresting group of characters.
... .R.V.McC.: Prospect pleasing and only “Old
Bill” vile.... J.0.P.: “Ravishing Creation” packed
in a thimble leaves nothing to the imagination....
J.l*.: Salt-sea yarn has an inland flavor... .E.F.G.:
Much ado about nothing... .L.H.: Can’t see your
circus go round D.W.0.F.: No room in our ward-
robe for “Them Trousis”. .. .A.W.R.McN.: Plot con-
ventional—all but ending, and that’s artificial....
E.D.: Travel sketch still travelling... .L.D.D.: No
honey in “Bees”.... Tom P.: Much obliged....
Aspirant: There will be no Novel Competition this
year.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.M.8.: If that were published the police would
be after us... .F.J.: A chestnut... .E.A.L.0.: Un-
welcome guests... .H.S.R.: Du 11.... J.S.: Atrocious.
. ...W.N.: You are no craftsman and no jester....
E. J.D.L.: “The Awakening” sent us to sleep....
H.D.N.: Did you use a crumpled bolster as a model
for the mainmast ?... . E.P.: Might have a chance
elsewhere... .P.P.: Basketed.... .A.L.S.: Good guess;
bad sketch.... C.J.C.: Don’t care for that way of
recording conversation... .M.C.: A nondescript bunch
. ...A.E.R.: Wouldn’t back you to draw a straight
line... .8.R.: No anchorage for , that crazy wind-
jammer... .W. 0.: Knowledge of anatomy, slight;
of perspective, slighter... .A.L.M.: First offender,
eh ? Then come up again when called upon....
W.R.D.: Carefully drawn, but lifeless... .F.E.M.:
Opal-field impressions didn’t impress... .G.A.: An
idea in them, but badly handled... .G.A.K.: First
bathing joke of the season, and rotten... .G.E.T.:
No need to mark ’em “fragile” ; they’re too wooden to
break... .N.G.H.: Crude jokes and cruder drawings.
... .R.S.: Cartoon 'showing toiler gazing along a
track labelled “road to work.” That’s the forty-
second .... H.C.: Promising, but lessons are needed.
....L.J.T.: It Would take an extraordinarily good
sketch to pull that gag through G.K.R.: Full of
faults. .. .R.W.8.: Joke might be worked into a
par D.H.W.: Originally it was a fly in the beer.
....E.D.; You might as well turn in a blank sheet.
. ...F.N.: So that abo. is still wondering how the
telegraph wires will keep out the ’roos... .G.H.;
Prune away half those lines... .W.T.8.: Charlady
walked right out of an English comic paper....
S.C.: As complicated as the sales tax... .E.F.T.: Did
you send some of the baby’s scribblings by mistake?
... .A.F.S.: Stiff as a frozen corpse.


■
■
m
"
I
pry
m
U
19H
,-igfl
■k
1,,..
n
p «
m
■
::
I
■ :
J|
■pS^s-Sf
: : •
m
%
■
■
■Sllll
3«BE v: i
■ ■ -
H
:• ••• ' '
'gas WS
■■
■
v-"' V ' ; '''
:
lllttlf
...
mat
> .%?. ?sai
■ %
raHlll
1
ISIB!*
■ ■ >
■ til
iitiiHPHßPr
■.
m
ini
HWI
WSsw^


The Bulletin
Vol. 51. —No. 2640.
September 17, 1930,
INSIDE INFORMATION.
The press was excluded from the “vital" Labor conference in Melbourne, hut “The Bulletin” was able to get the above map through the keyhole.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21’, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone £7971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Wustralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36' Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 }s, ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
0 months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper.
Commonwealth, A 'ew Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Iloute: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere:. sd.
WHAT SACRIFICES IS CAPITAL
MAKING?
A section of the Labor party says that this
is a time when sacrifices should be general;
and in that it is quite right. But when it
goes further and declares that Labor is being
asked to carry all the load, it raises a sub-
ject for inquiry. Is Capital making any
sacrifice to justify it in calling on Labor to
yield something likewise?
Capital, like Labor, can suffer in two
ways. Labor can be called upon to work
longer hours or to accept less wages, or to
put up with some of both. Capital may
be called upon to lose some of its principal
or some of its interest, or some of both.
Until a very few years ago both Capital and
Labor were on the same footing in this
respect: neither had its wages fixed by
law or by any agency under the law. In
most parts of the world it is still so. In
Australia, however, where the quite insane
idea was cultivated that wages need not be
based on earnings, the wages of most work-
men were either fixed by the law or
influenced by the basic wage. So, as the
result of this temporary insanity, we have
the rewards of Labor and Capital placed
on entirely different footings. The reward
of Labor is only to be varied by a formal
alteration of an award or by an actual
amendment of the law. The reward of
Capital can be and is varied without any
formality or any announcement whatever.
More than that, in fact—it can be wiped
completely out of existence.
The bulk of the capital of the community
is invested in businesses of one sort and
another. Nowadays almost all of the largest
of these enterprises are owned by joint-
stock companies, whose shares are bought
and sold in the open market. The fall in
the dividends paid on these shares repre-
sents, therefore, the sacrifice made in the
wages of the largest body of capital. From
the “Wild Cat” Department’s last reviews
of 10 cos. whose books closed on April 30
or later, this comparison is made:—
Dividend Pei: Cent, on Ordinary Capital.
1928. 1929. 1930.
Elder, Smith .. .. 10 10 5
Broken Hill Prop 10 10 Nil
Australian Gas' .... 8 8 8
Perpetual Trustee Co. .. 121 12-1- 124
Dennys, Lascelles . . 8} 7 5
Mick Simmons . . . . 10 8 7
Holden’s Motor Body . . 15 10 5
Sargents .. .. ... 15 15 10
Howard Investment .. 15 121 10
George Farmer . . . . 16 14 10
The holder of £lOO worth of scrip (face
value) in each of these 10 representative
cos. would in 1928 have received £ll9 15s.
in dividends. For the past 12 months,
holding the same shares, he would have
received £72 10s. Thus the wages of his
capital would have been reduced by over
39 per cent. The general experience is worse
than that, because included in that list of
10 are two which by reason of very special
circumstances show no reduction at all in
dividend.
But, as said just now, capital can suffer
a loss of principal as well as of interest;
and what that loss has actually been on a
dozen typical investment stocks this next
comparison shows (there has been a very
considerable further fall during the past
six weeks; but as this may have been
due in part, to the repudiation talk which
started early in August, and as that talk
may mean nothing, it has been thought
fairer to take July 31 for purposes of com-
parison)
Market Value of Twelve Leading Stocks.
June 30, July 31, Fall
1929. 1930. p.c.
Bank of N.S.W £5l/10/- £3B/10/- 25
Queensland Insurance .. 64/- 49/- 234
Adelaide Steam .. 21/3 15/C 27
Australian Glass .. 52/- 34/0 33 J
British Tobacco .. 49/3 37/6 24
Broken Hill Prop. .. 27/- 15/3 43}
Colonial Sugar .. .. £5B £37 36
Dalgety’s .. .. £l5/2/6 £lO/5/- 31}
Dunlop-Perdriau . . .. 27/6 13/6 51
Holden’s 28/3 8/6 70
Mver’s . . . . . . 35/6 24/- 32}
Tooth’s 59/- 28/9 51
Thus, in these 12 representative stocks,
there has been a shrinkage varying between
23i per cent, and 70 per cent., and averag-
ing 37i p.c. over the whole series. In other
words, the man who had invested £lOO in
each of the 12 would have seen the value
of his holding diminish from £l2OO to £752;
the other £448 is the amount of his sacri-
fice in the deflation.
But another point may be raised by the
gentlemen who profess to believe that
capital has made, and is making, no sacri-
fice, and that labor is asked to bear the
lot—what about bank depositors and holders
of Government stocks?—their interest has
not been affected at all! That is quite true.
No two investments are of precisely the
same character. There is a very limited
number specially adapted for those who are
not in a position to take risks. These, in
return for foregoing all accretions in value,
and in return further for accepting a low
rate of interest even under the most favor-
able conditions, are, by implication, pro-
mised exemption from any shrinkage in
their interest. It is this money—largely
in the hands of trustees —which has enabled
Governments to borrow for public purposes
for as little as 3 per cent.; even in recent
years, when the purchasing power of money
has been very low and when the security
has been much less gilt-edged, it has been
available to Australian Governments at
5 per cent, and a shade over. It is this
money with which all the socialistic schemes
of Governments have been carried out;
it is on this money that Governments must
depend for the future, both for, any new
requirements and for the repayment of the
vast loans falling due within the next few
years. Any action that may be taken to
secure a reduction of the rate of interest
payable on outstanding loans must be taken,
therefore, with the utmost circumspection,
otherwise irreparable damage may be done
to our credit and reputation in the loan
market. Only one argument can be used:
that, in view of the increase in the purchas-
ing power of money, the interest on loans
raised during recent cheap-money years is
now worth more than it was when the loans
were floated. But even that is a poor argu-
ment, because it will be met with the
undoubted truth that when money was
cheap we would have scouted any suggestion
that we should pay a higher rate of interest
than we contracted for, in order to give the
holder of the older cheap loans the same
effective return as he had when he lent us
the money.
The conclusion of the whole matter, then,
is that capital has suffered to the extent
of 38 per cent, in the deflation, with the
shrinkage still in progress; that, even in-
cluding specially favored investments, the
shrinkage in the wages of capital has
amounted to 39 per cent., with the shrinkage
still in progress; and that, in the small sec-
tion where there has been no shrinkage in
interest, any attempt to compel a reduction,
besides being intrinsically unfair, is liable
to cost us a great deal more than we can
possibly gain.
THE BABY AS AN IMMIGRANT.
The birth-rate of England and Wales for
1929 was 163 for each 10,000 living inhabit-
ants, or a little over per cent. This is
the lowest since official records commenced,
and it is said that it will prove the lowest
in the world when the figures for all civilised
countries are in. In 1928 there was one
country (Sweden) below England for
scarcity of the baby immigrant, but it has
been displaced from its position at the
bottom of the poll. The six States with
the fewest infant, in proportion to popula-
tion, on the 1928 returns were France, Nor-
way, Austria, Switzerland, England land
Sweden in that order. They all represent
sturdy and promising races, with the pos-
sible exception of Austria. On the other
hand the half-dozen with the biggest birth-
rates were Egypt, Chile, Soviet Russia,
Ceylon, Jamaica* and Roumania, a rather
inferior lot with the exception of Chile,
which seems to have no business in that
category. The fact that the most mon-
strous and miserable of the globe’s political
divisions should rank so high raises the
question whether the abundant baby is
proof of prosperity, or whether prosperity
and. happiness lead to the abundant baby.
Practically all the countries on the list
show a decline in this industry since just
before the war. The most notable excep-
tions are not the most desirable countries.
The States at the bottom of the latest list
are these: —
Births per 10,000 Inhabitants (1928).
Italy .. - . 201 | Prussia .. .. 180
South Africa (white j Belgium .. .. 183
people) . . 259 ( Prance .. .. 182
Netherlands . . 233 j Norway .. .. ISO
Australia .. .. 2 13. | Austria .. .. 175
Scotland .. . . 198 | Switzerland .. 173
Denmark .. . . 190 | England & Wales 107
Maoriland . . 190 j Sweden . . . . 102
Canada and the United States are left out
of the list because of the scrappy na.ture of
the information supplied, but it may be
mentioned that the French-Canadian pro-
vince of Quebec had 316 babies to a mere
212 in the British-Canadian province of
Ontario. As a set-off these are some bottom
figures for just before the war:—
Births per 10,000 Inhabitants (about 1913).
Italy .. .. 324 | Scotland . . 259
Austria .. .. 313 | Norway . . .. 254
Prussia .. .. 289 i Switzerland . . 241
Australia . . 283 | England & Wales 238
Netherlands ~ . 281 | Sweden .. .. 237
Denmark . . . . 267 j Belgium . . 229
Maoriland . . 261 | France .. .. 190
These figures admit of a comparison of 14
civilised white communities ranging from
the intensely crowded (Belgium and Eng-
land with some 650 humans per square
mile) to Australia with about per mile.
They were unanimous in reducing the birth-
rate, which some had reason to believe had
been overdone during the nineteenth cen-
tury. The number of babies that were
knocked off as superfluous varied from 138
per 10,000 inhabitants per annum in ruined
Austria to a mere eight per 10,000 in devas-
tated France. But it was a pity that Aus-
tralia should have been sixth on the list
with a reduction of 70 annual babies per
10.000. It is neither crowded nor war-
damaged. Its drawbacks are that it has
borrowed far too much and worked far too
little.
It is a common saying that the baby is
the best immigrant, and it would be un-
patriotic to doubt the assertion, though the
baby arrives in a regrettable state of ignor-
ance and penury, and sometimes afflicted
with disabilities which would ensure the
exclusion of any other kind of immigrant.
But in a country so bare of inhabitants
as Australia there ought to be need for both
types of addition—the carefully-selected
one of our own race and language from
outside as well as the entirely unselected
local product.
The position of England at the bottom
of the birth-list is easily explained without
assuming any racial degeneration. The
following are among the causes why the
baby had to be retrenched: —
(1) The population increased over 400
per cent, between 1801, when the census
system commenced, and 1921. Many theor-
ists contend that constant increase is neces-
sary to demonstrate that a race keeps its
place in the march of progress, and that
stoppage indicates race suicide. They go
on the principle that the number of leaders
of progress who can live and sleep in one
apartment is unlimited.
(2) Great success has attended the efforts
to reduce infant mortality in general, as
well as to preserve and improve the infant
who is mentally and physically unfit. This
leaves less room for other kinds. Australia
should have abundant space for the unfor-
tunate child without economising on the
more desirable one, while England and Bel-
gium have little or none.
(3) Great success has also attended the
efforts to increase the average span of life
and to keep people alive long after they have
ceased to have any value for reproductive
purposes or any serious value as workers.
Australia, above almost all other lands,
should be able to do this without sacrificing
any part of its birth-rate in the process.
England and some of its neighbors are not
able.
(4) The restriction of immigration has
a bad effect on over-populated countries.
Empty Australia found space for a pitiable
1888 new people by excess of arrivals over
departures in 1929-30 as against 48,924 as
recently as 1927. That is one indication of
what over-populated countries are up against.
Race suicide hasn’t really commenced
while there is a surplus of births over deaths,
and in a crowded land with few outlets for
immigration it may be a veiy small surplus
without giving cause for slander. In fact,
a surplus of deaths is, in itself, no< certain
proof of dry-rot and degeneration—at all
events, no one has proved that it is a proof.
England hasn’t arrived at the stationary
stage yet, and its position at the bottom
of the birth-rate list is nothing to com-
plain of. It has some very healthy and
desirable company down there.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wages and Cost of Production.
The demand in Australia at present is for
a method of reducing the cost of production
and the cost of government without reduc-
ing anybody’s wages, or making anybody
work longer hours or do more work in the
same hours for the same wages, or allowing
anybody to attempt either of these things.
The supreme difficulty, when the position
is carefully inspected, is that the whole cost
of everything is wages, whether they are
fixed, as with the trades unionist (when he
isn’t out of work), or consist of whatever
he can scratch out of his job on any terms
and conditions, as is the case with the
farmer or the working proprietor in any line
of industry. In the items of factory expense
it is customary to put down, as non-wage
items, fuel, light, power, raw material and
other outlays; but they are all the wages
of some human being or another. If Provi-
dence supplies the coal, the growing timber
and the running water or even the wind,
which can be used to produce power, it
doesn’t charge for them, so the wages of
Providence can’t be reduced.
The “bitter-enders” of Federal Labor
have declared that they won’t under any
circumstances consent to a reduction of the
pay of Federal employees or members or
Ministers. So do “bitter-enders” in general.
If the alternative is a chronic deficit they
would prefer that, however large and chronic
it may be. The neglected problem is how
to find the deficit. Without money a deficit
is harder to get than a goldmine. When a
Treasurer produces the common or garden
shortage, the meaning is that he has raised
money from somewhere with which to pay
his way, and has added the amount to the
floating or permanent debt. When the time
arrives that he can’t raise the money from
anywhere, his capacity for having a deficit
is at an end.
«
Let’s Have Another Drink!
What may be called the middle section of
the Federal Labor party—the section which
appears to be led by Senator Daly—puts it
that it is unreasonable to ask Australia
to set its house in order in one year, but
that two or three or more years should be
allowed it, and meantime there should be
no reduction of salaries and no interference
with the so-called standard of living.
This plea for extension of time is quite
popular. Any plea for the postponement
of the evil day always is popular among
those who will have to pay when the evil
day arrives. The drunk wants another
drink and tlie condemned criminal another
day. ostensibly to repent of his sins, really
in the hope that something will turn up
and the hangman be cheated out of a job.
But Senator Daly’s little school wants some-
thing more than another drink. The last
and most gorgeous drunk of all and every
previous drunk are still unpaid for, and it
wants to have the extension on the same
terms.
And what then? This little school is at
least honest. It makes no pretence that
Australia should swear off. In fact, it says
that we should continue to draw salaries
and wages whether we earn them or not
and preserve a so-called standard of living
whether it is within or beyond our means.
Now, if the Labor leader said that the
rewards of capital were far too great and
that they would have to be cut down for the
benefit of the worker, it would be quite
an arguable proposition. But that is not
the present situation or the present claim
at all. The present so-called standard of
living is maintained—along, of course, with
the salaries and wages which stand behind
it_by borrowing. At the end of June,
1919 —seven months after the Great War
was over—the public debt of Australia was
694 millions. It is now 1100 millions. In
11 years we have thus added over 400 mil-
lions to our liabilities; and there is well
on to another 50 millions of overdrafts and
semi-public commitments. These are debts
we have contracted in 11 years and have
passed on to the future—contracted in
order to maintain an artificial level of
salaries and wages and support an artificial
standard of living. Thus it isn’t “the boss”
we are “taking it out of”; we are taking
it out of our own old age and out of our
children. To try to “take it out of the
boss” may be—often is—foolish, but it is
understandable. To run up bills which we
shall have to meet presently or which our
children will have to meet is not only
incredibly stupid; it is incredibly mean .and
selfish.
Yet Mr. Daly and his little school tell us
that we shouldn’t try to reform in a hurry.
This is really worse than the original
offence. Then at least we might have
pleaded that we didn’t know what sort of
a mean creature we were. Now that we
do know, the meanness of continuing in the
course because it would be disagreeable to
stop is unspeakable.
♦
One Income Tax!
Acting-Treasurer Lyons “stresses the
importance of providing work of a repro-
ductive character.” “Not work in Govern-
ment departments,” he explains, “or even
on public highways, but work in under-
takings likely to add to the wealth of the
country”; in short, “private industry.” The
Acting-Treasurer calls upon “those with
resources to realise their duty to the com-
munity,” and implores them not to “button
up.” He fails to realise that “buttoning up”
is being forced on people by the multitude
of income taxes, which are not only oppres-
sive but aggravatingly uncertain.
Income taxation was high before the
slump arrived —for instance, the Common-
wealth and N. S. Wales took 10s. in the £
of earned income exceeding £7600, and of
property income exceeding £6soo—and it
was clumsy and costly on the administrative
side owing to there being seven taxing
authorities. So many recent additions have
been made and so many more are pro-
jected that the thing has become a night-
mare. There have been two increases of
Federal tax since the Scullidores came in,
and a third is contemplated. Victoria,
N. S. Wales and Queensland are levying so-
called unemployment taxes which are really
additional income taxes, and N. S. Wales is
threatening to apply its impost to income
from other States. If this swindle comes
off, the other States will probably retaliate.
South Aus. is about to take Is. in the £
of earnings for unemployed relief, and is
raising its ordinary income tax (already the
severest in the six States) as well. Vic-
toria’s ordinary tax was shoved up a few
months ago, and will probably be shoved
up again, while the doubling or trebling
of its unemployment tax is threatened.
Queenslanders and Tasmanians are also to
pay more ordinary tax, and the Westralians
will certainly not escape.
It is a maddeningly confused situation;
and yet there is a clear way out. That is
for the States to withdraw their plague of
imposts and let the Commonwealth impose
one income tax for all Australia, first stat-
ing they- requirements for the financial
year. There is plenty of time for this to
be done, and for the tax to be made pay-
able in two instalments, seeing that the
second batch of income-tax returns is only
just in. If the State Governments can
arrange to forego grants in order to help
a distressed partner, as they have done in
the case of South Aus., they can arrange
to leave income taxation to the Common-
wealth so that the public may know where
it stands. The assessing and collecting de-
partments are already amalgamated. At
present no taxpayer knows how much ol
his income will be taken from him between
now and June 30. And when people are
denied this essential knowledge it is natural
for them to “button up.”


Fashions AVe Can’t Afford.
'‘Clifford Snook” suggests an economy:—
It is essential in bad times, and most
especially when times are dashed horrible as
they are now, to promote cheap living in
every way that doesn’t involve suffering or
crime. With this object in view a heavy
penalty should attach to the wearing of any
frock which comes more than a limited dis-
tance below the knees (two inches might be
the correct distance), with certain excep-
tions. One exception should be made when
the skirt is of ancient material and anti-
quated design—is, in fact, a relic of the
old fashion and not an outburst of a new
one. If the owner has clung to it for years
as a matter of principle or through sheer
inability to afford new and skimpy garments,
she should be exempt, provided she proves
the genuineness of her principles (if she
pleads principle) by only replacing anti-
quated and worn-out clo’ with duplicates.
Allowance should also be made for feminines
whose knees are placed too high up by an
anatomical accident, and it should be suffi-
cient if they displayed their limbs to the
proper distance below where knees usually
are. People who plead and give evidence of
unsightly lower ends should be allowed lati-
tude if they prefer latitude', and there should
be a time limit for strangers from oversea
who have arrived here without decent cloth-
ing. Otherwise the law should be rigid.
An attempt is being made by irresponsible
parties abroad to consign a few million
pounds’ worth of garniture, much of it quite
new, to oblivion at a time when the owners
can ill afford to replace it, and when the
Government is desperately in need of the
clothes-money in the shape of taxes. They
also propose to permanently increase the
cost of our living by making the Australian
girl and woman wear more material, which
is wholly superfluous, and to the best of
their ability they intend that she will wear
more imported material. This is to be done
by sheer brutal terrorism. The vast, anony-
mous, irresponsible fashion-plate machine
Avill decree that she is a frump if she doesn’t
obey. The State has a machine of its own,
and can enact that she shall be open to sus-
picion of being a deformity if she does, and
the State has the last word, for in addition
to fining the offender it can command that
the illegal garment shall be abbreviated by
a policewoman at the offender’s own home.
I don’t suggest for a moment any inter-
ference with Australian liberty. If Austra-
lians had invented the long-skirt revival, and
it had spread to Paris and other places, I
would be the last to object. The idea is to
interfere, in the only effective way, with a
purely mercenary foreign oppression which
this country is wholly unable to pay for.
It would be much more a grant of freedom
than a denial of that priceless object. The
slave should be set at liberty, whether
she and her husband feel that way or not,
especially when the State is so ill able to do
anything else. After a spell of compulsory
freedom (the same kind which the black
negress got) she would become reconciled,
her husband-paymaster likewise. And
if the stranger came here to scoff at the legal
attire of our womankind he could be taught
manners by being fined so much per open
scoff.
«
All the Cards Are on the Table.
From one of The Bulletin’s oldest and
most welcome Avorking-man correspondents:
“We are told by politicians, newspapers
and everybody else who gets up to speak
or sits down to write on the subject, that
to cure our national financial ills we must
produce more. But if we produce more, who
is going to consume our products? We can’t
ourselves, especially as we are told we must
economise. Seemingly neither can we ex-
port our produce at a profit. Prices of our
chief lines of export—wheat, wool, sugar,
butter, meat, etc. —are allegedly already at,
or below, production costs; and over-produc-
tion is feared, if not actually existing in
some commodities. It is all very puzzling.
If we knew all the facts, if all the cards were
put on the table without reservations, we
common folk would feel much more satis-
fied.”
This is very significant. Here is one of the
best types of wage-earner, intelligent and
well informed about most things, the
writer of scores of good Bulletin para-
graphs—about his job, about the history
and fauna and flora and people of his dis-
trict—and yet quite ignorant about the most
elementary facts of our economic situation.
The explanation seems to be that the wage-
earner has always regarded finance as hav-
ing no interest for him; moreover, he has
allowed himself to believe that, even if it
had any interest for him, it is a subject
he couldn’t possibly understand. So the
politician who cared for nothing but the
capture of votes has been able to go un-
checked and make such a mess of Australia.
This correspondent says that if all the
cards Avere put on the table “we common
folk would feel much more satisfied.” But
what cards are not on the table? The whole
pack lies there, for all the world to see.
The “Commonwealth Year Book” and a
dozen other official authorities have shoivn
the facts again and again. We have to pay
30 millions a year overseas interest on loans.
We have also to pay for the goods we import.
The only way these two charges can be met
is by exporting (1) gold, (2) merchandise
to be sold for gold. Year by year, however,
we ha\ r e failed to pay these bills, and have
lately borrowed for the purpose an average
of 40 millions a year. Now the source of
our loans has dried up,, and we must pay
as we go. That is all that is the matter.
There is no complication about it; the posi-
tion is one of utter simplicity.
“Seemingly neither can we export our
produce at a profit,” our correspondent
says. But whether we can export at a profit
depends entirely upon the cost of produc-
tion. If our cost of production is too high,
we must reduce it. There is no other way
out —except repudiation. We can be rogues,
if we like, and say that we are not going
to pay this money we owe; and that may
help us—for. the moment. But if we are
honest, and are resolved to pay our debts,
then we shall have to bring our costs down
to a point which will enable us to sell our
products in the overseas markets.
The reason why these things are not
obvious is that we don’t want them to be
obvious. We can’t make up our minds to be
rogues; on the other hand, we don’t want
to make any sacrifices. So we potter about
and get further and further into difficulties.
The Stake and the Vote.
It is not only the Australian visitor C. R.
Bradish who finds there’s “something the
matter with England.” An English Army
officer writes to The Bulletin quoting from
“The Times” of July 31: —
“In the House of Commons yesterday Mr.
Shaw (Sec. of State for War) said that
roughly the number of recruits required every
year was 30,000. The problem that had to
be faced was not getting men to offer for
the Army, which they did in overwhelming
numbers, but to get men who were physically
fit. No less than 61 per cent, of the men
who offered themselves failed to reach the
reduced standard of height, chest measure-
ment and dental requirement.”
The Army officer proceeds:—
At one time this was described as “a
nation of shopkeepers.” It has now become
a nation of shop-assistants. Everywhere the
small man is being squeezed out. They
forgot that he was a citizen. Combines,
mergers, amalgamations abound on all sides.
There is a grocery combine which has 2000
shops. This means 2000 managers, and about
40,000 assistants, all liable to get the’ sack
at short notice. These people have no stake
in the country, and are not citizens, but
just “hands.” Of course, they have votes;
but are votes not really dangerous things to
give to men who have no stake in the
country? The principal banks, known as
“the Big Five,” are nothing more than mul-
tiple-shop organisations. They open branches
everywhere and anywhere, and the managers
are glorified clerks, who stay awake all night
if they give a customer a £lO overdraft, for
fear of “Head Office.” Not merely the
manual workers are “wage-slaves,” but also
salesmen, managers, clerks and others.
There is a risk, and a very real one, in
giving the Parliamentary vote to people who
have no stake in the country; and the risk
is infinitely greater when the country is
thrown open to the world, almost without
question. In Australia we shall probably
not go back upon our tracks so far as uni-
versal suffrage is concerned. But almost
every day it is becoming more obvious that
we must exercise far greater care over those
who come into the country and so auto-
matically become entitled to the same vot-
ing power as Robert Gibson, the distin-
guished chairman of the Commonwealth
Bank, or Professor Giblin, the economist.
<J>
The Cost of Casualness.
In the long tally of extravagance which
has brought Australia to its present pass
not the least important item is the waste
of animal life. One would think that in a
country largely dependent on primary pro-
duce the protection of our sheep and cattle
assets would be the first care of Govern-
ments, State or Federal. The exact oppo-
site has been and remains the case. Year
after year neglect and indifference have
permitted the development of stock dis-
eases to a stage when it has become impos-
sible to do more than attempt to alleviate
them, at a cost far beyond that which would
have been needed for their extirpation in
the earlier stages. The loss to the country
has run into millions.
In an address at Canberra the other day
Dr. Robertson, Federal Director of Veteri-
nary Hygiene, tried to give some idea of
what that loss has amounted to. The pre-
vention of the cattle-tick plague, which
could have been squelched in its infancy
for a few thousands, now costs Australia
£150,000 annually in direct expenditure, in
addition to the yearly loss of at least an-
other half-million through depreciation of
infected stock. Tuberculosis, which, with
efficient methods, could be stamped out in
a decade, is another expensive legacy from
the happy-go-lucky years, costing a million
annually. Pleuro-pneumonia, a disease pre-
ventable and, indeed, eradicable by simple
inoculation, is yet another scourge which,
in Dr. Robertson’s words, “has cost the
country more than sufficient to build all
the railways in it.” Yet had the proffered
advice of the veterinary surgeons been
accepted when the first Australian herds
became affected, that huge expenditure
would never have been necessary. The latest
danger threatening the cattle industry is
the buffalo fly, which, as the tick did, is
slowly working its way southward through
Queensland from the Northern Territory.
As in the case of the tick, again the new
problem is being approached in the most
dilettante fashion, with the same loss and
waste as the probable outcome.
To disease in the case of sheep must be
added the blowfly curse, which had its
beginnings in the same casual shortsighted-
ness.
In a normal year, the value of Australian
pastoral and dairy produce is well over
125 millions. What it would be if only
some of the leakages were stopped is diffi-
cult to estimate, though, at a guess, it
would not be far from the double century.
The Years to Come.
While M. Briand, of France, is advocating
a confederation of the States of Europe
which, with the aid of the League of
Nations, is to abolish international friction,
a different note is being sounded from Ger-
many. , That country has begun an insistent
demand for a recasting of the Treaty of
Versailles, a revision of the Young agree-
ment, and the return of her colonies. There
is significance in the contemporaneous pub-
lication of “The Future of the Reich,” by
General von Seeckt, Germany’s Chief of
Staff. This outlines, among other matters,
a plan of campaign for the next German war
with France.
It has been argued that the publication is
a mere bluff as far as the war plans are
concerned, on the ground that no military
commander would make such confidential
matter public. Experience has been to the
contrary. The Prussian, for all his efficiency,
has a curious knack of giving himself away.
Von Schiffen’s plans for the invasion of
France, made many years ago, were fami-
liar to every European army officer who had
undergone an elementary staff course. Yet
they were adhered to in the smallest detail
by Von Moltke the Younger in 1914.
Further, they were made known to the
general public a couple of years before the
war by the publication of Bernhardi’s famous
book, which was so frank and revealing that
90 per cent, of its readers refused to accept
it as the gospel it turned out to be.
In spite of the hamnering limitations of
the Treaty of Versailles, Von Seeckt has
succeeded in establishing since the war what
promises to be a formidable military force.
Its main basis is a strong cadre of trained
officers and non-coms. The mass of the
personnel is put through a short but inten-
sive course of training, only the number
fixed by the Treaty being shown on the
strength at any one time. It is an old
trick practised by Prussia after the Napo-
leonic conquest when her army was simi-
larly limited. For the manufacture of
artillery and military aircraft and the train-
ing on a large scale of the air forces, Ger-
many, debarred by the Treaty from these
matters, has entered into a give-and-take
agreement with Russia. German military
airmen are being trained by the hundred
annually by German experts on Russian
soil. German artillerists and munition
experts are similarly busy in Russian fac-
tories, and return the accommodation by
giving the Russians the benefit of their skill
and experience.
The time for what Von Seeckt calls “the
restoration of Germany as a great military
power” is obviously not yet. If France and
Italy keep from each other’s throats until
then, and thus do not afford Germany a
favorable opportunity, it will be many years
before Germany buckles on the shining
armor anew. But meantime France has no
illusions.
+
The Law and the Reckless Alotorist.
A matter that is overdue for attention by
the 661 lawmakers of Australia is the im-
punity with which reckless and often penni-
less motorists are permitted to take life,
inflict grievous injury and destroy property.
In these days when, as the advertising
columns of city newspapers show, motor-
cars can be bought for as little as £lO and
t.-p. terms are so low that beggars can
ride, the public, whether afoot or awheel,
is subject to assaults in respect of which
there is no effective legal deterrent. It is
futile to bring a claim for damages against
a driver who has no means, and juries are
showing an increasing disinclination' to con-
vict even the most glaringly careless motor-
ists of manslaughter.
In a recent case in a Sydney criminal
court it was shown that defendant drove
along a dark road, on which, according to
his own account, it was impossible for him
to see pedestrians unless they were dressed
in white, at a speed estimated by his com-
panion at “35 to 40 miles an hour.” The
driver knocked over a man and woman,
killing the man, and drove straight on. A
sympathetic jury said “Not guilty.” In the
same court two days later a man, who,
according to police evidence, was drunk,
dashed past a stationary tram, killed a
passenger who had just alighted, and con-
tinued his career unchecked. Verdict:
“Not guilty.”
Last year in Sydney metropolitan area
alone, out of a' total of 7571
injured in street accidents, 6482, or 85 per
cent., were victims of the motor-car. In
the whole State of N. S. Wales, 415 persons
were killed and 7930 injured in motor acci-
dents. The conclusion cannot be escaped
that by far' the greater part of this toll on
life and limb was due to negligence of the
elementary rules of safe driving. It is an
axiom among responsible and experienced
motorists that • “good drivers don’t have
accidents.” It seems desirable to spread
that opinion more widely amongst motorists
as a class, and a big lift could be given
in that direction by handing police magi-
strates power to inflict up to a year’s im-
prisonment in cases where recklessness or
negligence is proved against drivers, and
especially where it is associated with that
especial curse of careful driver and pedes-
trian alike—flashness.
♦
Lifting the Customs Prohibitions.
What we really ought to make up our
minds about is whether we are willing and,
in fact, propose to bilk our overseas credit-
ors, and risk the consequences, whatever
they may be. Most people, of course, will
say offhand that they wouldn’t dream of
such dishonesty—that, as long as they’ve
got a shilling, our debts shall be honored,
to the extent of the shilling at any rate.
But the rogue never does make a practice
of going out into the street and proclaiming
himself a rogue; indeed, in most cases he
discovers afterwards (often in his little
cell) that he drifted into roguery with good
intentions in his heart and pious maxims
on his lips. In the present circumstances of
Australia there are certain courses that can-
not be pursued without making default and
bankruptcy inevitable; and the question for
people to make up their minds about is
whether they are going to be parties to
that .default and that bankruptcy.
There is no doubt whatever as to what
those courses are. We are in our present
mess through one thing and one thing only:
for many years past we have bought far
more than we could pay for. We have been
40 millions per annum short of meeting our
bills; and we have given lOU’s for the
debt. Even when our lOU’s were no longer
taken in the ordinary way, we got tempo-
rary accommodation and earned on much
as usual—until Scullin brought in his tariff.
Now, this was not a protective tariff in
the ordinary sense of the term. Its pur-
pose at the moment was not so much to
build up our own industries as to prevent
our country going further into debt without
providing the means to pay. That the
Customs revenue has fallen enormously is
not a matter, then, for regret. It is a
matter rather for congratulation. It means
a smaller overseas debt; it means thus a
brighter prospect of escaping default.
The shortage of paper revenue is quite
another matter. It is annoying, no doubt.
It may mean much discomfort to some-
body. But that cannot be helped. We can’t
live recklessly for 30 years and riotously
for the last dozen of them without having
a bill to pay. By lifting the Customs pro-
hibitions we would merely pass that bill on
to John Bull with a notification that we
took that course in order to prevent the
hardship falling upon ourselves.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES. . 2, 5
THE THEATRE IN LONDON—
By Vance Palmer .. .. .. . . 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.. .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON.. .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
WHAT SACRIFICES IS CAPITAL MAK-
ING ? 8
THE BABY—WHAT IS THE AVORLD
GOING TO DO ABOUT IT?—
By James Edmond . . . . 8
WAGES AND COST OF PRODUCTION .. 8
LET’S HAVE ANOTHER DRINK . . 8
ONE INCOME TAX! 8
SHOULD LONG SKIRTS BE PERMITTED ? 9
THE LAW AND THE RECKLESS MOTOR-
IST 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . 11, 12
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with four caricatures) . . . . 14
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD . . . . 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16.
A SHOAV AT MIDNIGHT (with dreams by
Frith) 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . . . 17, 18
FEDERAL MUTUAL INSURANCE.. .. 17
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP 17
AVILCOX-MOFFLIN 17
QUEENSLAND CEMENT AND LIME . . 17
YELLOW EXPRESS CARRIERS . . . . 17
WERE’S INVESTMENT 18
THE NATIONAL CREDIT 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED.. 18
ABORIGINALITIES ("with drawings).. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED.. .. 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . . . 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
Society of Artists’ Show. . , .. .. 31
THE INKY WAY . . 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 33
ANOTHER QUEENSLAND SCANDAL—
Rabbit and Dingo Boards .. .. 33
N.S.W. CREMATION CO 33
A GOOD TIME FOR LIFE ASSURANCE. . 33
WAGES AND PRIMARY PRODUCTION.. 33
SHADOW SHOWS 34
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . 35, 36
TATTERSALL’S SPRING MEETING
(Randwick) .. .. . . .. .. 35
MOONEE VALLEY RACES . . . . 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER.. .. ..39
CHATTER 1 FROM MELBOURNE . . .. 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
NEW SERIAL—
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover .. ..42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by
Phil May and “Hop”) .. . . . . 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“THE liINDUR,” by J. H. M. Abbott 49, 50
VERSE —By “Kettledrum,” Ronald McCuaig,
Rob McConnal .. . . . . 11, 50
NEXT WEEK.
Read the story of Mr. Clambaker’s search for cannibals. One of the best humorous tales
ever told in Australia.
Stock-watering and over-capitalisation will be inquired into in view of the Trades Union
Conference demand that these things shall be dealt with by the Government. An important study.
The last unpublished drawing by the late Ruby Lindsay—a beautiful composition—will be
included in this very interesting number.


A
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FOLLOW THROUGH
CRITERION:- BIRD IN HAND
(Commencing- next Saturday).
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
KING’S THEATRE:
COMMENCING SEPTEMBER 20,
LET US BE GAY.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LILAC TIME.
DICK ARDS’ tTV OL I THEATRE,
1 MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE FOLLIES OF 1930,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
Amusements,
OYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
JOHN BOLES in
CAPTAIN OF THE GUARDS
(Passed for General Exhibition).
BIG NEWS,
With ROBERT ARMSTRONG
(Passed for General Exhibition).
*sToWS®terr
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Aec. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There is a floating debt in London which
is causing a peck of trouble. It would be
possible, ex-Premier Holman says, to raise
a loan in Australia and pay it off or a great
deal of it; therefore let us do so and blow
the trouble. Of course, loans can be raised
in Australia, for subscription can be made
compulsory. But an army with banners and
machine-guns wouldn’t make other people
accept our paper in settlement, so that hack-
neyed substitute for hard work is busted for
the thousandth time.
The. removal of the Patents and Copy-
right Department to Canberra was nearly
due, and embittered housewives had almost
finished packing. Then Fenton and co.
decided that they couldn’t stand the expense,
and told the department to stay on in Mel-
bourne. By that time 40 houses had been
completed for the newcomers, and tenants
will have to be looked for; but “a saving of
at least £37,000 has been effected” —at least
Fenton and co. say so.
It is frequently asserted in an offhand
fashion by offhand orators that if 1 per
cent, w’ere knocked off the interest on the
public debt, which means one-fifth repudia-
tion, all Australia’s troubles would vanish like
a pickpocket bolting with an old woman’s
handbag, and there would be work for every-
Sydney “Labor Daily” darkly suggests that “Brit-
ish bondholders” were responsible for the revolution
in Argentina.
J.B.; “They’ll blame the Old Man for the
Fall of Rome yet.”
body without wages being reduced or the
working pace increased. But on the export
and import figures for July the position
wouldn’t be righted if the whole foreign debt
were cancelled. And one wonders what would
happen to the messenger who went to New
York to explain that Uncle might whistle
for his money. To any reader of U.S. maga-
zine literature, it is a question whether lie
would perish before or after being tortured
by mad bootleggers.
Should Cheap Jack regain office at the forth-
coming election he intends that N.S.W. shall
resign from the Loan Council, and do it?
borrowing separately without the Federai
■guarantee. There is no money to be bor-
rowed, but Slang thinks this attitude will
be impressive. There will be difficulty about
“chucking” his State’s share of the common
obligations of the council, but he may try.
He further demands that interest on overseas
debts shall be reduced (or partly repudiated),
but as overseas bondholders don’t know
officially of Slang’s existence he may have to
go to London and introduce himself to them
at a public meeting. Having reduced interest
he is going to appeal to J. Bull for more
money. If Bull doesn’t respond lie will go
to New York, where Uncle Hoover may fall
on his neck —and break it in three places.
Lord Stonehaven advises this embarrassed
nation to “develop the Test-match spirit,
Which made perfectly reasonable men sit up
all night listening to the broadcast.” Lloyd
George warned his countrymen in war time
not to sneer at the “potato-bread spirit” in
Germany. Australia is likely to need more
of this spirit and less of the Test-match
variety.
One of the four short lines to be closed
down by the Queensland Railway Dexiart-
ment is the 25-mile stretch .connecting the
Ravenswood goldfield—at least it was a
goldfield once —with Charters Towers and
Townsville. Another catered for seaside
trippers until motor transport beat it.
Operating costs on the four exceeded revenue
hy £24,318 in 1928-29, interest being extra.
Marks, M.H.R., assured a Melbourne audi-
ence that the Nationalist party is “every-
where arousing suspicion and distrust.” The
■ same has been said a thousand times of
Political Labor, yet Political
Labor survives. What kills
a party quicker than anything
is to arouse uncontrolled
mirth, as the Australian
“party” has been doing ever
since it was born. Marks
himself has furnished the
latest food for laughter at the
Australian “party’s” expense
by resigning from it, and
leaving the leader without a
follower in the House of
Reps. There were three
Little Digger boys—and now
there’s only one.
Marks’s grievance against
Hughes is that he published
in his pamphlet “Bond or
Free” “a bitter satirical and
personal attack on Sir Otto
Niemeyer.” It is hardly as
bad as that; anyway a far
worse fault is that the author
discusses a situation for which
he is partly responsible with-
out suggesting any sort of
remedy. There is not a con-
structive idea in the thing—
only blither to the effect that
“somehow we must set idle
hands to work producing wealth.” Perhaps
Hughes’s notion is that his mysterious bene-
factors of ten years ago, who were too
modest to have their names published, will
come to the country’s rescue by handing
Fenton a cheque for twenty-five millions.
The depths of petty meanness were
plumbed by Sydney’s Water Board when it
decided against making up the difference
between the military and civil pay of
soldier-employees going into camp. ’Enley,
M.L.A., and Alderman McEllione were
responsible for the resolution, and the need
for economy was the excuse. There is no
mention of either of these zealots sacrificing
board fees, which amount to £2OO a year.
Economy is for employees only.
Queensland looks like being the first State
to reduce the number of Assemblymen. A
strong section of the Ministerial party is
in favor of a cut from 72 to 50. It used to
be said, as an argument against reduction,
that the out-back electorates would be too
huge for members to cover ; but tin; 'plane
has killed that plea. In a way Camooweal
and Burketown are as accessible nowadays,
thanks to the air services, as districts within
a hundred miles of Brisbane.
“Between 1915 and 1929 Queensland’s
public debt increased by 80 per cent., but
there was a 162 per cent, increase in interest
payments.” Thus Forgan Smith, the State
Labor leader, at a Brisbane meeting. The
gentleman understated the debt increase,
which was just on 100 p.c. (from £56,860,000
to £113,300,000), and neglected to mention
that his party was in office the whole time,
and not only borrowed with the utmost
recklessness but chucked a lot of the money
away. He reserved his scorn for the lenders,
and demanded “a special tax on interest.”
LABOR LEADER FROM PAIRTHSHIRE: “It’s no’
our fault, comrade, Ah blame th’ capee-
talists who disteelled the whusky.”
In the next breath this extraordinary person
described the salary cuts in the Queensland
Government service as “a vicious form of
taxation levied on one section of the com-
munity.”
Acting-Priminister Fenton spent 90 minutes
in addressing the Council of Trade Unions,
liis text being a superfluous remark which
he has often made before. Australia, he
said, will never repudiate its public debts.
Nobody is really worrying much about re-
pudiation. The Red push recommends it
because it would be a loud, blusterous and
childish thing to do, like throwing mud at
a sleeping dog to discover how the animal
will perform when it wakes up. Others, like
the Labor gentleman appointed a director
of the Commonwealth Bank, talk more mildly
about the vastly exaggerated benefits which
would accrue if interest on the public debt
were reduced, which might possibly be done
Possibly this is how the situation will be saved.
by telling the bondholder that he must take
less than his due. Fenton gives the needless
assurance that Australia, as represented by
his respectable self, won’t do either of these
silly tricks. But -lie might fail to meet the
national obligations on a vast scale without
doing either of them.
Returns for two months of the financial
year reveal that the Commonwealth is down
£2,259,000, N.S.W. £2,444,000 and Victoria
£1,774,000. Queensland (£218,600) makes
the best showing, and its Government lias
now staggered the Public Service unions by
announcing a further reduction of salaries
(a 6 p.c. cut was sanctioned by the Indus-
trial Court in June) and refusing them per-
mission to protest at the bar of the House,
drily saying that dissatisfied persons could
resign. Acting Priminister Fenton finds diffi-
culty in calling Parliament together to face
his trouble because he has colleagues who
think action would interfere with the grind-
ing of a State political axe. They are mostly
honest enough also, but they are monument-
ally self-confident, and hold that things must
come right with the Chosen People some-
how.
If Bruce had only known it, the Fates
never did him a better turn than when
they decreed that he should lose his job and
his seat last October. If he had remained
Prime Minister he would have had all the
worry which so nearly made a nervous wreck
of Scullin, with vituperation added. Salary-
cutting would have started at Canberra in-
stead of Sydney, and the blasts of execration
that such a policy must involve —though all
the Labor Governments will have to come
to it—would have been directed at him first
and foremost. No man ever had an en-
forced holiday from politics at a more oppor-
tune time for himself.
Webber, the Assistant Minister for Labor,
has been put up to suggest trebling the Vic.
unemployment tax. The existing rates are
a penny in the £ on wages up to £312 p.a.,
and 10s. to 265. per cent, on all incomes in
excess of that figure—of course they are
additional to ordinary State income tax,
which was recently increased and may
be increased again, and to Federal income
tax, of which there have been two recent
increases, while a third is contemplated. As
in N. S. Wales, a lot of the money is being
passed on to local bodies which have spent
far too much already, and if the trebling
proposal is serious the Government will
strike trouble.
The Council of Trade Unions handed over
the financial problem to a sub-committee, and
that body made out a list of grievances which
the unhappy Scullin is to bring under the
notice of Ramsay MacDonald with a view to
redress. Outstanding features are that
the British Government made £250,000,000
“on the wool that it bought in Australia ’at
a fixed price and sold overseas” during the
war; that Australia was charged by the
skinflint Briton “the whole cost of her troops
from the day of enlistment until they were
discharged,” while other Dominions were
“wholly relieved”; that the hostile British
Government paid- Australia only half as
much for its wheat as it paid other
Dominions; that many millions of Austra-
lian gold went, to England, and were used
for the purchase of South American prog;
and that Britain has written off 80 per cent,
of the war debts due to her except in the
case of Australia, which is the mug as usual.
This grievous concatenation of bunkum was
published abroad, and scornful comments are
being cabled from Canada and Maoriland,
which put more money into the war,
in proportion to population, than the
Commonwealth did, and made no song
about it.
Some of the politicians who got Australia
into the present mess have great plans for
taking another ninepence or shilling in the
pound of income for their unemployed-relief
funds, although the Federal and State
income taxes are being increased at a be-
wildering rate —and they had shot up to
10 shillings in the pound before the slump.
It would be a thousand times better to
leave the ninepence or shilling in the pound
in the owners’ pockets, conditionally on their
providing a measure of work on their own
account, and drop all the pathetic sand-
shifting and footpath-repairing schemes, pay-
ing a dole instead. There is no sense in
giving a jobless clerk or shop-assistant live
days’ toil with a shovel for some improvident
municipality every seven or eight weeks, and
that seems to be the central idea of the
Farrar plan in N.S.W. A dole would be
abused, but fully 90 p.c. of people would
take it with the firm resolve to disqualify
themselves as soon as possible by getting
work in their proper callings. Also it would
conceivably save some weary-hearted veter-
ans from suicide, some young single men
(not now provided for) from crime, and
some young women from going on the;
streets.
The last drought emphasised the de-
pendence of western Queensland on the
underground pools and rivers, about which
knowledge is vague. There was a time when
no pump could cope with the supply; to-day.
it is escaping into the depleted artesian basin,
and sub-artesian bores are getting only what
they can intercept—that, at any rate, is
the' theory. The Moore Government has put
through a bill under which control of sub-
artesian water is relinquished. Russell,
M.L.A. for Dalby, won an amendment to
keep under control as artesian all bores
that have ceased to How—about half the
total number —but the measure looks like
closing a useful field of inquiry to the new
Bureau of Economics.
Since June 30, 1919, according to Scullin's
Budget Papers (p. 122), the gross State
debts have increased from £397,471,000 to
£727,689,500. In other words, the States
have borrowed in 11 years £47,770,000 more
than the total of the war debt on June
30, 1930 (£282,390,000), and spent it all on
“reproductive works.” Interest on the war
debt, of which such a mouthful is made
by rogues and fools, came to £14,883,007
MAORILAND TRIED IT.
“For the first two months during which increased
postal and telegraphic charges were imposed, postal
revenue was £1,840,000 less than the estimate.”
KANGAROO: “Now who would, have thought
that would lose us money?”
Kiwi “I could have told you, brother. I
tried it once.”
last yeaT , whereas £40,482,000 had to be
pa j c i 'i n respect of “works and other pur-
poses.” Government railways alone are
i os i ng mor e than twice as much as the war
interest due to Britain last year, £4,647,900.
yet here comes Baddeley, deputy-leader of
t j ie N.S.W. Labor party, with a plan for
borrowing “twenty millions at five per cent.,
t 0 p e expended on reproductive works at
awar d wages,” and this when N.S.W. 5 p.c.
s t o ck is quoted at £BB in New York, N.S.W.
gi s tock at £99 in London, and Ocmmon-
wealth 54 p.c. stock at £94 15s. in Sydney.
There are some calamitous blockheads in
Australian Parliaments, but Lang’s lieuten-
ant stands alone. Does this hopeless ass.
rea( j nothing but fight reports and race-
hooks?


SOCIETY
AND IT'S
PRINTED WITH
WIMBLE'S INKS
PERILS OF THE SEA.
“Yes, that first officer’s left—dismissed the service, in fact.”
“Oh’ what a shame! Careless navigation, was it?”
“I suppose so. Anyway, her husband got a divorce.”
“Fxdi°” • The cabled report of the death
of “the "original Mademoiselle from Armen-
tieres, Latirc Millanquet,” removes only one
of the originals In at least three of the
back-of-the-line Villages in northern France
were French ladies 'who were pointed out
's' the identical Mademoiselle; in a show-
house in Paris another of her sang and
danced (both indifferently) for the benefit
of soldiers who had sung about her; and yet
another of her served vin blanc in Havre.
Actually however the original would have
Wn a well-niatured dame at the time of
the Big War “Mademoiselle from Armen-
fires” being merely a revised revival of a
vaudeville song popular in Paris 40 years
It wasn’t the only war-time revival,
An English publishing firm advertised a new
war song, “Dolly Gray,’’ which really dated
back to the Spanish-American War, and was
resuscitated for the benefit of Britons during
the Boer disturbance.
“Flagwagger” : One Melbourne home con-
tains an honor-roll with a pathetic history.
Jim Blank was a schoolboy of 13 when an
elder brother joined up in August, 1914;
his father was in khaki two months
later, and other relatives followed. Young
Jim decorated a piece of pasteboard with
crossed flags and “For King and Country,
and inscribed thereon the names of rela-
tions. By the end of 1917 there were 11
of them there, and none with a black line
underneath. Jim’s dad returned early the
next year, and Jim, now 17, refused permis-
sion to enlist, ran off to Sydney to overstate
his age and join up under an assumed name.
Not till after his departure was it noticed
that he had inscribed his own name on the
honor-roll. He wrote from England giving
his A.I.F. name and unit, and soon after
was killed in action in France. Four of the
names on the simple honor-roll _ are now
underlined, for three of his relations went
west during the offensive of August, 1918,
* * * *
“Katherine”: Here’s an entry for the
queer accidents championship. A Darwin
solicitor was driving his car along a bush
track when he received a blow on the chin
that knocked him cold, though he managed to
stop the car before succumbing. Investiga-
tion showed that a front wheel of the car
had run over a boomerang lying on the
track and that the abo. weapon had inflicted
the damage. It took the local quack some
time to get the splinters out of the wound;
Darwin still insists that the hardwood im-
plement was shattered by its impact with
the Gent. One’s physiognomy.
* * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: According to the cables
there is some newspaper discussion in Eng-
land as to what will be the status of the
Yorks’ two baby princesses, and whether the
elder will have precedence over the younger,
or whether they will become co-heirs, in the
event of their ever standing first in line for
the Crown. Yet the law is surely plain
enough. My office Blackstone says: “Among
the females, the Crown descends by right
of primogeniture to the eldest daugnter only
and her issue • and not, as in common in-
heritances, to all the daughters at once; the
evident necessity of a sole succession to the
throne having occasioned the royal law of
descents to depart from the common law in
this respect.” This is confirmed by Hals-
bury, and what Blackstone states and Ilals-
bury confirms is likely to be a pretty sound
proposition.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Adelaide has a case tc
match that of the absent-minded Sydneyite
who left a roll of notes on a bank table anc
hasn’t turned up to claim them (B. 3/9/’oo )
A few years ago a saleswoman in a Bundle-
street shop walked into the manager’s office
with a very soiled handkerchief. 1
found this on the counter,” she explained
“and there seems to be some money tied ui
in it.” The manager gingerly undid the
knots, found a surprisingly large sum anc
duly notified the press and the police. Hordes
of claimants turned up, as in the Sydnej
case, but none could establish ownership
I spoke to him quite recently about the
incident, and learned that the precious find
had been locked away in ft safe-deposit
vault. And it s going- to stop there, he
added, “until the owner tells me a few things
which no one but lie and I are ikely to
know—the initials on that filthy old hand-
kerchief, the amount ot money in it, and
just wlmt the other article is, which was
tied up. with the money. Then 111 hand
it over. *
"Bert the Carpenter : You needn t always
be the owner of lost property to be able to
describe it accurately. Not long ago a tram-
conductor came home to his boarding-house
and remarked, while sitting on the verandah
after tea, that there were a lot of careless
people about. “Picked up a natty little hand-
bag on my tram this afternoon,” he went on,
“and in it were” —here he gave a list of the
contents, which included money and jewel-
lery and a bunch of keys—-all for Yale locks.
“Fancy anyone leaving 50 quids' worth ot
stuff on a tram seat 1" Next day a bright
THEY BOTH COUNTED.
“Well, good-bye, darling, I mustn’t be late home—my husband is the only one that
counts in our house.”
“Yes, isn’t it annoying! My husband is always reckoning up, too, and saying we can't
afford it!”
young thing tripped into the lost property
office, described her bag and contents, was
handed it, opened it, left a pound-note as a
reward for the honest conductor, and tripped
out. A few minutes later in came the hus-
band of the woman who had really lost the
bag. Subsequent inquiries showed that the
bright young thing had been brought home
to the boarding-house and had stayed ten
minutes on the verandah, with a lad who had
made her acquaintance at a picture-show,
while the conductor was talking. Result: One
sharp young woman, whose real name is
unknown, missing with some easy money,
and one conductor dismissed for breaking
rule umpteen by disclosing the “nature and
contents of a parcel, package, purse, bag or
other article or receptacle left by a pas-
senger upon a tram to any other person other
than an official of the tramways.”
* * * *
“If’Fou” • It is to the recently-evacuated
island, St. Kilda, west of the Hebrides (B.
10/9/’3O), that Melbourne’s toney suburb
owes its name, though there is a hazy impres-
sion that it is called after some Celtic
saint. In the early days of Port Phillip
settlement some 36 migrants, about a quar-
ter of the far-northern island’s population,
arrived in Melbourne. They grafted the
name of the island on to the new village.
“F.S.”: With the Melbourne Show on
hand, scores of worthy people, with their
tongues protruding, are putting the hnal
touches to their contributions to the art
section of the annual frenzy. These exhibits
always maintain a certain level. Never, even
by accident, does a picture creep in which
shows a hint of the sophistication and super-
ficial cleverness displayed by the city artist.
An old lady of my acquaintance has from
time immemorial submitted a collection of
horses’ heads done in pencil. She labels
them “etchings,” although no copper-plate
ever had anything to do with their produc-
tion. She has never yet won a prize, and
her opinion of the judges is not a high one.
This year she has stayed the flow of horses'
heads and, in between milking 20 cows a
day, she has been engaged on a still-life in
oils of a couple of apples from her own
orchard. One is remarkably green, the other
quite as remarkably rosy and both innocent
of perspective. In fact, the picture fulfils all
the requirements for a futurist masterpiece,
and I feel sure that if the old lady were to
sign it with a foreign name and send it to
a city exhibition, Mr. Norman Mac George,
the eminent lecturer on art at the National
Gallery, who has just returned from Europe
full of praise for the moderns, would see
that it was acquired for the nation.
"Sydneyite” : The rate of increase in Aus-
tralia’s population—only about half the aver-
age rate of increase per annum since the
11)21 census —indicates that hundreds of thou-
sands saw the slump coming as far back
as a year ago. There will be fewer immi-
grants of the best kind than ever next year.
The birth-rate and the doctors have been
the first to suffer in each of the half-dozen
slumps, here and abroad, in which I have
had the misfortune to participate. The
specialists crash first. Macquarie-street is
collecting 50 per cent, less in fees than
iv, did this time last year. Sufferers postpone
treatment, and, when they must have it, go to
general practitioners. But the G.P.’s don’t
benefit much. They are the tailors of profes-
sional life; patrons feel no shame about
keeping them out ot. tlieir lawful due..
Furthermore, people are always healthier
during slumps; they walk more, go to bed
earlier, and eat and drink less. A Sydney
paper mentioned a few days ago that the
takings of the city drug houses had fallen
off by 20 per cent.” Cheap reading mattei
used to sell well during the slumps of tla
past, but the kind of amusement-seekers who
once stayed at home and forgot their troubles
over a book are now helping to fill the film-
palaces.
* =i= *
“Millie Meter”: About the most ticklish
engineering operation yet attempted was per-
formed in Sydney one day last week, when
what might be called the keystones (really
solid slabs of steel) were slipped into place
in the top of the arch of the Harbor bridge.
By great good luck there was a time, a day
or two previously, when the 24 thermometers
distributed about the bridge all registered
the same—about 60deg.—enabling an exact
calculation to be made as to the size of key-
plates required. On the plans of the bridge
they are represented as closing a final gap
of six inches, a variation of 2in. over or
under being allowed to provide for what
Ralph Freeman, the designer, calls “unavoid-
able uncertainties as to the physical proper*
ties of the steel and errors of manufacture,
setting out, and estimate of temperature.”
As it has turned out, the keyplates are within
half an inch of the mean dimensions allotted
to them, a degree of accuracy almost unbe-
lievable. The error in a GOft. girder was not
more than l-50th of an inch, a magnificent
testimony to the manner in which Lawrence
Ennis has trained his Australian workmen,
and to their aptness as pupils.
* * *
“First Cause” : Dr. Henry, of Callan Park,
promptly challenged the cabled report of
the London Lunacy Board that “general
paralysis of the insane had been conquered
by allowing patients to be bitten by malarial
mosquitoes.” He said that only a few cases
treated by this method in Australia had been
able to resume their occupations, and “even
these cases retained evidence of the damage
done by the pre-existing disease.” In the
circumstances it seems more rational to leave
the G.P.I. patients alone, and concentrate
on “the pre-existing disease,” which is
syphilis. An odd thing about the typical
G.P.I. sufferer is that he probably suffers
less than he ever did when he was well.
Strictly speaking, lie enjoys complete happi-
ness. He experiences the sensations, of a
superman and millionaire. His optimism is
as splendid as his health, appetite and capa-
city for sleep. Gradually he gets fatter, more
complacent and more. comatose, until he
passes painlessly out in the equivalent. of
a hashish-dream. Why waste time trying
to save him from the drugged death pre-
scribed by merciful nature when he would
be of no use to himself or the world if he
was kept alive?
❖ *
“Furphy”: A . Newcastle (N.S.W.)
individual was watching the Brisbane-bound
air-mail fly over, when he thought he saw
one of the landing-wheels fall off. The
tale urns wired to Brisbane and ambulances
were rushed out to the aerodrome, since
casualties were feared on landing. ’Planes
were sent up to warn the big mailer,
which, however, turned up with both wheels
intact and passengers and pilot wondering
what the deuce the fuss was about. Yankee,
Lindbergh lost a wheel when approaching
Mexico City some time ago. lie tried to
make a landing, but turned his big machine
tail over nose, fortunately without any
casualty. He had the foresight, when the
news was signalled him, to keep flying round
the ’drome till his petrol gave out, thus avoid-
ing all danger of fire on crashing.
RATAPLAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is your inspiration flagging?
Beat the drum!
Are your weary footsteps lagging?
Beat the drum!
Is your spinal column sagging ’neath the
world’s persistent ragging? Is Life’s!
tempo dull and dragging?
Beat the drum !
If your ship that’s coming in declines to come,
There’s persuasion in the calling of the
drum;
Men may call you egotistic;
Never mind ! Display your fistic
Prowess bravely in awakening the drum. >
Are your Spanish castles falling?
Beat the drum !
Do you find the present galling?
Beat the drum !
Does the future seem appalling? Has your
marching dropped to crawling? Can’t
you hear the vanguard calling?
Beat the drum!
If all the lively oracles are dumb,
Rouse the echoes with the rattle of the
drum;
Be a man and self-reliant,
Stare at Fate with eyes defiant;
There’s companionship and courage in the
drum.
By the gods are you neglected?
Beat the drupi!
Are you spurned, despised, rejected?
Beat the drum !
Though a trick, ’t won’t be detected, you will
live and die respected to a lofty niche
elected
By the drum.
If the tables of the rich won’t yield a crumb,
Ripple out your requisition on the drum;
Modesty needs modernising;
Nothing pays like advertising—
All you need is the occasion, and the drum.
Is the sword you trusted failing?
Seize the drum!
Are your chosen comrades quailing?
Tap the drum !
In the midst of tears and wailing further
tears are unavailing; now the coward’s
cheek is paling,
Roll the drum!
Sound the challenge to the palace and the
slum,
To be answered by the trampling and the hum
Of the host that hurries after
With its mourning turned to laughter,
Facing conquest with a Leader—and a. Drum.
LONDON.
KETTLEDRUM.


X.S.” : The Vic. Full Court has made an
order that no legal proceedings shall be insti-
tuted in any court by R. F. Millane, of
Ivanhoe, without leave of the Supreme
Court or one of its Judges—the first deci-
sion of this kind ever recorded in the State.
Millane is a village Hampden, who has issued
hundreds of writs and instituted 56 legal pro-
ceedings against the Shire of Heidelberg.
In addition, he has px*oceeded against various
defendants, including the proprietors of lead-
ing newspapers, to the tune of 60 processes,
almost all of them criminal. Every case was
dismissed or struck out. It remains to be
seen whether the last has been heard of the
litigious citizen.
¥-¥ ¥ ¥
“Whitehall”: The contents of Gowan
Brae, near Parramatta, were sold by auc-
tion last week. It represents another failure
to found an ancestral mansion in Australia.
Shipping-magnate James Burns built the big
stone imitation of a Scottish castle towards
the end of last century, but for the past 20
years it has been pretty much of a white
elephant. It might have witnessed a succes-
sion of parties, the family being large and
cheerful, and it being as commodious as
one of England’s minor country houses. But
the founder of the Burns, Philp Co. was a
leader of the simple life, who a habit
of going to bed at 9 p.m., and after the
death of his wife he retired more into
his shell than ever. The only surviving son,
James, came into the place on his father’s
death, but has rarely used it. He is now in
England, and when he returns means to live
at Bowral. So Gowan Brae passes to the
Presbyterian Church, as provided for by the
Burns will in the event of its not being used
as a residence by a member of the family.
$ $ H: *
“Oxmead”: Half a dozen years ago a
young man was sentenced to death at Perth
for the murder of a taxi-driver. The crime
was so hideously brutal and wanton that
it was difficult to find any shadow of extenua-
tion, but the murderer escaped the gallows,
presumably because of his youth, and is now
serving a term of imprisonment for the term
of his natural life. Last week Clifford Wray,
a youth of 19, was found guilty at Perth of
a murder equally horrible and purposeless,
the victim being again a taxi-driver. About all
PAY BEARER.
MABEL: “Sets up to be frightfully experienced, doesn’t she?”
LAURA: “Yes. She told Charlie she had a chequered career ."
MABEL: “M’yes. And a good many different signatures on them, too, I’ll be bound."
that could be said for the prisoner is that
he didn’t try to brazen it out, and put
the country to the expense of a long and
costly trial. He confessed, leaving his coun-
sel rio plea to put forward but that of in-
sanity. The jury weren’t quite satisfied that
he was insane, but they recommended him
to mercy on account of his youth and weak
m ind—he had admittedly been a diligent
student of Deadwood Dick and penny dread-
ful literature. Of course, he won’t hang,
either—he is merely likely to be a charge
on the State for the rest of his dismal days,
Among pernicious imports that might well
be blocked, along with the Hollywood films
that help to glorify the crook, is the cheap
and nasty fiction that may so easily turn
an unbalanced or morbidly impressionable
mind to thoughts of crime.
“Binduli”: Everard Browne wasn’t the
only one of “Rolf Boldrewood’s” sons to
Gerald 11 several 1 little l ' of
ms
» ra “ horse " tw »- 14 »» “ itlcism <* his
ANOTHER ECONOMY CAMPAIGN.
“Now that you’re wearing long frocks, Birdie, I suppose you’ll be going a bit easy
on silk stockings!”
activities m the last direction that he
resented most. On one occasion he fell incon-
tinently on one of John Norton s lieutenants
who was posting up a contents bill in front
2J the olhce, said bill containing what
Bro ™ e regarded as some one-lme reflections
°. n j ms elf. On another, he extracted a
signed retraction and apology from a sport-
in& reporter, who had headed an account ot
® f ‘ me debatable racecourse happening ‘ Rob-
Be ry uv j l ' ms ’ before the writer was
bed next morning. Encountering the
Manager of the paper later, and finding him
ess aMenable to arguments or threats, he
assayed to wipe out the insult m blood, and
onuses; but the pair parted better friends
than they had Met Browne left M estralia
to manage a mine for an English company
* n Siberia,
* * *
“Old Warden”: The long leg of coinci-
dence was pulled again recently in the Mt.
Morgan (Q.) district. A fossicker at Dee
River was panning off when, in addition to
a few specks of alluvial, he found half a
sovereign in his dish. Just a year previ-
ously, near the same spot, he had found
another half-jim. The probable explanation
is that some gold-diviner had been working
over the ground with his twig. It used to
be the custom of many of these to place a
gold coin in each hand when divining, and
these two were doubtless dropped into the
creek.
* * * *
“Bangemall”: No more heinous offence
could be committed in the early-day Westra-
lian mining settlement than to hint a doubt
about the future of a field that everyone
was expected to assist in booming. I remem-
ber, when I was on a Geraldton paper, we had
a correspondent in a little mining camp on
the lower Murchison who, in a moment of
pessimism, ventured his opinion that some of
the reefs wouldn’t live at depth. The very
next mail brought a round-robin with 56
signatures (there were only 57 men in the
settlement) warning the paper against print-
ing another line from so notorious a liar and
lamentable an ignoramus. I always wondered
how the man got away with his life. None
of the reefs went down. In the hectic Bull-
finch boom of 1910-11, when the country was
over-run with mining journalists, one man
and only one opposed his voice to the chorus
of whooping. He sa d that the Bullfinch was
absurdly over-capitalised and there was noth-
ing outside it, and was pelted with every
vituperative epithet imaginable for telling
what was to prove cold truth. In the even
more preposterous Hampton Plains boom of
ten years later another journalist was burned
in effigy at Ivalgoorlie, not because he had
damned the new field, though he well might
have, but because he was held to have been
sparing and over-cautious in praising it. If
he had disparaged it in downright terms,
Lord only knows what mightn’t have hap-
pened to him!
* ¥ ¥ , *
“Cri”: There is nothing humorous in the
notice “Commonwealth of Australia —Tres-
passers Prosecuted,” but I couldn’t help a
grin when I encountered the warning on
Winceby Island, half-way up Spencer Gulf,
toward Port Augusta (S.A.). Here there
is built a lighthouse, of the sort that requires,
no attendants, and the notice is displayed on
the base. Save for the builders, and the
mechanics on the Commonwealth Lightship
Lady Loch who visit the place periodically,
it is doubtful if more than half a dozen
persons have set foot on Winceby Island
since Matthew Flinders named it in 1802.
❖ ❖ ❖ Hs
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne pickpocket operat-
ing on the Victoria Park Ground got a
mixed bag from a football barracker the
other day. It comprised a 25-cent Canadian
note, a £1 Australian note and a German
note for 50,000,000 marks.
t’fi % sfc
“Mako”: Tulips are a sore point with
quite a lot of Canberra residents. The
original consignment of bulbs from Holland
were the exclusive property of the Govern-
ment, but in the second season the flowers
began to bloom in private gardens all over
the place. There were dark whispers about
wholesale purloining of the bulbs, and any
tulip in other tnan an official setting became
an object of suspicion. I asked an Ainslie
householder if lie were addicted to tulip-
culture. “Not me,” he said. “I did have a
few I brought up from Sydney with me,
but as nobody believed me when I told them
where they’d come from I dug them up.”
But in many a town outside the Federal
Territory enthusiastic gardeners proudly dis-
play their collection of genuine Canberra
tulips.
* * * *
“Another Baldy”: The ridiculous custom
of taking off your hat in a lift (B. 3/9/’3O)
shows that some men are very like sheep
when a new fashion is set, however illogical
it may be. Last week I noticed two up-to-
date lads baring their heads in a lift when a
lady entered. Two minutes later I saw them
enter one of Melbourne’s leading cafes and
walk to the very end of it wearing their
hats in the presence of at least 100 women.
* * * *
“Fitzjay”: Re the Tahiti hoodoo (B.
27/8/’3O), the most calamitous incident of
her career was when she was being utilised
as a troopship during the war. Calling at
Sierra Leone for coal, she picked up a viru-
lent species of plague. The mortality was
terrible, and most of those, who survived
were unfit for service and had to be invalided
home to Maoriland.
¥ ¥ * ¥
“Country Ped.” : The class had not been dis-
missed ten minutes when a young maiden,
her face slightly bloodstained and surrounded
by a bevy of all explaining at
once that “Tilly had hit Mabel on the nose,”
re-entered the schoolroom —and I knew spring
had come. At the turn of the season child-
ren always start fighting; what is more
curious still, girls are generally the first to
begin. Rows over games, exhibitions of
jealousy—anything will start it, and next
day sure enough the boys were busily
arranging fights for “after school.” In another
week the whole outburst will be forgotten.
The savage past of our race is always peep-
ing out in childhood, and I take this to
be a recrudescence of the time when the
primitive cavemen came forth from their
winter quarters to fight and hunt, while the
women, stimulated by the warmth and the
new food and excitement, bickered and fought
with one another at home.
* * ¥ *
“Riom”: When Billy Elton was playing
the Cockney in “Morocco Bound” years ago
at Melbourne Princess his best laugh always
came when two eunuchs hurled him over the
seraglio wall on to the stage and he groaned,
“I’ve seen the ’arem.” During the run of
the show Dr. O’Hara met J. L Purves in
Collins-street, and the evening papers made
much of the resulting dust-up, which was
the aftermath of a gruelling cross-examina-
tion of the burly doctor by the bullying
barrister. That night when Billy Elton
was hurled on he groaned, “My Gawd! I’ve
seen O’Hara.” It took a convulsed house
five minutes to subside.
* ¥ ¥ *
“Leonore”: I, too, know a doctor who
manages to collect quite a lot of fees “in
kind” (B. 27/S/’3O). He has a regular
weekly fish supply, which is wiping off a
debt owed by the fishmonger’s clan, and the
local newsagent has been slowly meeting his
obligations to the medico by the same method
for two or three years. At one time he had
a collection of aluminium pots and pans
accepted in lieu of cash from a patient in
the hardware line; these he rapidly disposed
of to his friends at cost price.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” : It’s an ill wind that
blows nobody good, as suit-cleaners and
renovators are discovering. One of them
told me that his “regulars” have become
less regular, but he is more than compensated
by an incursion of new custom from people
who were formerly wont to discard clothes
when they showed any signs of shabbiness.
I found my boot repairer working over-
time, too; he waved his hand towards some
tattered old footwear that a year ago would
have been regarded as hopeless. I know
another man who finds it worth while to
advertise that he reconditions old safety-
razor blades at the rate of 12 for sixpence.
Time was when the safety-razor blade, once
it had lost its edge, was tossed into the
garbage-tin.
¥ * *
“Gownsman”: Carnegie visiting Profes-
sor Duniway, lecturing at Sydney Uni. on
the late Woodrow Wilson, said that the
United States would have joined the League
of Nations if only the war-time President
had been more tactful and less stubborn.
“He determined that the Senate was to
learn a lesson and take its medicine”—and
the Senate refused, as most Parliamentary
bodies would, Anglo-Saxon ones at all events.
It is a habit not easily shaken off by profes-
sors to treat the world as if it was a class
of students. Cecil Rhodes found another
fatal defect in them, which caused him to
deny them any say in the administration of
his will regarding Rhodes scholarships—a
certain ignorance of business affairs insepar-
able from a sheltered, cloistered life. Wilson,
however, had a good grip of politics before he
went to the White House, but the didactic
ONE FOR FATHER.
Father: “It’s extravagant people like you
who encourage Communists. I’m sure
your mother never dressed like that at
your age.”
DAUGHTER: “Perhaps not, father. But I
don’t want to have to marry someone
who will begrudge my children a few
clothes.”
never left Mm. It is difficult to
recall any University professor who has cut
a figure in Australian politics, though plenty
of schoolmasters have done so, on the Labor
side particularly.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Strict Veg.”: What with the State
Theatre, which looks like the dream of a
Turkish pasha, and the T. and G. building,
with a tower resembling a Hindu fane, Mel-
bourne’s skyline is steadily becoming Orient-
alised mucli in the way Hardy Wilson sug-
gested would inevitably be the tendency of
Australian architecture. One of the most
recent additions is the Australian Provincial
Assurance building. Although its tower
is not of exotic design it is emblazoned with
the letters “APA,” which in Malay means
“What?” —so it is Asiatic in suggestion, at
any rate. The next alteration to the city’s
profile will be the new Oddfellows’ Hall, to
be erected on the corner of Collins and Swan-
ston streets. It will rise to the 132-foot
building limit and then point a further 7S
feet of finger to the sky. As the regulations
prohibit the occupation of the upper por-
tion except by pigeons, it will be purely for
ornamental purposes and advertisement.
SHELTERED TRADES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These are none too cheerful times, perforce,”
haid the butcher’s dog to the brewer’s horse;
“But there’s little shortage for us to fear
While men must have mutton and beef and
beer.
Though many another nag and tyke
Grow a trifle spare and Cassius-like,
We’ll find enough for our modest needs.
Never you worry, my prince of steeds.”
“Aye, unperturbed on my round I jog,”
Said the brewer’s horse to the butcher’s dog,
“Though few indeed of our tribe there are
Not counted out by the motor-car.
Harness a-jingle and groomed and sleek,
You still may find me where lorries creak
With casks to. plenish the social cup
And the foaming tankard, my lusty pup.”
“Of lessened rations I hear discourse,”
Said the butcher’s dog to the brewer’s horse;
“But there’s nothing as yet to disappoint
Where they cleave the carcase or trim the
joint.
Rich scraps I swallow, fine bones I gnaw,
And trust the gospel of Bernard Shaw
This meat-fed country will ne’er endorse,”
Said the butcher’s dog to the brewer’s horse.
“And there’s some would rob it of beer and
grog,”
Said the brewer’s horse to the butcher’s dog,
“But I munch my fodder by fears unwrung
Of aught befalling my boss or Bufig.
Take what’s provided. Devour the prog
That makes you ‘fit as a butcher’s dog’;
And, devil doubt it, I’ll stay the course
That keeps me ‘sleek as a brewer’s horse.’ ”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


AND MICAWBER CAME TO AUSTRALIA.
MICAWBER, J.P.: “The remedy for your complaint, my boy, is—how did I put it long ago?—annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure twenty-ought-six;
result misery. Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure nineteen pounds nineteen and six; result happiness.”


ii
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Pirectort; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. 0. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to pnblic and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from poacy or bonuses.
(4) in the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be oaid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately,
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evc>y contingency
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARRED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary GEO BRUCE SMITH. General Manager.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Essington Lewis, of Adelaide, managing
director of B. LI. Proprietary, has been
elected, for the third year, president of the
Steel Manufacturers of Australia. He is
at * present in England, after having had a
look at the ore deposits of Chile.
M. B. Duffy, the new member of the
Commonwealth Bank Board, is a native of
Bendigo, where he once learned the trade of
baker from his father: later he became
principal of a business college there. He
shares with Theodore the reputation of
being the best-dressed man in the Labor
movement. Frequent warnings that this
might earn him the suspicion of not being
a true proletarian have failed to disturb the
set of his bowtie, or shake the creases out
of his trousers.
Arthur Cocks heard a cry from Macedonia
the other day, Mac. in this case being the
Sydney Civil Service Stores. Founded in
1872 or thereabouts, this co-operative concern
made no great mistake for 50 years. Then
it refused the chance to buy its premises and
ARTHUR COCKS.
had to shift. The building programme
crippled it, and Cocks, ex-Mayor of Sydney,
ex-Treasurer, ex-Agent-General, has hopped
in—as far as any 16-stone man so unsure
on his legs can be said to hop—to try to
save the old institution. Cocks’s own business
is in York-strcet: he is in the wholesale
optical goods line.
“Sandy” Jaques, M.L.A. and barris-
ter, who simultaneously got the Nationalist
nomination for Bondi and retired to a Mac-
leay-street hospital for another operation,
has never recovered from his w T ar wounds.
He is one of the few men in the world’s his-
tory to get a 5.9 shell entirely to himself and
survive the experience. A missing leg, a
deafened ear and a lavishly-punctured body
are some of this ex-R.A.F. captain’s memen-
toes of the war. He won Bondi originally
as an Independent, but is now a sound party
man who divides his working life between
the Assembly, his chambers and the courts.
Artist D. H. Souter, whose Bulletin
drawings have made him world-famous, lias
written a novel. Furthermore, he has illus-
trated it himself. He has called it “Buxton,”
and the two main characters are a bluster-
ing man of “big business” and surely the
quaintest girl typist in fiction. The story
begins as a serial in the “Woman’s Mirror”
this w r eek.
In Australia the young men with some-
thing to say are rarely encouraged to say it,
and still more rarely trained to say it.
That is one reason
why when we get a
man with brains and
knowledge who can
also express himself
well, he strikes Aus-
tralia as something
quite exceptional. It
was probably why
H. W. Gepp seemed
such a genius to
S. M. Bruce when
he was Priminister;
Gepp could not only
do things, he could
talk about them.
Born in S. Aus., and
trained to metal-
lurgy, Gepp got his
big chance at Broken
Hill, where he
showed up so well
that he was given
charge of the new
electrolytic zinc busi-
ness in Tasmania.
He had done remark-
ably fine organising
work there when
Bruce lured him to
the new Develop-
ment and Migration
Commission, and
when the present
Government d i 3-
solved that agency,
Gepp continu d f o
be honorary indus-
trial adviser, and in
H. W. GEPP.
that capacity lms men called into very fre-
quent consultation with the F, deral Cabinet.
Tom Sidey, M.L.’s Attorney-General,’
accompanies Prcmi r Forbes to the Imperial
Conference. Although Sidey is an official
representative of the Dominion, he reckons
it partly a health trip, and th refore insists
on pasdng his own expenses. The protagonist
of daylight-saving is a solid as et to the
Cabinet, and has been a hard worker for the
party for a quarter of a century.
George Smith Duncan, formerly chief
engineer of the Melbourne Tramways, has
gone west. lie helped to make cable-trams a
success in Melbourne as far back as 1886,
devising several improvements in their struc-
ture. Duncan and his brothers came from
Maoriland at the instigation of T. B. Clapp,
father of the Vic. Railway Commissioner.
Shortly after Duncan made cable-cars pay
they went out of fashion in the United
States, and there are now only two lines
wo’-king—in San Francisco.
Aderman Browning, of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Council, who was told during a bitter debate
on a proposal to re-introduce the 44-hour
week that “the war and the hours worked
in it were things of the past,” is not likely
to forget the war. It cost him a brother and
one of his kidneys, amongst other things.
He got his company and an M.C. in the
13th Batt. and now practises as a solicitor
in Bathurst, where he married a grand-
daughter of John Meagher, M.L.C. His
father, R. J. Browning, is a Crown Prose-
cutor and a relative of the poet.
Dead in Adelaide, after a long illness,
Bob Bowen, who won the tennis champion-
ship of S.A. from H’arbison and Baker while
still a boy. He was in the first inter-State
match (with Vic.), and stood alone as a
local player in the late ’nineties. It was
he who sportingly persuaded Kearney Dun-
lop and other Melbourne cracks to go over
and deprive him of the S.A. title.
No other man ever rose so rapidly in the
Westralian Labor movement as “Happy
Jack” Seaddan, who was an enginedriver on
the Golden Mile in 1904 when a deputation
waited on him to suggest that he should
stand for Parliament. The story went that
Seaddan started so violently in sheer sur-
prise at the request that he upset the long-
sleever of hop-beer at his elbow—the inter-
view took place in what is locally known as
a shypoo shop. However, he readily con-
sented, and within seven years found himself
Premier of the State. Nowadays he is
nearly as essential to the other side as he
once was to Labor, and his recent return to
the Assembly, after an absence of half a
dozen years, secured him the Mines and
Railways portfolio in the Mitchell Cabinet.
Seaddan was born at Moonta 54 years ago;
a grandfather fought at Waterloo.
H. S. Lyne, field superintendent for the'
South Australian Oil Co. at Lakes Entrance
(Vic.), was an artillery captain at Gal-
lipoli. The “Age” printed a. cable about
a Turkish shell dropping between his legs
as, sitting in front of his dug-out, he dined
off a tin plate. Fortunately, it was added,
the explosive failed to explode, so nothing
but the plate was injured. A brother of
the captain wrote from Victoria to con-
gratulate him on his escape and received the
reply: “Never eat in front of my dug-out.
Tin plates are barred. A shell between my
Lgs would have ended the chapter. Press-
men must live.”
W. Churchill Fisher, who takes over the
managership of the A.M.P. in Melbourne, in
succession to F. T. Bridges, advanced to
Sydney, has been at the head of the Bris-
bane office of the big co. for the past three
years. A Sydneyite, he went straight from
school to the head office in 1881, and after
service there and in Melbourne, where he
was accountant, went to London as manager
for the United Kingdom in 1917. His suc-
cessor in Brisbane is W. H. Pownall, until
lately accountant and sub-manager in Mel-
bourne.
“Jeames” : Lady Troubridge, wliose Hamp-
shire home was burned to the ground the
other day, has a connection of sorts with
Australia, Ex-Governor-General Dudley’s
first wife was her sister. She had none of
the dark Egyptian beauty of the unfortunate
countess who was drowned in Ireland, but
she has plenty of brains. For over 30 years
she has been writing popular novels, a
number of which have appeared as serials
in London dailies. She was one of the
Gurneys, whose bank smashed so resound-
ingly in the nineteenth century. Her hus-
band, Sir Thomas Troubridge, tried stock-
broking in London after retiring from the
army, but made very little at it. He is the
herd of a famous Service family, whose
founder, an admiral, served under Nelson at
Trafalgar.
Captain Charles Blanchard, who died the
other day at SI at Malvern (Vic.), was the
pilot who narrowly escaped with his life in
1592 when the Craigburn was wrecked on
the ocean beach at the back of Sorrento. The
ship was outward bound in ballast and was
towed outside Port Phillip Heads, but when
sail was set she could not clear Cape
Sehanek. All attempts to get tow lines
aboard failed, and during the night the ship
drifted broadside on to the rocks. Blanchard,
with several of the sailors, left the ship in
one of the boats, and pulled out to sea,
where they were picked up. Another boat
was launched but drifted into the breakers
and all its occupants were drowned; the
captain got ashore at daylight on a lifeline.
“Hannan Street”: Westralian Senator
Bertie John on, just returned from a trip to,
the Islands, started his public career as
secretary of the Esperance Railway League
E. J. McMAHON,
NEW. Commis-
sioner of Taxation,
who has received
more letters, etc.,
than any other man
in Australia during
the past two months.
( P.S. — Mr. McMahon
is really not so good-
looking as this; but
the artist is taking
no chances)
a t Ivalgoorlie i n
1910. It was an
organisation formed
to breathe out inces-
sa n t threntenings
and slaughter against
the Perth Govern-
ment of the period,
which persisted in
the old Forrest tra-
dition of denying the
goldfields access to
their “natural sea-
port,” and when a
local M.L.C., w T ho
was a member <f
the League, actually
accepted office with
the enemy, the
“Esperantos,” as
they were called,
were left nearly
choking with rage at
his recreancy. When
the new Minister
came to address his
constituents a band
of stalwarts, Bertie
at their head, in-
vaded his platform
and, after den on nc-
in g his attitude,
sought to drag him
back to answer them,
a process which he
energetically resist-
ed. I still carry a
picture in my mind
of Bertie, a slight
young man in those
days, hauling dasne-
rately at the Minis-
terial coat till it
threatened to part in
the struggle. The
rebel has had nearly
20 years of Parlia-
ment since those
days and put on a
d al of wm ght.
Dead in Adelaide, at 58, R. J. M. Clucas,
librarian of the University for the past 30
years, secretary to the Public Examinations
Board, and expert in economic geography.
The R.C. Archbishop of Melbourne, mostly
a silent Mannix these days, doesn’t delude
himself with any foolish ideas about hold-
ing up wages whatever else falls. Costs
will have to come down,- he says, and the
sooner the facts are faced the sooner Labor’s
ARCHBISHOP MANNIX.
trouble will be over. Meantime in his arch-
diocese he is going ahead with any church
works that can be paid for, being in com-
plete agreement with Acting-Treasurer Lyons
that this is no time for “buttoning up.”
A link with the early colonial days is
Miss Mary Mackenzie, of Willoughby
(N.S.W.), who has just been keeping her
lOOth birthday. She came as a two-year-old
from Portabello, Scotland, to Sydney, where
her father, Colonel Mackenzie, commanded
the 4th (King’s Own) Regiment, afterwards
becoming a station-owner. H'igh Commis-
sioner Granville Ryrie is a nephew.
Leslie Maearthur, who died in poverty
last week, aged 75, was a grandson
of that John Maearthur, of Camden, who
got into holts with Governor Bligh. He
was born at Heidelberg, near Melbourne, and
was a familiar figure in Sydney and Mel-
bourne society 40 years ago. He inherited
a considerable sum of money, but his tastes
were in advance of his income, and his efforts
to recover himself by gold-mining were un-
successful. He made a hobby of collecting
information about the Scottish founder of
his family, who started a business in Gos-
port, near Plymouth, at the end of the
eighteenth century; and he claimed to know
more, about Sydney’s early families than any
living man.
J. R. B. Love, who is B.A. of Adelaide,
an M.C. and a D.C.M. and a Pres-
byterian parson, was a cattle-drover before
the war, a missioner at Mapoon in
North Queensland after it, and has now had
three years near Port George in far-northern
Westralia. His Kunmunga mission “does not
believe in hasty converts,’’and so has a wait-
ing-list under observation, among “the last
of the pure wild aborigines of Australia” —-
which seems a large assertion. Turtle-shell
and beclte-de-mer keep them busy, with pea-
nuts as a promising side-line.
Dr. Hamilton Beattie, of Suva, the naval
surgeon-commander and persistent champion
of the equality of races -in Fiji, carried his
principles into effect in the staging of his
wedding with Miss Shaw, a M.L. girl who
lias been a teacher at the Anglican Chinese
school. A Chinese resident gave the bride
away, the church was full of leading Chinese
and Indians, and the reception was held in
the house of au Indian merchant. White
residents were out of the picture; so for the
most part were native Fijians.
An inmate of Parramatta (N.S.W.) Old
Men’s Home is Mat O’Connor, who spent
over 40 years in the Northern Territorv,
mailman, prospector, stockman, drover,
hunter and station manager. While work-
ing among stock some 10 years ago his eyes
became infected with cattle ‘blight and he
lost his sight. It was the wet season, when
travelling was impossible, and six weeks
passed before he was able to set out on horse-
back for the railhead at the Katherine, 350
miles away. The distance was covered in
11 days, a mate leading his horse. From
Darwin he came to Sydney for treatment.
But the long night had no breaking. For
a blind man nearly 60 years of age, that
350-mile ride through wet country will take
some beating.
THE LAST OF THREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Marks has followed Mr. Maxwell out of the
‘Australian’ party, which the pair assisted Mr.
Hughes to form.”
We were the Great Triumvirate,
The sturdy patriots we,
Who cooked the goose of Stanley Bruce
And put the tartshop key
Into the hand of Scullin’s band,
We three.
We had in view a party new,
Vast kudos to attain,
To light a torch wliose blaze should scorch,
To sweep the polls amain.
Then Maxwell left us—sore bereft
Us twain.
How faithless friends can thwart your ends!
Now Marks the coop has flown.
A platform grand we three had planned,
And now thereon I’m shown,
With none to stand on either hand,
Alone!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SELLING ’EM A PUP.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Follow Through’’
Criterion (com. Saturday) “Bird in Hand”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
King's (com. Saturday) “Let Us Be Gay ’
Royal “Lilac Time”
Tivoli The Follies of 1930
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
#
Last week this Showman enjoyed the un-
precedented experience of strolling home
with the milk and no questions asked. Public
thanks for this boon are hereby tendered to
all concerned. Why are not Mr. Hugh D.
Mclntosh (the producer), Mr. Kenneth Duf-
field (the author), Mr. Ken Hall (of pub-
licity) and Mo and Alfred Frith and Ada
Reeve and Nell Flemming and Hector St.
Clair and Colin Grane and the rest of them
all knighted? That is to say, if they have
the power to have a large audience all-
nighted !
Immediate and sincere apologies. That
sort of thing is contagious. It comes from
sitting through a midnight performance of
“Pot Luck” at Sydney St. James, and read-
ing the programme. It is a proof that you
have been inoculated with the sprightly
serum of the legit., the flesh-and-blood, the
honest old-time real human theatrical enter-
tainment about which you have read so many
and so conflicting commentaries. It was
dead, it could never die; it belonged to an-
other generation, it belonged to all time;
out with it, keep it and cherish it.
You had forgotten what it ever was. You
had become accustomed to theatrical per-
formers 18ft. high; to hearing “Darling I
love you,” whispered in the very voice of
Jove himself; to enshrined replicas in con-
crete of Clara Bow’s footprints. And now
in one night it had all been brought back—
the painted faces of the comedians, the
musician producing his violin from down
the front of his pants, the fallabout fellows
with clothes 18 sizes too big for them, the
girls with no clothes to speak of but enough,
the convincing spectacle of real legs, the
man in boy’s clothes putting up his hand
and telling the teacher that he wants to
go out, the sudden interruption from a
gentleman in one of the boxes who turns out
to belong to the show. It is like having a
lost life given back to you. Even the jokes
are old friends.
Look at the prospective audience being
handed out of its cars to converge on the
pavement and renew old acquaintance and
“Almost compensates for ‘White Cargo.’”
recognise one another and point out all the
social lights and smile significantly when
Soandso, whose wife is in Europe, sweeps
past with Soandso, whose husband is away
on a business trip. And there is the
“Herald” critic and the “Sun” critic and the
“Guardian” critic and two or three dozen
other critics all decked out in their bibs and
tuckers once more. And look at the. names
of the beloved stars twinkling up there in
tremendous letters of light; and what a
thrill it is to know that the real owners of
those names are inside the house at this very
moment, painting themselves, or talking shop
about Phar Lap, or perhaps trembling with
the old nervous excitement over a few hands
of show poker.
True, it seems rather a faux pas that your
seat is not in the dress-circle any longer
but in the mezzanine lounge. The uniform
of the attendants seems another. But you
have only to open the programme to have
your confidence restored. Dip into the inter-
view with Mo. “ ‘What do you think of
bathing girls?’ said the interviewer. ‘I don’t
know; I never bathed any!’ replied Roy
Rene.” Or turn to the interview with Ada
Reeve: “Miss Reeve admits that once she
was a knocker of Sydney. Then she made
a discovery—she started to meet people;
they turned out to be the most interesting
people in the world. The main attraction
about Sydney people, she thinks, is that
they’re Vital.” And what about: “Ada
Reeve would let the rest of the world go by
for one glimpse of ‘our ’arbor’!”
You feel the sincerity of it all; a real
artist in the flesh breathing out her soul
to an interviewer. And then take the
orchestra. Does it come up from the depths
like a crowd of caliphs rising to the sur-
face of the Arabian Sea on a whale’s back?
It comes out in ones and twos through the
doorway leading under the stage, and
each sits down in his place and takes up
his instrument and waits for the conductor.
At last he comes. The massive folds of the
magnificent curtain, woven by the specially-
selected colony of Siamese twins in Par
Shiraz, designed by a refugee Russian prin-
cess, and hung on gold runners, divides to
the breathless expectancy of the audience,
and out he steps, bows to the salvos of
applause and comes majestically down the
scarlet runner to his flower-cushioned stand.
Nothing of the kind! He comes modestly
out. through the same hole that the others
came through, nods good night to a couple
of them, gets into his place, and quietly starts
them off. At once there is a rustle of pro-
grammes and chocolate papers, and the
fashionably-late ones begin to come in. Then
the curtains rise, and the show starts.
They give out the opening chorus. They
sway to the lilting rhythm and move here
and there about the stage, no doubt as sur-
prised as you are that they are really there.
They are all in the gladdest of clothes, all
bright and vivacious. The curtain comes
down in front of them. At once the lilt of
the orchestra changes. You turn to the
programme: “Some comedy and legmania
... .Joe Lawman.” And there is Joe himself.
He has on a suit of mountainous propor-
tions, a large bowler hat, a ginger wig. His
“His face is a master-
piece of painting.”
face is a master-
piece of painting.
Nothing like it has
been seen for years,
outside the works
in the Archibald
Prize competition.
He stands and
makes his bowler
wobble about with-
out touching it.
He winks at the
ladies in the stalls.
He turns his face
up to the gods
with a look of in-
expressible piety.
He pulls up his
pants until you can
sec his suspenders.
He dances with a
swaying, soft-
footed action, like
a blanket loafing
about in the wind.
Then the Kit Kat
girls, lifting their
beautiful legs in
graceful unison, as
if they were as
proud of them as
they ought to be.
You learn now why that semi-circular plat-
form comes out round the orchestra. The
girls dance out on its mirror surface, so
that you get twice as much and twice as
many of them. It is generosity indeed.
They end; but the show goes on. And the
further it goes the more convinced you
become that you are back in the inner temple
of a forgotten worship. Here is Mo with,
‘Do you thee the point? Well, thit on it!”
Here is one who has fallen over, and a girl
saying, “My! Wliat are you doing down
there?” And the splendid answer, “Getting
up!” And here is Frith as a soldier on
parade. The sergeant: “Ha-ha—no shave!”
Private Frith: “He, he—no razor!” Or
again he is late for school because his
mother lost the lid of the saucepan and he
had to sit on it to keep the steam in. Or
else Tui Black asking him what is the
matter with his feet. Frith: “Corns.” Tui:
“Why don’t you do something for them?”
Frith : “Do something for them ! I’ll let ’em
suffer!” Or Tui again, to the schoolteacher,
“If frozen water is iced water, what is
frozen ink?” The Teacher: “I stink.” And
there is Hector St. Clair coming out of the
class and taking wallops on the seat of his
pants with a slapstick; and Colin Crane
singing “The Lily of Laguna”; and Neil
Flemming singing of how she likes ’em fat;
and Sadie Gale in the dress of the Portu-
guese artillery; and Mo, with pants off;
and Crane and Frith taking a little
whisky; and Byrl Walkley as a seductive
Fondomeno in the play “Black Baggage,”
with the barren African background, where
Englishmen sit and swill whisky. The
Doctor: “How much grog have we got left?”
The Overseer: “Only three casks of beer and
eight cases of whisky.” The Doctor: “Enough
for the week-end. Anyway, I have a little
cocaine left if that runs out*” The Over-
seer (wonderingly) : “Snow in a ruddy place
like this!” The Englishman (just out) : “Oh
I say—in the real play they say ‘bloody.’ ”
It almost compensates for “White Cargo.”
And when the last curtain has gone down,
and up again, and down again, and up again,
there are still all the players massed and
happy, and bunches and bunches and bunches
of flowers are being handed up over the foot-
lights. And then the speeches—Mo makes
one, and Frith makes one, and Miss Ada
Reeve makes one; and Mo holds his hand
up for silence and indicates one of the boxes
on his left; and there is Hugh D. Mclntosh
himself making one. He stigmatises the idea
that the talkies will ever out the stage as
“bosh and rot.” (Hear, hear!) He is
glad to be able to express this public appre-
ciation of these gallant and brave people on
the stage who have brought the legitimate
theatre back into its own in these times of
depression. (Tumultuous applause.)
It has been a memorable- night, starred
with various enjoyments.
Much of which is sheer fable. In fact, if
you tell the truth, it very often bored. For-
tunately, you went back again the following
afternoon. It was such an entirely different
show —somehow brisker and fresher and with
much of the dull stuff cut out —that any who
saw it on the opening night would scarcely
have recognised it. On the second showing
it struck this Showman as a bright, lively
“The convincing spectacle of real legs.”
production. He commends it without any
qualifications as the cheeriest theatrical
entertainment that Sydney has on offer.
That is not very high praise, but the best
that can be managed in these times of
depression.
The idea that Sydney is not musical is
absurd. Last week it added to its record the
P.roud distinction of being one of the few
cities in the world in which Beethoven’s
“Hammerklavier” Sonata has been publicly
performed. All really musical people know
that the Op. 106 is the greatest and most
profound of Ludwig’s pianoforte works, but
this_ Showman, if it were not that really
musical people are such horrible liars, would
be willing to bet 3s. 4Jd. —all he can find
in his pockets at time of writing—that there
were not six people in the Con. hall, out-
side Backhaus, who played it, who had heard
it before. Its full greatness and profundity
dawned upon the audience as time went on.
After 15 minutes they were beginning to
awake from the coma in which Wilhelm’s
wonderful fingers enwrap the musically-
minded. But it went on and on. Not con-
tent with a fairly detailed history of the
world, with marginal notes on love, marriage
and divorce and the habits of cherubim,
there was a switch to a ballet of archangels
who turned out to be satyrs, followed by a
scathing indictment of the Pelagian heresy
and some remarks about the general con-
stitution qf the solar system. Thirty minutes
gone. Still Ludwig discourses upon this and
that. When it seems that there simply
must be three great crashing chords and a
vast silence, an argument that should have
been final is rounded off with a yes-no, and
then—well, then, a voice from the shades
seemed to say: “And now, by donner und
blitzen, they said I couldn’t write a fugue.
I’ll show them One theme, two themes,
three themes —all inlaid, commutated, permu-
tated, turned inside out and upside down, a
veritable contrapuntal orgy. Time merges
into eternity. One begins to understand
some of the most cryptic equations of Ein-
stein. Thirty-five minutes gone. The mad
revel of the themes grows madder. But
there’s some meaning in all this complexity.
What is it? It’s all made clear at last,
though exactly how one doesn’t quite grasp.
And there’s Backhaus, standing up and bow-
ing again and again, while the audience
pounds its hands together. Is there a little
twinkle in that Olympian eye? Is Wilhelm
saying, to himself, “Now go home and digest
that —if you can”?
* * *
“This Woman Business,” a comedy in
three acts and the same environment, con-
cerns a girl who flops into a country house
occupied by five woman-haters. In her hand
she carries a fist of money looted from her
late employer. She explains that she did
it in order to make herself economically
independent of his lustful advances. The
woman-haters reluctantly decide that they
cannot turn her out, so they give her a job
“The musician pro-
ducing his violin.”
as a domestic ser-
vant, and one of
them falls in love
with her, with
painful obvious-
ness. The rest of
the proceedings are
concerned with the
smitten one’s en-
deavors to leave
the audience in no
doubt as to the
nature of the unex-
pected happy end-
ing. There are
some long but
amusing speeches
in the opus, some
witty lines and
much simple clown-
ing. It was pro-
duc e d by the
Gregan McMahons
at the Bijou, Mel-
bourne, last week.
With the exception
of that clever real-
istic actor Thomas
Skewes, who pre-
sented an old legal
luminary retired from the Divorce Court
Bench with charming conviction, the casting
was indifferent. Norman Wister, the lover,
was stagey; Harold Harwood was mechani-
cal ; Frank Desbrowe was unintentionally
comic; Keith Johns lacked the histrionic
inches to give stature to the part of Honey,
a satirical young gentleman ; and Joy Gwyn,
as the girl, acted flatly. McMahon made a
laughable caricature of an elderly benedict,
which was the best thing to do under the
circumstances. The piece, a new one, is by
Benn W. Levy, and the verdict of the present
jury is that it is more skittish than intrigu-
ing and more Early-Victorian than any-
thing. The suspicion grows that an English
playwright will yet produce a new idea or
put fresh clothes on an old one if the globe
doesn’t cool down too suddenly.
¥ * *
The new crop of vaudevillains at Mel-
bourne Tiv. are up to the standard of the
last one, and all is hilarity in that rejuvenated
building. Syd Beck, whose face is the droll-
est the Almighty has ever fastened on the
top of a low comedian, emits remarks which
earn shouts of joy from the audience and cold
blasts of disapproval from the critics of the
dailies. Against some very fine scenic paint-
ing by a local gentleman with more than
ordinary intelligence, our dear old friend the
Oriental ballet makes its appearance in the
shape of two youths naked to the waist who
fight for possession of a damsel in a loin-
cloth, the winner finally flinging her into the
flaming pit of Hell, from which she eventu-
ally arises as an angel and ascends to
Heaven. The jazz band, whose conductor is
said to be a graduate of the school of Pro-
fessor Paul Whiteman, is the most preten-
tious and the worst in present writer’s
experience, but the rest of the bill has Marie
La Yarre, Hugh Steyne, June Mills and
others on it, and provides a square meal for
patrons.
* ¥ *
Walter Kirby, off to London, dropped a
farewell curtsy at Melbourne Auditorium
on Thursday. If all the distinguished
people advertised as patronising Walter had
come to the function, some of them would
have had to be turned away to spend the
evening undistinguishedly patronising a talkie.
Apparently they didn’t. Still, there was a
large and deeply enthusiastic audience. As
a matter of fact, Kirby’s art is not in need
of patronage. It can stand on its own legs and
for the sake of the d : gnity of art one some-
times wishes that its owner would realise it
more fully. Kirby has a lovely tenor. He
uses it like an artist: when on the plat
form he makes no concessions to patrons,
distinguished or merely fatheaded. On
Thursday he sang a panel of German songs,
including the “Busslied” of Beethoven, de-
lightfully. His panel of French opera was
of the daintiest description, and there was
nothing banal even about the popular
encores imperiously demanded. As frequently
stated in these pages, for some mysterious
reason Kirby just misses being one of the
world’s great singers. Rita Hope leavened
the vocal menu with some admirable piano
items and Hamilton Bateman played a
violin obligato.
“Crane and Frith taking a little whisky.”
The usual full house of enthusiasts
attended Bernard H'einze’s “celebrity” con-
cert at the Town Hall, Melbourne, on Satur-
day. The Ormond Professor of Music was
in his best form for the season, conducting
his organisation through the precise little
melodies of Beethoven’s First Symphony in
admirable style. This performance leaves
only one of the immortal Nine to be dealt
with in recent years in Melbourne. Kubelik
made his farewell appearance, his main busi-
ness being with the Mozart concerto in D,
in which he made his bow 22 years ago.
The lovely but very simple piece seemed
almost too easy for the master fiddler.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory’s latest venture, “The
Man with a Load of Mischief,” drew three
big houses, but will not be remembered as
one of its successes. Ashley Dukes proves
to be incredibly long and dull; and to be
improper and dull is a crime. It is Congreve
without the wit, a possible bright one-acter
expanded into three. It needs great acting,
which in London it got. Here the players
were good, but they could not keep the
audience from yawning. Patricia Hackett
did surprisingly well in the Fay Compton
part of the eloping lady, and Mostyn Skinner
skilfully got away with the long talk of the
aristocrat villain. Natural and effective was
Stella Sobels, a new-comer, as the easily-
purchased maid, and the steadily-improving
Don Downey did the best work of his career
so far as the manservant who becomes
romantic hero. Frank Johnston produced,
and the single country-inn scene had the
McLaughlin-Campbell setting and lighting that
have lately so much booked up the Rep. stage.
* * *
At Sydney Opera House Mayne Lynton
and co. have turned to Chevalier’s Cockney
item, “My Old Dutch,” maybe on the prin-
ciple that it had done all right at the same
address before. It is to last out the week.
On Saturday “In the Next Room,” mystery
and melo.
* * *
Several changes in Melbourne theatres are
announced by J.C.W. The ambulance will
call at the King’s on Friday for “Little Acci-
dent.” This casualty is said to have been
due to a mixture of bad steering, faulty
casting and the financial blowout. Miss
Taliaferro will say “Let Us Be Gay,” or as
gay as possible under the circumstances, on
Saturday. It is still “Lilac Time” at the
Royal. That graceful incident will be re-
placed by “Mr. Cinders” at a date to be
announced later. “Governor Bligh” will
arrive at the Princess on Saturday under
Allan Wilkie’s pilotage.
“Mo, with pants off.”
The Bulletin congratulates Mr. Bcres-
forcl Fowler on liis 200th production at the
Queen’s Hall, Melbourne. The historical
event occurred on Thursday with a revival
of Shaw’s “Widowers’ Houses.” Mr. Fowler
can fairly claim that if he has never raised
his standards very high he has never low-
ered them, which is something few entre-
preneurs can say, including the late Mr.
Shakspeare.
* * *
The Australian Comedy ,Co. will commence
a season at Melbourne Bijou on Saturday
with Drinkwater’s “Bird in Hand.” Mem-
bers of the company, orchestra and staff
will share the profits, if any. Prices will be
“popular.” It is to be hoped that the enter-
prise will succeed, though there are things in
Melbourne nowadays so unpopular that
they can’t even be given away.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
BUY A PIONEER BELT FOR A
LIFETIME OF SERVICE.
Of course you can wear out a “Pioneer” Belt, but our records of 45, 30
and 26 years’ continuous “Pioneer” service prove that it is a lifelong job.
Such records explain why there are more “Pioneer” Belts in use in Australia
than any other make
“LEATHER LASTS LONGEST.”
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
NOTE: This, the original Company, founded in 1858, is in no way con-
nected with another belting company with a similar surname.
PIONEE
LEATHER
BELTING
MAN
NEWS
THE “ SANTWILL”
WORKSHIRT
7/9 EACH
3 for 22/6
—A strong Sandy Coloured
Twill quality of soft finish.
Hard wearing—washes splen-
didly, liberally sized —finished
two Breast Pockets—all sizes
Mail to Desk SB when ordering
PIKE
BROTHERS LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
• V
Federal Mutual Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1920.. 9,123 10 p.c. = 4,843 4,280 17,844
Premiums on new shares, £3166 . . 21,010
1921.. 13,010 10 p.c. = 5,408 7,602 28,612
Premiums on new shares, £7491 . . 36,103
1922.. 7,130 10 p.c. = 7,130 36,103
Premiums on new shares, £l2lO .. 37,313
1923.. 5,351 7 p.c. = 5,159 192 37,505
1924.. 6,600 8 „ „ 5,896 745 38,209
1925.. 8,613 8 „ „ 6,115 2,498 40,707
Freeholds written up, £lB,OlO .. 58,717
Premiums on new shares, £422 . . 59,139
1926.. 15,183 10 p.c. = 8,422 6,761 65,900
Premiums on new shares, £1677 .. 67,577
1927.. 17,283 10 p.c. = 8,899 8,384 75,961
Premiums on new shares, £3175 .. 79,136
1928.. 20,257 10 p.c. = 9,582 10,675 89,811
Premiums on new shares, £3895 .. 93,706
1929.. 9,602 10 p.c. = 10,199 93,109
1930.. 15,683 8 „ „ 8,159 7,524 100,633
The board decided to further strengthen the
position ; so, notwithstanding improvement in
the figures—the net result was 15 p.c. on
average capital compared with 9.4, 21.1, 19.4
and 18 p.c. back to 1926—the div. was re-
duced from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c. And the 8
p.c. is worth no more than 5.7 p.c. on almost
two-thirds of the capital, because it has
been gathered at premiums aggregating
£24,846 over the last 12 years. The pre-
miums and surplus earnings had heaped
reserves at June 30 to within £1355 of the
£101,988 of paid capital, which is in 407,951
pound shares paid to ss. These the market
prices at par or thereabouts as against 11 s.3d.
a year ago. It looks as if nothing better
than an 8 p.c. div. is expected for a while.
The policy has been to get as shareholders
persons with a good insurance account, which
partly explains the downward trend of, the
cost rate over the last 10 years. But losses
have not been significantly low; as with most
offices in the last few years, the rate has
been steadily upward. The co.’s experience
for a decade past is shown hereunder:—
Net Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1920. . £54,882 £29,719 £18,556 54.1 p.c. 33.8 p.c.
1922.. 90,202 49,031 36,677 54.3 „ 40.6 ~
1924.. 99,433 50,084 40,455 50.4 ~ 46.7 ~
1925.. 92,931 47,022 39,585 50.6 42.6 ..
1926.. 112,150 54,258 46,905 48.4 ~ 41.8 „
1927.. 143,733 53,602 75,795 37.3 .. 52.7 „
1928.. 132,372 60,201 57,363 45.4 ~ 43.3
1929.. 140,841 65,959 72,947 46.8 ~ 51.8 „
1930.. 162,027 59,270 89,432 36.5 „ 55.2 „
In the latest accounts the outstanding
feature, and a very encouraging one, is that
increased business was written at substan-
tially reduced cost. The spring in net pre-
miums was £21,186; the cut in exes. £6689.
This is reflected in a drop of 10.3 p.c. in
the expense rate, which had shown a ten-
dency to get out of hand in the two preced-
ing years. The underwriting surplus' bene-
fited by £11,490, reaching £13,325. Rents,
etc. (£11,105), were £lB2B better, but
charges in connection therewith (£7326) took
all the gain and £3BBB besides, leaving the
net return from investments £3779, which
is only 3.6 p.c. on capital. All available
space in the new home which the co. built
itself in Sydney a couple of years ago is
let, but Sydney is much over-built, and this
means that rents are easing. Also the fall
in values and reduction of stocks by mer-
chants can be expected to affect premium
income—and probably also exes., increasing
the latter. There is, however, nothing to
suggest that an 8 p.c. div. might prove beyond
the co.’s reach.
Policy-holders have no need to stay awake
at night. Reserves at June 30 were over
1.2 p.c. above the margin usually looked for;
and shareholders can be called upon to
dredge up another £305,963 if needs be. Hoav
the funds are invested is seen in the next
comparison :
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £84,225 £95,817 £101,988 £101,988
Liabilities . . 20,110 30,371 56,598 50,761
Buildings .. 62,913 117,737 127,633 129,040
Fittings, etc. 12,849 11,891 12,540 14,213
Mortgages,, etc. 21,592 22,623 22,487 19,309
Public securities 47,832 58,547 54,576 49,081
Book debts . . 24,433 37,019 42,741 44,945
Cash . . . . 9,038 2,504 1,916 6,374
Last year £5837 was snipped off the debt,
and, excluding mortgages, £1167 was added to
liquids. Thus the improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£49,639) was £7004.
On premises and plant £3OBO more was spent
than was written off.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£j £ £ £
1919.. 152,452 15 p.c. =116,257 36,195 561,195
Co. reconstructed, assets written up.
£1,550.090 transferred to 'capital.
1920.. 88,713* 3f p.c. = 87,192 1,521 47,521
1921 . 231,725 7i „ ~ 174,385 57,340 104.861
1922.. 199,485 74 „ ~ 174,385 25,100 129,961
1923.. 211,289 7j „ ~ 174,385 36,904 166,865
1924.. 215.257 74 „ ~ 174,385 40,872 207,737
1925.. 228,118 7§ „ „ 174,385 53,733 261,470
1926.. 224,600 75 „ „ 180,198 44.402 305,872
1927.. 230,901 8 „ ~ 186,011 44,890 350,762
1928.. 182.836 7 „ „ 162,759 20,077 370.839
1929.. 149,755 54,, ~ 127,882' 21,873 392,712
1930.. 162,726 6 „ ~ 139,508 23,218 415,930
*Portion of year only.
The trouble on the Maitland field (N.S.W.)
dragged on till near the close of accounts,
interfering with the co.’s coal-carrying trade,
bunkering supplies and returns from its
coal investments. Also there was a contrac-
tion in the volume of general cargoes, due
to lessened trade activity, which became
more pronounced as the year advanced. As
against all this the Manunda, a new motor
passenger ship of 9115 tons, was put into
commission shortly before the close of
accounts in 1929. She has proved very popu-
lar, which, together with freedom from the
forays of the seamen, helps to explain the
spring of £l2 971 in the year’s net earnings.
These the board puts at £139,726, or a
trifle more than was required to give share-
holders an extra -} p.c., making 6 p.c. for the
year. But that was after £lO,OOO had been
dropped into the insurance account (£230,000)
and £13.000 into the repairs, renewals and
replacements reserve (£185,000). These
funds have been built up as opportunity
offered over the last 10 years, and without
visible interruption, from which it might
be assumed that losses and repairs have
been provided for in other ways. Including
the additions, the net result was 7 p.c. on
capital as against 6.4, 7.8, 9.9 and 9.6 p.c.
back to 1926.
In the past, and especially during the war
years when tonnage was scarce and freights
high, the Adelaide, in common with other
shipping concerns, gathered rich harvests ; but
everything was not put on view, as the
wholesale gift-giving of 1919 proved. The
book value of the assets was written up to
help provide £1,550,090 of bonus scrip (three
for one), which lifted capital to its pre-
sent figure. Shareholders have since had an
average of 7.1 p.c. Meanwhile the growth
in competition from air, motor and rail trans-
port, the muddle into which the coal indus-
try has got itself and impending changes in
present economic conditions have crowded a
lot of uncertainty into the outlook. So the
price of the fully-paid pound shares has eased
from 21s. to 15s. fid. in the market over the
last 12 months. Allowing for the final div.,
the return at the lower figure is 8 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The exhibited backing
amounts to 235. 7d. in net tangibles.
Though all fixed assets and investments
have been put under one tag in the pub-
lished accounts, thus obscuring a clear view
of the position, the co; is well equipped to
weather a storm :
1923. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Liabilities . . 232,331 245,562 193,159
Steamers, properties,
investments, etc. 2,338,385 2,531,147 ( 9
Commonwealth Loans 323,662 483,650 j
Stocks and stores 93,497 58,014 57,450
Book debts & cash 198,043 142,575 222,971
Stores, book debts and cash alone were
£87,262 in excess of the debt at June 30.
But the real position is very much stronger
than that; during the year a large parcel
of Government securities was pushed under
the big blanket, which already covered a tidy
wad of similar paper. The co.’s coal invest-
ments include large holdings in Abermain
and East Greta. The latter , co. has paid no
div. for the last two years, while the for-
mer’s distributions averaged 10.5 p.c. for
the five years to the close of accounts in
1929, and an interim 2-J p.c. has been paid
in respect of last year.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 148,665 13 p.c. = 41,900 7f . R 101 703
Reserves capitalised, £35,000 J ’ ’
Loss.
1921.. 31,367 Nil 70,336
Profits.
1922.. 66,132 124 p.c. = 50,000 16,132 86,468
1923.. 75 070 124 ~ „ 50,000 25,070 111,538
1924.. 60,682 10 ~ „ 40,000 20,682 132,220
Loss.
1925.. 61,948 5 „ ~ 20,000 50,272
Profits.
1926.. 38,448 7 ~ „ 28,000 10,448 60,720
1927.. 47,134 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,854
Depreciation reserve taken in, £32,000.. 107,854
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. 3,453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 Nil 15,563
1930.. 164,575 Nil 180,138
Very little of this co.’s business, well scat-
tered over Australia, is done on a commis-
sion basis : which explains why the collapse
of prices in the wool, hide, tallow and furred-
skin markets dealt the figures such a smash-
ing blow last year. It is the third time
inside six years, and the fourth since 1920,
that the co. has been hit. The furred-skin
section is the one where the worst of the
mischief has occurred. Here it is the prac-
tice to buy up large supplies during the
short winter season. Following last year’s
purchases the demand quickly weakened, and
continued to do so, reaching almost vanish-
ing point before the term was half-way
through. The position was also greatly
aggravated by large failures in the fur-skin
trade in London, Leipzig and New York,
the liquidation of stocks making the market-
ing of fresh supplies from Australia almost
impossible. Thus it has come about _ that
most of the furred-skins bought by Wilcox,
Mofflin since the close of accounts in 1929,
and some earlier, have remained in the
stores; and, of course, each drop in the price
piled the co.’s losses higher and higher still.
All other sections of the business have been
affected, but to a lesser extent.
Moreover, since aggregate trading results
over the last 10 years show a net profit of
only £76,160, the retention of £130,000 of
goodwill in the sheet became an anomaly.
So the available reserves were used to rub
out £114,000 of the item, leaving it at £16,000
at June 30. To wipe off this balance and
the year’s loss of £164,575 it is proposed to
lop £lBO,OOO ( 9s. per share) off capital,
reducing it to £220,000 in 400,000 shares of
11s. each. In this way it is hoped to put
the business on, a more even keel, and to
make possible the payment of reasonable
dividends on capital as reduced when condi-
tions become more settled. But so long as
the co.’s activities continue speculative, it
is inevitable that results will run in and
out according to market fluctuations.
Stocks were taken at values ruling at June
30; and, as the price-movement generally
has continued downward, it is unlikely that
the year’s loss has been overstated at
£164,575. So the proposed waiting down
does not mean that the co. will be given a
flying start for the current term. At the
moment the position is not altogether one
of prices either; there is an almost entire
lack of market for many lines. Until the
heavy stocks are cleared it is not possible
therefore to say licw the co. stands. Any
further losses would push dividend pros-
pects further into the background, of course.
In order to carry stocks with a book value
£107,932 greater than at the close of accounts
in 1929, the board went outside for an extra
£140,107, and drew upon book debts and
cash for £109,499 :
1920. 1925. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £350,000'£400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities . . 261,041 221,793 157,530 297,637
Fixed assets* .. 290,031 324,362 213,396 190,493
Stocks.. .. 227,601 117,111 145,361 253,293
Book debts . . 264,845 187,136 181,819 73,102
Cash .. .. 3,172 1,704 1,392 610
including goodwill down to 1929, when that
intangible was shown separately at £130,000.
Also the book value of property and plant
was reduced by £22,903, which suggests that
something might have been sold. The debt
is composed of £130,962 on overdraft,
£158,975 advances against shipments and
£7699 in suspense accounts. At June 30
the more or less liquid surplus had narrowed
to £29,368; it was £171,042 a year earlier.
On the basis of figures at June 30, and
allowing for the proposed writing down, the
net book value of the undertaking is approxi-
mately £220,000, mainly premises and plant.
At 3s. 6d. per share the market capitalises
the business at £70,000. The return at that
price would be 9.4 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net , Dividends N To Re-
July, Profit. r~ Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 20,451 8% 6% 5% = 15,421 5,030 5,349
Reserves.
1928.. 29,885 10 „ 8 „ 8 „„ 20,502 9,385 4,034
1929.. 35,882 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 15,380 19,414
1930.. 30,064 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,562 28,976
It took a long time for the co. to get into
its stride. At the beginning there was a
four-years’ delay owing to the war, and pro-
duction did not begin until 1918. Mean-
while estimates got askew, and the board had
to lean heavily on its bankers, and when
the wheels did go round there was not enough
business to keep them fully employed. By
the end of July, 1920, through trading _losses
and preliminary exes., there was £53,228
of the capital not presented by tangible
assets, and the overdraft had climbed to
£92,341. Though balances were thereafter
struck on the right side of the ledger, pref.
divs. were still £47.424 in arrears in 1926.
This debt was capitalised by the issue of
£45,546 of 6 p.c. cum. participating prefs.—
the other £lB7B was paid in cash. Paid capi-
tal thus advanced to £245,061, at which
figure it still stands.
The co. is the only cement producer of
importance in Queensland, and, with a view
to maintaining its grip on the trade, has kept
the capacity of the plant ahead of demand.
The brisk increase in sales during the last
few years has been due partly to the wider
use of cement and partly to the new market
opened up at Mt. Isa; concrete-road con-
struction has not been pushed with vigor m
Queensland. Of course the dulness in the
construction trades affected last year s turn-
over. Still, after setting aside £12,000 for
depreciation and £SOOO for taxation, the
net result was 12.2 p.c. on paid capital as
against 14.6, 12.1 and 8.3 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. So the 2 p.c. bonus on all
shares was repeated for the third year in
succession, and then nearly one-third of the
year’s net earnings remained in the busi-
ness. But there is not much of a prop for
capital in the £28,976 of free reserves; that,
however, does not matter so much provided
the efficiency of the plant and the quality
of the product has been maintained, and the
board gives assurance that they have been.
Turnover is expected to be well maintained
during the current term, though on that sub-
ject nobody can speak with much authority.
There may be a bit of true profit in the
depreciation reserve (£106,533), which was
equal to 33.9 p.c. of the book value of plant,
etc., at July 31.
The improvement in the finances con-
tinues
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £199,614 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Overdraft . . 56,561 29,963 1,813
Sundry creditors 22,135 20,118 11,955 14,328
Freehold, etc. 27,768 28,203 28,605 28,605
Plant, etc. . . 271,195 287,109 306,622 313,584
Stocks.. .. 23,234 25,584 50,744 49,973
Book debts . . 31,034 39,513 16,384 23,904
Cash, etc. .. 1,714 1,840 925 7,336
Last year the overdraft was completely wiped
out. And though £2373 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, the more
or less liquid surplus (£66.885. including
stocks) was £12,600 stronger than at the
previous balance.
There are 44,878 8 p.c. first and 182,183 6
p.c. second cum. prefs. and only 18.000 ords.,
all of £1 each. The prefs. rank in the order
stated, have priority as to capital, and advance;
point for point with the ords. after the latter
have had 6 p.c. Last year’s net profit was
84 times the minimum requirements of the
firsts, after allowing for which the balance
was 24 times the minimum requirements of
the seconds. The net tangible backing,
excluding the depreciation reserve, is £5 16s.
lid. for the firsts, 255. Id. for the seconds
and 525. 2d. for the ords. In the same order
the market prices the scrip at 215., 14s. and
155., the returns at those figures being 9.5
p.c., 11.4 p.c. and 10.6 p.c. respectively on
last year’s rates of distribution. If the
bonus is dropped the returns would be 7.6
p.c., 8.5 p.c. and 8 p.c. respectively.
Yellow Express Carriers, Ltd.
Gross Net Towards
Profit. Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Deficit.
.Tune, £ £ £ £
1927.. 12,758 7289 Nil 7289 71,570
Added goodwill, £7344 .. ... 78,914
1928.. 23,209 5696 Nil 5696 73,218
1929.. 29,434 9947 Nil 9947 63,271
3s. per share struck off, Reserves.
£74,670 11,399
Added reserves, £673 .. .. 12,072
Loss.
1930.. 13,341 3760 Nil 8,312
When this bulk-haulage and light-delivery
co., of Sydney and Melbourne, came into the
market with a half-million of scrip about
four years ago, money was plentiful, and
there was a rush for the shares—as much as
3s. was paid for the rights. The public
backed the promoters because they had
recently launched Yellow Cabs of Australia,
Ltd., whose shares were then fetching up to
three times their face value. But the success
of Yellow Cabs was over-estimated and the
carrying trade presented problems of its
own more difficult than had been anticipated.
So shareholders have had nothing out of
the business; on the other hand, they recently
said good-bye to 3s. per share of the money
they had put in, and, of course, have had to
watch the price of their scrip in the market
decline to a fraction of even its reduced face
value.
The underwriting commission and broker-
age (together 10 p.c. of the nominal capital
subscribed) were heavier than they need
have been, considering the quick response
from the public. The co. was thus burdened
with £50,000 of preliminary exes, from the,
jump. And though a contract with the
Sydney Wool Selling Brokers’ Association
was secured, competition was so keen that a
business in Sydney and another in Mel-
bourne were bought in order to get a foot-
ing. This involved £30,344 for goodwill,
raising the intangibles to £80,344 at June 30,
1928. Yet nothing worth while in the way
of results showed up; for the three years to
the close of accounts in 1929, net earnings
from all sources totalled only £22,932, reduc-
ing the deficit on shareholders’ account to
£63,271.
To tidy up the position £74,670 (3s. per
share) was lopped off capital early in the
last term, reducing it to £248,900 in a 97,800
shares of 17s. each paid to 10s. This wiped
the intangibles out of the sheet, and provided
£11,399 of paper reserves besides; but it did
not lighten the charge for depreciation or in
any other way assist profit-writing. The
(Continued on next page.)


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1888.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company's capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
'Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagb
M'H-in Place Sydney.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 42 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Watch Your
Step J
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PElt ANNUM, 22/6. ,
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea- worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten.: Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian-made Pioneer Wood Pipe has met with
outstanding success wherever it has been used. Prac-
tically every liquid-conveying job is within its scope,
and many big and important contracts have specified
Pioneer Wood Pipes. In addition to-its high all-
round efficiency and great durability, this conduit
costs considerably less than any other type, of pipe.
Write for full details to the Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
# * * , *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * - .. $ *
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale ,and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dtied. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale. —Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, -G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
insure: with the
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
decline in imports caused a drop of 8 p.c.
in turnover during the last term, for which
a loss of £3760 was registered, despite an
overhaul of the outgoings. That was after
£19,295 had been struck off for deprecia-
tion, making a total of £44,603 to date, which
is claimed to be ample.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:—
1927. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £206,415 £323,690 £323,570 £248,900
Mortgages . . 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Sundry creditors 37,395 7,562 12,205 4,378
Freeholds, etc. 67,287 113,584 112,021 121,519
Plant, etc. . . 42,768 120,681 132,639 114,683
Debtors . . 9,396 18,752 30,738 22,726
Cash, etc. .. 72,700 26,968 19,089 23,922
Intangibles . . 73,000 80,344 75,344
At June 30 the floating debt was more than
covered by cash alone (£6959). The more
or less liquid surplus (£22,270) was £4648
stronger than at the close of the previous
accounts. The vehicles are said to be in
excellent order; the problem is how to make
them earn enough to pay divs. More atten-
tion is being given to the light-delivery side
of the business, but prospects are not bright.
Costs are the trouble, and the increased
price of petrol will make it difficult to get
them down.
The market prices the scrip at Is. 2d.,
thus capitalising the business at only £29,038 ;
its net book value is £257,212.
Were’s Investment Trust
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£
Preliminary exes., £3788.. .. .. 37SS
Reserves.
Net surplus on sale of stocks, £4140.. 352
£ £> £
1929.. 10,332 6 p.c. = 7641 2691 3043
Deficit
Loss on sale of investments, £4985 .. 1942
Reserves.
1930.. 13,145 24 p.c. = 7617 5528 3586
This is the co. which was launched by
J. B. Were and Son, the Melbourne share-
brokers, in July, 1928. It was the first of
the Australian investment trusts, and it owes
much to its association with the promoting
organisation, whose London connection
proved especially useful last year.
Early in the term a new share issue
doubled paid capital, making it £375,000.
This was supplemented by £ll6 907 of tem-
porary loans in London, £16,610 of deposits
and £2171 of other liabilities at June 30.
Cash, money at short call and a trifle of
book debts then totalled £30.753. The invest-
ments, which numbered 206, were in at
£491,138 (cost) ; 38.6 p.c. of that figure was
represented by bonds and debentures, 4.2 p.c.
by preference shares and 57.2 p.c. by ordinary
shares. Of these securities £139,440 (book
value) had been lodged against loans and
deposits.
The most interesting feature of the latest
accounts is the big change that has been made
in the investment portfolio. Realising that
we were in for a period of lower values, the
board liquidated “a considerable portion”
of the co.’s Australian investments before.
the. heavy break in the market last year. The
money was transferred to London at a low
rate of exchange, and there invested in the
stocks of concerns scattered over Europe,
America and elsewhei’e. At the time the
unusually high English bank rate of 6| p.c.,
and other factors, suggested a more stable
market overseas. The changeover was made
at a capital loss of only £4985. But the
slump in prices has been a world-wide
phenomenon, so, even on the funds trans-
ferred, the co. has been unable to avoid
losses through depreciation. At the close of
accounts the value of all holdings was reck-
oned to be 20.7 p.c. (£76,891) less than their
book value. If, at balancing date, the
foreign investments had been realised at rul-
ing prices, and the funds returned to Aus-
tralia, the profit in the exchange market
would have reduced the depreciation to 13.2
p.c.; had the money remained in the original
investments here the capital shrinkage would
have been 27i p.c. So the manoeuvring of
securities has resulted in avoiding a shrinkage
of 7 p.c. in the market value of the paper.
Had the co.’s investments been bought for
• re-sale in the same way as ordinary mer-
chandising stocks, the position would be seri-
ous, especially as the drift in the market has
continued since the close of accounts. But
being able to sit on the scrip and await
developments, the question of capital depre-
ciation is not one calling for immediate
adjustment. Nobody can say what condi-
tions will be a few years hence. Meanwhile
lighter income from investments is certain,
which must mean lean returns on the co.’s
own capital. Last year divs., etc., turned
in £20,060, of which exes, took £6915, the
balance being 4.3 p.c. on average capital as
against 7.4 p.c. for the previous term. The
div. was reduced from 6 p.c. to 2J p.c., leav-
ing the co. with paper reserves of £3586, after
wiping out the capital loss on sales.
On the market buyers offer 2s. 6d. for the
ss. shares without attracting sellers.
The National Credit
Recently there was some foolish and mis-
chievous talk by a few irresponsible people
about repudiation of our war debts. These
bonds are very widely held, especially in
Australia, by wage-earners. It is not sur-
prising, therefore, that the- suggestion quickly
aroused public indignation, and that the
Federal Government promptly disavowed
any such thought. Meantime Budget' esti-
mates have got hopelessly askew—at the pre-
rate of drift a deficit of about
£10,000,000 threatens to show up in the
Federal accounts by the end of tne current
financial year—and a handful of politicians,
outside the Cabinet, are advocating “a
special tax on interest.”
Exactly what is meant by this the origi-
nators of the idea have not made plain. But
it is manifest that, so far as the holders of
tax-free Government securities are con-
cerned, the effect would be precisely the
same as partial repudiation. The Govern-
ment has made a binding contract with its
bondholder-creditors; for it to exercise legis-
lative authority to vary that contract,to the
detriment of the creditors would merely be
adding tyranny to dishonesty. The whole
suggestion is so flagrantly inequitable that
it does not warrant serious consideration by
honest men.
After the Spanish-Americau war, Spain,
the financial renegade of Europe, levied a 20
p.c. tax on one of its 4 p.c. tax-free issues,
and the consequences were disastrous to
the national credit. Australia has about
£209,000,000 of internal debt —Federal and
State—falling due inside the next four
years. Into such disrepute did Spain
fall through following exactly the same
policy as is now recommend d to Australia
that Spanish stocks are only handled with
the greatest suspicion on foreign exchanges,
and the latest available quotation on the
London Exchange (Aug. 1) for Spanish
unified 4 per cents, was b. 58, s. 63, which
at the middle price is equal to £6 13s. p.c.
Hitherto we have been able to borrow under
normal conditions at 5 p.c.; and an extra
lg p.c. on our intere.t bill even for
the amount falling due in Australia in the
next four years would cost us £3,135,000 a
year. So the less nonsense that is talked
about tampering with interest returns the
better.
Zinc afnd Broken Hill
The surprising thing about zinc, so far as
Broken Hill is concerned, is that the British
purchasers of the concentrates have been so
surfeited that no less than 220,000 tons of
zinc concentrates which they have paid for
are lying at the Hill awaiting shipment. Not
all of this will be s-mt to Eurooe; some of
it will go to the Electrolytic Zinc in Tas-
mania after visiting the roasters to have the
sulphuric acid extracted. But the E. Z. Co.
is well on with the arrangements for draw-
ing its supplies from its own mines on the
Tasmanian West Coast; and so gloomy is
the outlook for zinc.. that it is most likely
the poorer zincy tailings at Broken, Hill will
not be retreated, but will be used under-
ground as filling. At any . rate, it is cer-
tain that the cos. when they come very
shortly to discuss the whole future with the
unions will be able to show that, so far as
Broken Hill is concerned, there is no profit
whatever in zinc at present prices.
Meantime efforts are being made overseas
to prop up the market. The European zinc
cartel, which ceased to function at the end
of 1929, has been resuscitated for two years,
but may be terminated in the event of a new
producer with an annual capacity of 20,000
tons coming into operation, if the U.S.A.
exports more than 1000 tons a month, or
in certain other contingencies.
The quota for European smelters is to be
based on the actual output of each, pro-
ducer for the best three consecutive months
between January, 1927, and June. 1929. For
Australian, Canadian and Mexican smelters
the quota will be only slightly less than the
existing capacity. All this is expected to
result in a cut of 30 p.c. in production. The
rate of restriction,'however, is to be varied
from time to time according to circumstances.
The declared intention is not to.force up
prices, but to stabilise them, and a “pool
fund” is to be formed for clearing variations
in the base price. The spot quote for the
metal was £l5 18s. 9d. at last week-end as
against an average of £l7 16s. 3d. for the
eight months to August 31 and an average
of £24 17s. Bd. for the preceding 12 months.
The financing of the Isa enterprise recently
caused a lot of concern in responsible quar-
ters. But anxiety was relieved by the
linking up of the American Smelting and
Refining Co. with Mining Trust, Ltd., which
controls the Mt. Isa Co. The American
concern, whose output for last year was
about one-third of the world’s total production
of lead, copper and silver respectively, has
agreed to provide the funds necessary for
completion of the refinery and further
development at Isa. Frank Hambridge, who
has been in New York and London on busi-
ness connected with Isa’s finances, is expected
back in Australia on October 9.
* w * *
The Rimu Gold-dredging Co., an Ameri-
can concern which has been working away
quietly on pay dirt a few miles out of Hoki-
tika, on the west coast of M.L., lias evidently
found its enterprise profitable, for it has let
a tender for the biggest dredg ■ the Dominion
has ever seen—a steel punt 156 ft. long, 56ft.
broad and lift, deep, supporting a digging
ladder that weighs 50 tons. Two spud
anchors each weighing 16 tons will hold the
dredge in place. There are but few bigger
mining dredges in the world. A Wellington
foundry got the job of construction in com-
petition with tenderers in the U.S.A. In
1928 no less than 88 p.c. of the gold produced
in M.L. was won by the Rimu G. D. Co.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
Something was said at the South Ivalgurli
meeting about a Mount Magnet (W.A.)
gold preposition. The directors acquired an
interest in this last year, and for a time
prospects were good, but values vanished and
the show was abandoned. The co.’s share
of expenditure on development (£500) has
been written off.
Dr. Laver and a few other optimists con-
tinue their quest in Lake View South for
the famous Lake View shoot. This shoot
was struck a few hundred feet from the sur-
face in the Lake View about 30 years ago,
and from if roughly £890,000 worth of gold
was won in six months. Then it petered
out suddenly.
* * * *
Thirty miles south of the somewhat dis-
appointing Edjudina field (W.A.) Hansen
and Bright uncovered a lode 3ft. wide, hav-
ing a pleasing gold content. “Mulga wires”
soon reached district prospectors, and it
was a matter only of hours before the
ground was pegged for miles on the strike of
the lode.
* * * *
Barr and Clements’s long run of success
with their rich Radio show north of Southern
Cross (W.A.) is well known, but the reward
of Sam Lang’s 20 years’ effort in the dis-
trict threatens to rival it. Lang has treated
a further parcel from his Radio Deeps, this
time 92 tons for 2570 z.; and the mine looks
like continuing in this form for some time.
❖ :Sc ❖
Tinsongkhla Tin, a Melbourne controlled
Siamese show, began digging in June last
year. Operations to Feb. 28 show a loss of
£10,957. Liabilities were £24,254; liquids
totalled £11,146. The dredge met with
unexpectedly stiff clay. This and water
shortage heavily handicapped operations.
Digging was continued in the hope that the
ground might improve, but the dredge was
finally compelled to work back through the
tailings to the upper leases. After overhaul
the , plant began again in February with
better results, but closed down at the end
of June under the restriction scheme.
i’: ije
London advices place tin supplies for con-
sumption for the month .of August at
11,861 tons, and deliveries at 9946 tons.
Accumulated stocks are now 43,625 tons as
against 25,875 at September 1 last year.
Their weight is pressing heavily upon prices
for the metal.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is Holding up the Pacific and Boss
Sea Whaling Co.? —8959.
Shares to the value of nearly £70,000
have been subscribed. Half a million was
asked for, and £250,000 is required to tit
out one ship. London is now being sounded
as to the possibilities of raising the neces-
sary balance of capital there. If these
negotiations are unsuccessful, shareholders
will be called together, and the co. probably
wound up. Interest on investments is hoped
to offset brokerage, etc. But there were
15,000 vendors’ shares, and these may reduce
the amount returnable to other shareholders.
That point, however, is not clear.
I have some cumulative pref. shares in
a co. which has gone into liquidation. Assets
are more than sufficient to cover pref. share-
holders. When assets are realised am l
entitled to recover the interest as ivell as
principal to date of realisation?— B9B2.
Depends on the terms on which the pref.
shares were issued. Generally it is laid down
that divs. shall be paid out of the profits of
the co. —not out of capital. Further, pref.
shares are not always preferential in the
event of a winding-up. The indifference of in-
vestors to the terms on which preference
shares were issued was one of the scandals
of the recent boom market.
(1) Is the farthing legal tender in Aus.f
(2) Would not its introduction be a pre-
ventive of excessive profits on small pur-
chases ? —8923.
(1) The Commonwealth Currency Act
says (Sec. 5) that “British coins or Aus-
tralian coins of curi’ent weight” are legal
tender in Australia. In Britain farthings
are legal tender up to 6d. In Australia
“bronze coins” are legal tender up to Is.
There are no Australian farthings, nor is the
standard of fineness of a farthing laid down
in the schedule to the Currency Act. Thus,
apparently, an amendment would have to be
made before farthings could be minted in
Australia. British farthings appear, how-
ever, to be legal tender in Australia, and
not only up to 6d., as in Britain, but up to
Is. (2) Yes.
BRIEF ANSWERS. ,
Y.E.T.: No, you ought to look for some-
thing much less risky than that.. . .J.8.H.: Sound,
with good bonus prospects... .Jack McL.: Not a safe
investment, but a promising gamble... .8.D.: The
trading banks don’t endorse the Commonwealth notes,
which are issued in, accordance , with law by a
special department of the Commonwealth Bank....
P.A.S.: The estate is valued as at. the date of death.
... .D.A.W.: No; but they will inevitably'be reduced.
. ...T.H.T.: (1) It is highly speculative. (2) and
(3) Don’t take any more than you can: pay for,
and don’t take any if safety of capital is very
important. .. .W.J.8.: Fair, but not lavish/ Remember
that (1) it cost the first year’s premium to geT
the policy, (2) you have been covered for 'six years,
and, though you haven’t died, you’ve got to help
pay the claims in respect of those who haven’t been
so fortunate... ,E.M.: Frank Hambridge,-22 Bridge-
street, Sydney. If parcel too small, he might suggest
a handier buyer... .G.J.C.: No ; not yet... ..Spencer
E.: (1) It is not in liquidation, nor is; there any
suggestion that it should be. (2) Not listed; if
any sales are made they are private... .8.L.8.:
There is nothing in insuring it for more, than it is
worth. The co. will not pay on the amount of the
policy, but only the sum that replacement would cost.


w
X
1
Si
:,Wi
5
X
a
Kv
Vhe
count
OJ
monte
CRjSTO
My
ALEXANDRE |
DUMAS
FEATSOF
DURAJVCf
FROM THE REALMS
OF ROMANCE
JUST as he is about to be married, the hero,
Edmond Dantes, is arrested, and on a false
charge, condemned to the dungeons of the
Chateau d'lf, the grim and forbidding island
prison near Marseilles. Here he is doomed to
spend 14 terrible years.
He finally effects a miraculous escape by taking the place
of the body of a friend and fellow-prisoner, which he
removes from its shroud. The shroud is a sack which is
weighted with cannon ball and cast from the ramparts
into the raging sea below.
He is able to cut the sack with a knife he carries, and in
the darkness of the night, swims to safety. As the Count
of Monte Cristo, he lives to wreak a terrible vengeance
on each of his betrayers.
w.
Barnet Glass
Tyres
& endurance
I.F.P. 30.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/•• 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
TOWN OR COUNTRY.
From its inception the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
has extended its services to the people as a whole.
Recognising that the man in the country, equally with the city
dweller, needed efficient and widely extended banking service, the Bank
has made its facilities available from all points—by nearly 4000 Post
Office Agencies as well as by 94 full Branches in the principal towns.
In addition to local business, money may be transferred to and from all
States free of Exchange, and travellers may, by arrangement, make
deposits or withdrawals at any Branch or Agency.
There is no charge for opening an account, and deposits of from
1/- upwards may be made at any time.
fcmonwealtb Savings Sanfe of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
for the
Sale of Skins
is the work of strong, reliable salesmen in market-
ing them. Consign Rabbit, Fox and Other Skins,
Winchcombe. Carson
LTD.
Selling Agents, SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s determined, capable efforts never
fail to produce highest possible prices.
Auctions every week - Prompt returns
ABORIGINALITIES
“C.A.8.” : One of the visitors to a recent
show in a N.S.W. country town was a flash
young man from Sydney. At the hotel at
which he stayed he endeavored
to create an impression of vast
wealth, and finally offered to drop
money into a hat with any man
in the room, the one who held
out longest to keep the lot, but
to buy drinks all round. Old
Bill Cowbails wagged a hoary
beard. “I’ll take ye on,” he said
grimly. The youth started off
with a ten-bob note. Bill re-
sponded with a threepenny-bit.
“Go on,” urged the young man,
“you’ve got to match what I
put in each time.” “That’s all
I’ve got,” said Bill calmly. “You
take the lot, but you’re got to hug
the drinks!"
* * *
“Barangkali”: In a reply to
a Service Department query re-
garding the hearing capabilities
of fish, it is stated that the
matter has always been a con-
troversial one amongst scientists
and anglers. From my own ex-
perience I have not the slightest
doubt that fish can hear, and that
in some species hearing ability is
highly developed. While in the
Cocos Islands I often experi-
mented on sharks that cruise
amongst the shallows, glutting
themselves on the shoals of small
fish that congregate there. When
one of the scavengers approaches
within 20 yards a loud shout will
send him scurrying away to-
wards deep water. A hundred
yards or so he will pause and
look around as if investigating
the strange noise. Another shout
will cause him to leap out of the
water and break all records to-
wards the safety of the lagoon.
Any shark cruising within 400
yards will hear the voice, and
react in the same way. When I
have been waiting with poised
spear on the coral barrier, hop-
ing for a shot at some choice table
variety, fish passed slowly, feed-
ing on the coral and took no
notice so long- as I kept silent,
but the moment I spoke to my
companion these fish darted off
at top speed. The Malays always
shout loudly before entering the
water, believing that this will
drive any sharks away.
* * *
“Corporal Once”: One of the most joyful
things that befel in our sector on Armistice
WHAT AGENTS HAVE TO PUT UP WITH.
The Land Agent (trying to bring off a sale ) : “Run a netted fence round and you’d
soon get rid of the rabbits.”
THE BLOKE WHO IS BEING SHOWN AROUND: “My oath, you would! The poor little
devils ’d starve, wouldn’t they?”
AT THE DIGGERS’ DINNER.
Bumble: “Gentlemen! I hardly know what to talk to ’ee about.”
VOIVE FROM THE OTHER TABLE: “Talk about ’arf a minute, Cap’n. That’ll do us fine.”
night just befel. Six companies, three of
them in our regiment and three in another,
were clustered in that line of trenches. Our
colonel—l wouldn’t reveal his name even if
Mr. Niemeyer asked me—got blotto, lost his
sense of direction and propriety and wandered
into the wrong camp. When arrested for
Being drunk and disorderly and resisting, he
demanded to see. an officer, and his captors
brought him into the presence of a second
lieutenant, who, like our colonel, was
gloriously illuminated. The youngster had
been a science student at Cambridge, and
when our 0.C., asked for his name and
address, pointed dumbly to his badges of
rank and the row of ribbons stitched across
the front of his tunic, his inquisitor was not
at all impressed. “You look like a ci’imson
colonel,” he said, “but you can’t fool me,
your spectrum is all wi-ong. You’ve got two
bands of blue on the left-hand side, prov-
ing that you are a most impostorous (hie)
prepostor.” So the great man was dumped
into clink and he didn’t get out till lie- woke
up and was able to talk. And when he
could talk he did!
v i'fi
“Cadonga”: “What’s become of the young-
bloke from Sydney you had behind the coun-
ter last time I was here?” asked the planter
from Kiewiang, after he had shaken hands
with the manager of a Rabaul store. “Gone,”
was the reply. “I had to sack him.” “How
was that?” asked the visitor. “Well, he
had no tact. I stood him till the day the
wife of one of our very biggest bigwigs came
in to buy a few things. She was heavily
veiled because the mosquitoes were bad just
then. ‘I want a pair of flesh-colored stock-
ings, please,’ she said. ‘Yes, Mum,’ says
this bright young feller. ‘What color, Mum
—pink, yellow or black?’ ”
$ ❖ #
“Pale Ale”: “Was I ever on Micklemuckle
station?” exclaimed the old bagman. “My
oath I was! For 20 long years—2o years
to a day—l worked for McSquint, the mean-
est old cow in Australia. One day McSquint
says to me, ‘How long have ye been with
me, Tom?’ ‘Twenty years come next Christ-
mas Day, boss,’ says I, hopeful like. ‘I
won’t forget it,’ says McSquint. When
Christmas comes McSquint calls me into the
office and hands me a packet. I thought I
was a made man. ‘lt’ll be a bundle of bank-
notes,’ I says to meself as I slips into the
home paddick to open it. What d’ye think
fell out? A photo of old McSquint in a
frame that must have cost him a bob. The
mean old cow! I goes to the hut to roll
me swag. While I was collecting .me duds
in comes the old miser rubbing his hands.
‘Ho, Tom,’ he says, ‘hoo did ye like the pre-
sent I gied ye?’ ‘Oh, I says, sarcastic. ‘lt
was just like yer.’ ”
Hs * # H*
“Pick” : Nobody who has owned one can
doubt that cockatoos are capable of dog-like
affection. An aged bird at Leichhardt (Syd-
ney) has recently lost its owner, Harry
Daniels, through death, and poor Cocky is
inconsolable. Though formerly a voluble
talker, since the parting with his friend he
has not uttered a word. Nor has he eaten
a bite. He has shrunk to a mere wisp of
bones and feathers, but has still enough
strength to perch wistfully on liis stand. His
present keepers have exhausted every means
of coaxing him to eat. They are now won-
dering how much longer he is going to last
without food.
*•"' # * -f
“Tiki”,: Overcoming its antipathy to the
idea of cremation the Ngatitoa, tribe gave
the ashes of its chieftain Maui Pomari an
impressive reception. The elaborately carved
casket containing the remains was brought
to the meeting house of the tribe on the
banks of the Waikanae River. Four stal-
wart Maoris bore the casket aloft on a great
tray. A fifth led the way, grasping a cere-
monial spear. A crowd, all women, stood
around, with the green wreaths of mourning-
in their hair. With startling suddenness
these women, as by a signal, burst into a
high wailing chant, waving branches of foli-
age to and fro rhythmically. A very old
Maori man burst through the ring of women
and cast a spear on the ground athwart
the steps of the approaching bearers of the
ashes. ..Their leader gravely stepped over it,
and the old man picked the weapon up and
departed. (This little bit of by-play sym-
bolised a coming in peace. If the spear had
been picked up war would have been
meant.) The wailing women broke into a
solemn dance and rifleshots rang out —a
message of the chieftain’s homecoming to all
around. The casket at last was set down in
the meeting house and the long wailing
began, followed by funeral orations and, last
of all, a feast of beef, potatoes, mussels and
pipis. It was a great tangi.
THE PROBLEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s ’ard to say just wot she’s at; she ’as
me thinkin’ some;
I’ve spent the las’ two weeks or so a-won-
derin’ wot’ll come.
I ’ardly think the woi’ld’s the same. My
’eart begins to fail
Since Clara bought them rollin’-pins an'
irons at the sale.
She ’as a pretty ’efty arm, she slings ’er
weight about;
I seen ’er with an uppercut lay Blossom’s
poddy out.
Now ’er young brother tells me, mate, e’s
seen ’er pitch an’ shy
Them kitchen waddies at a mark. I can’t
but wonder w’y.
“She’s pretty good,” ’e says to me. “She
doesn’t often miss,
So mind yer eye w’en you an’ ’er are jined
in wedded bliss.
She swings them irons round ’er ’ead to
make ’er muscle swell.”
An’ why she’s practisin’ like that is mighty
’ard to tell.
It ’as me worried, for I’m small and verj
far from fast,
An’ we’ll be spliced, if all goes well, before
a year is past.
I ’ardly know just wot to do. My ’eart
begins to fail
Since Clara bought them rollin’-pins an’
irons at the sale.
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


This
Feilow
"Needs
Meat
hj
hjh
jjk
For his size the'English Bull is
the strongest of all dogs, but he can’t
thrive on bread and milk. He needs
—and must have—a meat ration.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme—
is full of clean red meat. It consists of grqin,
fresh vegetables, red meat (and plenty of it)
and just the right proportion of cod liver oil.
Buy a tin today. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-I -Ration
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
m
Finn MiiniirTTiir nn
000
080
y
:fj\
Y-\y
\ ./
V ,
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
Warm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4£ Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines)
PLAIN At A
PIKESTAFF
Y
il
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a'Mephisto’
Copying Pencil.
It lasts n uch longer
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
COPYING
THE POPULAR
PENCILS
Also in 8 colours (or checking, etc.
from all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMtTTH. of "KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame,
London Office—». Kingsway, W.C.2
Austra ian Representative -
JOHN MAODOUCrALL. P.O. Box 165. SYDNEY.
“Fernie” : In the Nelson district of M.L.,
the Dominion’s “Sleepy Hollow,” famous
for its orchards, the first Monday in August
is more or less observed as a holiday—
“ Spud Monday.” Thereby hangs a tale of
pioneering exigencies. Sixty years ago the
province of Nelson experienced a potato
famine, doubly serious because other sources
of food were scarce. Some bright genius sug-
gested the exhumation of the seed potatoes,
sown a few days before the shortage was
revealed. These were dug up and eaten, all
save the eyes, which were replanted. The
subsequent crop was a good one, and as a
thanksgiving the first day of the planting
season was made a holiday, “Spud Monday,”
also serving as a reminder to every resident
to plant some murphies and avoid further
famines.
* * # *
“Billy Bush”: The favorite smoke of my
small-boy days was dry horse-manure, puffed
in home-made clay pipes. It was the son
of the local storekeeper, a callow youth
already sprouting an incipient beard and
who kept me supplied with matches, that
made me acquainted with its virtues. “You
try it,” he said; “it’s nice and sweet.” And
though you may not believe it, it was nice
and sweet.
* * * *
“Purple Brigadier” : Figures are the nig-
ger’s weak point. I’m not very good at
them myself, but on the island of Boko my
only solace for a long while, my luggage
having been spilled out of a surf-boat, was
a draught-board and men, and a Hall and
Knight algebra (with table of logarithms),
I was sent there to curry favor with the
natives and to improve their productivity.
The company that sent me owned Boko.
Those Boko niggers would have broken my
heart with their laziness and deceitfulness
had it not been for the sedative properties
of pure mathematics. Having very little else
to do I wallowed in the equations set by
Messrs. Hall and Knight while the planta-
tions went from bad to worse. At last, when
I was fed up with evaluations of x, I hit
upon the notion of teaching Billai, my house-
boy, the game of draughts. Billai was an
apt pupil, and soon he could lick me hands
down. That brought us closer together, as
it were, and Billai told me his troubles. He
loved the chief’s daughter. The lady was
willing, but the sire wanted a big price for
his offspring, and Billai couldn’t stump up.
The poor chappie looked so disconsolate that,
acting on an impulse, I determined to inter-
vene. So I taught the chief, Bombo, the
game of draughts. Soon Bombo could lick
me too—possibly the game has a Polynesian
or Dravidian origin-—but he wasn’t a patch
on Billai. One day I feigned sick and sent
Billai to play with Bombo. Bombo, schooled
by me, suggested a bet on the game. The
stakes were one cocoanut to represent the
first square, two for the second, four for the
third and so on to the sixty-fourth. Bombo
was handsomely walloped, and his satraps
were called in to pile up the nuts for the
forfeit —I had recovered sufficiently to keep
NATURAL CURIOSITY.
DANCING MISTRESS (thinking she recognises gentleman opposite):
“Excuse me, but are you the father of one of my little girls?”
tab on the arithmetic—and at the 13tli
square the island’s supply of nuts ran out.
A few moves later Billai had a perfectly good
debt-of-honor claim to the whole habitable
globe- in terms of cocoanuts, and that cur-
rency isn’t much more plentiful than gold.
Billai didn’t find married life the bed of
roses he expected, and I found it advisable
to leave the next time the gunboat made a
call, but in the meantime I had shipped away
so much copra that the owners didn’t care
what happened to Boko.
“Barang kali”:
During the first
weeks of a Malay
baby’s life he is
wrapped up in swad-
dling clothes, not to
keep him warm, but
to prevent him in-
juring himself when
he kicks. After two
months he is pro-
moted to wearing a
“barut,” a sort of
broad wrapper de-
signed to leave him
free to exert himself
and learn the art of
crawling. The status
of the child is mea-
sured by his prowess
in infantile arts. A
crawler is regarded
as superior to a
child that can only
lie on its back, but
very inferior to a
toddler.' The mother
teaches the child to
eat bananas and rice
long before it is good
for him. She teaches
him to walk by fast-
ening him to a sort
of windlass that re-
volves on a pivot,
and she weans him
as soon as possible
by rubbing bitter
herbs on her breasts.
The infant death-
rate is high, but the
frequent deaths are
attributed to a horo-
sco p i c incompati-
bility between
mother and child.
For this reason a
sickly child is some-
times taken from its
mother and given
into the care of some
other woman who
has been successful
in rearing a family.
In other cases the
nipper is dubbed
“busoh” (bad) or
“hudoh” (ugly) in
the hope that the
death devils won’t
consider the young-
ster worthy of their
attention.
“Up North”: We were out of meat when
providentially w e
came upon a full-
grown steer wedged
in a tree branch
where a flood had
left him three days
before. It was still
alive, and my mate
Dick decided to put
a bullet through its
brain and end its
misery, but that
wasn’t as easy as it
sounds. Seems silly,
but try to hit a
steer yourself when
the beast is in a
tree 30 feet above
the ground. Our
packhorses snorted
suspiciously at the
strange bird. They
watched proceedings
from a respectable
distance while Dick
fired and the tree
shoo k under the
beast’s kicks. At
last Dick found a
vital spot, and we
came to the conclu-
sion that the best
way to get our meat
was to chop the tree
down. The prads
watched, all prick
ears and snorts as
the axe bit into the
tree. It was hard
to tell which way
the tree was going
to fall. The horses
were apprehensive
about it, and their
t e r r o r increased
when without warning the tree swung their
way, and with a crash sent the steer, all
legs and tail, rolling in their direction. We
got our beef, but it was three days before
we caught up with our horses.
“E.H.M.”: Recently I witnessed an amaz-
ing turn of speed on the part of a hawk.
Having swooped on a bream in the Tweed
River (N.S.W.) the bird carried its prey
aloft to a height of about 120 ft., when the
AND NOW HIS RIVERINCE KNOWS.
“Now then, Murphy, ye must fist try to get on wid the wife a
bit better.”
“Faith, yer Riverince, divil a man on this earth could get on wid
that woman unless he was somewhere Use!”
fish slipped from its claws. Shooting down
like a lightning flash the hawk retrieved its
prey before it struck the water.
$ * * *
“Tidapa”: The little parana fish, about
a foot long, is credited by South American
natives with being the fiercest thing that
lives. They fear it quite as much as they
do the alligator, which is the only occupant
of the rivers that the
parana will not attack.
When a boat passes
along the river these
voracious fish follow it
in thousands, viciously
biting at the paddles
and at the bottom of
the canoe. Bathing is
impossible in waters in-
fested with the fish. If
a man wades in even
to ankle-depth, he is
immediately attacked,
the fish darting in
and out with the
speed of lightning.
Swimming horses are
attacked without hesi-
tation, and, often mad-
dened by the bites, are
drowned, providing a
rich meal for these
finny demons. Along
many of these rivers the
Indian tribes are accus-
tomed to deposit their dead in the river
and leave the parana to tear the flesh
off the bones. The skeleton is then dried,
stained a brilliant red and hung in the
deceased man’s hut. Many authentic cases
of fatal attacks on humans are on record.
* * * *
“Wang”: The first case that came before
Dad after he was made a J.P. was that of
a man he had sacked a couple of days pre-
viously, after a fortnight’s employment, be-
cause of his downright laziness. The accused
was charged with being drunk and dis-
orderly and violently resisting arrest. The
prosecuting constable testified that the
prisoner had been so violent when arrested that
three able-bodied citizens had to help to
get him into the lock-up. Dad favored the
prisoner with a baneful glare before passing
sentence. “Yer fined ten quid,” he said,
“one quid fer bein’ drunk an’ resistin’, an’
nine fer false pretences.” “But, yer Wor-
ship,” protested the arresting constable,, who
was also the clerk of court, “y’ can’t do
that. He isn’t charged with false pretences.”
“Oh, yes he is,” rejilied Dad. “I’m chargin’
him with ’em. A bloke what’d put in a
fortnight with me an’ get paid fer doin’ as
little as that bloke done, an’ then come here
an’ make four men sweat t’ put him in th’
jug, is guilty of false pretencin’ of the first
water, an’ fer two pins I’d fine him another
fiver t’ make up fer havin’ t’ come here an’
listen to tli’ fact that I’ve been took down!”
* * * H.
“Harold Hardupp”: In all our suburban
districts masses of the quaint grubs of the
genus Salari suburb anus, popularly known as
the meat-eating silkworm, can be seen moving
all in one direction between the hours of seven
and nine in the morning. These insects hang
their cocoons between rose bushes and vege-
tables, or, in some cases, the wire-netting of
poultry yards, and most mornings they can
be seen in procession. The young grubs form
a procession of their own at a later hour.
The adult grubs, which issue forth to find
the weeds from which they make their silk,
devour heartily the widely distributed
humble-pie plant. Towards nightfall there is
a reverse procession of both young and old
grubs, which return to their cocoons. The
movements of some of these home-returning
grubs are erratic, the result, it is believed, of
chewing the leaves of the hop-plant. Once
a week the male grub produces silk, which
is annexed by the female of the species.
:|i ❖ ❖ ❖
“Bad Australian”: A recent globe-trotter
says that “if Australians were as shrewd
as Mexicans they could turn the prickly-pear
pest into a prolific profit-maker.” In support
of this contention it is alleged that tlie
descendants of the Aztec cannibals and Her-
nando Cortes’s predatory “conquistadores”
are manufacturing gin of high quality, deli-
cious sweetmeats and imitation silk hand-
kerchiefs from the pear. The globe-trotter
appears to have confused the tuna, or prickly-
pear, with an entirely different vegetable,
tne maguey (better known in Australia as
the century plant), from which the Aztecs
were manufacturing pulque, a crude kind
of beer, and mezcal, a particularly virulent
firewater, sugar cloth, paper, cordage and
other articles when Cortes and his cut-
throats arrived in the country. The Mexican
consumes vast quantities of pulque and mez-
cal, but the gringo within his gates rarely
gets beyond his first swig of pulque, except
when it is prepared as pulque curado, which
is made bjr adding pineapple juice and
sugar, in which form the objectionable flavor
characteristic of the crude booze is almost
entirely eliminated.
* * * *
“Frigid” : The most interesting mirage I
ever saw was what was called the “silent
city” which makes its appearance on the
western plains of Q’land —at least, it did 20
years ago when I was there. The apparition
made its appearance in the early part of
July, always late in the afternoon. It first
appeared like a heavy cloud and then became
clearer, till one could see a spectre city
with well-defined streets and trees, tall spires
and minarets of fantastic shape. There is
no city like it in Australia, nor
in any country within thousands
of miles. Some claimed it was the
reflection of a city in Russia, but
none could identify it for certain.
THE EVER-READY SALESMAN.
THE LADY: “I don’t like the look o’ that
there fish.”
THE FISHMONGER: “Well, if it’s looks yer
after, Missus, wot about a goldfish?”


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter § Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Ihe Stanaa.ru ci Quality throughout the Emplro.
ivtonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Pu 93
Detonators
Cartridges
m
15,000,000
MOTOR VEHICLES ARE
LUBRICATED EVERY
500 MILES WITH
ALEMITE
The Universal Lubricant
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
PAGE
LURCHING MALLEE HEADLAND'S,
‘ Malleeman” : The fallowing season is upon
us in the Vic. Mallee, and an improvement
on the old backing-off method of ploughing
out headlands may be passed on. It has been
tested and found satisfactory.
Assuming that your land is “square,” when
about four rounds remain to complete the
job, drive out one of the left-hand (or
near) headlands, keeping the furrow horse
just where the plough left the furrow to
make each turn. At the corner of the land
turn right about, and, bringing the near-
sider to within five or six feet of the furrow
(it depends' on the length of the turns made
when cornering), run for the centre of the
hind. Arrived there, swing on to the oppo-
site headland and repeat the performance.
On arrival at the centre again, instead of
running-out No. 1 headland for a second
time, go right down the land, and do the
other two headlands similarly.
Even supposing tli e land is not “square”
this method works equally well, the difference
being. that you do the headlands at the
narrow end first. When they ar e done, so
as to leave a neat job, drive into the Y
until there are just' two plough widths
ahead ; then turn. Repeat this until it is
time to attend to the other headlands, and
you will find you have a centre piece that
may be covered with, a single run up and
ba r k i‘ t , ... , ,
1 have used the method outlined for years,
and find it cuts turning and lost time to a
minimum, besides leaving a tradesman’s job.
. T r TIVT
F ALLOWING METHODS IN
WESTRALIA.
“Wescocky” : In my opinion, Westralian
farmers who pin their faith to the light
Plough when fallowing heavy clay country
are wrong. The light implement does well
on light land, but in stiff clay you need the
heavy disc or mould-board to make a good
fallowing job. . ,
The climate is such that wet-weather
ploughing is a necessity, and always the
ground sets hard quickly. Here is where
the scarifier is needed, to be immediately
followed by the T-bar roller to break the
clods. ,Clods assist Cape weed and barley
grass to flourish, but not wheat.
After rolling the ground should again be
gone over with the scarifier or the spring-
tooth cultivator. The harrows should never
be used until early autumn. They tend to
cause the soil to set too near the surface,
though excellent for forcing weed growths
before seeding.
~ „ .
POTATOLB-AND-WHEAT.
“Hortus” : I have been taken to task for
opinions expressed in my article (B.
16/7/’3O) on the methods of the placed
competitors in the R.A.S.’s western (N.S.W.)
.potato championship. Mr. Fuller’s winning
crop of Manhattans, it should be said, was
grown on basaltic loam that had been
cropped to potatoes in alternate seasons for
many years. The alternate crop was usually
wheat for grain. The land was first ploughed
the last week in August, and was harrowed
immediately afterwards; the same procedure
was adopted after the second ploughing in
the middle of October. Whole seed ranging
from 2oz. to 240 z. was dropped after a
plough on November 29, the spacing of the
rows being about 27 to the chain. The
plot was harrowed immediately after sow-
ing and again on January 1, after rain. The
tubers were of good size and nearly all of
table quality. /As is usually the case with
Manhattans, the cutting quality was excel-
lent. ,
“Hatter” (B. 6/8./’3O) disagrees with the
rotation, saying that “wheat and potatoes
are ‘robber’ crops.” This is a debatable
poiut; it depends on the type of soil and
the part of Australia. Potatoes to
a far greater degree than wheat the power
to assimilate the soil’s manurial ingredients,
The 211 b. of phosphoric acid that a good
wheat crop, say 30 bushels, removes from
the soil, is equivalent to .00l p.c. phosphoric
acid in a soil of average weight and depth.
This quantity is present 10 times oyer, even
in inferior soils. Wheat, however, is a poor
assimilator, and soluble phosphate (super.)
is an essential addition. The wheat crop
does not use all the 401 b. to 751 b. of super,
added each year, but what it does not use
is not lost, unless the land is deficient in
lime. The potato crop coming after it, being
a. first-class assimilator, draws a good per-
centage of its food requirements from the
natural resources of the soil, and would pro-
bably benefit from the fact that a poor assi-
milator has preceded it.
I did not state that a potato-wheat-potato
rotation was the best available. But the
Orange winner lias surely emphasised tlie
value of this rotation, given careful prepara-
tion of the soil prior to planting to bring
about thorough soil-aeration and water con-
servation. On the English farm on which I
was brought up huge supplies of well-rotted
farmyard manure were spread over potato
paddocks, prior to ploughing, and turned
under. An 8- to 10-ton crop was a frequent
result. Farmyard manure is unprocurable
out here in such quantities, but the turning
under early of stubble and other growth,
with systematic pre-cultivation, will go a
long way in cases where a man cannot follow
the “best” rotation scheme,
Both “Hatter” and “W.D.McC.” (B
27/8/’3O) differ from me over whole seed
My people throughout 80 years used nothing
else. Still the only risk I see about cut
seed is that the season might be dry at plant-
ing time, and too much might have been
wasted waiting for a change; in this case
the whole potato would not be so subject
to drying out. A formalin dip, I admit is
necessary in certain cases, but if any shoots
should be developing a too-strong solution
may injure some of them,
' 1
“W.D.Mc.”: For dipping potato seed I
used a pound (not a gallon) of formalin to
40 gallons of water. I cannot imagine how
I made such a mistake as to mention a
gallon. I always buy formalin in 16-fluid-
ounce bottles, so as to get the correct mea-
surement.
PRAIRIE GRASS.
“Buckwong” : I beg to second all “Tumbe
Munda” (B. 20/8/’3O) has written in praise
of this grass. With less attention than
lucerne must have, if it is to succeed, prairie
grass may be made to do through the cooler
half of the year all that lucerne will do
through the warmer half. This is a big
assertion, but anyone who cares to give this
grass a fair trial will find it fully justified
Where prairie grass has a fair chance its
winter produce is astonishing. Every acre
devoted to it will warrant a dairyman in
milking half a dozen cows through any
ordinary winter. After the spring flush of
herbage comes, prairie can be shut off to
yield a heavier crop of hay than oats would
average; a hay, moreover, that stock will eat
more eagerly than oaten or wheaten hay.
This prairie hay will also, when fed to one’s
stock, establish the grass on any suitable
spot on the property, especially tussocky
flats. The grass finds effectual shelter there,
and spreads.
As “Tumbe Munda” has emphasised, the one
great desideratum is protection of the exposed
crown of the plant during the hot, dry
weather. Stock must be kept off during the
dormant period; indeed, it will always be
found most profitable to cut and feed this
S ra ss. It is a gross feeder and will repay the
heaviest manuring. Farmyard or sheepyard
manure is as good as any. Another thing:
prairie grass, if so manured, will thrive
under the shade of any deciduous fruit trees,
and the trees will do just as well as if
tlie grass were not present, thus allowing a
double profit.
DIPPING,
“Mepamga” : “W.D.M.” (B. 13/8/’3O) is
sceptical as to the dipping of 1000 sheep in
less than an hour. They were a good line of
two-tooth merino wethers, machine-shorn
ten days previously and free from vermin.
The “auto” device carried them directly into
the bath ; they entered two concrete draining
pens, each sloping well and accommodat-
ing approximately 150; and the wide exit
gates were operated by pulling a wire,
“Experienced” : With an uphill race and
a high slide into a dip holding something
over 3000 gallons, deducting time allowed for
draining after dipping, I have known 1600
sheep to be put through in about an hour,
They were strong two-tooth wethers that
knew not the smell of the dip, and had been
yarded the night before. In such cases they
usually rush through without much trouble;
in fact, it is sometimes difficult to hold them
in check. With a high slippery side slide
the sheep go into the dip with sufficient
velocity to completely immerse them, so
there are very few white heads to attend to
as they swim through the dip. Sheep are
never injured if the dip water is as deep as it
should be where dipping is done on a big scale.
BAILS IN THE WRONG PLACE.
“F 34”; On some old farms in my Queens-
land district the bails are on top of a fairly
high hill. They were probably put there
with an eye to drainage, but the chief
drainage is on the owners’ pocket. From the
way my milk supply goes up when I am
able to hold my herd close to the bails for
several days, I consider that hill position
causes a loss of 30s. a head a year.
Further waste is due to the old yoke bails,
from which the milked cow has to come back
into the same yard, there, usually, to make
a nuisance of herself. With the crush bails
the bullies of the herd are milked first —
trust them to see to that! —pass through to
the other yard and are out of the road.
There are over 700 milking times a year, so
that every minute lost at each means a long
day of needless work in a twelvemonth.
Bails should be convenient for the cows,
not necessarily handy to the house (I once
worked on a farm where the bails were
nearly half a mile from the house and quar-
ters and didn’t suffer any inconvenience).
Next, they should be near the bottom of the
hill, not at the top. Drainage is rarely any
better 100 feet above the flat than 20 feet,
and the cows find it less tiring to graze
up the hill and be driven down than the
other way round.
THE FARM GRINDSTONE.
“Booraby”: In mounting a new grind-
stone, the point at which the tyro often
meets with disaster is in fixing the iron axle
or shaft firmly in the stone. Wood or
leather wedges are unsatisfactory ; they soon
work loose. The common method is to fill
the surplus space with melted lead, which
goes into every little crevice and corner. The
stone should be laid across two level pieces
of wood, about a foot off the ground, so that
the shaft can be held plumb. Sop the stone
with water round the hole on both sides,
otherwise the stone will be liable to split
when the hot lead is poured in. Sop again
afterwards till the lead is set.
The next thing is the stand. The proper
four-legged support is not an easy job for
an amateur; but a simple bush stand answers
just as well. Cut a strong fork from a guin-
or ironbark-tree, having the bottom part,
which should go into the ground about two
feet, as thick as possible. The prongs at
the top should be about 3in. in diameter, and
about ISin. apart from outside to outside.
The height depends on the radius of the
stone, which should just clear the junction of
the prongs. The only preparation required
for this stand is to make a slot at the top
of each prong for the axle by boring an
inch hole through it and cutting the piece
out; then nail a piece of hoop-iron over
the top when the stone is in place.
In using the stone, turn towards the
implement that is being ground, not away
from it, and keep the edges level with the
centre. Of hundreds of stones that have
come under my notice, fully 70 per cent
were either bevelled or hollow in the centre,
the latter fault being caused by constantly
grinding narrow-bladed tools, such as chisels,
m the middle of the stone; the former by
grinding wide blades on a slant, or always
from one end of the stand, the pressure
being usually on the right side. Either
defect makes it difficult to put a proper edge
on plane, adze,- or even axe. A good plan is
to grind narrow blades on the edges of the
Stone. Try the stone now and again with
a square. When not in use keep it covered.
A crescent-shaped wooden cover is better
than a bag.
PACKING ORANGES.
“Gaff”: Oranges should be handled almost
as delicately as eggs. They must not be
dropped into the cases; they should be picked
into picking bags and transferred as gently
as possible. Oranges bruise easily, and
although this may not be noticeable at
packing time it proves detrimental to the
keeping qualities of the fruit.
After picking let the oranges remain for
a few days before packing; this gives them
a chance to sweat a little and overcomes
shrinkage. It is advisable to regard sizing
or grading and packing as separate opera-
tions in order to obtain a uniform pack.
Run your oranges through a grader, which
can be home-made; this gives a more even
sizing than the hand-grading method.
The first layer in the case is a most impor-
tant factor in good packing. Always see
that the oranges are an even height and are
not loose. The following layers should never
rest immediately upon the lower layers but
should be packed in the spaces. Loose or
slack packing allows the fruit to shake
about in transit and causes it to bruise.
Always let your top layers be a good indi-
cation of the quality and size of the whole.
Never nail lids on cases while they are
flat on the floor. Rest the ends of the
bottom on blocks or battens; this removes
pressure from the fruit. A wire tightened
round the middle adds strength to the case
and keeps the fruit compact. And see that
each case is correctly stencilled or labelled.
FUSARIUM WILT.
“Go Do” : “Diamond Bar’s” way of treat-
ing the soil (B. 6/8/’3O) may answer where
only one plant is grown, but is useless on
a commercial scale, even in glass-houses
where intense methods of culture are prac-
tised. Liming would, by improving the soil
texture, rather encourage the development
of fusarium, and treating with sulphur has
no effect on the fungus. Formalin or steam-
ing removes the fungus and its spores, but
is not payable except in a very small way.
And treated soil' is always liable to reinfes-
tation.
►Sprayings or dustings are useless for
tackling fusarium or any other form of wilt.
These diseases occur right through the sap
of the plant. To pull out and burn
diseased plants to prevent the trouble spread-
ing is the only sensible way of dealing with
the, growing crop. As pointed out by “Bar
K.” (B. 16/7/’3O), long crop rotations are
the best soil treatments. Several varieties
are resistant, though not immune to fusar-
ium, notably Manglobe, Marvellasa and
Norton.
BENEFICIAL BIRDS AND INSECTS.
“Booraby” : In the first rank is the straw-
necked ibis, commonly known as the black
and white. Where caterpillars or grass-
hoppers are numerous these birds appear in
large flocks. They attack the pest systemati-
cally, form up in the rear, side by side, and
follow in a long line. When gorged they
perch in the near trees until it is time for
another feast. So they continue, if un-
molested, till the travelling horde is thinned,
when they scatter about in search of strag-
glers. They do no harm to crops.
The quail is a useful little forager which
destroys the seeds of noxious weeds, and
wages war on many of the smaller pests,
including the cotton-boll weevil. The friendly
wagtail, or black-and-white fantail, is a
protector of cows and horses, being death
on flies. The little magpie-lark feeds largely
on pond snails, the host of the liver fluke in
sheep. The magpie sometimes attacks fruit,
but only when its natural insect food is
scarce. Like the kookaburra, it will follow
the plough for the white grubs, mice and
other titbits that are turned up in the fur-
row.
Where cattle camp and attract mosquitoes
on the edges of scrubs, the grinder, or
restless flycatcher, is often seen actively in
attendance. The mosquito, however, being
a nocturnal nuisance, is not much affected
by birds. Two great destroyers of the
bloodsuckers are bats and the dragon-flies.
Bats like to go into houses, which they
soon clear of the pest, and they roost in
them and in the sheds if unmolested. But
most people drive them out. Dragon-flies
begin life under water, where the larvae feed
on the larvae of the mosquito. Known in
the bush as “horsestingers,” they have no
sting and do no harm to horses. They prey
on the insects that worry those animals, and
for that purpose are commonly seen on their
backs or hovering about them.
RICE-GROWING ON THE M.I.A.
“J.L.G.”: “J.G.” (B. 23/7/’3O) did not
mention that the rice-harvesting methods in
Australia are unique. They are probably
the deciding factor in lowering the costs to
a point where we can compete with overseas
growers.
In California, where rice is grown on a
large scale, the binder and threshing outfit
are used. In Australia the combined header-
harvester or reaper-thresher is the standard
equipment. Californian costs of collecting
the grain are reckoned at £1 Bs. per acre.
The Australian grower spends only 6s. per
acre, not including bags.
It is an interesting fact that we in Aus-
tralia are working against nature in our
rice cultivation. The plant grows during the
dry season and ripens during the wet season.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Hotv to plant and cultivate salt bush to
make a firebreak and provide fodder? —
8833.
A plantation a chain wide or more, and
as long as you like, is formed between paral-
lel stock-proof fences. It is not necessary
to plough or otherwise work all the land
(Continued on page 25)
FARM ACCOUNTS.
The Bulletin’s booklet on “Farm Book-
keeping” is in great demand. Read wlmt
one country bank manager writes: —
It was with considerable pleasure I noticed that
you had put up in booklet form the full details of
a system of book-keeping for farmers and others, such
as appeared in The Bulletin.
It is such an ideal system that I intend to
recommend it to many of our clients here, and I
will appreciate your sending me four copies for which
I enclose postal note for 2s. 6d.; in case you are
limiting distribution, these four are for the staff of
this branch.
That bank manager knows. Every farmer
should have a copy. Send 6d., plus 2d. for
postage to The Bulletin office. Only a
limited number remain.


TueSircncest fiNCE Mace |
12
ft-’ 1 i
*6
<v
<»
Wl
X
6
*
o
v
SIDE
y/<
VIE
k'l
W*
S'/ Vf
'Sv.T =
□
m
0
a
Wlti
E
IMMOVABLE
tIMMMK FAKM fl
“Cyclone” Steel Fence Posts
These posts are made of a specially rolled “T” section,
and because of their shape and construction, have greater
holding power and are stronger than any other steel post.
“Cyclone” Steel Posts are excellent for use with
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fences. Packed and sent out in
bundles of 10, with standard boring (starting from top
of post): 6” 6” 8” 6” 5” 5” 6”. Slotted and punched
at top to take barbed wire.
sft. posts . . 1/6 each. sft. 6in. posts . . 1/6| each
Driving cap free with every 250 posts.
fi'i i m
?•/
;
TJI ARD-DR AWN, non-sag and non-rust galvanised
O. st eel wire that won’t stretch out when strained,
wire that will stand enormous pressure without
breaking...that’s the kind of wire used throughout
in all “Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fences.
When you put up a “Cyclone” Fence you can be
certain that you have got the finest, easiest to erect,
and strongest fence it is possible to buy, for “Cyclone”
Ring-Lock Fences are the ONLY fences made from
this special galvanised HARD-DRAWN steel wire,
which is guaranteed not to stretch out or need
re-straining-
“ Cyclone” Ring-lock Fences are actually CHEAPER
than a plain wire fence with droppers; only one post
every 22 feet is needed, and 5 chains of COMPLETE
“Cyclone” Fence can be strained up in one simple
operation.
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Farm Fences aremade in several heights
and with various spacings of wires to suit all classes of stock.
♦‘Cyclone” [§ lines Zb" high] Sheep Fence.
(SHOWN ABOVE)
THIS FENCE IS MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS:
Style SL. (top and bottom wires 1 0-gauge, uprights and intermediate
wires 11-gauge). Price, £23/5/- per mile, 6/9 per chain.
Style SH. (10-gauge throughout). Price, £24/5/- per mile,
7/- per chain.
Orders for less than half a mile are charged at chain rates.
ALL PRICES FREE OF SALES TAX.
Special G/cbne
Stainer loaned
fee cf charge,/
The illustration on the right shows
cf “Cyclone ” Steel Fence Post (with
standard horingj used in con junction
with a “Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fence,
5 lines 26” high.
□
□
IMMOVABLE
IIMCiOCK FilM IE!
manufactured only by
Cyclone Fence & Gate Co.
' PTY. LTD.
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
Cyclone House, Hardware St., Melbourne. Pine St., Adelaide.
ifycimm f&nees
mw better ••
1. Cheaper and more effective
than a plain wire fence with
droppers.
2. —Offer tremendous resistance
and high breaking strain.
3. —Stiff uprights will not bend.
4. Immovable Ring-Locks hold
uprights to the line wires in
a vice-like grip.
5. —When erected, stay taut and
firm; will not sag or stretch out.
r 4 «>_ &i; h 1!l *«■; i*A‘.
r "cyclone FENCE 6? GATE CO. PTY. LTD.,
please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced Catalogue of " Cyclone ”
Metal Qates and Ring'Lock Fences,
Address
Name
Bullktin 17/9/’3O.
FARM c. STATION
GATES.
These gates are manufactured from a special steel
tubing and have no bolt holes drilled in the frame to
weaken the construction Or let in water. All struts
are electrically welded for greater strength.
The method of hinging “Cyclone” Farm and Station Gates
makes them swing easily for years.
There are many styles and designs suitable for every purpose, and
all are illustrated and priced in the big free “Cyclone” Catalogue.
The famous “Cyclone” “N” Cate. Style IXO
JIM,
Manufactured from If and If metal tubing. The “Cyclone" “N" is one of the
sturdiest and most popular paddock gates in Australia.
if" frame, to fit openings • • 10 ft. 35/6, lift. 38/-, 12 ft. 39/6, 13 ft. 42/-
1§" frame, to fit openings • » 10 ft. 45/6, 11 ft. 48/6, 12 ft. 50/6, 13 ft. 54/*


jk
r Silk-lined
Australian-made
25/- Pure Fur
Felt Hats
1816
This special caused quite a stir in Sydney.
Conservative shoppers enthusiastically eulo-
gised this smart Hat; they were impressed
with its quality and value. “Snap Brim”
shape in Light, Medium and Dark Greys, also
new Fawn shades.
WE PAY POSTAGE
When you write, address your letter to Desk B,
Box 3875TT, GP.O., Sydney.
M
park s. GEORGE Si SYDNEY
m
COURT
26*
*
h.
99
M
*e<s«
'SHIRTS
PYKMAS&SOFT COLLARS
ris so easy to be contented when the day or night
k begun in a “LUVISCA” Shirt or “LUVISCA”
Pyjamas. Sheer comfort, plus style and good fit, explain
their great popularity among men of taste and experience.
SOLD BY LEADING STORES.
LOOK
FOR
THE
REGIS-
TERED
TAB.
V
iuM
coU
If any difficulty in obtaining, please
write:—•
THOROLD, HARPER & CO. PTY.,
LTD.,
308 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BALANCE SHEET
of the
Commonwealth Bank
of Australia
At 30th JUNE, 1930.
LIABILITIES.
476,008 11 1
072,301 0 0
855,000 16 11
140,003 19 7
13,701,776 5 3
and
and
and
,608,456 7 8
,338,104 9 10
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances.. £ 1
Australian Notes . . . . .. 6
Money at Short Call in London. . 5,
Short Term Loans in Australia . . 1
Investments —
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value
£13,703,500)
Commonwealth Govern m e n t
Securities (face value,
£8,611,350)
Bills Receivable in London
Remittances in Transit
Bills Discounted, Loans
Advances to Customers
other sums due to the Bank . . 13,096,486 2 5
Bank Premises .. . . .. 550,107 4 2
£51,838,244 16 11
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments . . • £52,354,225 0 11
Note Issue Department . . . . 44,954,326 10 0
£97,308,551 10 11
515,980 4 6
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
General Banking Department-
To Reserve Fund . .
,, National Debt Sinking
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund
„ Development Fund
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury
„ Rural Credits Department
Capital Account
. . £123,140 15 6
Fund 123,140 15 6
20,098 19 10
20,098 19 10
368,453 17
122,817 19
£777,751 7
By Profits for Half-year ended
30th June, 1930—
Banking' Business . . . . £246,281 11 0
Rural Credits Department . . 40,197 19 8
Note Issue Department .. 491,271 16 10
£777,751 7 6
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
The u'ual Certificates of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as to the correctness of the
above accounts have been given.


m
%
m
A heavy-soled
brogue
Handsomely finished and excep-
tionally comfortable, this Abbey
Brogue is made for hard wear
in all weathers. Like all Abbey
Shoes, it arches to fit the foot
naturally. Every muscle is
allowed full play and the sole
has that pliancy essential for
active wear.
The sides are low-cut, the sole
broadly welted. No breaking-
in is necessary.
Three widths per size
Ensuring exact fit. . . .you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size and ask also for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF - - - - 457-
BLACK CALF - - - 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 194
The
Shave
Plough
Increases
Cultivation.
SHAVE'S PATENT STUMP-JUMP
REVERSIBLE DISC PLOUGH is the
lightest draught Plough on the
market, and requires only two horses
instead of four.
The SHAVE PLOUGH enables you
to make full and good use of all
uneven ground which is inaccessible
to the ordinary Plough.
The SHAVE PLOUGH is made in
FIVE different types:
Type D.—The Standard
Plough (double furrow).
Type B.—Single - furrow
Plough.
Type M.—For Market Gar-
deners (with high wheels).
Type O.—For Orchardists.
Type H.—Hard Ground.
For further particulars, send for
illustrated Booklet.
CHANDWRS
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
NIAGARA
FALLS
VIA
TORONTO
inn:"
HPHUNDERING, awe-inspiring
Niagara is right on the C.P.R.
route to Europe. Go this way
via Lake Louise and Banff located
in the heart of the Rockies. En-
joy the pleasures of that vast hol-
iday land around Toronto. Stay
at the Empire’s largest and finest
hotel “Royal York,” Toronto.
Canadian Pacific service and
comforts all the way. Write for
booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
jkj
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Ike Worlds Greatest travel System
Once You Have T ried
LODGE
PLUGS
you will never choose any other
make.
That is why you find them in most
cars to-day.
Stocked by all garages throughout the
Commonwealth.
LODGE SB
gin- American
(long reach)
PRICE, 6/"
in sealed bronze
metal boy
XCxjj- c
m
LODGE PLUGS,
LIMITED,
Rugby, England.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
between the fences for the reception of the
seeds. All that is required is to pulverise
the soil in patches 18in. square, and 12in.
deep, at intervals of from Bft. to 10ft., with
a lioe, and thus form a scattering of seed
beds, which should be slightly dished. In the
centre of each depression sow half a dozen
seeds, preferably in early spring, and leave
them covered with about half an inch of
fine, light soil. The only attention that is
necessary is to keep the weeds and grass
in subjection about the young plants, after
which they will take care of themselves.
Under ordinary conditions salt-bush raised
in this way will have grown 4ft. to sft.
high by autumn. The upper growth is cut
for fodder.
On what terms does the N.S.W. Agricul-
ture Dept, assist farmers to erect rabbit
netting, and to whom should application be
made? —B676.
Apply to the Pastures Protection Board
in your district for supply of netting on
Form 15 if for cash payment; on Form 12
for payment by instalments. Forms obtain-
able from Lands Dept., Sydney. The maxi-
mum period of repayment is 20 years; first
payment in 12 months, with interest at
6 p.c.
My draught mare gets the itch badly
every summer. What’s the remedy? —B429.
The affected parts should be cleaned by
light brushing and washed daily with a 1
to 2 p.c. phenol solution.
(1) Would molasses be good for draught-
horses doing heavy farm work, added to the
usual corn and chaff feed? (2) Ration per
feed? —8623.
(1) It combines suitably with maize and
chaff, but unless obtainable at very low
cost is not an ideal food for working horses.
(2) If your horses are receiving a ration of
71b. maize and 181 b. chaff, maize should
be reduced by |lb. for each lib. of molasses
added. Molasses could be fed at the rate of
about 41b. per day. It is desirable to dilute
it with two parts of water before feeding
over grain or roughage. About 31b. a day
as an appetiser, not every day of the week,
would be more economical.
My 12 -months-old poddies are running on
good river flats in the district (South Gipps-
Ittnd) where they were reared. Recently
they have gone off in condition. Their coats
have ' stood up and become dry, their eyes
are staring and their bellies never appear
full. They do not scour, but get poorer and
weaker. Many of them have coughs. Rougher
feed has brought no improvement. Some
time ago they were inoculated against
black-leg. What ails them, and the best
treatment ? —8653.
Symptoms point to infestation with both
lung and intestinal parasites. Intestinal
parasites may be moved by the administra-
tion of Milestone, the dose being- 2oz. of
1 per cent, solution. Treatment for lung-
worms is not always satisfactory, the best
known to date being the administration of
chloroform. This drug is introduced into
the nostrils of the patient with a dropper—
three to five drops at a time being placed
in each nostril. The nostrils are then lield
with the hand in order to compel deep
respirations. This treatment is continued
until the animal becomes groggy. After
treatment the animals should be placed in
a dry yard or other enclosure in order to
prevent the spread of the parasite by means
of eggs hatched out of parasites which may
be coughed up.
My cow gets “blown” every day and it is
hours before she can eat again. The feed is
barley grass and trefoil. Cause and cure? —
8562.
Probably the cow is suffering from tym-
panitis, which might be caused by green
trefoil. If, however, other cattle in the
neighborhood are unaffected on similar feed,
symptoms point to some derangement of the
digestive tract. Until the condition is diag-
nosed treatment can’t be recommended. A
salt lick might be tried, but it is not likely
to effect a cure.
Can I get a permit to destroy ’possums
on my own property (N.S.W. ) ? I want
the skins for my own use. —8609.
The only condition on which such a license
is issued during a close season is that the
occupier shall prove that the ’possums are
damaging his crops or other property.
(1) Where can I purchase spare parts of
Malbec’s (French) knapsack spray pump?
(2) What is the weight of a gallon of lin-
seed oil, raw and boiled, of Australian manu-
facture? —8527. '
(1) Buzacott and Co., Petrie’s Bight,
Brisbane, will procure any extra parts re-
quired in Queensland. (2) There is no offi-
cial standard. Theoretically raw linseed oil
should weigh 9.31 b. to the gallon. Boiled
oil varies in weight according to the period
for which it was boiled.
(1) Prospects of orchardists on Murrum-
bidgee irrigation area? (2) Arc citrus fruits
or grapes to be preferred to stone fruits?
(3) Would a man with no previous experi-
ence and capital of £6OO be able to buy an
orchard in full bearing and make a reason-
able living off it? —8549.
(1) Prospects appear to be satisfactory,
though one must not expect to make a for-
tune. (2) Citrus fruits and table grapes
at present time are preferred to stone fruits,
but with the contracts now entered into
with the canning factories the growers of
apricots and canning peaches are obtaining
satisfactory returns, where the trees are on
suitable soil. (3) It would be advisable
to obtain employment on the irrigation area
for 12 months in order to gain experience.
This would also enable him to become
familiar with properties and prospects on
the area. An orchard in full bearing would
cost £lOO to £l5O per acre, and to make a
living a grower would require from 15 to 20
acres. £6OO capital would probably be suffi-
cient as a deposit on a property of this
sort, but the settler would have to have
means to meet other liabilities and living
expenses until a return was obtained.
Pamphlets on various phases of fruit-growing
may be obtained from the N.S.W. Agricul-
ture Department.
For the last three years my almond-trees
have■ produced nothing but leaves, while my
neighbor’s trees of the same age, set in the
same soil, have borne nuts every year. Cause
and cure? —B433.
May be due to many causes, such as
flowering during very cold weather, or infes-
tation with “shot-hole” fungus. In the
latter case the trees should be sprayed with
Bordeaux mixture (6-4-50) in early autumn.
Bed spider may be responsible, in which case
the trees should be sprayed during early
spring, just as the buds are swelling, with
lime sulphur or miscible oils. If the trees
have been left unpruned the fruiting wood
may have become too weak to set fruit. If
this be the case the trees should be severely
pruned by reducing the lateral growth and
shortening the leaders. Almond-trees will
bear consistently if lightly pruned every two
or three years.
How can potatoes be protected against the
potato grub? —Bs24.
Give the crop good cultivation and good
hilling during the growing period. This
prevents cracking of the ground during dry
periods and protrusion of the tubers from
the soil. If they are kept covered the grub
cannot get access. Should weather condi-
tions at harvest favor the activity of the
moth and grub, the potatoes should be picked
up as soon as possible after digging and
placed in receptacles, bags or otherwise,
which will prevent the moth getting to them.
Can a station-hand working under the
Q’land State Award refuse to drench can-
cerous sheep? What does the award say on
the point? —Bss9.
The Q’land Station-hands Award (clause
25) states that “the employee may refuse
to dag or drench sheep if they are can-
cerous .... and he informs the overseer to
that effect.”
A produce merchant sells me pollard in
bags which, according to a printed tag, con-
tain 137fZ6., andl bran in bags which are
marked 107f(6. He charges me on the basis
of seven bushels of pollard and five and a
half bushels of bran to the bag. Why? —B7o7.
Pollard and bran, according to old-estab-
lished usage, are reckoned to go 201 b. to
the bushel, which is half the weight accorded
to oats and a third the weight accorded to
wheat. Your merchant is charging you to
the nearest quarter-bushel, as is the custom
of the trade.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Jamal”: Next time you motor into town
without tyre-chains and a fall of rain sets
you wondering how you’ll get across that
Stretch of soft ground, get a couple of lengths
of half-inch rope from the store and bind a
length round each back wheel and tyre. I
saw a party successfully adopt this procedure
on rain-soaked black soil, and if there is
anything worse to negotiate I don’t want
to meet it.
“Wescocky”: When changing cultivator
points it is a good plan to oil or grease the
thread of the bolt before replacing the nut.
Then the nut will not work loose and can
be removed easily when necessary.
“Jamwood”: Westralian fertiliser cos. are
allowing 7s. a dozen for second-hand bags;
farmers availing themselves of this conces-
sion can get super, at £4 4s. p.t., f.o.r. A
“Primary Producer” correspondent makes a
capital suggestion:—
As soon as the super, arrives, tip it on a dry floor,
clean the bags, then refill into butts when required,
Full bags, as he says, are. too heavy to lift into the
drill.
“Bad Australian”: Gliarring the bottoms
of fence-posts (B. 3/9/’3O) is a preservative
if the fence is erected before the sap has
dried out, but superfluous if the posts are
well seasoned. The difference in durability
of charred and uncharred seasoned timber is
negligible.
“Mander” : Two ways of cleaning a barrel:
(1) Half-fill with water and dissolve 21b.
of soda in it; stir well and fill with water;
let it stand for a few days, then empty and
rinse with fresh water. (2) Lime bottom
of barrel, add a strong solution of salt and
boiling water and shake well; rinse after-
wards with fresh water.
“Bribb”: To cure a horse of rearing, cut
a piece of rope rein about 10ft. long, pass
one end through the mouth, and knot it
behind the lower jaw. Run the free end of
the cord between the front legs, through a
ring fixed in the middle of the girth and
up to the saddle. When the horse tries to
rear a pull on the cord will steady him.
The same idea will sometimes prevent buck-
ing.
“Colon”: A sound log of wild apple-tree-
makes a good meat-block. Spotted-gum
blocks chip on the surface and become
spongy; you can criss-cross cuts on an apple
block'with a tomahawk without raising a
chip.
“Colon”: Gates made of tubular steel are
apt to rust at the foot of the diagonal stays,
water collecting in them. A hole bored at
the foot of the stay will prevent this.
“E.11.M.”: A harness dressing that will
prevent rats from chewing the leather can be
made by mixing a gallon of castor oil, a pint
of salad oil and a half-pound of beeswax.
And it will render new harness impervious
to sweat.
“Bung” : Snares for grubs that are eating
off the cabbages can be set by tying slices
of potato, apple or turnip to the end of
slender sticks and sinking them a couple of
inches in the bed. The grubs will attach
themselves to the juicy morsels, and may be
brought up for massacre in the morning.
“Gardener”: Watermelons like a loose
soil and plenty of well-rotted manure, and
will stand any amount of mulching with
leaf mould. Florida Favorite, Ice Cream
and Cuban Queen are about the best market
kinds, and a late variety that sold well last
year was Cannon Ball, with a very thin
cream skin. They require sowing at fort-
nightly intervals for continued cropping.
“Bufforp”: Muscovy ducks need all the
free range they can get. They require only
half the mash they otherwise call for. Pen
up only for topping off for table.
“Davey Solong”: When using lime and
salt solution for preserving eggs, grease the
inside of the tins well, or they will rust
through in time. Wooden kegs, earthenware
jars or even large bottles are more suitable.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. . ’ ~; ;
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon" from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, ‘every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell”' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady book-keeper (36) wants clerical position,
out-back station preferred. Refs. —8791.
Planter (30), six years’ African exp. ; used to
native labor, book-keeper and handy with machinery,
wants position on plantation in Islands. —8750.
Words of poem “Kissing Cup’s Race.” —8755.
To buy Vol. 3, “The Starrett 800k.”—8763.
Young man (23), Sydney, well educated, wants
position city or country as shop assistant. Exp.
salesman and stock clerk. —8776.
By married couple, Vic. (man, enginedriver; wife,
cook and laundress), position anywhere, together or
separate.—B774.
Young lady (23), N.S.W., wants position as com-
panion on station, anywhere in Australia, 255. and
keep.—BBl3.
Ex-soldier (Imperial and A.1.F.), who has-travelled
all over the world, wants position as valet or any
position of trust. —8837.
Returned soldier, Sydney, married, exp. as saddler,
book-keeper, storekeeper and gardener, wants j,ob
anywhere.—BB3B.
Young lady, S.A., domesticated, wants position
on station, anywhere, as companion. Nursing exp.
Refs—BB 23.
Scot (34), N.S.W., ex-imperial officer, engineer
(mining and mechanical), fair knowledge sheep,
travelled in, tropics, exp. surveying and prospecting,
wants* job anywhere.—BB4B.
To buy small hand-printing press (Albion pre-
ferred). State size and price.—8839.
To buy complete set of Harmsworth’s “New Self
Educator.”—B7B4.
To correspond with owners of 9.5 mm. film cameras
overseas, view to exchanging films.—BB2l.
Words of verse, “Why Does a Chicken Cross the
Road?” and “When Pete Gets the Fever.” —8836.
Information Sought.
(1) Salary necessary to maintain commer-
cial man, wife and three children in an
ordinary fashion in Fiji? (2) House rents?
(3) Cost of servants? (4) Educational
facilities for children? —-8571.
(1) He couldn’t be comfortable on a gross
income of less than £5OO p.a. Commercial
houses usually provide their employees with
quarters (outside Suva and Levuka) and per-
mit them to purchase goods at less than
market price. If these privileges are given
such a family might be reasonably comfort-
able on £4OO to £450 p.a. (2) In Suva
and Levuka houses may be obtained for about
355. per week, but the demand for empty
houses is always considerable. In country
districts houses are almost unprocurable by
strangers.. (3) Indians are usually employed
for domestic services. A skilled cook receives
£6 or £7 a month and his food. Unskilled
servants can usually be obtained for £2 10s.
or £3 a month and keep. Fijian servants
are cheaper, but less efficient. (4) In Suva
and Levuka the facilities for primary educa-
tion are adequate and in Suva a limited
amount of secondary education is given;
primary instruction is also available in four
provincial centres and there are correspond-
ence classes for out-of-the-way children.
What did the battle-cruiser Australia do
in the North Sea during the Great War? —
8557.
She was flagship of the Second Battle-
cruiser Squadron in the North Sea. A
collision with her sister ship New Zealand
prevented her from taking part in the battle
of Jutland, but after that engagement she
resumed her station at the head of her
squadron and kept it till the end of the war.
In the spring of 1918 she was used for
experiments with seaplanes launched from a
very short deck superimposed on one of her
turrets. On November 21 of that year—
the day of the surrender of the German
High Seas fleet—she led the larboard line
of ships accompanying the surrendered vessels
into the Firth of Forth, and was afterwards
charged with the surveillance of the battle-
ship Hindenburg.
How to heal a discharging sore on a cat’s
foreleg caused by the bite of another cat? —
8560.'
„ Dress the wound once daily with peroxide
of hydrogen. Healing should result in a
few days’ time.
(1) Value of goods and principal items
imported from Czechoslovakia? (2) Value
of exports and principal items exported to
that country? —Bsso.
For year ending June 30, 1929, imports
totalled £675.965. Principal items were
apparel, textiles and manufactured fibres,
£267,190 ; earthenware, cements, china, glass
and stoneware, £157,649; jewellery, time-
pieces and fancy goods, £103,629; ores,
metals and machinery, £96,772. Exports to
Czechoslovakia amounted in 1928-29 to
£21,737, of which greasy wool represented
£21,589.
How did the term “ashes,” as applied to
Test cricket, originate f<—Bs7o.
Playing against England on the Surrey
ground in 1882 England needed to make only
85 in the second innings to win. The pheno-
menal bowling of Spofforth, who took 7
wickets for 44, backed up by Boyle, who took
the other 3 for 19, gave Australia the vic-
tory. The “Sporting Times” published a
memorial notice: “In affectionate remem-
brance of English Cricket, which died at the'
Oval on August 29. 1882, deeply lamented
by a large circle of sorrowing friendsj and
acquaintances. R.I.P;' N. 8.: The body will
be cremated and the ashes taken to, Aus-
tralia.”
(1) Hftw. can I obtain a position as a
stock inspector in Q’land? / have had 10
years' experience in the State with sheep and
cattle. (2) Any vacancies? (3 ) Do quali-
fled persons have to wait long for appoint-
ment? (4) Salary? —B3l3.
(1) Examinations in accordance with a
prescribed syllabus are conducted by the
Public Service Commissioner when vacancies
occur. (2) No. (3) A candidate who passed
sufficiently high to be eligible for one of the
vacancies would not have to wait very long.
(4) From £260 to £360 p.a., less present
reduction of 6 per cent.
Prospects of a well-educated young may
getting a position of any sort in India,
Egypt, or China? —S477.
Positions in colonial military or civil ser-
vices are only obtained by competitive exam,
and after long training or study. Private
firms almost invariably engage cadets in
Great Britain. Most unwise to go to any of
the countries named without a job in view.
What did the Royal Commission on the
Federal Constitution say about the sugges-
tion that the aborigines should be placed
under Federal control? —8640.
Whilst recognising that the effect of the
treatment of aborigines on the reputation
of Australia furnished a powerful argument
for a transference of control to the Com-
monwealth, the Commission thought that on
the whole the States were better equipped
for the care of aborigines than the Com-
monwealth, as the States control the police
and the" lands, and to a large extent the
conditions of industry.
(1) llore to make mortar for repairing a
fireplace? (2) How to make the bricks in
front of the fireplace brown? —8593.
(1) Take one part cement and three parts
good sharp sand; mix well together and add
sufficient water to make a smooth, workable
paste. If the work cannot he completed in
a day mix only enough to use at once, and
mix more the next day. (2) They can be
colored with kalsomine to which has been
added a lump of resin dissolved in hot water
or with any of the dry colors used by house-
painters, worked up with a little boiled
linseed oil.
By what means is the distance of stars
from the "earth estimated? —B726.
The most direct method is by triangula-
tion. The star is observed first from one
side and then from the other of the earth’s
orbit, and its minute apparent differences in
direction afford a clue to its distance. The
spectroscope is also used for such computa-
tions, and in some cases, where it has been
possible to ascertain the rate of motion
through space of a group of stars, that know-
ledge is made the basis of a calculation of
distance. The periodic variations in bright-
ness of certain classes of variable stars also
afford clues to distance.
Is it incorrect to place a preposition at
the end of a sentence? What is the attitude
of the authorities towards the practice? —
8725.
It is usually condemned as inelegant, but
Fowler in “Modern English Usage”, defends
such sentences as Cowper’s “a state of
dejection such as they are absolute strangers
to” and Ruskin’s “Any more wasted words
I never heard of,” and says the preposition
at the end may be used when it “sounds
comfortable,” or even if it doesn’t sound
comfortable, if it has “compensating vigor.”
As Fowler shows, Shakspeare, the trans-
lators of the Bible, and a score of other
classical masters of English have used the
preposition at the end when it has suited
them.
(1) Has the bottle system of delivering
milk for household purposes any advantages
over the old method? (2) Cost of installing
plant for treating and bottling 100 gallons
daily? (3) Where can I get advice regard-
ing plant and methods of treatment? —B49B.
(1) Yes, the risk of contagion is reduced.
Where the milk is pasteurised, shock-cooled
and machine-bottled, the containers being
returned to the factory for sterilisation, the
risk of contagion is reduced to a minimum.
(2) Only quotation we have access to is for
a 200-gallon plant—£742 55., including cost
of installation, but not of building.. (3)
From Director of Dairying, Agriculture
Dept., Sydney.
(1) Is there any authority to prove that
the declarer (in a game of nap) calling
misere loses if any one player plays a card
under the value of the declarer's lead? (2)
Do you know calls designated “high nap”
and “low nap”? —B77B.
(1) No. If the misere declarant can
undercut any of the others in any hand lie
survives that hand. (2) “High nap” is also
known as the “Wellington call.” This goes
over a “nap” declaration. Declarer must
take all five tricks, and stakes are doubled.
Possibly “low nap” is another name for the
misere call.
(1) A man is in receipt of an old-age
pension; his wife is not. How much is the
wife permitted to earn without affecting the
husband’s pension? (2) Would the wife be
permitted to take in boarders? The house
belongs to the husband? —B4s2.
(1) Combined income of husband and >vife
can amount to £65 per annum without affect-
ing pension. (2) Communicate with the
Pensions Department:, Sydney, giving full
particulars.
(1) Best type of B batteries to use with a
three-valve receiver in the country? (2)
Electric _ power., no.w. being available, Avoujd
you advise converting present battery-
operatcd "mddfiT?—SC>~)7i ' ' - - • *
(1) Any welL.knh.wn make.. ~W;ould guggekt .
Colombia, or • Diamond » heavy-duty type.
Many country, users'prefer Siemens sal am-
moniac lIT ‘cells,' due: to* their, low running
cost and :the" ease with which they are
refilled'. (2) Most commercial power packs
are designed to operate off 240-volt 50-cycle
supply. If both A and B batteries ar to
be discarded it will be necessary to modify
the receiver. If the A battery is retained
a small B eliminator may be purchased
cheaply and connected up to the lIT receiver
terminals without any alteration to the set.
This would probably be tlie mo re satisfactory
plan. ,
I have a large' bougainvillwa planted on
the north -vide of <my ■ house in Kew (Vie.).
It i Si. about 25 pears old, and about 18 ft. in
height, haring climbed' u-p, wire-netting, nailed
on to the'kitchen-chimney: The plant, looks
healthy, but it has only once blooiyed, years
ago, and then only on a remote-part. How
can T, make it-bloom ? —-8465.
Growth; should'be checked by thinning out
any young actively,-growing leaders and
generally opening'up tlie plant. Leave the
ground undisturbed around the roots, avoid
manures and let the ground dry out as much
as possible—the dryer the ground the better.
It is possible that the water supply to. this
plant is too liberal, or that ■it is in a
situation to which water drains.
(1) Is there any provision in the Common-
wealth Constitution to allow of a State or
States seceding? (2) Is Westf(ilia’s right
to secede affected by the fact that the Stale
teas not one of the original members of the
Federation? (3) The Commonwealth Consti-
tution is an Act of the Imperial Parliament,
Can that Parliament alter or repeal it? —
8844.
(1) No. In the Preamble of the Constitu-
tion- it is declared that the States “have
agreed to unite in one indissoluble Federal
Commonwealth under the Crown.” (2) No.
Westralia joined as an “original State.”
though i-t came in later than the others. (3)
Theoretically yes, as power cannot be taken
from a Parliament, to alter its own . legisla-
tion. Practically' 1 it-is not likely to alter
the Constitution save at'the'behest of the
electors of the Commonwealth, iii whom the
power of amendment is vested. The power
of the electors to alter the Constitution' is
subject to various restrictions.
Is Australian cypress pine immune .to
attacks of white ants?— B379.
For all practical 'purposes, yes, and for
this reason the timber is strongly recom-
mended for, flooring boards, etc. It is on
record, lioweyer,' that occasionally a species
of white . ant, not the ebrnmon one which
troubles householders, has been noted to
attack the ; trunks of- cypress pine. Such
cases have been very rare.
What is the freight on wheat between
Australia' and' England fat presen t ? —8376.
The, rate per ton ranges from 275. 6d. to
80s., which is equivalent to a bushel rate
of B.Bd. to 9.68 d. The rate varies from day
. to day.
(1) What is the usual goodwill paid for
every £1 on the schedule of a Vic. semi-autho-
rised newsagency? (2) Same in case of, an
authorised newsagency? (3) Would a semi-
authorised newsagency be, a sound invest-
ment at present? (4) Would it be advis-
able for an inexperienced person to employ
an accountant to inspect before purchasing
a semi-authorised newsagency? — : S72o.
(1) Semi-authorised agencies have such
varying privileges that prices show consider-
able difference, ranging from £5O to £75 per
£1 per week. (2) Goodwill of the authorised
is based at £lO4 per £1 per week; so
: great is demand at present time, however,
that £l2O per £1 is usual. (3) Semi-autho-
rised newsagencies are sound to the extent
that privileges they at present have will not
be curtailed so long as the agency is properly
conducted. It has, however, to be borne in
mind that such agencies are in direct com-
petition with the authorised agent, and are
thus dependent on the personality and ability
of'the proprietor for their success. (4) Yes.
The battery on my “Rugby 4” oar is flat,
If I coupled the generator direct to coil-box
would I be able to run direct off generator
with any easier starting than, as it is now
wired, through the battery? Would “short-
ing” the battery in this way cause any other
trouble? I have to tow the car at present
to get a staid. —8365.
That isn’t the way out of your trouble.
You will not be able to start the car any
easier, and if you did get the engine going
the distributor points would burn and pro-
bably the condenser in distributor would
break down. Also the generator, being shunt
wound, would build up a very high current
in the armature and burn out the armature
wiring. Or if the generator is equipped with
a fuse, the fuse would blow. The only cure
is to repair and re-charge the battery or get
a new one.
(1) Does a receiver employing 80- valves
possess greater amplification than one using
the same number of triodes? (2) Would a
six-valve SO receiver be equal to a seven-
valve neytrodyne? (3) How many hours of
. service will an .“A" accumulator give with a
six-valve 8G set before running down? (4)
Life of B battery? —B62l.
(1) Yes. The overall amplification per
stage is higher. (2) Depends on the type
of valves and coupling employed in either.
It is quite possible for a six-valve SG to
have a higher overall gain than a seven-valve
neutrodyne. (3) Depends upon type of
valves used and AH capacity of battery.
With a 44 AH accumulator about 70 hours.
With a9O AH cell, 150 hours. (4) With
a heavy duty B battery and using proper
bias on valves, up to six months.
How can I learn ventriloquism?— -8794.
Failing personal tuition by a ventriloquist
your best plan would be to procure a copy
of “How to Become a Ventriloquist,” by-
Richard Hughes, published in Australia in
1912.
Information Supplied.
8503.-—Do not wait for a “dog trained to
chase dingoes.” No one trains them. A
dingo leaves a peculiar scent and without
training almost any scouting dog will follow
it . more eagerly than he will any other bush
animal. The surest dog to hold a trail is
"a.foxhound or beagle and ,the best breed to
catch and/deal out stoush to a dingo is the
Staghound. : i; Pup-sellers 1 that advertise in
Sydney a'lid Brisbane papers provide young-
sters of these breeds at from half a guinea
upwards.—“Pick.”'
•' ’ - ; it _£ ; ■■ '“j.
Does Anybody Know?
Source of the saying; “It is women like
you wlm r>mke men like me like women like
you.”—S46B.
Brief Answers.
W.P.: (1) “The ass’s bridge” the. fifth pro-
position of Euclid. (2) Script H.W.: Nine
years, fouri weeks’...'T.J.J.: 'Sydney Tech. Coll,
conducts a correspondence course. We suggest this
in „ preference ttss what you contemplate.. . .S.S.:
Parrots'from .South America cannot be imported now,
psittacosis (parrot fever) has been traced to birds
coming .from there. .. . I’.Q.: Submit to Lyster Oriusby,
.235 . Castlereagh-strcet, Sydney, for Valuation....
M.H.: (1) Electricity Department, Town Hall, Syd-
ney, will‘supply-you with a specification. (2) Call
tenders. .. . C.O.H. : Mephan Ferguson, Ltd., Foots-
cray, Vic., and Hugh 'Lennon Plow and Machine Co.,
Spotswood, Vic. i. . .F.C.H.: Write direct to Depart-
ment of Taxation, Melbourne... .H.E.H.: The chair-
man’s ruling was correct... .M.M.G.: “Rabbitcraft
and American Breeders’ Review” (monthly, 10 cents),
Lamont, lowa, U.S.A A.S.F.: “Signalling
Made Easy,” by D. H. Bernard (3s. 6d.), and
“Brown’s Signalling” (6s. 6d.), Dymock’s, Sydney.
.... ILF.: Seven and,, a half per cent., certainly not
under 7 per cent.... . 1.H.8.: A confederacy is
mot a State. The .members- of the confederacy
remain’ separate - States... .C.E.8.: -(,1) October
28,. 1916.. .(2) December. 20, 1917. (3)
March,, 1,917. (4) September, 1917....V.8.: Copper
plates suitable for etching cost as follows: 4Jin. by
•■Sin:, Is.- 3d. each;- 6in. dby 4,Jin., 2s. 3d.; 7in. by
Sin., 3s. • Japanese, vellum, 27Jin. by 21Jin.,' thin,
Bd. per ‘ sheet; thick; 2s. 3d. per * sheet....
D. : With some classes of wool improvised recep-
tacle's in the form 'of woolpaeks may be used, but
these ’.are poor '’substitutes for bins. The wool is
not so readily removed from them for pressing ; nor can
it be so easily checked by the classer... .11.M.W.:
In subject matter Einstein’s law of relativity
chiefly concerns phenomena of space, time, relative
motions of bodies, and, in its later development,
gravitation... .R.E.A.: A sphere of influence may
b:* described as an area wherein other Powers under-
take not to attempt to acquire influence or territory
by treaty or annexation; such British spheres exist
in the Persian Gulf and in Arabia.... .M.W.: English
Derby t one , mile * four j furlongs; record time
2min. '34 . 3-ssec. Melbourne Cup two miles;
record time, 3min. 22f5ec.... .E;M.L.: (1) Send
them to the Art' Editor, with a covering letter ex-
plaining, whom they are from. (2) Lyster Ormsby,
,23,5 ' Castiereagh-street, : Sydney... . F.G.A. : Market for
eucalyptus . oily, is languishing and many Vic.
distillers' have suspended operations. Suggest you
interview * the 1 Secretary,. Vic. Forestry Commission.
. . . .V.M. : Obtainable' from Cooper" Engineering Co.,
T29v Sussexrstreet, r Sydney. Price, o 575: 6d.....
W.H.D.: Forestry , experts are unacquainted with the
method. Particulars were published in the “Sydney
Morning - Herald,”'. March 7," 1930. .E.IC.: You
can arrange." with. ,the authorities; to post you
ag' cheque. -.., R.G.: >, The ‘ regulation was altered
because.i.; it ‘ was; 'found that the lime and
sulphur \ solution - occasionally caused slight scald-
ing and the drying of the wool. Imported
sheep in quarantine are now dipped in carbolic
acid solution. .. .F.A.L.: A married woman in
Q’land is not competent to select a grazing home-
stead, perpetual lease selection or a perpetual lease
prickly-pear selection, subject to the conditions of
personal residence, unless she has obtained an order
for judicial separation, or >an order protecting her
separate property. ...D.T.: (-1) Ross, Dacol and - Del-
land, British; Zeiss, , : Goerz, Spindler and
Hallier, Schutz and -Busch, - German,; Lerriaire,
Iluet,- Fournier, Colmqht and Helles, French.
Further particulars from E. .Esdaile .and Sons, 42
Hunter-street, Sydney... .E.J.M. : Get. in touch wnh
Jules Joris, 228 Pitt-street,-Sydney... .A.R.: Wr.te
Lyster Ormsby, 235 Oastler.eaghvstreet,’ Sydney... .
F.W.: A person who immediately prior to the com-
mencement of the war was; a ‘ fibna fide, resident of
M.L. and who served in . the A'j.F. and. received an
honorable discharge therefrom, ( is ’ entitled to the
benefits of the M.L. Discharged , Soldiers’ Settlement
Act. .. .W.M.C.: Stewart’s “Handbook of the
Pacific Islands” (1922), 7s. 6d., is the only com-
prehensive one known to us. Pacific Publications,
Sydney, will shortly issue “The Pacific Islands Year
Book”. . . .S.Y.: (1) Doubtful. (2) Write 11. W.
Potts - , Ilawkesbury Agricultural College, Richmond
(N.5.W.)... ,8.F.: The coin is a token and has
-no value. .. .W.E.J.: Write' H. M. Eastern African
Dependencies’ Trade ’ and ( information Offlce, Cock-
spur-street, London, 5.W.1... .’N.-B.Fergus Hume,
an Australian. .. .D.D. : Can’t determine its genuine-
ness without inspection. - If 'authentic, 'it is worth
from three to five ■ guineas, but buyers'are hard to
find... .5.0.: (1)’ Any: person may enter for
the Sydney Uni, Matriculation Exam.' provided he
signs an undertaking that he intends to proceed with
hia studies, in one of 'the- faculties of the Uni. . (2)
No age limit. (3) Candidates, must pass.'in at lea d
four subjects, three ' (including .English' and another
language) at the higher .’standard. . (4) £3. (5)
From the Registrar, Sydney Uni K.G.: (1)
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, 77 Oastlereagh-street, Syd. ;
(2) Finlay Bros., Elizabeth-street; A. G. Healing,
Ltd., 167 Franklin-street; Underwood Patent Side
Car Pty., Ltd., 419 Elizabeth-street—all Melbourne.
. ...H.S.N.: Write Workers’ Gompertsp.tion Com-
mission, Bridge-street, Sydney... .A. V.S.: In Q’land
wheat is sown (late maturing varieties) in March and
April, and (quick maturings varieties),, in May, June
and July. Harvesting extends'' frbm : October to
early in December.. . .E.E.O.:‘Write Colquhoun, Ltd.,
Sydney-road, Granville; J. Walker and Co., 422
Sussex-street; Dummett Bros., 207 Sussex-street —
all Sydney L.E.S.: The 1924 Australian Olympic
team sailed by the. Ormonde, which left Sydney on
April 30, 1924. .. .Z.T.Y Further information from A.
E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney. . . .S.C.C.: First
complete edition of Milton, was, published in 1695.
An 1808 edition would- be ,of .no .value,-...G.L.5.:
No commercial value.. ..8.R.0..: (1), You will require
an * application form for • registration,. and, a security
form for guarantee bond. : (2); Bond costs approxi-
mately 10s. per £lOO.. (3) 'Forms from Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation, George-street North,
Sydney... .J.P.: Possibly you have been using cart-
ridges too heavily charged for your rifle. Write
Cowles and Dunn, 453 Kent-street, Sydney... .C.C.8.:
(1) Write Sydney Wool Selling Brokers’ Assoc.,
Bridge-street, Sydney. (2) For Albury figures write
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., Albury (N.S.W.) ... .C.J.S.:
(1) Not bright at present, but .a, useful man can
generally find a job. (2) No. , (3), Sydney to Dar-
win, by steamer, first-class, , £25 ;■ second : class, £l6
15s. Sydney to Darwin by _ train’ and aeroplane,
approx. £4O. Sydney to" Wyndham, by train to
Perth and then steamer, first-class, . £34 ; second-
class, £24. (4) At Victoria River Downs, via
Darwin, N.A H.C.: Send ,us .vour address and
we’ll pept-you.a typewritten copy. .. .R.G. (Mackay) :
.“A. Study of* .the Modern Drama,” ,by Barrett 11.
.Clark; “The Youngest Dramatists,” by Ashley
Dukes'; “Little' Theatre’’Organisation,” by Alex-
"andei-i .Denn ; “The Art 'of Play ' Production,”' by
John Dolman.. . .C.P.S.(I) Gpld was discovered
near Young (Lambing Flat),. 1860, at Forbes in
1861 and . at. Grenfell in 1866. (2) In the U.S.
Civil War (1861-66) Union troops killed numbered
359,528; Confederate -losses were calculated to be
well' over '300,000. .. .S.IL : Bob Fitzsimmons j. was
born'in Cornwall, England.... (Many others mailed.)


jk
jkj
ĵkj
jk
Hi
m
i§!
mm
is#®*
HjHH
Every Type A Triumph
jkjk
jkj
D
iV
RADIO
and other
BATTERIES
“Diamond” —a name that is
a certificate of power-life and
real merit in Batteries. A
symbol of a quality produc-
tion, and an Australian
achievement.
The illustrations depicted here
PAHO
M
;
V
m
a
k
s
ifl
H
H
«
reveal something of the remarkable range in Diamond Batteries and
Dry Cells. The experiences of users reveal something of their high
reputation.
In building Diamond Batteries and Dry Cells only the best materials
are utilised—everything has to pass an exacting test. Notwithstanding
our 16 years’ experience, research and experimenting continues with
unabated vigor, and every possible improvement is introduced.
Check tests are made at every stage —high standards are thus associ-
ated with “Diamonds.” The Diamond “Section-protected” Principle of
Battery Construction prevents leakage—which, in turn, means longer
life. That is why “Diamonds” are more economical batteries.
Government Departments Purchase
Hundreds of Thousands of
Diamond Dry Cells Annually
Their experts test “Diamonds” —prove them and use them. Wonderful tributes to Diamond Batteries
have been received from Radio users all over Australia. Test these Australian Batteries yourself.
Remember —There are Diamond Batteries for Every Purpose
Light Duty, Heavy Duty and Triple Capacity “B” Batteries; “A” Dry Cells, Torch Units, “C”
Batteries, Starter 6-volt Batteries for Motor-boats, Tractors, Cars, etc.
FREE Specially Illustrated Booklet
mailed free to your address.
DIAMOND BATTERlES—Obtainable at all dealers
Direct Factory Distributors:
HP
'fm
mm
Ml
■ I I
mm
i
w
Is
jkjkj
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY
Ground Floor, “Whitehall,” Bank Place, Melbourne, Cl.
N.S.W. Representatives:
REG. ROSE & COMPANY, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Representatives:
J. B. CHANDLER & CO., 45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
sufm
,
I
ĵk
m
V
a
yilm PM mu
: •••: ••
W.McF.


Thp cen/ne of Queen s /on c/s
'' c/ts/tngutshec/ Socio/ Life.
Motel
toFtOTSF!
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wi>h
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s , Brisbane.
Telephone, Central BS2I1 —G Lines,
jkj
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W H. Hart, Lsq;M J. Ryan, Esq.,
P. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also i epresentation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the °™,
Bana offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL EORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital
Bonds Subscribed exceed .......
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian
£240,619
£3,400,000
£498,000
Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Meet WIN. FGWLES,
who. offers Australia s greatest
i value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per flay; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff from
13/6 per dav ; £3/13/6 weekly. Special quotations
for sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite
Spencer Street Station, no taxi faies; railway poitei
carries baggage across if necessary. Please write
for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne,,
is sufficient address.
SMOKE-OH!
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
No need to search for reason why
We are engulfed in woe;
Since “Owe, owe, otce!” was once our cry,
It now'is “Oh, oh, oh!"
* *
“Australia must wake up.” —Sir 0. Niemeyer.
In other words, achieve a condition of
industrial unrust.
* #
“My wife was erratic in her behavior. I never
knew what she wanted.” —Evidence in Sydney Divorce
Court.
The kind of piece that passeth all under-
standing.
* *
“I told him that in Australia there were, only
two important political parties.”-— “Herald” interview.
Billy Hughes is now wondering which is
the other one.
* *
“A man may stand with parts of his feet in four
different States.” —Melbourne weekly.
The office flapper claims to have danced
with the brute.
* *
SYDNEY INSTITUTIONS.
Eeninpoipows.
Sr otto.
Atorkies.
A rices.
Apownies.
Adorgs.
Ararbor.
Arbridge.
Adepreslin.
RUINING HER REPUTATION.
JOHN: “What’s become of your friend Mabel?”
JOAN: “Friend! She’s not my friend.”
JOHN: “Why, whatever’s the matter?”
JOAN: “She told, a whole roomful of people that she’d
trust her husband alone with me anywhere.”
“Yet another expedition to elimb Mount Everest
is mooted.”
As a local llama said laughingly on hear-
ing the news, “Itchy banji! They should
change its name to Mt. Neverest.”
* *
BARQUE O' DREAMS.
My Barque o' Dreams floats out on Memory's
sea,
Which wakes me up, and so, just for a
lark,
From one a.m. till two, and sometimes three,
T near my kennel stand in canine glee
And. bark and bark and bark.
“Australians appear to imbibe a taste for extrava-
gance with their mothers’ milk.”— “-Sun.”
“The vicious suckle,” as the leader-writers
say.
IN THE BETTER LAND.
St. Peter stamped my passport and waved
me through. There was a large notice on
one of the pearly gates.
Men and Women Wanted Urgently.
Apply 23 Paradise-avenue.
An elderly angel, with civil servant writ-
ten all over him, mot me at the door of
No. 23 and dragged me in by the wing.
“Start work at once,” he commanded.
“What at?”
“Ignorant cow!” and he pointed. “This
is the Recording Angel’s' Office —Lies De-
partment.”
“Gripes!” I said. “What’s the idea?”
“Use your brains,” he snapped. “Don’t
you know that N. S. Wales is having a
general election next month?”
Ced,
* *
“THE PALESTINE TESTS.”
An Epoch-making Book.
In this monumental work, dedicated to
the Board of Control, Professor Bosh has
established that Test cricket was played
in Biblical times. He points
out (Chap, xiv, Book 3)
several references to the Brad-
man of the period, and in
particular the passage, “he
stood by the wicket and defied
them.” ' Such phrases as “he
smote him hard,” “he drove
him out into the wilderness”
and “he turned him to the
right” are also taken to refer
to the Test idol young “Boy”
Melchisedec. “H’e took him in
the field” is, of course, a tri-
bute to the prowess in the
slips of that most genial of
skippers “Chappie” Cohen. We
are in the dark as to the name
of the man of power who “kept
the score for the kingdom.”
However, the identity of the
player who retired hurt “when
a ball of lightning smote him”
is shrewdly suspected, as is
that of the slogger of whom it
was written, “And yet another
four he took.” “Woodfull”
Moses is identified as the ruth-
less skipper who, with the light
failing and a draw imminent,
put on his fastest bowler, and
gave the order “Thou shalt
destroy them utterly; their
bails shall be broken,’
Professor Bosh has an en-
thralling chapter in support of
the 31-ball theory, apropos
the expression, “And when it
was over”; and he is rightly
condemnatory of Jeremiah’s
unsportingly contemptuous
phrase, “Where, now, are tliy
boundaries?” A swelled head
goes ill, he points out, with
cricketing abilities such as
Jeremiah undoubtedly pos-
sessed.
A fascinating work for
readers young and old, and one
that will enhance the already
high esteem in which the Pro-
fessor is held at Callan Fark
and Gladesville.
H. M.
“I know a woman of 43 who, for reasons vital
to her happiness, decided to try and make herself
look young again.” — “Herald.”
What it is to be shelf-conscious!
* ¥
DAY IN THE LIFE OF AN AMATEUR
* CRICKETER.
7.30 —g a.m.: Interviews with business
and publicity managers. B—9:8 —9: Breakfast.
Testimonials : Bloat’s Porridge (£5) ; Rank’s
Bacon (£5) ; Squisli’s Marmalade (£5). 9:
Signed article, written by “Daily Drivel”
reporter on “Why I Remain an Amateur”
(£l5). 10: Talkie record, “My Objections to
Professionalism” (£25). 10.45: (Lords).
Took delivery of cheque for £5OO donated by
Dubs and Co., manufacturers of sporting
requisites. 11 a.m. —1 p.m.: Batting (at
Is. Od. per run, donated by Glubs and Co.,
manufacturers of sporting requisites).
I—21 —2 p.m.: Lunch. Testimonials Niff’s
Cheese (£5): Boodle’s Beer (£5). 2.10:
Bowled. 2.15: Broadcast —-“The Ball that
Beat Me” (£10). 3 p.m.: Signed article, by
“Evening Piffle” reporter, on “The Menace
of Professionalism” (£l5). 4 p.m.: Signed
article, by Professor Dome, of “Saturday
SPRING TIME.
"Is that your daughter’s coming-out frock?”
“Yes, and if I hadn’t been firm with those
dressmakers she’d have been out still
more.”
Highbrow,” on “The Spiritual and Intellec-
tual Implications of Amateur Sport” (£1).
7 —B : Dinner. Testimonials. McWhoosh’s
Whisky (£5); Brawn’s Beef (£5). 9:
Vaudeville turn (£5O). 10.30: Bed. Testi-
monials. Smith’s Slumber-wear (£5) ;
Sleep-eezy Mattress Co. (£5).
Bloggs.
* *
“Your leader was a bold step in the right direction.
Allow me a mead of space to add something.”
— “Sunlight” in Sydney “Sun.”
The editor probably regarded the demand
for a mere mead of space as moderate.
Most of them want a paddock.
* *
“Bradman is a very modest young man.”
When Bradman bats the people cheer,
The bowlers are on toast;
He hangs about the leathered sphere,
But never does he boast.
Fast balls and balls that have a siving
Towards the pickets fly
For Bradman bats lijcc anything
But never bats an I.
* %■
“Joseph (Donald) : ‘October’s Child.’ 7s. 6d. net.
(Ready September.)”— Publisher’s Catalogue.
Another premature birth.
* *
THE ADDRESS.
“My dear! I’m addressing our League
members to-night on the financial position.
Mr. Parkhill insisted. Isn’t it too thrilling!"
“What will you say to them?”
“I expect I’ll begin with something just
a wee bit highbrow about the Loan' Council
—if that’s the name of the wretched thing—
and the need for all loyal women to stand
side by side together for the Empire. You
know the kind of thing.”
“You’ll explain this ghastly sales tax, I
suppose ?”
“Of course. How it’s all bound up with the
marketing of primary products and manufac-
tures and imports and suchlike; and whether
goods are the subject of sales by the Com-
monwealth or State, or private persons or
what, and if so how and why, and just
who are chargeable under the Act, and every-
thing of that sort. Just simple little points,
you know, dear, but very plainly worded. Mr.
Parkhill was emphatic about that. Which
will bring me to my main point —the desira-
bility, the —the absolute urgency of the
younger members joining up with the Girl
Guides. And then a few words about this
horrible Scullin man.”
“My dear! The top knot! Did you ever
hear of anything fouler?” , , , ,
“Where I should be really helpful and
informative and so forth is when I get to
the Tariff. I mean Ido think —and I don t
care who hears me say so —that in these
matters we Nationalist women should take
up a definite stand —I mean, give the coun-
try a lead as we did during the war—and
place King, Flag and Empire before all
else, and not put up with the disloyalists
for a single instant.” , _ . „
“Hear! Hear !
“I believe in the
Tariff, min d—
though a Free-
trader myself.”
“Of course. So
do I.”
“And to con-
clude there’ll be
something about
Russia. And re-
ligion—not that I
ever have time to
go to church nowa-
days, unfortunately.
And how woman's
place is in the
Home, and how we
women should take
everything to do
with taxes and
tariffs and so on
out of the men’s
hands, because, my
dear, it isn’t natural that
men should understand such
things as we do But I’ll
show you the address when
it’s written out.”
“What you’ve been telling
me isn’t it, then?”
“Er —not exactly. To be strictly truthful.
Henry is writing it for me now. But you
may depend it will be just as I have told
you.”
10-2-4.
MAKING HISTORY.
It was a fine mid-week day. For six
weary months the gallant little ship had
ploughed the main, battered by hurricanes,
buffeted by monsoons, menaced by typhoons.
At long last her indomitable captain was
driven to admit that he was lost. And now
a welcome cry came from the lookout on the
masthead. “Land ho 1”
“What’s it look like?” demanded an
anxious voice from the chartroom.
ANY PORT IN A STORM.
Wifey {and very put out about it) : “You’ve
forgotten again that to-day is my—my
birthday.’’
Hubby : “ ’Ere, listen, my dear. I know I
forgot it—there isn’t a thing about you
to remind me that you are a day older
than you were last year.’’
“A vast city with one half the popula-
tion going to the ponies and the other half
to the pictures.”
“Drop the anchor, lads,” ordered Captain
Cook. “We’ve discovered Sydney.”
10-2-4.
¥ *
Once when girls went in to swim,
They dressed like Mother Hubbard;
However', now it is their whim,
To get up like her cupboard.
OVERLOOKED BY THE CENSOR.
Undressed timber.
New ditties.
Naked lights.
Hot dogs.
Bare walls.
Stark truths.
Kiss cannons.
Intriguing subjects.
Risky actions.
Ticklish enterprises.
W.P.T.
THE WIDOW.
I sought her out —a lovesick wight:
And, anxious, long she made me stay,
With half a “yes" and half a “nay" —
The widow's “might."
To-day I question, was I right
To let my independence go?
For now that it's too late I know
The widow's might!
H.M.


jpfilS
{.•Ay.v.vav.w.v.v,
9
•:•;*•: ‘is* •
»>c
5V>
w:-
AVAV
»>v*vs
M
BB
£3
W
w.
•VA
s?
a
Eg-
g&v-Sgn
mmmm
i
r% m
*1
•V/4*
.VAv;
:»nvj
i
fsV>v.v.Vi&
SSKfifeS!?:®*
Ilf
M
mm
. mM w
iM
VP
gsgS
ktv
Hull
m
ww
lii
0 H
i%v&'.v.'.</.-;
w£v/S&y/S;
W.','.V//
I mgim Wmm M i
:m,
•VV.’.V,
m
W.V
a
VAV
A
n
wmm
m
WS
SS7
fppj:i::|i::i:!:i:
/, V /•', f ’
//V 'y f
* <
P
;tji
I
i;i
«?
AV.-TiV
> ; >’ * ' • i%* f '->!• t My jl ,wi; Y * i-?A. 1
%
SB?
as
AS
■saftfeiiiii
M flip
*
iv'// l ‘pe
Z’rZh i> W.V.V?,
tli&LG r
ualityf
HARDY’S
WINES
°f
TINTARA
HARDY S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world’s markets When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that or other wines.


THROUGH WITH YOUR
WASH ALREADY?
I LET IT SOAK WHILE I DO MY
SHOPPING. I NEVER SCRUB
CLOTHES. YOU KNOW.
. < x '-. .
3
fk.
m
f
m
\
NEXT WASHDAY
YOU WERE RIGHT. MRS. CARTER.
RINSO CERTAINLY SAVES
HARD WORK ON WASHDAY . . .
AND DOESN’T IT
GET THE
WASH SNOWY!
jkj
NEVER SCRUB?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
IT SOAKS
I USE RINSO I
CLOTHES SO WHITE—
ALL I NEED TO DO
IS RINSE
m
m
■
r
mk
>
(Thousands write us letters like ) ~
“Easier on clothes andhands
says Mrs. Sharp e
of McMahon’s Point u •
the whitest trash ever see hands , too.
easier on the clothes and on line ns and
“I ,t'certa nfy b a money-saving soap-
cottons. It cert* J
a little does so SHARPEt
EaSt s’ Pointy Sydney.
. £ finest cottons and linens
Safe for finest cot last longer
Millions of women k tle Rinso way.
when they stubbing to wear clothes
There is no boiling re d too; they are i
threadbare. Hands like Rinso.
hot suds so little. Y twice as much
Ounce for ounce because it’s granulated,
suds as ordinary bee don t
compact. An use Rinso. ry
need bar soap when yo
next washing day. T TM IT E D
• le ver brothers limit
fonso
In tub or washer ...safer suds...whiter clothes
R33AB
.y HAIR
* EEO
here's
■anu)-
jkj
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CUhmS CMEXICAN)
Walnut Staxm
Removes the grey"
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct ( i/6), 6d. being postage.
ĵkj
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
c wue
r
Wii
1
II
CIGARS
Tender and carefully cured, the
mellow leaf used in Club Reil
Cigars possesses the mild mellow
flavor best suited to Australian
taste. Obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists, or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
(Posted 46/-)
CRAIG AND
AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
FPL 9
ĵk
Missing Friends.
Re ALFRED EDMOND GEE—Deceased.
VV/ILL PERCY SMITH (or anyone know-
W ing liis whereabouts), stepson of the
late Alfred Edmond Gee, late of Hobart,
in Tasmania, Doctor of Chiropractic, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hobart.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SOAP-MAKING.
TTIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Paten L
1 No. 15,802, dated 21st September, 1.927,
desires to negotiate for the sale Of his rights
in the above or for the granting of a license
on reasonable terms to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth or
Australia. Particulars are obtainable from
H. H. Rayward, Patent Attorney, Sirius
House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
TO WILLIAM STEPHEN OSBORNE, son of Janies
Osborne, deceased, who died at Ashburton, in
New Zealand, on the 17th day of February 1908,
and any child or children of the said William Stephen
Osborne, and all persons claiming by, through oi
under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 31st day of
July, 1930, by a Judge of the Supreme Court ot
New Zealand, you are hereby called upon to send m
to the undersigned on or before the 31st day ot
March, 1931, your claims to the estate of the above-
named deceased, failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this sth day of August, 1930.
G. G. ROSE, Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.


THE GOSSARD LINE of BEAUTY
: I i
Here is a step-in of satin and elastic, Model 1022.
It is lightly boned at the waistline.
GossardsGive
a Priceless Gift
Always—a correctly fitted Gossard
achieves for you a priceless requisite of
good dress—confidence in your figure.
As your eye traces the slenderizing lines
of a perfectly fitting Gossard you are
aware of your share of figure loveliness.
As you feel its snug support of your
body contours you have a new and joy-
ous confidence in your appearance.
Gossards are made in all the favourite
designs—Solitaires, step-ins, girdles,
front-lacing corsets and brassieres. In
every price group you will find the
designing superior, the workmanship
faultless.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W.
MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRE
POVERTY
POINT
From a Wilhelm Backliaus ad. in the
“Sydney Morning Herald” and purporting
to be an extract from the Otago (M.L.)
“Daily Times” :
Never before in the musical history of Dunedin has
an attendance of 3000 people assembled to bear a
recital of piano music.
It kept the Philistines alive during Music
Week.
“O. P. Queue”: George Robey, as a panto-
mime dame, shocked critics in and out of
the theatre with his gag: “I’ve got a cold and
I know how I got it—getting out of a warm
bed to go home.” Now it’s George’s turn
to be shocked. His daughter paints in the
modernist style, and Robey considers some
of her works a “bit over the odds.”
“Hamfat” : A little bunch of struggling
N. S. Wales mummers have revived the old
“strolling players.” They are wandering
from town to town per foot, a two-horse
lorry carting their scenery and effects and
the tent in which they stage their perform-
ances. The lorry belongs to a man who
found work so slack in the city that he
threw in his lot with the actors. They are
not making a fortune, but at least they are
not as near starving as many who cling
to the city and orthodox methods.
“Jonop” (Lond.) : If the inventor of a
stage joke could draw royalties on it he’d
make a fortune in London, for they cer-
tainly work a successful one to death.
Almost as popular now as the war-time
“Are you married, single or an Australian?”
is the “Lend me ten bob till the talkies blow
over.” It’s good for a laugh from any audi-
ence, so every audience gets it —sometimes
twice on the same bill.
“Stephen Sink”: I suggest the establish-
ment of a gramophone record censorship as a
splendid field for Mr. Forde’s moral endeavor.
It’s about the only thing left that isn’t sub-
ject to interference, anyway. Lately, however,
the ensuing argument over the negro play
“Green Pastures,” outed by the British Lord
Chamberlain, brought up reference to the
license permitted the old family gramo. The
wireless programmes in Australia are not
censored, but wireless artists are subject to
the wrath of an all powerful if invisible
force. A friend of mine once used the words
“sex appeal” over the air, and was solemnly
warned never on any account to let the mike
hear such a licentious expression again.
“Cauboy”: The Firm is taking the only
possible course to meet the menace of the
movies. Prices for “Little Accident” at
Melbourne King’s are four, three, two and
one, the lowest yet quoted for legit.
“10-2-4” : “E.V.L.” in one of his brilliant
London “Punch” film-notices complains that
tlm names of both hero and heroine were
missing from his programme at a West End
cinema. He suggests that the semi-darkness
in which the celebrations occur might be
responsible for the invariable rottenness of
film-programmes. But in the days when play-
going was in flower, programmes were only
read before the show began, and during the
interval (“intermission” in Hollywoodese).
A much more feasible explanation of a
state of affairs to which The Bulletin has
often drawn attention is that the kind of
brain which is usually brought to a movie
doesn’t want to be plagued with fatiguing
information. The chief requirement is a
powerful mental dope; and its effect is
diminished when the addict’s intellect is
required to cerebrate on the names of people,
houses, cities and foreign countries.
“Strict Veg.”: I am unable to see why
the “Argus” is entitled to the superior airs
it gave itself over the obstetrical “Little
Accident.” It described the play as “crude,”
which it certainly is ; but then it went on
to be heavily scornful of the “groundlings”
who had the ineffable bad taste to laugh at
it. A few weeks ago the lofty sheet printed
a series of mysterious cables to the effect
that the Duchess of York had “retired” to
Glamis Castle, that eminent doctors were
converging thither, that the Secretary of
State was waiting in a near-by village in
a powerful motor-car and that a special
telephone had been laid to the King’s yacht
“in readiness.” An outsider, unfamiliar with
the quaint ways of the Anglo-Saxon on such
occasions as this, might have imagined that
the Duchess was suffering from a disgraceful
disease. Actually she was going to have a
baby. When confronted with a case of
maternity, the “pure” mind of the “Argus”
editor behaves in precisely the same way as
the “dirty” mind of the flapper who sniggers
at the innuendoes of “Little Accident.”
And, if there is anything in the power of
the press, it is the editor who makes the
mind of the flapper.
“Verri” : The threats of American picture
manufacturers to boycott Maoriland will not
unduly perturb that country. Since the
advent of the talkies the Dominion has at
intervals been considerably agitated over the
matter of accent and the general misuse of
English, and Parliament has remarked that
it viewed with growing apprehension the
deleterious effect of the Hollywooden pro-
duct. Maoriland picture houses admit that
they have enough films on hand to see them
through the balance of this year, and as
Britain seems to be awaking to her advan-
tages in the matter of speaking films, the
American decision to cut out Maoriland. if
adhered to, seems like a blessing in a thin
disguise.
“Hops and Scotch”: English vaudeville
established a new record at its last Variety
Command Performance at the Palladium. A
girl dancer appeared with limbs bare.
Hitherto, to meet the moral Scruples of
Queen Mary, every artist has had to wear
tights. The adagio dancer in question got a
dispensation because her men partners could
not get sufficient grip on her limbs when
covered with silk and she stood a first-rate
chance of having her neck broken.
“Lao-dah” : Australian censors seldom give
logical reasons for their banning of films,
wherein they differ from their English col-
leagues in the cause of purity. The English
censor cut portions of “The Night Patrol”
because that part of it dealing with the
risks a girl takes in coming to London of
being seized by a White Slaver might deter
country maidens from going to the metro-
polis to help solve the domestic-servant
problem.
“Props” : George Grossmith and Sir Henry
Irving were once fellow passengers on a
homeward-bound liner from Ameria to Eng-
land. In the smoking-room one night Irving-
deplored the heavy exes, of an American
tour. “Aha,” said Grossmith, “you should
be like me. All I need is my dress-suit. I
go on the stage, be funny for a few minutes,
and there you are.” “Alas,” replied Irving,
“it is not given to every man to look as
funny as you do in a dress-suit.”
The Palette
“F.S.”: Vic. National Gallery has expended
150 guineas on a giant crab painted by its
director, Bernard Hall. The opus occupied
Hall a week, and at the end the picture was
pretty good and the crab was very bad.
Ernest Buckmaster, Vic. Nat. Gallery's
most brilliant recent graduate, is up for in-
spection at Melbourne Athenaeum. This
swaggering young painter is like those
actors who are at their best when they can
rant. His work is a mixture of faithful
observation and the sort of swank that makes
good magazine-cover art. He is going to
Europe shortly.
The Fine Arts, Melbourne, has blossomed
with a delightful show of portraits engraved
in inezzotint by early British artists.
Theirs is a lost art, and what a lovely art
it was! In the “Sir Thomas Lawrence,” of
S. Cousins, the color is hardly missed. One
of the most interesting is “Sir Joseph
Banks,” engraved by S. W. Reynolds and
Cousins after Phillips. It is hereby respect-
fully brought to the notice of the Nat.
Gallery.
In its new habitat, Elizabeth House, the
Sedon Galleries have lately been providing
a survey of Victorian art. The first item
that strikes the eye is a large canvas, “Mans-
field,” painted by Louis Buvelot in 1870.
The clean, fresh light, the exactness of the
planes, the recision of the delicate sky are
a severe commentary on the coarseness, the
pretentiousness and the sentimentality of
some of the moderns, such as Will Ashton
and W. D. Knox. An orchard scene by
Elioth Gruner, a W. B. Mclnnes and one
of the Harold Herberts are the only other
pictures with something of the same rare
quality. Some new etchings by Norman
Lindsay are as dexterous as ever, and, as
usual, preoccupied with feminine anatomy,
Adelaide Camera Club’s annual show has
a high-level average, with very little of the
old-time doctoring-up of the sun’s work. The
Art Gallery of S.A., which was the first in
Australia to admit photography as a Fine
Art, has bought three of the pictures for its
collection. The show includes high-class
work lent by the kindred societies of Mel-
bourne and Sydney.
The current Society of Artists’ show at
Sydney Education Buildings is mostly Lam-
bert, one or two sculptors and bronze-
workers, and a number of cheerful decorators.
The Lambert unfinished self-portrait, re-
tained for the Public Gallery, is a beauty,
and one or two of his last pencil drawings
are excellent also. In sculpture, Daphne
Mayo has two fine things, “A Young Aus-
tralian” and “Portrait of a Girl.” Her more
ambitious group, “Return of the Prodigal,”
misses. Rayner Hoff has an interesting torso
carved direct in sandstone, and a finished,
convincing head in bronze. None of Norman
Lindsay’jS ten water-colors had found a
buyer when The Bulletin looked in. That
was rather early in the show, but he usually
sells on sight. The work is some little dis-
tance off his best. “Pan’s Hour,” an etching,
is much more like business. One who
was selling was B. E. Minns, with some
of his atmospheric glimpses of the
local landscapes. Blamire Young has a
couple of pieces which suggest that the
artist has recently been to Japan, and
Kenneth McQueen hangs a number of agri-
cultural grotesqueries. Daryl Lindsay,
Harold Herbert and Hans Heysen are among
tiie decorators present, and Adrian Feint
joins them with a nice study of blue pine-
apples. Gruner has some good examples of
Gruner, including a fine treatment of fore-
ground in “Lakes Entrance” and other con-
vincing treatments of Victorian landscape.
Will Ashton’s half-dozen or so snow scenes
somehow fail to come off. Perhaps it is the
massing of them together, or perhaps the
impression comes from one not having seen
snow for a decade or so. Fish are alleged
to come down in the rain sometimes—a
painting of a shower of them would be just
as convincing. Eric Thake was smitten
with a good idea. He did a woodcut of a
dozen or so beer casks, labelled it “Returned
Empty,” and at time of inspection had found
a buyer for one print. Margaret Preston has
some rather chilly household utensils, but
one collection of blossom bears looking at.
So do W. Mahony’s admirable little wood-
cut, “Derelict,” an extra-good drypoint by
Fred Britton, and a similarly well-done cut
or two by Lionel Lindsay.
The Inky Way
E. W. Macalpine, whose last Australian
job was to nurse the “Sunday Times” through
its last illness and bury it with fitting honors,
has wielded a pen in every European country
and throughout the States and Canada. He
spent four years in Australia, and now goes
back to his old job—one of the Manchester
“Guardian’s” foreign correspondents.
Novelist Vance Palmer recently spoke from
the 8.8. C., London, on “Civilised Australia.”
It was a 20-minute talk, and Low, Percy ,
Grainger, H. H. Richardson, Bernard
O’Dowd and Will Dyson, amongst others,
were mentioned as proofs of our claim to
culture. Incidentally, the 8.8. C. paid eight
guineas for the address and told Palmer that
his voice was perfect for the job.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ••
Preference Shaves .. .. • • ok
Long Term Mortgage Shares • • £03,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,501
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji,’ Samoa.
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insuranceseffccted on all classes of
■ 1 • 1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w
THINK Of
' SCHUTE,
BELL&O utd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
jkj
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
*****
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
QThe Brisbane Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 8299.1.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S.
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
NOW- THE WORLD
ft
ns
N
hon
iEW V©KKj
NOW to the veal business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings aind plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
fh
BURNS PHILP TOURS
!T
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
| £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS. PHILP &-C?,L T . D
7 BRIDGE! ST, SYDNELY, AUSTRALIA
bank of new south wales
ESTABLISHED 18n
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ĵ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Achievement!
DURING the 12 months ended June 30, 1930, the “Daily Mail” carried
725 columns more advertising space than for the year ended June 30,
1929. This is an unparalleled achievement for Queensland daily newspapeis.
The "other Brisbane morning daily showed a decrease of over 900 columns
during the same period. To show a substantial increase in advertisin '
columns, under the adverse conditions which prevailed throughout
Australia during that period, indicates that the confidence oi Australian
advertisers in
The Daily Mail
Is based on the sound foundation of the result-bringing power of the
medium. During the same period the “Sunday Mail” carried 4270
columns of advertising space, apart altogether from the advertising
carried by the “Daily Mail.”
Rate Cards and Specimen Copies from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., 288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt St., Sydney. London: R. B. Brett & Son, New Bridge St., E.C.4.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fCeramic . . 18,500 tons, Oct. 18
*Ascanius .. 11,000 „ Nov. 25
IThemistocles 11,500 „ Dec. 3
*Ulysses . . 15,000 „ Jan. 19, ’3l
•First class only.
tCabin class. JFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. 1
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.)
Joint
Agents
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH AND LONDON,
VIA SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerUE 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Snoot, Sydney.
Ql
GS
/cA
Baby has the
right idea
he wants
Cuticura
SOAPanrf TALCUM
for his daily bath!
Cleansing —Soothing - Antiseptic
Soap Ib., Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: "R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
NZ RACING CONFERENCE
NZ TROTTING CONFERENCE
N z' HUNTS ASSOCIATION
NZ GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
Niz! COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
triad association
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
thic N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any •* **»« World’s Deadlnr
Adverttsii.* Agen.de*.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. ..•• •• Jd -
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Another Queensland Scandal.
To a Government already waving the
pruning-knife, the Bananaland Royal Com-
mission that investigated rabbit-, dingo- and
stock-route administration has presented
a nice new tomahawk. Its report is 60
pages of reasons why the eight Rabbit
Boards and the 36 Dingo Boards should
be wiped out, and stock-route adminis-
tration reformed.
Since their inception Rabbit Boards have
raised £1,569,076 by assessment, and Gov-
ernment expenditure represents £1,341,458
more. Over the past five years the average
annual expenditure has been £59,772, and
only 1000 of the 4600 miles of check-netting
fence has been maintained in anything
like rabbit-proof condition. Dingo Boards
are charged with financial profligacy; admin-
istrative expenses have swallowed 27 per
cent, of revenue. In 50 years £1,216,922
has gone in marsupial and dingo bonuses,
“and,” says the Commission, “the net result
is that in most districts to-day there are
as many dogs as, if not more than, when
the system was inaugurated.” While admit-
ting that bunny is a minor pest com-
pared with what it was 20 years ago,
the investigators attribute this to floods,
drought, trappers, natural enemies and
unsuitability of country and climate.
The 27 per cent, cost of dingo ad-
ministration is an average; East More-
ton ate up 68.8 per cent, of revenue this
way, West Moreton 63.3 per cent., and
Darling Downs 55.5 per cent. Traffic in
scalps is a lively trade in the districts of
unfinancial boards, townies paying cash to
the dogger at short prices and collecting in
full when the board’s exchequer is replen-
ished. The bonus system, moreover, has
encouraged breeding, some trappers having
reared tame dingoes for their scalps.
The Commission favors systematic poison-
ing, registration of all domestic dogs to
stop crossing—Binghi’s mongrels are held
the worst offenders—and the banning of the
Alsatian from grazing areas. It suggests
the possibility of spreading distemper among
the dingoes, arguing that the immunisation
of house-dogs is comparatively unimport-
ant : “... .any inconvenience... .even com-
plete withdrawal of all dogs from pastoral
areas for a few years, would be a small price
to pay for definitely overcoming the dingo
menace, which has cost Australia many
millions sterling in the loss of pastoral
wealth.”
As to stock routes, shire council control
is charged with favoritism to the detriment
of travelling strangers, with neglect to keep
down weeds, and with “general disregard of
national considerations.”
In place of the muddle, the Commission
recommends District Improvement Boards —
the District Land Commissioner as chair-
man, with two stockowners, elected for three
years, ownership of 100 cattle or 300 sheep
to be the franchise. Reduction of ail
assessments by a third or a half is advo-
cated, and it is contended that reorganisa-
tion will cut costs by more than 75 per
cent., approximately £70,000 a year.
A drastic report, but the reforms are long
overdue.
N.S.W. Cremation Co.
Eight years ago, after a very long struggle,
the N.S.W. Cremation Co. was formed, along
with a semi-independent body, the Cremation
Society of Australia, the main purpose of
the latter being to extend the practice of
cremation for the disposal of the dead.
A certain amount of prejudice is met, and of
course a certain amount of opposition on
religious grounds; but generally what the
society is up against is indifference rather
than hostility. Also there is a pretty general
feeling that cremation involves very heavy
expense. Actually, “the charge for a cre-
mation, including use of service hall, and
all attendance after the body has been placed
upon the catafalque in the crematorium, and
the issue of a certificate of cremation, is
£8 Bs.; but on Sundays and holidays the
charge is £9 95.” One can, however, become
a member of the society on payment of a
subscription of £l5 155., and members are
cremated free of charge. There is the usual
undertaker’s charge, though, as a rule, a
somewhat less elaborate coffin is used; but
as a set-off to the cost of cremation there
are no grave-digging charges, no charges for
purchase or use of ground and no charges
for subsequent maintenance; and, though a
memorial stone can of course be erected, it
is open to the relations or friends to let
the memorial take some other form.
There are a few formalities to be observed
before a cremation can take place under
the N. S. Wales law. Besides the cus-
tomary certificate of death there must be
a confirmatory medical certificate; other
alternatives are provided, but that is the pro-
vision usually employed. The Cremation
Society asks to be informed immediately of
the death of a member or of the intention to
cremate any body; and its officers will then
take the whole matter in hand.
The capital of the N.S.W. Cremation Co.
was subscribed by a few enthusiasts with-
out much or any expectation of monetary
return. Thus far and in all £10,514 has been
paid up, in 8 p.c. pref. and ordinary shares.
The buildings, are within the Rook-
wood Cemetery—Sydney’s principal burial-
place—have cost £11,833: they consist of a
chapel, into which the body is borne for the
funeral service, furnaces aird (under con-
struction) a columbarium, or sepulchre with
niches for urns containing the ashes of those
who desire to preserve them. (Others are
“cast to the four winds of Heaven” in an
attached rose garden.) The furnaces are
not visible from the chapel; on the comple-
tion of the burial service a curtain swings
back, and the catafalque, or car, on which
the body has rested, moves through an open-
ing, whence it is removed to the furnaces.
Year by year more cremations take place.
In the 12 mouths to June, 1928, there were
365; in the next 12 months 456, in the past
12 months 647. After paying all expenses
and providing for depreciation, there was a
surplus for the year of £1379, out of which
the pref. shareholders got 8 p.c. and the
ordinaries 5 p.c., in all £433.
Rubber and Deflation.
The bottom fell out of the rubber market
last week when the Straits Settlements an-
nounced that, after consultation with the
Netherlands Indies, neither Government was
prepared to support any scheme of restric-
tion. Rubber dropped to 4gd. per pound, the
lowest on record. It is far below cost of
production, and will spell ruin to many plan-
ters and their employees in Malaya, while
Australia will be immediately concerned be-
cause of interest in Papuan and, in a lesser
degree, New Guinea rubber plantations.
No worth-while estimate of the present
value of British rubber interests can be
made, because the market is at the moment
in a state of panic; but before this final
crash it was estimated that the aggregate
had fallen from 200 millions to 80 millions.
A good many Labor members have been
asking lately that capital should share in the
sacrifices caused by deflation —that labor
shouldn’t be expected to bear the whole
burden. The shrinkage of £120,000,000 in
the market value of this one class of pro-
perty seems to suggest to these Labor mem-
bers that capital couldn’t escape even if it
wanted to.
The Time for Life Assurance.
Sound Australian life offices, though not
overwhelmed with business, are writing many
substantial policies; and, in spite of the
depression—or maybe because of it —some
of them promise to show bigger new-business
figures this year than last.
As a matter of fact life insurance ought
now to appeal to many who have not found
it very interesting in the recent prosperous
years. Certainly there must be thousands
of men in Australia who find that the capital
provision made for their dependants has
enormously depreciated during the past 12
months; nor is there any good prospect of
early recovery. In the circumstances, a re-
course to life insurance is the obvious way
to provide the family with more adequate
cover.
In another set of circumstances insurance
is specially desirable at this particular time.
If a man should die now, the difficulty of
finding money for probate may cause embar-
rassment to the executors of even a very
substantial estate. In any case, unless other
provision is made, shares or other property
may have, to be sacrificed at something far
below their real value. For most lines there
are no investment buyers in the market;
there are only speculative buyers, and if they
believe that certain shares will have to be
unloaded, they will see that the market is
well depressed before the unloading begins.
The most convenient way of escape is
through the probate policy which practically
every life office issues. They vary somewhat
in character; but they all undertake to make
the amount of the policy (with bonus addi-
tions) available for the payment of probate.
The premiums are in general the same as
those , for a whole-life policy, with a reduc-
tion in some cases if the policy is over a
certain amount.
Wage Increases and Primary Production.
How wage increases with their concomi-
tants of higher freights and general charges
have raised the cost of farm production was
illustrated the other day by F. 11. Tout,
president of the Graziers’ Association. He
was dealing with the export of fat sheep,
the handling of 12,000 being taken as the
basis. Railage of sheep in 1914 was Is. Bd.
per head, taking 350 miles as the average
journey ; in 1930 it was 2s. lid. per head.
In 1914 wages of slaughtermen, etc., abat-
toirs fees and rents came to s|d. per carcase.
In 1930 the cost was Is. Id. per carcase.
Freezing, freight and insurance cost 4s. a
carcase in 1914. The figure was 6s. 3Jd.
in 1930. The grand total of charges in 1914
was 6s. 1-Jd. per sheep; in 1930 it had risen
to 10s. 3d. This does not include mustering,
drafting, droving or saleyard costs, nor the
increase in the cost of fat-sheep production
in the paddocks. As prices have fallen during
the same period and are now practically at
pre-war levels, it is obvious that, if this
country is to sell its mutton and other pro-
ducts at a profit, costs must also return to
near the pre-war level.
Laymen Will-makers.
The necessity for obtaining proper legal
aid when making a will was stressed by
McArthur, J., in the Vic. Civil Court the
other day, when he ordered the Ballarat
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. to bear
its own costs in a case arising out of a dis-
puted will. The co. had been in the habit
of appointing agents—usually stock and
station salesmen—in country districts for pro-
curing wills under which it was appointed
executor. The commission paid to these
agents was 1 per cent, of the capital value
of the estates. Their authority, his Honor-
said, actually extended to making wills for
people—doing work which ought always to
be done, except in emergencies, by a lawyer.
According to evidence, in May, 1926, John
Marchant, auctioneer, and Warracknabeal
agent for the trustee co., took upon himself
the making of the will of Thomas Field, who
had just had a stroke. Field died in 1928,
leaving property valued at £BOOO to his
brothers. A caveat against the grant of pro-
bate was lodged by the testator’s sister, and
doubt was raised as to Field’s testamentary
capacity at the time the will was made.
In his judgment hi s Honor pointed out
that a person, ignorant of certain legal
requisites, might not be able to apply the
necessary tests of testamentary capacity.
Marchant was not asked by Field or
anyone else to make the will. His chief
object, no doubt, was to earn the very sub-
stantial commission agreed to be paid by the
trustee co. Field, though in a critical con-
dition when the will was executed, made a
fair recovery and lived for nearly 21 years
afterwards. The Judge held that there was
just sufficient evidence to enable him to up-
hold the will; but he would not allow the
trustee co.’s costs to be borne by the estate.
The Millstone of Canberra.
Despite the millions spent on Canberra, the
Government is actually paying over £5OOO a
year rent for offices there. And it is not
this present Government’s fault either: the
leases, most of them running to August 31,
1932, were made by the Bruce-Pages. In
fact, the present Government lately admitted
that “as a result of curtailment of the activi-
ties of the late Federal Capital Commission
there is a certain amount of accommodation
vacant for some of these offices.” There is
scarcely a department which hasn’t rented
premises within the territory, but the Health
Department is the greatest sinner—it is pay-
ing over £l7lB a year for 10,965 sq. ft. of
space, some of it at the rate of 4s. 6d. per ft.
p.a. Unfortunately only two of the smaller
leases fall in this year, and none at all next
year.
The Sunshine-Massey Harris Merger.
A big merger was lately brought about
between the H. V. McKay Pty., of the Sun-
shine Harvester Works in Victoria, and the
Massey Harris Co., of Canada. The parties
are the two largest manufacturers of agri-
cultural machinery and implements in the
Empire, and the invention of the McKay
Harvester, with the subsequent growth of the
firm, is one of the romances of Australian
industrial history. The Massey Harris Co.
has world-wide ramifications, and the experi-
ence gained will be at the disposal of the
new combine, which expects to considerably
reduce the price of farming machinery in
the near future.
The Sunshine works will manufacture
many of the Massey Harris implements once
imported from Canada, enabling the Aus-
tralian branch to increase its working staff
and its demand for Australian raw material.
Though it is not stated, it is probable that
the Massey Harris firm in Canada will work
on the same principle, manufacturing Sun-
shine implements hitherto made only in Aus-
tralia. This seems the more likely since some
months ago the Sunshine Pty. announced its
intention of setting up works on a large scale
in Canada, and it is probable that an agree-
ment has been arrived at. The combine will
supply Massey Harris machines which can-
not be made economically in Australia, and
will maintain stocks of spares for all the
Canadian firm’s products.
It is certain that the combination will be
able to present a stiffer front to the American
Harvester Trust than Sunshine could alone;
and in that it will be helped by the new
tariffs. The Trust’s dumping activities have
been a thorn in the flesh of Australian
makers these many years past.
Sydney-Perth Mail Service.
The discontinuance of the express which
left Melbourne Saturday and arrived in
Adelaide Sunday has had far-reaching effects.
With this train goes the much-appreciated
means by which London letters received in
Sydney overland from Perth on Friday morn-
ing could be answered Friday afternoon.
These replies would go to Melbourne, then
to Adelaide by the train just cut out, thence
by air mail to Perth, catching the boat
in Fremantle Monday afternoon. Now,
owing to the discontinuance of this train,
letters to catch the boat at Fremantle must
be posted in Sydney on Thursday—the day
before the London mail is received.
No doubt the Vic. Railway Commissioners,
who disclosed a loss of more than a million
last year, must make economies. But why
cut out this particular train? Why not the
Sunday-Monday train to Adelaide, which is
not nearly so important? As a matter of «
fact both capitals did without it for many
years, and could again.
Dear Bulletin, Frank A. Kirby (B.
3/9/’3O) has given us a very impos-
ing array of figures, which will no doubt
be suspected by some people to be
subtle propaganda. Possibly he would fur-
ther suggest that a solution of our present
difficulties would be to increase the imports
of motor vehicles. Consider the duties, regis-
tration and license fees, petrol tax, etc.,
which could be collected if, for example, we
doubled the imports of cars! However, as
The Bulletin has consistently pointed out,
national and personal income and expendi-
ture must be measured by the same standard.
If a man buys motor-cars which he cannot
afford, it is not much consolation to remem-
ber, after he goes bankrupt, that he employed
his brother building a garage, that he gave
his young brother 2s. a week to clean the
cars, and so on. Australia should take heed,
not of the amount we can collect in license
fees, etc., but of the millions going out of the
country to pay for chassis, oil, petrol, tyres
and accessories. Every pleasure car running
around represents Australian capital which
could more beneficially be employed in a
primary or secondary industry.—Yours, etc.,
John D. Kinnear.
»j* V ’»* *;*
Castle Salt Co., operating mostly on the
dry lakes of Yorke Peninsula (S.A.), has
been absorbed by the Australian Salt Co.,
and has itself gone into liquidation. One
term of the agreement is that Sam Jacobs,
the veteran financier and sportsman who is
the Castle managing director, shall be for
five years a director of the bigger co.
* =1: :J* *
Swift’s, Alligator Creek (Q.), meatworks
has just finished a four-months’ season, dur-
ing which a few heifers bred on the pro-
perty were killed. They came from a Devon
bull and Shorthorn cows, and one of them
weighed 6461 b. though only three years old.
An expert who has visited most cattle coun-
tries said he had never seen anything better.
:I: * * *
“A.8.C.”: Tasmanian oak and mountain
ash (B. 20/8/’3O) have a few different
characteristics. The annual rings in the
latter are strikingly prominent, and in this
respect it resembles the brown and white
ashes of Europe; from this and its coarse
grain it probably gets its name. In Tassy
oak the rings are not so conspicuous, and
when the wood is sawn the odor has a re-
semblance to that of the oaks of the old
world. It also has fine fuming qualities, and
these points may have gained it its name. It
is claimed this wood lends itself to elaborate
carving, but about that there > are doubts,
on account of its very open grain. The use
of mountain ash instead of imported soft-
wood for doors, sashes and mouldings will
find little favor in the trade. Australian
millers have now got their opportunity per
medium of the tariff, and it’s to be hoped they
will keep their end of the stick up. But
let us make no mistake about softwoods
being wanted for softwood jobs. Hence it
is doubtful if we shall ever stop the. use of
Oregon except by prohibition. This was
amply demonstrated in the war years, when
Oregon was up to 705., and even at that figure
more than held its own against hardwood at
265.
* * *
From the beginning of October, under the
Coal Mines Act, all collieries in Britain will
be regulated as to tonnage and quota, while
Commissioners are to be appointed to pro-
mote voluntary amalgamations and, if neces-
sary, to enforce the compulsory provisions of
the Act in regard to amalgamation. If the
scheme succeeds in England it will be diffi-
cult to avoid following the precedent in
Australia.
Dear Bulletin, —If a business has con-
siderable liabilities to meet and a depart-
ment that doesn’t pay, an obvious remedy
is to sell up the department to meet the
liabilities. The Australian States have con-
siderable liabilities and many non-paying
departments, the first of which to go should
be the railways. In Westralia the. State
railways lose £lOOO per day ; the privately-
owned Midland Company, with obsolete roll-
ing stock and a line through unpretentious
country, shows a small annual profit. Private
concerns with a sharp eye on outgoings would
give a better and cheaper service, and at
the same time ease their financial obligations.
Of course the inclination to sell would not
end the matter, but there should be no short-
age of English capital for the purchase.—
Yours, etc., Philm.
* =l= *
Cairns, Townsville, and Rockhampton
Harbor Boards recently complained that the
Queensland Government’s policy of differen-
tial freights whereby produce was hauled on
the rail to Brisbane from vast distances past
old-established ports was putting them on
the rocks. A commission of inquiry has
been asked for, but is not likely to be granted,
though the effect on the revenues of the
boards has been marked since the northern
line was extended to Cairns. It is an older
tale than that, of course, for when Rock-
hampton was head of the Northern line, years
ago, it paid wool men better to ship their
product round through Rockhampton to
Brisbane than direct to “Rocky” and on
board ship there.
* * * *
The new floating dock for Wellington
(M.E.), which is now building in England,
is to be completed by July, 1931. The affair
is so big—width 117 ft:. —that it cannot pass
through the Panama Canal, but must come
by Suez. Towage has been undertaken by
the great Rotterdam firm of L. Smit and
Co., some of whose tugs assisted in the job
of escorting the floating-dock sections for the
Naval Base to Singapore.
* * * *
Shipowners and wool-shippers have arrived
at a tentative agreement to ration Australian
wool shipments to Europe for the 1930 sea-
son. The underlying idea is to prevent in-
creases in freights which it is believed would
be unavoidable without control of shipments.
Chief opposition comes from oversea buyers,
who do not care to bind themselves to ship-
ment by only the lines represented at the
conference. It is expected, however, that
the majority of shippers will contract to
load their wool on vessels of these lines, and
it is highly probable that those who do
not will have to ship on less favorable terms.
Ample tonnage is guaranteed.
* * * *
“De Dion”: Prophets of the future of
motor-car development say that cheapness,
lightness and petrol economy will be promi-
nent features of the buses of the next
decade. In nothing save speed and comfort
has much real progress been made in the
last 30 years. I had my first ride in a car
in 1901. It was a Yankee-built “buckboard,”
which had been privately imported to M.L.
at a cost of £l3O. It seated four persons,
commanded a speed of about 20 m.p.li. and
went 80 miles to the gallon of fuel. Its gearing
was a matter of leather belts, and it had no
springs—two long flexible boards constituted
tlie main frame —but it gave good service and
was still in commission 12 years later. One
of the first cars commercially imported into
the Dominion, a 2-cyl. 4-seater De Dion,
was landed for £394, and it was, for its day
and generation, quite a swanky affair, all
crimson enamel and polished brass. It ran
60 miles to the gallon, and its proud pur-
chaser declared it could do 30 m.p.h. That
French “tomato bile,” as some wag nick-
named it on account of its color, simply
could not be worn out. After 20 years on
the road it was bought for a song by a motor,
boat enthusiast, who installed the engine in
a launch, in which the old “two-lunger” gave
several more years of service. There’s a
lot of advantages attaching to low-power
and moderate speed—especially from the
point of view of pedestrians.
sit * * Sit
Received, the “Australian Wool Annual’'
for 1929-30, issued by Reviews, Ltd., of Mel-
bourne. Attractive and well printed, it
includes an article on the history of the wool
selling industry by Senator Guthrie; and
wool stabilisation schemes and statistics and
an English View of the Australian Wool
Trade are other interesting and informative
articles.
* * * Si:
The perennial attack on the “importation”
of Queensland chilled and frozen meat has
cropped up again in the Vic. Parliament.
Under an amendment of the Health Acts last
year this Australian product has now to be
branded “imported” as well as “chilled” or
“frozen.” In spite of these handicaps the
beef sells rapidly. Whether, under the Com-
monwealth Constitution, any one State has
the right to differentiate against the product
of another in this fashion has already been
a point at issue between the Queensland and
Vic. Government, and the Queenslanders talk
of making a special case of the matter for
the High Court.


kjk
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Orescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
t N3tWM oi
IQIdlVd 3HI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Keep Dirt
Out-Keep
Air In
jk
ENUINE Schrader
Valve Caps do these
two things perfectly*
Close-fitting, tested air-
tight to 250 lbs.pressure*
Should a Valve Core
become worn out or
damaged the Schrader
Valve Cap will hold the
air until a new Valve
Core is inserted.
Replace promptly valve
caps which are missing
from your tyres.
Always keep a spare box
of Schrader Valve Caps
(five caps) in your car*
For sale by tyre and ac-
cessory suppliers every-
where.
Be sure it’s a SCHRADER
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
s
Look for
the name
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
j
Bank JJeposit Receipts
These Receipts are issued for money lodged
with the Bank to earn interest for a fixed period.
They provide a useful form of investment for the
general, public. The esteem in. which they are
held is shown by the fact that over £22,000,000 is
invested in the . National Bank’s Fixed Deposit
Receipts at the present time.
Any person may become a depositor. Receipts
are issued for amounts of £5 and upward.
Interest commences from the day the money is
lodged. ......,
Rates of Interest on Deposits
3 months - 4 \°/o per annum
6 months - 4f % „
1 year • S°]o „
2 years - s \°!o „
THE
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
FIVE HUNDRED OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA,
D
L
Assets exceed
CL.
cr
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
x.;u s^kr^.:
m
MMmmm
ma
¥
Wmm&M
m:im
mmm
Where EAST
IS WEST
Chinese New Year Celebration, China Town, San Francisco.
San Francisco’s, Famous Chinatown, where Kipling’s
well-known "Never the Twain Shall Meet is dispelled,
and the colourful East indeed meets the West.
Here is a huge modern American City the Chinese have
fashioned for themselves, a city within a city —China-
town —where the architecture, life, manners, customs,
language- —are wholly Chinese.
One of San Francisco’s chief show places. No visit to
San Francisco is complete without a peep into
Chinatown.
FARES: SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO, First Class, from £73;
Second Class, from £5O/10/-. . SYDNEY to NEW YORK, First
Class, from £95/14/-; Second Class, from £73/4/-. SYDNEY to
LONDON, from £97. ROUND THE WORLD, First Class, from
£219.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
SOotNK^rumwCa
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
.4 _
Local
Agents
Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd.
Dalgety 8C Company Ltd.
Dalgety 8C Company Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
SHADOW SHOWS.
If “The Rogue Song,” at Sydney Plaza,
doesn’t boom it won’t be for lack of tried
and trusted recipes for attracting film-pat-
rons. It has been photographed entirely in
technicolor, and there are expensive ballets.
There is a Vagabond King motif, including
a final sensation in which the low-born
lover looks like paying with his life for his
presumption in making love to ; a princess.
The film is also in spots a Western (with the
hero galloping through Texan scenery fol-
lowed by a sheriff’s posse in Middle-East
uniforms) ; a crook play, with the hero as
head gangster; a knockabout farce with
Laurel and Hardy as chief comedians; an
operetta; a melodrama (with ruined girl
complete), and a society play with a ballroom
scene. Yet it is a disappointment on the
whole. The fine baritone of Laurence
Tibbetts, who plays the Rogue, is too resonant
for talkie-opera; there are moments when
he is deafening. He is a gigantic young man
with small eyes, a trivial nose, - a vast
mouth and an unattractive speaking-voice.
Lovely, drooping Catherine Dale-Owen seems
even more anaemic than usual by contrast
with his roaring vitality. The other per-
formers arc undistinguished barriug Laurel
and Hardy; but then their catastrophic
turns are frank interpolations which have
nothing to do with the plot. The voice
recording is good, but the color-photography
is crude and blurred in places.
* * *
The plot of “Grumpy” (Paramount), at
Sydney State, is based on the frayed idea
of a stolen and recovered jewel. The story
has been ineptly handled by the dialogue-
specialist ; so much so that the central
episode of the White Camellia leaves those
who are unacquainted with the play in a
muddled frame of mind to the last. How-
ever, nothing really matters but Cyril
Maude, who as old “Grumpy” Bullivant has
a part that enables him to display most of
his talents. He is at first a gentle, lovable
old dodderer. Then comes the loss of the
diamond. Outwardly, he remains a dodderer,
but behind his fatuously benign old coun-
tenance an astute brain, experienced in the
unravelling of criminal mysteries, is at
work, and some tense drama results.
The small cast includes such front-rankers
as Philip Holmes, Paul Cavanagh, Halli-
well Hobbs and Paul Lukas; and the set-
tings are worthy of their artistically-
restrained work. The action takes place ixi
a civilised home, as opposed to one of those
Hebrew director’s dream palaces which dis-
figure the average society talkie. The record-
ing of the beautifully articulated voices is
as near perfection as the sound-machine has
yet attained. -
* * *
“High Society P»lues” (Fox) is. a first-
class production, even though the stars are
nominally Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell.
Sweet, simpering, nasal little Janet is one
of the Divines who have become the U.S.A.
equivalent of “County.” The Grangers,
having got rid of their multiple store (“We
feed the Middle West”), move east, and
revolt the Divines by their ungenteel be-
havior. Invited to dinner at the Palais
Divine, the Grangers arrive with a Middle-
West pie baked by Ma Granger for the
occasion. When it is rejected she makes her
gaffe worse by observing artlessly : “The
Divines don’t seem to like pie, porr.” _ The
Divines are nailed down to a return dinner
by the uncomprehending Mrs. Granger
(superbly played by Louise Fazenda), but
side-step it. This is where handsome Charles
Farrell, 'as the Granger boy, supplies a
translation of the title in what he calls his
“little song-and-dance” performed beside the
vacant dinner-table: —
■ We ain’t, the good nooze.
1 < No-balidy wants our booze:
' We gaht the High So-ci-ee-ty Blues.
'Eventually, Janet’s sylpli-like form melts
into the strong arms of Charles, and their
families, oblivious of social prejudices, be-
come friendly. The superlative casting—to
be seen in much less ambitious pictures than
this—is at, least one explanation of the
supersession of the “legitimate” by the
talkies. Time was when nothing so uniform
in the way of faultless playing by minor
characters could be seen outside Paris.
“On the Level” (Fox) and “Show Girl in
Hollywood” (First Nat.), which were un-
wound for the first time in Sydney at the
Regent and Ilaymarket respectively, are
among the films that America does best. They
give honest portraits of people the directors
have obviously met. Bland Holt used to tell
the story of “On the Level” in Australia be-
fore Federation —that of the noblest work of
God in the toils of villains, with honesty
triumphant and the wedding-bells ringing out
just before the last curtain. Bland’s staging
was more economical; on the other hand, he
and his colleagues spoke English. It takes an
effort to understand some of this language.
There is a chorus-hoot of “ Wvkallas!” for
example. Gradually the brain fights through
to the explanation : the Union boss has taken
to wearing a white collar. A svelte blonde,
looking quite the lady in her Rue de la Paix
gown, yells, “Pipe down, big boy!” in the
voice of a slum virago. But Victor McLaglen,
Lilyan Tashman and Fifi Dorsay are all as
natural as children, and they move in wholly
credible surroundings. It is the same with
the Haymarket talkie, every line of which
rings true. Alice White represents Dixie
Dugan, a soubrette who is led to believe
that fame awaits her in Hollywood. The
play shows how the despots’ of Talkiedom keep
their serfs in order. A scenario-writer is in
liis luxurious office giving orders to his yes-
men. Suddenly the letters of his name on
the glazed office door begin to fade away.
A specialist in removing names from doors
(“the only man in Hollywood with a steady
job”) is at work outside. Dixie, having
become a star, lets her temperament get
the better of her, and turns round one day
to find her name vanishing. This absorbing
picture of a society which .must be, unique
in the civilised world is acted with the same
easy naturalism as the other.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Looking much improved in condition since
he was beaten—unluckily—by Amounis at
Warwick Farm, Phar Lap galloped like the
champion he is in the Chelmsford Stakes at
Randwick on Saturday. Bookmakers asked
5 to 1, but didn’t want much of it; betting
1-2 they demanded 6 to 4 Phar Lap and
Nightmarch. Pike, on the great chestnut, let
Burracootboo make the running for a few
furlongs, but once in the straight Phar
Lap came right away; with Pike sitting
easily on him he won by two or three lengths
in lmin. Nightmarch was second,
but it was only in the last few strides that
he got his head in front of Weotara, who is
by Top Gallant out of that good mare
Meenah. Concentrate was fourth: Loqua-
cious looked very bright, but showed no dash.
Weotara was by no means the only three-
year-old to make a good impression. Badly
left at the start of the Novice Handicap,
Tregilla, who was favorite at fours, showed
that he is fast and game and can stay at
least a mile and a quarter by beat-
ing all but the place-getters, Kilumirri
(12 to 1), Balloon King (14 to 1)
and Hakata (12 to 1) —and there were 24
starters. If he had got away well he must.
have won. His breeding (he is by Treclare —
Maltgilla) does not suggest staying power,
but he is a sturdily built chestnut, well up
to Derby weight (he carried Bst. 71b.) ; and
very few of those who saw his fine gallop on
Saturday will question his capacity to stay
the Derby distance. Balloon King’s show-
ing also pleased former C.-J. Adrian Knox.
Kilumirri was this Page’s second choice.
He looked rather fine (overtrained, some
thought), but Foley believes in giving his
charges plenty of work.
Two newspaper-boomed horses, Tom Pinch
and High Disdain, monopolised the betting
on the Tramway Handicap. High Disdain
looked fit enough, but Tom Pinch would
obviously have been the better for a few
more gallops. Nevertheless he was sent out
at 9 to 4 in a field of 23, and when he was
out by himself with three furlongs to go his
backers felt for their tickets. However, the
last furlong found him out, as it did Pen-
theus, who was the first to reach him; Kil-
larney (10 to 1), making a fast run on the
rails, won by half a length from another
old stager in Fuji San (20 to 1), with whom
Porneit, an unthought-of three-year-old (he
is by Treclare —Pura), deadheated. Tom
Pinch was fourth. The race was run in
lmin. sec., which is pretty good time,
but taking one thing with another —Fuji
San, for instance, was the last to leave the
machine —it seems unlikely that the Epsom
winner was in the field.
Paquito was second to Nightmarch in
the Spring Handicap last year with 9st.
81b. Carrying lib. less, he was first
in the race on Saturday, and he is
obviously going to be hard to beat
in the Metrop. with Bst. 91b. —he was third
to Loquacious and Nightmarch with Bst. 71b.
Maoriland supplied most of the well-backed
horses, the public preferring First Acre (5
to 1) and Eaglet (6 to 1) to Paquito
(sevens) ; but it was reserved for Gay
Crest (16 to 1), also from beyond
the Tasman, to fight out a close finish
with Paquito, John Buchan (10 to 1)
coming third and Papatu (8 to 1) fourth.
John Buchan, who lias grown into a hand-
some horse, was interfered with at the back
of the course, and did well in the circum-
stances to run third in a fast 10 furlongs
(traversed in 2min. 4|sec.), which is not
his distance. McCarten rode a good finish
on Paquito.
First Sight was served up warm for the
Welter Handicap, but did not come on the
scene till it was too late to do more than
cut Magnetic, the second favorite, out of
third place. All the same, a Maoriland horse
won, and won well; the Catmint —Huku-
papa three-year-old Sargon (12 to 1). Sar-
gon came to Sydney with J. T. Jamieson’s
team, and should prove a worthy substitute
in the Derby for King March, who has gone
wrong. Potent (20 to 1), from Newcastle,
made most of the running, and had sufficient
in reserve to finish second, but could make
no impression on Sargon over the last fur-
long eight, run in lmin. 39|sec.
At present this Page likes Mollison for
the Epsom and John Buchan for the Metro-
politan. It would not be surprised to see
Mollison run a good race against Phar Lap
at Rosehill if he is reserved for the Hill
Stakes.
$ * * #
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Camellia Stakes: Mollison or Tom Pinch;
next, High Disdain.
Rosehill Guineas : Tregilla ; next Weotara.
Rosehill Cup: Crown Area; next, John
Buchan.
Hill Stakes: Phar Lap; next, Mollison or
Tom Pinch.
Ilighweight Handicap: Citamon; next,
Roley or Gleaner.
* * * *
High Syce, who landed the Caulfield Cup
of 1929, failed to stand another preparation,
and has been retired for stud duty, but his
owner, Mrs. L. R. Buxton, will be repre-
sented in this year’s race by El Rey. El Roy,
who won the middle-distance Budgeree Han-
dicap at Moonee Valley last Saturday, is a
half-brother to the 1927 Futurity Stakes win-
ner, Waranton. Some weeks ago he was
highly regarded as a Caulfield Cup candidate,
but he lessened in favor owing to several
failures, Kenney, who is on a 21b. lower
level than El Rey (who has 7st. 131 b.) in
the Caulfield Cup, was asked to concede him
81b- at Moonee Valley. Because of his second
to Cragford a week before, Kenney went out
favorite at 5 to 2, Jack Holt’s candidate
being a point longer. El Rey had none too
good a passage, being compelled to go on
the extreme outside; however, he scored meri-
toriously by half a neck from Solitas (who
is coming to hand quickly), with Kenney a
head farther off.
Holt has had no definite first jockey since
accident deprived him of the services of
Duncan. At various times he has employed
“Tich” Wilson, Theo Lewis and Harold
Badger. Badger is under suspension, and
Holt gave Bastian the Budgeree Handicap
mount. Bastian weighed out for Limber Up,
another H'olt prad, in the first division of
the Corroboree Handicap. After A. T. Cres-
wick’s mare Werbelle had headed the quotes,
Limber Up became equal faiorite with Cosy
Rug. He belongs to Gerald Buckley, a Vic-
torian studmaster, and finished fourth in
I’liar Lap’s Derby at Flemington. The
Wo rak gelding vanquished Salonia (10 to
1) by a head in the Corroboree, but lost the
race on a protest for interference. Book-
makers had offered 7 to 1 against the objec-
tion being upheld.
Salonia is owned by the Chinese pro-
prietor of a subuiban antique shop. Austin,
the Brisbane sporting journalist, trained him
for a time; now he is in the stable of L. R.
Burbidge, part-owner of Night Lark, Aus-
tralia’s fastest steeplechaser over a short
course. Had Duncan been on Limber Up
there would have been no protest nor any
doubt as to the result. Medical specialists
who examined Duncan a fortnight ago have
certifi d that he will be able to resume riding-
in December.
The Boomerang Hurdle and Moonee Val-
ley Steeplechase each went to a ,7-to-l chance.
Vanto, who won over the little sticks, was
ridden by J. Harris, a brother of R, N.
Harris, of Mosstrooper fame; he is related
to Ipoh. a fine performer in welter events
10 or 12 years ago. Romeo, owned by the
WHERE CHARITY BEGINS.
VISITING SKIPPER: “What side’s that free kick for, sir?”
HOME REFEREE: “Us!”
paddock bookmaker Wallace Mitchell and
trained by Cecil Godby, earned £lOOO stake-
money in the Steeplechase by narrowly de-
feating Good Whisky, the Australian
Steeplechase hero. It was understood that
Good Whisky, whose owners live in Adel-
aide, had rejoined the Caulfield stable of
P. B. Quinlan, and might accompany Crag-
ford to Sydney. He appeared on the
Moonee Valley programme as trained by
“Ike” Reid, due to the nomination being
made in Adelaide. Good Whisky will pro-
bably be sent to Randwick later in the week.
Ipoh, to whom reference has been made,
belonged to Elwood Fisher. This owner-
trainer had wretched luck when Zanibar
(backed from 4 to 1 to 9 to 4) was left
standing at the start of the second division
of the Nulla Nulla Welter. He overhauled
the field in marvellous fashion, and gained
third place. It will be difficult to obtain a
decent price about Zanibar when he next
sports silk. The race went to Hathalie (7
to 1), bred and owned by Norman Mendes, a
connection by marriage of Sol Green. In
wagering on the first division, Phocis (5
to 2) supplanted St. Flavian, the original
favorite, whom he vanquished in the run
down the straight.
i*: * ❖
For Mentone on Saturday:—
Trial Hurdle: Spinopus; next, King
Motang.
Mentone Handicap: Second Wind; next,
Waicullus.
* * *
“Thormanby”: The Doncaster St. Leger,
Isat of the English classic events, was won
last week by Lord Glanely’s Singapore, a
bay colt by Gainsborough from a Tetrarch
mare, who started at fours. Lord Woolav-
ington’s Parenthesis was second, with Rus-
tum Pasha, who has the Aga Khan for a
boss, in third place. Diolite, winner of the
Two Thousand and heavily backed for this
event, was not heard of at the finish. The
Aga’s place in the Leger puts him at the
head of the winning owners for the season,
with the nice little cut of £38,000.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The South Coast boxer Rus Critcher
(lOst. 51b.) easily outpointed Dealer Wells
(lOst. 41b.) over 15 rounds at Sydney
Stadium. The loser proved remarkably tough
and game, but his defence was poor.
* * * $
Joe Stecher and “Strangler” Lewis had
another match at Melbourne on Saturday.
Again there was no fall; decision, a draw.
As a spectacle it was tame, but the wrestling
from an enthusiast’s point of view was first-
rate. Lewis, at 17st. 101 b., was the
weightier by 20 pounds.
Footbrawl
To the end of the first round Victoria’s
Li ague games maintained the element of sur-
prise. Melbourne had but to beat Haw-
thorn to stay among the four in the final, but
it couldn’t even manage that, going under by
77 to Hawthorn’s 90. Wherefore Geelong,
having downed Fitzroy by 78 to 38, stepped
into fourth position. Richmond, on its own
ground, was licked by St. Kilda—s3 points
to the Saints’ 63 —but, having a better per-
centage than either Geelong or Melbourne,
stays third. Carlton encountered Footseray
and set out to collect enough points to beat
Collingwood for first place on percentages;
that necessitated Carlton scoring 145 more
points than Footseray, and the old club
couldn’t do it. notching only 82 to Foot-
scray’s 26. While this rout was occurring
Collingwood’s men had gone to Essendon.
They gathered in 42 points to Essendon’?
single point in the first quarter. Then, learn-
ing from the telephoned scores that Carlton
wasn’t doing wonders against Footseray,
they eased up, winning by 109 points to 66.
The most joyous happening on this ground
was the curtain-raiser, between two junior
teams, which developed from a wild scramble
into plain stoush. Ultimately the umpire
called the game off and departed—unscathed.
South Melbourne beat North by 109 to 36,
but the matter is of no moment.
* * *
The Victorian Rugby Union XV put up an
astonishingly good performance against the
British tourists. Though beaten 41-36, they
w T ere leading 21-17 at half-time, and scored
8 tries against 10, converting 6 of them.
Britain converted 4 tries and added a penalty
goal. Even allowing for the staleness of the
visitors, Victoria must be congratulated. The
forwards rucked splendidly and the whole
side showed evidence of' sound coaching.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Even the M.L. press, which,
in common with all other institutions in
the Shivery Isles, regards Rugby football as
a holy thing, has been gibing at the latest
manifestation of the national joss worship.
According to a leading M.L. journal, a Maori
who was charged with theft at Gisborne
asked for a remand and bail on the ground
that he was to play half-back for Poverty
Bay that day. The beak did not hesitate, but
granted the remand, and if any order for
the costs thereof was made the journal did
not chronicle it.
$ $ * #
:< Egmont”: They deal straitly with
offenders in M.L. Rugby Union circles.
Early in the season a player named
Roebuck knocked out the referee in a match
at Taranaki. Having taken plenty of time
to consider its decision, the M.L. Union has
decided to disqualify the offender for life.
Had he been a player in Melbourne League
football, he would probably have received
an increase in salary or at least a gold medal
to hane on his watch-chain.
* * * =t
“Hooker” : One result of the recent Rugby
Union conference in Sydney between repre-
sentatives of N.S.W., Queensland and Vic-
toria is the decision to form an Australian
Board of Control with four States represented.
South Africa is to be visited in 1932, while
Maoriland will be at home to an Australian
side next season. The move is a good one,
for uniformity of control is essential for
r l ' prowth of the game, especially when the
matter of overseas tours is considered. In
n. past A.S. *V. as the senior union has
always assumed the conduct of affairs, and
though this has been generally satisfactory,
a new method will be welcomed by all con-
cerned.
* * * *
The Rugby League season in Sydney has
outstayed its welcome, and both players and
spectators are fed up. Western Suburbs
made sure of the minor premiership on
Saturday by beating University 19-10. The
other three clubs to qualify for the premier-
ship semi-finals were St. George, which just
scraped in by drawing 3-3 with Balmain;
Eastern Suburbs, victorious over North
Sydney by 43-11; and South Sydney, in spite
of the fact that the club was beaten 18-12
by Newtown. The visit of the Maoriland
side, abortive in itself, has done club foot-
ball a lot of harm this season by extending
the competition by three Saturdays.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Australian Rugby
Leagues are perturbed over the urbane way
in which their cousin in the North of Eng-
land, the Northern Union, continues to
filch their best players. It is true that the
N.U. has promised time and again to do
nowt o’ t’ sort, but that doesn’t seem to
matter. The latest pinch is Cecil Aynsley,
the Ipswich (Q.) three-quarter, and, though
running into the sere and yellow, still a fine
winger. He goes to Rochdale Hornets, a
club which has its being in one of the
roughest towns in Lancashire. Cecil gets the
usual lump sum down and a weekly screw.
Like most of the professional gladiators of
the Northern Union, he will know he has
earned it by the end of the season.
(Continued on next page.)
“Bramall Lane”: Every cricketer the
world over will regret the untimely death
of Aubrey Faulkner, after Victor Trumper,
perhaps, the most accomplished stylist
modern cricket has seen. The impression he
made when in Australia with the South Afri-
can side in 1910-11 has never been effaced. He
averaged 73.20 for 10 completed innings in
the Tests, scoring 73, 20, 60, 43, 204, 8, 56,
115, 20, 80, 52 and 92. The bowlers he made
the runs against included Tibby Cotter,
Whitty, Warwick Armstrong and Charlie
Ivelleway, all then at the top of their form.
Apart from his batting, the South African
champion was a googlie bowler of the first
flight. He was only 49 at the finish.
* * * #
The N.S.W. Cricket Association is supple-
menting its scheme for coaching cricketers
in town and country by the issue of the
“Coaching Magazine,” a well-printed and
well-illustrated monthly. Short articles on
the game, including hints on batting, bowl-
ing, fielding and umpiring, are all treated by
experts. The outstanding feature of the
September number is the announcement that
the association has acquired some 30 acres
on the foreshores of Botany Bay. This area
will be converted into six cricket grounds of
standard size, and will go far to relieve the
shortage of suitable playing grounds for the
ever-increasing swarm of junior cricketers.
* * * *.
Both the amateur and professional records
for the classic Goulburn-Sydney cycling race
went west at the week-end. In the amateur
event, which was won by F. Burley, of
N.S.W., with a handicap of Slmin. 30sec., E.
Johns got fastest time, shr. 46min. 10 l-ssec.
with a 4min. start, beating Lamb’s record of
6hr. 44min. 4-ssec. Hubert Opperman rode
wonderfully from scratch in the professional
section, cutting out the 129 miles in shr.
22min. 30sec., and averaging 24 m.p.h. This
is 34min. 10 l-ssec. better than P. Osborne’s
figures for the race. The actual winner was
G. Hird, of Sydney, who won with a 70min.
start in 6hr. 22min. 30sec.
* * * *
The Australian open golf championship
was won by Frank Eyre, the N.S.W. pro-
fessional in charge of the Long Reef course,
near Sydney. The match was played at
Oakleigh (Vic.), Eyre finishing with a card
of 306 as against 313 returned by Rufus
Stewart, of Adelaide, and C. Fawcett, of
Sydney, who were bracketed second. Eyre
had four wonderful rounds: 76, 77, 75, 78,
in spite of boisterous weather. He is a much-
improved player since Walter Hagen took
him under his wing during the American’s
visit to Sydney.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: That old golfing warrior
Sandy Herd did his 19th hole in 1 the other
day, having taken some 60 years of the royal
and antient game to get so far. As a result,
an American enthusiast has promised the old
Scot a gold putter when he does his 20th.
Sandy has done some great things in
golf in his time. Among his outstanding suc-
cesses must be counted the British open
championship won at Hoylakc 28 years ago.
* * * *
“Goblets”: When Australian Bob Pearce
won the Olympic Sculls he found liimself
the possessor of a gold cup. Conditions were
that any challenger for the trophy should
row in the country of the holder, but no
one has offered to take on the formidable
Robert on his own waters. Pearce has
waived his right, and will row Miller, the
American champion, for the trophy at Phila-
delphia, whence the pot originally came. The
race will be over the Henley distance, a
mile and 550 yards. Now that he has
definitely settled in Canada as a traveller for
a big distilling firm, Pearce intends to have
a shy at the next Diamonds. Bar accidents
and miracles, he looks to be the only one in
the famous Henley event.


<Siert;“Why DO YOU PLAY -WITH
E>UCH A HEAVy PACKET.?”
6>ert a Because »m a bus, noxse
IN THIS GAMEV
QERT : Bu3i NOVSE,- \ OOHT QUITE
FOU.OW you.”
Bert ‘ Heavy Racket,- noise •
joke, ha-ha! see?"
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : How seriously tlie Melbourne
public takes its football is seen in the
announcement that the authorities of Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground are building a new
“race” covered in with “Cyclone” wire-netting
through which the players in tlie League semi-
finals and finals may reach the dressing-rooms
from the ground without risk of mayhem. The
old safety provision proved inadeouate last
season, when one player was knocked down
and otherwise towelled up by an indignant
lady with an umbrella. This year another of
the Amy Johnson sex smote a Collingwood
trainer with a similar implement, and “in
the subsequent bustle,” to quote a Melbourne
iournal’s comment, stopped a dirty punch.
* * * *
The British Rugby team wound up its pro-
gramme of first-class football with a match
against N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket Ground,
and went down heavily, scoring only a,
penalty goal (3 points) to 6 tries, five of
which were converted (28 points). To do
the visitors justice, they fielded what was
practically their second fifteen, but the home
side, much superior in all departments to
that which was beaten in the first match
last month, was easily the better and would
probably have won in any case. The out-
standing success of the second selection was
the placing of that fine centre three-quarter
King at five-eighth. The inclusion of the
sturdy and fast-moving White on the wing
was another successful innovation, and on his
performance the Randwick winger must be
counted unlucky to have missed selection for
Australia. The home forwards outplayed the
opposition in all respects, in spite of fine
work by Beamish and Ivor Jones. Alec Ross
was back to his very best at fullback, and
converted five of his side’s tries. The game
was fast and clean, and the big mid-weekerowd
—just under 12,000—had a rare field day.
The Britons, now on their homeward
way, have earned an outstanding reputation
as expert players and fine sportsmen in the
best sense of that much-abused phrase.
Sydney and Brisbane threw the doors _ of
hospitality wide open to them, and the privi-
lege was more than justified. A fine lot of
lads who have proved an honor to the
country which sent them overseas, Australia,
like Maoriland, is genuinely sorry to see the
last of them.
$ * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: Randwick Rugby Union
club, of which I have the honor to be a
self-nominated patron —I always lay any
barracker for the Greens a shade over the
prevailing* odds —has finished the season with
a rare record. Not only has Randwick won
the Union pennant and the S'hute Shield, but
it has finished the champion .club in all
grades. The original organisation first won
the Union premiership in 1894, and repeated
the dose in the three following years. Dis-
placed by Pirates next year, the side won
again in'lB97-98. It dropped out when the
district system was introduced in 1900, being
reborn again in 1923. Randwick has always
been notable for its fast- and clever football.
Much of its success is due to the untiring
supervision and enthusiasm of Harald Baker,
himself an old international forward.
* * * *
“Gate”: The Rugby League footballers
from Maoriland, whose tour of N.S W. anti
Queensland was what is known m theatrical
circles as a “flop,” have been voicing their
feelings. What seems to have hurt the
tourists most is the fact, as alleged by them,
that over 6000 complimentary tickets were
issued for their matches during their brief
season in Australia. This may account tor
the estimates of attendances? at
League matches published in the League press
of Sydney.
The Fifteen
WoodfulPs merry men enjoyed a holiday
match against a team picked from the
London clubs before tackling what was prac-
tically a Test eleven at Scarborough. I hough
the Clubs’ side included several county
players of class, the. tourists came home on
the bit by an innings and 41 runs in the two-
day fixture. Capital bowling by Smith an
Essex fast righthander (4-70), and Brindley,
who hails from Ceylon (5-71). dismissed the
Australians for 278. to which Bradman con-
tributed 70, Woodfull 69 and Kippax 60.
Clubs went for 133 and 104. Ilornibrook
and Hurwood sharing the bulk of the wickets.
*** . *
The last match of the Australian tour of
England ended in a draw. Sent in by
Richardson, the strong English XI declared
•it 218 for 9 wickets, Ilornibrook tak-
ir.cr 5 for 69, and Safidham top-scoring with
5(1 Australia, after a good beginning,
managed to reach 238. Bradman attacking it
bowling on a bad wicket to get 96. while
Kippax had another nice shot for oW.
Veteran Wilfred Rhodes bagged 5 for 95.
England’s second attempt realised 247, Horm-
brook taking 3 more wickets. Of the •>-
matches played no less than 18 were drawn,
two abandoned and one was a tie. Ihi
onlv loss was the first Test. Few Australian
teams have so convincingly held the uppei
“Sandringham”: Maoriland scored in the
mixed doubles championship of Australia m
Melbourne. Its representatives were bloan
Morpeth and Olive Kay, who outed the title-
holders, Len Nettlefold and Lily Barclay, of
Tasmania, the winners returning a card ot
150, or 7 strokes better than the second
pair. Morpeth, holder of several M.L. and
Australian championships, is nowadays domi-
ciled in Melbourne as a golf club secretary.
His partner, though not successful m the
women’s championships this year, is perhaps
the best skirted player in sight now that
Mona McLeod has practically dropped out of
the game.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The Vic. team of golfers donged
N.S.W. in the final of the inter-State cham-
pionship, which was one of the interludes m
the All-Australia meeting in Melbourne. The
Ma State put South Australia to bed with
5 matches to 2, Eric Apperley s defeat of
Legh Winser by 5 and 3 being the out-
standing item. Victoria beat Tasmania by
5 to 2, Mick Ryan downing the redoubtable
Len Nettlefold. The Victorians came with a
strong run in the final, taking five matches
to 2. S. A. Keane and Nigel Smith were the
onlv Welshmen to score a winning bracket.
J ** * *
“Divot Digger”: The long-drawn-out war
between the big Sydney metropolitan gelt
clubs and their smaller brethren of Suburbia
and Country has ended in the formation
of the N.S.W. Golf Association which
will take over the jobs handled formerly
by the N.S.W. Golf Council, the Country
and Suburban Golf Association and the Dis-
trict Golf Association. It looks hke a
Pyrrhic victory for the smaller concerns, ihe
association is to consist of 14 members ; to
this Royal Sydney and Australian will contri-
bute three members each with the proviso
that one of each delegation will be a member
of a suburban or country golf club. Suburban
and country clubs will each nominate four
members of the new body; the country club
delegation must include one member of Royal
Svdney and one of the Australian. It is a
beautiful arrangement for the two big metro-
politan clubs.
“The McHaggis”: I have just been brows-
ing through the rules of golf and have
emerged firm in the conclusion that not even
cows are more intrigued with grass. than
golfers. Grass when it grows on a green
or in a fairway is not a hazard. In the
long ago when it grew in a bunker it was
a hazard, and anyone grounding his club
on the stuff paid the penalty m that case
made and provided. A generation later, Bt.
Andrews decided that the tender herb as
Omar calls it, was not a hazard m a bunker,
and clubs could be grounded with impunity.
Later still, owing to a dispute as to whether
grass in such an invidious position was _ pei■-
manent” or “casual,” the rule was rescinded,
and anyone grounding his club nowadays on
the much disputed vegetable is back where
his grandpapa was and due to get it m tlie
neck.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: An unusual U.S. motor test.
An eight-cylinder Dodge car was sent. out
on the roads with instructions to the drivers
to keep on going across and round the
United States until the car could do no
more, a minimum average of o<JO miles per
dav being fixed. A team of drivers, including
Arnold, winner of the last Indianapolis 50u,
and L. Miller, of Daytona fame, are handling
the car, which is expected to cover some
hundreds of thousands of miles before call-
ing it a day. The run was started on July
1 and by the end of August had covered
over 40,000 miles without mishap.
* * * *
“Douglas” : The Junior Isle of Man Grand
Prix for motor-cycles was won last week by
a young London rider, James Pirrie, riding
a Velocette. Weather was terrible, with
heavy fog, yet the winner negotiated the
226 miles of the very rough and twisty course
at the rate of 61.63 m.p.h. That is fast
enough to please the most fastidious, but
the cableman complains that it is the slowest
winning speed for years.
... * * *
“O.H;V.”: While the world has some sort
of a notion as to the limits of speed o
motor-cars, boats and aeroplanes, there being
no power limit in these cases, it does not
know how fast a motor-cycle could go with-
out a power limit, because for record-making
purposes there is a power limit a cylinclei
capacity of 1000-c.c. Twenty years ago
Glenn Curtis put a big 8-cyl. motor on two
wheels and reached a speed of 138.40 m.p.h.,
but that wasn’t accepted as a record. Nowa-
days it is possible to get nearly as much
power as Curtis used within the IMO-C.C.
capacity limit. The supercharger has been
applied to the two-wheeler, and a few months
ago Ernst Henne, on a German B.M.W.
740-c.c. machine, supercharged, put up a
record of 134.68 m.p.h. for a mile at Cologne.
Now an English rider, J. S. Wright, on an
English-built 0.E.C., with a twin-cylinder
J.A.P. supercharged engine of under I<K>o-
- has attained a speed of 135.84 m.p.n.
hand in an English tour, and Woodfull’s men
must be ranked as among the best sides to
have left this country.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The Imperial Cricket Con-
ference in London, attended by manager
Kelly and Tom Howard, of the Australian
side, has made some important alterations in
the rules governing qualification for flayers.
In future, a player who has figured for one
country in a Test cannot play for another
without the consent of both parties. Any
player may represent the country of his
birth, subject to the foregoing rule, and if
he desires to qualify by residence that must
now be for four years prior to his first
appearance in a Test match. The previous
time was two years, and the amendment
should have an important bearing on the
future transfer of players from Australia
or other cricketing countries to Britain.
* * * *
“Trent Bridge”: At a Brighton dinner
given to the members of Woodfull’s team
Ranji made the interesting announcement
that he and his fidus Achates, Archie Mac-
laren, will visit Australia for the J9ol-oz
Tests. Both were here with Stoddarts
1897-98 side, one of the best all-round
combinations England has ever dispatched
to Australia. Good as it was, it could
onlv - win one of its five Tests, though
Ranji and Maclaren with the bat, and Lom
Richardson with the ball, did great things.
Ranji further announced that nephew
Duleepsinhji will visit Australia shortly to
learn slieep-farming. What the youth would
do with his acquired knowledge was not
stated, but it will hardly be of much use
to him in India.
* * * •
“Cash Amateur”: The English press esti-
mates the total takings for the Australian
tour of Britain at £65,000. of which the
Australians’ share will be £20,000. Treas-
urer Howard, however, says the figures are
premature. Certainly the huge Test gates
at the Oval have improved the situation, but
four at least of the county matches have
been complete washouts, while the Man-
chester Test was not far from one. In any
case there will be no bonus to players. Each
man gets his guaranteed £6OO plus 60s. a
week pocket money, and not a razoo more.
Racquet and Bawl
“Glenelg”: South Australia has always
been handed the heavy end of the stick by
Victoria and N.S.W., the two big
States. They now propose to cut out the
holding of championship meetings at Adel-
aide altogether, and confine them to Mel-
bourne and Sydney. The change may be all
right from the cash-box point of view, but
the fact that it will, retard the develop-
ment of the game m S.A-, which has
some most promising youngsters coming on,
of whom D. Turnbull is mi outstanding
example, seems to have been ignored alto-
gether by the big twins.
ijc * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The Victorian tennis
authorities are exhibiting slow-motion pic-
tures of stars in action It is a
great idea, and if persevered with might
prove a howling success at the public
picture theatres. A slow-motion film
depicting a famous player glaring at tee
umpire for giving a contrary decision or
hurling his racket into space after mumng
a shot, would be well worth paying to see,
while a representation of the famous inci-
dent of long ago when a defeated lady
plaver hurled herself on the court and bit a
large piece out of the turf would certainly
hand out the “Standing-room Only” sign.
* * * *
“FY7”: The American tennis world is
o-reatly interested in a brilliant suggestion
put forward by someone that a. wire net be
substituted for the cord contraption. His idea
is that such a net will wear better, and that
the now occasional passage of a hard-driven
ball through the cord meshes would be im-
possible. Writer, with some experience ot
wire nets on Western Queensland stations,
can assure the innovator that his notion has
one great drawback. It plays the very
dickens with the balls.
;Jj #
“Cash Amateur”: Australian tennis. heads
are still trying to squelch the practice of
naming racquets and other tennis requisites
after prominent players. The latest ruling
is that this may be done, on the strict under-
standing that players will derive no pecuniary
benefit therefrom. Of course they won t.
What a suspicious lot of old nuts some ot
these tennis panjandrums are!
The Nineteenth Hole
“Fitzcray”: The first of the Australian
golf championships, the foursomes went to
N.S.W. S. A. Keane and 11. W. Hattersley
finishing with a card of 157. or four strokes
better than Whitton and Winser. The lattei
partnered F. ,T. Bulte, of Victoria, last year
when the pair took the title. Keane is steadi-
ness personified, while Hattersley, a tremen-
dous hitter, was able on this occasion to
avoid, his weakness in the short game which
has lost him so many matches.
In bench tests the motor developed 84 b.h.p.
The machine was designed by a famous
racing rider of a few years ago, C. F. Temple,
and is a quaint-looking dwarf, the saddle top
being only 18in. from the ground.
... * * *
“Sprocket”: Nicholas Frantz will not be
seen in Australia this year. He was expected
to figure against Australia’s best in the
Sydney-to-Melbourne road race, but has
asked to be released from Ins contract in
view of his wife’s illness, and the Australian
promoters have consented.
“Rim” • That great cyclist “Fatty” Lamb
brought off another fine road performance m
N.S.W. last week by riding the 210 miles
from Canberra to Sydney in lllir. oi+mm
This knocks an hour and seven minutes oft
the previous record by “Speed” Morgan, put
up in 1926. Lamb is exceptional in that he is
as good on the roads as he is on the tracks
behind pace.
sjt sjs 'e
“Sprocket”: The Americans, though keen
enough on track-racing, take very little
notice of wheeling on the road. The coming
of the Olympiad to Los Angeles has revived
interest in road races, and one has been held
in California, though great trouble was experi-
enced in finding a safe course owing to the
tremendous volume of motor traffic. .the
distance was 96 miles, and the race was won
by an Italian New Yorker named Marquet in
4hr. 52min. 52sec. The Victorian amateur
McLeod has recorded 4hr. 36min. 4sec.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman”: Victorian bowlers are
this month celebrating the jubilee of organ-
ised bowls in the Cabbage Garden Fifty
years ago the first meeting of the Victorian
Bowling Association was held, 11 clubs, Bal-
larat among them, being included. This year
the association can count 73 metropolitan
clubs and over 100 affiliated country clubs,
comprising some 12,000 bowlers. Before
the formation of the association there had
been several independent clubs in existence,
the Victoria, formed in 1860, claiming to be
the oldest on the “mainland” of Australia
—Tassy had weighed .in with a couple ot
clubs a few years earlier. Even before that
some of the Melbourne pubs featured bowling-
greens as an adjunct to their regular activi-
ties, but these have long since vanished.
“Long Dog” : Trust the Australian to add
a humorous touch to the gloomiest situa-
tion. The other day the Liverpool (N.b.W.)
Coursing Club held a meeting with an
entirely topical flavor. In tin; Dinkum
Aussie" Stakes, Don Bradman was a much-
fancied starter, as was Jolly Beggar in the
Sir Otto Open Handicap. The meeting-
closed with the Depression Stakes, which
attracted a large entry.
❖ * '**
“Retired Gun”: A pleasant little inter-
lude in the noble sport of dogracing is
reported from ■ Hexham, on the coal-
fields. An official of the National Coursing
Association attended an unregistered mcel-
ing there, and was staggered to find
well-known metropolitan tykes competing m
the maiden and novice classes. The lid went
on with a bang when he recognised a dog-
competing in a race for novices which had
won at the same meeting. In the interval
the enterprising owners had taken the hound
into the adjacent scrub and dyed it blue,
though, as the watcher has reported, the result
was “more of a prune color.” The tyke won
at 4 to 1, so someone had a good day.
* * * *
“Shell”: Australian Bob Pearce continues
to do well in Canada. Canadian Joe \V right,
a specialist in the quarter-mile dashes so
popular on the other side of the Pacific, was
not satisfied with his defeat by Bob in the
sprint at the Empire Games, and chal-
lenged the Australian to another go. It was
a good race up to the last 100 yards, when the
N S. Welshman bolted, to win by three-
quarters of a length. The race was rowed on
Lake Ontario in very rough water, which
makes the winner’s time, lmin. 22 o-o.see-
the more meritorious.
Jj: * *
“James Pigg”: Tassy’s Agent-General has
suggested to Lord Lonsdale that a. tearn of
90 “huntsmen” be sent to Australia. Pre-
sumably the cable has converted “hunting
men” into “huntsmen,” the latter being the
professionals who handle the hounds under
the supervision of the M.F.H. What the
notion is is not quite clear, but if the party
comes it should find plenty to try it out in
Victoria and South Australia, where hunt
clubs are fairly numerous and the post-and-
rail fences formidable.
j.j i'fi H* 5 ”
“The Gaffer”: It is only a few years
since long-distance running was a British
specialty. Nowadays tlie B inns, tor some
curious reason, have it all their own way.
That marvellous veteran Paavo Nurmi
added another world’s record to his long list
the other day by cutting out the 20 kilo-
metres in lhr. 4min. 38 4-ssec., the previous
best having been lhr. 6min. 29s_ec This was
also to the credit of a Finn, Sipila. Nurmi
now holds 14 long-distance records.


You’ve many jobs
that need a good spray pump
THERE are hundreds of jobs that only a good spray plant
can do properly. Big orchards need powerful portable
plants; smaller orchards can be well looked after with a
knapsack model; mixed farms find plenty of work for a barrel-
spray and a compressed-air type is handy equipment on every
kind of farm.
Whatever your needs, you’ll find the very spray to do the work
easily, quickly and efficiently among the many types we can
supply.
Orchardists, nurserymen, potato-growers, mixed-farmers, everyone
who needs a spray can be sure of securing the right model from
our huge range. Write for full particulars of the five sprays
shown here, and the many other types we supply.
...wev’e many sprays to meet those needs
Fig. 1 shows the Four-Wheel Portable Combined
Power Spray. This outfit has a wooden vat of 90- 1 00
gallons capacity, which is fitted with a two-propeller
mechanical agitator. The pump is a Myers self-oiling
duplex double-acting spray pump with ball valves,
designed specially for this work. Cylinders are por-
celain-lined; plungers have bucket leathers—avoiding
clogging of nozzles. Fitted compactly near the pump
is a Lister Engine, which supplies the power,
steadily, reliably and unfailingly—an engine that works
for hours without attention. Two 30ft. hoses, with
separate hand-control cut-outs and adjustable spray
nozzles, are supplied. When not in use, the engine
can be detached and used for general power work.
m
a
(H
m
m
h
m
%
m
R
I
*
i
a
■
M
Fig. 1
Fig. 2
Fig. 2 shows the Two-Wheel Portable Power Spray.
This outfit is specially designed for work on hilly land.
The weight of its different parts is evenly distributed
for perfect balance, making the horse’s work as easy
as possible. The vat holds 80 gallons of mixture, but
larger vats are supplied to order. The pump is the
same as in the four-wheeler (a Myers self-oiling,
double-acting model). The engine can be either a
\\- or a Lister, according to your require-
ments. Two 30ft. hoses, fitted as in the four-wheel
outfit, and two 6ft. extension rods are provided. Any
nozzle to suit your needs.
MPRESS^g
SPRA'
GAL
m
Fig. 3
Fig. 3 shows the Myers Compressed Air
Sprayer. The two-gallon tank is of heavy
galvanised iron or brass. The nozzle is a
special feature. By means of a small lever
the spray can be adjusted from a broad,
fine spray into a long-distance spray. Write
for full particulars of this and
the many other sprays we
supply.
Fig. 4 shows the Myers
Double-Acting Barrel Spray
Pump, with brass plunger
and brass-lined lower
cylinder. All brass plunger,
agitator and air chamber.
This pump discharges half
the water on the up stroke,
Fig. 5
and half on the down stroke handle. It
has large air chamber, with adjustable
malleable iron base, and 20 feet of half-
inch five-ply discharge hose.
Fig 5 shows the Myers Perfect Knapsack
Spray Pomp. This pump is so shaped that
it is quite comfortably carried
on the back—the tank, made
of copper, holds four gallons.
Pump is all brass—has large
air chamber, heavy cylinders,
ball valves, patent agitator,
5 ft. of 4 in. hose fitted with
Bordeaux or Vermorel
nozzle and iron pipe exten-
sion. Also provided with
handle for use as bucket
pump.
35?
3=l?
3=
Fig. 4
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD.
10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.


TT
r acts that prove
Essex Value of Values
i
a
T 4
m
i
n
15
0
£
PERFORMANCE
Won Tour de France in 1929, won second place in
1930 —beaten only by Hudson’s Great Eight. Set
new records during Challenger Week tests throughout
the world in economy, speed, reliability, hill-
climbing and acceleration.
APPEARANCE
Distinguished in lines and colors—quality is evident
in the harmonious fittings and upholstery. In every
detail, the fine workmanship and quality of materials
are readily discerned.
EQUIPMENT
The New Essex Challenger is fully equipped with
every instrument a well-fitted car should have fuel
and oil gauge on the dash, starting button on the
dash, four hydraulic shock absorbers for the easiest
riding qualities and light controls conveniently
mounted on the top of the steering column.
New South Wales. .
Victoria
THE
HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Tasmania. .....
Queensland ...... WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia
MOTORS, LTD.,
. 26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
SS Bathurst Street. Hobart.
Ihe
NEW
SSI\


WOMAN'S
LETTER.
I would I were a cassowary
On the Plains of Timbuctoo!
Oh, then I’d eat a missionary,
Hat and bands and hymnbook, too.
But the wit would have changed his mind
if he had seen the procession of Scots min-
isters that passed through the city last week.
A long, tough-looking line —over a hundred
of them —emerged from St. Stephen’s into
Phillip-street, walked in great dignity along
Hunter and so into Margaret-street and to
the new Presbyterian headquarters that
tower on Church Hill, facing the site where
the former dour old Scots Church stood for
more than a century. For 65 years the Gen-
eral Assembly of the Church has met in St.
Stephen’s in Phillip-street, and before vacat-
ing these quarters its members joined in
an impressive ceremony in the kirk whose
spire is one of the city’s most graceful sign-
posts. Then through the warm sunlight,
their robes girt about them, they paced, led
by the Moderator and the ex-Moderator, in
cocked hats, lace cravats and staff of office
and a’. Being Scots as well as clergymen,
each man in that company was weighted
with academic honors, and added his quota
of colored hood and fur-trained gown to the
most decorative march the city has seen for
many a day.
There should be a -special service invok-
ing fine warm weather for the races, other-
wise the long, thin and frilled frocks which
the dress-builders are busy on are going to
be divested of grace by the compulsory wear-
ing- of coats. A topcoat with the fashionable
skirt is. as incongruous as white sandshoes
worn with a bowler hat. Every flimsy dress,
incidentally, is accompanied by a scarf or
a cape, and necklaces are a positive necessity
for all the best raiment. These sparkle by
night but by day are of platinum, dull gold,
or varnished wood. A pretty one seen the
other day was plaited of beads that resembled
pomegranate-seeds lightly filmed with frost;
another bloomed with lacquered linen butter-
cups against a twist of emerald-green beads;
still another was of green wooden beads
like apples with painted rosy cheeks.
White satin will shine at every evening
party, according to a newly-returned from
America. She herself has brought back one
of heavy-weight satin, with a top modelled
on an old-world picture. It has a deep bertha
which fastens in front with a diamond buckle
and drips into a long cape at the back.
Around the hips it is sheath-like, then it
flows, into great fulness at the hem and trails
out into a train. Very nice, too, for a
limousine lady, but ruinous for the tram or
taxi addict.
This repatriated Sydneyite had a bit to
say, too, about the painted finger-nails of the
London season. Not only can you have a
thumb-nail sketch, but every finger of your
hand can carry a landscape, or your own
name, delicately lettered in gold, Red finger-
nails exactly tone with the wearer’s favorite
lipstick. Some utilitarian ladies lacquer theirs
black, with a gold moon. You can have
whatever color you fancy, and you can have
flowers, vegetables, fish or fowl emblazoned
thereon.
Depression promises not to cry itself aloud
on. Sydney beaches this summer. Bathing-
suits are to be colorful as the Society or
Artists’ Show, or as Neptune’s gardens. Sea-
green and azure-blue suits on which sea-
gulls flirt a wing will have the company of
suits rosy red. Some of these latter are
flecked with white as though the sea’s foam
had been prisoned in the weave. There are
knee-length coats to go with all, and shoes
and caps that look like sea-flowers. Some of
the suits are woven in a bolero effect, and
many have rows of little pearly buttons glit-
tering down the torso. The fat of shoulder
are catered for with V effects, black on
scarlet or scarlet on black being favorite
color blends. An ocean-blue three-piece had
its top latticed in blurry whites and greens,*
giving the effect of a seascape seen through
a casement.
Shorts and shirt-tops are to be a necessary
beach complement for the summer. The
shorts are fitted to a waistband, and each
leg has two or three small box-pleats. With
these you are to wear one of the gay con-
fetti or flower-patterned pique coats and a
floppy hat and sunshade of the same
material; You can have dots or dashes, you
can go striped as an awning, you can look
like a futurist dream after a supper of
lobster and champagne, or you can be pat-
terned as closely as an all-over wallpaper
design. A wrap-over skirt yoked to the hips
and thence as bouncy as a Spanish dancer’s,
with a loose hip-length coat in this wall-
paper pattern, was worn by one mannequin
at a recent parade. But a black three-piece
trimmed with huge white Pierrot spots took
this Letter’s fancy. The pants to this were
separate. They were fitted to a hip band,
were box-pleated and trimmed with small
buttons. The liip-length coat w-as in the
same black woollen fabric, trimmed with
the big white spots appliqued on.
Earl Beauchamp arrived back in Sydney
by the Niagara on Saturday, and the State’s
eX-Governor, after nearly 30 years’ absence,
is amazed at the forest of roofs along the
foreshores which he had remembered green-
grassed and gum-tipped. In the evening he
and his Countess were the guests of Hugh
D. Mclntosh at “Pot Luck.” Their head-
quarters are in the Astor, just across the
road from Government House, where he
and sister Lady Mary Lygon, both young
for their job, had, no doubt, many an hour
of perplexity as well as fun.
The fencing display at the Musicians’
Revels aroused old memories in Charlie
Westmacott. He told of the days when an
actor serving his time spent hours with the
foils and in the dancing academy. Seven
years Titheradge used to declare he spent
studying these arts, and at the end of that
time he had mastered the difficulty of stand-
ing still. Dot Brunton’s father was a fencer
of renown; so was Kyrle Bellew; so, later,
was the slim, agile Willie Holman. Now,
Mr. Westmacott added sadly, they plunge
into headline parts without acquiring either
art. Another forgotten art is make up.
When Charlie Westmacott was a young man
feeling his feet in the Rignold melodramas,
he and the other small-part young men used
to fill in waits with make-up competitions.
Sitting before their mirrors, they made them-
selves into old men, into vicious villains, into
honest heroes, into old soldiers, into old
sailors. A box of cigarettes or such was the
prize and was keenly competed for. Kyrle
Bellew was a master of make-up, and when
he played in Australia, Westmacott, then
a stripling, was cast for the part of an old,
old man. Bellew said: “Be at the theatre
to-morrow night at six o’clock and I’ll show
you how to make up.” When Charlie arrived
the older actor had bandages and a lump
of dough waiting. The dough was modelled
on cheek, nose and chin, the whole face
drawn down with the bandages till the jaw
nearly touched the chest. It was elaborate
and intricate. Then, suddenly, Bellew undid
it all. “Now, do it yourself,” he commanded.
That make-up took Charlie over an hour for
the first week, but before the season ended
he could do it in 20 minutes.
Mrs. C. M. C. Shannon, in black velvet,
and Mrs. J. C. Windcyer, in laces pink as
peach blossom, were women of importance at
the Medical Society’s dance on Friday. Seven
hundred or more people revolved gaily to
keep the medical libraries of public hospitals
up-to-date. Mrs. W. J. Dakin, who came
with her professor, wore blue and silver
taffetas, and joint secretary Enid Linton
added flowered chiffons to the night’s design.
A stunning good-looker was Lorraine Sten-
ning, who suggested a ,Sargent composition in
her cerulean blues and lint-white locks. Enid
Hull’s amber satin and Vera Blackburn’s
water-color blues spattered with drops of
diameute were notable in a room full of good
frocking. Professor and Mrs. C. Fawsitt
and the Cecil Pursers were among the
present when the lights were lowered and
a group of figures marched solemnly into the
room, white-masked and robed as though
ready for a busy morning in the theatre.
Amid a sudden hush they went their way,
wheeling bofore them a stretcher, on which
under an efficient white sheet the outline of
a stilly figure could be seen. Ilowever ? when
the light went up, the figure, being dismem-
bered, turned out to be gay little novelties
done up in aseptic parcels —like surgical
instruments. There were 51 debs. at. this
dance—sl debs of the medical profession—
and most of their night was taken up in
receiving congratulations on their brand-new
degrees.
The work of Eleanor Ross in the earlier
plays of the defunct Repertory is still fresh
in the memory. Her Elizabeth in Shaw’s
“Dark Lady
of the Son-
ne t s,” her
character
studies, in
‘Abraham Lin-
c o 1 n” and
“W indows”
stand out as
some of the
society’s best
acting. Elea-
nor is a mem-
ber of the staff
of the Con-
s e r v atorium,
where she
trains young
Australia in
dramatic . art
and diction.
She will pro-
duce on the
25th of this
month “The
Red Umbrella” at the Maccabean Hall in
Darlinghurst. The play will be acted in
the interest of the Sydney Hospital by the
girls from Miss Cheriton’s school who are
known as the Doone Dramatic Society. For
this play a male element had to be intro-
duced, and well-known Reggie North will
play the hero.
The front of the house blazing with elec-
trics ; posters on which every star in the
Milky Way scintillated (a delicate hint of
the fare inside) ; stairways flooded with Kleig
lights to a luminosity compared with which
Jacob’s ladder was a mere fire-escape—these
and other things told Elizabeth-street at
midnight on Friday that vaudeville had come
into its own again. Hugh D. Mclntosh, in
impeccable tailorings, held a levee by
the microphone at the foot of the circle
stairs in the front of the St. James, and late
homegoers from other shows heard and saw
the various artists popping along to say a
word to listeners-in. By eleven o’clock the
back stalls and the gods' were sold out. By
11.15 the rich of raiment were wafted along
in limousines and sedans. Edith Talia-
ferro blew in, a laugh in a moss-green velvet
coat. Mrs. Mclntosh, wrapped to the chin
in ermine, arrived with Phyllis Fuller—
who, incidentally, simply won’t allow herself
to be called Phyllie Fuller. Ken Duffield’s
little dark wife was a lame flame collared in
white fox, and the Htlgh Wards were
boxed opposite. It was a great sight to see
this old ex-showman bouncing out of his
seat, his hands beating with the force of a
tornado at the end of Ada Reeve’s act. Ada,
in sea-green chiffons liquid as water, was a
marvel of grace and personality, and was
rewarded with masses of daffodils and wara-
tahs. Thin as a bone, Hector St. Clair, who
interrupted his Dismal Day’s patter to say
he would play the fiddle, and, when the con-
ductor asked him where it was, replied “In
the front of the house,” and forthwith drew
a violin from the slack of his vest, was
another who cheered this Letter. Never
again will it be able to listen to the Jere-
miahs in tram, train or ferry without an
inward grin over Hector’s satire.
The theatre in Sydney has been in a
state of semi-paralysis since the talkies came,
and the arrival of Hugh D. Mclntosh is as
welcome to the box-office patron as the
arrival of the angel at the pool, was to the
sick. Not that Hugh D. is very like an
angel, but he certainly stirs things up. The
other morning he bounced into Sydney off
the express and shoved the whole of his
“Pot Luck” company into the Australia for
morning tea and a “How do” to the press.
Already he has recaptured his reputation for
doing the handsome thing by his company.
On the express coming over from Melbourne,
he spread a de luxe dinner, with a speeially-
printed menu, for producer, stars, chorus and
property men.
Artist B. E. Minns the other day saw still
another red seal alight on a picture of his
at the Society of Artists’ show. Since this
exhibition started Minns has been taking a
’busman’s holiday, working on a bookplate—
an original and beautifully clear design for
a valued medical friend. Minns, aiming at
something purely Australian, and at the
same time personally appropriate, has pro-
duced an abo. medicine-man in full undress
defending a sick abo. and his gin. The medi-
cine-man stands before them protecting them
against the forces of evil, against whom he
has just launched a boomerang. On either
side of the spirited little group towers a
gum-tree.
A short time ago Mr. Minns did his first
etching. It was from a sketch of the poet
Kendall’s old home at Gosford. In this
home, by the way, lives an ex-Digger, who is
making a start with the distilling of per-
fumery, winning from the rinds of oranges
and lemons the essential oils for the job. In
his garden he grows boronia, pittosporum
and other exquisitely scented Australian
shrubs and flowers. In years to come we
may recall September days and nights by
sprinkling our hankies with the prisoned
scents. The maker’s wife is a Belgian, her
father a perfume-distiller of some renown.
The sight of small girls and boys playing
recklessly with numerals of the highest order
filled this Letter with wonder. Small Sallies
and Jacks, Timothys and Joyces sprang with
the agility of the young chamois from their
tiny chairs in David Jones’s display hall and
planted the correct answer on an awe-inspir-
ing Everest of addition. They divided, sub-
tracted, multiplied and reduced things to
fractions with an ease that speaks well for
the financial future of the Continent, and
they found square roots as easily as a boar
uproots truffles. The amazing youngsters
were pupils of that Miss Newton-Itussell, of
the public school in Glenmore-road, who has
turned arithmetic into a game gay with rain-
bows, blocks and counters, so that the child-
ren look upon collections of figures not as
sums to worry the brain, but as part of a
game to be played with the hands. This
play-way method of automatic arithmetic
has been patented by its inventor, and the
series of patterns are now on sale.
Matron Kellett and assistant-matron
Pidgeon had a party in the matron’s room
last week for ex-trainees of the Sydney Hos-
pital. Six of those ladies had qualified as
sisters under Miss Osborne, the hospital’s
first matron. All six are married; indeed,
marriage seems the culmination of most
nurses’ careers, judging by the wedding rings
in the assembly. Tea on the balcony of
the nurses’ home —the same being enclosed
with bunting—and the cherry blossom and
heady stock that filled the rooms with spring
were among the delights of the afternoon.
It is a sinful world, and that’s no doubt
why the brewer of electric light is much more
highly paid than the chief providers of the
light of grace. The Bishop of Newcastle
draws a mere £l6OO as against Forbes Mac-
kay’s £3OOO. And the bishop’s lady of Goul-
burn or Armidale has but £llOO to keep
up the dignity of the diocese, after giving
lavishly to charity. Yet those sees are com-
paratively affluent. Carpentaria, an outsize
in sees, is worth no more than £4ol—hardly
enough to keep the bishop’s apron in patches
and pay his travelling expenses, this last
being one of the heavy incidentals of the
mitred office.
Australian-actress Kitty Reidy’s marriage
had a romantic musical-comedy flavor. It
happened in secret at a London registry office
and was not divulged until Ascot. Then, to
get into the Royal enclosure, Kitty had to
confess she had a husband, one Captain A.
H. Jackson, D. 5.0., M.C., of the Royal War-
wickshire Regiment.
When next you hear the songs of Schu-
mann floating tenderly over the city from
the direction
of Sydney
Uni. you can
picture Enid
Carpenter sit-
ting at the
memorial
carillon. Enid
is our only
woman caril-
lonist, and
was an ardent
piano student
before she
turned to the
making of bell-
music. She is
a graduate in
arts, is now
busy on re-
search work
in psychology,
lives at Manly
and is a keen
swimmer and
surfer. May Moore made the picture.
Mr. Baynton, of the London Royal Aca-
demy and College of Music, was responsible
for the loudest laugh at the Kretsehmann
Club party last week. He told that once he
was travelling with an American journalist-
friend from New York to England. The
journalist was a correspondent for the
“Atlantic Monthly,” and all the way across
he was a very sick man. One night he was
trying to write an article for his paper when
the old distress returned. Throwing down
his pen he exclaimed: “How the dickens can
a man feed the ‘Atlantic Monthly’ who has
been feeding the Atlantic daily!”
Johnnie Mant is among the newly en-
gaged. The lady is Mrs. Helen Dalziel,
eldest daughter of the Justice Harveys, of
Darling Point.
Muriel Conroy, the ex-M.H.R.’s daughter,
carried the sherbet-like swathings of the
modern bride with grace, and was quite the
event of the week at St. Thomas’s in North
Sydney. The frock was of satin cut on
classical lines, was sleeveless and worn with
pearls. The veil was a heaped froth of tulle,
and was loaned by Mrs. George Scammell.
Bride’s sister, Mrs. Osborne Meares (of
Coolah), Edna Griffiths and Jean McDonald
proceshed after the bride. Their frocks were
sky-after-rain blue lace, and their hands
were filled with daffodils and wallflowers.
The ’groom, Ronald McDonald, is secretary
of the Bank of Commerce. Bride’s mother,
Mrs. George Sullivan, stood by in a bronze
lace ensemble, and spread the reception at
Watonga, Waverton.
A pedigree Pekinese pup, a pearl acorn
necklace and a Lancier doll are a few of the
prizes to be won by the lucky who arrive
at David Jones’s on October 2 to take part
in the Engagement Ball. This is in aid of
the Limbless Soldiers, and the star event
of the evening will be a mock wedding, com-
plete with choir boys, organ and organist,
and decorations by Fred Searl.
Ken Duffield, producer and part-author of
the new show which opened in the St. James’s
last Friday, is a lean, dark man carrying
an ex-soldier look with him. He is one of
a well-known South Australian family with
enough culture to be notable even in that
cultured State. One brother was the
astronomer who, until his too early death,
was a bright star in the Canberra firmament.
Apart from his scientific attainments he was
a singularly entertaining talker with one
of the most beautiful speaking voices this
Letter has ever heard. Brother Ken has
had several London successes, among them
“Snap,” “Puss, Puss,” “H'ello Hoalo” and,
of course, “Pot Luck.” He writes both
music and lyrics, though in his London pro-
ductions he had the collaboration of Dion
Titheradge and Ronnie Jeans. His latest,
“The Warrior,” had its first trial in Adel-
aide the other week.
Garden parties and church conventions
always synchronise. Last week the wives of
inter-State and country ministers in Sydney
for the General Assembly ambled about the
grounds of Ewan House, Knox College. The
wife of the Moderator, Mrs. C. A. White, was
hostess in chief, and the Burnside Homes’
Highland Band provoked the senses with
stirring airs. Saturday saw a couple of
hundred cars lined up and down the road
that runs past these homes and beyond Gowan
Brae, once the residence of their founder—
soon to be also occupied by the auld kirk —
and again the kilted band was busy.
The new maid arrived at a trim home set
in a garden on the North Shore line. When
the door was opened to her imperative ring
she was found staring gloomily towards the
pleasant greenness of a small plantation
which is its owner’s pride. At the sound
of the opening door she turned to her new
employer, and at once expressed her opinion l
frankly and finally. “What a God-forsaken
place !” she said. “Nothing but trees!” She
went moodily to her allotted room, smoked
a cigarette, powdered her nose and left to
catch the train back to town and the delights
of tall fiats and honking motor-horns.
Last week, out of a flurry of rain, the
writer took shelter in a city store. The sky
was covered with black cloud-curtains, the
streets wore sleek as seals with rain, and
every woman went rubber-coated and -shod.
And then, around the corner of one of the
aisles, a little almond-tree shook out its
peta*ls and laughed at its neighbor, a cherry-
tree in blossom. It wasn’t a dream. The
little almond-tree, the cherry blossom and
the neighbors burgeoned with crystal petals
and leaves, their boughs and stems of
twisted grey-green silk. They stood in
crystal pots and barrels, and would make
the gayest decorations for the dinner-table
when the garden has ceased to bloom.
It isn’t only within a few miles of Sydney
that this spring promises to give a richer
harvest of wild flowers than the countryside
has rejoiced over for years. Into Broken
Hill (which is not always the heap of red
dust that city fancy generally paints) the
picnickers have been returning with their
cars decorated with the vivid Sturt pea-
clustered fingers of glossy black and crimson
on trailing grey-green foliage. But even as
far out as that the vandal _ has done his
bad work, and the Broken Hill picnicker has
to go many miles to see this glory of the
“desert” in masses. Around Sydney the
well-enforced wild-flower protection law of
the last two good years has worked wonders,
and even French’s Forest, the handiest of
the big open bush-spaces, is singing hosannas
in the shape of thousands of young Christmas
bushes.
The English mails have been bringing this
Letter fascinating information about Bart’s,
the 800-year-old hospital founded in honor
of St. Bartholomew by one Rahere, a former
jester in the Court of the Conqueror’s son,
Henry I. The old-established hospital is
making a wide appeal for funds for its recon-
struction. Out of the Bart literature some-
thing that looks like a link leaps out to ■
join it to Australia. Possibly the most
wizard-like surgeon in its long list of cele-
brated men was John Hunter. It was this
Hunter who proved that a main artery could
be removed from a limb quite safely and that
the limb would not wither —a discovery that
transformed the whole field of surgery. He
was a superb investigator, and at his home
in London kept a regular menagerie of
animals tame and wild for use in pursuance of
his research work. Now, what of Sydney’s
own too-soon-dead Johnnie Hunter, who
seemed born with a knowledge of anatomy
and matters pertaining to the nerve centres?
In his student days Hunter’s knowledge
amazed and often seemed to overtop the
demonstrator’s own. As a research worker
he was indefatigable and wise beyond
his years. Now, who has a pet theory about
reincarnation ?
The Girl in the Flat Opposite hasn’t been
to any of the Music Week celebrations.
Asked why, she replied that something most
unpleasant had happened and she couldn’t
raise the first and last notes of the tonic-
sol-fa scale.
Some of our old people watch the cost
of living creep down with more joy than
most of us who know that incomes are com-
ing down too. All told, there are a good
many thousands of pensioners and annui-
tants on the north side of the harbor alone;
and while the cost of living has gradually
climbed, until a pound wouldn’t buy more
than a half-sovereign did 16 years ago, tlieir
income hasn’t moved an inch. Heaven only
knows how some of them have pulled through
at all. In this fall in the price of the
cabbage and the quart of milk, they see their
first ray of sunshine for years.
OVERHEARD.
He {at shop window ): “Look at it —a clock
marked 150 guineas!”
She: “Gee! Now I know what time-payment
means!”


NORTH WEST AUSTRALIA
Population sooo («**«»)
NORTHERN
TERRITORY
Population 3300
Public expenditure to
date £15,000,000.
How many Mil lions would
art Industry suct\ as tkc Sugar
Industry be wort!\ to Australia’s
en\pty Nortkern&Westerrvspaces
CAt**t •
iumsrtAL
QUEENSLAND
_ , ... torn
Population
f\ AY««^^,
930.871 *££££»
Rayfnuc My A
£14,902,334 1
Raw Sti&ar Product ion *
495,000 Tons
Cane 3,500,000 Tons
Raw Sugar Production
Value X 10.000.000
®2RJffliB£aS © %
CW(n*
CWLOOtt*
msuma ®j
*«»***»..]
msa*w£
rf** «n«k
«•*
new south WALES
A White Australia Impossible
without Tropical Industries
There is no other country as capable as Aus-
tralia of supplying the needs of its people with-
out purchasing from abroad. Within its
borders are every productive range of climate,
class of soil, and variety of mineral. All that
is required to make Australia self-contained
and self-supporting is the intelligent exploita-
tion of our manifold resources.
Much has been done already in this direction,
and many industries have been established
which, in these days of economic stress, are
demonstrating their value by providing
employment for hundreds of thousands of
workers and supplying the community with
necessary commodities which otherwise would
be unobtainable.
But, notwithstanding our very creditable
industrial achievements, we are but on the
threshold of the development necessary to
enable us to retain undisputed possession of
our rich heritage. No doubt there is room
for many new industries, but our first care
should be to maintain in undiminished pro-
portions those we already possess.
Effective occupation involves industrial, com-
mercial, social and, in the highest sense,
political considerations. Australia cannot be
regarded as effectively occupied, no matter
what our population may be, if millions of
people are concentrated in a restricted area,
and the rest of the Commonwealth practically
empty, as indicated by the above map.
Two-fifths of Australia lies within the Tropics.
This is the most probable point of attack,
either by diplomacy or by force, because of
its proximity to over-populated Asia, and its
vulnerableness owing to its emptiness.
Of *our vast tropical territory only the sugar
belt, and some adjacent and dependent areas,
can be regarded as effectively occupied.
Queensland has other industries, but all are
more or less buttressed and reinforced by the
sugar industry. Look at the above map, and
you will see at a glance that, in striking con-
trast, parallel latitudes in Northern and
Western Australia are empty and unpro-
ductive. Official figures recently published
reveal the appalling fact that abortive attempts
to develop the Northern Territory have in-
volved an expenditure of £15,000,000 of
public money, and yet its white population is
dwindling rapidly.
Surely it is obvious to the most casual thinker
that the destruction of a great industry like
sugar production must inevitably imperil the
maintenance of the ideal of a White Aus-
tralia and even the future of this great country.
Would not a reduction of the population of
Northern Queensland, similar to that taking
place in the Northern Territory, be a complete
admission that we are incapable of settling and
developing the tropical portion of our great
inheritance, and at the same time be an invi-
tation to “the rising tide of color” to come
over and possess it?
Do we not owe it to ourselves, to posterity,
and to the world at large, to do all in our
power to maintain a White Australia? Has
it never occurred to you that Europe and Aus-
tralia are the only continents inhabited by a
purely white race, and that in Australia alone
is there room for such a substantial increase
as could effectively stem “the rising tide of
color”? Australia holds the racial key of the
future. Dare we be recreant to this great trust?
The Commonwealth Royal Commission which
inquired into the conditions of the sugar
industry had the following to say on its national
aspect: —
“While the social aspect of the sugar industry
is more important than the industrial, the
political aspect is, perhaps, more important
than either. Unsettled areas in the tropical
parts of Australia are not only a source of
strategic Weakness, they constitute a positive
temptation to Asiatic invasion, and may give
to the White Australia policy a complexion
which must inevitably weaken the claims of
Australia to external support. As We have
already remarked, the ultimate, and, in our
opinion, the effective justification of the pro-
tection of’the sugar industry lies beyond ques-
tions of industry or wealth production. 11
MUST BE SOUGHT IN THE VERY
EXISTENCE OF AUSTRALIA AS A
NATIONr
In view, then, of the great services rendered
by sugar production to the economic and
political life of the Commonwealth, what valid
reason is there for altering the national policy
regarding the only industry which can keep
Australia white?
Is the cost too great? If you are inclined to
think so, please consider how much Australia
spends on non-essentials, and remember that
Queensland sugar is exchanged for Southern
goods, the prices of which, on the average,
have increased at least as much as the price
of sugar.
—Authorised by the Queensland Sugar
Defence Committee, National Bank Chambers,
211 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WHERE THERE IS NO VISION THE PEOPLE PERISH


For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
more and more as something better than a
hair dressing. It keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the ehcroachment of greyness and
baldness.
m
lands
Macassar Oil
Of all Chemists,
-Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, Loudon, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND. C.T.P 6ft
Wentworth Hotel’s New Tiriffs
Single Room, Bed and Breakfast, from • 12/6
Single Room, Bath, Bed and Breakfast, from 157-
Single Room, Inclusive, from 20/-
Single Room, with Bath, Inclusive, from 22/6
Double Rooms are charged at Double Rates.
Private Suites Quoted on Application.
EVERY SATURDAY.
Dinner Dances, from 7.30 12/6
Supper Dances, from 8.30 8/6
Or a la Carte.
Afternoon Tea Dansant, from 3.30 . 3/*
U/?e WENTWORTH
Church Hill, Sydney
Under
Royal
Warrant
ĵkjk
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920. /
CHAMPAGNE (
CharlesTleidsieck
mmwmm
Australasian Agents—
S wift & Company u fflita J
SYDNEY.
champagne
REIMS
n li I t
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
. Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Tea Rooms
[?] Contral 800 [?]
Buckley C-Nunm Limited
[?]
Those long frocks, specially those that
sport an avalanche of frills, are in many
circumstances a source of discomfort. In a
tram the other evening a girl in a bounti-
fully-flounced georgette gown hung on to the
strap throughout a half-hour’s journey to
preserve her finery from crushing. Her
escort, a noble and chivalrous youth, kept
her company on the next strap, and there
they stood and swayed in an almost empty
compartment. The conductor stared at the
couple as if he deemed them insane, but
some of the passengers understood and got a
half-sympathetic, half-derisive grin out of the
incident. This Page’s grandma declares that
in the days when bodices were made terribly
tight and skirts were so constructed that a
girl couldn’t sit without risk of mussing up
everything, it used to be quite the thing to
have a footstool in the carriage and to kneel
upon this until the ballroom was reached, so
that one could make an impeccable entrance.
Silly, of course, and why should we return
to such ridiculous modes?
The Governor-General took liis leave of
members of the Moonee Valley Racing Club
on Saturday, when at luncheon the chaiz-man,
Alister Clark, wished his Ex. good-bye.
Winter had come again, and there was snow
on the highlands and a wind that was keen
and searching. The various tearooms of the
grandstand glowed with daffodils culled from
the chairman’s garden. It was by no means
a dressy day; everyone who possessed furs
wore them, and others tucked their coat
collars up. The running of the favorites was
very disappointing, so it wasn’t the cheeriest
of meetings. Mrs. Len Buxton was there in
a lovely squirrel coat to see one of her gee-
gees win. Premier Hogan’s wife was
wrapped in black cloth with a dash of white.
Mr. and Mrs. James Purves, Mrs. J. B. Mc-
Arthur, Mrs. Albert Dunne, from Warrnam-
bool, the last-named in heather tweed, and
Colonel and Mrs. Bundock were on the lawn.
At St. Kilda Town Il’all a dance was
staged by 30 ex-Grammarians collectively
known as the Old Melburnian Hosts. The
dark blue, red and gold of the school figured
in the decorations and the jollo was a very
cheery one. The girls of the younger set
put on their newest gowns, liberally frilled
and flared as to skirts. The Lud Mayor,
who is the Ned Kelly of the gang, was there
with Mrs. Luxton, whose lobelia-blue georg-
ette was worn with a white and gold brocade
coat. The headmaster of the school, R. P.
Franklin, was a guest of honor. The junior
Mrs. By ram Go wan danced in dark green
lace. Mrs. R. W. E. Wilmot’s frock was
a symphony in golden-brown chiffon and
silver lace. Sheila Morell chose white chiffon,
Winsome Warren wore forget-me-not blue
moire, and Margaret Hemmingway was one
of many lasses whose fancy ran to leaf-green.
The Show Grounds last week were occupied
by a small army of men with paintbrushes
and gardening implements, and the place has
been pervaded by a mingling of the aromas of
linseed oil, tan" and fresh-turned soil. The
pavilions have been made to look like new
and gardens have been created by the trans-
portation of countless flowering plants in
bloom —all in preparation for the R.A.S.
annual fiesta. A floral chiming clock,
claimed to be the only horticultural time-
piece in the world that can boast a seconds
hand, was completed early in the week, and
it was ticking away merrily when the
Chatterer arrived on the scene. An immense
circular bed of flowers forms the dial. The
seconds hand moves over a disc filled with
lobelia, and the figures are spaced by patches
of purple violas. In the rest of the face
deep red, yellow and purple pansies, prim-
roses and white and pink daisies are sym-
metrically arranged. The hour and minute
hands are narrow troughs packed from tip
to centre with brilliantly-colored flowers.
Interest in the Country Women’s Associa-
tion’s forthcoming- cabaret ball at St. Kilda
Plaza was stirred by a tea-party at Holm
Park, Beaconsfield, the home of Ada
Armytage. Miss Armytage is president of
the Officer branch of the C.W.A., and she is
also a pillar of the Boy Scouts. The band
of the local troop, which is known as the
“Armytage Own,” furnished music for the
outdoor gathering.
St. John’s, Toorak, was pinkily decorated
for the wedding of Wilma Clarke and Wil-
liam John Seymour, and the church was
crowded, but only relatives and a few inti-
mates drank the health of the newly-weds
afterwards. The bride, who dispensed with
’maids, wore a trained gown of satin of the
same tint as a great sheaf of freesias she
carried. The dress was perfectly plain, with
long sleeves, and beautifully cut, and a cream
tulle veil was anchored to a wreath of orange
blossoms. The leading lady’s small niece, a
daughter of the Sidney Sturts, arrayed in
apricot-tinted muslin with a poke bonnet,
Stepped from a front pew to hold her aunt’s
flowers during the ceremony. George Arm-
strong, son of Dame Nellie Melba, found
the ring for the bridegroom, who is the
youngest son of the Rev. Lord Victor Sey-
mour and his lady. Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke
received congratulations on her daughters
change of name at her Toorak home. Among
the guests were the bride’s sister, Mrs. Sid-
ney Sturt, who was accompanied by her
husband; Mrs. Erie Harrison, another sister,
wife of Col. Harrison, of Duntroon ; Frank
Clarke’s lady; and the Russell Clarkes. The
honeymoon is being spent at Coombe Cot-
tage, lent by Mr. and Mrs. George Arm-
strong.
Very pretty was the wedding of Peggy
(christened Margaret), daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. S. A. Ewing, of St. Kilda, with
Vaughan, young st son of the A. C. Cuttms,
of Adelaide. The vivacious dainty bride
was arrayed in white satin, over which
rippled a lengthy veil of antique lace. Two
’maids made a contrasting background in
deep orange-toned chiffon flounced frocks
with straw hats to match. Afterwards at
the Windsor Mrs. Ewing received the guests
in deep-blue georgette with dull silver em-
broidery on her millinery.
An ivory satin gown in the early-Victorian
mode, with a pointed bodice, full skirt, a
front panel of flounces of Brussels lace and
embroidery of pearls, was worn by Ella,
daughter of the late Dr. John Deans and of
Mrs. Deans, of Elstcrnwick, when she was
linked to Dr, Russell G. Shannon, elder son of
the I). G. Shannons, of Ballarat, at All
Saints’, St. Kilda. Two ’maids attended in
muslin frocks and tulle hats of daffodil hue,
carrying posies of primroses. Rejoicings took
place at the Windsor.
Constance Marion, only child of the late
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Ewers, of Condobolin
(N.S.W.), exchanged vows with Clifford,
second son of the Alec Lyalls, of Royal Park,
at the Church of Christ, Swanston-street.
The bride dressed her part in pearly-tinted
satin over which shimmered Brussels lace
and tulle. The ’maids, Marjorie Golding,
of Sydney, and Lorna Gray, sported golden-
hued chiffon gowns with straw hats and
posies to match.
This bright-eyed 17-year-old, dark-haired,
slim and tall
maiden is
Coralin (Coral
for short),
only chick of
the L. Clarence
Browns, of
Kew. She
made a hit in
the Repertory
Society’s re-
cent produc-
tion of Shaw's
“You Never
Can Tell.” A
pupil of
Dulcie Bland,
one of the
pillars of the
society, Miss
Brown, who
has taken part
in only two
p e rformances,
is regarded as
a rare find by Frank Clewlow and his co-
mummers.
One of a crop of weddings last week was
that of Edna Marie, youngest daughter of
the D. H. Dureaus, of Hawthorn, to Keith
Ernest, eldest son of the F. E. Whiteheads,
of the Butli'erwah squattage at Ur an a
(N.S.W.). Arum-lilies and peach blossoms
decorated the Church of the Immaculate
Conception for the ceremony, and congratu-
lations were spoken at No. 9. Mechlin lace
based on a froth' of white tulle formed the
bride’s veil and train, and her gown was of
white satin. Her attendants were two
’maids in pink with floral millinery and a
small niece and nephew in white satin.
Cabled reports of the wedding of Dr.
Crick, Bishop of Ballarat, and Marion Jel-
licorse, of Densworth, Sussex, indicate that
it was a very elaborate affair. The Dean
of Westminster officiated, there was a guard
of honor of Boy Scouts, and 400 guests
were bidden to the after-reception. The
bride’s gown was parchment satin with Brus-
sels lace. The five bridesmaids, who wore
pale-green frocks and large hats, included
the bishop’s niece, Anne Crick, and there
were trainbearers also. The Bishop met his
fate while in England to attend the Lambeth
Conference. The newly-weds are expected
to leave for Australia early next month.
Gwenda, daughter of Dr. W. Kent Hughes,
became Mrs. John Lloyd at Holy Trinity,
Kew, her uncle, Canon E. S. Hughes, and
Canon Sutton being the welders. The bride
defied superstition in a charming gown of the
hue of opening leaves, which was topped by
a drooping straw hat. Her ’maid was in
pale amber chiffon with a matching hat.
The bridegroom hails from N. S. Wales, but
the newly-weds will res'de in South Yarra.
Doris Egerton Jones, author of “Gov-
ernor Bligh,” now being staged by the Allan
Wilkie co, at the Princess, came to Mel-
bourne to see how the purplcst patch in
the history of the Mother State, done into a
play, would appeal to us southerners. She
hails from Adelaide, and since her marriage
(she's Mrs. Callahan in private life) she has
resided in Sydney and has few Melbourne
acquaintances. “The Flaw,” the play in
which Mrs. Callahan and the la e Einelie
Polipi collaborated, was not produced here.
Miss Polini intended to open with it after
its successful run in Sydney, but the Fates
—or should it be the Fat —in the shape of
Oscar Asche, intervened and collared the
theatre for which the show was pencilled.
Mrs. Callahan b >gan writing when she was
a student at Adelaide Uni., where she took
arts arid law. Illness prevented her from
qualifying as a lawyer, and she couldn’t have
practised in her native State if she had; but
it was largely through her p rsistent advo-
cacy + hat f be S.A. Parliament passed a
measure per-
worn n
to practise and
plead.
This is Mrs.
Harold Clapp,
wife of our
railway czar.
She is the
librettist o f
“T he Love
Step,” a musi-
cal play which
is to be pro-
duced at the
Comedy on
Sept. 17. She
used to be one
of Brisbane’s
notable ama-
teurs, and had
a taste, of the
pro. stage
with Tittell
Brune.
The reception accorded “Governor Bligh”
on Saturday night was encourag ng, though
there were a few empty seats. Approval was
general, and the curtain was run up many
times at the finish. The authoress, Doris
Egerton Jones, wearing pale green patterned
taffeta, was introduced by Allan Wilkie and
thanked the company for its presentation.
The ladies of the cast gleaned sheaves of
flowers galore. The period of the play
lends itself to effective and picturesque dress-
ing. The military men strut about in coach-
men’s hats with cockades, crimson tunics, corn-
flower-blue trousers and long boots. Civilians
sport coats and knee-breeches of satin,
lace ruffles and flowered waistcoats. The
women’s gowns follow the Directoire modj,
being long of skirt and high-waisted. A par-
ticularly charming confection is worn by
Miss Hunter-Watts —a n6glig6 of primrose
satin and lace. Among the first-nighters
were the Lud Mayor and Mrs. Luxton, John
Quick and his lady, the A. M. Reids and
daughter Mary, Mrs. McConochie, Prof.
Laby, ex-Senator Keating and his wife and
Irene Webb.
The Animal Welfare League’s meeting to
arrange the details of this year’s Animal
Week was held at Government House, with
Lady Somers in the chair. Part of the
programme decided upon is a dance at the
Rex, part of the proceeds of which will
go to the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children. Her Ex. was elected
chairman of the ball committee, which in-
cludes Mrs. Norman Bi-ookes. Mrs. C. Lort
Smith is hon. sec. and organiser, and Joan
Chirnside is in charge of ticket sales.
The French, who are as logical as they
are artistic, have always held that the foun-
dation of a frock is the corset, and its
finish is the shoes, and the importance of
that axiom is being “proned in upon us,” as
the darkies say, now that waists are once
more in fashion and ankles are more impor-
tant than calves. At a mannequin show at
Buckley and Nunn’s last week, stays and
footwear were given more prominence than
usual. The shapely Jessica Harcourt was
chief demonstrator of whalebones, and con-
vinced us that the Australian makers haven’t
anything to learn about their fashioning.
She was assisted by Madame McGowan, who
is on the staff of a local corset manufactur-
ing co., and who showed what all the var ous
shapes of wrap-ons, wrap-overs, controlettes
and so forth are intended to do for the
feminine form.
The very best women golfers in Australia
(if any she who can swing a driver thinks
otherwise she will have her chance next
year) adjusted their arithmetic to the Great
Game of Bridge (in which, when you’re
down, you’re down and that’s an end of it) at
the St. Kilda home of Mrs. Alfred Tol-
hurst one evening last week. This year’s
champion, Susie Tolhurst, and her sister
Shirley, who also smites ’em hard and
straight and putts ’em pretty, were the host-
esses. The new holder of the title sported
saxe-blue lace, Shirley looking smart in
black velvet. Black georgette chenille
embossed in amber hue was the choice of
Mrs. Tolhurst.
Our grandmothers would have swooned
over the idea of patronising the gladiatorial
combats of the male sex, but times have
changed. Lady Somers banished Melbourne
society’s last qualms on the matter by accom-
panying his Ex. to the Comedy Theatre one
night recently to see the amateur boxing
and wrestling championships. The vice-
regal pair seem to have a comprehensive
acquaintance with all forms of sport. Lord
Somers the other day took part in exhibition
games of “royal tennis,” a pastime of English
and French sovereigns in the days before
good Queen Bess flourished. Melbourne and
Hobart are the only places in the Common-
wealth that can boast the indoor courts,
devoted to this highly aristocratic pastime.
Our club is behind high brick walls in
Exhibition-street. It is a complicated sort
of a game played with a longer racquet and
a higher net than are used in lawn tennis.
This week begins another effort to give
work to the numerous unemployed girls and
women about the city. M. P. Hansen, Direc-
tor of Education, has set apart two rooms
at the Queensbury State School where all
kinds of wares will be turned out to furnish
stalls for a carnival in November. Funds
are available for the payment of the work-
ers as a result of the Ladies’ Benevolent
societies’ collecting campaign. The Singer
Co. is lending several sewing-machines, and
various drapery firms are donating material
to be made up. The Y.W.C.A. sewing-room
houses a similar hive of industry under the
aegis of the central council of the L.B.S.
To assist unemployed girls to find billets
Mrs. G. Vassal Cox, of the Homeleigli School
of Domestic Science, Hawthorn, is giving the
use of her kitchen for a day each week. A
cookery instructor has been engaged, and
the major arts of home-keeping wall be
taught.
To provide for the needs of soldier patients
in the Bundoora and Macleod hospitals there
will be a bridge party at the home of Mrs.
Leo Thomson, Orrong-road, Toorak, on
October 7. Mrs. L. Due, Aloha, Harold-
avenue, East Malvern, will give particulars.
The sudden death of Hubert Miller, master
of Findon Harriers’ Hunt Club, who was killed
in the chase at Woodstock on Friday, was
a big shock to all followers of the hounds.
He met his end as he would have wished,
leading the pack of which he had been
master for 38 years. The “Findons,” named
after the old home of the Miller family, was
originally a privately-owned pack, the pro-
perty of Hubert Miller’s father, the late
Albert Miller. The late Hubert Miller was
59 years of age, very handsome and a bache-
lor. He was part-owner of several proper-
ties in this State and in S. Australia, famous
for the breeding of good horses and the
growing of fine wool. He was a member
of Australia’s most exclusive clubs. With
his love for horseflesh he linked a keen appre-
ciation of music, and was particularly fond
of grand opera. His mother, Mrs. Albert
Miller, of Toorak, is one of this city’s lead-
ing patrons of the art that so intrigued her
son.
Eunice Garland, a young pianist whose
confidence in her technical equipment can
be gauged by the fact that she chose Schu-
mann’s “Etudes Symphonique” and Liszt’s
transcription of Bach’s Organ Fantasie and
Fugue for her d6but in a recital at the
Assembly Hall last week, made a very good
impression. With her teacher, Waldemar
Seidel, at a second piano, she gave a bril-
liant performance of the “Burleske” of
Bichard Strauss. The titian-haired player
wore a long gown of goblin-blue satin
w T ith yoke and bebe sleeves of fine cream lace.
The Queen Victoria Hospital heard the
bad news the other day of the intended
resignation of Mrs. Norman Brookes, who
has been the institution’s president for seven
years. The lady, who has been no mere figure-
head, will retain her position until the end of
the year. Through the energies of Mrs.
Brookes and her co-helpers over £llO,OOO
lias been put into the hospital’s building
fund. Though she feels she has earned a
rest, she has promised to help with future
activities.
The Gregan McMahon Players last week
presented a mirthful play, “This Woman
Business” by Benn W. Levy. There were
only two ladies in the cast, Joan Wisdom, a
housemaid in the black-and-white approved
in the best homes, and Joy Gwyn, a house-
maid pro tem., who on elevation to a secre-
taryship, put on a knitted sports suit of blue.
Madame Joy McArden is severing her con-
nection with the Uni. Con., and will return
to Paris next month. Dr. Demarquette, her
husband, is making an earlier start for home,
and will leave this week in the Nieuw Zee-
land, travelling by way of Java.


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5 / including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
3spi
j
Food
Nothing
so soothing
for Aged persons and Invalids
as Benger’s Food.
Doctors recommend a nightly
cup of Benger’s as the finest
thing to ensure a good night’s
rest.
Write for booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
U««d- TbJIDK MiW- „ ,
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.. MANCHESTER, Eng.
I ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel!
Homelike Hospitality!
k
Relax in the Grosvenor’s spacious
lounge. Complete comfort and cour-
teous service—reasonable rates. 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Yale locks on all
doors. Fire-proof throughout. Meals
a la carte from 1/6. £3/10/- weekly.
Bed and Breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis: In the coastal town of
Ulawarra •Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is hr ought up by Mary West,
who leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, hut is too
poor to enable him to take advantage of
the free education offering, and Jimmy
begins shovelling at C. J. (Prey and
Co.’s cokeworks, where he quickly
wins fame as a boxer. He also attracts
the interest of Basil Wellington, an
Oxford man who is running the local
’Guardian,” and who coaches him for
night school. At work one day
he sees Alma Grey and ideal-
ises her as the unattainable. He
meets her some time later, but the
fact that he is shovelling coke prevents
the girl’s father from encouraging
Jimmy, though Alma and her sister
and Mrs. Grey like him. Jimmy, who
has _ several of his verses published in
a city paper, the radical “Ishmaelitc,”
subsequently meets May Harland, a
bright, energetic girl, who has con-
verted Mrs. Blessington’s shop in Illa-
warra into a paying business, and
whom Mrs. West before her death,
had hoped he would marry. They
become intimate , but May declines to
marry him, telling him that she has
had other lovers and urging him to go
after his ideal girl. May goes to
Sydney,, and has begun a stage career
when Jimmy next meets her. Helped
by Wellington, Jimmy has decided
upon journalism as his life work, and
the work he does on a local mining
disaster eventually wins him a posi-
tion on a city paper, the “Times.”
CHAPTER XVIII.
JIMMY found the staff of the “Times” a
body of young men vastly different
from what he had expected. He had
looked forward to being the stranger,
the Daniel in a den of intellectual lions.
His first meeting with them gave him
no basis on which to allot them their
respective mental qualities. They seemed
to be much the same as any other body of
young men—his mates at the cokeworks,
the Ulawarra United Football team, the
boxers in Patsy Quirk’s camp at Ben
Buckler.
He heard no mention of the higher life;
no mention of poetry except a paean of
praise for Masefield from a lanky youth who
cried ecstatically “My word, how that cow
can write!”; no lofty criticism of the arts,
though a stumpy middle-aged man, whom
he found to be the dramatic critic, had
denounced the latest play as pure, unadul-
terated, adjectival tripe.
Neither did anybody seem to take the
policy of the “Times” seriously. He had
anticipated that his ideas would be resented
as revolutionary by the staff of a paper
which had always strenuously opposed
Labor. But the men he met scoffed openly
at the Liberals. He heard Charnwood, the
Liberal Premier—invariably held up by the
“Times” as a superman—accused of break-
ing his word in a particularly dishonorable
way and then telling a deliberate lie about
it. Nobody took the Premier’s part. The
only comment was from a quiet man who
had hitherto been silent; without ceasing
his writing or raising his head he demanded
with much profanity to know who would
be fool enough to take the word about any-
thing of a dirty dog like Charnwood.
Jimmy tried hard to ascertain what were
their views, individual or composite. They
scoffed at Labor and reviled some of its
leaders just as cheerfully. They seemed to
believe in nothing, to have been inflicted
with an overwhelming and comprehensive
agnosticism towards everything.
“You’re Packington, the new man; I’m
Westbury, the roundsman. I’ve got to show
you round.”
The speaker was a cheerful-looking man
of about twenty-five. Jimmy shook hands
with him. They took the car to the Central
Police Court. The news-editor had told
Jimmy he was to start there and had given
him about six sentences of instructions.
Westbury gave him a few more.
“Whatever you do don’t get prisoner and
prosecute* 1 mixed. If you say that the
brutal ruffian Smith garrotted the highly
respected businessman Jones and it turns
out that Smith is the businessman—what
ho, she bumps! Writ for five hundred.”
“But if Smith were a highly respected
business man everybody would know he
couldn’t be the garrotter,” argued Jimmy.
“Of course they would, but he’d swear
they didn’t, and get half the witnesses to
take their dying oath thej r thought he’d
started business with a bit of lead pipe.”
“I thought the ‘Times’ had all the business
people with them.”
“So they have in politics, but when there’s
a chance of collecting five hundred of the
best, it isn’t a political matter. And watch
hard for leaving ‘not’ in your copy—even
the old hands do that sometimes.”
Westbury told him to beware of certain
lawyers who would ask him to come out
and have a drink so that he might be absent
during the hearing of a case which they
were anxious should not reach print. It was
believed, he added, that they invariably
charged their clients £lO for squaring the
reporter in such cases. The experienced men
were wise to the dodge; but if they saw a
new man they’d be bound to try it on.
The court was a revelation to Jimmy. It
seemed like a theatre of real life and vastly
more interesting than the make-believe. Here
were tragedy, comedy, melodrama of the
most sensational sort, served up 'with the real
actors in front of you. Every case seemed
to be bursting with interest, even the bat-
tered old vagrant who made his pathetic
plea for mercy the account of his years
and his record of honesty; and the second
one who told almost precisely the same
story and was shown to be a hardened
ruffian of the worst type. Jimmy wrote alto-
gether about two columns, which he deliv-
ered to the sub-editor, according to instruc-
tions. The sub did not look up from his
desk.
“God’s truth!” he cried. “What’s all this?”
Jimmy discovered that while news-editors
are eternally hustling reportei-s to get copy,
there is nothing on earth which a sub-editor
hates more bitterly. Whenever you hand in
an item of more than five sides, the sub.
uses bad language.
“Either that new man of yours learns to
condense or I hand in my portfolio,” said
this one to the news-editor. “He can write,
that boy, and, my word, he wants to let
everybody know it. What do you think he
gave to the Central yesterday? Two columns
—two blooming columns.”
The news-editor laughed. “What sort of
stuff?”
“Pretty good,” admitted the sub. “Largely
sketch stuff. Would be fine copy for a
Sunday paper; but fancy two columns of
the Central for us!”
The news-editor explained to Jimmy the
difference between sketch stuff and reports.
He showed how old vagrants, however
pathetic the one and how very funny the
other, were not worth one line of agate in
the “Times.” He showed Jimmy how he
should simplify his work down to the bare
bones, until Jimmy began to wonder why
they paid reporters salaries at all. The work
seemed so easy.
In the afternoon he had to accompany
another junior reporter, Redan, to the
Sussex-street produce market and obtain the
prices. It was purely mechanical work, but
it required a certain amount of tact and
experience.
Jimmy was identified as a new reporter,
and in accordance with custom of the street
the produce men prepared to pelt him with
bad fruit. Unfortunately Jimmy happened
to turn just as the first man had his shot.
It was Roly Butler, a partner in one of the
big firms, but a man not averse to mixing
in with the crowd. He threw a banana
which caught Jimmy fair in the mouth.
Ignorant of the fact that this was only part
of the good-humored initiation ceremony
and really an honor to the newcomer, Jimmy
regarded it as an unprovoked and individual
assault. He bounded over, hooked Butler
under the ear and left him where he fell.
There were no other missiles thrown. Butler
was carried to his office. His partner wanted
to write to the proprietors of the “Times !
“I’m not that sort,” replied Butler. He
prided himself on being a sport who could
take a joke. “But it was a hell of a punch
he gave me,” he added as he rubbed his
ear. “I think I’ll go home.”
He told his wife that he had been knocked
down by a horse. She knew that was un-
true and suspected all sorts of things, prin-
cipally concerning wine and women.- Still,
she was apprehensive and wanted to send
for a doctor. Butler gave an adverse de-
cision, which saved him much trouble in
future, for the doctor would probably have
treated his injury. As it was, he returned
to Sussex-street with an ear as cauliflowery
as could be found in Patsy Quirk’s camp—
a disfigurement which reduced Mi’s. Butler
to tears, but of which Butler grew inordin-
ately proud when he saw the respect and
deference it brought.
In after years he was in the habit of
explaining it. “Yes, I got that from Pack-
ington, the chap who brought out Patsy
Quirk and fought him to a standstill when
he was an amateur.”
Jimmy found himself suddenly respected.
Learning of his ring experience. Redan gave
the news to the rest of the office. To his
astonishment Jimmy found that Patsy’s
medal—that golden vulgarity he had to wear
for friendship's sake—was the talisman
which admitted him to the holy of holies.
He was no longer the new man. He was
one of the boys.
CHAPTER XIX.
May was on tour with the company when
Jimmy moved to Sydney. She heard of his
good luck while they were showing in Auck-
land and sent a five-shilling cable of con-
gratulation. At the beginning of December,
by which time he had got into his stride and
was covering the Central and Sussex-street
and Sunday-night meetings with confidence,
she returned to start rehearsing for the pan-
tomime.
The musical director had stuck out for
May to be the Fairy Queen. “I don’t care
if you do lose her legs. You can get legs by
dozens; you can’t get a voice like that this
side of Melba.”
The producer compromised by providing
May with a costume which would permit
of neither of her qualifications being lost,
and had to face several unpleasant inter-
views with other ladies of the chorus who
deemed themselves entitled to the part by
seniority, voice and beauty.
Jimmy was doing the annual meeting of
the Theosophists the night the show opened.
He returned to the office anxious to know
how May had been received. When he had
written his own copy he found the dramatic
critic in another room, free from disturb-
ance. Jimmy intended to disturb him. He
crossed to his seat and saw the headings of
the first slip: “Fairy Queen Who Can Act.
Surprising Singing by New Principal.
Aladdin at the Odean.”
Jimmy thought it safer not to disturb
him; he was satisfied.
He caught May at the door of her board-
ing-house, just going in. She was very
excited and told how she had been twice
encored for each of her three songs, how
both the conductor and the managing direc-
tor had congratulated her at the close of
the show, and how two of the other girls
had walked past her on the stairs.
The evening papers didn’t wait for the
press agent to call. They rang up for por-
traits of May the first thing in the morn-
ing, for the critic of the “Record” had been
even more laudatory than the “Times” man.
May became the feature of the panto-
mime. The Principal Boy’s swaggering
jollity, the comedy work of the Dame and
the Learned Donkey, the marches of the
Amazons, the daintinesses of the ballets
pulled the usual pantomime pubfie May
pulled a section which seldom bothers about
pantomime. The musical crowd came to sit
back with its eyes closed and hearken to
her clear full voice.
There was much talk about her ability in
acting. The Fairy Queen is generally a girl
with a decent voice but an actress utterly
amateurish. Her duty is to keep the audi-
ence engaged while the scene-shifters pre-
pare for the next set. May brought applause
from people who were quite incapable of
realising the quality of her voice.
“It isn’t that she really shows any ability
in acting,” said the critic to Jimmy,
“although I said she did. But she makes
people think she does, and acting, after all,
is largely a matter of Christian Science. It’s
the wonderful personality of the girl, her
beauty and the way she smiles and the
quaint little laugh she has. They all count
up until I’m damned if I’m sure myself at
the end whether she can’t act.”
May had been earning applause and
flowers nightly for a week when a professor
of music on a visit from Melbourne went
to hear her. Next,day he wrote an indig-
nant letter to the “Times” asking if Sydney
was so blind to art that it intended permit-
ting this wonderful girl to ruin her voice
in a pantomime company. He concluded
by a reference to pearls and swine and im-
plied that, if she had appeared in Mel-
bourne, public appreciation would have
taken a form more valuable to her future.
The Lord Mayor of Sydney, fearful of
the hated city of the South, rang up several
of the leading musical people that morn-
ing and, as a result, convened a public
meeting for three days later. At that meet-
ing £3OO-odd was raised by subscription to
further the musical education of this new
songbird, and it was decided to hold live
concerts to further the same object, with
the view to defraying the cost of
training in Paris.
The first concert in Sydney Town Hall
was an immense success. Jimmy was wildly
excited and would have done anything, short
of neglecting his own work, to be present,
despite the fact that May sang what he
termed “Songs without Tunes.” The audi-
ence thought differently and May was over-
whelmed with flowers.
“Isn’t it great, Jimmy?” she gasped when
he could snatch five minutes’ conversation
with her, for May was a difficult person to
meet now. “I wish you could have seen
me. I wore my mascot —the Five Islands
brooch.”
From Melbourne, she wrote: “Oh Jimmy,
it all seems like a dream. I’ll wake up soon
and find somebody hammering on the coun-
ter and calling ‘Milk-shake, please.’ I
only hope it’s you, Jimmy.”
Melbourne, always more enthusiastic than
Sydney, became frenzied. The Town Hall
was crowded and five thousand people were
outside waiting to catch a glimpse of the
new singer.
Reports from Adelaide were just as satis-
factory; so were the repeat performances
in Melbourne and Sydney.
May had arrived. The concerts had
returned a sum ample to compromise with
the Sydney teacher and keep her going dur-
ing her course of three years in Paris. A
month later she left by the express to catch
the mailboat a.t Adelaide. There was a
big demonstration on the platform when
musical Sydney was surprised and the critics
of the newspapers were astounded to see
May single out an athletic-looking young
man and kiss him rapturously before she
climbed on the platform.
“Packington distinguished himself to-
night,” said the musical, critic when he
returned to the office. “He was the star
item of the Harland send-off—the girl
stepped out and kissed him, full measure
and a bit for luck, before the whole crowd.”
“That’s good copy. Don’t forget it. Leave
Packington’s name out, of course,” replied
the sub.
Jimmy became more highly respected
among the newspaper men of Sydney than
he dreamed. To be the holder of a huge


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
m
mi
New “ Room
Only” Rates
The
Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
Reduced Tariff
Single Room ... .. .. from 12/ per day
Double Room . . . . . . from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet . . . . . . from 2I /- per day
Double Room with Private Bath and
Toilet . . . . . . from 30/- per day
Breakfast,
2/- and 3/6; and a la carte.
Luncheon a.nd Dinner,
d la carte in Grill Room, minimum 4/-;
d la carte in Dining Hall, minimum 5/-.
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Telegraphic Address-.
“Austraotcl, Sydney.”
gold medal from no less a notability than
Patsy Quirk acknowledging him to be his
pugilistic godfather placed him among the
elect, but when he was enthusiastically
kissed in public by Australia’s favorite
daughter he stood with the Brahmins them-
selves.
That medal and that kiss proved of
greater value to him in his work than he
ever guessed. People began to know Jimmy
Packington. They were bothered when they
heard there was a reporter at the door wish-
ing to question them on behalf of the
“Times.” When they found the reporter to
be the eminent person whose name was
closely acquainted with thick ears and lus-
cious lips they were proud to ask him in
and prouder still to tell their friends about
his visit.
Jimmy delivered to the “Times” office
journalistic goods which he would have
sought in vain but for his ready fist in
Sussex-street and May’s ready embrace on
the Central station.
CHAPTER XX.
The next three years proved the most
interesting period of Jimmy’s life. Work
was one continuous succession of adventures.
He wondered at times why the sons of the
idle rich, instead of hunting tigers in India
or moose in the Rockies, did not pay large
sums to newspaper proprietors to permit
them the privilege of joining their importing
staffs.
The hours were long, certainly; the work
alternated between the strenuous life super-
heated, alembicated, raised to the nth power
and stretches of idleness, which seemed to
bring him within operation of the Vagrancy
Act so beloved by Sergeant Dunn. And
even these rare periods of loafing did not
give the time to him to use as he liked.
He had to be one of those who serve by
standing and waiting. With the exception
of an hour or two daily, his waking life was
given up wholly and solely to the office.
But the chains of his servitude pressed on
his neck like a velvet collar. This was his
life. “This is the life for me,” he sang.
He had been promoted from the Central,
which he was loath to leave, so varied were
the dramas played before him in this evil-
smelling theatre, to the rounds, where he
became so intimate with real live detectives
that they called him Jimmy and he called
them Mick and Jacko.
He acquired a personal acquaintance with
the aristocracy of disorder—those with
records of first-class crime, to whom was
applied the term “good men.” He had
chaffed murderers, swapped humorous stories
with burglars and learned the sentimental
side of the garrotter’s life. More than that,
he had found sermons in the stones which,
it is generally believed, such men possess
in place of hearts.
Jimmy grew to . realise his love of
humanity; what he never realised was that
love of humanity is possibly the best asset
a journalist can possess —the asset which
raises him from the journeyman to the
master tradesman.
Later he was taken off the rounds for a
spell of general work. He added to his list
of acquaintances in a way sometimes em-
barrassing ; for instance, when an archbishop
stopped him in the street as he was con-
versing with the best taleteller in the Com-
monwealth—a man revered wherever the
King’s writ rang irregularly. Jimmy had
to introduce them, but warned the tale-
teller subsequently that he must make no
professional use of the incident—an under-
taking which, with the pride of his caste, the
man honorably kept. Jimmy found leading
politicians less punctilious.
By the time he was twenty-four Jimmy
was as welcome in the stately homes of
Darling Point as in the places near old
Paddy’s Market, where you could still smoke
opium or play spotted cow. He was a man
of value to the “Times,” which had ad-
vanced his salary—possibly owing to the
“Record” having angled for him—to eight
pounds weekly by the end of his fourth
year.
Jimmy had kept in touch with Illawarra
as well 'as he could. He saw Wellington
occasionally when he went down or the
editor came to Sydney. Now and again he
received a letter from May. He had been
able to use three-parts of one when the
cable arrived in the “Times” office announc-
ing her triumphant debut at the Opera
Comique, Paris, as Madame Illara—llia-
warra was too long, she wrote to Jimmy.
Since then she had played a season at
Covent Garden and was now on her Ameri-
can tour after an opening season at the
Manhattan.
The New York “World” had given May a
double page in its Sunday supplement, with
an immense illustration, showing her shoot-
ing the surf during her trip to Hawaii,
under the main heading “Diva and Diver,
too.” The American had announced her
engagement to a Balkan prince whom
she had met at Los Angeles, with a
picture of her sitting on the throne with a
masked anarchist lurking in the background,
bomb in hand. The Chicago “Tribune”
described how May had gone to the engineer
of her train at Butte, Montana, and shaken
hands with him, making the president of
the line disorganise the time-table that she
might yarn with the man in dungaree.
This was generally regarded as a press-
agent stunt, but Jimmy recognised the name
of the engineer. He was an old Illawarra
boy. He knew the story to be true. It was
May all over.
Jimmy had seen Patsy fight his way to
fame. Since the discovery of his own prow-
ess in the ring, the “Times” had assigned
him to do the fights. Patsy had made
wonderful progress. His rough corners had
been rubbed off and his work was finished.
He had obtained confidence. Now his binvs
were delivered with the unerring reckless-
ness which the master hand displays in all
the arts. He had beaten every man put up
against him, some of the earlier adversaries
on points, but by the knock-out route when-
ever they were foolhardy enough to dare a
return match.
Patsy had gone to America and in his first
fight, against a good second-rater in Nevada,
he had settled the matter by the first punch.
He did the same thing on his second appear-
ance in New Orleans, a.nd the title “One-
“Jimmy regarded it as an un-
provoked assault. He bounded
over, hooked Butler under the
ear and left him where he fell.”
punch Patsy,” given him by some imagina-
tive newspaper man, had stuck to him and
appeared in brackets after his name in the
record book.
Bert Burnett had retired from tram-con-
ducting when an offer to join a vaudeville
show followed his winning of the first prize
on an amateur night. Bert was a poor
singer; he had a saw-like voice, but it could
carry, and he had the intelligence to give
effect to the nibbishy comic songs he sang.
It was not his singing but his facial contor-
tions which won him place and pay.
The audience at the amateur night had
refused to let him leave the stage. The
management offered him four pounds a
week and he collected fares no more. He
was a boom. People shrieked as he twisted
his nose and flapped his ears. He stuck out
for bigger money and got it. In a year he
had saved enough to accept the advice of
those who told him to go to England.
At Manchester he proved the hit of the
music-halls, and, when Drury-lane panto-
mime was being got into readiness the man-
agement secured “The Man with the India-
rubber Face” at a salary of £lOO weekly.
Bert held to that salary. He was still show-
ing at the Pavilion, and London showed no
sign of tiring of him after a season of
eight months.
Stan Carlisle was still in Sydney and
Jimmy saw a lot of him. Stan had come up
to study drawing as an aid to his father’s
business of sign-writing and house-painting.
He was found by his instructors to possess a
skill with his pen and an artistic sense
which were far above house-painting. They
prevailed upon him to starve a little longer,
rather than return to a decent wage at
Illawarra
Occasionally he sold drawings to “The
Ishmaelite” and other weeklies. More often
he prepared for advertisers pictures extolling
their wares. At one time, when he was very
low financially, he took on a job of stencii-
ling potato bags. Then the second cartoonist
of “The Ishmaelite” inherited some money
and determined to devote himself to serious
art, and Stan was appointed to the vacancy,
at the lower end of the artistic staff, return-
ing £8 weekly. Since that date he had
nearly doubled his earnings.
Jimmy did not understand the indefinite
line which divides the artist from the
student. He thought that there was some
examination to pass before the artist was
permitted to practice. It was his questioning
of Stan on the subject which revealed the
utter ignorance of Jimmy on all things
artistic. He took Jimmy in hand to intro-
duce him to a body of the most extra-
ordinary young men he had ever met. They
wore huge ties and talked incessantly about
tone values and other things of which
Jimmy could not even guess the meaning.
Despite his ignorance, Jimmy had a good
sense of form, and he failed to understand
why some work which was quite obviously
ill-drawn should be good and some other
which was perfect in outline should be
classed as tripe.
Not that these youths were unanimous
in their judgments. He had seen a most
willing fight one night at Stan s studio
between two who differed on the question
whether “line” or “tone” was the more
effective. From an academic debate, it
grew to a babel of personalities and bad
language, terminating in the clearing of the
easels and chairs and a ding-dong battle,
Jimmy, by reason of his exalted rank in the
game, was appointed referee. Stan cleaned
up by placing old newspapers over the blood-
stains on the floor and the function went
on as if nothing had happened,
“That’ll teach the cow to be a bit more
care ful how he talks about tone again,”
observed the victor as they descended the
stairs.
" ’
CHAPTER XXI.
T . . .
’ J ™ m y a ™ ed more about art and artists,
earnec ie meaning of the line theie
P 1?* 3 and ) slxt Y ways of constructing
tnbal lays and every single one of them is
He also learned that, outside art,
artists differ as much in their essentials and
111l 11 eir superficial as ordinary people. He
had never regarded Stan Carlisle as an
artist first and a man afterwards; but he;
was Stan Carlisle, a mate ol Ins, who liap-
to become an artist by the possession
of . « ei o tain faculties After he went to batch
with Stan at his city flat in Hamilton-stree.,
ie .began to realise that all the lest ol the
artists were human beings who had become
ai 't ls ts m the same way.
Later it dawned upon him that all the
other sections into which humanity is
divided, national, professional, social, re~
ligious, are powerless to do more than
veneer the personality of the individual
beneath.
Jimmy received his first shock when one
day he went to interview Tennyson, presi-
dent of the Employers’ Federation. Such a
functionary had always stood as the limit
in unscrupulous power, the anti-Christ, the
ogre who grinds men’s bones to make him
bread.
Jimmy expected to be treated with the
courtesy befitting the representative of a
grea t daily which espoused the cause of
the Federation and which, in fact, was part
0 f in its business capacity, but he was
totally unprepared to meet the good-
natured, genial, liberal-minded gentleman
w h o took him into his confidence and was
extremely critical about sundry politicians
0 f b i s own side, at the same time not omit-
tjng to say a good word for two or three
of big most bitter political and industrial
opponents,
( Continued on page 45.)


Missing Friends.
ELIZABETH CROUCH (nee Steers). In-
•*“* formation as to above (who left England
for Australia about 1883) or her descen-
dants is required. Address —THEODORE
REEL & CO., Solicitors, Epsom, Surrey,
England.
RAVOVAC
Flashlights « Batteries « Radio Tubes
o
Buy the Best
Less Often
There is no economy in
buying inexpensive and
badly made Electric
Torches and Batteries.
The less you pay the
oftener you purchase
the batteries.
RAY-O-VAC Flashlights
and Batteries are made
by one of the oldest
makers of these goods.
They are the best ob-
tainable.
New Rotomatic Switch
absolutely prevents the
light ever being rorned
on accidentally. Ray-O-
VAC is the only flashlight
madewith the ROTO-
MATIC Switch
Your nearest distributor
will gladly show you the
complete line.
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821. G.P.0.,
Melbourne. Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
... CHICAGO U.S.A. ..
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
A Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO DAISY CORAL MeGUFFIE formerly of Hobart
in Tasmania but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has issued out
of this Court citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of Harold Haston Ernest McGuffie for dis-
solution of his marriage with you on the ground of
desertion AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
unless within thirty days from the publication
hereof you cause an Appearance to be entered m
the said Court to answer the said Petition AND
unless you attend at the said Court in person or by
your Solicitor at the hearing of the said Petition the
Court will proceed to hear the said charge proved
and pronounce sentence your absence notwithstanding.
Dated this tenth day of September, 1930.
A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
1 GISBORNE DISTRICT.
In Divorce.
No. 243.
TO JAMES LEWIS formerly of Wellington Aerated
Water Bottler and now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Gis-
borne citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of Jessie Camelia Lewis of Puha near Gisborne afore-
said your wife wherein she prays for a Divorce from
you on the grounds that you have wilfully deserted
her without just cause and left her continuously so
deserted for three years and upwards namely from
the month of October 1906 down to the present time
and such citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition and to pronounce sentence therein not-
withstanding’ your absence. NOW' THEREFORE
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within THIRTY DAYS after the date of this
publication to attend in person or by yopr Solicitor
at the Supreme Court Office at Gisborne aforesaid
and there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court at
any stage of the proceedings. A copy of the said
citation and petition will be supplied to you on
your applying for the same at the Supreme Court
Office Gisborne New Zealand.
Dated at Gisborne New Zealand this 3rd day of
September, 1930.
(1.5.) 11. G. JAMIESON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
GOMER BRADLEY SMITH is the Solicitor for the
Petitioner, whose address for service is at Lowe
Street, Gisborne, New Zealand.
e
CHINA
Perpetual charm
strength and quality of
English Bone China maintain
its lustre after long use, and it
withstands handling that would
be fatal to less noble ware. Thus
the lovely Shelley China does not
perish or deteriorate: rather, it
develops added charm and dis-
tinction with the passing of the
years. Slow, careful Shelley
craftsmanship is not used in
vain. Look at the ware !
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
i>u Lucie Attwell
6-nILDA CoWHAM
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
OBTAINING
232.CI.ARBNCE *T.
jkj
RURAL j§L BANK
(Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.)
Head Office, 48-50 Martin Place, Sydney-
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
opened for Individuals, Firms, Companies and Institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS
accepted at the following rates: —
No limit to amount. Interest commences from date of deposit.
192 BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE STATE.
The Little Sisters
Lemon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The synod has been sitting and the Bishop
of Adelaide and Mrs. Nutter Thomas gave
their usual two garden parties on Friday and
Saturday, when the country clergy were
present in force. The host and hostess
received on the lawn, and afternoon tea was
served in the dining-room.
Football finals always shrink the attend-
ance at races this month, and their effect
was noticeable at the Port Adelaide Club’s
meeting at Cheltenham. Dr. A. V. Benson
and his wife entertained at afternoon tea,
Mrs. Benson in a smart brown tweed tailored
suit, with a brown felt hat. The changeable
weather caused the frocking to vary from
chiffons to fur coats. A £52 dividend proved
a joy for a few. General and Mrs. Phillips,
over from Melbourne on a visit, met many
old friends. Always a smart-frocker, Mrs.
Phillips looked well in a black marocain
flecked with white, and wore a small black
felt hat.
This photo
shows young
Lawrence
Power, son of
Mr. and Mrs.
N. Power, of
North Adel-
aide. Five
years at
Milan as the
pupil of Maes-
tro Mario
Pieraccini has
made him Lor-
enzo Poerio, a
recognised star
in grand
opera. His
voice is a
lyric tenor of
beautiful
quality.
A quiet wed-
ding was cele-
brated by Rev.
W. H. Irwin at St. Peter’s College Chapel
on Wednesday between Dr. Ronald Verco,
son of Dr. W. A. Verco, and Ethel, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Tolmer, of Wood-
side. Only immediate relatives were pre-
sent.
The success of the dance given by the
Mount Osmond Country Club last July has
induced the committee to issue invitations
for another festivity on September 25. This
will be in the nature of a welcome home to
the president (E. W. Holden) and his wife,
who have been touring England and America.
The members are all young married people.
Margery Lawrence, an English lady
lawyer, who came from England to prac-
tise in Adelaide, returns to London by the
Cormorin. She has been the guest of Lady
Moulden while in Australia.
The Mayoress (Mrs. Lavington Bonython)
has issued invitations to meet Rear-Admiral
Kayser and the officers of the Netherlands
squadron at the Town Hall on Friday next.
Lingerie, brassieres and hosiery, arranged
as a spectacular parade, with dancing and
musical ballet items thrown in, are drawing
a large crowd of women inside the Theatre
Royal, and an equally large crowd of men
outside.
The September Show is bringing a host of
country cousins to the city.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The highly-strung of Brisbane have entered
protests against the City Hall chimes, declar-
ing they cannot sleep o’ nights because of
them. Some are even seeking legal advice
as to whether what they regard as a nuis-
ance can be abated, so it is likely that Bris-
bane will soon be chimeless again. Yet there
are hospital patients who say they like the
musical notes that divide the long watches
of the night.
At the. Niel-street Methodist Church,
Toowoomba, Richard Dawes married
Dorothy V. Peak. The bride, given away
by her father, was in ivory Tosca net and
a broidered Brussels net veil. Marie Peak
’maided in dawn-pink silk net. Clifford
Annand was best man. The feasting was at
the bride’s home, the wedding breakfast being
served in a marquee on the lawn.
There was beautiful weather for the races
at Ascot, where the cineraria blossom in
purple and rose and the mauve bougainvil-
laea are at their best. Lady Goodwin was
in a grey tailor-made with a pastel-pink
vest, and leaf-brown hatter’s-plush hat with
a stone-marten necklet. Mrs. N. A.. H.
Campbell and Mrs. E. K. Tully, who were
with her Ex., wore respectively golden brown
crepe de Chine with stone-colored coat and
hat, and black satin with touches of Alice-
blue on the hat and brown fox furs. The
Blair lady was in black and ivory. Several
teas were given on the committee-room
verandah.
The Centennial Hall, once Brisbane’s
chief concert hall, comes under the hammer
this month. Memories of many well-known
artists linger about it. The Liedertafel
(now the Apollo Club) always had its con-
certs here, and the hall housed the first
movies ever shown in Brisbane.
Glorious weather on Friendly Societies’
Day sent many cars up to Tambourine Moun-
tain, where the yellow dogwood and the
snowbush are in full bloom,- and one may see
nut-winged pheasants and flights of brilliant
parrots.
At St. Augustine’s, Hamilton, Canon Arm-
strong tied the knot for Dr. Gerald Ander-
son and Flora Harkness. The bride was
given away by her father in ivory mariette,
with a veil of ivory French-embroidered net.
Joan and Ruth Anderson ’maided in orange
and primrose ninon respectively. Bruce
Skipper was best man. The reception was
at the Harkness home, Old Sandgate-road.
A motor tour in the South is the honeymoon.
News comes from Canada of the marriage
of the Rev. H. W. Dart, formerly of South
Brisbane, to Elsie England, of Bangalore,
India.
The Westminster Glee Singers had an
enthusiastic farewelling audience in the City
Hall. The Mayor and Mrs. Jolly were there
with a party of guests; so were me Godfrey
Morgans and many of the clergy. The Brans-
combes went on an otf night to see “Harmony
in the Home” by the Nellie Bramley company.
“Eliza Comes to Stay” is Nellie’s current
offering, with musical numbers by Lou Ver-
non, Vera St. John and William Raymond.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Mayor and Ross McDonald did the
handshakes at the station when the Hore-
Ruthvens arrived for a five days’ visit to
our Exes. Aides-de-camp Davidson-Hous-
ton and Tetley, from our own Government
House, are on their way to London via
Sydney.
To mark the 12th anniversary of the
death of Lord Forrest the Historical Society
and the King's Park Board gathered their
members in King’s Park, where a few
speeches were delivered around the bronze
statue. The rain held off, but skidding clouds
ran races across the sun’s face and a bitter
wind whirled a frothy surface on the blue
river beneath.
The marriage of Faith Flintoff and Alex.
Williams took place in the Guildford Gram-
mar School Chapel. Hand-embroidered
French lace fashioned the bride’s beautiful
w r edding veil and simply cut frock with its
wee puff sleeves. H'er bouquet was of snow-
drops, white carnations and daffodils. Two
’maids followed up the aisle in primrose
moire and shady crinoline hats. Toasts were
honored at the Flintoff home in Mt Lawley,
whence the pair set out for a Sydney honey-
moon.
The engagement is announced of Moosie
Butcher and Dr. Tom Seed. Wedding bells
will chime in November.
Though the Consul for the Netherlands,
Maurice Edwards, knows not a word of
Dutch he is just the man to givp the visiting
squadron a good time. The Dutch cruiser
Java and the destroyers Evertson and De
Ruijter have arrived here for five days, and
between civic receptions and official calls
many jollos have been planned. On the day
of the squadron’s arrival a bevy of girls
motored some of the officers out to Lake
Karrinyup for golf and dancing, but there
was more dancing than golf. Although Hol-
land is sometimes claimed as the cradle
of the game, the modern Netherlander sets
no great store by it.
Temple Court was about one quarter full
for the Industries Ball. There were very
few fancy costumes or posters, and a number
of invited members of the Netherlands
squadron turned up to find a shortage of
partners. Some were absorbed by various
loge parties, whose men abandoned dancing
in their favor.
The Karrakatta Club hall was packed
with an enthusiastic audience at the pre-
sentation of “In a Persian Garden,” Liza
Lehmann’s song-cycle inspix-ed by Fitz-
gerald’s “Rubaiyat.” Desma Eastmon and
Beth Johnston, clad respectively in flame
chiffons and white satin, George Haywood
and Theo Meugens sang the old Persian’s
philosophy, and Daisy Main helped con-
siderably with her excellent accompaniment.
Songs by Beth Johnston and Theo Meugens,
splendid piano offerings by Evelyn Willis
and Keith Cummings’ violin filled the first
half of the programme. Mrs. Mervyn Grif-
fith, president of the club, wore black lace
and sat with their Exes, and the Hore-
Ruthvens. Among others present were Mrs.
Archie Burt, Ivittie Gillies, Dr. and Mrs.
Carter, Mrs. Bunning and a daughter, Mrs.
S. J. Anderson, Mrs. W. 11. Vincent and
Mrs. George Haywood.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This is J. Scott Power, our city organist.
Glasgow was his birthplace, and there he
received hi s
musical train-
in g. Aft e r
having. filled
the positions of
assist ant-
organist at St.
Mary’s Cath-
edral, Glas-
gow, and of
organist at
the Ilyndland
parish church,
he came to
T a s s y in
search of
health, and he
found it. He
has made
numerous ap-
pearances as
solo pianist at
concerts, and
has a large
circ 1 e o f
pupils: liis monthly organ recitals at the
Cathedral are an education. Photo by J.
Burgess Watt, Hobart.
What with the Wattle Ball, Wattle Day
and the wattle blossom on the foothills of
the mountain, and in public reserves and pri-
vate gardens, there’s quite a golden tinge in
our little grey city. The ball, held at the Con-
tinental under his Ex.’s personal patronage,
was engineered by the Old Hobartians. The
result of the appeal on Wattle Day, though
not quite as good as in some former years,
was up to expectations.
In the race for hunters at Newnham
Molly Bennett scored another success with
her horse Beau, ridden by Donald Gibson.
President Lance Archer presented the
trophies. In the throng were the Alfred Ben-
netts. the G. R. Fields, Mrs. G. Gibson, Mr.
and Mrs. H. W. L. von Steiglitz, the Rupert
Agnews, the P. H. Harrissons, Mr. and Mrs.
Alec Boyes, the Geoff Martins tie Jack
Archers, the E- K. Fields, Mrs. T. G. John
stone, Mr. and Mrs. R. Green, Winnie Gib
son, Jean Wilson, Mary Gunn, the Herbert
Dowlings, Mrs. W. R. Bennett and daughter
Beryl, the John Fosters, Dorothy Foster, the
Ewan Camerons and Mrs. Crosby Lyne.
His Ex. opened the 27th annual Exhibi-
tion of the Arts and Crafts Society at the
Town Hall and had much to say about the
native arts and crafts of other countries,
particularly Russia. There seems to be scope
for more design and application than we
show at present, though Mrs. Eayne s
wood-carving and Miss Poynter s and Miss
Mace’s pottery were quite distinctive. Some
of the needlecraft was attractive, and one
exhibitor of 91 years showed a beautitully-
made raffia-basket.
Mrs. Gibson, Mrs. John Hungerford, the
Walter Gellibrands, Mrs. Waugh and her
sister Miss M. Webster are among visitors
to Europe who are turning their faces home-
wards.
Hubert Lewis, second son of knight
Elliott Lewis, has returned to Hobart to
enter the family firm, after some years
practice of law in Burnie..
Artist Lily Allport is returning to her
native island, probably for good, early next
year. Her work has won good notices in
London and Paris. Latterly she has occu-
pied herself with woodcuts as a change from
oils and water-colors. Just now she is tour-
ing Norway with her sister Mary.
Mrs. Ronald Dick starts homeward this
month, via America, after a year’s European
tour with her young son and daughter. H i
book “Huon Belle” is in the publisher’s
hands.


W. JNO.
BAKER,
3 HUNTER
STREET,
SYDNEY
i
77—Quality and Finish,
Extra Full Hollow
Ground. Black handle.
First-class in every
respect.
■Jin. wide 8/6
gin. wide 8/6
Jin. wide 10/-
-Jin. wide 10/6
lin. wide 11/6
TOE and FINGER NAIL NIPPERS.
made in U.S.A.
3347. Barbers’
Scissors; very fine
quality and finish.
Nickelplated.
7Jin.' overall, each,
■ 8/6
Bin. overall, each,
9/6
84in. overall, each,
9/6
Black Enamel Bows
Bin., each, 7/6
N 25 —W. Jno. Baker
Nail Nippers, highest
quality steel, finely
finished, nickelplated;
11/6 each.
Nail Nipper,
Nickelplated, 4Jin.
overall, 7/6 each.
No. 1
No. I.—Corn Plane,
drawn about half-
size, 3/3 each.
Post Free.
No. 2. —Corn Knife,
made of surgical
steel, 4/6 each.
Post Free.
Made in England.
2092.—Patent Hair Clippers, Nickelplated,
with Regulating Plates, to cut three different
lengths, 17/- each, complete, post free. These
Clippers are Simple, Durable and Powerful.
Clean Cutting and Comfortable to the hand.
9X1 —Finest quality and finish, 31 in. Stag
Haft, 10/6 each. Post Free.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
k
MCDOWELLS
SECOND SHIPMENT OF THE FAMOUS
£dborLQiamondmc
PHONOGRAPHS
WILL ALSO PLAY ANY NEEDLE RECORDS
jkjkjk
jk
Gjht £s7 'lo'o
Schubert Model
Known the World over
: j .- - v
s
■ ::il
i
far
EVERY
VK» PURCHASER
7&J &foon Records
<27z Extra
Tle£dh Speaker
fin DIA ivND &CiUa£l(t iviuWtL
Is beautifully constructed in high-grade
timber. It is an Edison, and there is no
more to sav.
£57/10/- Value.
SPECIAL PRICE £2l
We have also in stock the FAMOUS
BEETHOVEN MODEL.
80 guineas Value.
SPECIAL PIITCE £29/15/-
Priees quoted F. 0.8. Sydney.
MCDOWELLS
jk
KING# GEORGE STS
“I didn’t expect to hear you say anything
nice about Labor men,” hazarded Jimmy.
The representative of Big Business smiled.
“No, it isn’t often I do and not then for
publication. But those I mentioned are men
whose word can be taken. I don’t care how-
hard they'- fight me if they’ll keep then-
word; and when any of those chaps say a
thing will be done you can rely on it that
it will be done. I know there’s faults on
both sides. Look at that strike at Billister
and Co.’s. It was dirt they did to the men,
went right back on the spirit of their agree-
ment, and between ourselves I was mighty
glad when the union beat them.”
Jimmy left him marvelling. He saw much
of Tennyson during the next three months
and grew to like him as a man. He seemed
to possess Dalgety’s determination to play
the game at whatever cost to himself, and
at the same time to fight with all the
strength of his big right arm against any
encroachment, social or political, on the
part of the worker.
His attitude seemed strangely illogical to
Jimmy, who felt that, while scrupulously
fair in the details, he was unable to appre-
ciate the overwhelming unfairness of the
principles for which he fought.
As they grew to be better acquainted,
Jimmy told his own views and asked Tenny-
son how he reconciled his apparently con-
tradictory attitudes. Tennyson smiled in-
dulgently.
“You’re young and enthusiastic,” he said.
“I don’t blame anybody for being enthu-
siastic whatever his age may be, for that
matter. But I’m not so one-eyed as you
think. I’m not ignorant of your case. I’ve
read up Socialism and Communism and
Syndicalism, even Anarchism, and I honestly
don’t believe any one of them would work.
“You people talk about the capitalist
as if he was always an investor living on
rents and dividends.. I can tell you there
aren’t ten per cent, of them doing that; and,
even the ones who do a.re at the mercy of
the others. The average so-called capitalist
works hard. You’re not one of the bigots
who think there’s nothing in organisation,
that any old man can organise. You know
that organisation’s a business in itself and
a mighty complicated business, too —a mix-
ture of a fanc3'-dress ball, a factory and a
battle. The modern capitalist works at
organisation, and if he slacks—just a trifle—
somebody else is in taking his profits.
Armour’s in Chicago boast that the pigs
carry all their profits in their tails—that
it’s only the fraction of meat in the pig’s
tail that represents the profit the firm makes.
A manager one hundredth per cent, less
efficient means that Armour’s will be
stocking Manx pigs.
“Look here, you Socialists don’t give us
credit for many virtues, but you don’t
think we’re fools or spendthrifts, do you?”
“Far from it,” smiled Jimmy.
“Well, do you think the Steel Trust paid
Charles Schwab £50,000 a year for fun?
They paid it because they couldn’t get
another man to do the same work as well
for £40,000. Some of your crowd down in
the Domain think that a business runs
itself. The Syndicalists, talk of taking over
an industry, as if it was buying a dozen
laying hens.”
“But the profits are too large,” protested
Jimmy. “Look at what the workpeople
have to live on.”
“Now we’ll get right home,” retorted
Tennyson. “Take any of our big busi-
nesses—Broken Hill Proprietary, for in-
stance. Just you reckon up how many men
they employ, directly and indirectly, take
the amount they cut up in dividends and
distribute it among the workers. It’s only
a little sum in division, but you’ll find that
the men won’t get five bob more a week all
round assuming the same efficient manage-
ment was continued; and, from what I
know of State management, I don’t think
it’d be long before they were getting about
five bob less than they do to-day.”
They had many talks. Jimmy was just
as insistent in the assertion of his beliefs
as the other, and they became firm friends
without either conceding a hair’s-breadth
or gaining one point.
His surprise at the personal qualities of
the commercial magnate was eclipsed in
the case of the Rev. P. D. Francis, the
Anglican pastor attached to a ramshackle,
old hall in one of the noisome streets of
Surry Hills.
Jimmy hated parsons on principle, being
firmly convinced that they were part and
parcel of the general scheme of exploita-
tion which started when the chief of the
tribe first secured the co-operation of the
witch-smeller to bluff subjects, restive
under the demand for unearned cocoanuts;
the Church of England Jimmy hated most
of all, because he felt that its base of rob-
bery was strengthened by a buttress of
snobbery.
He found the Rev. P. D. Francis work-
ing like a navvy. He was dressed in an
old shirt and an older pair of trousers,
shifting a load of galvanised-iron- roofing
to the rear of the hall.
“Sorry we hadn’t time to get the red
carpet out across the footpath,” laughed
the parson through his dusty face. “The
'Times’ ought to let us know when we have
to receive distinguished visitors.”
This was something new in parsons,
thought Jimmy. Within ten minutes he
had forgotten that the Rev. P. D. Francis
was a parson at all. Unlike others Jimmy
had met, he did not carry his pulpit manner
into private life; his remarks did not seem
to be pieces cut out of a sermon- he spoke
quickly, forcibly, directly, gaining his
points, uncaring whether he split infinitives
or ended sentences with prepositions. He
had a sense of humor. He was violent,
and Jimmy saw the fire of the fanatic light
his eye when he spoke of suffering, of
oppression, of injustice. But there was no
religious fanaticism about the man. Jimmy
never heard him mention a word of religion
as he stood there in his shirt sleeves telling
stories of his work in the Underworld, in
which tragedy and comedy and pathos were
woven into a fabric appalling in its vivid
coloring.
Jimmy went to see him regarding a
crusade he was conducting against the sly-
grogseller. When he was marked for the
job, Jimmy had little enthusiasm about it.
He looked upon the sly-grogseller as an
individual who did little actual harm, his
patrons being a crowd of disreputable ruf-
fians and dipsomaniacs not worth consider-
ing.
Francis opened Jimmy’s eyes. He took
him round the slum quarter in which his
headquarters stood. He pointed out homes
—if such they could be called—whose desola-
tion and despair could be traced directly to
the presence of the sly-grogshop. He led
Jimmy among the frowsy crowd which
assembled nightly at his soup kitchen and
from some of them Jimmy heard his facts
at first hand.
Jimmy was no longer apathetic. He
burned with an indignation, greater than
that of the clergyman himself, for the sting
was more keen to a heart not strengthened
by experience to sustain such blows.
When he was at the Central, Jimmy had
often thought that a fine of £5O for selling
a bottle of beer on unlicensed premises
was excessive. That opinion changed.
He plunged into the work with ardor. He
cross-questioned Francis and the men in
his soup kitchen, followed up the clues
they gave him and contrived to gain admit-
tance to one of the drinking dens himself.
When, he had collected all his facts, he
wrote a series of articles which caused Fran-
cis to send him a letter of congratulation
and grip him by the hand when they next
met.
“It’s fine, it’s grand,” cried the parson.
“You’ve done a real Christian service.”
“I’m afraid it’s hardly that,” said Jimmy,
“for I don’t happen to be a Christian. I’m
an unbeliever.”
He half expected that Francis would be
shocked by the confession; but the parson
didn’t wince.
“What you believe doesn’t .matter a scrap;
it’s what you do that rhakes a Christian,”
he said. “You’re one and you don’t know
it; and, if you ask me, an unconscious
Christian’s worth a dozen of the class-con-
scious ones.”
“Isn’t that heresy or some awful ecclesias-
tical offence?” laughed Jimmy. “I’m afraid
you’d never be a bishop.”
“I hope to Heaven I never will when I
see some of the bishops,” retorted Philip
Francis fervently.
Jimmy’s articles had their effect, as
Francis had foreseen. Before the fourtl
was printed the Ministerial head grew
scared. He called for the permanent head
and so on down the scale, until the plain
clothes police left the barracks thoroughly
understanding that the city was entering
one of its periodical waves of virtue' ant
that the sly-grogselling which had beer
winked at or half-heartedly fought for three
years would have to be cleaned out anc
kept out until the panic subsided.
The plain-clothes men didn’t like the
job, for cleaning out the drinking den;
would mean that the high-class crimina
would have an innings of immunity ant
prosperity. Three parts of the informatioi
upon which arrests are based and mysteriet
solved are secured through the medium o'
grogshops, which thus earn immunity
from prosecution. But the criticism had
been severe; it had disclosed too mucl
knowledge of the subject, wherefore tht
plain-clothes men sighed and started out tt
organise a big clean-up.
The first week returned an enormous bat
notable only from the fact that some of th
most serious offenders had learned of th
approaching raids and had got from under
The second week a few odd arrests wer<
made and those of minor offenders. Thei
the police started on the country district?
Jimmy had just left Francis in a con
dition of high elation. He was satisfied tha
the evil had been practically eliminated
The only thing now was to keep on pound
ing at the question, so that the police migh
not be permitted to grow slack and le
things drift back to the old condition.
He had just left the editor, to whom In
had been putting that aspect of the case
when he met Jimmy at the door and onct
again thanked him for his assistance.
“I was only too glad to do what I did,’
said Jimmy. “As soon as you showed m
the real meaning of the business, I wa
out to stamp it out, and, to all appearances
it’s been stamped out pretty effectually.”
Jimmy went into the reporters’ room am
saw a telegraph addressed to him in th
rack. It was from Wellington, and ran
“See copy I sent up to-night.”
Jimmy went over to the country-new
desk and asked the man in charge fo
the Illawarra proofs.
As he ran over them the enthusiasm h
had felt earlier melted away. The new
item recorded the arrest of Mrs. Blessing
ton for sly-grogselling.
(To be continued next week.)


1
9
m.
ys
w
*
ras
V
r:r>
H
7
“AITCHBEE”
REGD. 55,580
“Non-Curl”
Collars
156
The price in-
cludes shirt, with
TWO “Non-Curl”
collars to match.
If you have never
seen a copy of
"LUNAR LIGHTS”
—a humorous bur-
lesque publication on
how "HB” Shirts are
made —i t would
amuse you, and we
will gladly send your
copy free. Just let
us have your name
and address.
Their points WILL NOT curl
You’ve wanted collars like this ever
since you fingered and fussed the first
soft collar you wore. In “AITCHBEE”
“Non-Curl” collars, introduced three
months ago by Henry Buck’s, an unseen
inter-lining stiffens the points. They
WILL NOT curl, WILL NOT wrinkle,
WILL NOT crease.
For the first time, a soft collar perfectly
matching the shirt it goes with, devoid
of all oddities of appearance, yet as
unwrinkling as a stiff collar, is avail-
able. Each collar is the same pattern
silk-finish Broadcloth as its companion
shirt. There are no tabs, pins, ribs,
nothing to get lost or broken off. Yet
the points lie perfectly flat —without
starch —after no matter how much wear
and washing.
There is a full new spring range of
“HB Kote-Shyrts” with these collars to
match—each shirt with two collars. The
colors are a delightful series of two-
tone woven stripe effects in Fawn,
Brown, Wine, Russet, Blue, Helio, Pink
and Grey. The fabric is English
Broadcloth with silk finish, and the
colors are guaranteed fadeless as long
as the shirt’s a shirt.
When ordering by mail, state the size
of collar you wear and specify the
color or colors preferred. Patterns will
be sent free, if desired. Henry Buck
Pty., Ltd., Swanston Street, at Queen’s
Walk, Melbourne, Cl.
BUCKS
Off SWANSTON STREET
If you are in
Melbourne for
the Show, be
sure you ex-
amine this
totally new idea
at Henry Buck’s


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
I am working hard on my Salon picture,
which I have left (as usual) until the very
last minute; however, I expect to finish it
in the course of a few days [Phil May writes
from Paris]. There has been a split in the
local artists’ camp, and so there are to be
this year two salons —the new one presided
over by Meissonnier. I don’t know which
one I shall honor —I think I’ll get ’em to toss
for my picture. I have got a jolly house
and studio here, with a large garden and
paddock at the back. It is quite like being-
out in the country, although but a mile from
the Arc de Triomphe, in a straight line with
the Champs Elysees. I have had Combes
out here several times, and have had long-
chats about Australia; he will be x leaving
Europe in a week or two, and intends
voyaging via America. Alfred Cellier and I
met the other day at the club, and in the
course .of conversation he gave it as his
opinion that The Bulletin is the liveliest
paper he has ever read, bar none, and this
seems to be pretty generally the opinion of
a considerable crowd over here. I am very
fond of Paris in some respects, but I know
of no place which can be so slow if you
are not “on the tear” and you have to visit
London if you want to get a decent smoke.
[22/3/’9o.]
Old Bill Campbell, of Ravenswood (Q.), is
a cute fossicker. If there were any gold-
getting, Bill, by his perseverance and
devilish cunning, would have his whack. He
is a thoroughly fierce old Scot and tremen-
dously proud of his name. His chief pride
is the history of his family, which he can
through the tin dish and into the ground
[The subjects are (1) Lord Carrington, the Governor, a friend of the
Prince of Wales before he became King Edward; (2) John Lucas, M.L.A.;
Premier Henry Parkes.]
[21/1/’88.]
trace back into remote antiquity, and liis
boast is that none of them ever turned their
back upon their enemy, even when beating a
judicious retreat after a marauding expedi-
tion in quest of their neighbor’s cattle and
fowls. Like a warhorse that sniffs the battle
from afar, old Bill was carried away by the
glowing accounts of the Kimberley goldfield,
and, rolling up his drum, was among the
first in the crush to get to that land of rough
peaks and deep gorges. Bill, like most secre-
tive men, lovetl solitude, and used to poke
away into lonely corners: He was warned
that his predilection for finding and having
a rich patch all to himself would bring him
to grief some day, but he had a supreme con-
tempt for the opinions of others, and held on
liis way. One day, while sitting in a deep
gully, balancing his accounts and having a
snack from off the back of his inverted dish,
which was placed between his legs and turned
into an impromptu dining-table, Bill was
suddenly startled by an infernal crash. Look-
ing down, he beheld a quivering spear right
beyond, and the rattle of several others that
fell among the rocks around. In a moment
Bill’s ears were saluted by hideous yells, and
then he saw half a dozen niggers on a high
bank close to him, preparing to give him
another volley of spears. Then did old Bill
Campbell curse his folly in not bringing his
revolver; but, nothing daunted, he seized his
long-handled shovel and brandished it over
his_ head as if to charge the niggers. But,
seeing that they evidently meant .to make
venison of him, lie took a bee-line for home,
with the darkies “full split” after him. In
that moment of excitement Bill quite forgot
ancestral pride and dignity-—with his back
to his foes he ran for dear life. Fortunately,
the yells of his pursuers attracted the atten-
tion of a party that happened to be in the
vicinity, who hastened to his succor.
Always on strike—The blacksmiths.
Sam Hordern has a 2000-acre estate at
Bowral, on which he is forming a colossal
orchard. He says he means to be the big-
gest fruitgrower in N. S. Wales, and will not
be satisfied until the orchard returns him
£5OOO a year profit. [22/3/’9O.J
A mining township up North possesses,
among other attractions, a sweet girl-black-
smith, who has secured nearly all the trade
of the district. She is a nice-looking girl,
too, and could stun an average bear with one
blow of her fist if she wanted to, but when
a rare masher comes along and. tries to
make himself agreeable at the expense of
her occupation she generally subdues him
with a reproachful glance out of her big
brown eyes. If he takes the hint and goes
away, well and good; but if he hasn’t
enough sense for this and continues to hang
round she simply throws him over the town,
and goes on pounding the horse-shoe which
she has in hand as if nothing had happened,
while he gathers up the loose fragments of
himself and sadly crawls away.
One of the pet pastimes of those dear,
sallow-faced creatures who have stringy-
bark necks. and take sevens in paw-cases is
hospital visiting [writes Sappho Smith].
Monday is the day they do it in Sydney, and
if you chance in the vicinity of any of the
hospitals on that day you will meet them in
dozens carrying nosegays, Bibles, tracts and
occasionally—only very occasionally—jelly.
Now, all this is very disinterested, and the
patients ought to rejoice when they see
them coming, but, somehow, I don’t know
how it is, they don’t. Being anxious to hunt
out the Grateful Patient I devoted an after-
noon to a hospital recently, and pausing at
the bedside of a middle-aged woman I in-
sinuated in my brilliant and original style
that “the visitors must break the monotony
of hospital life.” Would you believe it. that
unreasonable creature just growled : “Much
good they do me, Miss. One of ’em comes in
with a face as long as
a wet Sunday, and
she sits there groaning
for a bit. Then she’ll
say, ‘Still wuss, dear?
But, never mind,
there’s a bootiful ’ome
all ready for yer when
you’ve cast aside yer
pore frail body. Cheer
h u p. Heternity’s
afore yer.’ Now
what’s the result of
such disheartenin’
mag? [She wasn’t
an elegant old
lady.] llup goes
me pulse and
down goes me
temperachure and
barley-water’s me
drink for a fortnit!”
Passing on to another
bedside in my search
for a Grateful Patient,
I happened on a girl
of about 19. Broach-
ing the visiting sub-
ject to her I elicited,
“Well —yes —they do
relieve the monotony,
but the blues is no
name for what they
give you. I asked one
of them what horse
won the Newmarket,
as I’m in a sweep on
it, and she said
stiffly: ‘I am not in-
terested in turf trans-
actions,' and left in a
hurry. Now I. wanted
a little chat on lively
topics, but all she did
was to read me a tract
about a worldling who died very suddenly,
and left in a huff when I asked a question!”
Now, these two conversations are pretty nearly
verbatim, and if space weren’t valuable I
could throw a few more sidelights on the
hospital-visiting question which would curl
up those feminine Samaritans who go armed
with bush-flower bouquets and a basketful of
sacred booklets and pass the poor-box in the
entry with praiseworthy regularity. But I
don’t want to discourage their innocent pas-
times—l only wish to make a suggestion,
Let them regulate their conversation to suit
each individual and not dole out Daniel to a
woman who is thirsty for drapery, or insist
on the Scriptures when the listener wants
to talk about the stage. Because people are
laid by the heels is no reason that they
should wish to converse in a hollow voice
about the fifth chapter of Genesis. Invalids
want cheering up, and the sooner the profes-
sional hospital-visitor grasps this fact the
better. I think I’ll turn Monday visitant
just to show them how.
Wellington, the reputed capital of New
Zealand, is not exactly a paradise to live in,
even if you are an M.H.R., K.C.M.G. or
anything else on two pins with the alphabet
staggering in a sickly procession after your
behind name. What between earthquakes,
howling breezes and bum-bailiffs at every
corner, tlie Empire City can chuck you out
of bed in the morning, wipe your eyes with
road metal, and sell ybu up for last month’s
milk score quicker than any other place
on record. A recently-elected M.R.H., hailing
from a distant part of the colony which
enjoys an average of one calm and peaceful
day in seven, lost his temper and said a
spiteful thing about the city the other’ day.
He had been seen, admired and cheered
chasing his hat round 16 street corners and
half as many wooden blocks, and after he
had recovered the wreck and scraped off as
much of the reclamation as his legislative
duties would give him time to do, he
repaired to his hotel for lunch, being a little
behind time owing to the accident. He found
mine host struggling with the carving tools
OLD CHEESE.
MISSUS: “Mary Jane, bring on that very old cheese. I know Uncle Metaphor would
like some of it with his salad!”
MARY JANE: “I’m sorry to have to tell ye, Mum, but that very old cheese have been
and escaped!” [2O/4/’88.]
and something with two legs on a dish
before him. “What will you have, Mr. M.P.?”
inquired mine host. “Shall I help you to
some teal?” “What’s teal?” gruffly asked
the legislator. “Oh, some kind of duck,”
was the reply. “Has it wings?” queried the
member, while a titter went round the assem-
bled Wellingtonian lunchers. “Oh, yes, it lias
a pair of ’em.” “Can it fly?” At this ques-
tion, the citizens present began to think the
people’s choice had suddenly gone mad. “Oh,
it can fly like a bird,” answered mine host.
“Then I won’t have it. If it has wings and
can fly, and didn’t clear out of this city, I
don’t want to have anything to do with it.”
At a picnic held somewhere in N.S.W.,
there was a scarcity of girls for dancing, and
some of the married ladies who had their
hostages to fortune in tow were induced to
sail in merrily, leaving their babies a prey
to fortune, which turned up in the guise of
two wild, gay, bad young men, who speedily—
without regard to sex or fit—changed the
dresses and hats of the rising generation,
and then became extremely elsewhere. In
the hurry of departure the weeping babies
were claimed according to their clothes—
but, when the bustle was over, there was
trouble among the mothers of Israel. The
woman who had collared a flossy seraph
instead of her own swivel-eyed howler got
just as mad as the matron who had secured a
freckled bud from Heaven with a sore nose in
lieu of her own flaxen-haired lisper, and all
the mothers in that district wanted the
hearts’ blood of those two mad jokers. Even-
tually, the olive branches were returned each
to its legal spanker, and peace once more
smiles over the district, but those two stran-
gers are still wanted —oh, so badly !
A woman recently started business in
America as a professional spanker of bad
children. On being interviewed by a reporter
she was found sitting “with her large and
accomplished hands folded in her lap, and
the light of gentle melancholy beaming from
her eyes.” She sorrowfully admitted that
her mission was a failure. People loved to
do their own spanking.
Last half-year the Broken Hill Proprietary
silver-mine (N.S.W.j disbursed in dividends
£368,000, besides spending nearly £43,000 in
machinery, etc. The dividend has now been
increased to £BO,OOO per month, and will
shortly be raised still further. [l/2/'9O.J
There is a shining land-agent in New
Zealand who runs his show on pure business
principles. He had an allotment on his books
which even a Chinaman turned up his nose
at. Then the brilliant land-crab went home
and hired a penny-a-liner in a florvery mood
to write up an advertisement, and the adver-
tisement when inserted was such a thing of
beauty, and so utterly unlike what the vacant
lot really was, that the owner of the pro-
perty sent along the cheque at once and
bought it without seeing it. A day or two
later he found that he had purchased his
own mean-looking little lot at an exorbitant
price, and had to pay the agent commission
on the transaction, and then he lay down and
kicked and longed to join the tow-headed
seraphim in the immortal spheres.
There is a fearful scandal about a N. S.
Wales church. It all arose so simply, too,
that even now the responsible officials can-
not discover exactly how it was that the
unholy heathen got so far to windward of
them. As often happens, the possession of
too much land and the presence of the
gaunt Deficit Bird were the primary cause
of the trouble. To prevent the Bird of
Evil Omen from making a permanent roost-
ing place of the ecclesiastical banking
account, the churchwardens conceived an
expedient which gilds with a continual glory
their reputation in the realms of finance,
They divided the frontage, of which the
church occupied only a part, into several
allotments and leased the latter to manu-
facturers in the lemon-squash line and
trader’s in newspapers and other things of
this world. And for exactly six days the
spec, seemed certain to pay better tliau a
land resumption. But on the seventh day.
which was the Sabbath, the churchwardens
had their joy knocked flatter than wallpaper
on beholding the briskness prevailing in the
lemon-squash and newspaper emporiums,
which they themselves had caused to be
erected just alongside the big front “door of
their place of worship. And when they ex-
postulated with the Sabbath-desecrating mer-
chants the latter icalmly produced their
leases, and refused to shut up shop for all
the churchwardens in Christendom. That's
how the case stands at present, and one of
the tenants, moved thereto by profane and
avaricious promptings, threatens that unless
his landlords pay. him a year’s rent for his
lease, he will give lessons on the bassoon
and big drum every Sunday morning, and
fill up the evening with quadrille classes and
a spiritualistic seance. He’ll do it, too, for
a certainty, and that’s why the church-
wardens now are in doubt whether it would
be better to move the tenant or the church.
The Rothschilds have found £4,000,000
for investment in Melbourne city property.
[l2/11/’B7.]
Ad. from “Society Times” (London) :
GOLDMINE IN AUSTRALIA WANTED. Write
full particulars to “Prom,” C/o “Society Times,”
68-70 Wardour-street, W.
The Bulletin is ready to take orders for
goldmines to any extent. Liberal discount
to wholesale buyers. A nice little parcel
of 60 mines, with two trunks full of scrip,
will be sold cheap, as we have had ’em on
hand just 10 years, and a presentation gold
watch went at an awful sacrifice in a well-
meant but abortive attempt to pay up the
calls.
Stanley, it is stated, is to get £40,000 for
his new African book. How anxious are the
pious British public to get early news of
any crib that’s to be cracked!
Murkau alligator perjury: “The Indians
on the banks of the Orinoco assert that
previously to an alligator going in search of
prey it always swallows a large stone, that
it may acquire additional weight to aid it
in, diving and dragging its victim under
water. A traveller being somewhat incre-
dulous on this point, Bolivar, to convince
him, shot several with his rifle, and in all
of them were found stones varying in weight
according to the size of the animal. The
largest killed was about 17 feet in length,
and had within him a stone weighing about
60 or 70 pounds.”
The two days’ festivities to celebrate the
coming of age of young Mr. Sewing-Machine
Singer cost £4OOO. [5/l/’B9.]
GLADSTONE.
Above the crowd he stands, a looming figure,
An aged oak, yet sound and green of leaf
That mocks decay to prey upon its vigor—
The forum’s champion and the people’s
chief.
The potent tongue that weaves a spell
entrancing,
The master-presence, witching fool and
sage;
The forceful will, the eye of magic glancing,
The lusty mind and frame of virile age.
He shall prevail. Nor Tory power shall stay
him,
Nor Faction’s foil that fends a dubious
might
Shall stint the fulness of the praise we pay
him,
As hoary champion in the van of Right.
As some white swan, with golden beam upon
her,
Serenely gliding- o’er the mirrored wave,
So flu' rich sunset glow of Fame with Honor
Shall crown his way of glory to the grave.
[5/i/mi
GAMBUSINO.
THE PINK-A-PUNK PIANO.
What makes our Southern ladies lean.
What makes them wash their hands so clean,
What makes us wish they ne’er had been,
But the pink-a-punk piano?
What makes them quite unfit to marry
A working man like Dick or Harry—
So long in spinster life to tarry—
But the pink-a-punk piano?
'Tis our “sassiety” that drives
Our youthful maids to useless lives,
Its highest aim to steer the “fives”
On the pink-a-punk piano.
Why should fair maidens in their prime,
In this our music-stricken clime,
So uselessly employ their time
On the pink-a-punk piano?
Why don’t they help the servant lass
To sweep the rooms and scour the brass,
And not the neighbors all harass
With the pink-a-punk piano?
Why don’t they learn to cook and mend,
Just a little help to Bridget lend?—
It would be better in the end
Than the pink-a-punk piano.
BOBARDEBOWSTER.


f
m\\
jJ
CHRYSLER “77” ROYAL SEDAN.
Chrysler Speed
is Smooth Speed
ft
There is a certain something about Chrysler perform-
ance —whether “66,” “70” or “77”—that one never
senses or enjoys in any other car. It is “something”
and yet somehow everything . It is the spirit and
sure stride of Chrysler speed. It is the gliding sen-
sation of Chrysler smoothness. It is the electric
aliveness of Chrysler pick-up. The answer, of course,
is Chrysler engineering. With roomier bodies of
modern construction; with bigger, more powerful
high-compression engines—and in the “70” and “77”
with Down-Draft carburetion, together with the sen-
sational Multi-Range 4-speed transmission and gear
shift—these Chryslers further outdistance all attempts
to equal Chrysler performance. And besides, there
is more style in Chrysler beauty, just as there is more
go in Chrysler power and more stop in Chrysler
brakes—internal expanding, weatherproof hydraulics,
the safest brakes known to automobile science. Get
a personal experience at the wheel—and you will
realise with full conviction why a Chrysler inspires
a pride all its own.
C H R
9
ySL E R
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCTS
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lanes Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland ... ....... Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
NetO Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
Neu) Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


You
may not have to
count the cost . . .
but here are some
battery facts for
those who do . -
THE first coSt of the battery
you buy is relatively un-
important ; it’s cost per
month and miles of service that
counts —and the service you
receive from your battery is not
juSt a matter of luck.
Look beyond the possible few
shillings difference in initial
coSt, to what you can exped
from an Exide Battery:
Greater cranking capacity, size
for size, than any other battery
made.
The moSt substantial ebonite
case of any Standard battery
sold in Australia.
Longer life, under the same
conditions of service than any
other battery you could buy.
Exide service established
throughout every State of the
Commonwealth.
Buy Exide Batteries from your
local dealer. There is a size
and type to suit your car or truck.
Hxtbo,
Life Battery
FOR CARS. RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
State Distributors :
NEW SOUTH WALES : Exide Battery Service
(Gibson, Batt.e & Co. Ltd.), Hunt and Com-
monwealth Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge,
2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : Exide Battery Service
(Q.) Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane ; Stanley
Street, South Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & John-
stone Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : M. J. Bateman Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
TASMANIA : Medhurst & Sons, Collins Street,
Hobart.
C.L
All the Best is in the West,
And the best thing in the West is
“THE BARRIER MINER”
newspaper, the Great Western Daily
with the wonderful history.
Such a medium for Advertisements!
£SH
B^jaSS
cb
TQ
SS
raw#
*jr,wa
4 *
A pictorial
guide to
America
FascinaTiNC this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls anti
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
* Oceanic SteamshipC®
NATSON LINE
Dept. M.l 9, 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
SW66 fS
Inch Thick Carpet
or Linoleum ■—-•
twice as easily
'ii ■'»• »'!y
m
-5«
S/
5s
§4
BISSELL’S
Hi-Lo Sweeper
There is no more hard bearing
down because the lever action
“Hi-Lo” Brush Control cuts
the operating effort in half at
the same time it doubles the
brush range. This improved
sweeper will surprise you.
At leading merchants. Booklet on request.
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Co.
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Export Department, 46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
m- 4» <&■
If any illustration in “ THE
S ULLE TlN' ' takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Kindur.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
r 'T'*HE captain and the mate and the chief
I engineer and I sat in the saloon of the
Newcastle and Hunter River Com-
pany’s cargo ship, the Kindur, over our even-
ing meal, whilst slie lay in the Hunter River
at Morpeth loading wool-bales and lucerne-
hay, and discussed the origin of her name,
which was lazily in dispute.
“All I know about it,” said the skipper,
"is what the traffic manager told me. It
seems they were stuck for a name, and
didn’t know what to call her, when old
B. B. Barclay came to light with a sug-
gestion. You see, there’s a river up country
from here, to the nor’ard, called the Mac-
intyre, somewhere in the same district as the
Gwydir, winch the passenger boat’s named
after, and 8.8. says that the original native
name for it was Kindur, So there you are.
That’s where the packet got her name. Old
8.8.’d know what he was talking about all
right. That’s it.”
However, that explanation, though I said
nothing, didn’t satisfy me, and I made up
my mind to go into the thing after I got
back to Sydney. When I came to do that
I was able to piece together for my trouble,
the story of George the Barber, and here it
is. But I never found the Kindur.
“Now lookye, Clarke,” said Mr. Slade,
sitting behind the table in his office at
Hyde Park Barracks, where he filled the
distinguished position of superintendent, “in
my opinion ye merit a flogging—as good a one
as Billy the Bull knows how to lay on.
And let me tell you, me good fellah, in these
days a flogging is a flogging. I’ve seen to
that. I’ve invented an improved eat-o’-nine-
tails, and filled my flagellators with a new
sort of energy. They can’t be squared now
to lay it on light, for if they don’t do justice
to their office —well they know they’ll have
a little spell at the triangles themselves. Yes,
Mr. George the Barber, I could provide you
with as good a tickling-up as ever a man got
in the colony. And I’d like 'to do it. I’d
teach you to run away and live with the
heathen. But Sir Richard says ‘No.’ You’re
to go to the hulk in the bay at the Nortn
Shore, where Billy Lavender will dance
attendance on you, and bring you a cup
of tea each morning. All right Morriset—
take him away, and send him aboard the
Phoenix.”
So the much-travelled George Clarke,
known amongst his contemporaries in the
felonry of New South Wales as George the
Barber, went to join sundry other runaway
and recaptured bondsmen inhabiting the hulk
, moored on the northern side of the harbor,
opposite to Miller’s Point, in the mouth of
the pretty bay which afterwards came to
bear the name of the Superintendent of the
prison-ship. In that part of North Sydney
Mr. Lavender not only had a lovely little
inlet named after him, but also a street.
Pie it was who married the daughter of the
“Old Commodore,” Billy Blue, the ancestor
of Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
George the Barber had not made many cab-
bage-tree hats in his floating dungeon when
one morning, at the beginning of 1831, he was
called upon to receive a couple of distin-
guished visitors in the persons of his Excel-
lency the Governor and the Surveyor-General
of New South Wales. Sir Richard Bourke
was attended by his A.D.C., Captain West-
macott. The visitors stood on the quarter-
deck of the Phoenix, and inspected with
interest Mr. George Clarke as he clanked
his shuffling way towards them, carrying in
his hands the 32-pounder round-shot that
was attached to his ankle by a length of
chain. It bumped the planking heavily, as
he put it down, and halted before the Gov-
ernor in an attitude of slouching attention.
He assumed an air of sulking indifference,
but they knew, and he knew', that he v'as far
from being careless of their interest in him,
and hoped to turn it to his profit.
“Pla!” said his Excellency. “So this is
the man, Major? The man who has been
living amongst the blacks in the Nor’-West?
H’m. Doesn’t look a very remarkable per-
son, does he, Westmacott? Pray question
him as to his information, Major Mitchell—
on the lines you have mentioned.”
Major Mitchell, an alert, vigorous, mutton-
chop-whiskered figure of a man, took a. pace
forward and addressed the prisoner. He had
keen and penetrating eyes, that seemed to
induce in the manacled convict before 1 him a
little uneasiness, and an air of one w'ho was
lying at his best.
“Now, see here, my man,” he said. “His
Excellency wishes to hear what you have to
say about this river, the Kindur, which you
profess to have discovered beyond the Nun-
dewar ranges. You w'ill tell him what you
have already told me. And confine yourself
to the bare facts. We have no wish for a
recital of your adventures —nor any of your
complaints and grievances.”
Mr. Clarke shuffled his feet a little, so
that the cannon-ball rumbled on the deck,
and scratched his tousled head, gaping at
the Surveyor-General as if a little uncertain
how to begin. An impatient gesture by
Major Mitchell presently loosened his slack
Kps.
“Well then, y’r honors, all an’ gennlemen,
if so be as ye must ha’ th’ truth, I done
a bolt from Mr. Hangar’s at Holdsv'ortliy
Plains, nigh to Mr. Potter Macqueen’s station
at Segenhoe. Th’ overseer was a crool hard
cove, y’r honors, an’ th’ rations was pore,
an’
“You may leave that out, Clarke)” rasped
the Major. “We don’t want to know that.
Tell us about this river Kindur. That’s
what we’ve come to hear about. Tell us how
you reached the Kindur.”
“Well, sir, as I says, I hooked it from
Holdsworthy Plains, which they’ve took to
callin’ Scone, • an’ went along th’ Kingdon
Ponds to w’ere there’s a mountain o’ fire
wot th’ blackfellies w'on’t go near a-night.
Flamin’ cracks in th’ ground there is, an’ a
smell o’ brimstone, an’ th’ soil that ’ot it
burns th’ shoes off ye. A rummy place, y’r
honors, an’ I dunno wot set it afire, but I
think”
“Never mind Mount Wingen,” Major Mit-
chell interrupted. “Tell us about this river.”
So, presently George the Barber fell into
his stride, and told them a wondrous tale of
adventures that had befallen him out in the
Never Never of the Nor’-West. How he had
climbed Warland’s Range above the sources
of the Kingdon Ponds; with the great Murulla
mountain on his left-hand side, and sneaked
deviously along the valley of Page’s River
close to the foot of the tall steeps, until he
came to the pass through the main range
above Murrurundi. H'ow he had crossed the
narrow divide, and descended through foot-
hills into more or less open plains sparsely
settled by adventurous white men, who had
driven cattle up from the Hunter and
squatted outside the limits of the Nineteen
Counties. How he had fed himself pre-
cariously by robbing stockmen’s huts, and
sometimes catching and killing a young calf.
How, being much afraid of capture, he had
continued to press out towards the Nor’-West,
and had at last become friendly with a tribe
of blacks, who treated him well, and made
much of him, and gave him a woman or
two for his better comfort. How he accom-
panied them in their wanderings, and saw
many things of great interest, and a vast
extent of rich and luscious pasture, and had
followed with his friends the courses of
various streams flowing westward that were
only vaguely known to white men. And,
finally, how they came to a great river that
was not known at all, except by the blacks.
And this was the Kindur. and, so help him
God, he spoke the truth ! If the Major would
take him with him he’d show it to him. But
as to this, and obviously to the great dis-
appointment of George the Barber, Major
Mitchell would not commit himself.
“And so you think, my dear Major,” said
Sir Richard, as his boat shoved off from
the foot of the Phoenix’s companion-ladder,
heading for Sydney Cove —“so you think
there’s a probability of the existence of this
fellow’s river?”
“There’s a possibility, your Excellency.
And a very strong one. But as to the inland
sea he speaks of, I’d not venture an opinion.
It may be so—it may not be. These fellows
are such liars. But I was much impressed
by the story he told when I first examined
him. I heard of him from Mr. Slade, of
Hyde Park Barracks. It seems that, from
the moment he was taken into custody by the
Border Police, he began to boast of where
he had been, and Lieutenant Ogilvie, at
Maitland, took some notes, which he em-
bodied in a letter to the superintendent at
the Prisoners’ Barracks, thinking that
Clarke’s adventures in the unknown coun-
try might be worth some attention. So when
Mr. Slade told me about him, I made a point
of interviewing him. I shall not deny that
his story impressed me, for he was rather
an exception to the usual run of absconders
in his dealings with the blacks.”
“How so, Major?”
“Well, he didn’t merely make use of them,
in order to abuse their hospitality—he
actually became one of them—almost an
aboriginal himself. He disguised himself as
a native —not a hard thing, in his case; your
Excellency must have marked his primitive
type of countenance and swarthy complexion.
He accustomed himself thoroughly to the
wretched life of that unfortunate race of
men. He was deeply scarified like them,
and, naked and painted black —charcoal and
grease were his pigments, I suppose—he went
about with them, being usually attended by
one or more females. So he acquired some
knowledge of their language and their tribal
customs. But there was something more in
his designs than merely to live a life of
savage freedom.”
“What could he hope to attain by such a
course of living?”
“Well, Sir Richard, he had simply assumed
the cloak and color of the savage
that lie might approach the dwellings of the
colonists, and be able to steal from them
with less danger of detection as a runaway
convict—a bolter, as they say. In conjunc-
tion with the simple aborigines, whom he
misled, and with some others of his own sort
of white men, he had organised quite a
system of cattle-stealing, and it was coming
into extensiye operation in the Liverpool
Plain, when one of his women gave him
away to the police, in revenge for some
cruelty the ruffian had practised upon her.
So he was caught, and' now he is in the
Phoenix.”
“What did he say about this river?”
“After the fellow was taken into custody,
he gave a most circumstantial detail of his
travels in the North-West, along the bank of
a large river named, as he said, the Kindur.
by following which in a south-west directior
he' had twice reached the seashore. He
described the tribes inhabiting the banks of
the Kindur, and gave the names of their
chiefs. He said that he had first crossed vast
plains named Balyran, and on approaching
the sea he had seen a burning mountain,
named Oourada. Perhaps he was inspired
to this by the burning hill at Wingen, in the
County of Brisbane —but it may be so. How-
ever, he described with great apparent
accuracy the courses of the known streams
of the northern interior, which united, as he
stated, in the Nammoy. According to his
testimony, Peel’s River entered the Nammoy
by flowing westward from where Mr. Oxley
crossed it. Oh, he was circumstantial
enough, I assure your Excellency. The ques-
tion is, is he a liar? If so he’s a most
gifted one. He may be genuine, or he may
simply be seeking another chance of escape,
by accompanying me on the journey of
investigation he hopes to have inspired. How-
ever, that cock won’t fight.”
=s= * * *
In the yard of the convict barracks at
Hyde Park Mr. George Clarke, cumbrously
leg-ironed, sat against the sunny outer wall
of the Superintendent’s office, awaiting his
turn for trial before the Supreme Court of
the Colony in the courthouse close by St.
James’s Church, where Chief Justice Forbes
was presiding over the Criminal Sessions
with all those judicial qualities of a high
order—imperturbable calmness of temper,
(Continued on next page.)


A Literary Sensation
Artist
D. H. Souter
has written
a novel —
and illustrated
it himself!
o.
''OPZ,
■
“BUXTON”
An Australian Story of City and
Bush, Big Business Men, Oil
Schemers and—the Quaintest Girl Typist that
has appeared in fiction.
NOW APPEARING IN
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
FIRST INSTALMENT THIS WEEK.
A Cause that Commends Itself!
j
TICKETS,
1/- EACH.
Posted, 1/2
We pay postage
on a book of six
or more tickets.
No. 7
art union
By permission
of the Attorney-General, N.S.W.
Ist Prize, Diamond Star value
£lOOO
This may be your lucky star.
A stepping-stone toward your fortune.
Send for your tickets to
O. BEYERS, Hon. Sec., BOX 3445 R, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Conducted by the Limbless Soldiers’ Assn-, N.S.W.,
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
acute discrimination, and a thorough
acquaintance with legal principles, for which
he was justly famous.
George the Barber was charged with bush-
ranging, under the drastic enactment of Sir.
Ralph Darling’s governorship —a. unique
piece of legislation which provided inter alia
that suspected persons might be apprehen-
ded without a warrant; that anyone carry-
ing arms might be arrested, and anyone sus-
pected of having arms might be searched;
that, if provided with general search-war-
rants, the police might enter or break into
any house by day or by night, seize fire-
arms found therein, and arrest the inmates.
When convicted, robbers and housebreakers
were to be condemned to death, and executed
on the third day thereafter. There were
several counts in his indictment under which
George the Barber might shake hands with
Death, and the general opinion of those of his
fellows seated beside him against the sunny
wall —and, indeed, of George the Barber him-
self —was that his time was at last come,
and his picturesque wanderings definitely at
an end. Still with his irons on, he would
presently make a final journey to the ceme-
tery in the Sandhills, and there enjoy a
protracted period of rest. It was obvious
that such was the opinion also of that
jovial disciplinarian Mr. Ernest Augustus
Slade, when, emerging from his office,. he
paused for a few moments “that he might
salute those about to die.”
“Ha, Jimmy the Rat, and Toongabbie Bill,
and Cowpasture Charley—all here, I see!
And, by God, my very old and esteemed friend
George the Barber! Well, well, well —how
it does one good to see you, I do declare!
You’re a sight for sore eyes, George, you
are. So charming and pretty. Don’t give
a damn for anybody or anything, do you,
George? Not a tinker’s curse! A shame
isn’t it, that we’re going to lose you? And
what’ll the King o’ the Kindur do without
you, George. He’ll miss his Prime Minister,
won’t he? Oh, dreadfully! And where would
you like to be buried, George? I’m thinking
of putting up a tombstone to you myself.
Gad! ’Tis years since I parted with such
a devilish pleasant fellow.”
George the Barber’s retort to this airy
badinage was obscure, slanderous and terse
•—and it drove Mr. Slade hastily out of the
yard, amidst the delighted jeers of the
highly appreciative gaolbirds within hearing
of it.
“’Strewth, George!” chuckled Cowpasture
Charley. “’E’d skin ye alive for that, if ’e
could. ’Tis lucky ye’re a-goin’ to be ’ung! ’
“’Oo’s a-goin’ to be ’ung? You mind wot
ye’re a-sayin’ of, Charley Makin. Don’t you
believe it. Ole Franky Forbes, ’e may do th
black-cap hact as much as it well
pleases ’im, but that don’t say as Dicky
Bourke’s a-goin for to stand, by an’ see me
turned horf —not be a good bit, ’e ain’t. For
w’y, I ask ye? Because ’twon’t be two
months afore" th’ Surveyor-General’s a-gom’
for to send a feller a-ridin’ hell-for-leather to
Sydney for to have me sent along to im
w’ere ’e’s a-tryin’ for to find th’ river o
Kindur. You take it from me, that s wot s
a-goin’ for to ’appen’ afore you re weriy
much on in years. That’s for ole
cully, s’posin’ they don’t ’ang you”
“George,” whispered the other, edging
closer along the flagstones of the yard—-
“wot’s all this yarn abart th’ Kindur? Do
it or don’t it hexist? Come, now —betwixt
pals. Will Major Mitchell ever find that
there river? Tell me, now I am t one. loi
to blab, as well ye knows. I’m a straight
cove, I am. Wot abart it?”
George the Barber—he was extraordinarily
like a blackfellow —turned his head slowly,
and looked at his old friend, who presently
was rewarded with the flutter of an eyelid
in that engaging countenance. .
“Charley,” he whispered back, if Major
Mitchell ever finds that there river—strike
me stiff, I’ll be king o’ Noo South Wales!
I ain’t one for talkin’ an’ I’m not. a-sayin
nowt, but if that old ever fills is quart-
pot out o’ that there river I’ve sent im a-
lookin’ for, w’y, I’ll drink. th’- thing
dry mesself! That’s ow it is, ole cully.
But you can take it from me, tis th Kindur
River’s a-goin’ for to save my life tnis
inornin’.” , ,
Tim door of the yard swung open, and the
corporal of the guard appeared. He held a
paper in his hand, and addressed the
prisoners squatting against the wall of Mr.
Slade’s office. Through the doorway showed
the red jackets and gleaming bayonets of
the escort waiting to conduct them to the
courthouse. ™
“James Sheehan, William Dacey, Charles
Makin, George Clarke,” bellowed the cor-
poral, reading from his paper. Get a move
on, now—his Honor’s awaitin yr con-
venience, gentlemen. And Jack Ketch s
waitin’ be’ind ’im!”
With ribald jest and obscene pleasantry
the shuffling prisoners dragged their heavy
fetters out into King-street to meet their
“Bushrangers /” muttered the corporal
contemptuously. “Huh— them bushrangers ’
A little after noon the. men came back—
their trial had been swift and undelayed.
Evidence of absconding and evidence of cap-
ture had really been all that was required,
so well and smoothly did Governor Darling s
Act discharge its well-designed function,
Charles Makin and George Clarke were to
hang. The others were to go to Norfolk
Island. Cowpasture Charley took it very
a mistake,” he said to Mr. Slade.
“They’ve got things mixed up. They’ve took
me for some other covey, sir. There’s bin
a mix-hup.” .
Mr. Slade was inspecting the sullen line
of sentenced “secondaries” —as those con-
victed of additional offences within the colony
were officially termed —and found the occa-
sion one for merry jest and sparkling quip.
“Ha, Jimmy the Rat, my old pal,” he
smiled as he looked at the sharp-featured,
wizened little Irishman Sheehan. “So you’re
for the island, eh? Ah, well, a perfect para-
dise, I’m told it is. You’ll enjoy life down
there. Far from the madding crowd, what?
And you, too, Toongabbie. Dear me, your
old friend Major Morriset will give you a
hearty welcome. They tell me he’s even
more efficient than he was at Newcastle.
You’ll feel at home with him, won’t you?
Splendid ! He’ll be pleased to see you, and
you’ll be pleased to renew your acquaintance
with the Major. Mutual felicitations, eh!
You’ll be able to tell him all the news from
Sydney.”
George the Barber laughed loudly. Mr.
Slade turned to glare at him malevolently,
nevertheless with something of apprehension
in his glance.
“Haw. haw, haw,” guffawed Mr. Clarke.
“Yus —all th’ noos. Mr. Slade. All abart
you an’ the Lootenant’s missus. Oh, Hell —
yes! He’ll give ’em all th’ wery latest
gossip, won’t ’e?”
“Be quiet, d —n you !”
“Oh, I can say wot I like for th’ next
three days. Ow —ye don’t like it, don’t ye?
Darlin’ Polly—ain’t she a little love!”
With a muttered curse the Superintendent
turned into his office and sat down at his
writing-table. .
“Porter,” he said to the convict clerk who
was his secretary, “go out and tell the cor-
poral of the guard that I want these men
removed to the gaol at once —without any
delay. It’s a d —d awful thing that one has
to endure the impudence of these wretches
to any extent they please once they have
been condemned to death. Go and see about
having them sent off. This fellow Clarke
sickens me.”
“Very good, sir.” said the clerk, getting
down from his high stool and making for
the door. His egress was prevented by the
arrival in it of an orderly from Government
House. After a word or two with the
smartly-dressed trooper, he turned to the
Superintendent, seated glowering behind his
table.
“A letter from his Excellency, sir—from
Government House.”
“Oh, damme —what’s the matter now?
Give it to me then.”
He unfolded the missive which the clerk
passed over, and as he scanned it his gloomy
face relaxed, and he smiled malevolently.
“Sir,” it read. “Should the prisoner
George Clarke, known as George the Barber,
receive sentence of death at the Sessions to-
day, this is to inform you that I have
decided to respite him, in view of the infor-
mation he claims to be in possession of with
regard to distant parts of the colony where
the Surveyor-General is now engaged in
exploration. This will therefore be your
warrant to commit him to his former cus-
tody on board the hulk Phoenix in Port Jack-
son. I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,
Richard Bourke.”
Triumphantly Mr. Slade rose to his feet
and walked towards the door. He turned
to his clerk before he went out.
“Porter, don’t call the corporal yet —I’ve
something to say to the prisoners.’ Just
come outside here —I shall need you as a
witness. I think that man Clarke will pro-
bably strike me. I think,” he muttered to
himself with suppressed fury, “I think I
can make him earn two hundred. And they’ll
be real ones —real ones. Come along,
Porter. I’ll Kindur him !”
Triolet.
Always, my pretty one,
You will remain
In Youth’s dominion
Always my pretty one ;
And, when. the dance is done,
And beauties wane,
Always my pretty one
You will remain.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Derelict.
At night when the wind is calling
Out of the west, and the rain
Beats up, I can hear them hauling
The skips from the mine again;
And I foster the fancy, dreaming,
Till, clear as the live coal’s hue,
Magnificent, stark-red, gleaming,
The old mine stands anew .
As she stood at her proud begetting,
Her poppet-heads flung high,
The span of her girders fretting
The arch of a jealous sky!
In the frame of her swart stacks smoking
The tardy hot sun sinks;
The sulphur fumes spread, choking,
And light by white light links
Up an endless chain of greeting
From the shafts to the belt-clad dump —
Oh hark at her fierce heart beating,
The throb and thrust of the pump!
I am thrall again to her splendor,
The wise old wife of the plains,
That was austere, arrogant, tender
By turn as we tore her veins!
And if I went back to-morrow
There’s nothing.would be the same, .
With the west wind wailing its sorrow
And the mine but a spoken name!
The brand of a thousand thistles,
Blurring the lokey’s track,
The loss of the old mine-whistles
That summoned the relays back;
While never a lad now tarries
To gape at a chimney’s frown,
Nor crash of the spilt ore carries
To startle the sleeping town.
There are skimps blown harsh and stinging
From a dump that lacks its clay;
Where condenser jets rose flinging
Their rainbows, children play;
The pumps are down, and the lapping
Of a stealthy water fills
By stope and runway, sapping
The workings where it wills;
Till the force of that dark flood risen
Grounds with a quivering shock—
A frustrate thief in a prison,
Lunging to loose the lock!
And how may a man bear lightly
A task in the blinding sun
That has toiled through a long watch nightly
In an oozy, lamp-lit run,
With his rust-red hat, and his candle
(Such as his fathers wore).
His grip on a squat pick-handle,
Cramped between roof and floor?
Our sons may follow a furrow,
Their skins burned red for a sign;
The old man must get him a burrow
In a new, unhomely mine!
S.A.
ROB McCONNAL.


k
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHI3RCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107, Featherston Street, Wellington.
jk
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485.Rou.rke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDEK, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
c<
THE AGE
99
Established ISSJf.
VictonVs Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If yon neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising', you miss one of the most, vital features-
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending- large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street,. London.
PROGRESS
A 65% Increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
Wye Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA'S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust,),
and
S, POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney?
F, Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald" Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
the IBercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street,
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Go'teh, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
Kimg William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F, THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone,' BWTO.kS.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BRDNALL, “The Herald” .Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office; 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Experimenting!
Flow much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
* "Resuit Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND,
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular G4-page woman's
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
jk
j
etc
c h
ap a
°fe r
°th
rey
er
c o/,
Of
°£f
yell
eptli
e,>
Hk
e Pe
of
if es
£/>
n &e
etj
v
«CJt
°U
s ypi
**&S
at Q j
»y
Pt
She
°tn
a Pd
«ce
Of
ell
bl
J *Pp
co
Of
OS(
°ad
Ur
«f>o
°Ocl
‘Pat
acf
*tj e
5«
st r
e *iti
ay
Co
If
*PI
re
*h
a Pd
you
e Of
°n
Qr e
er ed
s Us
Or
Pc
'Uc
e ye
°ip
n
ot »pl
'P2
a Ud
et Q
ar
lrj at
ep s
-. h
f ak
eal th
°Us
e Od
& ri
ee cA
**at
Ca/j
Sl P
aip
IVq
! P
fi ill
Of
< <?*>
re Pu
led
a f
a od
ea s
?lEr
PILLS
To secure the best of health, and to be
free from Constipation, Sick Head-
ache, Biliousness, Flatulence, Torpid
Liver and Disordered Stomach—take
BEEC HAM’S PILLS.
&
&
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
-® the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of 1 asmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The. Examiner/’ “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express" obtainable from
kj
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. a. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered "The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Btjixetin jor 12, 6,3 months from ,
for which I enclose £.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas— l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
vf
b
<K
r>
o
o°
S e po-^
©)*
( !
s e
«<>
• Ol


/;
“-~~w '<l
n
o
\
Hi
P
\\V^
m
k :
/
We change our minds, change our habits,
but wise folk never change from
the perfect cigarette
in the scarlet and gold packet.
SWE (XPRESS
10^9*
CIGARETTES
2M6
