

BOTTLED
GUARANTEED
-WXA GILBEY
pH ODt'CE F%6LA NC)
GIN
ENGLAND:-.*
25
Ousi.ty -CfsHe OE w
from v/nmalted Corn and hi<jk(y rectify
dfW d A Giibey* Distillery Has the
delicate flavor 1 of - fhc Juniper b*r f y
Measun: - bbotHei contain approximately one gallon
Confenfs - NETI I PINT 65 OZS
produce cngla
from sir charles a camera
T Snc/ P'ofcz ’£j/-qJ' tfrd&mS /
| r CoH<*6 of Suroeoni
r*l»*l W flMly.edlv c on* Jot, MM.-*-
!**" *** sl<l< * «f | ba t arhcle in rhts/omof
lf, Ml CssHeOEGIN
tf.LtJ propffly and wbotoomfVnrt>a-
*■'*(, ,»t<r fh, 4 Gm Mill tc fund £ „«c«Jfc"b b"' w?
1« cUraei „y ] unipt , b<fie s
Sicnod ernwu: s hCJtI ' llt
****— P £M6t-ftNP
BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M.THE KING
NO INCREASE
IN PRICE
As
Q/ i
Q
%
%}>
Q
%
%
S'
e >
%
&
>j£
So.
-l/V
<?e
Z*
//-
G
e c,
ft
ft
%
ft
ft/,
sSfc
Co
<0
c 4>
ft/
</
&
ft
:^fe
ft/
%
G
ft/
?ft/
%
■ft
ftS
ft/
ft
e >
ft
ft
ft
ft
ft
ft
/?
/ft
o/
Z',
ft/
/>e
ft£
Z:
G
ft
00.
$l,
00,
wv
C/
e
132
GILBEYS
DRY GIN
The Bulletin
(/la W&Aaul yL — SS~
VoL 51.—N0. 2611.
Wednesday, February 26, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE for the Library Catalogue and
w termS) and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
STORY WRITING! READ WHAT
THIS SYDNEY STUDENT WROTE
before completing his Course: “I have already earned
sufficient to pay for the Course —and something to
spare.” If you have thoughts, turn them into cash!
Send this Coupon for FREE Brochure: “Successful
Authorship.”
To STOTT’S Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 305
uttsaght
O R 0
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
JV
HW 3
FOR HIS BIRTHDAY —— FOR HIS ANNIVERSARY
For husband, brother son or friend.
THE IDEAL GIFT FOR A MAN IS A
ROLLS RAZOR
THE BRITISH ONE-BLADE SAFETY
THE BEST RAZOR IN THE WORLD.
The 1930 Imperial Model Rolls Razor is a triumph of skilled workmanship.
It will last a lifetime, and will save its owner the cost of hundreds of wafer
blades. Price, 35/- to £5.
Obtainable at all our great emporiums, all high-class stores, chemists, hardware merchants and
tobacconists throughout Australia. Write for illustrated catalogue.
THE ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA,
MENDES CHAMBERS, 8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Never Neglect an
Aching Back
Backache is more than an ache — it’s a
warning! The cause is the dangerous uric
acid poison continually forming in the body.
Failure to get rid of this secretion means
a type of slow poisoning, with consequent
ill-health and intense pain, caused by the
sharp jagged uric acid crystals which lodge
in the muscles, joints and tissues, causing
backache, rheumatism and muscular pain
and stiffness. Allied to this is the serious
possibility of stone or gravel formations in
the bladder.
THE ONE SURE REMEDY.
The safe, reliable remedy is Harrison’s
Pills. These gently, quickly and harmlessly
restore the kidneys to normal functional
activity, and ensure that the dangerous uric
acid be driven from the system. Harrison s
Pills not only stop aches and pains in the
back, joints, hands, arms and muscles, but
they soothe away dread inflammations from
the urinary tract. Too-frequent urination,
getting up at nights, pains in the loins,
groins and sides are other troubles quickly
and safely banished by Harrison’s Pills.
PRAISE FROM USERS.
Users are unanimous in declaring Har-
rison’s Pills the best remedy for kidney,
bladder and urinary troubles, giving prompt
relief when all else had failed. Here are
three typical extracts: —
“Three iveeJcs ago I sent for a sample of Harrison’s
Pills, being completely crippled with rheumatism,
and within a week I could walk about. I can’t ex-
press my thanks to be free from ache and pain, after
suffering so long.” — (Mrs. R. IF.)
“They’re perfect! A neighbor of mine was so bad
with his back he could not stoop; I gave him six
Harrison's, and before two days he was • right , and
at work.” —(s. T. R.)
“HanHson-’s Pills have done me more good for
rheumatism than anything I have tried before.’’
(IF. J. IF.)
YOU, TOO, CAN GET BETTER!
Suffer no longer—delays increase the pain
and invite deep-seated disease. Get a pack-
age of Harrison’s Pills at once from the
nearest chemist or store. Three sizes: lb
Pills, 25.; 32 Pills, 35.; 68 Palls, ss. Take
as directed and if you don’t get real benefit
from the very first bottle you (can have your
money back. If not near a chemist or store-
keeper, post your order to Amalgamated
Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
ACT NOW .
Harrison’s Pills Remove the Cause
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
»*
o
Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
•he powder is distributed
MUSTDIE.
tiQH PO&ONOU3 POWDtR,
THE:6RMT UOfiCT OftTROYOI
è
more effectively, and wt
want you to get the best
results out, of every ounce
of this great bisect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward! 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0..
Sydney.
The Red Page
Norman Lindsay: Birthday, Feb. 23
Dear Jo: It’s hard, maist hard an’ true,
But I’ve nae drink to drink to you:
An’ so I whet my trottin’ pen
To wish you weel, ma guid auld frien’.
What though the year be past its spring?
We prophesy this month will bring
Laurels to grace your brow, till, bricht
An’ shinin’, like the Sooth Heid licht,
Men see your lampin’ forehead rise,
Up Springwood way, across the skies.
Gang east, gang west, nae flesh na bluid
In a’ the world stands hauf sae guid:
Kingly and kindly, Golden One,
You still remain oor paragon....
O wad that it were my desart,
To dwell for ever in your heart!
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
A Woman with a Punch
Virginia Woolf has at least this much in
common with one of the greatest of modem
poets, E. Housman—the critics, except
for some occasional sniping, shy off her.
The reason is clearly not that they regard
either as unworthy, but they do find
both embarrassing. Each has done some-
thing new, and novelty is difficult. Start
with Bennett, Wells or Galsworthy and you
can go back in a pretty straight line to
Dickens, and beyond. With Davies, and
you’re back at Wordsworth in a step; Lynd,
and you’re at once walking with Lamb and
Mary. So on and on.
It is not so easy to find background for
Housman, nor for the writer of “Orlando.”
They do their turn in front of the curtain
in a hard spotlight, under the painful neces-
sity of making their own props as they go
along. They make one demand upon their
audience—that it shall find new critical
standards whereby to judge their new offer-
ing. That, apparently, is too much for the
critics. They have all adopted the Bennett
stance: we are not, thank Heaven, mere
judges upon the already judged, like poor
George Saintsbury. Send any old thing
along, and we’ll give a red-hot opinion
upon it And then, having ambushed
them into believing that it’s a turn before
the footlights, a Virginia Woolf or a Hous-
man sends down a hearty yorker, and back
they go to the pavilion with all their pretty
stance gone phutt.
And that, because there are limits to the
length of this review, is the last of Mr.
Housman for the moment. The snipers,
when they do have a shot at Virginia
Woolf, usually display a hesitancy that sug-
gests they wished they had not been so con-
temptuous of Saintsbury’s easier stance.
Bennett, for instance, a year or so ago,
found “To the Lighthouse” merely “the
most original of the recent bunch of novels.”
“A group of people plan to sail in a small
boat to a lighthouse. At the end some of
them reach the lighthouse in a small boat.
That is the externality of the plot.” Ben-
nett is quite right; that is the externality
of the plot. Plot, of course, is one of the
things upon which the contemporary-critic
stance is based. Nothing can exist without
plot. And it is here chiefly that Virginia
Woolf, though she has been writing for
years and has at least eight novels to her
credit, confounds the critics, or at any rate
silences them. Like other artists—that is,
true creators—of various times, she finds
it necessary to drop a hint that might lead
to clearer understandings. In her collection
of critical essays, The Common Reader
(now issued in a uniform edition with The
Voyage Out, Mrs. Dalloway and Jacob’s
Room, with the rest to follow), she sug-
gests that half the work of the dramatists
of the Elizabethan age was done by the
public. That, influence was in many re-
spects detestable.
To its door we must lay the greatest infliction that
Elizabethan drama puts upon us —the plot; the in-
cessant, improbable, almost unintelligible convolu-
tions, which presumably gratified the spirit of an
excitable and unlettered public actually in the play-
house, but only confuse and fatigue a reader with
the book before him. Undoubtedly something must
happen; undoubtedly a play where nothing happens
is an impossibility. But we have a right to demand
(since the Greeks have proved that it is perfctlv
possible) that what happens shall have an end in
view. It shall agitate great emotions; bring into
existence memorable scenes; stir the actors to say
what could not be said without this stimulus.
That is the simple key to Virginia Woolf.
There is design, pattern in her narrative
prose that is completely missed by anyone
who can write “That is the externality of
the plot.” The wondex-ful interlude, “Time
Passes,” in “To the Lighthouse” can be
dismissed by a sniper as “a novel device to
give the reader the impression of the pass-
ing of time.” If it is a device, it is a suc-
cessful device. Time does pass in it, and
it passes to the rhythm of beautiful prose.
Another thing that the snipers question is
Virginia Woolf’s style. “Style,” like their
conception of “plot,” is something external.
Of course it is nothing of the sort. It is
the writex-’s habit of mentality and nothing
else. The style that depends upon archaics,
upon outre words carefully collected and
saved up for the occasion, upon jigsaw fit-
tings and such contrivances, gets what it
deserves in the long run. Style in English
is an unknown quantity; the most difficult
to assess because if it is not new it does
not exist. The style of Galsworthy, Bennett,
Wells is undoubtedly good. It is directly
in a great tradition. But it is scarcely
acute criticism to say that because a style
differs from that tradition it is not
style. Here, .for example, is a fragment
from “Mrs. Dalloway,” honestly taken at
random from where the book has fallen
open:—•
To look at, lie might have been a clerk, but of
the better sort; for he wore brown boots; his hands
were educated ; so, too, his profile—his angular, big-
nosed, intelligent, sensitive profile; but not his lips
altogether, for they were loose; and his eyes (as
eyes tend to be), eyes merely, hazel, large ; so that
he was, on the whole, a border case, neither one
thing nor the other; might end with a house at
Purley and a motor-car, or continue renting apart-
ments in back streets all his life; one of those half-
educated, self-educated men whose education is all
learnt from books borrowed from public 1 libraries,
read in the evening after the day’s work, on the
advice of well-known authors consulted by letter.
It is a sentence that does not conform to
the journalistic rule which insists that the
perfect opening to a “story” is something
like “‘Hell!’ cried the Duchess.” But it
is Virginia Woolf’s style. She wants to
put a man whole before the reader as she
herself sees him mentally, and whole he is.
The “externality” of him is there; but so
is the internality. And the intemality is
what is memorable.
“The problem before the novelist at pre-
sent, as we suppose it to have been in the
past,” she says, “is to contrive means of
being free to set down what he chooses.”
There may be something in that for Aus-
tralian novelists to chew over. She has
one other thing to say that can be repeated
here
Chaucer... .had one advantage over the moderns
which will never come the way of English poets
again. England was an unspoilt country. His
eyes rested on a virgin land, all unbroken grass and
wood except for the small towns and an occasional
castle in the building.... The state of the country,
considering how poets go to Nature, how they use her
for their images and their contrasts even when they
do not describe her directly, is a matter of some
importance.
That might be chewed over by those Aus-
tralians whose battle-cry for ever is, “Give
us time; give us time!”
CECIL MANN.
D. H. Lawrence as Poet
D. H. Lawrence has written verses be-
fore, but he definitely asks to be judged as
a poet with the publication of “Pansies,”
which contains approximately 220 items,
many of them distinctly resembling poems.
“Pansies” was banned by the English censor,
and the present edition is for private cir-
culation only and limited to 500 signed
copies. The verses which, it is surmised,
roused the inhibitions of the Censor are
marked with an asterisk in the index, no
doubt for the convenience of those whose
interest in Lawrence as an artist is entirely
pornographic.
The verses are drafted more or less into
homogeneous mobs. Lawrence’s method of
composition appears to Le different from
the usual one. He does not so much slowly
ingest his raw material to shape and turn
it into fresh creative tissue as give vent
to his inward perturbations in a series of
explosions. His verses are not separate
acts of creation; one flows out of another,
a line or word in the previous poem sug-
gesting the thought of the next. Thus one
section appears to be the eruption of a
strong inferiority complex. “Superior”
people annoy Lawrence excessively. He
confesses that he once endeavored to enter
the charmed circle of duchesses but found
it unsatisfying. He records his dissatis-
faction. by putting his thumb to his nose
and spreading out his fingers.
Another section is concerned with a
motive familiar to all readers of Lawrence’s
novels. In a series of writhings and con-
tortions in rhymeless, metreless verse he
records the agony of frustration over his
inability to find fulfilment in association
with the opposing sex. His remedy for this
is the complete destruction of the present
society with all its imperfections and the
substitution of an ideal world where morals
are not and where everybody behaves in
accordance with natural instincts. The
pornographic section is devoted to explo-
sions of the inner self, and a world of good
they must have done the eruptor. Law-
rence has had the enormous satisfaction of
putting into cold print the sort of word
which if uttered by a drunk in Bourke-
street would earn the speaker a night in
the lock-up. In reading this section the
present writer was irresistibly, reminded of
an old Malay munshi who suffered from
latah. Latah is a nervous complaint which
takes the form of terrific and involuntary
outbreaks of what the psychologists would
call the buried consciousness. When sud-
denly startled, the Malay in question, norm-
ally a model of correct behavior, would let;
loose a flow of picturesque obscenity‘and
continue to void it until a sharp blow on
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns’ make no evasions, no misleading statements, no
exaggerations—they -practise “Truth in--Advertising” wholeheartedly.
Follow the Gypsy
Camp Out!
rr r%
rail
Following the Gypsy Trail sounds Very romantic and alluring indeed, and it can be if only one remembers that the success
of such a holiday depends t<3 a large extent upon personal comforts—a good tent to live in, wholesome food to eat. Food
should not constitute such a formidable problem, but often tents, car covers, etc., do. However, Anthony Horderns’
may be depended uport to furnish just the right thing in the latter line—and at prices that can’t be surpassed anywhere.
ME
I
kTTB*3®
A
rfr-
li l'-’l I
,-n\. I>' Cl t-1- l -:
*- "..UJ--.i1...
ktjJuh
UU'nxH
Marcjuee” Auto Tent
Price, £.12/15/
This Tent (as illustrated at left) is very roomy and enables one to walk
around in comfort. There is a calico division which provides two
distinct rooms, and the front can be used as a verandah in fine weather
by taking three poles from sides of tent (see inset above). The roof
is of weatherproof Birkmyre. Complete with ropes attached, Bft. centre
pole, ! 2 6ft. telescopic poles, and 24 small and 16 large galvanised
tent-pegs. Also tent and pole-bags.
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with Boz. white duck walls. Price .... £lO/17/6
Size, 15ft. x 15ft., with Boz. white duck walls. Price .... £l2/15/-
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with 1 Ooz. white or green duck walls.
Price £ll/15/-
Size, 1 sft. x 1 sft., with 1 Ooz. white or green duck walls.
Price £l4/10/-
The “Beach,” 27 6
(Shown at upper right.)
For vveek-ends, picnicking, beach use, etc., this handy lean-to motor-tent (illus-
trated at upper right) is invaluable. Approximate height, 6ft. Size of room,
sft. x 9ft.; 5 ft. flap goes over roof and fastens tent to car. Made from strong
tent calico. Complete with ropes and pegs. Price, each ........ 27/6
With curtains between car and tent, and 2 collapsible poles. Price, each, 37/6
Our “Special,” £5/10/-
(Shown at middle right.)
Easily and quickly erected, guaranteed waterproof roof. Height, 6ft. 6in.;
walls sloping to 3ft. 6in.; size of room, 9ft. x 9ft.; 6ft. flap goes over hood
only and fastens to car with ropes. Calico curtain between car and tent.
Khaki Birkmyre waterproof roof, Boz. duck walls. Complete with ropes, pegs,
four collapsible poles, 6ft. 6in., and three poles 3ft. 6in. Price, each, £5/10/-
The “Tourist,” £lO/19/6
(Shown at lower right.)
This tent has Birki»yre waterproof roof, Boz. duck walls. Size, 12ft. x 16ft.
overall. Height, 6ft. 6in.; roof sloping to 3ft. 6in.; living-room, 9ft. x 12ft.;
car space, 7ft. x 12ft.; 6in. slope on car roof. Calico curtain between car
and sleeping-room. All necessary ropes, poles, pegs, separate bag for tent
and poles. Car may be driven in and out. Four poles 6ft. 6in., 4 poles
6ft., 4 poles 3ft. 6in., 12 large gal. pegs, 24 small gal. pegs. Price, £lO/19/6
Quality.
JX
JX
AX
BX
cx
DX
Quality.
JX
AX
BX
CX
DX
Holiday Tents and Flys.
First-class Material; Guaranteed Workmanship.
Calico Tents.
Size. 6ft. x Bft.
Bft. x 1 Oft. 1 Oft. x 1 2ft.
Walls, 30in., 18/- 30in., 25/6
~ 36in., 21/6 36in., 30/- 42in., 36/6
~ 36in., 26/9 39in., 36/6 42in., 47/6
~ 36in., 31/6 39in., 42/- 42in., 55/6
~ 36in., 35/- 39in., 47/6 42in., 60/-
~ 36in., 39/6 39in., 52/6 42in., 67/6
Calico Flys to Match.
1 Ift. X 9ft.
12/-
14/9
16/6
18/6
21/-
12ft. x 12ft.
16/6
21/-
24/6
27/6
30/-
15ft. x 15ft.
25/-
31/-
35/-
38/6
44/6
12ft. x 14ft.
48in., 46/6
48in., 60/-
48in., 70/-
48in., 77/6
48in., 87/6
1 Bft. x 1 Bft.
33/6
43/6
50/-
55/-
62/6
Motor-car Covers.
Calico Car Covers.
The “Beach,” 27/6
f . ' ~X
!W \
,V«*.•*<»• A.'„i.
Our “Special,” £5/10/-
The “Tourist,” £lO/19/6
Measurements of all car covers and tents are less seams and hems.
( Department, First Floor. We deliver free city and suburbs only.)
Anthony Horderns'
(The Senior Store)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


: - •
mmm
%
: SsS5;g : : ::::::i|l
A
' if '
was
Bill
nr
;sxs
<iil
&W 7.7
ISv
ft*
&
mi
'IN
QfcrtD
Ttf*
'Wk
m
mm*
Ofcourselsmoke/ I
—but
only when it's
State Express
333/
STflTfc (XPR£SS
335
CICARE-TTEJ
MADE- IN LONDON^M
or


WfHCmSTM
trade mark
RANQER SHELLS
mf
cJimsf
&
til 5?
u ym&JhvM,
-W'
A Great Shell
at Moderate
Price
Keeps the Cost of Shooting
Down and Retains All
the Satisfaction.
your all-round shoot*
•*- ing in field and at trap,
use the new Winchester
Ranger weather - proofed
shell. A quality smokeless
powder shell that will cut
your shooting cost. High-
er brass base. Primed with
■' //
V
\7\l\
A
vL'iiu
h ill
the new Winchester No.
4 primer. Sure fire. Uni*
form. Perfect pattern.
For
Sale
by
Dealers
Every *
where.
yjvc&fsia s
RANGER
W 12c
25
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN.. U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition wtth~k _
Winchester Arms— they are made for each other
the spine restored him to his senses. He
was always profoundly shocked at himself
afterwards, but, confessed to feeling much
better for it. Lawrence must have felt
much better after the publication of
“Pansies.”
All artists are exhibitionists. The only
thing that matters to their readers is what
artistic use they make of their exhibitionism.
The exhibitionism of “Pansies” is no way
different from that of the small boy who
chalks his chaste fancies on the walls of
public conveniences. If The Bulletin
were to print some of the verses appearing
in its “Answers to Correspondents” column
alongside some of Lawrence’s, nobody could
tell the difference if it were not for the
pornography.
Altogether the book is rather saddening.
Lawrence started out with a wonderful
equipment. No writer of his generation
has shown such an exquisite sensitiveness to
his environment. But his faculties have
never been able to achieve full expression.
They have constantly been waylaid down
back alleys which have been overlooked by
the sanitary inspector. In his preface he
voices his distress over the fact that in art
the bcdy has become “unclean below the
navel.” There he is mistaken. A hundred
r.oble statues, scores of beautiful pictures
and a mort of lyric poetry attest the
contrary.
M. G. S.
Eileen Duggan Aside
New Zealand Bird Songs is something
separate from the rest of Eileen Duggan’s
work. In a foreword she says, “These are
simply rhymes on their birds for the chil-
dren of our country.” Perhaps that is a
sound summary, if you give weight to every
word. “Rhymes” can have vision and ecstasy,
can be. in fact, lyrics, as these are. “The
Legend of the Cuckoo” is the one poem
that I have seen elsewhere, when it was
printed in Theodore Maynard’s American
anthology.
Nothing is written by the book, and on
page after page you feel the birds have
now been seen and known for the first
time. For Eileen Duggan has had to shoul-
der the poet’s old task, that of giving to
airy nothings a local habitation and a name.
What is such an airy nothing as a bird that
flickers past, its name and song and ways
unknown to us? But here the birds are
named and felt and seen:—
My little Silver-eye, the boughs are empty.
The leaves have gone the way of leaves in winter,
But you go glimmering across the branches.
What faith upholds you?
Have you a hint that spring has left its gateway?
''i on fly as if you bore the freight of summer,
As if you dripped from little wing and shoulder,
A spilth of blossom !
Those of us who have never heard the
tui will wonder how long it will be before
our harmonica, the grey thrush, or its more
haunting cousin the butcher-bird becomes
revealed as the tui in this poem:—
Suppose, sweet eyes, you went into a distant country
Where these young islands are nothing but a
word ;
Suppose you never came again by Terawhiti:
Would you remember and be faithful to your bird?
Would you, remembering, tell them of the Tui?
Wild, wild and blinding is his lightest note.
They—they never heard him, swinging on a flax-
flower,
Mad with the honey and the noon in his throat.
This book, with its narrow, rich vein of
ore, is to be considered as an interim
volume, but even in such an aside Eileen
Duggan can never be other than herself.
Every line she writes is “signed,” and her
signature is for ever her own.
NETTIE PALMER.
The Summer Game
Kijuer, that great Yorkshireman, used to
say: “Ay, it’s a reight match, Lancasheer
and. Y orksheer. Tha knows t’ two teams
turns up on Bank Holiday, and we all meets
in t’ dressing-room, and we all says ‘Good
mornin’!’ to one another. And then we
never speaks agean for three days.”
Like the rest of Neville Cardus—in his
Days in the Sun (Cape) and The Summer
Dame (Richards and Toulmin), both from
the Roycroft Library, Sydney—there is even
more than cricket in that. There is
humanity, large and alive. It comes gurg-
ling out in his own admission that as a boy
it was his practice—“narrow and unsports-
manlike partisan that I was”—to try to get
Providence working hard and carefully on
Lancashire’s behalf:—
h 1 would pray, “let Shrewsbury be
stumn d nU d , d e nT 1 * i he J’ ext oVel ' b - v Mold—middle
stump, please, 0 Lord, the next over.” I took no
themtarm T praj l rs : ,l f Plwi dence concentrated on
the middle stump, then Providence could scarcely help
nr m„ one °1 th f- th !' ee tickets. 1 even used to pray
for the quick dismissal of “Ranji”—think of it"'
'gnoranee, blind to art, lustful for the blood
thrm.lh fi, nleS ° Lancashire. To-day, I would go
through file and water for an hour of “Ranii”
against McDonald. My petitions to the gods when
Ranp’ batted at Old Trafford—“Please let Mold
knock Ranji’s middle stump flying immediately”
were more often than not unheeded; hence the
breast!* ° f a Penod 0f Philosophical doubt in my
There is something human and compel-
ling about the man who could write that
and pen such phrases as “He was compre-
hensively bowled” which widens the appeal
of his work quite beyond the broad enough
boundaries of cricket. That sort of thing
does not “crop up” in his books; it is their
essence. He has the game in his blood. He
is anything but pedantic, but his writing
wher ° f aUtho, ' lty that is absent
nrT viS f gO6S out t 0 watch Sutcliffe
or Lynd looks on at a village game. Both
of these write engagingly; Cardus does that
as an additional merit. He differs, too,
from most of the other literary writers on
the game in that he deals with the giants
as well as the pygmies. He has the same
qualities as Do Selincourt and Miss Mit-
tord for the tree-bordered, shady-afternoon
side of it, but he is equally at home when a
Hammond or a Trumper is in.
“Ranji” did not rout his bowlers; he lured them
onwards to ruin by the dark, stealthy magic of his
p.ay ; the poor men were enchanted into futility.
Trumper put them to the sword. Yet it was a
knightly sword. There never lived a more chivalrous
cricketer than Trumper. I see his bat now in my
mind’s eye, a banner in the air, streaming its brave
runs over the field. He was always ready to take up
the challenge of a good bail.
Cardus is a mighty hunter after laughter.
There is always a chuckle ready to spring
from his pen. The Pentridge Gaol protest
against the exclusion of Ryder would be
meat and drink to him. He finds humor
sadly missing from the game these days.
“One thing can be said of modern cricket
without hesitation, and that is that rarely
does it set us laughing.” It is his only com-
plaint. He is not one of those bores who
see giants only in the past—invariably a
sign of disappointment and senility. And
if there is little enough humor in the cricket
of to-day he misses none of the little offer-
ing. T here is an innings by Parkin which
beat Leicestershire by the sheer force of
comedy. “Lancashire won on time; Parkin
did not, if I remember rightly, make many
runs with the bat, but the ‘overthrows’ and
‘byes’ were his very own.” Again, “To the
present time I have remained unshaken in
the view that ‘Gaukrodger’ was a heathenish
name for a cricketer; I am glad he never
played for England.”
His books belong to that family of litera-
ture which *s cleanly sprung from clean
soil. He has long since done something
which habitual barrackers (and not a few
cricket experts) seem incapable of doing-
outgrown “0 Lord, let Shrewsbury be
bowled middle stump the next over by
Mold.” His books can be read for them-
selves alone without avarice. The highest
praise that can be written against “The
Summer Game” is that it is a little better
than “Days in the Sun.”
A Satchel of Books
t Gertrude Atherton (Chapman and
Hall), seems to have been inspired by the
Virgil Bimilennium. She first shows the
lovely Tyrian princess raging in her Phoeni-
cia n home because the people have preferred
her oafish younger brother to herself. In
part of the book Dido is Queen
of Carthage founded after the murder of her
husband, Sychaeus, by Pygmalion, her
brother. Enter -Eneas. Mrs. Atherton makes
the pious one an ass, bigot and egotist, who
is regarded as a comic bore by every Car-
thaginian except the love-lorn queen—a read-
ing which will be endorsed by many a stu-
dent of his interminable speeches. The word-
pictures of life in Phoenicia and early Car-
thage are beautifully done, and Dido stands
out as a human and fascinating creature.
Elephant Hunting in West Africa, by
T B. Stanley and Courtenay Hodgson
(Bles). A serious but graphic account of tin
big game sport, holding, among other things,
this naive apology :
As Mr. Munnings, the artist, has pointed out, a
violent death is inevitable as well as preferable for
all wild animals, whatever their surroundings. Old
age for the denizens of the wild is a miserable busi-
ness which is generally concluded by the beaks
of the vultures and the jaws of the hyaenas after
the animal has been driven away for motives of
safety by his own kind. An animal properly shot
feels little or no pain. The affair is practically
instantaneous.
It is a kind thought, which the animals, un-
fortunately, are too darned dense to appre-
ciate.
Lies and Hate in Education, by Mark
Starr (Hogarth Press). Not every book has
the honor to be satirised before it leaves its
publisher’s hands. That happens to this one
on . its . dust jacket, where an outsize mili-
tarist is depicted forcing down the throats
of a nursery class a- blackboard gospel
beginning, “A for Air Force; B for Bomb;
C for Cruiser; D for Dynamite,” with the
cartoon caption, “Will It Come to This?”
The author’s argument is likewise exagger-
ated. But the basis of it has a lot of truth.
His examples and “proofs” of the devastat-
ing influence of biased school pabulum are
often thin or far-fetched, but no one surely
will deny the existence or the influence of
such colored educational diet. Mark Starr is,
of course, an internationalist; he would stand
aghast before the Australian schools’ “I honor
my King; I salute my Flag; I love my
Country, or whatever is the correct text
of. that exercise. He argues, in effect, that
it is on those who have to absorb such stuff
that the pacifists should concentrate. There
is fair food for thought in the book, despite
a suggestion of the fanatical.
Ihe TT orks of Liudpvund of Oretnona-
translated by F A. Wright (Routledge).'
The Professor of Classics at London Univer-
sity is an industrious, learned and human
fossicker after mediaeval masterpieces that are
not known as they deserve to be. He follows
a recent fine rendering of the poems of
Joannes Secundus with this equally
pleasing translation of the prose chit-
chat and fantastic history of that Bishop of
Cremona who, having been given a very raw
deal by his miserly sovereign in Italy left
his native country to return to it with the
conquering Otto in the Holy Roman Empire
campaign. Professor Wright’s is the first
translation of the complete Liudprand to
appear in English, and he complains trench-
antly that many classic scholars had not
even heard of the Bishop. Of the three
works in the translation the “Antapodosis”
is the longest and most engaging. It i s a
series of curious odds and ends gossip
stories in the Boccaccian and in the Rabe-
laisian heritage, scraps of history, and what
not. It is eminently readable, ‘and that is
test enough for merit after a lapse of ‘even
half a century. Liudprand was born in <FO
at Pavia and died in 972 at an unknown
address. He was a God-fearing churchman
with Ins ago and country s taste for the raev
and ribald, and a good wit generally.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice {except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. uill be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.P.N.: Merely another scheme for collar'
ing a man’s goods and paying him in depreciated
paper.... G. Barndon: It got to a second reading,
anyway... .Yalpunga : Why don’t you write of the
little things you know about ? It’s the intimate
touch that takes the trick. . . .A.H.: But most of
those you mention are paid by results. The doctor
and the lawyer, for instance. Which explains why
some don’t make office rent while a few others
make £lO,OOO a year. .. .G.T.: Awful example of
the influence of movie subtitles. . . .S.E.F.J.: You don’t
get much into your midnight reverie. .. .E.S.: The
peg it hangs on is its strongest part.. . .C.T.: Metre
changes serve no purpose but to make it bumpy....
G'.C.T.: Proves that three birds don’t make a song.
. ...Ivdy: It rambles away.... Ole Blue: Anyway,
you seem to have had a good feast. .. .R.W.S.: Too
late to counter that offensive. .. .Will C.: Bavarian
ban on Burns’s songs shouldn’t worry their writer
much. .. . A.L.8.: Makes heavy going as verse....
Pedagogue: No space for “Random Reflections on
Nature” or on anything else... .T. 5.8.: Sorry ; there’s
a rush on that space. .. .0.F.: The place to answer
a controversial article is in the paper that published
it f.L.: An idea, but you’d have to make a
lot more inquiries before you could make it saleable.
... ..L\M.: Fragile... .S.C.: Brave attempt to find
a rhyme for “nullity” in “blessity”... . Kenna : Some
yards from a bu11....G.R. and F.J.L. : Thanks, it
was noted....®, de M. : No. .. . Elbatt: Something
in ’em all, but they don’t quite click... .L.S.: Rings
forced. .. . J.A.E.: Gag so good that it probably has
seen print. The verse drapery doesn’t help it....
I. : You poets seem to be obsessed with your
memories. Don’t you ever see anything fresh?....
J. : None of it worth saying. .. .Belifante:
Pretty, but that’s a11....J.C.: None for this market.
. ...J.W.8.: Regret cannot supply private criticism.
....Northern Belle: Can’t agree that it should find
a place in these pages... .E.H.B. :
One of these days,
My fame, I’ll not forego it,
But reach that dizzy, giddy height,
And call myself a Poet.
Then we shall be pleased to hear from y0u....
Volant: Don’t rise above statements of fact....
Scotia : An idea, but it would need clever handling.
End is maudlin. .. .T.P.8.: Can’t get excited over
the fact that you don’t know how to pronounce
“gondola”.... M.M. (N.S.W.) : “Autumn” is pre-
mature, if not immature. .. .E.E.: Broke four tin-
openers, a steel-drill and a. fresh young heart trying
to get a meaning out of it. ... Danroy: All the joke
is in the inspiration. You don’t improve on it....
F.S.G.: Thin as a canary’s neck. ... V.V.: “The
Parting”:—•
’Twas a lovers’ night, the moon was shining
When we met ’neath those stately gums
With our hearts and hands entwining
As we sang our song of love.
’Twas then I told her my sad story
(I still can feel her body tremble)
How my father had disowned me
Because I chose to drink and gamble.
Tiih Bulletin got its Religious Editor the same
way.... Hilaria: Thought a little humdrum; other-
wise fair enough....H.D.: You’re still off the track.
.... Budge: Doubt "whether anyone can handle that
metre after “Banjo” and get away with it....
(r.M.: Not one of George’s lucky days... .C.1.C.:
‘‘Too right I’ll go!” Too right you will! R.E.:
Egmund Ethelbert Drake-Cavendish-Drake, known to
hii close relatives as Bertie,” is returned to ’em.
<.. . F.L.G.: News items rather than stories S.M.:
!Vo use to us... .A.C.L.: Much good material in it
but too 10ng... .E. 0.: Travel sketch travelling home.
...... M-W.S.: Turf story fell at the last fence....
H..J.G.: Island yarn suggests an island totally sur-
rounded by beer C. 11.: “Sonny Boy” put to bed.
J'.B.E.: Too long and too loose. . . .H. 5.8.: Lord
Clancy is now Clancy of the overflow.... F.A.: The
man who weaves poetry round the clutching of sheep
deserves a medal. All 0ut....W.L.: Not every intoxi-
cated gentleman has the luck to “wake in the arms
cf his beloved”. . . .R.G.W.W.: You suggest the fables
should be taken “one at a time.” Medicine’s too
severe... .E.8.T.: Not bad for a first attempt....
L.M.: Shell from bombardment of Tahiti a dud....
W.E.8.: A shot that missed... .J.E.: Graphic, but
a pen-worn subject... .R.T.K.: Interesting but not
suitable; try a daily... .S.J.J.: “The Horse” turned
out to grass. .. .J.W.C.: Yarn about bushman who
wa i “slightly drunk and eloquently profane” on the
wallaby... .J.F.A.: Such stuff as dreams are made
01, after a heavy night D.V.H.: Half true. But
you won’t get at the rich by getting at the big
institutions. You’ll even touch war widows there.
W hich is why The B. always wants the individual
to pay the income-tax and not the co
J.C.: .lust too slight, but the most promising
at weight-for-age seen for a long time. Keep
it up M.E.: A trifle jerky Pat Tria: Like
more nourishment on a long walk such as that. ...
R.T.K.: Went close to a bull M.W.C. (or there-
about-) : Offending artists have been told about it.
... .R.K.: Sticky stuff... .H.D.: “The Passport” a
capital theme, feebly treated.... Frankarthur: Verse
hardly up ; but at least one of your rhymes fills us
with admiration;—
Tarry John has gone to sea
Inside some dirty, smelly fo’c’s’le ;
He’d like to stay and cuddle me
Because he fears that other blokes’ll.
... .W.D.W.: Stodgy stuff. . . .S.W.K.; Woman’s wear
grows threadbare as a verse theme. .. .D.8.0’C.: We
got bogged midway through it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.S.H.: Listless drawing; lifeless joke. .. .U. 8.,
You sat 30ft. from the subject. Sure it wasn’t
30 chains?... .C.J.C.; Very rough; take lessons....
C.G.1.: Gag might have got past the publican, but it
won’t reach the printer A.R.P.: It has been
whispered in our ears before.... M.S.: Microscopic
silhouette didn’t excite. .. .H.C.V.: Not a buyer....
F.E.C.: Might suit a radio comedian; it’s feeble
enough. . . .H.W.: Drawing miles better than joke, but
it won’t do. . . .R.H.8.: It wore out its welcome long
ag0.... P.C.; Fails, even as an architectural study.
..... .H.W.S.: Thanks for the half-dozen, but one
would have been plenty... .J.S.W.: Still in the
infant class.


e
è
mm
ms,
■
n
s
r
>5
■K
:
M f r ri
-
%
A
m\
jr
•4 .; .
■''■ . ■
%
■
vm
•S*
v
m
jipt


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2611.
February 26, 1930.
WELL, PLEASE, MAKE IT A PRIVATE AFFAIR.
“Are we about to see the call for a new war or crusade against Bolshevik Russia? I believe that we are.”— Shaw Desmond in the "Sunday Express" referring to the demand
of religious bodies for strong measures on behalf of the Soviet clergy who are said to be suffering persecution.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.*'
HEAD OFFICE: 21b George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: lV t -20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 2i9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.j 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10os., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: f/OZ. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
VIRGINIA WOOLF, by Cecil Mann . . . . 2
D. H. LAWRENCE AS POET, by M. G. Skipper 2
EILEEN DUGGAN, by Nettie Palmer . . ..5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
CUT OUT THE PARASITE! 8
THINGS THAT MAKE ONE SORRY FOR
CLEARY .. .. 8
PROHIBITION AT WORK—
By an Australian Doctor in New York.. 8
CAN AUSTRALIA DO AS MUCH AS GREECE ? 8
COAL-MINING WAGES 9
THE LIMITS OF ARBITRATION . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with caricatures) .. 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. IS
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 16
“EXPRESSIONISTIC” DANCING IN MEL-
BOURNE 16
‘‘WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
W.A. INSURANCE 18
GOODYEAR TYRE 18
FRESH FOOD AND ICE 18
QUEENSLAND MEAT '..18
HACKSHALL’S 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS . . . . 28
WORKING MALLEE FALLOW 28
F.A.Q. OR GRADING? 28
THE BLOWFLY PEST—AN OFFER FROM
INDIA 31
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 31
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. • • 32
PEN AND PICTURE 33
NEWEST TALKIES 35
GOSSIP OF THE INKY WAY .. . . • • 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 36
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
ROSEHILL RACES 33
V.A.T.C. FUTURITY STAKES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
New Serial—“ Men Are Human”—
By Vance Palmer .. .. ..47; 51, 52
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. .. 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“As We Said Before” —
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. .. 55
Two Complete Stories —
“UNCLE BILL COMES TO LIGHT”—
By Harold Mercer . . . . • • 57, 58
“JUST WHAT DAD WOULD DO”—
By Les Quin .. .. • • ■ • . . 58
VERSE —By R. Crawford and E. M. England . . 58
NEXT WEEK.
Stories by Margaret Fane and Hilary
Lofting, and E. J. Brady.
“The Bulletin,” having had its Jubilee,
will print a weekly page of reproductions
of the gems of prose, picture and verse
it published in the ’eighties, so that plea-
sant memories may be revived in old
readers and a new generation may enjoy
the things that delighted an earlier one.
Next week’s drawings will include a repro-
duction of the famous one in which
“Hop” transferred the Long-distance
Talking Championship from J. C. Neild to
Judge Windeyer.
ffie&ulleii/Yl
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1930.
PRODUCERS OR PARASITES?
After the smash of the early ’nineties there
was a cry of “Back to the land!” Those
who raised it saw what was wrong even if
they knew only half the remedy. They
realised that the producers were too few
and the parasites too many. A borrowing
boom always has that result. When the
loans cease to flow in, and when there is
no longer a flood of easy money, painful
readjustments have to be made. The com-
munity has to get back to living on what
itself can produce; and out of that it finds
it has its old debts to pay off, too.
Events have moved in a full circle and
we have got back where we were in the
early ’nineties—with certain differences, of
course. It is not easy to realise at once
just what this means. We see a great
number of men who have been directly
employed on loan works thrown idle, and
for the moment we hope this is only a
temporary matter—that loans will flow in
again presently. The sooner we get rid
of that idea the better. We shall have all
our work cut out to renew old loans as
they fall due. There may be some money
available for new works, but it will be so
little as to be negligible. There never was
any justification for the flood of loans; and
even if we could get them again it would
be madness to attempt to do it. We have
not only created an enormous pile of debt
which is not earning a penny of the interest
which has to be paid on it; we have also
created an enormous army of non-producers
—parasites upon the rest of the community.
Our first job is to absorb that army into
the ranks of the producers.
Judge Beeby said the other day that he
was not one of those who thought the only
way to cure our ills was to reduce wages.
He was quite right. That is not only not
the only way; it is a bad way. What we
need to go after is not low wages, but high
production. Whether wages are high or low
is not of much consequence. A country of
low wages may be unprogressive and unpro-
sperous, while a country of high wages
may either thrive or smash. The deciding
factor is the output. There is not in the
whole world a country with a poor per
capita output which is prosperous or where
the workmen have a high standard of living;
there is not in the whole world a country
where the per capita output is large and the
standard of living low.
It is, however, possible for a country to
set up a high standard of living without a
large per capita output—just as it is pos-
sible for a young man to run a motor-car
without working for it. He can either loaf
on the old man or run into debt to the
motor salesman. Australia has been living
on both; and now both are tired. We are
thus on the point of finding out that, though
we can set up a high standard of living with-
out a large per capita output, we cannot
maintain it.
Yet mere work is no good. We might set
the whole unemployed population shifting
sand from Bondi to Bourke, and though
they would be kept busy enough, the coun-
try would get not a step for’arder. On
the contrary, they would still be parasites
on the producers. And capital can be wasted
and be just as parasitic as labor. Every
artery out of every city in Australia bristles
with bowsers. Nineteen out of every twenty
are an incubus upon the community. And
what is true of bowsers is true of a multitude
of other things. The time has come when
we must cease to applaud mere expenditure.
Every penny available is needed for the
assistance of production. No doubt the
banks are doing a great deal in the way of
at least discouraging economically inde-
fensible expenditure. But public opinion
needs to be mobilised and directed also.
First, however, it will have to be formed.
At present we largely hang on to old shib-
boleths. Unemployment is regarded as the
curse. What has to be hammered home is
that employment of either labor or capital
can be just as wasteful as unemployment.
Especially in our present situation, produc-
tive employment is the only sort that is
worth anything to us.
Those who nearly 40 years ago raised
the cry of “Back to the land!” at least
realised that. They saw that the man who
grew even a sack of potatoes in the year
was less of a burden on the community than
he who sweated day by day at something
that was neither production nor an aid to
production. At the worst we must set our
mind on that sack of potatoes. No doubt
it is much more heroic to pass a resolution
that the unemployed shall be paid the basic
wage. But there is no mysterious vessel
out of which the means to live can be
dipped, no matter what name we invent
for the process. The producer has to supply
it all. Australia’s present greatest danger is
that it has permitted the parasites upon
industry to become so numerous that they
may control the situation. To some extent
they already do. Further advances along that
line will have to be watched very carefully.
IT MAKES ONE SORRY FOR CLEARY.
A great deal depends on the point of view.
If it is inside out and upside down and back
to front and at the same time out of focus,
strange results may be looked for. Associ-
ate-Premier Buttenshaw, who stands for
the “Country” half of the N.S.W. Bavin-
shaw Cabinet, has always had ideas about
railway construction, and was recently
reported as expressing himself thus:—
“Mr. Cleary was appointed to run the
railways, not to decide where they should be
built. That function is for Parliament, and
I will never be a party to altering that
system.... No lines have been built for
political purposes. A State must he developed
by its Government. If Mr. Cleary had full
charge of railway construction he would
never build a developmental line that would
not pay its way. These lines are essential,
and the money spent is returned to the State
in another way. Furthermore, the Com-
missioners are allowed a sum of money to
compensate them for losses on developmental
lines. Last year the Treasury gave them
£800,000.”
It makes one sorry for the new Chief Com-
missioner. When Cleary was the successful
boss of a big brewery he had a definite voice
in deciding what would be put in the beer
and where pubs would be built. But for
these facts he might have lost a reputation
instead of making one, as he is in a fair wajr
to do now.
The position is summed up hereunder so
that the State may know where it stands:—
The man who was appointed because the
railways didn’t pay, and appointed to put
them _in a better state, has no veto on the
addition of hopelessly unpayable political
dead-ends and scraps to his responsibilities.
A purely political committee is paid by the
day to inquire into proposed new loan works,
and if there are no good propositions in sight,
which has been the almost invariable case
for some time, it must inquire into bad ones
or run short of occupation. It hasn’t even
the grace to pretend that the job it is con-
sidering has the least financial iqstifionHnn.
Half the time it is delving into a matter
which, even on the sanguine preliminary esti-
mate, will cost £30,000 a year to earn £BOOO.
The Commissioner isn’t even to supervise
construction when something has been
decided on, and do it as economically as pos-
sible. That work is put, or is to be put, in
the hands of a political department.
Buttenshaw is quoted as saying that any
savings which the Commissioners can make
“can also be effected if railway construc-
tion is brought under the Works Depart-
ment,” which is his own particular show.
By a recent regulation, devised by the
Bavinshaw Ministry, the nominal managers
of the railways are called upon to find interest
on the loan moneys, buried in unfinished
lines, even if they gain no revenue from the
same. The Treasurer used to carry this respon-
sibility, but it hampered his surplus, so it
was passed on. If unfinished lines fall down,
temporarily or permanently dead, through
a financial collapse, it seems that the nomi-
nal managers will be left in the hole indefi-
nitely.
ic is mentioned in the official pronounce-
ment quoted above, and mentioned with
pride, that the Bavinshaw Treasury pays
something towards the railway losses.
Previous to the Bavinshaw time the Trea-
sury used to pay all the losses as a matter
of course, though its methods of raising
the money were often suspicious enough.
The question arises: Who should pay the
losses on a huge Government enterprise if
the Government doesn’t? No special credit
lies in paying half of the liability as a favor
and saying that no definite provision is
being made for the other half.
A great deal is said about the inevitable
shortages on “developmental” lines. There
is urgent need for an Act stating clearly
when lines cease to be “developmental”
and become common or garden highways.
The very first sample on the list of 54
money-losing lines which N.S.W. possesses
is 29 years old, and is ruinously “develop-
mental” still.
Buttenshaw is quoted as saying that, even
if “developmental” lines seem a dead loss
in so many cases, “the money spent is
returned to the State in another way.” It
is legitimate to inquire which way the
“other way” is; why the money doesn’t
appear in the Treasurer’s accounts when
it comes back, whichever way it comes;
and (seeing that it doesn’t appear) who
has got it, and what he has done with it.
The condensed bitterness of the whole
statement seems to be summed up in the
assertion that if Chief Commissioner Cleary
was given a fair chance, free from political
interference, he would supply the Ma State
with paying lines and no other sort. Thus
he would naturally make the finances a
little better. The horror of this appears
so obvious to the Minister as to be suf-
ficient reason why Cleary shouldn’t have
a free hand, but should be bossed by poli-
ticians all his days.
PROHIBITION AT WORK.
The author of this article is an
Australian doctor lately returned from
the U.S.A., where he did 12 months’
post-graduate work in a New York
hospital.
After spending the day showing me round,
the man I was replacing remarked “Well,
now I’ll introduce you to the speakeasies.”
We visited two or three within quick reach
of the hospital. They were moderate
affairs and exact replicas of the old saloon
—brass rail, sanded floor, spittoons and
everything. There was no formality about
getting in. In one I drank a glass of good
beer alongside a traffic cop from the near-by
intersection. He absorbed his liquor, nodded
all round and went back to his beat without
paying. Then we went to one or two
“tonier” establishments. One was the noted
and respectable Aquarium. To get in, my
guide knocked three times at a closed door
and presented his card; after which all was
plain sailing. The bar ran the whole length
of a huge room, was made of plate glass,
was filled with water and had fish swimming
in it. There were few bottles showing, but
the drink was good, plentiful and various,
and there were numerous curtained-off
recesses for intimate parties.
Around 49th-street there were numbers
of such places. They are apt to disappear
from one location overnight and reappear
at another. That is when they get behind
in their graft, fall into financial difficulties
with their banks or receive word from the
law-enforcement officers that they are going
to be raided. I became a member of the
Aquarium. Just before I left America I got
a gilt-edged note stating that the manage-
ment had been compelled to change its
quarters and giving the new address where
sea-food could be obtained as usual.
I inherited my predecessor’s bootlegger,
but usually I got my rye on doctor’s
“scrip” from the chemist. It is usually more
or less watered and has some ether in it.
The alcohol ujed in the hospital had
mercury bichloride put in it to prevent it
being used for drinking purposes, but there
wasn’t much need for the precaution. A
man must have been absolutely dumb in
New York to be unable to get all the
drink he needed. In the hotels he had
only to tell the “bell-hop.” I have a fine
collection of corkscrews lifted from the
Boarman-Biltmore chain. One is put in
every bedroom, along with the Bible, in
order to save damage to the furniture in
opening the bottles.
The night-clubs are distinct from the
speakeasies. They have orchestras and
sometimes variety shows. Prices are extor-
tionate. If a girl pins a flower in your
buttonhole it will cost you a dollar, and a.
meal may run you into 20 dollars. Real
Scotch is sold, if sold at all, at fancy prices.
You are wise not to drink out of a bottle
unless you know that somebody has drunk
out of it before you. But, as in other
countries, the night-clubs are merely hold-
ups for the yokels. New Yorkers don t
trouble them.
It is commonly asserted that the working-
man is unable to get his liquor. I cannot
speak for the Nordic, but I worked a lot
amongst Italian tenements. Anise and vin
rouge were cheap and plentiful. From my
bedroom window I used regularly to watch
a waggon shoot a load of grapes into the
basement of a house opposite for home
brewing.
I understand that there is some difficulty
in the country; but my brother, who is
a naturalised American, had; a country
residence and suffered no great disability.
His bootlegger was as regular although not
as frequent a caller as the milkman.
A nuisance and a national curse is the
habit of making liquor the principal topic
of conversation. If you “throw a party
and'there is no drink with it, you are no
gentleman. This applies unfortunately to
the younger generation as well as to the
more mature. If a youth has no hip-flask
he will find it hard in some circles to get
a girl to accompany him to an evening.
Hostesses, who would never have dreamed
of doing so before the Eighteenth Amend-
ment, now serve cocktails with their parties
as a matter of social necessity.
1 am not a drinking man, but I had more
drink in my twelvemonth in the States than
in all the rest of my life in Australia.
Nevertheless, there is very little obvious
drunkenness in New York city. If you see
a man down and out to it in the gutter
he is probably the sort of dipsomaniac who
drinks methylated spirits in Australia be-
cause whisky has ceased to have any effect
on him. Only fools or sots lose their eye-
sight through drinking wood-alcohol. Safe
stuff is always obtainable —I speak now of
the city. .
I visited Windsor,'on the Canadian side
of the border. It used to be a dismal little
village, but is now a thriving city. The
road that runs from Windsor to New \ork
is known as the Moonlight Trail and is
thronged by bootleggers. There is very little
danger of being intercepted provided you
don’t draw attention by a breakdown to
your vehicle. That the industry attracts
all the rascals in the country is a delusion.
Since the bootlegger has no legal redress
against fraud, he handpicks his employers.
There is probably a higher standard of
commercial rectitude in the business than
in any other industry.
DUKUN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Lesson from Greece.
Australia's present troubles are mainly the
result of over-borrowing, over-importing,
over-regulation of industry by politicians
and lawyers, and over-taxation, to pay
interest on loan works that have failed to
provide it and to support an extravagant
apparatus of government. There has also
been excessive concentration of people in
five mainland capitals, with inflation of land
values. Other factors in the situation are
the invasion of the labor market by myriads
of young women (a world-wide phenome-
non, but one which has caused proportion-
ately more male unemployment in Aus-
tralia than elsewhere, because nearly half
the inhabitants are clustered in the Big
Cities and more than half the metropolitan
population is female) and the million and
a quarter British unemployed. That mighty
army on the dole obviously reduces
Britain’s purchasing and lending power, and
we cannot escape the effects.
The position is pretty bad at the moment,
but it wouldn’t be bad at all if we had j
faced obvious facts at the proper time.
Our wool w'on’t be worth £75,000,000 this
year, as it was in 1928, but we shall get a
lot more for it than the £37,000,000 at
which it was valued in 1921, or the
£39.000,000 which the 1922 clip brought.
And even if many wheat farmers have had
a bad season the total yield will be reckoned
at more than £20,000,000, the Government
Statistician’s estimate of the value of wheat
production in 1918-19, and again in 1919-20.
Westralia alone expects to weigh in with
40 million bushels as against 19 million
bushels in 1923-24, a better than average
year. Since November 11, 1918, other
nations have had to deal with incomparably
worse situations and have come through.
Take Greece. Judged by Australian
standards Greece isn’t much of a country.
The area is 49,912 square miles (little over
half that of Victoria), and only one-fifth
is cultivable. Its mineral resources, though
respectable, are immeasurably inferior to
those of N. S. Wales. For neighbors it has
Turkey, Bulgaria, Jugo-Slavia and Italy, all
more or less hostile. Since the late Con-
stantine returned in 1920 there has been a
succession of palace revolutions, together
with frightful defeats in battle. After the
disasters in Asia Minor in 1922 half a
million refugees, expelled by the victorious
Turks, swarmed into Greece and had to be
absorbed somehow, together with the rem-
nants of the broken legions. With a little
help from the League of Nations all these
difficulties have been surmounted. The
abnormal increase of population has been
held—the 1928 census showed a total of
6,204,000, about the same as Australia’s—
lakes are being drained for agricultural pur-
poses; “industry,” the “Statesman’s Year
Book” says, “is making considerable pro-
gress.” Greece is working and prospering.
It all gives point to the conclusion of
our recent visitor, Lord Craigavon—


FARMYARD PHILOSOPHY.
FIRST ROOSTER: “What’s the good of making that noise?”
SECOND ROOSTER: “Well, it won’t exactly encourage the crows, will it?”
Problems! You haven’t anything worth
calling problems! All that you’ve got can
be solved simply by earning more and
spending less.” The spending less is being
forced on us all right; for the earning more
we shall have to mobilise our patriotism
and our courage.
*
The Limits of Arbitration.
The motif of the tumult and the shouting
of the recent Federal election stands in
great danger of being forgotten now that
the victory has been won and the victors
find it very difficult to march forward from
the position they have taken. The Federal
Arbitration Act, to whose defence they
rallied, proves itself singularly unamenable
to political manipulation. Scullin has dis-
covered, as S. M. Bruce long ago discovered,
that the Federal Government of Australia
is hedged about so closely by its written
Constitution that the High Court is its
master.
Even if it was not so, an Arbitration Act
could not be made to work miracles. It
cannot, as has been demonstrated a score
of times in both the State and Federal
spheres, be made an engine to compel per-
sons to work under conditions of which they
disapprove or which they have been told by
their union bosses they ought to reject.
Neither can it be made a whip to force those
in control of any industry to carry on that
industry under conditions which they con-
sider unprofitable or inequitable. These, as
time and experience conspire to prove, are
natural and not constitutional or legal
limitations.
But for those natural limits there would
be nothing to prevent a Government—red,
white, blue or pink—decreeing a basic wage
of £20,000 a year for all hands and the
cook, with four hours’ work a week and
no work at all every second year To give
the Commonwealth “full industrial powers”
as Scullin proposes will clothe it 'with
neither more nor less puissant authority than
the States at present enjoy in the industrial
held; it will merely be able to overrule the
States in such matters just as the States
can now overrule municipalities or shire
councils within their own respective borders.
The Commonwealth will still be unable—•
unless it uses the taxpayers’ money, as it
proposes to do in the case of certain N. S.
Wales coalmines—to raise wages above the
level the industry can pay, and if it em-
barks on a wholesale subsidisation of wages
lt will soon kill its sources of tax revenue.
Arbitration is a good and sensible method
ot settling differences of opinion, as well
between classes of a community as between
nations But the further the principle is
stretched the more likely is it to fail to
work. 1 hat is why Bruce wanted to with-
draw the Federal authority from the indus-
nal held, and that is why his successor in
office meets with so many rebuffs and dis-
appointments in endeavoring to assert that
authority And no amount of tinkering with
the Constitution or paying of bonuses will
make industrial arbitration more, at the
last analysis, than a means of conciliation,
though an infinite amount of damage may
b~ done before that discovery is made.
Coal-miners’ Wages.
That mischievous person the N. S. Wales
Minister for Mines, addressing a meeting
at Strathfield, showed that for five days
a miner at Rothbury had earned as much
as £ls 7s. 7d. and his offsider as much as
£lO Bs. Bd.—this at the compromise rates
of pay adopted by the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment. The Premier is so dazzled by the
figures that he told the House he proposed
to give them wide publicity.
If Bavin is the fair man The Bulletin
believes him to be he will do nothing of
the sort without carefully explaining sur-
rounding facts. It is the suppression of such
facts—the one-sidedness of nearly every-
thing said or written about the coal-mining
job—which is mainly responsible for the
bitterness that prevails in the industry, and
the difficulty of settling any disputes that
occur. The one side is told of men who
were living on the bread-line even before
the owners proposed their cut; the other
is told of these extravagant earnings. The
one side is encouraged to regard the “coal
barons” as bowelless exploiters of the
worker; the other has what it regards as
proof that the coal-miner is a man addicted
to loafing who could earn four times the
basic wage if he would only work.
The Bulletin knows a lawyer who had a
case a few months ago out of which he
made £SO in a fortnight—£2s a week. He has
just had to give up his office and look for
a clerk’s job. Unfortunately there wasn’t
a strike or lockout among lawyers; if there
had been he might have had the £SO many
times repeated. As it was, though he made
£25 a week for two weeks, he and his
family have now got very close to hunger.
There is a doctor sitting in an office in
Macquarie-street. He has not had a client
for two days—and meantime the rent has
been running on. Presently when one calls
he will be charged two guineas—for 10
minutes’ talk and half a dozen lines scrawled
on a piece of paper.
It is not the miners’ fault that New-
castle was over-manned. When a colliery
got an order, especially when export was
brisk, it had to rush the coal out: hence
two or three times as many men were
employed as would be necessary if the job
was a regular, unbroken one. It was
deliberately a part of the district policy
to make practically all jobs rush jobs; and
:pay was fixed accordingly. It is therefore
grossly unfair to harp upon the wages a
man can make while he is at work, just as
it would be to denounce the doctor for
charging 4s. per minute or the solicitor £SO
a fortnight.
The problem for the politician is one
which so far he has never even made a pre-
tence of solving. Instead of suggesting that
the miner can earn £ls a week, what he has
to face is that as an average the miner
cannot earn a third of it because there are
far too many of them competing for the
available jobs; wherefore the need is to
open up other jobs. 'But that will never
be done so long as the idea is fostered that
the coal-miner need only cry the trouble off
and he can earn three or four pounds a day.
*
The Danger of Disarmament.
The hope that any good will come out of
the 1930 Naval Conference is almost dead.
The difficulty is to find a working basis of
armament reduction. The nations have dif-
ferent reasons for wanting big navies.
America, which is safe from invasion and
self-contained, wants a fleet' that will look
well on the news-reels. In the same spirit
its millionaires buy Old Masters and run
costly yachts. The publicity is considered
worth it. The Italians need a fleet to pro-
tect their bases in the Adriatic. With the
Mediterranean closed to them they could
be starved of food and munitions. The
French need a fleet to hold their African
colonies and transport black troops to
Europe, if required there. The British have
80,000 miles of trade routes to protect, and
could be starved, in a week or less, if an
enemy stopped their food supplies. Japan
has no reason to fear invasion, and its food
and other supplies from China could not
be intercepted by any white enemy; but it
wants colonies as badly as Germans did in
1914. Every nation hates war; but every
nation sees clearly that its own position
is quite unlike every other nation’s, where-
fore a special allowance of lethal weapons is
called for in its case.
Unless the utterly unexpected happens,
it seems now that the most we can hope
for is that no harm may come out of the
conference. Unfortunately there is some
ground for the fear that ill may follow.
Thus from Washington (U.S.A.) the other
day came the message that “statesmen have
now realised that the chief results of the
conference will be some of the greatest
naval-construction programmes the world
has ever seen.”
In any case, the Scullin Government
could hardly have chosen a more dangerous
time to disarm Australia. This is the only
continent which is rich and sparsely in-
habited; the only one, that is, which is an
entirely attractive objective for a hungry
invader. The Government’s policy is only
safe on the assumption that warfare is done
with; and that assumption was not enter-
tained for one moment at this world
conference.
The Dope Devils.
After struggling with the Drugs Act for
two years the N. S. Wales police, through
the head of the Narcotics Bureau, have
been forced to admit that the law is in-
capable of suppressing drug-addiction and
that the curse of cocaine is more widespread
than it was before the measure was born.
This tragedy can be laid chiefly at the
door of the altogether inadequate penalties
awarded to those caught trafficking' in the
“snow.” Profits from the importation and
sale of cocaine are so tremendous—often
in the neighborhood of 2000 per cent.—that
there is no other underworld activity which
can compare with the vile business as a
moneymaker; and so far from fines or even
a few months’ hard labor being deterrents,
there is actually competition to get into the
traffic, and those behind it are able easily to
secure all the “runners” they need. One
street seller, recently fined, was known to
have been making well over £2O a week, and
it is certain his employers made far more.
The only method of keeping the traffic
in check is by prison sentences counted in
years instead of months. The plan followed
elsewhere will no doubt be practised here.
First, there is the preliminary campaign, in
which a certain number of people become
addicts; then, a foundation having been
thus laid, a flood of cheap cocaine is let
loose, so that the addicts already made may
make others; after which, of course, a
market having been assured, the price is
pushed up again. Australia, and especially
N. S. Wales, needs to take vigorous action
during the preliminary campaign.
Black Sugar.
The registration at Port Moresby of an
Australian co. to grow and manufacture
sugar wuth native labor in Papua has dis-
turbed the Queensland labor unions con-
nected with the industry. The secretary of
the North Queensland district of the
A.W.U. has protested against the scheme
as heralding the introduction of black-
grown sugar to Australia. He forecasts,
in that case, the ruin of all the Queensland
sugar towns from Bundaberg to Cairns.
But surely we have no right to assume
that the Commonwealth will be so mad as
to kill an industry of such tremendous
national importance! The promoters of this
Papuan enterprise certainly do not seem to
expect any such thing. Instead, they pro-
pose, after serving Papuan needs, to offer
their product overseas at world parity; and
since that project will open up a market in
Papua for Australian goods it ought to
command our warm support.
Further, there have been occasions when
the Australian Government has found it
necessary to make up shortage in supply
b3' importing black-grown sugar, mostly from
Java; for the five years ending 1927-28 the
quantity was 7567 tons, valued at £135,505.
Should the necessity arise again, it would
be fitter that the deficit be made up from
Australian-controlled Papua.
One other matter troubles the Northern
sugar-worker. Australia’s surplus sugar is
sold overseas at market price. The A.W.U.
official fears that the intrusion of the
200.000 tons which Papua proposes to ulti-
mately manufacture annually will so reduce
world prices that the return on the Aus-
tralian surplus will be greatly diminished.
Willett and Gray’s estimate for 1929-30
shows that, far from a glut existing, the
world’s cane-sugar crop will be 220,000 tons
below last year’s, while beet-sugar produc-
tion is expected to drop 163,000 tons. On
that showing the North Queensland sugar
industry has little to apprehend from the
invasion of outside markets by Papuan
sugar, just as it has nothing to fear in
regard to its effect on purely Australian
production and consumption.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
6 °/o 6% 6%
PERIOD—SEVEN YEARS. FREE OF STATE INCOME-TAX.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS—
Received for £lO or any multiple of £lO.
Payment may be made in full or 10 per cent, on
application and the balance up to March 14, 1930
Interest payable from date of lodgment.
CONVERSIONS—
Securities of Commonwealth 6 per cent. Loans maturing
March 15, 1930, and December 15, 1930, maybe
now converted into this new Loan at the same high
interest rate.
AH information obtainable from Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post Offices, and Members
of Stock Exchanges.
Commonwealth Treasury.
EDWARD G. THEODORE, treasurer.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A conference of six Skimpoles and one
Prime Micawber has met at Canberra to
discuss how to have more money without
doing more work, and how to make a reality
out of the conjuring trick of producing a
bullock out of a belltopper. The conference
is reported to have gone strong on the neces-
sity of taking common action to rehabilitate
the finances, ahd a resolution that “loan
expenditure should be reduced this year
to approximately £22,000,000” is hailed as
a great move in that direction. Prime
Micawber “expressed the belief that a return
to normal conditions might be expected at
no distant date.” For a good few years
past “normal” has meant that the Old Man
in London lent us the money with which
to pay himself his own interest.
Hogan was the only Premier who went
to Canberra with a plan. Ilis plan was to
get rid of the
silly Federal-
aid roads
agreement
which the
Bruce - Pages
imposed on
Australia, un-
dertaking that
the Common-
wealth would
find £2,000,000
p.a. for 10
years, which
it couldn’t
afford, the
States, for-
their part,
to raise
£1,500,000 p.a.
by loans and
otherwise. In
Vic. Premier Hogan.
this Hogan was successful; but whether the
new arrangement will be an improvement—
the States are to get 21d. out of every 4d.
a gallon collected a.s petrol duty—remains to
be seen.
W. M. Hughes made mirth for a small
political audience when he told it that he
had officiated at the birth of the Labor party,
of the Nationalist party, and finally of the
“Australian party.” Nobody knows what
became of Mrs. Gamp. She’drifted off the
stage and may have gone into politics.
A recent progress report showed that 2561
officers, 4411 warrant and non-commissioned
officers and 10,670 other ranks had been
enrolled in the new militia. With one officer
to every four or five privates, the Scullidores
will be able to use majors and captains for
cookhouse fatigues, and make colonels take
their turn at sentry-go.
Someone blundered when the State elec-
toral map of Westralia was being redrawn,
and there will be new anomalies almost as
bad as the old. Part of suburban Leederville,
represented by Agricultural Minister Milling-
ton, was made one of the new constituencies
and called Mt. Hawthorn, it being expected
that each would have an enrolment of 6000.
But the new rolls give Leederville 9149
electors and Mt. Hawthorn (for which Mil-
lington will probably have a walk-over)
4445. Yet the commission was so keen on
making a mathematically perfect division that
it took the boundary line through a convent,
putting half the inmates in one electorate
and half in the other.
The City of Sydney
has all manner of big
sums to pay for resump-
tions and public works,
and loans in Australia
are scarce. But a
middle course has been
found. U.S. oil and
film concerns have a
pile of money available
here. It was made out
of Australians, and a
probable reason why it
is still in Australia is
that it costs a lot in
exchange to send money
away these times. These
concerns are willing to
lend three-quarters of a
million provided the in-
terest is exempt from
both State and Federal
income-tax. Throwing
in tax exemptions along
with the interest is an
extra pawning of the
future, but it attracts
little notice. And the
idea is capable of exten-
sion. Tabor’s moving-
picture patrons may yet
offer a mighty loan at
6 or 6+ per cent, on
condition that the duty
on their films is removed
till the advance is re-
paid.
A writer in the
“Quarterly,” tracing the
history of prohibition in
the U.S.A., states that
the struggle to enforce
and to resist it amounts
to another civil war;
and quotes the lament
of a great Middle West
journal:—
We have taken the bottle
out of the bar-room and
put it in the home. We have had it made of silver
or leather to fit into the hip-pockets of our callow
sons so that these may liven up our neighbors’
little girls.
Supporting evidence may be found in thou-
sands of American novels, short stories and
films which have reached this country. A
vote, for _ no-license in Victoria next month
Victoria with the sanest of licensing sys-
terns—will be a vote for the flask in the hip-
pocket.
The World Revolution recently made a
brief appearance in French In'clo-China, where
troops revolted, seized their barracks and
were suppressed with considerable loss. The
Third International has been busy among
the Annamese for years. An Annamite dele-
gate regularly attends the conferences of the
Pan-Pacific Secretariat, which some people
hope will descend on Australia this year.
In riotous times there isn’t much in being
a J.P. He is generally in some way of busi-
ness, and he is supposed to serve out stern
justice to his customers; but he can’t. When
he receives notice that enough of him must
get on the bench to secure the discharge of
somebody whose conviction would otherwise
be certain, he knows that it is better to
attend than be declared “black” and have his
business ruined. The business J.P. in
a disturbed coal town has even got to
join other business men, for his own safety,
in signing declarations that profound peace
is raging, and that the one thing needed is
the withdrawal of the police.
When electioneering begins in earnest in
South Aus.—the vote is to be taken on April
5 the appointments of H'unkin to the Public
Service Commissionership and of McLachlan
to a seat on the Pastoral Board will be one
of the main counts in the Labor indictment
against the Butler Government. Hunkin,
it will be asserted, was got out of the way
because he was expected to regain the Labor
seat he held in the 1924-27 Parliament, and
McLachlan because his popularity in the
Wooroora electorate (where he has headed
the poll at every post-war election, Butler
being an unbrilliant second) endangered the
Premier’s seat in the reaction against But-
lerism. The Libs., for their part, will make
the most of the Labor selection-ballot scan-
dals, in which the accused were so numerous
that they had to be dealt with in alphabetical
order. S. Aus. elections are humdrum, as
a rule; but this one promises to be lively.
The Reds have become such a nuisance in
South Africa that Hertzog has introduced
a Riotous Assemblies Bill, which bears a
close resemblance to the N.S.W. law against
mass picketing. As Communists have been
stirring up the natives, a special provision
makes it a crime to promote hostilities be-
tween Europeans “and other sections of the
community.” The measure should be noted
by Scullin and Theodore, particularly as
Hertzog’s Government contains Labor Minis-
ters, one of them (Creswell) an Australian.
W. E. WEARNE, sometime N.S.W.
Minister of Lands and Forests,
back in harness after a severe
illness.
Lodging “questionable returns” (the deli-
cate official expression) with the Common-
wealth income-tax people is a more popular
pastime in Queensland than in other States,
or else the departmental detectives are
spryer up there. Of 158 outlined in the
Commissioner’s latest
report, 91 were from
Bananaland. Fifteen of
the careless 91 were
medical practitioners,
one of whom had to pay
£625 19s. lid. for hav-
ing forgotten to include
£5856: in his return for
two years. A sawmiller
was charged £3394 for
having omitted £6163;
another (same sur-
name) was fined £3167
10s. 9d., the income
which had escaped his
recollection amounting
to £6702. But the prize
exhibit was a Chinese
herbalist from Victoria,
who failed to account
for £63,694 received dur-
ing 11 years. The de-
partment socked him
for £B6lO 4s. 9d.
The Canadian income-
tax is mild compared
with the savage imposts
levied in Australia.
With an exemption of
3000 dollars for married
persons and a tax of
only 2 pe r cent,
on incomes of 5000
dollars or less, the
Canadians collected 564
million dollars from this
source in 1927-28; our
exactions, Federal and
State, amounted to
nearly 25| million
pounds. Cousin iCanuke
depends more on sales
and transportation
taxes ; these plus a tax
on cheques yielded 1054
million dollars in 1926-
27 and 90 million dol-
lars in 1927-28 when
they were reduced. The late Frank Wilson,
when Premier of Westralia, proposed a
sales-tax years before the Canadians brought
in theirs in 1920, but his own . side
forced him to drop it. Wilson was shrewd,
and it is a pity he didn’t get his way.
The Hogans (Vic.) are not finding it
easy to set aside the arrangement for the
Metropolitan Board of Works to erect a new
bridge over the Yarra connecting Richmond
and Hawthorn. To embarrass ex-Premier
McPherson, who represents Hawthorn, or
to show contempt for the Metropolitan Board
would be quite to their taste. But to offend
Richmond, a strong Labor constituency
which, incidentally, is represented in the
Upper House by Works Minister Jones, is
quite another matter. And it is Richmond
that is now kicking against having the old
bridge merely reconditioned, as Hogan and
Jones propose, instead of getting a new
structure. Hawthorn is willing to look on
while Richmond kicks.
The Sydney Labor executive is still mut-
tering darkly that orders are orders, and
that the Labor Government will have to
“call out the military” on the northern coal-
fields and “‘disarm Bavin’s police” and seize
the Rothbury, Richmond Main and Pelaw
Main mines. One difficulty would be to find
the military. Certainly 19,000 or 20,000
volunteers have been enlisted for the new
force, but a solemn pledge has been given
that they will never be called out in an
industrial shindy. There remain only 1750
permanent soldiers (Bavin has 3200 police),
many of whom are getting up in years. They
would have to be collected from all the States
and Territories, and if this were seriously
attempted 95 per cent, of them would un-
doubtedly resign rather than fire a shot in
a crazy civil war to glut the rage of a parcel
of skulking Reds. Can anyone imagine
Chauvel winding up a splendid career by
leading a mad attack on the police at the
bidding of Great War quitters? His resig-
nation would be the first in.
The wine-export bounty, which expires on
August 31, is to be renewed and increased
to Is. 6d. per gallon. In 1927-28 the bill
amounted to £482,800, the bounty in that
year being 4s. per gallon for two months,
Is. 9d. for six months and Is. for the rest
of the term. A Government guarantee of
4s. per bushel for wheat delivered at sidings
is also promised provided the farmers accept
a Commonwealth pool. This is a fall from
the 6s. 6d. per bushel mentioned by Gibbons,
M.H.R., but, even so, it exposes the tax-
payers (farmers, of course, included) to the
risk of having to find 6d. per bushel, and
that might work out at £5,000,000 in one
year. And the Scullidore offer to find a
subsidy of 9d. per ton on N.S.W. northern
coal (production averages seven million tons
p.a.) still stands. The Government’s inten-
tions are excellent, and the producers deserve
all that can be done for them; but measures
designed to arrest deflation—the natural re-
sult of conditions artificially sustained foi
many years—won’t really help.
In its essence the Transport Bill which
is more or less bumpily making its way
towards the N.S.W. Statute Book is an
attempt to put the State, as tramway owner,
on a better competitive level with the ’bus
proprietors. ’Bus control is to be vested
in public trusts —one for Sydney and one
for Newcastle for a start-*—that will regu-
late routes and exact license fees sufficient
for what Minister Bruxner considers a fair
contribution towards road maintenance,
police supervision and interest on State in-
debtedness. Incidentally, the Sydney and
Newcastle tramways are to be withdrawn
from the Railway Commissioners’ control
and run by a board of tramway officials
responsible to the trusts. The cry has been
raised that the idea is to throttle ’bus com-
petition under pretence of regulating it.
Bruxner denies this, though there is no
earthly reason why he shouldn’t admit that
the people’s trams must have first considera-
tion.
Reed, P.M-, who inquired into the riotous
affair at Rothbury in which a young miner
lost his life, found that death was accidental
and that the police shots were fired into the
air and on the ground; the police, he said,
did their duty with skill and forbearance.
What a horror Rothbury might have been
but for the police is shown by what hap-
pened at Ashtonfields, where a few poor
devils who were working at pre-stoppage
rates were stripped and punched and kicked
by a howling mob, some of whom threatened
them with death in various forms; two had
to be carried to the hospital, one with a
ruptured eardrum. “Cowardly, brutal and
fiendish” was the magistrate’s description
of these proceedings, and, finding 68 men
guilty, he imposed penalties ranging from
three months’ hard to £3 with £1 16s. 6d.
costs.
Federal Minister Fenton has been telling
John Bull that the slump in Australian
securities on Bull’s market was due to John’s
failure to understand the position. British
financiers have been lending money to Aus-
tralia for 85 years, and to other customers,
including some dishonest ones, for longer than
that. They seldom make blunders which can
be exposed offhand by a Minister in the
flush of his first portfolio. The genuine
cause of anxiety is that Australia has failed,
for a number of years, to pay Father his
interest (in gold or its equivalent) except
out of gold which Father lent him. This is
different from the general position of Canada,
South Africa, India, Ceylon, Newfoundland,
Borneo, Fiji or Maoriland, which tend rather
to have a surplus of exports to pay bills
with.
A brisk waterside shindy is among the
possibilities of the Scullidores’ future. As
the law now stands the privilege of working
on the wharves belongs to anyone who will
take out a license, this being the result of
a previous shindy in which the watersiders
defied one of Judge Beeby’s Federal awards.
The Scullidores have ceased to issue new
licenses, but they can’t do anything large,
such as giving absolute preference to
unionists, until a special law is passed. If
the House of Reps, passes the law and the
Senate rejects it, as is very probable, the
experiment may be repeated and the Senate
may reject again. Then there would be an
opening for a dissolution of both Houses.
This would cost much money, and might
not turn out as well as the Scullidores hope.
Or perhaps there is really less hope than
dope about some of their schemes.
The Westralian re-
distribution of seats
has made Guildford-
Midland a soft thing
for Labor, and “Plane
Bill” Johnson is un-
likely to have any
/Nationalist opponent
there in April. John-
son is the only Labor
Assemblyman left of
the original (1901)
vintage; “Mulga”
Taylor, another mem-
ber of the group, is
still in politics, . but
has been a Nationalist
since the conscription
business. Johnson was
an alert Minister
of Works in the Dag-
lish and Scaddan Gov-
ernments, but Caucus
left him out of the
Collier combination,
preferring McCallum,
who has certainly
made good.
W. D. Johnson.
A Mr. Whitfield, of Hughes’s “Australian
party,” proudly boasts that “no donation has
been received which has any string to it.
This is one in the eye for disguised National-
ists who may contemplate offering the
founder of the “party” another £25,000. Let
them keep their tainted money!
MIXED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mi*. Eldridge, denied the statement in the
‘S. M. Herald’ that a ‘cave’ under his leadership
had been formed against Mr. Theodore in the Federal
Labor caucus. He' admitted having read the ‘Arabian
Nights’ as a boy, but if it was suggested there was
an Aladdin’s cave at Canberra he had no political
sesame with which to enter it.”
The Bible’s pull, we’ll cheerfully allow,
Too oft waxed weak when gorgeous fiction
beckoned
In boyhood’s days. But, comrade, anyhow
The question ’fore the House is Samuel now,
Book first, chap, twenty-second.
Come and refresh your memory with me
On that historic refuge David found him
When Saul behaved himself unbearably;
And on that quaint but sturdy coterie
He soon collected round him.
Debt or distress, it would appear, were all
The sesames that had to be presented.
None were refused whose hearts were filled
with gall
Or whom the idiosyncrasies of Saul
Had rendered discontented.
Theirs was the cave to which allusion’s made.
All further information may be had in
The sacred volume to which lips are laid
Lest witnesses the paths of truth evade
Try Samuel, brother, not Schelierezade,
Adullam, not Aladdin.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE RECRUIT'S MISTAKE.
“The last hope that any good will come out of the Peace Conference is gone.”— Cable.
MARS: “What’s the meaning of that little fellow?”
SERGEANT BULL: “That is Private Aussie, sir. He was told by a Russian friend that you had been talked to death- So he bought himself a new uniform.”
Poverty
Point
“Ogsblud”: Dion Boucicault was a petu-
lant little man on occasions. He spoke to
me one day of a person who, I gathered,
had offended his sense of the aesthetic. “Who
is he?” I asked. Bouci glared. “Not who
is he!” he snapped. “Why is he?”
“Dinn-Dinn”: Newly-installed talkies at
a South Coast (N.S.W.) theatre refusing to
elocute clearly, the audience birdcd the show.
The manager had an inspiration. He stopped
the picture and addressed the crowd. “Look
here, you blokes,” he said, “have a heart.
These chaps get the ’flu same as anybody
else. You can’t expect anybody to talk pro-
perly with colds. Give the lads a chance.”
The audience, ignorant of the technical side
of the apparatus, decided to put up with it,
and two days later the whole cast was medi-
cally fit.
“O’. Blin”: Gregan McMahon is so satis-
fied with his appeal for 500 subscribers to
finance a series of plays in Melbourne that
he is starting off on March 8 with the pro-
duction of Somerset Maugham’s “The Circle,”
which will be followed a week later by Nor-
man McOwan’s “Jacob’s Ladder.” McMahon’s
appearance as the parent of what amounts
to a new repertory movement is bound to
make Melbourne Repertory Theatre feel un-
easy, though the latter is announcing an
ambitious 1930 programme which includes
plays by the Capeks, Milne, Granville Barker
and others. The worst aspect of the situa-
tion is that tw’o. or three of the leading ama-
teurs have left the original theatre to enlist
under McMahon, and unless Repertory pro-
ducer Frank Clewlow has the genius to check
the drift other aspiring Bernhardts and
Coquelins are bound to follow.
“Santander”: Pavlova, who became tired
of fluttering her matured limbs before bored
West End audiences, lately tried the experi-
ment of invading the London suburban
theatres, and her first week at the Golder’s
Green Theatre netted her £3600. Delighted
at being discovered by the suburbs, Pavlova
went on to other theatres in the Smoke and
then skipped off to Brighton and Bourne-
mouth, preparatory to doing a tour through
Spain. During the next English autumn she
will treat the provinces to “The Dying
Swan.”
“L. de R.”: When the dramatic critic
leaves his legitimate domain and enters
foreign fields he is apt to make an ass of
himself. One commentator on Leon Gor-
don’s production of “The Poppy God” at
Melbourne Comedy waxed sarcastic over the
two Chinese merchants speaking to each other
in Confucian aphorisms and in pidgin to a
menial. It is about the only item in the
play that is, probably accidentally, true to
life. If the coolie came from a different
province from his masters, pidgin would be
the only language in which they could con-
verse. I once attended a Chinese jockey
club dinner in Shanghai at which the only
way anybody could make himself intelligible
to his next-door neighbor was in either
Oxford or pidgin English.
“Hops-and-Scotch”: The back-stage hap-
pening at Sydney Her Majesty’s the other
night, when “The New Moon” nearly had
two leading men on the stage at once, is not
the Firm’s first experience of this sort of
thing. Some years ago at Melbourne Royal
an imported young man was regarded during
early rehearsals as unsatisfactory in the
role, although he had been brought here to
play it, and another man substituted. On
the night of the first production the original
man sneaked into the theatre, already made
up and suitably dressed for the part, and
was first off the mark at the cue, bounding
on the stage, to the great astonishment of
the artists already there. His appearance
had a staggering effect upon the directors
sitting in the box, since he was not on the
pay-roll, especially as he gave a rattling
fine performance, though possibly not half
as interesting an exhibition as that given in
the wings by the man who had been left at
the post.
“Aisle Seat”: The original “Belle of New
York” had a rather disastrous kick off on
its first'night in Melbourne. Cora Angelique,
queen of comic opera, tripped over a bundle
of Ichabod Bronson’s tracts and fell head-
long. Also, Oscar Girard’s voice began to
give out, and if he had not had his London
experience to guide him, George Musgrove
would have sold out for a song. As far as
I can gather, in the coming revival Marie
Bremner will be Australia’s 17th Belle. The
prettiest was Cecil Englehardt. When she
went on the late and greatly experienced
Henry Bracy stood in the wings and ex-
claimed, “My God, but isn’t she beautiful !”
Rose Musgrove played the Belle, and on
another occasion, as the deceived Fifi, had
them shedding tears.
“ Jonop”: Every actor screams for the
author to give him a line that will “take
him off,” i.e., keep him occupied while he
is getting from the centre of the stage to
the exit. Gaston Mervale has added a subtle
touch in the scene in “The New Moon” in
which he snatches a letter from the prisoner,
Misson, and has to exit without k word.
Mervale now grabs the paper, and, walking
towards the door, feels for his glasses, finds
they’re not there, holds the paper an inch
from his eyes and exits like a short-sighted
old man.
“Kaylee”: Sydney dailies made a mouth-
ful of Muriel Starr’s bankruptcy, but she
went broke running shows. That has hap-
pened sometime or other to pretty well
every theatrical man worth his salt, and
most of them admit to it cheerfully. <C. B.
Cochrane lias gone under several times, but
has always bobbed up again. The show
business is known to be a gamble, and. if the
broke manager has been a fair dealer, few
creditors are hard. Instance the big Ameri-
can burlesque entrepreneur who called his
creditors together and told them he owed
about 300,000 dollars and couldn’t see a cent.
They listened, told him to wait outside on
the mat, and one after another wrote “Paid
in full” on their accounts. It took the man-
ager a while to do it, but he made the three
words true eventually.
“Say Bo”: The talkies are even threaten-
ing the existence of the road shows. A port-
able talking-theatre recently set out from
Hollywood in two units, They are complete
in all particulars, and can be installed in
any playhouse in a couple of days. One
unit has been touring through Honolulu and
north Pacific parts, and the other is working
the India-Singapore pitch.
“Dicta”: H'oot Gibson is another who
visited Australia as a cowboy circuser. He
was here with Atkinson’s Wild West Show
in 1913.
“Cine Ma”: Another cherished illusion has
gone the way of many others for me. I
have just learnt that Mack Sennett’s Bath-
ing Beauties don’t bathe. When the time
comes for them to go into the water they
assume multi-colored wraps and lie down on
the beach while paid dummies, with coarser
sams and less sensitive complexions, enter
the sad sea waves.
“Spokeshave”: Frank Harvey, known for
many fine characterisations in Australia and
now playing the Duke to Matheson Lang’s
Hebrew in “Jew Suss” overseas, has turned
playwright. A three-acter, “The Last
Enemy,” is being produced by Tom Walls
at the Fortune Theatre.
“S.” : The moi ie magnates are not the only
entertainers who are reducing their admission
tees. Melbourne Repertory Society is offering
to members books of coupon tickets admit-
ting to eight performances in the coming
year for a mere 30 shillings. Amongst plays
listed are Masefield’s “Good Friday,” Milne’s
The Ivory Door” and “A Man and Some
ivomen, by Gita Sowerby, who wrote
Rutherford and Son*” On one occasion
MoJiere is. going to be given an innings with a
curtain-raiser by a modern Australian writer.
I rank Clewlow’s organisation is now faced
wRh. the competition of the new Gregan
McMahon co., and a boom in the intellectual
drama is expected.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre, the oldest
or its kind in Australia, reported at its annual
meeting a bank balance of £B5O, and a change
of address from the Victoria (Y.M.C.A.)
Hall to a new Australia Hall, with much
more stage-room and, it is hoped, better
acoustic properties. A feature of the meeting
was a brisk attack on the management by
an ardent supporter, who found last year’s*
piogiamme too timid and popularity-seeking.
It consisted merely of Drinkwater, O’Neill
Coward, Pirandello, Barrie and W. S Gil’
Snen fW Btralian “Touch Of Silk” is to
open the 3930 programme.
reT3 L ‘§? : £ arry Eupino and Rupert Dar-
iell, frequently associated in Australian
gS&rff tun 5"? f a revival of ViS
uerbert s tuneful Babes m Tovland’’ at
Hwt° n th P T iw tre i Ncw ToA - It is Strange
rfi tae . P\ ece Ims never been done here
Herbert i s known to Australia only by his
Fortune, Teller” and “Red Mill.” Tim
tim y Wood ” ; U variant 0,1 “ B abes in
tnt wood, with two comie villains who
leave the Babes in a spider-infested forest,
whence fairies transport them to a Nurem-
berg-like Toyland, in which dolls come to
life and wooden soldiers march for ever-
more. It shows Herbert at his best as a
musical humorist.
“The Giggling Undertaker”: Reginald
Dandy, now known as John Garrick, is col-
lecting plentiful praise for his work in
talkies. Critics give him the honors for his
work in “The Sky Hawk,” which also has
Australians Daphne Pollard and Billy Bevan.
Garrick is to support John McCormack in
his first talkie.
“Spokesliave”: The fact that Francis
Francis, a young millionaire subaltern of
the Horse Guards, lias sent in his papers
consequent on having announced his inten-
tion of marrying Sunny Jarmann, the star
ot “Hold Everything” in London, is another
instance of an old prejudice dying hard. A
Guardsman may have an actress for a
mother, but if he marries one of the loathly
breed he automatically signs his resignation.
Yet actresses have been presented at Court
and married into the Beerage.
“Santander”: Kitty Reidy has found a
good vehicle for her daintiness in the Lon-
don Lyceum production of “Puss in Boots.”
She is principal girl, and the smooth, sun-
lit voice of the Australian is an agreeable
circumstance to many listeners in the Smoke.
She is toplined with the Hai Yung family,
seven Chinese described as “sensationalists,”
whose turn is the feature of the show.
“Bert the Carpenter”: From time to time
I notice the Service Departmomt prints
replies to people who have aspirations to-
wards Hollywood. Hence this advice to all
screen-struck folk. If you have a trade
which is in demand in Hollywood (car-
penter, painter, electrician, etc.) and not
less than £lOO and can be included in an
immigration quota, then you are in a posi-
tion to go—not otherwise. It is also neces
sary to be able to ride, drive a car, swim
and dance. An outsider has Buckley’s
chance of getting a job—even as an “extra”
—straight away, but a man with a trade
can get enough work, if lie lives economi-
cally, to keep him. Then if he keeps his
eyes open he may be selected to form one
of a crowd, and if he has any qualifications
he may bring off a thousand-to-one chance
and land a bigger part in a film. The wage#
paid in Hollywood, even to first-rate trades-
men, are nothing wonderful; work is very
intermittent, and there is always a big sur-
plus of labor. The man without a trade is
in a very poor position there. For screen-
struck girls there’s only one thing to be
said —keep away! I worked for the Para-
mount people as a sub-foreman carpenter,
yet my earnings averaged only 20s. per day
in a place where living was darned dear;
and there were hundreds of men for every
available job before the camera. Of the
plight of unemployed girls there the less said
the better.
“L.11.P.”: Granville Bantock, Professor
of Music at Birmingham ’Varsity and well
known here as musical conductor of the
third Gaiety co., has been knighted. His
brother, Claude, was on the Australian stage
for years. Granville wrote a very enter-
taining book, “Round the World with a
Gaiety Girl,” in which, incidentally, he
praised Australian audiences.


è
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
BRITISH MADE
ROSS BINOCULARS
Extra wide
field.
Screw
Focussing
Magnification: 7 Diameters.
Sold at English Catalogue Prices
The production of these Binoculars
has been made possible by means
of special prisms and a new type
of eye piece.
In addition to a much wider field
of vision, they have great light-
transmitting power, giving a most
brilliant and perfectly defined
image.
AN IDEAL GLASS FOR
ALL-ROUND USE.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
R Oss
ltd
l °xdon
<*«**
ST'TSK
13ii
SR?
FAIRFAX U ROBERTS, LTD.,
Sight-testing Opticians,
23-25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
é
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Little Doc. Maloney got a great welcome
at Vic. State public offices last week when
he introduced a deputation of unemployed
musicians. It was his first appearance since
liis serious illness. The doctor is still held
in warm regard by State officers, although it
is 27 years since he was a Vic. Assemblyman.
Another link with the days of the wool
clippers is removed by the death at Liver-
pool (Eng.) of Captain Samuel Bailey, aged
90. For over 25 years he was a familiar
figure in Sydney or Melbourne nearly every
wool season in the ships Cambrian Prin-
cess, General Roberts and Leyland Brothers.
None of them were in the topmost class as
speedsters, but in ’79 the Cambrian Princess
beat the Samuel Plimsoll, and the General
Roberts’s 70 days from London to Melbourne
was the best passage of ’B9. The captain’s
last trip was in the Leyland Brothers in 1904.
Queensland’s ex-Premier McCormack, who
lias just resigned his Assembly seat for
Cairns to go into business in Sydney,
became an M.L.A. in 1912 at the age of 32.
Three years later Labor established a hold on
office that was to last 14 years, and McCor-
mack found himself in the Speaker’s chair.
He left it to become H'ome Secretary in
1919, and in 1925 he succeeded Gillies as
Premier and stayed there until his party
came to grief at the polls last May. Since
then he has made a trip to Europe, mainly,
so it was said, for health reasons. (The other
story is quite libellous.) The ex-Premier was
born at St. Lawrence (Q.) and began his
career as a miner and union secretary.
George Soward, veteran architect of Adel-
aide and occasional contributor of scholarly
G. K. SOWARD.
verse to The
Bulletin, has
been appointed
a Commissioner
o f Charitable
Funds in S.
Aus. This is a
State affair, and
not to be con-
fused with the
C o mmonwealth
Literary Fund
pensions, which
are administered
by Sugden, of
Vic., Prof. Le
Gay Brereton
(who has just
succeeded Pro.
Mungo MacCal-
lum), of Syd-
ney, and S. Tal-
bot Smith, an-
other veteran
Bulletin
writer, of Adel-
aide.
Died last
week at 65,
John Charles
Meehan, who re-
presented the
Darling for nine
years in the
N.S.W. Assembly and was a well-known
Ministerialist in the early days of Hol-
man’s Labor Premiership. Jack was a
likeable member whose main contribu-
tions to politics were never recorded in
“Hansard”—he once, charged into the Cham-
ber with a tankard of beer and sought to
press it upon a prosy orator. On another
occasion when a verbal clash had
in an invitation to “come outside,” Jack’s
opponent hedged. “I have no personal ill
feeling against the honorable member,” he
announced. “That’s all right,” said Jack
genially, “we’ll make it a friendly fight.
Australian - born bishops
will be as rare at the Lam-
beth Conference this year as
they were in 1920. In Aus-
tralia’s 25 Anglican dioceses
there are only six bishops
in active commission who
were born and trained here.
They are Long, of New-
castle; Hart, of Wan-
garatta; Newton, of New
Guinea; Moyes, of Armi-
dale ; James, of St. Arnaud ;
and Ash, ■ of Rockhampton.
Two or three others, includ-
ing Crotty (Bathurst) and
C r answ i c k (Gippsland),
were brought to Australia as
Doys.
Hal Gye makes this week
a new study of Bishop Lang-
ley, who can still be seen
about Melbourne occasionally,
thongh he is now in his 94tli
year. Before he got his
apron Dr. Langley was a
shepherd on Church Hill,
and The Bulletin, having
pitched its tent at the foot
of that eminence, was for
many years in his parish.
It can’t swear to his preach-
ing, but it knows there was
no more accomplished beggar
in Sydney—and no more
self-denying one. He learned
finance in a bank: he was
37 before he changed the cut of his collar.
As a bishop (of Bendigo) he succeeded his
brother; and the church historians can’t find
another case of that sort in Australia,
though there is said to have been one in
England.
Some March birthdays:—
A. C. C. Holtz (Melb. Argus), 56, on Ist; Q.
Senator Brig.-Gen. Thompson, 67, J. Boyd Cramsie
(Meat Industry Board), 59, and N.S.W. Collector
of Customs Barkley, 61, on 2nd; ex-High Court
Justice Powers, 77, G. C. Ivlug (Bewick, Moreing
and Co.), and S.A. Minister M. Mclhtosh, 42, on
3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 66, and novelist Edward
Dyson, 65, on 4th; Vic. Senator Lawson, 55, on
sth; Major-Gen. H. Bruche, 57, J. Newman Barker
(Melb.), 79,- D. G. Stead, F.L.S. (Syd.), 53, and
C. A, Earp (Newcastle), 59, on 6th; Rev. James
Colwell (Methodist Church historian), 70, and Dr.
Aeneas McDonnell (Toowoomba), 66, on 7th; Pro-
fessor Colin Mackenzie (Director of Institute of
Anatomy, Canberra)y 53, and artist Tom Roberts
74, on 9th; John Longstaff, 68, on 10th; Walter
Bennett, M.L.A., 66, Dr. E. S. Simpson (W.A.
Govt. Mineralogist), 55, and H. P. Beaver (Adel-
aide’s Town Clerk), 62, on 11th; knight Frank
Clarke (Vic. Leg. Council Pres.), 51, J. R. Collins
(High Commissioner’s Office), 61, and Geo. S.
Knowles' (Federal Attorney-Gen.’s Dept.), 48, on
14th; Dr. Hayden (Archbishop-designate of Hobart),
62, and Prof. Boyce Gibson (Melb.), 61, on 15th;
S. Attorney-Gen. Homburg, 56, and S. L. Kessell
(W.A. Cons, of Forests), 33, on 17th; Prof. Holme
(Syd.), 59, novelist Bernard Cronin, 46, and Clem
Hill (S.A.), 53, on 18th; Vic. Governor Somers,
43, James Mitchell (ex-N.S.W. Inspector-Gen. of
Police), 65, J. Wallace Sandford (Adel.), 51, and
A. S. Rodgers (formerly M.11.R. for Wannon), 55,
on 20th; Vic. ex-Agent-Gen. Geo. Fairbaim, 75,
ex-Federal Minister Marr, 50, and novelist Roy
Bridges, 45, on 23rd; Lieut.-Col. H. G. Carter
(Syd.), 45, and John Livingston (formerly M.H.R.
for Barker), 74, on 24th; ; Vice-Admiral Ernest
Gaunt, 65, and Col. M. F. Bruxner, M.L.A., 48,
on 25th; Vice-Admiral Wm. Clarkson, 71, ex-
Federal Minister H. S. Gullett, 52, and ex-
Senator de Largie, 71, on 26th; former V'io.
Premier John Allan, 64, and Prof. Mitchell (Adel.),
69, on 27th; former W.A. Premier Walter James,
K.C., 67, S. J. Jacobs (Adel.), 77, J. A. Norris
(Vic.’s Auditor-General), 58, and J. S. MacDonald
(Director N.S.W. Nat Gallery), 52, on 28th; Prof.
T. G. Tucker (Melb.), 71, W.A. Senator Colebatch,
58, Dr. Jethro Brown (Adel.), 62, and G. V. Brooks
(Speck’s Director of Education), 53, on 29th;
Senator Sampson (Tas.), 48, on 30th; Bishop-
Coadjutor Wylde (Bathurst), 50, Prof. W. Lawrence
Bragg, F.R.S. (b. at Adel.), 40, and Federal Speaker
Makin, 41, on 31st.
“Uramao”: A recent cable made mention
of a certain Geoffrey Wladislas Vaile
Potocki de Montalk, who had gone to Europe
from Maoriland to claim an ancient Polish
title and apparently was disappointed with
his reception. Geoff contributed to the gaiety
of M.L. a couple of years ago when before
Judge Adams in connection with marital
troubles. He intimated that he was going to
shake the mud of M.L. off his feet and strike
the “golden road to Samarkand,” for “poets
are as badly treated in this land of White
Savages and All Blacks as they are feted,
laurelled and crowned in Merric England.”
In a letter read in court replying to his wife
(“The Countess”), who appealed to him to
re-establish a home for her, the poet in a
fine frenzy concluded this missive: “The
above poetic symphony in four movements is
an expansion of a theme of two letters —No!”
BISHOP LANGLEY.
Past and present members of Vic.
Assembly learned with genuine regret of
the death of Jim Barnes, formerly Parlia-
mentary housekeeper and head of the general
division staff. H'aving served under about
a dozen Speakers, from Lalor to Peacock,
Barnes had come to be regarded as a Par-
liamentary institution up to the time of
liis retirement two years ago.
At * 42, Carleton Kemp
Allen, a Sydney University
man who was wafted away
on the wings of, the James
King scholarship 19 years
ago, has been appointed Pro-
fessor of Jurisprudence at
Oxford. Allen is one of the
few men (H. V. Evatt was
another) who have gradu-
ated at Sydney with a first-
class in three subjects. A
Military Cross, some legal
writings and a satirical vol-
ume called “Oh, Mr. Leacock”
are among his achievements.
William F. Sayer, West-
ralia’s just-retired Solicitor-
General and Parliamentary
draftsman, held the job for
33 years with one two-
montlis’ spell, when he was
induced to accept Ministerial
office. That was in 1901,
when he was Attorney-
General in the short-lived
Throssell Ministry, which
took over the reins from Big-
john Forrest and was outed
at the first post-Federation
elections. Sayer is credited
with knowing more about
his State’s laws than any
other six people, and pro-
poses to devote some of
his leisure to codifying them.
The new Prof, of Anatomy at Adelaide
Uni. is to be H. J. Wilkinson Elder. After
taking his B.A. there in 1914, he studied
medicine at Sydney and won almost all the
honors available. He is nominally a senior
lecturer at Sydney Uni., but actually, hold'
ing a Rockefeller Foundation research endow-
ment, he has been acquiring credit among
embryologists all about the world, and is at
present in Chicago.
Pastoralist William Armstrong MacPher-
son, who died in Sydney last week, came of
old landed stock. His great-grandfather
arrived in Sydney in 1825; grandfather John
settled five years later on Limestone Plains,
where Canberra stands to-day, and brought
up a family there, the first white children born
in the Federal Territory. One of the sons,
John, became Premier of Victoria in 1869;
another, Peter, entered the Church. The Rev.
Peter was the father of the late W. A.
MacPherson, whose mother was. a daughter
of James Armstrong, a pioneer pastoralist of
Victoria.
J. W. Baldie, after nearly a quarter of a
century in the Papuan Civil Service, is retir-
ingi He joined as Treasury Clerk at Port
Morseby and became warden of the old
Astrolabe and Lakekamu gold-fields. An
attempt has recently been made to resurrect
the former as the new “M’t. Lawson gold-
fields,” but the prospectors who combed
that locality in Baldie’s time, Mat Crowe,
Frank Pryke, Joe Sloane and others,
were hardly the sort to walk over a rich
field and leave it begging. Baldie eventually
rose to the magistracy. H'e has seen the
Port Moresby natives civilised up to the
level of football matches, boy and girl scouts,
and native clubs in lieu of the old-time stone
ones.
Colonel J. S. Lyster, who died in the
Channel Islands the other day at 72, played
a big part in building up the efficiency of the
C.M.F. He came to Queensland in iBB5 as
a young Imperial officer who had seen ser-
vice in India, and was appointed to the
Queensland instructional staff. His connection
with Australian forces only ceased when he
retired in 1919. Under the Federal Govern-
ment he was successively Commandant in
Queensland, N.S.W. and South Australia,
but his chief claim to distinction lay in his
outstanding capacity for the training of
officers. Among those who received their
early training from him were Generals
Brudenell White, Brand, Dodds, Coxen, Foott
and other members of the A.I.F. General
staff, in addition to many who rose to high
command outside the staff. He saw ser-
vice in the South African War in command of
the Ist Commonwealth Light Horse, and
was a well-known writer of lucid military
articles. ,
The new R.C. Archbishop of the Speck is
William Hayden, Bishop of Forbes-Wilcan-
nia (N.S.W.) since 1918. A Kilkenny man,
he was educated at the College of the
Propaganda at Rome. A noted horseman, his
breezy and unorthodox personality has always
made him popular, while he has an outsize
talent in music. He is a brother of Mon-
signor Tom Hayden, for over 30 years a
professor in the Cardinal’s College at Manly,
and now of Balmain.
Westralia has (or had) one lone baronet,
Alexander Thomas Cockburn-Campbell, fifth
of his line, whose father, Sir Thomas, was
president of the Legislative Council 40 years
ago. The son was in the Civil Service as a
magistrates’ clerk for some years; he left it
to manage cattle stations in the Kimber-
leys, and finally settled over the border in
Northern Australia.
“J.H.T.”: Mention of the rise of the octo-
genarian Walter Runciman from cabin-boy
on a collier to shipowner and baronet (B.
12/2/’3O) calls attention to a very rarely
traversed route. Many a cabin-boy has
lived to become a master mariner, but the
history of practically all our present ship-
ping magnates who made their own way
shows that the almost invariable path to
greatness is througli the office. Inchcape,
Maclay and Inverforth all rose from an office-
boy’s job to that of chartering clerk on
’Change (the key position), and thence to
managing ownership. Five of the writer’s
contemporaries who were chartering clerks
at £3 to £4 weekly on Glasgow Royal Ex-
change 30 to 35 years ago are now all man-
aging directors of large shipowning com-
panies.
Hugh Denison, managing director of the
Sun group of Sydney papers, goes oft' on a
long holiday—period indefinite. Syd Snow,
the draper, takes his place as chairman.
Snow got into newspaperdom when a syndi-
cate was formed to buy a block of Evening
News shares. The idea,was to keep a rein
on the Sun as a fluff advertising medium;
but it didn’t work out very successfully, and
when the Sun cast round three or four years
ago for an energetic young business man to
take a vacant seat on its board, the choice
fell on Snow, notwithstanding his remote
connection with the rival. Fordyce Wheeler,
more than any other man, was instrumental
in introducing Denison to newsprint. In
those days Hugh Denison was still Hugh
Dixson, a director of the big tobacco co.;
arid Wheeler, who had been handling a lot
of its advertising, talked to him of the great
chances the Stab offered. Before long that
flickering concern was taken over, the paper
renamed, handed to Monty Grover and
reorganised, with astonishing results.
Henry Bruce Lefroy, who was Premier of
Westraiia from ’l7 to ’l9, is one of the very
few boys from a great English public school
who have risen to the political top in an
Australian State. His father was Colonial
Treasurer for nearly 40 years, and the lad
went to Rugby, where he won distinction as
a long-distance runner in the ’seventies. He
returned home to be a squatter, but Bigjohn
Forrest lured him into politics in ’92
and he found himself at the head of a
Ministry towards the end of the war.
“Look after our country, Henry,” was his old
chief’s final adjuration to him when Forrest
left it, never to return alive; and Henry,
who had all the elder man’s patriotism but
lacked his driving force, at least did his best.
At 75 he is spending the evening of his days
at the family home, Walebing.
John M. Black. S.A.-’s leading botanist
and Adelaide Uni. lecturer, will represent
Australia at the
International
Congress on
Botany at Cam-
bridge (Eng.)
in August.
Black, who was
on the Adelaide
press for about
20 years and is
a fine linguist,
is related to
novelist Hugh
Walpole, an d
on his mother’s
side to the
author of “The
Ingoldsby Leg-
ends.” A sister
married D’Oyly
Carte, of the old
Savoy, London.
Years ago the
N.S.W. litiga-
tion champion
was a St. Ives
orchardist who
would invoke
the law if even
a dog trespassed
on his pr o-
perty; he finally
shot at a police-
man who called
on him with a
warrant in re-
spect to unpaid
costs, and was
adjudged in-
sane. ' His re-
cord has pro-
J. HERLIHY, new
Under-Secretary for
Lands in N. S. Wales.
bably been broken by George Davison,
of George Town, who has been con-
ducting a feud with the municipal coun-
cil, the Government and the police for
no-one knows how long. Bent with the
weight of 80 years, he still arrives before the
Full Court periodically, usually with an
application for a prohibition against some-
body or some body. He is invariably bowled
out first ball, but it never discourages him
in the slightest.
THE KINDLY PREJUDICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When someone’s in the pillory
s t° rm s of censure beat around him,
ihere il mostly one dissentient be
Who “speaks about him as he found him.”
A homely and expressive phrase
With an extenuating gloss—
God help, the man who wouldn’t praise
The bridge that’s carried him across!
“Hervey was vicious”—candidly
<( And sadly Johnson spoke above him —
But he was very good to me:
Give but a dog his name I’ll love him.”
A flower amid the wreath of weed,
A grain of gold among the dross.
He gave the bridge its generous meed,
The bridge that carried him across.
Seldom are gathered two or three
But someone’s turpitude’s discussed—
It may be idle calumny,
It may bo condemnation just.
I care, not if lie’s down and wrecked,
An idol fall’n, a broken joss,
There’s none shall comminafe, unchecked,
The bridge that carried me across.
N.S.W.
IFORD


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
REALISM.
MOTHER: “Playing pirates, are you? But what is the bucket of water for?”
PIRATE CHIEF: “That’s the ocean Nipper has to fall into when he walks the plank.”
“Darius” : The exams, at a Sydney subur-
ban school yielded two gems. One of the
questions referred to the Industrial Revo-
lution, and a bright urchin wrote: “After
the passing of the Factory Act there was a
great improvement, and people of the same
sex were not allowed to sleep in the same
bed.” Another made an original contri-
bution to Australian history: “When Mac-
quarie arrived in N.S.W. the population was
in a very weak State. But he was a very
vigorous man and when he left it had in-
creased 10 times.”
* * * *
“Ida D” - A murder by stabbing, like that
of Dominico Belle on the Newtown (Syd-
ney) railway station, is unusual in this
country; in all parts of the Argentine the
method ’would pass without comment, the
knife being used in about 95 per cent, of
murder cases. But the Argentina police, un-
like our own, could straightway limit their
field of inquiry by noting the nature of the
wound. The Argentino stabs low in the
chest, with an upward thrust; the Italian
stabs downward, nearly always through the
“salt-cellar” in the neck. Both unerringly
find the lung. So natural is it for the Italian
to seek' for the “salt-cellar” that he will
do it with a weapon other than a knife.
I saw our cook shoot the second book-
keeper (jealousy over* a woman, of course)
at close quarters. He was a tall man and
shot from above. The first bullet entered
at the. very spot, and only clothing saved
it from being a fatal wound. The Argentine
boy is given a small knife at a very early
age, and soon becomes adept in its use. The
weapon increases in size with his years; a
man’s knife is flexible, and has an edge like
a razor. A great dandy will carry a knife
with a beautifully worked silver handle in
the leg of his top-boot; but the usual place
is in a loop at the back of the belt.
* * * Ss
“Up Top”: One of Australia’s forgotten
pioneers of aviation is George Hardacre, a
farmer in the Central Bucca district
(N.S.W.). Over 30 years ago, in between
bush toil, Hardacre invented a fly-
ing-machine, and all Coff’s H'arbor
and the Bucca turned out to wit-
ness the trial. The umbrella-like
contraption, attached by a running
wheel to a steel cable stretched be-
tween two trees, did its work per-
fectly when the inventor stepped
aboard and handled the levers.
The machine not only rose in the
air but stayed there with its pas-
senger pumping like a Trojan:
then the jealous wind took a hand
and smashed him and his machine
into a tree. Hardacre emerged
from the wreckage bubbling with
enthusiasm. A syndicate was
formed and patents were taken out,
but the idea was a decade before
its time, and the necessity of making
a living soon took the inventor back to the
bush again.
* :[c *
“F.S.G.”: One Tas. family will long re-
member its 1930 summer vacation. On the
last night after the children had gone to bed
Mum started packing, but good old Dad in-
tervened. “You leave it to me, Mother, and
turn in,” he said. “I’ve done this job before.”
He was so long about it that Mum fell asleep,
but eventually lie placed the bulging trunks
outside the door for the porter to send off
by the early train, the family having arranged
to go by car later in the day. The sound of
the dressing-bell next morning was followed
by feminine squeals and reproaches. In his
zeal Dad had packed all their clothes except
what they had slept in. Their holiday was
prolonged by a day, which they spent in bed
pending the return of the togs.
sis * * =!=
“Si Anu”: The fashionable disease of psit-
tacosis has not reached Melbourne yet, but
it was responsible for giving a local matron
heart tremors recently. She called on a
Collins-street specialist and told him her
symptoms. The physician looked grave, and
after an examination said: “I’m afraid, Mrs.
Blank, you will have to practise great self-
denial.” “Don’t tell me that, Doctor!” gasped
the agitated lady. “Yes,” the specialist
replied, “I’m afraid you will have to deny
yourself the pleasure of a family.” “Oh, is
that all?” cried the patient. “Why you gave
me quite a scare. I thought you were going
to say that I would have to get rid of my
parrot.”
* * * t-
“Centurion”: In the communique regarding
the uniforms to be issued to the volunteers,
it is stated that the colors of the facings will
adhere to traditional British practice, “green
for infantry, red for artillery, and chocolate
for medicals.” In pre-war days the infantry
facings were of four colors, if we omit the
black of the rifle regiments. English infantry
wore white, Scottish yellow and Irish green.
There was an exception in favor of “Royal”
regiments, which all wore blue facings, as
do the Foot Guards. The gunners, field and
horse, had red and yellow facings ; the medi-
cal chocolate did not come into use till about
the second Boer War period. The cavalry
regiments were a law unto themselves, with
the exception of the Hussars, who all wore
yellow facings, with varying colors for cuffs
and bvffiy bags.
* * *
“Velasquez Rubens”: Variety artists are
said to be devoid of a sense of humor, but
WHY, OF COURSE.
LAWYER: “And may I ask why you want a divorce?”
FAIR CLIENT : “Certainly. It’s because I’m married.”
the world was recently told of one who has
the root of the matter in him. He was
convicted and fined in Perth for false pre-
tences. This consisted in the exhibition —
for a consideration, of course —of a picture
of Christ, alleged to have been painted by
an inspired monk in France 80 years ago.
The feature of the painting was a faintly
luminous cross which showed on the breast
of the figure when the room was darkened,
and the devout came at it like .flies to the
honey-pot. A coarse constabulary gave evi-
dence that the painting had been done by
a local signwriter, luminous cross and all,
for 375. 6d. Worse than that, many Perth
connoisseurs who endorsed the work as a
“masterpiece” have now to sneak about the
back streets of the city to avoid the blatant
derision of their acquaintance.
* * * *
“Ipfra”: Glenelg (S.A.) on a hot day is
the parade ground of beauty which for sheer
physical perfection it would be hard to equal
anywhere. On a recent Sunday morning I
couldn’t take my eyes off a fair-haired Venus
standing on the white sand near me. She
possessed such harmony of outline and refine-
ment of feature that I felt quite enthusias-
tic about the ability of my home town to pro-
duce such creatures. The phantom of delight
drew a wrap about her lovely limbs, and
I heard her speak to a companion. “Aw!’’
she said. “Fancy leavin’ ’ere to go ’ome an
wash up yest’day’s dinner things. I ain t
touched ’em yet.” I came back to earth.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Victoria’s long-delayed war
memorial is now beginning to be a feature of
the landscape hard by the Governor-General’s
residence in the Domain. _At present the
masons are engaged on gigantic tubes of
Buchan marble, which are to form the columns.
These are being shaped strictly according to
the law of entasis discovered and perfected
by the ancient Greeks. The swelling con-
tours of each separate member will be frac-
tionally different from its neighbors, the
result in the mass being to correct optical
distortion and give the impression of absolute
perpendicularity. The objection of the R.S.L.
to having the names only of the dead in-
scribed on the fane has been upheld; instead
there will be books of vellum containing the
names of every man and woman who were
accepted for active service. The records
will be kept in glass cases, and a janitor will
be available to tprn up any name at the con-
venience of inquirers.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Recently some saddle-colored
members of the Communist cult who had
been making trouble in Java were expatri-
ated by the Dutch to south-western New
Guinea. They were sufficiently ill-advised
to escape into Papuan territory, with the
result that those who were not killed and
kai’d by the local nobility and gentry were
captured and held for return. The country
they must have crossed is a ghastly one
to traverse. When William Macgregor years
ago broke up the annual canoe armada of
the Tugeri, who used to raid Papua as far
as the mouth of the Fly, he drove hundreds
of the invaders ashore with the loss of their
sea-going canoes. Subsequent Dutch esti-
mates indicated that not five per cent, of
the raiders ever got back to their own
country in Dutch New Guinea.
# * * *
“C.Q.”: Confidence in the innocuousness
of the Port Phillip shark has been shaken
by the fatality at Brighton, and nervous
people who go down to the sea in bathing-
costumes are demanding all sorts of protective
measures, from shark-proof netting to motor-
boat patrols. So strong was the sense of
security that some of the public baths lining
the foreshore have for years had gaps in
them big enough to admit a small steamer.
For the remainder of the swimming season
an aeroplane supplied by Vacuum Oil is to
patrol the beaches at week-ends, and strenu-
ous efforts are being made to capture the
monster which took young Norman Clark.
Meantime Melbourne crowds show the same
psychology as the Sydney multitude, and
during week-ends the sea is as crowded as
ever.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: An old controversy has been
revived by the proposal to use prison labor
in making a roadway 25 miles long m
Ivuring-gai Chase (N.S.W.). The position is
that there is difficulty in finding work for
all the prison population. On the other
hand, it is sometimes hard to get a good
man for a special job. This was brought
home to me when I inspected a N.S.W. clink
—never mind which—and was introduced to
the cook. “He’s a good man,” my guide said;
“qnd, hang it all, he’s due to go out in a
couple of days. I don’t know how we’ll
manage without him. Still, it won’t be long
before you’re back again, will it, Joe?” Joe
called on Heaven to witness that he was
going to run straight this time. The official
grinned and said, “I’ll give you a month.”
Meeting me in the street he told me that
Joe had returned within seven days. “And
a good job, too,” he added. “The man who
took his place nearly caused a mutiny, his
cooking was so crook.”
* * . * *
“Hamer”: “Oxmead” on Parliamentary
fisticuffs (B. 19/2/’3O) reminds me of an
occasion on which two posturing M’s. I* A.
were separated in Macquarie-street, Sydney.
“If it hadn’t ha’ been for the bystanders,”
an eyewitness of the scrimmage said in the
refreshment-room, “them blokes might have
torn each other to pieces.” _ W. A. Holman
shook his head sadly, “No,” he said, “if
there hadn’t been bystanders, there would
have been no fight.” And that is true of most
political scraps.
* * * *
“Adana”: East and West joined hands
when the great tunnel through the Taurus
Mountains, Asia Minor, was completed the
other day, and the first express ran from
Europe to Bagdad. It was to obtain the
concession for this line that Germany cul-
tivated the friendship of Turkey, with re-
sults that nearly proved disastrous to the
Allies; fortunately the tunnel was unfinished
when hostilities broke out. The gap sorely
hampered the movements of Turkish rein-
forcements and supplies to Iraq and Palestine.
Not a few Australian prisoners from Galli-
poli and Palestine were drafted into jobs
of one sort and another on the Taurus
tunnel.
* * * *
“Sol. M.”: A biography of Clemenceau,
written by his secretary, is out, and a sum-
mary of Olemenceau’s own book on the war
has been published. Both of them reveal that
the Tiger didn’t like Foch. He didn’t like
Viviani, who was Prime Minister at the
beginning of the war three years before
Clemenceau took the office himself, and he
didn’t like Poincare, who was President
throughout the war. In fact, he didn’t like
anyone overmuch, but Foch made him lash
his tail something extra. When it became
evident that a unified command was a matter
of urgency, it is alleged, in a very circum-
stantial way, that Clemenceau, in his capaci-
ties as idiysician, journalist, patriot and
statesman, was ready and willing to take
on the job, like the brilliant but unsuccess-
ful Gambetta in 1870. But the Allies (there
were no Allies in Gambetta’s time) didn’t
consider the idea. So Foch became general-
issimo, and even Clemenceau admits that he
wasn’t exactly a failure, though he got on
the vitriolic old hero’s nerves.
* * *
“Sister” : A volunteer nurse accompanied
the patient to the Darwin Hospital. The
history of the case pointed to a mild attack
of malaria, but the lady proudly told us that
she had prescribed and administered hypo-
dermics of strychnine. “I kept him alive
with it,” she said. “That you did, Missus!”
exclaimed the admiring bushman who had
driven them both in. The R.M.O.’s diag-
nosis was “strychnine poisoning, acute.”
* S: * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Three or four years
ago the man who did the motor trip from
Perth to Sydney was regarded as an intrepid
adventurer; to-day the journey is covered
in the normal course of business. A tailor
who owns a chain of cheap shops has been
“there and back” three times in 12 months.
He asserts that for every 10 cars met going
west only two are encountered coming back.
Many of those who have spanned the con-
tinent by car prefer to return by steamer;
a contributing cause is that profitable deals
can be made with Westralians in cars that
have stood up to the rough journey.
MOMENTOUS ISSUES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At a Collingwood (Vic.) public meeting it was
proposed that the British Prime Minister be notified
by cable that the Australian cricket team is not a
representative one without Ryder.”
Daily somebody discourses on the manifold
resources
And recuperative forces of this rich and
j smiling land,
Destined, poet souls have written, by pro-
phetic frenzy smitten,
To become a super-Britain, twice or thrice
as great and grand.
But though wheat and wool proclaim us
ev’ry passing year more famous,
No one but an ignoramus would contend
an ad. as good
Isn’t gained in summer weather whensoe’er
there come together
Fifteen shillings’ worth of leather and two
guineas’ worth of wood !
We have laid the firm foundation, they assure
us, of a nation;
And pre-empted a location in the sun, for
aught I know ;
Mapped the wide and yawning spaces,
pioneered the desert places,
Fought our Motherland’s and race’s battle
with a deadly foe.
Now another combat’s coming—listen to the
fee-fo-fumming!—-
That will set the cables humming from old
England’s verdant swards.
What a bitter pill to swallow! In what
misery we’ll wallow
Should they lick our champions hollow at
the Oval or at Lords!
We may view industrial wrangles from en-
tirely different angles,
And our land’s financial tangles airily from
mind dismiss;
But I gather from inquiries where the real
patriot fire is,
Unanimity entire is manifested upon this:
Shame shall be our lot abhorrent in a black
and turbid torrent
If the men whose skill we warrant should
perversely fail and fall
Where a chap, his shirt a-billow, brandishing
a slab of willow
Takes his stand against a fellow who
manipulates a ball!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


NOT ONE TO WASTE CHANCES.
JACK: “That’s Wilfie over there. He’s a composer—he wrote
a charming little thing last week.”
JILL: “Yes, and if I know Wilfred he made a date with her, too.”
“Link”: Train-jumpers keep North
Queensland police magistrates busy. Mostly
they are unemployed who take the risk of
being caught in preference to tramping weary
miles from town to town. In the art of
securing free transit a Brisbaner claims
a record. Boarding the train at Mt. Isa,
he dodged railway officials at the several
stations along the line, eventually detraining
near Stewart’s Creek, where a steep gradient
allows an active man to make a flying exit.
A comfortable rail-motor ride for lOd. from
Stewart’s Creek to Townsville completed the
600-mile journey to the coast.
* * * *
“C.V.R.” : The florin I handed the tram-
mie rolled out of the open door into the dark.
“My fault, Sport,” he said, rejecting my offer
to make it up; “but the missus’ll give me
‘what for’ when I get home.” An inspira-
tion came to the victim of circumstances
when a dozen Lascars clambered aboard. He
pulled a tuppenny ticket, tore it into pieces
about the size of confetti, and doled them
out to our fellow-subjects at tuppence a bit.
I thought it rough on him when an inspector
swung into action, but he had thought that
out too. He explained that the Lascars had
thrown away the balance of the tickets be-
cause of religious objections to the color.
The inspector nodded sagely as he noticed
the heathen gripping the spots of red between
thumb and forefinger. It was the only thing
they could do with the specks.
* * * *
“Scllnorrer”: One of the quaint issues pro-
duced by the Return to Palestine is the con-
flict among the Jews themselves over the
relative merits of Hebrew and Yiddish.
Hebrew had become almost a dead language,
confined to synagogues and schools, until the
Zionists resuscitated it; it is now the official
language of Jewish Palestine—4n Tel Aviv
no other tongue is recognised. This revival
has had its reaction in Australia, as else-
where. There are lovers of Yiddish who
object, even in Palestine. In all the. im-
portant Jewries of the world there is a
Yiddisher press; and it is not surprising that
Jews should hold a language which helped
them through many difficulties in respect.
Yiddish is a sort of Esperanto brought into
use long before Esperanto was thought of.
It is a picturesque lingo, too; but if the
Hebrew purists have their way it will be
banished from the earth.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: The fact that a pension is
being paid in England to the widow of
a man wlio fought at Waterloo
was deemed worth cabling the
other day. The husband, of
course, was a mere lad when he
helped to eliminate Boney; he
married a young girl 50 years
later and she profits thereby as
a very old woman. It is un-
likely that Britain or any
other country will ever approach
America’s record in this direc-
tion ; in the U.S.A. there were
aged widows not many years
ago—anil possibly there may be
one or two still—whose husbands
had actually fought in the War of
Independence (1775-84). Home
of these veterans, when they
were in a position to do so,
married young girls when they
were actually on their death-
beds so that a grateful coun-
try’s benevolence might be
availed of to the full.
“S.T.S.”: Nothing like putting things in
their proper place. A little shallow-water
canoe that had sunk at Grange beach near
Adelaide was hauled up in a fisherman’s net.
An official advertisement told an unknown
owner that to recover his Saucy Sue he must
apply to the Receiver of Wrecks.
“Meteren”; For their beano the officers'
mess picked one of the coldest nights of the
Somme winter, and to the spree some of the
heads of an adja-
cent Tommy divi-
sion were invited.
Where they dug up
a supply of coal
from we couldn’t
fathom —even the
•cooks were using
green firewood. We
thieved some of the
black diamonds,
but it was com-
mandeered back
again before we
could get our
brazier going.
Shivering in our
hut, we heard the
sounds of revelry
growing louder
with the warmth
of a red-hot fire
and whisky, till in
desperation two-
bars in charge of
our hut grabbed
snow-covered sand-
bags and rammed
them down the red-
hot stove pipe
where it left the
side of the mess
hut. Next we
heard were groans
from inside as
smoke poured out
of the top of the
stove. Then came
a shout of “Who
the devil’s been
mucking up the
fire?” accompanied
by a rattling of
pokers trying to
brighten up a
draughtless stove.
All the coals were
eventually raked
out of the grate,
but still the smoke
barrage continued.
The last comment
we heard was in
the very deep bass
of the C. 0.: “Chuck
the blasted thing
out s i d e.” Next
minute stove, ashes and coal supply were
hurled through the mess door. Inside of
five minutes we were stoking up our brazier
to its limits.
* if * *
“Mako” : Rotomahana, the boiling lake of
the Maoriland thermal district, is causing
anxiety to settlers in the neighborhood, being
unusually high. Overlooked by the volcano
Tarawera, which nearly 40 years ago erupted
with appalling suddenness and devastated
the surrounding country, Rotomahana has
always been a star attraction for tourists.
Not far away lies Waimangu, quiescent for
many years, but in its heyday the greatest
geyser the world has known, some of its
recorded shots reaching over a thousand feet
in height. On Rotomahana small launches
carry the tourist across bubbling water to
where rumbling cliffs shoot out hissing jets
of steam, and you look upon the arid waste
that once held the Pink and White Terraces,
with their gleaming steps and bowls of blue
water. As there is a theory that the Tara-
wera business was caused by pressure of
Rotomahana watei - , nervous settlers antici-
pate another outburst, but stauncher spirits
contend that the chief danger is an inun-
dation, and exhort the local authorities to
provide against it by drainage.
if =!= * if
“I. Temple”: Cabled reports arrive
periodically of riots on French racecourses.
There was one the other day at Vincennes,
in which great damage was done. I saw the
police routed and the pari-mutuel apparatus
burned to the ground at Longchamps be-
cause the crowd disapproved of a dividend.
The police have a particularly bad time
in Paris. All classes seem to dislike them.
Nine times out of ten, when motor-cars are
held up by a traffic policeman for more than
three or four minutes, the whole mob begin
crashing their horns, and he is fiercely
objurgated. After considerable experience
in many lands, I have come to the conclusion
that either Australian city-dwellers are more
docile than others, or their police are marvel-
lously efficient. English racecourse crowds are
far more violent than similar crowds in Aus-
tralia (no gangs such as the bloodthirsty
London “boys” have ever operated on a metro-
politan course in the Commonwealth) ; and
ten times more policemen have to be detailed
for strikers’ marches, etc., in London than
in, say, Sydney. What Australian city or
MORE NATURE STUDY.
“Yes, it’s a nice ring, isn’t it? It’s one of Bertie’s rainbow presents.”
“Rainbow presents?”
“Yes, you know—they follow Bertie’s storms!”
town has experienced anything like the
“black riots” which occur at intervals in
Cardiff? For some reason the law-abiding
nature of Australian crowds gets no atten-
tion from visiting publicists, though it is
one of the most conspicuous national char-
acteristics.
* * if
“Manar”: In most of the big Australian
gaols there are “underground” postal ser-
vices by which a note or a small parcel can
be delivered to the prisoner more rapidly
than if it were legitimate mail matter going
through the regulation channels. The charges
range from a shilling for a letter to 15s. for
a parcel containing a pound of tobacco. The
stuff handled varies with the prison. Liquor
cannot be got into Long Bay (N.S.W.),
although by no means a rare commodity in
Pentridge (Vic.). Pentridge is reported the
easiest gaol into which to smuggle contra-
band, and Yatala (S.A.) the hardest.
if * «s #
“C.Q.” : An organisation which is more a
natural growth of the soil than the Kotary
Club is the Legacy Club. Started by Vic.
ex-soldiers in 1923 as a luncheon club, at
which members could make business con-
nections, it has expanded to upwards of 15
branches, and it looks carefully after the
descendants of dead Diggers and the interests
of living ones. There are a junior Legacy
Club, which boasts a literary and debating
society; a boys’ physical-training branch
with 147 members; a girls’ branch ; a thrift
A LUCKY THOUGHT.
TEACHER: “I’m so dissatisfied with you that
I think I’ll call and see your father.”
DELINQUENT ( doctor’s son): “Please, sir,
he charges ten and sixpence a visit.”
bank, and a vocational placing scheme, which
last year found jobs for 52 youngsters. C. H.
Peters and Tom White are past presidents
and S. G. Savige holds the position at
present. Last week the club debated the
boom in war books. Leason’s cartoon on the
subject (B. 12/2/’3O) was handed round,
and a resolution to the effect that the most
recent war novels do not truthfully repre-
sent either the war or the condition of the
men who took part in it was put. It was
lost on a show of hands, largely because of
the remarks of Harry Gullett, who sug-
gested that the verdict might usefully be left
to posterity.
“Trefaldwyn”: Recurring demands for
better accommodation recalls that if the
rural worker had to inure himself to hard
living and harder sleeping in the old days, the
boss also lived hard. The two years I
“pressed” on Sheepdip tun, the owner of the
60,000 we shore camped for the whole shear-
ing season rolled in a ’possum rug, his head
on an upturned saddle, on the mess-store
counter. (I, too, had a saddle-pillow, but
slept on a bag-and-sapling stretcher in a
G x 8 tent.) The boss also ate the hut ration
without extras, and joined the rest in wash-
ing out his own duds at the week-end. And
in those days shearers got a pound a hun-
dred and station men and rousies a pound
a week.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: To listen to the southern press
concerning the Palm Islands in N.Q., where
an insane official of an abo. settlement ran
amok, one would imagine the little long-
shore group close to Townsville was some-
where in the Central Pacific. As long ago
as the early ’nineties it was a rendezvous for
sailing and fishing parties from the main-
land ; a family named Butler kept an accom-
modation house and ran a launch service
for their guests to and from the mainland.
In those days there were also one or two
beachcombers who eked out a more or less
carefree existence.
* :J: * *
“Flinders-street”: The well-trodden sub-
ways of several Australian metropolitan
railway stations are slowly but surely build-
ing a phenomenon which may prove a puzzle
to geologists of the far future. Where the
foot traffic is heaviest in these asphalted
tunnels, particularly at points of conver-
gence such as stairways and ticket-checkers’
barriers, the floor is being converted from
dull asphaltum into polished steel. Millions
of nails, scraps of protectors and similar
ironmongery have been shaken from the boot-
soles of the hurrying populace and trampled
firmly into the softish matrix to make a
solid metal slip-up for posterity.
: i : * ❖ *
“Jeames” : The position of the Bachelors’,
which was one of London’s most fashionable
clubs before the war, contains a
lesson for . some of Australia’s old
clubs. It has been shaky for
several years, the reason being that
eligible young men, who are the
life-blood of all clubs, have had no
use for it. Last year it tried to
combine with the Wellington, on
the other side of Hyde Park Cor-
ner, but the scheme fell through. Now it
is taking the desperate step of moving from
its present site in Piccadilly to S. Audley-
street, and offering members a swimming-
bath, racket-courts and ornate cocktail bar.
These amenities
correspond to the
ladies’ dining-room
which was an inno-
vation when the
Bachelors intro-
dueed it at the end
of last century, and
which did much to
establish the club.
Nowadays in Lon-
don even the furi-
ously conservative
Carlton has an
annexe in which
ladies may be en-
tertained. It is
significant of how
very Tory a Tory
institution can be
in Australia, that
ladies should still
be barred as guests
from clubs like the
Melbourne and
Union (Sydney) and that the idea of in-
stalling, say, swimming-baths should never
have been so much as discussed.
;
“Fleabite”: In one respect Darlinghurst
gets more like Soho every day; one is liable
to encounter thereabouts broken English in
great variety. A smiling couple came up
to me as I was leaving a block of flats.
“Parrdon, sir,” the lady said; “eet is round
dis vay, ees eet, dat is da self-possessed
flat?” The gentleman intervened. “My vife,
excusa me, is da mistake. She vould say
da self-contented flat is here?” I mentioned
that a self-contained flat was vacant up-
stairs, and left them to decide on its other
qualities for themselves.
AN ETHICAL TANGLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Both, sides are actively preparing for the approach-
ing Victorian No-License Poll.”
De frowned upon a frothing pot,
■ -4-,• ° u £b one would have sworn he loved it,
Marking the ready hand that shot
1° rescue when an elbow shoved it;
He glowered at the bad, glad ale,
Like one who lingers with temptation
In fear (or hope) it will prevail
Against a painful abnegation.
Desires and doubts grew audible;
I like me beer,” he plainly stated,
But I m a man of principle
An’ here’s the way I’m situated:
.The times are hard, an’ jobs are few,
An’ when some crusty-lookin’ codgers
Offer me one, what could I do,
Although it’s only handin’ dodgers?”
“Yes, times are hard,” he sighed again,
An’ though it isn’t much in wages,
I like me beer” (a motif plain,
It ran through all), “so I engages
To push them flamin’ bills about
An’ do me damnedest while I’m workin’,
For I’m a man You see, old scout,
Me principles prevent ipe shirkin’.”
“I like me”- H'ere I spoke for shame.
“Thankee; I’ll take a pewter, Digger.
It’s got me worried all the same,
This dodger stunt. You see, I figure
A cove must always work his best;
But ’tis a difficult position.
Me principles—and all the rest —
Them bills are touts for Prohibition!”
He drank, but of a sudden quailed
Like one whose conscience damps enjoy-
ment.
“How can I force meself,” he wailed,
“To do me best in such employment?
But on the other hand it’s clear,
Though I could chuck this job I’ve wangled,
I need the money for me beer”....
And so I left him, sorely tangled.
VICTORIA.
LLASRN.


e
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
!. EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Directors:
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2i In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manaerer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The New Moon”
Criterion “Journey’s End”
Royal (com. Sat.) -.. “Murder on the Second Floor”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal .' “Follow Throusrh”
New Comedy (com. Saturday) .. “Lombardi, Ltd.”
King’s Allan Wilkie
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
An interlude in Melbourne last week was
a display of expressionistic dancing by the
pupils of Miss Lola Laban at the Kelvin
Hall. _ The Bulletin confesses to being
more interested than staggered or enlight-
ened. Expressionism is a movement emanat-
ing from highbrow Germany, where brows
are higher than elsewhere, apparently.
It purports to be a new art, divorced from
all previous forms. In its homeland it dis-
penses with music and performs to the
accompaniment of “organised noises” —motor-
horns, aeroplane propellers, steam whistles,
etc. Miss Laban’s ladies contented them-
selves with attitudinising to Rachmaninoff,
Strauss, Mozart, Tschaikowsky and Dvorak,
as rendered by a somewhat wheezy gramo-
phone. The movements of legs and hands
purported to “explain” the music, though
music ought to be its own explanation. One
doesn’t need a dancer to explain a landscape
by Hilder or a still-life by John Farmer. A
work of art, if it is a work of art, is some-
thing autonomous and complete in itself.
How, for intance, would you interpret “Coon-
ardoo” by dancing it? Of course, there is
no reason why you shouldn’t try, if it amuses
you. But that is another thing to claiming
that you have added something to the story
or the picture or the piece of music. You
might even take something away from it.
If the Lola Laban explanation of Rach-
maninoff’s Prelude is correct, then the com-
poser wrote queerly angular and ungraceful
music. However, judged on its merits and
ignoring its pretensions, some of the Laban
posturings were extremely impressive pan-
tomime. In “No More War” girls in black
jackets and trousers cleverly expressed the
exaltation of a nation in victory, its anguish
in defeat, its strong objection to engaging
in another conflict, the uprising of the prole-
LORNA HARWOOD, in the Sydney Players’ production of
“Merrileon Wise” at the Savoy next Saturday.
tariat, the very convincing stoushing of the
spirit of belligerency and the universal if
over-optimistic joy over the prospect of ever-
lasting peace.
The same group also depicted “The
Survival of the Fittest” to the music of a
drum. If a football had been handed to the
successful contestant it might equally as
well have represented the scramble for a
mark between Collingwood and Footscray.
That is the trouble with expressionistic danc-
ing. It doesn’t so much liberate the imagi-
nation -imprisoned in the music as keep it
fettered to concrete images, and most of the
images unfortunately have the trick of being
ridiculous. Thus in “The Madonna and
Child,” by Vera Maidment, the attempt to
dance to Gounod’s “Ave Maria” irresistibly
suggested a mother wholly unfit to have the
custody of an infant returning from the
corner pub. Joan Henry, however, expressed
tragedy in some really effective poses, and
Miss Laban’s “Grotesque” had the quality
of humor.
As for being a new form of art, expres-
sionism struck this uncultured witness as no-
thing of the sort. It is only Pavlova made
a little more aesthetic and a little less artful.
Even the aborigine in a corroboree designed
to increase the food supply is an expression-
ist in his rude gastronomic way. And so
are the Fallow Twins.
Allan Wilkie opened his season at Mel-
bourne King’s with “The School for
Scandal,” a comedy in three acts and seven
scenes by Richard Brinsley Sheridan. For
some reason best known to himself _ the
veteran producer chose to dress this delight-
ful satire on modern Melbourne society in
the costumes of 150 years ago, but an over-
flowing house appreciated the jest, and
laughter and applause were the outstanding
features of the evening.
Wilkie portrayed in his familiar but
effective manner the character of Sir Peter
Teazle, an infatuated sexagenarian who
espouses a lively village lass with the usual
consequences. The affair docs not reach the
Divorce Court and the pornographic weeklies
owing to the frightened lady’s somewhat
unconvincing repentance. The part was
taken by Miss Hunter-Watts, who, though a
trifle consciously arch, gave a truly remark-
able account of herself. Joseph Surface, a
thrifty, calculating sensualist who endeavors
to lead Lady Teazle astray in his apart-
ments, was well taken by Herbert Sheldrick.
Alexander Marsh served as his brother Charles,
and enlisted the whole-hearted sympathy of
the audience by his portrayal of a practical
anti-prohibitionist who pays his gambling
and drinking debts by selling the family pic-
tures to a pawnbroker. The pawnbroker
turns out to be his rich uncle Sir Oliver,
who adopts this disguise in order to find out
which of his nephews is deserving of mention
in his last will and testament. Prolonged
applause greeted his decision in favor of the
profligate but good-hearted Charles.
jorie Carr, Alan Harkness, Arthur Keane
and Lorna Forbes were various characters
indulging in the popular indoor sport of
speaking evil of
one’s neighbors.
The emphasis
placed on gossip
concerning a young
lady and her mys-
terious behavior
suggested that the
author had in mind
a case which has
lately been agitat-
ing the press, the
tea-tables and the
back-yard fences
of the metropolis.
Miss Forbes, as
Mrs. Candou r,
earns special men-
tion. No such
astute comedy of
voice, gesture and
facial expression
has been given on
the local boards for
donkey’s months.
A tip-top enter-
tainment which
changes to “The
Merchant” to-night
(Wednesday), then
to“Twe 1 f t h
Night” on Thurs-
day, and then to
“The Rivals” on
Saturday.
Beresford Fowler
wiped out the
memory of some
past sins by stag-
ing Elizabeth
Baker’s “Chains”
at Melbourne
Queen’s last week.
As The Bulletin
has pointed out,
the Fowlers are
best seen in plays
where situation
and circumstance
come within the
possible ambit of their own experience.
“Chains” concerns English suburbia, and
English suburbia is very like Australian
suburbia. So the actors were very much at
home. They were so very much at home,
especially Dorothy Bush and George Lomas,
that they hardly seemed to be acting at all,
and in places a little more acting might have
been acceptable. Nevertheless, their per-
formance was a very effective bit of realism.
One got thoroughly absorbed in their hum-
drum destinies, which one doesn’t when they
try to represent temperamental Scandina-
vians or volcanic Slavs. Miss Bush was a
fair-haired pouting housewife to George
Lomas’s London clerk. The clerk is stirred
by the immemorial nomadic urges of the
male who feels he has married too early,
before he has tasted all of life. lie decides
to throw up a safe job and immigrate to
Australia, under the delusion that Australia
is entirely populated by romantic nomads.
The wife objects, so he secretly plans to
temporarily abandon his little sheet anchor.
She frustrates his
scheme without
knowing it by an-
nouncing the im-
minent arrival of
anchor No. 2. The
comedy is simple
in the extreme and
full of natural
humor. Beresford
Fowler, Norman
Heymanson, Mar-
jorie Derum and
Nancy Fryberg
helped in a quiet
but impressive pro-
duction.
* *
George Wallace
introduced himself
to Melbourne
Tivoli audiences
last week as a con-
fector of musical
comedy with “His
Royal Highness.”
The versatile
George appears as
Tommy Dodds, a
N’York wastrel
who is mistaken
for the mislaid
prince of Petonia
because of a birth-
mark on his neck.
After he has
ascended the
throne it is learnt
that the birthmark
was caused by his
carrying a' box of
fish a few days be-
fore his discovery;
and Petonia loses
a mirth-provoking
monarch. The
musical section of
the comedy is pro-
vided by lyrics bor-
rowed from all
sorts of places and sung (or spoken mainly)
by Maida Jones; but the piece as a whole is
a highly amusing absurdity and a sight
easier to sit through than many more pre-
tentious efforts. “His Royal Highness” should
easily reign for the scheduled fortnight.
* # #
It is easy enough to imagine Sydney Opera
House rocking with applause for “My Old
Dutch.” The only encouragement imagina-
tion needs is a good hop-step-and-a-jump
backwards to the romantic ’nineties. That
appears to bo its date. Whether present
Australia is very interested in London’s
costers and their peculiar brand of humor
seems doubtful. Still, when this Showman
looked in to inspect the museum-piece there
was a good-sized crowd which raised enthu-
siasm on Sydney’s hottest day of the year.
With the thermometer hitting 106 and over,
Nancye Stewart’s cockney lass was unmis-
takably appreciated, and the show altogether
could not have gone down better if it had
been served in a tankard. True, inside the
theatre was refreshingly cool compared with
the blazing street, but crowds, as a rule,
don’t applaud comfort, so the honors can go
to “My Old Dutch,” a piece that anyone with
a memory can be commended to examine.
# * *
Sydney Fullers rang down the curtain on
the soubrette and the red-nosed comedian on
Saturday night, and in future the talkie will
couch on its cold hearthstone. The Connors-
Paul combination conducted the obsequies
with so much sprightliness as to suggest
that the corpse is but cataleptic. Indeed, the
management hinted to this effect in a series
of valedictory speeches which sent away the
devotees of the female impersonator, and his
confr&re the performing chimpanzee, in the
sure and certain hope of a glorious resur-
rection.
* * #
The monotonous “Talkies Win” that has
headlined about nine out of every ten pic-
ture-show puff pars for a year or more will
have to be dragged down if any reference is
being made to Sydney Royal at the moment.
This week-end the old house, after some
months of talkies, goes back to its old love,
with Leon Gordon billed in a “farewell”
appearance. The show is “Murder on the
Second Floor,” which has already had an
outing in Melbourne. After it, Gordon heads
for Maoriland. Then, if the ads. are to
be taken literally, he will go further afield.
He has had a great innings in Australia,
perhaps the best of any visiting artist in
modern years.
Meanwhile, “Journey’s End,” at the Cri.,
continues to prove that the legit, is not outcd
by a very long chalk. It has done sound
business for over two months and there is
no sign of the closure. “New Moon” has
also had a good run over the same time,
hut is in its last weeks, with “The Belle of
New York” revival in the offing. On the
other hand, the Fullers’ last outpost has
succumbed ; the ancient vaudeville house in
Castlereagh-street has been turned into the
Roxy and will have “The Hollywood Revue
for its opening bill on Friday night. _ The
prices look sensible —three bob the highest,
BRYL WALKLEY, the Australian actress who is playing in
Moscovitch’s production of “Jew Suss” in N’Yoik.
with a bob extra for booking. Another pro-
mising movie item is “Paris,” which comes
on at the other ex-Fuller house, the St.
James, on Saturday. One of the. best pic-
tures, at least for three-parts of its length,
on offer at the moment is “The Last Per-
formance” at the Empire. It is a polished,
artistic production, but whether it is. worth
sleeping through the other item, “Marianne,”
in order to see a three-quarterway master-
piece is questionable. Other main movie
ouerings include “The Kibitzer” (State),
“The Gamblers” (Capitol) and “The Love
Parade” (Prince Edward).
Sydney’s outstanding musical offering of
this week will be child-pianist Nancy Weir,
at the Con. on Saturday. Hitherto Nancy
has confined her attentions to Melbourne,
where she impressed the most hardened of
the critics as an undoubted find. To-night
(Wednesday) out-of-work music-makers give
their second concert at the Town Hall.
Items include Dvorak’s “New World Sym-
phony,” Mendelssohn’s “Ruy Bias” and
Ponchielli’s “Dance of the Hours.” The
assisting vocalist will be Bananaland singer
Mollie de Gunst.
* * *
Fewster (who conducts) and King are
having another local success in Adelaide with
their “Footnotes” at the Royal. It has no
obvious plot, but lots of dancing and fun,
with Bowman ballets all over the place.
Thelma Baulderstone and Violet George, the
Marks sisters, Mostyn Skinner and Phil
Peake do good work in various directions,
and Fred Williamson sings “Mother
Machree” as an agreeable novelty. The
public seems to like the mixture.
* * *
Sydney Players’ Club, doyen of Sydney
Repertory societies, is pulling itself to-
gether after having allowed itself to go slow
for a year or two. Ernest Watt, who has
cash and has apparently left the Turret
people, is listed as a vice-president; Mary
Gilmore is another. On Saturday they
stage Miles Malleson’s “Merrileon Wise.”
Sydney has already seen two plays by this
dramatist —the Playbox staged his “Four
People” and “The Fanatics” a couple of
years ago.
# * *
It will be interesting to see how the new
company formed to support Gladys Mon-
crieff in the revival of genuine musical
comedy at Melbourne Royal will com-
pare with former notable casts. The
problem of how to supplant the tinny
choruses which have figured in the un-
musical farces of the modern vogue with
men and women able to give wirygs instead
of legs to song ought not to be difficult.
There are plenty waiting for the chance.


Smooth, balanced performance
. . . . in keeping ivith its
nee
o
I
TN a year of fine
cars, Oakland is
notable for the
distinctive beauty of its
lines, the spaciousness
and luxury of its in-
terior, and the charming
character of its appoint-
ments. Women in par-
ticular instantly sense the
atmosphere of elegance
that it offers.
And Oakland’s per-
formance and driving
ease are as notable as its
style. The big, silent,
generously powered en-
gine, with its rubber
mountings, heavy
dynamically balanced
crankshaft, and harmonic
balancer, gives a superbly
smooth, balanced per-
formance under all
conditions. The im-
proved steering mechan-
ism and slender rim
wheel, and the easy clutch
and gear action, make
driving effortless and
pleasurable. To the
woman driver Oakland
gives confidence; to the
man a satisfying sense of
mastery and well-con-
trolled power.
Your Oakland dealer
will be pleased to let
you note for yourself
the beauty and elegance
of this fine car, and to
experience the comfort,
driving ease, and unusual
performance that it
offers. He will also
explain the value of
the General Motors
Warranty, and tell you
of the convenient pay-
ment scheme available
under the G.M.A.C.
Terms Plan.
general Motors
(Australia) PTY. LTD.
‘Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne
s Adelaide - Perth.
PRICES FROM £4lO
G4KIAND
c Car that Dainty Dandp can Drive
Its d General JMotors CCir —look inside and note the difference!


R°NC.°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
m
n
■
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
ASSURED POSITIONS - BETTER MONEY.
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
é
STRENGTH AND SECURITY
are what a prudent man looks for in any Investment in which he may place his
money. How much more necessary is it to secure these safeguards when selecting
your Executor!
This can be done by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
as its Reserves and Uncalled Capital provide a degree of Security far beyond the
power of the private Executor.
Write or call for free explanatory booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: It. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
ê
Have You
Specialised
Too Much?
A® a serious business man—you cannot
afford to have your decisions hampered
because of too highly specialised training.
A broad knowledge of business funda-
mentals is absolutely essential to success
in any line.
You can get that knowledge in two ways
—First, by the slow accumulation of
practical experience or—Second, by taking
advantage now of the experience, methods,
ideas and plans worked out by the most
successful men in business over a period
of many years.
The Second is the Alexander Hamilton
Institute way. The booklet “Forging
Ahead in Business” will show you that
way. Write for it.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses controlled in Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
P6
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Western Australian Insurance.
Reserves
(including
Reserves :or
Towards Unexpired
June, Surplus.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
£ £ £ £
1920.. 56,101 10p.c.=10,000 46,101 741,764
Securities written down, £43,637.. 698,127
Loss.
1921.. 58,406 Nil 639,721
Taxation, £143,894 .. .. 495,827
Written off, £11,559 .. .. 484,268
1922 111,930 Nil 372,338
Written off, £33,341.. .. 338,997
1923.. 42,778 Nil 296,219
Written off, £58,543.. .. 237,076
Over-provision for taxation, £57,430 295,106
1924.. 21,164 Nil ) 97 „ q 4?
Transferred to Accident Fund, 1297 j ’
Written off, £11,421.. .. 262,521
From Life Fund, £96 .. .. 262,617
1925.. 134 5 p.c. = 5,000 257,483
Surplus.
1926.. 46,145 5 p.c.= 5,000 41,145 298,628
1927.. 59,821 5 „„ 5,000 54,821 353,449
Loss.
1928.. 42,773 Nil 310,676
From Life Fund, £493 .. .. 311,169
1929.. 42,752 Nil 268,417
‘Apart from Life Department.
The flood of premiums which almost
swamped the office during the war-period,
when chairman Samuel Copley plunged into
marine underwriting, quickly ebbed, and the
management has had no luck in its efforts to
develop other lines. Further, much of what
once looked like profits turned out to be
losses; these, together with the special
demands of the tax-gatherer and the neces-
sity for writing down securities, bit into
reserves for over half a million during the
five years to the close of accounts in 1920,
reducing them to £257,483.
Meanwhile attention was given to accident
business, and for a while the figures were
encouraging. But hopes were shattered in
1928, when a loss of £42,773 showed up; and
this was followed by an equal disaster last
year, despite special efforts to avert it. Thus
shareholders were passed by for the sixth
time since 1920; they received 5 p.c. for each
of the three years to 1927, making the aver-
age for the co.’s lifetime 4.3 p.c.
The next table, showing the year’s result
in each department, makes plain where the
mischief has been done
Net
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Loss.
Accident .. £89,802 £97,623 £44,153 £51,974
Marine . . 38,462 32,365 10,570 4,473
Profit.
Fire .. . . 39,206 17,229 21,417 560
Net underwriting loss . . . . . . £55,887
Less interest, etc. . . . . .. 13,135
Net loss as per table .. .. .. £42,752
In 1928 the loss on Accident business was
£75,453. That was on a net premium in-
come of £202,187, gatherings having shot up
from £44,305 in 1924. In an effort to cor-
rect the position the board drastically
restricted Accident business last year, net
premiums receding' no less than £112,385.
The loss on the smaller business was £23,479
less than the previous year’s, but the claims
ratio mounted to 10S p.c. of the net pre-
miums compared with 94.4, 52.3 and 43.8
p.c. in the three preceding years. Over the
last half-dozen years the co. has paid out in
claims and exes. £74,215 more than its net
gatherings in Accident premiums.
Much of the trouble has arisen through
excessive competition. Of course a tariff
is fixed amongst the associated offices, but,
with the rapid growth of motor-car insur-
ance, cos. have vied with one another to pro-
duce attractive prospectuses. This has led,
in some instances, to the introduction of
novel features, such as compensation for loss
of use of car and elaborate extensions of
third-party risks, while the premiums re-
ceived have been barely sufficient to cover
the main features of the hazard—damage to
tne car and property and injury to the person.
Combining the underwriting figures of all
departments, except life, we get these results :
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1918.. 1,142.001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 „
1922 . 229,537 259,678 95,783 113.2 „ 41.7 „
1924.. 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
1925.. 178,664 122,073 72,103 68.3 „ 40.3 „
1926.. 215,812 115,091 78.653 53.3 „ 36.4 „
1927 . 326,481 186,809 112.228 57.2 „ 34.4 „
IQ9B . 292,856 239,825 119,725 81.9 „ 40.9 „
1929.. 167,470 147,217 76,140 87.9 „ 45.4 „
The shrinkage in last year’s premiums was
mainly on account of the Accident business
just referred to. In the Marine branch pre-
mium income has descended from £381,448
in 1920 to £38,462 last year, when the drop
was £6927. The year’s net result was a loss
of £4473 as against a surplus of £3214 in
the previous term. In the Fire department
£156,657 was gathered in net premiums in
1920 compared with £39,206 last year, when,
for the fourth time since 1922, the business
showed a small surplus. Over the last four
years the aggregate underwriting experience
of the three departments has been a net loss
of £73,069.
Policy-holders are still well protected. At
the close of last accounts they could see
reserves, apart from the life fund, equal
to 160 p.c. of the year’s total net premium
income, and that is four times more than is
usually considered adequate. Paid capital is
£IOO,OOO in 400,000 10s. shares paid to ss.
each, so there is another £IOO,OOO there. How
the funds are invested this comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows
1920. 1926. 1928. 1929. .
Public securi-
ties .. .. £144,211 £160,115 £171,186 £159,904
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. 350,600 264,958 238,872 240,694
Properties . . 69,174 77,266 70,012
Book debts, etc. 230,564 59,270 50,527 46,700
Cash, etc. . . 295,808 65,662 34,991 46,063
Odds and ends 5,753 7,298 8,627 7,162
Total assets £1,026,936 £626,477 £581,469 £570,535
Liabilities* . . 141,715 170,814 84,604 99,325
£885,221 £475,663 £496,865 £471,210
including provision for taxation (1926, £80,000;
1927, £40,000; 1928, £13,000 ; 1929, £2000).
Visibly the co.’s position has worsened by
£56,586 over the last two years, and by
£414,011 since 1920. One result has been a
marked shrinkage in the returns from in-
terest, rents, etc. —£18,488 last year as
against £32,603 in 1920. Of the £240,694
of mortgages, etc., £107,438 represents shares
in other cos., but no hint is given as to what,
if anything, the latter turn in.
The management has not been pushing
business in the Life department. The amount
of new business written last year was
£96,637 compared with £226,365 in 1924.
Income was £28,554, of which £4542 was
first premiums and £18.541 renewals; in-
terest, rents, etc., accounting for the balance.
Claims took £4371, and £7085 was swal-
lowed in exes; thus the life fund benefited by
£17.098, making it £102,793. At June 30,
1928, the actuary figured a surplus of funds
over liabilities under policies; a com-
pound reversionary bonus of 30s. per cent,
was declared, and £493 transferred to share-
holders’ accounts.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Cos.
, Dividend N To Re-
Dec., Loss. Profs. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 38,754 16,898 Nil 68,961
Profit. Reserves.
1928.. 130,850 24,000 Nil 106,880 37,919
1929.. 249,357 24,000 Nil 225,357 263,276
Three years ago the big Goodyear Tyre and
Rubber Cos., Akron (U.S.A.), owing to pres-
sure of the tariff, decided to manufacture
in Australia. The present co. was formed;
the parent took up a round half-million
ords. for cash, and the Australian public
was offered and quickly snapped 300,000 8
p.c. cum. prefs., making paid capital
£BOO,OOO. The co. stepped into a ready-
made trade connection and a fine goodwill
built up by an importing subsidiary which
the parent had set up here in 1915. Never-
theless, goodwill was not given any value in
the -books.
No time was lost in making a start. A
20-acre freehold was bought at Granville,
near Sydney, a factory was put up, and pro-
duction began in November, 1927. Meanwhile
the co. continued to import its manufactured
stocks, and fluctuations in the tariff and re-
tail prices brought about a loss, of £38,754
on the first year’s trading. In addition
£13,309 of preliminary exes, was capitalised.
Since then the development has been remark-
able. With things right on the technical
side, and turnover on the increase and ali
the financial backing it required, the co. was,
of course, splendidly equipped. Its difficulty
has been not so much to win orders as to
cope with their volume. Scarcely had the
factory been got into working order than
extensions had to be made.
For the 12 months to Dec. 31, 1928, a
net profit of £130,880 was registered. The
prefs. were handed their £24,000, and the
balance (£106,880, equal to 21.2 p.c. on the
oi'd. capital) remained in the business. Thus
the deficit of £68,961 that accumulated in
the previous term was wiped out, and the
co. started on the year just closed with net
tangible assets £37,919 in excess of its paid
capital. And that despite the collapse of
the rubber market following the scrapping
of the Stevenson restriction scheme. Raw
rubber fell from Is. 7d. in Nov., 1927, to
B|d. in April, 1928, and has since remained
around that figure. Meantime the co.’s busi-
ness in Victoria was passed over to a sub-
sidiary, Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Cos. Pty.,
Ltd., in Which it owns all the shares. The
pup’s figures are incorporated with those of
its parent in the published accounts.
Last year, despite duller trading con-
ditions generally, the demand for the co.'s
products continued, and the capacity of the
plant was more than doubled. On the buying
side prices in the raw rubber markets were
stable, and some advantage was gained by
purchasing tyre fabrics from England, fol-
lowing the slump in cotton goods. All that and
the plant’s increased production-efficiency
helped costs down considerably, enabling the
management to make a cut in selling prices.
There was a leap of £118,477 in the de-
clared net earnings, which, after attending
to the prefs., were a juicy 45 p.c. on the
ord. capital. However, the parent not being
hungry for money and the outlook uncer-
tain, no div. was paid thereon. Hence capi-
tal at Dec. 31 had the support of £263,276
of accuipulated profits.
How the extensions to premises and plant
and the bigger trading has been financed is
seen in this next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1927. 1928. 1929.
Pref. capital .. . . £300,000 £300,’000 £300,000
Ord. capital . . . . 500,000 500,000 500,000
Owing parent co. . . 115,515 141,693 617,515
Other liabilities . . 8,572 8,182 89,006
Freeholds and buildings 160,672 218,656 f Hn7 Qm
Plant, etc. .. .. 238,198 248,830 ) eu ' ,auA
Stocks 256,409 324,143 703,005
Book debts .. .. 141,024 207,014 220,341
Cash, etc. . . . . 69,902 37,246 50,549
Last year £340,415 more was spent on fixed
assets than was written off. To enable the
co. to do that and carry an extra £378,862
of stocks, a further £475,822 was advanced
by the parent, making its total interest in
the business in loan and share capital
£1,117,515 at Dec. 31. The amount coming
to sundry creditors (£89,006, up £80,824)
includes provision for taxation and sundry
commitments. The co. is heavily stocked,
and the current year’? profits are largely
represented there. Obviously much depends
upon the figure placed upon stocks. There
is nothing at the moment to suggest that
rubber prices are likely to ease, though
American consumption remains an uncertain
factor. But locally it is doubtful whether
we have yet felt the full effects of the tight-
ening of the money market and the shrink-
age in returns from primary products. The
demand for tyres, .therefore, seems more
likely to ease than strengthen. Still, the
fact that the trade here is practically in the
hands of two organisations—this co. and
the Dunlop-Perdriau-Barnet Glass Rapson
combination —should mean much so far as
profit-earning is concerned.
The prefs., affected by the general depres-
sion on the Stock Exchange, recently sold
at 225. as against 245. a year ago. They
carry a cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority
as to capital, but participate no further in
profits or surplus assets. The backing
amounts to £3 10s. lid. in net tangibles, and
last year’s profit was over 10 times their
annual requirements.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.).
Added to Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £-
1919.. 24,367 10 p.c. = 16,511 7,856 65,213
1920.. 13,876 10 „ „ 16,696 62,393
1921.. 15,352 8 „ „ 16,543 62,202
1922 . 19,816 8 ~,,17,730 2,086 64,288
1923.. 20,382 8 „ „ 20,309 73 64,361
1924.. 15,460 6 „ „ 15,233 227 64,588
1925.. 19,348 7 „ „ 19,303 45 64,633
1926.. 24,254 8 „ „ 22,567 1,687 66,320
1927.. 9,594 3 „ „ 8,463 1,131 67,451
1928.. 17,536 6 „ „ 16,925 611 68,062
1929.. 10,134 3 „ „ 8,463 1,671 69,733
This co.’s earnings are up and down with
seasons and prices. But its biggest handi-
cap is the fact that there is still too much
wasteful competition in the business; hence
costs remain higher than they ought to be,
and profit margins very slender. Last year
a dry spell in the dairying districts affected
earnings in the cold-storage section, while
turnover in the ice and ice-cream depart-
ments was checked by unseasonable condi-
tions during the last three months of the
term, and by a great increase in the use of
refrigerating units in homes. Sales in the
milk and bread sections were larger.
From one cause and another there was
a slip of £7402 in the year’s profits, which
were no better than 3.6 p.c. on paid capital,
so shareholders had to be content with 3 p.c.,
or half the rate received in the previous term.
They have never grown bilious from fat
living. Since the £73,384 was struck off
capital in 1904 to cover drought losses —it
was restored by the capitalisations of 1911
and 1913 —divs. have averaged about 8i p.c.
The richest period was the 10 years to the
close of accounts in 1920, during which the
average distribution rose to 10J p.c. For
the nine years since, the average has slipped
to 6.5 p.c., and then all but £7340 of the
declared net earning's was distributed. It
is not that the co. has been unable to win
its fair share of business. Indeed, exten-
sions to plant, etc., to cope with expanding
turnover have added £218,431 to the book
value of fixed assets since 1920. But owing
to price-cutting and steadily mounting costs
the co. has got no benefit from the bigger
trading.
Over the last nine years £117,977 of fresh
share capital has been got in, making the
total on the register £282,091. To lighten
the floating debt and provide for further
expansion of the business £ LOO,OOO < P-c-
--first-mortgage debentures were issued shortly
before the close of accounts in 1927. lhis
and other things are visible in the next com-
parison of balance-sheet figures :
1923. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Debentures .. £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Other liabilities £99,768 69,337 69,658 65,186
Property ) [ 227,925 228,209 228,209
Plant \ 304,430 1 110,248 111,419 121,743
Rolling stock 1 I 46,064 45,115 44,488
Stock . . 35,749 48,601 50,596 43,743
Cash and
investments.. 29,289 16,389 22,492 16,362
Book debts .. 58,718 75,551 76,497 76,982
Last year new ice-making machinery was
installed, and £10,324 was added to the book
value of plant; to do this and reduce the
debt by £4472 the board drew upon liquids.
These, including stocks, were still £71,901
(down £8026 during the year) in excess of
the floating 'debt, of which £23,327 is on
overdraft and £41,859 coming to sundry credi-
tors. No hint is given as to what provision
has been made for depreciation, but plant
is regularly reported in an efficient state of
repair. Future results partly depend upon
that.
The investment market notes the irregu-
larity of earnings, and that there are deben-
tures in front of shareholders, and sums up
the risks by offering 9s. 6d. as against 16s.
a year ago for the pound shares. Sellers
stand off at 12s. 6d. The backing amounts
to 245. lid. in net tangibles, all of it repre-
sented by plant of one kind and another.
The appearance of things might change when
the management can find more profitable use
for some of the plant.
Queensland Meat Export Cos.
To Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 26.585 Nil 26,585 143,722
1920.. 27,029 6 p.c. = 39,299 131,452
Loss.
1921.. 79,785 Nil 51,667
1922.. 1,610 Nil 50,057
Profits.
1923.. 3,069 Nil 3,069 53,126
1924.. 1,162 Nil 1,162 54,288
1925.. 26,751 4 p.c. = 26,199 552 54,840
Loss.
1926.. 13,488 Nil 41,352
Profits.
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 54,029
1928. . 34,158 5 p.c. = 32,749 1,409 55,438
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 58,575
During a dry spell a couple of years ago
Queensland freezers came on to the southern
markets with chilled beef, and they have
since been able to increase their
ments. Also, for a while, high prices for
hides and a firm tallow market helped the
figures; thus there was an encouraging im-
provement in the eo.’s trading results. These,
however, reached only 5.8 p.c. on the
£654,976 of paid capital in 1928, and that
was easily the co.’s best since the Australian
beef exporter fell upon hard times after his
war contracts ran out and the Argentine got
a stranglehold upon British and Continental
markets with chilled beef.
The setback last year—there was a sharp
drop of £31,021 in profits—was due mainly
to a steady rise in cattle prices and a heavy-
fall in the value of by-products. The market
for frozen beef in the U.lv. strengthened,
and Australian shipments were heavier in
both quantity and value. But though seasonal
conditions in Queensland were satisfactory,
except in the Far West, where much country
remained very dry, cattle were scarce, _ and
buyers competed freely for prime qualities.
Thus best bullock beef, which sold at 325.
per cwt. on the hoof in Brisbane a year ago,
soon fetched 405., and remained around that
figure. On the other hand the price for
Queensland white salted hides slipped from
lid. to 6d. per lb., and tallow nearly £3 per
ton.
Whether conditions can be expected to
improve during the current year is very hard
to say. Recent rains in the northern State
have brightened prospects at the producing
end. Also, now that the Government has
assured cattlemen of an extension of their
leases, many properties are likely to be
stocked up again. But there is nothing in
sight to indicate that any relief can be
expected in the hide and tallow markets.
Moreover, one can get the sound of a knife
being sharpened in connection with the
southern trade. Some of the Queensland
Government’s cattle-runs were recently
bought by a southern syndicate, which is
also interested in Redbank and Lake’s Greek
meatworks. The idea is to kill at two years
old, and send the beef to Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide through chilling chambers in-
stead of on the hoof. Future earnings will
largely depend upon the course of events in
the co.’s export markets. In this connection
there has been a definite falling off in ship-
ments to European countries other than the
U.K., which might mean that prices will
have to be marked down to bring about an
increase in consumption.
One trouble after another has been heaped
upon local freezers during the last decade.
Labor conditions and high prices for stock,
the latter due to drought and other causes,
have pushed up costs to a level at which
there is very little profit in export, and
sometimes none at all. The co.’s last nine


DELICriTfULLY EASY TO HANDLE
ima appeal, to
LADY DRIVERS
' LL
//
5^
K
u
0
“ Finger-tip Control ”
—A single button in
centre of steering-wheel
starts the engine and
operates the lights and
horn.
UNDER all driving conditions the
Superior Whippet Six has proved
extremely easy to handle —a feature which
drivers of both sexes have keenly appreciated.
By the refinement of the mechanical layout
and re-designed steering gear, together with
the important feature Finger-tip Control,
the minimum of effort is required to control
the car, and parking is a simple matter.
The low graceful lines, higher radiator,
and full crown mudguards set an ultra-
modern style trend for all light sixes.
Bigger bodies, providing greater head, leg
and elbow room, result in maximum riding
comfort.
The Superior Whippet Six offers the
important engineering advantages of silent
timing chain, full force feed lubrication,
aluminium alloy invar - strut pistons, and
Finger - tip Control.
Call at your nearest Willys-Overland
Dealer. Get behind the wheel of a
Whippet; test out its capabilities and ease
of handling, and you will then realise the
outstanding value offered.
SUPERIOR
WHIPPET S
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.


O
pOORD & SON
FINEST DRY GINl®
8l old tom mm \
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
HAVE WE
REACHED
BOTTOM ?
See “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”
for March
ON SALE, SATURDAY
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
ë
Get your
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI” — J=i
years of trading has resulted in a net loss
of £13,929, and since two modest divs. were
paid £72,877 of reserves have disappeared,
leaving the visible lay-by at £58,575 at Nov.
30 last.
Still, the co.’s finances have remained com-
fortable enough, as a comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows: —
1923. 1925. 1928. 1929.
Creditors . . £119,806 £78,653 £29,757 £27,227
Property, plant,
livestock and
shares in other
cos . . 425,798 425,023 448,798 422,034
Stock.. .. 85,557 109,696 38,405 65,875
Stores . . 45,865 34,449 27,209 25,431
Debtors & cash 270,688 245,500 258,508 227,438
At the close of last accounts stocks, stores,
book debts and cash were £291,517 in excess
of the amount coming to sundry creditors,
including provision for taxation. That was
£29,901 better than the surplus at the pre-
vious balance, but the book value, of fixed
assets and livestock was down £26,704. Much,
of course,, depends upon whether the allow-
ances for depreciation, etc., prove to be
adequate; owing to the grouping of the
figures no indication is to be had from the
published accounts as to what has been done
in this way. Since the books were ruled
off the board has decided to take up scrip
(amount not specified) in the North Queens-
land Meat Go., Ltd., which bought the Burde-
kin and Biboobra works.
Sellers ask 'Bs. and buyers offer 7s. for
the pound shares, which were priced at 10s.
a year ago. The backing amounts to 21s. 9d.
in net tangibles, of which approximately
Bs. lid. is surplus liquids; the balance is
mostly represented by factories, etc., worth
whatever they can be made to earn.
Hackshalls, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Nominal
Dee., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 15,590 lOp.e. = 7,647 7943 10,072
Transferred to capital, £12,000 1 g 2X3
1926.. 17,241 -c. = 12,100 5141 ) ’
1927.. 15,722 12| „ „ 12,500 3222 6,435
1928.. 25,748 12* „ „ 16,146 9602 16,037
1929.. 34,236 12* „ ~ 27,083 7153 23,190
It is only during the last few years that this
cake- and biscuit-maker began to plunge for-
ward. It set up in 1912, and 13 years later
was modestly capitalised at £60,000. Then
a par issue of 28,000 £1 shares raised the
total to £BB,OOO, and the scrip was listed in
the following term, 1926. A one-in-seven
bonus issue at once sent it to a premium,
and the lifting of the div. from 10 p.c. to
121 p.c. and a succession of new share issues
at par have kept the price up.
Of late the co. has developed substantial
subsidiary interests, over the nature and
quality of which the board has kept the
curtain drawn. These include control of
Plardman Bros., another biscuit-making co.
with strong connections in the South Sea
Islands. To enable it to add bread-making
to its other activities Hackshalls put out
two parcels of scrip, each of £25,000, early
in 1928; and again in January and October
of last year shareholders were asked for
£75,000 and £25,000 respectively to further
extend operations, though in what direction
was not mentioned. Thus £150,000 has been
added to paid capital in the last two years,
making it £250,000. at Dec. 31.
So far earnings have got practically no
benefit from the last £IOO,OOO, a large part
of which has been invested in assets that
are not expected to bring in any return for
another 12 months. Apparently portion was
also used to equip anew bread factory at
Burwood, which did not begin earning until
Dec. 14; it is claimed to be one of the most
up-to-date of its kind. Also the year’s earn-
ings were affected by general and special
conditions, the chairman says. But despite
all this and a louder call from the tax-
gatherer, the board was able to show an
extra £B4BB of profit. The £34,236 netted
wms 15.9 p.c. on average capital compared
with 19.9, 15.7, 17.8 and 20 p.c. back to
1925, so the 124 p.c. div. was repeated with
comfort. On capital as it stood at the close
of last accounts 124 p.c. would call for
£31.250, or £2986 less than wrns netted last
year.
There is not much of a buttress for capital
in the co.’s own reserves —£23,190 at Dec.
31 —especially as an unspecified amount is
represented by goodwill, formulas, etc. These
intangibles are lumped in one untidy entry
with land, building and investments at
£232,571, up £86,701 during the year. No less
than £148.476 has been added to the book
value of this omnibus item since 1925, and
shareholders have put up £150,000 over the
same period. As for the investments, all
that can be said definitely is that they
appear to be remarkably good profit-earners.
In October last shareholders were told
that the board was considering the sale of
the business to anew co. to be registered
with a nominal capital of £5,000,000. For
each of its pound shares Hackshalls wms to
get two fully-paid 7 p.c. cum. prefs. in the
new co. No further details were given, but
whispers about American interests were
heard in the market. The deal, however,
suddenly fell through, and nothing further
has since been heard about the matter.
Here is the co.’s position so far as balance-
sheet figures disclose it :j—
--1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital . . £BB,OOO £IOO,OOO £150,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 1,032 1,166 21,370 9,089
Land, buildings,
in v estments,
etc. .. . . 84,095 90,868 145,870 232,571
Plant, etc. . . 1,534 1,530 10,394 18,170
Stocks . . . . 2,217 2,381 10,149 10,915
Book debts . . 7,210 3,571 13,345 13,894
Cash, etc. . . 7,311 11,834 11,737 11,936
Besides spending so much on fixed assets dur-
ing the year the board was able to wipe
£15,200 off the overdraft (now £1524), and
since only £2919 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors (£7565) the net
reduction in the debt amounted to £12,281.
On the co.’s own plant £7776 more was
spent than was written off. The more or
less liquid surplus (£27,656, including stocks)
was £13,795 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The accounts tell nothing about what is
apparently the major part of the co.’s in-
terests; but the board is optimistic con-
cerning the future. The market expresses
its confidence in the management by paying
295. as against 335. a year ago for the scrip.
At the current price the return is 8.6 p.c. on
a 12i p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to 21s. lOd. in net assets, including the
intangibles. One great thing in favor of the
co. is that its trade is practically all done
on a cash basis, and even hard times is likely
to see a substantial business on those terms.
Broken Hill South.
B. H. South estimates a net profit of
£154,000 for the six months to Dec. 31 _ as
against £140,000 for the corresponding period
of 1928. Lead averaged about the same
(£22 13s.' 6d. per ton) for both periods.
It has since dropped to £2l 3s. 9d. During
the six months to Dec. last 156,660 tons
crudes were treated for 33,922 tons lead con-
centrates and 30,227 tons zinc concentrates.
About one-third of the profit for that period
was derived from zinc concentrates.
Since 1917 the Barrier cos. have sold their
zinc output under contract to the British
Board of Trade, with a guaranteed price
when the metal fell below £3O per ton. This
contract expires at June 30 next, after which
the cos. will have to accept open-market
prices for their zinc products. The guaran-
teed price has never been disclosed, but
shareholders in the South were told in Oct.,
1928, that if the co. had to accept the then
market price of £24 10s. per ton for zinc
instead of the guaranteed price, it would
mean a difference of about 3s. per ton of
crude ore treated. On production figures for
the year to June 30, 1928, that difference is
equal to nearly 30s. per ton for zinc, which
suggests that the contract price is about
£26 per ton. Zinc is now over £7 per ton
below that figure. At the moment it looks
as if the South’s profits for the current year
may be a trifle lower than last year’s, but
unless something unexpected turns up they
are going to wear a very different look
after June 30 next. Though an extra 6d. is
going out with the quarterly div. (25.) this
week the scrip recently eased from 58s. to
535. in the market.
Broken Hill mines are not worrying about
water any more. They can see a year’s
supply, at any rate: both reservoirs have
been fed by heavy but patchy storms. In
some parts of the Far West (N.S.W.) coun-
try the falls have been phenomenal. Yan-
cannia, one of the outlying stations, reports
the heaviest floods since 1890.
* * * *
Imperial Smelting Corporation has been
formally registered in Melbourne, with
Arthur Robinson as local agent. Paid capi-
tal is £1,700,000. The co. recently took over
the share and other holdings of National
Smelting Corporation, London, including
smelters and acid works at Avonmouth and
Swansea, and bought 4,000.000 shares of 10
rupees each in the Burma Corporation. Aus-
tralian shareholders in Imperial are B. H.
North, B. H. South, Zinc Corporation, Elec-
trolytic Zinc and Burma Corporation, all of
which have representatives oh the board.
* * * *
From Australian Roma Oil:
This company denies the “Wild Cat” statement
that the oil sand at Blythdale bore has been lost.
The only trouble experienced is in excluding water
from the well, and this is not unique in oil drilling.
The co.’s No. 5 well, 850 feet north of the Blythdale,
is now 3000 feet down, and about another 800 feet
should bring this well to the same oil horizon. No.
6 Cornwall well, started on the 13th instant from
the 300-feet mark, is now down 623 feet.
* * * *
Palmer River Gold Cos., the North Queens-
land show -which may give an impetus to
dfedging in that section of Australia, is
nearing the production stage. Thanks to
recent floods in the river at the Strathleven
area, the completed pontoon floated auto-
matically, and gave no trouble once in the
flood waters. This, besides reassuring those
who feared trouble for the dredge in future
floods, saved a considerable amount of time
and expense, since the preparation of launch-
ing ways was rendered unnecessary. The
dredging machinery is now going up on the
pontoon, and the only portion of the plant
not on the area is the boiler. This will be
brought from railhead at Laura as soon as
the roads are hard enough for the lorry, and
is expected to be on the spot before it is
needed.
*}» ❖ # ❖
Marranboy, a lode-tin proposition some
30 miles from the Katherine (N.T.), reports
that its 10-head battery and concentrating
plant have had a satisfactory trial run. An-
other 10-head battery is on the ground wait-
ing erection, but owing to the illness of
manager J. J. Tully the whole plant has
closed down until his return in March. The
mill is at the open-cut mine, and the ore
is to go direct to the rockbreaker and thence
by elevators and hoppers into the battery
with self-feeders. The show is within two
miles of a rail-siding on the extended line
from the Katherine to Mataranka. The
original owner of the mine treated 6074 tons
ore at the Federal Government’s mill for
a return of 213 tons tin. The eo., since
taking over, has realised £7260 from ore
raised and sent to the .same mill.
* * * *
“Huon” : An Adelaide co., which has been
developing a bismuth "deposit in Tasmania
has had its hopes dulled by latest marketing-
reports. The plant has been producing a
ton of concentrated ore per week, and the
aid of the Mines Department was sought to
locate a regular buyer. But large quantities
of bismuth from the tin refiners have prac-
tically swamped the market for the present;
being a by-product, it can be sold at a
very low price. As the co. is producing
small lots of mineral containing 66 p.c. bis-
muth, 8 p.c. lead and 6oz. of gold per ton, it
was suggested that it might have a try as
a gold mine. But the small possible output,
estimated at four or five tons a month, eruels
that pitch. It is the old story of mining
speculators entering on a base-metal under-
taking without first making sure of a market.
# * * *
Some W.A. leaseholders are still agitating
for a boitus of £1 per fine oz. on all gold
produced in the Commonwealth. Briefly,
their case is that, while the price of gold
is fixed at 85s. per oz., the cost of everything
necessary to produce it has much increased
since the war. The Western State has, it
is urged, large reserves of ore suitable
for treatment were gold 105 s. per oz. West-
ralian coal has such a fat bonus in the way
of high price paid for it by the State rail-
ways that the Collie coal miners have become
the aristocrats of W.A. labor. They receive
325. per shift. This suggests a weak point
in the proposed application ; so surely as a
£1 bonus is granted there will follow a claim
for higher wages by gold-mine employees.
Kalgoorlie mine managers, on the whole, are
not in accord with the bonus idea, and they
seem to have the greater pull in the right
quarter.
* * * $
Chairman Agnew at the recent Lake View
meeting talked of finds in the Lake View
and Horseshoe leases, of future ore treat-
ment and the greatness of the show. Low 7
returns, which have been a feature of opera-
tions for some time past, were attributed to
“technical reasons,” and would be only tem-
porary. That’s one side of the picture. The
other shows that the co. hasn’t paid a div.
for years. And although there is a good
prospect of fair-sized tonnages of ore richer
than existing reserves—which at 31s. a ton
are barely payable—shares at present prices
are much above their visible value. Still
they may not be more than their fair value.
H. C Hoover once said that for a goldmine
share to be worth £1 there should be 12s.
6d. profit in sight, and the reef solid and
sound in the bottom workings.
H: * * *
London-boomed Star Emerald Cos. has
called a halt at Poonah (W.A.). For years
it whooped, about its prospects, and some
share-pushers did remarkably well. Later
it was said that as the Colombian mine,
South America, was nearly worked out, the
Star w 7 ould be the only producer of emeralds
in the world. But thus far only a few
Westralian cut gems appear to have been
sold, mostly at low prices; hence the market
for the scrip has become paralysed.
* * * *
After spending several thousand pounds
on the Enterprise, Kalgoorlie, an Adelaide
crowd has abandoned its option and the
property reverts to the vendors. It is pro-
bable that the show, which has some value,
will eventually be acquired by the Boulder
Perseverance, which already holds a fourth
interest, or the South Kalgoorlie.
ijc # sis
Following favorable reports by Dr. Wool-
nougli, H. W. P. Talbot and other experts,
Sydney and Perth are backing a party, which
left Fremantle the other day, to make a
further examination of the Wooramel coun-
try, where there are indications of oil pools
at depth. Rock salt and sulphurs are also
believed to be plentiful there. Apart from
Wooramel and Freney’s areas the search for
oil is practically at a standstill in the West.
è


4vi/ika
u
M
Oa*&
■
£Lh3>''’".
;.Vv.
••
■
;.* %
■|\.? • s X % *«*®*|*r\*
v.
A MAN’S Clothes are more than simply material and workmanship.
Into the “warp and woof” of every Murdoch garment for men out-
back there is woven a SERVICE—a degree of painstaking care,
eloquent of a deep personal regard for the “boys” who are the backbone
of Australia.
Can you wonder that this has brought to Murdoch’s the priceless good-
will of Australia’s Sons from the farthermost fringe of this great Com-
monwealth.
Murdoch’s Far-famed “Toughite” Trio
“Toughite” Shirts
THESE Celebrated “Toughite” (Regd.)
Shirts are specially woven to resist rough
wear, and are double sewn. Light or dark stripe
effects. Made in Murdoch’s own
workrooms by skilled shirt specialists.
Each
6 f 6
Shirts
Khaki Drill Working Shirts for Men.
Strongly
made and will render excellent service.
With pocket
6'6
Hats
Murdoch’s Famous “Sombrero” Hat.
for the man on the land; 6Jin crown,
Designed
brim,
plaited leather band. In serviceable
shades of dark Fawn, Black, or Slate
27'6
MURDOCH’S RENOWNED “DROVER”
HAT.—ldeal for the outdoor man, and made
expressly for his wishes. 3|in brim.
Plaited leather band. Dark Fawn shade
Singlets.
Men’s Cotton Elastic-ribbed Knit Athletic
Singlets, silk bound. Sizes, 34 to 40 inch,
42 and 44 inch, 3/6
UIZ
'ill
“Toughite ” Trousers
A SPECIALLY - WOVEN wear-resisting
fabric exclusive to Murdoch’s. Reinforced
throughout to add to the splendid wearing qualities
of these excellent Trousers. Mid and Dark
Grey shades. Side or cross
pockets ; plain bottoms. All
sizes
11/9
Breeches
Men’s “Toughite” (Regd.) Riding Breeches, medium
balloons, laced legs, cross
Ready to wear
pockets.
19'6
In Pawn Gabardine Twist, 22/6.
Puttees
Men’s Tan Strap or Spring-front Puttees,
with seam back
13'6
Tan Strap Puttees, blocked,
tops
plain
21'6
Boots
Men’s Black Elastic - sided Emperors,
standard screwed soles
19'6
In Tan Calf, 24/6.
Men’s Tan Yearling Calf Officers’ Military Derby
Boots or Black Box Hide, with double-
decker soles
'J 1 f
"
Socks.
Men’s Black All-wool, Hard-wearing Cashmere
Socks, spliced heels and toes.
Per pair 2/6, 3/6, 3/11, 4/6
“Toughite” Overalls
MURDOCH’S “TOUGHITE” (Regd.)
Overalls for Men. A special for country
wear and guaranteed to keep dirt
out. Blue Drill Overall. Bib and
Brace
Q/ 1
Bib & Brace. Combinations.
Khaki Drill 9/11 .. 16/6
Painters’ Unbleached 7/11 .. 13/6
Blue Drill .. 15/6
Blue Denim 9/11 ..
Suits
Men’s Ready for Service S.B. Sac Suits in service-
able Mid or Dark Grey Woollen Tweeds.
Graded sizes ensure perfect fitting..
59'6
Men’s High-grade Woollen Worsted Sac Suits, in
newest plain or fancy patterns. A three
piece Suit ready for immediate wear .
84''
Rugs
Strong English-made Bush Rugs. Made
for rough wear. Size, 50 x 72; weight,
31b
72 x 90 inches, 21/-
12'11
Tents
Heavy-weight Calico Tents. Reinforced
throughout. '3ft walls. 6ft x Bft
25'.
Bft x 10ft, 35/- ; 10ft x 12ft, 47/6.
Fly to Match, lift x 9ft, 16/-; 12ft x 12ft, 22/6
14ft x 14ft, 30/-.
Oilskins.
Men’s Brown Oilskins, leather-bound
cape
shoulder and back, storm-proof cuffs.
V back
55/-
Cash Trading
means
Bigger Values
We trade for cash
only ; so that it is
absolutely necessary
to include Cash with
every order. Paying
Cash helps us and
saves you much.
DOCHS
SSSB
BT
rm
crro
E 3
ldtH
r.: :■
3
lurdodhis lb
'£ark& George Sts, Syd
-THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
Tents are sent half-freight to nearest Port or Rail Station.
KINDLY ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO DESK R
Murdoch s
Mi l Ido- Wearer
Catalogue
is free ! —
The Catalogue offers
you the same goods
at the same price as
the city sho/pper.pays
We employ no Tra-
vellers, Canvassers, or
Agents only by
direct service can a
store save the cus-
tomer a host of un-
necessary costs.


Low upkeep -
the natural
consequence of
Pontiac’s proved
reliability. - - -
D
w
in CONOMICAL car ownership is a matter of low
1-J maintenance cost just as much as low petrol
and oil consumption. Consequently the motor-
wise individual seeks a reliable car —a car with
a service record of continuous-trouble-free opera-
tion, free from the expense of frequent repairs
fand replacements.
That is why more and more motorists are
choosing Pontiac. Its sound basic design, its
inherent sturdiness and staunchness, plus many
exclusive mechanical features designed to mini-
mise wear, and to ensure long life, keep it out
of the repair shop month after month, and even
year after year. It is a recognised fact in the
motor trade that sales of Pontiac replacement
parts are altogether negligible, and that necessary
repairs and adjustments are unusually few.
There is a Pontiac dealer near you who will be
proud to demonstrate ... to tell you of the
reliable economical operation that Pontiac owners
can confidently expect ... to point out Pon-
tiac’s distinction of appearance . . . and to
let you experience its riding and driving ease. He
will also explain the General Motors’ Warranty,
and tell you of the easy purchase scheme avail-
able under the G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane • Sydney • Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
ē
Big car features
that establish
Pontiac’s value,
1. A 200 cubic-inch L-head engine.
2. The Harmonic Balancer.
3. The G-M-R cylinder head.
4. The cross-flow radiator.
5. Automatic Temperature control.
6. Fully counter-weighted crank-shaft.
7. Aeroplane - type interchangeable
bronze-backed bearings.
8. A inch carburettor, including an
internal economizer and an ac-
celerating pump.
9. A petrol pump, in place of the con-
ventional vacuum tank.
10. Special patented expansion - type
piston pins.
11. Full-pressure lubrication.
12. Crank-case, ventilating system.
13. Internal-expanding 4-wheel service
brakes of the most efficient type.
14. Special moulded, non-squeak brake
bands. Positively no squeaking
when stopping.
15. Smart, specially designed bodies.
16. Flaring mudguards—7o inches be-
tween outer edges.
17. Unusually high radiator of distinctive
design.
18. VV type windshield on closed models.
PONTIAC -
i ' *•
GENERAL MOTORS car look inside and note the difference l


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usberotel,” Sydney.
f H ed a nd
wtkfast
Tariff
WHAT DOES SPENDING GOST?
How much does it cost you to spfend £100? The answer is
£ i OOfdown and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
' Yet wjiat man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
faiMwealtb Savinas lank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).-
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
* ■ etc., et~
ABORICINALITIES
MADE AUSTRLIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Arjo”: Junket is a Vic. woodcarter with
an unquenchable thirst. After selling his
drayload of wood he will hitch his horse to
the post nearest the pub and proceed to
sink ’em. The other day, with only 2s. left,
he thought remorsefully of the faithful prad
still hitched to the post, and meandered out.
“Well, Dob, ole boy,” he said, “you’re still
here, and you’re due for a feed. We’ve on’y
got two bob left, and you sliertainly ought
to have that for a feed, but then I want a
few more drinks. Tell you wot I’ll do, Dob,
I’ll toss yer for it. Heads you get a feed;
tails I get more beer.” Solemnly he tossed
the florin’, and it came head. “Two out of
three,_ o’ course,,Dob,” Junket went on; but
head it was again. “That shettles it,” Junket
said; “it’s yours—you’ve earned your feed.
But we’re good mates, aren’t we, Dob? An’
you won’t see a mate stuck, will yer? Not
you? Then I’ll borrer the two bob.”
* * & *
“Tom Thumb”: Which is the most self-
confident of the feathered fighters? The
gamecock’s pluck is proverbial, but I have
been attacked and cursed in nesting time by
creatures so tiny as the blue wren and willy-
wagtail. I am inclined to award the palm,
however, to a peacock in the Brisbane
Botanical Gardens. He got it into his not
very intellectual nut that an outsized emu
was making overtures to his wife—the pea-
cock’s not the emu’s—and went for the sup-
posed tertium quid. But, as usual, Heaven
was backing the bigger battalion, and a
Brisbane peahen is now looking for a new
husband.
* * * *
“Water Supply,”: If “Seven Hills” (B.
29/l/’3O) lias'ever been to Tainbo (Q.),
which I doubt, he must have fallen into the
bore-drain after a night out. Tambo has
an up-to-date water reticulation scheme, an
ample supply being laid on to every house in
tlie place. The “two points” he mentions
are over a thousand in actual fact, and
proper cast-iron mains and galvanised service
pipipg are used. The temperature of the
water is 120 deg. Fahr. and not SOdeg. as
he states. “Seven Hills” also imagined the
Chinese whose carcase was fished out of the
drain. He must have had ’em bad!
*■■■■***
“E.SiS.” : v The best example of protective
coloring among Australian animals is the
coat of the native-bear. Though the female
sleeps in a hollow dqring the day, her part-
ner prefers to squat in the fork of a tree.
NO TROUBLE AT ALL.
MRS. MAGGS: “Does yer old man make ’imself a nuisance when ’e comes ’ome lull?”
MRS. DAGGS: “No, you wouldn’t know ’e was in th’ house after I’ve locked him up_ in
the shed in the back yard.”
THE CONNOISSEURS.
'ZEKIEL CARBIS: “I hear you’m going to get a pianny, Tummas?”
TUMMAS TRESSIDER: “Naw, ’Zekiel. Me and missus don’t hold with they tinkly
things. If us do get anything ’tall, ’twill be a good horgan.”
His grey and white patches of fur har-
monise so well with the markings of the
gum and box trees that he is not easily
discovered. A ’possum in the open in day-
time is persecuted, birds persistently attack-
ing it as though they recognised that it had
no business to be abroad in those hours.
But the koala is seldom molested, even
when basking at the butt of a tree. The
old male occasionally goes downstairs for
a little ramble on the ground in the daytime.
He descends backwards, whereas ’possums
descend head first. He has a tougher skin
than any other bush denizen except the wom-
bat, and the densest fur, which is often
marred by scanty patches on the rump,
caused no doubt by his habit of sitting in
a fork.
* * * *
“Larrapinta” : “Bombex” (B. 5/2/’3O)
talks through his hat. I have shifted hundreds
of colonies by road, rail and sea, sometimes
taking them for over 200 miles, and I have yet
to hear of a case where bees in transit have
escaped from sound hives, properly packed.
The wharf-lumpers who load my hives on
the steamer at Port Adelaide handle them as
unconcernedly as they would cases of fruit,
and so do the men who unload them again
in Port Lincoln. As for shifting bees by
aeroplane, packages measuring a few inches
square, each containing a few worker bees,
a young queen and some candy for food, are
put in the mail sack and delivered as ordi-
nary mail. Nothing to make a song about.
* * * *
“Piecrust”: A thirsty drover at Garah
(N.S.W.) rode his scared hox-se into a pub
and called for the usual. When the dis-
turbance had quietened, he explained that lie
had thought he was in the US. Pity the
gentleman didn’t carry the thing through
properly. As everyone knows, the correct
procedure is to throw your irons, reckon
you’ll have a bottle of that, and then knock
the neck off with a bullet, afterwards drill-
ing a few hat-brims and teaching any tender-
feet a few dance steps. Mild as the
imitation was, an unsympathetic beak fixed
fines and damages at eight pounds.
* * * *
“Toggle”: I saw it during the sunny
period when the Queensland Prickly-pear
Board paid a shilling each for emu eggs
and half a crown for scalps. The scalps
were duly cremated, and, if burnt feathers
have the virtue ascribed to them by our
grandmother, any lady incautiously fainting
down wind must have been brought back to
her senses with a round turn. After the
eggs had been counted and paid for, the
receiver officially destroyed them by convey-
ing them to a-fairly retired jspot and heaving
them, one by one, against a tree-trunk. The
minute liis back was turned—and man’s first
impulse was to flee the grisly spot—out
popped some wily youngster from the nearest
cover, and the reeking heap of shattered eggs
was subjected to a hopeful overhaul. It was
a poor day that did not yield a few part-
hatched chicks, forward enough for scalping;
and many and many an egg, having been
cashed in at a bob, walked the earth next
week to the tune of half a crown.
* * ❖ H:
“Monar”: In Melbourne recently the
reports of two shots were heard from the
direction of the Botanic Gardens, and the
police-patrol dashed up. But it was only
tbe director knocking over a couple of shags
w ™ bad tried to take up their quarters
with the ducks in the large lake. Though
most of the ducks are wild, they seem to
know that the shots are intended only for
the shags, for they remain almost unper-
turbed during the periodical offensives
launched against those fish-murderers by the
gardens staff. The family long ago dis-
covered that city lake-gardens afford them
sanctuary; I have seen thousands of wild
things from remote parts of Westralia tak-
Perth lr 6386 ° n the mun * ci P al Ponds at
* * * *
. P-T-b 1 . : A species of bird hitherto un-
known to the Council has been discovered
m north-east Vic. As far as I am aware,
only one of its kind exists. In appearance
it is the counterpart of the common
¥ n ’ bllt babits are
peculiar. A naturalist found it asleep on the
floor of a farm-house kitchen, its beak awash
in the drippings from a nine-gallon keg of
beer. Since then it has become blotto at
every opportunity, and it advances hope-
fully whenever the keg is approached by a
member of the family. The nutritive value
of its egg ls very high—no doubt because of
its affection for hops.
* * *
* *
“f igca !i” : When winter rain falls on the
western downs of Queensland wild carrots
come „p immediately. Even if thereno
winter rain the first hosing of Mrs Station
“ g - er S ?° Wcr garden will bring U n a
profusion of carrots. It is the
most übiquitous of Queensland plants I’ve
. Jt ° n tbe Gulf waters, on the Bedourie
shout rl e n T i° n M? each district > on the Barcoo
about Charleville, on the rot „
IVe r dso to Su?ked° n a
(Continued on page 25.)
THE UNGRATEFUL DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I ’ad a dorg,” said Dingy Bill,
—though, o’ course, the thought’s
absurd—
The things oie Tweed could do an’ did
Would make some doubt a feller’s word.
No job with sheep ’e’d ever shun
But one—a trick or two ’e knoo—
When there was crutchin’ to be done
E’d shove it on the jackeroo.
E’d draft an’ count, an’ tail an’ mark,
sometimes, when the barbers’ shed
Would get a trifle outer hand
An send the board boss orf ’is head,
Ole Tweed would straighten up the mob;
t ve se eu ’im grab a flash galoot
Who s polin’ on the crimson job,
An’ chuck ’im yelpin’ down ’is chute.
I |® ase d ’im wunst ter Sandy Brown,
Wot ’ad a run named ’Ungry Downs,
An goes up river with me cheque
To have a flutter round the towns.
Ole Sandy tries to raise a squeak,
An’ wouldn’t pay the dorg ’is due;
Tweed lugs the cow before the beak,
An’ gets a blanky verdick, too.
“When Sandy parts at larst, o’ course
Tweed gives the lawyer cove ’is cut,
An takes a stroll down to the pub,
An’ starts to work ’is ’ard ole nut.
E shouts fer all the drouthy crowd,
An’ when they’re fairly on the spree
E buys a ticket on the train
An’ joins me on me jamboree.
“O’ course, I oughter tumbled that
The goin’ was too good to larst—
Excuse me langwidge, but I ’ates
To dwell upon the ’appy parst.
A dingo flapper ’anded Tweed
The bad, glad, eye—an’ that was that.
The blankard never says good-bye,
But leaves me on me purple pat.
“So, since ’e turned me down —the dorg!—
I’ve gotter earn me scanty scran
By workin’ for it, quite enough
To break the ’eart of any man.
Dorgs is like wimmen, for a bit
(You take the flamin’ tip from me),
They’ll kid yer that yer simply It,
Then leave yer up a blanky tree.” _
N.S.W.
FY7.


If
1
o
Vt 6
a
m
m
«%
m
Qualitij
and Quant it q
Country Life the cigarette that has gained greater popularity
in a few months than other makes have won in years. Four words
sum up the reasons for this surprising preference: BETTER
QUALITY—BETTER VALUE, better Quality because Country
Life is an evenly-packed, cork-tipped cigarette that offers
purest Virginia tobacco of a new blend refreshingly different.
Extra Value because your usual 1/6 buys you 23 Country Life
3 more than the ordinary 20.
That’s why tens of thousands of Australian smokers have changed to
Country Life. That’s why you will change to this better cigarette, too.
“ft
andVifbrV'
also in tins of
50 and ZOO
Country Life
VIRGINIA CORK-TIPPED
CIGARETTES
Made in Your Own Country at the
Garden Factory Raleigh Park
-by W. D. H. 0. Wills
(Australia) Ltd.,


m
'//!■
'(/KfA
\ U
Th e
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
fnf'u ItS condition > le,l S th - and
iinripv In 1 • * ma y vary from time to tiine. But
advantages. CirCUmSta " CeS this action shows decided
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
Ths firm s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
o ce m producing top market values.
nej
NATURE’S REMEDY, HEALTH-GIVING AND REFRESHING.
Burgoyne’s Fruit Saline is world-
famous for its wonderful health-
giving properties —it is an agree-
able, invigorating and cooling drink,
and i 3 a speedy cure for Bilious-
ness, Sick Headaches and all fever-
ish conditions. Acting, too, as a
mild aperient, it cleanses the system
of all impurities.
All chemists sell Burgoyne’s
Fruit Saline. Keep a bottle in the
house; all the family will enjoy it.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR
BURGOYNE’S FRUIT SALINE.
Ask the Man
Who’s Been,There
and he will tell you that the best
holiday he ever had” was at
Mt Buffalo
National Park
Book now for the snow-sports
season.
Particulars at
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
Rideo”: We had been trying to shoot
quail. Birds were plentiful, but the antics
of two alleged gun-dogs that had accom-
panied one. of the party spoilt everything.
By lunch-time the only gunner who wasn’t,
glum was the dogman, who brightened our
meal with his chatter. “Amazing the wrinkles
n chap picks up,” he said. “Why, the other
uny I got a pointer from Breakup’s old
threshing-machine.” “I see!” came an awed
voice. “I wondered how you bred your
pointers.”
LATEST RACING RESULTS.
“Riroriro”: According to Maoriland’s
Department of Internal Affairs, the tuatara
is increasing on the few island sanctuaries
where it survives. Usually called a lizard
the tuatara really has a classification all to
itself. It is supposed to be the earliest form
ot animate life still extant, and on the
ground of pedigree can turn up its nose at
everybody. . Its chief interest to the biolo-
gmt lies m its rudimentary third eye. Very
useful, one would think, but it does not seem
to have helped the tuatara even before the
motor-car came to add to the uncertainty of
life. The tuatara does not multiply very
fast. It does nothing fast. Its ideal life
seems to consist in swallowing a blowfly
once a week and spending the rest of the time
digesting the meal. The egg it lays takes a
LIFE’S TRAGEDIES.
LONELY SETTLER: “I don’t suppose Daisy will be so fond of me
now that she’s got a calf.”
year to incubate, so the sluggishness must
be congenital. Before the pakeha came it
was lucky in having practically no natural
enemies. The .Maori as a rule held it in
such superstitious fear that he would run a
mile to avoid a tuatara. Since then life
has become harder, and now a few coastal
island sanctuaries keep the breed alive. Some-
times the tuatara and the mutton-bird share
the same burrow; which lets and which rents
the flat does not seem to have been deter-
mined.
* * * *
“Coot” : One sort of acacia is very aptly
named. Growing in almost impenetrable belts
of thicket it blocked the old-timers who
strove to make their way through it. So
one of them, with a fine sense of the fitness
of things, called it “the wait-a-while tree.”
* * * *
“Kismet”: “Left Chook” (B. 5/2/’3O)
nominates wild duck as our finest game bird.
My vote goes to the
pygmy goose. The
Jardine Swamps at
the top of the map
breed him at his best.
Newcastle Bay, same
locality, has oysters
by the million, from
one to a feed to the
tiny sweet ones that
melt in your mouth.
For the fish course, if
it is August, a great
school of salmon rests
for 10 days off the
beach of Horn Island.
Twelve-pounders, many
of them, and great
eating; and there’s
the thrill of fishing
for them in the tropic
moonlight. Or you
can dip a basket in
the Strait off the little
stone jetty near the
hospital on Thursday
Island and bring it
up full of white bait.
Also, there are rock-
cod and sweetlip and
many more sea foods,
not forgetting turtle
and dugong. What a
place for a gourmand !
Getting back to game
birds, does “Left Chook” savee Torres Strait
pigeon ?
'•!: * * *
“Edna”: Mother set a mouse-trap in a
dark corner. Hearing the trap go off, she
paced up, baby in arms, to take the mouse
out and reset, when—just in time —she saw
the coils of a black snake. A three-footer, he
was held by the trap just behind the head.
“Needn’t have been alarmed,” said dad, the
old cynic, when he came home. “No snake’ll
touch a woman.”
“Toggle”: Interested in a proposed arte-
sian bore in s.-w. Queensland. I called at a
neighboring station to get details of a bore
that had been put down in similar country
in the long ago. The manager, a new hand,
could not help me,
but the general
manager happened
to be up on a visit.
He was a great old
chap, though a bit
peppery, and as he
had managed the
place when the
bore was sunk his
Improvement Book
soon told me all I
wanted to know.
But the old fellow’s
nose was on the
trail of his youth,
and he wasn’t to
be shifted oft it.
He unearthed some
ancient notebooks
and began to read
aloud the daily
doings of two de-
cades ago. Pre-
sently he had for-
gotten both present
company and Anno
Domini and was
back in a sea of
troubles once more.
“Water dry in
Grigg’s Tank,” he
read vexedly. “Mc-
Tackit held up with
broken engine bear-
ing. Ewes bogging
in Bucket Creek.
H'iggs reports two
dingo tracks in
Weaner Paddock.
Goggins”—he held
the faded page up
to the light—“Gog-
gins wants new
hurricane lamp.
Does he?” the g.m.
thundered. “Well, dammit, he won’t get it.
Tell him to repair the old one.”
* * * *
“Jay Thornbeck” : During his exploration
of the Tanami country (Central Australia)
the late Allan Davidson (B. 15/l/’3O) had
an experience that mystified him and has
puzzled everyone since who has considered it.
His own allusion to the thing in his diary is
brief, but in conversation he and his men
frequently spoke of it as something quite
incomprehensible. It happened at Camp
37, June 30, 1900, and the diary states: —
The camels had to be tied down the greater
part of the night to prevent them getting back on
to the poison-bush. This was, nevertheless, a fatal
camp as far as one of our party was concerned.
Dodger, our dog, ran out barking at something dur-
ing the night, and never returned. The boy followed
his trail for some time in the morning, noting blood
along the trail, but no trace of the dog nor anv
native tracks; the boy’s explanation of the dis-
appearance was that Kurdaitcha had taken Dodger
and might next start on the camels.
This is the most perfect tracking country.
Nothing that walks or crawls could move
over it without leaving a well-defined track.
The dog was a fair lump of a mongrel about
151 b. or more. According to the boy, the
tracks suddenly finished on a clear spot, and,
as Dodger had not dug himself in,» he must
have gone aloft. Now, the eagle does not
work at night, and the powerful owl could
not lift such a weight; moreover he never
leaves the timber country. So what hap-
pened to Dodger?
* * * *
“E.S.”: It happens sometimes that an
expert cannot get a buck out of a horse, while
the same moke will buck without provoca-
tion when he has a novice on his back.
That is horse sense. No horse will buck
long, without results. The spectators round
a show-ring see the smartest riders thrown
very simply now and again. Of course, they
are looking for that sort of sensation, and
the showman knows that if the riders don’t
fall off somehow to give the horse encourage-
ment the animal will soon be useless for
show purposes. The professionals learn the
trick of landing on their feet. One travel-
ling turnout had an outlaw that threw the
company’s cracks in quick order, and £5
was nightly offered to anyone in the audience
who could sit him for two minutes. One
night a sticking-plaster got into the saddle
and rode the outlaw to a standstill. When
paying the money the showman said: “It
means more than a fiver to me; you’ve ruined
my best horse!”
* * * *
“Coralier”: A recent dust-up between
the police and the half-castes of Thursday
Island was a chapter of a long and gory
serial. Constable Stephens, who was put in
hospital, not for the first time, by the pie-
bald fighters, carries on his body many
souvenirs of such encounters. Two years
ago I saw him in hospital covered with
awful wounds inflicted by the teeth of
“Tiger,” a half-caste whose performances do
not belie his name. In one particularly ter-
rible bite the double row of teeth had met.
A human bite is credited with being ex-
tremely poisonous, and the doctor thought
Stephens ran a grave risk of blood-poisoning,
but he pulled through. The ’castes at T.I.
are a nasty crowd in a mob if put out,
especially if they hold a few drinks, and the
little roads and lanes of T. 1., pitch dark at
night, afford plenty of cover, especially
among the rambling dens of Chinatown and
the patchwork maze of “Yokohama.”
* * * if
“S.T.S.”: All the easy talk about changing
climate and “no summers now like the old-
time ones” has been knocked out in S.A. by
a resolute refusal of the wind to blow from
anywhere but east or north. (The official
figures are for Adelaide; anything away from
the coast would be hotter.) The heat wave
began with 94 on Thursday, Jan. 30. It
ranged from this to 105 for 10 days, and
then Sunday, Feb. 9, soared to 112.4, or
within four degrees of a local record estab-
lished in 1858. At the end of a fortnight
there was a cool change to 85, and the offi-
cial verdict is that the historic “wave” of
1880 was just not equalled.
* * * *
“Pick”: Snakes, when not in a hurry,
can climb a leaning tree or the slippery slope
of a wet rock. They are brisk travellers on
the levels, and can turn on an extraordinary
speed when in chase or flight they slither
downhill. But any wide stretch of loose sand
or dust pulls them up. Between the scrubs
of Poole’s Point and the mangroves of Tibbo
Beach, on the N.S.W. South Coast, lies an
expanse of drifting powdery sand. Some-
times a snake trying to cross from one cover
to the other gets stranded. As the crawler
advances upon the ash-like surface he pushes
forward a wave of sand with every sinuous
heave. Sickening of the heavy going, he
turns back, scooping out of the yielding
sand a basin, the rim of which affords no
scale hold. He squirms frenziedly to escape
but only deepens the depression. In the end
he dies of exhaustion or is scooped up by
a swamp hawk or a kookaburra.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: Early the other morning in
Sydney I saw a kite-liawk swoop down on
D. and W. Murray’s building in York-street.
It had food in its mouth, and went through
the motions of feeding its young, though I
couldn’t see them. Soon a second hawk
appeared and settled beside its mate. After
a few moments the first one flew off, rising-
higher and higher as it disappeared in the
distance. There must be a nest on that
building; but how far do the hawks scout
to obtain live provender?
ONCE BITTEN TWICE SHY.
ADAM: “Not me! Not after that last ex-
perience !”
“Tib”: Let m e tell “W.1.U.” (B.
11/12/’29) that Tibooburra (N.S.W.) is
so much more than a mere name that it
sends out four mails a week. It boasts
three pubs, one with two storeys, three
stores, a police station and courthouse, a
hospital and a school with 30 pupils on the
roll. At election times 100 Tibooburrians
rush to the poll, and our population was
just recently increased by 50 abos., sent in
for drought relief. We added 12 kids to the
population last year —dinkum births—and if
we’re only a name then there’s a lot of
towns on the post-office list that are less than
that. I’ll bet Mr. Theodore knows that
Tibooburra’s on the map. t
AMONG THE GUMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis sweet and grand through the green and
grey
To ride in the dawn again,
Down Stockyard Creek where the duckbills
play
And over the spreading plain ;
By the gossamer nets that the spider weaves
In the tussocks and bending broom,
’Mid the symphonies of the wind-stirred
leaves —
Grey gum-leaves—
And the scent of the wattle bloom.
From dawn till dusk on the overland,
To the clinking of bit and bar.
To follow the mobs with the droving band
And watch them by moon and star.
On the olden tracks where the tramping
beeves
Drift onward from day to day.
To the rustle of grass and the swish of
leaves—
Long gum-leaves—
And the whisper of winds at play.
The pack-horse jogs through the dancing
haze,
With a tune in his far-borne load ;
The camp-fires burn with a cheery blaze
By the side of the open road,
Where lean men sprawl on the blue-grass
sheaves,
With a laugh, though the day was hard.
And yarn ’neath the stars and the drooping
leaves—
Sweet gum-leaves—
Of the run and the shed and yard.
The ’possums play round the yarran boles
In the bend of a long lagoon.;
The bullfrogs croak in the gilgai holes
Agleam ’neath the rising moon;
The swan calls down as his black form
cleaves
Through the mid-air, sweet and clear;
And the crickets croon ’mong the grass and
leaves—
Dry gum-leaves—
With the horse-bells tinkling near.
On the saltbush hills and the blacksoil plains,
Where tough old warriors work,
Or trace the tracks of the camel trains
From the Warri down to Bourke,
Old scenes renew, while a lone heart heaves
To the bush days’ laughing whirl,
That oft calls back ’mid the sun-kissed
leaves—
Green gum-leaves—
The kiss of a bushland girl.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


OurSeriveDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young accountant, S.A., seeks position as book-
keeper on station; assist other ways. Will go any-
where.—4B26.
Jazz drummer, Sydney, late Black Watch regi-
ment, wants engagement, also teaches bass drum and
side drum.—4B34.
Cattleman (30), N.S.W., will undertake buying
and management cattle property or delivery of stock
to Flemington.—4B76.
Anglo-Indian, banking exp., ex-army officer,
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) College training, desires light
duties any nature, N.5.W.—4944.
Printer (Vic.), improver (fourth year), wants job
anywhere. Linotype-operator, platen-feeder, etc. Refs.
—4921.
Young man, four years’ clerical exp., wants posi-
tion enable him enter as evening-student Sydney Uni.
—4923.
Qualified accountant, 17 years in Queensland, de-
sires responsible position any country; understands
German and Dutch.—4924.
Middle-aged man, N.S.W., wants job, station or
farm, looking after lighting plant, engines and farm
machinery. Refs. —4925.
All-round horseman, farrier, smith, vet., wants
country job any State.—49l6.
Competent sawyer, sober, wants permanent job,
Q’land or Islands. —4918.
Trained nurse (Tas.) will take invalid into her
country home, near Launceston.—492o.
Middle-aged lady, Sydney, wants position as house-
keeper, country preferred.—4B44.
Vic. youth, some exp. horses and cattle, wants
position, jackeroo; high-school education.—4B9B.
Melb. dressmaker with comfortable town house
wants few weeks’ change in quiet country home.
Offers sewing duties or will return hospitality.—4B99.
By cert, stationary eng.-drive*j position in N.S.W.;
wide exp.—4BBs.
Single man (26), N.S.W., wants job wheat-farm;
exp., handy with tools, drive motor, pay own fare.
—4895.
Assistance in completing and marketing new type
electric ventilating and deodorising outfits. —4883.
Young man (22) seeks position Islands; eight
years’ exp. in customs and shipping-office work.—
4888.
To exchange free-wheel bike for tent suitable for
camping.—-4906.
To buy copy Cassell’s “Handyman, Inquire
Within.”—4B9l.
To buy “Aus. Museum Magazines,” Vol. I, Part 2 ;
Vol. 11, Part 7 ; Vol. 111, Part 2.-4847.
Words of “His Lights Are Out,” by E. J. Brady.
—4851.
Words of “The Last Retreat.” —4832.
Words of “Home, Sweet Home.” —4887.
Information Sought.
(1) Why have National Bank shares
fallen so much? (2) Will dividends he re-
duced this year? (3) Is it at all likely that
the hank will call up the unpaid liahility on
the shares? —4876.
(1) At the lowest point reached in .Janu-
ary the National’s £5 shares showed a fall of
20.5 p.c. below the price that ruled at the
end of January, 1929. The greatest of Aus-
tralian institutions, the Bank of N. S.
Wales, showed a fall of 254 p.c. over the
same period. The fall in Nationals was
therefore not exceptional. All investment
stocks fell because of the demand of the
Commonwealth and State for money, the
consequent increase of rates (to 6 p.c.) and
the pressure put on the banks to reduce
private loans so that they may the better
assist the public finances out of their bog.
(2) Quite likely, notwithstanding that the
National has made very large provision for
bad debts. The B.N.S.W. made a cut as a
precautionary (and probably advisory)
measure, and others are following. (3)
A bank would not be likely to do anything
to unnecessarily harass shareholders. We
can see no reason at present why the money
should be asked for; nevertheless, people
who hold partly-paid shares must always be
prepared for a call.
Take a vessel with four masts, square sails
on the fore, main and mizzen masts only.
(1) Is she a ship or a harque? (2) Where
are the trade winds to he met with? (3)
What are the roaring forties? (4) What
does running the easting down mean? (5)
What does smelling the hank mean?— 4747.
(1) A barque; a ship is square-rigged
throughout. (2) In the Atlantic and the
Pacific. In the Atlantic the north trade
winds prevail between 9 and 30 deg. lat.
and in the Pacific between 9 and 26 deg.
lat. The south trades in the Atlantic are
between 4 and 22 deg. south lat., and in
the Pacific between 4 deg. north and 324
deg. south lat. These limits follow the sun,
going north from Jan. to June and south
from July to Dec. (3) A belt of the
Southern Ocean, south of 40 deg. south
lat. (and especially south of 45 deg. south
lat.), where the prevailing winds are hard
W.N.W. to N.-W. The name is sometimes
given to a belt of the north Atlantic about
40 deg. to 50 deg. north. (4) Sailing
between Capetown and Fremantle; or else
running down the east coast of South
America to the Horn. (5) That a ship is
getting into soundings—is in water shallow
enough to take soundings with the deep-sea
lead, and is consequently nearing the shore.
How are nurses controlling suburban baby
health centres appointed in Sydney? Age
and other qualifications, and pay?. —-4855.
Applications are invited periodically by
the Public Service Board. Age limit for
appointment is 40 years, and the nurse at
the end of a probationary period of one year
must pass a medical exam. Each appointee
must at least possess a registrable qualifi-
cation for general nursing, and also the Tres-
sillian certificate of training. Preference is
given to nurses who possess in addition a
registrable qualification in midwifery nurs-
ing. Salary commences at about £209 per
annum and rises to about £270 p.a.
How can a Victorian secure registration
as a patent attorney? —4Bs3.
By passing the prescribed exam, and pay-
ing a fee of £5 ; an annual fee of £2 is also
payable. A solicitor may, however, prac-
tise us a patent attorney without passing
the exam, and without being registered.
Particulars regarding the exam, may be got
from the Sec., Patent Attorneys Examina-
tion Board, 581 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Under what conditions are the capture and
export of birds of paradise from New Guinea
and Papua permitted? —4B7B.
Only if the hunter is a duly accredited
agent of a Government or of a museum, zoo-
logical or acclimatisation society, or other
.scientific institution; and he must hold a
license to collect birds (fee £5) and a special
permit (fee £2O). Applications for special
permits should be made to the Administrator.
Rabaul, and the Lieut.-Gov., Port Moresby,
respectively.
I am using six-volt valves in my receiver,
hut I have several four-volt valves which I
should like to use in conjunction with them.
Can it he done? What precautions would
he necessary? —4BsB.
Four-volt and six-volt valves may be used
at the same time provided a 30-ohm variable
resistance is inserted in that portion of the
filament circuit feeding the four-volt tubes.
The correct setting for this resistance may
be found by placing a volt-meter across the
filament terminals of one of the four-volt
valve sockets and adjusting the resistance
until the volt-meter reads four volts. All
valves must be inserted in their proper
sockets while making this adjustment, and
the correct setting of the resistance having
been found, the rheostat knob should be re-
moved.
A Queensland youth wants to become a
sugar chemist. Does the Government appoint
cadets and train them? If so, what salary
would a beginner receive, and what does a
qualified man get?-— 4857.
Students in sugar chemistry must enter
the Tech. College at Brisbane or the Bunda-
berg Tech.; the Government does not appoint
cadets or train them. After passing the
necessary exams, an assistant sugar chemist
would get £5 to £6 a week with quarters
during the crushing period (generally June
to December) ; should he obtain a permanent
position salary would vary from £2OO p.a.
up to £5OO, with quarters. Assistant cane-
testers and cane-testers are employed by
the Cane Prices Board at salaries varying
from £6 to £8 a week; assistant, for the
period employed only; the others for six
months.
How to get rid of greenhead ants in a
buffalo lawn? —4662.
First, locate the nest. Then blow about a
teaspoon of cyanogas (G. fumigant) into
the holes with a cheap bulb insect-powder
blower, after which block with a lump of
earth or press with the heel. Or use potas-
sium cyanide at the rate of about 2oz. to
4oz. dissolved in a gallon of water, a pint
or more to be poured down each opening.
These are both deadly poisons, and every
care should be used. If you don’t like to
take the risk it may be possible to control
the colonies with a kettlcful of boiling water
—-they are not usually very extensive.
(1) Prospects in the advertising profession
for a qualified man, 32 years of age, with a
good knowledge of salesmanship? (2) Does
it require much capital to establish an adver-
tising agency? (3) Qualifications necessary
before commencing a course of study? —47Bs.
(1) Depends on the nature of qualifica-
tions. Capable advertising managers are
scarce. A “good knowledge of salesmanship,”
is not sufficient, and prospects for a 32-year-
old beginner are dubious. (2) To furnish
and equip a modern agency, and secure
accreditation, yes; but a small copywriting
agency might be launched on a moderate
capital provided one has clients, and com-
petition for them is very keen. (3) A
sound education (Leaving Certificate stan-
dard), ability to write good descriptive, sug-
gestive and persuasive “copy,” a comprehen-
sive knowledge of goods economics and mar-
keting.
Did the war have any serious effect on
the ratio of females to males in Australia?
—4726.
Naturally the masculinity of the popula-
tion declined owing to the loss of 59,000 of
our finest men in battle. However, Aus-
tralia is still one of the few countries in
which there is an excess of males over
females. In 1914 this excess of males was
3.28 in the 100 of population; in 1928 it
was 2.31.
I sell fruit from Vic. grower to consumer
without handling it, directing its progress
from my private address. I have no shop.
Does work of this nature require any regis-
tration ? —4633.
If you are selling on behalf of others for
gain or reward you should be licensed under
the Vic. Farm Produce Agents Act.
(1) I propose going to the New Guinea
goldfields. Must I obtain a Customs Dept,
permit before leaving ?, (2) How much
capital must I have before being allowed
to land? (3) Best months to go there? (4)
Any opening for an inexperienced prospec-
tor ivith small capital? (5) To whom should
I apply for further information? —4373.
(1) Yes, at the nearest capital city, and
pass a medical exam. (2) You must satisfy
the Administration you have enough to make
a start, and deposit £5O; this is forfeitable
for any breach of conditions. (3) No par-
ticular choice. (4) None; and you would
have to try new country. (5) Ministry for
External Affairs, Canberra.
(1) How can a Sydney householder check
the weight of coal and firewood delivered to
his premises? (2) Any late compelling ven-
dors to carry weighing instruments on their
vehicles? (3) Can they he obliged to weigh
goods in purchaser's presence? —4727.
(1) By providing stamped weighing
appliances. (2) and (3) No. Purchasers
are, however, entitled to see that vendors
conform to the regulations. These provide
that hawked coal or firewood must be con-
tained in lewt., 561 b., 281 b. or 141 b. sacks,
with the correct net weight marked on a
metal label; and that the seller who delivers
coal or firewood in sacks shall produce a
properly completed ticket before removing
fuel from the sacks. If you have any reason
to doubt the honesty of the vendor communi-
cate with the Weights and Measures Dept.,
Sydney, who would take appropriate action
to bring the offender to justice if deemed
justified.
A home-made liquid for spraying rooms to
destroy flies, silverfish, etc.? —4860.
Eucalyptol, 10 parts; bergamot oil, 3
parts; acetic ether, 10 parts ; eau-de-Cologne,
50 parts; alcohol (90 per cent.), 100 parts.
Mix, and add one part to 10 parts of water.
(1) Humber of British Cabinet Ministers,
their salaries, and population of country ad-
ministered by them, directly and indirectly?
(2) Humber of Cabinet Ministers throughout
the Commonwealth, total salary and popu-
lation ? —4593.
(1) There are 19 Cabinet Ministers,
whose salaries amount to £77,000, and 46
non-Cabinet Ministers who receive £68,100 ;
total, £145,100. Population of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, 45,623,000; of Em-
pire, 1,914,055,810. Of course, British Minis-
ters have very little to do with the self-
governing Dominions. (2) State and Federal
Cabinet Ministers number 59; total salaries,
£86,392; population at December 31, 1928,
6,336,786.
(1) Duties of a marine surveyor? (2)
Any firm in Sydney that will take youths
as cadets? (3) To whom to apply for
first-hand information? —4643.
(1) In the main, to survey damaged car-
goes, supply estimates of extent of damage,
examine empty holds, and report on damage
to ships. (2) No; usually the profession is
recruited from shipmasters and chief engi-
neers; there are no short cuts. (3) Mr.
J. S. Thomson, of James R. Thomson and
Son, Endeavor House, 33 Macquarie-place,
Sydney.
(1) Has any H.S.W f coalminer ever
earned as much as £3O in one week? —y 4936.
The Northern Collieries’ Association
states : “There are plenty of coalminers in the
northern district of N. S. Wales who have
earned £3O in individual weeks, and many
men who, whether they work full time or
not, have received over £6OO per annum.”
The general secretary of the union, how-
ever, affirms: “I have no knowledge of any
miner ever earning £3O per week or anything
like it. The average earnings of the mine-
workers, taking N. S. Wales as a whole,
for the last two years preceding the lockout
have not averaged £5 per week.” Take your
pick.
I dm a bank official in H. S. Wales and
contemplate resigning and acquiring a small
property near Brisbane. (1) What would be
my chances of success in poultry raising and
mixed farming in that part? (2) Do you
think country land-values are likely to be
re-adjusted?—- 4735.
(1) Success depends greatly on the ability
of the individual to adapt himself. He must
have ability to manage, be a willing worker
and a keen observer. There would certainly be
a better chance of success when poultry is
kept as >an adjunct to other farming pur-
suits. However, the present is not an oppor-
tune time to enter poultry-farming, as the
industry is going through an over-production
period. (2) Undoubtedly. In fact, the re-
adjustment is proceeding. N. S. Wales sheep
properties, for example, have shrunk on an
average, say, 25 per cent, in three years.
(1) When were the steamers Zealandia
and Riverina launched? (2) When the
Riverina was in commission, ivhicli was con-
sidered the better appointed? (3) How did
they compare as regards tonnage and build-
ing cost? —4766.
(1) Riverina, 1905; Zealandia, 1910.
(2) No substantial difference. (3) Gross
tonnage: Riverina, 4793; Zealandia, 6683.
Building costs are not for publication.
Who originated the theory that Arabs came
to Australia long before Portuguese, Spanish
or Dutch, and where can I see pertinent
literature ? —4903.
Mr. Hugh Wright, of the Mitchell Library,
Sydney, states that he has never heard of
such a theory. When Captain (afterwards
Sir) George Grey was exploring in North
Westralia in 1837, he found caves in the
Glenelg River district that contained draw-
ings not done by aborigines. Somebody may
have since suggested that they were done by
Arabs.
At some future date I intend to go into
jwlitics. What books on political economy,
industrial affairs, etc., would help me in my
career? —4845.
Cannan’s “Wealth,” Clay’s “Economics
for the General Reader,” Gide’s “Principles
of Political Economy”—capital introductory
textbooks for the study of economics—Jenks’s
“The State and the Nation,” and Leacock\s
“Elements of Political Science.” And don’t
forget our first-class Commonwealth Year-
Book for general information about Australia.
I propose to make a trip round Australia
by car. (1) Is it possible to motor across
the H.,T. from east to icest? If so, best
route? (2) Would it be necessary to re-
register the car in every State? —4704.
(1) Quite possible, but car and driver
must be good. The N.R.M.A., Grosvenor-
street, Sydney, will supply route and distances
on application. (2) The vehicle should be
registered in one State; immediately after
entering into each of the otfyer States appli-
cation should be made at the nearest police
station or District Registry for a visitor’s
pass, producing your certificate of registra-
tion and driver’s license. Visitors’ passes
are issued in the various States for different
periods —generally not more than a few
months. You might communicate with the
licensing authorities in the other States:
Officer-in-Charge, Motor Registrations, Carl-
ton, Vic.; Registrar of Motor Vehicles, Adel-
aide ; the Commissioner of Police, Perth;
Sec. Main Roads Commission, Brisbane.
Brief Answers.
C.K.: Book has no value... .J.H.: (1)
Write L. de Noszkowski, 39 Liverpool-street, Sydney.
(2) Mr. Codde, Fox Movietones, Goulburn-street, Syd-
ney, will be pleased to explain the method to y0u....
S.C.W.: Seems to be a case of fowl-tick. Get
pamphlet, “Fowl Tick,” from N.S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture; it is free.... Jay: Safety being very-
important, advise only Government stock. There will
quite likely be a recovery; but, then, Government
stocks may recover even move, so there may be
nothing gained by waiting... .W.M.D.: Only book
we know is Wegman’s “Design and Construction of
Dams” ( £5 55., Angus and Robertson), and it deals
with big things like Burrinjuck, etc. Better ask the
N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture for suitable matter....
K.G.: There was really no Bluebeard, but some of
his legendary exploits have been attributed to two
historical characters: Comorre the Cursed, a sixth-
century Breton chief; and Gilles de Rais, Marshal of
France and alchemist, hanged in 1440. De Rais, under
threat of torture, confessed to having murdered 140
kidnapped boys in his den; whence Bluebeard’s cham-
ber.... 0.L.: Black trackers are still employed in
police forces; at latest there were 31 in N.S.W.,
60 in Q’land, nine in S.A., 40 in W.A. and 26
in North Aust D.J.H.: It is called “Eaglehawk,”
Boys’ Book Club, Rawson-place, Sydney, price 3d.
. ...E.S.: Abo weapons and curios, any country, are
admissible free of duty under Tariff Item 307....
R.Iv.J.: No vacancies at present in the Public Ser-
vices of New Guinea, Papua, Norfolk Island or
Nauru, and opportunities for getting work with
private cos. are limited. .. .G. 0.8.: In the absence
of any specific rule notice of motion is not impera-
tive but it is desirable. .. .C. 8.: If it is a tem-
porary attack, squeeze the nostrils or pull down the
upper lip; if it is chronic, see a nose specialist....
J.A.C.: Generally used with success, especially if skin
is not broken, or only slightly... .D.C.J.: (1) No
more danger than any ordinary operation. (2) Many
and varied. General debility; constant sore throats
because tonsils are infected, etc G.R.: There are
two Queensland schemes under which citizens are
helped to obtain homes. Full information from State
Advances Corporation, Box 690 K, G.P.0., Brisbane.
. ...A.J.G.: Second-hand books are sold in Sydney
by Dymoeks, Angus and Robertson, Gilmours and
Skinners, among others.... M.F.: (1) Apply Chief
Sec.’s Dept., Macquarie-street, Sydney. (2) Wild
duck are best about March in the Griffith (N.S.W.)
district or the Macquarie reed beds... .R.G.: Open-
air school for delicate children in Melbourne is
situated at Blackburn. Particulars from head
teacher. .. .T.C.M.: Medical evidence is not neces-
sarily final, but it would require a strong body of
testimony to the contrary to refute it. Intoxication
does not depend on a set number of drinks.... E.L.G.:
Apple submitted was a Jonathan... .A. 8.: Get in
touch with either W. Holmes, McMahon’s Point;
Hayes and Sons, Careening Cove, Neutral Bay; or
J. Robinson, 8 School-street, Balmain East—all Syd-
ney....T.H. and F.J.E.: Write Prime Minister’s
Dept., Canberra. .. .P.Q.: It is stocked by Paul and
Gray, 82 Sussex-street, Sydney; lgal., 265.; lqt., 7s.
S.A.P.: The old Reichsbank notes could only be
exchanged in Germany up to July 5, 1925, at the
rate of a billion = 1 Reichsmark = Is. Notes men-
tioned are therefore valueless... .8.F.: Write Miss
Janet Mitchell, Thrift Service Director, N.S.W. Govt.
Savings Bank, Martin-place, Sydney A.L.8.: Can-
berra florins are worth no more than 2s Lismore:
A widow with seven children under 14 years of age
dependent on her would be eligible to receive a pen-
sion of £4 10s. per week. Good moral character is
stipulated in the Act. A widow living with a man
could not claim in respect of herself and illegitimate
children R.C.: Of 767 known species of acacia,
over 500 are indigenous to Australia; impossible to
print a list. See Von Mueller’s “Iconography of Aus-
tralian Acacias,” and works by Maiden and Cam-
bage at Public Library, Sydney... .J.A.C.: Depends
on provisions in articles of apprenticeship. Place
articles before solicitor, who will advise if you have
any cause for action. .. .E.A.P.: McCoy’s “The Fast
Way to Health” (155.), Angus and Robertson A. 8.:
Chief Queensland citrus-growing districts are Blackall
Range, Howard, Gayndah, Cardwell and Charters
Towers; get information from Dept, of Agriculture,
Brisbane, also pamphlets dealing with citrus-gi o\v ing.
M.C.: (1) Chances not good at present. (2) No.
(3) £lO 7s. 6d. per month. (4) At shipping offices.
(5) Sign on for six months or for round trip....
H.R.: Yes, provided neither king nor rook with
which it is to castle has moved R.K.T.: Hawkes-
worth’s “Aus. Sheep and Wool” (255.) ; Pearse’s
“Sheep, Farm and Station Management” (215.) ;
Smith’s “Sheep and Wool Industry” (95.) ; Mac-
donald’s “Aus. and N.Z. Sheep Farming” (155.) ;
Cowley’s “Classing the Clip”. • ■ .S.H.: It is not
uncommon for some of our wild duck to cross with
the domestic duck in protected waters, but the fixing
of any such cross is the work of years, and the pro-
bability of crosses being of any real value is remote.
.. ..M.W.: Don’t plug your ear with cotton-wool if
you have a chronic discharge —it dams it back.
Hydrogen perchloride put in the ear moderaten
twice a day and then washed out with warm water
would help. There are good aural specialists at
Newcastle; inquire from the hospital. .. .J.H.: (1)
Difficult to tell; operation might help. (2) If it
is not affecting you in any way, why worry f (3)
No. not necessarily. (4) Waste of time and money.
The doctors told you not to worry and didn’t ask
you to spend money on treatment... .R.C.: (1)
iSoi; proven. Probably a blood deficiency. (2 )
Injections far and way the best, preferably of
colloidal manganese. Treatment should be done only
by a medical man. (3) Lead healthy outdoor life
and keep bowels open. .. .M.F.: (1) It can pay i =
debts. (2) Poor, so far as the next few years are
concerned. (3) Considering age and handicaps, yes.
.C.W.A.: In those circs., yes.. • .C.A.K.: ao
likeness between the two. N.S.W. “Year Book’ 1925-
26, p. 29, might help D.C.: St. Paul and Amster-
dam are two small, uninhabited islands nearly mu-
way in the Indian Ocean between the Cape of Good
Hope and Tasmania. Both are extinct volcanoes and
belong to France.... 5.0.: You clean terra-cotta
' roof tiles with steel brush and water; don t use
soap, or tiles will go grey when dry and acids
will only fret them away... .D.G.P.: (1) es - < >
Matron of honor’s duties are same as those ofc-hie
bridesmaid. ...W.S.: Complete list, with editorial
requirements and rates of payment, is in Aus ana
N.Z. Writers’ and Artiste’ Year Book (-s. 6d.)
N. 8.: It means keeping the books on a cattle or
sheep station, not a railway station. Tell us exac. y
what you require....R.B.: (D Five greatest wheat-
growing countries are U.S.A., Russia, Canada, India
and France in that order; Australia ranks eighth.
..A.C.: Timber-cutting question too vague, hub
mit definite particulars... .R-M.: Depends on ie
wording of the will. It is usual in such cases to
provide that if the intended beneficiary die befoie
the event contemplated by the will, his child shall
take the parent’s portion, or his children divide
share and share alike. If no such provision is made
he legacy lapses in the event of the predecease o
£ legatee.... Truro: You could issue a wnt of
execution. See the Registrar ° f b "i/
Meataxe: Not listed, and probably difficult to sell.
Much depends in such cases on the ai tides
(Many others mailed.)


Making friends
DUNLOP TYRES
do it with mileage!
Satisfactory tyre service, embracing depend-
able and trouble - free long mileage,
unquestionably wins the confidence and
goodwill of motorists* The outstanding
popularity of Dunlop Tyres throughout
Australia has been won by building into
these high quality reliable tyres all the
essentials to ensure to the user mileage that
pleases*
The world produces no finer tyres than
Dunlop—and who travels on them travels
Well I
* *
8000 GARAGES STOCK DUNLOP
5>
m
%
y
\
•»»
JfiX
-a
to
v
V
a
t
E
f)
/
M
f
M
/
7A
n
DUNLOP PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIA
ALL STATES
MANUFACTURERS OF
Garden Hose
Sand Shoes
Tennis Balls
Rubber Heels
Rubber Bowls
Rubber Matting
AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF
RUBBER GOODS


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Offices 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
WHEN ORDERING YOUR NEXT SUIT
ASK YOUR TAILOR TO SHOW YOU SAMPLES OF
VICARS’ MARRICKVILLE
High-Class Worsteds and Tweeds
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED.
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Also Makers of the Famous “Marrickville” Travelling Rugs.
ALL PRODUCTS GUARANTEED PURE WOOL.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
"Dining Service a Iff Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
Farm Accounts.
2.—First Essentials.
The main essentials in book-keeping are accurate records and logical reasoning.
First of all, it will be necessary to keep your own personal affairs and expenses
separate from the accounts of the farm. Obviously, household expenses and other
personal outgo might include all manner of things which have no relation whatsoever
to the production of income from the farm, and, therefore, cannot be charged against
it. Also, interest on investments, divs. on shares, etc., should not be included as part
of the farm’s income. All money put into or taken from the farm must be recorded.
The books kept will be the books of the farm, and not necessarily your own personal
books. It would not, however, be difficult once a balance-sheet of the farm has been
prepared, to incorporate all your other assets and liabilities to form one general balance-
sheet.
CAPITAL.—What your interest in the farm is worth will be shown from time to
time in its books by the balance on your capital account. Capital account will start
off, in the case of a new farm, by showing the amount of cash, value of plant, etc.,
that you first put into it. If you have been running a farm for some time wuthout
keeping books the opening of capital account will be more difficult; but that point
will be dealt with in detail later on. During the financial year the account will be
credited with any additional money (capital) you put into the venture, and debited
with any withdrawals.
ACCOUNTS. —An account is a record in the Ledger of all transactions relating to a
particular person or thing, such as the Producers’ Agency Co.’s Account, Livestock
Account, Land and Buildings Account, Farm Plant Account, etc. It has two sides, the
debit and credit, the former on the left-hand side, the latter on the right. Accounts under
the double-entry system, are of two kinds, personal and impersonal, and are further
subdivided into real and nominal. A personal account is one relating to a debtor or
a creditor, a debtor being a person who owes us something, and a creditor being one
to whom we owe something. Impersonal accounts include all accounts other than debtor
and creditor accounts. Real accounts are those which relate to assets and liabilities,
and from which a balance-sheet is drawn up; nominal accounts relate to profits and
losses, and their balances are assembled at the end of the year in a profit and loss
account.
3.—The Three Principal Books.
DIARY. —It will be necessary to keep a Diary, in which a note should be made of
everything important which occurs on the farm from day to day. One of its most import-
ant uses will be to keep a record of the nature and quantities of produce consigned to the
city brokers or agents from time to time. Of course, the Diary will not form part
of the book-keeping system ; it is simply used for the purpose of record, and as a check.
It might be mentioned that it will be a great assistance if payments for goods,
wages, etc., are made as far as possible by cheque. Cheques received for produce, etc.,
should he promptly banked and not endorsed on to the grocer or feed merchant in
payment of their accounts.
JOURNAL. —The average farmer will not need any subsidiary books other than a
Journal. If his cash transactions are very numerous he may need a Cash Book, and if his
credit irarchases are frequent he may need a Purchase Journal, but for the present, at
any rate, we will put all entries through the Journal. It is ruled as follows: —
Columns 1 and 2 are for the date, 3 for details, 4 for the number of the Ledger folio
(page) to which the item is eventually posted, 5 for the amount of the debit entry
in £ s. d., and 6 for the amount of the credit entry. “Posting” means the transference
of an item from the Journal to its proper Ledger account; when an item has been
posted once, it must not be posted again from the same source.
LEDGER. —The Ledger is compiled from the entries in the Journal. It contains a
series of accounts, which, in a condensed way, are a complete record of the transactions
and affairs of the farm. Thus, after all the entries from the Journal have been posted, we
are able to prepare profit and loss account and balance-sheet from the ledger balances
alone.
The following example shows the ruling of a Ledger account: —
Columns 1 and 2 give the month and day of the debit entries; columns 6 and 7 the
month and day of the credit entries; column 3 gives details of the debit entries; and
column 8 details of the credit entries. Columns 4 and 9 give the number of the page
of the Journal from which the entries were posted. Column 5 gives the amount in
£s. d. of the debit entries; column 10 the amount of the credit entries.
DOUBLE ENTRY. —In book-keeping there are two aspects to every transaction.
Before there can be a receiver there must be a giver, and before there can be a giver
there must be a receiver. Thus two entries are necessary to record every transaction
completely. We must credit the account of the giver and debit the account of the
receiver. Also, there is a further object in the double-entry system. In every business
transaction we make either a profit or a loss (unless we exactly clear ourselves). If
we make a profit we add to our assets; if a loss our assets are reduced. If we make
a profit, in addition to showing how that profit was made, we must be able to show
laat our assets have actually increased hy the amount of the profit, and what kind
of assets it is represented by. Thus, in every buying or selling transaction made for
the purpose of gain, w r e must make two entries, one in a nominal account, the other
in a real account. If we sell a horse for £5O we take credit for that sale whether
we receive the proceeds immediately or not; it is credited to a nominal account called
a Sales Account. If we receive the cash straight away the debit entry is made in
a real account called Cash Account; if payment is deferred the entry is made in a
different real account —an account opened in the name of the man who bought the
horse, who appears as our debtor for £5O. We do not make an entry immediately
for the amount by which our stock has been reduced through selling the horse; that
aspect is adjusted at the end of the year when we revalue our stock. .
We see from the foregoing that for every trading transaction involving a pront
or a loss two entries must be made, one affecting nominal accounts (of which tne
p and 1. account is compiled) and one affecting real accounts (asset or liability accounts,
of which the balance-sheet is made up). There are other entries which do not directly
affect profits. For instance, Smith owes us £5O; he pays us m due course, so we
debit Cash (which receives) and credit Smith (who gives). Instead of having amongst
our assets a debtor for £5O we now have that amount in cash. Cur entry has simply
recorded a change into a different asset. There is another kind of entry not directly
connected with business transactions; this is called an adjusting or book entry.
It is usually just a transfer from one account to another.
Since, under our double-entry system, every debit entry has a corresponding credit
for a like amount and vice versa, it follows that a total of all the debit balances in
the ledger should exactly equal all the credits. Thus we get an arithmetical check
on the accuracy of our work. But it does not necessarily follow that because the
total balances (called a “trial balance”) agree our figures show the position correctly;
we may have made an error of principle and entered something in the w r rong account
though on the correct side of the ledger.
WORKING MALLEE FALLOW.
“Glenfield”: Keen judgment must be used
in working Vic. Maiiee fallows in the dry
years. This applies particularly to a summer
working.
Where the subsoil has had a good soak-
ing, and the moisture content of the fallow
is good, a summer working with the spring-
too"ch cultivator after a fall of 50 points or
over is sound policy. Nitrification is most
active at 98 degrees F. At this temperature
it is 10 times as active as at 57 degrees F.
Our Mallee soil temperatures during the
summer months range from 80 degrees to
90 degrees F., so that the advantage of a
summer working under good conditions is
easily understood. But under the dry con-
ditions of the past three years careful thought
is necessary before touching the fallow. I
have seen one wrong working destroy any
chance of a crop.
Last autumn, while waiting for rain to
sow, one cocky started working the fallow
dry, doing the job lightly so that if a sprink-
ling came he would get an even germina-
tion. Ilalf-way through the contract the
rain arrived. The fallow dry-worked failed
altogether in the droughty spring; the
balance not worked yielded four bushels to
the acre.
On Dec. 29 we got a fall of 290 points.
The parched ground absorbed it instantly,
and in two days’ time dust-storms were
blowing. But some cookies were out and
over their fallow with the cultivator, and
now most of the paddocks thus treated
show nothing but the hard, exposed seed-bed.
This possibly is the one occasion in seven
or eight years when one should not touch
the fallow" after a 200-point fall.
Under present conditions I consider it
best not to touch the fallow till cropping time.
A stroke of the heavy harrows will be of
inestimable value after sowing wet with the
combine, even though drill harrows are used.
F.A.Q. OR GRADING.
“Ceres”: Fair average quality for this
season’s N.S.W. wheat has been fixed by
the Sydney Chamber of Commerce at 61flb.
to the bushel, with moisture content
per cent. In all 197 101 b. samples, declared
to be representative of the wheat grown
throughout the State, in the ratio of 20
per cent, northern, 20 per cent, western and
60 per cent, southern, were collected. The
procedure is to mix all the samples received,
and then take 10 from the whole; the aver-
age weight of these 10 samples fixes the
f.a.q. for the season.
Is there anything to prevent some of the
best wheat grown, say, in the North finding
its way into Queensland and not being repre-
sented at all in this f.a.q. ceremony? No.
Neither is there anything to prevent an exces-
sive proportion of smutty wheat coming
from some other point of the compass.
From a good farmer’s point of view this
method cannot be satisfactory.
I agree with “C.C.” (B. 8/l/’3O) that a
grading system would be better. The Cana-
dian method of grading may not, of course,
suit our own conditions in its entirety, but
in a modified form it would give farmers a
fairer deal. If a man grows good wheat, let
him get the benefit, and vice versa.
“Yeoman” (B. 5/2/’3O) says “bag handling
is more economical than bulk handling.”
Why, the saving in bags alone to a grower
delivering, say, 3000 bushels to the elevators
works out at about £47, or 3.8 d. per bushel,
apart from time saved in off-loading at ele-
vators as against delivery to stacks. He
would need only 200 bags as against the
1000 required by the deliverer to stacks, and
can use skewers instead of sewing. The fees
for the use of elevators correspond with those
charged by country agents for handling
bagged wheat, and are paid by the purchaser.
If the farmers for whom the N.S.W. silos
were erected took full advantage of them
the system would soon become self-supporting.
EMPTY HEADS IN WHEAT.
“Halcyon”: There are many different
causes of empty or “white” heads in wheat
crops at harvest-time. In normal years the
most serious are various kinds of root- and
stem-attacking fungi, such as take-all, root-
rot and foot-rot.
Take-all usually attacks the crops in well-
defined patches, and on this account can
usually be easily distinguished from the
others, which typically attack more or less
isolated plants. AH these organisms cause a
certain amount of blackening at the base ot
the plant, and rotting of the root system
round about ground level. With take-all
there is a well-defined black fungal web at
the base of the stem and inside the bottom
of the leaves. In root-rot the discoloration
is not so marked and is more apt to occur in
spots and streaks than as a continuous band.
Foot-rot causes a rather scanty brown stain
at the base of the plants.
Plants attacked in the early stages by _ any
of the fungi are frequently killed outright.
If not attacked until fairly well-grown, grain
may form, but becomes shrivelled and reduced
in amount. Many of the heads may fail to
form any grain whatever, and the stems,
leaves and ears will then usually have a
bleached appearance.
The organism concerned in any specific
instance can only be identified by an expert
with the aid of a microscope. However,
identification is of no great importance, from
a practical point of view, as the control
measures are identical for each trouble.
Those which have given the best results here
in Westralia are :
(1) A good clean stubble-burn in badly
affected paddocks. This will destroy the
lower parts of most of the diseased plants,
and with them the majority of the seed-
bodies (spores) of the fungi. The head-
lands should also be burnt, as some of the
common grasses carry these diseases.
(2) Early and clean fallowing. A stubble-
burn, no matter how good, never destroys
all the fungus spores; the infected areas
should be ploughed as early as possible in
autumn or winter, so as to turn the remain-
ing spores into the moist soil. This does
not cause them to rot, but induces many to
germinate. If unable to find any wheat or
barley plants or native grasses, _ such as
barley or spear grass, the spores die. Those
that find a host can be killed-out with clean
cultivation in the spring by turning under
any green growth which has come away m
the winter.
(3) Rotation the next year with oats,
peas, rape, etc., will just about finish off any
remaining spores, as those crops are not
attacked and the fungi are consequently
starved out.
(4) The next year when wheat is sown,
the grain should be planted in a moist seed-
bed, so that if any spores still remain they
will germinate and die after the first rains,
before the wheat is drilled.
In very dry seasons the chief cause of
empty or tipped heads is. strong wind action
about the time of flowering. If the soil is
unduly dry during the period of formation
and flowering of the wheat ears, and hot
winds blow continuously through the crop,
the male and female structures and even
the husks may be killed. This is due to
the loss of water by evaporation being greatly
in excess of the water taken in by the roots.
Westralia was hoping for a 50,000,000-bushel
harvest in 1929-30, but an unusually dry
spring, combined with the action of hot, dry
winds around the flowering period,. reduced
the anticipated yield to something like
38,000.000 bushels. Fungus diseases accounted
for only a minute fraction of the reduction,
as they were suppressed by the hot, dry
nature of the spring and early summer.
WAR ON THE BLOWFLY.
“Tumbe Munda”: The blowfly may do
less damage in Australia than the rabbit,
but it causes infinitely more suffering and is
more insidious in its method of attack. The
conditions most appreciated are steamy days,
when wool is damp and warm and the eggs
hatch in a few hours. The finer-woolled
sheep are more liable to infestation than
their strong-woolled mates.
In the way of prevention the destruction
of animal carcases is of the first importance.
A single dead sheep will breed tens of
thousands of maggots. If a carcase is in-
fested do not bury it; the larvae can work
up through several feet of soil. Burn or
poison all such refuse. A weak arsenic
solution poured over meat will destroy many
flies. Then leave two or three inches of
tail when lamb-marking, so that the wool in
(Continued on page 31.)


AMMUNITION YOU CAN SHOOT WITH CONFIDENCE
You can’t afford
to experiment
with ammunition on
a duck hunt. You
want shells that you know are
right because ducks are a mighty
hard test of a shell’s ability to
deliver results.
You want a shell that will de-
liver a killing pattern at a long range. That
is just exactly what Peters High Velocity
Shells will do.
In rt'Mifion the Peters line includes “Target,” a
superior load—“ Victor,” a powerful smokeless shell
of all-round efficiency, at a lower price—and “Referee,”
a semi-smokeless, as cheap as a black-powder
load. If unobtainable locally, write to nearest
address below.
V
FREE BOOK.
‘What Happens After the
Shot is Fired,” containing
the first actual photography
of charges in flight from
muzzle to target. Write
at once to nearest address
below.
•m
SYDNEY DEALERS: Sil Rohu, 143 Elizabeth Street; and Anthony Hordern S Sons, Ltd.
DISTRIBUTORS:
W. H. Liddle & Co., York and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
Alcock, Pierce Pty., Ltd., Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Ltd., Perth.
Jas. Hill and Son, Ltd., Perth.
FPL 5.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Monterey Peninsula, California
Avoid that Tropical Heat
On a trip "Home” the burning
heat of the tropics is something
to be avoided if at all possible.
Travelling by the Matson-
Oceanic route via the Pacific,
from Sydney to San Francisco,
extremes of heat and cold are
never encountered.
For over three hundred days in
the vear cool trade winds pre-
vail in the tropics, making the
crossing of the Equator a pleas-
ant experience, rather than a
trying ordeal.
The Matson-Oceanic is the
shortest route to America and
England. Delightful calls at
three charming Pacific Island
ports, Suva, Pago Pago and
Honolulu. Comfortable boats,
excellent attendance.
FARES: Sydney to London, Single, First Class throughout, £129;
First Class to New York and Second Class on Atlantic Steamer,
£ll7/10/-; Second Class Steamer and First Class Rail, £97. Round
the World, First Class, £245; Second Class, £lBO/10/-.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
For Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu and San Francisco. Special Cheap Excursion
Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
Tfk Oceanic Steamship Co.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Local Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd. ( Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Agents: Dalgety & Company, Ltd. j Albany.
Dalgety & Company, Ltd., Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write for descriptive j Name
pamphlets , fare lists, Address
sailing dates, etc. I
B-30
mmmmm
on
FORSTER’S STEEL
GARAGE SHELVING.
STORE YOUR STOCK IN
FORSTER’S STEEL SHELVING
PROVIDES GREATER SPACE STRONGER THAN WOOD
Many business houses are now installing Steel Shelving for greater storage
efficiency, and Forster’s Adjustable Steel Shelving is playing a leading part
in this progressive trend.
Steel Shelving gives increased storage space, is fire-resisting, more attractive,
has double the strength and life of woodwork, and its first cost is the last cost.
Whatever your line of business, consider the many advantages of storing
your stock in steel.
Forster’s Steel Shelving can be made to your own design
and specifications. Plans supplied free after consultation.
Let us know your requirements.
FORSTER’S STEEL
CLOTHES LOCKERS
For
p The illustration above shows Forster’s All-steel Garage
® Shelving. This is but one of our stock designs. Others are
for STORES, BANKS, LIBRARIES, HOSPITALS, OFFICES, MUSIC SHOPS, ETC.
For Clubs, Schools, Theatres,
Offices, Factories and Homes.
Supplied singly or in rows; handsomely finished in olive green baked enamel.
Ensure cleanliness. Save fire risk, and provide security against theft. Every
locker fitted with a thief-proof lock. Supplied with base, or legs as desired.
The sloping top design, as illustrated, ensures tidiness and prevents articles
being placed on top.
Forster’s Steel Clothes Lockers will set a good example in your business.
FORSTER’S STEEL PRODUCTS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA—THAT*S THE POINT
Shelving, Closets, Bins, Cupboards. For every storage need.
WRITE NOW, OR CALL, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.
FORSTER’S
STEEL CLOTHES LOCKERS.
LTD.
MARY ANN STREET,
ULTIMO, SYDNEY, pice : M 4247 (3 lines).


or
AH
OR
ft
m
- V tf.
Twenty - thousand
MORE unemployed —that s
what PROHIBITION would
mean to Victoria It would throw
20.000 workers out of employ-
ment I More --- it would mean
that, with their dependents, there
would be, at a stroke, at least
60,000 people deprived of their
living!
Are you going to condemn these' men
i" and women * * and children to starva-
tion? For. if you vote Prohibition, that s
what you will be doing.
> These people must live * just as you must
live - - how would you manage, if you*
trade were abolished to-morrow? The
l trade in which you have been employed
I all your life? Work is scarce, and there
i>; are plenty of experienced men to fill any
;l vacancy in any other trade - - - What
chance would you have of breaking in
on a new field ?
Its up to you j
Give the men a faibshow
DONT FOBGET TO
VOTE
NO
tAnthoriscJ by J. J. Liston, The Block, Collins Street, Methnrne, £#•
Traction
Weed Tyre Chains grip
and hold in mud, sand or
slippery clay—provide
safe, sure traction on
treacherous or uncertain
roads.
Drive safely. Carry
Weed Tyre Chains al-
ways. Look for the name
“Weed” on every hook.
Order from, your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y. ( U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
8-7
& Poisoned lores
The bites of mosquitoes, ants,
scorpions and other poisonous in-
sects are always liable to cause
serious swellings and abscesses.
Prompt use of Zam-Buk will
guard your skin against in-
flammation and disease.
Zam-Buk, a refined herbal
ointment is antiseptic and re-
markably soothing. It draws
poison out of the skin, prevents
discoloration and swelling, and
soon relieves smarting irritation.
Zam-Buk Ointment 1/6 and 3/6.
Medicinal Soap 1/- per tablet.
lamßuk
1
1
è
Double Value!
In These Two Double-Barrel Shotguns
Never have we known of such advantages being offered,
at the prices of these guns. Tested for safety—assembled
by expert gun-makers—simplified and strengthened
throughout.
No. 330 Hammerless
12-16-20 and .410 Gauges
Jostam Anti-Flinch Recoil Pad, Lyman Ivory Sights, Chrome Vanadium
Steel at vital parts. Barrels are Proof-Tested, with matted rib. Automatic
Safety. Capped full pistol grip. Walnut stock, finely checkered.
No. 311—Hammerless
12-16-20 and .410 Gauges
Without equal at the price. Barrels are Proof-Tested. Have matted rib.
Coil Springs. Automatic Safety. Half pistol grip Walnut finish stock.
Steel butt plate.
The greatest gun values in years —
Send for complete information-now.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD. P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS COMPANY
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
STEVENS
MACHIMEPV
/PLANT and STORES
T_
MINING
comprising:
Buildings, Machinery, Turbines,
Air Compressors, Boilers, Elec-
tric Motors, Switchgear, etc.,
Gyratory Crushers, Tube Mills,
Winches, Locomotives, Rolling
Stock, General Stores, Pul-
leys, Shafting, Piping, Valves,
Etc., Etc.
and
Stores, comprising Assay Goods,
Belting, Bolts and Nuts, Elec-
trical Material, Hose, Machinery
Spares, Pipes and Fittings, Wire
Ropes, Rock Drills and Parts,
M.S. Bars and Plates, Drill and
Special Steel, Wire and Wire
Screens, Boiler Spares, Engine
Spares and Mill Spares.
Also Pulverised Coal Equipment [practically new]
capacity 3 tons oC coal per hour
A special Sectional Catalogue is prepared, giving details
and photographs, and may be had on request. Prices
also on application to —
EVANS DEAKIN & CO. LTD
ENGINEERS AND REPRESENTATIVES
an RYAN HOUSE - CHARLOTTE STREET, - BRISBANE aa


| sfitgg
■
ig
MU
3?
Mi
i
an
Pliant and
close-fitting'
An Abbey Shoe in the smartest
style soled with the . toughest
leather available, and built with a
strain-eliminating upper that fits
with perfect ease over the instep
arch. The sides are low-cut to set
in snugly and comfortably at ankle.
ORDER BY POST.
There are full and halfi sizes, each
in three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide. Specify width when
ordering, and ask, also, for the cor-
rect Abbey Polish (6d. pen tin), or
one of the handy new cleaning
outfits (2/6 complete).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
; FPL 165.
Green
Sayers
Seal
Remedy
ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
* The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains lcc. Carbon Tetrachloride per scc. dose.
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.,
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixley Brisbane
Dalgety k Co. .......... Melbourne
Gollin k Co Adelaide
Gollin & Co. Perth
lung Lawless, Ltd. Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, • holding scc, and acting as
Measure and/ Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
Motorists
e
Have you seen the “Keystone” Ratchet Sets?
They stand alone for ■ accuracy, wear-
resistance, compactness and appearance.
Set No. 555, as illustrated, lias';, 8 sockets,
made of case-hardened, specially-treated steel,
in the following sizes: 9-16, f, 11-16,
f, f -;u}d 15-16 inch.
Also included is a screwdriver, a 7in. drop
forged steel ratchet handle and an Bin. hex.
handle, jvhich, may also be used as a long
adapter. Nickel-plated case.
These sets will be shortly selling at 10/6,
owing to increased manufacturing costs, but
for a limited period we are offering them at
8/6. Postage extra.
Packet weighs 31b.
SYDNEY 51 Bathurst Street
MELBOURNE 582 Collins Street
ADELAIDE 116 Waymouth Street
è
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A cheque is a passport to business consideration.
A cheque is a receipt in itself. The whole of the
modern fabric of trading and production is based
on cheque payments.
Get into cheque circles with a bank deposit!
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London. .
é
m
*
“KANGAROO”
WATER-COOLED SPRAY OUTFIT
ê
Four-wheeled trans-
port; oiled throughout
from the crankcase.
The magneto is the
very latest English
waterproof pattern.
The pump is very com-
pact ; the valves can
be got at by loosening
one nut. All parts
likely to be affected or
corroded by spray mix-
tures are of gunmetal.
All parts are standard-
ised, and replacements
can be forwarded with-
out delay. The Spray
vat holds 100 gallons.
When not in use for
spraying, the engine
can be disconnected
and used for numerous
small jobs (such as
pumping water, etc.),
around the house.
MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
tho track of the sheep’s excreta will be
kept parted, allowing a* clear track for it to
fall. If the wool of the breech is-thus kept
dry and free of stain, the fly will not be so
likely to strike. Avoid keeping or breeding
sheep with wrinkles each side of the breech.
And if your sheep will take a lick, incorpo-
rate sulphur in it; the fly objects to the
odor in the wool.
In the way of attack, traps, though highly
regarded in some parts, are not altogether
a success in. my experience. Near the yards
poisoned meat will do good work. Put
some liigh-smelling meal in a kerosene-tin
and pour over it a weak solution of arsenic.
Hang the tin up out of reach of dogs, etc.,
and you will make a fine kill. On a hot
day, supposing you have any stone sheds,
you will find many thousands of blowflies
clustering on the wall near the floor. If
you have a garden spray-pump take the
grease packing out of it and substitute soap
packing (ordinary laundry soap). Set your
spra,y-puriip going on the flies with half a
gallon or so of petrol. Even in open-fronted
sheds with abundance of fresh air I have
had wonderful results with this device. In
fact, by following the methods outlined, 1
have kept cases of maggot infestation in
my S. Aus. flock during a number of years
down to 0.75 per cent., and this where
sufficient breeding is done for the natural
increase to keep tho flock at normal.
When I find a sheep struck I remove the
infested wool and apply kerosene; this kills
the maggots in a few minutes. If the
sheep is badly damaged be careful with the
kero.; dilute it well with olive oil. Also
beware of arsenic compounds: the raw or
tender inflamed skin will absorb the poison,
and the result may be an agonising death.
AN INDIAN TREE AND THE BLOW-
FLY PEST.
From Captain W. R. Westland, whose
address is .Oopar Croup, Trincomalce, .Cey-
lon :
One of the parts of The Bulletin which, particu-
larly interest us here is the “On the Lund - ' pages.
I note there are frequent complaints about the
destruction caused to young lambs by flies, and it
occurs to me that some of your readers may not
be. aware of a tree we have here in Ceylon which
produces an absolutely certain inseetifuge.
The tree is known as the Margosa (Eng.),
Knhomba (Sinh), Vepu (Tamil), Neem (Hindustani).
The scientific name is Azadirachta Indica. It grows
very freely in the drier parts of the island, is about
25 to 30 feet high, with leaves something like those
of an ash, has a pretty whitish lilac flower. The
birds ares very fond'of the' seed arid swallow it whole,
thru sowing the tree all over the jungles. The part
used by natives is the oil, which is expressed by boil-
ing, and is applied to all sores on animals likely
to be subject to the attacks of flies. The wound
is washed in warm water and the oil applied by
a feather every second day, and a cure almost always
follows. The only snag is the smell of the oil, which
is appalling.
The tree is easily propagated from seed and makes
a handsome avenue-tree for bungalows. The smell
of the flower is very pleasant and the tree gives a
good shade even in the driest weather. The timber
is one of the finest we have in Ceylon, and makes
excellent furniture, being impervious to all borers.
It is the wood used in native vessels of up to 20
tons, as it defeats the teredo, which is very bad in
our waters. It should be well worth cultivation by
sheep stations, as it is easily grown, very hardy, and
the oil is made with the roughest appliances. I feel
sure that once they got over the smell, sheep-owners
would use it freely. One application at lamb mark-
ing would ensure freedom from all insect pests, while
regular treatment would certainly cure.
Should airy of your readers care to pursue the
subject farther and write to me, I shall be happy
to send him seed or any particulars desired. The
tree grows prolifically on my estate, and I shall be
glad to send any Bulletin reader the seed for the
postage.
BRACKEN FERN.
“Hortus”: Much lias been written about
the bracken pest. It is a great pity that
patches near homesteads are not cleared and
utilised. Admittedly, hand-chipping is almost
out of the question these days; after rain-
fall. however, ploughing out and using either
a spring-tooth cultivator or heavy harrows to
enable plants to be collected in heaps could
be carried out. When plants appear dry in
some seasohs, experiments with a heavy
roller may turn out successfully. It is a
shame to’ see such good material wasted.
According to analyses of samples, bracken-
fern ash has probably the highest potash
content of any plant or tree in the world
with the exception of Pinus insignis.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred frovi Service Department.)
(1) Any land available in the Tweed
Rwer district ( N.S.W.) for banana culti-
vation? .(2): Average price per acre? (3)
How long before bananas begin to bear? (4)
Is the Tweed sufficiently clear of bunchy-top
to warrant a farmer commencing operations?
—4909.
(1) Yes; no difficulty in securing good
land. (2) To buy, £3O per acre; to lease,
£3.to £5 per acre per year. (3) Fifteen to
eighteen months. (4) Definitely, yes.
(I) Any land available for sugar-beet
graving in the Macalister River (Vic.) dis-
trict? If so, price per acre? (2) Any litera-
ture on sugar-beet growing under Vic. con-
ditions? —4901.
(1) No Crown land, and suitable private
lalid, with a water right, is hard to get. It
would cost from £5O per acre upwards. (2)
A pamphlet can be got from the Department
of Agriculture, Melbourne.
(!) Any land available for selection in
Queensland? (2) Prospects for a man with
small capital? (3) Size of a block for mixed
farming? (4) Any preference given to a
former Imperial Service man? —4626.
(1) Yes, but you might be wise to wait
for the next section of Upper Burnett and
Callide Valley lands, which will be made
available in about six months. There will be
a fairly large extent of land in blocks of
from 400 acres and upwards as agricultural
selections (agricultural farms and perpetual
leases). The question of opening for selec-
tion under the same tenure areas of scrub
land in the Mackay and Innisfail districts
is also being considered by the Land Admin-
istration Board. (2) Good for a mail who
knows the job and will work. ;.(3) Frotn
160 to 1280 acres. (4) No, nor to A.I.H.
men. They are now on the same footing as
all other applicants. .
Does the Q-land Govt, assist settlers by
sinking shallow bores? If so, under what
conditions? —-4554.
Yes the Water Act,-.1926, provides for
rendering such assistance to settlers either
in groups or individual cases. Conditions
(too lengthy to reprint here) will be found
in Part VIII of the Act, an extract of
which can be obtained from the Irrigation
and Water Supply Commission, Brisbane. In
addition, special provision is made in the
Upper Burnett and Callide Land Settlement
Act, 1923, for a settler or group procuring
a water facility by any means, such as a
bore, well, dam or tank. Repayments are
over a period of 20 years at 5 p.c. interest;
where pumping equipments are provided 10
years is allowed for repayment of cost. This
is a special Act applying to an area em-
bracing upwards of half a million acres.
A way of poisoning white cockatoos or
crows, or a method of scaring them from
a maize crop? —46ol.
The Q’land Agriculture Dept, recommends
laying baits of S.A.P. poison. The body of
a kangaroo-rat poisoned in this way has been
found to be effective, but great care should
be taken in handling both poison and the
bait. S.A.P. poison is obtainable from N.Z.
Loan and Mercantile Agency, Brisbane. If
you can catch a wild crow and tie him. up
by the leg for a few days in the maize patch,
this will keep the other crows away. Some
farmers aver that they have had good results
by whitewashing and releasing a crow
amongst his mates. Incidentally, a diagram
of an effective crow-trap is shown on page
128 of the “Queensland Agricultural Jour-
nal” for August, 1922.
(1) Does the buffalo-fly attack cattle?
(2 ) From where does the fly come, and is it
spreading seriously? (3) Has any remedy
been found? —4902.
(1) Yes. The injury is due to loss of
blood and to abrasions and sores caused by
efforts to dislodge flies, .swarms of which
settle on the abrasions. (2j From Timor,
probably as early as 1826. In recent years
it has spread over considerable areas. (3)
Not yet. Repellent smears. and sprays are •
to some extent efficacious when they can be
applied. The Council for Scientific and In-
dustrial Research is investigating control by
entomological methods —the introduction,
acclimatisation and distribution of insect
parasites.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“W.S.” : Cocky chaff is blamed by N.S.W.
farmers for many cases of colic in horses this
season. In most cases, probably, the horses
have been allowed to overgorge.. Try . the
following as a dose: Linseed oil, 1 pint;
turpentine, 3oz. ; asafoetida, ; ether rec-.
tilled, foz.; tincture opium, sdrms.; ammonia
aromatic, loz.; and drench. Repeat in 12
hours if the animal is no better; but one,
dose rarely fails.
“Jay Gee”: For sore shoulders in horses,
make a pad by folding a clean chaff-bag
from bottom upwards, the folds being every
seven or eight inches; this will give a thick-.
ness of nearly half an inch. Attach pad
to lining of collar with a saddler’s needle
and ordinary seaming twine; then fit collar
to horse and mark spot where pad comes
in contact with the sore. Make a “chamber”
a little larger than the afflicted spot, using
a sharp pocket-knife. This will keep pres-
sure off the sore and also tighten collar and
prevent friction —the cause of 99 per cent. ■
of sore shoulders,
“Andy” : To kill the zamias that give cows
rickets, pour a tablespoon of kerosene into
the heart of the plant, just where the leaves
grow out of it, in hot weather. The zamia
will be dead and dried up in a month. 1
proved that in W.A. 30 years ago.
“Toggle”: I have tried many recipes for
clearing fleas from sheds and yards and have
found that the only way to get rid of the
pests is to mix plenty of common salt' in
plenty of water and slosh it round heartily
in the affected places. Fleas like dust. Mud
doesn’t suit them. The wetter and salter
the mud, the higher the rate of mortality.
“Hortus”: There is nothing better for the
orchard than potash. Heaps of rubbish and ,
prunings of trees could, with advantage,
be collected and burnt in different sections
of the orchard each year. Potash seems to
make the trees more resistant to fungoid dis-
eases.
“Ollen”: If you are troubled by meat-ants,
buy sixpenn’ortli of tartar emetic and mix
with honey.’ Place in sardine-tins near their
haunts. But don’t let the children get at it.
“Tamornie” : For that cow with mammitis,
have your .chemist mix equal parts of mer-
curias, pulsatilla and aconite. One . tea-
spoon of the mixture. is a dose, diluted in
a cup of water and given as a drench. I
have been using this for over a year nowq
and find that if a case is detected in its
earliest stages two doses effect a cure with-
out any rubbing of the udder.
“C.H.P.”: It is easy to prepare hides for
whips or ropes. The best rope hide is from
beasts four or five years old. in- good con-
dition. Immediately after skinning, put the
hide in water —running, if possible—for at
least 24 hours; then peg out on dry .ground.
Remove all flesh and fat and cover the hide
about an inch deep with softwood ashes.
Let the ashes stay on the hide for at least
a month, trampling occasionally so as to
work them well into it. Then remove all
ashes and trim the hide.
“Bad Australian”: The method usually
adopted in splitting posts from small logs
is to quarter the log and run the heart
piece off each billet. This gives four posts
and four corresponding pieces of waste.
Five posts may be obtained without waste
in this way: “Slab” a post off one side and
run another off on the opposite side; then
turn the log on to one of its flat sides and
run off the “sap” posts on each’side. The
remaining billet, which makes a good post,
contains the four triangular pieces, which
under the first method would go on the
scrapheap.


e
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.85. Man. Director: H. Fell.
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire t
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
IT SELLS AT SIGHT.
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same .
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars.
./V
o'-' .0
o\rf- .
« vvO^«9°
SMOKE-OH!
However tall a man may be he is liable
to go short in times like these.
* *
“Trespasses will be prosecuted.” —Notification out-
side Ipswich Labor Bureau.
Let’s hope the signwriter will be forgiven
his.
V- *
“Several leading N.S.W. tennis players were
exhausted after their games, and one collapsed.”
Evidently they couldn’t stand the racket.
* *
REVENGE.
“An action has been brought in London by a
wife against her husband because he erected a
tombstone to her memory while she was still living.”
It suggests a few others:—
In loving memory of darling little Wil-
liam (Bill) Morris Hughes. Erected by
NO CAUSE FOR ALARM.
"The Squibbses have got a new baby.”
“What, a baby! The poor dears! What is it—a boy or a girl?”
“Hegh! Had you that time! A baby car, of course!”
Archie Parkhill and Bill’s other playmates in
the Nat. Club.
Epitaph.
He is not dead. His spirit bright
Still fills North Sydney’s mountain air.
William is far from dead. Too right,
We only wish the blighter were.
Here lies ,T. T. Lang, that being what he
does best. Erected by his admiring cobber
Tom Bavin.
Sacred to the memory of T. R. Bavin.
This monument was raised by Jack Lang to
the memory of one w T ho was born dead.
• In Memokiam.
N.S.W. Legislative Council.
They wanted to bring you up to date,
To sweep away some of your dust,
But we who have known you for years and
years
Faced them and cried through our blinding
tears
That to have you reformed ice’d hate;
That we’d much rather see you bust.
—lnserted by J. H. Carruthers and (politi-
cal) family.
H. M.
THE FAITHFUL BRUTE.
“The dog is the most faithful of animals; once
having formed an attachment, not even the greatest
cruelty can drive it away.”— “Age."
Yes, kind ladies and gentlemen, I have had
what I fondly expected to be my breakfast
taken from me. I have fled from the house,
followed by abuse and missiles. Mindful of
this cruel treatment I have delayed my home-
coming until a late hour, and have then
had a pail of water emptied over me. Half-
starved, kicked, cursed at, I stand it all and
come back for more at about 6 p.m. every
evening. My only comfort is that I know
I have the sympathy of hundreds of other
husbands.
P. P.
# ¥
From Brisbane “Courier” :
“Greasy merinos and scoured closed 7 5 per cent,
higher.
•iC'CT sSud uo panupuoo),,
A subtle method this of indicating that the
wool market is upside down.
THE SAVAGERY OF SHARKEY.
“George Cook, the Australian heavyweight, who
has been serving as sparring partner to Sharkey,
has left the Miami training camp, declaring that
Sharkey treated him too roughly.”-— Cable 1 .
From our U.S.A. representative:—
George is morh than vexed over the abom-
inable treatment handed him by Sharkey.
Sharkey slapped him cruelly in the face-more
than once, and when he douned his horn-
rimmed spectacles
Sharkey told him
briskly that if he
didn’t take them
off he (Sharkey)
would do it for
him. The dressy
Australian was in-
tensely humiliated.
To add injury to
insult the Ameri-
c a n , having
secured the re-
in ov a 1 of'the
■ glasses, hit the
owner in the eye.
Cook now has a
black eye and a
sore nose—all the
result of sparring
with Sharkey.
Australian fa n s
who saw George in
action at the old
Gaiety 60 years
ago wouldn’t know
the most gentle-
manly boxer Aus-
tralia has pro-
duced to-day, so
disfigured is his
once handsome
countenance.
A rag here has
published a most
unfair story in con-
nection with the
scandal, stating
that Cook was a
cauliflowered old-
timer b efore
H een ey . who
chopped pieces out
of Sharkey, was
thought of. This
passage appeared
under the headline,
“Cook Cry-baby.”
George how le d
when he read it, and as I sat beside
him in the Hookum Athletic Club’s stadium
I observed that even the seats were in
tiers. “Never mind, George,” said I. “You
have the satisfaction of knowing that Shar-
key will miss you badly.” “Why didn’t he
miss me eye?” inquired the poor fellow, point-
ing with a manicured forefinger at the in-
jured optic. Before I conclude with that’s
that, I must deliver Cook’s message to all
his friends in Australia. “Tell them,” he
said, “that Sharkey didn’t dress for dinner
once while I was in camp with him. I think
that should be enough to induce all good
Aussies to barrack for the man in the oppo-
site corner when Sharkey fights for the big
title.”
¥ *
RELIGIOUS HANDICAP.
Dave and Dad down from Woop-Woop
for the first time were waiting for a chance
to cross the street. Every now and then the
traffic policeman would hold up his hand
and call out, “Pedestrians cross over.” After
half an hour’s waiting, the tourists got sick
THEN YOU’LL SEE!
“Good Lord, John, who on earth told you you could hang
wallpaper?”
“Ah, but wait till I get the second coat on!”
of it. Dad walked over and tapped the
policeman on the shoulder. “Play fair, lad.”
he said rebukingly. “When the blazes can
Roman Catholics cross over?”
The feeling grows that the coal dispute
will be settled only when all parties approach
the problem without bias, and with open
mines.
¥ ¥
“Asked to-day for his opinion of the Test team’s
chances, .Mr. Theodore was reticent.”
It’s a wonder he didn’t promise the team
would win back the ashes in a fortnight.
PRE-WAR. POST-WAR.
Driver. Chauffeur.
Servant. Lady Help.
Lodger. Paying Guest.
Usher. Attache.
Spruiker. Commissionaire.
* *
THE EXCUSE.
Jones propped himself against the hall-'
stand, and wagged a forefinger at his wife.
“Yesli, yesh, my dear. Now you needn’t shay
a word. Not a—hie—word. I know whatsli
—hie —you wantsh to know. Allash same
thing, as soon ash a man gets—-hie—’ome;
‘John, where you beensh? Whatsli you bin
doingsh?’ Well, you keep quiet an’ I’ll
tell yer. I been doin’ bit-—hie—laundry
work. Wasliin’ eldsh. Now, now! You
mustn’t shay that. Ish per-perfectly true.
Arslik ole George. ‘Jonesy, old beau,’ lie
shaysh ter me, ‘you’re three sheetsh in the
wind.’ An’ sho I am, me dearsh. Three
sheetsh in the wind, an’ I’ve been wasliin’
myshelf.”
* #
STONE BLIND.
Her cheeks I compared with a garnet,
Iler teeth with pearls white and chaste.
Then I saw her in daylight, and darn it!
I found she was only paste.
y ? v
“A Persian carpet 400 years old, a treasure of the
Hapsburg family, has been bought by a Mr. Pope,
of the U.S.A., for £40,000.”
Yes, a pretty fair carpet, no doubt; but
we’ve got one in the kids’ room at home that
will take more beating.
“Douglas Fairbanks is said to be considering a
big navy picture.”
It will be his tar production.
“John Ham, charged with drunkenness and riotou*
behavior. ’ ’ — “Sun.”
Evidently a potted H'am.
PLACES ALTER CASES.
Jim Blethers (in the saloon bar) :
“Was I on the scoot last week? Was I not!
Started in the early morning and mixed
’em all day! Lord knows what happened
to me after five o’clock, except that there
was a yellow-haired girl in it somewhere.
I got home at 4 g.m. or thereabouts with my
pockets filled with
cigar-butts and tal-
cum-powder. How,
I don’t know. Was
I shot? Well all I
can say is I shoved
my boots into the
ice-chest and put
the bolster to bed
with the wife. Ha,
ha, ha!”
Mr. Alderman
James Blethers
(in the council
chamber) : “Mr.
Mayor, I rise to
repudiate with in-
dignation the scur-
rilous suggestion of
Mr. Alderman
Windbag that I
am addicted to
drink. I throw the
injurious and lying
statement back in-
to the alderman’s
teeth. If Alder-
man Windbag
could boast as I
can of being a
total abstainer
over a lifetime
spent in good
works, he would
never have so far
forgotten himself.
I defy any member
of this council to
recall an occasion
on which 1 have
touched any bever-
age stronger than milk.” (Hear, hear!)
The Mayor : “I am sure the apology will
be accepted, but Alderman Windbag should
remember that such a suggestion, even
though made in joke, is a very hurtful one.
I am sure that no alderman of this council
would be guilty of the grave lapse of drink-
ing to excess.” (Loud cheers.)
¥ #
DEGENERATION.
“The namby-pamby work of mcidern artists....
Where are the skies that Turner gave us?’’— Sydney
art lecture.
The motif now is poor and faint;
The workmanship is rough.
Alt, hid the artists when they paint
To make us Turner stuff!
Pug’s policy::—Crash on Delivery.
NOT FUSSY.
LADY OF THE HOUSE (firmly): “I never give
interviews to travellers.”
TRAVELLER: “Bless you, Mum; I on’y want
somethin’ simple. A piece of or’nary
meat’ll do.”
“Catfish in no wise resemble caps.”— “News.”
Neither do porpusses.
¥ *
“ ‘That is something I will shoot from the house-
tops,’ the speaker declared.” —Sydney “News.”
And thereby laid himself open to the
charge that he was shot himself.
OOO-ER.
‘When I told Australia that immigrants entering
Canada go God knows where, it created a sensa-
tion. Unless a bishop uses strong language no
notice is taken of him.” —Bishop of London.
Can you wonder that Australia,
Age, and England inter alia,
Were astounded and dumbfounded,
And with holy horror bounded,
When they came across a bishop with the
hardihood to swear?
It was not Pshaw’s favorite “bloody,”
Nor the milder version “ruddy,”
That the mitred prelate chose to loose upon
the staggered air;
Not with “Dash it!” nor with “Lumme!”
Did the bish the devil dummy,
As a footballer might phrase it — no, without
a single care
Of the risk his soul was running,
He used language that was stunning
Undeniably unlawful —
Catastrophically awful, *
When he shocked a mighty Empire with his
ghastly “God knoivs where!”
SAINT AUBYN.
NOTIFICATION TO EDITORS,
I don’t mind buying paper,
I don’t, mind buying string,
I don’t mind buying envelopes,
Or any blooming thing.
I don’t mind buying fountain-pens
With which to write my screeds,
If I think the stuff I’m doing
Is the stuff your paper needs.
But I’m bound to otvn that I blaspheme
And am guilty of other sins
When the cove who turns my efforts down
Goes and collars all my pins.
y. V.


è


IS Million Motor Cars
scattered throughout the world are now equipped with one of
the ALEMITE Systems of Lubrication* All these cars are protected
against repair bills* 80% of all repairs on the moving parts of a
motor car come from one cause, namely lack of proper lubrication.
The ALEMITE Systems of Lu-
brication thoroughly lubricate
every vital chassis bearing. Old,
gritty, wornout grease is forced
out. Clear, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant — a solidified oil—is forced
into the bearing under tremend-
ous pressure. Every bearing is
thoroughly cleaned and at the
same time lubricated.
as
Throughout Australia there are Alemite
Service Stations. “ALEMITE-ING” every
500 miles will make your car run silently
and smoothly and it will be perfectly lubri-
cated at all times.
If there is no Alemite Service Station near
you we suggest you write to any of the addresses
given below and full information will be sent you
about “ALEMITE-ING”
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
ClllCagO DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER fj, S. A*
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W. „
I
i.
\
Or from the following representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. . 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . . . Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd. . . 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A.Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd,. 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie St., Box G.P.0., 496 E. Adelaide
é
STRENGTH
q\VGS out
You Have Neglected Your
Health Trouble Too Long
PROBABLY the majority of men (and women, too)
who complain of constant dreadful dizziness, pains
in back, joints and muscles, irritableness, loss of vigor,
fail to realise that the seat of their trouble lies in the
kidneys. The kidneys are certainly the most vital of all
bodily organs. On them depends the purity of the blood
and consequently the strength or weakness of nerves and
muscles. When the kidneys fail, poisons accumulate in
the blood, which cause pain in the muscles and joints.
Nerves become frayed and irritated. No wonder you are
often weak and dizzy.
What is the good of “doping” the system with so-called
“tonics” ? Why weaken the body with purging salts when
the only possible means of re-establishing health and
vigor is to restore the kidneys to healthy action?
Thousands of one-time sufferers
say this remedy is marvellous!
Do you know thousands of people have found that by
taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills they have enjoyed a new lease of life?
Lien and women once crippled with pain, bed-ridden,
have once again enjoyed splendid vigor and vitality.
Thousands recommend this remedy, which sells by
millions of bottles the world over. Why not ask your
chemist about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills? Ask
him his candid opinion. He will tell you all about the
splendid prescription printed on the box, and why it can,
will and must do you good.
HERE IS TESTIMONY
TO CONVINCE YOU
There are a host of people around you,
a number in your own district, who have
proved how quickly De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills have brought relief from pain
and suffering. It is for you to follow their
example. Read just this one letter of thanks
for health restored by “De Witt’s.”
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright Street, Adel-
aide, writes:—“About five years ago I was
laid up for sixteen weeks with neuritis and rheumatism, partially
paralysed. 1 was recommended De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, which, lam happy to say, pulled me through. I am 74
years of age and still able to hold my own with younger men.
I have enjoyed the best health ever since.”
If you are troubled with
Pains in the Back
Bad Taste in the Mouth
Bad Nights
Rings or Bags under the Eyes
Depression and Tired Feeling
Loss of Vigor
Aching Limbs
Sallow Complexion
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Pains in Joints
Weak Back
Sciatica
Bladder Trouble
go to your chemist now and secure a 3/6 suppply of this invalu
able health-bringer. There is a more economical size, 6/6, usually
sufficient for the most difficult case. This scientific preparation
will do you good from the very first dose. In 24 hours you wiL
see their action and realise they are acting directly at the seat
of your trouble—the kidneys. Get your supply of
“De Witt’s” to-day, and get health as thousands of
others have done.
De WITTS
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
PILLS


F
IT ISN'T
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN'T
iIiNA^IC
1
A
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker.”
Moderately Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY
“THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR
“It saves its cost in food not lost.”
backed and delivered rail or boat, Sydney.
Everything complete; Price, £37.
•Safe, sure and automatic refrigeration
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs ljd. per day to run.
You will marvel at the clever idea ot
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurable
it is worth its weight in gold.
To operate:—
Once a day —take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about your
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that the
temperature is right for the Freezer
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long.
18in. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Shelve-
and Primus Stove.
Write for pamphlet concerning “ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR,’
“Keeps food nice without the Ice.”
Manufacturers’ Representatives:
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129.
which
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
.. iJRN REPLYING,
QUOTE THIS PAPER.
Building a Home?
Home Builders will welcome the advent of the
New Austral Weightless Window
Strong, Compact, Easily Applied, Guaranteed for
10 years. Cuts out weights and cords. Stays put in
any position; unlike casements: Sashes slide up
and down, allowing free use of fly screens on the
outside. Device is rust-proof, and protected from
the weather. Sample for top and bottom sash sent
postage paid for 5/-
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.
10 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Pen snd Picture
The
STATE
THEATESSY
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
Though it is a tip-top entertainer,
Mister Antonio” (Cinema Art) goes to
prove that the legit, still has virtues the
can cannot rattle. Its star, if not the whole
of it, is Leo Carrillo. He intended staging
it at Sydney Criterion, but his one presenta-
tion, “Lombardi Ltd.,” was so rushed that
the final curtain had to be pulled down while
good business was still being done. The
picture has even more of Carrillo than the
stage show had ; it is a better story, and it
ranges over territory the stage cannot encom-
pass. Yet it runs a mere week at Sydney
State and not to packed houses. It all
seems to indicate that what the stage of
to-day chiefly lacks is striking personality.
“Lombardi Ltd.” without Carrillo w T ould
almost certainly fall flat. On the other hand,
“Mister Antonio” could be carried through
quite as successfully by any one of several
score movie players. Comparison must end
in a whole-hearted vote for the legitimate
version of Carrillo. He is a vital actor, and
the really vital is what the talkie cannot yet
manage. Yet the picture is very good. It
gives a remarkably close representation of
Carrillo. It gets as near to the original
as do those flowers that are “almost real.”
Fine photography, pretty sentiment and
small but sound support makes it a very
pleasurable half-programme.
The couple of reels or so of prologue to
“Glorifying the American Girl” (Paramount)
could be cut by half, and made twice as
effective in the process. It consists of parties
MARY EATON, one of
“The American Girls.”
of American
? girls tramping
to fame ( i.e
Bro ad way),
of Broadway
itself and its
showgirls, who
are offered as
background to
a magnificent
dress contain-
ing a female
but lately ad-
dicted to scrub-
bing dishes.
When this
subsides,
Gloria, Buddy
(writing the
eternal song-
bit) and Bar-
bara are dis-
covered work-
in a music-
s h op. The
pro mein is :
“Shall Gloria
take a stage
career or a
husband?” She chooses the stage. Barbara for
her part takes Buddy; and several plot
threads still fly freely when the thing ends
with Gloria’s stage triumph. Really the
picture—prelude, plot and all —is an excuse
for presenting some “stupendous” Ziegfeld
scenes from the revue after which the
picture is named. There is a ballet
in technicolor, all pinks and greens
that have run into each other, but
the following tableau, depicting mediaeval
fishermen with a net of blonde mermaids, is
a magnificent piece of stage craft. The
colors are fast, grouping artistic, and even
the voices in harmony. Another good set is
spoilt by a jazz-band with a singing con-
ductor. There is no stint. Helen Morgan,
star of the original “Show Boat” stage-pro-
duction, comes in to sing. Eddie Cantor
does a comedy sketch and there is yet another
ballet. A glorious mixup, but it has its
points.
Most survivals from the old silent flicks
have suffered in the talkies. Some —chiefly
women —have proved quite hopeless. Powell,
one of the best villains the silent ever knew,
was lost to such roles as soon as his fine
voice had to be heard. He is now as often
as not a romantic hero, and when he has to
be a villain he is never a double-dyed one.
Brook is if anything a bit better for his
voice, and now that whimsical young lady
Colleen Moore proves that she, also, has lost
nothing by the change. With a name like
hers she was the inevitable choice for a
talkie with a name like “Smiling Irish Eyes.”
Not only her name; she herself suits the
part of the pert colleen perfectly, and her
voice is thoroughly in order. It has not
the crude brogue of the ancient melodrama;
its chief virtue is a soft plaintiveness. Most
feminine movie talkers have sharp metallic
deliveries, guaranteed to cut holes in a gun-
shield. The picture is a charming bit of
work nearly all the way. Its inspiration is
in the Irish ditty of “Faith, a Little Pig
Had Done It,” and its scenery is mostly
Killarney. The story is a fairly straight-
forward love tale, with slight but effective
complications, and love scenes likely to make
any lorn flapper heave loud and prolonged
sighs.
John Barrymore turned up as usual at
the office for his monthly pay-envelope. The
chief producer imbedded his cigar more firmly
in his mouth, set it at a steeper angle and
glared at the famous international star bale-
fully. “Well, Mr. Barrymore,” he drawled
at length. “Pleased to see you. Why, we
all thought you had been Chicago’d.”*
J. 8.: “How so?”
Producer : “Why, you haven’t ambled
along to do a flicker for us for a fortnight.”
J. 8.: “Not my fault, bo. You guys have
only got to shoot. I’m always ready.”
Producer : “That’s better, Mr. Barrymore ;
we were beginning to think you were getting
fussy. Now let’s sag down to business. How
about plot 88537 X?”
J.B.: “Spill it. I’ve forgotten that one.”
Producer : “It’s about the merry Mag-
dalen as had a zen for rocks and dress and
giggle water. You come in half-way through
and wham her sugar daddy just 'as he is
about to deprive the lady of her virtue.
J.B.: “Nope ! I’m tired of 'scanties. The
mob looks at them instead of at me. Besides,
I did that one four weeks ago.”
Producer : “Well, how about D8999K ?
Now that’s a swell fakealoo, I’ll tell the
universe.”
J.B.: “Go on. I’m the tin-ear.”
Producer : “It’s the one about the snappy
piece of goods as gets purloined by the
Indians. You pursue the miscreants spittin’
fire from both hands, but they elude you.
At the end you ankle in just as the dame
is having the matrimonial handcuff slipped
on her by the chief’s son. You give him the
kiss-off, grab the twist and carry her off on
horseback.”
J.B.: “No, thanks! I’m washed up with
horse opera. Last time I did that one I
couldn’t sit down for a fortnight.”
Producer: “Well, well, Mr. Barrymore,
you’re hard to please to-day. How about
plot 7B49L? That’s the one where you
marry the twist you don’t love because you
have been frigidaired by the dame you do
love. And she marries a guy she doesn’t love
and the guy suspects you of Garbo-Gilberting,
and you are so unhappy you decide to die
together.**
J.B.: “When did I last do that one?”
Producer: “Three months ago to-morrow.
It was placed in South America.”
J.B. : “Where’ll it be this time?”
Producer: “How would Switzerland suit
you? You could take each other by the hand,
toddle out into the snow and let an avalanche
fall on you.”
J.B.: “It’s a wow! Everything’s cope-
setty! When you start shooting?”
Producer : “ ’Safternoon, 2.30, if the ice-
man’s ready.”
And that, as The Bulletin imagines it,
is how “Eternal Love” (United _ Artists)
came to be immortalised in celluloid.
The Inky Way
‘P.X.”: Sydney daily papers have for
some months past been urged by one in-
fluential group to charge three-ha’pence for
themselves; but the Fairfaxes are very hard
to persuade. They see the “S. M. Herald”
standing more aloofly in the lead than ever
it did in the past 50 years, and they have
no great need of the extra ha’pence; so
they ask themselves why they shouldn’t leave
well enough alone. The hopes of the other
people haven’t ueen abandoned yet; hut they
begin to realise that the job will take all
the string-pulling of which all hands and
the cook are capable.
“Sturt”: Adelaide “Register,” whose first
number was printed in London before South
Aus. existed except on paper, has remained
for close on a century a hard-shell conser-
vative daily, which The Bulletin has often
chaffed good-humoredly on its demure not
to say old-maidish ways. Now a Melbourne
syndicate has come in and stood it on its
head, making it a News-Pictorial, all shop-
ping hints and most-popular girl competi-
tions and pictures with legends such as “This
little girl loves her doggie.” The young
women of S.A., who hardly knew the “Regis-
ter” existed previously, have sent up the
circulation briskly. But it would be in-
teresting to hear from Samuel Tomkinson,
L. A. Jessop and other stalwarts of the past
who regarded it as their main bulwark
against the flowing tide of Democracy.
“ J.G ” : My introduction to The Bulletin
came about through a parson who, when The
Bully first made its appearance, was resid-
ing in a delicensed pub, the Angel Inn, at
Buninyong (Vic.). The parson had a boy
of about my own age, and some friend of
the boy used to post The Bulletin to him
weekly. The rev. gentleman, after reading
the first one or two issues, was scandalised:
so he forbade the boy to read or even open
any more. The lad was told to hand them
over the fence to me, and this was done
weekly for a long time. It didn’t seem to
matter if I got contaminated.
“M.O’R.”: There’s one man who read of
Ogilvie in the Jubilee Bulletin helped him
do a tough droving job. Early in ’BB Ogilvie
anl Duffield brought a very wild mob of
cattle to Broken Hill, which was in its baby
clothes then. The yards were very frail, and
long before the sale was through the mob
broke away. Then there was a scatter!
Ogilvie with Duffield, the late George Kid-
man and Fred Bromley and I happened to be
pretty well mounted ; we got after them, and
held that mob in the open until they were all
sold. Then we cut out, as near as we could,
each' buyer’s number —and by that time
reckoned we were due for a drink. One of
the Besleys was the auctioneer, I remember
and you couldn't beat that lathy family for
horsemanship.
PRIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A journalist visiting Australia claims to have
interviewed five of the kings of Europe.”
We who have wandered far and wide,
Where’er our papers hade us go,
Have in our work an honest pride.
We’ve interviewed both high and low,
Reported pig-shows and such things—
And spoken, face to face, with kings.
I’ve chronicled the largest spud
On Wattle Flat that ever grew;
Done justice to some deeds of blood,
And Parliament’ry speeches, too.
But faster to my mcm’ry clings
The thought of talks I’ve had with kings.
They kept their jobs, those kings I knew ;
The King of Sussex-street was one —
His mind from chaff to onions flew;
The Peanut King I’ve also done.
Ah ! In my heart what pride upsprings,
Recalling copy won from kings!
N.S.W.
PONTIUS PENWIPER.


BY APPOINTMENT
QMfar
Gmdl®>i» v §
©IN
The ingredients used in the production of
GORDON S GIN are of the finest quality
procurable, and contain the greatest per-
centage of those important properties which
are considered by the Medical profession to
be most beneficial to the human system. It
is very highly rectified and contains no im-
purities of any kind, it is therefore very
easily digested and also aids the digestion of
other beverages with which it is mixed.
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute
purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
Gordons
m
DRY GIN
[L^MTOKI
202532®
?«zaa
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Business, Robbery, etc.
Official returns of the 1929 wine produc-
tion in S. Aus. show 11 million gallons, the
highest quantity of recent years; but the
overseas export has fallen off a lot since
1927. So has the inter-State demand, in
which N.S.W. is by far S.A.’s best customer.
■ Most of the wine nowadays is distilled for
brandy and “fortifying spirit.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: There is a Launceston (Tas.)
industry which has grown in five years from
one man working on his verandah to a
sporting-goods factory employing 125 hands.
A. Alexander was a teacher of woodwork
in a technical school when he was called
upon to make a tennis racquet; he not only
made one but patented a dry process for
bending the wood. Last year he made 50,000.
All the material is Australian.
* * ❖ H*
“C.V.R.”: An undertaker’s advertisement
boosts the latest and most costly thing in
coffins as “constructed of steel parts through-
out and unconditionally guaranteed for 100
years.” There’s no possibility of an action
for breach of warranty arising out of that
guarantee, anyhow.
* * * *
Julius, S. Aus. Conservator of Forests,
records in his annual report that 6000 acres
were planted last year with four million pines
(white poplar and Douglas fir also ran).
The great majority of the land is in the
moister South-Eastern (Mount Gambier)
district, but pine forests are appearing round
Adelaide and much further north as well.
Four years of the 10-year arrangement have
now passed, and the ideal of a 5000-acre
average each year is being steadily main-
tained.
* * * *
“L’Allegro” : I wonder what is the highest
net profit that a chemist ever makes. In a
Tasmanian pharmacy I asked for a small
bottle of chloroform (to destroy a cat).
Pills, after serving me, delved into a cata-
logue and announced: “That will be 3s. 6d.”
I entered a demurrer, pointing out that i
had obtained a larger quantity in Melbourne
for only Is. 6d. He had recourse again to
the book of words and graciously conceded,
“We’ll make it half a crown.” Even*at that
it looks like cold-blooded profiteering.
* * * *
“Zanzibar” : The rumor of an embargo on
imported motor-cars caused quite a flurry
until it was officially contradicted, but there
are many imported articles of much less
utility which might easily be kept out. For
example, the immense stock of toys that
come from various parts of the world, in-
cluding Czecho-Slovakia and the U.S. Coffin
furniture —that pretentious mass of lead, lace
and zinc escutcheons, and the silver-plated
“handles” that hold up nothing—is another
line which could advantageously be dispensed
with.
* =1: * *
“Lao-dah”: Mixed coinages have their
advantages. In China a silver dollar can be
exchanged for as much as 120 cents, and the
120 cents can be exchanged for anything up
to 1500 cash instead of the regulation thou-
sand. The canny white man can thus
increase his salary, though the money of
lower denomination is of use only for small
local purchases, and a barrow would be needed
for conveying the entrance price for a picture-
show. Also, he is liable to have his aboriginal
currency counted on the basis of the inflated
coinage.
* * * *
“Coir”: The life of the copra grower is
beset by predatory insects innumerable. The
latest pest has popped up in the Philippines,
where the leaf-mine grub has taken the
cocoanut plantations by the throat and is pro-
mising to choke the life out of the industry.
As the adult is a winged beastie liable to be
carried far and wide on the prevailing winds
to lay its eggs, in new localities, the attack
is a very serious one. Parasites are being
hunted up, and in the meantime a squad of
aeroplanes will dust the trees in the Batangas
district, where the pest is at its worst, with
calcium arsenate.
* * * *
“ Jackaburra”: There are more ways than
one of telling a store that the goods you
have ordered are urgently required; this
reached our establishment in the form of a
postscript from a Russian recently settled
in Queensland
The tent I want in short future. That is to say,
as soon as you get money please send above-
mentioned tent shortly or immediately.
sit sit * *
“Ida D.”: The new Dominican convent at
Mayfield, near Newcastle, is a good example
of what may be done with Australian build-
ing material. The handsome edifice, an
adaptation of the Romanesque style, is built
of old-rose-colored bricks from East Mait-
land, with blue trimming bricks from
Bowral. Woy Woy sandstone forms the key-
stones. The Roman-lonic pillars, curved
front steps, door-sills, draining boards and
some of the tables are of terrazzo, made in
Newcastle, as also were the artistic lead-
lights in the presses and in the front doors.
But the native timbers are the crowning
glory. Silky oak, jarrah (glowing red-
brown), golden maple and tallow-wood form
floorings, staircases, panels and incidental
woodwork.
* * * *
Here’s a man who has a good word to say
even for the supposedly desert country north
of the Trans, railway :
As one who has resided in this part of Australia s
neglected pastoral territory for the last 13 years,
I can assure you that most of the bush growth is
edible for big stock. Where the line runs through
and is cleared, saltbush is making good progress.
Most years in the spring the sandhills are covered
with parakilya. I was born and spent the first 30
years of my life in the northern part of the South
Aus. wheatbelt, arid can confidently assert that this
so-called desert ha s a better rainfall than the
country immediately north of Goyder’s line; and,
besides, during the winter and spring heavy dew's
are of nightly occurrence. My idea is that the
land could be sown with seeds of saltbush ana
parakilya by aeroplane. Of course the big draw-
back is lack of water, but so far no serious attempt
has been made to overcome this difficulty. I am
aware that geologists have stated that no artesian
supply exists in-this area, but they said the same
about the country between Broken Hill and the
Murray,


EASIER WORK-BETTER PAY
for CJ®Rtt^R / ,7 ' T
n >J T 1_
Reg’d Trade-mark.
Better,
Quicker,
Cheaper!
ë
Armoured
Against
Time
ē
OUR “Caterpillar” Tractor is more than a
unit of farm machinery—it is a faithful
friend.
It enables you to PLOUGH when it
does the most good, to SOW at the proper time, and
to HARVEST the grain on time.
Wide, ground-gripping tracks, built for long wear,
save power and fuel. They ride through mud, dust
and sand with ease.... provide ample power when
and where required.... and travel over the softest
seedbed without harmful packing of the soil.
Strongly built, with special steel where the wear is
greatest, and efficiently designed, the “Caterpillar”
Tractor provides power for any job at any time.
There are no horses to tend and feed .... you have a
comfortable seat to sit in. . . .and remember!—you
haven’t bought just nuts and bolts and gears. . . .
vou buy the RESULTS of “Caterpillar”
TRACTION.
We would be pleased to send youfree of all obliga-
tion, interesting illustrated booklets which describe the
many jobs “ Caterpillars” are doing successfully for
others, and how they can help you. Just send us the
Coupon.
REMEMBER
An enquiry costs
nothing and
places you under
no obligation. i
Hi
Arp
%
3 S
'i-s
9 Sts
*£>
°JI
°!l-
-°°kl
?>t
e «ty
°U
4 '4/
V J,
'/S/
Sole Agents in N.S.W. and Victoria.
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
LIMITED
175 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
521-523 Collins Street, MELBOURNE


The •Tractive., Non-Skid
Grip of the Goodyear
All-Weather Tread Tyre
assures Safety and Com-
fort on every road.


Repairs.
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
HI-POWER RIFLES will make the
KANGA-ROO THE DAY.
Savage 22 Hi-power Rifles, £lO/15/-, £ll/15/-
and £l3.
Savage, 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles, £ll/15/-
and £l3.
Slause s* 6-5 and 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles,
£l5; with Zeiss Telescope, £24.
Mannljeher-Schonnaiier 6.7 M/M Hi-power
£30 3 ' ; with Telescope,
B,S - A - SO3 Hj.power Rifles, £ll/16/- and
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
A great drink this
resch’s d.a.
The famous DINNER ALE
IT’S A TOOTH’S PRODUCT NOW.
<23
'The centre of Queens/onc/s
' ct/stmgo/shoot Soc/ot Lite.
motel
Co RDICP
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
è
SPORTING
NITIONS
Under the Whip
Amounis cemented his title to enduring
fame by capturing the Caulfield Futurity
Stakes. Since its establishment in 1898 the
race had never previously been won so
amazingly. Amounis was second last of a
strung-out field after going two furlongs. He
made up no leeway in the succeeding fur-
long, and spectators dismissed him from their
calculations, shifting their gaze to the
struggle between Figure, Greenline and the
lightly-weighted First Arrow. In thrilling
style Figure had dashed to the front, and
Greenline did not gain her measure until the
judge’s box loomed near. Jim Pike was as
near being thunderstruck as is possible to
a jockey of his temperament when, he found
old Amounis sweeping past on the outside.
Greenline, though flat out, appeared anchored
by comparison, and Amounis scored mag-
nificently by a length, Greenline being a neck
in advance of Figure.
Onlookers burst into frantic cheering be-
fore the numbers went up, realising that they
had witnessed an epic achievement. Few
had caught sight of Amounis until he was
hal? way down the straight. It is safe to
say that the Magpie gelding covered the last
two furlongs at unprecedented speed.- Harold
Jones got the winning mount through Pike
being claimed for Greenline ; obeying Frank
McGrath’s instructions, he sat motionless on
Amounis until the home stretch was reacheil.
Cessation of rain in the early hours of Satur-
day morning enabled the track to dry up
wonderfully. Had the weather remained wet,
or even if the race had been run at Fleming-
ton, which recovers slowly from a soaking.
Amounis might as well have been left in his
stable.
Pike’s mortification at being compelled to
surrender the ride on Amounis would be on
a par with the chagrin of A. P. Wade in
seeing the prad that he had cast off increase
his stake earnings to £35,665. Wade bought
Amounis from J. W. Cook, and parted with
him at a sacrifice. The irony of it all
was intensified by Wade going for a plunge
on his imported gelding, First Arrow, who
travelled encouragingly for nearly six fur-
longs and then faded out of a situation.
Odds of 5 to 1 were laid against Amounis,
and last-minute wagers reduced his quote by
merely half a point. Greenline firmed from
5 to 2 to 2 to 1. Gallopade, second favorite
at 7to 2, was a conspicuous failure. Sydney
horses mopped up all the stake-money.
Another Randwick thoroughbred in Octem-
ber proved his quality against Australian
Cup rivals in the Woodcliff Handicap. He
was runner-up in this event last year, but
few people wanted to back the son of October
on Saturday, odds of 15 to 1 going begging.
Octember finished with fine courage to van-
quish Cimbrian (half-brother to Heroic) in
the last stride by a head. The favorite,
Standard Bearer, was a creditable third, but
Prince Viol shaped much below expectations
and has weakened in the Australian Cup
betting. Woodcliatter was travelling very
fast at the half-distance, when she ran away
from the whip and chopped across several
horses. Standard Bearer stumbled after
passing the post and jolted “Tich” Wilson
out on to his neck. The jockey found his
way back into the saddle with acrobatic
celerity.
One noteivorthy feature of the racing was
Calmond’s maiden win in the first division
of the Alma Stakes. This two-year-old
brother to Mollison is trained by Harry
MeCalman for G. L. Scott, who annexed the
Doncaster Handicap of 1928 with Simeon’s
Fort. Possibly there is no more handsome
juvenile in training than Calniond. He was
backed from 10 to 1 down to equal favorit-
ism with Wirratc at 9 to 2.
Ashley Reed squeezed Spanish Galleon
(8 to 1) home by a short head in the Stan-
ley'Plate.' This filly has remained at the
post on more than one occasion, but her
manners are improving. The Sydney mare
Remora had a rocky passage in the Hawks-
burn Handicap, which Taurus (6 to 1) won
from end to end, thus enhancing the merit
of Figure’s Oakleigh Plate victory and add-
ing to the number of those who think he
will win the Newmarket.
* * =|: *
Figure did so well in the Futurity Stakes
that, with all her weight, she must be very
dangerous in the Newmarket Handicap on
Saturday. However, Taurus romped home
in the Hawksburn Handicap, and the South
Australian has strong claims to support.
So has Gay Ballerina, who has had a bril-
liant season in Sydney. Selections: —
Essehdon Stakes: Amounis; next, High
Syce. •
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Thurlstone ; next,
Calmond.
Newmarket Handicap: Taurus, 1: Gay
Ballerina, 2; Figure, 3.
St. Leger: Phar Lap; next, Sir Ribble.
’ Australian - Cup : Octember, 1; Kendler,
2; Some Quality, 3.
IN EVERY WAY.
“Why, old chap! What’s the trouble between you and your wife?”
“Oh! She’s been practising the Coue system so much that now she thinks she’s better
than I am.”
While Amounis was covering himself with
glory at Caulfield, Vaals, his opponent in
many an exciting race, was seen in another
disappointing exhibition at Rosehill. In his
eighth year, like the Magpie wonder, Vaals
is a stallion, and it is time he was retired
to the stud. Favorite for the Dundas Handi-
cap, he showed a bold front till well into
the straight, where he turned it up. Ascalon
(5 to 1) was then called, but the washy
Bunkum. (10 to 1) settled her with a good
run; Rionscup (20 to 1), finishing fast,
dead-heated with Ascalon for second. Behind
the pair were Autumn Balloon and Poitiers
—both early winner's.
Delwood (7 to 4), winner of the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate, put up a slashing perform-
ance in the first division of the Nursery
Handicap, clearing right, away from the
field, though he had 9st. 101 b. and it was
the hottest day of the year. He is a Back-
wood-Maggie' Trieze gelding, and Veilmond
should find him a worthy opponent at Easter.
Smedley, so unlucky on the previous Satur-
day, had a decided change of fortune, for
not only did Octember win for him at Caul-
field, but Royal Smile, the Queensland mare
he trains for “Lionel V. O’Hara,” captured
the Rosehill February Handicap. She went
out at 4 to 1 in a field of six, and easily
accounted for the favorite, Chuquisaca, and
Urunaway. There was a lot of money for
Eden Hall, but after steering an erratic
course he finished fourth. This Maorilander
will not do his best at Rosehill; he is a
141 b. better horse at Canterbury Park.
Bartle, the leading jockey, had a good
day. In the Granville Stakes he had an
easy ride on Clan David (8 to 1), a pro-
mising tliree-year-old gelding by David —
Fluency, bred by Otway Falkiner and raced
in his colors. Roseflight was second in this
race but the jockey weighed in light, much
to the disgust of tote punters. Bartle also
got Leisure Hour (5 to 2) home in the
Flying Welter, completing a good double.
The bookmakers have a high opinion of
Leisure Hour and always take good care of
him.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Ivogarah Stakes; Stock Boy; next, Our
Liz.
Flying Handicap: Golden Voice; next,
Rozener.
Moorefield Handicap: Promara; next,
Magdaff.
Hurstville Mile: Cavedweller; next,
Aorangi. ,
* * * H=
“Durdans”: According to English advices,
ex-Australian jockey “Brownie” Cars-
lakc, who dropped riding to train for J. B.
Joel and one or two others, is back in the
saddle again, having taken a retainer to ride
as first jockey for the same stable. In
addition to doing a lot of riding on the
Continent, Carslake, who is now 43, has won
two Legers, two One Thousand and one Two
Thousand Guineas, the last on the flying
Tetratema in 1920. Other big events in
which the Australian has got home first are
two Ascot Gold Cups, the Lincolnshire Han-
dicap and the Jockey Club Stakes.
* * . * S’!
“Glenclg”: Racegoers at Port Broughton
(S.A.j had an unusual experience when a
winner went out unbacked on the tote. The
officials, ignorant of a new rule, ordered the
dividend on the second horse to be paid, the
balance ordinarily distributable among
backers of the first horse being divvied out
to supporters of all the other prads. The
new rule lays dowm that where the wanner
goes out unbacked the money on him' is
credited to the second horse and dividends
paid accordingly. As it was, backers of the
second got only a third of their proper divi-
dend, while those on the third nag got only
a bare smell of theirs. Naturally, the club
officials are now catching it from all direc-
tions.
* * * *
“Don Crew”: Ted Lazarus, who topped
the poll for committeemen at City Tatter-
sail’s Club, Sydney, was one of the speediest
professional runners of his day, and he was
a contemporary of such fliers as Williams,
McGarrigal and Charlie Samuels, the abori-
ginal wonder. He was second to Samuels
in a Sir Joseph Banks Handicap at Botany.
Incidentally, City Tatt.’s has moved apace
in recent years. In 1923 its accumulated
interests were valued at £24,000. To-day
they total £200,000.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two ex-middleweight title-holders, Ted
Monson and Billy Edwards, both of N.S.W.,
met at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
Before the sixth round ended Edwards
said he had had enough. There was not a
great deal between them. After losing the
opening round, Edwards outfought his oppo-
nent over the next three. Monson took all
that was coming, and boring in over the
concluding rounds scored solidly with wallops
to head and body. Weights were even at
list. 321 b.
The Ins and Outs
“Hotham”: Tasmania got short shrift
from a second eleven of Victoria on the
Melbourne Cricket Ground, the home side
winning by an innings and 95 runs. Vic-
toria’s first innings totalled 451, E. K.
Tolhurst top-scoring with 95, while four
others made over 50; Newton took 3 for 67.
Tas. flopped for 171 and 185, Newton scor-
ing the fine double of 48 and 95. Hassett,
of University, with six for 74 in the two
innings, was the best of the Victorian
trundlers. .
❖ $ ❖
After a capital start —3 wickets, including
Allsopp’s, were down for 28 —Tasmania let
the game against a N.SAV. Second XI slip
out of hand at Sydney Cricket Ground, a
lot of catches which also slipped out of
hand helping the home side to run up 477.
Hogg, of Uni., played a sparkling knock for
57, and then Bill (115, with several chances),
(128) and Henderson (101)
pasted the tired bowling. James finished with
the best average, 4-57. Henderson, a New-
castle player who learned his cricket with
Allsopp, made a great impression.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tenth Slip” : The first-class averages for
the season are headed by Bradman, who has
scored 1400 runs (including the world’s
record of 452) for an average of 127.27. Jack
Ryder tops the Victorians with 50.18, while
Hone is the leader of the South Australians
with 51.66. Ron Oxenham has the best
figures for Queensland with 40,62. Among
the bowlers a’Beckett gets first place with 23
wickets for an average of 16.17, though
veteran Ironmonger took 35 for 19.48.
Bowlerless N.SAV. supplied a newcomer in
Chilvers, who in two matches collected 13
for 253 —an . average of 19.46. South Aus-
tralian Grimmett had the biggest bag of all,
62 wickets, which cost 26.58 each. Queens-
lander Hurwood’s 34 wickets averaged 20.07
apiece.
Sl! * St *
“Shrewsbury”: Few Australian batsmen
have arrived in England with a more formid-
able reputation to maintain than Don Brad-
man will carry when he sets foot ashore there.
No matter how well a batsman has per-
formed in Australia, there is always the
fear that English conditions may be too
much for him. Precedent is not much of a
guide, either, for success and failure seem
to have come indifferently in many cases.
Two quite modern instances are Ponsford
and Woodfull. Before leaving for his first
tour of England, Ponsford was acclaimed the
world’s best batsman. He failed to fulfil
his promise. On the other hand, Woodfull,
also a great performer on Australian wickets,
was the batting success of the 1926 tour,
apart from the veteran Macartney, being
third in the Test match averages with 51.09
and first for all matches with 57.65.
(Continued on page Jjl.)
France met her first defeat in this season’s
Rugby Internationals, England winning at
Twickenham on Saturday by 11-5, or three
tries and a goal to a try and a goal. The
English forwards were too much for the
opposition in the closing stages. Ireland beat
Scotland, the same day by 14-11. This leaves
England, France and Ireland level with two
wins and a loss each.
* * * *
The third race ' for the Forster Cup for
21ft. restricted yachts, sailed on Port Phillip
on Saturday, w T as won by N.SAV. 111.
Gwylan (Q.) won the first race, while. Tassie
(Tas.), winner of the second, was disquali-
fied for fouling N.SAV. 111. Points decided
the issue; N.SAV. 111. scored 20, Gwylan 14,
with Caress (Q.) and Tassie third w'th 4
each. The third race was sailed in a heavy-
gale, and only N.SAV. I. finished in addition
to the winner.
!?: if: sft
“Her Jong”: The English bowling team
which has been touring South Africa found
the opposition much stronger than expected.
Indeed it went, dowm with a flop in its
earlier matches, though a recovery w T as made
as time went on. To the sophisticated, the
early failure is not surprising. It takes
even the most assimilative individual some
time to accustom himself to bowling essen-
tials in Afrikanderdom. Dop, Old Cape
Cango, Van dor Hum and similar accompani-
ments to the sport are not easy to master.
THE ONE AND THE OTHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He mourned for a “murdered fiver”
On the crowded homing train,
And never a new-reft lover
In parting could discover
A sorrow keener, liver,
A more distressful pain.
He whined of a tip mistaken ;
He wailed of a trust betrayed ;
He swore to subversive cunning
In betting and in running,
Till faith and hope were shaken
And charity dismayed.
He talked of degraded trainers
Who dealt with downy “books,”
And all that he knew about them
Left little room to doubt them
(Archaically) chicaners,
In later parlance, rooks.
He whispered of wily owners
With methods none too nice;
He spoke of rapacious punters,
Of shady “s.-p.” stunters,
Of sly, sub-rosa donors
To jockeys “on the ice.”
He told of a venal starter,
A judge who was “in the, joke” ;
And “stipes,” he, darkly muttered,
“Who knew liow their; bread was ,but-
tered”- ,.%-A
They’d have to be no end smarter
To hide from him their sihpke.
He wept for a wasted fiver,
And showed on .that homing train
(Though strange it appear to carpers)
How thirty thousand sharpers
And one poor, honest striver
Had been to the races again!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


f
VA
m
m
«I
H
if s a GENERAL
Motors car .....
Whenever and wherever there appears . a press
announcement on behalf of Chevrolet, c Pontiac,
Oldsmobile, Oakland, Marquette, Puick, Vauxhall,
fa Salle or Cadillac cars, the above line appears.
Its purpose is to clearly identify the product of
a great Australian industry, and to remind the
reading public of the many advantages which
this association implies.
Richer in the details that
make a motor car more
personal, more expressive of
good taste and refinement
TN excellence of apparent
*■“ detail there usually lies
proof of excellence in less
obvious parts. This is as
true of motor cars as of
many other things.
In the General Motors
car there is greater excel-
lence and added value at
its price. One has but
to look inside to note the
difference .
Whether it is in the
lowest or highest price field
of the General Motors car
range, there will be noted
finer craftsmanship, applied
to finer materials than is
usual at that price.
Depth and quality of
for example;
charm of appointments;
the richness and unstinted
proportions of metal fit-
tings ; the details provided
for passenger comfort;
important in themselves
and so vital to the securing
of “finish.” These make
their appeal to the sense
of beauty and of value,
but they also reflect the
hidden qualities of the car.
Many things make it
possible for General Motors
to provide this added value
for every purse and purpose.
In the General Motors
Australian plants, modern
production methods result
in substantial economies,
and further economies
naturally result as the pur-
chases made by General
Motors from allied Aus-
tralian industries increase
in ratio.
Thus the purchase of a
General Motors car not
only brings the satisfaction
of greater value secured, of
longer and more satisfactory
ownership, but it means the
furthering of Australia’s
greatest motor industry and
the industries it supports.
CHEVROLET, PONTIAC, OLDSMOBILE, MARQUETTE,
OAKLAND, BUICK, VAUXHALL, LA SALLE, CADILLAC
—also CHEVROLET TRUCKS, PONTIAC EXPRESS DELIVERIES,
GENERAL MOTORS TRUCKS
e
GENERAL
. , •' . t : \ '■ a: ,
BRISBANE
MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH


Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
Y»i
W
■ -v
ft'-
m
m
r'
Write for Catalogue B.
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
tor's
h ‘P rtoteSf D e^*
tke benefits (or •which.
(sin is femouS
BOL
r—..
VERY
OLD
HOLLAND GIN
E>ert ; e< \ WAS IN WONDERFUL. FORM
Today.”
CqERT ;*WHAT A MICE SET OP
CLUBS l »
BeRT; K Not GiOOO WORKMEN
HAVE GOOD TOOL*),
you know ”
cSE!?T ' c< WHO DlOYou borrow
Fieotvi 2 »
The Ins and Outs
Victoria scored an easy win against South
Australia at Adelaide in the final Sheffield
Shield match of the season, the visitors
coming out ahead by 223 runs. Victoria’s
second knock finished at 438. Ellis (68) and
Oakley (43) making a good stand for the
eighth wicket. Qrimmett, who' ended with
10 for 210, bowled grandly throughout the
match, but was poorly supported in the field.
Ironmonger (8 for 125 in the match) took
5 for 88 in South’s second innings, which
closed for 223. Hone batted well for 47, but
Vic Richardson again failed with the bat.
The win brings Victoria’s point score to 23,
with the result that the Cabbage Gardeners
take the trophy from N.S.W. with a lead of
three points. This is Victoria’s twelfth win
to. 18 by N.S.W. and four by South Aus-
tralia. Queensland has yet to break the
duck.
* * * *
“S”: Adelaide oval has let a £15,000 con-
tract for increasing pavilion accommodation.
The names of Edwin Smith and Harold
Fisher, former presidents, will be commem-
morated, and the stands named after Mostyn
Evan. and George Giffen will be enlarged.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”; The N.S.W. Country
cricket week has come and gone, Southern
Districts proving themselves the best side in
the competition. As usual, all the press experts
concentrated on the batting ability of the
countrymen, and ignored the bowlers, in
spite of the fact that this country has bats-
men to feed to the birds, while real bowlers
are as scarce as pork chops at a Passover.
Yet there was quite a bunch of bowling
talent, particularly of the lefthanded persua-
sion. Among the most impressive were
Lindsley of Norths and Grayson of Far
Norths. Both these slow lefthanders flighted
the ball well, in addition to turning both ways
on a plumb wicket. With a bit of looking
after either might develop into something out
of the common, but so far no one has rushed
them or their other country confreres with
offers of cushy jobs in Sydney.
# * * *
“Gabba”: The Queensland Donnybrook
between skipper Leo O’Connor and the
coterie that seems to have got the Q.C.A. by
the wool has come to a finish at last with
what amounts to O’Conner’s retirement from
big cricket. The association cited those re-
sponsible for wiring O’Connor instructions at
Adelaide as to whom he was to include in
his team, and other matters, by invariable
custom left to the captain’s discretion. The
parties concerned made long and involved
explanations, until finally the fed-up execu-
tive agreed to accept everything and let
bygones be bygones. Warm approval was
expressed of O’Connor’s great, services to
Queensland cricket, and that is all he got out
of it. Meanwhile, the impression that Queens-
land cricket is a house divided against itself
has been strengthened by the hotch-potch
selection of the teams and their poor showing
in Sheffield cricket this season.
**. * *
“Aigburth” : The bigger wicket is growing
in popularity in England. Oxford and Cam-
bridge have decided to follow the example of
the counties, and will employ the tall timbers
in the forthcoming in ter-’Varsity match in
July. While the new idea has not brought
about any revolution in the matter of tall
scoring, it has undoubtedly done its bit to
shorten matches. Last season’s county fix-
tures included an unprecedented, number of
finished games, and the innovation has got
the credit. It seems only a matter of a
season or two before we shall be using the
larger target in Australia.
* * * *
“Shabash Bhai” : The India-for-the-Indians
slogan seems to be invading the Raj’s cricket
activities even. The Indian Board of Control
has recently decided that while two of the
teams to play in the three Tests against
the Englishmen in India next year will be
mixed selections of Indians and Europeans,
that for the third match, to be played at
Bombay, will be entirely native. Indians will
be touring England the following year, and
it is proposed that the side will play 35
matches, including most of the first-class
counties and the universities, with a single
Test. Australia might do worse than invite
the pious Hindu and his Moslem brother to
tour Australia when the West Indians and
the Afrikanders have been disposed of. Ram
Buksh and Mohammed Ali gave the last
English team to visit India a tough go for
it, and a cricket team should prove as great
an attraction as the Aryan hockey side was
during its brief tour of Australia a couple
of years ago.
*!s * Ht *
“Tenth Slip”: Australia was plunged in
gloom when it was announced that Archie
Jackson, of the Australian Eleven, would
have to undergo an operation for tonsilitis.
One Sydney journal elevated the trifling hap-
pening to the importance of a major opera-
tion, shrouding the matter with mystery
and tales of how its anxious reporters had
been repulsed from a darkened and guarded
hospital. The comedy relief came next morn-
ing when another journal which now belongs
to. the same proprietary, but professes to be
an independent entity, called its brother
under the lap several sorts of an Ananias
and Sapphira rolled into one. The whole
incident irresistibly reminded the grinning
public of the mock ferocity which our recent
foreign wrestling visitors felt compelled to
exhibit towards each other.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Moans are arising
from some quarters over the greatly reduced
allowances to this year’s Davis Cuppers.
It was high time, apparently, in view of
recent revelations of the cost of past teams.
These secrets, jealously preserved by the
authorities because they never were game to
squeal when auditing the accounts, have now
sneaked out. The famous team of four which
invaded America for four months spent
£4400. There is to be no preliminary
gadding on this trip; the players must go
direct from the boat at Marseilles to Mon-
treux in Switzerland, where the first match
will be played against the Switzers. The
team will appear at Wimbledon and probably
in the French championships, but invitation
tourneys are to be cut out wherever possible.
* * * #
“Top Spin”: The latest from the Wimble-
don front must give the money-grabbing Aus-
tralian tennis authorities, and especially
those in N.S.W., the hump. The famous All
England committee has been obliged to return
£50,000 forwarded for seats which cannot be
reserved, owing to demand over-riding supply.
What the club should do is to hold the
meeting at Wembley, where 100,000 can be
comfortably accommodated round the arena.
Then, with every spectator handed a cheap
field-glass as he or she enters, something like
a profit would be realised.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: A look over the latest Amiri-
can tennis ranking list shows that the on!
brigade are still on top, in spite of the propa-
ganda which has been issued concerning the
wonderful crop of youngsters coming on.
Tilden, admittedly on the downward slide,
heads the list, while another dimming light
in F. Hunter is placed second. Then follow
Doeg, Lott, Van Ryn, Mercur, Allison, Cohen,
Bell and Mangin. Crawford and Hopman
met most of these younger players at Wimble-
don on the last tour, and more than held their
own with them. Of the women, Mrs. Moody,
once Helen Wills, is placed on a pedestal
by herself. *
“Let”: America, which has been hesitating
over permitting open tournaments with
amateurs and professionals competing, has at
last resolved to sanction the practice, as
Britain and her affiliated tennis associations
have already done. France is in a quandary,
since heavy taxation stands in the way of
making such meetings pay. In the case of
amateur tourneys, these taxation provisions
are greatly relaxed. Everything must now
depend upon the decision of the International
Tennis Federation, which has the last word.
It is expected that it will consent to open
tournaments in America and Britain at
least.
The Watermen
“Tamar”; The championship eights of
Tasmania, rowed at Launceston, saw the
Buckingham club get home from Tamar, the
only other starter, by a length and a half,
after a struggle which lasted the whole of
the three-mile race. Buckingham, which
had previously won in 1924, was stroked by
E. L. Gibson. The champion sculls was
won from three others by R. Beauchamp of
Sandy Bay club, who scored by five lengths
from last year’s winner, W. B. Young, of
Tamar. Beauchamp will probably figure as
Tassy’s representative for the Australian
title at Mannum (S.A.) in May.
* * * #
“Hawthorne”: It is usual for sporting
officials to rush the job of managing a tour-
ing team or crew, but T. L. Mannix, hon.
sec. of the Vic. R. A., is different. For five
years he has refused the proffered job on
the ground that it was superfluous where
a coach accompanied a crew. This year
his committee informed him that if he did
not consent to take the Victorian crew to
Mannum for the King's Cup. he would be
dashed well shanghaied into the job. Faced
with this he has capitulated and will take
a well-earned holiday.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: Sydney rowing, usually a
deadly serious business, took on a cheerful
aspect the other day when a four made up of
members of the first Mosman club crew to
win a race rowed in the Old Buffers’
event at the club regatta held to celebrate
the presentation of a new boat. The his-
torical victory was in the maiden fours at
the N.S.W. Association regiitta of 1911.
No. 2, A. R. Rial, came all the way from
Cobar to pull his weight, which, considerable
as it was, was not enough to push the crew
to victory. A younger set of Old Buffers,
stroked by S. A. G. Turner, pipped the
pioneers by a quarter of a length.
* * * *
“Blade”: Nepean, the solitary country
rowing club which many-rivered N.S.W. can
boast, is to hold its first annual regatta on
March 8 on the noble stream from which it
takes its name, at Penrith. The events will
be for fours, seniors, juniors, maidens and
lightweight maidens; in addition there will
be a double-sculls race in heavy boats. Entries
from metropolitan clubs are particularly
desired.
* * * - *
“Toowong Reach”: Queensland’s cham-
pion eights will be decided this year on the
Hamilton reach of the Brisbane River, on
March 22. Eight entries are in this time,
and it is probable that the number will be
> greased to nine. This will set a record
for the event ’"..Queensland, the previous best
being eight statu., when the event was
rowed at Maryborough- in 1928. University,
which is expected to make the c ;V} number, is
yet uncertain. Remembering that <i Uni.
crew won in 1924, and then went to Adelaide
and captured the King’s Cup there, the
students should take heart. The clampion
eight will represent Queensland in Adelaide
this year, so ’Varsity has a chance Jt> repeat
the trick.
The Nineteenth Hole
After tieing for the N.S.W. A.I.F. golf
cup on Killara links earlier in the vjeek, with
scores of 65 net, R. J. Linsley, 'pf Royal
Sydney, and a Long Reef man, A. L.
Spooner, played off over 18 holes’ stfpke play
on Saturday. Linsley, handicapped on 18,
won with a net 69, or 5 better than Spooner,
who was on the 9 mark.
# * * *
“Late Starter”: The praise which polite-
ness demands was showered on the organisa-
tion of NjS.W.’s A.I.F. golf competition
last week, but the truth is it was a failure.
By midday the proceedings on the first tee
were running over an hour late, and some of
the afternoon starters were overtaken by
darkness before they were half-way round.
Dozens of matches took from four to five
hours over the IS holes. The fault lay in
the course. Killara is easy for the straight
(even though short) hitter, but it is death
on the other kind. A Joyce Wethered would
lick a Tolley at Killara three x times out of
four. The remedy for last Wednesday’s
debacle is not to make the competition a
two-day event, as has been proposed, but to
confine it to open courses like Royal Sydney.
And it would pay even at Royal Sydney to
employ watchers. Hours of searching might
have been saved last Wednesday if there had
been a few sharp-eyed boys in the worst of
the Killara jungle country.
* * * *
“Hamilton”; Queensland’s golf champion-
ships are to be held in June on the Royal
Queensland’s links at Eagle Farm, where
once the convict ploughed the turf the golfer
now converts into divots. Though a compara-
tively new course, the Royal Queensland is
probably the finest in all respects in the
State, both in picturesqueness and in golfing
quality. A good deal of work has recently
been put in on some of the fairways, and
the course generally is more than equal to
championship requirements.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: The second consecutive vic-
tory of Louis Diegel in the American pro-
fessional golf championship has driven the
local prohibitionists still further into the
arms of the bootleggers. Louis fractures every
rule and canon of correct golfing style every
time he plays a round, and has a few
heresies of his own which even professional
coaches have not been able to think up as
condemnable. His unorthodoxy is just as
effective in Britain as in his native land. In
the last Ryder Cup match between English
and American professionals in England, he
beat that great but temperamental player
Abe Mitchell by the thundering margin of
nine and eight, and some of his victories over
his American contemporaries have been just
as decisive. My own opinion is that the
orthodox school’ become paralysed with
horror when they see him at work, and drop
their bundles accordingly.
V '•* 'l* V
“Blah”: That eminent world citizen Walter
Hagen, soon to be with us, was not allowed
to escape from his native land without the
publicity for which the press thereabout is
noted. As usual, he and his travelling com-
panion,, Kirkwood, are assessed in terms of
monetary value. Walter’s legs and arms are
insured for- 50,000 dahlers, it appear, and he
R the wealthiest golf profe&R.'Oial in the
world, pulling down, Le himself would say,
100,000 bucks per annum. Kirkwood, while
not so outstanding in the American equivalent
of Bradstreet, earns from 100 to 1500 dollars
a week by his displays of trick shots. No
doubt it is all true, but one cannot help sub-
editing the old adage to read “Some Ameri-
cans and their money are soon parted.”
$ * *
“Kenso”: The N.S.W. State golf cham-
pionships are to kick off at the Australian
Club’s course on June 7, when the four-
somes title will be played for. The qualify-
ing rounds of the singles will begin a week
later, the final being due for June 21. The
title is at present in the hands of Victorian
Ivo Whitton, and before that was taken by
another Victorian, C. H. Fawcett, so it seems
about time the Ma State got a move on.
(Continued on next page.)


PACK your BAG
for the South of
NEW ZEALAND
NOW!
You’ll never regret it. Spend glorious days
of freedom from care and worry in Nature’s
unspoiled Wonderland —the South of New
Zealand. 16 glorious days for £33.
Steamers sail from Melbourne to the Bluff
on:—
Thursday February 20
Thursday March 13
Thursday April 3
and every three weeks thereafter.
Write for particulars of tours and
time-tables.
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT
AGENCY,
E., S. & A. BANK BUILDING,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
e
op*? a set-.
its
Ao«'
id*
a&-
% $A
ur6'i' s >
a ctitvg .^e** a
a s.>*sl^ 0
/ THE \
renrut\
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/-
( With - Gauge,
5J- extra.)
Will fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
.
K :
*£(**Me
SIMONIZ
eN£
?Rs
Makes
the Finish
Last Longer
Keeps Colors
from Fading
New cars appear only
to require ordinary care
to keep them spotless and
bright, yet the finish soon
becomes dulled and the new-
ness of appearance vanishes.
Therefore the sooner you
Simoniz your car —the better.
Every car needs Simoniz.
For in addition to providing
luxuriant depth of lustre,
one Simoniz application
provides months of,
protection that makes the
finish last longer and keeps
colors from fading.
It saves time, energy and expense
iii keeping cars looking clean and
bright, for all dust and dirt can be
wiped off a Simonized finish without
danger of marring or scratching —
and washing is seldom necessary .
If your car is dulled and worn looking
Simoniz Kleener will quickly
and easily remove all dirt,
scum, traffic accumulations, and
restore it to its original beauty
—then, apply Simoniz.
Buy a can of Simoniz and
SimonizKleener today fromyour
hardware or auto accessory
dealer.
Insist on SIMONIZ.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
ZINOWIS
esi^sisuofofar*
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
è
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.’’
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
FREE SAMPLES
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
Skid ’; America seems to have definitely
withdrawn from this year’s attempt on the
world s motor-speed record at Daytona
Beach. There was some talk of the German
Benz firm entering a car, but since the
rules require the essay to be made between
March 1 and 15, this is obviously impossible
now. Incidentally, it is 21 years since the
first speed record was attempted on the
£ londa sands by Chasseloup Laubat, who
attained the hair-raising rate of 39 m.p.h.
Nevertheless the Yanks propose erecting a
monument to him. He was a pioneer, at
least.
* * * -J:
“Disc Clutch”: Urged on by the success
of the Victorian Light Car Club, one of
the most enterprising and successful bodies
of its kind in Australia, N.S.W. motorists
are forming an organisation on similar lines.
Membership is available to all owners of cars
with an engine capacity of 2000c.c. and
under, while the womenfolk will be catered
for in a special class in all competitions.
These last, a feature of the Victorian club’s
activities,_ will be a change from the stereo-
typed reliability contests with which most
motorists on this side of the Murray are
getting fed up.
* * *
“Kick Starter”: The most important
motor-cycle road event in the world is the
Isle of Man Tourist Trophy race, held in
the historic kingdom every June. The course,
with its steep rises and descents and numer-
ous hairpin bends, is of the trickiest, and
only a first-class rider can hope to get
through scathless at high speed. This year
the British Auto-cycle Union wants an Aus-
tralian to take part, and has offered to pay
all expenses. Several Australian riders have
competed in the race in the past, but always
at their own expense. Alex. Finlay (Vic.)
seems likely to be chosen.
* * * *
“Foveaux”: Maoriland is the latest local-
ity to surrender to the dirt-track racing craze.
Tracks are now being opened all over the
Dominion; and in addition to the local riders
at least a dozen Australians have departed
under contract for the Shivery Isles. Among
these are several who have had experience of
the sport on British tracks, so the local
enthusiasts should have no reason to com-
plain of the quality of the necks being risked
nightly on the M.L. tracks.
* =:= * *
“Sprocket”: R. W. Lamb, who has been
riding behind motor-pace with great success
in Sydney since his return from America, is
anxious to measure up with Hubert Opper-
man, his fellow-Victorian. He has offered
to put up £2OO to back his claims, and such
a match would be worth, going a long way to
see. The chief hitch is that Lamb is under
engagement to Sydney promoters, and as a
result of the N.S.W. cycling authorities
refusing to recognise his Sydney to Mel-
bourne record, “Oppy” has shaken the dust
of the Ma State off his cycling shoes. He
has sworn never to race in the unhallowed
country between tli e Murray and the Tweed
so long as he lives.
* * * *
“Whizz” : Cycling track records are as the
sands of the sea for number, and about as
easy to tabulate. One put up by the Danish
ROGER FROGLEY, an English dirt-track
rider, who has been figuring prominently
at Melbourne Motordrome.
rider W. Falk-llansen on Brisbane Velo-
drome the other day is worthy of attention.
In an attempt on the Australian flying
quarter, the Dane covered the distance in
23 4-ssec., being motor-paced to the starting
line. This, while knocking two seconds off
the previous Australian best, is claimed to
equal the world’s record credited to American
Ivor Lawson at Salt Lake City in 1906.
Miscellaneous
“Amateur Pro”: There is an air of
mystery in the Sydney press account of the
Queensland Athletic Association’s refusal to
arrange an exhibition meeting whereat Dr.
Peltzer could show bis paces. It is stated
that Queensland has wired regretting that it
cannot see its way clear to “engage Dr.
Peltzer’s services.” The doctor is on his
way through Brisbane bound for Singapore,
so there would be no fares to pay. Accommo-
dation, if he did not remain on the ship,
would cost little, and the ss. per day which,
he is legally allowed for pocket money as an
amateur would be a trifle. Where does the
expense come in then, and why the reference
The late DR. IRWIN HUNTER, a leading
authority on Rugby football in Maori-
land, and one of the Dominion’s most
prominent surgeons.
to “engaging the -services” of an amateur?
There is quite an Arne Borgian touch about
the whole affair.
* * * %
“The Gaffer”: Having received an offer
of £lOOO cash towards the expenses of a
team to compete in the Empire Games, with
free board and lodging thrown in, the Aus-
tralian Athletic Union has opened its heart
and resolved to send a party of six. Bobby
Pearce is a certainty, while if Jim Carlton
proves amenable he should be another. At
present the young man wants to take his
private trainer with him. Provided he pays
the expense, there can be no objection, but
the Canadian money should certainly not be
applied to such a use unless the trainer is
available to the whole party. Carlton,
handicapped by want of experience on cinder
tracks, will have a tough opponent to face in
the flying Canadian and Olympic champion,
P. Williams, who is one of the 9 3-ssec.
brigade. Still, the N.S.W. lad has been
doing so well on grass of late that he must
have a chance with the world’s best, pro-
vided he can get acclimatised in time.
* # !j: #
“Fitzcray”: When a hound named Sinew
recently pursued a hare at Melbourne White
City in record time, after being backed from
4 to 1 to 2 to 1 on, the stipes investigated.
It was discovered that the tyke was running
under false colors and* had previously been
handled by an owner and trainer at present
disqualified for five years and 12 moons
respectively. It was also alleged that Sinew
had run as Canny Boy, and was well
known in Sydney under still another
moniker. Now, the owner who was sent
up for the five years has made a sworn
statement to the stewards that “three pro-
minent coursing men” arranged the ring-in,
and gave him £1 a week for keeping the dog,
plus the odds to a tenner if the latter won.
Neither the animal’s board and lodging nor
the bet has been paid, hence the alarums
and excursions.
* * * if
“Five Ways”: The ill-omened Brisbane
Cricket Ground is in the spotlight
A Sydney hare-cliasing crowd .nvrU :d lave-
ments to start that noble there shortly,
and though the -.*agement denied all
knowledge oi; ' fiy such scheme, a consign-
ment of br.i : es arrived from somewhere and
were parked in an enclosure on the ground.
Premier Moore has got in first by announc-
ing that on no account will night racing
be allowed, though afternoon meetings may
be held. No betting will be permitted in
any case. Of course, that doesn’t matter,
for, as Sydney hare-racing addicts know,
patrons of the sport merely attend it for the
sake of fresh air and innocent exaltation of
spirits.
Us H: * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian Football
League’s’proposals for the reduction of the big
sums at present paid to Victorian footballers
met with a' set-back the other night, the
delegates referring the matter back to the
clubs. It was stated at the meeting that
one man had already been signed on by a
League club for £lOO down, £lO a week dur-
ing the season, and free tuition in a trade for
five years. The League wants to cut salaries
down to £3 10s. a match, with a maximum
bonus of 30s. a match, payable at the end
of the season. The establishment of a pro-
vident fund by each club was also proposed,
each club to enter into a bond of £250 to
play square and observe the above regula-
tions.
H= * # *
“Stand Off” : The decision of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union to drop the Y.Mi.C.A. and
Police clubs from the grade fixtures was re-
ceived with general regret, even by those
responsible for the action. Finances are
chiefly responsible, it being felt that with
a smaller number of clubs the gates and
standard of play would be improved.
Y.M.C.A. has been a complete success ever
since its entry to first-grade some years ago,
and the club lias turned out many brilliant
players of inter-State and international
quality. Police, in its comparatively short
experience, has produced one or two notable
performers, one at least, J. H. Morrison,
promising to become an international centre-
three-quarter. Most of the members of the
deposed clubs will be absorbed in the adjoin-
ing district teams.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: To the relief of all its old
friends, the Queensland Rugby Union has
broken off all negotiations with the Brisbane
Rugby League, and will continue on its own.
The only regrettable feature of the decision
not to amalgamate with the professional
body is that the use of the Exhibition Ground
for club matches will not be possible, since
this is in the hands of the Brisbane Rugby
League, save for inter-State and international
dates, when it is available to all codes. At
the. same time, the brilliant success of the
Union game in its first year of renaissance
leaves no room for doubt of its continued
growth. New clubs are forming in Bris-
bane, and the game has been firmly estab-
lished in Toowoomba, while with all the
secondary schools returned to the amateur
code there can be no fear as to recruiting-
grounds.
* * * si:
‘‘Cash Amateur” : Referring to a renewal
of the attempt by the Rugby League to
enrol football teams from among the surf
life-saving clubs of Sydney, one official of
the professional body has announced that
“the amateur bogey” may be disregarded.
Nothing is further from the truth. If the
life-savers play the professional code, they
will be rated as professionals by all amateur
bodies the world over, quite apart from
whether they benefit in cash or kind by play-
ing it. Law and precedent have firrfily estabr
lished the fact, and no lordly gestures by
interested parties can alter it.
* * :i: *
“Shinty”: Australian flapperdom is all
agog over , the preparation for the departure
ot the Australian women's hockey team for
South Africa, en route to Britain. It is true
the team will not sail from Sydney until
May 17, but then there are clothes to be got
ready, and new brands of complexion and
lipstick suited, to the Afrikander climate to
be tried, and all that sort of thing. It is
easily understood that what might be all right
for the beach levels of Capetown or Durban
would be quite out of place in the 6000 ft.
elevation of Jo’burg. The first match will
be played at Port Elizabeth, where the
ostrich feathers used to come from before
they went out of fashion, on June 25, against
Eastern Province.
* * * *
“Splash”: For the first time since the
initial contest in 1907, Queensland has caried
off the Kieran Shield, which stands for the
swimming championship of Australia. The
concluding races were swum at’ Hobart, and
in the last event of the
100 yards backstroke, Queensland had to fill
the first three places to annex the trophy.
The Northerners won to first, third and
fourth places, but as second was W. Cameron,
a Maoriland swimmer, and therefore not
eligible for a title, the placings fulfilled the
conditions. T. Boast, who finished first,
clocked 68sec., the fastest time yet recorded
by an Australian. N.S.W. filled second place
in the championship, with Victoria third.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Alan McHaffie, the Vic-
torian winner of the Australian springboard
diving championship, whose amateur status
was called in question (B. 12/2/’3O), has
been disqualified, and the title awarded to
T. H. Morris, also a Victorian. Alan’s
iniquity consisted in taking money for teach-
ing physical jerks to an athletic club. As
far as swimming is concerned he is as pure
as the beautiful snow in the matter of lily-
white amateurism. Under the fool laws of
amateurism as they are to-day that did not
sa | ve him, any more than it has saved others
who have unwittingly wandered into what
amateurism considers technical professional-
ism.


M.C. 2 4 0
THE NEW " —t " "—7 —7"
C H RYS L E R 7o<*.//
NEW FROM THE GROUND UP
IN PERFORM ANCE - CONTROL - LUXU Ry AND BEAUTY
Only a short time ago all motor-cars were basically very much
alike. To-day none can compare with the new Chrysler “70”
and “77.” With their coming, a new era of automobile
development begins, and motoring takes on an entirely new and
more efficient aspect.
é
LARGER ENGlNES.—Greater piston dis-
placement; greater horse-power, torque and
operating economy; seven-bearing counter-
balanced crankshaft; Invar-Strut pistons;
full pressure lubrication; oil filter.
NEW SPACIOUSNESS.—AII bodies 3
inches wider; 3 to 5 inches longer accord-
ing to type; greater headroom; front seat
adjustable for leg length and pitch.
NEW BEAUTY. Dynamic symmetry,
chromium girdle mouldings; arched win-
dows with chromium architraves; Pennon
louvres; sconce-type parking lights. Wide
colour choice with upholstery to match.
NEW INTERIOR LUXURY.—Newly-
engineered seat'cushions; luxurious pillow-
type upholstery; metalware executed by
Cartier, world famous jewellers.
NEW RIDING COMFORT. Paraflex
springs; new chimney-type rubber shock
insulators; extra-depth girder-type double-
drop frame; hydraulic shock absorbers.
Oversize 6-ply balloon tyres.
NEW DRIVING EASE.—Chrysler light-
pressure weatherproof internal-expanding
4-wheel hydraulic brakes; finger-thin sure-
grip steel reinforced steering wheel; easy,
non-clashing gear control; new cam and
lever positive action steering gear; extra-
short turning radius; centralised instrument
panel.
Ride in them—drive them and discover for
yourself what an epochal contribution they
make to the problem of present-day indivb
dualised transportation.
CHRV S L E R
|p CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales .... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane's Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .... Ward Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


Hmggm I ■ MBS. -a;::":;
HP V - -.-...
- iS'
l
r
>
■
2%
■:■■ Si!
:
■I
: mm
s
FOR THE MODERN MODE
H OSIERY


D^K§)Namesj
ITO f
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
"A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.”
cffl.&fJl&luisriA
Actual Sire, Style No. 6
SOLD BY All BEST DRAPERS.
'Write for Name Style Circular to
Jfo I AUSTRALIAN
**■ J. WiOll, WCAVING c 0 pry. L td
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
7/6
6 d
3dof
.IS
WASHING
for
Im^eirte
AS NEW AFTER.
REPEATED
WASHING
RIBBONS
e
n Alert Attention to Your Needs...
-AMD THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality.
Wire or Write for reservations.
Qfie Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
mm
Under 1
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.M.
Kin*
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
..1
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Aver ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Chcese?
General Anderson will stay on in Mac*
quarie-street as private secretary to Sir
Philip Game. If the new Governor fits his
job as well as the old P.S. has fitted his,
there’s a very successful flight ahead of him.
The Sam Horderns will soon be back in
Sydney, and coming home at the same time
is Tony Hordern. It will be a sad enough
business for the young widower, who brings
with him liis daughter Mary.
Pianist and composer Esther Kahn has
another fledgling, a society which is develop-
ing the idea of music as an aid to medicine.
The members give their services to hospitals,
and their work is claimed to have definite
results, especially in nerve cases.
There’s a thing and a very pretty thing
down below King-street. It’s the little chapel
in the crypt of St. James’s. The walls are
decorated in the most colorful and artistic
fashion with an old Christmas carol done
against the background of the Harbor Bridge.
The carol tells of three ships that came
sailing in on Christmas day in the morning
and the heavenly freight they bore. Here on
the stone walls they live again—St. Joseph
meek and mild, Mary and the Holy Child,
with a brave company of angels and
archangels. They are happily circling the
bridge, golden sails and halos catching the
dawn, while the Harbor, like a swelling
lotus, breaks into flower beneath the ves-
sels’ prows. On one wall is the side of the
bridge facing the H'eads find Garden Island;
the ; other treats of the up-river reaches.
There’s a glimpse of the Zoo and Admiralty
House and other interesting bits of the
foreshores. The whole of the low-arched ceil-
ing is covered with gold-leaf and bursts here
and there into flower pieces, one painted by
Lady Hore-Ruthven, one by Ailsa Cullen and
one hy little Rosemary Budge. The window
that lets in the light is pale pink. The
work was conceived and carried out under
the direction of Mrs. Anderson, wife of
General Anderson, a banner-bearer in the
cause of modern art; her helpers were mostly
girls from the North Shore line. Betty
Anderson and Jean and Gwen Ramsay were
assiduous assistants; Roy Wakelin painted
the Virgin up in the left-hand corner; Roy
de Mestre painted in St. Michael with folded
wings; Sir Dudley de Chair went along to
draw-in the ropes and tackle, and tell just
how; every sail should behave. Sir Hugh
Poynter did the exquisite lettering on the
page of the book, and Gwen Ramsay the
altogether delightful angel who amiably lives
behind the door on the left. hand, balancing
Bethia Anderson’s St. John on the right.
From the office’s titled retainer: —
What somebody suggested in The Bulletin the
other day, that Privy Councillorships have definitely
entered the class of “ration” decorations,, is not
provable. On the contrary, in the “Lloyd George
Price List of Titles,” published by the Duke of
Northumberland in 1922 (vide “National Review”
for August), the P.C. is not included. The most
that can be inferred is that when the demand for
baronetcies at £30,000 a piece was too great, some
childless eligibles received the higher but not heredit-
able honor. For, though it does not seem to be
generally known, even in high places, the P.C., such
as Scullin. has just accepted, ranks above not only
baronetcies, but also the G.C.M.G. which Royalty
invariably bestows on ,the Governors-General!
Isla Blomfield, who goes off on a long holi-
day, has made up her mind not to return to
her job in the Department of Public Health.
For 20 years she has been one of this city’s
sanitary inspectors (in these days a job
for only the highly-qualified and diplomaed
person), and during that time, although her
work has taken her largely into slum areas
and back lanes, she declares she has never
had anything in the nature of an unpleasant
experience with man or woman and has never
suffered an annoyance from man, drunk or
sober. She says that nowhere —and she
knows the same class'in the big cities of
England and Scotland —are the really poor
as nice and good-tempered as they are here.
What to do with young unskilled labor
when young unskilled labor becomes jobless
is the problem the featherweight lady with
the heavyweight brain has now set herself
to work out.
After Europe and its latest social-welfare
schemes have been scanned, Miss Blomfield
has rather set her mind on a visit to Norfolk
Island, where a sister, Mrs. Wliitton, makes
her home. Another sister is Mrs. W. Hold-
ship, whose daughter Pinkie is due for
matrimony this year.
Mary Macgregor carries a worried brow
under "her grease-paint these nights. She
had a young brother down from Queensland
spending a holiday with her, and on a
recent day the youth, though he had made
no complaints, collapsed in the street. Mother
is now nursing him through what threatens
to be a long illness. Another brother is
climbing back to convalescence in Queens-
land.
Cotton and Miss Preston Stanley were the
topics of interest at the Feminist Club’s
latest luncheon. The newly : - "lected presi-
dent took her place on a' wave of appre-
ciation and admiration, and in a vivid speech
she introduced Crawford Vaughan to the
members. Cotton-growing was the subject
of his talk, and he unwound enthusiastic
figures to show that Texas, with a climate
similar to our own, produces, with white
labor, cotton worth three times more than
this State’s wool clip. Thirty-two Feminists
and a flock of white-clad voluntary helps
drank in his words, and departed ardent
disciples of the old industry that seems to
take such a tremendous lot of reviving.
Up and down this State there are 82,000
Junior Red Crossers, so Mrs. R. R. S. Mac-
kinnon told the annual meeting of patrons
last week. What a picture it called up—a
snow-white little army marching under the
scarlet symbol of mercy! But the ranks
must grow, and a roll 100,000 strong is the
objective for the current year. Chief Justice
Street’s lady, who is a vice-president, was
welcomed back to her labor of love, and
Dame Eadith Walker, Miss Consett Stephen
and Elsie Lorimer, the society’s secretary,
were other notables in a gathering that
crowded the Blinded Soldiers’ Cafe in Pitt-
street.
News comes of Dorothy Jenner, of the
vivacious Gordon clan. She left Sydney last
year a very sick woman, and is struggling
back to health in a hydro in the south of
France. After long investigation the cause
of her illness was found to be a germ picked
up when she was in Mexico helping to make
one of Hollywood’s masterpieces.
Charlie Lloyd Jones, a nephew of the
head of the old drapery house, is in St.
Joseph hospital, at Auburn. The young man,
who lives at Tarcutta, slipped from his home-
going train and was picked up unconscious
near Granville one night last week.
The nice-looking lady in this Falk picture
is Papua’s Vice-Reine. Last Thursday
evening she became the wife of Hubert Mur-
ray, the giant
Lieut. - Gover-
n o r of the
North. Before
her marriage
she was Mrs.
Vernon, who
came from
Tipperary b y
way of Lon-
don ; and she’ll
find it a
longish step
from the
Cromwell
Road of her
former home
to the scenery
about Port
Moresby. But
Iris h women
are adaptable.
The new Lady
Murray comes
from soldier
stock, and the famous secret-service officer
Colonel Trench is a cousin. She has an
eager, happy voice, is tall (though against
her husband’s inches she doesn’t look it),
and for her wedding she wore a frock of
biskra lace made with a short coat and a
long side drape, the rest of the skirt being
just below the knees. A hat of black and
white lace and a sheaf of tiger-lilies finished
off her programme. The knight came to the
altar joyously clad in a tall hat, miraculous
trouser-creases, a tail-coat and a white car-
nation. Monsignor Hayden tied the knot,
and bridegroom’s daughter Mrs. Pinney and
grand-daughter Moira joined the small party
that ate dinner at the Queen’s Club.
Maybe, the Stephens might match it, but
it is doubtful whether any other family can
produce father and son who have served
Australia over so long a period as the
Murrays. In less than three years it will
be a century since Hubert Murray’s father
was made a J.P. in N. S. Wales —and that
meant something in those days when the rare
country J.P. was expected to lead in the
chase of the bushranger. As a matter of
fact, young Terence Aubrey, Hubert’s father,
did so well at this law-keeping side of his
job that presently he found himself elected
to Parliament —and that was 83 years ago!
The son went into Parliament, too —as a
member of the staff. But the Sydney of the
’eighties and early ’nineties best remembers
him as the most powerful swordsman these
parts ever grew.
It would take a busy yardstick to measure
up the miles of ocean travelled by the guests
at a luncheon given by Mrs. Blau to fare-
well Mrs. Donald Frazer and Jo O’Keeffe.
Of the 10 women present each had been to
London at least once, many of them three
times, and two of them, Mrs. J. J. Mulligan
and Mrs. Otto Wunderlich, divide their days
about equally between Paris and Sydney. So
inevitably the conversation around the long
narrow table was largely about this and that
famous cafe and hotel. Mrs. Wunderlich,
golden blonde in golden browns, and Mrs.
Mulligan, her lioney-colored ensemble throw-
ing into relief her brunette coloring, being
the latest home-comers, told what the theatre
is doing—both were enthusiastic about
Shaw’s “Apple Cart,” young Levy’s “Art
and Mrs. Bottle,” and the London staging
of “Journey’s End.” Mrs. Blau kept a gentle
hand on the wheel in a sort of sunset whisper
of pink and blue. Miss O’Keeffe was radiant
in topaz yellow, the East’s color for hap-
piness. Mrs. Donald Frazer, in a brown
Baku bonnet, suggested an effervescent
Quakeress. Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones and
Mrs. Reg Stafford, two more blondes,
brought sapphire blue and black millinery
to a table where blondes, pearls and red
roses glowed and languished. Mrs. Pauli
was the only wearer of crystal, and her
choker suggested a mountain pool on a frosty
morning in Maoriland.
In an age of mechanical transport, it is
unusual to find a whole family devoted to
the horse. But the Ilallorans are. Gladys,
the subject of this May Moore picture, is
one of Syd-
ney ’ s finest
hors ewomen
and a member
of various
hunt clubs. On
Saturday she
will be seen
riding at
the R.S.P.C.A.
Gymkhana a t
Little Bay.
She is one of
tlie consistent
entrants a t
this event,
which is the
opening cere-
mony in the
Be Kind to
Animals Week.
Brother Jack
is well known
as the judge
at Bong Bong
picnic races, and for years he was one of
the crack riders on that course. Another
brother, ex-soldier Ted, who died not long
ago, was one of the finest amateur riders in
the State; he had no fewer than nine wins
on Lone Pine, a noted gee of his day. Still
another brother, Maurice, who was a planter
in Ceylon, made history at an amateur meet-
ing in India by riding four winners in one
day.
The Reg Staffords, of Cassilis, who are
installed on the twelfth floor of the Astor in
Macquarie-strect, are beginning to wonder,
after Saturday’s terrific heat, if Llangollin,
the home they left behind them, doesn’t get
as many cool breezes as the street of a
thousand brass plates. Mrs. Reg is having a
busy time with family parties, for, in
addition to her own mother, her in-laws, the
A. B. Staffords, from Dobbikin, are making
the Australia their headquarters till March.
Last week she hostessed two outstanding
farewell parties to friend Josephine O’Keeffe.
The first was a dinner-dance at the Aus-
tralia, and the second a luncheon in the
same caravanserai. Chiffons of the red that
gleams in Paradise plumes were worn at
the dinner by the guest of honor, and from
the rather high waist fell a cascade of the
forbidden plumes themselves. But they have
been the wearer’s property long over the
prescribed period, having been inherited from
an aunt who might be termed a feather
epicure. Mrs. Blau’s dahlia-red chiffons were
topped by a coat of shimmering sequins. Mrs.
Reg’s well-groomed head surmounted rather
bouffant black net. The usual Thursday
night dance was in full swing and Lady
Scott, from Suva, was a merrymaker keep-
ing company with the Fred Lords. Tom
Baillieu and Reg Stafford brought the sun-
tan of the toiler on the land into the crowded
room ; Bertie Kelly danced gaily. Still an-
other blonde was Mrs. Harold Vale, and
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar added her slumbrous
beauty.
The idea of Araluen being turned into a
finishing school for young ladies has a touch
of the appropriate, its former owner, Ernest
Watt, being one of Sydney’s most-married
men. It is the new pitch of Jean Cheriton,
whose school in Darlinghurst had become
pot-bound. One day last week the young
principal bad a party to let parents see the
new premises. There are some nice old trees
about Araluen and under these the guests
disported and sipped Ceylon or China accord-
ing to taste, while Jean did the honors in
skyey chiffons, helped by Bea Macdonald in
green.
At St. James’s the other evening Sybil
Isabel Alexander became more or less en-
tangled in the politics of South America.
The man in the case was Norman G. Nelson;
he is the Consul for Uruguay and liis father
Ivan is Vice-Consul for the Argentine. In
their gardening hours they are citizens of
Lindfield. The bride, formerly of London,
is a well-known Randwick girl. Ivory satin
cut in the mediaeval style of the moment, a
mist of tulle and an armlet of tuberoses and
stephanotis were outstanding items in her
equipment. Sister Bessie, a blue cascade of
delphinium and forget-me-not shimmering
against her ivory chiffons, stepped after the
bride;, and William Gullick supported the
’groom. Afterwards black lace and red roses
were pleasantly contrasted in Mrs. Alex-
ander’s raiment at Romano’s.
Slim Neville Scott, of Suva, daughter of
the well-known K.C. and his lady, has made
a matrimonial date with James Edward Win-
drum, of the Fiji Civil Service. Neville has
many friends in Sydney, and is popular with
the American colony. She has been on occa-
sion a visitor to the Dan Kellys, of Kirri-
billi, and last September came across speci-
ally to be bridesmaid to May Callear, now
Mrs. Billy Watson.
The reception-rooms in the Town Hall
were pleasantly crowded when the helpers of
the Crown-street Women’s Hospital turned
up to devise a money-raising scheme. Linen
is needed for the new wing, and the com-
mittee wants to see the chests tilled by the
opening date in April. After discussion a
bridge party was fixed for March 18, at the
Town Hall, with Mrs. Garlick as president
and such consistent workers as the Waley
lady, Mrs. Justly Rawlings and Mrs. Iv. T.
Browne on the committee.
The Society of Women Writers had a
young man for their guest one day last
week. He was Alan Lawrence, who is the
nerve-ridden Lieutenant Hibbert of “Jour-
ney’s End.” Mrs. Theodosia Wallace had
coaxed him into the party, and he plainly
couldn’t quite decide whether he was a bold
lion in a den of meek Daniels or a shivering
little Daniel in a den of bold lionesses. Any-
way, whatever his part on the stage, that
young man is no coward. And lie’s an
enthusiast about his job, too. A nice-looking
stranger in impeccable millinery was Miss
Gablett, from London, who there shares a flat
with Pamela Travers. Pamela is doing well
with her verse and is getting a book ready.
Winifred Moore, of the Brisbane “Courier,”
was another guest. Winifred has just spent
three weeks motoring with Brisbane’s edu-
cational Freda Bage through Victoria’s up
lands and woodlands.
The Fellowship of Australian Winters is
flourishing. Only one yean* old, it boasts a
membership of 100. At the first annual
meeting last week retiring officers were
mostly re-elected —Le Gay Brereton, the
president, and Marjorie Quinn, the secretary,
among them. Vice-presidents for the new
year are Mary Gilmore, Steele Rudd, George
Mackaness and H. M. Green.
Perhaps a trifle too saccharine for the
adult palate, but still a jolly shivoo was the
“Welcome home ourselves” party given by
Joan and Betty Rayner in their T.O.Y.
theatre in Young-street. Betty in pink, Joan
in flowered chiffons made their guests wel-
come and gave them the freedom of the green-
room. Women rushed the party, but men
stayed away almost unanimously. Portia
Geach, very matey with all, brandished a
palm-leaf fan; Jean Cheriton, slim in green
chiffons, brought two ’teen-old pupils—one
Joan Beasley, a budding belle of North
Queensland, emulated her principal and wore
green. Mrs. Rayner turned an attentive
ear to her daughters’ description of their
journey—neither so naughty nor so literary
as Sterne’s. Tall publicity-woman Gus Roche
trailed a Chinese-red shawl; Sydney Hos-
pital Auxiliary was represented by Miss
Rowsell in black and silver; Mrs. R. Dangar
turned a benign eye on the returned caravan-
ers from a silken mesh of lace made with long
sleeves. Young novelist Jessie Urquliart was
among the chattering crowd that surged into
the lane beside the theatre where the cara-
van was browsing, and afterwards returned
to consume coffee and ices handed around
by the four lone males of the night.
Next Monday and Tuesday nights the
works of Mrs. Norman Thomas will hold the
stage at -the Community Playhouse. The
principal offering will be a one-acter, “The
Flame”; then after a harp interlude will
come a short laugh-raiser by the same writer.
A jolt came to a fairly affluent clan
recently when it sought to put in a claim
for money left by a childless old man in
England. The testator’s two brothers had
decided to try their fortunes in Australia
when they were youngsters; one had pros-
pered, the other left nothing to his suc-
cessors but poverty. In spite of the fact that
they did not need the money, the heirs of
the wealthy brother put in their claim, only
to discover that they were barred by a clause
of the will leaving the estate to “my brothers
.... and their heirs born in lawful wedlock.”
Their Australian ancestor had eloped with a
married woman and, going to live far out in
the Backblocks, had never thought it neces-
sary to ge through the legal formality with
the woman everybody knew as his wife, even
when the death of her husband made the way
clear.


■
m
4
1 11 Vi
is on the
Horizon
Secretaries are busy .... Clubs are prac-
tising everywhere... .it promises to be a
great Hockey Season again. Mick Sim-
mons, ever first in the field of Sport ,
announce unrivalled displays of Hockey
Material from the world’s leading makers.
HOCKEY STICKS 8
No.
No. 7-
No. I—All Ash, bound handle
No. 2—•“ Colonial” Driver, bound cane handle,
No. 3 —“ Cyclonic” Driver, special bound cane
handle, selected
No. 4— Special Driver, with Leather Grip . .
No. s— “ Lightning” Driver, Single Rubber,
bound handle. Blue rubber grip . .
6— “ Perla” Driver, Single Rubber, two
blue bound cane handle with surgical
tape binding
Hurricane” Driver, Double Rubber,
cane handle, two-color binding, with
tape reinforcement
No. B— “ Perfection” Driver, specially selected,
Double Rubber, cane handle, two-
color binding, special tape reinforce-
ment
No. 9—“ The Classic” Driver, Treble Spring
Handle, rubber grip, surgical tape
reinforcement. Truly a classic stick,
No. 10—Spaldings’ “Autograph” Driver . . ..
Also a Complete Range of Hockey Sundries.
Detailed Catalogue post free on request.
7/6
10/6
12/6
15/6
16/6
18/6
22/6
20/-
30/-
32/6
&
,-Va
m\
■MJ
a*-;
O' 1
“COURT CRAFT”
QUALITY! CRAFTSMANSHIP! ! VALUE! ! !
For the Schoolboy or Schoolgirl player, or even an adult tyro, there i
no better or more suitable racket to be had anywhere to-day. Il
points of superiority are its wonderful dependability and beautifi
craftsmanship. Made from selected English Ash, it has bevelled fram.
with shoulders doubly strengthened by an inlay of rawhide, and extr
strong gut binding. Perfectly true in weight, shape and
balance. Strung with dependable gut. Capable of honest
and lasting service, it is amazing value at
24^
24/“
9
The Racket Beautiful!
“masterstroke:
Embodies the very latest principles of scientific
racket construction. Guaranteed to give the
maximum of strength and service it is possible
to get out of a racket. Strung with best
English Gut
77/0
Other Famous Rackets to be found only
at Mick Simmons!
“Lee Monogram” De Luxe
“Lockyer Tropical” . ... ...
“Royal Eiisign” . . . .... .
“Britannic”
77/6
85/-
80/-
55/-
{Carriage paid on above Hockey and Tennis Material.)
e
DON BRADMAN leaves for England
shortly ....
Before he goes bring that aspiring young
cricketer of yours along to Mick Simmons to
meet him.
All Letters to Box 188, 720 P.O. Haymarket,, Sydney.
MickSimmonsLtd.
HEADQUARTERS: 720. HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and, Home Entertainment
1
Itl
fotce
deV^
is
tVvete
fo*ce
ct\ p .
oV e ‘
dUV
F^ed
stea
et®
et*°
V ° W ereS® nt toro >vlg^
.m&l***
s'"'”
*ep e , *n e
ttS*-“ ser
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by THE CLYDE EN-
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.S.W., largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
FOR CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer- SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane. Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Co., Ltd., Melbourne. Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.


a u-ocd^dj
RAISINS
lT
PBH
Cakes and puddings are appre-
ciably improved by the inclu-
sion of these choicest of all
raisins. Ask friend Grocer!
Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
15th to 26th April, 1930.
ELEVEN DAYS FIVE NIGHTS
£14,000
PRIZES
ENTRIES CLOSE:
WINES
HORSES (including Trotting Events)
CATTLE
PIGS
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS
DOGS and CATS ..
AGRICULTURE (including Fruit and Apiculture) . .
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) . .
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS
£14,000
4th March
Bth March
1 Oth March
1 Oth March
I Ith and 1 2th March
13th March
1 4th March
1 4th March
24th March
Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
G. 0. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY CANCE PALMER
ILLU BY
DARYL: LINDSAY
Synopsis: Boyd McCurdie had
left Abernethy station before the
war to study laiv in Sydney, where
he enlisted. There were other rea-
sons for his going. His mother had
been dead some years, and his father
had proposed marrying again. Also,
old McCurdie’s dominating energy had
rather overwhelmed him. Meanwhile,
McCurdie had married, but his young
wife had never become quite recon-
ciled to station life. McCurdie, who
had represented his electorate in Par-
liament, had lost the seat over too-
pronounced utterances during the
war, and financial troubles had made
him sell out various station and other
interests and concentrate on Aber-
nethy. The story begins with him
anxiously awaiting Boyd’s return after
years at the war. He is delighted,
but uncertain, and this uncertainty
of how they will now get along to-
gether is shared by Boyd. At Aber-
nethy Boyd feels influences at work
to hold him to the station. He meets
again Josie Duncan, who has a tinge
of black blood in her and is the home-
stead housemaid. Also, he is visited
by Barbara Mahon—as she formerly
was. She has married during Boyd's
absence a doctor named Day, and is
temporarily up from Sydney, house-
keeping for her brother Leo. Boyd
senses that there has been a break
between Barbara and her husband.
He visits Barbara several times, and
eventually decides to stay, though his
father does not like to give over the
reins altogether. This is the position
when Boyd again meets Josie, who has
been swimming in the station stream.
CHAPTER X ( Continued ).
THE image of Billy Mace flickered
before Boyd’s eyes, and he frowned
slightly. It was while the fellow was
hanging round the kitchen-door, exchanging
badinage with Josie, that Boyd had first
come across him, and involuntarily a feel-
ing of hostility toward his tall, swaggering
figure had been roused in Boyd’s blood.
“Has Mace been around the place often
while I’ve been away?” he could not help
asking her.
“Not till the last few months,” she told
him. “While the war was on he was in
camp somewhere, and before that he was
travelling round with a show. I didn’t
know him first when he came back. He
looked like something out of a circus with
them tight pants and flash leggings. Then
the way he talked —almost as if”
She broke off, and gave him a sudden,
shrewd look.
“You don’t like him,” she said.
He flinched. There was something so per-
sonal and direct in her eyes.
“Not particularly,” he said, annoyed at
having brought up the subject.
“No more do I,” she told him. “The
way he skites! About racing horses of his
own and winning a hundred quid a time.
It goes out of the other ear with me—
every word of it.”
He began hurriedly to talk of Mace’s
cleverness with horses, but the girl was
watching him with a queer little smile.
“He’s got you in the gun,” said Josie
as if she had been following some train of
thought in her own mind. “You knocked
him back when he was after a job here,
didn’t you? He was crowing that he’d
got taken on, after all.”
Boyd was uncomfortable. He felt him-
self being drawn into a secret bond of an-
tagonism against Mace, and he had an in-
stinct to refrain from committing himself.
Was Josie as simple, as she seemed? And
did she dislike Mace as much as she pre-
tended? He was the more uneasy because
he did not understand his own feeling
against the half-caste. The figure of Mace
as a boy was indistinct in his mind—that
of a slim, cheeky youth who sometimes
camped on the other side of the creek with
his father, a wandering trapper; sitting at eyes and the breath of a radiant, awakened
the back of the cart and potting at small
birds with his rifle. Did he have a fight
with him once because he bullied Josie
and Ella? Or was it with another of the
boys who drifted casually into the camp?
He was not quite sure. All he knew was
that he had been seized with a sudden
aversion from the fellow when he had
first seen him at the door of the kitchen,
and that it had been sharpened by the
queer, half-surreptitious looks the horse-
breaker had given him since.
“Well, who got knocked back?” Mace’s
ej’es seemed to be always saying. “Not
me! You don’t count for so much here,
after all.”
The heat had gone out of the indolent
afternoon, but the sun, visible through
a gap in the creek-gums, hung fixed in
the sky a little above the horizon,, as if
it had been arrested on the point of going
down. A breath of coolness arose from
the still water. There was a plop as a
shag dived in from its perch on a root, and
the ripple of sound spread, waking, as it
seemed, an innumerable tiny life in the
grass and dead leaves around. From the
homestead half a mile away came the dull
thudding of an axe. It was Duncan at his
usual task of cutting the morning wood.
“Hullo!” called a voice from the bank
above.
Boyd sprang up to see Barbara sitting on
her horse with a valise strapped to the
saddle in front of her. So upright was her
poise, and so vividly was her figure out-
lined against the sky, that she looked like
an equestrian statue that had been raised
suddenly out of the ground.
For a moment he was confused. It was
as though he had been suddenly awakened
from a dream, so that shadows still hung
around his brain and his feet blundered.
Barbara was watching him coolly as he
came up the bank toward her, a slightly
puzzled look in her wide-open eyes. Leo
had had an urgent call to town, she ex-
plained, and the housekeeper was away, so
her brother had persuaded her to come and
stay at Abemethy for a few days.
“That is, if you’ll have me,” she added.
“There’s no reason why I shouldn’t have
stayed over there by myself. I’m not the
sort of woman who’s afraid someone will
run off with me.”
There was a trace of dryness in her
laugh. Boyd assured her facetiously that
there was no need to take the risk.
“The old man will welcome you with open
arms,” he said, “and as for the rest of
us Is that all you’ve brought with you?”
“Isn’t it enough?” she said, eyeing her
valise. “I could live in that for a week. A
toothbrush, a suit of pyjamas, and one
change.”
She slipped from her horse and threw
the reins over its head. There was no sign
that she was aware of Josie’s presence;
indeed, Josie was not present. She had
vanished into the bushes beside the creek
as quietly as a ground-bird into the grass,
and now was making her way up the further
bank toward the night-paddock, keeping
along the lower slopes. Boyd, catching a
sudden sight of her in the distance, felt
there was something furtive in her quick
little walk; something furtive, too, in his
own mind, and in the way Barbara avoided
following the girl with her eyes.
“I didn’t see anyone,” he could hear a
voice saying beneath the flow of her bright
chatter. “Was it some ghost or other?
I don’t believe in ghosts.”
CHAPTER XI.
Unclouded Days.
A tapping at his window next morning
woke Boyd from sleep, and raising himself
on his elbow he saw Barbara’s head and
shoulders framed in a square of light. She
was standing on the edge of the tennis-
court, looking in, a hint of mockery in her
world about her.
“How sound you sleep!” she scolded him.
“As if you’d half a dozen lives to spend.
I threw sand against your window for ever
so long, but it didn’t wake you. Who was
going to get up first and have the net
ready?”
“I was,” he said promptly. “Give me just
three minutes.”
“Not a second longer,” she warned him
over her shoulder. “I’ve been down to the
lagoon already and had a swim.”
Barbara was waiting for him on the
tennis-court, her bronze silk jumper catch-
ing the light, and her long scarf fluttering
in the breeze. While he fixed the net she
stood tapping the racket on her toes and
looking at the big, sprawling house with
its wide verandahs and drooping trees.
“What a jolly old place it is!” she said
pensively. “It ought to be the home of a
big, rowdy family.”
“It was meant to be,” he said, “but I was
the only one who happened along. Per-
haps it would have been better for every-
one if the others had turned up.”
“If I’d any family at all I’d want a
crowd,” she said, going off to serve.
The household was beginning to stir.
Across the landing from the kitchen came
Miss Carmody bearing the morning tea on
a tray. Through the wet grass of the night-
paddock Duncan trudged slowly, carrying
an axe he had been sharpening the night
before, his short-sighted eyes peering at the
two players from under his battered hat-
brim. Up at the yards young Jim was
helping Larry Byrne to milk, and Mace
had risen from his bunk in the saddle-room
and was washing at the door in a tin basin.
At the kitchen-window Josie Duncan’s head
and shoulders appeared for a moment as
she stood beating eggs with a whisk, but
her face was only a blur against the
shadowy interior.
“We’re going to brand a batch of young
calves,” said McCurdie at breakfast. “How
are you at handling a rope, Barbara?”
“Rotten,” she replied promptly, “but I
can at least keep the irons hot.”
“Don’t be absurd, Roger,” put in Ada.
“Barbara’s going to drive me somewhere
in the car. Boyd hates doing it, so I never
ask him, do I, Boyd? And I’m simply
aching to get right away from the place
for a while—make a clean break like Bar-
bara’s done.”
She smiled at Barbara over the coffee-pot
as if there were a mutual comprehension
between them, but was met with a blank,
impervious look. It did not disturb her
tolerant good-humor in the least. She was
attracted towards Barbara in her own lazy,
feline way, yet though they had met so
often she had never had a chance to explore
the hidden channels of her life. And there
was so much to explore! Her curiosity,
only fitful before, had been roused by
things she had heard and observed with
her own eyes. What lay behind that bright,
animated manner of Barbara’s that seemed
so spontaneous sometimes and at others
had a hard glitter like a shield raised in
self-defence? Had she been hurt badly
somewhere, and was she trying to pull the
wool over other people’s eyes?
“She’s not sure of herself,” thought Ada,
as she watched her glance rest for a
moment like a butterfly on Boyd’s face
and then flutter away. “She’s waiting for
something to happen To happen in
her own mind, perhaps.”
A faint but definite excitement was stir-
ring within her, giving vivacity to her small
features. Was Barbara thinking about
getting a divorce? Or hadn’t things gone
as far as that? Ada had met Frank Day
only once, but her impression was of a
fine figure of a man, the sort she would
like to be seen with herself on the lawn
at the races. Broad, vigorous shoulders, a
searching, truculent look, and light hair
curling back from his forehead! He had
had the air of being thoroughly at home
in the world, even when he was only a
locum at the township hospital, and now
he had come into money and a fashionable
practice, what more could a girl like
Barbara ask? It was true Roger didn’t
like him, but then Roger was always being
seized by queer prejudices; and, besides, he
was sentimental about Barbara. Absurdly
sentimental, as all old men were liable to
be with a girl who played up to them. No
man alive would be good enough for her—
unless it were Boyd.
“You’ve got such wonderful hands, Bar-
bara,” she said as they drove out over the
box-tree plain together. “So pretty and
yet so capable! I sometimes wonder if
there’s anything you can’t do.”
Barbara gave a dry smile.
“Oh, lots of things. Most of the ones,
as a matter of fact, that are worth doing!
The old governess at Niva Downs used to
say that all my brains were in my fingers.
You can’t have them in two places at
once, and perhaps I’d have been luckier....
Oh, look at the brolgas!”
She let her eyes dance from one thing
to another in a way that exasperated Ada.
There was little chance of creating that
atmosphere in which hearts are opened
and confidences given freely. In despera-
tion she began talking about herself. She
had built high hopes of getting away when
Boyd came back, but Roger was hard to
move. As toughly-rooted, when one tried
to shift him, as some old tree. She had
made the best of Abernethy as long as they
simply had to live there, and it had been
jolly enough in its way; but it was no use
pretending she liked it any longer. What
was the good of buying frocks if they went
out of fashion before they were worn twice?
She had a whole wardrobe of beautiful cos-
tumes Roger had given her on their last
holiday, but already they looked like some-
thing left her by an aunt. And now that
all the world was dancing you felt out of
it if you didn’t know the latest steps. Life
was flowing on, and one had a sense of
being left behind.
“A place like this!” she said, looking at
the tree-dotted plain with a little grimace.
“Men may find some interest in it, but
women! You wouldn’t stay here of your
own freewill, would you?”
“Well,” responded Barbara, her eyes on
the steering-wheel, “don’t I?”
“That’s what I’ve often wondered about,”
said Ada, her voice trailing away to a
dreamy indefiniteness.
But she could not strike a responsive
chord. Barbara had caught sight of a flock
of ibises, and slowed down the car to
watch the weird hieroglyphics they wrote
against the sky in their changing flight. Her
face was rapt and concentrated, and she
seemed to be living entirely in her eyes.
When Ada returned to the attack by an-
other route and began to ask more pointed
questions she answered brusquely:
“Oh, Frank and I understand one another.
We like to go our own ways.”
Ada had the sense of having a door
slammed in her face. She was too amiable
to bear any real resentment, though. If
people wouldn’t talk it was usually because
there was some very good reason. And she
had eyes and a brain of her own—friends,
too, in Sydney who would be sure to know
if there was any gossip afoot about Frank
Day’s separation from his wife.
In the days that followed there were
rides to different corners of the run, shoot-
ing expeditions down the, creek after black
duck, and long games of bridge in the
evening. The few days that Barbara had
intended to stay lengthened to a week,
and then a fortnight; someone, usually
Ada, always found a reason why her half-
hearted attempts to go home should be
quashed.
(Continued on page 51.)


è
THERE MUST BE A REASON
why every week
160,000 women in Australia buy
HSHfli T R A. L lANI
WOMANS MIRROR
It contains everything a woman wants to know—written by the
worinen of Australia themselves.
The Biggest Bargain on the Bookstalls .
64 PAGES, 3d., EVERY MONDAY. ALL NEWSAGENTS.
<
-V
Knitted Jumper
for Matron
in Feb. 25
Melbourne
Chatter _
Kipling was moved to verse by the ming-
ling of sea and bush at Lome, and if he
chanced this way again he might feel im-
pelled to pen a tribute to the ex-A.I.F. men
who are making a road round the coastline
at the foot of the Otway Ranges to Apollo
Bay. Eiglity-nine miles from Melbourne by
way of Geelong, Lome is where the hills
slope to the sea, and the surf rolls in to
meet the tall blue-gums—veritable giants. It
is said that this is the only part of the State
where such is the case, and supports a theory
that the Apple Isle was in the long ago
attached to Australia, since precisely the
same flora and fossils can be seen only on
the other side of Bass Strait. Lome was
early adopted by the squatters of the West-
ern District as a holiday resort, and those
people who years ago built summer resi-
dences on the cliffs cultivated a pride in the
lovely spot, and fought to retain the trees.
In the main street barbed wire protects the
gums from vandals. Being easily get-at-able,
the place is becoming a popular haunt. Where
there is no privately-owned conveyance the
service car from town runs part of the way
out, and the Port Fairy line train also offers
a lift on the journey, which is completed by
about 20 miles’ motor-run from Birrcgurra
station. There is a magnificent road over
the ranges through forests of splendid timber
and fern gullies, but the ocean road is by
far the more interesting to travel, though,
unfortunately, it is only negotiable in dry
weather. This highway forms a permanent
war memorial that is being entirely con-
structed by returned soldiers. The first toll-
gate is just outside Anglesea, and the road
wanders thence like a serpent along beaches,
around mountains, through bracken and
bush, down among sand-dunes, ti-tree and
box scrub, and skirts cliffs hundreds of feet
sheer above the sea. A donation of £5 to
the road fund entitles the giver to have his
name attached to one of the double-width
sections where motor-cars may pass.
But let’s to Lome, and no dawdling, for
the most magnificent stretch of the new road
begins here, following the Otway ranges on
the very brink of a precipice overlooking the
Pacific. With a pinch in places two vehicles
can squeeze by, but along most of the route
to the Cumberland River it’s a case of one-
way traffic. From the Cumberland River to
Apollo Bay the gauge will be wider, with
room for two cars. The best stance from
which to enjoy the road at present is the
box-seat of the conveyance that makes a
daily trip to the construction camp with the
milk. The two noble steeds, Queenie and
Bluey, who draw the ancient four-wheeler
that rattles through the village shortly after
ten o’clock are sure of foot, and their driver
is an expert. All the same it isn’t a drive
for a nervous invalid. The camp, inhabited
by 85 men, is located beside the Cumber-
land River, in which eels abound. The
canvas settlement in the valley has four
cooks presiding over a couple of big ranges,
and with pride the chef bade a Chatterer
enter and inspect a camp-made griller and a
family of kittens. Like other Edens, this
has its serpents, and no man makes his bed
until it is time to turn in.
Lome offers a variety of pleasure to the
visitor. You can bathe on a very nice beach,
and then walk to view river or lake with
six or seven waterfalls thrown in. Beware
of the inhabitants when seeking guidance.
They are obliging, but their notions of dis-
tance are elastic; this Chatterer struck an
alleged mile and a half that must have mea-
sured a solid league. Every home m Lome
has its garden, just now full of dahlias, roses
and phlox of the brightest. They are not
at all prim—as like as not you’ll find a
breakwind of fruit trees protecting the front
lawn. The blossoms of plums, quinces,
peaches, apricots, pears and apples, growing
plentifully, add their notes to the color
scheme. Even in the garden about the bush-
nursing home, where Sister Jarvis is on
duty, there were plums a-ripening. Evi-
dently sea and mountain air makes a good
blend for fruit-growing.
Lome provides the tourist with every-
thing in the way of amusement save _ golf.
There is no area of land suitable for links;
but a boarding establishment that caters for
well over 300 guests, and boasts a dance
palais, has installed a putting-green. Frank
Beaurepaire, of swimming fame, has a big
guesterie here, and a dancing resort.
Among the folk who sought the surf at
Lome during the last week or so were Mrs.
George Kettlewell, lier daughter, her niece
Natalie Wood, Dr. and Mrs. de Crespigny,
of Ararat, the Tom Hawkeses, of Geelong,
tennis champion J. Hawkes, and the Geoffrey
Straehans, who put up at the Hotel Lome.
Cora Spowers was the guest of the Edward
Manifolds, of Camperdown, who move their
domicile to their house at the sea for the
summer. Some other Western District pas-
toralists who have built here are the Charlie
Mclntyres, the James Dennises, Mrs. James
Russell, the Clive Campbells, the George
Armytages and Mrs. George Russell. One
of the comfortable residences on the beach
belongs to Mr. and Mrs. Edward Las-
celles, who gave the State vice-regals shelter
when Lord Somers’s boys’ camp was
pitched at Anglesea. In 1866, when mem-
bers of the Mountjoy family were among the
pioneer residents, the late C. E. Beale, whose
station was Bleak House, Birregurra, in-
vested largely in Lome property. Now three
of his family have most attractive permanent
residences there, and take as keen an interest
in the advancement of the place as did their
parents when the district was mostly forest.
The sou’-wester model felt hat was sported
by many women at the V.A.T.C. meeting at
Caulfield on Saturday. The hard line across
the forehead is a most trying one for even
a beauty to tackle, and this first instalment
of autumn millinery was not helpful to the
looks of either maid or matron. The weather
forecast was for “more rain”; but it was
hot and balmy until the last race, when there
came a dust-storm, followed by a slight
shower. Swayed more by existing conditions
than by prophecies, many women decided in
favor of light frocks, and in most cases that
was their only winner. Lord Somers arrived
before luncheon with Lady Somers, who
wore two shades of blue with a navy hat.
His Ex. was tailored in the chocolate-brown
tweed popular with the superior sex at the
moment, and his felt hat matched.
Mrs. Walter Brunton, from Sydney, braved
the warmth in a smart cinnamon and brown
tweed suit, with a nigger felt hat. . Susie
Spencer, who was with her, was also
apparelled in tweed —a heather mixture, with
a matching hat. Mrs. Clarence Marriott
offered contrast in floating chiffon draperies
of russet and flame pattern and a large hat.
Mrs. Merson Cooper, in black and white,
was accompanied by Marie de Bavay in an
ensemble covering of biscuit-tinted georgette.
Mrs. E. M. Pearce, whose husband had an
unexpected win with Spanish Galleon,
brought with her Mrs. Prescott, whose
geranium-red coat lent a glow to the com-
mittee ladies’ box. Mary Baillieu’s all dark
grey turnout had a Puritan effect against
her sister June’s chiffon frock patterned in
green, white and dull red. Mrs. G. D. Wil-
liams, Mrs. W. Merry (a symphony in Lido
blue), Mrs. J. Grice and Mrs. Clive Leonard
were amongst those who enjoyed the beauty
of Caulfield’s green lawns, bordered just now
with phlox of every color.
Here is a Rembrandt picture of Mrs.
"Wallace Burgess, now revisiting Melbourne.
For 26 years
she has lived
in Kenya
Colony. She
is busy renew-
ing old friend-
ships and
memories with
her husband,
who has wan-
gled nine
months’ leave
of absence
from the
Native Affairs
Department at
Nairobi, where
he is in charge
of the Central
F i n g erprint
Bureau. Mrs.
Burgess—•
Anna Newton
that was —is
giving talks
over the air about her African experiences,
and is writing a hook. The pair are being
sheltered during their stay with Mrs. Bur-
gess’s sister, Mrs. Bert Sweet, of South
Yarra.
The belief in the weather luck of Moonee
Valley was responsible for a good mid-week
attendance at last week’s rage meeting. But,
alas! the rain pit-pattered gently down
without even the break of sunshine that has
hitherto redeemed the reputation of this
course. Still in a way the luck held. No
one murmured, for the rain was a Heaven-
sent relief after a couple of days of sicken-
ing heat. Tweed-coated or macintoshed and
goloshed, with end-of-the-season felt hats,
the women folk, ’neath umbrellas, wandered
down the wet stairs of the stand to the
betting-ring. Though making but little profit,
even the worst losers found amusement in
the fractious behavior of the favorites at
the barrier. Visibility was bad, and there
was one start that was like an equestrian
frieze. Mayoress Luxton was there wrapped
in fawn check tweed with matching millinery.
With her was Mrs. U. J. Nicholas. Mrs. E.
Butler Allan sought winners in company
with Mrs. Albion Walkley, who was all in
black. Mrs. G. D. Williams was a study
in black cloth and brown fur with a felt
hat. Mrs. Harold Anderson (from Geelong),
Mrs. A. V. Ivewney, Mrs. Ben Chaffey and
Mrs. Phil Lock were others who went
a-punting.
Yachtsmen from other States and those
associated with the ten or more clubs about
our own bays went with their womenfolk
to drink tea with the G.-G. and Lady Stone-
haven at Government House on Friday after-
noon. The party added a social flavor to the
contests for the Forster and Stonehaven
Cups. The last-named, for craft of the 12ft.
dinghy class, is a championship established
by his Ex., who is Commodore-in-Chief
of the Vic. R.Y.C. Scarcity of wind
upset the racing programme, and a post-
poned heat had to take place on the day of
the tea-drinking, so some of the entrants
were unable to attend. Luckily there was a
break in the rain which has been so plenti-
ful during the sailing contest, and the
garden party, which had threatened to be
aquatic, was a pleasantly summery affair.
Nevertheless the guests, numbering close on
300, were received in the safe harbor of the
ballroom, where a substantial four o’clock
feast was spread in buffet form. An orchestra
made music. It wasn’t a frock-coat-and-bell-
topper affair —the men wore sac suits, and
some even sported club blazers. It is rumored
that a ’phoned addition to the invitation ran,
“Come in shorts if you haven’t time to
change, but don’t stop away.” Lord Stone-
haven welcomed his guests in a lounge suit
and felt hat, and her Ex. looked cool and
charming in an ivory silk frock with pleated
frills, topped by a berry-red straw hat. On
adjourning to the garden after tea, cigarettes
and pipes were brought out, and yarns were
told.
Commodores were there in full force,
including O- B. McCutcheon, of the Vic.
R.Y.C.; Arthur Peck, one of the oldest of
our yachtsmen, who skippers Davey’s Bay
Y. C.; J. White, of Royal St. Ivilda; Dr.
Sheppard Grimwade, of Royal Geelong, and
A. T. Crick, of Royal Brighton. Among
the visitors were Commodores W. E. Arnott, of
Royal Prince Alfred, Sydney, and T. L. Jones,
from. Bananaland. Mrs. O. B. McCutcheon
wore a reseda-green frock with same-toned
millinery. Mrs. Percy Arnott, of Sydney,
was in hues of fawn in gown and hat; and
Mrs. W. E. Arnott favored an ensemble of
sapphire blue. Mrs. Sheppard Grimwade
topped a chiffon frock with a squirrel coat.
Mr. and Mrs. Eric Plumridge, Brisbane; the
Milsons, Sydney; Mr. and Mrs. Whelan,
Tassie; Mr. and Mrs. H. Jones, Brisbane,
and Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Figgis, also from
Bananaland, were other visiting yachting
folk.
Its scarcity in places of entertainment has
created such a demand for un-canned Eng-
lish that on Saturday night there was a
regular stampede to the King’s Theatre,
where “The School for Scandal” was pre-
sented by the Allan Wilkie co. It was a
hopeful augury for a season that will include
Sliakspearean drama to see the stream of
people turned away. Mr. Wilkie’s prophecy
in an after-the-show speech that living flesh
and blood will be playing Sheridan’s comedy
when the talkies have gone to a long rest
seemed not far-fetched after such an excel-
lent stage production. The play, despite
the antiquity of its manners and modes,
was as fresh as a May morning. The old
melodies and dances, played by a light
orchestra, took on new charm, and even Miss
1930 put down her box of chocolates to
applaud the dancing of a dainty minuet.
A privileged hundred or so of the audience
fraternised with the players at a reception
on the stage after the curtain’s fall. Mr.
Wilkie, wearing the black-and-gold brocade
of Sir Peter, and his wife, Miss Hunter-
Watts, who was Lady Teazle, extended a
greeting hand and accepted warm congratu-
lations. The lady was in the pink-and-gold
shot taffeta gown of the final scene, topped
by a leghorn hat from which toppled a spray
of lilac. Among those who stepped behind
were Robert Best and his lady, in whose
party were the Groom lady and Jessie. With
Mrs. Harry Emmerton was Nellie Veitcli,
from whom Lorna Forbes, who played Mrs.
Candour, received her first lessons on how
to speak English on the stage. _ Knight
Archibald Strong, of Adelaide Uni., Prof.
Ernest Scott and his wife, Lt.-Col. White and
Mrs. White, the Henry Berrys, who had
their married daughter from England with
them, and Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Robins were
others who showed their appreciation of
Wilkie’s brave stand against mechanised
entertainment.
The Semco Art Needlework Go. is showing
at Ivurrajong House, Collins-street, the 375
prize-winning pieces culled from over 3000
entries. Widespread interest is taken in
the annual competitions in needlecraft
engineered by this Australian firm, and work
has been submitted from all over the Com-
monwealth, Maoriland. Fiji and South
Africa. All of these places arc represented
on the honors list. Olive Garden, of Castle-
maine, whose name is always associated with
exquisite stitchery, carries off first prize in
the white-embroidery section with a supper-
cloth. Ettie Mendelssohn, of M.L., missed
by only one mark the premier award for
colored embroidery, which goes to Miss I. I.
Robertson for a floral pattern. Miss Men-
delssohn traces early-Victorian figures in
effective coloring. Miss E. Irwin, of Nelson
(M.L.), shows rare ingenuity and talent and
carries off the prize in the novelty section
with a liighly-decorative apron. Included in
the exhibition are numerous specimens also
of crochet and tatting.
The Austral Salon, which had to give up
its clubrooms owing to lack of financial sup-
port, will this year make a bid for resur-
rection. Several former members have kept
the flag flying by getting together periodi-
cally in the M.L.O. Club headquarters in
Nicholas Buildings, and an effort is now to be
made to find a permanent home for the Salon.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton, pictured here by
Lafayette, returned only a few weeks ago
from a visit to Japan and China and has
not yet arranged the treasures she purchased
in the Orient,
but she has
again taken
up civic work.
When Mrs.
Herbert
Brookes left
for a sojourn
in U.S.A., Mrs.
Emmerton
took her place
as an or-
ganiser of the
Million Shil-
lings Appeal to
provide this
city with a per-
manent orches-
tra. She is
handing over
her South
Yarra home,
Itaveloe, for a
bridge party
to help this
fund on March 11.
The wedding of Enid Lucille, only daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. H. G. Tymms, of Westralia,
and Allan Hamilton Munro, of Canterbury,
took place in the Canterbury kirk last week,
and was followed by an evening reception
at Menzies’. Rhona Marfleet, from the West,
was attendant maid. Her white chiffon and
silver lace frock and pink hat was a set-off
to the ivory satin, tulle and Brussels lace
worn by the bride.
Kathleen, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Fallon Calcutt, of Pasley-street, South
Yarra, is receiving congratulations on her
just-announced engagement to Laurence
Foster, second son of the H. Fosters,
Allenby-avenue, East Melbourne.
An engagement let out last week was that
of John, younger son of Major-General and
Mrs. H. W. Grimwade, of Frankston, and
pretty Erin Stead, daughter of the late S. Y.
Stead, of Amesbury House, South Yarra.
Miss Stead’s sister Nell is the Viscountess
Mandevillc.
One of a crop of engagements announced
last week is that of Joy, elder daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Steven Rolls, of Toorak, to
Deric Pearse, of Edgecliff, Sydney, whose
parents, the A. F. Pearses, live at South
Yarra.
The Allan Arnolds gave a dinner-party
with bridge at Ardoch, Dandenong-road, the
other evening to welcome' into their family
Bell Longland, who is to marry their son
Allan on the fourth of next month. The
bride-elect wore golden-brown lace mingled
with lapis lazuli-hued georgette.
Mrs. W. M. Robins gathered up office-
bearers of the branches of the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital Auxiliary, of which she is
president, for an open-air tea at the Royal
Mint at the week-end. Pupils of Eunice
Watson performed classic dances on the green
sward, and there was a physical culture
demonstration by students of Mrs. Weber,
all to the lilt of a stringed orchestra.
It is proposed to establish a Frances
Osborne prize in Music. Miss Osborne,
who died a couple of weeks ago, was
for many years one of our foremost
teachers. ‘ She had been a pupil of Louis
Pabst and was on the staff of the leading
girls’ colleges in this city. Movements
for the. advancement of musical art had
her support and practical aid, and the pro-
posed memorial is of a sort she would have
approved.
The two Jimmies, Whelan and O’Neill,
have sent a reminder that they have put
on paint and feathers, sharpened their
hatchets and started once more on the war-
path for St. Vincent’s Hospital. For three
or four years now they have been organising
hops with bridge and other trimmings for
the institution, and the first of the 1930
bunch is fixed for March 8 at Brenan Hall.
Mrs. Norman Menzies and her son Archie
returned to London in the Orvieto. The
lady, the Dorothy Vane of not-so-long-ago,
revisits Australia every six months or so.


Drummond’s Diamond .Rings
Sloo—£3o
S 29—Circle Ring,
set with 25 brilli-
ant cut diamonds.
Best value in
Australasia.
£lB
Sl3—£2s
jpi—-
Sl—£37/10/
Sl2—£6o
S24—£so
520—£125
53 £5O
54 £B5
t.4:1
526—£37/10/-
SII —£30
SI 0—£250
S9—£lso
The latest calibre-
cut diamond ring
with baton-cut and
diamond-set
shoulders,
£75
An addled satisfaction to the ordinary pleasures of
choosing a ring is afforded when a selection covers a
pleasing diversity of designs, and offers a range of prices
sufficiently extensive to accommodate each individual
requirement. DRUMMOND’S selection does this and it
includes many designs unconventional and exclusive.
Whether considerations dictate a purchase involving
modest or liberal expenditure, the quality of the gems,
the workmanship, and the value of the firm’s rings—in
either instance—will be found to be strictly consistent
with a very high standard of excellence which they have
maintained for three-quarters of a century.
Mm. Brummonb & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
é
oo
SHAMS,
Ofi
■TO A
PRACTICAL
UNDERSTANDING
ELECTRICITY
PRICE 20/-
POST FREE
AUDEL’S HANDY BOOK OF
PRACTICAL ELECTRICITY
A quick, simplified ready reference, giving
complete instruction and inside informa-
tion. Handy to use. Easy to understand.
For Engineers, Professional Electricians,
Students and all interested in Electricity.
A reliable authority and a handy helper
for every electrical worker.
INFORMATION
The 10,'/0 pages and 2600 diagrams give
accurate, up-to-date and complete infor-
mation on: Rules and Laws, RADIO,
Storage Batteries, WIRING DIA-
GRAMS, Power and House Wiring,
Automatic ’Phones, Auto Ignition, Motor
Troubles, ARMATURE WINDING,
Cable Splicing, Elevators and Cranes,
Sign Flashers, Transformers, Practical
Management, Modern Applications—
READY REFERENCE on every elec-
trical subject. Pocket Size, handsomely
bound in flexible Red LEATHER.
w
JUST READY!
Inside Trade Information
for Carpenters, Builders,
Joiners, Building Mech-
anics and all Woodwork-
ers on Care and Use of
Tools, ITow to Use the
Steel Square, File Saws,
Make All Kinds of Joints,
Draw and Read Plans,
Write Specifications,
Make Estimates, How to
Frame Roofs and Houses,
Lay Out Work, Put in
Foundations, Full In-
struction on In- and Out-
side Building Work, Stair
Building, Sawmill Work,
Practical Painting, Thou-
sands of Short Cuts that
save time and money,
information usually
obtained only by hard ex-
perience.
AUDEL’S CARPENTERS 8 BUILDERS’ GUIDES
1600 PAGES—37OO ILLUSTRATIONS.
Auclel’s New Guides consist of four handy pocket-size volumes of over 1600 pages
of practical data, thoroughly illustrated with 3700 charts, diagrams, including
calculations for every job from making the excavation to constructing the com-
plete building.
4 VOLS., PRICE 30/-, POST FREE
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
ê
r South Australian
.Perpetual Forests L™
A
ë
MESSAGE No. 2.
South Australian—Therefore Good!
Official forestry records of growth prove that the
South-East of South Australia, where this Company’s
forests are located, is the finest timber-growing
country in the world.
Proof:—
Extract from South Australian Government Records,
Mount Burr Forest, Millicent:
19 years old—volume per acre, 93,240 super feet.
Penola Forest:
17 years old—volume per acre, 68,376 super feet.
ē
This is Your Protection.
To distinguish
South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.
from those companies now using similar
names, we have registered for the
Company’s exclusive use the title design
illustrated above, and the “Pine-tree”
trademark shown. Literature published
by us always contains these designs.
South Australian
Perpetual Forests Ltd.
Bowman Buildings,
King William Street, Adelaide.
(Plantations: Penola and Mt. Gambier,
South Australia.)
POST THIS COUPON WITHOUT DELAY!
To South Australian Perpetual Forests Ltd.,
Bowman Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide.
Please forward your booklet “Tree Farming” to—
Name \ i
Address


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.1.1., General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds - -- -- -- -- -- £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed ----- £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in the following departments:—
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
All Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim, Bonus.
E. H. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Bloch, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
e
Protect your hands with
Cutftcura Soap
Always in view, your hands should be
as attractive as possible ... To prevent
redness and roughness caused By daily
tasks, use CuticuraSoap every time you
wash your hands; always dry thoroughly
. . . Assist with Cuticura Ointment if
necessary.
PURITY
Soap Is. Talcumls.3d.
Ointment Is. and 2s.
Sample each free.
Address:
R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
ROYAL: MURDER ON THE SECOND
FLOOR.
(Commencing Saturday).
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Kickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
FOLLOW THROUGH.
With GUS BLUETT, CECIL KELLAWAY.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE ALLAN WILKIE SEASON.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
k ' MELBOURNE.
Commencing March 1,
LEO CARILLO in
LOMBARDI LTD.
UOYT’S DELUXE THEATRE,
41 MELBOURNE.
JOHN GILBERT and GRETA GARBO in
A WOMAN OF AFFAIRS.
ALSO
See and Hear
LLOYD HUGHES & MARGARET LIVINGSTONE in
ACQUITTED.
Milling Meeting.
The Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging
Company. No Liability.
MOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that au
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of the above Company will be
held at the Registered Office of the Com-
pany, A.M.P. Chambers, Elizabeth Street.
Hobart, on FRIDAY, the 28th day of FEB-
RUARY, 1930, at twelve o’clock noon, for the
purpose of considering and (if thought fit)
passing the following resolutions: —
(1) That the Capital of the Company be increased
from £250,000 in 250,000 shares of £1 each to
£312,500 in 250,000 shares of £l/5/- each, by
increasing the amount payable in respect of each
share by the amount of 5/-.
(2) That the Company be authorised to borrow
from time to time such sum or sums of money as
the Directors shall think fit, in accordance with
the Company’s Rules and Regulations .
By order of the Directors,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Hobart, February 12, 1930.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB,
FLEMINGTON.
AUTUMN MEETING
MARCH 1,4, 6 and 8.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP
AUSTRALIAN CUP
C. M. LLOYD STAKES
KING’S PLATE
AUTUMN STEEPLECHASE
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
THE
PATRIOT
|^CTMEDjy^WOMEN|
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFi?E,
2 HUNTER STREET.
e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
è
.THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
t.f you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin made their
first public appearance for some weeks at
the Ascot races, Colonel Campbell in attend-
ance. Lady Goodwin was in rose and black
floral ninon, with a rose Pandean hat. Mrs.
de Witt Batty was in blue and red floral
ninon; Mrs. Wliittingham in scarlet and
ivory ; Mrs. Willie Persse in heliotrope and
grey ; Mrs. Cecil Palmer in hand-embroidered
daffodil. Mrs. Burton Withy wore cream;
Mrs. William Bulcock, leaf green and
orange; Leith Graham, calyx green - Vivienne
Deshon, daffodil; Mrs. E. T. Bell, pink
striped silk; and Mrs. A. C. F. Halford,
black lace.
The Queensland Rowing Association had
a bridge benefit in Albert House, the first
shivoo of a series designed to raise £5OO
to send the champion eight to compete at
Mannum (S.A.), Mrs. J. C. Trotter, wife of
the organising secretary and herself the presi-
dent, wore figured cream mariette with a
swathed silk girdle.
The fourth of the C.W.A. huts at Queen’s
Beach, Redcliffe, was opened by Mrs. A. E.
Moore and christened the Pittsworth. Mrs.
H. C. Hodgson, president of the Pittsworth
branch, handed the keys to Mrs. Moore.
Afternoon tea was served in the grounds.
The Premier was amongst those' present.
Keith Hole, son of the A. H. Holes of
Werris Creek, was married in St. John’s
Cathedral to Edna Evelyn Walsh, of Coff’s
Harbor. Bishop de Witt Batty tied the knot.
The bride wore golden grosgfain, and a veil
of Brussels net bound with a chaplet of gold
leaves. Nancy Hole and M. McGearey
’maided in lettuce-green lace, with bows of
autumn-tinted tulle at waist and bandeaux
of autumn leaves. The feasting was at
Lennons, Mrs. A. L. Walsh hostessing in
black mariette.
At St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane, Rupert
Heggarton married Kathleen, daughter of the
E. A. Hollands of Greenslopes. The bride
was in cream Chantilly over shell-pink and
broidered Brussels lace veil. Dorothy Deigh-
ton and Lorna 01dmeado_ws ’maided in daf-
fodil over pink with daffodil bonnet-shaped
hats. Mrs. Holland had a reception at her
home, wearing navy and fawn. The honey-
moon will be spent on the Northern Rivers
and at Canberra.
Alma, elder
daughter o f
Mr. and Mrs.
F. E. Morley,
Chelmer, has
announced her
engagement to
William
Dixon Marquis
of Raba u 1,
son of W. L.
and the late
Mrs. Marquis
o f Tarainga.
The girl’s
happy face
looks out of
the window
alongside.
The Queens-
land Press
Institute fare-
welled Mr.
and Mrs. E.
E. Edwards,
who are off to Europe, in Stewart’s Criterion.
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Lavis received, Mrs.
La vis in satin with a grey and red applique
and navy hat. Mrs. Edwards wore an apricot-
tinted frock with saxe-blue beads and hat.
Among members present were the Sanderson
Taylors. F. Bryan, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Prior,
Mr. and Mrs. Sligo, Mesdames W. Young,
Lewis Townsend, P. Kirwan, M. Forrest,
Misses Melton. Gore Jones, Eve Drury, Tessa
Reading, Etta’ Young, Eileen Lavis, General
Spencer Browne, A. G- Davies, M. L. Read-
ing, W- M. Smith, Preston Day, Percy Reay,
A- R. Rose, Gillies, P. Luney, Melton, A.
E. Joseph, Eaton and Campbell.
March 1 sees the return of Nellie Bramley
to the Royal in comedy, “Betty’s First Bet,”
and Frank Neil is putting on a revival of
“Charley’s Aunt” this week at His Majesty’s.
Tambourine Mountain is at last to have
a toll-bar road, which is expected to bring
crowds of motorists to this pleasure resort.
The cost should soon be defrayed, for even
now hundreds of cars make there every
Sunday.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The persistent heat has interfered little
with social activities. Mr. and Mrs. J. F.
Downer gave a dance at their hills residence,
Stirling East, to welcome home their son
Sydney from Cambridge. It was an alfresco
affair on grassy terraces, a dancing floor laid
on one side, and supper set on the other in
a marquee. A black-beaded georgette was
worn by the hostess, and Alleyne Downer
was in a yellow georgette, long in the skirt.
There was another big dance on Saturday
night at Wolta Wolta, Clare, when Mr. and
Mrs. R. E. Hope celebrated the debut of
their second daughter, Betty. Dancing was
in the drawing-room, hung with bunches of
multi-colored balloons. Supper was served
in the dining-room by candlelight, while
Chinese lanterns made the old garden
quaintly attractive. Mrs. Hope wore a
toilette of fine black lace. Betty was in
cream silk net and lace, with pink rosebuds,
and another deb, Mary Hackett, featured
white taffeta. Many of the guests put in a
week-end at Clare.
On Tuesday afternoon the Mayoress (Mrs.
Lavington Bonython) handed over the £lOOO
raised by the South Australian Operatic
Society last November, when “Florodora”
had a week’s run at the Prince of Wales
Theatre, to several deserving institutions,
including the Queen’s Home, Mothers’ and
Babies’ Health Association, the Tubercular
Soldiers’ Aid Society, the Children’s Hos-
pital, the Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary and
the District Trained Nursing Society. The
Mayoress’s reception-room was decorated
with gladioli and delphinium, and the cup
that cheers partaken of by numerous repre-
sentatives of the beneficiary charities.
Miss Elizabeth Fiege, who has returned to
Adelaide on a visit after 10 years’ residence
in the United States, was the guest of honor
on Wednesday* afternoon at an at-home given
bv ai>s. w. F. O. Grote, at Llandovey, Robe-
terrace. I i
rest-room for nurses has been opened by
the Nurses’ Christian Union on the fifth
floor of Epworth Building, Pirie-street.
The medical knight Verco is patron, and
Matron Davidson, of Keswick hospital, presi-
dent. It will prove a boon for nurses engaged
in private work, who can use it at any time.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Elwick looked its best for the Cup meet-
ing ; the day was fine enough for summer
frocking, the attendance large and the wins
popular. G. H. Cann is Fortune’s special
favorite this year; his bay Tarapiinga won
both the Hobart and Lanceston Cups, with
his Woodchatter second in each instance.
His Ex. presented him with the cup, given
by T. Lyons and Merson Cooper, after
the race. Chairman and Mrs. Lyons, the
latter wearing printed chiffons in mauve and
green with black hat, entertained the vice-
regal party and a host of friends at tea in the
pavilion. Margaret O’Grady wore a dahlia-
red ensemble of wool georgette, beige and
red hat. Admiral Evans’s wife looked
slim and smart in all black. Skirts were
noticeably longer, and flowing draperies pro-
vided a marked contrast to chic tailored
suits and straight-up-and-down ensembles.
There were many mainlanders, including
the Merson Coopers, Mrs. Walter Marks
and Miss Marks, Capt. and Mrs. Scriven,
Capt. and Mrs. Thyrwhitt, Mrs. A. D.
Walsh and Miss Walsh. Among others
present were the Trevor Eardley Wilmots,
the F. X. de Bavays, the Francis Fosters,
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Cameron, Mrs. T. W.
H. Clarke, the Walter Gellibrands, the R.
C. Fields, Mr. and Mrs. Eustace Cameron,
Miss Grimwade, the W. B. Propstings, the
Alan Walkers, Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Miller,
Dr. and Mrs. Sprent, Elliott Lewis and his
lady, Dr. and Mrs. A. Giblin, Mrs.
Thos. Murdoch and daughter Keir, Miss
Foster, Dr. and Mrs. Rogers, Dr., Mrs. and
Miss G. Clemons, the E. H. Websters, Mrs.
Dan Archer and officers from the naval
squadron with their wives.
The Race Ball was got up by 38 matrons,
both of town and country, and held at the
Continental the night before the Cup. Some
of the young folk found the ceremony and
style rather trying after the casual hops to
which they are use I.
Nancy Cuff, prominent in golfing and social
circles in the North, was quietly married to
H. G. Doolan, of Hobart, at the Church of
the Apostles. The bride’s frock was of
honey-colored lace and georgette, with cherry-
red hat. Sister Betty followed in brick-red
crepe de Chine, with beige-colored hat. The
honeymoon began in the country, with a
trip to Melbourne to follow.
The 11. P. Onslows lent their house,
Turiff Lodge, New Norfolk, for a farewell
tea-party given by the N.N. branch of the
Victoria League to Mrs. Walter Gellibrand,
who is flitting presently to Europe with her
husband. There was quite a crowd to wish
bon voyage to the popular little lady.
Mrs. Hungerford, now on her way to Eng-
land, stayed in Sydney to attend the wedding
of her nephew, Bill Cullen, before board-
ing the Otranto. The Arndell Lewises went
as far as Sydney with her.
Molly, one of the pretty twin daughters
of the Ernest Blyths, Kimberley, sports a
ring given her by Dr. Trevor James, of
Launceston.
Sister Dora Beatrice, Collegiate School, is
taking a trip to the Cold Country. It won’t
be all holiday, for she is intent on studying
educational methods in English church
schools.
Henley-on-Tamar, in the northern capital,
was favored by perfect weather and drew a
record attendance. Some of the decorated
boats were things of beauty and the illumin-
ated foreshore and the fireworks display ma'de
a fine spectacle in the evening. In the
afternoon the Mayor and Mayoress Osborne
entertained a great crowd at tea.
Brenda, youngest chick of the R. A.
McEaclierns, and Angus Campbell plumped
for a quiet wedding in the bride’s own home
in College-street, Launceston. Only imme-
diate relatives were invited, but the house
was decorated throughout, and the bride’s
lovely frock of ivory crepe satin wmuld have
graced any setting. The veil of Limerick
lace was a family heirloom. Nancy Mc-
Eachern and Estelle Campbell ’maided in
printed ninon frocks.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
The new wing to St. Joseph’s Convent
was formally blessed by Father Hensche be-
fore being declared open by Colonel Weddell,
Government Resident, on January 26. There
was a large gathering of Darwin folk pre-
sent to admire the building, which cost over
£2OOO to erect. Refreshments were served
by members of St. Mary’s Social Club.
Foundation Day was enlivened by. the
football carnival, an annual event. This year
it took the form of a procession of deco-
rated cars, bicycles and folk in fancy dress ;
a comic football match on the Oval, an abori-
ginal football match, and all kinds of sports.
An aeroplane (“Spirit of the-Aerial Mail”)
and a blue and gold lugger were among de-
signs that caught the eyes of the judges.
Over 30 decorated cars took part in the pro-
cession.
Obit, Mrs. W. Lee, one of the vice-presi-
dents of the local Kuo Ming Tong, who repre-
sented Darwin last year at the Chinese
Nationalist Conference in Sydney. She was
a highly-educated woman.


St. Cecrge
New Zealands
Greatest Delicaey-
—and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny inch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its;
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is caught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
Sg
A
sP”.
Tr
a Wm
mmfi-
to reserve just the accomadation you require
upon arrival in Melbourne. A few words at
at a small outlay and ‘'Scott’s” will do the reft.
This means that a sumptuously furnished, light,
well-ventilated room with hot and cold water service
(and private bathroom attached if desired), electric fire
and diredt and intercommunicating telephone will await you.
“Scott’s” is Melbourne’s foremost & moft central residental hotel.
Inclusive Tariff or
Bed and Breakfait rate as desired
Collins
Street ,
J&ottJr Melbourne .
7 eltjrama and Cables: “Scottsotel ’ Melbourne .
Telephone: Cent. 9010 (Ten Lines)
e
Men Are Human —(Continued from p. Jp!).
“My dear, you simply can’t,” she said,
putting an arm around her. “Y'ou’re not
even sure that Leo’s back. Let him send
for you If only you knew how dif-
ferent the men are when you’re not here.
Even Boyd!”
She gave her soft, gurgling laugh that
seemed to cover everything she said with
a rubber sheath. It was always Roger’s
interest in Barbara she was facetious about
as they cut for partners at bridge or sat
at afternoon-tea under the passion-vines.
Now that Christmas was near there was
very little work being done, except the
clearing of the racecourse on the flat by
the lagoon. That had become McCurdie’s
interest for the time being, and he had
every available man on the job with mat-
tocks and picks, lending a hand himself
sometimes at grubbing out suckers or bum-
“‘Hullo!’ called a voice from the bank above. Boyd sprang up to see Barbara sitting on her horse.”
ing off stumps, a handkerchief knotted
round his neck and the sweat pouring down
his heated face.
Unknown to himself, his social desires,
his vitality, even his hankering after power
had been stimulated by Barbara’s presence.
He followed her with his eyes as she played
tennis with Boyd, hung about the yard
watching Mace, or came up from the creek
with her towel. There was a verve about
her, a gaiety, something that made the
world around her seem interesting. And
yet she was not really happy; he was sure
of that. " .
“Mucked up her life and knows it,” he
told himself. “Thank God, there aren’t any
children to complicate the business.”
They drove home one afternoon from
the bore-drains on the southern fence,
where they had been shooting wood-duck
in the reeds, and a silence fell on them
as they rattled along beneath the creek-
gums. The eyes of both of them w“ere fixed
on Boyd, who was cantering on ahead on
the black horse, sitting with military erectness
in the saddle, and fighting with his mount,
which was making spasmodic little bursts
for the timber. It had been a long day,
broken only by a camp •in the shade at
noon while they ate their lunch, and for
the first time McCurdie was conscious of
a slight moodiness in Barbara. There had
been a difference between her and Boyd
about the black horse, which she was eager
to ride home. Or was that merely the
result of another difference? McCurdie
didn’t know. The best of women were can-
tankerous sometimes—nerves too near the
surface.
On the flat where the men were engaged
in clearing there were stacked heaps of
bushes, and little fires were lit in a circle,
the smoke rising spirally in the mellow
afternoon sunlight. McCurdie reined up
his horses for a few minutes to survey the
scene. There was an atmosphere of jollity
in the air. Some of the smaller boys from
the camp were racing about with firesticks,
setting one heap of dry bushes alight after
another, shrill laughter coming from their
throats as they tumbled over the lean
kangaroo-dogs that were nosing around. In
the shade the overseer and Larry Byrne
lay smoking, their work over for the day.
Josie Duncan had brought a bucket of
tea and some scones down from the kitchen,
and was handing a pannikin to Boyd, who
was leaning from his horse. Two or three
times he nearly reached the proffered drink,
but as his fingers touched the pannikin the
black colt bounded aside, almost slipping
from beneath him. He gave it up at last
and swung himself from the saddle, the girl
laughing as she came over to stroke the
quivering horse’s neck. She looked cool
and unconscious, her freshly-ironed white
frock standing out in relief against the
dusty working-clothes of the men, and her
figure poised to support the weight of the
bucket. McCurdie gazed at her with
curious concentration,
almost as though he were
seeing her for the first
time.
“Treasure of a girl,
that!” he said suddenly.
“As capable in the house
as two other women, and
always fresh as a peach
when her work’s done....
Good-looking, too! ”
“For the time being,”
said Barbara, half to herself. “In a few
years she won’t be able to find her waist.”
“Eh?” said McCurdie, roused by some-
thing in her voice.
“That horse really is a brute,” said Bar-
bara. “See the way it’s lashing out at the
dogs • Yes, she’s certainly good-looking.”
They drove in silence to the yards, where
Billy Mace was finishing off the last of
the "horses, his tall figure nearly hidden in
a haze of dust. He had had a fall. There
was blood on his cheek and a sulky look
in his eyes, which deepened when Boyd
came cantering up on the black colt.
CHAPTER XII.
Conflict.
“I never expect much of men,” said Ada
one evening; “they’re only human, and
most of them can’t stick to any woman for
long. I’d like to know where Frank Day’s
picked up a more attractive one than the
one he married, though.”
“Eh?” he said. “Has she been telling you
things?” ,
“Oh dear, no!” replied Ada. ‘lts easier
to get the kernel from a candle-nut than
confidences from Barbara. And she doesnt
like me. I can feel her stiffen when we re
left alone. But I’m able to put two and
two together as well as most people.”
“Not much chance of doing it when the
numbers aren’t there,” said McCurdie. “No
one knows anything about her life with Day.
“My dear Roger,” said Ada, with a touch
of irony, “do you think anything but an-
other woman would have driven her back
to a place like Niva Downs? Another
woman, or perhaps more than one.”
He did not answer for the moment. His
mind was on the afternoon, three months
after old Wally- had died, when he had
ridden over to Niva Downs to persuade
Barbara to come and stay at Abernethy
for awhile. She had been living with friends
in the township, he knew, and her future
was unsettled with Leo talking about selling
off the place and going to the war. There
was no one at home when he arrived, but
a dusty car he recognised as the doctor’s
was standing near the edge of the verandah.
As he sat waiting in a canvas-chair two
figures came sauntering over the plain that
was starred with everlastings, their hats
off, and the man’s arm around the girl’s
slim shoulders. Youth and the magic of
early summer! He had pretended to be
dozing when they reached the verandah,
and Barbara had tickled his closed eyes
with a flower, laughing self-consciously
when he roused himself; but there had been
no embarrassment about Day as he slipped
into his motoring-coat. A big, bullish
fellow, with a skin as pink as the belly of
a shorn merino, and a pugnacious look
about the eyes! It was only a couple of
weeks later that he heard they had married
and gone to Sydney.
The doctor’s face came before him now,
the fair, curly hair, the faint, quizzical smile,
rousing a peculiar emotion.
“The fellow’s not a man’s bootlace,” he
grunted. “Only married her probably be-
cause he thought she had money. Lord
alone knows how much he really did get
out of what old Wally left! Anyway, he’s
managed to mess up Barbara’s life pretty
completely.”
Ada smiled sceptically, reaching for the
edge of the window to knock the ash from
her cigarette.
“For awhile, perhaps,” she said. “People’s
lives aren’t shattered so easily—not in my
experience. Barbara’s got half a dozen in
front of her yet, most likely.. If she comes
to grief, though, I don’t think it’ll be
through Frank Day.”
“What,” said McCurdie—“you mean
something about Leo?”
“Oh dear, no! I don’t think she bothers
about Leo’s troubles—even if he had any
more serious than a rattle in his car or a
slight outbreak of fluke among the
sheep She’s head over ears in love with
Boyd, though, and has just begun to find
it out.”
“Poof!” said McCurdie incredulously.
“What put that into your head?”
Ada gave her low, amused laugh as she
rose to make herself ready for bed.
“You old bat, Roger!” she said, standing
poised in front of him for a moment with
her chin tilted back. “You’ve been riding
about with them for a fortnight, and you
haven’t noticed that. Where do you keep
your eyes? Men are all alike. They can see
a thing on the edge of the skyline, but never
what’s happening just under their noses.
McCurdie was dumbfounded for a
moment. He had never imagined any de-
velopment like that. But hadn’t he? Little
conversations and incidents rose like
bubbles from the vague depths of his un-
conscious mind, things he had observed
without pondering on them. He had been
aware of a slight heightening of Barbara’s
vitality whenever Boyd came within range,
and once when the black colt had lashed
out at him in the yards he had noticed
her face whiten and a catch come to her
breath; noticed a slight jerkmess m her
laugh afterwards, when she found Boyd was
unhurt! But it was the way Ada took
Barbara’s infatuation for granted that
brought an uneasy conviction to him.
Women always knew what was in the minds
of other women!
“I don’t believe there’s anything in it—
just fluff,” he said dogmatically. “Barbara’s
at a loose end, poor little devil, and no
wonder! Girls oughtn’t to be allowed to tie
themselves up for good at her age. If I had
a daughter*—no, I’m damned if I know
what I’d do if she lost her head about some
waster or other.”
He was faintly disturbed; somehow he
could not take the matter as lightly as
Ada did. It had once been his dream that
Boyd should marry this girl, who seemed
marked out for him in every way, but now
that the cards had been dealt it was better
that they should lie as they had fallen.
(Continued on next page.)


Stuart Crystal is made by hand- — slqwly/ lovingly
and with masterly skill. If the name STUART is
etched on a piece of glass that piece will delight you
all your days with its exquisite beauty. Alore, your
children and their children will share
your joy, with gratitude and pride in
your tastey knowing that they have
an authentic product of Stuarts of
Stourbridge.
Hi
■
m
m
111
m
.ay.. -*»■/,
mam ■
-
mam
H i
English Hand-ma.de Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
Unbreakable in
Oven use. Taste-
fully decorated.
Clean, white body.
Replacement
guarantee^
m
mi
i
Made to be used on the table.
Does not break when placed
on the cold slab from a hot
oven. Replacement guarantee
against breakage in oven use.
Price of
medium size
Round. Casserole
12/9
jCarllon
OVENWARI
English Manufacture.
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces), from— —
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Smedley Service. — F.
è
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (hi 6), 6d. being postage.
fjl
AUSTRALASIAN BOOKS
Jf you are interested in Books on Travel,
Colonial Topography, Literature relating to the
Australian States, New Zealand, Polynesia and
the South Seas;
Books on Arabia, Persia, Indonesia and the
Par East;
Scarce publications of the leading
LEARNED SOCIETIES, SCIENTIFIC
PERIODICALS and TECHNICAL JOURNALS,
Kindly send for our latest Catalogue, (N.S.
No. 2), listing nearly 1400 items.
ORDERS FROM AUSTRALIA AND NEW
ZEALAND PROMPTLY EXECUTED.
WM. DAWSON & SONS, LTD.,
{Rare Book Dept.),
Cannon House, Ludgate Circus, London, E.C.4,
England.
Telegrams, Cables: Nonnac, Cent, London.
WJjll lggl^
c Mdjlaxour
At dll good hotels
and tobacconists
Special box prices on revues
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GiORGE STREET
f
Marriage was a definite contract, after all.
If people made a mistake they had to go
through with it. Otherwise there was a possi-
bility of a bad smash-up that would involve
the whole structure of the life about them.
But, watching Boyd, McCui’die became
assured that he, at least, was not being
driven by • a secret passion; there wasn’t
a sign that his interest in Barbara was more
than friendly. He had taken her going as
casually as her coming, and one could as
soon suspect him of having lost his head
about Josie Duncan, who smartened up so
wonderfully when he was around. No likeli-
hood of an advance into dangerous waters
on his part! McCurdie was very content
about the way his son was settling down
on the place. The lean, rather strained look
that had marked him when he came home
was passing, and his face was filling out and
broadening. He took a delight in swinging
a mattock with the men on the race-
course, swimming with them in the hole
below the crossing at sundown, or in merely
lying stretched out on the grass at smoke-oh,
with his head in the shade and his body in
the sun. Not a shadow of regret at having
abandoned his legal career, and no hanker-
ing after town! It seemed as if the animal
in him was stretching itself and purring,
soothed by this pleasant, untroubled life of
the senses.
There was an enforced easiness, too,
in the way he got on with the men. He
could chiak the overseer about the way he
drooled over his map, or twit Larry Byrne
about his use of hair-oil, without raising
a suspicion of soreness. In the evenings
he played cards over at the men’s quarters,
Miss Carmody or Josie coming in to take
a hand, and his presence had already done
a great deal to bridge the gulf between the
two sections of the station. McCurdie, who
had something cross-grained in the nature
of him and found periodic relief in rubbing
people the wrong way, took an odd pleasure
in Boyd’s greater tact and sociability. He
would not have made himself over, but
men were human, and perhaps there was
more than one way of managing them.
And Boyd had shown that he could use
his weight when the proper time came.
There was that affair at the El Arish well!
“The old chap doesn’t seem to have had
a cheque for donkeys’ years,” he said. “That
looks a bit over the odds. What’s he been
getting out of all the hard work he puts
into the place?”
“Eh?” said McCurdie. “Taken his wages
out at the store, hasn’t he?”
“I suppose so. That doesn’t seem a fair
deal, though. It’s like keeping him working
for his tucker.”
“Not a bit,” objected McCurdie. “The
old fool hasn’t any sense of money, and as
soon as he sees a clasp-knife or belt he
fancies he must have his hands on it right
away. The colored streak in him, of course!
Then he’s always telling the old women of
the camp to get flour and sugar put down
to his account when they’re short. What
can you do with a fellow like that? At the
end of every year he’s in debt to the books,
and more than once I’ve written it off and
started him afresh. You might as well ex-
pect a duck to keep its feet dry as that fellow
to keep on the right side of the ledger.”
There was a cloud in Boyd’s eyes as he
leant back in his chair, sucking at his cold
pipe. Hadn’t the old fellow once talked of
going off trapping again as soon as he saved
a bit of money?
“That’s the game his heart’s in,” he said.
“I never hear him mention it now, though.”
“And why the devil should he?” flashed
McCurdie. “He’s got a good home for him-
self’and his family, and they’re all doing
well; happy, too, as a bunch of store-cattle
in a lucerne-patch. Trapping? You haven’t
seen Ella driving up to the hotel in Fallon’s
buckboard with her baby in her arms! And
you don’t remember the crowd of dead-
beats they looked the night Duncan
brought them here in his covered cart.
Lord, if anyone’s done well out of Aber-
nethy that family has. It’s made them.
The whole pack of them would have gone
to pot by now if I hadn’t picked them up
and set them on their feet.”
He talked with a trace of heat, for he
was aware of a- vestige of scepticism in the
grey eyes that were fixed on his own.
Aware, too, that this sort of difference
always cropped up as soon as Boyd and he
really came to close quarters! And if
there was one thing he was sensitive about
it was his treatment of Duncan. Why,
after all he had done for the old fellow,
should there linger the idea that he had
caught him in a trap? It was in the air
somewhere; its reflection shone faintly on
Boyd’s face.
“Duncan hasn’t been blowing off to you,
has he?” he said quickly.
“Good Lord, no!” Boyd assured him with
a dry laugh. “I’ve hardly had three words
with him since I came home. But the look
of him—like an old working-bullock that’s
had something broken in him and knows it.”
“Well, I don’t know what he’d have
looked like if he’d stayed trapping,” was
McCurdie’s answer. “Half a dozen mouths
to fill beside his own! I’ve put a roof over
his head and given his family a chance —
what more could he want? Freedom and an
empty belly! That’s all right for those
\yho haven’t tried it. The bedrock truth is
that when you’re running things you’ve got
to remember that the bulk of men don’t
know what they’re after. Give them what’s
good for them, and keep their necks well
in the .collar, and they’ll thank you in the
end. Not that it matters a damn what
they think so long as you can justify your-
self in your.own eyes.”
Yet it was not to justify himself in his
own eyes that he laid his books aside that
evening and talked, spreading himself on
the lounge and taking out his pipe. This
argument about Duncan was a small thing,
but it seemed to arise out of a gulf that
still stood between him and his son. He
was uneasy when Boyd criticised any of
his actions, moved in the depths of his
secret being. It was all very well to bluff,
but that was a fact that was becoming
more apparent to him every day. And why
the devil should Boyd, who mixed so
easily with other people, always seem to
be on his guard when, they were together?
Almost as if they were engaged in a duel,
and he was afraid of getting something
foisted on to him? Was it because of the
way he had been compelled to assert his
will and authority twenty years before,
when it was a case of throwing a boy into
the water or letting him grow up without
learning to swim? Or were there seeds
of conflict deeply planted in their separate
natures?
He tried to brush these thoughts aside as
he lay talking of his own father, his struggle
to build up Abernethy on borrowed money,
his political ambitions. If the race-meeting
were a success it would mean his emergence
once again as a popular figure, the chief
man of the district, and secure him from
opposition, at least from his own side. And
with that certain, his prospects looked
bright. Two out of three men in the dis-
trict had interests in the land, in some
form or another, and after their experience
of the last few years
“Not that that matters,” he said, as he
had so often said before; “I’ll move out
whether I win or not. Before the elections
come on, even. I’ve tried to keep in the
background since you took charge, and after
the races—well, if I still hang on you can
put me on wages. That is, if you think I’m
worth a place on the books.”
A chuckle sounded from his throat as h'
rose and reached for the whisky bottle. At
the moment he quite believed that he meant
to retire and give Boyd a free hand to run
the place as he liked. He did not want to
make plans too far ahead, though; the races
occupied all the foreground of his mind.
A conviction possessed him that this gather-
ing together of his neighbors would resolve
all the disharmonies about him and secure
his position, once and for all.
He had given lavish orders in prepara-
tion for a crowd, and had urged the teams
to make their trips early in case bad
weather should hold them up on the roads.
The store and the verandah of the men’s
quarters were already cluttered with cases,
and a tarpaulin marquee had been erected
at the back of the meat-house to hold the
overflow’. There were barrels of beer, crate;
of hams, sacks of flour and sugar, enough
provisions to feed an army, it seemed
Then there were trophies of every kind fo
the sports and races, silver-mounted bi’idlet
electro-plated cups, elaborate sets of harness.
A programme had been made out to fil
in the three days, and Farquhar and Lee
Mahon were acting with Boyd as a com-
mittee. Otherwise McCurdie planned
everything and supervised the way it was
carried out. Along the banks of the lagoon
tents had been erected for people crowded
out of the homestead, and on the course the
men were engaged in rigging up seats,
trestle-tables and bough-sheds. Invitations
had been sent out, not merely to the
adjoining stations, but to those many miles
distant, even to business people in the town-
ship; and McCurdie knew from the gossip
that floated in on him that no memory of
bad feeling in the past was likely to .keep
his neighbors away. They were coming.
It was with this feeling of being carried
along on a current of goodwill that he came
up from a swim one afternoon to see Mace
standing under a pepper-tree by the meat-
house, talking to Josie, who was serving
him with beef. There was a disconsolate
air about the tall horsebreaker as he fixed
his eyes on the girl’s face, and he seemed
to be making an effort to prolong the con-
versation. His last horse had been broken
some days before and he had been paid off
but he had camped on the other side of the
creek, as if loath to take the track again.
The girl slipped away at McCurdie’s com-
ing, but Mace remained under the pepper-
tree, the look of a homeless dog on his face.
“Well, Billy?” said McCurdie brusquely.
“Still hanging round?”
The horsebreaker stiffened at the tone,
and a flash of resentment kindled his eyes,
but he only said with a quiet intensity:
“Any chance of a permanent job, Boss?
I don’t mind what it is—herding weaners.
riding the fences, anything. You can’t put
me wrong when it comes to cattle work.”
McCurdie stopped and looked at him
curiously.
“Eh? What’s bitten you, Billy? • I didn’l
think a rolling stone like you would cotton
to the idea of steady work.”
“I’ve had enough of knocking round,” said
Mace sullenly. ”1 want to sit quiet for awhile.”
For a moment McCurdie was puzzled.
Then he gave a short laugh, remembering
the girl who had just flitted into the kitchen
like a ghost. So that was what kept the
fellow anchored! It flashed upon him that
Boyd did not like Mace, and that anyhow
they had no immediate use for him on the
place, but his instinct not to lose a good
man came uppermost. If Mace was infatu-
ated with Josie, there was a chance that he
might marry her and settle down on the
station. Nothing like encouraging that sort
of thing!
“All right,” he said. “Hang on, and I’ll
put you on the books. There’ll be plenty of
work for everyone when the races are over.”
(To be continued next week.)


f
w
s:
rv
l
X
YOU PON T REQUIRE AN X-RAY
-—to see the merits of Sulphate of Ammonia. The merits of this
high grade fertiliser are not hidden from view; they are self revealing,
and you can see them clearly and definitely after you have used
some Sulphate of Ammonia on your crop.
Quick, succulent growth makes its appearance very early —health
and stamina are straightway imparted to the crop, and when harvest?
time comes round you are furnished with practical proof of the
money-earning qualities of this big-crop producer, by way of in-
creased bulk and improved quality.
It may be interesting to read about the merits of Sulphate of
Ammonia, but you will find it far more interesting and incidentally
much more profitable, if you use this money-making fertiliser on
your crop.
Fertiliser agents everywhere sell it, and you can obtain printed matter
regarding its use free, on application to:
THE AUSTRALIAN SULPHATE OF AMMONIA PROPAGANDA COMMITTEE
Sydney Address:
Box 481 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Address:
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigans and Sweaters are
snug-fitting and very comfortable to wear. They are knitted
from fine Australian Wools which give the natural warmth that
is so essential in protecting the body in changeable weather.
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” garments are beautifully
knitted, distinctive in style and colour, and altogether desirable
as an adjunct to the every-day attire of particular men.
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Qarments
are made in Three Textures : Heavy-Weight,
Fine-Heavy-Weight , Light-Weight.
RAM E NO
BAAND
"RAMENO” Brand
Cardigans &.sweaters
é
MADE EXCLUSIVELY BY
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLINGWOOD, VIC.
Ask Your Mercer lor
"Rameno” Brand
"M eri no-K nit”
Cardigans,
Sweaters, A
Half Hose 4m
■ ' : T-‘ ■
ê
emo-Kmt
'Always fit
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.H.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER*
who will quote you price for the original.
WONDERFUL VALUE FOR THE MONEY
No. 113
KEMP
STYLE
f SADDLE
This saddle is built on the lines of the saddle
used by Professor Kemp in his buckjumping
shows, and is the best type of Poley Saddle
to ride a buck in. Note how the pads run
up almost level with the head of the saddle,
which is the secret of its success. It is
made throughout in long-wearing kip, and is
fitted with folded girth, surcingle leathers
and n.-p. irons.
£B/8/- Or £8 without Surcingle.
Freight paid for cash with order to any
N.S.W. Railway Station.
Write for Our Catalogue, showing Australian and
American Saddlery, Whips, Harness, etc.
WALTHER g STEVENSON, LTD.
Box 785 G. 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-y
MB


e
BUY ANY
CAR FROM US'
Will BUY ST BMK
We will sell you any car, for your unrestricted use, telling
you in writing when you order it how much we will pay
you for it if you should wish to sell it in three or six
months time. This is far better than buying a car and
having the anxiety of needing to sell it in a hurry, and at
a sacrifice, at the end of a short period Your driving
licence will be ready for you on the day you land and one
of our instructors will be lent to you for three days free
of charge if you want him.
Write for full particulars now and get this fixed up in
advance. We originated the scheme and we olfer you
better terms than any of our imitators. r v ’
AUTO AUCTIONS
BURLINGTON GARDENS
OLD BOND ST. LONDON W.I
World distributors of the Blackburn Bluebird Aeroplane
shackled"!
'B
'ARE rubber tires—a wet slippery
pavement and danger ahead!
Without Weed Tyre Chains, you are
almost as helpless tb control your car as
a man bound hand and foot.
Weed Tyre Chains prevent skidding
accidents. They insure safe driving
always— in mud, sand, or slippery clay
—wherever road conditions are treach-
erous or uncertain.
• Weed Tyre Chains grip and hold on
any road. They provide sure traction so
that every turn of your motor is trans-
mitted into actual mileage. For all pas-
senger car, truck or bus,tyres in regular
or “Weed American” patterns.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
TYRE CHAINS
Legal Notices,
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
TO GLADYS MARY JOSEPHINE ATKIN
late of Toowoomba in the State ot
Queensland and of Narrabri in the State
of New South Wales but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane numbered 650
of 15)29 by your husband EDWARD FOSS
ATKIN iii which he claims a dissolution ot
his marriage with you and by.his Petition
filed in the action alleges that in or about
the month of April 1916 at Toowoomba
Queensland you deserted him without cause
and have since so deserted him without cause
continuously for a period of five years and
upward AND IT HAS BEEN ORDERED
that service of the said Writ and Petition
on you be effected by filing and sticking
up in the Registry of the said Court a copy
of the said Writ and an office copy, of the
said Petition and the insertion of this
Notice once each in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” and the Sydney “Bulletin” news-
papers published in New South Wales AND
TAKE NOTICE that' you are required
within ninety -days ’after the last act done as
aforesaid to cause an appearance to be
entered for you in the Registry of, the
Supreme Court of Queensland at.. Brisbane
and that in default of your so doing the
Plaintiff may by leave of the Court proceed
in the action and that judgment may be given
against you in your absence.
DATED this 20th day of February 1930.
‘ " [L.S.] D. M. O’FLYNN,
Deputy Registrar.
Conwell and Stephens, Town Agents for
V. Drury, Solicitor for the' 'Plaintiff.
IN THE COURT OF BANKRUPTCY,
1 DISTRICT OF
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND,
i No. 3 of .1930.
Re Bankrupt Estate of JOSEPH BETROS,
of Rockhampton, in the State of Queensland,
Hawker, lately residing Rockhampton
and elsewhere, and carrying 'on* business at
and about Rockhampton and in .the Dawson
Valley District, Central Queensland,' form-
jerly carrying on business .a Hawker., in.
New South -Wales- and * Victoria. ’ _ i '"~-
Date of petition, February 3, 1930.
Date of sequestration order, February -5,
1930. . '
Date and place of first meeting of | credit-
ors, March .6, 1930, at 11 a,m. at‘Public
Curator’s Office, East Street; Rockhampton.
Note. —All debts due to the estate should
be paid to me.
JOHN O’DUFFY,
• Local Deputy Public Curator.
For and on behalf of Official Receiver.
East Street, Rockhampton.
February 18, 1930.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 61 of 1930.
BETWEEN AUDREY ERNEST BARNES
Petitioner and LAURA BARNES form-
erly Laura Don (nee Woodruffe) Re-
spondent.
TO LAURA BARNES late of 26 Allen
Street Glebe Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Audley
Ernest Barnes has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the seventh day of May One thousand nine
hundred and thirty and in the event of your
'■pot doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of
the .. Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
LL.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. A. Boxhall, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
P STATE of EDWARD NOLAN NOONAN,
late of Porangahau, in the Dominion of
New Zealand, Farmhand, Deceased.
The children of the late MARY ANN
TRACEY, a sister of the above-named de-
ceased, or any persons knowing of their
whereabouts, are requested to communicate
with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Waipukurau, New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is required by the Trustees
* of the will of the late Dr. F. W. W.
MORTON, of 12 Collins Street, Melbourne,
as to the whereabouts of his son Lindsay,
or, if deceased, the place and date of death.
Reward.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY, LTD.,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Driscoll, Walter a.—Father died
January 28 last. Am anxious know
vour address. Write MAURICE, Mt. Isa,
Queensland.
V». ,
'//hr
m
>/■
m
m
;C
0« /nc Beach
at Waikiki
9 O
A golden stretch of glistening sand and nodding coco-palms,
flanked by splendid hotels—inviting crystal water that is always
warm, and racing breakers that propel outrigger canoes, and surf
boards for many hundred years. Health giving sun bathing every
day in the year*
You should spend your next holiday in Hawaii, for apart from
sunny beaches, there is the dream City of Honolulu —Kilauea
Volcano—glorious inter-island cruises and a hundred other rare
delights awaiting you.
Luscious pineapple, papaia (paw paw), mangoes, bananas and
other tropical fruits always available. Native pageants, water
carnivals to see. Plenty of golf courses and tennis courts, hun-
dreds of miles of fine motor roads. Something new to do every
day. 1
Special return excursion fares now available. Accommodation
from 15/- per day, inclusive of meals. Send us your address and
we, will .forward to you descriptive booklets of the Hawaiian
Islands; attractively illustrated in colour. f , ,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept. 17 Box 1627 88., G.P.O. SYDNEY


u
Tshe
CEYLON
INDIAN PITH
HELMET
The right hat for a
tropical climate.
Cork-lined, well venti-
lated. Available in
two shades, Khaki and
White. All sizes.
KHAKI,
186
WHITE,
21/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
VICHY
sr
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins*
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
‘Phone M 4 1 3 1 for your reservation.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
anew generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
è
prisoner be detained in custody for one
hour.” At the next election we expect Bal-
larat to be placarded with posters something
like the following: “Vote for Russell and
short sentences,” “Cut-throats, burglars and
pickpockets, do your duty and put in Russell
at the head of the poll. He knew you since
you were boys.” We make Mr. Russell a
present of the following rhymes to paste in
the fly-leaf of his hymn-book: —
The prisoner here is steeped in crime,
I grant he lives but to destroy,
But let him off just this one time —
I knew him since he was a boy!
I know he poisoned his papa
Also —which most does me annoy—
He cut his mother’s throat, but ah!
I knew him since he was a boy !
So do not blight his youthful years,
By sending him to hard employ
In gaol—excuse these welling tears! —
I knew him since he was a boy!
“From Christmas Day till Wednesday is
a public holiday,” says a Queensland paper.
A spree is never completed in less than four
days there, and, as they only see 12 hours’
daylight in a summer drunk, they call it one
day.
As the bush belles of Australia have but a
limited quantity of flowers at their service,
the “language of flowers” is almost unknown
amongst them. To make up for this, how-
ever, they have now at their service the lan-
guage of the side-saddle, which runs in this
wise: To bend forward means “Follow me.”
To bend back, “Clear out—l don’t want
you.” To lean to the right, “Come along,
you are not displeasing to me.” To lean
to the left, “I will not encourage you.”
To tap the stirrup with point of whip,
“Why are you so backward?” With the
butt ‘of the whip, “Be cautious, we are
watched.”
“We congratulate our esteemed fellow-
townsman on the death of his uncle,” candidly
says a N.Z. paper. That esteemed fellow-
townsman fell in for £IO,OOO.
DEADBE AT : “Dear me, what an awful thing a wreck must be!”
The people of Adelaide have just dis-
covered that 40 tons of dynamite have been
howling for a chance to explode within seven
miles of their city
for a considerable
time past, and they
are shaken up a
little by the news.
A large quantity
of the pernicious
stuff had gone bad
and was stealthily
preparing to blow
itself up, and it is
calculated that if
it had carried out
its purpose all that
w ould have re-
in ain e d of the
South Australian
capital could have
been spread on a
porous plaster and
fixed on the back
of a very small
local saint. There
would have been a
mild fizzle at first,
a sort of groan and
a shake, and then
the clam s and
sharks and whales
would have been
blown out of the
ocean, and the
oysters and dogfish
would have rushed
through the streets
of Adelaide, and
pious Baptists
would have been
struck on the head
by eels and slimy
things driven from
theirn a t i v e
ditches, and bul-
locks and dugongs
would have burst
through the win-
dows of the banks,
and the churches
would have been
wrecked by flying
fragments of ships,
bull-pups, police-
men, catfish, rocks
and groceries, and
all w ould have
been confusion and
horror. Wicked
men with their legs
blown off and their
upper halves still
swearing woul d
have been impaled on railings outside the
premises of respectable maiden ladies, in
company with crabs, shattered goats and
thieves blown out of gaol; pigs would have
been thrown into syna-
gogues, and the. tem-
perance lecturer, the
Chinaman, and the
Jubilee drunk would
have found them-
themselves all jambcd
together head down-
wards in the same
horse-trough outside
the same public-house.
The domestic cat
blown up the chimney
with its tail on fire
woul (1 have been
smashed up by a col-
lision with half a
grumpus, three-fourths
of a parson and a set
of false teeth coming
down, and in a dozen
seconds all Adelaide
would have been a
ruin. Then a huge
tidal wave surmounted
by dead horses and
other articles of vertu
would have washed
away the wreck, and
the great and holy
City of Snuffle would
have been no more.
However, this is only
a dream, after all,
and as a man has been
hired for £250 to take
the damaged explosives
out to sea and risk
his life in flinging
them overboard, there
is some hope that
Adelaide may stand a
little longer.
H. M. Keightley,
late police magistrate
of Albury (N.S.W.),
died at Sale (Vic.) of
diabetes last Saturday
week. Having rather
incautiously t h r e a t-
ened to make things
lively for the bush-
rangers if he ever
came aci’oss them, Ben
Hall and four or five of his gang swooped
down one Sunday morn on Iveightley’s resi
dence, some 15 miles from Bathurst, and pro
A FRIEND IN NEED.
CHRONIC BORROWER: “Ah, how de do, old fellow? By the bye,
can you lend me a sov.? came away from home this
morning without my purse, by Jove!”
OLD FELLOW: “I haven’t a sovereign on me, as it happens, but I
can put you in the way of getting the money” (taking out
his pocket-book).
C.B.: “Ah, that will suit as well, thanks!”
O.F.: Here are two tram-tickets. Hurry home and get your
purse, old man. Good day!”
ceeded to pepper it with bullets. Keightley at
once replied, his brave wife standing by his
side and loading for him, and the result
was that one of the highwaymen was
soon stretched a corpse. Maddened at
this, Hall and the rest of his band rushed
the house, secured Keightley, tied him to a
tree and prepared to put a bullet through
his brain. The frantic appeals of his wife
seem to have softened Hall’s heart, how-
ever, and he promised to spare the captive’s
life on condition that Mrs. Keightley rode
into Bathurst, drew £5OO from the bank, and
handed it to Hall on her return. Vane,
one of the gang, was stationed on a lull to
watch for her, and she was cautioned that
if any person was seen with her as she
approached, her husband’s doom was sealed.
Mrs. Keightley performed her task, and after
putting in six hours at the tree with a blood-
thirsty ruffian keeping guard over him,
Keightley was released, and had the satis-
faction soon after of hearing of the extinc-
tion of the band.
THE AMBULANCE—A THOUGHT IN
THE SADDLE.
BY KENNETH MAUKAY.
ê
LITTLE JOHNNY.
Little Johnny, with the golden
Hair and eyes of tender blue,
And the face such as in olden
Years the saintly Sanzio drew,
Lay a-dying—ah the pity!
In the Children’s Ward he lay
In that mighty southern city
Built upon Port Phillip bay.
On his bed the sunlight shone: he
Tried to catch its beam. His bright
Sun of life —poor little Johnny ! —-
Soon would set in endless night,
Five years old that day—and dying!
Five short summer years of play!
Sure death could not, without sighing,
Boar that little soul away!
Came a gentle lady slowly,
Sat her down beside his bed,
And her face was fair and holy,
And she kissed his golden head.
“Johnny,” said she, and the dying
Child raised up his eyes of blue,
“If you saw an angel flying
Down from Heaven here for you,
“Tell me what you’d do.” She sees eyed
In his brain some thought occult
As he faintly whispers, “Please I’d
Shoot ’im wimme catapult!”


Rank inn. Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares .. .. ..
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
703,125
3,750,000
4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS lU int !7tild\
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
Melbourne office: 267 collins street.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
olliees, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney:
or 484 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms ot Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everythin 3 a woman needs to know
•aja ‘Suiddrus
AN INTERESTING TRAVEL ROUTE
THE ideal route to Canada, United
States or Europe traverses the
Sunny South Seas, carrying you via
Auckland, Suva and Honolulu to
Vancouver, or by Wellington, Raro-
tonga and Tahiti to San Francisco.
You may then cross to Europe, plan-
ning the whoje trip in advance with
the-
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Me'b. C.l.
m
B^s
t
m
%J\h
N A!/ i
«?<■. ;
- '?, %/ifHt£
- '. o^L
*..ici-
CANADLAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION Royal Mail Lines.
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GATEWAY TO
*m
fj
iU-*i
m
- :
.ri
S 3
®v'.
B
a
pa
Kiesi
aaraag
?as
Ssie
OTHER LANDS.
A Visit to Java
THE CARDEN OF THE EAST.
Seven Weeks’ Wonderful Tour,
including about two weeks’
escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney by the magnificent
liner
T.S.S. MARELLA - - May 7, 1930
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck
Cabins, etc.
First-class inclusive fare from
Sydney, £l2B.
Full particulars from
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7-11 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WA LES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
Wdk
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
Genei'al Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
Vll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE, via BYRUN BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane Issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengeis
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evenijg.
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Botli vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/1/-
Steamer and First-cla-ss Rail, Single, £3/15
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALIAS HOUSL
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd..
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Huddart Parked
Magnificent
Fast Passengei
Steamahlin
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per dailv papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Sweat, Sydney.
LAKE LOUISE
PPM»«
mm
p*i
I 1 '! • • 1:5
mm
mm
The most perfect gem of lake
scenery; exquisite shadows of
deep green splashed with
silver reflections from the
dazzling Victoria Glacier. Lake
Louise district is the recog-
nised mountain climbing centre.
Trout Ashing—riding—swimming
—motoring—social affairs at the
Chateau. Stay at Lake Louise
—reached only via Canadian
Pacific. Write for beautifully
illustrated literature to—
CANADIAN PACIFIC. M jj
247 George Street, Sydney |
Ki':
0
/. I
.hSI
The Worlds greatest trawl system
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. of Aust., I.td.,
'Barrack Street, Sydney.


• /A K
L
&
I'fM i
*'" m
\m 77 lij
iy
i'll
»ll*, c liSrli
w
EfXj
&0l
mi
J 2
'MM
>^4
V3>
ss
'X/
•o.
/
/ /?4>/7.
-S>.
7m
SL
is by Cai,
Bought on Henlys’
“Buy-Back” Plan
Henlys specialise in selling cars to visitors
from overseas, and fixing a definite price at
which they will buy back their cars at a later
date. This is easily the most convenient way
to see England : it is cheaper and more
pleasant than hiring; it is infinitely pre-
ferable to using the train. Henlys have the
largest stock of cars in England for you to
choose from, and they particularly recom-
mend such makes as Austin, Morris, etc.,
which having a good second market, can be
purchased on the “ Buy-Back ” Plan at a
very low rate of depreciation indeed.
HENLyS
England's Leading
Motor Agents
Illustrated Brochure obtainable
from The Bulletin Office, 21)
George Street, Sydney .
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.
and at Manchester , Leeds , and Bristol
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Kestful —Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service, spacious Grounds ana Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4j| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Say it with Hilliers/
%sted. the day they are made
St fie famous
TfedfßoxoP
Ghocotate"
HILLIERS
ADD fLESS-
CHOCOLATES
tf./A. 162-166 Pitt Street
54>. 6/ 10/. 126.
20/ aacL 30/
ē
"(PATQN)
Uncle Bill Comes to Light.
HAROLD MERCER
INTRODUCES US TO UNCLE BILL AND THE
ë
PRISCILLA CORRY put aside the dress
which made her the nattiest of the
typists in the employ of Iloggleby and
Flinch, and, having got into her house frock,
descended to* the kitchen of the small and
cramped Paddington house. In the living-
room that seemed overcrowded with mis-
fitting furniture, children and rough-dried
washing she unwrapped the sausages she had
brought from town.
“The butcher gave me two pounds by mis-
take ;so I thought you and the children
could share them with me,” she said, and
hoped to be forgiven for the lie. She really
disliked sausages; but they were cheap and
went a long way with a large family.
Not that the family was any real respon-
sibility of Priscilla’s. She smiled grimly as
she thought of how reasons of economy—
the economy enforced by self-support on a
junior typist’s salary—had led her to take
a cheap room in Paddington. The economy
had worked well up to the time the head of
the Carter family had fallen down under
the strain of maintaining it, and been taken
to hospital. After that catastrophe Priscilla
had tried to hide from herself the privation
that the family below was enduring. She
failed completely; in two days it was a
complete capitulation, and the cares of Mrs.
Carter had become almost her own.
So here she was making excuses for her
two pounds *of sausages and aproned ready
to help the careworn mother with the Carter
progeny that ranged down to babyhood.
“It’s too good of you, Miss Cori'y,” Mrs.
Carter was saying. “You do too much alto-
gether for me. I’ve got some vegetables an’
rice, an’ it’s good food, an’ the children’ll
enjoy it.”
“But all those sausages would be wasted
with me,” said Priscilla. “Besides, now I
can have my tea with you. Have you milk?
Here, Kitty, get the milk jug and run out
for some.”
Kitty, obviously much relieved to be
assured that the sausages, a moment in
doubt, were a certainty, dashed for a jug
whilst Priscilla produced from her apron
pocket the coppers she had placed there
for just this emergency. “Better get an
extra pint—it’ll do for the baby,” she said
as she passed over the coins.
“It’s kind of you, Miss Corry, ’elpin’ me
like you do,” said Mrs. Carter. “I was
wonderin’ whether, after, I could run down
to S’in’ Vincent’s an’ ’ave a look at ’im.
It’s lonely for a pore feller lyin’ there sick
all day. But p’raps I can let Kitty an’
young Bill look after the babies.”
“You go by all means,” said Priscilla.
“I’ll be here—-I’m not going out to-night;
and I’ll look after the kiddies.”
“It’s puttin’ too much on you,” said Mrs.
Carter apologetically—“you’re young an’
pretty an’ ought to be out every night enjoy-
in’ yourself.”
“I wouldn’t be going out in any case to-
night,” Priscilla answered.
“Well, perhaps you don’t mind so much,
that young Mr. Morgan not bein’ here. And
you’re right, too. Give me the men from
the country every time is what I say.”
Priscilla set the fat spluttering in the
pan and hid her blushes. It certainly would
be far nicer to be setting out in the cooling
starlight on the arm of Jack Morgan than
remaining in this rather squalid house car-
iijg for noisy and rebellious children. But
Jack Morgan had gone out of the picture,
back to his place in the country. Perhaps
he had been all a delusion ; yet it had been
a very sweet delusion whilst he was with
her, making promises for the future in a
voice in which she could have sworn there
was honesty. She was less certain now he
was gone about the honesty. There had been
something so vague about it all, in spite
of his firm promise that he was coming back.
There was a talk of parental objections to
be overcome; and now he had been away
so long with only a line or so to remind
her of him—if she needed to be reminded!
Perhaps he had been honest enough, but his
feeling had been only momentary. There
would always be sweet memories ; hut Pris-
cilla had a sinking in her heart when she
considered the fading prospects of his return.
“Where’s the salt?” she asked.
“Salt? Oh. when I was at the grocer’s
to-day I forgot salt,” said Mrs. Carter. “Per-
haps we could do without it.”
Priscilla knew what that meant. Her
hand dug into her apron pocket again.
“Here. Jimmy.” she called, “run after
Kitty, and tell her to buy some salt, too.”
“It’ll be all right when Uncle Bill comes
to light,” said Mrs. Carter optimistically.
The prospect of Uncle Bill “coming to
light” had become almost a tradition in the
Carter family; from the first day of her
arrival Priscilla had heard of it. Young
Bob had “busted” a third-hand tricycle, and
had been assured that it would be all right
when his Uncle Bill came to light. And
Carter’s last words when the ambulance men
carried him from the house had been: “Write
to Bill, Maggie ; tell ’im ’ow things are —an’
about the children. They’ll be all right when
their Uncle Bill comes to light.”
“But yofi wrote to him, didn’t you, and
his answer was a disappointment?” practical
Priscilla asked.
“Yes,” admitted Mrs. Carter. “’E said
’c ’ad ’is own troubles an’ wasn’t goin’ to
add Bob’s to ’em. But Bob says to give
’im time to think over it. Bill’s not a bad
sort, Bob says, an’ ’e’ll come to light. I’ve
never seen ’im meself; an’ Bob hasn’t more’n
once or twice in twenty years since ’e went
out to Burradoo an’ started to make ’is
fortune. But Bob oughter know ’is own
brother; an’ ’e says Bill’s a bit hard, but
’e’s bound to come to light sooner or later.”
Priscilla reflected that the sooner it hap-
pened the better as, the scrambling tea
over, she proceeded to relieve the babies of
their clothes, sadly threadbare and torn, and
put them into equally timeworn nightgowns.
“There’s that young Bob not ’ome yet;
but I’ve put ’is tea there over the pot,”
said Mrs. Carter, pausing at the door on
her way out. “The young liimp doesn't
deserve any tea, stayin’ out so late. But,
there —would you mind givin’ it to ’im when
’e comes, Miss Corry?”
Priscilla said she wouldn’t mind, and, with
the field left clear, went on with her mixed
labors, gloating over memories of Jack
Morgan and then, despairingly, trying to
banish them from her mind.
In the midst of this struggle the front
door, which had been ajar, was banged open
and an excited scamper of feet projected
the thin-limbed Bob, a size older than
Jimmy, into the room.
‘•Mum, I’ve found ’im ! Uncle Bill’s come
to light!” he cried. Then, looking round
blankly, he demanded, “Where’s mum?”
A heavier but slower step had followed
that of the boy ; and Priscilla, pausing,_ towel
and plate in hand, found herself looking at
a crisply-bearded man with tanned face and
humorous eyes, a picture of the prosperous
countryman. The hair and beard , were
slightly greyed, but there was a virility
even in that.
“Yes; Uncle Bill’s come to light,” said
the newcomer with a quiet laugh.
“Mrs. Carter will be pleased,” cried Pris-
cilla, delighted herself. “She has gone to
the hospital to sec her husband; but she
won’t be long.”
“You’re not, then” began the man.
“But of course you’re not. You’re too
young.”
“I’m only a lodger ; but Mrs. Carter has
so much worry that I try to help her
through,” said Priscilla. “My name is
Corry.”
“Corry?”
“Yes,” she said, slightly surprised at the
way he questioned it.
“Miss Corry, of course?”
“Yes. It’ll be a great thing for the family
to know you’ve come to its assistance, Mr.
Carter. You’ve no idea the struggle poor
Mrs, Carter has had since her husband be-
came sick. She always did have a struggle.”
Sitting on a chair beside the table whilst
Priscilla went on with the wiping up, Uncle
Bill drew young Bob against his knee.
“This young gentleman told me a good
deal about it,” he said. “I might have
missed him, only I caught what he was
saying and turned back. He was standing
at the station when the late Western train
came in asking every man who passed, ‘Are
you my Uncle Bill from Burradoo?’ Of
course I didn’t know him from a crow; but
he looked so forlorn as people brushed past
him that I went back to speak to him ; and
then I discovered I was the Uncle Bill In;
was looking for.”
“You weren’t coming here, then?”
“Why, no,” said Uncle Bill candidly, his
face a mixture of gravity and humor. “It
was the kid got me. And when, as we were
leaving, he told me he was going to walk
to Paddington, he fixed me altogether.”
“I’ve been walkin’ to the station every
day and back again,” said Bob, pleased to
he in the limelight.
Priscilla got a vision of the forlorn little
figure trudging the long distances and stand-
ing in his ragged clothes at the platform
gate asking for the uncle he did not know,
and felt a warmth for the boy who in his
childish way had sought to bring Uncle Bill
to light, and, strangely, had succeeded.
“He’s a plucky little beggar,” said Uncle
Bill, patting his shoulder.
“But we came home in a motor-car,” cried
Bob excitedly. “It was bonzer! And look
at the suit he bought me!”
For the first time Priscilla noticed Bob’s
new clothes, and then she remembered the
tea waiting for him. Uncle Bill, after
the other children, half-way to bed, had been
introduced and. amazingly excited at the
arrival of the long-promised uncle, had been
hunted off bv Priscilla, looked on with
sympathy as Bob ate ravenously.
“I’d forgotten that,” he said half to him-
self. “Miss Corry, for a stranger you seem
to do a lot for the family”
“It’s nothing, really. Living in the same
house naturally.... Besides, they are
really nice little children, and Mrs. Carter’s
so worried.”
“Well, if you’d do something more—to
help me this time —I’d be glad. You know
what the family needs most, and it’s late
shopping night. Will you come and help me
buy the things they most need?”
Uncle Bill had come to light without a
doubt.
After Mrs. Carter had returned, to be over-
whelmed with surprise, and to be rather em-
barrassed to find that Uncle Bill was so dif-
ferent from what she expected the brother of
Bob to be, the expedition Uncle Bill had
projected was carried out. Foodstuffs and
fruit were got in prodigal quantities; and
then Uncle Bill suggested that the expedition
should be continued next day “to get a few
clothes for the kids.”
“But first you want to go to see Bob at
the orspital, don’t you?” Mrs. Carter asked
when Uncle Bill arrived in the morning.
“No. I don’t think so. You see, we had a
quarrel; and the excitement might do him
harm while he’s so ill. It’d be much better to
just tell him I sent down some money.”
Jimmy and Kitty realised how completely
Uncle Bill had come to light when, in newer
clothes than they had ever remembered wear-
ing before, they, with young Bob. grown
almost blase of motor-car riding, were in-
cluded in the Sunday expedition that was
purely an excursion. Priscilla and Uncle
Bill sprawled on the grass of a green rise
and watched the children playing.
“It must give you a lot of satisfaction to
see the happiness you have brought,” said
Priscilla.
“What about what you have done?” Uncle
Bill asked. “I’ve only spent money and
I’ve got a bit more of that; but look at all
you have given, to entire strangers, in real
work. Why, even if my money has done any-
thing, you must have all the credit for that
too.”
“Oh, you can’t say that!” Priscilla
answered. “You gave it to help your people.”
Uncle Bill paused a moment. Then he said
( Continued, on next page.)


ĕ
A MAN’S CASE
Mr. A. Bartle, -No. 3 Gladstone
Street, Bexley, Sydney, says: “Off and
on for years I suffered with disordered
kidneys, the. result being that I was
tortured with backache. When I had
a bad attack my back used to be so
stiff ahd lame that I could not even
tutn in bed without suffering agony.
The kidney secretions were affected,
being thick and cloudy with a red sedi-
ment. I was also subject to dizzy
attacks, and, generally speaking, felt
far from well. One day a friend,
hearing of a cure by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, urged me to try them.
I bought some without delay and used
them with excellent results. The
first bottle gave relief, and a course
of the pills made a complete and
perfect cure.”
'Twelve years later Mrs. Bartle
says: “Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured my husband of backache and
kidney trouble over twelve years ago,
and he has had no return of the com-
plaint since.”
A WOMAN’S CASE
Mrs. S. Drew, 28 Briggs Street,
Camperdown, Sydney, says: “Some
time ago my kidneys were in a seri-
ously disordered state, and in conse-
quence I suffered terribly. My back
never stoped aching, and I was
almost crippled with the ailment.
Dropsical swellings showed on my legs
and ankles, and there was puffiness
under my eyes. The state of my health
worried me terribly, and as I had
taken all sorts of remedies without
deriving any benefit 1 was beginning
to think I should never be well again.
However, at last I got Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and they proved a
godsend. The first couple of bottles
eased my suffering a little, and seven
bottles of the pills cured me com-
pletely.”
Nine years later Mrs. Drew says:
“I have had no return of my old com-
plaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me over nine years ago.”
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S, REMEMBER.
Sold by All Chemists.
Foster-McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
P OAN'S
Backache Kidney' Pills.
SYDNEY MAN CURED OF PILES BY
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. W. Solomon, Wentworth Street, Parramatta, says:—“About twenty
years ago I had a very severe attack of itching and bleeding piles, and
underwent an operation. I was right for about eight years, and then the
complaint returned. The agony was terrible. Not wanting to undergo
another operation, I started using pile remedies. The number I used would
astonish you, but they gave me no benefit whatever. I read of Doan’s
Ointment curing others, and decided to give it a trial. After a few
applications I obtained relief, and one pot cured me. I always keep
Doan’s Ointment in the house, and shall never be without it, for I know
what a thoroughly good remedy it is.”
Sixteen years later Mr. Solomon says: “I have still the same good
opinion of Doan’s Ointment. It cured me of piles .many years ago, and I
never suffer with this complaint now.”
KEEP A TIN ON HAND. IT’S MIGHTY USEFUL WHEN
NEEDED, AND IT’S NEEDED MIGHTY OFTEN.
slowly: “I was interested in Bob, of course
—l’ll never forget how forlorn lie looked
there at the station, wistfully asking for his
uncle. But I merely intended to give ’em a
few pounds—until I saw you. Then I de-
cided to do the thing properly.”
Priscilla felt a strange thrill —it had never
occurred to her that she had the poiver to
make others do good. Still, she protested that
Uncle Bil] had done it all out of the goodness
of his own heart.
“Miss Corry,” Uncle Bill said earnestly,
“I’m what they call a pretty warm man. I’ve
got two stations ’way back, and investments
besides. I’m not young, but I’m younger
than a lot of men in the city who could give
me ten years. And I’m a Avidower. I’ve
got only one son to leave my mohey to, and
I’m not too sure about him. It looks to me
as if he’s going to make a fool of himself:
to stop that, I’ve been trying to get him to
marry a girl I know in. the district Avlio’d
make a very suitable wife. But he won’t.
The young fool’s got himself entangled with
some girl in the city.”
“But there’s nothing wrong with a girl
simply because she’s a city girl,” cried Pris-
cilla defensively.
“How many city girls do you find like
yourself?” he demanded. “How many of
them are willing, even if they’re able, to do
Avliat you’ve been doing for these poor kids —
mothering ’em, nursing ’em, cooking for ’em
and keeping ’em tidy? That’s real woman
hood —a man who marries a woman who’ll
do half of that is lucky. What chance
has my boy got of meeting a girl like that?”
“Oh", he might!” Priscilla answered doubt-
fully.
“Your tone’s mighty uncertain, Miss!
What I see is that, anyway, I’ll .be pretty
lonely. I’ll want a Avife. H'ow’d you like
the prospect of becoming mistress of my
places?”
A flood of strange feeling swept Priscilla
as she sobbed : “I couldn’t!”
“Someone else?”
Priscilla did not answer, and he looked at
her keenly. “Well, I’m not going to rush
you. You’ve only known me a few days;
but —well, I’ll leave it at this; it’s there
waiting for you.”
The Avay he took it made matters easier
for her ; h e Avas not a lover urging demands,
but merely one who wanted to make gifts.
Confidingly she revealed herself and the con-
flict within her to him ; he learnt about the
young man avlio had stirred her dreams, of
her sinking doubts about him noAV he was
aAvay from her. It was, she confessed, a
temptation to her who had always been poor
to put dreams aside for this attainable
reality.
“But it wouldn’t be fair to marry you
when I still care for him and can’t help
caring,” she said. “It wouldn’t be fair to
him either, supposing my doubts about him
are all wrong and he expects me to be wait-
ing for him.”
His hand patted hers.
“There’s no need to hurry,” he said. “We
can go on as Ave are until you find out your
own mind.”
He did not Avorry her after that; but
Avithout any assistance from him she was
torn by her conflict. It was such plain fool-
ishness to throw a big chance aside for the
sake of a love dream; and, moreoA/er, she
thrilled every time she thought of his kind-
ness. If only Jack Morgan Avould write!
His silence seemed like betrayal when she
needed all her strength to be loyal to her
love-dream.
A couple of days later she found Uncle
Bill waiting outside the office entrance of
Hoggleby and Flinch’s as she emerged, and
her heart beat faster as she saAv him. But
it nearly stopped Avhen the next moment a
young man literally leaped from his seat in
a motor-car and dashed at her.
“Pris !” lie cried.
“Jack! Jack!”
* * * *.
“fou see,” Jack was presently explain-
ing, “dad’s great idea was that city girls are
a lot of useless creatures; and he wanted
me to marry a girl in the country. It was
some time before I got him to promise to
come and see for himself; and I had to
promise not to write for fear I put his plans
away.”
Gradually practical Priscilla sorted out
the tangled ends of the story.
“You’re satisfied now, I hope, Dad?” said
Jack to an Uncle Bill who, far from appear-
ing annoyed, Avore a broad grin on his face.
“Well, my boy, I told her that she could
be mistress of two stations, and the offer
stands,” he said with a grin.
“But —Uncle Bill?” stammered Priscilla.
“If you’re Mr. Morgan, you can’t be Mr.
Carter.”
“No; I’m a fraud!” laughed Morgan,
senior. “That kid looked such a forlorn
little beggar standing on the station inquir-
ing for his uncle that, Avhen I learnt that
it could be done, I decided on an impulse
to be Uncle Bill. And after that I meant
to spend a few pounds on putting matters
right for the family; but when I got to the
place I found a girl that interested me. So
I remained Uncle Bill and went on inspect-
ing her. With completely satisfactory results,
I might say,” he added.
“It’s rather hard on the Carter family
losing their uncle,” smiled Priscilla.
“Oh, I don’t know-—I may adopt them,
in a way,” said the elder Morgan. “That
young Bob seemed worth it, anyhow. There’s
no reason w T hy Uncle Bill shouldn’t come to
light now and again.”
Just What Dad Would Do.
LES QUIN DESCRIBES DAVE’S
VISIT TO TOWN.
DAVE knew all about the temptations
and allurements of a great city. Dad
had warned him, Mum had warned
him, his uncle had warned him, his aunt had
warned him; in fact, everybody for miles
around, when they heard that Dave was
going to the city for a holiday, took the
trouble to ride over and give a word of advice.
Dave was just about sick of it. “Why
can’t yer leave me alone?” he demanded. “I
can look after meself. There’s no confidence
man can put it over me. I wasn’t born
yestidday.”
right, then, Dave,” said Mum with an
air "of finality; “go, but never lot it be said
you wasn’t warned. If the cap fits, wear it;
but it will be on yer own ’ead. AVhen you’re
in doubt, think of Dad and me, sittin’ ’ere,
keepin’ the ’ome fires burnin’ ”....
“Fires!” shouted Dad, jumping from his
seat. “Who said fires? A nice wife you are,
talkin’ about fires when the crop’s near
ripe, and it looks like the best ’arvest for
years.”
“Gome, Dad,” said Mum, “I didn’t mean
bush fires; I meant ’ome fires. . . .like people
’ad durin’ the war.”
“Yes,” replied Dad, “but who wants ’em
in the middle o’ December? If yer’d said
’ome refliggeraters you might ’ave ’ad some
sense.”
“Look ’ere,” interposed Dave, “that’s
enough of yous two. Yer old enough to know
better —squabblin’ like a pair of kids. Stop
yer arguin’ and let’s talk about me trip.”
So hostilities ceased, and all present settled
down to one more peaceful discussion.
Four days later Dave left. Mum wept a
bit, but Dad tried to console her. “ ’E’ll be
all right, Mum, there’s no need to worry.
’E can look after ’isself. ’E’ll do just what
’is Dad would do, you’ll see.”
So Mum was comforted, and dried her eyes.
But as she Avent about her work, she was
thinking always of Dave, and longing for
his first letter.
It came about a week later.
“Dear Mum and Dad,” it ran, “I’ve had a
bosker time so far. I met a bloke down here
who is an engineer. He works on the big
bridge .that used to go across the harbor.
The bridge is so old they are taking it down
now bit by bit. You can see the hole where
they have knocked down the middle of it.
There are only the two end bits left, stick-
ing out over the water. I got friendly with
this bloke, and he offered to sell me all the
iron they take down for £SO cash. I could
see the bloke wasn’t very smart, else he
would have known it was worth more than
that. So, of course, I snapped it up. I
knew we could put it to some use at home,
or else we could sell it at a big profit. In
any ease, it was too good a chance to miss.
I paid him the money yesterday, and I’ve got
to meet him at half-past two to-day to fix
everything up. I’ll let you know more later.
Love to all at home, Dave.”
Mum let the letter fall from her hands.
Turning to Dad she said grimly. “There you
are. You said ’e’d do just wot ’is Dad would
do, and so ’e ’as.”
The Flight.
Pope and spar, she sways
Undulent on the blue.
O barque! who is it sails
As in a dream in you?
Out of the port tp glide,
A bird white-winged somewhere,
My heart would in you take
The dreamy air.
A handkerchief to wave
Adieu to all things here,
As one in sleep so leaves
The ills that disappear!
A flush of tropic scents
Breathed from an unknown isle*
The heart’s awakening lags
A little while.
So lost to space and time,
O sea-thing of the soul!
It is the faery bells
Of love we hear that toll,
As on the enchanted shore
Out of a world forlorn
I wake with her upon
My marriage morn 1
R. CRAWFORD
The Enchanted Tree.
The tree on the slope
Is not a tree.
Some day she will waken,
Loving me!
She is a nymph, and her sleep is long,
But she will leap up one day with a song,
To find me near —and my arms are strong.
She thinks she is cradled
In Grecian ways,
Where a shepherd’s fluting
Thin, reedy lays.
He may be fluting; but I am here,
And when she wakes she will be my dear,
Where the bellbird chimes and the pool is
clear!
He is chiming now
In the ferny vale,
And she stirs, dreaming,
A nightingale!
While I stir, watching and waiting by her,
With longing lips and veins afire
For the sweet mistress of my desire.
Dear, when some jealous
Goddess sent
You into this
Long banishment,
She little dreamed that the orange groves
Wherein she roamed held feeble loves
To this that now within me moves.
Some change of wind,
Some mild perfume,
Will break the spell
And set abloom
Girl from the tree, with faint alarms
At her sunlit limbs, her satin charms,
And then I will have her in my arms!
Oft and faintly
In the gold noon
I see her move
In that long, long swoon ;
And I think she will wake at last, will turn,
Her nimble feet the roots will spurn,
And her white body to mine wall burn.
And the lovelorn swains
In Thessaly,
In Attica, or
Where’er they be,
Will rise and sigh, and, wandering, call,
Hearkening for the swift footfall
Of the nymph who has forgotten all.
Still, still she sleeps
’Neath the moon, the sun,
My little, smooth,
Enchanted one!
But a cold south rain, a scent, a bee,
One day will come and set her free—
The tree on the slope that is not a tree!
QUEENSLAND,
E. M. ENGLAND.


vvit
&
m
ft-. -
WESTINGHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland A S«*nts —HOLMKS & CHURCH, Brisbane. fAUfApA BMf U t WII
I'Vatherston Street, Wellington. I/UNIUKD Wtdl, N. 0. HAL
X.Z. Office—B3-107 Eeatherston Street,
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
Queensland’s
Largest and Most
Effective Advertising
Medium —
THE “BRISBANE COURIER”
These amazing comparison figures should prove beyond all doubt the
superiority of the "Brisbane Courier” as an advertising medium:—
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1929.
“Brisbane Courier’':
29,152 J
columns of advertising.
Two other Brisbane dailies—one a
morning, the other an evening:
28,672^
columns of advertising.
This is easily the strongest evidence, too, that the “Courier” is first in
CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Specimen copies and Rate Cards from Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
“THE AGE *
Established 185 k.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted al influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Cbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Ootch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3f*s Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Cbe mercury
(Tasmania's National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made oj
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT by the experience of the
1 leading national advertisers, and
place ‘‘The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
TT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
* and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square.
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin** takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
LITY
(OMEf FROM
REAL HEALTH
ed «»a «i 6» rOOB ,o<l
- -
Waste P r days Y el Aiatbo
fili! >«“", ,our
d P toxicatio» *»*® 8 lodig e9U^’ aI1 d »*«*•
“ d ° « e „”S vesef^U**.
oEAVHE^
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
June 11, 1929.
“Examiner” Office, Launceston.
Dear Sir,—lt may interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
wood, Sulphur Creek, Moorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart, Winnaleah.
I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE YOU GIVE ME
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfullv,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston ;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne;
W. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia-—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/-; 3 months, 8/-
v/ 1 .0^
itefi*
s
C/
o
0°
0
6 V
:
S e
3°
5 e f orf
<v«
•A. V -p,\
V rf **


▲
s.D-434
i
whatever the road or weather
One of the outstanding advantages of
the Dodge Six is the sense of security
it brings to driver and passengers.
No matter what the road or traffic
l _ ,
condition, this sturdy car insures
maximum safety and protection with
a body of typical Dodge strength and
rigidity. This body is built inflexibly
on to the chassis in such a way that
the centre of gravity is exceptionally
low. And also you always have
the complete security of Dodge Six
4-wheel hydraulic brakes—positively
equalised —internal-expanding—
absolutely weatherproof.
DODGE BROTHERS SIX
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Victoria . . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland . . . Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane and Townsville
S.A Waymouth Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
W.A Winterbottom Motor Company, Limited, Perth
Tasmania .... ,„i........... Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
