

is",
w&t.
♦iv&lkSvX*:*:
mm
A.J
w
‘ \
\ ' A
m
m
tm
A
X<w
m
mm
Jt
s
gyOUNDLESS energy on hot, tiring days! . . . You can
have it by eating the right food. Bacon and ham
have more than twice the number of calories per pound
than rump steak, they are better energy producers and
much more delightful to eat these days.
Start the day right with a good bacon breakfast and satisfy your hunger
during the day with deliciously cool ham.
Women all over Australia know and trust the quality signified by the
i name "Pineapple Brand,” but to guard them against possible disappoint-
! ment, all "Pineapple Brand” Hams and Bacon have Two Blue Stripes on
the rind - - - visible even on rashers. . Look for these Two Blue Stripes
when you ask for - • -
d
ď
sd
ďs
*ABAC#N
>4
%
X
J. C. HUTTON Pty. Ltd.
(Division of
United Provisions
Lid.}
MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - SYDNEY - ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE * LAUNCESTON.- and NEW ZEALAND I %rmu
The Bulletin
sf
Vol. 51.—N0. 2646.
Wednesday, October 29, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
* now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Sramil!
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Note Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Fame
M- Address V
5.8.31 fl
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
ďs
THE BREAKFAST
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce stim-
ulates the appetite
for breakfast.
Just a few drops
with the eggs and
bacon ah ! what
a delightful zest.”
/(! :\iA
IVI V
Solve the Gift Problem with a
ROLLS
RAZOR
A ROLLS RAZOR is a worthy gift
for a worthy friend.
Let this year be a Rolls Razor Year. Your
fi-iends have all got cigarette cases, cuff links,
cigar lighters, pipes, etc.
Give him something- useful and something
that will save him his weekly bill for Razor
Blades.
Give him a Rolls Razor.
Imperial No. 1 . 50/-
Imperial No. 2 40/-
Wliolesale Distributors:
Mick Simmons, Ltd., Sydney, for N.S.W.
D. Reddan & Co., Melbourne, for Victoria
atid Tasmania.
S. Hoft'nung & Co., Ltd., Brisbane, for
Queensland.
I
1 r
Vf.
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
5.F..8, Melbourne.
Get your Christmas publicity into
THE BARRIER MINER
before all the Christmas Presents
are selected. A booming Christ-
mas coming at Broken Hill and
the sheep district around.
If any illustration in
takes your fancy, write
who will quote you price
“The Bulletin”
to the Manager,
for the original.
Close to shopping and
theatre districts, yet situate
in exclusiveneighbourhood.
Two minutes from Royal
Albert Hall. Overlooking
Royal Parks. Central heat'
ing, running water and tele-
phone in every bedroom.
Private bathrooms, self-
contained suites, garage.
Inclusive daily, weekly or
monthly terms.
Telegrams: “ ImprovisorKensington .
* in the social heart of the first city
of the world ’
Under same direction.
Brighton
dsd
ROYAL
CRESCENT
HOTEL
GRAND PUMP
ROOM HOTEL
Important
fd
To
iotoristsl
rpHIS little valve Core
plays a very impor-
tant part in the service
of your tyres* Good new
tyres may be seriously
damaged by the gradual
escape of air permitted
by inferior Valve Cores*
To get the most service
from your tyres, and
avoid annoying delays
while motoring, be sure
that all your tyres are
equipped with Genuine
Schrader Valve Cores.
Five in a box, just enough
for your tyres.
Sold by tyre and acces-
sory suppliers ... every-
where.
Insist upon
the Qenuine
Be Sure It’s a
SCHRADER.
sd
*
e
&
9
O'4
'V'i
Look
for
the Name
eMrader
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
The Red Page
The Excisemen and the Censorship
I profoundly admire Cecil Mann’s vigor-
ous crusade against the Australian book
censorship, but I can’t help wondering
whether an alteration of the existing system
might not be for the worse rather than for
the better. The present regime, as run by
the eminent literary experts of the Customs,
shares the quality of most Government
departments—cowardice. This insures that
it should avoid as far as possible arousing
criticism by excessive activity. It is also
beautifully inefficient. This insures that as
many books, considered immoral in certain
quarters, get through as catch the eye of
and are stopped by the excisemen. What-
ever other talents they may have, the
Customs heroes are not linguists. Hence
they are obliged to call in the assistance
of more cultured, people to deal with books
in foreign languages. I know one such who
applies only the one test—his standard of
artistic excellence.
It is true that the Customs censorship is
stupid and capricious, but that is balanced
by the fact that it is also secret and irrespon-
sible. This insures that it has no active
public conscience. A comparison of the
books that have been banned with those
that have beep let through reveals that it
has no consistent policy, moral, artistic,
political or otherwise. It just blithers along,
like the late Dr. Bowdler when he attempted
to make Shakspeare safe for the Victorian
infant, hitting or missing as takes its silly
fancy.
What would happen if this happy-go-lucky
method were abandoned for censorship by a
responsible body of well-known citizens?
Two notable illustrations are available. In
U.S.A. the films are kept pure by an un-
official board which exercises its pressure
through so-called public opinion. It mainly
consists of school-marms and delegates from
purity leagues and religious denominations.
It is under constant scrutiny by all influ-
ential wowser organisations. Consequently
it has become so efficient that, although the
pictures remain as infantilely pornographic
as ever, few persons above the mental age
of 12 can now sit out the average pro-
gramme. As far as can be gathered, the
aim of the American organisation is to make
art safe for democracy, which is also the
aim of the English censorship, my second
illustration. The English censorship also
operates indirectly. There is no law pro-
hibiting the publication of an indecent book.
But anybody is at liberty to complain to
the Home Secretary about a work which
offends against his sense of propriety and
that gentleman can initiate proceedings
leading possibly to the ruin and disgrace
of the guilty party. Consequently few
publishers take the risk. They send manu-
scripts about which they have doubts to
the Home Secretary and abide by his
decisions. The attitude this bureaucrat is
likely to adopt may be gauged by any-
body who cares to read a recent brochure,
“Do We Need a Censor?” by the late Home
Secretary, Sir William Joynson-Hieks (now
Viscount Brentford, but best known as
Jix). Says Jix:—
Let me lay down certain general principles which,
in my view, apply not only to acts of a criminal or
indecent character, but to books, plays, cinemas, etc.
of an indecent or obscene character. Indecency in
itself is, of course, not a crime; herein it differs
from those acts which are criminal in themselves,
such as theft or murder. But exactly in the same
way as murder is a crime, so indecency committed
in public is a crime. It is as much a crime against
the community to commit an act of public indecency
as to commit a theft, and exactly in the same way
as the Government of the day is a censor of burglars,
so it is a censor of those who offend against the
Acts of Parliament dealing with the matters which
I am discussing in this pamphlet.
This sounds all very impressive until one
learns what Jix regards as indecency. He
says:—-
The Home Secretary is the servant of the public,
and I am prepared to admit quite frankly and
openly that unless, in these democratic days, his
actions have the general support of the vast mass of
the democracy, his usefulness will be at an end, and
he will be compelled to resign his office.
Having made “the vast mass of the
democracy” the arbiters of what is decent
or indecent in a work of art, Jix goes
further and makes the child the final judge
of what its parents shall read. Says Jix:—
Men in all classes of society have communicated
with me in regard to certain books, complaining
of the harm that is being done, particularly to
young people, by their publication. Here I have
experienced difficulties. It has been my fate to read
many of these books, and in the bulk I have decided
tiiat prosecution, with its attendant publicity, would
do more harm than good, • and accordingly I have
let some books go, believing that they would not
have a great circulation, and would soon die out.
But with certain other books it was impossible to
adopt this attitude.
To reinforce his belief that literary merit
should have no weight against the moral
notions of the nursery, Jix quotes with
approval an archbishop:—
The writers of -books, the painters of pictures,
the actors on the stage or for the screen, the women
by th.e fashion of their dress, who render self-control
more difficult for the average normal man or woman
....are doing moral evil and are committing sin in
the sight of God. No silly prating about the neces-
sity of elucidating problems, or that “to the pure
all things are pure,” or that the claims of art
must be satisfied, can change the moral law, or
alter the fundamental facts of human nature.
Not being any more logical than others
of his way of thinking, Jix puts that para-
graph alongside the following:—
There is already a far greater freedom in literature
now than there was when the Act of 1857 was
passed, and dozens of books are published each year
which 80 or 40 years ago would have been the
subject of informations.
Evidently, then, moral laws do change,
and all that Jix as Home Secretary was
endeavoring to do was to standardise the
morality of his day by suppressing any dis-
cussion of it. It was during his regime that
a book was suppressed which dealt sincerely
and temperately with the problem of homo-
sexuality, concerning which the “moral
law” is centuries behind biological know-
ledge on the subject.
Australia has nothing in the way of a
censorship of books so terrifyingly efficient,
so conscious of its purpose and so sub-
servient to the lowest standards as the
lynx-eyed Jix or the American school-
marms. If a board were formed none but
sex-starved people would serve on it, cen-
soring being a job that would drive any
person of normal culture and intelligence
silly. While the Customs continues to sleep
on it, it might be as well to let it slumber.
F.S.
Observation at Second-hand.
Vance Palmer drew attention to an inter-
esting literary phenomenon in a reference
to West End dramatists (R.P. 17/9/’30):
“I’ve never seen a duke, or even a peer,” one
of them said to me lately, “but they’re damned easy
to write about. You can find all about the way
they live in other plays.”
Why did this man become a West
End dramatist and find it easy to
write about peers? Why should anyone so
incurious have become a writer at all?
Assuming he has not been blind from birth,
# statement means that his career has
'been deliberately spent in almost incon-
ceivable seclusion. He has never been in
one of those Fleet-street newspaper offices
which employ indigent peers like the Mar-
quess of Donegal. He has never been to
a political meeting at the Albert Hall, where
members of the class he writes about figure
regularly on the platforms of all three par-
ties; or to the Houses of Parliament; or
to a military display such as the trooping
of colors; and he has never watched a State
procession. He has never been to Ascot
or Goodwood, where peers swarm; or to
the Horse Show, where Lord Lonsdale does
a turn every year with a coster; or to a
theatrical first night; or to the Law Courts,
where peers like Lord Hewart adjudicate,
and peers of another kind appear as liti-
gants; or to the Bankruptcy Court a few
yards further north; or to one of the many
clubs (the Garrick, for example) where
peers and writers foregather; or to a restau-
rant like the Berkeley, or a night club like
the Embassy.
I know the dramatist has not been to
these or a.ny of the other places where so
much that is significant in the life of the
West End occurs, because I I now how
interested Londoners are in peers. Especi-
ally rich ones. Take the Duke of West-
minster. To expect a Londoner not to point
him out in a West End theatre or restau-
rant would be equivalent to expecting a
native of Rome to ignore the unexpected
appearance of Mussolini.
The urge to write on subjects of which the
writer knows nothing at first hand has
existed in every age, and it has been respon-
sible for most of the absurdities of litera-
ture. Shakspeare was troubled by it. He
seems to have imagined a glamor abroad
that he could not see at home. He got
away with Munchausen-like conceptions
such as “the men whose heads do grow
beneath their shoulders” because the six-
teenth century was an age of faith; so little
was known that nothing was questioned. But
it can’t be done nowadays. “Ouida” had
many of the qualities of a great novelist,
including a dazzling narrative faculty.
Because she chose to write about sport
critics have, been laughing at her novels
for half a century.
But the proudest moment in the life of out
hero was when amidst the enthusiastic plaudits of
the crowd he led in the winner of the Waterloo
Cup.
That and the reference to the untrained
’Varsity stroke who won a great race by row-
ing twice as fast as the other members of his
crew are still remembered against one of the
most brilliant storytellers in the language.
Nothing is surer than that the works of Mr.
Palmer’s dramatist friend contain similar
gaffes, for which reason I would like to
know his name and buy them. Unconscious
comedy is nearly always the best. In the
“Saturday Evening Post” a few weeks ago
I struck an allegedly Anglicised New York
aristocrat who asked a friend during a casual
chat across a bridge table: “I wonder if.
while in London, you met my pal Edgar
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” has built Anthony Horderns’.
Anthony Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE)
STOCK- OA T F
REDUCING O ALL
m
m
m
rr<
*ES»
IIU , M sV.C' .'" *' •*
1 |\ ' v v ' '
Ample Shade from
the Blazing Sun!
“When it’s 100 in the shade, and you’re not in the
shade.’’ How well the Man on the Land knows it
—knows the terrific heat he has to bear hour after
hour—day after day. Here is a very simple
device to alleviate a great deal of the discomfort.
No matter what the temperature, with one of the
fine Harvester Sunshades we illustrate at left, the
driver works in the shade. It is made with a stout
pole and fittings, and the cover is of hard-wearing
Khaki Duck on solid iron ribs. We
have only a limited quantity of these
left, and the new Customs duties make
it impossible for further supplies to be
imported. Send down for one now —
they are remarkable value at the special
Sale Price of
1
(Dept., Ground Floor, George Street. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.)
Sola Pith Helmets
—the best headware
for hot Weather!
m
i
12/6 Now 10/6
No other Hat gives such perfect com-
fort and shade as the Indian Sola Pith
Helmet, illustrated above. Covered
in fine quality White or Khaki Drill, it
is available in all sizes. Ideal for both
Australian and wear in the Islands,
Price, each 12/6
Sale Price 10/6
(Dept., Ground Floor, George Street. We
Pay Carriage.)
£l4(1 5j- Hammock, £ll|lo|-
Here is the ultra-comfortable lounge for outdoor and verandah
use. The De Luxe Settee Hammock has strong striped ticking
in many attractive colorings, diamond mesh, spring mattress,
and overlay mattress with valance. Canopy to any
desired angle. Spend many hours of restful comfort in the
inviting shade of this useful addition to the home.
Price £l4/15/- Sale Price £ll/10/-
(Dept., Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
Remember you can ring M 2401 any hour of
the day or night and leave your order—it will
be promptly despatched.
ď
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 271 C, G.P.O.


mm
m
5
1
1/M
1/ I
C~
3M5
Wa
;
m
JOO
0
ii
\
Trrrrrrm
\
/
CZ2
“That, gentlemen, is Resch’s Pilsener—in its
new bottle. It’s now the most popular drink
in the house —a mild lager which appeals to
everyone ...Yes Sir! I’ll bring you a bottle now’.’
RESCH’S
PILSENER
-THE DRINK A MAN REMEMBERS


For the first time in years!
77/6
Buys a
David Jones’ quality
READY TO-WEAR
BUSINESS SUIT
To meet the lowered spending power of the
Australian community, David Jones’ have, by
better methods in their organisation and better
methods in manufacturing, established better
values and lower prices! Here is an in-
stance in these 77/6 ready to-wear Business
Suits. Made from good quality all - wool
Worsteds and embodying David Jones’ usual
high-grade workmanship styled on the
latest lines fraultless in fit better value
than for years past, owing to improved manu-
facturing methods at lower costs now, 77/6
tailoring ddept, SNew Store and §eorge Street
DAVID JONES’
LEAD THE TREND TO LOWER PRICES
Pomeroy, 27th Earl of Maltravers?” Such
gems are always to be found in the writings
of those who see life at second-hand, and
it is worth spending time and money to
unearth them.
JOHN DALLEY.
Abo. Myths and Legends
A recent Red Page article on aboriginal
mythology concerned itself chiefly with find-
ing parallels in our native folk-lore for the
legendary stories of the so-called “older”
• countries. We had our Achilles and the
rest of them; and that is all right in its
way. But the impression given—one diffi-
cult to avoid giving in a brief article—
was that there might not be anything new
to learn from our own. With such an
impression in mind it is refreshing and
rather enlightening to come across such a
book as Myths and Legends of the Aus-
tralian Aboriginals, by W. Ramsay Smith
(Harrap), a large volume freely and ad-
mirably illustrated in color, and with draw-
ings and a fine range of photographs.
It is the sort of book that might easily
become an Australian classic. It is very
well written; sympathetic without senti-
mentality; full of color, local and romantic.
Its writer, who has been studying the abo.
closely for more than 30 years, has a first-
rate narrative sense and the best of taste
in doing into English the scores of stories
he has gathered from full-blooded aborigi-
nals of various tribes. He allows the myths
to speak for themselves; “there has been
no searching for evidence either to support
or to disprove any anthropological or other
theories.” On that score he may stir the
protests of pedants, but few, if any, will
question the readableness of the book, and
most should agree that it is a highly import-
ant contribution to Australian literature.
It goes a long way towards supplying what
Australia, on paper, has very little of—
romantic traditional background. New
Zealand with her Maoris in conflict with
the white invaders, America and her Red
Indians supplying the same sort of tradi-
tion, seem to have had almost a ready-made
nationality. Australia has not been so
fortunate. In spite of the championship
of a few, the tendency to regard the abo.,
present and past, with toleration or con-
tempt still persists. But books such as
the present one, and such work as Katharine
Prichard, Mary Gilmore and a few others
have done, cannot be altogether in vain.
They.are too sincere, too honest, too con-
vincing not to have effect. A great merit
in this regard of Ramsay Smith’s book is
that it is so attractive as reading. It could
not help doing a wonderful amount of
good, and certainly would provide) the
youngsters with some rare entertainment,
if it could somehow be introduced into the
schools.
It deals with the mythical times in Aus-
tralia when the animals and birds had
human characteristics, leading on to the
advent of man and to some beautiful love
stories. The kangaroo is a kindly fellow,
leaning towards religion; the laughing-
jack (as the writer prefers to call him) is
the comedian; the tortoise is the general
butt; the crow is the villain; the wise
one is the koala (the writer would have
been for ever damned if he had succumbed
to his temptation to call the little fellow
a “teddy-bear”). It was the crow who
gave the snakes their fangs; he has a smirky
habit of calling everybody “brother-in-law,”
and he works in partnership with the Evil
One. Thera is an early attempt at some-
thing like- birth-control when the platy-
puses are advised to adopt some means of
keeping down their numbers, their failure
leading to the flood. The stories of the
world’s beginnings reach to great heights
of imagery. There is beauty and poetry in
them and elsewhere in the book, and there
is also, what there is little enough of in
much mythology, an abundance of humor.
The author has done Australia a service.
MACDONALD.
Note in a Minor Key
Just what does Arthur D. Wylie (R.P.
8/10/’3O) mean by “jazz”? The term was
originally applied to dance music in which
the rhythms and harmonies followed the
bizarre fashion set by the Ravel and Stra-
vinski school; but Mr. Wylie doesn’t use
it in that sense. He apparently classes as
jazz not only all tunes that can possibly
be adapted to dance rhythm (and I have
yet to hear one that cannot), but also the
words attached thereto, together with such
exotic musical instruments as the cow-bell,
the swanee-whistle and the gazooka, and
damns the lot. In other words, “jazz” to
Mr. Wylie is synonymous with “popular
music,” and popular music has sunk to such
parlous_ depths that its case seems hopeless.
But is the situation much worse than it
ever was? I think not. In fact, the standard
of popular taste in tunes seems to me to
have risen slightly since the days when
such appalling banalities as “Red Wing”
and “When the Sheep Are in the Fold,
Jennie Dear,” raged throughout the land!
As for song words, I consider a banana
shortage quite as suitable a subject as the
corpse which lies stretched in the luggage-
van ahead, and if A 1 Jolson must sing, I
don’t care whether he yowls about his sonny
boy or implores his daddy not to go down
the mine.
The fact of the matter is that musical
taste is inborn, and cannot be developed
above its natural level. There may be a
few unfortunates who have never had the
chance to discover that they enjoy hearing
good music, but surely not many. Access
to a gramophone or player-piano puts the
entire range of music, from Bach to Berlin,
within reach of anyone, at exactly the
same price in each case, so Mr. Wylie can
hardly blame the publishers and importers
for the sins of their customers. In fact
they would much prefer a rush on the
classics, none of the old masters being on
hand to make a fuss about royalties. Let
him comfort himself with the reflection that
nothing can be done about it. To secure
general attention, Gabriel will probably
have to syncopate the last trump.
STAN MORRISON.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a commit-
tee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit, though
not necessarily with the Red Page’s endorse-
ment.
General Literature. —Michael and Mary,
by A. A. Milne; Famous Shipwrecks, by
Frank H. Shaw; Arnold Bennett’s Journal,
1929; The Dupe as Hero, by “Logistcs”;
Episodes and Reflections, by Sir Wyndham
Childs; African Drums, by Dr. Fred Pules-
ton; Joyous Pilgrimage, by R. Francis
Foster.
Books of Literary Merit. —The Autocracy
of Mr. Parham, by H. G. Wells; Tuck of
Drum, by Alfred Tressider Shepherd.
Novels for Popular Reading. —Very Good,
Jeeves, by P. G. Wodehouse; The Dean’s
Elbow, by A. E. W. Mason; The Day of
Small Things, by O. Douglas; Castle Gay,
by John Buchan; White Face, by Edgar
Wallace; Fire Below, by Dornford Yates;
Havana Bound, by Cecil Roberts; The
Young and the Secret, by Alice Grant Ros-
man; Martin Make-Believe, by Gilbert
Frankau ; Gone North, by Chas. Alden Selt-
zer ; The Link, by Phillip Macdonald; The
Missionary, by Edison Marshall; Young Man
from Manhattan, by Katherine Brush; Tuck
of Drum, by Alfred Tressider Shepherd;
Mystery Valley, by Max Brand; The Years
that Take the Best Away, by Barbara Noble.
A Satchel of Books
lan Greig lias provided a combined
travelogue and thriller in The Tragedy of the
Chinese Mine (Benn). The action begins m
Malaya, where the hero loses his memory
owing to a traitorous blow on the head. He
passes from the jungle to Hollywood; arrives
at the Rite in London as a movie star, and
effectually puts it across the scoundrel who
had left him for dead near Penang years
before. An exciting and ingeniously com-
plicated yarn, with some interesting side-
lights on business methods in the F.M.S.
The Love Letters of Ernst Haeckel,
arranged by Johannes Werner (Methuen),
must almost surely take their place among
the very greatest collections of letters. Excel-
lently translated by Ida Zeitlin, the letters
are those which passed between the great
naturalist, then an uncommonly youthful G 4,
and Franziska von Altenliausen, who, brought,
up to a cloistered life until 30, was attracted
by Haeckel's work and wrote seeking assist-
ance in her hunt for truth. From that
beginning develops one of the loveliest love-
stories of modern times.
Edgar Wallace’s The Calendar (Collins)
will no doubt be knocked into a sensational
play or talkie, or both, when the author has
a spare half-hour. It has all the essential
ingredients, including a beautiful villainess
of title; a wooden-headed hero who nearly
gets warned off the turf as a result of writ-
ing to her that he is going to have one of
his horses pulled, and an ex-burglar, ex-
batman valet with a heart of gold. Most of
the characters are members of London’s
fashionable racing set, and the Ascot scenes
—done, as they are,, by a writer who knows
the course like the palm of his hand —-will
make many an exiled British sportsman
homesick.
In The Voice of One (Chapman and
Hall) John Lindsey has attempted to give
his readers an insight into the soul of John
the Baptist. It is a big job, and Mr. Lind-
sey is no Anatole France. He does not
re-create the period, does not even seem to
have familiarised himself with it, and John
muses on these lines: —
So the Messias was really coming. But soon? Was
He coming soon after John disappeared ? Was he,
John, the chosen forerunner ? He could not tell.
He had thought that he was. He had believed.
Something seemed to have told him that he was.
Something had whispered to him. But might it
not be false? Might it not? No! No! It could
never be false—it must be true.”
These are not the mental processes of a
religious genius, but of one who is con-
spicuously short of imagination and the gift
of expression. The barren and groping style
is accentuated by frequent quotations from
some of the most eloquent passages in the
Old Testament.
In Goldseekers and Bushrangers in New
Zealand , Dr. J. It. Elder, of Otago. Uni.,
ploughs another furrow in the fertile field
he opened up with “The Pioneer Explorers
of New Zealand.” The most striking feature
of the latest volume is the revelation that
James Hector and Julius von Haast, re-
membered by Maorilanders old enough to
have seen them as magnificent, dignified,
portly old gentlemen with all the letters
in the alphabet after their names, were ■in
their prime tremendous athletes. On their
surveying expeditions, which often occupied
many weeks, they traversed vast stretches
of country, mountainous, densely bushed, sub-
jected to almost continuous drenching rain
and crossed by swift-running torrents. Often
they were starving; always they were near
the limits of human endurance; but they
plodded bravely on, serving no god but duty.
They found gold, but that was not their busi-
ness, and others reaped the benefits of their
discoveries. Dr. Elder gives a concise history
of the various gold rushes, and the second
part of the book is taken up with a recital
of the lawless adventures of the Burgess
gang of bushrangers—a collection of double-
dyed cowardly murderers divested of any
redeeming qualities.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ■
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.G.W.: “A soul stands shuddering in
the lone mid-spaces” was promising, but the piece
fell away... .R. H.B. :No lift in “The Depression.”
.... 0.K.: All the evidence of the raw novice. Read
verse hard. .. .F.B\: So many are writing that sort
of thing.... Ratepayer: True enough, but the way
it’s done kills it.... The Prophet: The old story of
a good idea let go to seed... .Responsive: Not to
that verse T.T.: Terribly thin E.J.K.: Try
elsewhere.... Ground F.: Come in, with your passion-
ate longing:—
I want a hat.
I do not want a felt hat
With a ridge like a mountain.
Wud.
I want a hat
That is ail round and fat
Like an upturned fountain
Of mud.
... .A.M.N.: Might have been given a fly, but arrived
too late to serve any useful purpose... .E. 8.: That
applies' to your election item, too....Kaje: Right
in your supposition that “the basket for this is as
safe a bet as Phar Lap”.... S.A.: If you read up
the Australian poets you’ll share our opinion that
there’s nothing new in it V.T.: No stamp, but
returned because you might place it elsewhere.
. . .A.R.N.: Landtnmnn’s “The Kiwi Papuans of British
New Guinea” is worth 30s. ; Codrington’s “The Melan-
esians,” 16s. ; Luinholtz’s “Among Cannibals,” 14s. ;
Wollaston’s “Pygmies and Papuans,” 12s. 6d.. ...
8.P.: Used the mashie on the golfer... .J. 8.: Very
thin ice, and you are a rather laborious skater....
F. : Long-winded, though not bad in parts. ...
Rursus: A trifle labored, but it went c105e....
G. : Wide of the target.... Ten B.: Dropped into
the basket specially woven out of large gum leaves.
. ...M.M.1.: Article might get a hearing, but, space
is limited in that quarter. Verse misses... .A.C.S.:
However you may feel about it, the verse wouldn’t
make others feel with y0u.... Fanuela: “The Song
of Spring” slips mostly over the surface. .. .P.J.8.:
Suffers from one of the commonest defects of verse
aspirants—it is direct statement, instead of some-
thing experienced and transmuted... .1.F.J.: Merit
in it, but what is said has been said so often
Custos: Rather jingly... . Bellerive : Another con-
vincing instalment of the sporting serial:—
FAMOUS GAMES.
Draughts among veterans-
Are a favorite game.
Skittles an old timer
And chess the same.
Among lovers of cards
’Tis hard to resist
A game of c-ribbage,
Nap or whist.
Common two-up’s illegal.
But ’tis lose and win,
The same as the rest,
In our world of sin.
I’ve went to the races
With half a crown.
Money goes up and
Money goes down.
(Next week: “Past Celebrates of the Turf.”)
. ...0.A.J.: Too long and diffuse. .. .A.M.C.: Took
a second reading to out the mangroves. The other
piece further 0ff....G.H.: Send the others in if you
like, but they’d need to be vastly better than “The
Desert”. .. .J.8.M.: Best advice is to knock off writ-
ing “effusions” and try writing... .P. 8.: You don’t
make much of a job of the “Tie”.... Carp: Reads
more like a struggle than a sonnet...-D.C.: You’ll
find the market for ballads about faithless knights
in armor and ladies fair to see as hard as the armor
and as cold as the ladies... .0.K.F.: Not enough to
have thrills; it’s necessary to share them with the
reader... .D.W.: Well enough done as verse, but
they fail to satisfy... .J.J.: An old topic like
“Morning” would need to be a great deal more
freshly handled. Still, you’re not miserable....
Novus HomoNo, that is not the right road at all.
Look up the printed signposts. .. .Sylvester: Some-
thing in it, but that treatment would never get it
published. .. .P.M.: But The Bulletin doesn’t hope
to “get rid of the middleman.” All it hopes to do
is to get rid of the superfluous middleman; and he
is about three out of every four... .G.8.A.: It
wouldn’t have gone into print that way had the
man referred to been on "hand to.cut out the refer-
ence Bill P.: Many thanks V. J.: Subject
matter doesn’t appeal... .J.H.L.: It’s not a story.
S.L.H.: W. B. Mclnnes won the 1921 Archibald
Prize with his portrait of H. Desbrowe-Annear, the
1922 with his portrait of Harrison Moore, the 1923
with his “Portrait of a Lady,” the 1924 with his
portrait of Miss Collins, and the 1926 with his
“Silk and Lace.” He was born in Victoria and is 41.
. ...D.M.G.: Not interested in what the dingo had
for breakfast R.K.: Started well; finished badly.
.... M.L.: A waste of time sending travel sketches
unless they are superlatively good. .. . J.S.J.: Appa-
rently you ran out of paper. Glad of it E.J.:
Might suit a country sheet, but send a few pump-
kins with it....5.D.: Unreal people floundering
through incredible episodes.... N.S.: Patrol officer
cashiered... .E.M.D.: You didn’t draw that union
official from life... .O.B.: A flat collection....
W.E.D.: Flimsy, but by no means hopeless.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.A.K.: Scratchier, if anything. .. .R.R.: Well,
you’re a trusting lad J.W.R.: What are they--
eagle and lion or cockatoo and Pom. ?... .R.J.M.F.:
You’re no political cartoonist... .D.M.; Middling
C.'A.C.: Not a gleam as yet E.K.: It wasn’t
piped up the gangway. .. .E.0.C.: No good coming
along when the event is c01d... .L.S.: Hard to dis-
tinguish the spouter from the fig-tree. .. .0.W.M.:
Boundary-rider’s trip to The Bulletin was disas-
trous... .C.J.8.: You could safely offer a prize to
anyone seeing the point of the joke. .. .P.A.Q.: “The
Quick and the Dead” very dead. . . .H.B. : No
cheque for y0u.... F.P.C.: Fled at the sight of
them. .. .T.W.I-I.: Don’t try to mix stipples, diagonal
stroked and solid black and white in the one figure.
. ...W.N.: A frayed collection. .. .N.M.G.: You’ve
taken a turn for the worse.... C.V.: That must be
the oldest buckjumper joke in captivity.... W.G.C.:
Dead tired of seeing that lobster on a tram seat....
J.S.A. J.: What are you drawing, cricketers or railway
lines?... .R.M.W.: You won’t climb to the top of
the tree, but you should reach one of the lower
limbs.


d
ď
*%&LO. , j
VittJ o/a
Ptf
ir% tl
3 g|
£ &> SEPPEtT & SONS
jgksw SOUTH AUSTRALIA
đ
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 51. —No. 2646.
October 29, 1930.
THE HAWKER FROM AUSTRALIA.
"The Federal Labor Caucus will shortly discuss and determine its policy regarding the gold-production bonus, which the Government is now said to favor.”
THE NATIONS OF THE WORLD: “No, Mr. Australia, we are fully stocked up with all those wares. Very sorry and all that, but if you can bring us gold we are
buyers to any amount."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21'/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £ 1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d, Elsewhere: sd.
WHAT MAGIC IS THERE IN
CREDIT?
At the moment credit is the most popular
Labor remedy for all our ills. Mr. Lang
put it in the forefront of his campaigning
platform, so far as he had one; the A.L.P.
executive included it conspicuously in its
Melbourne programme. All we have to do,
it seems, is to tap some mysterious spring
and forth will flow prosperity.
Now what is this thing that can work
this conjuring trick? Why have we not
found out about it before? Why did we
let ourselves get into our present deplorable
condition when all we had to do was to
wave a magic wand and hold out our hands
to be filled?
First of all, what is the mysterious thing?
Fortunately here the dictionaries help.
“Credit; Transfer of property on promise of
future payment.” Why, that is merely our
old friend borrowing over again; merely
our old friend debt! You get to-day what
you have to pay for to-morrow. So far,
then, from credit being a new solution of
our troubles, it is just the old way of falling
into difficulties. Certainly there may be new
facilities for getting into debt; but it is
debt all the same, just as it is drunk you
are whether you do it on beer or cocktail
that was only invented yesterday.
After all, though, it is not very surprising
that those Australians who don’t think very
much should have so good an opinion of
credit, and should want to turn to it every
time they find themselves in trouble. The
whole explanation lies in the fact that
hitherto, though we have had all the joys
of borrowing, we have never had the dis-
comforts of repaying; of late years we have
not suffered the discomforts even of paying
interest but have borrowed that, too.
Thus far we have used our public credit
to the extent of one thousand one hundred
millions and our private credit to the extent
of further hundreds of millions. There is
scarcely a thing that we have not pledged
it to buy, from the bridge that is spanning
Sydney Harbor to the buttons on a police-
man’s uniform. But there has been no
magic about it all. There is no magic
even about the printing of notes which pass
for £l. They are only issued for value
received; and the moment the issuing
authority hesitates about giving back that
value the note begins to fall away. To-day
the Australian £-note, though still fairly
heavily backed by gold, is worth only 18s.
3d. of other people’s money, simply because
of a belief that the holder might have to
wait too long to get his full £ in real money.
So it comes about that somebody has to
put up every penny of the money that we
get on credit; and that is apparently what
most of these gentlemen who talk about
credit don’t realise. A few of them, how-
ever, realise it quite well. But they are
men who are frankly out to “get the wealth
for the people.” The Communist body is
far too wise to do its work in the open.
It suggests policies to non-Communist
bodies—policies which look quite harmless,
but are calculated to produce results that
would be horrifying to the majority of those
who guilelessly adopt them. In these days
the Communist thus suggests to the Aus-
tralian Laborite all the allurements of
“credit,” and honest men are inveigled into
spouting its virtues. The heads of the Com-
munist party in Russia know just about all
there is to know about repudiation : especi-
ally do they know that repudiation is hardly
ever deliberately planned, but is just drifted
into as Australia is drifting into it now,
and that the heavier the burden of debt
the more difficult it is to avoid the drift.
It is a tragedy that the seed is being scat-
tered in such fruitful soil, and that already
a large section in Australia is not at all
concerned about the payment of either
principal or interest. ,If it is a matter of
cutting down wages in order to pay, then
they are ready to join Frank Anstey, one of
his Majesty’s Ministers in Australia, in
telling its moneylenders to go to Hell.
Credit is thus being earnestly recom-
mended to the Australian Labor party not
because it will bring prosperity, but be-
cause it is almost certain to produce a
crash, out of which it is hoped that Com-
munism will emerge. Australia’s great mis-
fortune is that at the moment it possesses
a Labor party which does not know into
what chaos it is being enticed.
THE PRESS AND ITS DUTIES.
Sydney “Sun” announced its intention of
discussing the Communist menace in Aus-
tralia and the connection or alleged connec-
tion of certain people with it, and printed
the first of the promised articles a week
before the N.S.W. general election. Federal
Assistant-Minister Beasley’s immediate
reply was a writ claiming heavy damages for
libel. Now, until quite lately that would
have been enough: a paper would not have
dared to further discuss Mr. Beasley’s con-
nection with Communism, if any, no matter
how much unpublished evidence it had to
offer. Further discussion after the issue of
a writ was held to be contempt of court.
But the semi-fraudulent use of what be-
came known as the “stop-writ” worked its
own cure. So many of these proceedings
were initiated and never gone on with that
Judges began to suggest that where the
thing complained of was a continuing matter
further discussion of it might be not only
justified but actually a public duty. That
is to say, if Communism is a continuing
menace and if the “Sun” could show that
Mr. Beasley continued to be associated with
it, then further reference to the matter
might be not only justified but desirable;
in any case, a writ dealing with something
that a man did yesterday was not sufficient
authority to stop a paper from discussing
what the same man did in the same matter
to-day.
By gradual steps the Judges made that
the law, to the great relief of newspaper
publishers, though many of them still be-
lieve that it is too good to be true. What
happened in the Beasley case should, how-
ever, give them more confidence. Mr.
Beasley’s advisers knew that it was no use
trusting to the writ to silence the “Sun”;
therefore an application was made ex parte
to Justice James for the purpose, and Justice
James granted it. To the extent that
these proceedings show the passing of the
old “stop-writ” method of closing the
mouth of a newspaper over a period when
perhaps it should be particularly vocal, they
are quite satisfactory. Nevertheless we
shall have to view with a good deal of sus-
picion the new method of restraining a
newspaper 'from “repeating or continuing to
publish” statements “until the hearing of
an action commenced in the Supreme
Court.” If ex parte applications are granted
as a matter, of course, or even if they are
granted without inquiry and consideration,
we shall be back to just about where we
were; and a grave wrong may be done to
the people. Indeed, such a wrong may pos-
sibly have been done to the people in this
case.
Had the injunction to restrain not been
issued, and had the “Sun,” in spite of the
issue of the first writs claiming damages,
published further statements about Mr.
Beasley, it would have been quite open to
him to issue further writs in respect of the
further publication. In that there is pro-
tection for the public. Admittedly it may
be not always sufficient protection. Pub-
lishers with no sense of responsibility and
in no fear of damages, having nothing to
lose, may pursue a man venomously at a
moment when it is particularly necessary
that the truth should be told about him.
But where anything of that kind happens
there is the criminal law to appeal to; and
the criminal law can be both sudden and
swift. Certainly a most serious position
may arise if encouragement is given to the
belief that newspaper denunciation of, say,
a man’s fitness for public leadership may
be stopped at a critical moment by a mere
ex parte application to a Judge in chambers,
supported by nothing more substantial than
the affidavit of a solicitor that a writ has
been issued.
LOOK TO THE GATES!
Superintendent Mackay, head of the
N.S.W. detective force, admitted the other
day that robberies with violence were in-
creasing at an alarming rate, and suggested
that stiffer sentences should be imposed.
A closer scrutiny of immigrants would also
help to diminish the prevalence of this sort
of crime. As the recent experiences of the
New York crook Diamond have proved, the
ports of Britain and Europe are closed
against gentlemen of his kidney. Barred
out by Scotland Yard and the Continental
authorities, who seem to be particularly well
informed and to have a thorough under-
standing in these matters, Diamond had to
return to his old haunts and take the dose
of lead that was waiting for him there.
It is not imagining a vain thing to suppose
that some of Diamond’s compeers, having
found their own country unhealthy and the
Old World and Canada out of bounds,
have come this way, and that others will
follow them. There are rich pickings in
such cities as Sydney and Melbourne, and
the fidelity with which American technique
is being followed by lawbreakers in both
cities, even to a soft of interlocking alliance
of armed robbers with sly-groggers, brothel-
keepers and dope-peddlers, can’t entirely
be ascribed to the talkies, though that great
educational agency does devote acres of
screen to the exploits of Uncle Sam’s bad
men and women. The fact that there are
race meetings nearly every day in the week
would constitute an additional attraction.
And the restrictions on this class of immi-
gration from the other side of the Pacific
are hardly worth talking about.
Superintendent Mackay doesn’t blame the
depression for the epidemic of robbery with
violence. Honest men, he says, stay honest
in Australia, no matter how hard poverty
may pinch. That’s good hearing, and an-
other ray of brightness in the murk of
savagery and brutality is the heroism dis-
played by so many of the people who have
been threatened with death by criminals.
The bank clerk at Coonabarabran (N.S.W.)
who, after receiving a severe battering, staig-
gered out, semi-conscious and in deadly
peril, in order to raise an alarm, two arrests
resulting, is a case in point. Such heroes
deserve all the protection the State can
give them, and they are not getting it if
there is no real check on the influx of
foreign criminals.
That Australia’s criminal troubles are not
all home-made is borne out by the startling
statistics made public by the Opium Board
of the League of Nations. This body, which
has many and peculiar sources of informa-
tion, declares that the amount of cocaine
consumed in Australia last year was nearly
twice as great per million of inhabitants
as the amount consumed in the U.S.A., and
nearly three times as great as the British
and Canadian figures. It is difficult, almost
impossible, to believe that Australia has
reached this bad eminence. Yet all accounts
agree that the drug traffic has gravely in-
creased, in Sydney and Melbourne especi-
ally, of late years, and it is known to have
been introduced in the first place by
criminals from the U.S.A.
ELEVEN YEARS.
Dew is rising like mist from the autumn
fields as the train plugs along over the flat
country, and the names of the stations have
overtones —Lens, Hazebrouck, Arras, finally
Amiens. What emotions spread through the
blood at the sound of them! But the
cobbled streets are wrapped in a Sunday-
morning calm; in the open country beyond,
blue-bloused peasants are wandering along
narrow tracks staring at corn ripe in the
ear, and here and there a few are using the
scythe. Everywhere this spongy, moist
country is tilled up to the full limit of its
capacity. Where there is no wheat there
are vegetables—peas, cabbages, potatoes.
The poppy is the only weed, spreading its
fiery bloom over fields yet unreaped. And
occasionally there are little, crowded grave-
yards, with the com pressing in upon them,
ready to cover them over and blot them
out.
It is all so different from 11 years ago.
One remembers crawling through a land
of night, jumbled with other men in a dark
horse-box, and sliding the heavy door back
now and then to get a glimpse of a land-
scape that looked like the blistered, bubbly
surface of the dead moon. Shellholes from
which the subsoil had been tom and
vomited over the earth around; blackened
splinters of tree-boles; tangles of rusted
barbed-wire; a dirty confusion of mud and
metal! And here and there little gangs of
Chinese, working like gnomes among the
debris! Four years of war had left a deso-
lation such as had probably never been seen
on this green earth before, and the very
streams that overflowed their banks and
sopped out among the reeds looked dank
and obscene. It seemed incredible that that
death-blasted area should ever be made
habitable by human beings again.
But that was putting a low estimate on
the vitality of the race, particularly the
French part of it. The wasted country has
been reclaimed; new villages have been re-
built; there is hardly a trace of the tramp-
lings of armies. Only those tiny cemeteries
that look so out of place among the fields
of ripened com! It is hard to say what
memories these stolid old men and women
have as they harvest their crops or gossip
in the village squares. None that are very
vivid, perhaps. The mind also gets grown
over, its scars covered by fresh shoots
of experience, its shellholes filled in and for-
gotten. They look as if they were thinking
of nothing but how to make each franc
do double work and each acre yield more
this year than the last.
That is the note of the French character,
a subordination of all emotions to the par-
ticular work in hand. They have so often
been represented as being light and gay
that outsiders forget that they are pre-
dominantly solid and serious. I do not
know where the legend came from about
the French being gay. Probably it is a
foreigner’s impression of the cafes of Mont-
parnasse, which are filled with other
foreigners. But everyone who has lived
in a French village has noticed the serious-
ness of the people, and their sober concern
to keep their budgets balanced and a few
sous laid away each week in a stocking.
Just now, for instance, the papers are
talking about the prosperity of France, com-
pared with most other countries. It has
practically no unemployment, and its indus-
tries are working full time. Nor does it
seem to have any great difficulty about the
marketing of its surplus products. Now,
one would think, would be the time for it
to be gay. A great war well won, no other
formidable enemy on the skyline, industrial
prosperity at the flood!
Yet the feeling one gets in France is not
that of a people flushed with prosperity;
one is conscious on all sides of a rather
niggardly economy and a slightly harassed
concern for the future. Paris, compared
with London, looks a little shabby and in
need of paint. There has been practically
none of that fury of building that has
changed the face of the West End in the
last 11 years. The transport services have
a racketty look, even the “metro,” which
is one of the best-organised things in Paris;
the most elaborate shops are easily out-
classed by those of London; the general
aspect of the streets is not brilliant. So
many women dress in a black that shows
signs of going rusty. Coming from the
south of England, with its luxurious train
services and its air of comfort on every
side, an outsider would think France a
rather impoverished place, struggling hard
to keep its head above water.
But there are those unemployment figures,
those statistics about trade. France may be
shabby, but it is solvent. Its people are
pursuing their old way of hoarding their sous
in their individual socks. They are not
progressive, in the modern material sense.
They would rather struggle along with
shabby public buildings and antiquated
transport services than have high taxation.
English comfort and American plumbing
are not for them. But they have their own
ideas of the benefits of civilisation. The
wine is cheap and good, and the bookshops
of even the provincial towns are the best in
the world.
A strange, self-contained people, the
French—hard, unsentimental, their minds
burning with a steady flame that gives out
light without heat. It is easy to admire
them, but hard to approach them on terms
of intimacy. They are not popular at the
present moment among their neighbors —
the Germans, the English, the Italians —
but that does not seem to affect them in the
least. Are they grateful for the way the
world saved them 11 years ago? There is
no sign of that. Perhaps they feel there
is no need of gratitude, since France is the
core of civilisation; and the world, in saving
France, was only saving itself! Perhaps
they believe that France won out mainly
by the power of its own tenacious spirit.
Anyhow, the whole affair is largely for-
gotten, for good'or evil, and there are rich
harvests in the fields along the Somme.
VANCK PALMER.
“THE BANKS.”
Something has to be blamed for the conse-
quences of our own follies, and “the banks”
serve the purpose first-rate. It is easy to
conjure up a picture of “the bank.” It is
a large, fat, predatory person with a bulging
waistcoat and no bowels of compassion.
Actually the average banking co. is a col-
lection of hundreds of people of very
moderate means, who have engaged other
people of even more moderate means to
make use of their savings by dealing in
money.
From the outside this looks quite an easy
business. All you have to do is to borrow
a million at 4 p.c. and lend it at 7 p.c.,
and there you have £30,000 a year; and, as
everyone knows you don’t, pay anything at
all for half your deposits, you really make
£50,000 a year. Yet there seems to be some-
thing wrong about this somewhere; at any
rate, notwithstanding all the allurements of
the business, only one new joint-stock bank
has been established in Australia during the
past 42 years, and that one, now in its
eighth year, has not only paid not a single
dividend, but has spent close upon half a
million of money in getting itself estab-
lished—with no prospect of dividends for
many years to come.
The truth is that the business is by no
means so simple as it seems, chiefly because
(1) depositors have a habit of wanting their
money back at the most inconvenient-
moments and (2) the bank is expected to
pay them. It is thus dragged in two direc-
tions: it is tempted to lend out or other-
wise invest as much as ever it can in order
to earn interest for depositors, and its own
working expenses, and profit; yet it knows
that if it fails to pay any due deposit on
demand its whole credit and goodwill will
crumble. The loans it has made are chiefly
on the security of property which is liable
to serious fluctuations in value; and in most
cases the property cannot be instantly sold
and thus changed back into money. If it is
forced on the market it can only be sold
at a loss; and if many losses are made the
bank’s own funds are exhausted and the
depositors’ money is imperilled. The great-
est difficulty in selling, or liquidating,
naturally occurs when times are hard; and
thus the heaviest demands upon banks are
made during periods when they are in the
poorest condition to meet them. The dis-
gusted; client then discovers that the bank
is an impostor; and the politician denounces
it for starving industry and promises that
things will be very different when credit is
nationalised. If, however, the bank emptied
its till and left itself unprepared to pay the
depositor, a crash would be inevitable; and
in a crash the depositors rarely suffer so
sadly as the borrowers. The simple fact
about Australian banks is that they have
lent all their deposits and 3 per cent, more;
and some of them would imperil the posi-
tion, not only of depositors but of their
borrowing customers too, if they increased
their advances, whether to the Government
or anyone else.
Nationalisation of credit would not alter
all this one iota. But it would give the
politician a leg in; and the question is
whether, on our past experience, there is
one man in the whole world who is less to
be trusted that way. In his own sphere he
has made such a catastrophic mess of things
that we shall be veiy lucky if we can pay
our creditors; yet he has such amazing im-
pudence that when he calls in a financier
of world-wide reputation and two economists
almost equally eminent in their own spheres,
he has no hesitation in telling them that
they are roguish conspirators, whose plans
should not be listened to for a moment.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Elections.
The Federal Nationalists, appealing to the
country, were defeated. In Queensland,
Labor, appealing to the country, was de-
feated. In Victoria, the Nationalists,
appealing to the country, were defeated. In
Westralia, Labor, appealing to the country,
was defeated. In S. Australia, the National-
ists, appealing to the country, were defeated.
And now the Nationalists in N. S. Wales.
Labor or Nationalists, it is all the same;
neither Government can, in these days,
survive an appeal to the country.
The meaning of this seems quite clear.
Both sorts of Government have been
attempting to fly in the face of economic
laws and have failed, just as inevitably Mr.
Lang will fail now—only worse, because he
promises to fly harder. Governments have
borrowed and borrowed, and the spending
has created a boom in work and wages and
in business profits which no power on earth
could maintain after the borrowing ceased.
To make matters worse, the bottom dropped
out of almost all the raw-product markets
of the world—wool, wheat, metals, rubber,
coffee, copra and a host of others. In these
days Governments are looked to for every-
thing, thanks to the politicians themselves,
for they have claimed omnipotence. There-
fore, when things went wrong, when employ-
ment got scarce and wages sagged and busi-
ness shrank, naturally the Government
was blamed. Four South American repub-
lics have had rebellions within the last few
months, followed by the overthrow of their
Governments. That is the Latin way. In
an English-speaking democracy we are
content to do what the Commonwealth did
a year ago and every other State has done
within the last few months: we have a
general election and throw out the Govern-
ment, no matter what its political color
may be.
So the result of Saturday’s election in
N. S. Wales does not mean that the people
believe Mr. Lang to be right. It only means
that they know something to be wrong.
What that something is they do not know;
and Mr. Lang is as much in the dark as his
most benighted follower. He says the
result means that the people will not
tolerate any reduction in the standard of
living nor any outside interference with
their domestic affairs. He is the man who,
finding a friend very sick with an empty
rum-bottle beside him, tells him that what
he obviously needs is a bottle of rum.
And, seeing that nobody is so ready to
sing that “another little drink, wouldn’t
do us any harm” as those who have already
had a drink too many, Mr. Lang naturally
got a great majority.
Our misfortune is that the headache with
which we must wake up will be a worse
one than it would be if we squared up now
and did not prolong the spree. However,
the followers of Mr. Lang can apparently
only learn from bitter experience. They
have got to find out for themselves that
economic laws—which, after all, are only
natural laws—are immutable. The Labor
Prime Minister of Australia glimpsed that
fact before he made his unfortunate flight
from the Commonwealth; the Labor
Premiers of Victoria and South Australia
are getting to close grips with it every
day of their harassed lives. Mr. Lang and
his Ministers are doomed to make the
uncomfortable discovery within a fortnight
of their triumph:
And what then? When they have dis-
covered that the entire basis of their appeal
to the country was rotten; when they have
found that not a major promise which
they made to the people can be kept; when
they have painfully learned that their
opponents were more right than they, what
will they do? Even though they should
find all this out within three months, they
will have the right to hold this Parliament
together for three years; and while this
Parliament lives, a Lang Ministry may rule,
no matter how false the pretences on which
it was elected. Before they move a step
further Mr. Lang and his lieutenants are
invited to make themselves clear on this
point. They say they are right; they say
they can do the things Mr. Lang has
promised. Very well; if they can they are
fully entitled to remain in office until this
Parliament’s three years ai'e up. But if
they cannot, then they obviously have no
right to remain in office. It is not too much
to ask Mr. Lang and his lieutenants to give
in their adherence to that democratic prin-
ciple.
♦
Paper Revenue and Gold Debts.
It is a sad fact that so many prominent
men on the Labor side ended the recent
N.S.W. election campaign in the same igno-
rance of the fundamental truths of eco-
nomics as they began it. Take as a fair
sample of this section J. J. Graves, Labor’s
energetic campaign director. On the eve of
the election he scoffed at the statement
that Australia could not borrow any more
at present, and went on to prove his
theory:—
“The Indian Government has floated a loan
on the English market for £12,000,000. It
was subscribed 10 times over in less than an
hour. This means that in less than an hour
£100,000,000 more than was required was
offered India in London. From ‘Whitaker’s
Almanac’ for the year 1930 I quote the
respective particulars of Australia and India.
Australia, with a revenue of £71,000,000,
has a debt of £537,000,000, whilst the Indian
Empire, with a revenue of £95,000,000, has a
debt of £680,000,000. In other words, it
take the Australian revenue seven and
a -i ? ears to pay off the existing debt,
whilst the Indian debt would be paid off
by the present revenue in about seven and
a quarter years.”
In the first place the figures are hopelessly
wrong, the Commonwealth and State debts
having reached £1,100,597,000; but even if
they were right, Mr. Graves’s figures would
prove just nothing at all, because of the
fundamental difference between paper
revenue and gold debts.
Our annual interest payments abroad now
amount to about 30 millions payable in gold,
whereas of our alleged revenue of 71 mil-
lions not one-hundredth part of a single
million is paid in anything but paper, and
paper is quite valueless so far as foreign
payments go. Until that fact is grasped,
and until it is realised that only gold or
goods that will sell abroad for gold will
pay our foreign interest bill and for our
overseas imports, we cannot begin to realise
what our problem really is; and until we
know what our problem is, how can we
possibly know how to solve it? And what
wonder then that remedies are offered which
not only leave our ills uncured, but greatly
add to the difficulties of the case?
<*
Employment Can’t Save Us.
There is a pathetic trust in employment to
get us out of our troubles. As the N. S.
Wales election campaign proceeded speakers
on both sides promised to put men to work,
and assumed that, this done, we should be on
the high road to prosperity. As a matter
of fact, we might be going faster to the
Devil than ever. It all depends upon what
sort of work men are put to.
If it is merely a matter of employing
men, then why does not Senator Daly, who
has had a good deal to say about this
matter, engage all the out-of-work clerks
in the Adelaide office of Denny and Daly?
The answer is obvious. This eminently
respectable law firm could not employ them
profitably, and would inevitably go broke
if it employed them unprofitably. What is
true of a firm is true of a country; the only
difference is that, the country’s resources
being larger, it takes longer to exhaust them.
But the process of exhaustion proceeds all
the time.
If it were suggested to Senator Daly that,
in the absence of useful work, he might
at least set the army of clerks at making
noughts and crosses, he would probably
reply that the idea was quite mad. And
so it would be. Yet it is not one atom
worse than setting an army to shift sand.
The firm that tried to escape insolvency
by the noughts-and-crosses route would be
no worse than the country which thinks
to escape the same fate by the sand-shifting
route.
Production is the only thing that can
save us. This does not, of course, mean
that everybody must be engaged in direct
production; but the wealth of the country
will be governed by the proportion of direct
wealth-producers. That is what is the
matter with Senator Daly’s own State of
S. Australia: considering its somewhat poor
natural advantages, there are far too many
non-producers. Were the country enor-
mously fertile and rich in coal or oil or gold,
a comparatively few people might produce
enough wealth to support a very large
number of middlemen, of people ministering
to the needs and supposed personal needs
of the others and of idlers. But S. Aus-
tralia is not rich, and the production of
the wealth-producers per head is insufficient
to support any large number of non-pro-
ductive dependants, no matter how hard
those non-productive. dependants may toil
at their jobs.
Thus far politicians have been mainly
concerned in keeping the unemployed quiet.
To that end work has been found for them
with very little regard to its productivity.
The country cannot go forward that way,
any more than the firm of Denny and Daly
could go forward if it employed clerks
without regard to their productivity.
What Inflation Is Like.
“Lao-dah”: I have had some experience of
inflation, the device for solving our econo-
mic problems advocated by some Austra-
lian politicians. I landed in Italy just be-
fore Mussolini stopped the rot which was.
setting in. That day the lira was quoted
at 55 to the English £, instead of the pre-
war 20, I changed a slice of my Austra-
lian letter of credit into Italian currency
and thought fortune was smiling on me.
Next day there was a Communist bomb
outrage somewhere, and the exchange
jumped to 85. Hence within 24 hours the
value of my investment in Italian money
had decreased by nearly half. It was worse
two days later. Some Minister had made
a foolish speech which made foreign bourses
more suspicious than ever, and the
exchange soared to 100. At that figure I
changed another slice of my letter of credit;
and the next day the tormented lira had
risen to 115.
And so it went on. Before I left the
country some of my earlier purchases of
Italian banknotes had fallen to a third of
their original value, while in some of my
later ones I was getting six times the value
of the English £—Qn paper. The price of
commodities was in a similar condition.
You could drive round Rome for a couple
of hours for fivepence in foreign currency,
while coke, used more than anything else
for heating, cost £25 a ton against 33 shil-
lings in pre-war days! Clothes had in-
creased in price seven times, and eggs were
ten shillings a dozen.
People on fixed salaries (I knew some
who were university professors) were being
reduced to next to beggary, and there was
scarcely anybody who was not suffering. I
was lucky.
Passing through Naples a few months
later I took my lire ashore and changed
them back into British currency. There had
been a temporary lull in injudicious poli-
tical spruiking, and the exchange had so far
recovered that I got more than twice as
many pounds for my Italian paper as I had
paid for it. In effect, I had had my sojourn
in Italy, a camera and other purchases, for
nothing. Multiply my case by a billion
or so and you get some idea of what infla-
tion cost Italy.
Government and Education.
Every Parliamentary election leaves The
Bulletin a little unhappy. This abomin-
able party system is responsible. Willy-
nilly the non-party man is driven to sup-
port, or, at any rate, for the moment to
be silent about, practices and portions of
programmes which he greatly dislikes. Even
the good party man must find the burden
almost intolerable at times.
Only a little while ago there was a Labor
insurrection against J. T. Lang. One after
the other the majority of his late colleagues
denounced him. Some of the things some of
them said were blistering. That stalwart
organ the “Worker,” whose sincerity com-
mands for it the.respect of its opponents,
declared that Lang’s administration had
left the State impoverished and unhappy.
Now, one after another, the ex-colleagues
who flayed Lang have come on to the plat-
form to win votes for him; and the
“Worker” has had to beat its curses into
benedictions. On the other side the “Even-
ing News” has had to forget all its flagella-
tions of the Bavinshaws as spendthrifts;
and Weaver’s sad mishandling of Rothbury
has had to be sunk into oblivion.
There were two super men, Lang and
Bavin; also two super-devils, Bavin and Lang.
The man who mistrusted Lang and yet
could see a speck upon Bavin dare not men-
tion it because he would well know that
within 24 hours the speck would be seized
upon and magnified into spots and multi-
plied into an eruption—a pretty exhibit to
set up alongside the wholly unsullied Lang!
There is no visible way of escape except
by education. After all, this is a compara-
tively new implement of government we
are using. Democracy has come into prac-
tice only during the last few years. “One
man one vote” was no more than an aspi-
ration as late as the early ’nineties. “And
how many votes do you give a man in Tas-
mania?” one Radical interjector asked of
a Tasmanian delegate at the convention
which framed the Commonwealth Consti-
tution. “As many as he deserves,” Henry
Dobson barked in reply. When adult fran-
chise became law it was inevitable that
confidence men would get hold of some of
the new votes, held by people who had no
proper idea of their value or of what they
implied; and it doesn’t condemn the system
that the confidence men of politics some-
times still succeed. No human system pf
government will be perfect. Our democratic
system has at least this merit, that popular
education can make it well-nigh perfect,
whereas popular education could do little to
improve any other system, and might even
make most other systems more irksome.
«
Where Is Happiness?
The venerable Archbishop Kelly moved
diffidently on to the fringe of party poli-
tics the other day, and said some things
that badly wanted saying. Thus: “Happi-
ness does not consist in the possession of
wealth; happiness is in one’s own heart.”
That this has been an unpopular doctrine
for some years past is due to its former
abuse. Men preached that money did not
bring happiness in order to justify their
own sweating and similar practices, and
make them more profitable; and hypocrites
offered other people religion not because
they believed it was the best thing, but
because it was a cheap thing. After the
world had had its great awakening in the
’eighties—a decade of marvellous intellec-
tual stirrings and strivings—it was natural
that the pendulum should swing far the
other way. The astonishing thing is that
the impulse in this other direction has not
been lost even yet. There is not a Par-
liamentary election which does not turn
chiefly on some question of wages; there
are Ministers of State who would frankly
rather repudiate the country’s debts than
consent to any reduction of their own earn-
ings, and when the standard of living is
talked about, what is in the mind is always
what a certain amount of money will buy.
It would be ridiculous to suggest that
money is not a great help towards happi-
ness; and labor unions have done a tre-
mendous service, not only to workmen and
their families but to the world, in fighting
to get more of it for their members. Never-
theless it is true that there are vast stores
of happiness to which money cannot gain
us admittance. It is easily possible to edu-
cate oneself to get more joy out of a book,
a garden or a sunset than out of a rise in
the basic wage; and the man who can get
joy only out of a rise in the basic wage is
a poor soul compared with the one who
has a due appreciation of money and of
the other things as well.
We shall be short of money for some
years to come. So the time seems singu-
larly appropriate to cultivate these other
things.
♦—
The Law’s Delays.
“Bill o’ Costs”: “D.” (B. 15/10/’3O) very
properly heaves his brick at “the law’s de-
lays,” evidenced by 43-day trials and a 42-
hour address of counsel (10 days, no less,
according to the usual rate of forensic pro-
gress!). He might, with greater force, have
instanced the same time or thereabouts
occupied over the sordid personal divorce
wrangles of wealthy suitors. He errs, how-
ever, in saying that “unfortunately nothing
can be done about it because the Bar
Council and the Law Institute have no dis-
ciplinary jurisdiction over offending counsel
and solicitors.” Something can be done
about it and there is a remedy, though it
does not rest with Bar Councils and Law
Institutes, but with the Judges themselves.
They are the arbiters of what time should
be occupied over every contentious matter,
and are under no obligation to sit pati-
ently for 43 days when the odd three might
suffice, nor to submit to a 10-day speech
when a clearer view of the case might be
gained without any address at all. No
counsel has the “right,” though it is per-
sistently claimed, of talking to any Court as
long as he pleases, nor of cross-examining
witnesses to the point of exhaustion of
everyone, including himself.
Apart from other remedies the Judges
have a very salutary one in the depriva-
tion of, or imposition of, costs. The trouble
is that experienced Judges find it less dis-
tressing to listen in bored patience than to
be involved in frequent acrimonious, or
wheedling, arguments over these apocryphal
“rights,” and the less capable Solons are in
perpetual dread of shutting out anything
that might be remotely relevant and of
being put right by a pernickety court of
appeal.
As for the chances of reform at the hands
of Bar Councils and such, one society
recently expended much profound thought
over the practice of small and hungry sharks
in touting for business at the. gaols and
police stations, upon the basis of “honor-
able understandings” with police officers.
The mountain duly delivered its mouse
in a circular to the profession to the effect
that it had prepared “a list” upon which
those “gent, ones” willing to undertake
such business might have their names en-
rolled “without any loss of prestige.” This
list is presumably to be submitted to the
newly-jugged by the John-Dunn-in-waiting
so that the former may make a selection
from the menu. The long odds are that
things will go on much as. of old; but it
would be worth a small fee to hear the
observations by both captured and capturer
when the official “list” comes under dis-
cussion.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE EXCISEMEN AND THE CENSORSHIP .. 2
OBSERVATION AT SECOND-HAND . . . . 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
WHAT MAGIC IS THERE IN CREDIT? .. 8
THE PRESS AND ITS DUTIES .. ..8
ELEVEN YEARS (the battlefields revisited) .. 8
LOOK TO THE GATES 8
“THE BANKS” 8
THE N.S.W. ELECTIONS 9
GOVERNMENT AND EDUCATION .. .. 9
EMPLOYMENT CAN’T SAVE US .. ..9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
(With eartoonlets by Frith.)
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 14
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, IS
SOUTHERN CROSS ASSURANCE .. ..17
SMITH’S NEWSPAPERS, LTD 17
THE WHISKY MERGER 17
G. G. GOODE 17
BENNETT & FISHER (ADELAIDE) . . . . 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 21, 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
AN ALTERNATIVE TO SHEEP '24
CONVERTING BONES INTO MANURE .. 24
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . • • 26
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 27, 29, 30
TRADING IN HARD TIMES 27
REFLECTIONS AT A FUNERAL . . . . 29
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) 31
POVERTY POINT 33
THE PALETTE 33
THE INKY WAY 33
SHADOW SHOWS 35
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 36
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 40, 42
MOONEE VALLEY RACES 39
DERBY AND CUP TIPS 39
CANTERBURY PARK RACES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 43
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 45
SERIAL—“THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER,”
By Montague Grover .. .. ..46, 47, 49
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . .. . . 48
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop.”) .. .. .. 51
A COMPLETE STORY—
“WITH SAVAGES IN SERGE”—
By Alys Brown . . .. .. 53, 54
VERSE —By Roderic Quinn, D. P. McGuire.. 49, 54
NEXT WEEK.
“WELL, WHAT NEXT?”
Opening Chapters of the New Serial, “BREAK 0’ DAY,” by John Crisp.
“RAYMOND TERRACE,” in which J. H. M. Abbott introduces another Lang.


*
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. _ (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital _ Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) Iri the event: of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Eaq. j
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - - BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Counting Dr. Evatt and Tom Mutch as
Labor men—though they ceased to follow
Lang they never voted against the party—
N.S.W. Labor had 42 seats in the last Leg.
Assembly, there being 90 altogether. In the
next it will have 52, perhaps 54. Its mem-
bers were all re-elected, in nearly every case
by increased majorities; of the other side
Lee, the Minister of Justice, went down in
Drummoyne; Arkins, the Whip, in Waver-
ley; Anderson in Ryde; Ness in Dulwich
Hill; Lloyd in Parramatta; Lud Mayor
Marks in North Sydney; and Tresidder (also
a city alderman) in Randwick, while Thorby,
the Minister of Agriculture, is behind in
Dubbo. Not even in Holman’s time was
such a victory gained, and Lang may be
fairly said to have a greater personal follow-
ing than any other Australian Labor leader,
past or present, Federal or State. He has
moved even the public-service organisations
to enthusiasm; whether they will be as
enthusiastic in six months—or even three
months —is another matter.
AFTER THE BATTLE.
Tom and Jack ( together ): “So you’re here,
too!”
Bavin must bitterly regret that he restored
Sydney’s municipal council —and he did it
as a concession to Labor feeling. Almost
as soon as the City Commissioners were
gone, the Civic “Reform” group, to which
Marks and Tresidder belong, awarded the
manager of the municipal lighting depart-
ment another £lOOO a year, refused to him
by the Commissioners, at the same time
reducing the wages and lengthening the hours
of the workmen. This unutterably foolish
proceeding settled Marks and Tresidder in
their electorates, and probably cost the
Nationalists 20,000 votes.
As at the Federal election, nearly all the
lost seats were taken from Nationalists; the
Country party, by comparison, did well.
When Wearne announced his retirement the
Nats, sent G. W. R. McDonald up from
Sydney to succeed him as member for Bar-
won, although Wearne had been leader of
the Country party. The local Cockies wouldn’t
have McDonald, and nominated a local man
Wade; Wade got nearly 5000 votes, and the
man from Sydney 1000 or so. If this doesn’t
convince the Nats, that they will have to
leave country electorates to the Country
party nothing will. Also, if their group is
to survive they will have to abandon their
silly habit of running former Labor politi-
cians and look round for more candidates
like Fitzsimons. That young man surprised
the Trades Hall by increasing his majority
in Lane Cove, whereas Arkins and Cann
and Gardiner shared the fate of McDonald.
Apparently the only thing Scullin will
bring back from the Imperial Conference
will be a promise that the MacDonald Gov-
ernment will go on with the construction
of the graving dock at the Singapore base ;
and Australian Labor doesn’t care two
straws for the Singapore base. There were
hopes that Britain would clap a 10 p.c. duty
on non-Empire produce; but Snowden says
this would be “criminal,” and Snowden still
dominates the Rammacs.
While Daly, Anstey, Blakeley and Beasley
were campaigning for Lang and denouncing
the Melbourne agreement to which their Gov-
ernment is a party, not a word came from
the absent Prime Minister, one way or the
other. On Monday, however, the news
arrived that he had said in England that the
Melbourne agreement would have to be
honored, even while the triumphant Beasley
was saying that it would have to be reviewed.
Fenton likewise kept his lips locked till after
the N. S. Wales election ; then he blithered
something to the effect that it had been “a
wonderful victory.” The Lord knows what
is going to happen to this extraordinary
Government. It is quite on the cards that
the exultant N.S.W. members, now, with
their sympathisers, in control of the Caucus,
will depose Scullin and dismiss Fenton, in
addition to scrapping the Melbourne agree-
ment.
Disregarding precedent, the Hogans put all
their Budget proposals for additional im-
posts in one Finance Bill.
This looked like a challenge to
the Opposition, and there is
to be a meeting of Opposition
groups to-day to discuss it.
Menzies or Macfarlan might
lead a non-Labor Government
successfully, but it will be
difficult to induce Argyle and
Allan to take back seats.
The Queensland Govern-
ment is sticking to its deter-
mination to wipe out prefer-
ence to unionists in the form
in which it has been not so
much a benefit to unionists as
a bludgeon in the hands of
their paid bosses. The neces-
sary amendment to the Indus-
trial Arbitration Act is to be
put through this session, in
spite of the size of the pro-
gramme already undertaken.
The wheat output for 1929-
30 amounted to 126 million
bushels, Westralia leading
with 39 million bushels. Even
with the price down Is. 6d. a
bushel, thanks very largely to
Mr. Garden’s Russian friends,
the coming harvest is expected
to realise as much as the ’29-
30 yield (roughly £25,000 ; 000),
if not more. It shows what
increased production can do
for Australia, and how much
more it may do, with reduced
costs.
The Australian “party,” Billy Hughes’s
creation —William sent them all into the
fray with his solemn blessing, and hinted
that they might hold the balance of power
in the next N.S.W. Assembly—scored among
them 24,620 votes out of nearly 1,200,000.
It seems almost a pity that the devoted band
didn’t manage to scoop in another 380.
The Auckland Chamber of Commerce
agrees with South Aus. that bachelors should
pay something extra these times. It sug-
gests taxing those who have no one but
themselves to support and who are earning
over £2OO a year—the Maoriland income tax
begins at £3Ol. As a rule the unencumbered
bachelor earning £4 a week spends more on
himself than a family man on £lO a week.
He shouldn’t be shielded by 'a cloak of in-
visibility when the witch-doctors of the Taxa-
tion Office are smelling out their victims.
Darwin is hurling defiance at Canberra
again, this time on the subject of taxation
without representation. True, it has a
member in the Reps., and he fills many pages
of “Hansard,” but he has no vote. The
movement is a revival of one which some
years ago landed a number of citizens in the
calaboose for refusing to pay income tax.
This time the whole of the community is to
be organised, so that the authorities will be
faced with the insoluble problem of jugging
all the taxable inhabitants of the Territory.
BEASLEY’S SILENT TRIBUTE.
“It is revealed that Queen Victoria had a fine
turn of invective. She tailed the Kaiser ‘sickening,
indecent, mad, unnatural, conceited and wrong-
headed.’ ”
The most outrageous furphy circulated
during the rowdy N.S.W. election campaign
was the assertion that Australia had to pay
France “millions” for the use of trench
ground during the war. The French Consul-
General flatly denied it, but the lie was used
with such effect that it is sure to be trotted
out again by rogues to deceive fools. In
the version hitherto current Britain was the
“mug.”
The Queensland Auditor-General has de-
livered another blow to the belief —still held
in credulous Australia’s
railways could be sold for a lot more than
they cost. Fie reports that even if the
capital debt of the Queensland railways
had been half what it is, the earnings for
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
SCULLIN'S SUBBTITUTE: “Now that the N.S.W.
elections are over, boys, we can get on with our
policy. By the way, what is our policy?”
the past five years would have fallen far
short of the interest bill.
The Hogan Government has introduced a
bill for the protection of wild flowers and
plants on Crown lands. Presumably this
is to prevent Leason’s taxpayer, who was
last seen escaping into the bush minims his
loincloth, destroying the native flora in quest
of a figleaf.
The value of the railway passes issued to
members of Parliament is reckoned by the
statistician at £94,300 p.a. Tramway passes
swell the total to £120,000 at least. Yet
for every journey on which the gold medal-
lion is used to transact public affairs, a
dozen are made on private business or
pleasure. Members of the military who have
to travel on duty are provided with travel
warrants on the certificate of a person in
authority, the warrants being given up
when the duty is performed. There seems
no reason why this system, or an adaptation
of it, should not be applied to the poli-
ticians, tramway passes being cut out alto-
gether. Australia can no longer afford to
pay for the transport of fat deadheads to
places like Randwick racecourse and the
Stadium.
Vic. civil servants fear that if the
Hogans go into recess Jones will be given
a roving commission to effect economies. In
the Works, Mines and Immigration Depart-
ments, which he controls, Jones has made
substantial cuts. Addressing the Municipal
Association conference, Jones said that
money was dear “because of the very great
wastefulness that has been practised” ; also,
“there must be no more deficits; we must
balance our budgets and keep them bal-
anced, and take a solemn vow to pay every
shilling which Australia owes.” That is
the spirit that will save Australia.
Lang’s promises to the electors of vast
sums to be borrowed recall Lloyd George’s
retort when a friend expostulated with him
for telling the people that the Germans
could pay 24,000 millions in reparations. “My
dear fellow,” said the Welsh statesman, “if
the general election had lasted another fort-
night, they would have been able to pay fifty
thousand millions.”
Ugly mob demonstrations in which for-
eigners were conspicuous, and threats that
uglier ones were in preparation, prompted
the Melbourne detectives to raid the local
Communist Hall and other places where
Reds were known to congregate. They seized
piles of inflammatory printed matter and a
large collection of missiles for use in riot-
ing—batons, rubber piping stuffed with lead,
pieces of steel cable and the like—and they
arrested a pack of “comrades,” some of whom
were identified as having been active in the
mobs. Few of them were Australians; five
were recent arrivals from Germany, and
others were “laborers” from Poland, Finland
and Britain. Australia is taking the Com-
munist menace far too lightly. Organisations
preaching the “take and hold” doctrine and
proved to be receiving orders from Moscow
should be held to be engaged in a criminal
conspiracy to overthrow our institutions by
means of wholesale robbery and slaughter.
Foreigners belonging to them and found in
possession of lethal weapons should be
deported.
Maoriland’s Transport Department has
given in its first annual report a survey of
what the Dominion is paying for land trans-
port and how that expenditure is apportioned.
It assesses the present-day value of roads
at £60,000,000 ; of railways and rolling stock
at £60,000,000; motor and other vehicles,
£50,000,000; tramways and rolling stock,
£5,000,000; the total, £175,000,000, repre-
sents 26 per cent, of the wealth of the
country. The cost of transport per head is
rapidly increasing. In 1914 it was £66, in
1927 £lOO, in 1929 £ll7. In 1914 £3,000,000
was spent in connection with motor trans-
port; this year’s estimate is £32,000,000.
Two English women missionaries have
been beheaded by Communists in China after
being tortured and seeing fellow-prisoners
similarly treated. The local British consul
was told he could ransom them for £lOO,OOO ;
he offered £lO,OOO, and later raised this to
£50,000, but too late to prevent the murders.
Such outrages have become so common that
many are not thought worth cabling, and the
Government is powerless outside a short
radius from the principal cities. There is
no remedy but the evacuation of all mission-
aries and white residents from the infected
districts.
Vic. politicians have discovered that the
State’s troubles are largely due to the disease
which Shiels, when Treasurer in 1902, de-
scribed as megalomania. The Cabbage Gar-
den is gridironed with railways which don’t
pay and with speedways designed to ruin
the railways; and it has gone in for water
storage and electricity works on the gran-
diose scale. This megalomania, Shiels held,
began about 55 years ago when Ward ell was
building Government House, St. Kilda-road
—now a white elephant of which the Scul-
lins are the keepers. The architect said he
was in a quandary what size to make the
ballroom. “What is the biggest ballroom
you know?” asked the Works Minister of
the period. “The one at Buckingham Pal-
ace,” Wardell replied. “Then,” directed the
Minister expansively, “make ours one-third
bigger.” Victoria has had many Works Min-
isters like that.
That Hollywood pitcher showing Disraeli
forcing the governor of the Bank of England
to find the money for the Suez Canal shares
seems to have made an immense impression
on the leading lights of “the,movement.” It
inspired a Queensland Labor member to
"At last week’s Sydney sales, 13 bales of greasy
merino fleece from Manilla brought 17ld. per lb., the
top price of the season.”
AUSTRALIA: “I wonder if that animal ’ll
carry me again.”
suggest that Scullin should deal in the
Disraelian fashion with Gibson of the Com-
monwealth Bank, and it moved .T. J. Graves.
Lang’s campaign director, to this burst of
eloquence?
Disraeli stood alone in his advocacy of the pur-
chase of the Suez Canal shares. The Bank of Eng-
land fought him. The great Lords and Commoners
scoffed at him. The Bavins of that day opposed the
great Jew who dared to say to the Bank, “You
do nor stand for England!” Had Disraeli not
played a lone hand there would have been no British
Empire to-day as we know it. To-day, British
Imperialists thank God that Disraeli dared to fight
down all opposition. To-morrow, Australia will praise
God that Lang to-day dared to say to Sir Otto
what Disraeli said to the Sir Otto of his day and
generation.
The “Encyclopiedia Britannica’s” account is
somewhat different:—
The news that the Suez Canal shares had been
bought by the Government was received with bound-
less applause... .but it was not a Disraeli concep-
tion .... Greenwood, editor of the “Pall Mall Gaz-
ette,” went to Lord Derby at the Foreign Office,
informed him that the Khedive’s shares were passing
into the hands of a French syndicate, and urged
....purchase for England Lord Derby drafted a
telegram to the British Consul-General at Cairo....
On receipt of the answer the purchase was taken up
and went to a speedy conclusion.
Of course the Hollywood version is ever so
much more thrilling.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Liptrap” : I was travelling between Cairns
and Innisfail, where the Italian is encoun-
tered on every side, when three swarthy
passengers entered the carriage.- One was
wearing a button photograph, and after
straining my eyes to ascertain whose like-
ness it was I opened the conversation.
“Mussolini?” I asked him. “No,” he said,
“I am no Fascist; I come from Cyprus.
This,” he added, tapping the ornament
proudly, “is Don Bradman!” .
* * * *
“Centurion”: Jenkins picked up a girl
while on leave in London, and returned to
the line with her tearful promise that she
would write to him regularly. She kept
her word, but what Jenkins regarded as
overdoing it was her habit of writing her
name and address on the back of the
envelope with the request that the letter
be returned to her unopened in the event
of his being killed. The news got about, as
did the address, and before long the whole
battalion, save perhaps the Chaplain and
the Colonel, were writing to “Peggy.” Each
correspondent slew Jenkins in a different
locality and by widely varied means, and
all suggested that the damsel should console
AN OLD COUPLET RECOUPLED.
HE: “A thing of beauty”
SHE: “Has a boy for ever.”
herself with the writers, who promised to
call when their leave came round. When
Jenkins grasped what was going on, his
conduct brought down on him the unwel-
come attentions of a Field-General Court-
Martial.
* * * *
% “Nakhoda” : The Sultan of Johore’s mar-
riage in England to Mrs. Helen Wilson,
noted in the cables, must have been a very
much abridged version of what is considered
de rigueur in his Highness’s own dominions.
Seven days is the minimum time that a
Malay, marriage takes. On the first day
the bride’s finger-nails, toenails and feet are
stained, with henna. . On the second day her
fringe is shaved, while a band plays special
music, and the direction the hair falls is
carefully noted by the witch-doctors, this
being an infallible indication of her virtue
or lack of it. The hersanding , or sitting in
state, occupies three days, and is preceded by
a ceremony which is a survival of the cus-
tom of marriage by capture. The pair are
then led to the bridal throne, upon which
they must sit down absolutely simultane-
ously to ensure marital harmony. This may
take anything up to a couple of hours, and
the next day the couple are ceremonially
bathed together. After this they are sup-
posed to be indissolubly united. It used to
be obligatory on a Royal bridegroom to arrive
riding on a retainer’s shoulders. Later an
elephant was substituted, but at the last
wedding I witnessed the young rajah came
in a motor-car.
“Delicious Trimmings”: A new and devas-
tating drink known as “Red Biddy” is
reported in the East End of London. The
stuff is brewed by washing out port-wine
casks with boiling water, and mixing the
infusion with crude alcohol. It is sold at
Bd.. the pint, and is described as the most
satisfying draught, short of the waters of
Lethe,. that humanity has yet encountered.
A testimonial to its potency was offered by
a victim who mentioned, at Vine-street
Police Court, that after drinking the stuff
for a couple of days he saw a donkey and
a lion enter his bedroom.
* * * *
“Ivilrush”: The recent raid by Sydney
police on a plant in full blast where excel-
lent imitations of the silver florin were being
turned out is a reminder that the practical
withdrawal from circulation of gold coins
has made at least one nefarious calling obso-
lete. The “sweating” of sovereigns was by
no means unknown in Australia in pre-war
days, and occasionally the Law laid a prac-
titioner by the heels. But the risks of de-
tection were comparatively small beside those
which the more audacious coiner or forger
runs, the main drawback being that the
possession of a decent store of minted gold
was essential if any sort of a profit was to
be made. No coin below a gold one is
worth the application of any of the
“sweater’s” methods.
* * sk *
“Adelaide”: An odd sign of the had times
is train-ride stealing—not furtively, as in
America, but openly. At Rawlina, east
from Ivalgoorlie, over 20 men lately boarded
the overland and refused to budge; they had
to be carried over 500 miles into S. Aus.
before force enough to shift them could be
found. Two constables now travel with
each train between Port Augusta and Kal-
goorlie.
* * * *
“O. McKay M.”: When “Whitehall”
(B. 15/10/’3O) describes England as
“the most sober country in the world
just now” he obviously has in mind
the London West End of the last few
years. His London, I suspect, stretches
from the Temple to somewhere near Hyde
Park, which area is about as typical of
England as Darlinghurst is of Australia.
He can never have seen the nightly wave
of drunkenness that floods the east and
noi’th of London. The pubs are mostly
open until about 10.30 p.m., closing time
varying according to district, and they swarm
with besotted men and women and even
children from six o’clock onwards. “White-
hall” says that the British worker has
always been a moderate drinker—-“outside
the slum areas, which are fast disappearing.”
He would know better if he had spent a year,
as I did recently, prowling about, those slum
areas, collecting “human interest” items for
a Sunday paper, through Stepney, Poplar,
Limehouse, Bow, Stratford and the other
plague-spots of the East End, not to mention
the vast slum stretching behind the Hollo-
way and Caledonian roads in North London.
I didn’t cover half the noisome ground, either.
❖
“Sixenate” : Some people who have never
done much literary composition let them-
selves go in their last wills and testaments.
What is believed to have been the longest
will admitted to probate in Sydney con-
tained 20,000 words, mainly of a religious
nature; the solicitor epitomised the con-
tents that mattered most to the heirs thus:
“£5OOO to charity; £l5OO and the house to
the widow during her life; residue to the
children equally and their heirs.” Another
Sydney man’s will contained, separately
paragraphed, 24 blessings and nearly as
many curses directed at various persons
and institutions; a codicil revoked one curse
upon a relative “in view of his subsequent
repentance.” One of the most remarkable
wills I have ever seen contained six beauti-
fully engrossed pages explaining the reasons
ONE MUST ASK SOMETIMES.
THE BATHER ( calling ): “May I borrow your gown, dear?”
THE FLOWER-GATHERER: “Certainly, darling! But why all this sudden formality of
asking?”
THE BATHER: “I can’t find the beastly thing!”
why a prodigal son was cut off with a shil-
ling. In accordance with testator’s direc-
tions a copy was sent to the prodigal,
along with a postal note for the bob. “It’ll
buy four pints, anyway,” was the recipient’s
philosophical comment.
* * * *
“ Jungor”: Westralia can show a more
striking example than Kingston, Rottnest
Island, of a town, or rather a city, that
never came into being except on paper (B.
15/10/’3O). Australind, in the vicinity of
Leschenhault, was laid out in London in
1841, “on the em-
bouchure of four
rivers which pass
through the W estern
Australian Company’s-
property,” and the
prospectus issued
along with the plan
showed that the enter-
prising promoters had
nothing to learn from
the Americans who
mapped out Eden for
the confusion of Mar-
tin Chuzzlewit and
Mark Tapley. The
town was to occupy
1000 acres, exclusive
of quays, squares,
markets and public
gardens, and the re-
spective sites for two
colleges (one for each
sex), a hospital, a
museum, a library, an
observatory, a mili-
tary station, a post
office, seven churches
and even a Quakers’
meeting house (they
were thorough pro-
moters, those) are all
.set down upon the
plan. What is more,
over 3000 quarter-
acre allotments were
actually sold at £lO
a piece. There is no
Australind in exist-
ence, however, and
never was one, save in
fancy; most of the
immigrants allure d
there soon drifted
away to the Swan River and other more
settled parts. Yet the company wasn’t
finally wound up until nearly 40 years later.
* # * *
“10-20-30-40” : One of the things that give
the visitor to Maoriland shocks, apart
from the dynamic quality of the beer and
the prevalence of bicycles, is the extra-
ordinary headgear of the police. The force once
had a chief who had been a mounted police-
man in N. S. Wales. His most treasured trophy
of that experience was his old shako, an
ugly unsymmetrical affair that looked as if
somebody had bashed it with a shovel and
flattened the top. He maintained, however,
that the quaint nut-cover had saved his life
in many a battle and from many a bottle, so
it was inflicted on all the bobbies of the
Shivery Isles until 1913, when the more
shapely helmet of the London police was sub-
stituted by Commissioner Cullen. In 1927,
however, when Commissioner Mcllveney
ascended the throne, he thought of the care-
free happy days when lie was a young con-
stable, and reinstated the shako style ot mil-
linery, presumably as a matter of sentiment,
Now that the. Mcllveney has resigned and
Wolilmann reigns in his stead and every
department is being compelled to economise, it
has been discovered that shakos cost twice
as much as helmets, are detested by the force,
and don’t protect the ears in wet weather,
so they are going to be outed in favor of the
1913-27 mode.
# * * *
“Kenem”: The time limit whereby the
victim of a murderous attack must die
within a year and a day to admit
of the assailant being convicted of murder
(B. 15/10/’3O) was fixed in mediaeval times.
The day was added to the year because in
criminal law the period from the doing of
an act was taken as beginning on the very
day when the act was done. In England
as recently as 1908, in the case of Rex v.
Dyson, the rule of taking a year and day
as the time limit was re-asserted by the
Court of Criminal Appeal in a case of man-
slaughter.
4* • • * ❖ *
“Wings” : Long before he made his latest
record Kingsford Smith was recognised as
the greatest airman who has ever, lived.
Beside his achievements, which include
flying clean round the world without one
serious mishap, Lindbergh’s lucky New York
to Paris dash looks a small thing. Yet while
Washington was shrewdly making a world-
hero of Lindbergh, the Australian was being
officially ignored both in England and his
homeland. The fly-blown “honor” of knight-
hood, which nowadays is slung half-con-
temptuously to political crooks and wealthy
publicity-hounds, is inadequate as a. recog-
nition of the services Kingsford Smith has
done for flying and the Empire. He should
be asked to accept something better. This
much is certain: if Lindbergh deserved a
colonelcy, Smith should be given a field-
marshal’s baton.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Point McLeay mission station
(S A.) has just unveiled the last of the
simple centenary memorial cairns to Charles
Sturt. The chain is now complete along
the river which he traversed in 1830, from
far up the Darling in N.S.W., down the
Murray through Vic., to the mouth in S.A. —
and back. Point McLeay, which is on the
lake into which the Murray broadens when
nearing the sea, claims two features for its
cairn. It is the only one at a place which
Sturt himself named in passing. And it is
the only public monument erected entirely
by aboriginals.
* * *
“Exon”: William A. Spooner, who died
in England the other day at 86, was one
of Oxford’s most massive scholars and head
of one of its oldest colleges, but he will be
better remembered' as the man through
whose unwitting instrumentality the word
“Spoonerism” made its way into the
language. It was a quaint form of
celebrity; all that he ever did to merit it—
and even on that point the evidence is doubt-
ful—was to give out in college chapel the
hymn “Conquering Kings Their Titles*
Take,” and make it “Kinkering Kongs.”
That was about 1880, and for 50 years after-
wards every perverse transposition of two
adjacent words that ingenuity could devise
to raise a laugh was fathered on Spooner
and became a Spoonerism. Some of these
happy accidents or labored jocosities have
travelled all over the world, carrying the
Spooner label with them, as witness to
Oxford’s half a century of conscientious
effort. Somebody has even published a book
on the subject.
THE DISHONEST TURKEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Let us cut out all superfluous luxuries and get
down from dishonest turkey to honest beef and
hominy.”— Letter to “S. M. Herald.”
Not this, ’tis incontestable,
The time for the comestible
That clicks with chine so merrily
To make a rich repast.
Give us this day, O Domine,
Our honest beef and hominy
(Though candidly and verily
I never tried the last).
Let epicures’ hiatuses
Crave Persic apparatuses;
What set old Horace sniggering
We simply can’t afford.
The bird with cranb’rry seasoning
Spells luxury unreasoning
And hence must cease from figuring
Upon, the victualled board.
Good bovine flesh will do for me.
Come, gentle butcher, hew for mo
Some ribs that promise fillingly,
A chunk of silverside.
With doughboys garnished stockily,
With cabbage or with broccoli,
I shall devour it. willingly,
Or even pumpkin (fried).
Time was I munched the best of it,
The drumstick and the breast of it,
But here’s a coil whose gravity
The easiest-going has stirred.
And, till we’ve shuffled out of it,
(The devil of a doubt of it!)
A positive depravity
Attaches to the bird.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Ibn el Issar” : A humorous story comes
over the cables concerning Mrs. Bruce, the
aviatrix, whose ’plane was forced down in
Baluchistan. “Apparently hostile” tribes-
men appeared, but the lady, it is stated,
turned their hostility into friendliness by
ringing an alarm-clock and dancing to them.
The Baluchi has long been sophisticated in
the ways of the Sahibs, and an alarm-clock
would have little interest for him. For the
rest, be is well inclined to the Raj, and has
been for many years, as befits a simple
agricultural person whose only vices are
horse-coping and gun-running to Afghani-
stan from the Persian Gulf. Like all the
rest of Hind, he is convinced that God
created the English mad, an impression that
was doubtless accentuated as these grave
and courteous tribesmen watched, the
agitated and perspiring lady from London
capering like a Persian dervish in their
midst for no reason they could understand.
* * * *
“Fernie”: While there are plenty of pubs
in Wellington city (M.L.) most of the
suburbs are dry, which means in effect that
it is, a breach of the law to allow liquor
to be consumed in those suburbs at any
gathering save a private party. A highly
respectable club in Wellington South, the
Athenamm, has for three years been dodging
this restriction by appointing a host at
each of its social gatherings. This host,
before each soiree, would write to the com-
mittee informing that body of his intention
ANOTHER SLIGHT MISUNDERSTANDING.
NEW GIRL: “I hear your brother Reggie is an awful ladies’ man.”
OLD BOY: “Yes, he does pick some frightful ones.”
of brightening the proceedings “by procur-
ing at my own expense a small quantity of
liquor.” All went well till a couple of police-
men bought tickets for one of the parties
and had a glass of beer apiece, when a
prosecution followed, It was alleged by the
Crown that, the host was expected to spend
645. on waipiro, and that he invariably re-
ceived 635. back from the club after the
party; and an unsympathetic magistrate con-
victed the club and imposed a fine of £lO.
But there is to be an appeal, the club
havin - had advice that, its plan for
securing alcoholic refreshment is well within
the law.
* * * *
“Wellow”: The will of the head of a
Sydney cutlery firm set forth the testator’s
desire that “no weapons of war should be
dealt in, sold, repaired or sharpened” by his
successors in the business. In the days when
cold steel played a bigger part in warfare
such a provision might have had more worth-
while results. Still, when Smuts was
presented with the freedom of Sheffield
j ie i lumor ously remarked that he valued
S? h£rSent U two 8 o"Xee M fe!frs Tffi
“ffi CS'SJ’S
soldier would be in more danger nowadays
from Birmingham wares than Sheffield ones.
~ , , T
. “ C -Q- : The othe / day a Melbourne organ-
ist set out m a motor-car to attend the dedi-
cation of a country church. The car got
bogged, the hours dragged on, and finally
t , man . °f stops gave up the attempt to
i' cach , hls objective and. returned m time
for the evening service m his own church.
The opening words of the psalm were “I stick
fust in the mire, where no ground is ; I am
come unto deep waters, so that floods run
o\er me.”
.. . * „ * , * .. .*
Acton : The latest adverse criticism eon-
cerning Canberra is flung at the name, which
uo less an authority on words than A. G.
Stephens finds “unpleasing, thin, dissonant
and hungry.” Nevertheless it sounds better
than it looks, for most people are coming
to give the “berra” much the same pronun-
ciation as the “burgh” in “Edinburgh” or
the “borough” in “Marlborough,” by no
means an unpleasing corruption. In the
early days of the selection and establishment
of the capital it mostly appeared as Yass-
Canberra, which was hideous as well as
hungry.
««• tt » i c< ■, T ,
Sic Vos : Not long ago a Sydney Judge
a barristers faulty pronunciation
to Sonah) of a Latin woid,
7 h J c . h ’ af f te + r , all j 18 a mere metter of the
Bishion of the day or the taste and fancy
f tb.e teacher. These diversities of opinion
M aV’NNZ
s » about VfrS lately that’ I borrowed
an iEneid from the schoolmaster next door
to try to renew a remote acquaintance with
the bard . The copy he lent y me was edited
by one of the most famous of Oxford’s classi-
ca] professors of 50 years ago, an authority
-world-wide reputation. And the very first
thing I read in it, a trivial enough thing
V /hich I have never forgotten myself, was
that it had been thought better to spell the
name “Vergil” “in deference to the unani-
mous opinion of scholars.” Since then the
“Vi” has come into fashion again, and Syd-
ney Uni. sages probably consider the old way
barbarous. Not that it matters tuppence, of
course, except to illustrate the change worked
in a generation.
" * * =>f *
“Old Q.”; A storied craft was the old
Gayundah, which sank at her moorings in
the Brisbane River the other day. A river
gunboat, much like a tailor’s goose in her
lines, and with a six-inch gun protruding
over her snub forecastle, she was the pride
of the Queensland navy in the ’eighties.
Her first claim to fame came from the
attempt of her skipper, Commander Henry
Wright, R.N., to clear out to Sydney and
place himself under the jurisdiction of the
British admiral commanding the Austra-
lian station, Wright having fallen out with
his Queensland bosses. A squad of police
intervened, and Wright was ignominiously
put ashore. After becoming a portion of the
Commonwealth navy, the Gayundah was
the first warship to fight a sea action. Sent
to n.-w. Australia to round up unlicensed
Malay trepangers, she had occasion to fire
a couple of rounds before some of the
desperadoes trying to escape in their prahus
surrendered to the might of the Empire,
Lent for a period in her early days to the
Aw ! SoMK-THINC,
<5000,“
11l Come.
Back uatee..
"&OYKE.R. «“
4 I"
CoMrouMb nr.
©H>tT& &.LL „
B!C,HT-(sm«l'S C.O'nE. .
) HE.’S
WhiV
A DUET AT THE GALLERY.
Imperial Government, the old ship was the
only “Colonial” warship in the Empire to
have held the honor of flying the White
Ensign.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Probably youngest
feSf.
his next friend, F. M. Scliutt, proceeded
against his ex-employer, a moneylender,
claiming that defendant had maliciously and
falsely said of him, “I am in trouble with
the boy over the money. I am going to put
him in the hands of the police; there are a
lot of shortages.” Master Sehutt asked for
£499, and was awarded £l5O.
* * * *
“Karaugan” (Singapore) : From all that
I heard in Australia of the Singapore Naval
Base I expected to see it much in evidence on
arrival here. I pictured streets full of blue-
jackets, gunboats and submarines speeding
round the island in never-ending procession,
hydroplanes buzzing about, and so on. There
is nothing of the sort.. One merely sees a num-
ber of huge, commercial-looking oil-tanks, and
out at Seletar, the official home of the “Base,”
tlicre are wired enclosures with “Verboten
notices everywhere displayed, though there
isn’t always a guard to enforce the order,
The chef-d’oeuvre, the floating dock, is vis-
ible in the straits, and can be inspected at
close quarters by anybody who cares to hire
a sampan. There are, however, a few naval
officers in mufti, and you may catch an occa-
sional cryptic remark about trajectories and
the like
’., . .
Gwy : A 1 smoker who was converted and
‘ delivered from tobacco at a r e cea t Salva-
tion Army revival at Burwood (feydney)
claimed to have consumed 2? tons of the
fragrant herb in oO years—figures which,
as a hardened devotee of the pipe for over 0
years, I refuse to accept. A simple ealeu ation
shows that it works out at over 4oz. a day,
even in short tons, and I question if O.
Henry s Martin Burney, who smoked umst
of the day except at meals, and even thought
the night wasted when he didn’t wake up for
a pipeful or two under the bedclothes,” got
through Whmg like Uhat amount If a
man smoked even a pound of tobacco a week tor
50 years and gave it up suddenly, his phy-
sical condition would be pitiable. Yet revivals
undoubtedly show some results in this line ; a
few years ago an account was printed of a
number of hard-bitten Scottish fishermen,
fresh from the Dogger Bank, making a bon-
fire of their trusty pipes under the spell of
some persuasive preacher’s eloquence. How
many backsliders there were after the spell
had worn off is quite another question.
* * * * '
“O’Trigger”: The bad old practice of duel-
ling—or, rather, the determination of English
law to suppress it by making it a criminal
offence—gave Australia some quite desirable
immigrants in the early part of last century,
One of them was Dr. William Bland, who in
1813 whilst serving as surgeon on the East
Indies station, had killed his man (the
purser) in an encounter at Bombay. Con-
victed of murder, he got off with seven years’
transportation, and immediately on arrival
in Sydney was given a free pardon by Mac-
quar'ie, and encouraged to take up the prac-
tice of his profession. He became a leading
medico and a public-spirited citizen. His
early experience, however, hadn’t cured his
combativeness, for in 1849 he sent a chal-
lenge to the bitter-tongued Robert Lowe,
who had opposed Bland’s appointment to the
Senate of the new University on the ground
that he had been a convict. Lowe, who had
previously had a Sydney lawyer bound over
for challenging him, prosecuted the doctor
for inciting him to a breach of the peace.
o* Peace was tbreateneU.
* *
“C.Q.”: A cow will help to pay the rent
for a long time for Mrs. Maney, an old resi-
dent of St. Mary’s, on the Speck’s cast
coast. Mrs. Maney was driving the animal
to the bails when one of its hoofs disappeared
in the ground. Inspection revealed that it
had gone through the lid of a rusted tin
buried not far below the surface. The tin
minted in 1110 reisn
S ,
* * * *
“S.V.D.” : Nextdoor and I were yarning
at my front gate when a motorist stopped
to ask the way to Blankville. My neighbor
obliged; it wasn’t till after the inquirer
had gone that I realised he was taking with
him some utterly misleading directions. I
must have looked my amazement, for Next-
door explained. “I always direct motorists
wrong,” he confessed. “I’ve a grudge against
the cows; one of ’em ran over and killed
m y dog.”
* * * *
„ „ a ... ,
„ : Souvenir lungs garnered
of T r ubbish, from buttons to shell
uosec&ps; I remember .one 4th Battalion
Digger who got away with a chunk ot
Cheops’ Pyramid. It was a hefty piece, too.
Wedged at the bottom of his pack, he toted
auc ient junk of masonry to Gallipoli,
an( j only became separated from it when
we cllscarcled all packs on the shell-swept
beac b. Pew were lucky enough to retrieve
their own property again, and I suspect that
tbe next owner 0 f this particular fragment
sandstone pitched it among the holly
on the bleak ridges above Anzac Cove,
otherwise, it might be resting on the mantel
ove an Australian fireplace,
' * * *
“Hayes Kop” : The controversy, recently
d t 0 wllotllor or not Peary ever
1 I, „ n , ..
reached the North Pole will be settled,/it
may be'suggested, when the next man gets
there, or thinks lie has got there and finds, or
fails to find, traces of prior occupation, such
a s Scott found at the South Pole in the shape
0 f Amundsen’s pegs. But it isn’t going to
be so easy in the Arctic as it was at the
other end of the earth. Peary, in his
account of the expedition that crowned, as
he says, his life’s work, remarks that nobody
with any knowledge of instruments will sup-
pose that he could have fixed the exact,
spot with any approach to certainty. Hav-
ing determined,” he goes on, ‘ the position
of the Pole approximately, I then set an
arbitrary allowance of about 10 miles for
possible errors of instruments, and myseil
as observer. I crossed and re-crossed that
10-mile area in various directions, so that
I must have passed near to the precise place
and perhaps actually walked over it. ’ A
long shot, this last, and the place where
Peary pegged out the Pole for lumself and
Uncle Sam may yet take a lot of finding.
OLD BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We left Old Bill at Longueval one time when
we went in,
For Bill was crook, an’ ’e ’ad ’ad a pretty
rotten spin.
’E didn’t want to stop at all; in fact, ’e
swore like ’ell —
Becos the ’eads decided it was time ’e ’ad
a spell.
The line was fairly lively but we struck a
quiet bit;
A couple knocked, an’ three or four got
Blighties out of it.
They didn’t keep us in too long—about five
days or so—
And back we came to Longueval to find Old
Bill’s good-oh.
An’ then, of course, we chyacked Bill about
him stayin’ back;
An’ it’s a wonder now to me that no one
stopped a crack;
For when we mentioned anythin’ Bill
couldn’t call to mind
We used to say “No, that would be the time
you stopped behind.
We ’ad a lot of fun that way at Bill’s
expense—but still
It often struck me afterwards it wasn’t fun
for Bill.
An’ thoughts that wasn’t pleasant ones went
runnin’ through me mind
As we came back from Passchendaele—an’
Old Bill stopped behind.
A silly game is soldierin’, an’ men do silly
things ;
They say a thing that ’urts a man, an’ they
forget it stings.
An' if I could ’ave squared meself somehow,
you bet I would,
When we came back from Passchendaele,
where Old Bill stopped for good.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


AFTER THE WIN.
JOCK: “I’m wondering how many of ’em you can pay, Jack?”
JACK: “I’m not. I’m wondering how many of ’em I can bluff.”


Wild Cat” Monthly
November Issue
Ready Saturday
CONTENTS:
Government Stock: What Caused the Recent Recovery?
Outlook for Government Stocks Position of France
Can the N.S.W. Government Borrow? The Whisky Merger
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. The Outlook for an Aus-
tralian Paper-making Industry Southern Cross Insurance
- Farmers and Graziers’ Co-operative Australian Drug
and Recent Changes in the Drug Trade Dunlop-Perdriau
Kandos Cement Australian Gypsum Australian
Shale Prospects Mt. Isa etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some November birthdays :
Bishop McCarthy (Sandhurst), 72, Prof. Skeats
(Melb.), 55, and sculptor Paul Montford, 62, on
Ist; Capt. T. A. White (“Diggers Abroad”), 44, on
4th; Lancelot Stirling (Pres, of S. Aus. Leg. Council),
81, and J. Maitland Paxton (Sydney), 77, on sth;
Senator Massy Greene, 56, on 6th; Prof. Woodhouse
(Syd.), 64, Atlee Hunt, 66, and David Shearer (Man-
num, S. Aus.), 80, on 7th; James Elder (Melb.),
61, and Rev. J. W. Grove (Melb. Meth. Ladies’ Col.),
62, on 10th; Hugh Denison, 65, and Prof. Cotton
(Syd.), 47, on 11th; Arthur Lovekin (W.A.), 71,
and Samuel Mauger (formerly M.H.R. for Melb.
Ports), 73, on 12th; Dr. Heavyy (Vicar-Apostolic of
Cooktown), 62, on 13th; Rabbi Cohen (Syd.), 68,
and Dr. Battye (Perth Public Library), 59, on 14th;
Justice Long Innes (N.S.W.), 61, Arthur Rickard,
62, and novelist W. Gosse Hay (S. Aus.), 55, on
17th; historian Charlie Bean, 51, and N.S.W. knight
N. W. Kater, 56, on 18th; ex-Vic. Governor Strad-
broke, 68, Colonel Cameron, M.H.R. for Brisbane, 51,
and M. M. Blackburn, M.L.A. (Vic.), 50, on 19th;
Major-Gen. Barber (Director-Gen. of Medical Ser-
vices), 62, on 20th; Principal Griffith (Vic. Cong.
Col.), 55, on 21st; Willie Watt, 59, Rev. E. R. Gribble
(author of “Forty Years with the Aborigines”), 62,
on 23rd; Bishop Ashton (Grafton), 64, on 24th;
C. J. Cerutty (Federal Auditor-General), 60, Colonel
H. E. Cohen, 49, and Capt. A. S. Blackburn, V.C.,
38, on 25th; Bishop Granswick (Gippsland), 48, and
poet Rod Quinn, 61, on 26th; Kenneth Binns (Com-
monwealth Librarian), 48, on 28th; ex-Federal Chief
Justice Knox, 67, Justice Cussen (Vic.), 71, and
Colonel G. J. Bell, M.H.R. for Darwin (Speck), 58,
on 29th; N.S.W. Speaker Levy, just re-elected to the
Assembly, 58, and poet Sydney Jephcott, 66, on 30th.
Senator Daly, leader of those Federal
Ministers who have been enthusiastically
attacking the financial agreement made by the
Government of which they are members, is
in a doubly curious position. Not only did
Scullin, his political leader, sign it, but
Denny, his senior law-partner, is Attorney-
General in the S. Aus. Government, which
also signed it. There is a large likelihood of
a crash in the Federal Labor party ; either
the Scullin-Fenton-Lyons group will have to
go back on its tracks or the strong N.S.W.
section of the party will probably try to
Senator DALY.
push Daly into Scullin’s place. In that case
he will be provided with a safe Labor seat
in the House of Reps. He struck old Par-
liamentary hands last session as far and
away the ablest man among Labor Senators.
When the first Labor parties arrived in
Australian State Houses they didn’t know
what to do for lawyers—which explains why
so many of them, including Holman, Hughes
and Davy Hall in N. S. Wales, sat up at
nights studying Coke and Blackstone. But
they don’t have any difficulty in getting
cheap advice these days. The legal patri-
arch in the new N.S.W. party is Andy
Lysaght, who used to be a solicitor in Wol-
longong, but, after building up a very large
practice, got himself put on the roll of
barristers, and came up to Sydney. Three
others belong to the senior branch of the
profession—Billy McKell, of Redfern, who
will probably be Minister for Justice;
Lamaro, of Petersham, and Kinsella, the new
member for Georges River. But Kinsella, a
public servant, has never practised.
For a youngster making his first political
appearance, and that against a veteran like
Dr. Arthur, Phillip Shipway did amazingly
well; he ran as an Independent Nationalist,
believing that, under the preference system,
there is neither sense nor democracy in
the machine choosing the member —which is
what the choosing of the candidate means
in such a district. Phillip is a lawyer son
of the late William, who, a lawyer too, was
M.L.A. for Paddington back in the ’nineties,
and thereafter was for many years chair-
man of the “Soudan Veterans,” who have an
annual reunion in Sydney.
Though the N.
S. Wales Assem-
bly’s “Little
Doctor,” Richard
Arthur, isn’t quite
the “Father of the
House,” he has the
record, astonishing
in these times, of
having sat for one
North Shore dis-
trict since 1904.
Only one other
member, Speaker
Danny Levy, can
match that: he sat
for the Fitzroy
division of the
city in 1901, and
transferred to Dar-
lingliurst in 1904.
Arthur, the mildest
little man who ever
read a comic paper
w i t h unaffected
delight, was an eye,
ear and nose
specialist in his
active Macquarie-
street days, but
lias been so much
interested in baby’s
health that the
mothers of Mos-
man stand by him
at every election.
Dr. ARTHUR.
Thomas Mutch, who lost Botany by over
5000 votes to a straight-out Labor candi-
date at last wreck’s election, had represented
it since 1917; he was thrice returned as
senior member under the old proportional
representation system, and was Minister for
Education in three Labor Governments. Tom
was once Lang’s rival for the Labor leader-
ship, and was only one vote behind the
Auburn man in a Caucus ballot, but his
break wdth Lang, accompanied by some
remarkably plain speaking, cost him the
Labor selection in 1927. He was still strong
enough to win then as an Independent, but
this time the machine went over him with
a vengeance.
F. R. Lee, who has done most of the pro-
paganda work which has resulted in the
Federal Government at last making up its
mind to pay a bonus oh gold, provided
Caucus is willing, nowadays looks after the
secretarial affairs of the Associated Cham-
bers of Manufactures in Melbourne. Before
that he was a journalist in Westralia. He
has political ambitions, and unsuccessfully
contested a Leg. Council seat there eight
years ago.
Professor Wadham, of the chair of Agri-
culture at Melbourne University, who lost
two children when a car driven by his wife
overturned in England, is one of the breezi-
est lecturers at the Uni. and can infuse
humor even into an address on St. John’s
wort. The tragic news arrived just as he
w r as on the eve of proceeding to the Cold
Land with the intention of returning with
his family, who had not yet seen Australia.
J. T. Lang and Henry Lawson were
brothers-in-law. Each married a daughter
of an old Sydney radical bookseller named
McNamara. Henry’s writing attracted the
one, Jack’s reading the other.
Retired to Tanunda (S.A.) for a final
rest, Dr. Johannes Flierl, who came from
Germany as a youth, put in seven years’ work
among the natives in Centralia, and has ever
since 1886 been head of the Lutheran mis-
sion in New Guinea, with headquarters at
Finschafen. He has written several books
about his work. “We always worked har-
moniously with the Government,” he says.
“Wars and cannibalism have both ceased
since w 7 e began operations.”
Passed out, at 84, Joseph Thomson, pro-
bably the oldest practising solicitor in
N.S.W. —he was at his office until a week
before the end. He was born in Pitt-street,
and his name -was the first on the list of
Sydney Grammar School pupils. He read law 7
at the Uni. with Edmund Barton before
being articled, and was admitted in 1871.
Professor William Keith Hancock, who
has been telling Australians something about
themselves in his “Australia” (R.P.
22/10/’3O), was only 26 when he w T as given
the Chair of Modern History at Adelaide
six years ago. A year before that he had
finished his Oxford career by landing that
rare distinction, which had never before come
to an Australian Rhodes Scholar, an All
Souls fellowship. All Souls, founded in
1437 and richly endowed, is the one college
at Oxford, if not in any university, where
there are no undergraduates.
Albert Edward Jull, who has just annexed
the Waipawa (Haw r kes Bay) seat in Maori-
land’s Parliament, was born at Fort Erie,
Canada, in 1864, but has been a Maorilander
for 52 years. Jull is a supporter of the
Government, but his election will afford no
comfort to the Cold Tea party. He is a
brewer.
Commonwealth Statistician Wickcns, who
was asked for an expert opinion on the
causes of the fall in the price of Australian
commodities and other knotty questions in
the Full Arbitration Court last week, was
born at Bendigo 58 years ago. He qualified
for his job in WestrAlia, where he put in
ten years in the State Government service
before joining the Commonwealth Bureau
of Census and Statistics. Wickens has super-
vised one State census and two Common-
wealth ones, besides the war census of 3915.
Eight years ago he succeeded George Knibbs.
Unlike his predecessor, he doesn’t write
poetry in his spare time.
Forty years ago Captain R. C. Ghost, who
had helped to set the Sydney-San Francisco
service going, came ashore and settled down
at Chiswick, on the Parramatta; he and
Dr. Renwick qnd Hubert Murray (now of
Papua) were then almost its only inhabit-
ants. He never left the place again, though
he watched houses crawl all over it, and he
has just died there. The Sydney-’Frisco
service wasn’t an American venture
at the start, though it became one soon after-
wards. The British (shipping house of
Elders began it with the Australia and the
Zealandia; Ghest, a Conway-trained youth,
was aboard the Zealandia. He was 82 at
the end.
Guy Arkins, the Ministerial Whip, who lost
his seat at Waverley, first appeared in the
Assembly as Labor member for Castlereagh
in 1915. He was the sole survivor of the
Labor Assemblymen who went over with
Holman on the conscription issue split, to
form the National party.
Vic. Railway Commissioner Clapp has lost
his senior stationmaster by the retirement
of cheerful old W. H'. McCulloch, who was
in command at Spencer-street. Mac can look
back on nearly half a century of railroad-
ing. He was on the relieving staff for 14
years and has been in charge of every import-
ant country station in Victoria.
Warden and resident-magistrate Geary, of
Kalgoorlie, who recently refused to inflict
more than the minimum of punishment on
some Trans, line stowaways, remarking that
it was no offence to look for work even in
places where there was very little chance of
finding it, must be about the last survivor
of goldfields officials of the early days. He
started as a mining registrar on the Mur-
chison nearly 35 years ago, serving under
several of the old-time wardens. Unlike
them, he was wont to take press criticism —
always free and forcible and not always just
in those days or any other —-very much to
heart when he was first raised to the magis-
terial bench, although he has doubtless long
since become inured to it.
Sir OTTO NIEMEYER.
“Well, old chap, what d’you think of that?”
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, who has retired from
N.S.W. politics, at 68, after being in the
Assembly (with one gap) since 1895 (inci-
dentally, the Nats, failed to hold his seat,
Orange), lost an old friend when Frank
Campbell passed out at Windsor. Campbell
was associated with Fitzpatrick in the estab-
lishment of the “Windsor and Richmond
Gazette” in 1898, and for the past 30 years
had been its proprietor and editor.
Adelaide is proud of its Geographical
Society—Royal, too —which has harbored
several men who did big things in the back
country they helped to make better known.
These times it has to be content with student
lions, so to speak, and the other day it
made one of the most cultured of them,
Dr. CHARLES FENNER.
Charles E. Fenner, its president. Fenner, a
I).So. of Melbourne, made his real start as
a teacher at Ballarat, and came on from
the old School of Mines there to be director
of Tech. Education in S. Aus.; and that
was 14 years ago.
An old identity in Mandated New Guinea
disappeared when J. W. Campbell, of Buka,
died of heart failure. H’e was a son of the
late James Campbell, one-time P.M.G. of
Victoria. A Boer War veteran, he planted
the first cocoanuts for the C.P.E. plantations
on Bougainville in 1913. Returning from the
Big War he became senior plantation inspec-
tor for the Expropriation Board, and for
the past eight years has been planting and
trading around the Buka Islands.
Lenox Simpson, who was wounded by
Chinese assassins in Tientsin, is an example
of the literary and political adventurers who
have figured so much in Chinese life. Sir
Robert Hart and the Australian Morrison
w T ere of the same type, but Simpson has out-
done them in literary production, having
published over 20 novels and books on China.
When General Yen Hsi Shan seized the
Tientsin Customs recently, Simpson was put
in charge ; it was probably this act, regarded
as illegal by the Nationalist Government,
which earned him the shot that has para-
lysed him for life.
George Pearce, Westralia’s long-distance
Senator —he was fourth on the poll when the
first bunch was returned in 1901 and has
been regularly re-elected —has had 16 dif-
ferent colleagues from his own State, men of
all political opinions. Eight of them were
originally elected as Laborites, and eight
weren’t; of the former four, as well as
Pearce himself, cut loose from the party
over the Conscription issue in 1916.
No other Westralian Senator has held Minis-
terial office except Patrick Lynch (w 7 ho once
had a precarious three months’ term), but
Pearce had enjoyed nearly 19 years of it in
all, under three different Prime Ministers,
when his last term ended with Bruce’s
defeat. He was born at Mount Barker
(S.A.) a trifle over 60 years ago.
Robert Crawford, dead in Adelaide at 77
after a long illness, was an unusual kind of
grocery-merchant. Horses were his one hobby.
He was an early member of the Hunt Club
and on its committee for 30 years; was one
of the original horse-committee of the Royal
Agricultural Society, and became president
of the society later. His only son is a
noted polo-player.
Arthur Calwell, president of the Vic. branch
of the Australian Public Servants’ Associa-
tion, who was a central figure in the negotia-
tions with the Hogans for percentage cuts
in service pay, is tipped as a likely successor
to Maloney as M.11.R. for Melbourne when
the little doc. retires. Calwell is senior
vice-president of the A.L.P., and will _ pro-
bably succeed Keane, M.H.R., as president
next year. His dad is an ex-superintendent
of police.
Just had a 70th birthday in Adelaide,
A. H. (always called “Affiie”) Jarvis, the
first S.A. cricketer to go to England.
This was in 1880, and he was still under 21)
when the tour finished. A sound bat and
a really fine wicket-keeper, he was under-
study to the great Blackham on four English
visits; and he has a fund of unconventional
stories of W. G. Grace, Hornby and the
other stalwarts of his day.


THEY’LL BE STILL WAITING.
CHORUS OF T.-P. COLLECTORS: “Tell your mother we want to see her.”
LITTLE MISS AUSTRALIA: “She says she’ll be out as soon as she’s cleared up the mess a bit. There’s been a bit of an election argument inside.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion “This Thing Called Love”
° T - 4TI!! Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
®- OYAL “Mr. Cinders”
Comedy “The Road to Romance”
AIVOLI “Here’s Luck”
" TATB Movies and Talkies
»
Sydney’s best, or rather most interesting,
show of last week—of many weeks —was an
open-air affair staged at Mascot aerodrome.
There, at three o’clock, Ivingsford Smith was
due to land, and there, with a few minutes
up his sleeve, he landed.
According to some of the dailies there was
a crowd of 20,000 present to welcome him.
According to all the dailies he was received
with tumultuous applause. “Cheers rent the
skies.” “Enthusiastic crowds cheered as our
gallant aviator ended his memorable flight.”
As a matter of fact, you could almost
have heard a pin drop.
A strange business altogether. A man had
travelled from England to Australia in an
incredibly ugly arrangement of fabric in
the incredible time of ten days odd. An
Australian, at that. A jolly fine fellow, too,
by the look of him.
And there was silence!
An Australian, a poet, the heartiest man
of this Showman’s acquaintance—to be quite
obvious about it, Hugh McCrae—was lectur-
ing in Sydney one night a year or so ago.
Writer was outside the hall on the footpath
when Hugh came along, with bib and tucker
attached. Hugh craned his neck to see how
many were inside, chuckled and remarked:
“Pretty thin, isn’t it?” That is how Smithy
must have felt.
The analogy does not stop there. The
reason why McCrae’s crowd was thin surely
needs no explaining. He is a poet. He
makes no appeal to the mob, to the herd, to
the sentimentalists who turned out in their
fifty thousands to welcome Amy Johnson.
Smithy makes no appeal either. You do not
cheer when McCrae brings off a dazzling
line. You expect him to do it. There is
no suspense; nothing dramatic about it
whatever. So with Smithy. You do not go
out and cheer when the post-office clock
strikes 12 —on time! And you do not cheer
Smithy. You take him for granted. Even
Phar Lap has been beaten. Smithy hasn’t.
He is better than the p.o. clock; weeks
“Received with tumultuous applause ”
better. He is a little red hooked-faced fellow
about 9st., mostly teeth and with bits of
skin hanging off his nose. He is modest in
a time when modesty is a heinous offence.
Pie gave his speech-time at last week’s wel-
come to ensuring that his fellow-flier Plill
would be given a fitting reception. He posed
tor the screeching press photographers, even
kissed a girl twice for their benefit (“Turn
the kiss on again, Smithy!” “Go on, give
her another!”); but if he did it for the
sake of Smithy, or for the sake of the girl,
or for the sake of National Airways, Ltd,
or Vacuum Oil, or Purlitzers Toothbrushes,
this observer will commit the sacrilege of
pouring champagne into Sydney Harbor.
Smithy did it because a demand was made
on him. Something was expected of him, and
he obliged.
That’s Smithy. Curiously, in the string
of speeches of welcome his and his sparring
partner Ulm’s stood out. They were sincere,
earnest, where the others were gush or worse.
A Mayor or so spoke. A Federal Cabinet
Minister and a State ditto spoke. A boyish
and very English chap apologised because
the State’s flying Governor was unavoidably
opening a tea-party or otherwise earning his
salary elsewhere. Bavin and Lang and the
Lord Mayor were too busy with a thing
that will die a mystery to be bothered with
a mere thing that' will live as history.
Smithy landed. A lark flew into the sky
(this is not romantic nonsense, but fact) ;
a lark flew into the sky and sang. The smell
of sundry soapworks came solemnly over.
The photographers got up on their ladders
and began to focus. A few men ran out and
guided the ’plane up into the roped-off enclo-
sure. Ulm and Smithy shook hands. A girl
sidled along the wing and proceeded to kiss
the burnt and more or less unattractive face
that came obligingly out of the ’plane. A
few (scarcely disinterested) persons clapped.
A little chirpy-looking man in grease-stained
plus-fours crawled out, shook hands with one
or two, got up on to a decrepit lorry with
the back part roped in like a stadium ring,
and standing up there was driven round the
fences to the accompaniment of —silence.
Rather a mangy sort of silence.
The crowd was thin. The “20,000” could
be divided by five. The reception altogether
was forced and miserable. Why? This
Showman leaves the answer to those who
can supply it. There are scores of possible
answers. (1) That which lias been given
—he is Smithy, and we expect it of him.
(2) This arises from No. I—there1 —there is sus-
pense and uncertainty and consequently dra-
matic appeal in a croquet match, but after
all, Smithy is due and will be there. (3)
National Airways, of which he is part, have
made flying as commonplace here as motor-
ing. So on.
This Showman pins his ticket on the idea
that Smithy, if he wants the sort of recep-
tion the dailies said he had, should not be
so Smithy. He should crash now and
then. He should talk about himself. He
should be less of a decent fellow and some-
thing more attractive to Governors and
Premiers and aspiring Premiers and Lord
Mayors. He should bow down low and take
a knighthood. He should be a snob instead of
a mere man.
It is Smithy’s misfortune that men do
not run in that shape. There is an outcry
in the dailies for a knighthood for him. A
knighthood! Why level him? Why not
create a flighthood?
y
Edith Harrhy is probably Melbourne’s
most versatile artist. She appeared on the
Assembly Hall platform last week in a fare-
well concert, in which, as pianist, she played
her own solo compositions, as vocalist sang
her own ballads, and as a member of the
“The flying Governor was unavoidably
opening a tea party.”
audience listened to Reginald Bradley draw
her minuets and tarantellas out of a fiddle —
and very charmingly he did it, too. One of
the few 7 items on the programme not attri-
buted to Miss Harrhy was “God Save the
King,” probably an oversight of the printer.
Miss Harrhy’s compositions are not very pro-
found, but they are invariably sweet and
melodious, and are based on the best models.
Schubert would recognise many of them as
‘second cousins .to some of his own children.
Miss Harrhy, in fact, ig not immune from
the prevalent habit amongst composers of
unconscious imitation. “The Mallee Root,”
a setting to a Bulletin poem, was interest-
ing, and so was the piano piece “On the
Wanganui,” from six Maori sketches. The
small, bright, fair-liaired lady is a fine
pianist.
* # #
All is going comparatively well with the
new regime at Melbourne Tivoli, though if
a new Ada Reeve or something of the sort
were to emerge from the obscurity of Foots-
eray or Collingwood the management would
probably order itself a congratulatory beer.
The bill is heavily charged with low 7
comedians, amongst the representatives of the
species being Sid Beck, Nick Morton,
Hermie Ward, Robert Roberts, Morris and
Moon. Of these Robert Roberts and ITermie
Ward strike this paper as the most risible.
James Foran, a new discovery, has a tenor,
which should be more approachable when
tamed. The ballet is worth the modest
prices asked in itself, both when it dances
in all its fleshly beauty on the bridge of
mirrors projecting into the stalls and when
it appears in silhouette against a panel
backstage. The theatre made history one
night last week when the portrait of Nellie
Stewart, by W. B. Mclnnes, was presented
to the sitter by Robert Best. That wonder-
ful woman first appeared in person in the
frame, the lights went out, and when they
went up the Mclnnes version showed in
her stead. It was a test that only a great
realistic painter could sustain, and the Archi-
bald Prize champion, who. stood modestly
by, has not aimed at being that. Sweet Nell
appears to be standing in a ploughed field,
and the veracity of the likeness is likely to
be a matter for furious controversy until
the last Stewartite dies.
* # #
Instead of the sounds of the saekbut and
the lyre, Melbourne Town Hall resounded
with the male voices of the Vic. Liedertafel
on Saturday night. The gentlemen of the
song table only needed beer mugs in their
hands to convey the full impression of the
masculine nature, stimulated by hops, giving
vent to its exulting strength in melodious
noise. Singing such as in Grieg’s choral
ballad “Landerkennung” present critic has
not heard since the departure of the Don
Cossack choir. The music was beautiful and
so was the unity of the mass attack made on
it by the Liedertafelists under the firm
“The sacrilege oƒ pouring
champagne into Sydney
Harbor.”
control of con-
ductor Sutton
Crow. The
soloist, Nor-
man Menzies,
displayed a fine
baritone full of
the warmth of
human sym-
pathy, and the
impression con-
veyed was that
he only needs
the physique
peculiar to
operatic sing-
ers for Bal-
larat to give
its Brownlee
to the world.
Adele McKay,
winner of a.
South - street
aria competi-
tion, and look-
ing like the
muse of tragic song, made ' the Rhap-
sodie, Op. 53, of Brahms, from Goethe’s
Harzreise in Winter, seem as long, cold and
monotonous as a North European winter is
supposed to be. Elford Mack, successor
to Sisserman in the Sisserman quartette and
a tidier and truer artist than his predecessor
drew an uninteresting Polonaise by Popper
out of the ’cello, and the Liedertafel choral-
ists completed an admirable evening by blow-
ing the studs out of their shirtfronts with
the popular “King Charles.”
* * *
“9.45” is the latest offering of the Aus-
tralian Comedy Co. at Melbourne Bijou. It
opens with a pistol shot before the curtain
rises. Sundry excited people then burst into
the library of Robert Clayton’s house and
find it empty. Police-Constable Mack then
arrives, and after a suitable interval a cup-
board door is opened and the dead body of
Howard Randall falls out, to the astonish-
ment of the Australian Comedy Co., but not
to that of the present writer, who saw the
Proscenium Club in the same play a year
or so ago. The discovery of the body lets
loose the previously latent intelligence of the
characters assembled, and an enormous
number of theories is advanced as to the
identity of the murderer. These are fol-
lowed up with praiseworthy persistence.
Major Everett, Ruth Jordon, a chauffeur
and a parlor-maid are among those suspected
by various members of the cast, and the
audience is free to suspect all the others or
Communist influence —if “Herald” readers.
Love, hate, fear, envy and outraged honor
are some of the motives for the crime investi-
gated by Messrs. Owen Davis and Sewell
Collins, the two most painstaking and
thorough playwrights present critic has ever
encountered. Almost the entire cast now hav-
ing turned themselves into amateur detec-
tives, the action shifts to the Ritz Hotel,
where more theories are canvassed. The com-
pany then returns to Mr. Clayton’s library,
where somebody gets a rush of brains to the
head and examines the body. It then tram
spires.... The public is at liberty until
Friday to find out what transpires for itself
by visiting the Bijou Theatre, the prices
of admission being trifling and the music of
Ernest Oram’s orchestra being excellent. Guy
Hastings, as the retired lawyer Robert
Clayton, also provides some extremely natural
acting, but the surprise of the entertainment
is the fresh style and unaffectedness of Elma
Gibbs in a part that does not matter as much
as it should.
* * *
“Monsieur Beaucaire,” by the Melbourne
Operatic Society, conducted by George Eng-
lish, will see the week out at Melbourne
King’s, Edith Taliaferro having removed to
the Comedy. On Saturday, when present
writer saw khem, the chevaliers of Bath had
difficulty in returning their swords to their
scabbards, but this is a habit common even
in the best military circles. Good voices
were conspicuous in the choruses. Lennox
Brewer equipped the French adventurer with
a pleasant-enough tenor and Veronica Cox
gave vivacity to the party of Lady Mary.
Cliff Creighton’s Beau Nash had not even
the merit of being a convincing tailor’s
"Turn the kiss on again, Smithy!”
dummy. The dressing is first-class, the set-
tings are adequate, and the co. is prepared to
give encores at the slightest provocation.
* # #
The fiddle, nicely played, has charms to
soothe the savage breast, and in addition is
the finest of all means of exhibiting the
beauties of the female arm. Tucked under
the chin of a master it can sing like the
stars of the morning, prod cowards into
fighting, and disrupt empires. The other
night in Sydney S. Vost-Janssen, who teaches
young people the ins and outs of the instru-
ment, let some of his pupils loose on a buck-
shee audience. Nancye Gilchrist, who played
lead in Beethoven’s C minor Trio, backed by
the well-seasoned Athos Martelli on the ’cello
and John Redfearn at the piano, emitted
a good full tone and all the assurance in
the World. Ronald Wilkinson, who was
flanked by his teacher on the viola and
Mrs. Hewitt on the piano, played the Mozart
E flat Concerto happily and with enthu-
siasm, as it should be played. Some other
girls with pretty arms and some other
young gentlemen with nice hands also per-
formed, and there wasn’t a note more than
a thousandth 'of a semitone out of pitch or
a raspy stroke of the bow out of the lot of
them. One gathered the impression that
Vost-Janssen has a glow in his soul that
he is able to impart to his pupils.
* ¥ *
The best performer of any composer’s works
should be the composer himself, but there
have been a good many instances—the case
of Schubert is an outstanding one—in which
the mind was a long way superior to the
fingers. That doesn’t apply to Roy Agnew,
who in a recital of his pianoforte pieces at
Sydney’s little Theatre of Youth the other
evening proved himself a very well-equipped
performer. Agnew’s muse is romantic and
poetic, with occasionally a dash of the mys-
ticism of Debussy. On the whole the music
is programmatic, and quite lucidly fits the
title accorded it. In the case of such pieces
as “Sea Surge,” “Dawn,” “Falling Snow”
and “Drifting Mist” it would not take a
very powerful imagination to supply the
titles if they were missing. “Poem Tragigus”
and “Fantasia Sonata” are works on a
larger scale —finished pictures, not sketches—
scored in masterly style and overflowing with
feeling and sentiment. Mr. Agnew has also
made some interesting essays as a song-
writer, and Clement Q. Williams sang a
group of his lyrics with much success. The
work of this Sydney composer is beginning
to attract attention abroad, where it is
highly esteemed. It is well worth study.
Last week Austral Players staged an item
called “Turn to the Right” at St. James’s
Hall, Sydney. It is a queer mixture of comedy
and tract, with its plot largely springing
from a matron’s knack in jam-making,
whereby is worked reform and injustice, is
averted. There was ample compensation
for any shortcomings of the play in the
“Go out and cheer when the post-office
clock strikes 12.”
orchestrating by pupils of the Enmore
Sisters of Mercy. They made rattling good
entertainment of the almost lost art.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre has revived
“A Doll’s House,” and- three good crowds
have listened with surprise to the develop-
ment of Nora, the thorough-paced little liar,
into a claimant for woman’s right to Live Her
Own Life. The Ibsen talk —and there is too
much of it—leaves 1930 wondering how 1890
could find it a matter for fierce newspaper
discussions. Happily, the acting was uni-
formly good, a l’eturn to the Rep’s old stan-
dard. Beryl Kook and Denton had the heavy
jobs as the Yictorian-era couple. Ray
Walsh, Frank Part (who has never done
better work) and Mimi Mattin held the
stage in their too-brief appearances.
•? ¥ V
As a relief to the nearlymniversal pro-
gramme of cinema in Adelaide comes a
series of good concerts promoted by Edward
Branscombe at the Town Hall. His men
and boys give a show that is sound, enter-
taining and mainly British. It ranges from
“traditional” to Sullivan, from folk-song to
Alfred Hill, of M.L.
%•
“The Belle of New York” had only four
nights at Brisbane Majesty’s, though it was
much more popular than “The New Moon,”
which had 10 days or so. Leslie Holland
was Ichabod Bronson. Romola Hanson w r as
Violet Gray. A good show ; a pity it could
not have been allowed a longer run. His
Majesty’s will now be empty for a while.
At the Royal Nellie Bramley is in her
third week of vaudeville. Same cast but a
different programme. Latest feature is a
Day at the Races, apparently put on to
satisfy the Brisbane folk who cannot man-
age the Cup trip.
H- * *
The legit., which a few months ago looked
almost doomed to fade right out of Sydney,
has a brighter complexion at the moment.
There is nothing at all on offer that would
tax the intelligence of a 10-year-old, but
there is plenty of good acting in the froth.
“This Thing Called Love,” at the Criterion,
is merely a brightly-conceived toying with
companionate marriage. It is sedative
comedy pure and simple, but polished acting
makes it uncommonly enjoyable. It has no
artificially-created stars, and consequently
the casting is thoroughly sound. Bradley
and Copelin alone are enough to explain the
good business it has been doing.
The success of “Sons o’ Guns,” at Her
Majesty’s, is a curious commentary upon
the engaging belief of the pacifists that
all sympathy with the war spirit is
dead. Following close in the wake of “Jour-
ney’s End” and the shoals of anti-war pro-
paganda in fiction and talkie form, it revives
the old jingoistic outlook. In it a young
man goes to the sort of war that never
was on land or sea, performs gallant deeds
and is duly rewarded. It is mere frothy
musicomedy, in which no one expects criticism
of anything; but, all the same, its glorifying
“Suspense, uncertainty and dramatic
appeal.”
and idealising of the Mars game must make
queer hearing to those who believe the last
ball in that game has been bowled. It
seems interesting, too, that, though nobody
dreamt of regarding “Journey’s End” merely
from the point of view of entertainment, and
though scores rose in praise of its precepts,
not a solitary pen has suggested that such
offerings as this musicomedy, presenting war
in the old romantic light, might be just as
dangerous as the other sort of thing is sup-
posed to be good. To suggest that nobody
could possibly take a musicomedy seriously
is simply to dodge the point. It paints a
pretty picture, and that is an effective form
of advertising.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Aaenciea in all Suburban and Country Centres.
ABBOT FILTERS
PRESSURE AND DRIP.
AUSTRALIAN ABBOT
Filter
J 11 t in ihill>h ■ ii i inuy
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
CAMPERDOWN,
SYDNEY,
Hanufacturers
F I
Obtainable at All Stores.
UNFILTERED WATER
contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity, see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
Manufactured only by
GUTHMD GE LIMITE D, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
CLOTHES
FOB MEN
AND THEIR
SONS.
FOR TRAVELLERS
A Brush and Comb Set that is
handy when travelling. The Eng-
lish comb is set in the back of
the ebony brush and slides out
easily. Strong white bristles,
ideal for presentation.
PRICE .. .. 8/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
in Queen-street , Brisbane
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Southern Cross Assurance.
This is the young life office promoted by
Thomas Confoy in 1921. He got £12,500
in 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, and
became managing director :
Ordinary Branch,
Excess
Outgoings. Deficit.
Promoter’s consideration ..£13,500 £13,500
Other establishment charges .. 38,189 51,689
New share premiums, £31,250.. .. 20,439
Aug., Income. Claims. Expenses.
1922*. . £56,726 £1,357 £87,749 32,380 52,819
Additional establishment charges 10,000 62,819
1923 .. 87,076 5,437 92,173 10,534 73,353
S’African business purchased, £3OOO .. 76,353
Surplus
June, Income.
1924).. 96,060 4,399 91,302 359 75,994
1925 . . 139,778 8,848 110,773 20,157 55,837
1926 .. 180,038 18,781 122,688 38,569 17,268
Funds.
1927 . . 167,379 18,671 123,260 25,448 8,180
1928 . . 183,736 19,475 128,187 36,074 44,254
1929 .. 208,341 33,716 131,785 42,840 87,094
New Era Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £28,314 .. .. .. 115,408
Added purchase account, £20,068 . . 95,340
1930 . . 223,797 29,911 136,624 57,262 152,602
*l9 months. )10 months.
The spring in the year’s net premium income
(£206,491) was £27,152. Interest, rents,
etc. (£17,306) were £10,242 lighter; that
was because the 1929 figure included £12,000
which the co. charged its subsidiary, the
Southern Star, on account of accident busi-
ness reinsured with the pup. A block of
ready-made policies was bought last year;
it was what was left of the New Era’s
business, heavy lapses and crippling costs
having driven that concern on to the rocks.
The price paid was £20,068, of which £2997
was written off; the balance was charged
to establishment, etc., raising intangibles to
£219,687 at June 30. Tangible assets equal
to the amount of liability under the policies
transferred (£28,314) came with them. The
premium income involved was £20,000-odd.
Despite adverse conditions the co. wrote
£306,608 more new business last year than
in the previous term. Here is a comparison
of the progress over the last five years:—
1925. 1929. 1930.
Proposals accepted 5,084 6,540 7,737
Total of policies. . £1,516,768 £1,805,703 £2,112,311
First premiums . . 49,683 55,055 58,954
Renewal premiums 67,014 124,284 147,537
Interest, rent, etc. 23,082 29,002 17,306
Total income .. 139,778 208,341 223,797
The average amount per policy last year
(£273) dropped £3, and the average pre-
mium per cent. (£4 2s. Id.) advanced 7s. sd.
However, a high proportion of the business
in force is reported to bo whole-of-life and
long-term endowment assurances. A year
ago the actuary gave his assurance that
policy-holders were well secured; he now
reports that the co. continues to improve its
position. All this is quite pleasing so far
as it goes. But solvency is only part of the
struggle; bonus-earning capacity has yet to
be developed. Two important factors bearing
on the development are the cost of handling
the business and the proportion of lapses.
Taking the business as a whole, exes, made
off with 66.1 p.c. of the year’s net premiums
compared with 73.4 p.c. and 76.1 p.c. in the
two preceding terms. The improvement was
due partly to the New Era purchase, and
partly to cuts in management and other
charges. Assuming that new business is 10
times more costly than old, the year’s new
premiums were gathered at a cost of 185
p.c. as against 195 p.c. and 184 p.c. in 1929
and 1928 respectively. The figures are mov-
ing in the right direction, but a lot better
is needed before much in the way of divis-
ible surplus is likely to show up. Two years’
premiums wall have to be paid on last
year’s new policies before anything worth
mentioning can be put aside to meet the
inevitable day when the policies become
claims. Any lapses meantime will be a dead
loss to both policy-holders and the co.
Appearances are that lapses increased last
year, which is not surprising considering
the times. Up to the close of accounts
in 192 S the co.’s lapse rate was about 55 p.c.
This compares favorably with many other
offices, but its effect upon a young concern
is very severe; hence the necessity for nurs-
ing renewals:.
The year’s interest, rents, etc., amounted
to 5.3 p.c. on the average life fund, or 1.3 p.c.
more than the office assumes that the fund
will earn. Claims were 59 p.c. of the office
expectation.
The protection for policy-holders is in
this form:—
IQ9Q IQ9O
Freeholds .. .. £161,370 £185,844 £190,176
Equipment . . . . 17,028 23,994 24,492
Govt, securities . . 109,530 126,680 132,980
Mortgages, etc. . . 14,400 38,420 57,270
Loans on policies . . 764 6,528 11,304
Shares other cos. . . 10,100 10,625 21,154
Book debts .. . . 64,686 85,922 86,775
Cash 1,224 3,556 4,732
Total tangible assets . . £379,M2 £481,569 £528,883
Liabilities (other than
under policies) .. 91,673 90,196 -74,299
Net tangible assets .. £287,429 £391,373 £454,584
During the year £82,579 was added to the
life fund, making it £365,203 at June 30.
But owing to the goodwill involved in the
New Era purchase, and minor adjustments,
the visible improvement in the book value
of net tangible assets'was only £63,211. Paid
capital is £300,000 in 10s. shares —125,000
8 p.c. prefs. and 475,000 ords. Until the
actuary makes his valuation at the close of
next accounts it is not possible to say exactly
what the position of policy-holders and share-
holders is.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
bought the business of another small con-
cern, the Australian Group and General.
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney).
To
t Dividends N Reduce
Pref. De-
June, Loss. 9 p.c. Ord. licit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1924*. 63,961 11,346 Nil 175,307
Profit.
1925.. 18,357 13,497 5 p.c.<= 7,500 177,947
1926.. 35.199 13,497 71 „ ~11,250 10,452 167,495
1927.. 48,747)13,499 12§ „ ~18,750 16,498 150,997
Portion of goodwill apparently sold to
Victorian co., £40,000 .. .. 110,997
1928.. 33,130 13,499 10 p.c.=15,000 4,631 106,366
1929.. 37,332 13,500 124 „ ~ 18,750 5,082 101,284
“Guardian” sold; “Referee”, and
“Arrow” bought.
Net reduction in goodwill, £41,500.. 59,784
Added reserves, £39,807 .. .. 19,977
1930.. 14,874 13,500 t 1,374 18,603
* 14 months.
flncludes £9406 unexplained additions to reserves.
special distribution, made to ords. out
of profit on sale of “Daily Guardian.”
Encouraged by the progress of “Smith’s
Weekly,” a post-war publication, its founder
formed Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd., to take over
the weekly and launch a morning paper, the
“Daily Guardian.” That was in 1923. The
public backed the venture with £150,000 of
9 p.c. pref. money; the old proprietors took
£lOO,OOO in fully-paid ords. for goodwill,
and a further 50,000 ords. were issued to
Joynton Smith for cash.
By the time the daily was 14 months old
it had lost £lOO,OOO, which was capitalised.
Over the same 14 months the weekly netted
£36,141, equal to £30,978 p.a. Since then
tlie earnings of the two papers have not
been separated in the published accounts.
The daily appears to have definitely turned
the corner in 1927- It was about this time
that Sun Newspapers, Ltd., got control of
the “Daily Telegraph Pictorial,” and the
fight for circulation between the two dailies
thereafter became very expensive. The incu-
bation of the “Sunday Guardian” a year or
so ago intensified the campaign.
Meanwhile the ambitious “Sun” people
pooled their interests with those of S.
Bennett, Ltd. (which publishes the “Even-
ing News” and other journals) in one big
holding co., Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
This holding co. presently bought the good-
will and publishing rights of the “Daily”
and “Sunday Guardian.” The two journals
passed to the new ownership on January 12,
1930, but the vendor continued to print and
publish them, under arrangement, until
May 4.
The price paid for the goodwill, etc., of
the pair is not mentioned ; it is reputed to
have been £575,000 —£400,000 in fully-paid
7 p.c. cum. prefs. (that much is definite)
and the balance cash. Part of the consider-
ation was used to extinguish the goodwill
and establishment account of the “Guardian”
(£100,000). The balance was transferred to
special realisation accounts, out of which two
interim divs. were paid to the ords. The
amount of these distributions is not stated
either; but the whole of the 400,000 shares
received were handed out. The net unex-
plained addition in sundry reserves was only
£39,807.
Thus the co. has lost an income of £28,000
p.a. in dividends, or more than twice the
annual requirements of its own pref. capital,
which was put up partly to establish the
goodwill that fetched such a handsome
price. The sharp drop of £22,458 in the net
profit claimed last year was due partly to the
sale, but more largely to the slump in adver-
tising revenue. The final figure was only
£1374 more than the pref. div. called for.
Further, the primage duty and increased
cost of exchange will add to the current
year’s outgoings. The prefs. carry a fixed
cumulative 9 p.c. with priority as to capital,
but no further rights in respect of either
profits or assets. On the market they fetched
235. 9d. a year ago, but now fail to attract
attention at 18s. The backing is 375. 6d.
in net tangibles, mainly fixed assets. The
ords. are held by Joynton Smith, R. C.
Packer and four others.
Much will depend upon what the manage-
ment is able to do with the “Referee” and
“Arrow,” two sporting journals, which the
co. bought in May last at a “satisfactory
price.” Most of the exes, in connection
with these two publications for the couple
of months to the close of accounts were
capitalised. At June 30 goodwill, etc.,
figured at £118,500, or £41,500 less than at
the previous balance. Assuming that £40,000
—the figure mentioned in the by-ways of
the market —was paid for the goodwill of
the pair, the revenue charges capitalised
amounted to £18,500.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
show: —
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £299,966 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 55,277 191,964 190,693 271,528
Freeholds . . 43,155 160,978 161,857 161,857
Plant, etc. . . 67,427 78,906 71,469 68,986
Stock ’ . . J. 7,735 40,092 32,482 23,409
Book debts . . 51,072 62,717 83,189 236,948
Cash, etc. . . 464 1,410 792 644
Shares in other
cos. .. 84 50,870 50,870 61,081
During the year £62,792 was added to the
overdraft (now £123,375) and £18,041 to
the sundry creditors item (£48,580). The
mortgage (£99,573) was unchanged. The
sale of the “Guardian” probably accounts for
a large part of the spring of £153,759 in
book debts. Including stocks, the more or
less liquids exceeded the floating debt by
£89,473 at June 30.
The increase in the book value of shares
in other cos. represents scrip bought during
the year. The share holdings include
£1.00,000 in fully-paid ords. for goodwill in
Smith’s Victorian Publishing Co. Subject
to the rights of its own prefs. the parent has
guaranteed capital and div. on £150,000 of S
p.c. cum. prefs. in the pup, which thus far
has been able to earn a trifle more than its
own pref. requirements.
As a result of the year’s operations, includ-
ing the sales and purchases, the co. shows
an increase of only £82,681 in the book value
of net tangible assets.
The Whisky Merger
With the formation of United Distilleries,
Ltd., the new holding co. in which Federal
Distilleries Pty. and Distillers Corporation
Pty. have pooled their resources, Scottish
interests again dominate the local market;
but this time with an Australian-made spirit
and in association with Australian capital.
About seven years ago several small local
distilling concerns decided that they could
do no good in competition with the big over-
seas people unless they went on to the market
together. So, having induced the Govern-
ment to grant a bit more protection, they sold
their trading assets, including goodwill, to
a new operating co., Federal Distilleries
Pty., Ltd., for scrip. The cos. principally
interested were tne. Australian, Brinds,
Breheny Bros, and Kinna’s and C.W.L. Pty.
The new operating co. kicked off with a
paid capital of £565,000, which included
£148,000 for goodwill. For several years it
-was busy building up stocks and developing
markets. Splendid progress was made with
this preliminary work, and all the profits
earned, excepting ai 7 p.c. div. paid in 1929,
were used in the business. Still the co.
had to go a bit into debt as well. For the
12 months to April 30 last the spring in
gross profit (£135,959) was £12,158. But
exes. (£96,452, including something for con-
tingencies) took all the increase and £2744
besides, so the net result (£39,477) was 6.9
p.c.. on capital as against 7.4 p.c. and 6.5
p.c. for the two preceding years. By arrange-
ment between the merging parties no div.
was paid • thus £159,307 of surplus earnings
had accumulated at the close of accounts.
The co. was then leaning on its bankers for
£108,357, and there was £57,070 coming to
sundry creditors. Property and plant figured
at £246,339; stocks, £417,005; book debts,
£68,277; shares in other cos., £10,010; cash,
£lOO. The visible backing for the pound
shares was therefore 20s. sd. in net tangibles.
But the big Distillers Co., Ltd., of Edin-
burgh (paid capital £12,890,962) w r as not
prepared to lose its Australian market. So,
in association with Australian distributing
interests, it formed a local co.. Distillers
Corporation Pty., Ltd. (paid capital
£250,000), which put up the Corio distillery
at Geelong a couple of years ago. This step
followed the granting of further preferences
to locally produced spirit—9s. per gallon at
the time, since increased to 17s. Though the
Corio product is not yet on the market, the
Corporation promised to be a very strenuous
and powerful competitor. The Federal Pty.,
having gone into debt to build up stocks, was
not •well equipped for a struggle.
However, the ugly possibilities which thus
threatened have been overcome by the forma-
tion of United Distillers Pty., Ltd., which
will have a paid capital of £1,050.000 in £1
shares. These are to be exchanged, share
for share on a par basis, for the scrip in
each of the two operating cos. Before this
is done the Distillers Corporation will in-
crease its paid capital to £300,000 by a cash
issue : also Federal Distilleries will raise its
paid capital to £750,000 by a cash issue of
185,000 new pound shares at par to the
Distillers Co., Edinburgh. In addition the
Edinburgh co. will buy further shares in the
Federal Co. from the existing shareholder
organisations at par for cash, on a pro
rata basis, thus ensuring control of the whole
organisation.
When all these transactions' are complete
the shares held in United Distilleries and
the cash received for Federal shares sold to
the big Edinburgh co. by the three concerns
in which the public is directly interested
will be as follows: —
Shares Cash for
Paid in Shares
Capital. United Co. Sold.
Australian Distillery £150,000 £88,839 £70,507
Brinds . . .. 114,775 66,497 52,777
Breheny Bros, ifc Kinna’s 17,342 12,269 9,736
How each co. proposes to deal with the
cash received has not been mentioned. The
Australian Distillery has a debenture debt
of £11,125; this is redeemable in 1935, but
holders have the right to convert into
shares at par until July next year. Apart
from this the outside liabilities of the three
cos. are trifling. Shareholders, no doubt,
will consider that they can make very good
use of the money.
The merger should greatly strengthen the
position of the operating cos., but how r
results are likely to pan out is difficult to
say. It will be a year or so before the Corio
distillery can market a fully matured article.
Meanwhile curtailed spending can be ex-
pected to affect sales, and further increases
in excise seem certain.
Breheny Bros and Kinna’s scrip seldom
comes on to the market; 10s. is offered for
the Australian co.’s paper after previous
sales at 16s. 6d.; Brind’s, which sold at 18s.
a month ago, is now around 14s. They are
all pound shares.
G. G. Goode, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. Towards
June 30, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927*.. 5261 3600 Nil 1661 4543
1928 . . 5281 4800 Nil 481 4062
1929 . . 5647 4800 Nil 847 3215
1930 .. 6688 4800 Nil 1888 1327
*Nine months.
Tariff adjustments, the rationing of tobacco
imports and the adverse exchange position
have provided this co. with an opportunity
to become linked with Carreras, Ltd., the
big English cigarette manufacturing con-
cern. The alliance has greatly enhanced
the prospects of the Australian co. and
strengthened the position of its shareholders,
whose experience over the last decade has
not been a very happy one.
The original co. was Sniders and Abra-
hams Pty. Expanding business sent it to
the public for pref. capital in 1919 —
£40,000 8 p.c. cum. Presently the post-
war slump and weakness in the busi-
ness itself resulted in a run of losses. Half
the ord. capital (£31,225 = ss. per share)
was written off in 1922, but the weakness
continued and the pref. divs. had fallen
years in arrears by 1926. So the capital
account was again reconstructed ; the prefs.
agreed to forego their arrears, but the div.
was lifted from-8 p.c. to 10 p.c. cumulative,
and another 4s. was lopped off the ords.,
reducing them to Is. each. At the same
time another £BOOO of pref. capital was
gathered to provide working funds. Thus
paid capital became £54,245, of which
£48,000 was pref. money. The prefs. have
since received 10 p.c. regularly, though there
has been little to spare, and the ords. have
continued to go hungry.
Last year new lines were introduced,
and turnover in private brands, manu-
factured for clubs, etc., livened. Thus
gross profit (£43.929) sprang £13,660. de-
spite adverse conditions; exes, took all but
£lO4l of the increase. After the prefs. had
been attended to, the £lBBB of the year’s
net earnings that l’emained was 30.2 p.c.
on ord. capital, but no div. was paid; thus
reserves advanced to within £1327 of the
goodwill item (£6204).
To carry an extra £11,729 of book debts
and add £2958 to the stock figures, the board
leant on sundry creditors for an extra
£14,496 last year
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £71,226 £54,245 £54,245 £54,245
Overdraft . . 33,794 31,976 29,924 28,476
Sundry creditors . . 12,882 7,358 8,801 23,297
Plant, etc. . . 11,757 14,484 15,354 16,150
Stocks . . . . 50,076 52,225 51,861 54,819
Book debts . . 20,273 25,456 25,126 36,855
Cash, etc. . . 1,377 618 519 756
The more or less liquid surplus (£40,657.
including stocks) was £1876 stronger than
at the previous balance.
Since the close of accounts Carreras, Ltd.,
has bought the 75,908 unissued Is. ords. at
10s. each. That will lift paid capital tc
£58,000, and bring in £33,794 of share pre-
miums. The English co., to ensure control,
will also buy a number of ords. from other
holders on terms not disclosed. G. G. Goode
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step J
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-;
PEK ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * # *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Tanks for the storage of any type
of liquid possesses unique advantages over metal
tanks. For instance, they are absolutely non-corrosive
—they are equally efficient for storing water, wine,
the strongest acids or alkalies. They are simple to
erect and will give many years of thoroughly satis-
factory-service. Write for full details to The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Vic-
toria. — Advt.
s>: * * *
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
When selecting a Sporting Rifle inspect
Winchester Model 56
Magazine Rifle
Using 22 cal. Long-rifle
Cartridges only.
Price, £5
post free.
đ
dsg
d
sdgs
śg
Write for Leaflet B.
Spare Magazine,
5 capacity, 5/6 extra.
10 capacity, 6/6 extra.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter § Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
will then virtually become the Australian
branch of Carreras, Ltd. One of the first
steps in the programme of development will
be the erection of a new factory, equipped
with the most modern plant. With the
financial support of the English co., and its
co-operation on the technical side and in
connection with the purchase of raw
materials, expansion of the business can be
looked for.
The prefs., which at one stage had receded
to about half their face value in the market,
are now priced at par or a bit better. In-
cluding the new issue and share premiums,
the net tangible backing amounts to 375. 9d.
as against 225. when the books closed. The
ords., which seldom appear on ’Change,
should experience a welcome revival of their
interests.
Carreras, Ltd., was formed in England
over 150 years ago. It controls a number
of subsidiaries, has a paid capital of
£2,057,813, and last year declared a 50 p.c.
div. and distributed bonus scrip as well.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide).
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1921.. 16,224 7 p.c. = 13,910 2314 21,558
1922.. 14,186 5 „ „ 11,985 2201 19,357
1923.. 23,399 7$ „ „ 17,987 5412 13,945
1924.. 28,768 8 „ „ 19,200 9568 4,377
Reserves.
1925.. 36,737 10 ~ ~ 27,532 9205 4,828
Added to intangibles, £3830 .. 998
Frets.,
. 7i p.c. Ordinaries.
£ £
1926.. 39,777 9,309 8 p.c.=24,000 6,468 7,466
Added to intangibles, £3750 .. 3,716
1927.. 48,803 20,256 8 p.c.=24,000 4,547 8,263
1928.. 54,833 22,500 7„„ 21,000 11,338 19,596
1929.. 47,496 22,500 6i„ „ 19,600 5,496 25,092
1930.. 21,450 22,500 Nil 24,042
This is the co. which amalagamated the con-
cerns of Bennett and Fisher and Cheadle,
Crase. and Co., in 1919. Since then the out-
standing features have been the quick
development of the business and the board’s
liberal dividend policy. Hence the meagre
support for capital—visible reserves were
only £24,042 in excess of goodwill (£27,000)
at June 30 —and the uncertain position of
shareholders. Much of the co.’s business is
done in the south-east corner of its home
State, and that has meant a lot; it is the part
which has been least hit by the long drought
in S. Aus.
Last year wool averaged £ll 3s. 2d. per
bale in Adelaide as against £IS 17s. 3d. and
£2l 16s. 2d. for each of the two preceding
seasons. According to the Associated Brokers’
returns, the co. put 23,931 bales under the
hammer compared with 30,797 for the year
before last. The immediate result of it all,
including _ sharp recessions in hide, skin and
other prices, was a precipitous drop of
£45,508 in gross profits (£108,142). Exes.
(£86,692) were got back £19,462; still the
net result was £lO5O short of the 74 p.c. pref.
requirements, so the ords. went hungry and
reserves were dipped into to pay the pref. div.
Expansion was most marked during the
five years to June 30, 1928. Over that
period the board got in £300,000 of pref. and
£60,172 of ord. capital, besides going outside
for an extra £112,724. The money was used
mainly to assist clients, as this comparison
of balance-sheet figures shows:—
1922. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £239,828 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities . . 225,276 380,068 342,885 338,000
Freehold, plant,
stock, etc... 65,517 114,113 125,008 128,504
Advances . . 382,380 904,429 854,349 831,389
Gash and
investments 18,373 21,371 20,300
To snip £4885 off the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors, pay the previous year’s final
div. and last year’s interim on the prefs.,
coo oo ook value of advances was reduced
£22,960 net during the 12 months to June 30.
Advances appear less an unspecified amount
for bad debts and other contingencies, and
with wool at a figure which leaves little
profit, if any, for most growers under present
conditions, much obviously depends upon
whether the provision proves to be adequate.
The current season’s early clip reflects
drought conditions—now happily a thing of
the past-—and prices (about 64d. per pound
in Adelaide) are below the previous year's
average.. This, the size of the co.’s advances,
its outside debt and the slender prop, for
capital have made the scrip unattractive.
For the pound ords., which fetched 16s. a
year ago, 3s. is now offered. The A and B
prefs.—there are 150,000 of each ranking in
the order stated—carry a fixed cumulative
74 p.c. and have priority as to capital. The
A’s are priced around 16s. 6d., and the B’s
at 9s. 6d.; at these figur.es the returns are
9.1 p.c. and 15.8 p.c. respectively. On paper
the net tangible backing for the A shares is
£4 3s. 2d., for the B’s £3 3s. 2d., and for
the ords. 21s. 7d.
Australian Fertilizers, Ltd.
To afford clients an opportunity to become
interested as shareholders, and thus anchor
the very wide goodwill it has built up, this
co. is offering 125,000 new £1 primary pro-
ducers’ shares at par. The money is wanted
10s. each application and allotment. Individ-
ual holdings of the new shares are restricted
to a maximum of 500 and a minimum of 10.
When all the cash on the new lot is in, paid
capital will be £500,000 in fully-paid £1
shares. The new scrip wall rank equally
in all respects with the existing shares, and
in addition entitle the holders to a rebate
on the amount of fertilisers they purchase
from the co.
After paying all exes, in connection with
the business, and making provision for con-
tingencies, the profit to be divided in any
year will be applied firstly to the payment
of a dividend, not exceeding 8 p.c., on the
paid capital. Out of any balance remain-
ing holders of the primary producers’ shares
(any number) will be entitled to a rebate
up to 2s. 6d. per ton of fertilizers bought;
it there is anything left after that it is to be
used in payment of a further dividend on
capital and/or for a further rebate. Payment
of rebates on purchases made during any year
(ending .Tune 30) is contingent upon clients
settling their accounts in respect of such pur-
chases by Feb. 15 following.
Exactly what the rights attaching- to the
new shares are likely to amount to depends
upon the profit the co. earns. What it has
done in this way in the past is not men-
tioned in the prospectus. The works are at
Port Kembla, on the N. S. Wales South
Coast. The co. manufactures under the
trade-mark of “Shirley’s Fertilizers,” and is
the largest producer of super, in the State.
It also acts as selling agent for Sulphide
Corp. in connection with its super, output.
Further, the business has strong financial
and technical backing; the present £375,000
of paid capital is held in equal parts "by
Cumming, Smith and Co., Electrolytic Zinc,
Mt. Lyell and Imperial Chemical Industries.
For the 12 months to June 30 last an 8
p.c. div. (£30,000) was paid, but that does
not mean much unless you know what the
net profit was. Assets comprised freehold
plant, etc., £183,717; shares in other cos..
£102,500; stocks and book debts, £344,070 ;
cash, £2OB. The outside debt, including
£92,478 of deposits and an overdraft of
£44,795, _ totalled £178,640. Thus the more
or less liquid surplus was £165,635. Includ-
ing the new issue, the net tangible backing-
amounts to 225. lid. per share.
Vale of Clwydd.
Vale of Clwyyd Coal and Brick Co.
(N.S.W.) is still struggling to get itself out
of the bog in which debt has landed it. For
many years it w T as very profitable; then, the
old mine near Lithgow being on its last legs,
it bought another near Wallerawang and
proceeded to develop it. Slack trade hit
the co. while this was being done, with the
result that it got nearly £45,000 in debt,
largely to the bank. The latter became
anxious and a debenture issue was suggested ;
but the holders of the ordinary capital
(£120,000/ suggested a 10 p.c. pref. share
issue conditional upon a compromise being
made wi£h creditors. The latter, excepting
the bank, agreed to allow the co. an exten-
sion of time until Oct. 1, 1932, to pay pro-
vided (1) sufficient capital was subscribed
to get the colliery at work, and (2) sur-
plus capital subscribed was used to pay off
creditors pro rata, The bank says that if
enough new capital is subscribed to work the
mine, it will “favorably consider granting-
extension of time.” On this the directors will
again consult shareholders as to the chances
of raising the necessary capital by a 10 p.c.
pref. issue of £50,000, to be first offered to
ordinary Shareholders in proportion to their
holdings.
The North Queensland syndicate, with
E. J. C. Hunter, of Herberton, in the
forefront, which obtained a five years’ con-
cession from the Queensland Government
over some 500 acres on the Palmer goldfield,
has succeeded in interesting an Anglo-French
concern, Aporoma Land and Minerals, Ltd.,
in the property. A mining engineer is being
sent out to investigate, and on his report
Aporoma will decide whether to spend
£100,000.0n development, etc. The concession,
which comprises four blocks, includes crush-
ing mills and mining machinery, of which
there is a quantity in the Maytown district.
The old Louisa is reported to be in good
order, with plant in position and ready, after
an overhaul.
A lot of money lias been dropped down
shafts on the upper Palmer since the big
alluvial field lower down petered out, and
what didn’t go below was left at the top
in expensive plant. Work ceased on a large
scale in 1884, when the bank declined to
advance any more for wages. Geologist
Jack’s opinion is that most of the Palmer
gold came from deep leads, now covered by
conglomerates.
❖ ❖ $
The big tin mill owned by the Queensland
Government at Irvinebank has been taken
over by a local syndicate, which has also
acquired Wyatt’s lease. The low-grade ore
(1 p.c. to 2 p.c.) from the latter will pro-
vide . the feed during the intervals between
richer private parcels. The Whitworth Corp.
was to have purchased this mill, but it
pulled out of the North before the deal was
completed.
The Return Creek Co., Mt. Garnet
(N.Q.), has paid off all bands save a care-
taker or so. The co. missed the market
when tin was fetching high prices. Now
that the metal is around £ll5 only high-
grade, low-cost propositions can balance on
the right side of the ledger.
❖ ❖
Lake View and Star will probably want
fresh funds shortly. Golden Horseshoe,
which has money in hand, is spoken of as a
likely lender. Putting the Lake View mines
and plant shipshape has been an expensive
business. It cost over £lOO,OOO more than
was earned last year, and expenditure on
plant and development during the current
term has been much in excess of receipts
from gold won. Development has exposed a
large tonnage of payable ore; reserves now
exceed one million tons.
* * $
During 1930 the monthly mine profit of
South Kalgurli, the last of the Golden Mile
regular div. payers, has slumped 50 per cent.;
£3OOO to £l5OO. And since the Mitchell Gov-
ernment is bent on withdrawing most of the
few favors extended to gold-mining, the
co.’s prospects of escaping addition to the
long list of Kalgoorlie’s struggling shows are
slender.
❖ i’i ❖ ❖
Freney Co. (W.A.), which struck water
where oil was thought to be, is determined
to carry on. A little gas is said to be in
the bottom of the bore. The co. has spent
a lot of money in the search for oil since
its formation in 1921. The price of shares
has fluctuated between 395. and 2s. or there-
abouts.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I judge The Bulletin thinks the Com-
monwealth Bank very well handled. Then
can you explain this? The directors say
wages must he reduced in the near future, yet
they let several hig tenders for buildings.
Isn’t this, in the circumstances, sheer waste?
Further, these hig contracts are let at the
same time as the directors tell the Labor
Government that it has milked the hanks
dry. llow can this tend to make for political
harmony ? —9703.
(1) Quite likely the directors are driven
every week to accept compromises. Wages,
they may know, will come down; but mean-
time the people’s bank can’t let the people
starve if starvation can be avoided by going
only a little off the strictly-riglit track. (2)
The warnings of the bank have been directed
mainly to the weakness of the position in
London. Contracts for buildings in Aus-
tralia will not worsen that position so long
as Australian materials are used. (3) Any-
way, the amount to be spent is small. The
bank’s last balance-sheet showed total assets
£97,308,551, of which £550,107, or only a
shade over one-half of 1 p.c., was in bank
premises.
llou 7 does the Commonwealth Bank make
a profit on the note issue? —969o.
Last week the bank held £17,184,610 in
gold and had issued £44,428,426 in notes.
The gold cost the bank 20s. or thereabouts
per sovereign, but the notes cost only the
amount of the paper and printing bill. When
the bank issues notes it doesn’t, as some Aus-
tralian authorities seem to think, hand them
to people as they pass ; actually the people
have to buy them. Thus it comes about
that the bank has in its possession, bought
with this paper, £4,690,724 of “debentures
and other securities” and £22,655,117 of
“other assets” —understood to be chiefly
interest-bearing Government securities. It
is this interest, less working exes., which
makes the profit.
How is exchange on money for goods ex-
ported handled? If A sells wool in London
which realises £lOOO after paying all freight
charges, commission, etc., what happens?
When does exchange come in? —9551.
The exporter knows that £lOO in Aus-
tralia is worth, say, £lO9 in London; so he
can afford to pay approximately 9 p.c. more
for the wool he buys in Australia than he
otherwise would be able to. He bids a frac-
tion higher in consequence, and recoups him-
self out of the premium he gets when he or
his principal lodges money at a bank in
London for payment in Australia. If a
grower exports and sells in London, then
he gets paid, say, £lOOO there in excess of
freight, etc. He. takes his £lOOO (English
money) to a London bank, asks it to send
it to Australia, and finds that the bank
will pay him from £lO6 6s. 3d. to £lOB 10s.
for every £100; the rate varies according
to whether he W’ants the money paid in
Australia at once (telegraphic transfer) or
will accept it in one, tv’o or three months.
Position of the Hotel Savoy, Ltd., Syd-
ney?—9424.
Co. went into liquidation on Aug. 15. On
September 8 Harvey, J„ ordered the refund
of moneys paid on 850 pref. shares, on
the grounds that the prospectus misrepre-
sented that 25,000 ords. had been taken up
by the directors. Write Raymond J. Sands
and Banks, liquidators, 17 O’Connell-street,
Sydney, for further information.
I understand a co. has been formed to
exchange and deal in bonds isued by con-
cents like N.Z. Perpetual Forests, N.Z._ Flax,
etc. Address and financial standing? —
9462.
No doubt the co. you mean is the Bond
Underwriting Corporation; but it went into
liquidation on August 4 last. W. Ross Wil-
liams, 28 Martin-place, is liquidator. The
co. was broker for the Moreton Bay (N.S.)
Brewing Co.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.A.C.: (1) 8.C.D.; (2) F.G.H.; (3) None
Winton: (1) No; (2) recovery to former price
levels need not be looked for; (3) depends upon your
circumstances and the risk you can afford to take.
Pref. shares usually offer greater security than ords.
. ...D.G.: You are only liable up to the face value
of your share. That is to say, if it is a £5 share
paid to £3, you are liable for £2, and no more.
. ...8.D.: (1) and (2) If safety of principal is im-
portant, no. (3) Depends entirely on the value of
metals. Every fall puts a certain quantity of ore
outside pay limit. (4) Practically, yes F.H.Y.:
Zinc Corp. for choice... .T.McL.: There was only
one, and it went broke... .0.C.Y.: If you must, Zinc
Corps H.A.H.: In 1929 nine oz. of gold worth
£32 was won by fossickers in old abandoned ground
at Major’s Creek (N.S.W.), after rainstorms....
E.H.N.: (1) Progressive district; but there is no
land business at present. (2) Very small... .H.H.
(W. Maitland): They should; but there is a very
large amount of open country, and only picked
blocks will reach high prices... .R.D. (S.A.) : There
is no market. One of the co.’s salesmen might pos-
sibly be able to sell them for you; ask the secretary.
. ...C.D.D.: (1) No. (2) Certainly not. (3) and
(4) Highly speculative. .. .J. 8.: (1) and (2) Metal
market is very uncertain, so they may go lower.
(3) Sulphide prefs. are 10 p.c. non-cumulative, and
participate with ords. in divs. beyond 10 p.c.; but
on liquidation they would not participate in surplus
assets. The prefs. have thus very solid advantages
over ordinaries. .. .W.J.8.: Doubt whether either is
better than this ; certainly not Argentina. And just
as well to remember that, even if you could realise
your capital, it would cost you at least £7OO to
shift it; and it’s very doubtful whether any bank
would undertake the job


fm
ft
Australian-wide interest is centred
round the construction of the
Sydney Harbour Bridge. Every-
where is it known, everywhere is it
praised, as one of the greatest
achievements of modern engineer-
ing.
Equally well-known are the six
words of the sign which to-day
glows beneath it. "10 to 1 it’s a
Capstan ” is a phrase familiar
to everyone —a phrase that ex-
presses in half a dozen words all
Australia’s smoking preference.
Among all classes of people ten
smokers out of every eleven choose
"Capstans.” That’s why you can
always bet, when anyone at all
lights up, "10 to 1 it’s a Capstan.”


EJfal B
• . i
Sfe,
i
w&
1
FmsMl
Hi#
/
A
'
r
dK «
/
/
■
-.
Hif
:
a
• '
■Hi
4
s
HHHBH
„■ § a
Dfc. 1
*3
HI : vr
Ml
W)
\
WfcW
\;v<->. V?
.., ■ :,«4J;j.. v .
a§pie™ifti
.
-iS
■
SHHH
■TL
55 ' M
- ;*
J! *
$
if
fA
Mk
m
m
s^B
to?
6:4
GOODYEAR TYRES ARE MADE IN AUSTRALIA AND THEY COST NO MORE THAN ANY OTHER MAKE.
MORE PEOPLE, THE
WORLD OVER, RIDE
ON GOODYEAR TYRES
THAN ON ANY OTHER
s. MAKE
y


ĝ
dg
Reduced Tariff
New “Room Only” Rates
Single Room ... . . . • • • from 12/- per day
Double Room •• from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet . . from 21/- per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet .. ... . . •• from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and Toilet from 40/- per day
The
/Australia
Hotel
Breakfast,
2/- and 3/6; and d la carte.
Luncheon and Dinner,
d la carte in Grill Room, minimum !y/-
d la carte in Dining Hall, minimum 5/-
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney
ABORIGINALITIES
LAST THOUGHTS.
“Gimme the price of a meal, guv’nor, or I’ll drownd meself.”
“Good gracious, my man —suicide is the last thing you should think of!”
“Yes, guv’nor, it will be.”
“Pick”: A proof that sharks sometimes
undertake long and hurried journeys was pro-
vided on the N.S.W. far South Coast the
other day when a fisherman winched an over-
size in blue-pointers on to the wharf at
Tathra. Part of the cargo the big scavenger
unloaded from amidships was the head,
shoulders and forepaws of a Queensland
crocodile. The northerner had not been long
enough in the interior of his natural foe to
be digested.
* # * *
“Nikko”: Jack was as mad as a hatter
in many things; but he was a fine
man on the windlass
when well-sinking. At
a depth of SO feet liis
mate below called that
he was sending up the
mullock. Jack wanted
water first, sand next,
rocks last. The fel-
low down below said
he’d send it up as it
came. He did. Jack
looked at it. He
called an order to send
it up as he wanted it,
and to sift it before
filling the bucket
again, and then he
tipped the lot back
down the hole ! Jack
gave his mate below a
few hours to cool off
before he lowered the
bucket again. A day
came when a pleuro-
mad bullock clamped
Jack to the windlass
while he was winding
his mate up from
below. That bullock
had one horn each
side of Jack’s body,
and was slobbering on
the" seat of Jack’s
trousers. Any sane
man wou 1 d have
jumped immediately
and let the windlass
go. Jack put in the
pin, slipped from be-
tween the bullock's
horns and slid down
the rope. Then, in
case the rope might
break with the weight
of two men on it, he
dropped to the bottom,
breaking an ankle in
the process. He let
his mate go up and
face the mad beast
wliile he was safe down below.
“Foretop”: The employment agent having
offered Binks a job in the, Bullawulla dis-
trict, Binks inquired the name of the pros-
pective employer. On being informed he
exclaimed: “What, me work-.again for old
Crossfurrow? Not on your life! I took a
job with him once, but no more—he • nearly
starved me ter death. I’ll tell you some-
thing about Crossfurrow. He went for a
trip to Sydney, and while he was there he
bought a packet of 500 tacks for sixpence.
About a month later I thought I’d take a
run down to the city meself, and before I
left the old bloke said to me: ‘When y’re
down in Sydney I want yer ter call at Blank-
ley’s Bargain Basement and tell them there
. was only 494 tack 3 in that packet.’ ”
PUTTING ELIZA RIGHT.
WHITEMAN: “Is that the gun you were skiting about, Bringagee?”
ELIZA: “Yes, that been the gun. Mr. McGowan been makit a present to Bringagee.”
BRINGAGEE: “You shut-em up, Liza; plurry fool. No been makit present—him been
GIBBIT Bringagee!”
“Wang”: Dad Cowbails was rather proud
of his platform speaking. He was chairman
at the church concert in the Grasstree Gully
Hall, and, the last encore rendered, pad got
up to speak. “Bein’ tli’ last on th’ list, I
don’t want yer t’ .say ‘lioneore’ t’ me when
I’ve finished,” he began, with an assumption
of jocosity. “Don’t yew worry!” came a voice
from the back seats; “they won’t say ‘lion-
core’ when ycw’ve done.” Dad bridled. “Oh,
won’t they?” he bellowed; “won’t they? Yer
know sech a lot back there, young smarty,
yer’ll of course be able to tell me what they
will say.” “Too right, I can,” replied the
voiee. “They’ll say—them that’s awake —
‘What a beautiful sunrise this mornin’.”
* * * *
“Ostrich”: The wayfarer who had called
on Dad Woolbales said he was on his way
to Queensland. He had been working for
Biggies down the road, but had no money
saved and wanted a lift. Dad had quarrelled
with Riggles. “No wonder y’re hard up,”
he said. “I s’pose he only paid yer about
fifteen bob, didn’t he?” “That’s all,” said
the aggrieved traveller. “I never liked him
at all. The grub was bad, and I had a
cold, and he made me go through the wet
grass for the cows, and he used to insult
me and call me parents names, and I had
to do three men’s work, and him and the
missus was quarrelling all day.” “I don’t
blame you for leaving,” said Dad. “I always
said he was no good. Here’s ten bob.”
“Thanks,” said the complainer, pocketing it.
“And, besides all that, the caw sacked me!”
* ❖ * ❖
“Dr. Kwong Su” : That you of the Occi-
dent may understand a little better us folk
of the Orient let me tell you that there are
many fundamental differences between
Chinese and Japanese—not all to the advan-
tage of my own distressful country. In
the matter of personal cleanliness the
Japanese of every class are punctilious. Our
coolies are filthy and live in filth. The
Japanese are receptive of new ideas; the
Chinese are scornful of them ' unless . they
can turn them to immediate monetary profit.
The Japanese like to appear clever. There
is no swearing in their language, and their
worst epithet is “fool.” We Chinese, on the
other hand, seek to conceal our intelligence.
We “no savee” a great deal when we savee
very well indeed. If a Chinese lies or steals
and is found out he loses-face, to him an
unbearable humiliation. It expresses him
as a'person who, exercising his cleverness,
hasVover-rea bed himself, and exposes him to
ridicule, not because he was stupid or clumsy,
but because he has disclosed a phase of his
character he much desired to keep hidden.
One little story: In Singapore, when the
“Dr. Fu Manehu” film was shown, a depu-
tation of Chinese waited on the manager and
said they wanted him to cut out one little
part of the picture. “Hang it all,” said the
manager, “we can’t cut out the murder!’
“That is nothing,” declared the spokesman
blandly; “men of all nations kill.” And he
went on to beg that a passage in which one of
the characters expressed admiration for the
cleverness of Dr. Fu should be deleted. So
if you wish to compliment a Chinese, praise
his industry or his honesty or Ins beauty,
but not his brains,
* * * ‘
“Avon”: One of the strangest and most
beautiful sights to be seen in Maoriland
was discovered only a few years ago, when
a Maori hunting wild pigs chased one in
the locality of the celebrated caves at
Waitomo, and was led into a new cave much
larger than the others and possessing a richer
variety of fantastic stalactites and stalag-
mites. It was found that in addition to the
rock-camouflaged entrance on the hillside
through which the pig and the native blun-
dered there is an entrance by river, a water-
way running the whole winding length of the
great cave, which has been named Atanui.
When tourists are taken to the cave they
go in a boat, well equipped with lights. They
are warned to make no sound. At the end
of the cave the lights are suddenly extin-
guished. Then there falls upon the astonished
gaze of the visitors one of the most mar-
vellous spectacles in the world—the Glow-
worm Grotto. Millions upon millions of
tiny lights illumine this chamber with a soft
pearly radiance, and each little light has its
thread-like reflection in the inky -waters
below. There are other glow-worm caves in
the world, but this stands supreme,
* * * *
“W.L.W.” : Bill Ascot, a well-known pros-
poctor on many Australian mining fields,
invented a way of his own of detecting folk
who pilfered his wash-dirt. His heap was
getting smaller every morning, and try as
he might he couldn’t catch anyone interfer-
ing with it. At last he took his pocket-
knife and half a dozen corks, cut the corks
into small crumbs and scattered them over
his wash-dirt. Bill stood 6ft. 4in. in bis
socks, and for a little while after he hit
upon this expedient there were cases of
sudden exodus on the part of gentlemen who
had been found by Bill panning off in corky
water.
JOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I like the man you caii bank on : I like the
man that you know,
No matter whatever ’appens, will give you
a dinkum go.
You get that kind of a cobber, and then,
through it all, you're sweet.
You’re set, the same as a jelly, but, lumme!
they’re ’ard to meet.
Me and old Joe was cobbers ; Joe was that
kind of bloke.
Whether a man was ’oldin’ or whether a
man was broke,
Joe was a man you could bank on; ’e’d
stick to you ’igli and low.
H'ow you was situated meant nothin’ at all
to Joe.
Joe never asked no questions; say you ’ad
missed, and you
Was in for it, that ’ud do ’im, and ’e was
in for it, too.
Whenever old Joe was ’andy you never was
long in doubt;
’E was a man you could bank on —but ’is
sort is dyin’ out.
There’s lots of blokes that’ll tell you that
Joe was a poor ole mug;
That ’e could, if ’e’d played for safety, be
sittin’ back nice and snug:
And there’s more than one will tell you—
and some of them ought to know—
That ’e couldn’t bank on ’is cobber the same
as ’e could on Joe.
But that’s, of course, as it might be; I’m
sayin’ nothin’ on that.
’E could, no doubt, ’ave gone further if
’e’d ’ave gone on ’is pat.
But ’e went the way that ’e wanted, and
that’s what, to my mind,
Made ’im a man you could bank on, of the
sort that’s ’ard to find.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £498,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembta Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
me
Follow the example of hundreds
—wear Denyer’s Elastic Truss.
Its patent water pad gives
effective support with every
freedom.
Single 30/- Double 407-
Trusses also made to order.
ĝ
s
COUNTRY
RESIDENTS.
You can order by
post. Write for
Free Rupture
Pamphlet and
Sel f-m easuring
Form. Sent i n
plain envelope.
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
“Bung Hi”: The advocatus diaboli is
always with us, but A. H. Mattingley, who
has bequ fighting the case of the all-destroy-
ing cormorant before the ornithological con-
ference in Brisbane, is a bit over the odds in
asserting that his client rarely eats fish,
but is a whale' on the crayfish which cat
the fish spawn. No doubt the destroyer is
fond of yabbies, but he is a darned sight
fonder of fish, as everyone who lias seen him
at work on a trout nursery will testify. The
cormorant in the estuaries and salt water,
both of which he frequents as often as the
rivers, has no small Crustacea to gobble—
what then does he go for? The answer is
fish, every time. For thousands of years
the cormorant has been tamed to catch fish.
There was once an official of the English
Court who received a salary and perks as
Keeper of the King’s Cormorants, while in
Eastern Asia the bird has been employed for
fish-catching from time immemorial. Even
to-day in England there are one or tw r o
families who maintain a cormorant fishery
as a tradition, just as some others keep a cast
or two of hawks —unless, perhaps, the war
abolished the old-world custom. In the face
of all that it is absurd to claim that tin-
cormorant is not first and last a natural fish
eater, and that on a basis which has made
his name a synonym for gluttony.
* * * *
“H'erpes”: The oft-repeated adage tlial
one cannot be too careful with snakes ha;
been emphasised by the loss of a valuabl.
specimen in N. Queensland owing to conduct
on the part of its finder which any Judge
would direct a jury was prima facie negli-
gence. The serpent, a big python, had dined
off a wallaby and was in the customary
comatose condition when found —the only
snakes that trek about and converse after
eating are those in Jungle Book stories or the
imagination of a dipsomaniac. H'is dis-
coverer shifted him to the nearest town for
exhibition, but to his disgust the old enemy
had died on him. Post-mortem showed that
the unfortunate creature’s vertebral were
dislocated. No wonder. In the iirocess of
such a meal, a snake’s structure, bones and
all, stretches like a politician’s conscience
at election time, the vertebrae included. As
the meal gently digests, these parts come
together again without damage. Far other-
wise is it if the sleeper is rudely handled
THE BITTER HALF.
THE ARTIST: “I think I can say without
fear of contradiction that twice as
many people are laughing over my
jokes, now.”
THE CRITIC: “Ah, that means you’ve got
married, eh?”
THE MODERN CALENDAR.
SYMPATHETIC NEIGHBOR: “It’s six months to-day, isn’t it, since you* lost your dear
husband? You must find the months drag very slow.”
PRACTICAL WIDOW: “Well, they don’t. No sooner one instalment's paid on the tomb-
stone and everything than here’s the man around for another.”
or moved about. His gears, so to speak,
are then thrown out of alignment and refuse
to mesh when required.
* * * *
“Camp”: Before the cutting-up of
Brookong station (N.S.W.), my mate and I
were kangarooing there. We’d
bought a new Winchester rifle and
were trying it out. By way of
target we tomahawked a small blaze
on a 2ft.-thick gum-tree. Starting
at 100 yards I got my mate to stand
behind the tree, out of harm’s way,
so that he would be handy to mark
the shots at each radge. Following
the first shot there. was a yell, and
I rushed up to find my mate flat,
with his hand on his thigh and blood
trickling through his fingers.
Although I pointed out to him the
impossibility of a bullet passing
through two feet of green gum-tree,
he wouldn’t listen to reason, and
persisted in calling me a crimson
murderer. There was a shallow
track, little more than skin-deep, cut
across the fleshiest part of his thigh.
Satisfied that he was neither dead
nor maimed for life, we set out to
find the why and the whatfor. The
bullet had hit at the. edge of tin*
blaze, travelled round the greasy
sap, between the bark and the trunk,
and exited at the back of the tree.
if if * •
“Basta” : The spirit of Heliogabalus, who
lined on larks’ tongues and peacocks’ brains,
still lingers in his countrymen, apparently.
At the recent ornithological conference _in
Brisbane one speaker attacked the Italian
immigrant for bringing with him from his
homeland the practice of killing and eating
every bird that came to hand, from sparrows
to crows. Many protected birds are having
a bad time in the Italian settlements, especi-
ally in N. Queensland, where so many of the
rarer varieties have their habitat. How
ever, the Italian Consuls in the _ various
States have undertaken to circularise their
nationals instructing them to desist. All the
same it.. is questionable whether the prac-
tice of shooting feathered folk for the pot is
not more admirable than the indiscriminate
slaughter of so many birds for the sheer
sake of “knocking ’em,” which is so popular
with our own yahoos when turned loose with
guns in their paws.
% if * *
“Mafo” : About two years ago three school-
teachers, hearing that opals were fairly plen-
tiful at the head of the Manning River
(N.S.W.), set out to make an easy fortune
during the holidays. Two of them hadn’t
tin- vaguest idea of what to do, but one of
them knew all about it. “All you do, he
said, “is dig a deep shaft and then drive
sideways.” So they did. At least, they
dug a shaft about 4ft. deep, and then the
two who knew nothing got sick of such hard
slogging and decided to drive. The know-
all argued in vain that they ought to go a
lot deeper, and finally threw it up in dis-
gust. “Drive, then, you ignorant cows,” lie
said. “And,” he went on scornfully, “you
can have my .share of anything you find.
I’ll sit and watch you make fools of your-
selves.” He watched them drive right on
to a pocket of opal that realised £2OO. I
was the know-all.
* * * *
“Arikiwai”: Sheep snowed-in beneath
drifts in Maoriland’s high country frequently
survive for lengthy periods in caves
formed by the heat given off by their bodies.
By masticating the wool on each other’s
backs they obtain nourishment from the yolk,
but with disastrous effects to their internal
mechanism, a solid, symmetrical mass indis-
tinguishable from a cricket ball being left
in the stomach. Two young horses with an
aged mare snowed up in Otago developed this
idea further. When found a few weeks
later the young stock were in pretty fair
condition, but all that was left of the mare
was the hide and bones. The youngsters
had cleaned her up.
“Barangkali”: The frigate-
bird has been endowed by nature
with a wonderful power of
hovering on the wing. These
birds will hover perhaps two or
three hundred feet above the sur-
face of the sea, the head slowly
turning from side to side, and
then suddenly descend in a series
of graceful curves to snatch the
dying-fish that has just broken
water. The fish is often dropped,
probably because it is not in a
good position for swallowing, but
with one swoop at terrific speed
it is caught again in a more con-
venient position and swallowed.
But the frigate relies more on
his plundering propensities than
on liis own fishing efforts, and
reaps a harvest from the booby
birds. High above the boobies
can always be seen a dozen or
so frigates. When the hard-
working booby has secured its
fish the robber arrives with
almost incredible speed. The
booby .swerves and tries to escape,
but it is a futile effort against
the stronger and swifter bird.
The fish is disgorged and falls,
but the frigate, with wings
spread to their full extent, exe-
cutes a volplane, and the falling
fish is caught with ease and cer-
tainty. Then the process is re-
peated until a large appetite is
satisfied. I don’t know how
many boobies are robbed of their
fish in order to appease a fri-
gate’s hunger, but I know that a
three-months-old frigate that I
kept at one time managed to put
ten six-inch fish into his tucker-
bag before he cried enough.
"Wob” : “Squint-fish” (B. 8/10/’3O) is cor-
rect. His catch, generally known as sweep
—blue bream when being sold to the un-
wary—is almost invariably hooked in the
eye. The huge schools of 2in. size beloved
by the small-boy wharf-fislier are replaced
outside the Heads by equally numerous
schools of greater-sized fish, in some cases
up to a foot in length. The deep-sea fisher-
man, irritated by nibble-nibblc-nibble tactics,
jags viciously to ease his feelings. The
point of the hook finds the hard small scales
too tough to penetrate and slides along the
side of the head till it meets something soft,
the eyeball—and there the unfortunate
victim is hooked.
*..**.*
“Larrapinta”: Swallows, like willie-wag-
tails and taagpies, delight to torment cats,
but they sometimes meet their Waterloo.
At the old brewery at Port Augusta (S.A.)
a tribe of cats used to be kept to eat up
tlie rats and mice. Whenever one of the
cats would come out to bask in the sun
the swallows would swoop down, viciously
pecking till yellow-eyes was forced to take
refuge indoors. But finally one cat, a mangy,
scraggy-eared old tom, resolved on vengeance.
When attacked he crouched with flattened
ears, taking no notice of the circling, swoop-
ing birds for hours at a stretch; then, like
a flash, up would shoot his paws and he
would have swallow for dinner.
THE COMPLICATIONS OF MODERN BUSINESS.
“And how is the depression affecting you, Mr. Screwmard?”
“Well, Mr. Sittite, I’ve just had a little difficulty. We’ve been taking instalments by
instalments; and now one chap wants to pay us his instalments of the instalments
by instalments; and damme it’s getting a bit complicated.”


BLACK & WHITE
. BBS
i
■
S' ASS
■
m
, a
Warn
HHH
a..
Hi
HHH
®i«*
SS :
I
■
mm
m ::
3
m
-: ;....:. ■
■
■h m
■
■
mMm
■
H
3;
U
; 3 : ;
.
m
m
: m
ill
■
■
-
■
HH
■
Hi
■1
»i
■
S:
I
va>
< *5 i
' V -vv S
'
v ■ PM
,/ ' £
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
A Meal & Room
for every,
taste /
' v
I \
Whether your first demand
be for comfort or for economy,
the Grosvenor meets it. 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all doors. Fire-
proof. Meals a la carte
from 1/6. £3/10/- weekly.
Bed and breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
THINK o/U/ye LAKES
NOW . . . .
.... Think of the boating, the fishing, the surfing....
of the mirrored reflections in the placid blue waters of
the lakes....of the golden sunshine and the fragrance of
the green bush....of the tinkling music of the bellbirds
.... of the muffled roar of the Southern Ocean along the
white curving sweep of the Ninety-mile Beach.
Think..,.and then ACT. Plan your next holiday
at the GiPPSLAND LAKES, the most picturesque
chain of takes in Australia.
A fast and comfortable train service from Melbourne connects at
Sale or Bairnsdale with steamer or car services to the Lakes.
And the accommodation is excellent.
Boohing and all information at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY ; OR QUEEN'S WALK, MELBOURNE.
śd
gdsg
On This
Subject of
Feeding :.
Centuries ago dogs were carnivorous
and they still are their digestive
organs require meat so that meat must form
the basis of any satisfactory food for dogs.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme—
contains all necessary ingredients for keeping
dogs in good condition.
Packed i:i 1-lb. tins. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
rssnr?sTß?i
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
AN ALTERNATIVE TO SHEEP.
“Glenfield”: Owing to the succession of
bad seasons many Vic. Mallee cockies are
without sheep, and owing to financial embar-
rassments the flocks will not be as easily
replaced as in former years. Without sheep,
the best crops the land is capable of produc-
ing cannot be grown. The question arises
how to replace the humus so necessary to the
soil.
The only alternative seems to be the
ploughing-in of the stubble. It will, of course,
be necessary to note that the soil of the
paddock has a healthy appearance and is
free from takeall; also that the stubble is
the residue of a crop free from flag smut and
other noticeable diseases. Where the rotation
of wheat-oats-fallow has been consistently
followed, with the regular ploughing-in of
the oat stubble, the effect on the soil of the
temporary absence of sheep should not be
felt so keenly.
Possibly there has been too much burning
of healthy stubble in the Mallee. Apart
from the virtue of returning humus to the
soil, the ploughing-in of stubble is an efficient
prevention of drift, a major Mallee problem.
With regard to 200 acres of fallow sown
this season, my record shows that on 150 acres
with stubble ploughed-in there are no bare,
blown patches, and flats enriched with a
covering of drift caught by the straw and
subsequently worked in are now carrying
a very heavy body of growth. The remain-
ing 50 acres, on which the stubble was burnt
previous to fallowing, has many bare patches
with exposed seedbed, caused by heavy winds
shortly after sowing.
PROVIDING AGAINST TAKEALL.
“Wescocky” : Takeall is becoming trouble-
some in Westralia, on heavy soils especially.
Spelling the paddocks and letting the grasses
flourish. is no good, though many farmers
believe in it; barley grass, for instance, is
takeall’s greatest ally.
Good farming methods, early fallowing and
liberal use. of super, all tend to check take-
all and kindred diseases; but rotation of
wheat with oats is the best treatment, oats
being resistant to takeall.
Owing to the low price, numerous farmers
are adverse from sowing oats on heavy land.
The fact is that on well-farmed properties
oats can be turned to very profitable uses •
hay for stock feed during the summer months,
and ensilage, a neglected factor in Westralian
wheat districts.
CARRYING CAPACITY OF GRASS
LAND.
“Science III”: “Booraby’s” article (B.
b/10/’3O) reminds me that the quality of
grass depends also to some extent on where
it is grown. For instance, barley grass,
which is regarded as being of comparatively
low value in the Albury district, is a most
valuable and nutritious grass in the western
Riverina. Barley grass and trefoil form an
almost ideally balanced fodder for stock in
general; lambs, even pure merinos, fatten
on them very quickly.
The importance of burry trefoil may hardly
be exaggerated. The seed will keep stock
fat when there is apparently no feed what-
ever in the paddock. This is particularly
true in the Moulamein district, and at a
recent auction sale of 27,000 locally-bred
sheep it was hard to find a really poor one,
although the rainfall to date of sale was
about five inches for the year—and this after
four years of drought! Most people will be
surprised to learn that trefoil is an importa-
tion ; it is rather pleasing to find one so
valuable.
A SHEEPMAN IN NORTH QUEENS-
LAND.
“J. Creek”: North Queensland is a fairly
bright spot these times. The climate is
rather trying from December till March, but
not unhealthy.. I have kept a rough diary of
my impressions and experiences as a sheep-
man, buying for myself and other people:
it may be useful to those with notions of
investing in sheep or properties in North
Queensland.
1920. —Wool slump ; good season ; record
lambings. You could buy and get your
money back in 18 months, purchasing sheep
with six to nine months’ wool; profit was
assured when the second clip was sold.
1921. —Wool slump ; good season ; people
talking about burning wool, on account of
the supposed huge surplus. Sheep bought at
a profit, same as in 1920.
1922. —Wool prices rising; good season.
Sheep could be bought with return of your
money after the sale of the first clip.
1923. —Wool prices rising ; patchy season ;
some places dry. Those who had grass could
get their money back in 12 months and
still have the sheep.
1924. —Wool booming ; good season ; sheep
too dear. Didn’t buy on that account;
couldn’t see my money back in two years.
Had no faith in the boom lasting.
1925. —Wool still booming, good season
early; bush fires and start of drought at the
latter end; also minor slump of wool. Didn’t
buy ; scared of drought and of prices.
1926. —Wool fair price; very good com-
pared with now; severe drought; had grass
on my place; high prices for agistment.
Bought sheep at drought rates; did well by
selling when season broke.
1927. —Patchy season ; wool prices profit-
able ; bought sheep and just got my money
back.
1928. —Patchy season ; wool prices profit-
able ; bought sheep at less than their market
price ; might get my money back next year,
but doubtful.
1929. —Fair season ; wool slump started;
bought sheep; sure to lose money.
1930. —Good normal season; hope wool
prices have reached bedrock; expenses have
come down slightly. Fully-stocked proper-
ties and good sheep may pay their way next
year. A man with grass and money can
reasonably expect a profit buying sheep at
present market prices.
Summing up, I consider the time to buy
is in a slump, or in a drought if grass is
available. Sell in boom-time, and don’t buy
on a falling market unless the seller is
jarnbed for grass. Unless one is dealing,
always buy good sheep. When selling a
property on terms in boom-time always get
at least the value of your stock as first
payment.
HOOF CULTIVATION OF PASTURE.
“Hatter”: Most farmers —in Tasmania at
all events—have noticed that the consoli-
dated portions of a grassed paddock, such
as a beaten pathway or the area round a
gate, will produce finer herbage than the
surrounding pasture. Some economic use
may be made of this fact when the cause of
tiie improvement is understood.
If the ground adjoining a trampled gate-
way be closely examined it will be seen
that there is a bare patch between the
posts where the tread has been too severe
for any growth. Following on this there
will perhaps be a zone of plantain or knot
grass, and beyond this again perennial rye,
smooth-stalked meadow grass, cocksfoot and
white clover; and although the rest of the
paddock may consist mainly of sheep’s
fescue and other inferior grasses these will
not be found round the gateway nor yet
edging the tracks.
While there may be contributing causes,
such as exposure to light, which is important
in the case of white clover, the dominant
factor appears to be that the fine grasses,
owing to their structure, are far more resist-
ant to damage from trampling than other
varieties. All the resistant species not only
have a folded-leaf section, and consequently
offer a flat surface to the hoof, in contrast
to the rolled leaf of other types, but also
their basal nodes, or growing points, are
situated well beneath the surface of the
ground and are therefore protected. It is
not suggested that any herbage prefers con-
solidated ground; on the contrary, all varie-
ties thrive best in loose soil. But where
the root stock is woody, as in plantain and
cocksfoot, treading appears to actually stimu-
late the growth of the woody tissue.
In districts suited to imported grasses
judicious penning of cattle at night on small
patches would thus gradually eliminate the
second-grade growth and convert the land to
first-class pasture.
GUARDING AGAINST FIRES.
“Booraby”: I once heard a burnt-out set-
tler say: “If it hadn’t been for that patch of
grass at the corner we’d have pulled
through.” This is the time to beware of that
patch of grass ; also the litter that has accu-
mulated here and there.
Where homesteads front a grazing area,
a good plan in the lay-out is to have a small
house paddock. There is a paddock of an
acre or so at most places, but it seldom
encloses the house and sheds, and commonly
grass and weeds grow rank behind barns,
yards and sties, where most damage may be
done when a fire breaks out. Some careful
settlers keep a few sheep as lawn-mowers.
The next best is the horse. These animals
like feeding near the ground, whereas a cow
likes a length of grass that she can get her
tongue round.
Menaces to crops are dirty headlands and
growth of rubbish along the creek or in the
gully. Grass grows high in most gullies—
usually blady and tussocky grass, which stock
won’t eat (except when it is short and young)
while they can get anything else. These
are bad places to keep clean, but if couch
grass or clover can be established there the
danger spot will be transformed into a rich
and safe pasture. Fire runs quickly through
dry couch, but the flame is low and easily
extinguished with beaters.
Rank grass along the cultivation fence is
a danger, especially wliere the plough can’t get
at it. Plant, if you can, a hedge of old-man
saltbush; it will protect both fence and
crops, even if there is much dry grass outside.
With that safeguard, and the clean strip
around the buildings, a break can be burnt
in any direction, in times of sudden fires, to
meet tire oncoming flames. The burning
of breaks usually requires smartness and
watchfulness, but in this case it entails no
more than setting fire to the grass. The
buildings _ stand in a safety zone, with the
fire burning away from instead of towards
them. Nor does it matter iu which direction
the wind is blowing, for there ai’e no fires to
beat out. Most important of all, the house
itself is the family’s haven of refuge when
bush fires are raging in the locality.
CONVERTING BONES INTO MANURE.
“Alf Alpha” : Bones which have been well
boiled or steamed to remove the fat may be
converted into a serviceable manure. The
method? Dig a trench in good holding
ground, the size depending on the quantity
of bones to be treated. In the bottom of the
trench place a six-inch layer of recently-
burnt wood-aslies or good slaked lime, with
a three-inch layer of bones on top.
Fix good wooden stakes (say, 3in. in
diameter) upright at intervals of three feet
along the centre of the trench, and repeat the
six-inch layer of wood-ashes or lime alter-
nating with three-inch layers of bone until
the trench is filled to within six inches of
the top. Cover with a six-inch layer of wood-
ashes or lime. Remove the stakes gently and
pour water (or liquid manure for prefer-
ence) into the holes left by the stakes.
Repeat the watering as often as is necessary
to keep the contents of the trench moist but
not too wet. The bones after six months
(possibly longer if they were very dry to
commence) will be found to have become soft
and crumbly. When in this condition they
should be removed and the mass roughly
tamped to break down, any bones which may
have escaped treatment being thrown aside
for a subsequent pitting.
The roughly-powdered mass may now be
•spread broadcast at bonedust rates per acre.
The earthen trench may be replaced by an
old 400-gallon tank with the top removed,
a wooden vat or any other suitable recep-
tacle.
Wood-ashes should be obtained from
freshly burnt bracken, brushwood or branches
of trees. This'is important. The value of
the manure thus obtained is approximately
£5 per ton.
PREPARING FOR A GLUT.
“Bendee”: There has been a very heavy
setting of stone fruit over most of N.S.W.
this spring. The best way to prepare for a
glut, with its accompanying low prices, is
to thin out the crop and give every attention
to cultural methods. This will materially
improve 'the quality, while reducing the
quantity of fruit to be handled.
The man who has something really choice
to offer will usually get a price, even on a
glutted market. Growers will do well to
remember that the fruit must open up choice
in front of the buyer, and not be merely
choice on the farm.
A small crop of first-grade fruit is more
easily handled than a heavy crop of inferior
stuff, and the grower will consequently have
more time to attend to the get-up of his pro-
duct, which is important.
The poorer the market the more attention
must be given to the crop to make it pay.
Picking just at the right stage, careful
grading and tasteful packing are three
important points in the marketing of summer
fruit, and the little extra time taken in
making the boxes look nice will be amply
repaid by the increased prices.
AN IMPROVISED DRILL.
“Notwen” : Distributing artificial manures
on a fruit block is usually a tedious job.
Few growers have drills; then a drill capable
of' driving between anything closely planted,
such as vines, is necessarily so small that it
can distribute only a tiny amount of fertiliser
at a time.
My method is to bolt a tliin piece of wood
along the tailboard of my spring cart, on the
side which is hinged to the cart. I do it in
such a way that when the tailboard is closed
there is no opening between it and the floor
of the cart, but as one lowers the tailboard
the opening becomes wider and wider. As I
drive along 1 sweep manure gradually to the
end of the cart with an old broom. By gravi-
tation it flows evenly through the opening on
the ground. The amount of fertiliser required
per row can soon be gauged; it can be
increased or diminished by raising or lower-
ing the tailboard.
Choose, if possible, a windless day, so
that the fertiliser will not irritate Dobbin by
blowing round his eyes and nose. All the
same, horses used to block work do not
usually mind that kind of thing. Mine stops
of his own accord at the end of each row,
thus making it easily a one-man job.
INJECTIONS FOR FRUIT TREES.
“Hop Scrub”: Experimentalists are try-
ing to treat physiological and fungoid dis-
eases, such as chlorosis of citrus trees, silver
leaf of plums and “little leaf” of peaches, by
boring holes into the trunk of the tree and
inserting up to an ounce of ferrous sulphate
crystals, closing the hole with a wooden
bung. Ferrous citrate may be substituted
for the sulphate. Results are variable, but,
I)r. W. 11. Chandler, of San Joaquin
(U.S.A.), claims success with this system,
and as an alternative spreading up to 501 b.
of ferrous sulphate in a radius of 12ft.
around the trees.
For the control of insect pests the injec-
tion is calculated to make the sap of the
plant distasteful to the insect. Barium
chloride injected into apple-trees at a strength
of one part to 350 parts of water is stated to
have caused woolly aphis to disappear from
the tree in 10 days. (In Ceylon it is claimed
that injections of potash salts into tea bushes
cured them of mosquito blight.)
The injection of cyanide against scale
insects and borers has been suggested, but
would probably be dangerous to the living
tissue of the tree.
Apart from direct injection, the operation
of fertilisers in increasing or decreasing the
plant’s resistance to insects or disease is a
possible control method. Excessive nitrogen
produces a sappy growth susceptible to
attack. Potash and phosphatic manures
render the plant more resistant to fungal
and insect pests. Obscure minerals such as
lithium and boron have been proved to in-
crease resistance to mildews. Fertilisers
may have two possible effects: one on the
plant itself, the other on the parasite. Be-
tween these two factors there is room for
much research which should result in lower-
ing the costs of fighting the myriad pests of
the farmer.
CAPONS.
“Go Do”: Capons have never been ex-
ploited to any extent in this country, but
with 'feed unprecedentedly low in price they
are worth trying. Early-maturing cockerels-
usually find a fairly good market; but, as a
rule, the late ones don’t. Cockerels
deteriorate in quality as they age; capons,
on the other hand, improve. The advantage
of the operation is not fully gained until
the birds are eight to ten months old. With
capons you are reasonably sure of pro-
ducing high-quality birds (average weight,
101 b.) which will bring good prices.
The actual operation is simple. The birds
should be about eight weeks old. Sterilise
the knife and the wound, and no trouble will
be experienced.
Capons become docile, grow abundance of
feathers, do not forage, and hence do not
produce the muscle development known only
too well by cockerel-consuming people who
frequent cheap caf*s.
SWEET POTATOES.
“Bar K.” : Sweet-potato growing does not
receive the attention it deserves. Demand
could be greatly increased if the consumers’
interests w r ere studied more. Sweet potatoes
do best in rich coastal lands, preferably in
sandy soil, rich in organic matter.
The crop is grown from cuttings. Sets
should be selected only from plants which
produce six to eight roots of uniform size and
shape, and weighing two to four pounds. It
is a common mistake to take the sets from
a plant simply because it shows a lot of
vigorous top growth; this sort often has
small roots. Neither are outsize roots de-
sirable, and cuttings should not be taken
from plants producing only one or two big
potatoes. Uniformity is essential.
The cuttings, about six inches long, should
be planted in the spring, when all danger
from frosts is past; planted every two feet,
in rows three feet to three feet six inches
apart. They may be dibbled in, or laid along
every third of fourth furrow, and covered
with the succeeding furrow. A mixture
of super, and bonedust, in equal parts, at
the rate of 3cwt. per acre will give
excellent results; the bonedust is necessary
to stimulate the development of the roots
at the end of the growing season, when they
(Continued on page 26.)


Th£m*Wsf
Milßing' Machine
HOLDS THE RECORD FOR PURE MILK PRODUCTION, LOW RUNNING COSTS
SELECTED AND PURCHASED FOR QUEENSLAND AGRICULTURAL HIGH
SCHOOL AND COLLEGE, GATTON, ON ITS MERITS, BEING FIRST IN
1. Hygiene. 2. Simplicity. 3. Efficiency.
4. Minimum of Rubber Fittings.
5. Lowest First Cost and Cost of Upkeep.
Individual Vacuum Pump in each Stall with Regulating
Valve. Can be adjusted to suit each cow.
a
EM
m
BRISBANE EXHIBIT AUGUST, 1930.
We supply a 4-unit “New Way” Milker and engine, and timber for four
sets of double stalls, doors, special seats and breeching chains for £195 f.o.b.
Brisbane. 4-unit milks 40 cows for one month on one tin of petrol.
Write for full particulars to
W. A. PRESTON & CO.,
Dairy Machinery Merchants, 175-179 Albert Street, Brisbane.
dsg
DAGENITE
sdg
THE BATTERY YOU CAN ALWAYS RELY ON
L
i
F
E
Type 6GHX9
p
o
w
E
R
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 IS 6
6 VOLT 15 PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Buy a “Dagenite” Battery—Save Sales Tax.
NATIONAL
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
London and Sydney,
Amalgamating Peto & Radford and
Hart Accumulator Co., Ltd.
Representative - - - JOHN ARNOLD
386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl.
A
Mk
sc*
VUif-
(Wl
Ml
US fll
/a
//
5^
1 IK
7
5
KLf
8 ff'A
The perfect gift*
Every woman longs to wear
that marvel ol good taste
and accuracy.... an Omega
wrist watch.
If you want your gift to be
appreciated - forever - let it
be an
Omega
EXACT TIME FOK
LIFE
sd
ADORABLE
LOVELIN ESS
Lovely, adorable feminine creations
.. . Silken luxury . . . exquisite col-
ourings . . . with the soft glow of prec-
ious pearls transformed as though by fairy
touch into garments draping with slenderness.
Yet so inexpensive as to make one marvel how
such loveliness, quality and keenest pricing can
combine into such value.
Every conceivable style of underthings . . . bras-
sieres . . . pyjamas .. . kimonos .. . and house
coats will be found at all smart stores . . . but
protect yourself by making sure you see the
woven label... on all genuine.
THE FOREMOST LINGERIE MADE IN AUSTRALIA


You Know
This Famous Model 99
Repeating Rifle—from
Stock to Barrel!
If you are a true sportsman, you have long
known the shooting accuracy, perfect bal-
ance, ease of handling, smooth operation,
and beauty of finish built into each Savage
99 Hi-Powex Rifle. For, it is just the type of
arm that every hunting man dreams of and
sd
wishes for. -
Here at last is your op-
portunity. Here is as fine a
hammerless, lever-action,
repeating rifle as modern
gun-craftsmanship can
produce —at a nominal
price, within your reach.
Model 99-G
Calibers: .zz Hi-Power,
.30-30, .303, .Z5O-300 and
.300 Savage.
Make a point of in-
specting one of the group
of 99’s—the Model 99-G,
shown here, is most pop-
ular for all-’round use. It
has a tapered round bar-
rel and raised ramp front
sight base. Shotgun butt,
full pistol grip. Check-
ered stock and forearm.
Steel butt plate. Proof-
Tested barrel of Hi-Pres-
sure Steel.
Use Savage
Ammunition
Savage ammunition hav-
ing been specifically de-
veloped to bring out the
best shooting qualities in
Savage Rifles, is recom-
mended.
Send for full information —
or make a point of inspecting
the Savage line.
Exclusive Representative for Australia
and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD.
P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street
New York, U. S. A.
SAVAGE
&
life SL
mm \w
■
.
M
■
■
■N
I : :
m
Extra Heavy Sole
And one that is surprisingly flexible
as well. It is made of the toughest
leather available. This Abbey Shoe,
too, is made in four widths for each
full and half size—narrow, medium,
wide and extra-wide. That guaran-
tees utmost comfort. The upper is
arched over the instep to fit the foot
with fullest ease.
ORDER BY POST —State both width and
size, and ask, also, for a supply of Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF 357-
TAN CALF 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St., Sydney
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
FPL 200
sSffiififiM&r
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary; R. V. BOOTH
■
mm
ym
■
Si
%II
■
1:
mv
m
m
CHANDLER RINGLOCK FENCING
Manufactured by
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD., Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
increase in size very rapidly. When select-
ing cuttings, care should be taken to avoid
plants showing signs of curly-top, which is
suspected of being a virus disease causing
small fibrous roots.
The rows should be cultivated with a horse
cultivator as long as the growth will allow it;
this cultivation is a big factor in producing
quickly-grown tender roots rather than tough,
stringy sorts. To determine when the crop
is ripe, a root is cut. If it di*ies white,
without exuding any milky juice, and does
not turn greenish black round the edges, it
is fit to harvest.
In sandy or frost-free soils the crop can
remain in the ground during the winter ; but
in clay soils or after frosts the roots must
be dug as soon after maturity as possible.
From four to five tons per acre can be re-
garded as a fair yield.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Names and addresses of breeders in Aus-
tralia of Ryeland and Oxford Downs sheep?
—9.309.
T. H. Payne, Woodbnrn, Vic., is the
largest breeder of Ryeland sheep in Aus-
tralia. The secretary, British Breeders’
Flock Book, Collins-street, Melbourne, could
supply names of a number of others. N.S.W.
Agriculture Dept, has a small stud of Rye-
lands at its experiment farm, Bathurst. As
far as is known there are no breeders of
pure-bred Oxford Downs in Australia.
Is maize an economical and good porlc-
producing feed ? —9645.
When fed sparingly—not more than 20
p.c. of the feed—together with other grain,
such as barley, pollard, skim milk and pota-
toes, it gives satisfactory results, but unless
you grow it yourself it is not an economical
food, the market price being generally fairly
high. On the East Gippsland river flats,
where usually from 80 to 100 bushels per
acre of maize is grown, it has been found
that it takes about 51b. to produce lib. of
pork. About 10001 b. per acre is produced,
which at 6d. per lb. amounts to £l6 13s. per
acre. It is. not good food for young pigs
by itself or in any quantity, being very defi-
cient in mineral matter, needed to form bone.
Maizemeal fed by itself is close, heavy and
difficult to digest.
(1 ) Can a decent living be made by graz-
ing pigs on lucerne and breeding stores for
market? (2) Would sows require grain
in conjunction with lucerne; if so, how much?
(3) Number of sows? (4) Acreage for
grazing and growing other feed such
as pumpkins, mangolds, etc.? (5) Capital
required by single man? (6) Most suitable
district? (7) What net return pel' sow per
annum could be expected? —9274.
The N.S.W. Agriculture Department replies :
(1) Yes, under proper conditions of hous-
ing and feeding, and with right types and
quality of pigs to suit the market. (2) Yes.
From lib. to 21b. of grain per full-grown
pig per day to supplement the grazing. (3)
20 to 30 would be necessary. (4) Between
25 and 50 acres of good land. (5) Depends
on whether a property is bought or leased.
Capital for stock, buildings, plant, etc.,
£250 to £3OO. (6) Almost any district, so
long as a suitable food supply can be grown
and a market not too far distant is avail-
able. (7) Depends on a great many vari-
able factors. A sow should return two
litters in, say, 13 or 14 months; each litter
not less than eight pigs reared; these should
sell for from 50s'. each according to age
when sold and market offering. Sows will
cost, at, say, ten months old approximately
£lO to £l5 each, and boars similar prices.
Your clear profit, of course, depends on costs
of production.
What sort of soil are the reclaimed lands
on the River Murray (8.A.) composed of,
and what could be grown on such land? —
9857.
Mainly peaty soils composed of rich river
silt, suitable for the growth of lucerne and
other fodders, onions, potatoes, etc. Tim
soils of the irrigable lands have already
proved their suitability for the production of
peaches, apricots, nectarines, oranges, lemons,
figs, grapes, etc.
When and how to cut crops to produce
good silage for dairy cows? —9644.
Maize should be cut when the grain is
glazed or well dented, the lower leaves on the
stalk yellowing, but the stalk itself full of
sap. At this stage it will contain maximum
food value and at the same time sufficient
moisture to pack well in the silo. Sorghum
should be cut when the heads are reaching
maturity and the seeds so hard that they are
crushed between the finger and thumb with
difficulty. Sudan grass should be cut when
the seed is formed but is still in the milk
stage. Maize and sorghum can be cut with
the least labor with the maize-harvester, but
where that implement is not available cane-
knives, short hoes, reaping-hooks or scrub
scythes may be used. A slide fitted with
scrub scythe blade and drawn by a horse
is used by some farmery. Wheat, oats and
barley should be cut just after the ears are
well out. Many farmers, before cutting
these crops for hay, wait until the grain is
well formed and the straw has become some-
what dry. Crops intended for silage should
not be allowed to reach this stage, as plenty
of sap is required in the plant to ensure a
good product when the silo is opened up.
Wheat, oats and barley are cut with the
reaper and binder. Unlike hay, silage may
be made at any time, irrespective of the
weather. Rain causes inconvenience, but it
need not delay the work.
(1) Prospects for tobacco-growing in Aus-
tralia? (2) Who will buy the product? (3)
Minimum acreage worth working? (4) How
many acres can one man work? (5) Any
books about tobacco-growing in Australia?
(6) Where is seed obtainable? —9295.
(1) Good, if grown in conjunction with
some other line of farming, such as dairying,
in a district where soil is suitable and there
is a rainfall of 2in. per month in December,
January and February. Tobacco clashes
with fruit, the work of both crops coming
together. (2) British Aust. Tobacco Co.,
Dudgeon and Arnell (Vic.), G. G. Good,'
Ltd., and Michelides (Perth. W.A.). (3)
and (4) Four acres. (5) Vic. Agriculture
Department’s bulletin “Tobacco Leaf.” (6)
S.A. Agriculture Department, Adelaide.
(1) Best breed of surkey for commercial
purposes? (2) What number of hens should
be allowed to a gobbler? (3) Number of
eggs usually laid by a hen before gointJ
broody? (4) Hatching period for eggs? (o)
Best place to put nests? (6) Do turkeys do
well in the N.S.W. coastal areas? —9710.
(1) American Bronze. (2) Ten to fifteen
is usual. (3) Varies from 12 to 18 in the
first clutch. (4) 28 days. (5) Place the
nests in a somewhat secluded spot, or partly
cover them with bushes: otherwise the
turkeys may look for a quiet place in the
scrub instead of laying in the nests
vided. (6) To breed turkeys successfully
ample range and proper conditions anrl
management are essential. Where plenty
of land is available they can be. reared m
the outlying coastal districts with a. fair
amount of success.
(1) I spread lime in my fowlhouses about
twice a week. Am I doing it too often, and,
if so, is it likely to have a harmful effect .'
(2) I have a fairly old drake penned up by
himself. He has appeared moody for a long
time now. What's wrong? —9l4o.
(1) Continual inhalation of lime through
having a large quantity in the fowlhouses
irritates the membranes and is harmful to
the birds. The houses should be dusted only
occasionally, and very lightly, with slakeu
lime. (2) The drake should have one or two
ducks with him.
We have 20 hens and one rooster, and
ice get only eight eggs a day. Each morning
they are fed on a warm mash of cracked
maize, pollard and bran, and at evening they
get cracked'■ corn. They are housed in a
fairly large run, well ventilated, and are let
out to run about for a few hours every after-
noon. The rooster and most of the birds
are young. Should we get better results, and
what should we do to obtain more eggs? —
9412.
If well bred the hens should be giving, a
better yield. Peed them all the skim milk
they will consume in addition to present
rations, or add 7 per cent, of meat meal
(dry), or its equivalent of fresh meat, to
the mash.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Glenfield”: The Mallee cocky of north-
west Vic. has one bad pest to deal with on
his fallows —mustard. The seed of one plant
is sufficient to sow an acre. Where a pad-
dock is known to contain the seed a good
plan is to sow early and heavily with an
early-maturing variety of wheat, the vigor-
ous growth of which will choke the germinat-
ing mustard. Where the pest is prevalent
the sowing of the oat crop on stubble ground
without super, will result in cleaner hay.
“Wescocky”: Now is the time to clean
weeds and debris out of drains leading to
the dam. Even in the arid parts of West-
ralia there’s always a chance of a summer
thunderstorm, and clear drains will ensure
the saving of every available drop.
“Wrash” : When fencing over undulating
country stretch the top of the wire-netting
where it passes over the mounds and the
bottom where it traverses the hollows. Use
a crowbar through the meshes and the posts
for leverage. Correctly tightened to follow
the contour of the ground surface, the net-
ting .may be made straight right along the
line, and there will be no bulge or unsightly
sagging.
“ J.K.”: The best remedy for diarrhoea in
pigs is castor oil, but it should be warmed
and made thin ; two ounces is the dose for
a store pig. Wrap a strip of tough leather
round the neck of the bottle and pour down
the animal’s throat. It will be necessary
to hold a big pig by the jaw with a stick
and piece of rope. A piece of piping or
a discarded bicycle pump can be used to
administer a dose of oil or salts, but always
heat the tube.
“Grey Box” : Before you start the header
give the machine a liberal oiling with car-
crank-case oil, not forgetting the knife track.
(If it is a chain-driven machine the main
drive chain should have been put through
an oil bath.) Everything ready, start the
drum revolving by hand, speak to the team,
and as they are tightening the chains pull
them towards the comb. This will cause
the machine to start on the turn, without
any jar, at less than half the strain that a
straight-ahead pull "would impose—it means
a lot when bearings are stiff and the horses
fresh to the job. Let them go round in a
widening circle and head for the crop, enter-
ing it gradually ; take about half a cut for
the first round. This done, oil up again with
good stringy oil, and into it.
“ Jamal”: There is nothing to equal a
badly-sharpened crosscut saw, as a producer
of sweat and profanity. For quick and easy
cutting a “swedge” is the thing. After
sharpening the saw in the usual way this
small chuck-like tool, which costs a few
shillings, is placed over the tootli-point and
given a smart tap with a hammer. The
result is a slight burr on the side of the
tooth sufficient to carry the saw without any
further setting.
“Bushman”: Don’t bother with houses for
adult ducks. Weave some scrub or tea-tree
into a tent-shaped netting frame to give them
shade ; that’s all they need. Youngsters should
have a dry shed to sleep in till they are weli
feathered, else they are liable to cramps. A
few nest-boxes will mean cleaner eggs and
less loss from the early crow. They gener-
ally lay about the yard, but will soon prefer
the nest.
“F.”: Gramophone records dissolved in
methylated spirits give a solution excellent
for preserving the leather and waterproofing
the soles of boots and shoes.
“Pick”: Three bags of cement are equal
in weight to one cask; six casks weigh a
ton. A bag of cement mixed with water
will cover 14 sq. ft. to a depth of one inch.
For floors 4in. to 7in. thick use a bag
of cement to four bags of broken stone
and two of sand. This will cover 2 sq. yd.
to a depth of 4in., or sq. yd. to a depth
of 7in.
“John D.”: Lochiel Glen 111, who again
beat all-comers in the sheep-dog trials at
Launceston (Tas.) Show, dropped a sheep
at one stage, but turned the remaining two
back to the stray and proceeded to pen the
trio. Is this unusual? I can’t swear to
having seen a dog do it before, but I have
heard of it being done.


PFWaI
m *i ipgj
...
m
w
I
m is
11
s.
mm
m
m
yrH
mm
The Kande Corner at Farmer’s All-Australian Exhibition,
In 1922 P. T. Kavanagh and W. R. English established
a small factory in Sydney, manufacturing not more than
a dozen lines for the kitchen.
Now the normal staff is 100, and the firm produces 120
lines equal to the world’s best.
All Stores Stock KANDE Ware.
MAKE YOURS A
sd
KITCHEN.
Fly-proof Meat-safes, Dish-covers and Plate-covers,
Fly-traps
Flour-sifters
Canisters
Toasters
Bread, and Cake
Containers
Egg-whisks
Strainers of all
descriptions
Nut-loaf Tins
Soap-savers
Asbestos Mats
Soap Racks
Kerosene Pumps
Graters
Wire Baskets
Meat Broilers
Etc., etc.
KAVANAGH & ENGLISH, LTD., Lacey Street, Sydney.
b||f PE for
\ A mutual
AN ALL-AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRY
Some five and twenty years ago two enterprising Australians
put their heads together ijv JVlelbourtteand decided that Aus-
tralia was capable of shppljfmi its ‘own needs in shirts and
pyjamas, which h,ad hitherto been filled from overseas. J. K.
Pearson and J. LG. Law accordingly began business on a
single floor with 12 machines and 18 operators in 1906. They
were fortunate in deciding on a trade-name for their product
which has become a household word throughout! Australia,
and is widely abroad, * / ■»
Pelaco, so soon* to become famous, was made up <
Pearson, LA for Law and CO for company,
acquaintance came forward with the suggestion of the immortal
Pelaco blackjellow, a trade-mark which sounded the Aus-
■
The company flourished like the green bay-tree. New factory
space was constandy being sought, until Pelaco Bought out
the Braeside Manufacturing Co. and adde|j|oliar-making to
the company’s schedule. Still business increased, until to-day
a huge modern factory, with five acres of floor space and
running 650 machines, has taken the place of the single flat in
Carlton where the enterprise first kicked off.
How Pelaco has grown is best seen in the latest figures showing
the annual output, factory turned dl t 1,540,386 shirts,
3,956,570 and 476,250 pyjanja* in the period covered.
All through the firm’s bareeHitlperiquality has been the first
principle. How fjar good Workmanship and good faith with the
n unUertafdng' of the kind is written in the
this Australia!
public will carry
unparalleled success'
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Trading in Hard Times
When almost all of the manufactured
goods sold in Australia came from overseas,
and were supplied by thousands of different
makers scattered all over the earth, natur-
ally it was left to the actual retailer of the
goods to introduce them to the public. For
very many years Australia did not seem a
place of much consequence to a manufac-
turer- in, say, Vienna, who made no more
than two or three shipments in a twelve-
month to any one Australian port, and the
trade was therefore not worth any outlay
on publicity. Gradually, however, manu-
facturers of lines in general demand found
it good business to establish agencies in
Australia, not so much to make direct sales
to wholesale buyers as to see that the public
was encouraged to buy. In this way a few
English names became as well known
throughout Australia as they were in Eng-
land, and a very valuable addition was thus
made to the firms’ goodwill. These firms
had learned from their experience in their
own county that, where the public
has the choice of a number of “makes” of
the same article, the retailer is almost
bound to stock several or all of them, and
cannot be expected to “push” one at the
expense of the others.
Occasionally, it is true, “group” advertis-
ing is found to be advisable. This plan
is practised in America more than in
Britain: in the former country, for example,
the florists at suitable times engage in a
publicity campaign designed to direct the
minds of the millions to the advantage of
“saying it with flowers.” Or, again, the
photographers may combine to bring before
the public recent improvements in port-
raiture and in impressing upon Main-street,
Beaconsville, that the most important
people in New York and Boston are again
'making a practice of sending out photos
of their children as Christmas cards. So in
Britain, and to some extent in Australia,
English manufacturers combined a year or
two ago to re-popularise mustard—with
quite astonishing results, it is believed.
These manufacturers realised that it was
no good appealing to the retailers to sell
their goods in greater quantities; if any
“pushing” was to be done they must do it
themselves. And if tha.t is true of an article
without regard to the manufacturer, it is
truer of any particular manufacturer’s out-
put. The retailer’s job is to attract buyers
to his store. The manufacturer’s job,
directly or through his selling agency, is
to see that they ask for his goods when
ttmy get there,
And, more, than that, he has to create a
demand, which is the object of group adver-
Comparatively few of the things
v,e uy ‘ are indispensable. Two-thirds of
us do many things that the other
have been persuaded they couldn’t
f° competition among sellers
18 f that eve ? hl * he f quality
goods which some people regard as mdis-
pensab]e are passed over by others because
the right appeal has not yet been made to
them _ There are sti]l a few p eople who do
no t buy even The Bulletin; and it does
no t follow that they buy other papers
instead—they may go to the pictures or
buy chocolates. Hence also the superior
value of the attractive advertisement,
which explains why in these times of diffi-
cult, trading enterprising traders find it
profitable to use the necessarily somewhat,
expensive color-pages which are attracting
80 much attention in Thei Bulletin— they
are a special feature of to-day s issue. These
people know that their sales problem is not
on b’ how to get business from competitors
m the; same line, but how to get money that
l as hitherto been spent on entirely different
lm ® s - ....... ,
ho go far in this direction the manufac-
turer must make his own trade name or
, -r,, , c ,
names known. Ihe retailer may prefer to
, , , ~ , J
have a line made and sold under/m name;
th ™gh the German manufacturer, for
may be willing to oblige him the
Australian manufacturer cannot afford to
The foreigner hag onen to him a .H
, , , 6 , , , , • , , ,
the markets of the world to which low tariffs
admit him; and he is not greatly concerned
Jo cultivate any one m particular except
his own protected home market The Aus-
trahan manufacturer has, as a rule on y h s
home market to look to; and he must cul-
J ivate , that intensively like any other
husbandman who has only a small area at
hlB command In any case so soon as the
retailer sees that the manufacturer is help-
mg to sell the products of his factory, the
retailer will without a doubt welcome his
goods. But until the manufacturer does
f BBlst m making his
known the retailer will na_tumlly ask what
benefit he gets out of the fact of the goods
Rearing the manufacturer s firm-name
trade-name.
It is true that the average Australian
manufacturer, especially of lines made pos-
si-ble by recent tariff changes, has litt e
capital for publicity purposes. But it is
no use making.goods to stay on the shelves;
the thing is not to make goods but to sell
them. The industry which finds itself work-
ing half or quarter time might therefore
seriously consider whether it is not wasting
in overhead money which might be much
better employed in developing a sales
organisation and policy.
No doubt the position is full of difficulties
for, the manufacturer and trader; but, in
spite of depression, a great deal of money
is being spent and will continue to be spent.
The dealer in the few things that are abso-
lute necessities will get some of it; but
the greater part of it will still go, as always,
to the trader who makes the most effective
appeal for it.
“Pirating” Exchange
Some time ago the banks in Australia
agreed that as it was necessary above all
things to meet Government obligations in
London —in other words, to avoid default —
their resources on the other side must be
first placed at the disposal of the Govern-
ment. For some weeks after this agree-
ment w r as come to exchange was maintained
at the old rate; but so much money was
being transferred from Australia to London
with greater advantage to the transferrors
through outside agencies that the banks’
rate was lifted in order to stop what was
regarded as “piracy.”
There still remained, however, one popu-
lar form of shipping Australian money
abroad-without, the assistance of the banks.
This consisted in the purchase of shares in
certain cos. having registers in Australia
and in London, and in securing transfer
from the Australian to the London register.
A considerable number of shares in, among
others, the Zinc Corporation (prefs.) were
thus dealt in by people who either wanted
to shift their capital out of Australia or
desired to make payments on the other
side —payments for purposes for which the
banks would probably not have granted the
service. Lately the shares in British
Tobacco (Australia), Ltd., have become
a favorite medium for this more or less
surreptitious transfer of Australian money
abroad, with the result that last week the
directors informed the Stock Exchange that
until further notice no transfers from the
Australian to the English register would
be made.
Other cos. whose earnings are chiefly in
Australia will no doubt follow the example
set by the E., S. and A. Bank and the
Tobacco co.; for, apart from every other
consideration, what would pay a shareholder
on the Australian register £lOO in dividends
will not pay one on the English register
more than about £92.
Fritz Eats His Own Egg
Germany’s determination to depend on
her own primary production and the con-
sequent raising of the tariff on imported
foods promise to hit Australia a nasty
smack. Thus our meat trade with Germany,
which had assumed considerable propor-
tions, has been definitely barred, save under
special conditions.
And the new policy seems likely to affect
us indirectly. In the past Germany has
taken a great part of the Danish egg, butter
and bacon output. This has now been shut
out, with the result that the Danes are
cutting more deeply into the London
market, with what promises to be disastrous
success from the Australian point of view.
Danish costs of production are far below
the Australian figure, and the Dane is only
three days away from his market, whereas
the Australian is six weeks. The threat to
our butter export trade is especially serious.
The conclusion of the whole matter is
that the only market in which we can
place complete trust is our own home
market; and to make that worth while we
must build up every possible secondary
industry.
A Bank that Makes Free Loans
The Ballarat Banking Co. is the smallest
of the recognised banks of Australia, and
yet it is lending money free of interest —to
boys and girls only. The unique departure
from recognised practice comes about in this
way. Ballarat Rotary Club, stirred to ac-
tivity by Mr. Tunbridge, who had studied
the successful! activities of boy and girl
farmers’ clubs in America, formed similar
clubs in the State schools of Ballarat and
district. The ideal is to show farmers that
pure-bred stock pays best, and also to incul-
cate in boys and girls a love for the land.
To secure pure-bred stock was the problem,
but the Rotary Club arranged with the
Ballarat Banking Co. to advance the money
free of interest on the guarantee of the
father of the applicant and the recommenda-
tion of the teacher. When the animals-
fowls, lambs, pigs or cows—begin to show
a profit repayments commence. The direc-
tors of the bank have taken the long-
sighted view, and deserve the extra business
that must accrue when dad sees the error
of his slipshod farming methods, and sets
out to improve his flocks and herds.
(Continued on page 29.)


sdg
TRADE-MARK.
S®-A
x The swallow, the
Trade -mar k of
Swallow & Ariell,
Ltd., is a sign that is known
the Commonwealth over as
synonymous with good biscuits.
For over 70 years, from the
time when Thomas Swallow,
at Sandridge now Port Mel-
bourne began making
biscuits for the many ships
that called at the port, till
to-day, with Swallow 6c Ariell,
Ltd., producing 180 varieties
of bis cui t s, the word
“Swallow’s” has become a
household standard.
Five years after Mr. Swallow
started the factory, Mr. Ariell
became a partner. Mr. Ariell
died in 1877, Mr. F. T.
Derham, a former Postmaster-
General of Victoria, succeed-
ing him in the partnership.
In 1888 the business was
turned into a limited liability
company with the
partners as Man-
aging Directors.
To-day Mr. F. J. Derham—a
son of Mr. F. T. Derham is
Managing Director, while an-
other son, Mr. C. A. M. Der-
ham is Assistant General
Manager. The other directors
are Messrs. C. Russell Gabb,
J. C. Gates and G. Keith
Aikman.
In addition to the I 80 varieties
of biscuits, Swallow and Ariell
produce cakes, puddings, pre-
served fruits, condiments,
compressed vegetables and
other edibles.
Purity of ingredients, whole-
someness of article and clean-
liness of manufacture have
ever characterised the pro-
ducts of Swallow & Ariell,
which for nearly three-
quarters of a century have
enjoyed an enviable reputation
and popularity.
SWALLOW
and ARIELL Ltd.
BISCUITS—CAKES—PUDDINGS—ETC.,
Port Melbourne, Victoria.
Remarkable Growth of All
Australian Firm
How the Seagull was Chosen as the Trade-Mark of
BOTANY KNITTING MILLS PTY , LTD.
BOTANY
REG TRADE MARK
SEAGULL
Ten years ago the now familiar name of Botany was known only to
wholesalers who handled the superlatively fine goods manufactured by
the Botany Knitting Mills Pty., Ltd. At that period, this all-Australian
firm did not blazen forth its name to the general public its energies
were entirely absorbed b y the pressing necessity of fulfilling orders.
The expansion of the business was remarkable, and during the last
three or four years can be described as nothing short of phenomenal.
More and more machinery was installed, all of it as modern as could
be made. (Some of it is really unique in that no other factory pro-
ducing similar goods in Australia can claim to possess anything like
these machines, on which are knitted the gay, perfectly fitting swimming
suits, the smart street costumes, the soft underwear now recognised
as Botany’s.)
We say “now recognised as Botany’s” deliberately. With the growth
of the firm the directors of Botany Knitting Mills Pty., Ltd., saw that,
in fairness to themselves and the public, they must trade-mark their
goods, which for quality and individuality challenged the finest produced
anywhere. Thus would consumers receive a direct guarantee of Botany
quality, thus would they know that the garments in question were
thoroughly Australian—made throughout by an Australian organisation.
Now everything manufactured by the Botany Knitting Mills bears a
distinctive brand. The famous Seagull Trade-Mark adorns the colorful
Botany Bathing Costumes, which include the only fancy Flex-o-Knit
swimming suits made in Australia. Women’s outerwear woven by
Botany bears this symbol of guaranteed worth, whilst underwear shows
the simple word “Botany.”
BOTANY KNITTING MILLS PTY., LTD.,
200 Nicholson Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne, N 6.
r -<5
r
x t
' L
\i \ \
i/ \\
DEVELOPMENT OF
B.E.S. AERO PLUG
The new B.E.S. Aero Plug, manufactured by Messrs. Australian Spark Plugs
Pty., Ltd., is meeting with the general approval of the motoring public.
The success obtained is due, in a large degree, to the excellent work of the
Technical Adviser and Laboratory Staff, who are responsible for the intro-
duction of an insulator that has entirely eliminated pre-ignition and over-
heating problems.
To meet the increased demand for the greatly improved Plug, the Company
has installed additional plant of the most modern type, and six spindle full
automatic machinery is now turning out plugs at the rate of 3000 per day.
Further development will follow when the new premises at Sturt Street, South
Melbourne, are occupied, which should occur in the course of a few weeks.
These premises, covering an area of I 6,000 square feet, have been completely
redesigned, and, when the structural alterations are completed, will comprise
one of the best equipped factories in Australia.
A special department has recently been established by. Australian Spark Plugs
for the benefit of commercial vehicle and truck users in order to deal with
their difficulties in the selection of suitable plugs, and already several large
firms have expressed their appreciation of the assistance given. A special
commercial vehicle chart is also at their disposal.
AUSTRALIAN SPARK PLUGS PTY., LTD.
Head Office and Factory:
562 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
“BUILDS BONNIE BABIES”
“GLAXO,” the well-known infants’ food, is manufactured at
Port Fairy, Victoria. Set in the midst of trim gardens on
the outskirts of the town, the “Glaxo” factory is built in
up-to-date lines with an eye to beauty as well as utility. No
risks must be taken with a food primarily intended for babies,
and therefore no effort is spared to ensure cleanliness
throughout the whole factory.
It has always been the policy of the Proprietors, Messrs.
Joseph Nathan & Co. (Australia) Pty., Ltd., to keep abreast
of the times, and after clinical trials extending over two years
had been carried out under the supervision of leading infant
doctors, Prescription (HUMANISED) Glaxo with added
Vitamin D was introduced.
What the Medical Profession thinks of this food is contained
in an extract from the well-known medical paper the
“Practitioner”: —
“Prescription ( Humanised ) Glaxo with added
Vitamin D is in our opinion an excellent conception,
and shows that the manufacturers of Infants' foods
are not content to stand still, but are anxious to
make use of new discoveries and scientific research .”
Thousands of Australian mothers have frequently expressed
their gratitude to us for being able to help to rear healthy,
Australian men and women through a wonderful
AUSTRALIAN food.
Joseph Nathan & Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
459 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
215 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Edments Buildings, Adelaide.
Agents.
BRUCE PIE - Brisbane WILLIAMS & WOOD - - • Perth


RAMENO
BRAND
r.'VPr
if
'&
oMerino^Knii
REGD.
MEN’S CARDIGANS, PULLOVERS
and LUMBER JACKETS,
SOCKS and GOLF STOCKINGS
ALL PURE WOOL-DISTINCTIVE AND DURABLE
The Merino Woollen Mills Pty., Ltd., have for over 10 years
concentrated on the production of high-quality Men’s Cardigans,
Pullovers, Socks and Golf Stockings. These Australian products
are sold under the Registered Trade Name “RAMENO," in
conjunction with the original brand of “Merino-Knit,” with
which “Rameno” is now incorporated.
The Trade Name “RAMENO” is derived from the words
“Ram” and “Merino”—pronounced “Ram-Eno.” The device
in the Registration is that of two Merino rams butting an
indication of the Quality, and Strength of Australian Merinos,
which grow the world’s best wools.
Australian Merino Wools are used in “Rameno” Brand
“Merino-Knit” garments; whilst scrupulous care in knitting
and finishing and the rigid inspection of every garment before
it leaves the factory explains the reason why "R&meno” Brand
Cardigans, Pullovers, Socks and Golf Stockings have the
Quality and Strength that is so highly esteemed by wearers
throughout the whole of Australia.
STOCKED
BY ALL
cMer?no -,7(riit
oJfu/ays It?"
LEADING
MERCERS
The Exclusive Productions of the
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY., LTD.,
201-203 Victoria Parade, Collingwood, N 5, Victoria.
i !
WmmA
11
trade
MARK
safiS
mMOt
UNRIVALLED FOODS
ALL 100% PURE
AUSTRALIAN MADE
GRAND TOTAL NOW 107.
In 1895, just 35 years ago, the Company commenced operations.
One of Australia's most beautiful birds was chosen as the Trade-Mark to
associate the manufactures of the Company with Australia.
The entire staff at the beginning was six. At the peak period during the past
season the number was 1200.
Jams and Sauces only were manufactured at the commencement of operations.
To-day 107 Unrivalled Food Products, covering a magnificent range, are available
under the Rosella Label—a Revelation in Progress—a Tribute to Quality.
This range embraces the following:—
41 Varieties in Jams
Asparagus
Baked Beans (in Tomato Sauce)
Canned Fruits (8 Varieties)
Canned Tomatoes
Crystallised Cherries
Capers
Fruit Salad
Fruit Chutney
Fruit Mince Meat
Ginger—Crystallised
Ginger—in Syrup
Gherkins —Sweet
Honey
Lemon Butter —also Pineapple,
Banana and Passion Fiuit
Olives
Olive Oil
Passion Fruit
Peanut Butter
Vanilla,
Peel—Candied (Lemon, Orange and Citron)
Peel—Mixed Cut
Pork and Beans (in Tomato Sauce)
Prunes (Ready for use)
Puddings (Plum, Fig, Ginger, Date, Sultana)
Soups (Tomato, Pea, Vegetable, Celery,
Chicken, Asparagus, Game, Mulligatawny)
Spaghetti with Cheese (in Tomato Sauce)
Spaghetti (Curried)
Tomato Sauce
Tomato Chutney
Worcestershire Sauce
Coffee Essence
Chicken and Ham (in Jars)
Mayonnaise (Salad Dressing)
Wild Bramble Jelly
French Mustard Sauce
Mango Chutney
Mint Jelly ' '
Pickles (G varieties)
THE ROSELLA PRESERVING & MANUFACTURING CO., LTD.
■ Established in all States of Australia. -
Reflections at a Funeral
In Melbourne the other day a group of
old friends went to the funeral of Bowes
Kelly, the last of the original directors of
the Broken Hill Prop. When Charles
Rasp persuaded George McCulloch, the
manager of Mt. Gipps station, and his own
mates there that the big black “blow” was
worth pegging out, Bowes Kelly was helping
to run a small out-back sheep station; it
was George McCulloch who roped him in,
along with other station-owners in the mulga
and saltbush—W. P. MacGregor, Harvey
Patterson and Brodribb of Poolamacca.
Bowes Kelly had bought a fourteenth
share before the co. was formed; and he
held a big interest throughout. He saw the
little silver-lead mine grow until, with its
neighbors, it poured out such riches that
there was a great mining revival through-
out Australia—a revival which led on
directly to the discovery, first, of the Zeehan,
Dundas and Rosebery fields in Tasmania,
then of Mt. Lyell, and of the Golden Mile
and other Westralian goldfields. He saw
zinc come into the lower workings of the
“big mine,” and heard lamentations that the
end of Broken Hill was in sight; he lived
to see chemists and engineers completely
change the attack on zinc ores and work out
processes which made the spelter industry
one of Australia’s great war and post-war
assets, and the Risdon (Tas.) electrolytic
zinc works the finest of their sort in the
world. He saw the first smelters at Broken
Hill fuelled with coke brought from Wales
and Germany, the story then told being
that Australian coal was too “tender” to
make furnace coke; he lived to see, not
only every ton of coke used in Australia
made in Australia, but the opening of the
B. H. Prop.’s great works at Newcastle for
the extraction of many of the enormously
valuable by-products and derivatives of
coke and coal-tar. He lived just long
enough to see the original Broken Hill
mine closed down and its mine staff dis-
persed, what little ore remains in the mine
being unpayable under present conditions;
but he had seen the great iron and steel
industry rise on the foundations well and
truly laid by the B. H. Prop. And on the
Mt. Lyell side he had seen the enormously
important superphosphate industry de-
veloped as a side-line; and with particular
satisfaction he had watched that industry
engage in an educational campaign designed
to improve not only the yield of wheat and
other cereals, but also the pastures of Aus-
tralia. And, finally, in his last days, he saw
Broken Hill interests beginning to con-
cern themselves with the oil-shale deposits
of N. S. Wales in order to provide them-
selves with fuel for the great central power
plant which is under construction on the
Barrier.
. And away behind Charles Rasp, the
lonely boundary-rider on Mt. Gipps, there
were other influences just as certain but
not so ■well defined. You can trace some
of them back to Sunny Corner, the little
silver-mine in the Blue Mountains of N .S.
Wales, which maintained quite a respect-
able output for some years, and fortunately
was near enough to Sydney to secure an
unusual amount of newspaper publicity. It
was that publicity which turned 10,000 pairs
of back-country eyes towards likely-looking
outcrops; and by good fortune one of these
pairs of eyes fell upon Broken Hill.
Many a pretty fair Protectionist is dis-
posed to go a good way with the Free-
trader who scoffs at the idea of assisting some
poor little industry that looks worth about
twopence. There might be something in the
scoff if it was certain that the poor little
industry always would be a poor little indus-
try itself and would never have any by-
products. But nobody can give any such
guarantee. When the little blast-furnace
was blown in at Sunny Corner no man could
have foreseen the vast industries to which
it was to lead, and the vaster things to
which it has still to lead, if only our country
is wisely ruled.
There is a saying, not so often heard now
as it used to be: “Take care of the pence;
the pounds will take care of themselves.”
Something of the same sort might be said
about industries. “Take care of the little
factory; the big one will take care of
itself.”
The Outlook for Wheat
So far as foreign markets for Australian
wheat, are concerned, it isn’t easy to discover
anything but gloom in the immediate out-
look. France is in for a 25 per cent, shortage
on the home crop, but any hope that the
10 per cent, quota for foreign wheat may
be raised in consequence is not likely to
be fulfilled, for North Africa is expected
to meet all requirements. Germany has
raised the wheat duty from 15 to 184 marks
per 2001 b., and in any case has cut out the
Australian product in favor of the dumped
Russian grain. Italy is another good cus-
tomer lost. In 1929-30 the macaroni-makers
wanted only 83,000 centals (cental = 1001 b.)
from Australia. The year before the
country had taken 3,500,000 centals. Brit-
ain, Eastern Asia and Egypt are apparently
the only real markets offering, and Britain
is buying heavily of Russian wheat, while
Egypt doesn’t want first-class grain. South
Africa, not so long ago a good customer,
is hanging back. Strong pressure is being
put on the Union Government for protection
against Australian flour, and a large cargo
has been held up in Durban until the ques-
tion of assessing the duty can be settled.
The outlook for Eastern Asia is only fair:
it has been badly affected by the civil war
in China and the slump in rubber and tin.
Still, a bit of Westralian wheat has lately
been bought for China, and Westralians in
the trade are hopeful of better results in
that quarter.
The really cheerful feature from the Aus-
tralian point of view is the tremendous
increase in production which new methods
of farming have achieved, given even
moderately favorable conditions. In several
N. S. Wales districts this season it looks
as if 30 bushels will be averaged. The
employment of these newer methods is the
farmer’s contribution to the problem of
reducing costs. So far as wages and hours
of labor are concerned, he could not reason-
ably be asked to forego a farthing of the
one or add five minutes per week to the
other.
Australian Shale Products
There is no question about the value
of either Australian coal shales or the
products that can be got from them. Trials
all show the same thing. The latest re-
ported are of spirit made by the Grozier
process from the Latrobe (Tas.) shales, in
which the far-sighted Dorman-Long firm has
secured a commanding interest. The tests
were made of the Latrobe product along-
side two grades of imported petrol classed
A and B, the cars in each test being tuned
to normal running conditions for each
spirit. The shale spirit showed an average
of 33 m.p.g. Imported A spirit gave 22.5
m.p.g. and B 24 m.p.g. At 2s. sd. per
gallon for imported petrol, the Latrobe pro-
duct showed a saving of Is. lid. per gallon
as compared with imported A, and 10|d.
per gallon as compared with imported B.
The practical question, however, is: At
what price per gallon can the Australian
shale spirit be produced? Many factors
will combine to decide this. At present no
important Australian shale deposit is
handily situated alongside rail; it is now
claimed that the finest N. S. Wales deposits
could be more conveniently reached from
the branch line from the Northern trunk
line at Muswellbrook than from any
Western trunk-line station. In either case,
however, considerable new line would have
to be laid; and the unfortunate experience
of the Commonwealth Oil Corporation
rather repels investors.
Recently efforts have been made to
interest one or more of the principal
“juice”-importing cos. in these shale-mining
and -retorting propositions. It has been
put to them that sooner or later Australian
spirit must come on the market, and that
when that happens, if it happens in suffi-
cient quantity, the foreign oil will certainly
be excluded. From the side of the Aus-
tralian producers, association with one or
more of the big distributing cos. would
free the local men of the very heavy cost
of establishing a separate distributing sei-
vice. ....
The matter of participation is under con-
sideration. Many things have, of course,
to be gone into—especially the extent of
available deposits, the cost of product and
by-products and the capital expenditure
required.
“ ~
Sydney s Traffic Problem
Of all Australian, cities Sydney is the
most seriously confronted with traffic prob-
lems. In the city proper there is now no
room for street-expansion save at impossible
cost for resumption, and the trouble will
shortly be increased by the opening of the
Harbor Bridge.
New York, which first evolved the idea
°( ‘l* f i treet
taken an enterprise which Sydney should
h; Thig ig the construction through
h mogt congested areas of an elevated
hi h 60 f t . wide . i t is being built of
| j concrete at a cost 0 f £3,000,000,
d m enable through moto r traffic to
M me 50 congeste d blocks in the
, . ftl citv
e £ m ° ethin g has'been done in the diversion
through % raffic in Sydney by the im-
men\ of inner sub urban tracks; and
charges are a standing reaS on
wh the P city sho uld be skirted. But if on
h y } / of the Harbor Bridge no toll
is exacted the through traffic ud.lpouraloug
Cl^-v stieete an< ie c g
accentuated. This is one argument among
mai W m favor of a bridge toll instead of
throwing the whole cost of upkeep on to the
tramway service is the chief cause
f ffi con g ' stion in Sydney at present;
d tho ugh it may be true that only
guffi ’ cient * ars are Employed to lift the
f-ffic at peak it is that to
c’oun'tT'made for The'Bulletin on two
“«* “ “Office” in
WS and 4 “’dock at the post office m
George-street, and at 9.15-9.30 at the post
?*“ » showed approximately
22 P-°-, o( the seats occupied m the cars
m f°™ G i stieet ®P- ■ „
str eet Making all allowances these figures
suggest that many cars are kept on the
tracks , w^ Gn they ought to esa e y
awa Y m the barns,
(Continued on page 30.)


J. SCOTT UMITED
ROPE and CORDAGE
MANUFACTURERS
Clarence Street, Sydney.
The firm of J. Scott, Ltd., Rope and
Cordage Manufacturers, was founded by
Mr. J. Scott 27 years ago, beginning in a
very small way with four employees. The
firm has made such progress that to-day
eighty are employed at the works situated
at Mascot.
The Company’s products are sold all over
the Commonwealth under the registered
mark “Renown,” and the “Renown”
brand Rope and Cordage are very well
known.
J. Scott, Ltd., produces Rope of every
description, also Cordage and Binder
Twine. Manufacturing from the raw
material the output is about 1 000 tons per
annum. -
A very successful line manufactured is a
non-kinkable rope, used extensively for
slings, and especially where ropes are
required for heavy and hard wear. This
rope being specially treated will not harden
when wet, and retains its flexibility. The
breaking strain also exceeds considerably
that of the usual make of rope,
The Company has a most complete and
up-to-date plant.
A Historied House.
Clifford Love S Company, Limited.
Australian Commerce has its historical trading houses no less
than that of the Old World. Standing high among these to-day
is Clifford Love and Company, Limited, specialists in cereal
and kindred manufactures which Australia once imported from
the ends of the earth.
Founded in Brisbane 66 years ago under, the style of Love
and Company, the business began as a wholesale general firm.
Later this was abandoned, the firm turning to the importation
of tea and other Eastern Asiatic goods. Some years later as
Clifford Love and Company, with H. Clifford Love and
Herbert Love as partners, the head office was established in
Sydney, a branch being also opened in China under the control
of Herbert Love.
As time went on the tea-trading activities of the firm were
extended to London and New York, and a special campaign
to popularise black tea (pan dried) as opposed to green tea
(sun dried) was launched in America with some success. In
1889 the senior partner brought his son J. C. Love, now Sir
Clifton Love, into the business, purchasing Mr. Herbert Love’s
interests.
A year later the foreign business was closed down, the firm,
now a limited liability company, concentrating on manufactur-
ing in Australia.
Beginning with oatmeal, including the famous Uncle Toby
brand, the manufacture of cornflour and starch was added to
the list of the company’s activities. As success succeeded
success, Australian and overseas interests in these and similar
commodities were acquired, among them being the right to
make and market the well-known “Wade’s Cornflour,” which
had previously been purchased from the original Australian
manufacturers by Brown & Poison, of Scotland.
The story of Clifford Love and Co. is one on which this
country may well plume itself, embodying as it does a striking
testimony to Australian industry and commercial capacity.
A Managed Exchange
A scheme has been put forward by C. A.
Alison, bachelor of engineering,- and J. A.
L. Gunn, accountant, for stabilising prices
in Australia, irrespective of prices abroad.
The aim is to encourage primary production
and manufacture, and make money circulate
more freely. The crux of the idea, which
has been issued in a booklet called “Is This
Depression Necessary?,” is to give a Central
Bank power to determine from time to time
at what rate of exchange money can be
“transmitted” to London, the bank having
a monopoly of the exchange. The rate is
to fluctuate according to the price realised
abroad for our primary products, principally
wool. The par rate would be based on a
fair local price for our principal exports.
As world prices went down, the exchange
rate would grow more and more “against”
Australia, thus tending to curtail imports;
when prices abroad went up, the rate would ’
become easier again. In fact, when- the
value of our exports decreases, imports,
owing to the costly exchange rate, should
also decrease and local manufacture be-
come stimulated, the effect being to make
us spend less abroad when we are earning
less abroad.
The only way in which we can pay our
debts abroad is in gold or in goods. When
our wool is sold, the proceeds are credited
to the Man on the Land’s account in
London, and debited to the woolbuyer’s
account in Australia.. When we import, the
cost is debited to the importer’s account in
London, and credited to the overseas manu-
facturer’s account in Sydney. In practice,
these accounts are settled, not by the ship-
ment of gold from Australia to London or
vice versa, but by the Man on the Land’s
account in London being offset against the
importer’s account in London, the corres-
ponding debits and credits in Australia also
being offset against each other. If our
exports have been in excess of our imports,
we establish a credit abroad; if the balance
of trade is against us, we go on piling up
our external commitments.
If exports, valued locally at, say, £lOO,OOO,
through a fall in world prices realise only
£BO,OOO, and our imports cost us £lOO,OOO,
the rate of exchange, under Alison and
Gunn’s scheme, would be manipulated so
that it would cost us £125 to “transmit”
£lOO to London, or £lOO to transmit £125
to Australia. Thus, the woolgrower’s cheque,
worth £BO,OOO fn London, would be worth
£lOO,OOO in Sydney, and sufficient to pay
the overseas manufacturer’s account in
Sydney. The latter, however, would not 1 be
robbed in any way; in London we would
still be £20,000 to the bad, but the rate of
exchange would be so much against Aus-
tralia that the brake would be immediately
put on to further importing.
The scheme is not meant to be a cure-all
for our present national ills. It will not
relieve us immediately from our obligations
abroad. But as a means of increasing the
circulation of money locally, encouraging
primary production and protecting local in-
dustry without burdening the primary pro-
ducer, the scheme is well worth looking into.
Some Good in the Worst of Us
And some good, no doubt, in the worst of
the evils with which the politicians have
afflicted us. A great deal of nonsense is
talked about the Australian standard of
living, and it is often referred to as some-
thing sacred, which the hands of the poli-
ticians must not profane. Actually, of
course, it is the creation of the politicians;
and to the extent that it is artificial it can-
not last.
Meantime, however, it has its advantages.
Where the standard of living is high, we
may be sure that the quality of the food-
stuffs produced will be high. Where the
standard of living is low, foodstuffs will be
produced under poor conditions by poor
operatives.
But buyers of Australian foodstuffs have
a further safeguard. Another weakness of
Australian government has been the multi-
plication of public servants. This has
been a heavy burden upon Australian indus-
try; but at least the public ought to realise
that it has led to such a high standard of
sanitary conditions in Australian factories
and workshops that their superiors in that
respect do not exist anywhere in the world.
The Great Annual Whale-Butchery
The great annual whale-butchery in
Antarctic waters is about to begin, and the
European fleets are making for Hobart,
whence they go south to thp fishing waters.
This year, according to the leader of the
Kosmos fleet, a Norwegian concern which
was one of the earliest to show Australians
what wealth lay at their doors for those
with enterprise enough to go after it, there
will be 35 mother-ships and floating
refineries at work, most of them Norwegian
owned, while the half-dozen British ships
and their tenders are manned almost en-
tirely by Norwegians.
A good season yields some 250 whales to
each chaser, the killing being continuous.
night and day, during the months of per-
petual daylight. A mother-ship may be
the centre of anything from half a dozen
to a dozen chasers, so the bag in the five
months’ season is a staggering one, making
superfluous the Norwegian explanation that
the fleets had to come south since there
were no more whales left in the Arctic.
The average production per whale is a
barrel of oil per foot of length. Six barrels
make a tun, worth £25. Whales often run
over 100 ft. in length. Such a one would
yield 100 barrels valued at over £4OO.
Some time a.go the League of Nations
was talking about regulating the wholesale
slaughter for the benefit more or less of the
whales. Unless it gets a move on quickly
there will soon be very few whales to
benefit.
Kelsall and Kemp, Ltd., the Launceston
(Tas.) woollen-mill concern of which Hart,
M.L.C., is a director, announced its loss
for the past year as £3693. Four years ago
Australian mills were unable to supply the
demand for blankets and flannels; to-day
there is more blanket and flannel machinery
than the trade requires. The slump in wool
prices brought about large depreciation of
stocks, raw and manufactured. This last
is probably a chief cause of the year’s loss.
Readaptation of machinery for the produc-
tion of fancy flannels, trouserings, tweeds,
etc., consequent on the new tariff, helped
by the present cheapness of raw material,
is relied upon to change the complexion
of affairs.
* '•!: * :f.
Queensland recently counted the polyglot,
polychrome population employed in the
beche-de-mer and pearl-shell industries.
There are 214 Jap divers, representing, as
the report drily says, 100 per cent, of this
section of the industry. Others working on
the articles of the fishing fleets included
seven Europeans, 354 Torres Strait Island-
ers, 484 “indent and born-free” Japanese,
185 mainland aboriginals, one Brazilian, 51
assorted half-castes, 31 South Sea Islanders,
38 Malays, one Filipino, one Javanese, one
Maori, eight half-caste Papuans and 270 full-
blooded ditto.
* # Hs Hs
Maoriland is to have an inter-island mail
and passenger air-service between North
and South Islands. The first ’plane has
just been tested—an all-metal monoplane
fitted with three De Havilland Gipsy II
engines of 360 h.p. each, with a speed of
110 m.p.h. while carrying a full load of
mails and six passengers. It will probably
ply between Wellington and Christchurch.
A new lawnmower manufacturing plant
was opened at West Footscray (Vic.) the
other day. Qualcast Pty., Ltd., is respon-
sible for this new industry. For many
years Australia has been a large importer
of American lawnmowers, although the
implements are not at ail difficult to manu-
facture.
❖ * * *
The Orient Co. announces that two sail-
ings of its steamers from and for London
in the early months of 1931 have been can-
celled, there being neither passengers nor
cargoes forthcoming to justify them,
although at ordinary times'it is difficult to
get a last-minute passage during these
months. Fortunately the Orient liners
have built up a fine reputation in England
for their Mediterranean tours during the
northern winter and their “Land-of-the-
Midnight-Sun” cruises during the northern
summer; and profitable employment for the
displaced vessels may be found in this work.
Jfc * :!; *
Lloyd’s shipbuilding returns for the
quarter ending September 30 show Britain
still at the head of the industry, with an
output of 43.5 per cent, of the world’s total.
Actual tonnage building in Britain is
1,116,746 tons, the United States being a
long way back second with 212,974 tons.
France, Germany, Italy and Holland follow
in that order. Motor-ships are all the rage,
78 of between 8000 and 15,000 tons now
being put together in the world’s yards com-
pared with 17 last year. It is bad news for
our coalfields, though salvation may come
with the discovery of a cheap method of
distilling fuel oil from coal. Numerous
processes are being tested—with no great
success to date.
* * * *
Those too-numerous Australian wool-
growers who have been concentrating on
broad wools to the neglect of the fine
merinos which were once Australia’s
specialty are having the worst time. This
season and last the Continental countries
which favor the fine types have been buying
freely, while the Bradford market, in which
the broad wools found favor for a time, has
been very patchy, and the Yorkshire top
market is practically dead, prices for the
semi-manufactured article having also
flopped. The whole market is depressed,
but the downward tendency in the prices
for the finer lines is far less marked than
in those for the broader types; and this
shows signs of becoming a permanent feature
of the market. There is always likely to
be a demand for a certain proportion of the
broader wools. There is to-day, however,
far too much of the type coming forward,
and buyers are, therefore, masters of the
situation.


5
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy-
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand's sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. George."
ve:
\
w %
n
L V
7/1 Jr J
&
V
Irvine 0 Stevenson's St. Georye Co. Ltd. Dunedin, N-?tv Zealand.
sd
LEIPZIG SPRING
TRADE FAIR, 1931
ďs
(GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig.
German manufacturers have marked their goods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer.
The Great Spring Fair, begins on MARCH 1, 1931.
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free of cost.
Authoriscd Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(’Phones: 84006 and MW2201)
C. N. KEPPEL,
Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
SMOKE-OH!
Kingsford Smith’s next flight will be to
the United State.
*
Paradoxically, our pastoralists will be
good-tempered when they get their wool off.
Some people seem to think that this coun-
try has merely to stand alone to get Britain
to stand a loan.
* * ..
THE AFTER-THINKERS.
“Well, the silly cows are licked, I see.
Good enough for ’em. They had my vote,
I’m sorry to say, but never again. Funny
thing I had a kinder feeling' wc wuz sent for
all along.”
“You know how I worked fer tins win.
Well I goes along to our new member yester-
day and says, ‘Wotabout that job?’ ‘Wot
job?’ sezzee. Ter make a long story short,
I’m not. gettin’ the job. So much fer poli-
tical gratitood, an’, a.s I sez to the old crook
at the time, ‘The party’s lorst one supporter,
auy’ow. Fer life.”
Howl, M.L.A.: “‘The country ruined?’
Tork sense. I only said it would be if the
other side won to get votes.”
Yowl, M.L.A.: “‘The country saved?’
Tork sense. I only said it would be if our
side won to get votes.”
“Of all the dud lot of leaders a party
was ever cursed with ours are the harmiest.
They couldn’t have won against a bunch of
loonies. Oh, I know I .said different while
the elections were on, but a man’s got to
ANOTHER MISUNDERSTANDING.
“Do you know your brother has asked me to be
his wife?”
“No! Which one?”
“Goodness, that makes a difference. I didn’t
know he had some already.”
stand by the party. I knew what they
were all along.”
“The party leaders aren’t so bad, though
thick-headed, of course. It was the cam-
paign direction that did for us. Gosh! it’s
enough to make a man think some of our
coves were squared by the blokes on the
other side.”
“Seeing him in the street I said to Bloggs,
‘Come an’ meet the Premier. He’s a great
mate of mine.’ I hit him a smack on the
back. ‘Meet my friend Bloggs,’ sez I, ‘an’
then come an’ have a coupler spots.' Woodger
believe it? he pretended he didn’t know me!
Mumbled something about being busy, an’
cleared off with his grand .friends ! An’ I w-as
acksherly on the platform with him at one
of his meetings down our way. Well that
settles it — and him. He never gets another
vote from me or mine as long as he lives.”
10-2-4.
¥ #
The salesman kept- his staggered face
As straight as he could make it.
He’dl shown the girl a yard of lace —
And she had said “I’ll take it!”
THE TRAITOR.
A sympathetic crowd watched the white-
bearded old gentleman being led away.
“Ah, well, he’ll be taken good care of
now,” remarked an onlooker.
“He looks quite sane. What’s he supposed
to have done?”
“Sane! He’s 76. and he said only this
morning that girls behave just as decently
as they did in his youth.”
“A bad case,” agreed the other. “Heaven
send there are no other old men in the place
they are taking him to !”
O.
tf. ¥
“Australians can make anything.” —Earle Page in
Melbourne Town Hall.
We can make a lot of more or less unwanted
things
Of wool . and wheat, and iron, stone and
wood;
But here’s a little problem that no answer
brings —
W 7 hy can’t we make some budgets that
make good?
* #
THE LURE OF GOLD.
“For a wager of £2O a Sydney man, A. Chap-
pelow, is walking to Perth (W.A.) and back. He
estimates that he will be in Sydney again in two
years.”
He is not the only one.
The man who was admitted to hospital
at Penrith on Saturday proves to be Jim
Crackbrane, who has undertaken to walk to
Broken Hill and back on his hands. He
left Sydney eight months ago, and this is
the fifteenth time he has been admitted to
hospital suffering from bull-ant bites on the
wrists through treading on antbeds in the
dark. His adventure was undeitaken to win
a bet of five shillings • and drinks made with
a stranger in the public bar of the Loony
Arms Hotel.
It lias taken Charlie Cadger 23 years to
attain his seventy-fifth spell in hospital
through being knocked down by motor-cars.
In 1907 Cadger made a bet that he would,
be knocked down by 100 motor-ears. Un-
fortunately some of the cars were travelling
fast, and long spells in hospital have delayed
his collection of the wager of half a crown.
He anticipates success before 1940, however.
P. P.
* *
“The old custom of burning a candle to mark the
time for voting at the mayoral election was waived
by economy’s decree.” — “Herald.”
The custom wasn’t worth the candle, any-
how.
THE HAPPINESS OF GLADYS.
MAUD: “I think Gladys would have been happier if she had
married a man with less money.”
MURIEL: “Don’t worry, my dear. He’ll soon have it.”
THE EXPERT TOUCH.
“Many men employed as * cleaners in city office
buildings are ex-seamen.” —“Sunday Guardian.”
Search ivould be absolutely vain
For better men than these;
They now scour floor and window-pane
Who used to scour the seas.
* *
“Australia has no time for politics just now.”
It’s in its Cups.
* *
“He went to live at Bondi because his sweetheart
took a flat overlooking the beach.”— “Sun.”
He w-ould be able to see a lot of her there.
* *
“An offer made to Bradman by an English club
works out at approximately £5O per match.”
It would presumably be a whacks match.
THE HADES CUP.
It was the big day of the N.R.J.C. (Nether
Regions Jockey Club) meeting. The asbestos
in front of the Pit was thronged by a fashion-
able crowd of blasphemers, atheists and
politicians, and there was hardly sitting-
room on the li'obs. Queen Proserpine was in
the Royal Box with his Satanic Majesty. She
had promised to hand the winner the Cup,
containing nearly a thimbleful of water,
valued at £10,000,000. The Weather Bureau’s
forecast was “Hot. Bush (and other) Fires
Prevalent.”
A festive spirit was abroad. Just inside
the gates Nero played a fiddle similar to the
one he had used in Rome, and cadged
denarii from the racegoers. The catering
arrangements were in the hands of King
Alfred and Lucrezia Borgia—the former
attending to the cakes, the latter to the
drinks. Cagliostro was doing a brisk busi-
ness in the tip-slinging line. Nebuchadnezzar
was prominent amongst the fielders, though
bitterly disappointed at the total absence of
grass on his pitch. “I’ll have to go without
lunch to-day,” he remarked to his clerk,
Job, “unless you can spare me a locust or
two.” “All urgers, touts and political leaders
outside!” came the cry, and Napoleon Bona-
parte, as head of the police, led his men
against the outcast classes. The undesirables
having been ejected, the horses went out for
tneir preliminary canter.
The field got away to an even start and lay-
in a bunch until Ned Kelly dropped back!
His tactics puzzled his supporters, who had
expected him to make the pace hot. However,
his strategy became clear when he whipped
out two pistols and commenced to mow down
the field. “Evens
the boy from Aus-
sie !” roared the
Ring.
At this stage the
spectators were
startled by a deafen-
ing explosion. Guy
Fawkes, it trans-
pired, had blown up
the members’ stand.
By the time racing
enthusiasts had their
glasses focussed
again it was seen
that there were only
two in it. Dick
Turpin was leading
by 20 lengths, with
Kelly, who was now
making play with a
shot-gun, hugging
the rails behind him.
The Australian
landed a tricky left-
barrel in the seat of
Richard’s volumi-
nous f> ant s, and
simultaneously Karl
Marx (of “Marx
and Lenin, the old
Firm”), who was
known to have laid
Black Bess heavily,
dropped a 401 b. bomb
in the right place.
Kelly cantered past
the post alone a few
seconds later. The
stipe, Henry VIII.,
said he hadn’t seen
Ned win, and this
was no doubt
true, his amorous
gaze having been
riveted on Solomon’s
wives.
Ned shot him, and
appealer! to his
backer, Judge Jeffreys, who hanged all objec-
tors, and then confiscated and drank the con-
tents of the Cup.
Cedilla.
* *
DEPRESSION.
Mrs. Pjones pushed her errant husband
into a big chair. “I’d like to tell you what
I think of you,” she began; “but words
fail.”
Pjones’s drink-mottled face expressed in-
terest. “Thashyer tensh bankruptshy I've
heard of to-day!” he marvelled.
SHIFTING THE RESPONSIBILITY.
LITTLEBOY: “I don’t like him — he’s too big."
MISS CHIFFUS: “Oh, I adore big men!”
LITTLEBOY: “Why?”
MISS CHIFFUS: “Because it’s so hard to
make them behave themselves.”
KINDNESS.
“Mi’s. McCarthy knew the murderer, Evans. She
regarded him as a kind-hearted man.” — “Sun.”
The man tcho kills may be a bloke
Who’s kindly in his action;
The man he robs perchance he’ll choke
To make the cash extraction
A painless one—the man is dead,
Before he knows he’s parted;
What does a murder matter, if
The murderer’s kind-hearted?
THE PHILOSOPHER.
“The girl who laughs has the best chance of
getting married.” —Doiothy Dix.
Her caccliination caught my heart.
A peal of laughter icon;
It lured me to the marriage mart
That I had hoped to shun.
Now married, and bereft of beans,
It cheers me up to feel
I’m not the first by any means
Who’s slipped upon a peal.
H.M.


I
■
\
■
I
H
a
mm
m
:
n .
1 . ■
■' 1
>wm
mm
mm
M
■1
fjSSpP
■
mm
k:
gaHSPI
■
WESmH&B
m
mmmm
111
B
■
I
■ '•
■
■ .■;•■
■ ■
i
'Mmmm
>Y.
v. /
HU
■
a
mm ■
i
mm
' <•; ;
:
111
■
>mmim 1
!€ G 0
(fully fashioned)
SERVICE SHEER
HOSIERY
♦
AN EXTREMELY SERVICEABLE DEEP
SILK WELT WITH PICOT EDGE
TAKES ALL THE SUSPENDER STRAIN
\%
Pei* Pali*
THE FOOT OF THIS BEAUTIFULLY FINE CREATION
BEING SO SERVICEABLY AND SCIENTIFICALLY REIN-
FORCED WILL GIVE EXCELLENT WEAR. ITS FAULTLESS
ANKLE FITTING WILL FIND A READY APPEAL


THE. MONEY YOU SAVE
MAY SAVE YOU
Your regular savings may only be small, but they will
grow into a reserve fund against unexpected demands
or serious emergencies.
Money in this Bank will enable you to face the future
with greater confidence and to grasp opportunities for
improving your position.
The following table will show hpw money grows:—
4 per cent, interest paid on every £ up to £lOOO.
Personal, Joint, Trust, Children’s and Lay-by Accounts
Opened.
1/- WILL OPEN AN ACCOUNT.
192 Branches, 642 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF N.S.W.
c \\me 's a
%nePoynt
Pencil to
match any
'SwanPeru
Black and
Jade with
Soiled Gold
Bands
30/-
Ladies’ Pen
Lavender
22/6
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30/-
FOR
"SWAN*
PENS &
ALL PENS
THt _
VOG^
FOR COWUR
Ihiqkt hoed give
am, didtinction
to Ifu Sv&m Tin
HARMONIOUS AND
CONTRASTING TONES
ARE NOW AVAILABLE
TO MEET THE TREND
IN POPULAR TASTE
COLOURED “SWANS” FROM 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS” FROM 17/6
Black or Mottled).
“Fyne Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
Swan'
pens
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I,
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents a<;d Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
B (A.)
poverty
Point
“C.R.”: Allan Wilkie closed his account
with Australia in the same theatre and the
same play in which he opened it. It was at
the Princess, Melbourne, in January, 191 G,
that he made his first bow as Shylock.
“L. de R.”: The terms Bernard Pshaw
imposed on British International Films be-
fore he would allow them to screen his plays
were the most onerous ever demanded of any
set of lowbrows. He must draw up his own
contract, be paid on a royalty basis, be pre-
sent all the time the pictures were being
made, and have the right to nominate casts
and producers. Until G.B.S. stood up and
spoke the arrogant and illiterate plutocrats
who control most of the moving-picture in-
dustry _ were unaware that such a thing as
an artistic conscience existed.
“Dramofilm”: The other night at Mel-
bourne Tivoli two stepdancers, disguised as
a seedy, knock-kneed horse, were doing their
turn under the guidance of a plump person
dressed as a circus ringmaster. The steed
pranced erratically around the stage until
the trainer gave an unusually hearty tug at
its tail. The rear end of the animal slipped
down, revealing the unclothed body of one of
the perspiring occupants. That nag’s exit
would have knocked Phar Dap out of .the
betting.
“Amity”: In his plea for the Americau
film “J.D.” (B. 15/10/’3O) misses the point
of the argument put forth by most of the
objectors. YVhile admitting the broadening
effect of the films generally, their contention
is that all that America gives Australia
could be provided by British films, .minus
most of the slang and all the accent, and
substituting the British brand of eroticism
if necessary. Quite true that audiences
would welcome three times the news reels
now shown. I know one man who goes to
pictures regularly—and comes out after the
gazette is finished. But the gazette is the
least American feature of the programme,
and one which Britain can emulate and
extend indefinitely. No one can withhold
from America tremendous admiration for
her enterprise in filmdom, but most people
feel that the time is now opportune for Bri-
tain to have a say in her own dominions as
regards both matter and money.
“Guy Fane”: When Rudoiph Valentino
died he left behind debts totalling £33,000,
and assets amounting to about £2OOO. To-day,
his estate is valued at £lOO,OOO. His
executor simply sold up everything that he
could put his hands on. Ties, handkerchiefs,
hats, even suspenders, were offered at auc-
tion and ferociouslysnatched up bysex-starved
females who had worshipped the screen sheik.
This junk yielded £7OOO. A mass of swords
and such-like paraphernalia added another
£3OOO. Then came the master stroke. Valen-
tino had piles of books, but no book-plate:
so a book-plate was made and a print pasted
in every book. It says much for the cupidity
’ —or stupidity—of human nature that prices
as high as £2 were paid for paper-backed
Ruby M. Ayreses and Ethel M. Dells.
“A.A.” : Allan Wilkie, who was thrown in
the towel at last, came to Australia in 1915
and has battled along gallantly ever since.
He created a world’s record by giving some-
thing like 1500 consecutive performances
of Shakspeare in the Commonwealth and
Maoriland without the interlarding of a
single play by any other author. His 15
years of theatrical management have been
strenuous and worrying. He has had vested
interests to fight, financial crises to face,
and a thousand difficulties to overcome which
would have flummoxed the average mummer
long ago. His greatest obstacle has been
want of a theatre. He has been squeezed
out everywhere, or forced to play on Ned
Kelly terms. He and Frediswyde Hunter-
Watts now step out for the bush, giving two-
handed Shakspearean recitals.
“Oauboy” : A recent work on the film by
a German gives a staggering picture of how
American interests have captured the job
of amusing a planet. Two great corpora-
tions are now battling for mastery. As is
consistent with the new age of mechanisa-
tion, neither concern has anything whatever
to do with art. The Radio Corporation of
America, backed by General Electric, has
acquired the enormous Keith Albee circuit
of cinemas, and has a monopoly of a stereo-
scopic device which is to be worked in con-
junction with television, and is ready to be
put on the market as soon as the omens
are favorable. It also owns the Victor
Gramophone Co., which is a subsidiary of
His Master’s Voice, and it supplies a vast
amount of the world’s vocal film apparatus.
The rival concern is the American Telephone
and Telegraph Co., which is allied with
Warner, Paramount, United Artists, Fox,
Universal, First National and M.-G.-M.; this
gives it a stranglehold on half the screen
seraglios of America. In addition it is con-
nected with the Columbia Gramophone Co.,
and through it is constructing the second-
largest chain of radio stations. It is finan-
cially tied up with Western Electric, the
Columbia Broadcast Co., the Gaumont
firm, and Chappell Bros., the biggest British
nublishers of light music and pianola rolls.
When these two concerns amalgamate, as
they almost certainly will do, they will con-
trol practically all forms of Australian
amusement except Wirths’ Circus.
“Jamal”: Tpuring actor-rs suffer at the
hands of boarding-housekeepers and others, but
their troubles are trifling compared to those
of circus people. Immediately the tent folk
arrive in a town all financial and friendly
barriers go up at once, and the members
of the troupe are treated generally as out-
casts or persons with evil intent. Also, for
some reason or another, the notion holds
that all circus men are champion fighters.
On tour with a “big top” some years ago, T
casually remarked to a drinking acquaint-
ance that I was connected with the circus. A
burly bushman intruded with the remark
that he’d heard “ail you circus blokes can
fight—come out the back!” On my
refusing, the bushman began throwing wild
swings at my head, and in the resultant
melee the police arrived. I got seven days,
during which time, of course, the circus
moved on. What became of the bush-
man I never learnt, but it’s my fondest hope
that he got my job with the circus.
“Dramofilm”: The proposed making of
local talkies gives hope that at last we may
see films devoid of sentimentalism and snob-
bery. Most Yankee films have been nauseous
because of the former, but the latter fault
appears to be peculiarly English. It was
most noticeable in “Atlantic,” where the
bulk of the action was confined to the first-
class section of the vessel. In the short
parts devoted to them, the’ crew were depicted
as scoundrels whose sole desire was to get
drunk before the ship sank. In “Journey’s
End” the same differentiation led to young
Raleigh being rebuked for mixing with the
men.
The Palette
Clarice Beckett, who has held a show at
the Athenaeum, Melbourne, has become the
most original painter in Australia by means
which seem absurdly simple—at least on
paper. She has merely abandoned conven-
tions which earlier artists brought from
Europe, and from which their successors have
not quite emancipated themselves. She
has, in fact, done quite quietly and as
if by accident what Australian poets
and writers are only just beginning to do.
Perhaps she was never aware of those Eng-
lish conventions. Her painting is so entirely
innocent of what is called “inspiration,” but
is really imitation, that it is almost as if sin-
had never seen any pictures but her own
and those which the windows of her home
at Beaumaris daily frame out of Nature.
Out of that innocence, apparently, come the
uniqueness of her patterns and the unexpect-
edness of her color harmonics.
Miss Beckett is an advance on Hilder. She
has none of his sometimes too-facilc senti-
mentality and a great deal more knowledge.
The fineness of her vision is apt to be missed
in the first hasty perusal. Some of her
pictures might even be mistaken for choco-
late-box art, especially since there is a pre-
dominance of pink sunsets in them, due to
the fact that the exigencies of daily life
leave her only the evenings and an occa-
sional early morning to paint in. But the
chocolate-box impression quickly disappears,
and the strength, firmness and singing quality
of her work grow more apparent the longer
you look at it. It is only sincere art that
can give this reaction. Artificiality never
leaves an enduring impression, however sen-
sational the first impact. Nor, despite its
poetic quality, should Miss Beckett’s paint-
ing be confused with that of such a sophis-
ticated artist as Blamire Young, to which
it has been compared by some people. Blamire
Young’s work has made no advance in recent
years because, in accepting a romantic con-
vention instead of reality as his aim, he has
automatically reached a dead end. Painters
in such a position seldom retrace their steps
and find the main road again, unless led
thither by other artists. No conventional
bounds having been set to Miss Beckett’s
progress her development must be bound by
her own innate capacity.
The evidences of her capacity in the pre-
sent show are encouraging. An effect which
other artists have endeavored unsuccessfully
to obtain by following the rules of the aca-
demies Miss Beckett has delivered perfectly
in a straight-out transcription from Nature
labelled “At the IToot of the Cliffs” (No. 7).
In No. 43, a study of white sea, boats and
a broken palisade, the firm suppression of
everything but the broadest and simplest ele-
ments has resulted in a remarkably beauti-
ful pattern. In No. 54, “Station Towers,”
Mr. Clapp’s gaunt caravanserai fades into
the sky by steps of the most extraordinary
delicacy. Season-ticket holders will see what
beauty visits that building—sometimes. That
is the uncanny quality of Miss Beckett —
her power to give us a new and lyrical emo-
tion by purely realistic methods. That
power is patent in such studies as No. 10,
“Moonrise,” a melody of half a dozen notes;
in No. 53, a view of Prince’s Bridge, painted,
it is said, from a series of impressions
obtained from passing trains; in No. 20, a
study of water tumbling confusedly on a
beach, a subject most difficult to render; in
No. 28, “Foggy Evening,” an affair of a
motor-car and a pedestrian ; in No. 41, “Wet
Evening, Brighton,” consisting of four posts
and a bit of rain-drenched pavement. Miss
Beckett’s color is so rich as to suggest flain-
boyancy, but one feels her painting is flam-
boyant only as Nature is flamboyant. Her
counterpoint is so simple in its elements that
the intrusion of the slightest false accent
would destroy the harmony.
The Inky Way
After 41 years’ service on Melbourne
“Herald” Tom Kelynack has retired. Trained
on a Bendigo daily from the middle to the
late ’eighties, Kelynack went as a junior
reporter to Broken Hill, where he got some
additional breaking-in under the present
editor of The Bulletin. On Melbourne
“Herald” he specialised in football, cricket
and police rounds. He was lent to Reuters
six times when English cricketers visited
Australia; aggregate absence on these excur-
sions, 2J years. Son Frank is a senior on
the “Argus,” with a taste for politics and
particularly the Parliamentary gallery.
“Nikko”: Auckland “Observer,” aged just
50 (B. 15/10/’30), won its big country cir-
culation by running a personal section con-
taining social and not so social items from
every townlet of any size in the interior of
Auckland Province. For example: “ J.K.
was looking very nice on Monday at
the concert. P.R. thought so, too. A.M. was
a long time saying good-bye to O.R. in the
moonlight. When is it going to be, A.M. ?”
These items caused a weekly sensation
in the fayored villages, and ‘ ‘Observer'
Day” was always a time of thrills for
the inhabitants. The writer always kept
discreetly silent about his achievements, and
the mystery of their origin added to the
excitement of the social reports.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the AVorld. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
HOTEL
iETROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
śd
' SCHUTE,
BELL&C°w
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
sdg
CONCENTRATE ON
QUEENSLAND.
You can increase the sale of
YOUR goods by building up a mar-
ket in the most responsive, least “de-
pressed” State in the Commonwealth
—QUEENSLAND.
• i* * * *
Investigate the possibilities of the
Queensland market NOW by getting
in touch with a representative of
Queensland’s Oldest, Biggest, and
most Influential Newspaper.
QThr Courier.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative: Robert D.
Fisher, 74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative: L. S.
Marks, The Argus Bldg., Elizabeth
and Latrobe streets. ’Phone F 3906
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HAWAI l
limns
SUMMER
Hawaii. .Waikiki Beach. .picturesque
people .. festivals .. sunshine and palms
. . .Queen Island of the South Seas,
Hawaii draws visitors from every land.
4b
m
Canadian Australasian
EXCURSIONS
NIAGARA
AORANGI
Hawaii, Via AitV Zealand and Suva.
Book with Union Steam Ship Company,
Sydney—Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Sailing Nov. 13, Dec. 11, Jan. 8, Feb. 5.
BURNS PHILP TOURS
&
%
r
, y 9 v
K
&
7!f
&
VISIT JAVA
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
Smooth Water Voyage
which is a Holiday in Itself.
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,”
5000 tons.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS. PHILP Sc C?, LTP
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDNEY.AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 181:
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
sdg
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedie St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
mmm
ap
ail
w
MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS!
QUEENSLAND
IS CALLING
’T'HE great northern State beckons to your product these
difficult times, for Queensland is the bright spot in the
Commonwealth just now. If you would exploit the splendid
market offered by the Brisbane metropolitan area you must
advertise in
THE SUNDAY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT WEEKLY.
This journal of character and distinction goes into the homes
of the people at a time when they have leisure to read, and
circulates mainly in the metropolitan area. It is read by a
majority of the readers of the several dailies published during
the week in Brisbane, and is companion journal to
THE DAILY MAIL
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST NEWSPAPER.
Rate cards and particulars from
RRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., Queen Street, Brisbane; and
N.Sff. BRANCH: 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . . 11,000 tons, Nov. 25
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ Dec. 3
*Ulysses . . 15,000 ~ Jan. 19, ’3l
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agent 3
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH AND LONDON,
VIA SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32-
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerLjsi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Bteani9lii|H
STEA&ERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily .papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
'ollinsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
*Does
your
mirror
reflect
rough.
pimply
skin ?
M
THEN USE
Cuticura
and have a clear skin!
ANOINT the affected parts with Cuti-
cura Ointment . . .Wash off in a few
minutes with Cuticura Soap and hot
water and continue bathing. Pimples,
rashes and all forms of skin troubles
quickly yield to this treatment.
Ointment Is. and 2s. Soap Is, Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
NZ. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
n* (0 any of the World's Leading
Advertising Agen .lies.
50
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
on sale at “Th e Australasian”
all
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians appreci-
EACH WEEK, ate, and their friends overseas, too!


LODGE
PLUGS
are unsurpassed for all
American Cars
Try a Set
To-day
0
V
S®s?
1
LODGE CT
7-Bin.
Regular
PRICE
6/-
in sealed
bronze metal
box.
Stocked by all garages throughout the
Commonwealth.
Lodge Plugs Ltd., Rugby, England.
I" >
9
'V
.iflmulifljpU
r*S
r^k:
////"
% .?
* V
WsMm
S M
S 3
-
E
as
/ >;:
m
■
HAPPY
MAORI LIFE
amid the hiss
and roar of
thermal mariJds
QEE Rotorua if you would see Maori life in its original
picturesque state. Amid the steam and hiss of boiling
pools and spouting geysers the placid happy-go-lucky Maori
life goes on. Whams are built over hissing steam vents.
Food is cooked in boiling pools. Little brown children
tumble in and out of the warm water and dive for coins, and
Maori men and girls are always ready to act as guides
through the wonderful thermal valleys, and to tell uncanny
tales of Nature’s marvellous way.
Come to
NiEWZIAIA
for a DIFFERENT
Holiday
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to —N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand .
Name
Address
5.8.4 A
0
Free Steamer Fares to New Zealand
The Mount Cook Company’s office will
pay your First Class Steamer Fare to New
Zealand. The terms of this offer leave
you free to plan your itinerary as you
please, providing that it .includes the Com-
pany’s services at Rotorua, the Chateau,
National Park, Mt. Cook or Queenstown.
In the case of extended tours, this offer will
be increased to include return fare also.
Full particulars and specimen tours avail-
able on application to The Tourist Booking
Office, 9A Bligh Street, Sydney; to the
Company’s Agents, Dalgety & Co., through-
out Australia; or to New Zealand Govern-
ment Tourist Offices, Martin Place, Sydney,
and Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, and Ade-
laide.
This offer is open until November 28th, 1930.
MOUNT COOK TOURIST COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
9a Bligh Street, Sydney.
The NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney
SHADOW SHOWS.
Jack Oakie is “The Sap from Syracuse,”
a Paramount farce which arrived recently
at Sydney Capitol. He is a cranedriver
with a touch of politician’s head, who when
in doubt consults a bust of Napoleon. Some-
one leaves him 18,000 dollars, and he sails
for Yurrup. The fun, which is good of its
machine-made kind, is based on a rumor
spread by his leg-pulling friends at home
that he is a world-famous engineer travel-
ling incognito. Fake cables pour in on
tiie captain of his ship signed “Rockefeller,”
“Ford” and “Otto Kahn,” urging that special
attention shall be paid to Mr. Looney.
Gold-diggers pester him, and one insists on
being his sekatary. Ginger Roberts, as a
lone girl mine-owner beset by crooks, puts
her affairs in his hands. There is an amus-
ing ending, which comes at a moment when
his crowding false positions have got him
light down.
Oakie has something of the indefinable
charm of Charlie Chaplin. His buoyant grin
when in trouble can be as pathetic as
Chaplin’s slow, nauseated smile, and his
ugliness is as winsome. Also he is a great
pantomimist. It is only when he croons
that he becomes intolerable, and he docs
it in this show. Nature never intended
Ginger Roberts (what a name!) to be an
ingenue, and her crooning is even worse
than Oakie’s. Still, she looks nice, and she
makes a lot of the few chances the producer
gives her to be funny. George Barbier is
well cast as the Senator who does so much
to convince the ship’s company that Looney
is a genius in disguise.
& * #
“Spring Is Here” would probably not
have reached Sydney H'aymarket if its mes-
sage had impressed itself on the mind
of our chief film censor. It is an old Palais
Royal comedy with the venue changed from
Paris to an American country house, and a
parson thrown in for purity. Alexander
Gray, of the virile voice and foolish face,
plays the virginal young man who is spurned
by spirited Bernice Claire because of his
tepid love-making. Her precocious young
sister explains what the trouble is, and he
transforms himself in the nick of time into
one of those men with whom no good woman
is safe. His knack of being caught by hus-
bands whenever he kisses their wives earns
him a reputation for profligacy which
quickly causes Bernice to regret his loss.
The climax comes when the maiden’s father
discovers him embracing her mother. After
that there is nothing for the mother to do
but arrange for him to spend the night with
Bernice. It is explained when they appear
at breakfast next morning that a parson
married them the night before.
Not exactly a pleasant theme, and it is
not made more alluring by the vulgar inci-
dental music. A clever character-study is
provided by the actor who represents Ber-
nice’s permanently enraged father, but the
writer is ignorant of his identity, the Hay-
market having gone in for the no-programme
habit. Miss Claire’s melodious soprano and
beautifully clear enunciation are worthy of
better numbers than she has.
* * ¥
The only woman who counts in Fox
Movietone’s “Women Everywhere,” which
put in a recent week at Sydney Regent, is
Fifi Dorsay. Harold Murray, gun-runner,
battles for her with Ralph Kennard, sala-
cious blackguard and spy. Most of the
action takes place at Casablanca, where Fifi
is the sinuously provocative . star of a
cabaret. It is sad to see George Grossmith, as
the cabaret-owner, doing stunts with half a
dozen chorines that Tig used to do in
London with stage-loads of girls at the be-
ginning of the century. Kennard eventually
unmasks Murray, but Murray has by this
time joined the Foreign Legion, and “a
Legionary has no past.” In bellow-drama
Kennard would have been led off at this
stage by the county police. Here the lead-
ing off is done by the Australian comedian
Clyde Cook, who with a few friends shang-
liaies the villain and dumps him on a ship
bound for Rio. The sets are splendid, bar-
ring the Ilollywooden battle-scenes, which
are merely comic, and the songs are merci-
fully few.
# * *
“Greek Street,” the latest British Gau-
mont picture to be released at Melbourne
Majestic, is only notable for the fine per-
formance of the Australian William Fresh-
man. Freshman has a clear and flexible
voice and is a convincing actor in the role
of the Italian proprietor of a Soho rest-
aurant who takes in a beautiful waif of the
streets to sing to his customers. The damsel,
as usual, succumbs to the lure of the foot-
lights, aud is on the verge of falling a prey
to the designs of a scoundrelly producer when
she is saved by Freshman. In short, the
picture has all the faults against which
the writer of a recent Bulletin article
warned F. W. Thring. It is a copy of
the most timeworn American models, and
for the reason that Englishmen cannot appa-
rently bring themselves to go. the whole hog
in these matters as Hollywood can, it is a
feeble copy. There are some first-class photo-
graphy and some excellent small-character
studies. Bert Coote, as Sir George, a
theatrical magnate, bears an extraordinary
resemblance to Dion Boucicault, both in his
acting and his appearance, though the late
lamented Dion could give him some points
in acting, and he could give Dion several
inches in stature.
* * *
In “The Other To-Morrow” (First Nat.),
at Melbourne State, Billie Dove, of the
cameo profile, is unhappily married to
Kenneth Thomson, a hot-headed cotton-
planter. Miss Dove has been in love with
Grant Withers before her marriage, and she
wishes to continue the friendship on a
platonic basis. Her husband asks her if
she takes him for a blithering idiot, and
forbids the pair meeting. When Miss Dove
spends a platonic night in the platonic
friend’s house the cotton-planter slaps him
in the face, with the intention of forcing
a quarrel so that he can shoot the friend and
claim the protection of the unwritten law
afterwards. A shot duly rings out, but it
is the sheriff, good-hearted soul, who has
fired it, and the husband is the victim. This
leaves the way clear for Miss Dove to
change her platonic friendship into some-
thing more tangible as well as legitimate,
The yarn is melodrama, and is as full of
improbabilities as an egg of meat, but it is
soundly constructed and well acted, and
therefore satisfying.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection : and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell”' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Musician, Sydney, wants work. Has had exp. in
copying, transposing, arranging, orchestrating, etc.
First-class pianist.—9so4.
Engineer, N.S.W., 20 years’ exp. steam, oil and
petrol, irrigation, electrical power plants and sheep-
shearing machines, wants job on station anywhere.
Five years in last place. Refs. —9506.
Station book-keeper: and storekeeper, S.A., exp.
work large station, single, handy, wants job any-
where. Refs.—9sol.
Young man (20), ILD.A., wants position in
N.S.W. . Some mechanical knowledge.—9s3s.
Married couple, Vic., wife good cook and house-
keeper, husband all-round handy man, wants employ-
ment on station or elsewhere, together or husband
alone. —9552.
Young man (20), exp. farm work and laboring,
wants job anywhere in W.A. —9617.
Two brothers, N.S.W., life experience on the land,
will undertake maiiagement of small property.—9ssB.
Young woman, S.A., Uni. graduate, wants position
as governess in- or beyond Australia. Refs,—96s4.
To buy Davos Platz Booklets (Edinburgh) and
Stevenson’s “Pentland Rising” (1866), “Appeal to
the Clergy of Church of Scotland” (1875), and “An
Object of Pity” (1894).—9553.
To buy early Australasian books, any kind except
cheap reprints. Purchase or exchange.—9s4l.
To buy “The Pickwicks Abroad,” a parody on
Dickens describing visit of Pickwick to France. —9491.
To buy “Dynamo and Motor Attendants and Then-
Machines. ’ ’—9514.
To buy Muret’s “Twilight of the White Races.”
—9502; :
To exchange, for Irish novels or books by Margaret
Pedlar, books by Mulford, Edgar Wallace, etc. —-9521.
Wanted A. Mowatt to write to his brother, c/o
J. McLeod, Friday’s Creek, Graf ton-road, via Glen
Innes.
To buy or exchange Stephens’s “Charwoman’s
Daughter” (1912), Conrad’s “Chance” (1913), Kip-
ling’s “Light That Failed,” any date. —9584.
To buy colored chart “Distinguishing Badges of
the A.1.F.”—9570.
To buy or exchange for English or German novels
or magazines, “Art in Australia,” first series, Nos.
I, 9 and 10 ; second series, Nos. 1 and 2 ; third
series, Nos. 3, 11, 13, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 25,
26, 29, 30, 31. Unsoiled copies 0n1y.—9563.
To buy (Q’land) 6 or 12 to 400, or higher,
dynamotor, suitable for ra’dio transmitter.—9643.
To buy one second-hand Sankey steel wheel and
disc wheel, for cover 730 x 130, to fit 501 Fiat hub
studs. —9692.
To buy John Sinjohn’s “From the Four Winds”
(1897), “A Man of Devon” (1901), “Joselyn”
(1898) and “Villa Rubein” (1900).—9680.
To buy copy of Peter B. Kyne’s story “The Blue
Vase.”—969B.
Will exchange for Brewer’s “Dictionary of Phrase
and Fable,” Lempriere’s “Classical Dictionary,”
Roget’s “Thesaurus,” standard reference books and
a number of modern novels. —9630.
To correspond with Bulletin readers. (To P’te
J. Broomhead, A Company, 2nd Batt., York and
Lancaster Regiment, Muzaffarpur, Bihar, India.)
Information Supplied.
(1) Value of rubber tyres imported into
Australia last year? (2) Leading countries
from which they icere imported, and value? —
9589.
(1) For year ending June 30,1929 : Covers,
£318,452; tubes, £35,596; rubber non-pneu-
matic tyres, £89,084. (2) Leading sellers
were U.S.A., £142,757; France, £112,325;
United Kingdom, £83,072; Italy, £67,165;
Canada, £32,341.
What is a “ yorker” in cricket? —943B.
A ball pitching in the blockhole is the
usual definition. A better one is a ball pitch-
ing between the bottom of the bat and the
ground, since the batsman may make a yorker
of any ball by moving out or playing back
to it.
Who was the first Australian soldier to
land at Anzac? —9592.
Troops from the 9th and 10th Battalions
were the first to land. Impossible to say
who was the first man. Captain Graham
Butler (9th Batt.) and Lieut. Talbot Smith
(10th Batt.) were the first officers to reach
the shore.
Details concerning Ernest Favenc, explorer
and journalist? —9s9l.
He was born in London on Oct. 21, 1843,
migrated to Sydney in ’63, a.nd drifted to N.
Q’land soon after. In ’7B he led an expedi-
tion over the. country between Brisbane and
Darwin, and between that year and 1889 did
a great deal of- exploration in Q’land, N.T..
and Westralia. His chief book, “History of
Australian Exploration, 1788-1888,” remains
a standard work. He died on Dec. 14, 1908.
What arc the timber resources of (1)
Papua and (2) .New Guinea? Any sawmills
operating in Mandated Territory? (3) Con-
ditions under which timber may be cut in
New Guinea? —9588. . ' ,
(1) According to the Commonwealth
Forestry Adviser the principal softwood
timber in Papua is known as “ilimo,” while
among satisfactory timbers of the lowlands
are “nara,” “medobi” and “melila.” There
are many other varieties varying from the
softest to the hardest, including beautiful
cabinet woods, but research is necessary to
determine their usefulness. (2) The Terri-
tory possesses valuable forest resources, and
the timber required for house- and ship-
. building and for other purposes is mostly
obtained locally. In north-east New Guinea
two of the missions possess up-to-date saw-
milling plants. Most of the timber required
in the archipelago is supplied by mission
and privately-owned mills, all at the eastern
end of New Britain. (3) Permits or licenses
to cut timber must be obtained through the
Administration. A royalty is payable on all
timber exported.
What was the “Booh of Sports,” and
what part did it play in English history? —
9571. . .
It is the name given to an order issued by
James I. in 1(117, for use in ...Lancashire,
where the King on his return from Scotland
found a conflict on the subject of Sabbath
observance between the Puritans and the
gentry, many of whom were Roman Catholics.
Permission was given for dancing, archery,
leaping, vaulting and other recreations if
they were conducted without interference
with or neglect of divine service. Bear- ana
bull-baiting and bowling were not permitted.
In 1618 James ordered the clergy of the
whole of England to read the declaration
from the pulpit ; but so strong was the oppo-
sition that he withdrew his command. In
1633 Charles I. directed the republication of
his father’s declaration and insisted upon
the reading of it by the clergy. Many of
the clergy were punished for refusing to obey
the' injunction. With the fall of Arch-
bishop Laud all attempts to enforce it came
to an end. , i ' "
What is the stbry of “ Hosier’s Ghost”?'—
9594.
The ballad by Richard Glover is partly
based on truth ; it tells of Admiral Hosier,'
who was sent with 20 ships to the West
Indies to blockade the galleons of Spain. He '
arrived at the Bastimentos, near Portobello,
but had strict orders not to attack the foe.'
His men perished by disease, and the
Admiral died of a broken heart. After
Vernon’s victory, the ballad goes on to say,
Hosier and his 3000 men rose “all in dreary
hammocks shrouded, which for winding sheets
they wore,” and lamented the cruel orders
that forbade them to attack the foe.
What is the meaning of the term “transi-
tion’’ in music?— 9s93.
The term is applied to a passage connect-
ing two themes or subjects, also to passages
in which there is a temporary modulation
from one key to another.
Ip a Uni. course essential for a civil engi-
neer? If not, what is the training neces-
sary, and the best way to obtain it? —9052.
Not essential, but very desirable. Theo-
retical training may be obtained through a
diploma course at a technical college. In
Vic., N.S.W. and Q’land, the holding of a
certificate obtained by examination is neces-
sary for those desiring to practise as shire,
municipal or local-government engineers.
Many private coaches prepare candidates for
these certificates. Membership of a recog-
nised professional engineering institution is
desirable to enable the young engineer to
keep in touch with current progress and to
meet fellow-engineers for the interchange
of experiences and ideas.
Who and what were the Mayans? —9s9o.
They were the dominant race of Yucatan
and other States of Mexico and part of
Central America at the time of the Spanish
conquest. In civilisation they rivalled the
Aztecs. Their descendants still form the bulk
of the inhabitants of Yucatan.
Is a contract to purchase land signed on
Sunday valid? If not, can the vendor be
sued successfully far a rescission of the con-
tract and. a refund of amounts paid? —9s47.
Each case depends on its own circum-
stances. Under the Act of Charles 11. con-
tracts made on Sunday were declared unlaw-
ful if made in the course of “ordinary call-
ings.” An old leading case laid it down that
whilst the sale of a horse on Sunday by a
horse-dealer would be void, such a sale by
another person would not be.
In what circumstances would it be legal
for me in N.S.W. to lay poison for a dog
that scratches up my garden? —9s73.
If the dog has no collar you can kill it
if you find it on your property unattended.
If it has a collar, inform the police.
I am connected with a church property in
N.S.W. which is not subject to municipal
rates. The local council has, without notice,
kerbed and guttered the property at a cost
of approximately £3OO, and has called on
the trustees to pay half the cost. Can we be
forced to pay this amount? —93Bl.
The fact that the property ( is not sub-
ject to rates does not affect the' matter. The
owner of land on the same side of the' road
as, and adjacent to, the kerbing and gutter-
ing work is liable to contribute to its cost.
(1) N.S.W. State award wage for bar-
maids employed in Sydney suburban hotels?
(2) Hours per week? (3) Overtime rates?
(4) Holidays? (5) Amount charged for
board and lodging?— 9622.
(1) £3‘ 10s. (2) 44 hours per week in 54
days. (3) Time and a half after 11 hours
a day or 44 a week. Employee working on
public holidays to receive a week’s leave
every six months. (4) All statutory and
proclaimed holidays. (5) Board 18s. 4d. a
week and lodging 6s.
What is- the meaning attached to Lam-
bert’s picture “Important People?’’— -9582.
Here is Lambert’s own interpretation : “The
baby is the centre of the composition, as
motherhood is the dominant factor in human
life. Health and strength, physical develop-
ment and sport are symbolised by the pugil-
ist, and commerce by the gentleman with
the cigarette. The wheel of the' cart, the
composition motive of which is repeated by
the sickle in the right-hand corner of the
picture, represents life and death.”
(1) Prospects of a young man taking tip
law in N.S.W. with a mew to becoming a
solicitor? (2) Is it necessary to become
articled? If so. term? (3) What salary
would be paid during articles? —9508.
(1) Not encouraging, the profession being
overcrowded. (2) Must be articled for five
years or, if a uni. graduate, three years.
Some firms ask for a premium but the
greater number do not. (3) Where a pre-
mium is paid salary is usually higher than
if none were paid.
(1) How are things in the 'Northern
Territory? (2) State of development of
motor traffic there? (3) Award wage for
station hands? (4) Names of agents at
Darwin ? (5) Best way to get to Darwint
(6) Is there much unemployment in the
N.T. ? —9109.
(1) Same as in other parts of Aus-
tralia; not bright at the moment. (2)
Owing to the absence of good roads,
motor traffic is small. In 1929, there were
90 motor-cars, 128 motor-lorries and S motor-
cycles in the Territory. (3) Minimum wage
for adults, £3 per week with keep. (4)
There is only one large European business,
that of A. E. Jolly and Co. (5) A steamer
leaves the Eastern States for Darwin each
month. There is an aeroplane service from
Brisbane to Daly Waters, which connects
with the railway from Birdum to Darwin.
(0) A considerable amount. It would be
inadvisable to go there without having a
definite offer.
I am told that it is a preventive for dis-
temper in pups to hold the youngster up by
the skin on the back of the neck and pierce
the skin with a red-hot wire so that it goes
in one side and out the other. Is there any-
thing in it? —9385.
Nothing save childish superstition and use-
less cruelty. There is now available a vac-
cine against distemper.
My fox-terrier bitch is terrified of storms.
What can I do or give her to make her less
terrified ?- —9245.
As soon as a storm approaches place her in
a. dark place and give her a sgr. tabloid of
bromide .of potassium.
I wish to build a portable radio set using
'two-bolt'valves heated from a small accumu-
lator. (1) Best type of circuit? (2) Type of
valves 'for economical working? (3) Total
filament-cur rent taken? (4) Would a. small
aerial attached to a tree give louder signals
than a loop? (5) Would this circuit operate
a speaker?— 9sl6.
stage directly
coupled to a detector and followed by one
audio stage. (2) Milliard PMI2 (RF) ;
PMILF (detector) ; PM22 Pen tone (audio).
Other makes with similar characteristics will
do equally well. (3) 0.55 amp. (4) Yes.
(5) Under favorable conditions.
(1) What market is there for eucalyptus
oil? (2) What is the usual price per gallon
of oil extracted from broad-leaf peppermint?
(3) What is the approximate yield of oil per
ton of leaf? (4) Cost of extracting outfit
that- could be operated by one man? (5)
Names of books on the subject? —9273.
(1) Limited, but orders are still coming to
hand for various grades of oil for export.
(2) The price has fallen considerably during
the last few months; this oil now brings
only about 91d. to lOd. per lb. delivered in
London. (3) 91b. per ton of leaves and ter-
minal branchlets. (4) From £5 to £2O.
according to whether the material is new or
second-hand, and dependent upon the in-
genuity displayed in setting up the still. (5)
Pamphlets and bulletins can be obtained
from the Curator,' Sydney Technological
Museum, H'arris-street, Ultimo.
Is it a fact that, by Ordcr-in-Council .
Queensland station hands have been excluded
from the operation of the Arbitration Act
for 12 months? If so, from what date? —
9321.
. Yes, from September 11 last.
(1) Are there Government-appointed
managers in charge of N.S.W. country wheat
silos during the season? (2) What is their
rate of pay?- —9428.
(1) Yes! Usually a resident of the dis-
trict. (2) 10s. per 1000 bushels and £4 per
week.
In 1910 I took shares in a N.S.W. Starr
Bowkett Society, and paid all instalments
promptly. Since then I have drawn £4OO
in a ballot and have paid in all £494. Last
August I got notice that all members had
drawn their ballots. Can they compel the
society to wind up? —94o2.
The members by agreement might wind up
th r e society, but it is not in . the power of a
section of'them to compel winding up. In
some cases the Court has been appealed to
and has ordered a winding up.
Two persons own a property. If they are
registered as “tenants in common ,, or “joint
tenants” and one dies, does the other inherit
the lot ?■—9440.
Tenants in common have a title to their
shares and if one tenant dies his share
passes under his will or to his next of kin.
Joint tenants, on the other hand, have each
one estate in the whole of the property and
none in a particular part of it. On the death
of one joint tenant the whole property
passes to the survivor.
I am thinking of making a holiday tour of
Maoriland. (1) How much will it cost me
to see Rotorua, Mt. Cook, Waitomo Caves,
Milford Sound, Sutherland Falls, Frans
Joseph Glacier, Buller Gorge, Wanganui
River, Lake Taupo, Auckland, Wellington
and Christchurch, and can I do the lot in
six iceeks? 1 live in Melbourne. (2) Whom
should I apply to for tickets, etc., and can
I pay in advance, thus dodging exchange dif-
ficulties? (3) What is the best way to
transmit money over there for use on tour?
(4) What would a three ieeeks' tour cost,
and what places could be included? —9646.
(1) First-class steamer and railway and
best hotels, £lO7, plus railway or steamer
fare. Sydney to Melbourne on return journey ;
first-class steamer, second-class railway and
medium-tariff hotels, £lOO, also plus Sydney
to Melbourne fare. (2) M.L. Government
Agent, 59 William-street, Melbourne, will
arrange everything and accept payment for
all steamer, rail and hotel charges. Apply
to him for free booklet giving itinerary of
15 tours of from 19 to 41 days’ duration..
(3) Bv bank letter of credit. Most banks
in Australia have M.L. branches or agencies.
(4) £49 to £56. Various itineraries could
be arranged, embracing show places of either
island.
Does Anybody Know ?
How To cure- pups 1 bf a habit of -chasing;
rabbits? —9275.
Brief Answers.
Fitz: Not available locally. Write to the
•Admiralty, London... .J.H.: “Figuratively, lam in
the clouds” is correct. “Literally, I am in the
clouds” is an. exaggeration in antithesis of the
• fact, and though such a misuse of the term is
often made colloquially, it is not good English....
R.Y.: See Coane’s “Australian Roads.” It may
be possible to borrow it through Country Lending
Branch, N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney. See also,
N.S.W. Main Roads Board’s specimen drawings of
road construction (Nos. A 478, A47Ba, A47Bb and
A 417) obtainable from Govt. Printer, Sydney, 3d.
each. .. . A.M.: Write to Mrs. A. H. McNall, hon.
sec., District Nursing Assoc., Winslow, Pinehill-
avenue, Double Bay, Sydney... .X.Y.Z.: (1) W. Mc-
Dougall’s “Physiological Psychology,” Is. 9d., second-
hand; “Introduction to Social Psychology,” 155., and
M. Ginsberg’s “Psychology of Society,” 7s. 9d. (2)
Lyster Ormsby, 235 Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
W.M.M.: You should collect Unemployment Relief
Tax in respect of all amounts of tl or over paid
to each of the persons engaged. .. .C.R.G.: “Cali-
fornian Fruits,” by Wickson, 245. ; “Peach Growing,”
by Gould, 11s. 6d.; “Principles of Irrigation
Practice,” by Widstoe, 13s. 6d. ; “Irrigation and
Drainage,” by King, 13s. 6d. ; “The Cultivation of
Citrus Fruits,” by Hume, 275. Cd.; and “Citrus
Fruits,” by Coit, 13s. 6d.; are all good.
Free literature from Agriculture Department,
Sydney... .C. 8.5.: Employees working in N.S.W.
orchards are not covered by an award.... G.H.:
Write to the Court asking for time to pay,
stating your circumstances. If the Court does not
grant your application, approach your neighbor on the
matter... .P.F.F.: (1) A fair number of cases is
seen. (2) Not known. (3) Some surgeons specialise
in the condition. Fee is a of arrangement.
(4) If you have any doubts, report to the surgeon
who die! the operation and ask his advice. There
would be no harm in asking him to arrange a
consultation with another specialist... .D.M.: Nosco
Weed Killer, from A. Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney; lib. tins, 2s. 6d. ; 71b.
11s. 6d 0.F.: Yes. The width of the foot-
way does not affect a person’s liability in respect
of kerbing and guttering charges. Section 243
N. Local Government Act covers the question.
. ...J.C.: Electric motors cost from £4 to £8 17s.
6d., sound chambers from 3s. 6d., tone-arm and
speaker outfit 80s., and cabinets from £3. Materials,
together with particulars regarding assembling, can
be obtained from most large gramophone dealers.
... .H.P.M.1.: An owner of freehold property
in Queensland can prevent persons cutting timber
on his land, and can sell timber off it
G.E.M.: Write Mines Department, Pretoria....
P.H.P.: At June 30, 1914, Commonwealth owed
£19,182,333; States, £320,254,599. Total,
£339,436,932 F.D.: Stocked by J. Connell and
Co., 355 lient-street Sydney... .R.G.S.: Lord Hallam
Tennyson, eldest son of the poet, was Governor of
S.A. from April, 1899, to January, 1903, and second
Governor-General till January, 1904 N. 8.:
Probably a wirrah, a fish found on both the
eastern and western coasts of Australia. It lives
among rocks. Though reaching a length of 18in.,
it is of little edible value, being tough and coarse.
. ...E.C.M.: Causes of strikes in N.S.W., from 1924
to 1929, were: Disputes about wages, 42 per cent.;
disputes relating to working conditions, 22 per cent.;
employment of persons or classes of persons, 15 per
cent.; and disputes regarding hours, 11 per cent.
.. . .P.T.: Illegitimate children are excluded gener-
ally under the N.S.W. Family Endowment Act, but
the Commissioner of Family Endowment has dis-
cretionary power in special circumstances. . . . J.W.M .:
(1) Can’t express an opinion. (2) It might. (3)
Most probably it would. .. .T.W.Q.: (1) As a matter
of strict etiquette, printed business stationery should
not be used for private communications. (2) They
should be acknowledged as soon as possible. . . .S.A.:
We know of no method of retarding a dog’s natural
growth. . . .K.B. : As a substitute for milk in the
case of lambs, barley water is prepared by boiling
barley" in the proportion of one part of the grain
to five parts of water. The grain is then strained
through cheese-cloth and the liquid fed at blood
heat. About *one'teaspoonful of cod-liver oil is added
to each feed.... J.II. M.: You are the owner of the
sheep. If you 1 are unable to pay the debt, the mort-
gagee is entitled to take the sheep. It does not affect
your wife’s stock or other property S.G.W.: You
may not destroy them. Write to the owner asking
him to keep the geese within his premises, otherwise
you will hold him responsible for any damage they
may do within your enclosed land... .R.C.C.: An
article on the subject will appear on the Land Page
shortly W.W.P.: Carat is a weight used in weigh-
ing precious stones, equal to about four grains ; as
a term it is used to denote the fineness of gold, 24ct.
being taken as pure gold, whilst 18ct. means 18
parts pure gold and six of some other metal....
V. Strictly, blank verse is any unrhymed verse;
but in ■ ordinary use it is. confined to the five-foot,
iambic unrhymed verse in which “Paradise Lost
and a good deal of Shakspeare’s plays are written.
... .G.E.: The comet you have in mind, said to be
the brightest of recent years, was discovered by
Mr. Skjellerup, of Melbourne, on the morning of
December 4, 1927. It was visible in daylight, and
on December 15 it was seen very near the sun and
was brighter than Venus S.H.D.: See J. P.
Zavela’s “The Canning of Fruits and Vegetables”
(165.) and E. F. Schwaab’s “The Secrets of Canning”
(195.) M.J.: He is wrong. The establishment of
new States is possible under the Constitution....
W. : N.S.W. Health Department will supply free
pamphlet giving directions for treatment of insect
and marine animal stings or bites H.F.S.: The
Colong Caves (N.S.W.) are about 90 miles from
Sydney ; train to Camden, service car to Yerranderie,
thence by bridle track. N.S.W. Government Tourist
Bureau, Sydney, will advise regarding accommodation
at Yerranderie. There is not much readily available
literature. See “The Australian Museum Magazine,”
April-June, 1928 C.D.: The postmaster acted in
accordance with the regulations in refusing delivery of
the articles. See Section 71 Postal Regulations and
Rules in “Commonwealth Post Office Guide”. . . .W.J.:
Can’t furnish any advice as to how opium is made.
. ...A.S.: There are, but it would be dangerous to
apply without a knowledge of first aid G.T.:
Every stipendiary or police magistrate has the powers
and duties of a coroner in all parts of N.S.W.,
except the metropolitan police district, which is
under the jurisdiction of the city coroner. In
districts not readily accessible by police’ magis-
trates, a local resident, usually a J.P., is appointed
coroner. .. .W. 8.: The possessions of the Nether-
lands in the East and West Indies comprise
about 788,000 sq. m., and carry, a population of
51,881,862 P.0.R.: A wyvern is a heraldic mon-
ster a’ sort of dragon, with wings, ‘ eagle’s legs and
a tapering body... .G.A.D.: It. is from Wordsworth’s
“A* Poet’s Epitaph” and reads, “One • that would
peep and botanise upon :his : mothers: grave”.. . .
A.W.E.: It contains aluminium hydrate, carbolic
acid, ammonium icthosulphonate, lead .oxide, mer-
curic chloride and zinc sulphocarbolate. It is effi-
cacious in the treatment of sores and skin affections.
. ...J.J.G.r Write A. R. Penfold, Curator, Techno-
logit-al Museum, Harris-street,- - Sydney'... . (Many
others mailed.)


m
m
.
iQaiil
r
v 3
3/
E
*
V
.
.
II
■s
a
K
B
f
A
.
R
2
i
4
m
i ■
X
Ol
Bhi
v v
-.
.
■• ■■
mm.
* ¥
■
m&.
hr'.
SB.?.
S*»S
sssis?
He
ms
mr^ tir
H
mmtmi
«
*
*
mm
i/n
&*.<
X
7,
6\)
K
fo
7
j
+4
h
■?
■ .■"
/
V
/
k
m
m
sti
k
A
!M
X
lIS
2
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD
9,
OPENED IN AN INSTANT
NO CORKSCREW REQUIRED


ft
CHAMPION
%
our pipe's
best friend
CHAMPION TOBACCO A STRENGTH FOR EVERY TASTE
HI Mi | dVo H II || t ,- ; I B ,


I M£i&
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner ,i
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
REPAIRS.
"OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS."
Firearms sent C.O.D.
The Famous Hollis 12-gauge Guns
specially made for me to suit Australian
Conditions.
Hollis "Foxey” Hammer Model, £l3
Hollis Special Hammerless
Model £2l
Specifications for both Guns: 30- or 32-ineh
Barrels, both full choke, chambered for Sin.
cartridges, high file cut rib, treble wedge
fast crossbolt (hammer model side clips),
selected English walnut stock, weight 7Jlb. to
Sib. each. POST FREE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Market Street).
"Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
Victoria Racing Club
Flemington.
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY Ist NOVEMBER
CUP DAY 4th NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY 6th NOVEMBER
STEEPLECHASE DAY, Bth NOVEMBER
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £40,000.
£lO,OOO added to Melbourne Cup and
Gold Cup of £2OO.
£5OOO added to the Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Icnow.
Amusements,
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION:
THIS THING CALLED LOVE
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MR. CINDERS.
COMEDY THEATRE: THE ROAD TO
ROMANCE
(COMMENCING NOVEMBER 1).
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
1 MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
HERE’S LUCK.
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The racing at Moonee Valley threw some
light on prospects for the V.R.C. spring
meeting. Phar Lap duly won the W. S. Cox
Plate, run at weight-for-age over a distance
of 91 furlongs; but Amouhis had been with-
drawn, and backers were required to lay
7to 1 on Telford’s chestnut. Mollison alone
attempted to make things willing for Phar
Lap all through. If Sydney stewards acted
rightly in censuring the rider of Nightmarch
for not keeping closer to Phar Lap, some
inquiry ought to have been made regarding
what happened behind the champion at the
Valley. The pace was not terrific, yet
Tregilla, Veilmond and others dropped back
as if a marathon journey was in progress.
Tregilla came home well, and deprived Mol-
lison of second place; Veilmond was a miser-
able fourth. Obviously Tregilla beat him on
his merits in the A.J.O. Derby, though nearly
every sporting writer swore that Moss’s colt
was the victim of misfortune.
Phar Lap travelled with the utmost
docility for Pike. With Mollison to make
the pace, he did not pull an ounce. Pike
put the screw on about two and a half fur-
longs from home, and the champion immedia-
tely drew away, winning on the bit. Spec-
tators would have preferred something more
spectacular, and bookmakers, unimpressed by
the display, were emboldened to offer slightly
longer odds against Phar Lap for the Mel-
bourne Cup. Pike is an artist, and may
have prevented the Night Raid gelding from
doing anything dramatic. From one point
of view it is encouraging to know that Phar
Lap has shed the propensity to pull.
Shadow King (7 to 1) registered a well-
earned victory in the Gold .Cup. The Bul-
letin’s second choice, Kenney (25 to 1),
finished well, and was beaten by a mere
head; Salonia (33 to 1) was a close third.
The favorite, Spang, was ridden with little
judgment; he finished fifth. Taisho was a
disappointment, and The Doctor’s Orders
came in last; but Cimbrian ran a fair race.
A division of the Juvenile Handicap re-
sulted in Bassanton (7 to 4 on), the A.J.O.
Gimcrack Stakes winner, losing by half a
head to the Chief Ruler filly, La Justice
(15 to 1), who is in the Phar Lap stable.
Positions ought to have been reversed, as
Cook kept Bassanton under heavy pressure
all the way. and La Justice was enabled to
obtain the last run. Duncan met with an
ovation on riding C. B. Kellow’s Gallantic
(evens) to victory in another division of
the race. The little man had been out of
action for nearly 12 months, and this was
his first winning mount after resumption of
duty.
Wise Force, carrying 9st. 131 b., lost the
Dundonald Handicap by half a head to the
fast-finishing outsider Garonwy (16 to 1).
The price (8 to J) suggested that he had
not fully recovered from the effects of the
recent doping, but he ran a splendid race.
With 111 b. off his back in the Cantala Stakes,
the Queensland stallion, twice conqueror of
Amounts, will cut out a merry mile.
sie * 3:
Unluckily for Battye, Tregilla is not in
the Victoria Derby. Green Wave, the Caul-
field Guineas winner, will be another absen-
tee; but Green Wave is evidently only a
miler, whereas the chestnut colt from Syd-
ney has demonstrated his ability to go a
mile and a half. Veilmond was a close second
to Tregilla in the A.J.C. Derby, but his
showing at Moonee Valley was anything but
impressive. Autumn Balloon is a very fit
horse, and very consistent. The Doctor’s
Orders is clearly no stayer, and Rigadoon
looks the best of the Victorians.
It was even-money Phar Lap when bet-
ting closed on the last Melbourne Cup, and
Telford’s horse may go to a still shorter
price next Tuesday. Glare came out
of the race last week; so did Cragford, who,
if all had gone well with him, might have
been Phar Lap’s most formidable opponent.
Sore and poor, he finished a good fourth
in the Caulfield Cup after getting the worst
of a scrimmage and being knocked bac%
many lengths. Nine-twelve is a tremendous
burden for a four-year-old in the most
arduous rare of the year, yet Phar Lap
has deserved every pound of it. And if
he has fair average luck this Page expects
him to triumph’. But, because the price
is so cramped, and because even a Phar
Lap can’t afford to be a bit off color, or to
strike heavy going, or to have a rough
passage—any of which factors is possible—
it proposes to bracket something with him
tor a win and a place.”
Carradale? He is nicely treated with Sst.
91b., and chased Phar Lap in last year’s
yup alter having pursued him unavail-
mgly in both Derbies—until he ran out
wme. Soulton? He has been fifth and
third in _ Sydney Cups, and second to
Amounis in the Caulfield Cup; a seasoned
and consistent horse who could scarcely
have been given less than Sst. 21b. Nadean?
Winner of the Australian Cup in fast time;
o r7i ar k & P, as a three-year-old with
Jst. olb., beat. her pointless in the King’s
Cup, and there is only 91b. more between them
now. And she was nowhere in the Moonee
Cup. Star God (7st. 111 b.)? He
should have won the Queensland Cup with
Sst. (the race was run in 3.25|), and is
just the sort of cranky beggar to create
a surprise, if he will do his best. He ran
a couple of meritorious races at Randwick,
finishing well in both', and The Btjixetin
lias never seen him looking better. Tregilla
(7st. 61b.)? A good honest colt, and evi-
dently a stayer; and a decent three-year-
old is always to be reckoned with. Veil-
mond (7st. 61b.) ? Another youngster who
is highly thought of at Randwick, though
he doesn’t look so rugged a fellow as Tre-
gilla, and was lengths behind the chestnut on
Saturday. Balloon King (7st. 51b.) ? Outshone
by Tregilla and Veilmond at Randwick, but
will be trained to the minute, and may
relish the weight. Quickfirer (7st. 31b.) ? A
high-priced yearling who has been raced
little, but has done rather well this season ;
third in the A.J.C. Trial Stakes and first
in the Sydney Handicap. Aleman (7st.
31b.)? Third in the Caulfield Cup and an
improving sort. Rigadoon (7st. lib.)? If
he shapes well in the Derby will be the
medium of some support, but his Guineas
failure is against him. John Buchan’s
case (John has 7st. 51b.) seems hope-
less since he died on hi,s run in the
A.J.C. Waverley Handicap; still
WHERE HE FAILED.
“I hear Jenkins has done a lot of these holes in one.”
“Yes; but never the nineteenth.”
there are few handsomer horses in training.
Fancies:—
Melbourne Stakes; Phar Dap.
Cantala Stakes: Wise Force; next,
Panola.
Maribyrnong Plate: High Brae; next,
Bassanton.
Victorian Derby: Autumn Balloon, 1;
Veilmond, 2; Rigadoon, 3.
Melbourne Cup: Phar Dap or Tregilla;
next, Star God.
$ H*
A great deal of nonsense is published in
Sydney about the losses of bookmakers. They
really had a losing day at Canterbury Park,
but it was the first of the kind for months;
moreover, they bet so cautiously at these
suburban meetings that they never lose much.
Johnstone’s jockeysliip was a feature of the
day; he rode three winners—Pro Note in
the Maiden Handicap, King’s Minstrel in
the Juvenile Handicap, and Credence in the
Flying Handicap—and two seconds —Just
Gold, just beaten by Veneer, a smart Valais
gelding owned and trained by Booth, in a
division of the Highweight Handicap; and
Prince Otto, who accounted for everything
but Leisure Hour in the Campsie Handicap.
The grey Credence has had a lot of racing
since he was brought down from Queensland
—and he had a good bit there, too—but he
retains his speed and condition. Though bad
at the barrier, he always jumps away well.
Johnstone let him run in behind Ivala Moti
and then came away, Prince Verderer dis-
placing Kala Moti in the run home. Cred-
ence was favorite at threes.
Most of the big Maoriland contingent has
gone home, but Richfield remained behind.
Favorite, at 7 to 4 (5 to 2 was laid), for
the first division of the Highweight Handi-
cap, he never left the result in doubt, and
now that he evidently returned to his Maori-
land form, which was pretty good, he should
place another race or two to his credit. He
is a gelded son of Acre, by Dinacre; Acre
has sired a lot of winners beyond the
Tasman.
A field of pretty good quality came out
fov the Canterbury Handicap; it included
Jeypore, Kidaides and Papatu. Jeypore was
favorite, 7 to 4 being the closing price; and,
ridden very intelligently by the apprentice
Goldstone, who understands him perfectly,
he gladdened the hearts of the ladies who fol-
lowed him on the tote by adding another
stake to his creditable list. But Goldstone
had to ride him strenuously over the last bit,
so fast did Flinders come, and there was
only a neck between them at the finish.
Papatu was third.
The good-looking Deisure Hour had a com-
fortable win in the last race, and went out
at a nice price—sixes. It was his first
success at nine furlongs. Gleaner, the favo-
rite, was third. There was a lot of money
for Woodgera, a clumsy-looking beggar, who
never showed up.
* # * *
The Rosehill Club has a meeting to-day
and another on Saturday. Kelso has a likely
pair that are engaged on both days—Flin-
dors, with 7st. 111 b. in the October Handi-
cap, 10 furlongs, to-day, and with the same
weight in the November Handicap, 11 fur-
longs, on Saturday; Gleaner, with Bst. 111 b.
in the Parramatta Mile to-day and the Rydal-
mere Mile on Saturday. They should be
worth following. Confider (Bst. 41b.) seems
a probable winner of to-day’s Granville
Stakes.
* :J: >;: ,
The decision of the A.J.C. to reinstate all
persons and horses disqualified by reason of
their association with unregistered meetings
is a move of doubtful wisdom. When a similar
course was taken some years ago, it was
soon found that little advantage accrued
to anyone concerned. Several trainers came
back to registered racing bringing 'their
horses with them. Few did any good and
most returned sooner or later to the unregis-
tered ranks. Racing itself certainly does
not benefit by the transfer of unregistered
horses, which are, for the most part, inferior
crocks.
* * * *
The A.J.C., faced with falling revenues, is
to reduce prize money for the summer meeting
at the end of December, the added monev
being about £3OOO less than that given for
the same meeting last year. The Villiers
has been cut from £l5OO to £lOOO and the
Summer Cup from £2500 to £l5OO. Other
events are docked £lOO with the exception
of the Chisholm Handicap, which drops from
£750 to £5OO. Warwick Farm prize money
for the meeting on December 3 and 6 has
not been touched, standing at £1250 for the
first day and £2250 for the second, including
the £lOOO Kirkham Stakes.
$ 4: $
“Thormanby”: The British Government
finds itself in a quandary over the recent
development in Ireland of huge sweeps on
the principal racing events in England. The
first of the kind is a £lOO,OOO affair on the
Manchester November Handicap. The
sweeps are sanctioned by the Free State
Government, and no direct ban can be put
on them by the British authorities. Con-
sidering that it is doubtful whether the tiny
population of Ireland will contribute more
than 20 p.c. of tlie_ total subscribed, the
balance coming from , Britain, the prospect
of all that cash going across St. George’s
Channel is not pleasing to the Briton. No
doubt a proportion of it will come back, but
some is sure to stay. Worse than that, there
is to be an intensive sweep campaign next
racing season on all the English classics.
Britain is wondering whether the better
course is to illegalise the dispatch of money
to Ireland—and Australian experience has
shown that method to be futile—or to start
its own sweeps with a big' cut for charitable
purposes.
* * * *
“Morphcttville”: Maoriland and N.S.W.
are not the only places lamenting the fall
in tote takings (B. 22/10/’3O). South Aus-
tralian totalisator betting for the year end-
ing June 30 dropped £llO,OOO on the pre-
vious year’s cash-in. There were 113 meet-
ings held during the year as opposed to
145 for the prior period, but this is not
blamed so much for the falling-off as the
competition from bookmakers working in the
shelter of licensed premises.
* * * *
“Kokopo” : When the Australian Navy
anchors in Port Phillip for the naval manoe-
uvres at Flemington, its personnel will be a bit
blase with racing, after having attended the
Cup meeting of the Rabaul Amateur Turf
Club at Dakunai. There was a tote, which
is more than Flemington can offer the
visitors, while the much-boomed Melbourne
course will be unable to put on the attraction
of a special Hurry Scurry for ratings of the
R.A.N. such as graced the New Guinea
meeting. In this last event, by the way,
only one of the starters finished the course,
and, of course, collected the prize. Det him
go down to fame as one Messenger, riding
Greta Boy. Beside this enthralling spectacle,
the New Guinea Cup, won by J. E. Sabine’s
Enchant, and the Rapindik Handicap for
native riders only, were as a tinkling cymbal.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Tony Tqzzolino, the Italian-American
middleweight, made a successful first appear-
ance at Sydney Stadium, knocking out tougls
Frank Van in the 14th round. There was
plenty of hard punching by both men, but
Van was at a disadvantage in height and
reach, and fought much below the form he
showed against Haines. Tuzzolino isn’t a
champion, but punches viciously with both
hands.
* * * *
The heavyweight bout at Melbourne
Stadium between Fred Young (14.1|) and
Jack O’Malley (12.8) was an exhibition of
.siatherumwhack, in which each took turns
at all but knocking the other out. Indeed,
both were helpless on the canvas in the
eighth, but the bell saved the staggered
referee from giving a decision. In round
10. when both were out op their feet, a hay-
maker from Young dropped O’Malley as cold
as an Eskimo “poi,” the verdict going accord-
ingly.
:|= * * *
“Tenakoe”: Alfred Oleverley, light-heavy-
weight champion of Maoriland, has made
tracks for America; the Railway Depart-
ment has given him 12 months’ leave
of absence to try his luck. Unless
Cleverley is unusually fortunate, it will
take him that time to get a match. He
will be remembered as the youngster who,
when he was not included in the last M.D.
boxing team for the Olympiad, worked his
own passage over in the stokehold and got
there all the same.
The big Sydney-Melbourne bicycle race,
run in stages on the Continental plan, ended
in a triumph for the French riders. Josef
Mauclair was first with the aggregate riding
time of 44hr. 56min. 20sec. Hubert Opperman
was second with 45hr. 6min. 50sec., and
Frenchman Jean Bidot third with 45hr.
6min. 50 3-ssec., thus helping his compatriot
to secure the teams race as well for France.
Hs sj* H* sfc
The N.S.W. professional golf championship,
played on the Royal Sydney course at Rose
Bay, ended in a clear-cut win for the 20-
year-old W. Bolger, who beat his veteran
opponent D. G. Soutar 8 up and 7 to play.
(Continued on next page.)


Bert: I was plavinig, water-
polo THIS MORHINe’ 5
<Sec?t: Polo in the wmer ? ”
E>ejrt \" Ves, qreat sport ”
c.
Qerx; It may be for you, but
Haven't you any pvvy for,
the poor pomes ?•»
The Ins and Outs
“ ’Badian” : Some idea of the strength of
the West Indians soon to be with us may
be gathered from their Test performances
against the formidable English team which
toured the islands two' seasons ago. They
drew the match at Barbadoes, won the Trini-
dad fixture, lost the game at Demerara, and
were forced to abandon the final in Jamaica
on account of rain. Some of the criticisms
of the team in the W.I. press are interest-
ing. Here is one on E. St. Hill, described
as a fine medium spin bowler: Hill “likes
to command rather than be commanded on
the field, and likes to bowl all day and take
all the wickets.” Also, if he is changed he
gets annoyed and will not run after the ball
or even catch it. The chronicler forecasts
that the barracking of Australian crowds may
have a salutary effect on the young gentle-
man. Maybe, but we have had one or two
of his sort in Australian cricket before to-
day.
* * $ *
“Hillite” : The N.S.W. cricket heads have
resolved to reduce the prices of admission
to the Sheffield and West Indian games on
Sydney Cricket Ground. For the Tests
against the W.I. side the charge will be
2s. to the ground and 3s. 6d. to the grand-
stand for adults, with half-price for children,
this representing a drop of 6d. in the grand-
stand charges, though the hillites remain “as
you were.” For the State matches against
the visitors another 6d. comes off grandstand
and ground charges. Sheffield rates will be
3s. grandstand and a bob the ground The
concessions are not tremendous. Still one
must be thankful for the smallest of finan-
cial mercies in these days.
**' * *
. “Hambledon”: Some of the diehards are
kicking at the decision to use the larger
wickets in the Sheffield Shield games this
season. They forget that the size of the
stumps has been steadily increasing since
the beginning of cricket history. Over 200
years ago only one stump 18 inches high
was used. For this were presently substi-
tuted two of 12 inches, with a 24-inch-
long bail connecting them. Next the two
were raised to 22 inches in height and placed
six inches apart. Later a change was made
to 24 inches high wfitli a seven-inch interval
between. Some years later two inches were
added to the height, and in 1817 the sticks
became 27 inches high and 8 inches wide
over all. These measurements prevailed over
100 years, until the Marylebone club decided
on the larger wicket for the county matches,
which Australia in its turn is adopting.
“Bowen Hills”: The smouldering ani-
mosity between the Queensland cricket offi-
ces and Leo O’Connor, for years skipper
ot the Queensland side, came to a head the
ofher day when O’Connor was superseded in
the captaincy by the selection committee,
which appointed Gough to the job. O’Con-
nor thereupon announced his retirement from
inter-State cricket, though he will still play
in club games. Though O’Connor has not
had a fair deal of late from the Queensland
heads, few will sympathise with his attitude.
He has had a good spin as leader of the
Maroons.
*{{
“Gabba”: Queensland is hoping that a
fast bowler of quality has at last been vouch-
safed the State cricket side, which is badly
in need of something of the sort. He is an
aboriginal named Gilbert, and came to light
with one of the provincial teams during coun-
try colts’ week. Described as a very fast
right-hander, he made a great impression
against metropolitan colts, taking 6 for 29
on a perfect wicket. Queensland was once
well served by another abo. bowler, Alec
Henry, who had a tremendous turn of speed
for half a dozen overs and was a very fine
mid-off to boot.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: In the absence of Grimmett,
Walker and Richardson, South Aus. seems to
have searched the past and the future to
make up its team for the tour of the Eastern
States. . Pritchard will skipper the side
until Richardson is again available, and
though new men like Waite, Tobin, Catch-
love and Deverson have been included, the
State’s paucity of bowlers is revealed in the
selection of the veteran left-hander T. Carl-
ton, who first made hi s bow in Sheffield
games for Victoria many moons ago. Parry,
who has . appeared in five matches for the
State, will do the stumping for the time
being.
* * * *
“Spare Grace”: This year’s Sheffield
Shield matches will last four full days only,
the irritating experiment of playing for a
few hours on the fifth morning with the
idea of getting a definite decision having
been abandoned because it never did result
in a definite decision. Indeed, it seems
about time a return was made to the old
system of three-day matches, results to be
settled on points. At present a side gets
5 points for an outright win, 3 for a
first innings’ win, and .1 for a loss on the
first innings. For a draw or an abandoned
match each side books 2 points. One inno-
vation which should tend to speeding up
play is that an innings may be declared
closed at any time after the end of the
first day.
* * *
The N.S.W. Cricket Association’s Year
Book for 1929-30 is the completest thing of
its kind outside Wisden, and as far as Aus-
tralian cricket records go is uuapproaehed
anywhere. In it are included the rules of
cricket, with notes and comment carefully
brought up to date. A new and attractive
feature is a section showing the complete bat-
ting and bowling averages of all English
teams to visit Australia, and of all Austra-
lian sides which have toured England. Well
printed, the production is a credit to secre-
tary Heydon, who has worked indefatigably
upon it.
* * * *
“Rottnest” : Westralia is annoyed•because
manager Kelly, giving no reasons, refused
the request of the W.A.C.A. for a one-day
match at Perth against the returning
team. As the association anticipated
the extension of a courtesy which has almost
come to be a convention, it made elaborate
preparations which are now in vain. One
way and another, the conduct of affairs dur-
ing this last cricket tour has given rise
to considerable criticism both in England and
Australia. All lovers of a hullabaloo are
eagerly looking forward to the time when the
official report of the tour is presented for
inspection to the Board of Control and the
public whose money makes the board and its
officials possible.
* * * *
“Jolimcunt”: The Ryder testimonial
match, starting in Melbourne on November
14, will give . cricket followers their last
chance of seeing the victorious Australian
Eleven in action. The Victorian selectors
cannot be congratulated on their choice of
a team to meet the tourists. It is ridiculous
to select such ancients as Ellis. Blackie and
Ironmonger, to say nothing of Hendry, when
youthful bowlers and batsmen are knocking
at the door by dozens. The N.S.W. contin-
gent, including as it does Andrews and
Mailey, is even more ridiculous, when one
considers the omission of that most success-
ful bowler of last season, Chilvers, who was
seriously considered for the English tour.
Ron Oxenliam and Harris are the respective
representatives of Queensland and South
Australia.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: There seems to be but
one god in Australian sport worship to-day
and his name is “Gate.” When the N.S.W.
cricket authorities decided to fall into line
with their brethren of Queensland and Vic-
toria last week and compel complete cover-
ing of the wicket for the Sheffield Shield
and West Indian matches, they offered up a
sacrifice to the deity which should go far to
reduce the already farcical conditions of big
cricket to imbecility. Most Australian bats-
men have utterly forgotten how to bat on a
rain-affected wicket, though some members
of the Australian team in England pain-
fully learned the art during the course of
the season. Others were at the mercy of
third-rate county bowlers who knew how to
utilise their opportunity. Nearly all our
bowlers are equally at sea on sticky wickets,
which, under the covering-the-wicket obses-
sion, they never have a chance to study.
* * * *
“Augur”: The decision of the Board of
Control to institute a committee of five to
select the Australian teams to meet the
West Indies has given rise to caustic criti-
cism. N.S.W., Queensland, Victoi’ia and
South Australia each yelped so loudly for
representation that their claims had to be
acceded to. To avoid a deadlock, a Tassy
rep. was thrown in, though the Speck isn’t
in the Sheffield ring. That good sportsman
and former Australian Eleven man Charley
Eady was the choice. Now he says he cannot
take the job on for various reasons, one of
them being that he never sees any mainland
cricket. The only other Tassy dweller with
qualifications for the job is Joe Darling. But
Joseph, before he anchored in the Apple Isle,
was a dyed-in-the-wool South Australian, and
his inclusion on the committee would cer-
tainly produce a kick like unto that of 17
mules from the other States.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: English selectors are evi-
dently still at sixes and sevens in the matter
of choosing a captain to lead their side. The
Marylebone team which has just left to
tour South Africa will be skippered by Chap-
man, who was pushed through the window
to allow Wyatt to lead England in the final
and deciding Test against Australia at the
Oval. However, Wyatt is included in the
side as a player, and so is J. C. White, an-
other who has captained England. Patsy
Hendren is also in the team, and another is
Voce, the young professional who was in-
cluded in the selections for the Tests against
Australia but failed to get a place in the
final pick. Woodfull’s men thought a lot
of him from his performances against them
for his county, Notts. A good showing in
South Africa should put him in the running
for the next trip to Australia.
* * * *
“Hove”: Australia’s old friend Maurice
Tate was accorded a benefit this season, and
when the match takings and donations were
counted up it was found that the great
Sussex trier had netted £l9OO. This is a
record for the county, though some of the
big Yorkshire benefits, notably those for
Bobby Peel and George Hirst, ran to more
than double that amount. Tate is still the
best bowler in England, leaving Australian
MacDonald on one side, and it is more than
likely we shall see him here with the next
English team. He is 35, but has plenty of
bowling still in him, and is even more for-
midable in Australia than on his native
heath.
Racquet and Bawl
“Fitzcray” : Victorian tennis umpires have
been debating a teasel’. B returned a ball
to A, the server, which was obviously going
out. Seeing this, A dropped two other balls
he was holding in his hand, and while these
were falling the ball from B struck them.
They fell in the court, in which A was
also standing. Had B’s ball been struck
by one from another court, as sometimes
happens, a “let” would be called, as the rules
provide. There is no provision for such a
case as that quoted, but the general opinion
is that the dropping of the balls was A’s
fault, and that he should therefore be penal-
ised.
* * *
“Hotham”: Victorian' tennis has suffered
of late years from inattention to the im-
portant matter of coaching juniors, in which
respect the Cabbage Gardeners are far be-
hind their N-S.W. brethren. Steps have
been taken to remedy this, and O’Hara Wood
has undertaken to supervise the play of
promising juniors. Now Mrs. Harper is to
do the same thing for the girls, the candi-
dates for coaching being chosen in both cases
by a committee of the Victorian Associa-
tion. The services of the pair are on an
entirely voluntary basis, and it is to be
hoped that this sportsmanlike spirit will
be rewarded with the discovery of another
Norman Brookes or Dunlop who may at pre-
sent be blushing unseen.
“Top Spin” : In spite of Lang’s non-depres-
sion theory, the N.S.W. tennis authorities
have found it necessary to lower their fees
for the State and Country championships.
The fees for the Australian tourney, which
will be played in Sydney at the beginning of
March, are a matter for the Australian
Tennis Council, which has as yet said no-
thing about a reduction in the entrance
charges. N.S.W. will play its inter-State
matches against Queensland and Victoria
on February 26 and 27, just prior to the
Australian championships. Preliminary
rounds for the State titles will be played a
week earlier than the finals, so as to avoid
overworking the winners, who will have a
full week of tennis ahead of them at the
All-Australian meeting.
* * * a:
“Cash Amateur”: Vincent Richards’s
early retirement from professional tennis
after only four years of it leads one to
wonder what he will do now. Although he
has never won the American singles title,
he has given Tilden a hot go for it on more
than one . occasion. In the doubles he has
proved himself one of the greatest players
of all time, having figured in the champion
U.S. pair on five occasions since 1918, when,
as a boy of 15, he partnered Tilden. Richards
won the American Boys’ title when 14, and
the junior championship from 1919 to 1921.
It was in 1919 that he outed Tilden in the
indoor championship, a wonderful feat for a
lad of 16.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Vincent Richards may be re-
instated as an amateur. There is plenty of
precedent, the Americans themselves having
reinstated Mary Brown, while France has
welcomed such players as Feret back to the
fold and would undoubtedly receive an appli-
cation from Suzanne Lenglen with delight.
There is nothing wrong with the young
man’s form, for since he turned pro. he
has won three of the four American profes-
sional championships staged, beating the for-
midable Ivozeluh on each occasion. His ser-
vices seem too valuable to be lost to America
should he apply for the whitewash brush.
•** * *
“Colombes”: French tennis scribes have
been falling foul of the American tennis
authorities for suddenly deciding to play
Tilden in the challenge match for the Davis
Cup at Paris. It certainly was something
of a somersault on the part of the Yankees,
who had formally forbidden American play-
ers to wi’ite tennis matter for the press.
Tilden did this openly during the Davis
Cup games in England and elsewhere, and
was therefore ineligible to represent his
country under the American law. The
special rule was, however, hurriedly
rescinded at the last moment, and Tilden
pitchforked into the side to meet France.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Ela”: Port Moresby, in Papua, having
sealed itself irrevocably to golf, has now to
assume responsibility for the inoculation of
the not-altogether unsophisticated native
with the virus. According to a returned tra-
veller, it is a common sight to see numbers
of natives with improvised clubs and—pro-
bably—-stolen balls, playing on the beaches
or other convenient spots. It is also asserted
that the dusky enthusiasts, tfiostly caddies
with the local club, have learned to repeat
such expressions as “Beastly fluke !” “Bonzer
shot!” “Bally well bunkered again !” and so
on. It may be so, but somehow the language
is not. characteristic of “Port” as I once
knew it. In those days the golfer or any-
one else using such an expression as “bally”
would have been deported by the first boat
as an undesirable character.
* * * *
“The Mae Haggis”: Binks was having a
bad round, finding the bunkers every time
and extricating himself with groat expendi-
ture of strokes and blasphemy. Plis pro-
gress was not helped by the comments of
a couple of youths who followed him round
enjoying the situation, though both were
evidently utterly ignorant of the royal and
antient game. Then Binks played an
explosion shot from a guarding bunker, and
the ball, landing on the green, hopped into
the cup. “ ’Ere, Jimmee,” yelped one of the
watchers ecstatically to his comrade, who
had lagged behind; “ ’urry up an’ ’ave a
look at ther ole cow tryin’ ter git outer
this!”
* * * *
“Hoylake”: One ’feature of the tour of
Woodfull’s men was the avidity with
which they took up golf, though only
one or two of them had previously played
the game. The team was given a free run
on every golf course in the vicinity of its
matches, and took full advantage of the cour-
tesy. No previous Australian side , has dis-
played this enthusiasm for the royal and
antient, though some members of Collins’s
last team were noted for their devotion to
racing, and, as a rule, most of the players
found time between the matches hang on
their hands. It is more than likely that this
golfing craze, by providing a change and an
interesting relaxation, had a good deal to
do with the sustained success of the tourists,
who never showed signs of boredom or
staleness.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : Queensland golfers who are not
members .of the private clubs at last have
the promised land of the Brisbane municipal
course in sight. Fifteen greens have now
been laid, while the fairways have been
ploughed and surfaced. It has taken years
to knock the desirability of such an under-
taking into the heads of the local city fathers.
In a year or so, when they realise what a
profit accrues from an undertaking of the
sort, they will probably be kicking them-
selves for not bowing to public opinion and
starting the scheme years ago.
* *
“Cleveland”: North Queensland. , where
whites are popularly supposed to drag out
an existence with difficulty in a ferocious
climate, has just completed the women’s golf
championship of the section at Townsville.
Mrs. E. C. Jordan retained her title, going
round the 36 holes in 171 with rounds of 86
and 85 —a mighty creditable achievement.
* ❖ #
“Jericho” : Golf is sweeping over Western
Queensland like a bush fire. The great diffi-
culty is the supply of caddies. The local youth
when not at school is generally indifferent to
the task, even though there be a shilling or
two in it, and the heads of families who con-
script their young for carrying the heavy bag
of clubs in Queensland summer weather are
notably unpopular in juvenile circles. One
man, however, has solved the problem. He is
the local sergeant of police, and generally
has one or two guests in his calaboose serv-
ing short sentences. Whenever he does
a round one of these is ordered out of his
cell to accompany his gaoler as offsider. He
benefits by the change of environment and
a special issue of tobacco, supplied by the
grateful “Sarge.”
* * * *
“Artful Dodger”: It isn’t oply on Moore
Park that the thieving of golf balls flourishes
(B. 22/10/’3O). People who have philan-
thropically supplied midget golf courses to
suit the needs of a bored public are being
stung horribly. The practice is to supply each
person putting up a shilling with a golf ball
and a putter, these to be returned at the end
of the round. The putter is always handed in,
but not the ball, and as, a ball costs 3s. the
entrepreneur is a florin out on the deal. One
ingenious person has fixed up the 18th
hole so that the ball going into the cup runs
back to the issuing office along a tube.
Human ingenuity has risen superior to this
even, souveniring players now knocking off
after playing the 17th.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: Glenna Collett looks like be-
coming permanent champion of the U.S.A.,
having again collected the title by beating
Virginia van Wie at Los Angeles. The lady
won the championship as long ago as 1925,
taking the French women’s title the same
year. Since then she has been unbeatable in
America. Glenna has made a couple of
attempts to carry off the British women’s
championship, but, though she has twice
reached the final round, has so l far failed to
take the bacon back across the Atlantic.
(Continued on page 42.)


Sale of Selected “Bulletin” Drawings
A Chance to Get One for 15/-
s
For over 50 years the best drawings made in Australia
have come to “The Bulletin,’’ and a collection of a
hundred of the choicest examples of this country’s black-
and-white art is now offered for sale.
Though the prices at which they have been marked are
exceedingly low, “The Bulletin’’ makes a large offer in
addition. To every purchaser of a drawing who sends a
12 months’ subscription to “The Bulletin” or the “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” a rebate of 25 per cent, on the price of
the drawing will be made. To every subscriber who
sends a renewal order, a rebate of 33 1-3 per cent,
will be made.
Thus a reader who sends a 12 months’ subscription to
either “Bulletin” or “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” can buy a
dsg
sdg
sdg
ĝd
picture marked at 20/- for 15/-; and a present subscriber if he sends a renewal can get a 30/- drawing for 20/-.
Readers who send two years’ subscription can get a 25 per cent, rebate on the price of one drawing and a 33 1-3
per cent, rebate on the price of a second drawing; or they can get a rebate of 58 1-3 per cent, off a single
drawing, making the price of a 20/- drawing 8/6.
Of course you can buy without sending any subscription; and you will still get something worth a good deal
more than the price you will pay.
Following is a list of the drawings included in this unique offer:—
GEORGE LAMBERT.
s. cl.
“A Purely Horstralian Point of
View” 80 0
“Satisfied with the Roar” 80 0
“My Boardinghouse-keeper’s Niece” 60 0
“Mother, Will You Get One?” .... 50 0
“Giddy Giddy Gout” . 40 0
“Girl Logic” 40 0
FRANK P. MAHONY.
s. d.
“Up to Specifications” 20 0
“Settling on the Land.”—With one
of Mahony’s horses . . . 30 0
“No Faults.”—Another horse draw-
ing 30 0
m
OSWALD PRYOR.
s. d.
“The Way of It” 25 0
“Any Port in a Storm” 20 0
“A Good Year’s Work” 30 0
“Another Optimist” 20 0
“And His Riverence Didn’t Know" 20 0
NESSIE TINDALL.
s. d.
“A Common Complaint” 20 0
GEOFF. LITCHFIELD.
s. 1.
“Willing to Try” 20 0
“Brains in Crime” 20 0
B. E. MINNS.
s. d.
“Wanted, a Paying Guest” 30 0
Abo. Studies—
“ The Monarchist” 20 0
“Cash and Carry” 20 0
“Long, Long Ag'o” 20 0
“HOP.”
s. d.
“My Friend George” 25 0
“Refreshment for Man and Beast” 30 0
“A Cheerful Bridal Tour” 25 0
“Ask the Driver” 20 0
“Dishing Parkes” 30 0
The “Heathen in His Blindness”
Series—
“lnfluential Convert” 20 0
“In Anticipation” 20 0
“Posthumous Consolation” .... 20 0
“A Fragment” 20 0
LIONEL LINDSAY.
s. d.
“A Reasonable Objective” 20 0
DAVID LOW.
s. d.
The Billy Hughes Series—
“ The Melting Pot” 40 0
“Peace on Earth” 40 0
“Strenuous Times for Cartoon-
ists” 40 0
The Digger Series—
“ Times Are Changed” 30 0
“Encouraging Recruiting” .... 20 0
“Willing” 20 0
G. K. TOWNSHEND.
s. d.
“Not Like Bradman.”—A golfing
subject 20 0
“Safety First” 20 0
“Gilded Meals, Too” 30 0
PERCY LEASON.
s. d.
“An Apt Pupil” 20 0
“Mud Flat Holds a Fair.” One
of Leason’s best country-life
Studies 45 0
“Billy the Sport.”—Another Billy
Hughes Series of six in one
drawing 40 0
“Trying to be Funny” 40 0
“Finding Things Out for Himself” 30 0
“If Princess Mary Came to Aus-
tralia” 30 0
COLIN COLAHAN.
S. d.
“French Polish” 20 0
“Not in the Least Particular” .... 20 0
“The Wine and the Wit” 35 0
“Defined” 20 0
"No Spoil Sport” 25 0
DENNIS CONNELLY.
s. d.
“No Excuse for It At All” 20 0
“Cabby Gets a Tip” 20 0
“He Knew It Wasn’t Smith’s Fault” 20 0 ,
NORMAN LINDSAY.
s. d.
“The Subscription Habit” 2S 0
“Real Courtesy” 25 0
“Under Compulsion” 40 0
“The Hope of His Side.”—One of
Norman Lindsay’s briiliant war
pictures 42 0
“Both of Them” 20 0
“Teddy Bear” Series—
‘Teddy’ at His Ease” 25 0
D. H. SOUTER.
s. d.
“Fact and Fiction” 25 0
“When the Southerly Came Up” . . 20 0
“The Indirect Method” 20 0
“In Strict Confidence” 25 0
“You Must Keep Your Balance" . . 25 0
“Included in the Award” 20 0
TED SCORFIELD.
s. d.
“Right Turn” 20 0
“Confession” 20 0
“A Prodigious Success” 20 0
“Unexpected Philanthropy” 25 0
“It Might Come Off Once” 30 0
BERTHA BENNET BURLEIGH.
s. d.
“The New Rule” 20 0
“Jimmy’s Done For” 20 0
"Opportunities Ample” 25 0
“After the Quarrel” 20 0
“The Treasure” 30 0
"The Humbug” 30 0
“In the Reign of King Jazz” .... 20 0
PERCY LINDSAY.
s. d.
“Inhuman Almost” 20 0
“A Matter of Figures” 25 0
“The Homing Done” 25 0
“Trade Measurements” 20 0
“Taint" 20 0
ALF VINCENT.
s. d.
“His Panacea” 20 0
“The Iron Cross” 40 0
“Underpriced” 30 0
“The Accident” 20 0
“The Mission Woman” 25 0
AMBROSE DYSON.
s. d.
“Consolation” 20 0
“In Push Society” I 20 0
“In Push Society” II 20 0
“In Push Society” 111 20 0
“Excluded” 35 0
“With View to Above” 25 0
C. H. PERCIVAL.
s. d.
“The Flapper Knows” ......... 25 0
“Dignity and Impudence” 40 0
“Great Changes” 20 0
“The Martyr” 25 0
BETTY PATERSON.
s. d.
“Confidences” 20 0
“Something New Ahead” 20 0
“Judging by Appearances” 20 0
“Any Soil, Any Climate” 20 0
“They Ought to Be Marked” .... 25 0
Mr
\\
lh\
Mr
m
l'-z
\
\
VI
MAB TREEBY.
S 3. Q.
“Could Easily Outshine That” ... 20 0
“At the Garden Party” 20 0
ESTHER PATERSON.
s. d.
"Exclusively His Domain” 25 0
“Considerate Child” 20 0
“Biding His Time” 20 0
RUBY LINDSAY.
s. d.
“Standing Forth” 30 0
“Fully Covered” 30 0
“No Disqualifications” 42 0
“Indiscriminate Youth” 35 0
“His Wife Had One Too” 40 0
RECRUtMNIk
paiLro&'fOi'R
tullMT
-f>\
r
S^N!
iv 7
*~O
V l l „,1
nil
r
s=~=^p
Tin
TO
MX *
m
s
/
r/^r'y/
i he drawings, which are mostly unmounted and unframed, will be sent, securely packed, to any address in Australia, post
free, on receipt of remittance. To addresses outside Australia, Bd. must be added to cover cost of packing and postage.


“Carnoustie”: Golfers will be interested
in a new type of scoring-card which has
been put on the market by an English
professional. The card has an extra column,
this being utilised for recording the number
of putts taken, apart from the ordinary
stroke record. As a method of driving-
home the lesson that games are _ won and
lost on the putting greens, the innovation
has everything to recommend it. A notable
example of how putts count up w T as seen in
a match between Compston and Cotton
when the new card was used. Comp-
ston’s full round was 81 strokes. Of these
no fewer than 40 were recorded on the green.
The arranged putting par was 36, or two
for each hole, so that Compston finished
two down on par. Cotton, who went round
in 71, took only 34 putts, which left him
two under par.
* * * =!=
“Hamilton”: Following on the Queens-
land professional championship, the northern
State professionals met in the annual handi-
cap for the Dunlop Cup, a 50-guinea trophy,
accompanied by a £5O purse. The winner
was the well-known N.S.Wi. player H. R.
Sinclair, now in charge at Warwick club,
who finished 10 up and 8 to play on Los
Corry, another N.S.W. player, who looks
after the Cairns club in far N.Q. As an
amateur Sinclair was a notable golfer, win-
ning the Australian amateur title in 1924-25
and the N.S.W. championship in the latter
year. Sinclair had a shy at the British
amateur and open titles in 1926, but failed
to strike form on the other side.
The Watermen
“Stretcher”: The defeat of the Sydney
li. C. eight by Mosrnan in the opening
regatta of the N.S.W. season has given the
critics reason to question whether it is worth
while for the Sydney crew to go to Mel-
bourne as representatives of N.S.W. in the
Grand Challenge at Henley-on-Yarra. Their
idea is that Mosman’s new crew should take
Sydney’s place. Apart from the fact that the
Sydney club is already committed to appear
on the Yarra, there seems no reason for
the suggested change. At the last Henley
meeting the crew was narrowly beaten by
Hawthorn after a gruelling race following
on a heat in which the visitors were up
against a much more formidable crew than
Hawthorn had to meet in the preliminaries.
Fresh and well, the N.S.W. men should have
won, and it is good betting they will go
very near to doing so on November 15.
% Hi 3*
“Leg Drive”: The N.S.W. rowing heads
have wisely decided to hold the annual State
regatta on the magnificent Nepean River
course at Penrith on March 21, when the
State eight-oar and sculling championships
will be decided. An attempt was made by
a coterie to have the fixture returned to the
congested Parramatta River or, as an alter-
native, to the Middle Harbor course, which
has never yet been utilised for an important
race. Both the latter courses are apt to be
adversely affected by weather conditions,
whereas the Nepean is sheltered from
all the prevailing winds. It was hoped that
Victoria would enter a crew for this season’s
contest, but as the Yarraville State cham-
pionship dates clash with those selected by
N.S.W., there seems little chance of the
Dark Blues boating a crow.
•!> H* ■!• •!*
“Stroke”; The N.S.W. rowing heads made
a good start this season by announcing that
crews late on the mark would be ignored by
the starter, who had orders to slip those on
the line punctually on the stroke of time. In
past seasons a lot of delay and annoyance
has been caused by crews dawdling up some
minutes late, wh’at time the men already on
the spot were stiffening in the muscles. At
length a dilatory Mosrnan crew was left
lamenting by the starter. At the official
opening this season a great improvement was
noticed, and even the swankiest crews appear
to have learned their lesson.
* * * *
“Torrens” : What might have been a nasty
accident was averted during the opening of
the Adelaide rowing season by the provi-
dence which watches over fools. When the
crews in the Gosse Fours were finishing, a
party of flappers in an ordinary skiff paddled
across the course, with the result that the
second boat crashed into the craft. No one
was hurt, which is rather a miracle. The
prow of the racing .shell is dangerous under
such conditions. Years ago in the bumping
races at Cambridge the nose of a bumping
boat over-ran the craft ahead of it, injuring
the coxswain so seriously that he died.
Since then the sharp stems of the boats on
the Cam have carried a rubber ball to pre-
vent the occurrence of a similar fatality.
# * * *
“Fitzroy”: Unlike N.5.W.., Queensland
spreads its rowing activities over a wide
range in the big State, championship contests
being held outside the metropolis as often as
in it. The State fours title was contested
at Rockhampton, three crews from extra-
metropolitan clubs battling for it. Bundaberg
won, after a tight race with Rockhampton,
by a foot, with' Wide Bay third. The time
for the two miles was 12min. 54 4-ssec.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”; Something new in Aus-
tralian motor-racing was seen at Bondi
(N.S.W.) when a handicap race for all
classes of cars under 2000-c.c. capacity was
held on the promenade at the famous surfing
centre. Thirty-five cars lined up, some of
them having just returned from the relia-
bility test run to Kurrajonsr held earlier by
the N.S.W. Automobile Association. The
winner of the final was E. J. Buckley, driv-
ing an 847-c.c. Morris Minor, with a seven-
seconds start, the same car having won the
“A” class prize in the Kurrajong contest.
J. O. Sherwood’s 12-h.p. Lea Francis tied
with A. East’s 1496-c.c. Bugatti for fastest
time, 21 l-ssec. In a match race later the
Bugatti won in 20 3-ssec.
* * $ *
“ITotham”; Melbourne motorists are in-
trigued with a locally-built car which is
claimed to be the first front-wheel-drive
machine constructed in Australia. The
designer and builder is Hawker-Chamberlain,
a young engineer. The thing is designed for
racing, with a low sports body, and has per-
formed well in tests on a dirt track, hitting
as high as 80 m.p.li. One attribute claimed
for it by the inventor is the ability to make
a hairpin turn without slackening speed.
The designer hopes to market later a straight-
eight car with a coach body at a reasonable
price. Hydraulic transmission wall do away
with the necessity for gear changing, the
method having already been patented. Cham-
berlain is a nephew of the late Harry
Hawker, the famous Australian airman and
aircraft designer, and his car is entirely
Australian built, including the engine.
* * * *
“O.II.V.”; Next year’s Indianapolis “500”
wall be open to British and Continental cars,
fine regulation in force last year restricting
the number of valves to two per cylinder and
of carburetters to one for every two cylinders
has been lifted. This means that such British
cars as the Bentley and such European cars
as the Hispano-Suiza and Isotta-Fraschini
will be eligible to compete, and it will also
open the door to the semi-stock models of
the great English, French, German and
Italian manufacturers of non-racing cars.
He H* * *
“Diamond”; Dirt-track motor-cycling
should experience a big boom in Australia
during the coming season, when an English
team will be competing on the leading Aus-
tralian speedways. England w T on the first
series of international races held in Britain
this year, and the title will be at stake in
the Australian competitions. Prominent in
the team is Bert Jones, who rode with some
success in Australia some seasons ago. He
has been very successful abroad, and in
addition to numerous wins in Britain, holds
all the French track records.
❖ * ❖
“Kick Starter”: Spencer Stratton, the
N.S.W. motor-cyclist, who was prominent in
the days of the Maroubra speedway, had
some interesting things to say of the sport
in Europe on his return to Australia after
SAFETY FIRST.
LOCAL UMPIRE (to fast bowler ): “Be careful yer don’t ’it this
bloke about ther body; ’e’s promised ter shout free beer
up at ’is pub at lunch-time.”
nearly three years’ absence. He was one of
the first Australian dirt-track riders to
follow the boom overseas, and soon rose to
the first flight of riders, having shown on
each of the 48 tracks in Britain and on
many others in Ireland, Germany and
France. Later he took up the role of pro-
moter, and managed tracks at Sheffield and
Cologne. Good riders in England can earn
as much as £250 a week. The acknowledged
champion on the other side is the Queens-
lander Victor Huxley, who averages £2OO
a week for the season. The American
Sprouts Elder, who was prominent in Syd-
ney racing a few years ago, recently cleaned
up £4SO in five nights. The moral seems
to be “Get on the bike, young man.”
* * * *
“Longreach”: Queensland’s leading relia-
bility trial for motor-cycles, the anjnual
Walter Reed Cup, was completed last week.
The winner, W. Jeffers, using a 567-c.c. Indian
Scout and side-car, covered the 432-mile
trip with the loss of only seven points, his
score being 493 out of a possible 500. He
gained full points for time, but lost on
machine condition at the end of the ride.
The course riddeta comprised a triangle in
the south-western portion of the State, which
contains some of the worst roads in Aus-
tralia, so the performance was all the more
meritorious.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Cecil Walker has put up a
record in America b.v winning both the sprint
and all-round championships this year. For the
all-round championship a rider has to meet
all the world’s leading riders in all styles,
points being awarded for wins and placings.
For the sprint title he has to compete in a
series of 24 races over distances from a sixth
of a mile to five miles. Harris Horder is the
only other performer from outside America
to ‘win a national championship, though
Jackie Clark, also from Australia, went very
near it on more than one occasion.
* * * *
“Crank”: Australia had a hand in yet
another cycling victory overseas when Harris
Horder helped Lew Elder, of Canada, to win
a six-days’ race at Montreal. Horder is only
one of the many brilliant Australian riders
to hold commanding positions in the Ameri-
can cycling world. Considering that the riders
from this country have to meet tlie cream of
the world’s professionals attracted to the
States by the big money offered every sea-
son, their supremacy is a tribute to Aus-
tralian physique and' stamina.
* * * *
“Rat Trap”: With the big Sydney-to-Mel-
bourne road race over and done with, the
next attraction for the professional pedal
pushers will be the “Tour de Tasmania,”
which begins on November 20. Most of the
riders competing in the Sydney-Melbourne
event will turn out, including the two French-
men, and the Tas. race will also be run
in stages, the riding time of each individual
cyclist being taken at the end of each
stage. The best individual times at each
stage wall decide the winners of the various
stages. The teams championship will be
awarded for the team putting up the best
performance for the full course.
Miscellaneous
“Delicious Trimmings”: They do some
things better in New Guinea. I have just
received the prospectus—if that is the right
word —of an impending billiard tournament
in Rabaul, at the New Guinea Club. There
is no silly nonsense about the prizes. Money
is not being wasted in electro-plated mugs
pretending to be silver, or in those open
orders which so often lead to veiled pro-
fessionalism. Here is the list; First prize,
six bottles of Dewar’s whisky. S-hic-ond,
three bottles ditto.
Besht break, two bor-
rels of th’ shame.
Loweshscore, one bo’l.
* *
“Blue Chalk”: A
motion brought before
the Queensland Ama-
teur Billiards Associa-
tion and carried showed
that a rather extraordi-
nary state of things has
been prevailing in Bris-
bane billiard circles.
The motion was that
professionals should not
be allowed to compete
in inter-club tourna-
ments. The debate made
it abundantly clear that
some clubs taking part
in “amateur” billiard
tournaments stuffed
their representation
with professional play-
ers who were bona
fide club members. A
defender of the practice
alleged that the rules of
amateurism were so
nebulous that it was im-
possible to define them-
That is nonsense. The
man who takes money
for playing a game or
taking part in a sport
is a recognised profes-
sional the world over.
* *
“Retired Urger”: It
brings back the good
old days before the
Anti-Gambling Acts to
read that a couple of the
boys were lumbered at
Caulfield the other day
for offering the public
a diversion from the
ennui of racing by stag-
ing a game of barber’s
pole on the Flat. Bar-
ber’s pole is a modern
version of what we used
to call roller sweat. In
those days you had a
numbered cloth in front
of you and rolled an
octagonal cylinder along
the cloth, which carried
seven numbers. The
bank paid on the num-
ber which came upper-
most on the “roller.” If
the eighth side, which
was a zero, came up, the bank took
the lot. The barber’s-pole variation has
the cloth and the roller divided into
different color sections. These take the place
of the old numbers, but the game is just as
fair as ever it was.
* * * *
“Plymouth Hoe”: Correspondents com-
menting in The Bulletin on the decision
of the Australian Bowling Council that all
bowls used under its auspices must conform
to a fixed standard of weight and measure-
ment have forgotten to note that the new
rules fall particularly heavily on the coun-
try bowler. For the man in the city, where
the bowl-tester abides, there is little hard-
ship in having his woods revised, however
much he may dislike the necessity. For the
lad out back the rule means the forward-
ing of bowls by parcel post at considerable
expense, to say nothing of the delay incurred.
It seems about up to the tin gods of the
game to organise a system whereby the offi-
cial tester or duly qualified minions may
tour the out-back clubs, taking along at the
same time a standard testing-table.
!fc H 4 :}:
“Bias”: Australian bowlers just returned
from their tour of Britain and America have
had a lot to say about the British “woods.”
In that fair land there are no official narks
to compel the conforming of bowls to a stand-
ard. Everyone uses the bowl that pleases him
best, with the result that sizes and shapes
vary from a pumpkin to a grindstone, while
many have less bias than the average country
saloon billiard ball. The Australian regula-
tions governing the size of bowls and the
laws enforcing their stamping with the
official imprimatur aroused much interest
in Britain, and the heads there are talking
of adopting the scheme. Better not. Many
a hitherto blameless Australian bowler has
come near to murder as a consequence of
official meddling with his cherished woods.
“Backwoodsman”: Though N,S.Wi. and
Victoria both gave themselves up to the Baal
of organised bowls at the same time, 50
years ago, the lads south of the Murray
have put the Phar Lap sign on the Ma
Staters since that happening. This year the
jubilee of the game in both States sees
N.S.W". boasting a total of 112 bowling clubs.
Victoria, on the other hand, can equal that
tally with country clubs alone, and can add
72 metropolitan organisations as well.
* * * *
“Left Half”: Hockey has made such
rapid progress during the last three years
that the present N.S.W. Association has be-
come unwieldy. To rectify this an extra-
ordinary general meeting 'wall be held in
Sydney on Nov. 4 to form a Metropolitan
Association and re-form the N.S.W. Associa-
tion at the same time. This will give the
country players more representation in
hockev affairs.
❖ * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The N.S.W. swimming
authorities are again to make an attempt
to bring a prominent overseas swimmer to
Australia, either in conjunction with the
other States or as a lone-hand venture. The
men suggested are Crahbe, an Australian
by birth who lias learned all his swimming
in America; Zorilla, the South American
wffio beat Andrew Charlton and Arne Borg
over 400 metres at the last Olympiad; and
Makino, a 15-year-old Japanese. Crabbe has
been invited before, but has hitherto refused
to come except under the management of
a man who is not persona grata to
the Australian swimming heads. Zorilla has
also fobbed off invitations on several occa-
sions. The chief obstacle is the question of
“expenses.” Recent decisions of the Olym-
pic Federation have greatly restricted these,
and it is doubtful if long journeys can
be undertaken by champions unless the issue
is avoided somehow, as it was in the case
of Borg’s last visit to Australia. The ama-
teur in any sport who is content with his
bare travelling and housing expenses is
nowadays as rare as that other elusive fowl,
the oof bird.
* * * $
“Splash”: Freak swimming received an-
other advertisement the other day w r hen an
Indian Moslem named Mahomed Shaft swam
continuously for 69 hours in an English
bath. This wipes out the recently recoi’ded
feat of Maltese Arthur Rizzo, who paddled
round for over 68 hours at Malta. There
really should be no comparison between the
two performances, for the Moslem’s swim in
a sheltered bathing-pool is not in the same
street from an athletic point of view as
Rizzo’s, which was done in the open sea.
$ * * *
“The Gaffer”; If the American press is
in possession of the dinkum oil, George
Simpson, file sprinter, will tour Maori-
land and Australia during the coming sea-
son, leaving America in December and
appearing in N.S.W. and Victoria in
January. Simpson has many remarkable
performances to his credit and his duels
with the negro runner Eddie Tolan have
been a feature of the American season just
past. Tolan, who now holds the world's
record for the distance with has
invariably won the 100, and just as invari-
ably Simpson has led hiim home in the 220.
At the recent American national champion-
ships Tolan took the 100 in 9 7-10 sec., while
Simpson beat him in the 220 in 21 3-10 sec.
A duel between Simpson and Jim Carlton
should be worth going a long way to see.
Both have broken evens for their pet dis-
tances.
* =j= * *
“Spike”: Sedan was further avenged and
Versailles rubbed in when La Doumerge
blew out the world’s record of 2min. 25
4-ssec. for the 1000 metres put up by
German Dr. Peltzer at Paris in 1927, the
Frenchman covering the distance in 2min.
13 3-ssec. The cut was a remarkable one,
so much so that one wonders if the watches
were all right and the track properly
measured and conforming to record condi-
tions. How good the performance was can
be seen from the fact that the record for the
1000 yards is 2min. 12sec.; the 1000
metres by English measurement is 93.631
yards longer.
H» H» *s» Hi
“Double Express”: It has always been
held against Australia that the country
offers no facilities for big-game shooting,
though in the writer’s opinion kangaroo
shooting is just as interesting as the pursuit
of the buck which forms most of the East
African hunter’s bag. The Federal Railways
Department is out to remove the slur by
catering for buffalo shooting in the Northern
Territory, with the pursuit of such small
deer as kangaroos, brumbies, ducks, geese,
turkeys, etc., in which the country abounds,
thrown in. Buffalo shooting from the back
of a galloping horse, holding the rifle. in one
hand, can give points to lion potting in East
Africa as managed nowadays. The depart-
ment will provide camping gear, horses, arms
and expert guides.
* * * *
“S. Panza”: Spain, wffiich some years ago
took avidly to Rugby football, is now going
in for the Soccer variety just as eagerly,
and has even adopted the professional
methods of the British Association and
League. The other, day Madrid paid £2BOO
for the transfer of Ricado Zamora, a noted
goalkeeper, from Barcelona. The highest
price paid for a player in this position to
date is the £5OOO given by the London club
Arsenal for Harper, of Cardiff. The face of
things must be changing in Spain. Time
was, and not so long ago, when only re-
nowned matadors could demand such prices
for their services in the bullring.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park” : As Australian Rugby
followers expected, “Butts” Lamport, the
N.S.W. Rhodes Scholar, made a big impres-
sion on his appearance in the freshmen’s
Rugby match at Oxford. Other outlanders
were' Scott, Dakin, Sinclair and Peacock,
all from Maoriland, but Lamport outshone
them all. Small wonder, for the ex-King’s
and Sydney Uni. player was the first half
selected for the Waratahs’ tour of Britain
and France. He wisely decided to put his
work first, however, and thus gave Syd Mal-
colm his chance. Since then Lamport has
improved out of sight, and should have no
difficulty in getting the coveted Rugby blue.


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5/ including dancing.
Evening Cress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea} 3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Dansant j Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
J Sari ill.
r
v
/ -
gsd
Food
tiefd. Trade mare.
A Baby
in your house?
Nursing Mothers who take
Benger’s Food find it of
greatest advantage to the
infant and to themselves.
When baby is ready to
wean, begin with Benger’s
Food in turn with the
breast.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Under'
Royal
Warrant
g
ToH.M.
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agrenta—
Swift & Company UmitaJ
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGHC
Ctiarteslleidsfco*
HEIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrbnts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Knight Frederick Waley handed over
graceful daughter Cecile to the life care of
Neville Hall, of Darling Point, on Saturday.
Everything was very quiet and familyish at
St. Mark’s, the bride’s twin sister, Mrs.
Ronald Waley, being her only attendant. The
knight’s lady, as handsome as ever, came into
the picture at the reception in the Waley
home at Elizabeth Bay.
Christmas should see Dr. Radford, Bishop
of Goulburn, back in his diocese with his
new bride. Until last week she was Miss
Hazelden White, formerly of Queanbeyan.
The knot was tied in the sleepy little village
of Bishop Middleham, Durham, by the Bishop
of Durham and Canon Simpson Davison.
The bride was squired by Brigadier-General
H. C. Surtees, former High Sheriff of the
county.
The Harbor Bridge Ennises were the
guests of the Society of Women Writers last
week, and rarely has any man sung so inter-
estingly for his tucker as did the big Scot
from Aberdeen. He told how the steel
bearings for the bridge had been forged in
the workshops in which Stevenson’s
“Rocket” had been created, and how Messrs.
Martin and Hazzard, two other guests and
important people in the building of the steel
arch, had come from within three or four
miles of Captain Cook’s Yorkshire birthplace.
But what riveted the attention of the list-
eners most was his vivid little thumb-nail
sketch of the women munition-makers at work
in the Dorman-Long factory during the war.
Women pushing barrows, working cranes,
carrying hods of bricks until overhead the
Zeppelins drummed—giant locusts of death.
Sometimes there would be another stoppage
of activities when one, two, or maybe three
at a time would be handed the telegram that
told of disaster to their men in the trenches.
Mr. Martin, who is in charge of the quarry-
ing at Moruya, is a chorister in his spare
time, and for two pins would have burst
into a song of thanksgiving instead of a
speech. The Queensland press-girl Margaret
Maeßobert w T as another guest. Three cheers
were called for Mrs. Margery Brown by Nora
McAuliffe and Mrs. Gilmore on her scenario
win, and Mary Liddell showered the recently-
married Mrs. Coleman with verbal confetti.
Lady Game murmured the Open Sesame
over this year’s masquerade of the Educa-
tion Department galleries as an Eastern
bazaar. Wool rugs in Persian blues and
reds panel the walls in softness. Clocks, their
hearts racing to keep up with time, are para-
doxically bound in tortoiseshell. Carved
wood (rosy apples against what was once
a bough) and gleaming brasses, inlaid and
lacquered pieces and delicate stitchery are
piled on the stalls, flowering of the beauty
that lies in patient and facile fingers.
Nella Levy, her father, Dr. A. L. Levy
of Point Piper, being but a short time dead,
was a very quiet little bride of last week.
She became Mrs. George Merivale at All
Saints’, Woollahra, dressed in a white
romaine frock and a soft white hat. Ann
Jamieson ’maided and ’groom’s nephew,
Anthony Shepherd, was best man.
The Anzac Relief Division under the com-
mand of Major-General Bennett is working-
hard for the success of the Armistice Ball on
November 10. The Town Hall will be the
scene, and the objective is the relief of dis-
tressed Diggers. Tickets are 7s. 6d. each.
Una Hutchison Gamack probably did
something no other Sydney girl has done
when she staged her wedding in Baluchistan.
This Letter doesn’t blame her; the very
name is romance and melts on the tongue
like a piece of Turkish delight. Add to this
that the aisle of the garrison church, St.
Mary’s of Bethany, at Quetta, was carpeted
with Persian rugs, and that a soldier
waited with the ring, and you get
some idea of what is in the letters
her girl friends are now receiving from the
new Mrs. Higham-Hodge. He is a captain
of the 16th Punjanb Regiment at Saugo, and
was best-manned by an old friend, Captain
I. F. H’ossack, of the Scinde Horse. The
little church was blazing with flowers and
ushers in full-dress uniforms; the bride was
complete with ivory satin, veil and orange
buds; there were two ’maids, contrasting
delphinium-blue georgettes and pink asters,
and Valerie and Heath Thompson, two tiny
daughters of the regiment, garbed as Romeo
and Juliet, guarded the train. Wendy Loup,
another soldier’s little lass, scattered flower
petals, and later on the bride, evidently
seizing the hint from the arch of steel under
which she and her husband had passed to
their car, annexed his glittering carver and
therewith clove the wedding cake asunder
at the Quetta Club. Here the bride’s mother,
Mrs. Hutchison Gamack, hostessed in blue
and gold chiffoncry.
The Gamacks by this marriage stretched
their relationships into still another country.
One of Mrs. Gamack’s sisters is Mrs. George
Kellaway, of Red Knights, Kambala-road;
another sister is Mrs. Gale, of Durban, whose
daughter is now Mrs. Mel Sheffer, of Brad-
ley’s Head; and Captain Gale, who gave
the bride away, is Mrs. Shenef’s uncle.
The pupils, present and past, of Doone
.garnered a helpful £BO for the- Sydney
Hospital with their recent play “The Red
Umbrella.” The girls are even more pleased
with another result of their entertainment.
The little orchestra of out-of-work musicians
employed for their show has written to
say that, no fewer than three engagements
came to it from members of the audience.
The girls and boys of Sargents raised no
less than £1260 for charity by means of a
ball. Of this £3OO was handed to the Child-
ren s Hospital, and £240 apiece to the Syd-
ney Royal Prince Alfred, the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital and the Royal Hospital
for Women.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers is
rallying to the aid of Arthur Bayldon, and
Ludmayor Marks is kindly taking a hand.
He is calling a public meeting tor Thursday
at four o’clock to discuss the benefit per-
formance of Steele Rudd’s play “Duncan
McClure and the Parson.” J. V. Gould will
produce the thing at the Railway Institute ou
December 15 and 16.
Midget, miget and miniature golf courses
are the order of the day; they blossom in
every basement, on every spare rooftop. But
while the ingenuity of the hazard inventors
cannot be gainsaid, the imagination of the
course christeners seems pretty circumscribed.
So far this Letter hasn’t .seen one Lilliput
course advertised. Up at the Wentworth on
Church Hill an intriguing course has been
laid out, and last Thursday was declared
open by Major-General Gordon Bennett A
foursome played by Frank Eyre, J. B. Fer-
rier, Arthur East and H. H. Hattersley was
the evening’s star turn.
A wedding which drew a swarm of town
guests was that of Jean Brycn and Donald
Cameron. The bride is a daughter of Mrs.
Stephen Bryen, of the Corner House, Leura,
and the ’groom’s people are the D. A
Camerons, of Rose Bay, and Woodlands,
Queensland.
The R.P.A. annual meeting last week was
not a happy one. The interest on the hos-
pital’s overdraft of £108,541 is £7OOO, and
Dr. Cecil Purser might have been an Irish-
man, so fervently agin the Government was
he. “No Government for years,” he com-
plained, “has treated us fairly.” Of course
he meant in the matter of hospital subsidies.
Treasurer R. M. Clark pointed out that
while the deficit for the year was nearly
£28,000, and the affairs of the hospital faced
a crisis, it was impossible with a waiting
list of 500 for the board to close 100 beds, as
had been suggested. During the year 10,000
operations have been performed, ithe average
number of patients resident daily has been
525, and the number of out-patients reached
54,000. The one bright spot was the surplus
of £8249 garnered by the auxiliary. In
spite of the bleak outlook, every member of
the huge institution’s medical staff will
go on with his job of healing the sick, and
this Letter is a bad prophet if Sydney won’t
find the money to help them carry on.
Perhaps the most significant of the handi-
crafts at the Arts and Crafts Show was
the weaving. The housewife in every woman
gloated over
the hand-
woven table
articles in this
section. With
the aid of a
hand loom - a
clever woman
could do much
for herself in
the way of
scarves and
other accessor-
ies, not to
speak of house-
hold linen and
undies, if eco-
nomy forces
us to revert to
type with
every Adam
digging and
every Eve
spinn i n g.
Joan Macken-
zie, the subject of this May Moore picture,
demonstrated, on request, at the loom near
her own commendable exhibit.
Rich yellow clay from Tambourine Mount-
ain, moulded into a green-and-gold bowl, a
plump white-and-blue fish, exotic as any-
thing found in a lagoon of Tahiti, its jaws
a-yawn for the more convenient passage
of the mayonnaise, caught the gaze amid
Mrs. Vi Eyre’s pottery. Abo. designs etched
in the silverware of Mildred Creed proved
effective, and a painted tea-set, each cup
aglow with a different bush flower, had pride
of place in Myrtle Innes’s collection. Daisy
Dowse shows, in addition to her china and
glazes, designs for interiors, and the New-
man china holds all its old allure.
Wistaria, stone-flags and old furniture are
among the many charms with which Went-
worth’s old home is bedecked. The house so
comfortably set in its mellow garden no
longer is a cavern empty of all save
memories. The trustees are gradually fur-
nishing its rooms with Wentworth posses-
sions and with such furniture as would have
befitted the home of a man of substance and
education in early Colonial days. Here are
cabinets behind which Wentworth’s writings
are slowly yellowing, and fine china and
glazes, old before Wentworth was born, still
flaunt their colorful designs. Mirrors are
everywhere, and there are some beautiful
examples of inlay tables. In the marble
dining-room, with its floor of marble tiles
and its narrow marble mantel, an enormous
table, and a stupendous sideboard, with car-
ven angels resting on folded wings adown its
front, keep company. Were the angels the
guardians of the port or of the beaux who
had perhaps imbibed more wisely than well?
In Wentworth’s and Miss Wentworth’s bed-
rooms stand great mahogany four-posters
complete with curtains to exclude, as was
the custom, any intrusion of light and air.
About them are demure, self-contained
chests and tables and squat cretonned chairs,
mirrors that might have been inspired by
Adam, and tables that show the influence of
Sheraton. At the end of a passage leading
to tlie bedrooms a coat and hat of Australia’s
first statesman hang, seeming to ask: “Is
there no Australian among you to-day who
can fit me?”
But the flapper of those far-off days
refused to hold her father’s friends in un-
critical reverence, much as do the flappers
of these days. This Letter once asked Mrs.
Chceke, a very old lady, since dead, who as
one of the handsome Miss Longs (she was a
daughter of William Long and a connec-
tion of the Daileys and the Martins) used
to visit the Wentworth home, what was her
memory of the great man. “Well,” she said
slowly, in her clear voice, “I used to think
he was an argumentative man, and probably
very hard to get on with !”
George Blackwood, the young man with
a head and profile rather like the younger
Henry Irving's, is about to produce Milne's
“Romantic Age” with a cast of . society
amateurs in aid of the Industrial Blind
Institution. The thing is being organised by
ex-Justice Gordon’s lady and daughter Anne;
Mrs. Dundas Allen will play a leading part.
The producer has had a good deal of London
experience. He has acted with Gladys
Cooper and Sybil Thorndike, and was in
the east that produced Shaltspeare in mod-
ern clothes against modern backgrounds.
“Hamlet,” strangely enough, proved the most
popular with the working and business man.
“Macbeth,” despite the fact that in the High-
land scenes everybody swung a kilt or pic-
torial border accessories, did not take so
well. The Sydneyite considers Clemence
Dane’s “Granite” the most remarkable mod-
ern play he has worked in.
Keith Dransfield, son of the youthful
Harry Dransfield couple, is engaged to Edna
Hill, of Manly.
This Letter thoroughly enjoyed last week’s
show of Lustre undies in Mark Foy’s
theatre. The most ethereal blues, greens
and pinks have been caught in this fabric, as
well as the most gorgeous of Chinese reds
and Persian blues. Blondes clad diaplianously
in the former and brunettes in the latter
trod the boards and curvetted, mannequin-
wise, with restless hips down a platform into
the heart of the audience. The garments
are a shimmering intoxication, so snugly
clinging, so fine a sheath to Nature’s sil-
houette, that any girl with or without
“It” clothed in such would feei like Cleo-
patra herself. Most of the models, though,
walked like Carmen. But they were meek
Carmens, in spite of the hand on hip and
the provocative twirl of the toes. The pro-
ducer must have been a gentleman, judging
by the preponderance of blondes in the cast.
The audience was composed of women —two
young husbands were parked impatiently
outside. The orchestra was male, but it
was evidently married, judging by the way it
kept its eyes on the music.
Next time you go into your bank or
shipping office, treat the young man who
attends to you with respect; he may be the
chieftain of some ancient race. Not so very
many years ago in the Sydney branch of
the Bank of North Queensland the, young
Laird of Culloden attended to clients with
promptitude and courtesy. His working
name was Hector Forbes, and in his breast
the pride of a long line of Highland fore-
bears burned brightly and steadily. One of
the bank brass hats was a Highland Scot,
too, and he knew all about that nostalgia
for the peat and the heather. So he set his
financial brain working overtime to see if
there wasn’t some means by which the Cul-
loden estates could, be cleared of their debts
and saved for the clan. He also sent the
young man to the bank’s English office to
watch his own interests the more closely.
By the judicious sale of the pine forests
on the estate, the mortgages have been
wiped out. and now, a Laird once more,
the whilom bank clerk walks the banks
and braes of Culloden. A baronetcy, which
goes with the other baubles, is being plucked
out of oblivion and burnished for posterity.
Mistress Forbes, the Laird’s mother, lived
for many years in North Sydney, and when
the Prince of Wales was here he went
across and called on her. The Lairds of
Culloden were Kings of the Highlands before
Roderick Dhu got himself into the papers.
J. W. Beeman, of the old-established
optician firm of Gibb and Beeman, beamed
upon the prettiest of all spectacles, a
daughter in her wedding finery, the other
night. Daughter Maureen, whom he handed
up the aisle of St. Clement’s Church in
Mosman, wore a frock all white satin and
fluffy tulle frills. A point lace veil and white
lilac were other items in her attire worthy
the spotlight. Three ’maids fluttering peach-
pink Chantilly laces and armlets of Cecil
Bruner roses and mignonette were pictorial
adjuncts. Padre C. T. Kenderdine handed
the bride the wedding lines that made her
Mrs. Malcolm McH'utchison. The ’groom
is another of that close little colony of
what the Irish describe as “warm” people
whose homes hug the heights of Bradley’s
Head and the slopes of Clifton Gardens and
Balmoral. His father, S. McHutcliison, is
senior partner in the venerable law firm of
Sly and Russell, and he himself is one of
the rising juniors in the establishment.
Bride’s mother and father did the honors _at
their home, Clifton Gardens.
The Lvceum Club and the Society o\
Women Writers are proud of a veteran
member. Mrs. Margery Browne, who at (>•>
Ims walked off with a prize of £5OO. This was
in the Commonwealth scenario competition,
open to all
A ustralia.
There were
two prizes, one
for a purely
Australian set-
ting (won by
a man journal-
ist), the other
for a general
subject, this
went to Mrs.
Browne for a
s p e c t a cular
story of the
Egypt of the
Pharaohs. Mrs.
Browne has
been writing
all her life,
hut this is the
first big money
her pen has
earned for her.
She is, how-
ever, the author of several librettos, many
stories and some pleasing verse. Mary Gil-
more and Professor Le Gay Brereton, two of
the scenario judges and both poets, were
struck by the beautiful diction and sonorous
style of Mrs. Browne’s work.
Artist Fred Coventry, mentioned before on
this page, was born in Feilding, Maoriland,
26 years ago. He was in Sydney for three
or four years and studied with Julian Ash-
ton. He has been in London for nearly
two years, and the first piece of work which
brought him into the limelight was illus
trating the Liam O’Flaherty memoirs. Mr.
Coventry has done posters for the Orient Co.
and has just finished a series for the “Daily
Telegraph.” The young man works in pen,
pencil, etching, engraving, water and oils.
Slowly, inexorably, they drew apart. Even
the knowledge that they were set in high
places and that the eyes of their world
were upon them could no longer make them
pretend that their souls were knit together.
He was of the North, she of the warm, im-
pulsive South. They had surmounted almost
insuperable obstacles to come together, and.
“oh, the pity of it, lago,” no sooner was
their alliance completed than their separa-
tion commenced. Maybe they had waited
too long, and the flame of desire had turned
to ashes ere yet their nuptials had been
sung. Who can tell! Maybe in many a
cold dawning, she wrung her hands and
thought piteously of flinging herself into
a watery grave. If he had but flashed upon
her one of those glances with which he had
been wont to burn her very soul, all might
have been well. But truth must be told,
and even the eyes of his friends could not
but see that the growing breach between
the twain was as much on his side as on
hers. All that can be hoped is that they
will do the thing with proper decorum, that
he will allow her to' sue him for separation,
and be strong enough to refrain from drag-
ging to light any other attachments she may
have formed. Be that as it may, the divorce
of the Creeper-Cranes is inevitable!
At a coming-of-age festivity in Sydney last
week a feature was made of the old-fashioned
ceremony of handing the young heir a latch-
key. It naturally prompted the joking
remark to his sister, junior to him by a
couple of years, that in these days of
feminine emancipation her time would come
in due course. “Come?” she exclaimed. “Why,
I’ve had mine for years.”


ffm
m
m
mf
m
m
Hi
HAR-DT'S
S£>A.R*ZLIJVG


gd
MAKE YOUR OWN CLOTHES
AND SAVE THOSE EXTRA GUINEAS
Although the price of made-up clothes has come down, the
woman or girl who is handy with a needle can still save pounds.
THE
Woman’s Mirror Pattern Service
offers you each week a wide range to choose from. The
patterns are easy to follow, and are cut by experts.
Prices: Adults 1/-, Children 6d. Post free.
ALL NEWSAGENTS STOCK “THE WOMAN S MIRROR." 3d. WEEKLY
m
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Clizabethan
Tea Rooms
P[?] Contral[?]
Buckley C-Nunm limited
[?]
The luncheon tables at Moonee Valley on
Saturday were decked with roses from chair-
man Alister Clark’s garden. There were
roses too, heaps of them, clambering along
the fence of the straight, while ranunculi in
every shade of yellow and red and purple
violas formed a border. Climbers and ram-
blers crept from the window-boxes about the
v.-r. pen. Dull skies and a low temperature
in the morning militated against elaborate
dressing. There were nine races on the
cards, and punters had a busy time dashing
to and from the ring.
Lord and Lady Somers were at the mid-day
meal, her Ex. in a jumper suit of cocoa-
brown kasha, with matching furs and felt
hat. In the v.-r. circle were Lieut.-Governor
Irvine, and his lady, she in a suit
of cornflower-blue and a black hat. Their
daughter, Mrs. lan Hayward, of Adelaide,
was with them, wrapped in a kolinsky fur
coat and a close-fitting straw hat of nutmeg
brown. Mrs. Mclntosh was in the group,
attired in a grey-tailored costume and black
and white chip hat. Captain and Mrs. Ronny
McDonald, Captain R. C. Spier and Flight-
Lieutenant Denny, A.D.C., were also in the
party. Mrs. Alister Clark showed Lido blue
in frock and straw millinery, and Ella
Guthrie partnered her, wearing caped rai-
ment of fawn woollen crepe, with a golden-
hrown hat. Mrs. A. V. Hiskens chose all
black, and Mrs. A. V. Kewney was a study
in black and white. Among the guests at
luncheon were the Premier and Mrs. Hogan,
General Chauvel and his lady, Mr. and Mrs.
J. F. Nagle, and Mrs. T. J. Ryan, whom
was Mrs. Arthur Pepper.
Very few of the fair punters risked don-
ning their new season’s finery, but those who
did take a chance were in luck, for the ther-
mometer went up and there wasn’t a drop of
rain. Mrs. John Merrillees was one of the
fortunate folk, her light ensemble suit, which
mingled amber-colored wool, georgette and
figured silk in brown tones, being topped with
a large straw hat of blending hue. Kathleen
Rogers Thomson looked spring-like in flow-
ered chiffon with a lemon-colored coat and
hat. Mrs. Len Buxton’s ensemble was of
beige georgette, and Mrs. T. V. Millea had
a coat posy of white and yellow orchids on
her sappliire-blue frock. Ann Gordon and
Miss Fairfax were among; the Sydney visi-
tors. Nancy Hewlett wore a particularly
attractive suit in brown and fawn-check
tweed topped with a swathed toque of silken
straw. Hope Kellow’s squirrel coat drew
many an envious glance.
Dorothy Parnham, a Uni. Con. student,
was the winner of a beauty contest held to
select a queen for the Battle of Flowers
carnival. At the State Theatre on the eve
of the carnival, Miss Parnham, who is dark-
eyed, brown-haired and 18, was the leading
lady in a coronation ceremony. Accompanied
by a couple of maids of honor, and many
flower-strewers in Watteau frocks, vivid green
and rose-pink, she stepped upon the stage
trailing ermine-edged crimson velvet robes
over a gown of shot-blue and gold, took her
seat on a and was handed a shower
bouquet of roses in place of a sceptre. One
of the perks of her queenship is a fortnight's
trip to Tasmania as the guest of the Speck’s
Government.
Flowers and confetti rained over the city
from aeroplanes as the Queen of the
Flowers was escorted in state to the Motor-
drome. Here a programme of sports was
carried out. The populace that looked upon
the procession of over a hundred decorated
lorries and motor-cars endeavored to emulate
the gaiety of Mardi Gras, but the Mel-
burnian isn’t a great success at that soi’t of
thing. Some very lovely effects were seen
in the procession, one lorry displaying a
floral design that consisted of 13,000 blooms.
Bill Mclnnes’s portrait of Nellie Stewart
was handed over at the Tivoli- one even-
ing last week. The theatre wore a gala
appearance, and was crowded. Flags were
draped on the front of the d.c. and gallery,
and the narrow pillars looked like lolly sticks,
being wound round with colored muslin. Roses
bordered the narrow glass-topped platform
on the auditorium side of the orchestra. A
preliminary to the presentation was an
orchestral medley of selections from comic
operas in which Miss Stewart was once the
brightest star, after whjch Walter Kirby
sang “I Was Dreaming,” from “Ma Mie
Rosette,” Edith Harrhy, in apple-green
chiffon, playing the accompaniment. Then
the back curtains parted to reveal “Sweet
Nell” in the brocade and glittering raiment
of the favorite King Charlie found at Old
Drury, posed and attired as she sat for her
portrait, and surrounded by a gold frame.
With some of her old sprightliness she
stepped forward, the buckles on her rose
satin shoes a-twinkling. Later the same pic-
ture, as Mclnnes had put it on canvas, came
into view. Knight Robert Best, chairman of
the subscription fund, made a speech -which
was supplemented by Dr. Maloney. Norman
Campbell, who said thanks on behalf of Miss
Stewart, spoke of the days when he was a
mummer in the lady’s co. Though evidently
feeling the strain and looking rather fragile,
the honored one was prevailed upon to say
a few words, and did so very charmingly.
She brought Hugh D. Mclntosh into the
limelight as “my very best friend, who has
stood to me through trial,” and graciously
bent and kissed his hand. H.D. warmly
returned the salutation on the lady’s cheek.
The band struck up “For She’s a Jolly Good
Fellow” and the audience joined in voci-
ferously, while some magnificent flowers were
passed up to the delighted favorite. In the
audience were the Best lady, Dr. and Mrs
Maurice MacGillicuddy—Mrs. MacGillicuddy
was the promoter of the presentation idea —
their two daughters and Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton and Mary Emmerton. It is the intention
of those who organised the shilling subscrip-
tion tq have the picture placed in the
National Gallery.
The eye of Lord Somers brightened when,
from the platform of the Town Hall, he
looked upon the wealth of flora spread out
before him in the spring show of the Royal
Horticultural Society. Surveying _ the
masses of many-hued rhododendrons, irises,
azaleas, tulips, roses and other flowers that
made great splashes of gorgeous color, he
remarked tliat the sight was a fine antidote
for depression. He complimented the society
on the achievements of its members in im-
proving English flowers and shrubs, and
particularly praised the roses, which, _ he
said, are bringing Australia before rosarians
throughout the world.
Lady Somers, who wore an ensemble suit
and a felt hat of golden brown, was presented
with an armful of crimson and yellow tu’lips.
She gave over the microphone a push-off
to the proposed Flower League, an organisa-
tion which will raise money for the hospitals
through the agency of horticulture, and
attend to the supply of blooms for the
wards. The membership subscription is
half-a-crown a year. Nurserymen and seeds-
men have offered to provide seeds to mem-
bers at a discount.
In the show w r ere some lovely roses, a
pure white one, “Mrs. H. Brocklebank,” be-
ing decorated with the championship blue
ribbon. Among other rare exhibits were
Japanese peonies with petals shaded from
flesh tint to deep rose, of the texture and
gloss of the finest silk. Clematis, purple and
white, striped with pink, were declared by
an English visitor to be larger than any he
had seen in his own land. The Macedon
Horticultural Society sent among its entries
some lovely flowering shrubs, and gentians
of a blue that would bring envy to the heart
of Mr. Reckitt. For the first time the
society included a class for rockeries in its
schedule, the competitor who was successful
in this section making a fine show of Alpine
plants.
Edith Harrhy, pictured here, looked as
young as a debutante when, with her blonde
hair above a
chalk - white
chiffon gown
of tiny bows
coursing down
the front of the
bodice, she
played and
sang her own
com positions
at her fareweli
recital at the
Assembly Hall.
A great bon 1
of arum-lilies
brightened the
stage, which
was early
piled up with
flowers. Violin-
ist Reginald
Bradley and
tenor Victoi
Baxter, who
assisted the
lady, drew upon her works for a group of
their numbers.
An event of the week was a very successful
dance at Ormond Hall, engineered by women
of the Malvern district to provide a Christ-
mas feast and presents for the children of
the Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind.
Mrs. Stewart Turnbull was president of the
committee, which included the Mayoress of
Malvern, Mrs. C. J. Waters, and Mrs. J
Frost as hon. sec.
The Victoria League on a recent evening
listened to an account by Lady Somers of
her journey to Darwin, which she lately
accomplished by train, motor-car and aero-
plane. The story was illustrated with lan-
tern slides, many of which were made from
the speaker’s own snapshots.
Members of the Victoria League, headed
by the vice-presidents, the Allen and Creswell
ladies and Mrs. Arthur Hordern, had Lord
and Lady Somers as guests at luncheon at
the Windsor for the League’s last gathering
of this year. The attendance was about 100
and the proceedings were not at all formal.
Roses, red and pink, decked the tables. In
the v.-r. circle were Captain and Mrs. R.
McDonald, who accompanied their Exes.,
Rear-Admiral Kerr, General and Mrs. Coxen
and Captain McKenzie, of the Discovery.
Eleven hundred boxes rattled in the city
for the Lud Mayor’s Fund. Unfortunately the
weather went right back to winter, with a
wind that froze the silk-clad legs of the
charity raiders; but they held out nobly,
and raked in a goodly pile of shekels. A
Court of Injustice at the Town Hall sent
out comic-opera policemen, who arrested
well-known and much-respected persons in
the street or in their offices and haled them
before the cadi, who promptly convicted and
fined them. Among the chief victims were
General Blarney, Gladys Moncneff and
General Monash.
This is Mrs. A. V. Hiskens, whose husband
is for a year
combining the
duties of sec-
retary of the
Moonee Valley
Racing Club
and acting-sec-
retary of the
V.A.T.C. For
12 years she
was on the com-
mittee of the
Women’s Hos-
pital and dur-
ing that period
was president
for six years.
While she
was in office
£73,000 wa p
raised by
appeals to tin-
public. Over
£14.000 of that
amount must
be credited to race meetings at Moonee
Valley.
The Rev. R. Whitford, of Surrey Hills,
forged the bonds between his daughter
Linton and Jack Wright, younger son of
Councillor and Mrs. W. A. ,Wright, of
Albert Park; Rev. A. G. Mackintosh Carter
assisted. Two maids and a trainbearer wear-
ing frocks of pink and millinery of the same
hue waited on the bride, whose frills of silk
net gleamed through a cascade of Limerick
lace.
The uniting in marriage on Thursday
night of Dorothy, eldest daughter of the
George Russells, of Toorak, and Richard, son
of the late Neil Lawrance, to whose thriving
Flinders-lane business the son has succeeded,
linked two well-known business houses. The
knot was tied at the Toorak kirk in a setting
of white heather, lilies and rosy rhododen-
drons. The bridal array was satin of
the hue of old ivory, a train traced with gold
embroidery, and old rose-point lace mounted
on tulle, attached to the lady’s coiffure by
sprigs of lily of the valley. The ’maids,
her sister Ruth and Sylvia Lawrance, wore
frocks and large hats of peony-pink organdie
and carried armfuls of tulips. There were
after-rejoicings at the Russells’ home, St.
George’s-road.
The president of the National Rose
Society, James Allan, has got back from his
tour of the Orient, Europe and ’Murca just
in time for the society’s spring show, which
commences to-day at the Town Hall. He
was welcomed at a dinner given in his
honor by fellow-members, when roses from
Alister Clark’s garden at Bulla decked tin-
tables. Mr. Allan, discoursing on his travels,
said that at a test rose farm at Portland
(U.S.A.) he was told that the most success-
ful results had been achieved with seedlings
raised from Mr. Clark’s varieties.
At a luncheon gathering at the home
of Dr. and Mrs. Herman Lawrence, Jean,
the daughter of the house, said “Pleased to
see you back” to Betty Fairbairn and Joan
Syme, just returned from an overseas jaunt.
Valerie Moule, who is a bride-elect, was a
guest, and received good wishes. Later she
took the partv over to her parents’ home
for a peep at ner trousseau.
The miniature Queen’s Bridge golf links,
which make an artificially verdant splash on
the Yarra bank' where the Apple Isle boats
used to tie up, opened last week. The first
few days’ takings went to the Lud Mayor’s
Fund, a series of matches between profes-
sionals being an attraction. Lady Somers
went along on Thursday and had a match
with Mrs. A. Gatehouse. Her Ex., who had
not played on so restricted an area before,
established a record by holing out in one at
three greens, but her opponent was the
victor by a very slight margin.
Miss Ada Armytage boiled the billy at
her home at Beaconsfield the othei day to
welcome home Mrs. W iHiam a Beckett of
The Grange, Berwick, after her travels
abroad. Guests were drav 7,. »
surrounding squattages, ‘P hrmtpr’s
city folk. Mrs. a socket
green.
Mrs. Frank Apperly staged two of her
short comedies, Local Color and lansy
and Tim,” at the J. T. Tweddles house one
evening last week. The performance was in
aid of the Tweddle Hospital and Dome or
Mothercraft. Among the mummers were
Norman Simpson, Edith Orr and the play-
wright.
Pegg Clarke’s camera pictures, now show-
ing at the Little Gallery in Little Collins-
street, are illustrative of a recent tour of
England and the Continent, mostly m a
motor-eax-avan. Her companions were painter
Dora Wilson and Madge Henderson, the
last-named being the driver and mechanic,
Knight-of-the-brush John Longstaff launched
the exhibition and purchased a picture of
Carcassone.
There is still some money available for
charitable causes in this city. The day at
the Metropolitan golf links for the District
Nursing Society brought in over £3OO, and
the performances of “The Love Step” at the
Comedy made the Tweddle Hospital richer
by £3OO.
Mrs. P. L. Martyn, Amy Dickenson that
was, who made a niche for herself here as
a pianist and composer, has returned from a
trip abroad and reports that she was able to
find a publisher for several of her efforts,
Q. nn i„ tn „ PnTm will hofm-e return
,in ‘ some years in ungu .
some time a pagoda-like structui c
has been rising on the \arra bank at the
hmshnig point of the Henley mile. This
butt and blue building, now competed, and
looking very picturesque against a back-
ground of elms newly green, is to serve ns
thc box, and a memorial to oars-
men who served in the Great War. The
Rowing Association sponsored the pi oject
“A*'' 6 rfX
masters ot the associated public scnoois g.
,‘. n , , . . , ~
Ballis lady and her daughter Biddy
returned last week from their travels in
Europe and were welcomed at an afternoon
bridge-party given by Mrs. L. Dikkenman,
Malvern, and her daughter Edna at their
home. The reunion of old friends also serv d
as a farewell to M ilfred _ Walker, who
ls returning to S Africa 'after spendmg
fl°. me months with her parents,, tihe W.
Dickensons of Middle Bugli .
The lately-formed opera society made its
first appearance on Saturday night in Mes-
sager’s “Monsieur Beaucaire,” which is to
run for six nights. George English is pro-
dueer and conductor. The attendance was
a bit disappointing, but the audience was
liberal with applause, and demanded encores
at the close of first and second acts. The
production is picturesquely dressed. Veronica
Cox looked charming m a hooped gown
of pale gold with a plentiful sprinkle of
crystal, and Lennox Brewer wore the satin
and lace of the gentleman of France with
much dignity. There were plenty of flowers
tot young singers. The profits go to the
Blind Institute.
Readers of The Bulletin will regret the
passing of Elaine Tweeddale, who- for some
years pushed a bright pen over this page,
Old boys’ associations of the six big pub-
fie schools (Scotch, Grammar, Wesley, Xavier,
Geelong Col. and Geelong Grammar) are
going into the question of establishing a
united club in Collins-street, opposite the
“Age” office. The Old Scotch Collegians'
Club is shifting to this site in any case,
and it has a liquor license, which is a valu-
able asset in these days of reduction of
bars. Not being too Scotch and too exclu-
give the O.S.C. is willing to let the other
five old boys’ societies come in on favorable
terms, and it will be a pity if the chance is
missed. Of course on boat-race night the
cronies of the other 304 days of the year will
have to agree to differ.
Pavement flower-sellers around the Town
Hall have been provided with new stalls,
Brown kiosks are being substituted for the
old stalls with their terraces bordered by
white and purple tissue paper. v ery nice
and tidy are the new turrets with their
glassed-in sides and prim counter-fronts, but
the old casual, almost vagabondism atmosphere
has gone.. The vendors m days ot yore were
opportunists who used to commandeer a
wide not^that would afford
y oi 10 itp r '<L that the scent of
was wafted to\h? passer-
boromaor lave N the 1 whole
by m unexpected places. Now e w
business is i ationalised, and Melbourne
doesn t seem tne same.
The Victorian Civil Ambulance the other
day received the gift of a house at Daw-
thorn. The owner was Mrs. Z.
and the ambulance rejkons the glft will add
at least £-000 to its icsou ces.


sgds
To
enhance
yourbeauty
T> KAUTY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most of your
hair as a. background for your beauty by
using Rowland’s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the oil well into your hair, when it
will show the gloss of health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
Of all Chemists Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair,
Golden for fair
or grey hair.
anti's
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND.
INVESTIGATE—INVEST.
There may be a few who get rich quickly and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do not “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest, to do the investing
for him.
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town.
famoitwealtb Savings lank of Australia
('Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opp.osite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
m
um
; nmm
i
t MS
• 1.1
{hlO* * * tiij
iTff f ■ nr
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Telephone: F 4141.
Thirty Pieces of Silver
By Montague Grover
ILLUSTRATED BY PERCY LINDSAY
CHAPTER XXXVI— (Continued).
JIMMY liked Maisie. She was good com-
pany, intelligent and pretty. But she
left him cold, despite indications that
she desired the relations of two years back
to be resumed. That idea was obvious to
Jimmy; yet it presented no attractions.
He left Maisie mystified; he had been
glad to see her; he admired her and liked
her just as much as ever. Yet he had
made no suggestion as to the future and
had, indeed, left her without making any
appointment.
Within ten minutes Maisie had solved the
problem and no longer felt any resentment
towards him. She was a better psychologist
than Jimmy. He now found himself con-
fronted with another problem. She was
just as nice as ever. He was a free man;
no restrictions of honor or fidelity bound
him now. She was just the sort of little
woman to sweep the depression from his
soul, to make him glad to be alive again.
Yet he had pretended not to see the most
obvious invitation! It was a case for a
doctor—if it were not a case for two doctors.
“Don’t be a damn fool,” laughed Stan
Carlisle, when Jimmy confided to him his
theory that something must be wrong with
him physically or mentally. “I’ll lay a
shade of odds that within a month you’ll
be as right as ever —righter than ever.”
“How do you mean?”
“Never mind; are you willing to risk a
quid on it?”
“Don’t talk rot,” replied Jimmy. Then
he remembered Wellington’s advice. Once
more he took to work. He picked up the
forgotten threads of “Sunlight Sam,” wove
them into the fabric of the story and, put
in every spare minute of the day, save only
when he was eating or sleeping, on the
rhymed story of Sam’s life and love. “The
Ishmaelite” welcomed Sam’s resuscitation.
It starred his return in its leading page and
offered Jimmy a special price if he would
guarantee to supply one a week until the
conclusion without a break in the continuity.
Jimmy cheerfully agreed to do so. He
had never failed to deliver the goods; that
was his particular pride. He knew that
if he had to write, no fits of depression, no
fears of departing moral sense would turn
him from his purpose. He cut the bathing
trips; Sunday to him was a day of con-
tinuous labor. He worked before breakfast,
in the scraps of time between engagements,
at night when his daily work finished early,
taking a walk of a couple of miles around
the city streets before going to bed.
One night he strolled across the Pyrmont
bridge. On the hillside rose a red glare that
reminded him of the coke-ovens on the
slope of Mount Keira, Fully a quarter of a
mile away he heard a voice come swinging
through the still night air. With a few
more steps he was able to catch some of
the speaker’s words.
“Glory, glory! If yer would be saved yer
must be washed in th’ blood o’ the Lamb.
fur th’ sinner is only ev-erlastin’ ’E11....
I say ter yer ter-night some an’ be saved.
Come an’ be washed in th’ blood o’ th’
Lamb.”
The voice sounded strangely familiar.
At last Jimmy caught sight of a long, lean
form dressed in a red sweater and a pair
of blue trousers. Above the scrawny neck
was the thin, ascetic face and straggling
moustache of Elijah Moon.
“Onst I was a scoffer like you,” he . cried
to a gang of youths who were pushing one
another into the ring. “Onst I was a blar-
sphemer; I mocked me Maker; I scoffed at
sacred things. I was a sinner like you; but
thank Gawd I seen th’ light; I seen th’
light that leads ter Zion. An’ oh, fren’s, I
arst yer ter see th’ light afore it’s too late,
see th’ light o’ Jesus Christ ’oo beckons
yer; an’ tread th’ road ter Zion the same
as I’m treadin’ now. Come up ter-night an’
be washed in th’ blood o’ th’ Lamb.”
As Elijah paused for breath the drummer
beat three times, the cornet-player sounded
a blast and the dozen men and women
surrounding Elijah Moon burst into song,
which the ribald shouts of the pagan crowd
beyond the rays of the naphtha lamps were
powerless to drown.
Jimmy was inclined to speak to Moon,
but he thought better of it.
Moon would be an intolerant Christian
as he had been an intolerant atheist, an
intolerant Socialist, an intolerant individu-
alist. He would only assail Jimmy for his
agnosticism, he would listen to no reason,,
he would go his own way sacrificing every-
thing on the altar of principle as he had
always done—save only when he dashed into
the mouth of Hell intent on snatching his
arch-enemy, Dalgety, from death.
Was this the end of Elijah Moon? Jimmy
wondered. Religion is the sure destination
of the uncertain mind, but was the religion
Salvat.ionism? Jimmy decided not. There
was another change ahead of Moon. There
is only one final refuge for such as he, one
spot where all doubts are at rest —the
Roman Catholic Church, which stands with
open arms. Jimmy saw Moon heading
straight for his destination—Lay Brother
Elijah, finding in some monastery the re-
pose for his soul that all refuges without
denied.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
A fortnight passed a.nd there was no sign
of Alma’s return. Emily had heard from
her and in response to Jimmy’s inquiries,
at first nonchalant and delicate, but latterly
increasingly pointed, she had explained that
“The whaler was hove to, and a boat manned by four men, the mate at
the tiller, pulled away to starboard. A small craft, apparently derelict,
had been sighted about a mile away.... They watched the boat go out to
the derelict; they watched it return. Briskly they lowered a rope to
fasten about the body of an emaciated giant who sprawled in the stern
of the cutter. They saw, as they tended him, that he wore what appeared
to be bracelets; but when they looked again the bracelets turned out to be
a deep purpling scar that encircled each wrist. And as they wrapped
warm clothing about ,his body they saw great stripes lying crosswise over
his back.”
John Crisp starts his story, “Break o’ Day,” like that. He goes back
and tells you how the giant got those “bracelets”; tells you how Daniel
Digby came to be lying in that cutter; tells you what Adelaide was like in
the early days of the S. Australian settlement; tells you what Otago, in
New Zealand, was like when Daniel Digby, this runaway convict, reached
it after his awful S. Australian adventures.
And then there is Bess, his daughter.
“Without ado Bess Digby addressed her host. ‘Sir Alfred Richmond.
A pause. Then: ‘Why have you let all this go so far? Why did you not
come to me? To be sure, I hardly expected you. Weaklings cannot act.
But I felt that it was going to happen. I have come to save you. I am
the only person in the country who CAN save you, You and I must
be married at once.’
And Allan Macalister, son of a Scottish crofter, burning with zeal for
land reform.
“He took the boy in his arms and said to him, ‘I 11 never be anything
but a working bullock; but you, Young New Zealand, will be a great man.
We’ll make you that, Jessie and I.’
And after that there is the absorbing struggle between the Richmonds
and the Macalisters. ...
“Break o’ Day” opens in next week’s “Bulletin” (Nov. 5). It will
fascinate you. Scorfield will illustrate it.
Alma had been detained. He was unsatis-
fied.
“Sunlight Sam” was now completed and,
with the dozen original verses, told the
complete story of that fantastic and lov-
able character in verse, quaint, humorous
and pathetic with just that love interest
which appeals to the feminine reader. Stan,
having finished his water-colors, was hard
at work illustrating “Sunlight Sam” for
“The Ishmaelite.” But Jimmy’s occupation
gone, he missed bitterly the odd days and
nights he had been accustomed to snend
with Alma, not to mention the loneliness
of having to be waited on at meals by a
strange waitress whose amorous eyes seemed
repellent to him.
“What is really the meaning of Alma
being a.wa;y all this time?” at last he
demanded of Emily one night at the studio.
Emily smiled at Stan over Jimmy’s
shoulder. “Well, I know no more than I’ve
told you,” she said. “But I really think
it’s that boy who came back from South
Africa to Melbourne a month ago. He
was very sweet on Alma before he went
and Mr. Grey thinks a world of him.”
Jimmy’s heart bumped against the walls
of his chest. He felt the blood rise to his
forehead. He murmured some common-
place and took the first opportunity of
getting away. The veil was torn aside. He
realised what had happened. He was in
love with Alma.
He had felt deeply sorry when May
left and lonely in her absence, but the
feeling was totally different from what he
had undergone during the past fortnight.
Then the latest news—Alma in danger of
being lost to him, of becoming the wife of
another man, of passing out of his life as
May passed out, but leaving behind her
a void it would be impossible to fill.
He had not realised how much the girl
had meant to him, the real value of those
delicious associations in the forests and on
the beaches and on the rivers. To face
life Almaless seemed something outside the
scope of nature; it was like turning off
the sun and living out the rest of his life
in the darkness.
“Life without Yum Yum; it seems
ridiculous.” He recalled the line in the
Mikado and for the first time it seemed to
have no humor in it. Life without Alma
was ridiculous indeed.
Jimmy was not a dreamer. He would
not have worked his way to senior rank
in five years if he had been. Within twenty
minutes of Emily’s announcement he stood
before his news editor telling him that it
was imperative that he should leave for
Melbourne on urgent private business the
following night. Fortunately, it was the
slack period and, as it happened, Jimmy
found no difficulty in securing the leave-
leave that carried the obligation to make
several inquiries on special subjects in the
southern city.
“When are you off? ’ laughed Stan as he
entered the studio that night.
“Off where?” returned Jimmy.
“Melbourne,” said Stan.
“To-morrow night; how did you know?”
demanded Jimmy.
“Been expecting it for the last six months
—not the trip to Melbourne, but the
reason. Everybody’s not blind—not as blind
as you, Jimmy.”
“Yes, I have been blind and perhaps it’s
too late now I’ve got my eyes open.”
“I don’t think there’s any need to lose
sleep over that,” observed Stan quietly. “If
you hadn’t been as blind as you are you’d
have seen that you weren’t the only one
concerned.” )}
“You mean that Alma’s fond of me, too?
he asked eagerly.
Stan laughed outright. “You silly ass,”
he said. “If you hadn’t been so utterly,
clamantly, flamboyantly in love with the
girl yourself you’d have seen it long ago.
Why, the poor little devil was nearly break-
ing her heart over you at first, when she
thought you were in love with May. But
it didn’t take'her long to find out different.
Women are a trifle quicker in these things
than we are—matter of evolution I suppose
—survival of the fittest.”
Jimmy felt the twenty-five he was. For
some weeks he had been an old man. Now,
right on top of his own realisation that
he loved Alma, came Stan’s assurance that
Alma loved him.
“That’s fine,” he breathed.
“All the same,” advised Stan. “I
wouldn’t be too slow off the mark. The
other chap has the old man by the wool,
from what I can gather from Emily. He
belongs, you understand; he’s one of those
present. He can look back to fourteen
quarterings on his escutcheon. His rise
doesn’t date from the coke-ovens and he
doesn’t choose his intimates from struggling
artists who were house-painters carrying
ladders and buckets of whitewash within
the memory of the youngest inhabitant.”
Arriving in Melbourne, Jimmy put up at
the Victoria Coffee Palace and sent a wire
to Alma asking her to meet him the follow-
ing morning. A reply came the same even-
ing: “Will be there.”
There was no uncertainty about his feel-
ings next day, as he stood at the Town
Hall corner and saw her step out of the
crowd and straight towards him with a
smile of welcome, which seemed to pro-
claim her love for him to the world. Jimmy
marvelled at his blindness in not having
properly interpreted that smile previously.
When she grasped his hand, too, it seemed
that there was a meaning pressure. Jimmy
saw love in her every action now, love in
a great many actions, which were semi-
automatic.
“I’m awfully glad to see you over here,
Jimmy,” she said. “What’s brought you
to Melbourne?”
“Office business,” he replied. “At least,
I’m doing some office business while I’m
here. But first of all let’s get somewhere
where we can talk quietly. I’ve something
important I want to say.”
“Goodness me! What can that be?” she
laughed with mock seriousness. “What
about the Shades? I know Melbourne
better than you do.”
“The Shades be it, whatever they may
be,” assented Jimmy. She led him along
the Block to a set of steps down which
they descended to a basement tea-room.
Jimmy chose an alcove as far out of the
public traffic as possible and they took
their seats as he gave the order to the
waitress.
“Now, Alma, do you know why I’ve come
over to Melbourne?” he asked.
“What a question to ask. How on earth
should I know?” she inquired, knitting her
brows.
“I thought you might,” he said. “I came
here to ask you to marry me.”
“Oh!” said Alma. She was silent for
three seconds but she smiled most encourag-
ingly. Then she spoke. “What do you
expect me to say?”
“I expect you to say ‘Yes,’ ” replied
Jimmy, eagerly.
She slid her hand along the table to his
and whispered. “That isn’t a bad guess,
Jimmy.”
It seemed to ( him that they were being
served by the slowest waitress in the world.
He lived hours while she was sorting out
the appurtenances of the ice-cream and the
lemon squash. Even then, some demon of
malice restrained her; for, instead of clear-
ing away, she hung round the table for


\
SM
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ”
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
COPYING
THE POPULAR
PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki g. etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. ft C. HABDTMUTH. of “ KOH-I-NOOR ” Pencil fame,
London Office — 20. Kinfirsway. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
•JOHN MACDOUGAIjIj, P O. Box 165,
SYDNEY.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
7hp cen/rp of Queens/onc/s
cZ/s/'ngufsfrec/ Soc/o '/ Life.
%&ote I
to noisn
BRISBANE
-
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 83211—6 Lines.
several eternities. When at last she moved
off, Jimmy was in such a condition of des-
peration that he could have hit her.
Alma screwed up her eyes, Japanese,
fashion, as she laughed. “Don’t hate the
poor girl because you love me, Jimmy,” she
whispered.
“My darling,” smiled Jimmy. All his
chagrin had melted in the exhilaration of
being at last alone with Alma. But the
refreshments annoyed him.
“I don’t want this stuff; I want to get
somewhere alone with you.”
“Don’t be selfish; I want it,” ordered
Alma. Already, she assumed an air of pro-
prietorship over him and now that they had
confessed their love, she delighted in the
little arts of coquetry which even the
most puritanical woman loves to exercise.
“I’ve been simply longing for an ice-cream
all day.”
Jimmy let his eyes rest on her as she
smilingly sipped the spoon. He hungered
for her lips. He marvelled that for nearly
a year he had been seeing this desirable
little bundle of compact womanhood almost
daily without having knowingly craved for
the pressure of her breast against his own,
for the touch of her warm brown skin, for
the raptures held in her full lips. His
glance wandered to her hair and he felt a
fierce wish to tear out its pins and smother
his face in its fragrance.
He bolted his ice-cream and gulped down
his squash without tasting either.
“Shall we take a stroll along the Block
or go to the National Gallery?” teased
Alma.
“We’ll do neither,” returned Jimmy.
“We’ll go where there’s nobody to see me
kiss my little girl as I’ve been longing to
ever since she told me she’d be my wife.”
“Where’s that?”
“I don’t know. I’m not sufficiently well
acquainted with this damned city.”
“Oooh!” cried Alma. “Bad language.
That’s a habit I’ll have to break you of.
But I fancy from what I’ve heard and seen
that you might possibly be satisfied if we
walked along the Yarra bank to the
Botanical Gardens.”
“Yarra Bank it is,” agreed Jimmy.
Hurriedly he paid the bill and ascended
the steps. Through her transparent sleeve,
Alma’s plump arm invited him to take it..
Since the surf rescue he had never previ-
ously laid a hand on her. The touch
thrilled him. He wished to kiss those
dainty curves from shoulder to finger-tips.
The walk along the Block, down Swan-
ston-street and across Princes Bridge seemed
interminable to Jimmy. Once Alma stopped
to look in a shop window. When she
glanced up and saw his face she was re-
pentant.
“It’s a shame,” she smiled. “I’m a pig
to tease you. Never mind, I won’t look
in any more windows, especially”—she
squeezed his arm this time—“as I’m in
rather a hurry myself.”
Through the avenue of flowers and
palms they walked side by side. Then
ascended the rise which, a quarter of a
mile further on, is crowned by the Temple
of the Winds.
A seat is there which might serve as a
shrine for Aphrodite, did she ever come from
the Isles of Greece to reign in Melbourne.
Around it are the massed blooms in the
gardens, before it are clusters of foliage
which veil it from the casual citizen walk-
ing along the bank. You can look from it
down each of the paths which lead to it
for a hundred yards, while being yourself
unobserved. Its surface has been polished
like glass by the thousands of lovers who
have sat on it side by side, by day and by
night. The sighs which have risen from
it would serve to fill Melbourne with a
soft warm zephyr; the kisses would provide
the motive of some mighty love song, when
a musician is inspired to immortalise the
seat lyrically.
Jimmy sat beside Alma, glanced down
the path and took her in his arms. He was
no longer afraid of Alma. She returned his
kisses with a fervor born of only one
feeling—a feeling Jimmy had never previ-
ously encountered. Even a few minutes
previously, he had feared that Alma’s love
would be one at arm’s length, that the
severity of her attitude towards any free-
dom between the sexes would be reflected
in her own love-making. He rejoiced that
he had been mistaken. He knew love to be
a new and a surprising sensation for him-
self; he realised that it was newer and
more surprising for Alma.
“Alma,” he confessed, “I’ve always loved
you—always—ever since that first day
when you came round the works and I
was firing the oven.”
“And I’ve always loved you, Jimmy,” she
replied. “Not quite so lorig as that, but
from the first day you came into the
Lalla Rookh. I thought you were going
to marry somebody else, too. I don’t
know what I’d have done if you had. You
never guessed, Jimmy, but I did worry
over that.”
They forgot the time. When they looked
up they saw Princes Bridge and the Clock
Tower silhouetted black against a futurist
sunset—one of those summer sunsets which
Melbourne above all the cities of the world
knows how to produce, the sunset which
goes with an atmosphere as invigorating
as champagne.
“That’s the station over there,” she said,
when they had recrossed the bridge. “That’s
where I get the train home to Prahran.”
“And that’s where I get the train to
Prahran, too,” said Jimmy. “I’ve invited
myself out to tea with you a.nd, incident-
ally, to have a talk to your old man.”
Alma looked up at him out of the corner
of her eyes. “I thought you would.”
“You seem to be as good a guesser as I
was,” he returned.
“I guessed that the moment I got your
wire,” she replied. “If I hadn’t,” she added,
“you might have been landed on us when
we had only a tin of salmon.”
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
C. J. Grey’s estate agency was not situ-
ated in Chapel-street, that mighty suburban
“‘Alma,’ he confessed, ‘I’ve always loved you — always—ever since that first day when you came round the works and I was
firing the oven!’”
thoroughfare which threatens to challenge
the supremacy of Collins-street and make
the city of Melbourne a mere adjunct to
Prahran. It was a one-storeyed weather-
board shop, built on to the front of a
cottage, a few doors round the corner of
the great thoroughfare, in Green-street.
C.J. was plainly not one of the great
ones of suburban real estate, though his
premises seemed clean, freshly painted and
up to date in the way they pushed busi-
ness. All the same, when Jimmy read, in
the list of the acts which C. J. Grey was
ready to perform, that ,he had money to
lend from £5 to £5OOO, he regarded the
statement as somewhat of an exaggeration.
Behind the shop was the dwelling house
in which C.J. was the only boarder of the
couple who lived there rent free in pay-
ment. Alma’s visit was really the result
of their being called away to Warrnambool
suddenly through the illness of a relative.
Emily had drawn on her imagination.
Jimmy expected to find the old man a
shadow of his old self brokeii and spiritless.
He made a huge mistake. C.J. was a game
man; m reality, too game a man He had
staked everything on his judgment that the
new process of the Three G s would fail,
and he had gone the way of most gamblers.
But he was anything but spiritless or broken.
He had taken some hard knocks in his
lifetime and at a part of it when a man
is least fitted to take them—the loss of his
fortune, the death of his wife, the weakness
of his elder daughter. His head was bloody,
but it was still unbowed.
That he had not recovered the position
he had once held was no fault of his. The
man who would succeed in business must
have either youth or capital—both for pre-
ference. Grey had neither Still he was
not m want. He made sufficient to wear
decent clothes, pay his way, enjoy two or
three whiskies and the same number of
cigars daily, and to send Alma an occasional
present. Those things accomplished, he had
Jimmy found him still the breezy good-
natured man he had been when he owned
the ovens.
“Mighty glad to see you again,” he said,
taking Jimmy’s hand. “Alma told me about
meeting you in Sydney and now you’ve
blown over here.”
“Yes blown over,” assented Jimmy.
He was no snob, C.J. Years ago, when
he had refused to have Jimmy to dinner,
he was actuated by nothing but the efficient
conduct of his works. He had heard of
Jimmy’s rise from Alma and thought all
the more of him for having started from
nothing.
Alma left them alone after tea.
«j thought so. Damn it! I thought so!”
cded o i d Grey when Jimmy made known
t he object of his visit. “I guessed as much
from her Otters. That’s what brought you
Melbourne ”
Jm no dded. The old man looked him
and down. “Well, what have I got to
about it anyhow? » he demanded, “Alma’s
twent three . i te ll you honestly, I rather
{ ahot her chap for her-but... .I’m
damned if j know whe ther I do altogether,
y , ye got my best wishes, my boy,” he
conclude £ hold ing out his hand,
, ’ , „ , ,
. e , j ier > OH ei 7 ° y’T-
in § towa [ ds the d ° ol ' Jimmy
°P enec l an men.
“It’s all right, Alma, he called,
She was just outside and bounded in,
kissing Jimmy first and her father next,
“Oh, I’m so happy, Dad,” she announced,
Jimmy wanted the marriage fixed for next
day «j can eagdy wire and get my annual
holidays now ” he explained. “They’ll be
on] too g i ad to get rid of me at a slack
me »
Ah wouldn > t hear of the suggestion,
h ld require seve ral weeks at least
ready articles of toilet essential
f 8 bride , even one not intent upon a
ddi « u lly cho ral” a t St. Paul’s
Q adieck . d J
ou needn t be frightened that I spent
all my screw as I got it,” Jimmy persisted.
“I’ve nearly three hundred saved, and I
expect to sell the book rights of ‘Sunlight
Sam’ for about fifty pounds.”
“What!” yelled Alma, indignantly; “fifty
pounds! If you dare to think of such a
thing I won’t marry you after all. I’d be
afraid to many a man so lacking in ordinary
commonsense.”
(Continued on page 49.)


A New Gold Discovery
at Yalwal, near Nowra.
A new reef has been located on the Yalwal goldfield, 1 6 miles from Nowra, on
the Shoalhaven River, and assays from the Mines Department show 3oz.
16dwt. sgr. per ton. The face is over Bft. wide, and every indication of
making very much bigger as the lode is making underfoot. A drive of 20
feet has been driven in on this reef, and it is the intention to drive a further
50ft. and then sink a winze to test the values going down. Mr. W. H. Wesley,
mining engineer and metallurgist, late of Mt. Lyell and Mt. Morgan, has
reported that it will be a most profitable proposition to also crosscut at
this distance, as he has located another reef 60ft. north-east of the reef that
is being driven on, and this new reef carries excellent values. Assays show
over 1 oz. per ton on the surface. A company known as the South Coast
Yalwal Gold Reefs, Ltd., has been registered for £20,000 to work this
property. The company’s intentions are to erect a treatment plant similar to
that which is operating at Wiluna (W.A.), and giving extraordinary results
there in very low-grade ore. Two West Australian mineowners who inspected
Yalwal a week ago say that this company’s reef is equal to any in their State,
and they say with the latest process there should be some splendid returns,
and also dividends. If any reader should wish to get a prospectus of this
company he should write or call upon the Sydney brokers, Messrs. Scott-
Delamar, Ground Floor, Manning House, 258 George Street, Sydney— Phone:
85644. The shares are only 1/- each, so that the smallest investor can
participate in this proposition. Easy terms are given to pay 1/-: 3d. on
application, 3d. on allotment and two calls of 3d. each, taking about four
months to pay the full amount.
create
>l°
ure
"W Ike
NEW
BERLEI
STEP-IM
Another Beriei
.triumph—the magic
Step-in! You must wear
it, it’s so new, so smart, so
utterly essential. Pass your
hands over your waist- —
when you are wearing the
new Beriei Step-in—how
smoothly, snugly, the Step-
in fits . . . it correctly
defines both contour and
position of the waist.
i
7004
g
New Berlei Step-in
7004. Even the Big
Stype achieves the
ned waist in this
model. Slips on and
off so easily. Waists
86-36 ins.
New .Berlei Step-in 7006.
Art silk Broche, silk elas-
tic. Opens partly each
side for rentention of form
and fit. Slightly
efficiently boned. Waists
24-30 ins.
3*
' -V
l
7006
TSAJ&S**
First—at any reliable store —have
your individual figure-type properly
checked by the wonderful Berlei
Indicator, choose a new Berlei Step-
in—they’re very moderately priced.
Every Berlei Foundation is Guaranteed.
ĝd
F 4.-20-30.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distiguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Brisbane, as everyone knows, is Kingsford
Smith’s birthplace, but he couldn’t stay long,
being so near the end of his journey and
the girl who was waiting for him. The
Speedway management offered him half the
proceeds of their big night on Tuesday, but
he asked that the money be handed over
to the ambulance and the General Hospital.
Mrs. Caine, of Lennons, arranged that he
should have a box of Queensland roses to
take over the last stage of his journey to
his Mary; the blooms were picked at 4 a.m.
At the first night’s performance of “The
Belle of New York” there was a capacity
house. The Governor and Lady Goodwin
were present, Mr. -and Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes
being with them. Others in the throng
were the Cadell-Garricks, Neal Macrossans,
M. S. Herrings, Mrs. Jack Caine, the P. J.
Symeses, Dr. and Mrs. Willis, Mr. and Mrs.
George Cryle, Dr. and Mrs. N. Sutton, Mr.
and Mrs. E. 11. Corser, Ruth Portraite,
Audrey Herring, Mrs. F. K. Brodribb and
J. O’Neill Brenan.
At the races at Eagle Farm, the Blair
lady, who entertained a party of guests
on the committee-room verandah, was in
mastic georgette patterned in red and a
cream hat. Mrs. G. Whatmorc wore lip-
stick red; Mrs. Arthur Clarke chose navy;
Olga Barnes was in brown; Cecily. Cadell-
Garrick’s American muslin was printed in
pink roses; and Marie Buchanan was in
rose dimity.
Mrs. E. R. Beardmore had a bridge and
mah jongg party at Hilroy for her daughter
Lilia, who is soon to marry John Paterson.
The hostess wore black satin beaute; her
daughter, Mrs. MacPherson, was in saxe
blue and red floral chiffon, and the bride-
elect in powder blue. Pink gladioli and roses
decorated the dining-room, where tea was
served under a white floral wedding bell.
The Carlton Cabaret was taken for the
National Bank’s staff dance. Mr. and Mrs.
A. R. Gillespie received, Mrs. Gillespie wear-
ing black velvet faconne.
All Saints’, Wickham-terrace, saw the mar-
riage of Henry Tyack and Gladys V. J.
Humphreys. The bride was given away by
her father in white bridal satin, with a
Honiton-lace veil and a bouquet of Madonna
lilies and orchids. Kathleen Boulton, Mar-
jorie and Gladys Ford ’maided, in old-gold
satin with wreaths of autumn-tinted leaves.
J. C. Humphreys best-manned, and Walker
Davidson and K. Miller were groomsmen.
Atcherley saw the feasting.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin had a
dinner party while Sir Otto Niemeyer was
staying at Government House. Other guests
were the Chief Justice and his lady, the
Mayor and Mrs. Jolly, Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Barnes, Dr. and Mrs. A. S. Roe, Colonel
and Mrs. Campbell.
Audrey Jones, the blind soprano, in lime-
colored tulle and crystal headings, gave a
vocal recital in the Albert Hall, and received
many bouquets. Lena Hammond accom-
panied ; other artists who assisted were Mary
Spanjer, Gladys Frost and Margary Stuart.
Bride-elect Envie Enwright had a tea
given for her by Mrs. F. S. Lucas in Rowe’s.
Ruth Simpson, who marries Chris Kempson
on Nov. 1, was feted by Mesdames Carlyle
Henzell, Harold Crawford and Jessie Davis
at Cumnor, Nundah. Gaillardias and arum-
lilies decked the house and African daisies
the supper tables. The guest of honor wore
apricot mariette.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Winter had a final fling with rain and
gales before departing. On the afternoon of
the girls’ inter-school sports a nippy breeze
made onlookers snuggle into their tweeds.
Perth College had a fairly easy victory
from the runners-up, Sacred Heart High
School. C. Lewis, who was champion athlete,
and 1 M. Treen, who broke a record in the
high jump, both belonged to the winning
seminary.
His Ex., after a short opening speech,
seemed to enjoy his prowl among the exhibits
of our flora and fauna at the Naturalists’
Club Show in the Town Hall. Stuffed
animals, among which perhaps the echidna
and the platypus received most notice,
nipped each other’s heels. Japanese fan-
tails, beside which our finny creatures were
very homely indeed, freckled newts, gilgies
and a Chinese tortoise swam in their glass
aquariums. A monster robber crab, impor-
ted from Christmas Island, slept behind his
cocoanut and refused to demonstrate the
strength of his claws in cracking its hard
shell. Mr. Bardwell and Mrs. Dedman
exhibited collections of shells. A pitcher
plant, which gobbles up insects with its sea
anemone-like leaves, was the most interesting
botanical specimen. Youngsters from Perth
Boys’ School occupied an annex where they
rattled off explanations upon the human
eye and bottles filled with pickled creatures.
The marriage knot for Mae Kirby and
John Robertson was tied in St. George’s
Cathedral. The bride’s white satin wedding
garment with its long sleeves and peaked
bodice fell in a sweeping train and was
girdled about the waist with pearls. A
Brussels net veil and a sheaf of gladioli were
accessories. Bride’s sister Dorothy and
Vera Barrett ’maided in tiers of apple-green
georgettes, wearing picture hats and carry-
ing sheafs of pink gladioli. Noel Smith, a
miniature replica of the other attendants,
kept an eye upon the train. Congratula-
tions were said at the Palace.
The recently formed Kylie Music Club
has closed its membership list with 160
names; members are expected to work up a
repertoire suitable for the monthly Saturday
afternoons. A splendid programme was the
club’s October activity. Mrs. W. H. Vincent,
the founder and president, received at Minna-
warra, wearing amber and black chiffons.
Evelyn Willis of the pearly touch wore navy;
Doreen Bray’s floral georgettes had green
embellishments. Nora Coalstad, in a rose-
ash ensemble and Gladys Cunliffe played
“Poisoned Fountain,” a work for two pianos.
Irene Stancliffe, in beige romaine, trilled
artistically. David Powell drew sweet sounds
from his fiddle, and Harold Neate’s baritone
elicited a thunder of applause.
Recently returned holiday-makers from
abroad are the Talbot Hobbs couple and
their two daughters, and Mrs. '-Rowley, of
Cottesloe, with her son Colin.
Hale School is losing its headmaster again.
The Le Couteurs will be missed here, especi-
ally among musical folk.
A returned tourist from Russia is Mrs.
Sydney Bryan, of Wollstonecraft (N.S.W.)',
in whose honor Mrs. P. G. Hampshire gave
a tea and chatter party at Temple Court
during the Barrabool’s stay in port. Mrs.
Bryan did a Baltic cruise, and during the
few days she spent in Leningrad she saw
not one shop where food or wearing apparel
could be bought. Food can only be obtained
through producing meal tickets and waiting
your turn in a queue. The very few
churches which have not been turned into
granaries are used as propaganda centres.
The limit of wealth for any individual is
£3000; the Soviet sees that it isn’t exceeded.
Butter at £1 per pound, and meat difficult to
procure at all, reduce housekeeping pro-
blems for the majority to black bread and
semi-starvation.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
It was a bright idea on the part of the
Point McLeay Mission station to reproduce
the scene that met the eyes of Captain
Charles Sturt, pioneer navigator of the
Murray, when he attempted to land at Point
McLeay 100 years ago. His Ex., accom-
panied by Lady Hore-Ruthven, disembarked
from the little paddle-boat Jupiter at the
spot, in order to unveil the memorial cairn
to the explorer. It was an immense surprise
when a number of aborigines in fearsome
feathers and warpaint leaped up from among
the sandhills brandishing spears and boome-
rangs; they enjoyed the joke as much' as
the vice-regal party, whom they afterwards
escorted to the cairn.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven enter-
tained the State and Federal members of
Parliament and their better halves at after-
noon tea, but it was an unofficial affair.
The Rose Show opened by Lady Hore-
Iluthven at the Town Hall was the finest dis-
play of blooms ever seen in Adelaide.. In
addition to the flowers on the tables, the
stage was smothered in a riot of roses from
local gardens, and the scent in the hall was
quite overpowering. Lady Moulden and
friends looked after the decorations.
The Adelaide Repertory Theatre revived
Ibsen’s “The Doll’s House” last week, but
the play lacked the early-Victorian atmo-
sphere. Miss Beryl Kook’s Nora would
have required the 18in. waist and long skirts
to be in any way convincing. The scarlet
jumper suit was a 1930 protest against Tor-
vald Helmer’s narrow-minded views.
The Adelaide Rowing Club burst into
hospitality for the opening of the season,
and the banks were lined with pretty girls in
colored frocks. Many heroes of past vic-
tories were present.
Mrs. de Burgh, of Beaudesert (Q.), is the
guest of Lady Hore-Ruthven at Government
House.
Nora Noonan gave a large pantry tea at
the Southern Cross Hotel for Mary Flan-
nagan, whose marriage to Dr. Eugene Mc-
Laughlin has been arranged to take place at
St. Ignatius Church. The party was held on
the spacious balcony, which was furnished
with easy chairs, and afternoon tea was
served in the reception-room.
Mr. David Jones arrived from Melbourne
on Friday on a visit to his daughter, Mrs.
Guy Ma'kin, Strangways Terrace, North.
Adelaide.
Mrs. W. D. Shennan is holding an Ameri-
can tea at her residence Balig, North East-
road, Walkerville, in aid of the Babies’
Home, Walkerville.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
W. H. Cummins, the general manager of
the Hobart “Mercury,” and Mrs. Cummins
are back from their trip to the U.K., where
Mr. Cummins represented his paper at the
Press Conference.
Women teachers of the Education Depart-
ment farewelled Mrs. Solomon and Dr.
Hawkins at a big muster of school folks and
friends at the Imperial. The doctor was
presented with a travelling-rug, and the lady
with a crystal jug and tumblers. Bouquets,
both verbal and actual, tea and music filled
up the afternoon.
The charming old English church at
Hagley saw the quiet wedding of Florence
Jean, elder daughter of the G. E. Perrins,
Launceston, and Fred Smithies. The bride’s
frock was an ensemble of mastic and jade-
green, worn with a wide-brimmed crinoline
hat and a stone-marten choker fur. Sister
Eileen ’maided in floral silk in pastel tones.
A.I.F. “originals,” to the number of about
200, held a reunion at the R.S.A. rooms in
Macquarie-street. After 16 years there were
naturally many gaps in the ranks, yet the
survivors made a good showing. A short
ceremony at the Cenotaph was followed by
a shivoo at the rooms.
Lilian Overell and her sister Margaret
have returned from the other side of the
world, where the former was Tas. delegate to
the quinquennial Congress of the Nat. Coun-
cil of Women held at Vienna. The sisters
travelled through much of Europe, seeing
the Passion Play at Oberammergau among
other things. Entertainment was lavish at
Vienna, and the visitors saw little trace of
straitened post-war conditions.
St. John’s Church, Launceston, was a
mass of tamarisk, cherry blossom and arum-
iilies for the wedding of Dr. Jill, daughter of
the popular and sporting Dr. George Clemons,
and Dr. James Ainslie, of Westralia. The
bride’s frock was -of parchment-tinted satin
brocaded in gold, the bodice long and tightly
fitting, sleeves likewise. Two panels of the
heavy satin parted at the back to admit the
flow of the parchment tulle train, and the
long overtrain hung from a coronet of gold-
tinted orange blossom. Sister Anne Cle-
mons and Audrey Cox ’maided in chartreuse-
green georgette, carrying sheaves of rose and
cherry-colored tulips. A big throng of rela-
tives and guests were at the wedding supper
at the Launceston Hotel after the ceremony,
Mrs. Ronald Dick and her son George
are back in Hobart after a year’s fluttering
round Europe. Daughter Peggy remains in
Montreux to finish her education. Mrs.
Dick’s book “Huon Belle,” the scene lain
i n that apple-growing district, appears simul-
taneously with her return.
The Peter Grants have left the Speck to
settle in Melbourne. Mayor and Mayoress
Soundy farewelled them at the Town Hall,


Grave papooses
peep out
at you
An incident
of your trip
across America
to
ENGLAND
Ml
. -<
Fascinating papooses and
proud mothers will pose for
visitors’cameras in 'America
CRADLED on their mothers’ hacks, chubby Indian
babies watch solemnly as visitors to America
snap their pictures. These papooses are swathed and
tied “like mummies,” hut sturdy and contented.
Picturesque Indians, the gorgeous scenery of
America’s National Parks, the diversions of great
cities—all can he part of your next trip to England.
One ticket covers everything. The cost is moderate.
Let the American Railways Travel and Information
Bureau of the Matson Line plan you a fascinating
itinerary without charge. Ask for free illustrated
literature, “To England Across America.”
Write to Dept. M 25,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION RUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Sb^tkt
A few of the Bargains:
NOW
Usually
Men’s Woollen
Worsted Trousers,
16/6
25/- Summer Weight
Tweed Sports
Coats for Men . .
14/6 Crash Dust Coats,
well made %
105/-
to
115/-
Youths’ Worsted
Sac Suits, ready to
wear
27/6
Boys* Dark Grey
Tweed Cotswold
Suits
5/11
Boys* Flannel
Tweed Knickers,
plain knees ....
7/11
Boys’ Felt Hats,
Slate and Steel . .
Ihf
£/£
11/81
9/68
9 iL
9/61
£/ZI
Thousands of Other Cut Prices
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
Kindly Address All Letters to DESK “R.”
m
paRK&GEQRGE streets
ion” j#
‘Still Rising in Public Estimation
r
Ik
m\
I m
7-m
V ■#
' ss
'i'&'Ms
vr/j
:vAi
mm
m
fA
“I don’t think they’d come any more.”
He shook his head. “Anyhow, I’ll look in
and see them to-morrow—their head office
is in Melbourne.”
He found on interviewing Barton, of
Barton and Bone, the only publishers of
local books of any standing in Australia,
that he had been optimistic. Barton knew
‘Sunlight Sam’ well. He had read the verses
in “The Ishmaelite” and enjoyed them
hugely. It was tip-top stuff for a weekly
newspaper—but in book form! No, the
public had had a surfeit of verse lately
and, at any time, stuff of the ‘Sunlight Sam’
sort had no selling value. It was a pity,
said Barton; the verse, he knew, was first
class, but the public was a strange element.
It was the work of a lifetime to gauge its
peculiarities, its eccentricities and he had
devoted that lifetime to the study. He was
sorry, but the firm couldn’t run the risk of
spending a couple of hundred pounds on
such a forlorn hope.
Jimmy felt that it was a humiliating thing
to go back to his affianced bride the day
after she had promised to be his wife and
admit himself a failure, but he had to do
it. Alma had been waiting for the result
of the interview and he told her at once.
“He didn’t offer the fifty pounds?” she
asked.
“He didn’t offer anything. He told me
they wouldn’t have it as a gift—wouldn’t
risk the expenses on the off-chance of pay-
ing me a royalty. It didn’t get as far as
the amount of the royalty.”
“What’ll it cost to publish them, Jimmy?”
she asked.
He mentioned two hundred pounds as the
amount he wouldn’t risk.”
“Jimmy,” she said earnestly. “You said
last night you’d nearly three hundred
pounds saved.”
“Yes,” he interrupted, “That’s to pay a
deposit on a house and get some furniture
and”
“Jimmy,” Alma went on quietly. “I’ve
•read ‘Sunlight Sam’and I’ll back my judg-
ment against that man’s; if you’re going
to marry me, you’ve got to do it, too.”
“What!” cried Jimmy. “You don’t
mean”
“I mean you have to go straight away,
see him again, and find but his lowest terms
for publishing for you. You can’t do with-
out their name and organisation, but you
can do without their capital. You must
publish it at your own risk. Take all the
risk and you’ll take all the profits!”
“But you don’t mean me to sink every
cent I’ve saved in this book. “What’ll we
do?” protested Jimmy.
“We’ll get married and board,” she
replied placidly. Alma had inherited some
of the old man’s gambling spirit. More-
over, she was convinced, not only that “Sun-
light Sam” was good verse, but that its
publication would be a good business pro-
position. She recognised the appeal to the
feminine mind, a thing which Barton, with
all his lifetime of study, never guessed.
Jimmy was upset when he realised that
Alma was serious. “If you don’t see him,”
she persisted, “I’ll think you’re more con-
cerned over your miserable two hundred
pounds than you are over me.”
He endeavored to explain that to him it
seemed a selfish thing to jeopardise the
comfort of his future wife on a sheer
gamble in which there was an element of
personal vanity.
“You won’t have any future wife unless
you get busy—at any rate, not this one,”
said Alma with a smile. But through the
smile Jimmy saw the square jaw harden
and he realised that she was taking charge
of him, that already she regarded herself as
his wife in some respects.
He saw Barton again, and, after going
into a number of details, asked what the
firm would want for an issue. Barton asked
him a hundred and fifty pounds for the
first thousand.
“I don’t think I could raise as much as
that,” said Jimmy sadly.
“Well, we’ll say a hundred and twenty-
five,” said Barton. “But for my own part,
I’d advise you to drop it. It won’t go;
good stuff like that never does pull a cent.”
Jimmy pondered, did little sums on a slip
of paper and, asking for time, slipped out
to announce the news to Alma.
“Do you think he’ll come down a bit
more if you hold out?” she asked.
Jimmy shook his head. “No.”
“Well, go back and fix up about the other
thousands, the second, third, fourth and
the rest. You’re going to sell a good many
thousands you know, Jimmy dear.”
“You’re a dear little optimist,” he replied.
“I only hope you’re right. It’ll be a
terrible blow to you when you find the
public isn’t in love with me. It isn’t going
to marry me, you know.”
“Go back and ask about that twentieth
thousand,” ordered Alma. “The first thou-
sand’s nothing. At six and six it will only
just about meet expenses. You’ve got to
get into the second thousand before you
start to make a penny.”
In pursuance of Jimmy’s pertinacity, Bar-
ton drew up a scale of diminishing charges.
He treated Jimmy very fairly. His margin
of profit was just a margin. He felt sorry
for the writer, for he was assured that he
would accomplish nothing but the loss of
the money he had saved and borrowed.
But Barton was a craftsman before all. He
decided that if Jimmy was determined to
defy him, he would do his utmost to make
the book go.
“Now write him a letter accepting his
terms and ask him for an acknowledgment,”
said Alma, the same evening. Jimmy
obeyed.
“Is business over?” he asked.
She relaxed, rose from her chair and
crossing to him, patted his head. “You
dear old boy, I’ve been awfully hard on
you to-day. Yes,” she stepped in front of
him and snuggled herself on his knee, “busi-
ness is over, Jimmy. Oh, I do love you.”
CHAPTER XXXIX.
A week later a young couple and an
elderly man just strolled into the registrar’s
office in Little Collins-street and a few
forms were filled. The ceremony was not
fully choral, neither were there bridesmaids
to look pretty in pink.
“Is that all?” asked Alma, wide-eyed as
they left. She had not the married feeling
that she had expected. She seemed just
the same person she had been ten minutes
previously. The registrar called her Mrs.
Packington, certainly, and he ought to
know; but if anybody asked her who she
was, she felt sure she would say Miss Grey.
Jimmy had persuaded her to cut out some
of the garments which, she had maintained,
were absolutely essential to a trousseau.
She smiled at his threat of calling off the
“Sunlight Sam” publication, but felt
genuinely regretful when the days passed
and she saw his real worry over the delay.
Further, the position was unsatisfactory
for her, too.
It was not as if they had only recently
met. For many months they had been
closely associated and, now that they had
awakened to their love, there were arrears
to press upon them.
When Jimmy at last persuaded her to
huny the marriage, he wired to the “Times”
telling them, and three hours later received
a reply instructing him to take a fortnight
and have his holidays just the same later.
They spent their honeymoon in the
Gippsland lake district, new to both of
them. They reached Sale in time for dinner
and next morning went on for the round
trip, spending a full week at Lakes Entrance
where the surf boomed on one side at the
end of a sweep of unbroken beach of ninety
miles, while on the other lay a wide placid
pool where the black swans floated. They
surfed, they swam, they fished and they
sailed. They learned to know each other
as the single man and the single woman
never do. Each moment they discovered
new phases of each other’s character and
each phase was admirable to the eyes of
love.
The day they were married Jimmy sent
wires to Stan and to Wellington and cables
to May and Patsy Quirk.
“You’re the one,” a characteristic con-
gratulation, came from Patsy, dated a day
later. Jimmy had addressed the cable
simply to “Patsy Quirk, Middleweight
Champion, United States”; the telegraph
companies of the great republic encountered
little difficulty in placing the recipient.
It was three days before May’s reply
came. “Good luck both, I am glad.”
Jimmy’s cable message had chased her from
her home in Long Island to Palm Beach,
where she was astonishing the visitors by
her mastery of the water and bringing pride
to her husband as he listened to the admira-
tion she commanded.
They returned to Melbourne at the end
of ten days and by the time they caught
the Sydney express Alma felt as if she had
been a married woman all her life. She
was no longer embarrassed, and she bullied
Jimmy about with all the devoted trucu-
lence of the loving wife.
(To he Concluded Next Week.)
Gone.
Onf'e on a time here by this road
Hedged with sweetbriar a garden glowed.
In sombre lines .with trunks a-row,
Here stood tall pines long, long ago.
And here bees fed their full on flowers—
Flowers white and red —through lustrous
hours.
Here with sweet scents and melodies
Through shade and shine roamed bird and
breeze.
Gone are the blooms of many shades.
The perfumed glooms, the sunlit glades.
Gone are the pines that stately were. . ..
And gone, too, is the gardener.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The Piston Play
or,
urn
,
ivmm
it
i
m
4
n
x
m
sSfe
Si
7
Whdts
appening
Here ?
The Piston Play is staged in the cylinders of your car. It
features a dangerous cast. Friction in the lead—supported
by the Wear and Tear Twins. Heavy Cost foots the bill.
BUT ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL ENDS THE PER-
FORMANCE AND SUBSTITUTES A SYMPHONY.
In your car—is it a case of “sick cylinders”
or six cylinders? Is your engine always
healthily humming? Oily questions these!
Atlantic does an oil-size job always!
Friction hasn’t a hope against it. The Wear
and Tear Twins hate it. Atlantic wraps its
unbeatable film-coat about each moving
part and Friction gets the cold shoulder.
There’s a sound reason. Because all oil-
thinning impurities have been completely
removed from Atlantic it cannot evaporate
or change its character. It keeps on lubri-
cating. Atlantic is the most durable lubri-
cant known to science.
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE
MOTOR OIL
The Running Mate of Union Super Spirit
A/
<3
7 o
&
<Y
*/
9</
*/
%
*/
%
<6
'/•
7/ v
«$
*7
e«
V
<7
3>
<*«/
*7
4r
°e
°//


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one*
Monanga, the black king of Uganda,
Africa, has 15,000 wives, and is on most
excellent terms with ever so many other
ladies. He butchers five of his spouses daily
out of pure cussedness. He is the biggest
slave-merchant in Africa, and disposes of
150,000 annually. [24/11/’BS.]
This story ought to be true if it isn’t. It
comes to us by a circuitous route, and was
handed down to posterity by' a bush missionary
of pious memory ; it is the grievous experience
of one Stephen Murphy, who flourished in
the vicinity of Mclntyre’s Diggings (Vic.)
many years ago, and was a child of wrath,
a lover of ballads, barmaids and beer.
Stephen got drunk whenever opportunity
offered, and as close up as he could crowd
on all occasions, greatly to the disgust of
Mrs. Stephen, whom —poor, misguided
woman—he frequently pounded with a club.
One day, as Mr. Murphy was sleeping off the
effects of an early drunk and snoring fit-
fully, unconscious of guile, his better half
THOUGHTFUL SWELL: “I’m just going down
the harbor, so this should do, though
travelling is getting awfully dangerous
now. I wish the dawg were a bit
bigger, for I might have to trust to
him, after all.” [8/1/’87.]
was suddenly inspired with a scheme of ven-
geance dark and dire. There was in the
house, imprisoned in a tumbler, an interest-
ing natural curio in the shape of a large
lumbering frog of placid expression. Stephen
had discovered the batrachian in a lump of
rock some hundreds of feet below the sur-
face at the Happy-go-lucky. Mrs. Stephen
thought the frog was good enough to have, but
it had its drawbacks ; it would squat about ail
day and blink and wink, and never utter a
sound, but when night came and she wanted
to sleep, the outrageous creature would croak
dolorously at regular intervals and keep her
awake for hours, so that she was not par-
ticularly anxious about it, _ and would not
have sorrowed much had it died of rheu-
matism. The scheme of vengeance was very
simple; Mrs. Murphy took up the obese
animal, and, after carefully swathing it in
a scrap of wet flannel, placed it in the vest-
pocket of her slumbering lord; she then
filled the tumbler it had inhabited with clean
water and laid it to Stephen’s hand, know-
ing full well that Mr. Murphy would awaken
as arid a.s an African wilderness. And so
he did. His first action was to reach for
that glass, and the water fairly hissed as it
ran down his parched neck. “Whiroo,
Stephen ! Shtop. Ye’re drinkin’ th’ frog !”
howled his loving wife, but it was too late.
Stephen set down the empty aquarium, and
stared with abject terror at the vacancy.
“Wh-h-at!” he groaned, pressing his hand
hard against the pit of his stomach and look-
ing unutterable things. “Ye’ve swallied th’
curiosity. I’m aftlier givin’ him a dthrop av
water t’ shwim in whoile I cot him some
flies, an’ ye’ve swallied him!” At this
juncture the frog lifted up its voice and
cried out of the darkness: “Kaka, ka-ah;
klum, klum.” The cry was smothered and
dismal, and, to the frenzied ears of Stephen,
sounded as if it came directly from his in-
terior, where he fancied he felt the flabby
frog hopping over his diaphragm and sport-
ing with his immortal soul. “Grate Sazer!”
groaned Stephen, “he’s a hen, too; I know
lie’s a hen, an’ in less’n a wake I’ll be full
t’ the throat wid tadpoles! Katharine Mary
Murphy, ye’ve pizened yer lawful husband-
bad fare t’ yer sowl!” Again the frog dis-
tended himself, and sadly called: “Ka ka
ka-lia, klum, klum!” from his dark recess!
Stephen ran distracted; he coughed violently,
doubled himself up, stood on his head with
his mouth open whilst his wife rolled his
stomach with the paste-pin, and strained
with great endeavor, but the intruder would
not be dislodged, and ever and anon signi-
fied as much in the usual manner. Then
Stephen was driven to emetics in his sore
extremity, and he charged himself with reac-
tionary draughts concocted of lukewarm
water and mustard, ipecacuanha wine, castor
oil and other toothsome items, and hung
himself over a fence, allowing his head and
arms to swing in the wind, and looked so
wan and hopeless, so pained and sad, that
the spectacle of him hanging there might
have moved a bailiff to tears. But his wife
was obdurate, and the frog continued to
protest with its wild and woeful “Ka, ka,
ha-ha, klum, klum !” As a last despairing
effort, Mr. Murphy shook himself up and
cut across the paddocks for the diggings.
He staggered into the bar of the Golden
Hope a few moments later and sank on to
a form, hatless, pallid, miserable. “Och.
b’ys, it’s meself’s a goner,” he gasped, “if
yez don’t roide like blazes to the town for a
doelitor! I’ve swallied th’ big frog!” And
by way of seconding the motion the reptile
took a long breath and hoarsely croaked his
muffled lay. The sympathetic miners gath-
ered round the sufferer, and a dozen excel-
lent suggestions for his immediate relief
were at once forthcoming. Sandy Mcßain
wanted to fish for the frog with a bit of
bacon on a string. The idea was tried;
Steve swallowed the bacon and Sandy fished;
but after the company had waited
20 minutes in vain for a bite, that
project was abandoned. Then Boss-
eyed Jones suggested filling Mr.
Murphy up to the throat with
whisky and floating the frog up
until he could be reached with a
long stick. Another thought the
difficulty might be overcome by let-
ting a ground-snake down the
patient’s throat to eat the frog, and
then yanking the former back with
a clew-line; but nobody had any
ground-snake, and Boss-eye’s idea
was about to be carried out when Stephen
mechanically drew the piece of flannel from
his pocket, unrolled it, and disclosed the lost
frog. For a moment he held the creature
suspended by one leg before his disgusted
compatriots, gazing like one smitten; then he
said: “That’s me woife,” and went out. He
heard the roar of many men laughing as he
stole across the paddocks and stopped to
select a club. But Mrs. Murphy had sus-
pected trouble and departed to Mclntyre to
live with her ma till Stephen’s feelings blew
over, and when he reached home there was
nothing left to kill but the cat. When the cat
was slain, all the glassware in the house
broken and the hen-house burned down, Mr.
Murphy felt sufficiently relieved to return
to the Golden Hope and depart on a furious
burst lasting three days and three nights.
Evefiy convicted man in Hongkong is
weighed just before going to his cell. When
his sentence expires he is to weigh exactly
the same. If this be not the case, the whole
of the officials are censured. L25/8/’BB.]
Colonial Governors, as a rule, don’t care
to “part.” Quite recently an Excellency
who gets a thundering big screw from a
miserably-impoverished colony hired a local
artist to paint the vice-regal effigy in it.
The artist was naturally upended with the
importance of the commission, and set to
work in his best style and produced a capital
likeness. His wife for once thought her
husband a genius, and was in raptures over
the affair, anticipating a new bonnet, dresses
for the kids, a suit for the breadwinner and
a good time generally when his Excellency’s
autograph came to hand. The matter of
price had been left to the Governor, who
was expected to dub up with liberality and
dispatch. The dispatch, unfortunately, was
greater than the liberality. A week after
the painting w*as sent home the artist re-
ceived a note from Government House with
a cheque enclosed for £5! The recipient
could scarcely believe his eyes. He expected
£5O at least, and here he was polished off
with a miserable fiver. His wife was ter-
ribly cut up, and took to her bed with inter-
mittent fits of chagrin and toothache. The
cheque, however, was not sent back, but the
artist a few days afterwards visited Govern-
ment House and interviewed his Excellency’s
aide. He requested the official to ask the
Governor to let him have the portrait back
again to correct a little defect and show it
to some of his friends. The request was
graciously acceded to. The artist took the
portrait round among the local aristocracy,
and in a few days got orders for several por-
traits in the same style at £25 each. He
enlarged and improved the vice-regal squint
to make it correspond with the original, and
returned the borrowed painting with his
compliments to the rightful owner. It has
not yet been hung in Government House.
———
A shopkeeper at Dubbo (N.S.W.) was sur-
prised a little the other day by the eccentric
conduct of a bleary sinner who wanted the
loan of a knife in order that he might cut
bis throat amid her stock-in-trade, and die with
a fiendish smile on top of the counter. She
screamed several times and became hysterical,
and then she remonstrated with this stray
sheep, and implored him to reconsider his
rash resolve and not to end his existence
there, but to go outside and live. But he
only glared at her and replied that he wanted
to perish, and she gave way to tears and
asked him if he believed in a material Hell,
and called upon him to rejient. He seemed
moved when she went on in this way, and in
a broken voice he promised that lie would
endeavor to become a better man, and said
he was going away to reform. It was after-
wards discovered that he had handed mostot
the contents of the shop to his pal outside
while the soft-hearted proprietrix was weep-
ing and giving herself up to prayer, and
the shopkeepers of Dubbo have since resolved
that when another man comes along and
desires to commit suicide on their premises
they will subdue their emotion and send for
the police.
The Queensland sun had been slowly bak-
ing the brains of the railway officials, and
at last the authorities decided to provide
the staff with head-coverings suitable to a
torrid climate. Memos, were sent to the
stationmasters and others employed in the
department, intimating that new helmets were
to be served out, and requesting them to
state the sizes they required. In the memos,
the word “helmet” was not very plainly
written. One stationmaster had previously
applied for a new ticket-case, and he thought
the word “helmet” in the memo, was some
word signifying ticket-case. He accordingly
turned over the paper and marked down
the size he wanted: “Three feet six, with
pigeon-holes on top.”
A wandering opera company struck the
Australian shore, and held out for a brief space
in various cities. Then the grass withered
and the flower dried up; Fate heaved the
decayed vegetable of misfortune at the head
of the aggregation, and its sun descended
into the ocean wave. The large, fierce bass
ceased to make the welkin ring; the long and
pensive tenor closed his. countenance and
never smiled again; the soprano took to
book-canvassing: another lady, who had
earned a precarious living by being a thing
of air in the chorus, accepted a billet where
she agitated the beer-engine till far into
the night; and a stately creature with flying
hair, who took vengeful oaths in caves when
there happened to be a piece on with _ a
cave in it, joined her in the same pursuit.
For two years they followed this humble
calling, and then these two dreams of love-
liness disappeared, and left many a dude
lamenting their loss. But the man who
lamented loudest was a shock-headed aboriginal
known as Bill, who worshipped the dust on
which the two girls trod and who had
drunk many free rums at their shrine. The
sorrow of Bill was deep and loud; but the
months rolled on. and his idols were still
absent, and at last even their memory was
forgotten and obliterated. But at last the
girls returned. Whether they had cleaned
out a bank or their uncle had died and left
them the money will never be known, but
they were attired in shining clothes and
were understood to be travelling utterly
regardless of expense, and when they wan-
dered about in the evening, each attended
by a costly dude, they dropped vague hints
concerning their property far away. For
a time all went pleasantly, and then the
cussedness of Fate let loose, and the awful-
ness of things in general w r as upheaved.
There was a picnic one day in a flowery dell,
where gilded girls in nice frocks were gathered
together and youths in high starched collars
rushed around with the victuals, and the
gayest of the crowd were the two ladies of
the ruined opera company. But suddenly,
in the midst of their laughter, the shadow
of a shock-headed aboriginal fell across the
tart and the blanc-mange. It was Bill. A
chill descended on the party, and the dudes
threw stones at him but failed to hit
him. The abo. only moved a little
further away and executed a dance aceom-
panied by a series of short barks which filled
the company with alarm. They concluded
at last that he was suffering from hydro-
phobia, and a flank movement commenced
towards the steamer. Bill followed, and at
the jetty he bore down on the crowd and
said plaintively: “Gib it chickpence.” No-
body responded. Then the savage singled
out the two ladies of his adoration and said
again in accents sad and wild: “Gib it chick-
pence.” They tried to look as if they had
never seen him before, but he bowed ela-
borately before them and called up mem-
ories of the past. “Missee Polly, Missee
Dora,” he said pensively; “me plenty glad;
plenty time tinkem you. When you been
longem old Brown bublichouse you gib it
plenty rum. Gib it chickpence” Then
a scream arose from the whole picnic, and
two girls fainted in a dishevelled heap on
the ground. The pair of mashers who were
responsible for their presence glared blankly
at each other. “Cholly,” said the one who
first recovered his powers of speech, “they’re
two beastly barmaids!” “Bai Jove!” said
tin! other vaguely, and as he said it he clawed
the vacant air, and then he looked round
at his sisters and his aunts who were clutch-
ing their umbrellas and going into convul-
sions. He held up one of them, and Cholly
supported another, but the other 18 went
off in a series of shrill screams and drummed
with their feet on the ground, and the picnic
dissolved into a large quantity of females
in hysterics on the wharf. And amid all
the unearthly racket the voice of aboriginal
Bill still rose upon the listening air, and
the words he uttered were: “Gib it chick-
pence.”
A recent Queensland Parliamentary return,
contains much interesting information con-
cerning the alienation of land in that go-
ahead colony. The four largest holders—
Tyson, 229,748 acres; Archer, 179,240 acres ;
Fisher, 161,947 acres; and Taylor, 147,310
acres —own among them about three-quar-
ters of a million acres of freehold land, and
are, in consequence, strongly opposed to
the imposition of a land tax. Among other
large owners are the Bank of N.S.W.,
128,975 acres; the other banks combined,
120,000 acres: while the Brodribbs, Menzies,
Douglasses, Fairbairns, McConnells, Mae-
anshes, Wienliolts and Willises hold areas
varying in size from sixty to a hundred thou-
sand acres. Two million acres of Queensland
soil are apportioned among 15 individuals,
firms and Corporations, while the total un-
alienated area is between 11 and 12 million
acres. [24/11/’BB.]
“GNOTHI SEAUTON.”
Upon a time long past there lived a sage
v\ ho said the core of wisdom might be
found
In these words, “Know Thyself.” For many
an age
Men praised his apophthegm and called it
sound.
But those who took the words too much to
heart,
And made of self-analysis a craze
(If duty in their creeds had any part),
Praised it no more; not having breath
for praise.
For, when they had found out the kind of
men
They really were, they lost all thoughts of
mirth,
And went and hanged themselves, right there
and then,
Or otherwise evanished from the earth.
A sample, this, of how the odds and ends
Of ancient clap-trap now for wisdom
stand—
’Tis better to have half the fiends for friends
Than know oneself too well. So, Cain,
your hand!
Y. J. DALEY.
MISTAKEN.
This is not love —there is no stir at heart.
No throbbing pulsings that are wholly
pain,
No terror in the eyes where tears soon start,
No sweet oblivion to all loss and gain.
This is not love —a. cool, contemptuous kiss
On some white cheek half-yielded wearily.
No shrinking fear of passion’s dread abyss
Where wrecks of women’s lives loom
drearily.
This is not love—cool hands which clasp
and loose
All idly as with souls but half-awake.
Nay, sigh no more, dear heart —what is the
use?
But join our cool lips thus—for friend-
ship’s sake.
[24/9/’92.]
INA M. WILDMAN.


FUR FARMS
LIMITED
offer
the finest Chinchilla
Rabbit Stock in New
Zealand.
RABBITS READY
TO BREED FROM
£4/10/- a pair.
Extra Does, £2/10/- ea.
All Charges Paid to Sydney.
Send at once
Cash with order
To the Secretary,
P.O. BOX 1487, AUCKLAND,
NEW ZEALAND.
PUBLISHED.
JUST
A Fascinating Biography Full of Interest,
A LIFE’S PANORAMA.
Some Recollections and Some Reminiscences of
. Things Seen and Heard by
John A. Gurner, K.C.
A LIFE’S PANORAMA.
(Profusely Illustrated.)
A LIFE’S PANORAMA.
At All Up-to-Date Libraries and at All Good
Booksellers. Price, 20/-
A Brilliant Satirical Skit,
THE MAGICIANS.
All Australians should enjoy a laugh with
THE MAGICIANS,
By Henry Chisholm.
Every Businessman should read and enjoy this clever
political satire,
THE MAGICIANS.
General Sir JOHN MONASH, G.C.M.G., K.C.G.,
LL.D., says: “One of the best things that I have
read for a very long time. Apart from its literary
quality, which is on a high plane, it is intensely
amusing. The cleverness and incisiveness of the
composition is satire at its best—raillery without
bitterness —laughter without ridicule—and criticism
without malice. The verses can be enjoyed equally
by those who share or those who combat the writer’s
political philosophy. ‘The Magicians’ is an illuminat-
ing commentary upon the recent political history of
the Commonwealth.”
THE MAGICIANS,
Price, 6d. (Postage Id.).
A REAL THRILLER!
THE VANISHING HORSEMEN,
A Romance by Mr. A. E. Yarra.
“Times Literary Supplement” (London), «iys: “An
exciting tale of the ‘Wild West’ of Australia, with
fisticuffs, alarums, desperate riding and cattle thieves
....plenty of action and humor.”
At all Booksellers, 6/-
NOW READY, AT ALL BOOKSELLERS,
THE ABORIGINAL WORDBOOK,
By JUSTINE KENYON
(With a Foreword by A. S. Kenyon).
The most authentic collection of aboriginal words
and their meanings ever published. This compila-
tion has meant many years of research, and the
author is an authority on the subject. With this
book to guide them, no one need be afraid of adopt-
ing a ludicrous or even obscene name for the home.
Price, 2/-, Neatly Boxed (Postage, 2d.).
The Lothian Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
]N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1164 of 1930.
BETWEEN YERA MAVIS PIPER Petitioner
And COLIN JAMES PIPER Respondent.
• To COLIN JAMES PIPER late of 68 Irvine Street
South Kensington near Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Vera Mavis Piper
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and has applied for the dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the eighth day of
January one thousand nine hundred and thirty-one
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed with the suit and the same will be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
Dated this fourteenth day of October, a.d. 1930.
KEITH M. LEVY, Solicitor for the Petitioner, St.
James Buildings, 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
I,
Dependable /
MOHAg«
■ CRAIG & AITKEN
I
Sydney N-5.W.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. TT" .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Missing Friends.
D E JAMES MOUNSEY, late of Sunbury,
1 x the State of Victoria, Deceased,
Intestate.
GEORGE WILLIAM MOUNSEY, or any
children or his, or any person knowing the
.whereabouts of him or them or of the death
of him or them, are requested to communi-
cate at once with the undersigned solicitors
for the Administrator of the estate of the
above James Mounsey, who died on the 11th
April, 1930. The said George Mounsey was
born on the 15th March, 1859, and left
Sunbury in or about the year 1882 with the
intention of working as a shearer in New
South Wales and has not been heard of since.
If he or his children (if any) were living
at the date of death of James Mounsey he
or they are entitled to share in the said
estate
DATED the 23rd day of October, 1930.
McNAB AND McNAB,
454 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors.
Patents,
APPARATUS FOR VENTILATING
FODDER STACKS.
"THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13,461, dated 24th May, 1928, de-
sires to negotiate fdr the sale of his rights
in the above or for the granting of a license
on reasonable terms to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars are obtainable from
H. H. Rayward, Patent Attorney, Sirius
House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
MULTIPLE REEL FOR FANCY
COTTONS.
’T’HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 16,205, dated 13th October, 1928, de-
sires to negotiate for the sale of his rights
in the above or for the granting of a license
on reasonable terms to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars are obtainable from
H. H. Rayward, Patent Attorney, Sirius
House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
ul u n
A Barber uses a blade razor for
shaving because it is the most
efficient for the work; why not fol-
low the example of one who knows?
THE PLUM RAZOR is the best value
ever offered; it will shave you better,
quicker and cheaper than any safety
razor. If you must have a safety we
can supply a safety guard to fit the
PLUM for 2/9 which converts it to
a superior class safety, permitting
the correct diagonal shaving stroke)
no fresh blades to buy
THE PLUM RAZOR, sizes fin.-fin.,
in satin lined hinged case. Posted
12/6.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD fits
any blade razor sizes fin. to fin.
Posted 2/9.
Each razor set ready for use and
guaranteed and kept in order for
two years free of charge.
CRAIG AND AITKEK
654 CEOH-GE ST, SYDNEY,
m
m
9m
?
J
8
n
r 5
Scots OClKisky
fi&ubctending
'rf a c^a^'
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Goldsbrough, Mort & ICO.
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Queensland:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Go.
Wool Exchange, Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co
Cnr. Bourke & William Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for W.A.:
Lionel Samson & Son
FREMANTLE.
Sole Agents for S.A.t
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents for Tasmania:
MacFarlane Bros.,
117 Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’* takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Something Every
Motorist Should Know
Maintaining the efficient and economical operation ot the
engine depends, to a very great extent, on correct mainten-
ance of motor temperature.
Motor temperature depends almost entirely on the cooling
system’s ability to dissipate 35 per cent, of the heat gene-
rated by the engine. For that reason correct thickness of
metal and correct capacity of water has been arrived at
scientifically by car manufacturers.
No means have yet been devised, however, for preventing
the deposits of rust which quickly form on the internal
metals of water jackets, and also the accumulation of loose
scale which lodges in the narrow passages in the radiator.
This condition in the cooling system prevents the heat
generated in the scorching cylinder walls from reaching
the cooling water —because scale is a non-conductor of heat,
and although the water appears to be circulating freely and
the temperature is normal—the motor is running hot—the
oil is breaking down due to extreme heat —engine efficiency
is lowered and unnecessary wastage of petrol and oil results.
Another danger can be expected from the accumulation of
oil slime and other foreign matter in the cooling system
which prevents free circulation of -water, aggravates the
above condition and causes overheating and boiling. Auto-
mobile engineers claim that 90 per cent, of cars on the
road to-day suffer through semi-choked cooling systems.
Keep the Cooling System Clean.
In order to maintain the engine at its highest point of
efficiency and economical operation, it is absolutely necessary
that the cooling system be thoroughly cleaned out at least
twice a year. Flushing the radiator with a garden hose
is little better than nothing, since water alone will not
loosen or dissolve the hardened deposits.
A most effective solution to the problem is the use of
Leggett’s Red Diamond Radiator Cleaner, a scientific com-
pound which has been developed after much research, and
which absolutely dissolves all rust and scale and scours
out oil and slime in radiator passages, leaving internal
metals clean and rust-free.
Red Diamond Radiator Cleaner is harmless to the metal or
any other material in the cooling system. It has been
thoroughly proven and can be used with every confidence
to do its job effectively. This product is manufactured in
Australia by Leggett Products Pty., Ltd., and is their
latest addition to the popular range of 42 RED DIAMOND
MOTORING NECESSITIES, including BULL-DOG GRIP, the
well-known tube repair outfit. Realising its vital import-
ance, garagemen are now installing special equipment to
render cooling system service with Red Diamond Radiator
Cleaner on a “while-you wait” basis.
Prevent Overheating
SAVE
PETROL
&OIL
/
4
/ *IB»
»l»
SIcKMKSS
SV&ITIKOW
I
~w
(. N
r* - •»
r jvitTh
r *«*vici
K4WAH
IEANi
‘RED DIAMOND RAD-
IATOR CLEANER is
also available Jor home
use: obtainable in one
pint tins.
COOLING
SYSTEM
SERVICE
Overheating is evident in the cooling
system of 9 out of 10 cars, due to the
accumulation of rust and scale which
prevents the cooling water from
giving relief to the scorching cylinder
walls, thereby wasting petrol and oil,
and lowering the efficiency of the
engine.
Protect your car from this menace
in the simple and economical way
Cooling System Service with Leggetts
RED DIAMOND Radiator Cleaner.
Your local garage is fully equipped to
render complete COOLING SYSTEM
SERVICE.
RADIATOR CLEANER
One of the 42 Red Diamond Motoring
Necessities, made by the makers of
BULL-DOG GRIP.


DRUMMOND’S EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY
S6 1 ®
Lady’s 18-carat White Gold Wristlet Watch,
set with 90 flue quality diamonds. The
lever movement is fully jewelled and com-
pensated. Exceptional timekeeper,
£6O
Lady’s Wristlet Watch, set with 30 Fine
Quality Diamonds,
£26/5/-
10714-
Diamond Brooch, Platinum set,
£2O
10721 —Diamond and Platinum Brooch,
£3O
421—Fine quality Diamond Brooch, set in
platinum,
£25
Diamond Bar Brooch, set in Platinum,
£65
10688 —Diamond and
Platinum Biooch,
£25
SI s—£3o
S24—£so
400 —Beautiful Diamond-set Bow
Brooch,
£4O
S 3—£35
SI B—£6o
Sl—£37/10/-
385-
Diamond Circle
Brooch,
£35
526—£37/10/
The illustrations represent the actual size of the articles offered. Visitors
to the Racing Carnival are cordially invited to inspect Drummond’s wonderful
display of jewellery without obligation to purchase.
& Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
mint
nmnnottfr
h
eiiey
l-l I NAf
C
China and character
(TjjSAMOUS hostesses have said
that beautiful China, more
than anything else, uplifts the
character of the drawing room.
It casts a glamour over that
characteristic English institution,
Afternoon Tea, and adds ccnsid*
erably to the prestige of the wise
gentlewoman. That is why ladies
buy Shelley China: it is both a
compliment to the guests and a
credit to the hostess. And it adds
sincerity to beauty. It is China
—Staffordshire bone China —
not earthenware.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
I>y Lucie Attwell
o Hilda Cowham
Dome stic
Jelly Moulds
IN CASE OF
HAIR
&
NEED
G
M°
HERES
■uyhuj -
ĝd
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrOlbrCs CMEXICAN)
VkdfwJt Stain.
♦removes the grey"*
Sole Australian A'gents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBUItY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (i/6), 6d. being postage.
gd
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Jcnoie.
Personal.
J^ODGERS. —Henrietta May Rodgers (nee
Halton), widow of John Alexander
Rodgers, formerly of Coonamble, or any
person knowing her whereabouts, is re-
quested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Sydney, N.S.W.
With Savages in Serge.
A GRIPPING TALE OF THE WORK OF THE ARMED NATIVE
CONSTABULARY OF PAPUA ,
BY ALYS BROWN.
STIFLING breaths of heat came throb-
bing pitilessly from the sunbaked
parade-groud of Tikoka Government
station —that little alien colony of palm-
thatclied (joru huts built on a whaleback of
iron-streaked clay high above the muddy
swamp-levels and nlazy waterways of the
Delta.
On the rough bench outside the office door
Lance-Corporal Bigi shifted uneasily and
smacked irritably at the flies clustering on
his bare brown legs. He licked dry lips
and yearned for the betel-nut, golden and
toothsome, that lay in his pouch; but the
sharp tap-tapping of a typewriter within
chme as a continual reminder that he was
on duty, so he yawned cavernously, and,
poking the long prongs of a finely-carved
comb deep into his trim bush of black hair,
prodded his itching scalp, speculating on
how long it would be before the Taubada
would shout “Knock off,” and he could blow
the Mbi, the station noontide tocsin.
Between half-closed lids he idly scanned
the neat huts surrounding the clean-swept
square, watching the women gossiping out-
side the married-quarters, his mouth water-
ing as he saw the cook drain a steaming dixie
of rice in front of the barracks cook-house.
With ever-increasing boredom he listened to
the wailing song of a gang of prisoners list-
lessly hoeing weeds in the grove of cocoa-
nuts beyond the gaol. Lulled by their mon-
otonous lament, his head began to droop, his
eyes to close, when the dull , beat of distant
paddles thudding on the sluggish air aroused
liim.
Rising to his feet he stared into the heat-
hazed distance where a silver ribbon of
river wound its way through the dark green
of the jungle, and glimpsed the canoe as it
came sweeping along, a swift-moving blot
on the gleaming water. As it veered towards
the station _ wharf, with a warning cough
he stepped inside the doorway and saluted,
announcing “Big-fellow canoe he come.
Plenty man, Taubada.”
With a sodden handkerchief the magis-
trate wiped away the drops of sweat threat-
ening to fall upon the file of papers before
him.
“All right, Bigi. Bring them in when they
come,” he said, and resumed his work.
Casting a sly glance at the office clock,
Bigi picked up the Icibi and returned to his
post to await the visitors.
As they came hurrying up the track, he
recognised some as returned laborers by their
print ramis, the others being naked but
for a scanty bark ipi. Chests still heaving
and dark skins beaded with the sweat of
hard paddling showed that they had come
far and fast. One stalwart man, black with
the sooty grease of mourning, pressed ahead,
and, lurching up the steps into the office,
tossed a thing of horror on the desk, gasping
“I am Kairi of Karama.”
After a sharp glance at his visitor and
the throng behind, the magistrate picked up
the grisly offering—a loop of fishline strung
with half a dozen severed fingers clotted
with dried blood : two, work-worn and aged,
with wrinkled skin, gnarled knuckles and
broken nails ; others of youthful slenderness,
smooth and plump ; and, most pitiful of all,
one tiny dimpled finger, golden skinned and
pink shell-tipped—a sinister token from
Kairi, village constable of Karama, one of
the Government’s most trusted servants.
Laying it aside, the magistrate demanded:
“What does this mean, Kairi?”
“The men of Paivera raided us,” wheezed
the man, breathing painfully. “Our homes
are in ashes, our pigs and dogs stolen, and
this is the tally of their kill.”
Taking up the gruesome string, he told
off each finger: “This is old Mabu, our pig-
minder ; this, his blind wife, Ena; these his
two daughters, Kini and Tig; this, my
young wife, Vanu, who was sick; and this,
Taubada” —his husky voice broke into a
dry sob as he tenderly stroked the tiniest
finger of all —“this is my first-born, my baby
son.”
He bowed his shaven head, and for a
moment only the dry rasp of shuffling feet
and the deep breathing of laboring lungs
broke the silence, until the sorrowing man,
raising his head, went on: “We had gone
to the feast of the marriage-moon at Marua,
leaving only the old and sick behind, with
none to guard; for hath not the river been
at rest since thy great peacemaking these
seven years past?”
“Because the water doth not ripple, are
there no alligators?” interjeqted a white-
haired man.
“At the feast, Marua folk told us that
Korou of Paivera had returned from work
with much money and gear, and would mate
with Ainaka; but the slut flouted him, taunt-
ing him that he was not yet a man, having
taken no head.”
Another took up the tale: “When we were
appraising the marriage pay, the women
said Ainaka boasted that Korou had pro-
mised her a head for a bridal gift—a Karama
head. Yet we would not believe such crow-
ings.”
“Alas, those seven years of peace !” sighed
the white-haired man.
“So we dallied to dance and feast; to
return home to this,” pointing to the string
of fingers.
A growl of anger followed the gesture;
but Kairi, silencing it, once more addressed
the magistrate.
“Taubada,” he said earnestly, “at thy
great peacemaking, when all took oath to
keep the law of the white man, I swore to
be thy man and keep my people to that law.
But now our bellies are hot with rage and
cry for vengeance. Let us be warriors again
and take our spears a-blooding. Let us
hunt these dogs to the death and fetch back
our heads.”
The deep-toned chorus of “Aye, blood for
blood! A head for a head!” died away as
the magistrate raised his hand.
“Not vengeance,” he rebuked. “The Gov-
ernment knows not that word. But justice
there is and justice ye men of Karama shall
receive. Though ye cannot make a dead
tree green, yet plant a nut and a palm will
grow; so I bid ye return to your village and
work that a new and better Karama may
rise from the ashes of the old. Your pigs
and dogs can be replaced, your houses re-
built, and, though the dead cannot be brought
to life, yet shall they rest in peace, for
their murderers shall not remain unpun-
ished. But ye must leave that punishment
to the law.”
They grumbled, muttering and shuffling
undecidedly, but made way as the magistrate
stepped to the. verandah and blew the alarm
call —once, twice, thrice, clear and shrill.
As if aroused by a magic blast, the sta-
tion lost its air of drowsy serenity. Shouts
answered from all directions; figures raced
to the parade-ground; a panting sergeant
rushed up, snapped sharp orders, and per-
spiring men fell into ranks.
The Taubada looked gravely down upon
the eager faces. His heart was sore at the
news of slaughter, of the broken pledge after
his years of peace-making. He did not
share his men’s eagerness for action, but
knew he must move swiftly or the whole dis-
trict would be ablaze.
“Sergeant Siwaga, we go to Paivera. All
fall out. Pack swags and parade in uniform
in ten minutes. Tell Cookie to get my some-
somethings packed. Take Kairi and his
men to the witness-house and see that they
are fed.”
The station hummed like a hive of bees.
Boredom and the urgings of his belly for-
gotten, Bigi let the clock tick past noon
unheeded as he helped to issue rations from
the store, then doubled across to the bar-
racks, where working dungarees were being
exchanged for uniform jumper and rami, aud
ammunition-belts filled.
Answering inquiring womenfolk with jest,
the police paraded once more, and as the
warder blew the Jcibi recalling the prison-
ers from their noonday meal, two large dug-
outs, filled with exulting savages-in-serge,
glided from the station wharf.
Wielding the man-high paddles stood stal-
wart Mambares, whose mops of frizzy hair
added inches to their fine stature; squat,
close-cropped Goaribaris, dour and ugly as the
sad swamps that bred them; swarthy Kiwias,
the hook-nosed black Jews of the west;
laughter-loving Eastern boys, with biscuit-1
brown skins tattooed in graceful tracery;
sturdy men from the inland ranges; lean,
sinewy sailors from coastal village and coral
isle; men with an ancestry of head-hunting,
man-eating savagery, and a babel of tongues,
wielded now into one united brotherhood—the
Armed Constabulary—using that Papuan
Esperanto police Motuan.
Their fathers had gone forth to fight with
clumsy bows and arrows instead of well-
kept rifles, and claw-tipped spears, stone axes
and bone daggers in place of bayonets,
sheath knives and handcuffs of shining steel;
yet these, their sons, who had exchanged bar-
baric warpaint and flaring plumes for blue
serge, proclaimed kinship to those savage
sires by eyes agleam with the lust of the
chase; so that the Taubada, sitting amongst
the baggage in the stern of the foremost
canoe, listened with grim satisfaction to
wild yells as the paddles cleft the water,
knowing that it were well to allow free vent
to the babblings of excitement before they
came to grips with the raiders, lest primi-
tive instinct should master discipline.
They were far on their way when evening
fell, and as dusk dimmed the sunset glow
and glittering stars powdered the sky, they
drew into the bank and supped on slabs
of boiled rice and chunks of tinned beef,
washed down with draughts of strong, syrupy
tea. Then on again, the wild yells of the
start hushed; only an occasional grunt
vented as the paddles dipped; changing every
hour, one man snatching a brief spell ol
sleep whilst his partner paddled; and so
through a night of starry heat until raw
dawn-mists gathered in soft billows on the
river and chilled them to the bone.
As the brazen sun drew up in splendor,
sucking away the veil of pearl-grey vapor,
they passed Karama, a heap of ruins, where
men sat brooding savagely over the desola-
tion of their homes and women raked
amougst the ashes for relics of household
treasures.
Here they left the river, to thread the
maze of Delta byways; some so narrow that
the sides of the canoes scraped the banks ;
others mere ditches of porridgy mud, where
the men leaped over into the knee-deep slime
to drag the crafts along beneath the dim
archways of feathery nipa-palms.
At times breaks in the walls of sombre
jungle gave glimpses of twilit-green glades
festooned with lianas, or mossy drives where
wild pigs rooted for lily bulbs, and golden
butterflies winged lazily amongst the wax-
white blooms that starred the tangle of bush,
exhaling vagrant scents to mingle with the
odor of damp and decay.
Intent upon their errand, the men took
no heed of fluty-bird calls in the leafy, fern-
hung branches, nor of the cassowary’s drum-
ming boom resounding from the steamy forest
depths. They cast but a fleeting glance as
alligator hurriedly slid from slimy bank or
ribbon-tailed bird of paradise flashed across
the sunlight like a shred of wind-torn rain-
bow. One sole purpose animated those
savages-in-serge—to surprise and arrest the
murderers before they had time to flee.
When, with softly-dipping paddles, the
canoes crept into Paivera Creek and drew
into the bank, no sound came from the close-
clustered huts of the village. Only the loud
buzz of the flies swarming over the middens
of husks and shells, and the slatting of the
palm fronds by the lazy breeze greeted their
coming.
The Taubada shook his head dubiously at
the unwonted quiet; but at his whispered
order the police silently closed round the
village, rifles at the ready.
The front of the great ravi was closed,
and not a sound came from within as the
Taubada, closely followed by Bigi, climbed
the slippery ladder and entered.
A shaft of sunlight—a narrow path of
dancing, golden motes of dust —glinting on
the painted kaiva-kuku masks lining the
(Continued on next page.)


Cut «|our
transportation
cost# T
-V,r» r
&‘W‘- c- ■
mm
n
* h
at?.
n.-U
m
'sm
sx
M
\
A
%C 2
—fc
costs less than l.per
mile to operate
STANDARDISING on Austin would make all the difference
between loss and profit. Those heavy, hungry, foreign
cars and trucks you’re using now cost you more for
petrol, oil and tyres alone than the entire cost and running
of a new fleet of Austins.
Trade in your present transport for Austins and you’ll see an
immediate saving in your overhead.
AUSTIN DISTRIBUTORS PTY., LTD., 460 BOURKE
STREET, MELBOURNE, C1.—F4641.
J.W.S.D.
\F
ECONOMY
IST©
SPEND
WISELY
f • '■■■■
THE ROC/"” BRITISH
PRICES
FROM
£199
Completely
Equipped.
All Prices subject
thatched walls, lit up their grotesque faces,
bringing fleeting life to fearsome eyes, while
gaping shark-toothed jaws grinned mock-
ingly at the white man as he tramped down
the aisle, his booted feet setting a hundred
echoes flying from creaking sago-bark plank-
ing to high-arched roof.
Searching each screened alcove where,
though sleeping mats were gone, the ashes
on the hearths were still warm—mute evi-
dence that the occupants had not long fled —-
they explored amongst the decorated dancing
skulls on the racks and dusty bones of pigs
and alligators ranged along the walls, seek-
ing in vain the ravished heads of the vic-
tims of the raid.
“Well, Bigi,” said the Taubada at last,
“the birds have flown, so it means camping
here while we rake the swamps for them.”
“As well try to trace the stamp of a fish’s
feet as find men’s tracks in this hogs’-
wallow,” grumbled Bigi as they stumbled out
into the sunlight again. “Still, ’tis easier to
catch a bird at rest than when flying. There's
bait to lure some of them back to the nest.”
He pointed to the crowd of women and
children who, with a sprinkling of ancients,
had been routed by the police from their
hiding in the huts, and were now protesting
volubly, secure in the knowledge that the
Government meant them no harm.
He whispered softly and his master nodded.
“Good idea, Bigi. If we can’t hunt them
down, we’ll try it.”
A week passed—to the magistrate a night-
mare of mud and sago thorns, sandflies and
mosquitoes, leeches and scrub itch —and still
no trace of the raiders was found.
Little bands of police scouring sago and
hunting grounds reported seeing Kairi, the
widower’s daka (plaited braces of bereave-
ment), strapping his broad chest and the
grisly tally of fingers dangling from his
neck. They told of his wild eyes as he flitted
along the jungle tracks and disappeared into
the undergrowth, searching, ever searching
for the slayers of his wife and son.
At dusk, though the men brought in no
prisoners, they did not return empty-handed.
Turtle stews and hornbill soup, broiled cas-
sowary steaks and pelicans’ breasts replaced
tinned beef and salmon on the Taubada’s
menu and the men’s mess. But for the white
tent on the dancing green and the uniforms
of the police quartered in the ravi, it might
have been thought that High festival
was held each evening as the village street
stirred to life and hummed with the sound
of many voices. Hurricane lamps flashed like
fireflies; cooking fires blazed and savory
smells filled the air.
The sullen mien of the women changed
when rice and joints of game were offered
for their sago, bananas and cocoanuts, and
they willingly ransacked their gardens for.
sugar-cane, betel-nut, taro and sweet
potatoes, whilst the children searched creek
and mudflat for prawns and crabs to barter
for the rare meat.
The evening meal over, they gathered on
the green to listen to the nightly police con-
cert in the ravi, when the sweet pipe of flute
and drone of mouth-organ mingled with mis-
sion hymn and sonorous war chant.
Small boys discarded toy bows, and spears
for dummy rifles, formed fours and marched
in step, mouthing strange commands and
uttering the full-flavored polyglot oaths of
their new heroes.
Even crabbed ancients succumbed to the
smiling goodwill of the intruders, thawing
under the soothing influence of plug tobacco
and well-sweetened black tea. But all
remained dumb to any inquiry as to the
whereabout of the missing men.
Though searching and questioning brought
no results, the Taubada’s hopes rose high
when, towards sundown, he saw the maidens,
in gala attire, promenade the village and,
from under demurely downcast lids, cast
coquettish glances at his brawny police who
swaggered past, well aware of the seductive
lure of red-braided uniform.
The sergeant, too, smiled knowingly as
the turkey-red sashes of the men diminished
in width and glowing scarlet appeared in
the dark tresses of the Paivera belles, and
empty brass cartridge-cases gleamed bright
in maidenly noses and ear-lobes.
His smile broadened to a grin when
Ainaka, the handsome cause of all the trouble,
flaunted Lance-corporal Bigi’s finely carved
comb in her bushy crown.
“Beware, Bigi,” one comrade warned the
favored swain, that evening. “That damsel is
as deceitful as our red wa-ia fruit, beguiling
and lovely to behold, but scorching to the
tongue and setting the teeth on edge.”
“Ah, Bigi,” sighed another, “her love is
like the grass fire, devouring as it embraces.
Take care she doth not scorch thee.”
At Bigi’s complacent smirk, a hard-faced
veteran growled: “The huzzy hath already
put a noose round one lover’s neck. They
say she carries a dagger like anv bushman.
She’ll spit thee like a grub should she hear
of thy Government wife.”
Bigi finished preening himself before his
trade mirror, and with a sly wink at the
sergeant went off to keep his tryst.
“All’s fair in love and war,” quoted the
Taubada next day w T hen the sergeant told
of Bigi’s success. “That should bring one
bird back to the nest- Korou will hear of
it all right. I’m certain the women are using
the boys as messengers. I saw that tall,
thin lad sneaking out of the mangroves across
the creek. He looked as if he’d been up to
his neck in mud, though he couldn’t get very
far through the Quaking Bog over there.
It seems bottomless. Still, one never knows.
Any luck, Bigi?” he asked the lance-corporal
who had come in to report.
“I met Kairi. Methinks a madness born of
his sorrows doth possess him, for strange
devils lurk in him and peep from his eyes,”
Bigi replied. “I bade him return to Karama,
threatening him with thy wrath. I would
have seen him safely there had I not felt
it in my belly that the hour draws nigh.”
“I hope you’re right,” said the Taubada
wearily. “Keep a good lookout, boys. Korou
is sure to come back before long.”
That very night a dripping figure crawled
up the creek bank and slunk along in the
shadows. Bigi, crouched beneath Ainaka’s
hut, knew his vigil was ended. Korou had
returned to reproach his fickle sweetheart.
He heard the jealous lover’s furious accusa-
tion : “Was it not thee, thou false jade, who
desired the heads and naught else would
satisfy? And now thou art flirting with
these policemen!”
“Oh fool of little wit,” carafe Ainaka’s low-
toned, scornful voice. “Why did ye flee to
the swamps and so proclaim your guilt? And
what are heads to me while ye hide like
fleas behind the hairs of a dog. Come out
and fight these fat hogs whom we maidens
have beguiled. To-morrow night we invite
them to our huts after they have feasted.
Bring thy men and kill them as they sleep
in our arms—the lazy dogs set no guards!
The spear is silent and bites deep. Kill
them!” she hissed. “The white man, too.
Leave none to tell the tale, that we may live
in peace once more.”
“Thou are like a toad in a mudpuddle,
knowing no other world,” Korou snarled. “/
have travelled. This is not the only white
man in the land. There are many as the
leaves in the jungle. And these policemen,
though of many fathers, are bonded in one
brotherhood; kill one, and the others will
follow to the edge of the world to avenge
him.”
“Then come out and die fighting, thou who
art already dead,” she sneered. “Why skulk
in the swamp like rats aivaiting slaughter?
Come out and fight and die like men.”
So she railed on, and, there being no crack
in her talk through which Korou could
thrust a word, presently, with muttered oaths,
he slid to the ground, her mocking laughter,
more insulting than her abuse, following him
as he crept back and crossed the creek, Bigi
close upon his heels, following the soft suck
of his feet across the malodorous mud and
along the stilt roots of the mangroves which
snarled up, tangled as a pig net.
A waning moon rode high through fleeces
of clouds, dimly lighting the treacherous
path. When for a space it was veiled, it
seemed to the trailer that Korou had been
swallowed by the quagmire of heaving mud —
the dreaded Quaking Bog—which stretched
before him, dark and mysterious, barring
further pursuit. Straining his eyes through
the gloom, Bigi stood at fault on the edge
of the slough. A hobgoblin chorus of frogs
broke into full cry as the moon sailed. from
behind a frayed skirt of cloud, and a web
of moonshine silvered the head and shoulders
of a moving figure ploughing across the
morass, waist-deep in the slime.
With exploring toes, Bigi at last found
a footing on felled tree trunks bound with
lawyer-vine suspended beneath the mud.
With this swaying bridge sunk beneath the
swamp which the police had thought impass-
able, the Paiveras had made a secret cause-
way to solid ground—a sanctuary for times
of stress on an island oasis rising in the
midst of that desolation of unstable filth.
As soon as Korou.had climbed the farther
bank and disappeared, Bigi breasted the
greasy mire, and cautiously feeling his way,
foot by foot, crossed safely and crept up
the island bank. Gaining some sheltering
scrub, he could dimly discern a low shack
where reeking smudge-fires gave off webby
drifts of smoke* which dissipated amongst
the fronds of tall sago palms. The raiders
were lying about the fires, enwrapped like
cocoons in tapa blankets to protect them from
the ravening mosquitoes. Littered around
lay the well-picked bones of the stolen pigs
and dogs.
Sure of the safety of their retreat they
kept no guard,' and Korou’s excursion to
the village and the advent of his follower
had passed unnoticed.
Elated by his find, Bigi re-crossed the
causeway and, returning to the village,
cautiously aroused Sergeant Siwaga, received
his orders and vanished once more into the
darkness.
The wandering night wind was piping a
thready song through roof thatch and palm
top, wailing desolate and shrill, when, at
the eerie.call of a night hawk, dark figures—
not savages-in-serge, but naked men —slipped
through the sleeping village to the creek
which Bigi had bridged with the great dug-
outs. Crossing, they flitted like phantoms
through the swamp until the Quaking Bog
was reached. Slinging rifles and belts
securely across well-greased shoulders, with
hands linked they formed a living chain and
braved the swinging bridge, knowing that
one step aside meant death in the smother-
ing slime.
The Taubada heaved a sigh of relief as
the last of his men joined him on the
steeply-sloping bank. Pausing a moment to
scrape away heavy gouts of mud and pick
off hungry, clinging leeches, the police
swarmed silently into the oasis and sur-
rounded the hut, unaware that yet another
had forded the treacherous morass behind
them, and was watching the sleepers with
bloodshot, hate-filled eyes.
Bigi fed a fire with dry leaves and sticks,
and as bright flames shot up the Taubada
fired a shot. At the deafening report, sleep-
drugged men rolled from their swathings and
groped for spears, but the firelight revealed
a ring of polished bayonets and a snapped
warning, told that fighting was a forlorn hope.
• Sullenly they surrendered and were
quickly marshalled ready for the return to
the village; while at a word from the magis-
trate, Bigi rummaged in the hut, reappear-
ing with a bundle of heads, the smoke-dried
trophies of the Karama raid.
As Bigi held them aloft in triumph, Korou,
with a howl of rage, broke from the ranks
and snatching the heads fled towards the
unguarded causeway, leaving police anu
prisoners alike dumbfounded by the sudden-
ness of his escape.
The Taubada raised his revolver, but held
his fire as the still figure lurking deep in
the shadows leapt forward, and Kairi sprang
to avenge his loved ones.
Fleet as a wallaby ran Korou, but swifter
than, a winging arrow sped Kairi; caught
the runaway in an iron grip; whirled him
on high, and with unslackened stride sprang
with him far out into the morass.
There was a heavy* splash, one choking
scream as men and heads went down —deep
into the Quaking Bog, which never gives up
its dead.
* * * *
Lance-Corporal Bigi, sitting on the bench
outside the office door, was carving himself
a new comb.
Within, the magistrate ended his patrol
report: “It is hoped that this will be the
last of such regrettable occurrences.”
But Bigi, as he whittled away at the hard
black wood, softly droned a prayer to the
war-god of the Orakaivas —a prayer for
another raid.
The Road.
There is a road beyond my gate,
It marches with my fields a mile;
And long it is, and white and straight,
And I shall walk it in a while.
From what far country does it come
Beyond the curving of our hill?
I know, and half remember, some
Lost vision of a pilgrim still.
And sometimes when the moon is low,
Like the clear bells of convents ringing,
I wake and hear them, sweet and slow —
The accents of a pilgrim singing.
Who travels towards the long way’s end,
Past mead arid mountain, desert place
And silver river; so all wend
At last from earth’s unchanging face.
Some swift to-morrow I will go
Along the road beyond my gate,
And leave the places that I know—
But fearful, lest I come too late.
ENGLAND.
D. P. McGUIRE.


gd
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeathe'rston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established, 185
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS*
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it, is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% Increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
X
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.)t
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (AustJ.
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian .Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read’
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies 0} “THE ADVERTISER ’’ may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Business Sagging?
ADVERTISE
IN
"Che telegraph"
BRISBANE
OR IF YOU ALREADY DO SO
Increase
Your
Space
PUBLICITY IS
THE LIFE-BLOOD OF TRADE
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Onee° you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ďg
c.
i
1
s* 5
1
COMES FROM
REAL HEALTH
REAL health comes from
a system working in
harmony—one that is clean—
vital. Beecham’s Pills keep the
system active and in order. They
make you feel gloriously fit and
foil of life. They cause no
sluggish reaction because they
do not force. No habit is formed
because they act persuasively.
Purely vegetable.
PILLS
WORTH A
GUINEA
A BOX 4
“WEEKLY COURIER”
CHRISTMAS ANNUAL
Published Launceston, Tasmania, November 5, 1930.
This popular illustrated Tasmanian Christmas Annual is again full of
interesting and beautiful reproductions in three and two colors and double
tones, giving delightful gravure effects.
The cover is a striking example of Tasmanian beauty printed in four colors.
Orders should be given immediately to Gordon & Gotch (A/sia), Ltd., all
Sta "*' PRICE. 1/6
Published by W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD.,
71*75 Paterson Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
feulLetia
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME .
ADDRESS •••
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/*
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, IS/6; 3 months, 8/-
»
,X
( V>°® s 6 ’-
S e ...
c &6O ■■■■"".■■■•*
• oV 6 *
..••• .•••:,
.••:■ 0<
.• * civ' 1 1‘\^


■.•S'Ky.v.*
mm
mm
m
mm
'm
wwrm
SO®
After his thrilling
home-coming flight,
wired from Darwin
“Plume and Mobiloil stood every
test with extremely low consump-
tion. Beyond routine maintenance ,
no adjustments necessary —
Vacuum products as usual per-
fect and organisation excellent
What greater tribute could be paid to the world’s quality
oil and spirit than this simple statement by the world’s
greatest aviator? Plume and Mobiloil will give you the
same dependable, economical service in your car.
PLUME
(Supplies of Plume were available at all points except Bushire and Rangoon)
and
Mobiloil
of Mobiloil were available along the entire route)
Although Plume is not marketed outside Australia and New Zealand,
Kingsford Smith specially requested that supplies be made available
for this flight and his trans-Atlantic crossing.
REG?
OKS 5
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
