

A Season
Super-Six
Wk,
x
■^l
See Your
Local Dealer
for Prices
and a
Demonstration
T T ERE is a six with a
name that stands for
reliable motor cars combin-
ing smooth power with re-
markable speed. It is a
seasoned super-six — proven
everywhere by highest per-
formance records for cars in
its class.
Drive the new Essex Chal-
lenger and you will sense a
smoothness altogether new
for this price. You drive
with relaxation. Gears shift
easily, smoothly, quietly.
Effortless steering ready
acceleration—easy parking
—all' of these contribute
to genuine enjoyment in
driving Essex the Challen-
ger. Come in and let us
demonstrate.
ESSEX the Challenger
THE GREATEST SIX-CYLINDER VALUE
DISTRIBUTEE
dfd
Queensland . . WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tasmania . . . • H. C, HEATHORN & CO., LTD**
S 3 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
8550.
The Bulletin
ySj/i&AAfcL V\sM/ljL(Ashd /ttAAnfb* *— “two m, 6hub
VoL 51.—N0. 2655.
Wednesday, December 31, 1930,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, JST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


TH HE New Library Catalogue is now ready,
1 and will be forwarded, with full terms
and particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
I
T l.'jK.'jfl
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please, send, without obligation, your New Free
lßpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name : •>»
}f n Address i..........
S.B. 314
JJYSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt!
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world’s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
sv\\\\\
/
£
:
US
THE PICNIC
Hoft Holbrook Says:
“Those chops grill-
ed in the open air
over a bush fire!
Nothing more appetis-
ing when served with
my Worcestershire
Sauce.”
fdfg
:h«
WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
RANGER SHELLS
■r
W
S>r=\
V
r
(/SFSt
>7 vC
-w
A Great Shell
at Moderate
Price
F
Keeps the Cost of Shooting
Down and Retains All
the Satisfaction .
'OR your all-round shoot*
ing in field and at trap,
use the new Winchester
Ranger weather - proofed
shell. A quality smokeless
powder shell that will cut
your shooting cost. High-
er brass base. Primed with
the new Winchester No.
4 primer. Sure fire. Uni-
form. Perfect pattern.
' m
\\
s
r:£!,[(,:»
For
Sale
by
Dealers
Every -
where.
l-V//S/<
RANGER
VV J 2
s
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN. CONN.. U.S.A.
Winchester Arms—they
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER
who will quote you price for the original.
The Red Page
Lawson, As He Knew Himself
The following extracts are taken from
a fragment of autobiography written by
Henry Lawson. A paraphrase, with,
little resemblance to the original,
appeared long ago in the “'Lone Hand,”
but this is the first time Lawson’s own
account of his early life has been pub-
lished. It cannot be given in full, but
the excerpts have been made with the
object of showing how Australians great-
est writer saw himself, and the manner
of life he led, and where he lived up
till his early twenties, tvhen the MS.
abruptly ends. Lawson’s spelling has
been followed throughout. The auto-
biography, owned by one who has
played an important part in the
advancing of Australian literature, may
be published in complete form in the
coming year. The first instalment
appeared in The Bulletin Christmas
Number, Dec. 3.
I went, for a few months to a Catholic
school in Mudgee. I don’t. know why I
was sent there, but probably because the
Mater had become disgusted with our own
churchmen as they were then. I remember
one day Pat Lovey, the coach driver, who
was taking the mails out on a pack horse
because of the bad weather and flooded
creeks, gave me a lift on the pack horse.
He stayed to deliver a bag at a post office
near out place, kept by a bigoted Protest
ant family with whom our family were
at feud.
“What are they sending that boy to
Catholic school for?” asked the post
mistress. %
“Sure he’s bein’ educated for a priesht,
said Pat; and a little further on he said,
half to himself and half to me: “Let he
put that in her pipe arid shmoke it.” Then
he added with a chuckle: “It’ll be all rounc
the dishtrick be to-morrer mornih’.”
I was tormented a good deal by the towi
boys, after school hours, and used to get to
the paddock where I’d left my horse anc
get off home as quickly as possible.
was called “Chummy” by some, and by
others “Barmy Harry." Years hefore there
had been another Barmy Henry, in Sydney
a pale, delicate, shy and sensitive boy
carrying a tray of pastry on his head to
customers for his master, a fancy baker, anc
mumbling verses to himself. It was the
habit of “talking to lrisself,” as his com
panions thought he did, that won him the
nickname and the reputation of being mad
Henry Kendall.
* * * *
I read Dickens. Got him at the Schoo
of Arts in Mudgee, and read “The Ole
Curiosity Shop” first, I think. I have reac
Dickens over and over again and can reac
him now at any time. Next I read Mar-
ryat—“Jacob Faithful” and “Peter Simple.’
I paid a visite to my Mother’s people at
Wellarawang, and, on leaving, one of my
aunts presented me with a volumn of Bret
Harte’s, entitled “Some Folks,” and con-
taining “Tennessee’s Partner,” “Mliss,” etc
I read that book on the journey home and
it fascinated me; it seemed to bring a new
light, a new world into my life, and this
with Dickens still fresh. But Dickens stayed
by md and Bret Harte did not. I read Don
Quixote before I was 14, but that was an
accident—somebody had left the book at
our place.... And oh! of course we read
“Robbery Under Arms” when it first
appeared in the “Sydney Mail” We read
“For the Term of His Natural Life” (as
Marcus Clarke wrote it) in the “Australian
Journal.” The introduction was, I think.
equel to Dickens’s style I was going
on for 30 before I read “Deadwood Dick”
and then I used to read him to put me to
sleep. And Mother used to recite Gordon
from the “Australian Journal.” I liked
tailing the cows amongst the gullies, for it
gave me opportunities for reading—though
l was supposed to do some ringbarking.
But when I was about, 13 I went to work
with Father.
* * * *
The worst things I remember of him
[Grandfather] were: Ist, He drank—but I
drink, too. 2—He woidd seldom sack a man
for whom he had not further use—he’d
wait for an excuse to have a row with him
and the man would leave bursting with
indignation, and burning with a sense of
injustice; but that was, in a way, in keep-
ing with the old man’s character.' 3—He got
nearly all his stringy-bark palings out of
mountain-ash; but that was due (a) to
the prejudice of his clients (who could
never hope to live as long as that timber)
in favor of stringy-bark, (b) the extreme
scarcity of stringy-bark, (c) the prevalence
of mountain-ash.
* * * *
Granny was the daughter of an English
clergyman; she came out to Australia as
an immigrant and went into domestic ser-
vice Penrith way, where she met Grand-
father, who looked like a young god then,
and married him for his looks. She went with
him over the mountains and went through
fourty years of a rougher bush life than
you could imagine. She was good and well-
meaning and old fashioned and helpless.
The diggers on Pipeclay in its flush days
once proposed subscribing to send my
Mother to England to have her voice
trained, but Granny would not hear of it,
for she had a horrdr of any of her children
‘becoming public.”
* * * *
I was sent to Sydney when I was between
13 and 14 to see if I could get anything
done to my hearing.l went to Dr.
Stanish, in W inyard Square, on his pauper
days, and he spokfe to me and treated me
like one and did me no good—though,
fortunately, no harm
I got some housepainting to do from
Richie, the agricultural emplement maker at
Granville, at 30s. a week....
I took my first gun back to the Bush
from Granville—a single, twist-barrel,
muzzle-loading -shot gun. to kill at 50 yards,
tor 12s. 6d I also had my first portrait
taken, a “gem” of the while-y ou-wa i t
variety....
Back to Pipeclay in the height of the
worst drought the district had ever suffered.
Father grew more silent and given to
brooding over his pipe at night. (He
never drank, though I’ve seen him so
worried and upset that he couldn’t smoke.
....But the loneliness, even in company—
that led in the end to extreme sensitiveness
and shyness. Even home was a relief. And
then the craving for love, affection, even
consideration from a quarter where there
was none; the sympathy; love, even wor-
ship, wasted in a quarter where there was
none. The strange child (for I was little
more) who had been misunderstood, mocked
and tormented at school the few months he
went there until it was a very hell he
seldom cared to look back to—until he’d
say, while yet a child himself, that he
“thought boys were very brutal and heart-
less”; whereat his ignorant elders would
consider him to be, if not as mad as his
schoolmates said he was, at least very
“queer” and idiotic.
I worked . about with Father on various
jobs—sometimes at schools, where I’d be
always glad when the boys—many of them
older than I—were safe in school, or gone
home.
I went to Rylestone to work with Father
on small building contracts; the rest of the
family went to Sydney.
Father had only enough work to keep him
going, and I was wanted in Sydney.
tvdT CvWtAj ,j;g .
XvxoA eu
tfeo QJ, GU JUrwoJ rvw^
aA- AA/tO. eO bowk crwj <X_)
‘vwjD
tU'^ua-
ovO XuvokXj eaSlutey
f ajatCE&j eu vJ&jJOL -
AaH/U&j&L Aj/VWOiAa t OJ I
VW -WAsj v^IIaJU
■ Cowcl' ebmK)!-. ruJL*,
iT&sJ g, VICwA.
OJtcS tbvol. cX aatoA Akam) a/v/O
(tvo tsv£. icwuJ
( QkswxK-
Jintb?C ©
The opening page of the autobiography,
which is in Lawson’s (mostly careful) hand-
writing throughout.
My deafness worried me more and more,
so at last I managed to go to Melbourne,
to go to the eyeand ear hospital there.
And I managed to go saloon, too, in little
old Wendourie, that left her weary rusty
bones on the Oyster Bank years ago. It
was glorious. We were a happy little party,
from the skipper down, and there was a!
nice natural girl who drew me out of my-
self a bit, and banished my shyness..,. Ij
must have looked Bushy enough with my
Carpet-bag and a few washed and mended
clothes I went to stay at a Mrs. Kelly’s
in West Melbourne, to whom I had a letter
of introduction from a young woman who
boarded at our place in Sydney.... I went;
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—more than a slogan, a law at Anthony Horderns’.
Implements that more than justify
their Moderate Cost
In these days of abnormally low prices for primary products the Man on the Land has to look
for the greatest value for every penny he spends. Thousands of farmers always get this value
by making Anthony Horderns’ their headquarters for all their needs. Here are some particu-
larly fine examples of the high-grade stock we carry—all most moderately priced.
The John Deere Vineyard Plough, £5/10/-
The John Deere Vineyard Plough is a medium size one-horsepower
plough with steel beam made for use in vineyard or orchard.
In this plough the standard is set away from landslide and sufficiently
back of the cutting edge of plough to give good clearance in trash. The
handles are adjustable and can be made to swivel, avoiding contact with
vines or trees. Hitch consists of a dial clevis and chain, which is a perfect
device for giving the plough sufficient land. Will plough furrow 3 to 5
inches deep, and Bto 1 1 inches wide. Weight, 971 b £5/10/-
John Deere “Red Jacket” Plough, £6/15-
A light but reliable plough for all general work. All steel construction.
Beam of special steel, high curve, giving good clearance. Mouldboard
of genuine hardened soft-centre steel. Shares crucible steel. Body,
heavy one-piece steel frame, steel handles.
Cut . 9in. l Oin. 12in.
Weight j 891 b. 941 b. " ' , 1081 b.
Prices £6/15/- £8 \ £9/2/6
Single Standard Land Wheels, 12/6 extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6.
Disc Coulter, 30/- ' *■ *>.
tlmC
Horse Hoe and Cultivator Combined, £5/12/6
The Planet Jr. No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator has a steel wheel that does
not clog; a frame that is longer and higher than others; levers that operate
quickly and easily; a depth regulator. Equipment includes four 3xB
inch cultivator steels, one 4xB inch cultivator steel, two 6in. hillers, one
7in. shovel, all especially hardened. Price . £5/12/6
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, same as No. 8, but without depth gauge.
Price .. . ..£5/7/6
“Wiard” Road Contractors’ Plough, £lllO/-
This Plough is built with extra heavy construction and reinforcements
throughout, and is intended for heavy contractors’ work where great
strength is necessary. The Points and Mouldboards are especially
designed for digging and loosening the hardest clay, gravel and rocky
ground. The Beams are made of charcoal, iron or steel, extra heavy.
The Handles are made wholly of steel, well braced. Price, £ll/10/-
All Steel Plough No. 66. Price .. . ; ..... £l5/7/6
The Myers Self - Oiling
Bulldozer Rower Pump*
BacJTGeared 5 to' L"! ’ FttHy Enclosed^
for General Service
SecUdnnl View allowing tfU pnta». Including Oiling
'' System Large,Vult@wwiDln^Vater»\J{s3^
For Heavy Continuous Work
—this Reliable Pump
The “Myers” Self-oiling Bulldozer Power Pump is the
finest obtainable for general service. It is a pump that will
give unfailing service under all circumstances.
912 Bulldozer, with 2| x 3 inch Brass-lined Cylinder,
vacuum chamber 1 fin. suction and discharge, 12x2 inch
fast and loose pulleys, fin. brass piston rod. Capacity 500
gallons per hour. Price £22
913 Bulldozer, with 3x4 inch Brass-lined Cylinder, with
vacuum chamber, l fin. suction and discharge, 14 x 2f inch
fast and loose pulleys, fin. brass piston rod. Capacity,
1000 gallons per hour. Price £34/10/-
914 Bulldozer, with 4x5 inch Brass-lined Cylinder, with
vacuum chamber, 2in. suction and discharge, 16x4 inch
fast and loose pulleys, 1-fin. brass-covered piston rod.
Capacity, 2000 gallons per hour. Price ...... ..... £55
915 Bulldozer, with 4x5 inch Brass-lined Cylinder, with
vacuum chamber, 16 x 4 inch fast and loose pulleys, 1 f in.
brass-covered piston rod, 2 fin. suction and discharge.
Capacity, 3000 gallons, per hour. Price £62
An Efficient and Low-
priced Force Pump
s m
This double-acting Force and Lift Pump is
remarkable in that it will lift 2000 gallons per
hour. It is made to take either 2in. iron pipe
or 2in. hose. It has a connection to attach a
1 in. hose for use in case of fire or for spraying.
Will force water a distance of about 50 feet
from point of nozzle. Price £4/17/6
(Agricultural Dept.-
Fourth Floor.
Free Delivery within the
metropolitan area, and on
rail or boat, Sydney.)
;■ f •*
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Postal Address.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Lest We Forget!
Happy days. .. .Hopeful days. .. . Another Heu) Year, with
its promise ahead. .. .Parties, fun, holiday glamor. .. .Kick
out 1930.... Hew Year’s Wishes. .. .“Here’s luck and
prosperity, old man” .... And yet
EVERY day, even to-day,
there is somebody wait-
ing for news. “Will she
live, doctor?” “Is he con-
scious yet, nurse?” Surgeons
fighting for a life. Public hospitals
striving to defeat the Angel of
Death.
Public hospitals striving with one
hand tied by lack of money. The
devotion and service of weary-
eyed, untiring nurses, who give all
in their personal efforts, is ham-
pered by an absence of necessities.
Young and old are turned from
the doors, denied that absolute
necessity of humanity—hospital
admission. “We regret we cannot
accommodate you, we have no
money to buy you food and
necessities.”
THAT is the New Year’s
prospect for thousands.
Don’t let that mar your
happiness. On the con-
trary, enjoy your happy New
Year, but make it happier by
spreading it. Spread it outside
your circle of friends; spread it
to help the hospitals.
Spread it at every party on every
occasion. When everybody s
merriest, send around the hat,
“Something for the hospitals,
fellows. Dig into your purses,
girls.’’ Pennies, threepences,
shillings, they all mount up.
Get a contribution from every-
body, and send it as an expression
of your New Year happiness to
the Clerk of Petty Sessions or to
the Church and State Great
Hospital Appeal Committee,
Room 520, Government Savings
Bank Building, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
There's fun in giving, there's wonder•
ful happiness in helping to save a life •
You try itl
mI ' r
kk
% a
SBseg
a
g jßi
Wm&w
cnww/'f* 3 r 7
I ,
I fSiS*
I 1181
; Ru,
ffp|
Egsg
a!
he&s
a£Sg
>
SM*
39-->.:::
&is§
*Ti
r.
5.S ''■s
4
e.-caCi*
i r*
*
i
“^*B2
881
*
<*
®;S
►.--vs' ; 3 s
g 5
Isgsgf
ill
\t-t.
m
s> -.
rise
■'->
M
>
«=■
&
******
(j -i;
4S?
A
%
\
mi
£E i
w
✓
y
111
ill
\
✓
V,
V
d
s:
its
KE&
3^
mm
-9r
✓
s
\V
\
1!
x-
CHURC
Qtld
c
Appeal


The Greatest Value ever
§na
Norma!
Types
4
A
m
#
DECAUSE theyi
rrwafnnrlc onrl m n
re built by efficient Bosch
methods and machinery in a new Australian
factory, PYROX (licence Bosch) Spark Plugs
may be sold at the lowest price ever asked for a
quality plug. Fit a set for the touring season—-
notice the new pep and power they’ll bring.
Manufactured by ____
PYROX PTY., LTD. """"
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply and Service Co.
Pty., Ltd.),
MELBOURNE.
SOSCH
Obtainable from AllJProgressive Oarages and Accessory Houses.
m a » W ii m ItgIMZEKW i ± i * :«».mrpra
to the Eye and Ear Hospital, then under
Dr. Grey, for awhile, but they did little
or no good. They said it was chronic
catarr or something.
I got work at a railway truck factory
close at hand, and then a tramway car and
omnibus works way out miles beyond the
Exhibition Buildings. I got 30s. there, or
maybe 355. I have no recollection of the
place, except of a would-be bully I put
down, and a mighty buck nigger night
watchman with aweful rolling eyes, a dark
lantern, a step like a cat’s and a sudden
guffaw like a grave yard eruption which,
coming unexpectedly and out of place,
might have scared anybody out of his wits.
The sudden apparition would have been
enough for any burglar, I reckon.
I used often to go with Mrs. Kelly to
market on Saturday, in company with Miss
Smith and the old perambulator, and wheel
it home.
* * * *
I had long had an idea of learning to
draw and sketch and being an artist, and
I used to practice a bit now He [a
man at Collingwood] was travelling for a
firm of photographers, and their artist, who
was an invalid, wanted someone to help
touch up the enlargements. He gave me
some, to try my hand on the coat lapels
and edges, buttons, buttonholes, trousers,
creases and seames, etc., with a camel-hair
brush and India ink. My work was a dead
failure—the artist had to wash it all off, in
fact Knowing I was a carpenter and
painter, they took me on at 30s. a week
and rented a little empty produce store
near the railway station, and I fitted it up.
I was a natural, born carpenter and should
have stuck to it.... But though I had an
eye for invention and fine work I never had
the hand. I never could cut the mitres of
the frames so neatly as the canvasser could.
By the way, there’s a dinner waggon
of my make in Herpenden, Hertfordshire,
England, also a new kind of wardrobe, a
hatrack and other things, polished, stained
and varnished, and not a nail in ’em, and
likely to last longer than any of my other
works....
To Sydney steerage to try to rise in
something else....
I went to work at Hudson Brothers, rail-
way carriage works, at Clyde, near Gran-
ville, amongst a rough crowd. I must have
worked hard and well, for I got 255. a
week to start with and 30s. a few 1 months
later. I was 17 then. We lived in Phillip-
street, and I had an alarm clock on a tray
on a sheet of tin to wake me, for I had
been very deaf since I was 14 That
clock was the terror of my late boyhood—
if I can be said to have had any boyhood
at all. I had to get up at 5 o’clock to
catch the workman’s train from Redfera
at six
I used to make bread and milk over a
little spirit lamp before leaving home, but
sometimes I’d be so weak and worn-out with
overnight study and want of rest that I’d
go out in the yard and be ill before starting
for Redfern. I walked through Hyde Park,
Elizabeth-street and Belmore Park to the
railway station, and it was then that the
faces in the street first began to haunt me.
I was going to a night school, trying
for the metriculation examination, and. used
to study in the train when I could keep
awake.... The hands were mostly recruited
from Birmingham and the North Country,
and from Wooloomooloo. I was bushy, shy,
different from other boys (and therefore
“ratty”) and suspected of being of the
Sunday-school sort, and therefore I was
tormented by Hudson Brothers’ larrikens;
but, considering that though I was extremely
sensitive, I was not tortured to an unendur-
able extent, they could not have been such
a bad push after a 11.... I remember one
morning in the workshop, after having been
tormented more than usual on the platform
and in the train the evening before, I said
that I would rise above them all yet; and
my workmate, who was not a bad fellow,
advised me not to let them hear me talking
like that, or they’d chyack me worse than
ever. They believed I was half ratty already,
he said My tormented days ended later,
in another shop, when I took a tormentor
by the throat and his nose bled.
* * * *
I went up to the University matriculation
examination twice, and failed. I don’t re-
member being at all shy or sensitive on
those occasions But that’s a bit ahead.
I seldom went out, Sundays or holidays, but
either worked or studied. Later on I took
to taking long walks at night and by lonely
ways. Every penny of my wages, save
ticket fares, went to help others. I paid
for the night-schooling and bought my
clothes with overtime money; and I washed
and mended my own clothes.... I remember
in darkest days, when all days were dark,
being undecided between home or work and
the harbor. And later on, during a brief
unemployed period, I saw the American
Counsel and haunted the wharves in hopes
of getting a ship to America or somewhere.
I worked at Hudson Bros, branch work-
shops at Wickham, Newcastle, where I
haunted the School of Arts, still with an
idea of learning before it was too late
I got into the office on trial as a clerk
I couldn’t write a simple business letter,
I wasn’t worth five shillings a week in the
office, and so was sent into the timber yard
to learn measuring up under a nasty Jealous
brute with a liver and a son he wanted
there.
I worked about in various private shops
and did a bit of housepainting, too. I knew
what it was, when I was out of work for a
few days in winter, to turn out shivering and
be down at the “Herald” office at four
o’clock on bitter mornings, and be one of
the haggard group striking matches and
running them down the wanted columns on
the damp sheets posted outside. I knew
what it was to tramp long distances and be
one of a hopeless crowd of applicants. I
knew what it was to drift about the streets
in shabby and patched clothes and feel
furtive and crimnal like. I knew all that
before I wrote Faces in the Street—before
I was 20. I knew what it was to go home
to a cold, resentful, gloomy and unbeliev-
ing welcome, and blind unreasoning re-
proaches at the very least. And, above and
beyond other unemployed, I knew what it
was to know, later on, that all this was
selfishly, brutally unnecessary.
I got on with old Mr. Kerridge, carnage
builder, of Castlereagh-street, and worked
for him for about two years. It was a
blessed relief, even in those dark days of
little relief for me, for I had been working
for a man in the same street whose name
was remembered and hated by many, and
whose name and language had best be filled
m by a blank here He used to sack me
every other day, but the first evening or
two he sent his little girl after me to tell
me I could come in the morning; so I got
used to it and would take no notice of his
lurid sacks—work was cruelly scarce.
Old Mr. Kerridge was the opposite; he
was an old gentleman. He was a little old
gentleman with snow white hair and a white
frill beard and was always in a hurry—an
old fashioned bird-like, pecking and jerky
hurry.
My Mother started publishing the Dawn,
in Phillip-street, then the Young Idea and
Young Australia.... Later on I edited and
helped print wrap and post a paper called
The Republican. ...but that was later on.
It was mostly housepainting now, and odd
jobs about.
I had sent a couple of attempts on the
subject [Jubilee celebrations] to The
Bulletin, and had got encouragement in
Answers to Correspondents.” And now
the idea of “Sons of the South” or “Song of
the Republic” came. I wrote it and screwed
up courage to go down to The Bulletin
office after hours, intending to drop the
thing into the letter box, but, just as I
was about to do so, or rather making up
my mind as to whether I’d shove it in, or
take it home and have another look at the
spelling and the dictionary, the door opened
suddenly and a haggard woman stood there.
And I shoved the thing into her hand and
got away round the corner, feeling some-
thing like a person who had been nearly
caught on the premises under suspicious
circumstances and was not safe yet by any
means I hadn’t the courage to go near
The Bulletin office again, but used to lay
awake at night and get up very early and
slip down to the nearest newsagent’s on
Thursday mornings, to have a peep at
The Bulletin, in fear and trembling and
half furtively, as if the newsagent—another
hard life woman, by the way, named Mrs.
Furlong—would guess my secret. At last,
sick with disappointment, I went to the
office and saw Mr. Archibald, who seemed
surprised, encouraged me a lot and told me
that they were holding the Song of a'
Republic over for a special occasion—Eight
Hours Day.... It was my first song and
sincere—written by a Bush boy who was a
skinny city work boy in patched pants and
blucher boots, struggling on the edge of the
unemployed gulf—and written 20 years ago
in Australia in high toady days.
I thought that, when I came to writing
about having my first verses accepted and
seeing them in print, I would rise to the
occasion without effort, but I haven’t. I
can’t even remember the emotions that such
things gave rise to. I only remember that
I didn’t worry any more about my surround-
ings, and “rising” and the School of Arts,
after Faces in the Street.' I just went on
painting and helping with the Republican.
It all seems very tame now, but I couldn’t
have felt tame then, nor could the flood
of emotions have been so, that swelled for
years and, pent beyond the poor tortured
soul’s endurance, broke bounds in a burst of
red republicanism—found vent in Songs of
the Outcasts, Faces in the Street and other
songs of freedom.
The life of the “Republican” (“Cam-
baroora Star” in When the World was
Wide) was a tragical farce now I come to
look back on it.... We rechristened the
“Republican” the “Nationaliser” against my
convictions, and eventually dropped it just
as it was getting a little lighter to our
shoulders.
I was on a scaffold, kalsomining or paint-
ing a ceiling at the Deaf, Dumb and Blind
Institute, Sydney, on New Year’s Eve,
eighteen-eighty-eight when my brother
brought a telegram from Mount Victoria to
say that my father had died that morning
....I reached Mount Victoria by the mid-
night train when bonfires were blazing and
rockets going up. Some said it was the
only time they had ever seen him rest.
I painted the cottages where Father had
left the painting unfinished, did one or two
other jobs on the Mount, and, their being
no more work there, and things in Sydney
being very bad, I went steerage to Western
Australia and struck Albany while the new
town was being built, and shortly after
responsible government had been granted.
There were three master painters there and
no hands, except a stranded sailor or. two,
[Here the MS. ends.]
Answers to Correspondents.
.A o notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted •
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Te Henui: No sparkle in them.. ..A.R.: You
have something to say, but you’ll have to learn to
say it much better than in “Old Bill.” Polish your
lines, and try to make your rhymes ring now and
again instead of merely droning along, and condense
—condense—condense! Ground F.: Get the old
girl busy:—
iVhen I come home from work at night
The wife she is an awful sight.
“No, no, no, it isn’t the work,” she shouts,
“It’s all the lazy loafing louts
Who come to sell things at the door
Worrying a woman endways, and
I’m not buying any more.”
... . G.E.D.: Sluggish... .P. 8.0.: Can’t see you helping
the betting tax... .T.J.M.: Yes, Ajax did defy the
lightning, but the lighting’s got him V.8.K.:
One day when you mean it you’ll write something.
.. . .N.A.H.: “Wreckage”—afraid so. .. .Tag: Moves
like the pulse of a tortoise... .J.U.H.P.: Can’t place
“The Red Dancer” in the New Year Show... .C.8.D.:
Reads like a train shunting at midnight... .8.C.:
Being younger than your initials, you’ll do bettei'.
... .R.C.D.: Why not say what’s in you?... .W.V.D.:
That’s not a pome, it’s a roam Vagabond: Came
a bit late for the Christmas festivities... .Hil: Sorry,
but you can’t knock England that way. Lang was
born here... .D.L.: All the embellishments in the
world won’t make a new tale out of that old confidence-
trick yarn C.E.C.: Worthless as written E.H.:
Awarded this week’s booby prize.... U. J.: A feeble
bark. ...S.F.S.: Covered the same theme recently.
.. . .M.D.: Without a chance. .. .N.W.: Forced
humor and an old plot. . . .E.L.S.: You could have
said a lot more in half the space... .W.T.: Shorten
the philosophical overture, expand the middle and
end more crisply... .R.M.: Not buying obituary
notices of pet poodles... .C.H.K.: Rubbish, is it ?
Well, have it your own way....N.C.: Romantic
’bus-driver is a sorry figure. .. .K. 8.: A colorless
couple A.A.W.: It breaks down every second
page... .C.0.M.: We clipped the fairy godmother’s
wings... .S.M.D.: Nurse who marries rich patient
deserves to be pensioned off by n0w....A. Corres-
pondent: But even if we don’t raise any new loans
abroad, we’ll hai’e to raise about 500 millions to
pay off old ones. So maintenance of our credit
abroad is still enormously important... .E.J.C.
(Mareeba): Orly “reply-paid” messages are sent;
‘•‘collect” wires never... .Tas: Crab-apples... .8.W.:
“I’ve written rot” is your own line... .E.S.: Enjoyed
your enthusiasms... .M.J.S.: One of those proto-
plasm ideas. .. .N.W.5.8.: Forget Kipling. .. .H.McG.:
Fancy you could be spending your time better... .
E.J.M.: In verse it might get a hearing... .H.M.:
Answer’s pi 0.... Whatsyours ?: Verse !... . G.C.: “Fish-
Golf.” Can’t swallow both those pills at once....
Era: Regret that it bores... .A.J.A’B.: Aim’s
straight, but ammunition’s weak.... Twenty: That’s,
the count twice... .D.R.: Pity you can’t say
it any better than that, for you seem to have some-
thing in y0u....J.T.: “Youth’s Funeral” got as
far as the crematorium. . . .W.A.C.: Couldn’t give
Bobson a job ; try another tack... .Sohrab: No space
for day-dreams in these pressing times.... Sandpick:
Sorry, but don’t think verse-writing is going to solve
your problem. .. .R.J.: Prefer stories to be in prose.
. ...T.C.M.: Verses entitled “Aftermath” usually run
a dead heat with the “Wanderlusts” in the Rejection
Stakes.... Habet: Where is the imputation of piracy
when you admit having submitted it before? Some
memories here are even longer than that. . . .L.G.:
Worth giving a run in other company... .E.M.G.:
Very good in places, but unsatisfying... .No. 841:
The rhymes deserve a place:—
He’ll not be dumb-
founded by the clo-
ven footed snarling fumb-
ling in his country’s woe!
. ...A.W.S.: Hasn’t the sincerity which is essential
to such outbursts. .. .A.L.: You’ll have to state your
case more briefly... .N.P.: All that can be said is
that you should do better.... Btllerive: Customary
welcome to
RECOLLECTIONS OF POSEIDON, CELEBRATED
RACEHORSE.
Fond memories live,- though
The past is dead.
Old sports look back to
The long years sped.
When the great Poseidon
Proved his precious worth
Among foremost steeds
Of the Australian turf.
A galloping wonder
In a eventful race
Was the beautiful horse
Of speed and grace.
{Next: “A Celebrated Jockey.”)
. ...Wandit: No hope of any party agreeing to it.
... ,M. 8.: An echo of Marcus Clarke’s “Pretty
Dick”. . . .L.N.; It limps to a dreary end....5.D.:
Uninteresting... .A. Q.: It wasn’t worth the trip
south.... U.R.; Couldn’t finish it, the writing was so
vile... .K.T.: The mere deciphering of a secret code
doesn’t make a story.... Fruitgrower: What would
The Bulletin do for the primary producer? Well,
almost anything except ruin him by inflation.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.J.C.: Crashed again. .. .W.R.D.: Take lessons.
....R.E.G.: Evidently you’re not a thought-reader
or you wouldn’t have sent them to U5....J.M.:
Don’t know the lady, but prepared to wager she
doesn’t look like that. C.A.R.: The oldest posthole
joke in captivity... .8.T.: Still just missing....
C.M.C.: Thumbs down to Augustus.... F.J.: You
haven’t even got to the ladder yet....F.W.: You’re
beyond redemption... .R.H.P.: Nothing to get ex-
cited about... .N.C.: Although she may be a crabbed
spinster she deserves better treatment than that. ...
N. Y.: Any circus would snap up that freak....
L.L.; It didn’t score a smile. .. .M.J.S.: Keep on,
but give us a rest for a few months. .. .H.A.F.:
Pretty rough, but not without hope. . . .H.W.: Neither
impressed. . .P. A. 8.; Careless work...S.L.: Wretched.


s*c
WH
■
f ?;’^f|p:;
Sta .■
HHHHH
—I
M
■
mwm
■
mmmm
m
H
gg
lISI
%-;
mb'
SB
ttHiH
1
*
ms
MM
«mmmm
M
m
4
Ik
• V -V. ;:&>■
.-o
-
:
i m
9wJ
M
L.
■
,
I
■
n
mi i
111
;
11
f
■
; mrj :;i
I BBHhy I
H HI
m
: -■
m
m
Hi §»
HI
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO.. LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2655.
December 31, 1930.
TURN THE PAGE.
“Let’s turn the page, my son. There’s hardly a thing in it we can be proud of!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.’*
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
II months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
HENRY LAWSON’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY PERCIVAL . . . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD . . . . . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
A CARTOON BY LEASON 13
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . . . .. 14
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER? 15
WHAT CAN WE DO TO BE SAVED? .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 22, 23
MAN ON,THE LAND 24, 25
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. . . . . 28
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . . . 32
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..33, 34, 35
SHADOW SHOWS .. .. 36
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 37
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . .. 37, 40
SERIAL, “BREAK O’ DAY”—
By John Crisp 38, 39, 46
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . .. 40
POVERTY POINT 42
THE PALETTE 42
THE INKY WAY 42
AS WE SAID BEFORE 43
Complete Stories
“THIS AMAZING COUNTRY”—
By Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting, 20, 21
“ILLUSION,” by Robert Frank.. .. .26
“NEW GUINEA FASHION”—
By G. M. Turnbull . . .. .. .. 27
“EYES,” by J. Veldy . . .. ~ .. 30
“THE BLUE JUG”—
By Alison McDougall .. ~ .. 31
“DODO,” by Alan S. Rankine . . ~ . . 44
“PROVIDENCE ON THE JOB”
By Henry Lawrence .. . . . . 45, 46
VERSE—By Kathleen Dalziel, Ernestine Hill,
Elsie Cole, Llywelyn Lucas, H. D. Fitz-
gerald, Edward Harrington, 21, 27, 30, 44, 46
DRAWINGS—By Low (30), Dennis Connelly (31),
Phil May (43), “Hop” (43), Alf Vincent (44),
Souter (45) and 14 others.
1930-1931.
Just before last New Year dawned Aus-
tralia got an official inkling of the truth
about itself. By January 1 it was generally
known that we had been living far beyond
our means, and that, inasmuch as London
had closed down on further borrowings,
either a tremendous increase of exports
or a tremendous decrease of imports
or a great deal of both was imperative.
Then complications set in to make our
recovery more difficult: the markets for
ail our staples collapsed. A position was
thus created which had to be faced
promptly. Was it worth while trying to
pay our debts? At the mere suggestion of
anything else there was a national outburst.
Of course we would pay our debts—pay
them as they fell due and to the utter-
most farthing. What have we done in this
twelvemonth towards making that resolu-
tion good?
The crisis reached us at a moment when
political partisanship was both rancorous
and triumphant. The country felt vaguely
that there was something very wrong, and
every political leader blamed his opponent
for it. Thus it was that every Government,
no matter what its complexion, was thrown
out on appeal to the country. This fact
alone should have satisfied the country that
we could not work out our salvation on
party lines: where Labor had tried—in
Queensland, Tasmania and Westralia—it
was ejected as a failure; and where Nation-
alism had tried—at Canberra, and in Vic-
toria, S. Australia and N. S. Wales—it was
equally declared a failure. Yet in spite of
this clear indication of party collapse, party
lines have been clung to throughout the
year. An examination of the results leads
to only one conclusion: we have made no
real progress whatever.
Nor shall we make any until we obliterate
these lines. No party has the pluck even
to tell the . people what sacrifices the case
calls for; if one should venture to speak
something like the truth, as Bavin did in
N. S. Wales, the political breed is such
that his opponents can be trusted to make
the best electioneering use of it. At the
last Federal election Labor floated into
office on false promises; and Mr. Lang
repeated the performance in N. S. Wales.
The misfortune is that thereafter they dare
not turn in their tracks; they have to make
a show of doing the impossible things which
they forecasted. So the real position is
never faced. And it will not be until it
gets so desperate that the political partisan
will be driven to seek help wherever there
is a hope of getting it.
And the only desperate situation which
the politician is likely to recognise is finan-
cial. So long as he can beg, borrow or steal
enough to pay his way, he will carry on.
Thus far he has been able to do it, though
with tremendous difficulty. Besides squeez-
ing the taxpayer dry he has practically
skinned the banks of money. In three years
these institutions, which ought to have been
left free to assist industry in this crisis,
have been drained of 51 millions by the
Governments, upwards of 30 millions of it
to pay the overseas creditor; so that, not-
withstanding the urgent needs of tens of
thousands of private clients, the banks have
had to severely strain their resources in
order to add as much as 19 millions to their
ordinary advances. Meantime, apart from
the little the Customs tariff has done, prac-
tically no foundations have been laid for
productive employment. With small excep-
tions Governments have been content to
tax and tax and tax, and. hand out the
proceeds in doles and for sandshifting jobs
that lead nowhere. The fact that we owe
so much abroad that we must pay over 30
millions a year in interest is forgotten.
Deluded and duped, we will not face the
alternative: default or reduction of costs.
It may be that the return of Mr. Scullin
early in the New Year will bring matters
to a head. In ordinary circumstances it
might be possible to include Anstey and
Beasley in the same party as Fenton and
Lyons. But the work called for now is
financial reconstruction, and co-operation of
the two elements in that task is hopeless.
On the one side is the demand for sacri-
fices; on the other is the protest that no
sacrifices are necessary—that we can win
through with the help of the note-printing
press. Behind the latter flattering tale is
the sinister figure of Communism, standing
back in the shadows, suggesting, encourag-
ing. It does not want success. It wants
a crashing failure.
But the year has shown, besides the enor-
mous capacity of the politician for destruc-
tion, the enormous capacity of the, country
for production. The very fact that exces-
sive imports did so much to land us in
trouble is in our favor; for it shows that
there is a vast field awaiting our own indus-
trial enterprise. We cannot kill such a
country: Australia will live, no matter what
we may do. But in this coming year we
are going to largely determine its charac-
ter. In particular we are going to say
whether we shall demand and make sacri-
fices to preserve our good name, or whether
we prefer default and disgrace to sacrifice.
That alternative, facing us at this moment,
will demand an answer in the coming year.
In the past year we have burked it, thrust
it aside. We shall have to declare our-
selves before many more months are past.
PAY PAY IN RUSSIA.
[This article was the last written by the late Mr.
O. C. Beale. It is explained by the note covering
it, and which now prefaces it.]
The enclosed is an authenticated
glimpse of Soviet life. The observer
is E. Niedermayer, of Hamburg, cor-
respondent of important journals over-
seas. I have just received the original,
and send you a close translation. It
tallies with the masses of stuff that
reach me, even from their own official
sources, as to the true condition of
things in Russia. • Pity it is that Aus-
tralians have so much occasion to be
interested!—Yours faithfully, Octavius
C. Beale.
I had arrived in the factory, quickly donned
my overalls and went down to the new
building, the scene of my future labors. In
all corners stood soldiers with red caps, the
long Russian bayonet fixed on their rifles.
“What are all the military here for?” I
asked. “Well, that’s our rule; on all build-
ings and in all factories are soldiers on
guard.”
In the great hall I then witnessed a
strange procession: two soldiers marching
with fixed bayonets, behind them an official
with white military cap. Behind him
again a Red soldier armed with two pistols.
“Is this an arrest?” I asked. “No, it’s pay-
day! You will see presently.”
The official seated himself at a table,
the two soldiers stepped to his right and
left, the third opened his pistol-pouches and
sat down next to the official. Instantly the
workmen formed themselves into a long
column, and, called by numbers and produc-
ing each his wages-book, received their
money.
Some grumbled and shook their heads.
One who had received short pay became
energetic. He spoke up to the official. The
latter shook his head and made a move-
ment with his hand. Immediately one of
the soldiers pulled the objector out of the
line and shoved him roughly forward. The
man tried to say something and turned
round, a whistle shrilled out and four Red
soldiers who were on guard surrounded the
malcontent and marched him off. “Can such
a thing happen in the Workers’ and Peas-
ants’ Republic?’’ I said indignantly to my
companion. “Oh, yes! And he can be
jolly glad if he gets off with two months
gaol. On account of recalcitrance.
The episode was over and now the pay
went along smoothly. Quite cowed, the
men took their money without' turning
an eyelid. Only now and then a workman
who imagined himself unobserved sorrow-
fully stared at his scanty rouble notes.
“Tell me, how much do the men earn?”
I asked the interpreter. “One rouble 22
kopecks a day, which is 14 roubles for
15 days!” “But that doesn’t tally,” I
replied; “it must be over 18 roubles!”
“That’s so,” my companion replied, “but in
15 days there are three free days, for which,
of course, there is no payment. There re-
main, therefore, 12 days to be paid for.
About 50 kopecks are deducted. Every
worker has to pay ‘industry obligations’
(levies); there are contributions, besides,
for the Red Army on the borders of China,
and to their Red Club they must subscribe,
All these added together make up those
50-odd kopecks. So you, see, comrade, I
was right: 14 roubles and odd kopecks are
the amount of his pay!”
Shocked at the smallness of the man’s
wages for a fortnight, I began to interest
myself in the manner of life'of the Russian
workers. Two days before I had had meals
at Kiew, in the Hotel Continental, which
is, of course, under communistic manage-
ment. Not luxurious—soup, roast pork,
potato salad, half-pint of wine—and I had
paid for the dinner 4 roubles 20 kopecks.
(The Russian paper rouble is nominally
value for two shillings, but in the neighbor-
ing countries it fetches at most ninepence.
Hence the man’s wages for a fortnight were
about 11s.) I asked where the people ate,
and learned that most of the workers obtain
food in the cheapest stolowna, a kind of
communist kitchen. I had plenty of oppor-
tunity to learn the nature of these “com-
munity kitchens.” The first-class were the
stolowna for the nemzi, for us foreigners:
the “German kitchens.” The second-class
were for the Russian foremen and for
bachelors who could afford to pay 80 ko-
pecks a day; the last, the lowest, was for the
proletariat.
I commenced on' the Community Kit-
rhen fnr Worker*
rp, , ,' 1, ,
Tim charge to the daily boarder was 67
kopecks Cheap enough in itself isn t it?
But the breakfast consists of barsh! Barsh?
In the Russian Community Kitchen this
consists of water, potatoes leaves of various
weeds and vegetables, slices of yellow
turnips and carrots aniseed and salt boiled
together. A spot of grease is sometimes to
he seen hut selffom—fill is Heir-and
be seen, but seldom lat is hear and
Now let us look at the dinner of the toller.
Well at m,d-day there is barsh again, with
something extra-fine-kascha and fish
Kascha is buckwheat meal boiled in salt
water to grue! without addition of any kind
The ffsh is half of a herring. I could not
help wondering where such small herrings
came from. The ha f-herr ng is eaten just
attest
breakfast-—barsh. Only twice m the week is
there a change-potatoes with baked onions,
and potatoes with gravy.
Such is the menu of the Russian operative
at heavy work. Bread is rationed, and
only obtainable against bread-cards. Ihe
allowance per capita is 20oz. a day, which,
to the Russian, who is normally a large
bread-eater, is altogether insufficient. In
the Government Bakery I found that the
comppsition of the bread is 60 parts ground
oats, 30 parts wheaten flour and 10 parts
potato flour. .
The Foremen’s Kitchen is somewhat
better. At breakfast there is an undefin-
able beverage that does not deserve the
name of coffee. The coffee is only obtain-
able in the Government grocery in ground
form; I don’t believe many real beans are
contained in the mixture. The dinner is
somewhat better, lfoz. of rationed meat,
and, if meat is not obtainable, the same
weight of herring or of smoked river-fish.
There are almost always potatoes. Of
course, barsh to start with. Supper is
similar to the dinner, only there is no meat.
Unsugared tea may be had. Each man
must have his own sugar, for it is rationed
and supplied against cards, Boz. per month.
So you have to save it up and drink your
tea unsweetened for the latter half of the
month.
As already said, the day’s board costs
here in Moscow 80 kopecks (in paper money
Is. 7d.; in reality 7d.). Eighty kopecks is,
however, a sum that very few workers could
possibly afford, because they must also have
boots and clothing.
Now reckon up what must be paid for
board, and you come to an almost incred-
ible result. Sixty-seven kopecks in the
cheapest Community restaurant, 12 kopecks
for bread and three for machorka. (M?-
chorka is the cheapest Russian smoking
tobacco.) In all, per diem, 82 kopecks,
Inasmuch as within a fortnight there are
three free days, the worker gets 14 roubles,
For his absolutely indispensable food he
must pay 12 roubles and 30 kopecks. In
the most favorable case there remain only
two roubles for further necessities.
OUR CLERKLY MASTERS.
Amid the blather of politicians making a
last effort to obscure the obvious fact that
Australia can save her soul only by hard
work and economy, the Government clerk
appears as a person whose interests must
be considered above those of any other
class. That the clerical trades unions are
a formidable political power was shown
clearly enough in the last Federal elections,
and b}' the recent deference of Mr. Fenton
and other alleged statesmen to the impudent
demands of their representatives. Behind
this, though, is the tacit recognition that
Government clerks are to-day our real
masters in the everyday affairs of life.
Nominally our laws are made by our
numerous Parliaments, but nominally only,
since much of the more recent legislation
—particularly of the money-grabbing variety
—consists merely in the provision of statu-
tory power to make regulations for the
application of the Act. Nominally, also,
these regulations are made by the Governor-
in-Council or some other loud-sounding
blathergraph, but in reality they are made
by clerks. Clerks then enforce them.
The result is that we have one set of
clerks deciding how much of our money we
shall be allowed to keep for ourselves,
another set decreeing—as in the “Redheap”
instance and plenty of others—what we
shall be allowed to read, yet another re-
quiring to be placated with all manner of
information anent our purely private con-
cerns before we are allowed to take a trip
abroad at our own expense. Yet others
decide what profits we shall be permitted
to make in our businesses, what our food
is to cost us, what labor we are allowed to
employ, and what we must pay for it.
If any plain Australian citizen presumes
to question any of these or a score of other
demands and restrictions, he is promptly
threatened with heavy penalties, and addi-
tional imposts of various kinds. If he fights
the case, the clerks will see that it is taken
to the highest courts, and that every costly
subterfuge of the absurdly costly law is used
against him. He has to pay for whatever
protection he seeks, but his clerical adver-
saries carry on their aggressions at no cost
or responsibility to themselves. In the rare
event of their losing, their fun is paid for
out of public moneys—that is, out of money
taken from their late opponent and his fel-
low-citizens. If he contents himself with
mere protest, his official files are secretly
marked to the effect that he is a trouble-
some fellow, and in all future dealings he is
treated accordingly, with various refinements
of clerical vindictiveness. If he stirs up
a politician to take action on his behalf,
there is always a plausible explanation,
backed by a secret peep at the sacred
“confidential” files which have been readied
up for the occasion, and the politician
goes away convinced that it is only an-
other attempt to dodge paying.
Now and then somebody protests against
the growth and expansion and overlapping
which are continually going on in State
and Commonwealth departments 'alike. The
invariable reply is that each new depart-
ment is “paying for itself.” This is sup-
posed to be a full, final and entirely satis-
factory explanation. Nobody appears to
realise—or care —that it is the same old
Australian public which is paying for the
new “self-supporting” burden foisted on its
back by the ingenuity of ambitious clerks,
eager for more pay and power.
Thirteen Houses of Parliament supported
by some six and a half million people, who
are year by year producing less and less
material of saleable value outside Australia,
afford a ridiculous enough disproof of our
volubly expressed intention to economise.
Ninety per cent, of our politicians are an
obviously useless and costly burden, but our
Government clerks are an even worse in-
cubus, in that they cost more in them-
selves, and in addition are continually
putting up the politicians to new tricks
for restricting the liberties and emptying
the purses of the enterprising and the provi-
dent. Entrenched behind a barrier of Acts,
devised by themselves for their own pro-
tection to the country’s last penny, they
are even harder to get rid of.
Any proposal to reduce the clerical armies
is met by the howl, inspired by their power-
ful trades unions, that it will create more
unemployment. Nevertheless, if politicians
were in earnest for economy, the field is
ready to their hands. Anyone with inside
unprejudiced knowledge is well aware that
all the really necessary clerical work of all
the Government departments in Australia
could be done with less than half of the
present staffs, were redundancy and over-
lapping done away with, efficiency and dis-
cipline strictly enforced, and political in-
fluence abolished. Were the States and
Commonwealth between them to retire even
5000 of their clerks of all grades on quarter
pay for the unmarried and half pay for the
married until the reviving country is able
to absorb them in other occupations, the
taxpayer would be saved £750,000 a year at
once, and £1,250,000 eventually. And not
a clerk of them but would have ample
means of living and looking for work!
Efficiency, discipline and overlapping need
to be dealt with, not by glorified clerks
under the guise of Public Service
sioners, or by camouflaged political heelers,
but by some strong, level-headed Australian,
completely free of all Civil Service experi-
ence or traditions, but experienced in organ-
ising large undertakings on a basis of eco-
nomic' efficiency, and removed above all
possible political interference.


THE PARTY FARMYARD.
THE WORLD: “The farm’s all right. But what a way to work it!”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Why Waste Money on Law?
By four to one the N.S.W. Full Court has
decided that Mr. Lang must have the
people’s authority given at a referendum
before he can abolish the Leg. Council.
But there clearly is so much doubt in the
minds of some at least of their Honors that
further action is bound to be taken.
What shall that action be? Shall we go
from court to court, eating money and
finally deciding nothing as to the real point
at issue, or shall we go to the people and
forthwith get their yes or no? The courts
can at the most say that under the law
either the people need not be consulted or
they must be consulted. If the further
courts of appeal agree with the State’s
Full Court that the people must be con-
sulted, we shall have to do then what we
might do now without further expenditure
upon law. If they disagree with the Full
Court, and the Leg. Council disappears?
then it will certainly be only a matter of a
few months and a Nationalist Government.
will restore the second Chamber along
with the referendum safeguard which the
Bavin Government introduced last year. A
referendum will bring some degree of
finality: nothing else will.
One other question of great practical im-
portance remains: what should be done with
the Council pending the decision either of
the final court of appeal or of the referen-
dum? Mr. Lang will, of course, submit to
the Governor the names of perhaps 30 or
40 people whom he wants called to the Leg.
Council in order that he may carry through
his Government’s programme. In other
words, having been blocked—temporarily
at any rate —from sweeping away the Leg.
Council without a referendum, he will seek
to secure precisely the same result by set-
ting up an automaton Council, which will do
his bidding and no questions asked. What
will have to be most seriously considered
is whether this is not merely seeking to
defeat the law by an evasion, and whether
the Governor should assist his Ministers
to avoid that reference to the people for
which the law provides.
Mr. Lang professes to have a mandate
from the people to abolish the Leg. Council.
Very well, then—he can have no possible
valid objection to an appeal to the people
from whom he declares that he has got
authoi’ity to do this thing. And the sooner
the appeal is made the sooner the stage
will be cleared for the practical work of
financial and industrial rehabilitation.
4
Waste.
Circumstances conspired to make us a
wasteful people. We were turned loose in
a virgin country, much of it of great fer-
tility, and could possess it at a price which
was as nearly nothing as possible. We were
thus able to take up large areas, and the
farmer was soon prouder of the size of
his holding than of the intensity of his
cultivation, if any. Indeed, until the other
day intense cultivation was scoffed at in
parts of Australia, and around Sydney in par-
ticular vegetable growing was a job for a
Chinaman.
When things were slackening off after the
first wondering rush to occupy the grazing
and agricultural lands, gold was discovered
in vast abundance; after gold, copper, silver
and other metals; and again gold. When
the gold from a dozen great fields had been
exhausted, the greatest field of all was dis-
covered: in the pockets of the foreign
capitalist. In the one year 1927-28 we
floated loans totalling £76,656,544—5even
times more than the average annual harvest
from all the diggings of all Australia in the
golden ’fifties! Simultaneously the Labor
unions and the vote-hunting politicians and
the “good old Piddos” got to work, and
between them they created what they called
a standard of living based on these absurdly
artificial conditions. Some of them are
insane enough to think that that standard
can now be maintained without any special
effort on our part.
It can be maintained. But it will take
not only a great deal more exertion but
also a great deal more intelligence. The
conditions of a hundred years past have
encouraged us in habits from which we shall
have to uproot ourselves. ■ In every direc-
tion there is appalling waste. If anything
approaching the old standard of living is to
be kept up, this will have to be cut out.
We will have to supply something that will
take the place of all those hundreds of mil-
lions of easy money that were dug either
from the mines now worked out and aban-
doned or from the pockets of the money-
lender, now closed to us. We will have to
do more than that; for we have got to
earn and return the easy borrowed millions,
and meantime we must pay interest on
them. And the job is not going to be any
easier because from one large section of the
community, the wheat-farmers, we have been
already demanding more sacrifices than any
section should be asked to bear.
Thus far, after 12 months of disillusion-
ment, we have done practically nothing to
cut out economic waste. On the contrary,
we are adding to it in many directions.
Every man put on to a job that is not either
directly or indirectly productive is another
millstone around our neck, making the
maintenance of the old standard of living
more difficult, if not impossible.
4&
Australia and the U.S.A.
There was a significant resemblance be-
tween economic developments in Australia
and the U.S.A. up to a certain point after
the war. The Armistice found both well
in the world’s eye as virile, slightly swelled-
headed continents, with plenty of desirable
things to sell, a desire for immigrants of
the right sort, high wages and workers who
enjoyed a luxury standard of living.
America’s industrial boom was terrific.
Massachusetts was going to knock out
Northampton in the boot markets of the
world. TJ.S.A. shipbuilders were going to
produce a mercantile marine that would
make Britain’s look “worth a pile of cents.”
Cars, films, cottons and a thousand other
lines poured into every country which had
the money to pay for them.
Australia made a great industrial advance
also, under the stimulus of successive tariff
revisions. The loan money which was
always available when required played the
same part as the £40,000,000-p.a. debt-money
which the outside world was remitting to
Washington. Wool,'wheat, metals and lands
were booming, and visitors of the standing
of Lord Burnham went back to England
after touring the Commonwealth, and wrote,
“Australia’s capacity to absorb and prosper
at least 100,000 a year is, I think, beyond
argument.” American workers were earning
roughly 50 p.c. more than British workers
of corresponding grades, and Australian
workers were doing nearly as well financi-
ally, and working shorter hours.
The world slump hit the two countries
at the same time largely because the con-
ditions under which they had been living
were so similar. The world could no longer
buy their principal products—at the price
asked. In both countries the unemployed
increased to previously unheard-of numbers,
At one time in the U.S.A. it was estimated
that there were over six millions idle.
At the outset America faced the situation
in accordance with the national formula:
it believed, or professed to believe, that the
depression was largely psychological, and
that “sunshine talk” would do far more
good than frank discussion. But this prac-
tice, which had worked so well in minor
troubles, was soon found to be no good in
this crisis; and the countiy swung almost to
the other extreme. There was, however,
a purpose behind the new plan. As long
as men continued to think in terms of the
period immediately after the war, when
spending money was plentiful, the slump, it
SS-5S5* sag
liability. In savage lands non-workers are
destroyed; m civilised ones those who lose
their jobs become charges on the citizens
who are in jobs.) So the American effort
was to shake the entire community out of
its post-wartime habits of thought and to
realise that an entirely new set of con-
ditions had to be faced.
The result has been astonishing. in
every industry in every section of the
U.S.A., one New York banking firm wrote
lately to its correspondents, arrangements
are in progress to secure great cuts m costs.
In particular there must be, it is seen, large
reductions in transportation charges. There
is very little talk of wage reductions:
there is very much talk of labor economies.
Everywhere it is recognised that what pay
a man draws is of comparatively little con-
sequence to either the man himself or his
employer. What matters to the wage-earner
is how much he can buy with it; what mat-
ters to the employer is how much he gets
in return for it.
—♦
A New Year Card for Melbourne.
In one respect at any rate Melbourne is
wiser than Sydney. In both
Hope springs eternal in the human breast;
Man never is but always to be blest.
But while Sydney dreams of nothing much
except a six-hour day and a four-day week,
Melbourne is always liable to be deeply
and less sordidly engrossed in a scheme to
roof over the railway yards and build
there gigantic picture-palaces, Luna Parks,
cabarets, hotels and other necessities of
life; or in another to blow up two blocks
at the top of Bourke-street and make an
Anzac-square, complete with fountains,
beautiful statues and vast colonnades; or to
shift the Melbourne Hospital, blast six
arteries comparable to St. Kilda-road from
the centre of the city into the suburbs, and
build a £2,000,000 artificial island in Hob-
son’s Bay, connect it to the mainland with
a bridge and cover it with Ferris wheels,
scenic railways, katzenjammer castles and
other cultural needs. The latest proposal
is to include the abandoned Federal Gov-
ernment House grounds in the Botanic
Gardens, to turn the mansion itself into a
beautiful gallery of Australian art and make
the whole place the grandest park of its
kind in the Southern Hemisphere,
None of these southern projects has ever
been fulfilled, nor are they likely to be in
this generation. Melbourne, however, seems
to require to indulge this iorm ox civic
paranoia in order to forget that* she is
failing to tackle simple and qbvious jobs.
Thus many of her thoroughfares are less
than 40 per cent, efficient because of easily
removable bottlenecks; the girls at the Hig
School in Spring-street have to hoist um-
brellas when they are at lessons on wet
days; the city hospitals are hundieda o
beds short; while we talk of building fies i
galleries to house Australian art, oui e
painters are unable to pay , tkell l ier ) ? .
Anzac-squares are mooted when unemp oy
ex-soldiers are being shut out of night
shelters m the rain ■ •
And pompous fid the a r with
platitudes during Health Week while the
Qur of Living.
“Blgar” : Forty-odd years ago I worked at
trade [ u Melbourne at the then standard
wage of £3 for 48 ko urs. j kad as goo d food
then as j can get now> and better clothes
j,ban I can now buy for more than double
4 he money. (The best suit of clothes I
wore in my life was made to measure
in a Swanston-street shop for £3 35.) I
kad books and papers; I played cricket and
f 00 tball; I had occasional country or down-
tke-bay trips; I saw all the best actors and
ac t reS ses and musicians of the time, includ-
j ng Bernhardt, the Gaiety cos., Sir Chas.
jjalle, Norman Neruda and others—and I
saved more money per month than I have
been able to do since prices and wages
began to rise, say, in 1915. I admit there
were lots of things I didn’t have—a car,
' mov ies, talkies, pony races, electric hares,
pe ewee golf, etc.—but I haven’t got them
no w, and, what is more, I don’t want them,
When the land boom collapsed and every
bank in Melbourne but one closed its doors,
when miles of Melbourne streets were filled
with empty houses, when tradesmen were
g l a d to take any job at 10s. a week and
found, I knuckled down and got busy,
blotted out the losses I had incurred and
set about helping to build things up again.
(Incidentally, one of the things that helped
was rabbit-trapping, with bunnies at 4d.
a pair!) And I maintain that my standard
of living,, and that of thousands of others,
was as high in those days as it is now or has
ever been since.
McGrath, M.P., says “there are 300,000
poor unfortunates in Australia who cannot
get even bread.” T don’t know where they
are, but among the 300,000 unemployed I
have not noticed any picture-theatre pro-
prietors or pony-racemongers or even
’Berra statesmen.


SHELL
S.too6_
POLITICAL
POINTS
The higher foreign exchange rate which
seems to be a very likely new-year develop-
ment will put a trifle in the pockets of the
Australian producer for export; but in some
cases he will lose as much as he can gain.
As a taxpayer he will certainly be hard hit.
Australia has to send 36 millions a year to
London to pay interest and other charges,
and every 1 p.c. added to the bill for ex-
change means £360,000. At present exchange
costs £2,880,000 a year, and if the rate goes
up to 12 p.c. another £1,440,000 will be added
to that. It has been chiefly to make things
as easy as possible for the Governments and
their taxpayers that the banks have sat hard
on every suggestion to lift the rate.
The N.S.W. Full ,Court has blocked what
Minister Gosling elegantly described as “the
removal of the dead cow from the line.” Lang
assured his supporters that the Bavin Act
requiring a referendum on Council abolition
could be “swept aside as easily as it had been
enacted; Willis voiced his belief in the
threatened Chamber itself that it would be
dead and buried inside a week or ten days.
Bavin professed no such cocksureness about
what might or might not happqp, but in the
“The N.S.W. Full Court has decidea that the Leg.
Council cannot be abolished unless a referendum
approves.”
Something for the Old Man in Macquarie-
street.
Assembly he counselled Lang to get on with
the work of legislation, and warned him
that there would be “protracted litigation”
before the Upper House went on. to the
scrap-heap. That, at least, is certain.
A remarkable feature of the renewal loan
was the method of its distribution. Vic-
toria not only subscribed the largest amount
per head, but the largest total; it gave
£13,648,160 against the N.S.W. figure of
£9,062,430. In proportion to population
South Aus. was a good second; Tasmania
came third, N.S.W. fourth, Queensland fifth
and Westralia sixth. N.S.W. beats all the
other States and Territories combined for
strikes and strike losses. This helps to
explain why it has so much less than Vic-
toria to spend on the purchase of Australian
securities.
After a rocky session the Vic. Hogans
managed to limp into recess at 9.30 p.m. on
Christmas Eve. Seventeen hours earlier it
looked as if there would be a deadlock be-
tween the two Houses on the unemployment
taxes and the cuts in State salaries. A con-
ference ended abruptly at 4 in the morn-
ing ; Caucus wanted conditions that the
Landlords’ managers would not accept.
Hogan got the conference together again, and
a compromise was fixed up; the tax-money
for unemployment relief is to be reduced
from £1,097,000 to £903,000, the basic wage
is to be paid, and the Supreme Court
Judges are not to have their salaries hacked.
Until things mend financially nobody is
anxious to shift Hogan.
Some of the wheat cocjries of Westralia
are getting restive; but more serious than
any of their activities is the passive resist-
ance which never gets into the papers be-
cause it just happens on a farm here and
a farm there. Mostly the cocky in these
cases has been notified that the bank, though
it has a lien on his crop, won’t carry him
any further; whereupon the farmer folds
his arms and tells the bank to take off
the darned crop itself. Passive resistance is
a terrible weapon, as the Russian peasant
showed; and it looks as if Australian Gov-
ernments will have to reckon with it now
for the first time outside the ranks of the
workers. The workers, of course, have prac-
tised it for years, only they call it the strike.
A tax on empty houses is the very newest
idea of the N.S.W. Labor Council; 10s. a
.veek is suggested. One difficulty is that the
owner of an empty house or two might be
absolutely penniless, having no rentsi coming
in, while rates, taxes and interest on mort-
gage are going out. There should be some
way by which an owner could disencumber
himself or herself of property by making a
gift of it to the Labor Council or some such
body, with the tax and other liabilities. And
a tax on empty stomachs should be brought
in at the same time as the tax on empty
houses. The two go well together.
Though the McPhee Government has no-
thing to look forward to but a not-too-pro-
mising election struggle in a few months’
time, no Tas. Ministry was ever more thank-
ful to reach recess. Besides the usual
troubles of an Administration that sets itself
the task of balancing its Budget under
adverse conditions, McPhee has had to battle
through most of the session short-handed,
Attorney-General Baker and Honorary Min-
ister Grant having been on sick leave. All
of which explains why many legislative pro-
posals promised in the Governor’s speech,
and alleged to be important, have not
materialised. Licensing reform and public
servants’ superannuation were among these.
Parliamentary discussion of the Queens-
land Elections Bill, which aims at the extir-
pation of “ghosts” and the like led to some
interesting revelations. The brightest was
contributed by Annand, the member for Too-
woomba, who said that the local roll had been
adorned with the names of 17 enthusiasts
who gave the same occupation and address.
They all claimed to be the yardman at a
pub near the Trades Hall.
Labor politicians are not noticeably im-
proving the position by commanding
employers to pay as much or more for less
work and inventing substitutes for industry.
The N.S.W. levy of 10 per cent, on horse
winnings was expected to provide £40,000
a week, but it looks more like a return of
£5OOO. The very first day’s experience at
Sydney showed that when the horse is run-
ning for the Government the public loses
interest. The impost of Is. in the £ on
wages may come closer to expectations, but
it won’t reach them, for the leakage will be
tremendous.
There has been a High Court case over
the export duty on sheepskins, which was
imposed without reference to the Senate, and
tiie Collector of Customs has been ordered
to pay the proceeds of the duty into .court.
“Parliamentary rights have been challenged
by the High Court,” Acting Priminister
Fenton indignantly protests. At the same
time his Government has shown its contempt
for the Federal Arbitration Court by issuing
a regulation granting preference to the
Waterside Workers’ Federation, which
Beeby, J., refused. They are an illogical lot,
our masters.
The honor roll in the Victorian Shrine
of Remembrance is to contain about 150,000
names, which are to be inscribed on vellum
in imported ink, though Australian ink is
good enough for all manner of public pur-
poses. The man who admits responsibility
explains that he was told to get the best ink,
and he chose the imported article “so
as to be on the safe side.” He further ex-
plains that he began to use it when he was
a boy (presumably he knew no better, for
boys don’t know much) and has employed
it ever since, whereby he possibly deprived
himself of the chance to become acquainted
with Australian progress in the ink business.
The explanations of people with the import-
ing habit well developed are seldom con-
vincing.
“Mr. Anstey says that his scheme of inflating the
note issue by £10,000,000 is trifling and need not
be extended.”
THE SINNER: “After all, it’s only a little
one.”
The banks, in co-operation with the
Federal Government, have “pegged” foreign
exchange in the neighborhood of 9 p.c.; that
is to say, officially it has cost £lO9 of Aus-
tralian money to pay a bill for £lOO in
London and other overseas villages. And
this, of course, means that goods sold for
£lOO overseas are worth £lO9 Australian
money. Lately, so slack have exports been
and so large still is our bill for imports,
there has been vigorous competition for what
money Australia has had overseas; and as
much as £l4 premium has been paid in Aus-
tralia for £lOO in London. Whether, in
view of that disparity between the official
and the competitive rate, the former can be
much longer kept as low as £9 or thereabouts
is doubtful. What this really means is that
the value of the Australian £ is still slipping.
A 15 p.c. premium instead of the present
9 p.c. will make the Australian £ worth
only 17s. 3d.
“N.S.W. Works Minister Davidson said he was
obliged to refuse requests for grants, as there was
no money in the Treasury, but he would listen to
the deputation with the utmost sympathy.”
"All I’ve got is sym-pa-thee!”
Little Coleman, M.H.R., is back in Sydney
after the most glorious paid holiday that
any private member has ever had. Though
four Ministers were in London during the
year, the member for Reid “conducted an
inquiry into the organisation of Australia
House,” at three guineas a day plus his
salary; he also “represented the Common-
wealth Government” at the International
Labor Conference (a job hitherto done by
the High Commissioner), at the meetings of
the Mandates Commission (a pleasing inno-
vation) and as a delegate to the League of
Nations Assembly, receiving expenses all
the time. On Dec. 11 it was admitted that
the taxpayers had been debited with £B4O
“to date” in respect of Mr. Coleman’s
travels, but details were withheld. Possibly it
was thought that the taxpayers would not
appreciate the joke.
Lang and his N.S.W. Ministers have been
performing their latest manoeuvres on the
very thinnest financial ice, and the bills that
are piling up in most of the departments are
causing others besides politicians a lot of
anxiety. For the first time in their lives
some of these political gentlemen are realising
that a Government can’t have even a deficit
when it wants one. Most of them were
frankly of opinion that when a Government
couldn’t pay its way it sort of automatically
had a deficit; now they discover to their sur-
prise that a Government can’t have a deficit
unless it raises the money to have it with.
There is, of course, one other way—by not
paying its bills. But as most of the bills
are for salaries and wages, directly or in-
directly, that plan is liable to make a Labor
Government unpopular. A more popular
alternative would have been to blame the
banks, only unfortunately the banks have
•just explained that in the past three years
alone they have lent the Governments 41)
millions, and they really haven’t any more
tjiey can lend.
Davies, Lang’s Minister for Education,
has, by his own account, discovered the
cause of all Australia’s troubles and has the
remedy in his pocket. The banks, he said,
had made the depression by cussedness afore-
thought; they could lift it to-morrow if so
inclined, and should be made to do so.
Davies is only an item in a State Cabinet,
but if he and Lang would fully explain how
and why the banks caused the depression,
how they kept it going, and how it could
be removed to-morrow, they would create a
roar compared to which the blow-up of the
Gunpowder Plot was nothing. Then they
might start a proper State bank free from
depression, and make all the world wonder.
Meapwhile the only definite announcement
from Davies is that he is going to give the
miserable sack to GOO female teachers.
Queensland’s new Grazing Districts Im-
provement Bill is designed to deal drastically
with the sort of landowner who neglects or
refuses to destroy pests, animal or vegetable,
and thereby infects the territory of others
who do their duty. Compulsory destruction
of wild dogs on cattle stations is specially
aimed at. The brutes breed unhampered on
some runs, and take heavy toll of sheep on
adjoining stations which have to spend large
sums of money in making war on them.
Aboriginals share in the benefits of “Good
Ole Piddo’s” family-endowment scheme. At
the end of June, 1929, there were only 1234
full-blooded abos. in N. S. Wales, and 429
were living on reserves, 156 more being
nomads. Even so, £11,179 was distributed
among native women, though the payments
were suspended for a time “as the result of
numerous complaints that the endowment
was not always used for the benefit of the
children” —in one case, which reached tne
police court, it was shown to have been spent
on beer. This year £15,000 will be required.
The abos. would be happier if left to their
’possums and goannas, but the loathsome
capitalist has to find the £15,000, and that
is regarded as a victory at the Trades Hall.
The N.S.W. Labor Council has decided
that it is strongly hostile to “the proposed
visit of Lord Baden Powell to Australia ’
because he may want to “encourage mili-
tarism.” But as he will pay his own way if
he comes, and as he isn’t a prohibited
immigrant, there is very little except noisy
cock-a-doodle in the business, unless it is
proposed to demand that the Labor Govern-
ment should shut Baden out. And even
Minister Beasley would hardly be pleased to
receive a deputation on that subject.
Maoriland is the latest to follow the rule
that economy must always begin with the
defence services. The vote has been cut from
£490,000 to £275,000, and 110 officers and
other ranks are to go; only 75 of them
are entitled to superannuation allowances.
Their retirement will save the country
£47,000. It is expected that the clerks will
escape, that section being as sacrosanct as
it is in Australia.
One proposal for the settlement of
India’s troubles is to enfranchise 100,000,000
villagers, divided into groups of 20, who,
being unable to read or write, will elect a
spokesman orally. The spokesmen, number-
ing 5,000,000, will form an electoral col-
lege to choose members of Parliament. How
the illiterates are going to keep members
up to their election promises isn’t stated. In
any case, the Indian villager lias never
shown any large capacity for politics.
Revenue dropped below expenditure in
the Straits Settlements last year, so a raid
had to be made on the revenue replacement
reserve fund; but there is still 73 million
dollars left. Yet the staple products of
Malaya, rubber, tin and copra, have suffered
a worse price slump than even our wheat
and wool; for a couple of years rubber has
been down below the cost of production on
all but a few estates. The fact that the
colony’s finances are still in a sound_ condi-
tion is noteworthy. It doesn’t enjoy the
blessings of party government.
“The U.S.A., though it has absorbed more gold
than any nation, has the greatest number of out-of-
works on record."
DR. INDUSTRY : “The foot won’t improve till
you get the gold out of your system.”
George Moore, of the Vie. .Closer Settle-
ment Board, told a crowd of honorary jus-
tices in Melbourne the other day that the
board controlled, directly or indirectly, 27,000
settlers and had been the means of putting
£20,000,000 (borrowed, of course) into the
purchase of estates. The Oldest Member
seemed to be astonished at the board's
moderation in acquiring only 3500 properties
at an average of £7 10s. an acre when 19,000
were offered. It would have been better for
the Victorian finances and for heaps of
settlers if 1500 of the 3500 bought had also
been turned down.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bildad”: The prize detective-mystery
story would deal with a case where no trace
of the body could be found, and no one could
suggest wliose body it was because no one
seemed to be missing. The reason of the
crime and the identity of the criminal would
therefore be difficult to trace, but a super-
Oppenheim might clear the matter up by
writing a “best-seller.” The “blazing-car”
problem in England is something of this sort
in a mild form. The vehicle was burned to
ashes, and the man inside was reduced to an
unrecognisable cinder. The owner of the
car was found in partial retirement, allegedly
because of financial embarrassments. He
doesn’t know anything about the defunct or
how he combusted, and the police can’t hear
of anybody missing, nor can they find that
the car-owner, who seems a plain, drab sort
of person, had an enemy or a rich uncle
whom he wanted to dispose of. At any rate,
he has been committed for trial for slaying
an unknown person for an unknown reason,
the remains having apparently offered no
resistance.
ijc $ 3:
“Morita”: Probably nobody gets such a
“close-up” of the juvenile mind as Santa
Claus at Cliristmas-time. I watched one
perspiring masquerader in a city toyshop
pencilling in shorthand the orders being col-
lectively yelled at him by a crowd of kids,
and during a lull he quoted some of the
extraordinary requests whispered in his ear.
Quite a few wanted the Stork to pile up a
load on the Christmas sleigh, a couple
A GENTLEMAN AT LARGE.
“She told me her husband was travelling for health reasons.”
“Yes, dearie. He’s a salesman for Blauber Salts.”
even desiring black infants thrust on their
parents. A feature this year, I was
told, has been the little ones’ recog-
nition of depleted necessities at home. One
toddler wanted a pair of working-pants for
his father, and lots of others have asked
for their orders to be cut out in food that
Mum and Dad could share. Crowds of them,
primed up beforehand that toys were off in
these hard times, plumped for new hats or
clothes for themselves. The strangest order
of all came from a kid of about four, who
wanted nothing else but a gold tooth, such
as someone who visited his big sister always
wore.
* * * *
“Nikko”: An old lady living in a Darling-
hurst “residential” was the only occupant of
the house on a recent evening; she locked her
door and retired about 9 o’clock. Presently
there were stealthy steps in the passages,
sounds of doors being tried and unlocked
rooms being entered, and other unmistakable
signs that Sikes was abroad. The old lady’s
room is at the head of the back stairs, and
several times the intruder approached her
door, which is in a dark recess, and dumped
his loot convenient to the exit. Cautiously
she arose and crept to the door. Outside
were sundry bundles ready for removal. One
by one she humped them silently into her
room, locked the door and pushed a heavy
sideboard against it. Two minutes later the
thief, arrived with his last load. The dis-
appearance of everything he had previously
collected brought with it the conviction that
he was being watched, and in a panic he
dropped his final bundle and fled. The de-
parture of a car from the rear finished the
episode, except for the reception the elderly
heroine held when the other lodgers came
along to identify their possessions.
“Percy Pawnticket”: A dissolute old gen-
tleman of 82 was part of
the trawl when the Syd-
ney police raided a house
of no very good repute in
search of sly-grog, the
veteran being taken to
the police station because
he was regarded as in-
capable of looking after
himself. A grandson, who
mentioned that he was a
leader amongst local
Recliabites and an offi-
cial of his church and
Sunday-school, appeared
at the court proceedings;
he said that the ancient’s
moral lapses were griev-
ous, but he was prepared
to give the transgressor
another chance. Thereat
a kindhearted beak told
the aged reprobate that
he ought to be thankful
that he had a good gi’and-
son, and warned him to
behave better in the
future. It is not every
man who has a prodigal
grandsire to be forgiving
to.
“C.Q.”: Nellie Melba’s birthplace, Doon-
side, Burnley-street, Richmond, goes under
the hammer shortly, the subdivisional brigade
having invaded the district. On the estate
Dad Mitchell established the first cement
works in Victoria. Under the contract,
sundry fittings which have a sentimental con-
nection with the Great Voice’s babyhood are
to be preserved by the wreckers.
* $ * *
“Taltingan” : The layman, though he won’t
have a notion where they may take him,
will be interested in experiments in the fowl-
yard run by the Sydney Uni. Cancer Re-
search Committee. Here it is found that
when hen and rooster are dosed with lead
the eggs don’t incubate; when only the hen
is leaded, about half the eggs incubate; when
only the rooster is leaded, a considerable
proportion of the eggs yield healthy chicks.
Broken Hill could tell the committee some-
thing about that. In the early days of the
Hill, when the smelting was done on the
mines, it was reckoned that 15 tons of lead
were thrown out of the smelter stacks every
day; and a commission at last inquired into
the whole matter. At that time you couldn’t
keep a cat in the town; of all animals puss
seemed most susceptible to “lead fits.” Dogs
didn’t go that way, but were liable to para-
lysis. Dr. T. E. F. Seabrook, who had been
one of the first lecturers in medicine at the
Adelaide medical school, tried to trace direct
effects of leaded parentage on children, but
got only negative results. And there were
successful raisers of chickens in Broken Hill
even in those days. What ought to be in-
teresting is a search of the early records of
the Broken Hill Hospital for cancer cases,
Personally (and I was in and out of the
hospital a good deal in those days) I don’t
recall a single cancer patient,
* * * *
“P.X.” : Some men can think quickly even
in church. My entry happened in Carcoar,
which is liable to carry round as many icicles
on its nose as any other hamlet in N. S.
Wales. Carcoar’s C.P.S. in those days was
“Dicky” Browne, the best-loved police-court
officer in N. S. Wales, and related in some
queer way to Harold Gray, “The Pilgrim.”
Unlike the Pilgrim, R. P. Browne was a
sound churchman—the strongest pillar of the
Anglican tabernacle wherever he happened
to be. Carcoar had got pretty used to Dicky’s
benevolence; but the Sunday morning when
a terrific snowstorm started while the con-
gregation was at service crowned all other
performances. After his habit Dicky was
in a far-back seat; and when the storm
started hardly anybody saw Dicky think a
minute, then tiptoe out into the thick of
it. Up in the township was a big old covered
’bus; this with the necessary horses Dicky
engaged for the rest of the morning, and
when Carcoar came out from its devotions
if found the familiar ’bus backed up against
the door, a nd ready to begin distributing all
hands to their homes.
THEY ALMOST AGREED FOR ONCE.
WORRIED DAD: “Life’s just one damned hole after another.”
MOTHER: “Well, I don’t swear; but if you’ll make it one darned hole after another
I’m with you.”
“X.S.”: The latest form of shoplifting is
so simple that it is a wonder nobody thought
of it sooner. A man and woman drive up
to a shop and the woman goes inside and
prices an article. Informing the assistant
that she would like to get her husband’s
approval before buying, she trips to the car
with her may-be purchase, steps inside, and,
as the engine is running, drives off before
the astonished shopman can say a word.
* * * *
“Westralian Abroad” : One thing the aver-
age Australian misses when he goes overseas
is the pub bar. In Canada, if he meets a
friend he hasn’t seen for years, he must take
his man to a gloomy “beer parlor” to absorb
very light beer at a table in a private
cubicle. No one talks above a whisper, and
laughter or a joke is frowned upon. The
U.S. speakeasy is a slight improvement, as
the foi-bidden beverage always tastes sweet-
est. But even there the atmosphere never
becomes congenial. Confidence is lacking, as
the financiers say.
* * * *
“P.X.”: This is the time when the police
are on the lookout for a parti-
cularly mean kind of fraud.
Already in several newspapers
advts. have appeared offering to
put applicants in touch with
job s—m os 11 y in far-away
places: one recent advt. men-
tioned South America and
South Africa. Here and there
you might find honesty behind
these notices; mostly there is
nothing but rank fraud, though
how the swindle will be worked
will be governed by the circum-
stances of each case. An advt.
calling for engineers and miners
was lately signed by a firm-
name, say Brown and Co., with
a city address. There was no
Brown in the “business,” which
was run by one, say, Smith.
Smith rented a table in a room
occupied by a broker of some
sort: after two weeks he dis-
appeared—but in that time lie
had established a city address.
Letters for that addi*ess were
ordered to be sent on to a subur-
ban address. At this point the
postal people sniffed something,
and put the C.I.D. at work ; but
as it didn’t look as though much
actual damage had been done,
the man was not pi-osecuted (he
had been convicted once before)
on his promise to clear out of
the country. But Heaven only
knows how many letters he got:
no less than 80 were stopped by
the G.P.O. and sent back to their writers.
* £ *
“Farleigh” : Some characteristic and hence
apt-to-be-sneered-at Americanisms are per-
fectly good English words that, for some
reason or other, have flourished in their new
home while they gradually fell out of favor
in their place of origin. Personally I rather
like the sound of the almost universal Yankee
affirmative “sure.” “Surely,” indicating
entire assent, was common enough in parts
of England 50 or 60 years ago, especially
among the country folk. It is comparatively
rare nowadays, having been replaced by “cer-
tainly” or some other equivalent, whereas
America has converted it into about the most,
frequent monosyllable in the language. “Sure”
is more pleasantly English-sounding than
“certain,” by whomsoever used.
* * * *
“Quack”: Something like a record in sur-
gical face-rebuilding has been established in
the Canterbury (Sydney) District Hospital.
The lay figure is a carter, over whose
countenance there passed the wheel of
a lorry laden with a ton of goods.
Practically every bone in his face was
broken and twisted out of P ’ .
not only was the man’s life saved but suigica
skill has almost completely reconstructed the
face. The Great War was responsible for
tremendous advance in matters like these, i
had a cobber whose face was crushed to pulp
by a flying lump of shell. I met nim latei
in England with his. features a mass ol
bandages and a tube, in his mouth, through
which he could take liquid food; to-day there
is not even a scar to show what was done to
him.
“Pennyweight Flat” : Larkinville is the
official name bestowed on Westralia’s newest
site for goldmining leases. Doubtless it was
“Larkin’s Rush” first, and then merely
“Larkin’s/' until the usual need was felt for
some title indicative of a township. The
“ville” termination tacked on to the pros-
pector’s name has supplied some curious com-
posites, especially when the prospector was
Irish, as he mostly was. A goldfields warden
once asked me if I could imagine a more in-
congruous name than Higginsville, and I agreed
that it could hardly be described as melli-
fluous. Lennonville sounds better. Feyville
would have had a pleasant ring about it
(Fey was a Swiss, by the way), but the
Anglo-Saxon hankering after the possessive
“s” converted it into Feysville. Not that it
matters much whether they were picturesque
names or harsh ones, for few have survived
except upon the map. Larkinville may have
better luck.
* * * *
“G.G.6” : The past stirred in its sleep the
other day when news came from south-west
Queensland that striking shearers were
picketing the border rabbit fence to prevent
the bringing up of shed-hands from N.S.W.
The same thing was done in the two big
strikes of the early ’nineties. It became
known during one of these that the Austra-
lian Pastoral Co. was sending a large body
of “free laborers” up via Angledool to the
Balonne stations. An armed commando rode
out from the big camp at St. George to inter-
cept the newcomers, but was outflanked by
a swift night march, the men being carried
in four-horsed waggonettes escorted by a
strong guard. This time the pickets will be
fighting against even longer odds, for the
N.S.W. men will be taken up by aeroplane,
if necessary.
“Chevroford”: Touching The Bulletin’s
suggestion that motor licenses should have
some sort of medical guarantee attached to
them. A motoi’-driver in Melbourne was
charged with crashing into the back of a
tram when under the influence of liquor, and
was fined 15 and £2 costs; but nothing was
done about another aspect of the case. He
was so deaf that witnesses had to shout in
his car.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The brooding presence of General
de Presh was felt in the Christmas trading
in Melbourne. The cheap shops where goods
are displayed with prices attached were
packed and the one-price shops did a roaring
business. The higher class emporia were
pathetically empty. To note the changed
habits of the community it is useful to go
down to the mai’kets—the eai’lier the better.
There are as many limousines as Fords
parked in the alleyways nowadays. Some
oxen have chauffeurs self-consciously trying
to efface themselves behind the rear mud-
guard while their mistresses sail between
the booths chaffering with Ah Sin for a
lunch of carrots or with Emilio Emigranto
for a pair of silk stockings. One proud
lady remarked to a stallkeeper that his
features seemed familiar. “Yes, Madam,”
he remarked sadly; “it’s because you’re
here that I’m here. I used to keep a pro-
vision shop in your suburb.” Competition
is so keen that it is difficult to make a
living wage even in the markets, and the
sellers of cheap luxuries pack up the stock
in the old flivver at the end of the day
without the price of their stall rent in their
pockets. It is amazing to see with wllat
stock-in-trade some of the European and
Asiatic nationalities—and even Australians
—expect to do business. Dozens of stall-
holders bring nothing but bits of rusty
chain, scrap-iron and parts of obsolete motor-
cars. Like the stock of the roadside mer-
chant in China, the lot doesn’t look worth
the cost of cartage.
1931.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Step warily, O New Year, as you come
To earth! The river like a serpent lies,
A turquoise snake that mocks the paler skies,
And in the green deeps of the scrub the
vines
Choke the frail sweetness from the eglan-
tines,
And stealthy foes stir whei’e the grasses lean,
And there is danger—‘where feet have not
been.
Step warily, O New Year, as you come!
For men are bitter and their thoughts are
dark.
The poison finds the cup, the knife its mark.
Your feet are naked and your head is bare.
You came by stai’s, and dew, and leagues of
air;
Your barque, the young moon, has smooth
decks of gold,
And only dreams make ballast for her hold.
You come not armed, O Year, with rosy feet,
And eyes so blue, so wide, so innocent.
Did you note how the wounded Old Year
went.
Blood in his footmarks, sorrow on his lips,
While shattered faiths dripped from his
finger-tips?
Step warily, O New Year, as you come,
Lest, like the Old Year, you go broken home!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


THE BACHELOR’S EXCUSE.
[For The Bulletin.]
Fain would I marry, and if you should ask
Why I don't do so you set me a task.
Fain would I marry, and, faith, I do not,
Because in my folly I love the whole lot.
I love Kate, I love Jane, I love Cissie and
Lily,
And Mary and Margaret and Carrie and
Milly;
I love Meg, I love Peg, I love Betty and
Dolly,
And Susan and Cicely and Letty and Molly.
I love barladies, charladies, milkmaids and
housemaids,
And bold maids and cold maids and meek-
as-a-mouse maids,
And girls in the offices, girls in the bakers’,
And girls in the porkshops and umbrella-
makers’.
And ladies in high life and ladies in low life,
And innocent angels and angels who know
life;
I love the great duchesses, queens and prin-
cesses,
And gangstresses, tartlets and larrikinesses,
And ladies in theatres, sweet little creatures,
And nurses and schoolgirls and even the
teachers;
And that is why I’d marry and yet I do not;
I love ’em, I love ’em,. I love the whole lot!
AtAOKILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * ' * *
“G.M.” (Lond.) : The quaintest touch in the
Lud Mayor’s Show was the decorated Aus-
tralian lorry with a “bushman” arrayed in
a scarlet shirt and a sombrero. Large red
lettering round the lorry told London what
Australia was renowned for, to wit: “Kings-
ford Smith, sultanas, Bradman, currants,
Lindrum, raisins.” Billy Hughes and
bananas received no mention whatever.
ijs * * i|:
“Oi Diba”: The Papuan drama is feeling
the urge of modernity. Your Papuan, taken
by and large, is an actor of parts and a
dramatist of ability, even if some of his
productions have a slight Restoration flavor.
A command performance given before Hubert
Murray was set in modern surroundings. An
old woman is murdered, and the matter is
reported to the Resident Magistrate. That
individual, impersonated by a chocolate-
colored leading man, appeared with a white
cardboard mask on his face, and otherwise
attired in a shocking travesty of European
clothes. Seated at a table the R.M. called on
everyone to “Shut up!” evidently the Papuan
equivalent of our “Silence in the court!” After
making much play with two half-cocoanut
shells connected by string which represented
a property telephone, his Worship gave the
offenders six months and closed the court by
an impromptu war dance on the bench.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A woman who appeared as
petitioner in the N.S.W. Divorce Court the
other day admitted that she had never
seen her husband until the day they were
married. He had seen her name in the
paper report of some social activity, and
had written from where he was working in
the country to say he liked the sound of it.
The correspondence that followed w'armed up
to such an extent that when the man
decided to take a holiday to the city their
marriage had been definitely arranged, and
it duly took place an hour after his arrival.
MAKING AN EARLY START .
JOYCE: “Mummie, see what Billie’s done to my doll!”
MUMMIE: “How ever did the naughty boy do that to my little treasure?
MUMMIE'S LITTLE TREASURE: “He did it with his head, Mummie dear, when I just hit
him with it.”
“Camelero” • Touching impersonations in
military tests’ (B 3/12/’3O). At Holds-
worthy (N S W.) camp in 1914 riding trials
for Light Horse regiments were in progress,
all recruits being in plain clothes. One man
who had been in the Remount Depot found
liis services in brisk demand by candidates who
were uncertain of their own abilities, and
by changing coats and hats he managed to
impersonate seven recruits at a pound a
time. On the seventh occasion an old nark
of a’ sergeant-major found something fami-
liar in the man’s face, and taxed him with
having been up before. The s.-m. didn’t sus-
pect the real truth ; he merely thought that
the impersonator had been disqualified and was
sneaking another attempt. But the Colonel
was a sport and said, “Oh, well, give him
another go.” He passed, of course, but lie
got no more clients. The sequel w T as even
more curious. Promotion to non-commis-
sioned rank took place, and the man w 7 ho
bad pulled other candidates through was
himself disqualified for not being up to the
standard of horsemanship required of an
n.c.o. Meanwhile two of the recruits whom
he had impersonated were promoted. One
was killed on Gallipoli; the other rose to
the rank of colonel.
“Templar”: Dicey, the eminent
Oxford don who w r rote with more
authority on the British Consti-
tution than any other professor
in the last generation, and
Charles Bradlaugh, the atheist
who stirred up so much trouble
in the House of Comnions and
the courts in the early ’eighties,
were both dragged up repeatedly
by counsel in the Full Court case
which saw the first stage of
Lang’s fight to abolish the N.S.W.
Leg. Council. Even as a law 7
student I found Dicey more read-
able than most constitutional
authorities; certainly he dealt
with the Bradlaugh case more
readably. There was one unfor-
gettable passage about Bradlaugh
in the first edition of “The Eng-
lish Constitution.” “He has
cleared up a lot of misconceptions
about the law relating to blas-
phemy,” wrote the Oxford pro-
fessor ; “he has elucidated the
laws of maintenance and cham-
perty. Should he live and flour-
ish —or, perhaps one should
rather say, should he live and not
flourish —there is no telling what
further services he may not
render to English law 7.” The last
delightful sentence was excised
from later editions, possibly being
regarded as a trifle too flippant
for a textbook. Meanwhile
Charles Bradlaugh, who had re-
fused to take the Parliamentary
oath because it was meaningless
gabble to him, lived and flour-
ished and earned public esteem
and regard in such liberal mea-
sure that, when he lay mortally
sick in 1891, prayers for his re-
covery went up from scores of
Christian churches.
“C.Q.” : After the recent phenomenal rams
Melbourne citizens were able to enjoy the
dream which helped to get Kent Hughes the
Kew seat in Barliament in more lavish and
care-free days. One of Kent Hughes's planks
was a dam across the Yarra, which would
provide an ornamental lake stretching from
somewhere below Ivanhoe to above Heidel-
berg. He doesn’t care to be reminded of
the matter now.
* * * *
“Delicious Trimmings”: The recent visit
of the Malolo tourists to Sydney recalls that
ever since Mark Twain took ship in the
Quaker City for Europe and the Holy Land,
over 60 years ago, many attempts have been
made to engineer similar tours, but without
much success until Prohibition descended
upon the land of the wooden nutmeg. Since
then the difficulty has been to stem the rush
of applicants for berths, and that in spite
of the tremendous transatlantic traffic aris-
ing out of the same causes, a traffic of
such extent that the American authorities
have been forced to abolish Prohibition on
their own liners, since they sailed
empty away, while the Cunard and White
Star ships were loaded to the deck beams
every voyage. There is a story of a Liver-
pool man who complimented a couple of
American acquaintances on taking such trips
to satisfy their thirst for experience. Quoth
one Yankee, fixing the Dicky Sam with his
horn-rimmed glasses: “Say, did we ever
say a word about experience?’
*** ■ *
“Feng-Shui” : The spirit of martyrdom is
by no means dead in this materialistic world,
Some time ago foreign Governments in China
advised all missionaries to return to the
foreign pale, intimating that they washed
their hands of all responsibility for anything
that might happen to them outside of it.
Despite the warning, missionaries still set
out for distant Ivansa and Szechuan, and
the startling fact has just been revealed
that no fewer than .24. are at present in bandit
hands. Their condition and prospects can
be guessed at by the case of the two girls
who were made to witness the execution of
their captured converts before their own
heads were struck off. The old type of
European martyr was usually a person with
a vain urge for publicity. There are no
advantages about being martyred in China,
however. It is usually an obscure and muddy
business, and there is so much of it that the
treaty-port newspapers hardly give indi-
vidual cases a line.
GIRLS SHOULD BE SO CAREFUL.
FLORA: “Darling, I don’t think you should smoke.”
DORA: “Why? Cigarettes won’t hurt me!”
FLORA: “Maybe; but you set your mother such a bad example.”
“Sixenate”: Occasionally some_ conscien-
tious public man seeks to. familiarise himself
with modern gaol conditions by trying the
food, inspecting all that is to be in-
spected, and even spending a night in a cell,
as the South Aus. Chief Sec. has done. Glow-
ing remarks that follow the tributes paid to
the comfort of everything could Very well be
omitted, seeing that everyone, knows that
harshness or unnecessary hardship of any kind
have long been deleted from our prison sys-
tems. Even solitary confinement, except as
a punishment for gaol offences, has vanished
in N. S. Wales, as also has the distasteful
“hominy,” once a feature of prison fare. Cer-
tainly the prisoner isn’t given sugar with
his porridge until by good conduct he has
earned it as a “luxury” ; but 50 per cent, of
the people who go to gaol get better food
and cleaner lodging than they would have
outside. The brutal-looking warders of fic-
tion have almost entirely disappeared; the
men out at Long Bay, for instance, look
very much like schoolmasters —which is, in
effect, what they are. Even the dreary mon-
otony of the discipline is salted by prison con-
certs, cinema shows and books from the library.
“Morita”: My first impression in
France of the lumbering tanks (B.
17/12/’3O) was that they would
prove certain death-traps for their
crews wherever Fritz fluked a direct
hit with h.-e., and this w 7 as soon
confirmed. After the enemy had re-
covered from his first shock and sent
back for miniature naval guns to
hurl tiny armor-piercing shells from
concrete turrets level w 7 ith the ground
(we found one in Glencorse Wood)
the risks of the crew increased ten-
fold. I still shudder at the mem-
ories of peering into a wrecked tank
in front of Flers. With the explo-
sion of the petrol all the machine-
gun cartridges and shells had gone
off; the piles of exploded ammuni-
tion and the steel walls bore mute
evidence of the inferno that had
raged for a few seconds before the
tank became a tomb for the charred
and blackened bodies of the crew,
totally unrecognisable and without
any semblance of uniform, grouped
around their guns. Only one of them
had any chance of escape through
the side door that must have been
open at the time. He was half-way
out before the holocaust ended his bid for
freedom.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: Ex-Premier Bavin has started
his Young Nationalists .in a hampering
atmosphere of derision. A similar move-
ment was begun by Sydney Liberals in
1913. Some of those who are now National-
ists got it up with the object of opposing
nationalist policies such as citizen service
and the K.A.N. On the principle that any
aspiration of a national nature was anti-
imperialist they would certainly have
objected to'the appointment of a native-born
Governor-General. as Nationalists like
Latham and Gullett have objected in Mel-
bourne. Everyone, Laborites included, took,
the Young Liberals seriously as Empire
-patriots, and for that , reason put up w 7 ith
their somewhat fulsome lectures on the whole
duty of an Australian loyalist—until the war
began. It then transpired, to the stunned
amazement of those who had listened to
the Young Liberals’ speeches, that many. of.
them didn’t mean to go to the war. “They
also serve,” Young Liberals pointed out,
“who only stand and wait” in home-service
jobs. The so-called disloyalists (workers
Labor voters, etc.) proceeded to enlist, and
they listened civilly enough to the protesta-
tions of the stay-at-homes on the subject
of their incurable ailments and _ the like.
However, something died (i.e., belief m the
sincerity of party politicians who try to
appropriate King and Empire tor their
parties), and it hasn’t come to life
The Imperialists can get aw T ay with iy<A>
clubs and Young Imperialist movements m
England because, to do them bare justice,
British jingoes, young and middle-aged, of
15 years ago were the first to rush into the
firing-line. They always have been, and all
classes know it.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: “C.” takes me to task (B.
17/12/’3O) for saying that “wild white man”
Buckley could never give a coherent account
of his life with the Port Phillip blacks. Well,
did he—either in the “Life and Adventures,”
published in Hobart in ’52, or in the story
he told Surveyor Wedge? I have read them
both and failed to find anything that answers
to that description. The late James Bon-
wick, in his “Port Phillip Settlement,”
expressed much the same opinion.
■•it * * %
“X.S.” : Fifteen hams were stolen from a
shop in Melbourne recently. The theft was
well planned and painstakingly carried out,
but when the shopkeeper learned his loss
his concern was not obvious. They were
only sacks stuffed with sawdust and hung in
the window for advertisement.
* # $ . $
“Brick Court”: If perjury in the witness-
box is on the increase (B. 3/12/’3O) it would
be more logical to look for the cause in the
Law’s own failure, more often than not, to
treat it as a crime rather than in the lessen-
ing sanctity of the oath. A man may per-
jure himself in the Divorce Court without
the slightest apprehension of untoward con-
sequences ; in certain circumstances it is
practically expected of him. And he may
perjure himself in the attempt to save an-
other’s neck, secure in the knowledge that no
prosecution will follow. If it were other-
wise, the witnesses in the Buckley murder
case who swore that Buckley was a sick
man in bed at the time when, according to
the jury’s finding, he was shooting a bank
manager, would have been indicted for per-
jury. But they were relatives, and although
the jury obviously didn’t believe them, it is
probable that public opinion vrouldn’t criti-
cise them over-harshly. The knowledge that
any law 7 is only enforced arbitrarily and dis-
criminatingly encourages people to break it.
* * * %
“Old Hand”: The appointment of Isaacs,
C.J., as Governor-General has come just in
time to save imported Governors from being
reduced to absurdity. Until the war, or
thereabouts, there w T as a certain justification
for setting up an imitation court in each of
the capitals. All had small, homogeneous
societies w T hose members knew one another
intimately; and many families, such as the
Stephens, Maddens and Osbornes, had pro-
minent representatives in most of the States.
The Governors, and particularly the Federal
ones, got to know all these people well,
through skilled diplomatists of the Lord
Richard Nevill type ; and vice-regal dinners
and unofficial dances were as free from em-
barrassing situations as family gatherings.
Since the war enormous numbers of societies
based on recently-acquired wealth have grown
up in all the States, and particularly in N. S.
Wales and Victoria. Governors have been sent
out here with express injunctions to be demo-
cratic, to avoid , class distinctions like the
devil, and in general to make the Crown
appear a jolly good fellow. As a result
invitations to Government House are now
available to all who have not been conspicu-
ously in gaol, and are literate enough to be
able to write their names in his Ex.’s book.
Some of the contretemps of recent years have
been awful —typists being sent in to dinner
with gentlemen w 7 ho have w 7 ritted them on
account of bills for unpaid undies, and worse.
Under Isaacs, w 7 e may be sure, the costly
party-giving foolery of the past w T ill be cut
out, and the Government House “set” made
purely official. Which w 7 ill give a line to
the States, and be the means of saving them
a lot of money.


“OFF!”


p
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE
UNSWEETENED.
In all parts of the world
“Montserrat” finds its
place. It is Nature’s great
drink —cooling, invigor-
ating and health-giving.
Bottled by Schweppes Limited.
Obtainable all Grocers.
S/>e
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
¥
-
m
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged ease provided free with
every razor.
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths —fin. and fin.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
I m ■ mmmm
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
Fits any blade razor f, f, \ inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some January birthdays;—
Prof. Gilbert Murray, of Oxford, 65, on 2nd;
Colonel T. E. V. Hurley, M.D., 43, on 3rd;
R. H. Croll (Vic. Education Dept.), 62, on 4th;
Bishop Newton (New Guinea), 65, and S. Aus. ex-
Agent-Gen. Fred Young, 55, on sth; pastoralist
Edmund Jowett (Melb.), 73, Rev. William Robertson
(Hay), 72, and Arthur Searcy (Adel.), 79, on 6th;
pastoralist-knight Graham Waddell, 54, and Dr.
George Davidson, of Adel. (ex-Moderator of Presby-
terian Church of Aus.), 76, on 7th; artist Sydney
Ure Smith, 44, on 9th; Bishop Batty (Newcastle),
52, on 10th; Q. ex-Speaker Wm. Bertram, 56, on
11th; Prof. Walter Howchin (Adel.), 86, on 12th;
Archbishop Spence (Adel.), 71, and Prof. Orme
Masson (Melb.), 73, on 13th; Senator Geo. Pearce,
61, and S.A. pastoralist E. W. Hawker, 81, on 14th;
Prof. Radcliffe Brown (Syd.), 50, on 17th; merchant-
knight Clifton Love, 63, on 18th; platypus-naturalist
Hany Burrell, 58, on 19th; J. M. Niall, (Golds-
brough, Mort and Co.), 71, shipping-knight Owen
Cox (formerly of Sydney), 65, and plant-pathologist
Daniel McAlpine (Vic.), 82, on 21st; Colonel J. M.
Arnott, 62, on 22nd; Brig.-Gen. T. A. Blarney,
(Vic. Commissioner of Police), 47, pastoralist R. H.
Dangav (Turee), 63, Q. Agent-Gen. Macartney, 68,
and Ethel Turner, on 24th; Q. former-Premier Deu-
ham, 72, and Capt. Chas. H. Peters, M.C. with
bar (Robertson and Mullens, Melb.), 42, on 25th;
Justice Kenneth Street (N.S.W.), 41, and historian
A. Grenfell Price (Adel.), 39, on 28th; Bishop
Norton (Bathurst), 40, pastoralist Arthur B. Triggs,
of Yass, 63, and Eric L. Frazer (Vic. Parliamentary
Library), 39, on 30th; ex-Gov.-Gen. Forster, 65,
A. S. le Souef (Director of Taronga Park), 54, and
Guy Innes (Melb. “Herald,” London), 49, on 31st.
McTiernan will be the only bachelor on
the High Court Bench. Of his brothers,
Duffy and Starke are more or less connected
by marriage ; Starke married a daughter of
John Gavan Duffy, Justice Frank’s brother.
W. L. Stuart, Master of the Supreme
Court of S. Aus., played with red tape and
sealing-wax in his cradle: his father, J. M.
Stuart, K.C., was Crown Solicitor of his
State for many years. His father-in-law
was in the law, too: his wife was Mollie
Kingston, a niece of the great Charles C.,
and therefore a grand-daughter of the fine
old Irish gentleman who helped Colonel Light
W. L. STUART, master of the Supreme
Court of South Australia.
survey the city of Adelaide and was after-
wards Speaker of the S.A. Assembly for
nearly 20 years. In his younger days W. L.
Stuart made a hobby of soldiering, but when
the Great War started he was turned down.
Still he did good home service, and was com-
mandant of the big Mitcham camp for a
couple of busy years.
Lord Willingdon, India’s new Viceroy and
Canada’s late Governor-General, is Aus-
tralia’s old friend Freeman Thomas, who
married Lord Brassey’s daughter, and was
an aide at Government House for a year or
two when dad-in-law governed Vic. in the
’nineties. After that he rose to junior Min-
isterial rank in the House of Commons and
figure-headed in Bombay and Madras before
the big billet in Canada went to him. Wil-
lingdon (then plain F. Thomas) was a mighty
cricketer in his youth ; he captained first Eton
finally Cambridge, playing four years
against Oxford. On the opposite side for
three of those years was Australia’s last
G.-G. but one. Lord Forster.
Archer J. Berry, of the Customs Depart-
ment, who died recently in Melbourne, was
the last surviving son of Graham Berry,
three times Premier of Victoria between 1875
and 1881. Archer Berry was a Boer War
veteran.
“Old-Timer”; Reginald Long-Innes, the
only dissenting Judge in the N.S.W. Fuil
Court finding on the Leg. Council case, comes
of a large and
notable legal
family. His father
was one of the
ablest men on the
Bench in the ’nine-
ties, and his mother
(born a Jago-
Smith, of Bath-
urst) led the little
social world of the
period from
“Swift s,” the
family’s huge place
on Darling Point.
His brother George
was Parliamentary
draughtsman, and
died during the in-
fluenza epidemic.
Another brother,
Percy, served in
the Guards, and
was afterwards sec-
retary of the
Bachelors’ Club in
London. An only
sister settled in
England. The
Judge and his off-
spring are thus the
only, representa-
tives in Australia
of a family that
has been prominent
in the history of
N. S. Wales for
Sights of Sydney-
The city’s most pic-
turesque moneylender.
over a century. He
was educated at Malvern and Oxford, and
has been a member of the Union Club for
27 years.
Algernon Canning, of the Federal Income
Tax Appeal Board, who died last week at
Manly, . at 62, came of a family weii-
known in Westralia 40 years ago. As a
youth he went to England, graduated at
Wedham College, Oxford, and was called to
the Bar; returning to his native land he
found plenty of work awaiting him on the
goldfields in the roaring days. Afterwards he
was in partnership with that successful
pleader the late “Dicky” Haynes, and before
tiie Federal billet came his way he was a
Perth local-court magistrate. Canning sat on
several Government commissions, including
the one that struggled with the problem of
whether Walsh and Johanson could be
legally deported.
S. Aus. has lost, not exactly its oldest
inhabitant,. but certainlv its senior settlor.
Paul Martin was contemporary with Adel-
aide, and came to it from Cornwall in 1838,
when each of them was aged a year and a
half. Latterly he had responded for the
Pioneers at Glenelg’s December 28 celebra-
tions. In a quiet but successful life, his two
chief memories were living in a bark hut
on the Torrens bank where the Zoo now is,
and parading in the guard-of-honor at the
Duke of Edinburgh’s visit in 1867-68.
John Monash gets leave on full pay from
the Vie. Government while acting as Com-
monwealth envoy at the Delhi celebrations.
This is his first holiday since he took over
the job of head man of Vic. Electricity Com-
mission. The Hogans would have liked to
avoid the necessity of pruning Monash’s
salary under the retrenchment scheme be-
cause he is a contract officer, and they
leadily granted him leave when he applied.
The nearest approach to Tammas Carlyle
the Shivery Isles ever harbored w r as a wiry
little stonemason from Paisley named John
Barr, who passed out the other day after
putting up a score of 63. He migrated to
Canada early in life, went to M.L. in 1902,
and became a power in Labor circles through
sheer force of logic. Seddon, who didn’t
like logical Scots with radical notions roam-
ing around loose, hoisted him into the Leg.
Council early in 1907. Barr, among other
things, was secretary of the Cooks and
Stewards’ Union, chairman of the Christ-
church Tramway Board, chairman of com-
mittees of the Uppish House, Mayor of the
little seaside suburb of Sumner, and member
of many other public bodies. He never lost
his Paisley accent, and in two minutes he
could squash’ arguments that had taken two
hours to elaborate.
Fred Broomfield, doyen of Sydney littera-
teurs, was a book-keeper and accountant in
his young days, and it was to join the busi-
ness which Octavius C. Beale had lately
established that he came to Sydney. Broom-
field was more closely associated with elder-
brother _ Francis Beale —“a tempestuous
young Irishman, ready to quarrel with you
20 times a day, yet the most lovable man I
ever, met.” Like Octavius, who even then
specialised in translations, Francis had a fine
taste for good writing and made a collection
of old Australian and Tasmanian MSS.;
one of the treasures he passed on to Broom-
field was a poem written by a Tasmanian
West Coast convict in blood—in those black
days a pretty common way of raising a few
bob to buy tobacco.
, There is plenty of University learning on
tne High Court Bench. Frank Duffy, Owen
Dixon and Dr. Evatt graduated M.A.; Evatt
is an LL.D.; Duffy, Dixon and McTiernan
are LL.B.’s; Dixon and McTiernan B.A.’s.
The Federal Arbitration Bench has an LL.M.
in Dethridge.
Hitchcock, a Geelong magnate, is unlikely
to offer himself for re-election to Vic. Uppish
House —he represents the S.-W. Province—in
June owing to his indifferent health. Sixteen
other members will retire on the completion
of their six years’ term. President Frank
Clarke, Health Minister Beckett, Chairman
of Committees Edgar and half a dozen ex-
Ministers are in the bunch.
If Alec Peacock hadn’t a rare capacity
for making new friends he might well feel
lonely at Vic. Parliament House. The 142
members who were in both Houses when he
was first elected, nearly 41 years ago, have
all gone, and the only links with last cen-
tury are Prendergast and Toutcher.
Samuel Aaron Goldstein, who has shep-
herded the Hebrew congregation in Auck-
land (M.L.) for 50 years, has been having
many, bouquets handed him. Born in Eng-
land in 1853, he was educated at Jews’ Col-
lege, London, and taught the Hebrew young
idea at Middlesborough and West Hartle-
pool schools. Landing in Australia in the
’seventies, he taught at Toowoomba (Q.)
and in West Maitland before hopping over
to M.L. in 1880. The rare distinction
“Morenu” (teacher) was conferred on him
a year or so ago by Dr. Hertz, Chief Rabbi
of the British Empire.
“2nd Divvy”: Duncan Allan, who died
at Auburn (Sydney), and was buried at
Lawson last week, was one of those rare
Imperialists who live right up to their
creed. He loved the Empire nearly as much
as he did Scotland, and would readily have
died for either. He enlisted at 64, saw ser-
vice on the Peninsula, participated in the
Moascar march, and was wmunded three
times in France. He put in as much time as
possible looking after a favorite grandson,
who won a Military Medal and was killed m
the same week. It is ironical that the
Empire, which decorates impostors wholesale,
should not have honored this old hero. The
nearest he got to distinction, outside the
hearts of his friends, was an interview with
the Prince when H.R.H. was out here. The
Trince, having heard of his record, made a
special point of meeting him.
P. J. O’Regan is one of the most pictur-
esque personalities in Maoriland. Son of
a farmer, he became a journalist, and edited
newspapers in Westland and in the North
Island. He had a term in Parliament as
member for Inangahua, and after his defeat
in 1899 commenced the study of law. He
is to-day the foremost authority on the in-
dustrial laws of the Shivery Isles, and num-
P. J. O’REGAN y lawyer and land-law
reformer, of Wellington ( M.L. ).
bers almost every union among his clients.
O’Regan holds very radical opinions, and has
spoken and written extensively in favor of
the single tax and proportional representa-
tion. A man of great stature, with one of
the biggest heads in the Dominion, his pet
abomination is E. G. Wakefield’s theory of
colonisation, a subject on which his eloquence
reaches its zenith.
This is Alfred Galbraith’s 22nd year as
general secretary of the Vic. Railways Insti-
tute. He has seen the membership grow
from 3000 to 10,000. .The chairman of the
State Forestry Commission is a brother.
The connection with public affairs of Dr.
Harris, unofficial leader of Vic. Upper
House, goes back nearly 40 years. He was
a delegate from Rutherglen to the histone
Corowa conference at which John Quick
unfolded his plan for a Federal Convention
to draft the Federal Constitution. That
was in 1893.
E. A. McTIERNAN, formerly Attorney-
General of N. S. Wales, the newest
recruit to the High Court Bench.
Australia’s actual oldest inhabitant, if
there is any virtue in the printed word, is
Mrs. Kathleen McGinley, of East Maitland,
who had her 111th birth anniversary oh
Christmas Eve. She came to Australia with
her husband 71 years ago and the pair
settled in the Morpeth district.
“Flagwagger”: There is an old battalion
comrade of mine who must have been in
khaki longer than any other Digger. J.
Bowtell-Harris was a signaller in the orb
ginal 7th Battalion. He served in Gallipoli
and France, where he received his commis-
sion, and towards the close of the w 7 ar trans-
ferred to the Indian Army. He is now a cap-
tain of the 32nd Punjab Regiment, and has
had some exciting times on the troublesome
North-west Frontier. Captain Bowtell-
Harris recently returned to Melbourne on
leave, his first real holiday in 16 years.
Mail movements concern men as well as
letters. Fisher, superintendent in Adelaide
G.P.0., moves on to Brisbane. Tyler goes
to Adelaide from Perth, where he .has had
20 years’ experience, broken only by war
service, during which he earned an O.B,1!j.
for bossing a staff of 750 at the Australian
postal base in London.
William Dempster, accountant of Vic.
Lands Department, succeeds the late Wil-
liam Melver as Secretary for Lands, Chair-
man of the Closer Settlement Board and
Director of Settlement. Dempster is the
third accountant in the last 30 years to make
the grade; the other two were Skene and
Melver. He has been nearly 40 years in
the service.
“Rue Royale”: Marcel Cachin, the French
journalist who reported the recent_ sedition
trials in Moscow, is France’s leading Red.
He is a small, white-faced, beady-eyed, dark-
haired man of 50, with a large walrus mous-
tache, and as editor of “L’Humamte
knows all about sedition proceedings. He has
been in the Sante prison half a dozen times
himself for insulting the army and navy,
the services being as unpopular amongst the
Communists of France as the police are
amongst our Reds. Cachin has been called
“the Maxton of the Palais Bourbon. How-
ever, he is far more violent in every way than
Britain’s only Communist M.P., and an in-
comparably better speaker.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Public Stocks as Currency
Dear Bulletin,- —There is room for some
detailed thinking in the proposition that the
banks should turn a lot of their Government
securities bearing interest at 5-f p.c. or over
into £5 or £lO bonds—-turn them into small
change, in fact—and use them, where neces-
sary, to pay their creditors, each bond being-
legal tender at its face value. The common
or garden note issued by the Commonwealth
is nominally payable in gold at once, on
demand ; but the statement is a lie, for no
one can get the gold on demand or on any-
thing else. The note has no value outside
the Commonwealth except in the sense that
speculative people may buy small quantities
at a big discount. If the importation of
Australian notes into Australia is made a
crime, like tin* importation of Russian paper
money into Russia, then even this speculative
value will disappear. But the £5 or £lO or
any-other-price bond would be payable at a
bxed date, according to the date of the
original loan of which it formed a part. It
would be payable in some darned thing or
other just as was the case with the original
loan. It would be backed by a paper sinking
fund, as is the case with the loan, and it
would bear interest just as the whole bond
did before it was split up to serve as cur-
rency. The interest would make it more
popular than the common or unprofitable note,
which, of course, would still be legal tender
and would circulate, though principally in a
10s. and £1 capacity. On or after dividend
day the holder of a legal-tender bond could
drop in at the Treasury, a large building like
a circus tent, and a clerk would give him
liis few coppers and dab a stamp on the back
of the note to prevent double-banking.
( The banks have, perhaps, £20,000,000 of
Government securities of the kind which
could be turned into ready money, not by
selling them at a loss but by making them
legal tender at face value. The quantity
available in other institutions is pretty
large. In fact, there is more than enough
to meet any reasonable local demand (the
demand oversea is a different thing), but
not enough to start the orgy, which the
worst inflationists aim at. Their idea is that
the Government should pay everybody to
whom it owes anything, so far as internal
liabilities are concerned, with new paper
money, backed by no gold reserve, supported
by no sinking fund, bearing no interest, and
redeemable at no date in Time or Eternity.
The idea of making use of what, already
exists instead of starting an unlimited burst
with something new wouldn't appeal to the
worst type of inflationists as not being
genuine inflation, but only o pale base imita-
tion of the article, —Yours etc., Sol Mala-
FROp.
The Farmer and His Market
Dear Bulletin, —To-day it is apparent
we are depending on primary producers—
many of whom are broke —to pull Australia
out of the financial morass.
Disregarding the fictitious prosperity that
borrowed funds gave us, our true wealth has
come from primary industries —wool, wheat,
coal, gold, timber, etc. —all of which are lan-
guishing to-day because of excessive over-
head costs.
The wheatgrower has been sacrificed in
the interests of secondary industries. Every-
thing he requires is produced under Austra-
lian conditions; every service rendered to
him. Government or private, is based on Aus-
tralian conditions. The Australian artisan,
civil servant or middleman obtains his quota
of wheat at world’s parity; it therefore
makes no difference to the wheatgrower
whether his wheat is consumed in Australia
or abroad. The Australian consumer actu-
ally gets his wheat at a cheaper rate than
the consumer abroad (over £2 per ton
cheaper).
Railways to-day take one-third the value
of oats, one-fifth the value of wheat, one-fifth
the value of tallow, 100 per cent, of the value
of low-grade wool and sheepskin pelts—and
are still accumulating huge deficits !
Wheat to-day is worth at country sidings
£3 14s. per ton. Flour is selling at £8 10s.
per ton. If the farmers gave the mills the
wheat, apparently flour would be selling at
£4 16s. per ton. We are in the anomalous
position of having the cheapest food and
clothing (wool and hides) in the raw. or
unmanufactured state, and yet we cannot
compete in the world’s markets with manu-
factured goods, due largely to experimental
legislation, price-fixing asses and an over-
staffed, overpaid and under-worked civil ser-
vice.
The position in the country is far more
serious than the city or town dweller real-
ises, and it is impossible for the farmer to
continue to carry “loaded” secondary indus-
tries, over-paid, over-staffed Government ser-
vices and innumerable other parasites on his
back. —Yours etc., Seawu.
Bakers and the Price of Wheat
Dear Bulletin, —Who does make any
money out of wheat? As a farmer I
know I don’t. I have had to give up
smoking because a bushel. (601 b.) of wheat
won’t buy a 2oz. tin of tobacco. Cleary says
tbe railways make nothing out of the wheat
traffic, the miller declares there’s only “just
a livin’” and the baker froths over at men-
tion of a flour sales tax without a rise of
lid. per 21b. loaf.
I have tried to apportion the blame as
follows: 48 bushels of wheat niake 20001 b,
flour and 8801 b. offal; a 1501 b. sack of flour
makes 103 21b. loaves: therefore one ton
flour (200,01 b.) equals 1373 loaves. The pre-
sent cost of 48 bushels of wheat at the
mills, Sydney, at 2s. 6d. per bushel (to me at
country station Is. 10d., or £4 Bs.) is £6;
association price of flour is £8 ; 44 bushels of
offal at 101 d. comes to £1 18s. 6d. So the
miller’s £6 expenditure becomes £9 18s. 6d.
Now, 1373 loaves at average of 4|d. (cash
and carry and credit) comes to £27 3s. sd.
Thus the operation of baking causes a rise of
340 per cent, on the price of flour. So out
of the 21b. loaf the cocky gets two-thirds of a
penny: transport id., the miller fd. and the
baker 3Jd.
In the interests of the growers it seems to
me that the distributing end should be re-
organised by reducing the number of retailers
and using the ‘‘block'' system of delivery.
Why should we cockies carry the load of
inefficiency and overhead exes.? With re-
organisation, in a time like this we could get
tld. per bushel extra for our wheat without
adding a sou to the loaf of John Citizen. —
Yours, Valerin.
Let John Monash Do It
Dear Bulletin, —There is only one man
who can save Australia, and that is John
Monash. Let the remnants of the Old Bri-
gade rally round him and give him a council
of financial experts. Put Australia under
semi-military rule. Form concentration
camps for the starving women and children.
Have military pickets; send unemployed out
to work for farmers on the land to grow
food for the women and children. Put Com-
munists on some old tramps and ship to the
Antarctic with tools, six months’ food
supply and each man a gun, and let them
put into practice their political theories—
with full power to uso the guns.
General Monash is one of the greatest,
organisers the world has ever Seen, and with
the advice of financiers, backed up by drum-
head court-martials, he would save Aus-
tralia within three years.—Yours, Old
Digger.
Australian Petrol Possibilities
Dear Bulletin, —Australia could produce
a marketable motor spirit, and also motor oil,
if the right people could bo interested in the
production. Scotch shale, yielding oil at the
rate of 40 gallons per ton, pays, and ours is
reckoned to produce up to 120. The essential
thing is to get the right people interested-
and who are the right people hut the four
big oil cos. (Shell, Atlantic Union, Texas
and Vacuum) at present operating here?
They have the capital, the knowledge and
the distributing facilities, and only require
to be put to the job.
My suggestion for getting them to the job
:s this. Pass a bill prohibiting the importa-
tion of petrol or crudes as from a certain
date, to be fixed, say, six or twelve months
ahead ; or, if that is beyond possibility, en-
titling them to import, say, two gallons for
every gallon of Australian oil sold through
their agency. These companies have too
many millions tied up in bulk terminals and
distributing depots to allow the business to
.slide, and would therefore be forced to
exploit to their fullest extent whatever possi-
bilities are offering. While they are allowed
to import they will never tackle local pro-
duction. —-Yours etc., D. N.
The Douglas Plan
Dear Bulletin, —li'ere is my answer to
your question (17/12/’3O) “What can we
do to be saved?”
Take in one another’s washing ~ (quite
feasible when the washing is our only neces-
sity of life) by making ourselves self-con-
tained. We have the surplus labor and the
materials for plant, and we either have or
can easily hire the necessary brains for its
Direction. The only other requirement is
the wherewithal to keep the labor until
it gets well into production. We are doing
this now with wages tax, etc., and getting
in return sand shifted from one place to
another! The best way would be by dilu-
tion of purchasing power by an inflation of
banks’ credit to industry (no — not note
issue!), as we wouldn’t feel that so much
as direct taxation. Then start the unem-
ployed and the present “parasites” (work or
starve —they would soon come to it) and get
into it. By the application of the Douglas
social-credit principle we could probably price
the production at, say, 75 per cent, of cost,
making up the balance in the approved
Douglas method, without danger of internal
inflation. There should also be a surplus of
labor, etc., for the continuation of develop-
mental and other capital works.
Now that disposes of our unemployed and
all our requirements that we can possibly
produce, and leaves our exports for paying
our debts and exchanging for those few
things we cannot produce ourselves. Owing
to the present high value of money com-
pared with produce, we shgJJ probably have
to tell our creditors that they will have to
give us time to dig up more gold to repay
the principal (or a better price for our wool,
wheat, etc.), but that we will continue our
annual interest payments in goods, and if
they won’t take ours at world parity but
prefer Russian wheat, etc., I don’t sec how
we can avoid default. Appoint a Market-
ing Committee (good business brains from
the community) who would buy up the
amount of produce required for export at the
cost price, selling it to our creditors at
world parity.
The apparent loss on the transactions
would be absorbed and spread over the com-
munity in the fixing of the percentage of
cost price at which our production is sold
here. The committee could also purchase
our necessary imports, and supply them to
the distributors, valuing them in terms of
our currency as distinct from world price.—
Yours etc., R. W. Wilson.
What the Loan Council Might Do
Dear Bulletin, —“What can we do to be
saved?” Let me answer, “Pump, you blight-
ers, pump!” Rightly or wrongly, Guernsey
did get its markets, “free and the people’s
own.” What has been done once can be
done again ; let’s give it a go.
Inflation may be sudden death. I don’t
agree with the proofs so often quoted,
namely, Germany, Russia, etc. Those coun-
tries were industrially crippled, their people
starved and exhausted. Our industries need
but a little oil, a turn of the starting-handle.
There is plenty of food and our people eager
for work. Deflation has proved to be slow
strangulation.
Perhaps we have been criminally wasteful
in the past; but the lesson of waste has been
learned by those wffio think. Now give us
a chance to eliminate the. other main cause,
the currency.
Gold still seems to be the fetich and the
gold-backed note , issue an essential for a
really respectable country. Well, keep it as
it is if it inspires confidence. And now I
roach my point. Confidence. The people of
this country very recently expressed confi-
dence to the extent of nearly £30,000,000.
Confidence in the future of the country and
confidence in the Loan Council. Led by Mr.
Lyons, it is trusted.
Many authorities (including The Bulle-
tin ), some guardedly, some quite openly,
agree that deflation has gone far enough or
that a 'little inflation would do no harm.
All, however, agree that they fear the lack
of control, owing to the influence of political
expediency. We can’t take the reins alto-
gether out of the politicians’ hands, but we
can use the unique combination of the best
brains among them, the Loan Council, to
help us out.
I suggest the issue by the Loan Council of
currency on the lines of the Treasury notes
used by England to finance her internal
needs during the war, these notes to be
made legal tender over a fixed period and
used to pay the labor and purchase locally-
produced raw material to finish a carefully-
selected number of the works now held up by
lack of funds.
As to dangers, frankly I see none that
as an Australian who has faith in his coun-
try I am not prepared to face.—Yours,
J. H. W.
Can We Ever Get Right?
Dear Bulletin, —Many prominent news-
papers,, led by The Bulletin, are putting up
a stirring fight to plant in the minds of the
people the true facts of the present trouble
and the action we must take to set ourselves
on the straight and narrow path that leads to
salvation. One lays down a Bulletin, after
having read opinions of a wide range of
thinkers, with a feeling of optimism—a feel-
ing that all classes are doing their best to
pull together and that we will soon be out
of the woods. But turn to a daily newspaper
and read the ranting humbug of some vote-
catching politician ; then reflect that with all
their arrogant egotism and absence of re-
morse for the appalling mess they’ve landed
us in, they are still our masters and little
can be done without a lead from them, and
your optimism vanishes.
That the general public is disgusted has
been proved by the regularity with which
the ruling crowd has been given the order
of the boot at every recent election. But
that doesn’t get us anywhere, the rejected
crowd knowing its turn will arrive at the
next election. What, then, about a variation
ot The Bulletin’s Coalition suggestion for
the next election? Instead of merely giving
the electors the choice of Bad and Worse, ask
the question of the ballot-paper—“Do you
favor a Coalition Government?” —Yours,
.Tack Point.
“The Art of Consumption”
Dear Bulletin,—l’ve just been reading
in an American journal an article which
purports to explain why there is so much
unemployment in the world at present, and
why the purchasing power of money is in-
creasing so rapidly. The writer, who seems
to be well informed, looks at the problem
from the manufacturer’s standpoint, and his
diagnosis, put briefly, is that these things
are due to expansion of manufacturing on
plants, increased industrial efficiency, fiercer
commercial competition, failure of efforts to
control raw material prices, and, generally,
a. “development of the art of production
that has run ahead of the art of consump-
tion.” The writer lays emphasis, too, upon
the increasing extent to which old scrapped
materials can be used up again; to the
diminishing in the demand for raw material
caused by the increasing durability of modern
manufactured goods, and—most significant
of all, to my mind—the greatly decreased
need for food on the part of men and horses
now that machinery does so much of the
world’s work.
Doesn’t it seem that old Prince Kropot-
kin’s words are coming true, and that the
civilised folk of the world have got to a
stage where it isn’t so much a question of
supplying their needs as of finding out how
they can earn a living by supplying needs?
My American authority says the question has
nothing to do with money or currency sys-
tems, but I don’t believe him. I think the
points he lias raised, together with the ques-
tion of monetary standards and values, ought
to be internationally considered. If the
reward for increasing industrial efficiency
and increasing thrift is a process of pauper-
isation by the removal of people from em-
ployment, where are we? It w’ould be as
well to find out? —Yours etc., Dubbo.
Parks and Reserves
Dear Bulletin, —The chairman of the
Adelaide Parks Committee says (B.
17/12/’3O) “such places” (parks and re-
serves) “are subject to acts of vandalism”;
and “this is unfortunate, but it wmuld not
happen under reasonable supervision.” Well,
playing-field parks generally get adequate
supervision, but the nature-reserve park
never does. On the north shores of Port
Jackson and bordering Middle Harbor are
large scenic reserves which are No Man’s
Land. The Defence Department handed
over the reserves at Middle Head to the
local municipality for public recreation; but
when the council found that it hadn’t been
given the land in fee-simple, and that it was
precluded from donating portions of it to
all and sundry, it just backed out and left
the reserves to the tender mercies of the
w’ood merchants and suppliers of “best gar-
den Soil,” who hopped in thankfully. The
remedy is the formation of a controlling body
for all reserves not suitable for playing fields
within a 50-mile radius from the capital
with a sufficient fund to pay a few perma-
nent rangers, who could be assisted at week-
ends by honorary rangers. Local governing
bodies have failed; the only way to get the
average alderman to be interested in a tree
is to promise to take his photo near it.—
Yours faithfully, H. I. M.
High Wages and Low Costs
Dear Bulletin,—ln “High Wages and
Low Costs” (B. 5/11/’3O) you discuss
whether the thing is possible, and, if so.
how. High costs of production have contri-
buted largely to our present financial ills,
and the best pick-me-up the community can
take at this time is a system that will reduce
production costs —effectively. Such a system
is available and lias proved effective —simply
payment by results. Under it high wages
may go hand in hand with low production
costs, and these latter go far to restoring us
to a state of solvency.
If this be so, and as the general adoption
of this system has been urged many times
previously, why is it not more generally found
in use in our industries? Well, possibly,
because
(1) Not for many years has a reduction in costs
been so urgently necessary.
(2) Labor suspects it as a scheme to get more
work for the same pay, the efficient worker register-
ing a gain and the weaker going to the wall.
(3) The union leader is hostile or lukewarm —he
doesn’t see where he fits into the scheme.
(4) In certain industries both employer and
employee, neither having given the matter careful
study, think its practical application either very
limited or unduly complicated; and (at the present
time)
(5) Since it is claimed for the system that it
would reduce cost of output per unit of production
by increasing output per unit of humanity, and since
at present there is not enough work to give every
man a job, its adoption now would cause an im-
mediate increase of unemployment.
As to those objections:—
(1) All sections agree that production costs must
be reduced. Why not choose, then, the method
which offers best results, calling certainly for hard
work and efficiency, but giving to industry a well-
founded prosperity, and to the worker high returns
and permanent ones ?
(2) Fair standards of output and rates of pay
are capable of accurate determination after scientific
investigation, and are based on fair output by a
man suitable to the job. The worker may then,
as now, be fully protected by industrial legislation
and his union.
(3) Rates of pay and conditions of work do not
become less vital to the worker because they are
related to his output. A useful field for service is
therefore still open to his industrial leader—the
same field, in fact, as now exists.
(4) The system has many useful forms, e.g., (a)
payment of direct piecework rates; (6) piecework
rates up to a certain standard output, with addi-
tions to the rates for output above the standard;
(c) profit sharing, the employee receiving a wage
plus a share of any profit; (<t) bonus system, i.c.,
wages plus piece rates for output above a certain
minimum. These and many others, each capable of
modification to suit given conditions, have been
found to be applicable over a wide field.
(5) (a) Reduction of production costs will be fol-
lowed closely by reduction of unemployment; (i>)
the change over in many industries would not Ire
rapid, much careful thought beforehand being neces-
sary to ensure success at the outset; (c) rationing
and other- relief measures can be applied as now,
and- could be considered well worth while as assisting
to usher in an era of industrial prosperity, instead
of, as now, producing often the minimum of assist-
ance to those for whose immediate benefit they are
framed.
—Yours, E. S.
The Australian Manufacturer’s Chance
Dear Bulletin., —I will give a few
reasons why I have not always bought ‘Aus-
tralian-made goods. “Women’s-size” clothes
fit me comfortably. I have been in the habit
of buying woven cotton singlets, imported,
because I had occasionally tried Australian -
made and found the armholes always so small
as to be distinctly uncomfortable; I find
they are still uncomfortable. For many
7/ears I bought English stockings, latterly
silk over wool, because in Australian
ones I bought the shape of the foot was at
fault; and one lot had seams and knots, in
the toes. I find now that some Australian
stockings are excellent; but the finish, is
variable. Children’s shoes still need im-
provement. I have repeatedly seen my small
charge with blisters on his heels, due to
the hard seam at the back of shoes or san-
dals. Also there is an insole of light leathery
material which temporarily hides a surface
of rough nails. Under small, hot feet this
insole quickly becomes a wrinkled mass
which has to be removed, leaving the nails
to blister the feet or wear holes in the socks.
In ready-made Australian frocks the arm-
holes and slbeves are often so badly cut that
they drag, are uncomfortable and unsightly.
Wliy ?
Many home manufacturers have learnt that
it pays to please the purchaser. The others
must' learn or lose their customers. They
can never hope for such a chance again.
Yours, M. I. K. E.
Curiosities of the Post Office
Dear B., —After two years’ efforts I have
just discovered that Australia has a rotten
postal law similar to one here in Canada.
Under-stamped letters are delivered and
excess tax collected; but under-stamped
newspapers to a foreign country are not de-
livered—they are simply destroyed and
nothing said. Apart from the sinful waste
of material that would be welcome in hos-
pitals, etc, what about the postage stamps
paid for and destroyed? Has the department
any right to take that money and destroy
it and give no service in return?
I lived 11 years in Australia, and so of
course want The Bulletin. A friend in
Adelaide lias been mailing it to me since
1927. In ’2B it came irregularly. In ’29
we compared notes and found that he mailed
me 24 copies in ’2B which I did not receive.
Complaint after complaint at this end only
got the reply that “We regret we have no
means of tracing lost mail other than regis-
tered matter.” Only this past summer I
heard that we in Canada had a postal regu-
lation that destroyed all under-stamped
foreign newspapers, and I suggested to my
friend perhaps you had a similar law over
there. He inquired at his G.P.0., and actu-
ally saw two large sacks of underpaid mail
on the way to the destructor, representing
that morning’s takings.
Once again we could take a lesson from
the U.S.A. There I’ve had advice' from a
post office 1000 miles away that there was
a , newspaper addressed to me which was
one cent short on postage : if I would remit
that one cent, the mail would be forwarded.
In my Australian case, had they notified the
sender once, or returned one copy to him,
or sent on one taxed, we would have known
what was happening and righted it. As it
was. the sinful destruction went on for 12
months without our knowledge.—Yours etc.,
11. Motherwell.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Turned Up”
Criterion “Eliza Comes to Stay”
ATE Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The House that Jack Built”
Comedy “The First Mrs. Fraser”
King’s “Uncle Tom’s Cabin"
iIYQLI “TOD Ho]e ..
“T-ITE Movies and Talkies
«
The Bulletin went to the League of
Nations Union rally at the Scots’ Hall, Mel-
bourne, as part of its seasonal obligations.
After the ideals of the League had been put
before the assembled cosmopolitan audience
by Harrison Moore, P. D. Phillips and others,
a paper on the way Finland observes Christ-
mas was read by a gentleman who was Fin-
nish by face but not finish by nature. Ger-
man and Dutch representatives followed;
there was a dance by Swedish maidens ; then
a Russian folk dance; two Chinese children
sang a duet; a Polish infant prodigy played
the piano; and then came the big item of
the evening. This was a play, charade or
tableau on the economic depression written
by a Melbourne lady!
Australia was represented by a youth
appropriately dressed like an American cow-
boy, and the Spirit of Australia was a girl
in a short green frock who had apparently
memorised whole columns from the leader
pages of the “Argus.” The Spirit of Industry
was represented by a figure in chains, and
there was another figure armed with a
spanner, presumably for throwing in the
works presided over by the Spirit of Indus-
try. Wool, Wheat, Coal and Unemployment
were also represented, and the stage was
already uncomfortably overcrowded with self-
conscious symbols when the Spirit of Hate
and the Spirit of Evil, apparently dressed
for a meeting of the Ku Klux Klan, burst
in, armed to the teeth with platitudes, and
committed a rhetorical assault on the Spirit
of Australia. It would have indeed gone
hard with the unfortunate young lady,
whose stock of journalistic cliches was by
now practically exhausted, had not the Spirit
of the Bush, becomingly arrayed in gum-
leaves, brought up reinforcements in the
shape of some effective maxims about the need
of more simplicity and the return to Nature.
It was agreed by all, including the Spirit
of the City and the unidentified gentleman
with the spanner, that if only Australia
would listen to the music of the birds and
the murmur of the streamlets all her troubles
would vanish, including the State deficits, the
overseas debt and the Caucus. On which
optimistic note the play ended, the grand
finale being the singing of “Auld Lang Syne”
and “God Save the King” by all the nations
present.
The Bulletin came away feeling that in-
ternationalism is a fine ideal, but as an even-
ing’s entertainment it has its drawbacks.
# # *
The Proscenium Club of Melbourne is one
of the few amateur organisations whose be-
havior is incalculable. You never know
Princess MABEL GIBSON, of “Puss in Boots” at
Sydney St. James.
when you climb the four or fourteen flights
of stairs in the Nicholas Building whether
you are going to be saluted with the latest
emanation from the brain of Pszxemyseryz,
the world-famous Slav poet, or a low mystery
drama.
Last week the club presented a Christmas
Revel, which included several original
sketches and others not so original, two one-
act plays, a ballet, some singing and dancing
and a weird item described as Hottentot. A
feature of the entertainment was the spon-
taneity both of the performers and the audi-
ence. It is pleasant to laugh heartily inside
a playhouse even if you are not quife cer-
tain what you are laughing at. Professional
entrepreneurs are so busy trying to entertain
audiences along stereotyped lines that they
never realise how very much easier it is to
entertain them along lines that are not stereo-
typed. To carry the argument further, a eiti-
zen who is neither an actor nor a comedian
can make an instant hit with a large audi-
ence by inadvertently nlacing his foot on a
banana-skin in Collins-street. The approved
theatrical method is to place the banana-skin
in full view of the audience and insert a
notice in all the newspapers stating that Mr.
Soandso, the world-famous laughraiser and
uiirthmaker, fresh from convulsing five con-
tinents and seven coral atolls, obtained at
ruinous expense by the management, will
step on it at such and such a time and in
such and such a place and fall heavily. The
chances of his raising a laugh under those
circumstances are problematical.
To return to the Proscenium Club. One of
its surprises was the acting of Margaret Fay
in an amusing sketch called “Elizabeth.” It
was one of those little vignettes of natural-
ness which are rare enough to be described
as extraordinary.
* * *
The outstanding feature of the panto, sea-
son in Melbourne is the intrusion of the
moving-picture managements into a field
hitherto kept holy for the legitimate theatre.
Nearly all the cinema joints are advertising
skimpy vaudeville turns as pantos. The only
really true-blue entertainment of this
nature is “The House that Jack Built” at
the Williamsonian Royal. The influence of
General de Presh is evident in the per-
formance, which lacks the magnificence of
previous spectacular exhibits; yet this is to
its advantage. It is economical without being
ineffective, and handsome without being over-
decorated. Iu fact, it resembles a woman
who, having been told by her husband that
she had got to live within his means, has
to practise taste and refinement as a sub-
stitute for waste and ostentation.
The impression left on the mind of the
adult witness is of a dream of young limbs
and shining faces, frequently recurring in a
succession of charming ballets. The Toy-
shop Ballet arranged by Jennie Brenan
notably sticks in the mind. The theme is
hackneyed, but the effect is none the less
charming. The dancing is interrupted, per-
haps not quite frequently enough for the
juvenile appetite, by comedy of the brick-
throwing and cucumber-frame-breaking order.
Another impression is that Mo looks
cleaner than one ever remembers having seen
him; and that his patter matches his appear-
ance. Stigant, scnr., as Dame Barleycorn,
also aims a smaller proportion of his
ammunition at the baldheads in the stalls
than is customary, most of his allusions being
to whisky and his alleged craving for more
drops of mother’s rewin. Stigant, junr.,
puts in occasional appearances on behalf of
the plot as the Lord of Misrule, and makes
everything more or less clear, or at any rate
as clear as is necessary for panto, purposes.
Nell Taylor, the local amateur, is a
pleasing Girl, and sings about Love’s devour-
ing flame in a voice that is wee but melodi-
ous. A posse of shapely girls swing out
over the auditorium on ropes of many-colored
lights, and a bqdyless face takes an aero-
plane flight through the darkened theatre.
The youthful appetite for horrors is cat-
ered for by Eric Bush, who, as the Demon
of Despair, makes a weirdly effective assault
upon Fairy Sunbeam (Edna Moncrieff), but
his victim is snatched from his grasp by
the next item on the programme. Kathleen
Goodall gives some beautiful head notes to
the singing part of the Ipairy Industria. The
breezy Sadie Gale, as Principal Boy; Nick
Morton, as Farmer Barleycorn; the Paul-
asto Brothers, as the front and hind legs
of Lily the Cow ; and John Fernside, as a
Policeman, keep the pot of nonsense boiling.
There is a lady 14ft. high to amuse the
youngsters, and Mo and Stigant provide
admirable co-operation in a
turn in which Mo figures as
the mirrored image of the
other; a Roman orgy scene
is thrown into the second
half as compensation for
father. The show should
prove a sturdy competitor
of the beaches during several
coming heatwaves.
If the above remarks
appear disjointed—well, so is
“The House that Jack
Built.”
* * *
Those in search of tiptop
entertainment for the festive
juvenile in Melbourne need
go no further than the State,
where two highly amusing
pictures are hobnobbing with
a “.Cinderella” panto. The
panto, has several exclusive
features. It has two dames,
it sticks to its story, and if
it hasn’t wit it has the qual-
ity usually attached to that
abstraction, namely, brevity.
Some of the cleverest child-
ren in the city have been
conscripted for its charming
ballets, which are blessed
with first-class production.
In addition there is a picture
in which a lady advertised
as weighing 26 stone falls
out of a caravan and has to
be assisted back by an ele-
phant. What more does any
parent want?
* # *
Panto, duly broke out on
the two Sydney fronts on
Boxing Day. Both St.
James, where Rolls put on
“Puss in Boots,” and the Opera House,
where Marlow offered “Beauty and the
Beast,” were packed houses. The fare
was capital of its kind. The St. James show
had Jennie Benson for Boy; Mabel Gibson,
Princess ; Stan Foley, the Cat; Bert Gilbert,
Dame; and Leonard Stephens, a frozen-faced
King of Donowherske. The piece was billed
as “direct from the London Hippodrome.” In
parts, especially in the very good juvenile
acts, it hinted influence by the talkies. The
Opera offering was a version from the pen
of versatile Nat Phillips, with himself as
Idle Jack; Will Cass, Dame; Dorothy
Dewar, Boy; Heather Jones, Beauty; Angela
Parselles, a Fairy Queen; Dan Weldon,
Beast; Keith Connelly, Baron. The objee-
tive of both generals appeared to be lavish-
ness. There was more in one half at either
show than is handed out in a whole musi-
comedy. Yet the huge bills are got through
without dragging,
* v
The score or so entries in Sydney Com-
munity Theatre’s play competition included
a few gems and a true comedy that did not
reach, the final five. Hahdicaps of presenta-
tion rendered accurate judging difficult, and
over-acting and under-acting damaged sev-
eral pieces.
Awards were offered for the best Aus-
tralian play, the most humorous play, the
best acting group, and the best production.
The judges interpreted Australian to mean a
play with an Australian setting— -i.e., drink,
politics, crime, drought, gum-trees, etc. —
and winning honors w T ent to “The Traitor,”
not a true play at all but a spoken treatise
on Trades Hall errors; and to “The Deed of
Gift,” a erudit y that revolved round Ben
Hall, the bushranger, and an old-man “char-
a£ter > a cousin to Steele Rudd’s Dad. In
* The Traitor,” by L. L. Woolacott, charac-
ter-drawing, especially of a fanatic prole-
tarian, was good, but the play never came
dramatically to life. Characters spoke their
pieces pro and con and drifted away. “A
Deed of Gift” (Joyce Lambert), highly
commended, was included in the final five
evidently to encourage the junior sections
of playwrights, for it offended against almost
all the canons of stagecraft with a prepos-
terous plot, two characters on the stage
almost throughout the play who did not
speak a word, and a fall of curtain to indi-
cate about a minute and a half the author
was unable to fill with dialogue. The award
for the humorous play went to a satire that
had no humor in it; indeed, it hinted at
tragedy. Harry Harte in this, “A Measure
of Merit,” poked fun at the U.S.A.’s penchant
to “psychologise” everything in business; in
this instance the choice of a salesman. Set
in the U.S.A., the satire’s only Australian
touch was a starving man
applying for the job who
promised to provide the
tragedy when a typical go-
getter breezed in and seized
it.
Acting honors went to
Mrs. Howell’s quartette, who
staged “Enter the Nurse”
(Nell Douglas Graham), a
rather poignant study of an
old woman, a famous Juliet
in her day, who has been
cast for the recognised
“superannuation” r6le of the
Nurse. Veteran actress Made-
line Howell did it excel-
lently. Award for produc-
tion was bestowed on Mrs.
W. B. Allen for “The Way
Out” (Nell Douglas
Graham), a “ghost” of
Ibsen’s “Ghosts,” played (as
was “Ghosts” by the Com-
munity people) by Mrs-
Allen as the filicidal mother
and Alf Olsen as the G.P.I.
son.
“Compensations” (Lilian
Shand) was the only play in
the Series that had a genuine
laugh in it, and in the main
it was admirably put on.
The plot dealt with a freak
will granting a fortune to
the first-born of two of the
legator’s relations, cousins,
one an Australian and the
other a Maorilander. The
play was full of absurdities
that nevertheless were not
burlesque, and the climax
was ticklesome.
Among the also-rans
worthy of note were “The
Little Tin God” (Rex Reinitz), with an
almost perfect climax marred by a tenu-
ous text; “Safe Harbor” (Jean Law-
son), with a good situation spoilt by a
hasty ending; “Possibilities and Pests”
(E. Y. Barton), a political satire with a
good curtain; “Grass” (Marguerite Shir-
law), milk for babes, but milk with a dash;
and “Apes and Peacocks” (Llywelyn Lucas
and H’al Eyre), a cynical study of the re-
actions of a roomful of moralisers to a
chance to make money out of leg-shows.
One thing the contest taught; that small
acting groups presenting and playing their
own studies do the best service to the
causes both of playwriting and the drama,
The overworked little band of Community
“regulars” undertook too much. Frank Cars-
well, for instance, a good artist, wrns thrown
away on some very woeful work; and nearly
all the Communiteers were being prompter-
fed towards the close of the 32 plays.
-r , ~ „ . ..
fet John Ernnes The First Mrs. rraser,
at Melbourne Comedy, revives memories «t
Maugham s Our Betters, seen in the same
playhouse, though it lacks that tart piece s
forthrightness. In the present exhibit the
playwright hits back with almost midAic-
tonan ferocity at the Bright Young People
of the neo-Georgian, era. .
When a Person is both Bright and ioung,
according to .Ervine, she is capable of any-
thing. In this case she marches off via the
divorce court with the steady-going. scotch
financier husband of Mrs. Fraser primus, a
good wife and mother of 20 years’ standing.
Moreover, after five years, having found that
her elderly mate is permanently disqualified
from obtaining a title owing to the previous
scandal, she invites him to provide her with
grounds for a second separation so that she
can marry a lord, Oj. whom it is said that
to call him a half-wit is to overestimate his
intelligence. Mr.. Ervme rubs it in still tui-
ther by explaining that she has a second
motive, inasmuch as she is in love witn
Mario, a cabaret dancer, and believes that
a semi-imbecile husband will provide more
opportunities for clandestine meetings than
the elderly Scotchman. To complete the in-
dictment, the dramatist explains that she is
fully aware that she is not Mario’s sole
mistress but only “one of a crowd” of Bright
Youn°- Persons
Awaiocc tr. ’oqtt lmndlpd hv n realist
« 3 hounefed off ?he Mel-
bourne stage, as Road to Romance”
recently. But Mr. Ervine is quite safe. He
makes it clear from the first that he is going
to be a moralist. Mrs. Fraser secundus
„ pTotinp from the beginning She
s nfactmerely f our old friend, the-villain
of melodrama, but without the riding-boots
and whiskers Mrs. Fraser primus, shining
like a good deed in a naughty world, sits
back and calmly waits for the triumph of
the domestic virtues. In due course Mrs.
Frase?“ecumlus is caught spending the night
with Mario at a fishinf inn and in order to
obtain her freedom she is obliged to bolt with
Lord Larne, the aristocratic imbecile • and
a less sedate audience than usually assembles
at the Comedy would probably hiss her final
exit Mr. Fraser then returns to Mrs.
Fraser primus, and after being severely lec-
tured by his family of two sons, is allowed
to remarry Mrs. Fraser primus.
The above sketchily described comedy of
the conventions is as bright a piece of goods
j u Rg particular line as the Comedy has seen
since its inception, and the co. which is offer-
}ng R to a discriminating public is as excel-
}ent a colleeton of theatrical sales-people as
Melbourne has seen for a year or so. As
Mrs. Fraser I, Ethel Morrison makes an
immediate appeal. Her noble stature and
deliberate acting are appropriate to a matron
with a n the old Roman virtues; and she
manages to leaven the character with just
t he right amount of gaiety. John Wood and
Roger Barry, sons to the lady, are tw T o un-
usua]iy convincing juveniles. Mary Ylac-
Gregor, as the second Mrs. Fraser, gives
noth s ing to a part full of golden opportunities
but correct diction and deportment. J, B.
Rowe contributes a portrait of the solemn,
self-centred Mr. Fraser, a man destined to
inspire mother-love rather than passion in
a woman. There is not a false accent or
faulty piece of tone in the picture, which is
j-W * r £
Slde P revious works the same artist,
X # *
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” revival at Melbourne
King's is mainly remarkable for the fine
DOROTHY DEWAR, the Boy of the “Beauty and the
Beast” outbreak at Sydney Opera House.
singing of “Old Man River” by William
Innes in the name part. There are other
innovations in this up-to-date production,
including some ballets and 12 concerted
numbers. It is said that one oldtimer was
obliged to leave the theatre on learning that
little Eva was to die of heart disease,
whereas in previous productions grief broke
the organ.
For the rest, the piece is the same weird
mixture of farce, melodrama and history
that isn’t as it was when the present writer
saw it in his innocent childhood. If any-
thing, the farce seems a little more imbe-
cile and the history less historical. Never-
theless, surveyed with the necessary air of
detachment, the ancient tract uroves to
have some points about it which partly
explain its long survival. There is a core
of genuine tragedy in the pathetic fate of
Uncle Tom, and if the part of lawyer Marks,
especially as interpreted by D’Arcy Kelway,
were cast into oblivion, what remained would
make a respectable display of ferocity and
son ti me nt. There is real pathos in the
departure to Heaven of little Eva (charm-
}ng]y portrayed by Jeanne Beinkie) and
j joe tic justice in the violent embarkation
0 £ Legree (Rutland Beckett) in the other
direction. The long cast includes Pat Fallow
(Topsy), Marion Marcus Clarke, Beth
Mackey, Nellie Mortyne, Gertrude Boswell
an d Norman Wister, and the venerable Slap-
offski conducts the orchestra. Dorothy Eliza
gtanwai'd Harris successfully escapes across
the j ce w jth little George, but the incident
jacks the thrill it had before the advent of
t be mo vies.
* *
Adelaide’s big Prince of Wales Theatre,
w liich has had a chequered career, has re-
named itself the Tivoli, which brings memo-
r j es 0 £ jj arr y Rickard’s long innings at a
jjouse of that name where the Majestic
now rco pening bill is a “Forty
Thieves” pantomime. Pictures are every-
where e lse, as usual, but with the Regent
taken over by Fox films, The Royal st
sbu £
'# % y
, ,
.. As one who for 30 years or so has been
listening each Yuletide to performances of
“The Messiah” in various parts of the Empire
this Showman wonders how the divers cpn-
ductors, with but very few exceptions, and
those not commendable, have hit upon exactly
the same method of interpretation. George
Fred died 170 years ago and the number
°f teachers who heard h conducting his
°£ a *? n .° must have been small. The number
of their pupils and of their pupils who be-
came teachers must have been prodigious.
Sydney Phil, went through the accepted
ritual at the Town Hall on Christmas night
under Gerald Peachall s stern baton. The
instrument the conductor played upon was
a well-trained choir, a galaxy of soloists with
nice voices and the ability to smg the most
florid Italianate twirls and twists of the
score an f.a.q. orchestra and the_great organ,
played by Bennett North. The soloists,
especially Raymond Bcatty were not always
quite as devotional as. G.r.H would have
liked, but the Hallelujah and For Lnt
Us” choruses were uplifting and the per-
formance as a whole well worth listening to.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI
CLOTHES
FOR MEN
fdg
AND
IHEIR SONS.
Wear “TOGARDS”
and Save Your Hosiery.
Made of Lisle. They fit over the
forepart of the foot underneath the
hose. Positively prevents the sheer-
est silk sock or stocking from
wearing through at the toes. All
sizes for ladies or gentlemen.
Price pair
1/6
Pike Brothers
LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends
6 p.c. Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves.
1919.. 541,951 89,084 12 p.c. = 451,762 33,168
1920.. 544,773 89,084 12 „ „ 454,587 34,270
1921.. 582,979 89,084 12 „ ~ 491,987 36,178
Special div. from subsidiaries, £628,591,
distributed as bonus shares.
1922.. 751,373 89,084 12 p.c. = 661,067 37,400
1923.. 773,202 89,084 12 „ „ 682,400 39,118
1924.. 776,535 89,084 12 „ ~685,844 40,725
1925.. 779,452 89,084 12 „ „ 689,034 42,059
1926.. 783,453 89,084 12 „ ~692,684 43,744
1927.. 786,876 89,084 12 „ „ 696,354 45,182
Co. reconstructed ; shares in subsi-
-12 m’ths diaries written up, £2,324,131,
- to and that amount capitalised.
Oct., 64 p.c.
1928.. 916,506 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 7,659
1929. . 1,011,307 96,507 11 „ „ 894,791 27,668
1930. . 1,074,672 96,507 12 „ ~976,135 29,698
Notwithstanding, that the curtain is kept
drawn over the figures of its subsidiaries,
this big holding co. lias earned for itself
the reputaion of being one of Australia’s
most prosperous industrial organisations;
and its scrip is amongst the leaders in the
market. It amalgamated the interests of
W. D. and H. O. Wills, British Australian
Tobacco (a combination of the Cameron and
part of the Dixon businesses) and the
States Tobacco Co. (which embraced Sut-
ton’s, and Jacobs, Hart and Co. and the
other part of Dixon’s business). That was
in 1903. Later S. T. Leigh and Co., a
printing, etc., concern was sandwiched into
the group.
The public was allowed in shortly before
the war, and for a dozen years or so after
that a steady 12 p.c. div. was paid, sweet-
ened with £028,591 of bonus scrip in 1921.
This was followed., about three years ago,
by a two-for-five gift issue, which called
for £2,324,131, and was provided by writing
up the book value of holdings in other cos.
by that amount. It lifted the issued
total on the ord. register to £8,134,459.
At the same time the registered office was
transferred from London to Melbourne, the
div. on £1,484,727 of preference' scrip was
raised from 6 p.c. to 61 p.c. and the ord. div.
was dropped to 10 p.c., which, however, was
equal to 14 p.c, on the ord. capital as it
stood at the close of accounts in 1927. The
rate advanced to 11 p.c. in 1929, and to
12 p.c. again last year, when shareholders
received in divs. £287,204 more than they
did three years ago.
Profits transferred from the subsidiaries,
though never much in excess of actual
dividend requirements, made an obliging
spring, reaching the record figure of £1,074,672
last year. And that despite the fact
that the outlook generally became more
uncertain as the year advanced; while
stinging increases in income tax and other
Government imposts and contraction in
spending increased the cost of the sub-
sidiaries’ products, lightened their turnovers
and swelled overhead.
It is plain that the operating cos. are a
prosperous lot, and apparently very snugly
positioned. The probabilities are, therefore,
that they will weather the present economic
storm with no more damage than other robust,
Australian industrial concerns. The ration-
ing of tobacco imports and increases in the
tariff have caused an overseas competitor to
put up a factory here, but the B.T.C. inter-
ests have a tight hold on the market, an
extensive goodwill and a very able control.
In the circumstances the board’s decision
to drop the div. from 12 p.c. to 10 p.c. for
the first quarter of the current term has
caused neither shareholders nor the market
milch concern. The price for the ords.
climbed steadily from 28s. 6d. early in 1921.
to 51s. 3d. in Sept., 1929. In the general
revision of estimates the figure has since
eased to 31s. 6d. ; at that price the return
is 6.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The well-
protected prefs., which enjoy priority as to
capital and carry a fixed cumulative 61 p.c.,
are priced at 225. 6d. as against 255. 9d. a
year ago. The return to the investor at
the lower figure is a wink under 6 p.c. The
visible backing amounts to £6 9s. lid. in net
tangibles, and their annual requirements
were covered over 101 times by last year's
admitted net profit.
Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated)
This operating concern, with Sydney head-
quarters, is owned and controlled by the
Commonwealth Life (formed in 1920) and
the Citizens and Graziers (launched in
1921). It took over the two businesses as
from Sept. 30, 1926, on a net asset basis plus
one year’s premium for goodwill. The two
older cos. thus got £147,192 in fully-paids—
-96,422 to the Commonwealth (paid capital,
£141,159, fully paid) and 50,770 to the C.
and G. (paid capital, £155,504, with a further
£121,779 at call). The uncalled capital of
the holding cos. was to be retained as addi-
tional protection for the policies transferred
to Amalgamated. The goodwill included in
the payment w T as £118,743, which has since
advanced to £120,873, mainly on account of
the purchase of the small life business of
the Colonial Provident in 1927. Owing to
State legislation the C. and G. continues to
carry on its business in Queensland, but
profits from that source, when earned, belong
to Amalgamated, which paid £lB,OOO (in
scrip) for the rights.
The idea behind the fusion was to get
the business on a profit-earning basis, mainly
by an assault upon outgoings. Looked at as
a whole the figures have moved in this way
since the merger :
Excess
Income. Claims. Exes. Income.
1927.. £114,155 £11,213 £87,361 £15,581
1928.. 125,883 15,065 92,287 18,531
1929.. 133,342 20,340 83,225 29,777
1930. . 131,887 26,978 73,953 30,956
Early results were disappointing; but fol-
lowing a change in the management there
was a more rigid selection of business, and
costs generally turned in the right direction.
Last year exes. (£73,953) took 00.2 p.c. of
the net premiums as against 66.2 p.c. and
76.2 p.c. in 1929 and 1928 respectively. Net
premiums (£122,854) slipped £2616; inter-
est, etc. (£9033), climbed £ll6l. Owing
to a heavy crop of claims the net addition
to the assurance fund was only £1250 better
at £30,555. This fund (£148,992 at Sept.
30) requires further strengthening, the actu-
ary says; apparently the excess of income
over outgo has not yet overtaken the growth
in liabilities under policies. The exact posi-
tion in this respect will not be known until
the close of next accounts.
In the Ordinary branch last year's first
premiums were not sufficient to replace in-
come lost through lapses and claims. Con-
sider these figures:—
1929. 1930.
Policies 1,200 1,042
Assuring .. .. .. ~£288,805 £261,376
First premiums . . . . 8,669 6,461
Renewal premiums . . . . 36,350 36,578
Exes. (£19,471) ran off with 45.2 p.c. of the
net premiums as against 47.7 p.c. and 68.6
p.c. in each of the two preceding terms.
Lapses lifted the cost of the year’s first
premiums to 192.5 p.c. compared with 174.7
p.c. in 1929; that is on the generally accepted
basis that new 7 business is 10 times more
expensive than old. Claims (£7947) were
£2753 heavier, and the surplus (£15,620)
was £2BOl lighter.
In the Industrial department an extra
£151,301 of new business w 7 as written
(£757,709) despite difficult conditions. Still,
net premiums (£75,545) w r ere a trifle lighter.
Claims (£16,814) sprang £5139; exes.
(£52,316) took 69.2 p.c. of the premiums
compared wfith 78.6 p.c. in 1929 and 85.9
p.c. in 1925. So the surplus (£6415) was
£IS97 better. The Accident branch registered
a loss of £ll3, which was £832 less than the
previous year’s loss.
The protection for policy-holders is in this
form:—
1927. 1929. 1930.
Government securities. . £64,875 £122,331 £159,722
Loans on mortgages . . 14,152 9,382 8,156
Cash and deposits .. 5,783 4,521 3,154
Loans on policies .. 390 1,065 3,178
Book debts .. .. 9,143 14,259 11,250
Equipment . . . . 10,535 7,934 6,239
Total tangible assets £104,878 £159,492 £191,699
Sundry creditors’ .. 5,413 11,381 12,103
Net tangible assets.. £99,465 £148,111 £179,596
Life fund . . .. 71,067 118,437 148,992
Surplus .. .. £28,398 £29,674 £30,604
Paid capital .. . . £149,415 £149,921 £149,921
There is nothing to worry about in the
quality of the assets. At the close of
accounts policy-holders could see net tangibles
£30,604 in excess of the assurance fund, and
there is the uncalled capital in the G. and G.,
an uncertain asset in these times.
The most satisfactory solution of the
difficulties •of these young life offices lies in
wholesale amalgamation.
Keep, Macpherson, Ltd. (Sydney).
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. . 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1928*. 17,603 7110 6 p.c. = 4500 f 5993 5,993
Deficit.
Reorganisation losses, £19,765 .. 13,772
Loss.
1929.. 36,515 6000 Nil 56,087
1930.. 52,994 Nil Nil 109,081
*Eighteen months. fSix months.
Seeking a way out of the difficulties which
liad beset the trade Holdsworth, Macpherson
and John Keep and Son—two of the oldest
hardware houses in Sydney—amalgamated
their interests in November, 1927. Thus the
present co. was formed. It later bought the
business of Hill t Magill, Ltd., another Syd-
ney hardware concern.
A profit of £17,603 was claimed for
the first 18 months. Then, to hold turnover,
the business was reorganised, and the co.
began to deal direct with the public. But
after taking stocks into account at £41,055
less than the previous year’s figure a trading-
loss of £36,515 showed up for the 12 months
to the close of accounts in 1929. There was
a further loss of £19,765 on the sale of
plant and stock from the co.’s marble works,
which w r ere closed down. Meanwhile, addi-
tions and alterations were made to the
warehouse at a cost of upwards of £30,000.
The outlay was financed mainly from the
proceeds of the sale just referred to, and the
work was not completed until early in the
last term.
Owing to the almost complete stoppage of
building, the continued drop in prices and
general reduction in spending the co.’s turn-
over continued to contract; the bad-debts
question became more acute, and apparently
further adjustments had to be made in stock
\alues, while fixed overhead charges pressed
heavily. Thus the net result of last year’s
operations was a loss of £52,994, which piled
the deficit on shareholders’ account to
£109,081 at June 30. The co. was still
trading at a loss when the annual meeting
was held last month. The board, however,
is hopeful of pulling the business through,
though not without heavy sacrifice of capi-
tal. Trading is being restricted, and outside
liabilities reduced as stocks and debtors’ bal-
ances are turned into cash.
What had been done in this w r ay to the
close of accounts the next table shows: —
1 QOS IQOQ IQ9O
Paid capital .. .. £375,107 £375,107 £375'107
Liabilities .. .. 196,054 203,978 191,192
Freeholds and leaseholds 101,294 101,294 98,363
Plant 28,195 28,406 36,464
Stock 251,554 210,499 166,225
Debtors 145,397 112,000 86,887
Investments, cash, etc... 53,715 73,200 69,278
Stocks and book debts were worked down
£44,274 and £25,713 respectively during Lite
year; but since this was done at a loss only
£12,786 was snipped off the debt, which in-
cluded an overdraft of £165,000. The nature
of the investments is not disclosed; excluding
this item, but including stocks, the more or
less liquid surplus (£61,920) was £57,201
lighter than at the previous balance. Also
there were contingent liabilities of £22,590
in respect of bills and of £6OOO for arrears
of pref. divs. Since the books closed the
overdraft has .been reduced to £130,000.
Prospects of recovery depend largely upon
how soon losses can be arrested, and upon
the management’s success in developing new 7
lines. Trading threatens to become still more
difficult. In the event of liquidation the
position of shareholders would be governed
mainly by the sale of the fixed assets, whieh
would not be an easy matter under existing
conditions. Efforts to sell the co.’s Sussex-
street and Waterloo freeholds have been un-
successful, meanwhile they remain a drag.
The public is directly interested only in
the 75,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which have
priority as to capital and dividend. On paper
the cover figures out at £3 10s. lid. in net
tangibles. They fetch around 6s. in the
market. The 300,107 ords., which are held
largely by the proprietors of the old busi-
nesses, were covered by net tangibles with
a book value of 12s. 3d.
Automobile Suppliers Associated, Ltd.
(in Liq.).
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 24,979 10 p.c. = 20,000 4979 10,473
1929.. 24,152 10 „ „ 20,000 4152 14,625
Deficit.
Reserve for depreciation of invest-
ments, £39,000 .. .. .. 24,375
Loss. •
1930.. 2,437 Nil 26,812
After a run of seven years in the motor-
finance business, during the last four of
which three 10 p.c. divs. were paid, Auto-
mobile Suppliers has gone into voluntary
liquidation. On present estimates a return
to shareholders of between 16s. and 17s. in
the £1 is anticipated.
The co. was formed in October, 1923, and
asked for £95,000 from the public. The
promoters’ cut w'as 5000 fully-paid £1 shares.
It was a boom period in motor-finance, and
no difficulty w T as experienced in selling the
scrip. During the next three years a further
100,000 shares were put out, making paid
capital £200,000 in 1927.
The scrip was then listed, and balance-
sheets were made available. The figures
showed that the co. was carrying a large
outside debt, but the board became cautious,
and a conservative policy was pursued. Credi-
tors and provision for taxation and unearned
interest was reduced from £132,771 in 1927
to £25,633 at June 30, 1929. Over the same
period advances, etc., dropped from £346,310
to £249,992. Notwithstanding the restriction
of activities, profits increased from £19,177
in 1927 to £24,152 in 1929.
The eo. did not confine itself entirely to
motor-finance, and though that part of the
business has proved risky enough, an advance
made by the co. under second mortgage on
the Steeltown Estate at Port Kembla will
require careful watching if heavy loss is
to be avoided. The co. for some years has
handled most of the p.n.’s of the Studebaker
and Erskiue agents; and when Studebaker
(Sydney), Ltd., was formed in March, 1929,
Automobile Supplies underwrote 50,000 ot
the 100,000 £1 shares that were offered to
the public. How the co. came out of that
transaction has not been disclosed.
The boom in motor-finance caused so
many cos. to enter the field that it soon be-
came overcrowded, and in the slump which
followed competition grew acute, particularly
for the paper of the sounder motor houses.
Up to the 1929 balance the. directors of Auto-
.mobile Suppliers were confident that the co.’s
assets were in a healthy condition, but the
heavy fall in values over the last 12 months,
the insolvency of many hire-purchasers and
the frozen state of nearly all market outlets
have made a severe readjustment of accounts
figures necessary. In addition to showing a
trading loss of £2437 for the year to June
30 last, £39,000 was set aside for depreciation
of investments. That made the deficit on
shareholders’ account £26,812.
At the, meeting chairman E. S. Wolfenden
explained that the co. had been liquidating
its assets and reducing its liabilities for
some time. An alternative to winding up the
co, was to invest in securities outside the
motor trade, but recent political developments
made a lending business impossible. The
Moratorium Act passed by the N. S. Wales
Parliament threatens to jeopardise a number
of the securities held by the co.
Advances, etc., comprise most of the eo.'s
assets: —
1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. .. 35,288 25,633 5,683
Debtors .. . . .. 255,555 249,992 217,737
Furniture, etc... .. 200 250 110
Cash .. .. .. 7 17 23 .
It is expected to have £137,000 of cash in
hand early next month. The balance of the
assets, it is hoped, will realise about £30,000,
but considerable time and trouble will pro-
bably have to be spent before these remaining
items are converted into cash. To protect
the co.’s security in the Port Ivembla sub-
division it has been thought necessary to keep
about £7OOO of cash in hand, but a return
of about 12s. Gd. per share early in the new
year seems certain, the cnairman says.
Hume Steel, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Net Towards
Sept.. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 35 Nil 35 251,700
Added to intangibles, £2OBO .. 253,780
1925.. 795 Nil 795 252,985
Added to intangibles, £1139 .. 254,124
Pref.
10 p.c. Ord.
1926.. 8,870 5201 Nil 3,669 250,456
Added to intangibles, £791 .. 251,246
1927.. 19,183 5567 Nil 13,616 237,630
Part foreign rights sold, patents
reduced, £152,824 .. . • 84,806
1928.. 21,348 5567 Nil 15,781 69,025
Reserved for depreciation,
etc. £19,400 . . . . • - 88,425
1929.. 23,362 5567 Nil 17,795 70,630
1930.. 15,281 5567 Nil 9,714 60,916
This member of the Hume group limped along
until some fair-sized contracts with the S.
Aus Government were secured, to finance
which £30,000 was raised on debentures.
The work was profitable and the debentures
were repaid. Then factories were put up at
Adelaide, Perth, Singapore and Sydney, and
Ihe figures began to brighten.
Last year Brisbane and Wellington
(Maoriland) were added to the list, and the
Singapore plant was kept busy. But orders
were shy elsewhere, so, after the taxgatherer
had taken his bite, the net profit was £BOBl
short of the previous yehr’s. And that is
leaving out of the reckoning £10,379 net
by which the reserve for contingencies, etc.
(now £16,113) was reduced. Allowing for
the pref. requirements, there was enough to
show 3.9 p.c. as against 7.1 p.c. and 6.5 p.c.
in each of the two preceding years on the
£250,000 of ord. capital, all of which was
issued fully paid to the parent for rights
in 1923. Since surplus earnings have been
required to finance plant extensions, etc., the
ords. have thus far gone hungry, and it is
difficult to say when they will be given a
meal.
Government and municipal contracts are
the chief source of the co.’s earnings, so it
is doubtful whether a revival of the figures
need be looked for. Much will depend upon
how results pan out with the Steel Pine and
Lining Co., to which Hume Steel sold its
foreign rights for £500,000 in fully-paid ords.
a couple of years ago, and also took up
20,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. for cash. The
parent put the ords. in its own accounts at
£154,528, reducing the patents item (now
£100,900) by £152,824 net. But profits can
be earned only when the plant is kept busy.
Recently the pup placed rights for S. Africa,
and the United States territory west of the


NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire*
Monobet
Bamsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting their Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,120,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment by which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited'with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care. *
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £39,023,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Watch Your
Step f
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
JANUARY NUMBER ON SALE
SATURDAY, JANUARY 3.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-corrosive, no matter what
type of liquid it carries. This fact, linked with its
small cost, ease of handling and simplicity of instal-
lation, makes it the logical conduit 'for all mining
purposes. .Interesting details of the service rendered
by Pioneer Wood Pipe under the most gruelling con-
ditions will.be posted free on request. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co.,' Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge)', Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Vic-
toria.— Advt.
*- * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
.401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
WILD CAT PAR ADVT.—DEC. 10 and 24.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the' Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN" BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Mississippi; also plant lias been shipped
to England, and British Columbia and the
Hawaiian Islands are expected to be added
to the list presently.
The next table shows the financial position
and other things :
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £302,010 £305,670 £305,670 £305,670
Liabilities . . 17,343 44,250 80,670 102,062
Freehold, etc. 3,975 9,792 16,688 18,785
Plant . . 17,680 59,375 82,246 92,152
Stocks. . . . 7,758 25,069 56,526 24,602
Contracts . . 23,960 26,397 17,950 32,098
Book debts . . 5,433 15,704 15,494 36,460
Cash & deposits 7,563 24,339 9,555 7,089
Shares in other
cos 154,584 166,528 174,528
The debt, which was £lBl3 in excess of the
more or less liquids when the books closed,
is largely a family matter. It includes
£50,661 at call from the Hume Pipe Co. and
£21,465 advanced by the Singapore Hume
Co. on joint account. The brightest features
are the growth in the; contract and book
debt items, and the reduction. in stocks.
The prefs.—there are 50,000 A’s and 5670
B’s—carry a non-cumulative 10 p.c., which
was nearly three times covered by last year’s
net profit, and they advance with the ords.
in any distribution the latter may receive.
The A shares fetch 16s. on the market; at
which figure the return is 12.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c., div. basis. All shares rank equally
for capital.
The D.I.C.
All Maoriland knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand, Ltd.,
by those initials.
r~ -Dividends % Bonus
Pref. to Share- Re-
Aug., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. , holders, serves,
1920.. 37.166 7,950 10 p.c. = 11,766 1,126 113^38
Transferred to capital, £59,000 .. ~ 54,438
Premiums on new shares, £6O .. .. 54,498
Loss. To Reserves.
1921.. 5,314 14,784 Nil 34,400
Reserve additions, £lO9 .. .. .. '34,609
Profit.
1922 . .19,242 15,000 5 p.c. = 8,855 29,896
Premiums on new shares, £ll .. .. 29,907
1923.. 37.785 15,000 7 p.c. = 12,405 10,380 40,287
Reserve additions, £149 .. .. .. 40,436
1924.. 42.823 15,000 9 p.c. = 15,977 11,846 52,282
1925.. 51.155 15,000 10 „ „ 17,781 18,374 70,656
Premiums on new shares, ,£6B .. .. 70,724
1926.. 48.982 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,802 16,180 86,904
1927.. 46,905 15,000 10 „ „ 17,827 14,078 100,982
1928.. 15,000 10 ~ „ 17,852 9,938 110,920
Profit on sale investments, £2580.. 1 .. 113,500
1929.. 45.027 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,878 12,149 125,649
1930. .40,547 15,000 10 „ ~ 17,918 7,629 133,278
Maoriland has not felt the pinch nearly so
much as Australia has. The loss of income
from primary products is reflected in
secondary and distributive industries, of
course; but mutton and dairy-produce
prices have not suffered to the same extent
as those for wool, wheat and metals. More-
over, the burden of the public debt service
is less distressing to business activity in the
Dominion than in the Commonwealth.
Indeed, with the assistance of extra dis-
play and trading facilities, this Dunedin-
controlled concern was able to push turnover
higher than ever during the 12 months cov-
ered by the last accounts. More space
was provided at headquarters, additions and
improvements were made to the Christchurch
and Wanganui premises, and the fine new
seven-storeyed building, which houses the
Wellington branch, was completed toward the
close of the previous term.
So, though prices were a bit finer, gross
profits (£295,847) sprang £26,489. But
owing to the added cost of trading from
larger premises, and an extra £BOOO set aside
for the taxgatherer, exes, took all the in-
crease and £4480 besides. Still, after handing
the prefs. their £15,000, there was enough
to show 14.2 p.c. on average capital as
against 16.8, 15.6, 17.9, 19.1 and 20.3 p.c.
back to 1925. So the ords. got their 10 p.c.
again, and a comfortable margin remained
for reserves, lifting them to £133,278 at
August 20.
The lay-by and £250,000 of pref. capital
calling for only 6 p.c. means that total
funds (capital and reserves combined) as
they stood at the close of accounts had to
net only 5.8 p.c. to meet the pref. require-
ments and provide 10 p.c. for the ords. Actu-
ally average funds turned in a clear 7.3 p.c.
last year. However, the trend of prices is
downward, and 67.2 p.c. of the balance-sheet
total was represented by fixed assets at Aug.
20 as against only 34.7 p.c. three years
earlier, which means a lively turnover if
satisfactory results are to be won. Much
will depend upon the extent to which over-
head can be restrained, and upon shrewd
buying and clean stocks.
The co. has gone substantially into debt
to finance its building programme, as this
next table shows: —
1920. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Pref. capital.. £236,795 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital.. 117,792 178,337 178,875 179,337
Liabilities .. 215,707 99,326 273,283 285,700
Stocks .. 298,073 213,287 211,968 180,944
Book debts .. 91,801 80,344 96,352 99,350
Premises, plant,
etc. .. 134,834 226,954 539,461 587,393
Investments and
cash .. 176,115 133,386 5,403 6,046
Since the close of accounts in 1927 £360,439
has been added to the book value of pre-
mises, and the amount coming to sundry
creditors has been increased by £156,374.
Investments and stocks were drawn upon for
the balance. During the last 12 months the
shrinkage in the more or less liquid surplus
(now only £640) was £39,800. No hint is
given as to what amount, if any, of the
debt is fixed.
At 20s. the fully-paid 10s. ords. return the
investor 5 p.c. The pound prefs., which
carry a fixed cumulative 6 p.c. and have
priority as to capital, are priced at par. Last
year’s profit was over 2h times their annual
requirements, and the backing amounts to
£2 ss. 2d. in net tangibles. Each fully-paid
ord. share is covered by 17s. 4d. in net
tangibles.
Exchange and the Farmer
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I understand that in some way or other
I, as a wheat-grower, benefit by the high
foreign exchange rate. How? If I do benefit,
and the rate was increased, would I get a
greater benefit? And is there any limit to
the process? —694a.
. Australian Governments and private indi-
viduals have to make large payments abroad,
some for goods, bought in overseas markets,
some for interest. On the other side there
are large payments to be made for Aus-
tralian products exported overseas. At
present the exports do not pay. for the im-
ports and our interest; therefore there is
competition for the money realised abroad
for Australian products. This' competition
results in a premium being offered for money
in London by those who have to pay bills
there-or . elsewhere overseas. This , premium
less certain charges belongs to the exporters
of the Australian goods. The goods. are
mostly bought in Australia; but, knowing
that £lOO in English money is at present
worth £lO9 or more in Australian money,
the buyers (in theory at any rate) raise
their bids accordingly. If a producer shipped
his own goods to, say, London, he could
certainly get £lO9 or more in l Australia
for every £lOO his shipment brought in the
foreign market. When a foreign buyer does
the . shipping, some body gets the same
premium; but it is not always possible for
the producer to tell whether he gets it, or
any part of it. The higher the rate, the more
there is for somebody.
A premium of this sort obviously means
that the Australian £ is not. worth as much
as an English £, and the higher the rate
rises the less the Australian £ is worth.
So long as the Australian producer is not
charged more for what he has to buy, he
benefits, or should benefit, by these rises.
But as the value of the Australian £ falls,
charges are liable to be increased in order
to compensate for the falling value of the £.
Also his taxes have to go up, because every
1 p.c. increase in the exchange rate means
£360,000 added to the foreign-debt charges.
Where his own charges are fixed he is the
gainer. If, for example, a farmer shipped
wheat that brought £lOOO in London, after
paying all charges, for his £lOOO there he
could at present get about £llOO in Aus-
tralia. But though' the Australian £ is
thus worth less than par, a mortgage, for
example, remains as it was: if it was for
£lOOO, the mortgagor has to pay back only
£lOOO even though the value of the Austra-
lian £ has fallen one-tenth or more.
There is no limit to this process. Gener-
ally we think of inflation as something pro-
duced by setting the note-printing presses to
work furiously. But it never begins like
that. It only ends like that.
The Broken Hill Mines
As The Bulletin expected, the Broken
Hill unions turned down the mining cos.’
proposals: at a mass meeting the refusal of
the terms offered was “unanimous.” But
of course that.means nothing; Horatius, the
Roman gentleman who kept, the bridge,
mightn’t have had the pluck to ■ say. “No”
when a majority shouted “Yes” at Broken
Hill.
The mining cos.’ representatives probably
didn’t expect anything else, though they
might have hoped for it. The fact is that,
so long as the mines are working, any in-
crease of hours or reduction of pay is some-
thing lost, whereas, if the mines are closed
down, any settlement at all that will reopen
them will be something gained.
The world’s stocks of the Broken Hill
metals, made and in process of making, are
so enormous and the present prices so low
that the opening of the mines is not at all
attractive to any of the cos. Three of them
—North, South and Zinc Corp.—should make
a profit on the terms proposed; a fourth
—Sulphide Corp.-—'would be on the border-
line. But from the national point of view
it is highly desirable that not only these
mines but others should be productive: Aus-
tralia needs their exports as it never needed
them before. It is no use the Broken Hill
men looking forward to relief work provided
by the Government; the Government is going
to be in serious financial straits very shortly.
A large cut in pay at Broken Hill is there-
fore inevitable; perhaps a much larger cut
than the cos. lately proposed. But it ought
to be accompanied by an undertaking from
the cos. to share generously in any rise in
metal prices. The bonus proposed lately was
not so attractive as it should be.
‘‘Shale’' : Acting Federal Treasurer Lyons
is Promoting inquiry into the shale deposits
Oi Tasmania. If this means large expendi-
•ture results may not justify the outlay. The
shale beds are very extensive, but they were
laid down previous to the great diabase intru-
sion of Tasmania which disrupted all the
coal formations of the State, and they have
shared with them the intense faulting which
adds so much to the cost of working. The
shale is tough and leathery; undercutting
would be difficult, and the stuff is a brute to
shoot down. Costs are more likely to
approach the 205.-odd of Mt. Lyell than
those of the coalmines. Again, the heat con-
ductivity of the material is very low, which
means that if retorts of large capacity are
used external temperatures are likely to be
destructive to the retorts. Also the crude oil
from the shale is said to carry 5 p.c. of sul-
phur, the elimination of which is difficult and
costly; its presence spells death to internal-
combustion engines. The possible extraction,
probably a generous estimate, is given at 40
cru de per ton of shale, or a value
of 20s. per ton.
* * * *
Briseis tinmines at Derby (Tas.), the
biggest alluvial producer in the Speck, had
returned 9600 tons of black tin from the
Cascade lead before the co. was floated in
in 1900. It has since yielded over
10,000 tons of tin and paid more than half a
million in divs. to shareholders. During the
co.s last four or five years profits were
eaten up by schemes for still more tin-win-
nmg. These included the diversion of the
Ringarooma River and the building of the
Cascade dam—the latter cost about £65,000.
Then, in April, 1929, the dam burst, causing
appalling loss of life and sweeping away
most of the mine workings. A reconstruction
scheme, backed by the Tasmanian Govern-
ment’s offer to lend £25,000 free of interest,
failed, owing to lack of support in London.
So liquidators were appointed to do what
they could with the assets, which include 29
miles of races and pipe lines. Tenders were
called and the best offer, which was well
under £2OOO, made by a Launceston syndi-
cate, was accepted. The floods swept away
a lot of debris and overburden, revealing un-
suspected rich drifts of tin. The syndicate
intends to reopen the mines, but work will be
on a much less pretentious scale than for-
merly.
* * * *
“Old Warden’’: There is a breath of old
times in the news that Brisbane’s Water and
Sewerage Board has permitted prospectors
to enter on the Enoggera w r ater reserve. Colors
can be got almost anywhere round Brisbane;
years ago the wooded hills near by used to
be dotted with potholes sunk by diggers try-
ing their luck. The Enoggera reserve was par-
ticularly popular, and for 40 years and more
old hatters specked out enough to keep them
in tucker and ’baccy in the hills round the
head of the reservoir. The present conces-
sion will only be regarded in the light' of a
special trial pf the ground; it is not likely
that much will result from it.
* * * *
Westralia is but not jubilant,
about the gold bonus. It expected more.
Two cos.—Wiluna and Associated Northern
—seem quite satisfied with the bounty
in its present form. Wiluna is using it as
a lever to raise £350,000 additional capital,
and Associated Northern to persuade share-
holders that the Gimlet mine at Ora Banda,
now idle, is worth another trial. The sur-
plus gold on which Westralia will receive
a bonus at the end of 1931 is estimated at
about 150,000 ounces.
**. * *
At Larkinville, . Westralia’s, best alluvial
goldfield for ■ many years, a mile or two
oi country is now being worked, • and a
fair quantity of gold has been obtained.
Slugs range from a few dwts. to 70-odd
ounces. About 200 fortune-seekers are on
the; field. A rich quartz vein -has been ex-
posed in one lease, and 'the Ivan. Co. is
whooping because it has an option-on-the
next'block north. The gold carrier," however,
runs' east - and west.
Kalgoorlie mineowners and mineworkers
are having their usual annual wrangle over
holidays. For years the big Golden Mile
cos. have closed down for a fortnight at
Christmas, and are doing so this year. They
would prefer to rotate holidays, but the
unions refuse, notwithstanding that the
closure .entails a loss of thousands of pounds
in the cooling and firing of boilers, and is
expensive in 'other ways.
* * ‘ * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
■(Transferred -from Service Department .)
(1) In case of inflation—more' or less—
which would he safer for the investor—
(a) hank fixed deposits or (b) Government
bonds? (2) Also the idea in my head is that
the long-dated instrument would mature after
inflation was all over and things bach to
normal: is that right? —79s.
(1) Impossible to forecast. But the bank
carries risks from which the State is free.
(2) But the trouble is that things don’t get
back to where they were. Nobody ever in-
tends to do much inflation. The Austrian
kronen were 24.02 to the fl. The new unit
is the schilling, 34.585 to the £ ; and 10,000
kronen - 1 schilling. So the depositor who
put in 2402 kronen deposited something worth
£lOO. When a halt was cried to the infla-
tion, those 2402 kronen represented less than
one-fourth of 7d. There was no hanging on
for a recovery: all old debts in kronen were
wiped out with the new schillings at the
rate of 1 schilling (7d.) for 10,000 kronen.
And it was the same with the franc and the
mark and every other inflated currency. No
such cleaning up has been done in Russia,
with the result that some great optimists
still hang on to “Romanoff roubles” in the
hope that some day the monarchy will be
restored and the old notes acknowledged.
(1) What amounts has England forgiven
(a) Italy, (b) France? (2) Why?- —572.
(1) (a) The claim against Italy was for
382 millions capital and 121 millions in-
terest. The total liability was reduced to 275
millions, (b) No part of the French capital
debt was forgiven ; but the interest was fixed
very low. (2) It was urged that the debt
was incurred in a common cause; and that
the countries which had suffered no material
damage should bear some of the burden not
otherwise properly chargeable against them.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
8.F.H.: Apply to the co. Present value
of bonuses is much less than maturity value of
course; so you won’t get quite £250. But you’ve
got to remember you’ve been covered for the full
amount for years... .8.5,: In such cases everything
depends on management, and what that’s going to
be nobody knows. Wherefore the investment is highly
speculative. .. .1867: Nothing without risk; but
Government stock seems to carry least... .E.A.P.: Get
in touch with Government Geologist, Department of
Mines, Sydney... ,E. 8,: See C. G. Morton’s report
in the Nov. and Dec., 1930, issues of “Queensland
Government Mining Journal,” obtainable from Mines
Department, Brisbane A.G.K.: (1) Yes. (2) Pros-
pectus 'or articles determine that. (3) and (4)
Liability is with registered holder,' and the co. can
refuse to register a- transfer.. .-.P.5.A. ; You must
pay... .T.J.Q.: Wound up long ago.


n 1 11,1,11 1 1 i( | i |,|i| i | " i ll ii'j l " l ' 1
!
- : : (! ■ 1 ■;■•<; - . ; ,'V ; : » j ? ■■'
:" . '. *, . .■ ' ~: .a : : ■ 1 ,'" • • ■'.;. ■ .•'■■■■
*« ! -'■'. 1
t m
st
t : : ; ■•■■ V:
*5 K
111
i%
m
,i‘-'• ! > ■.!!{!■'{HMl 1 1 .L .WM , '.IA .1
.
m
;-;;;i| i) M)i|
m
. t-m
i'r
m
m
■ i
m
m
m
-
a
1 -vr*;"" ■ -■.■ .■■»; e * ■;;*-.
GOOD LOOKS - FINE QUALITY
THRILLING PERFORMANCE
It is easy to see why the De
Soto Six and the De Soto
Straight Eight are so univer-
sally and increasingly popular.
Both of these splendid cars
definitely, and by a wide
margin, excel in the four things
most sought for in motoring-
smart design, fine quality, out-
standing performance and low
Drice. The power range of
Doth cars is extraordinary-
great power coupled with
flashing speed and serene
smoothness—a Six and an
Eight both distinguished for
amazing ability on the road.
Make a close study of De
Soto beauty. Look at De
Soto luxury. Step inside
either the Six or the Eight
and sense its roomy, restful
comfort. Drive one and see
how easily it handles. A few
minutes at the wheel of a De
Soto and the truth will be
impressed on you that De
Soto is to-day’s great value-
giver in both the six-clyinder
and eight-cylinder fields.
I>.
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
OTO
SIXES AND
EIGHTS t f
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
New South
Victoria ...
Queensland
Wales Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
... Automobiles Proprietary, Ltd., Melbourne
Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . .
Western Australia
New Zealand
• . • • Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
T asmania
Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart.


AMAZING COUNTRY
By Margaret Fane & Hilary Lofting
A LITTLE street in Passy, dim and rich to memory, was
beckoning Hyacinthe Pecochet, though the wall of
a kitchen garden in Elizabeth Bay was round him
and the waters of the harbor glittered at his feet. Through
the smoke of his Caporal cigarette he saw the tall houses
with perhaps a concierge sweeping lazily in the sunshine,
the boucherie leaf-covered and discreet at the comer, the
fruit-shop, the little cafe. His father, white-haired,
bearded, magnificent, was the patron of this cafe; this
street was the Rue de la Tour—from its crown before the
boucherie doorway you could see the Tour Eiffel across
the hallowed Seine; upon its lower end the gates of Paris
impinged dreamlike from the green glory of the Bois.
Seeing this beauty of old times Monsieur Pecochet’s eyes
were bright with longing and hope.
Over there one disposed oneself in a smooth, sym-
pathetic pattern of life. If the occasion demanded, one
was romantic, even poetic. One regarded one’s neighbors’
sorrows with concern and compassion; one paused for the
grace of life to say its word of comfort. The ceremony
had its true and great value. And the heart, and the music
of human speech. And the stomach.
Reaching the stomach, Monsieur Pecochet inhaled
deeply, his weary smile saddening this garden in Sydney.
Australia’s criminal indifference to the stomach was the
source of all its affronts to Heaven, he knew, without
doubt; but one could not force intelligence upon the
stomachs of a nation. Himself, in two months or three
he would walk up that Street of the Tower and enter
that cafe. The scene would be not without beauty and
passion. One would weep, doubtless; and all the world
would embrace one. It would be a drama of rejoicing;
the radiant word would go forth that Hyacinthe was
returned from his two years’ exile in strange unconscionable
lands, and all the world would come to shake his hand,
embrace him, drink with him, weep tears of joy and
relief upon him. So would end, in laughter and beauty, an
evil dream. In the evening, when the lights were lit and
the room was mellow with affection and sympathy, the old
father would sit opposite him at his favorite table in the
window and demand the story of his exile.
Monsieur Pecochet stirred on his bench in the after-
noon sun and threw away his cigarette. What could he
tell the old father? That long ago, in the black, years, an
Australian soldier had told him that Paris was, as it were,
but a wart upon the beautiful neck of Sydney; that this
soldier’s strange, alluring tale of the ravishing wonders of
Sydney had haunted him long after the black years were
well past, had come back to haunt him again and again?
That much the old father already knew, as also of the
visit of Monsieur and Madame Dane, of Elizabeth Bay,
Sydney, to drink a cup of coffee in the little cafe. Also
of his, Hyacinthe’s, conversation with them, and their
awakening once more that old dream of the beauty and
charm of Sydney. Likewise of his following the dream and
returning with them to Sydney as their chef. All that
was two years ago, and the father knew it well; one could
not satisfy him by recounting it again.
No. He would demand the story as from then on—
the manner of the people in Sydney, the new dishes
Hyacinthe had learned. The manner of the people!
the new dishes! Above all, he would wish to know if
his son had been happy in that beautiful land. Happy!
The manner of the people—how could he, Hyacinthe,
deny that it was harsh, flippant, indifferent? Did a chef
fise to the very apex of achievement in the art that was
part of his soul—“Goodo!” they said, smiling grimly,
and passed on without another word. Did this poor artist,
his heart torn in a frenzy of despair, expire in torment at
their feet—“ Hard luck,” they said, and passed on without
another word. Beauty, charm, grace was nothing to them;
“Let’s get on with the job!” they said. Sorrow and
romance, the extremes of joy and misery, the dark shadow
of Death—these equally were nothing to them. Even in
SETTING HIM RIGHT ABOUT THAT.
“I hear she is a great entertainer!”
“Entertain ? Why, she couldn’t entertain an idea!”
smiling their eyes mocked. And their stomachs! How
their hardy stomachs mocked!
A man of sentiment and feeling must live in his own
solitude in this amazing country. This he must tell, as
gently as might be, to the old father at that warm table in
the window while Paris, that wart of the Digger’s home-
sickness, shimmered in her music and affection just beyond
the doorway of the cafe. Soon now he would hear that
music, feel that affectionate, comforting hand. All was
arranged and his decision made, his passport applied for.
For two years he had endured; now he would go home to
the city and the hearts that thought well of him.
If the father pressed the matter of the new dishes
he had learned or the other matter of his happiness in these
two Australian years, he
would conceal what he
could of the shameful truth
in order that no blight
should mar their reunion.
How could he tell him that
a true chef, an artist, must
break his heart in this crude
country, that food here is
but food and nothing more,
as in the stable or the farm-
yard? New dishes! And
happiness!
But the father would see
how his son’s eyes were
bleak with painful memories,
and he would forbear to
question further. “Some
tragedy has aged my son,”
he would tell himself, “and
I will be silent lest I reopen
the wound. I am a man of
sentiment, and I know what
is due to the feelings of
others” Thus the faint
beloved music of Paris,
sighing enchanted through
the cafe doorway, would be
undisturbed by any pain.
Aristide Blanc from the
boucherie would enter, em-
brace him and suggest an
aperitif on the Boulevard des
Italiens.... He would ex-
cuse himself to the father;
and through evening Paris
through the jewelled dusk,
he and his friend of boy-
hood would make their way.
They would walk to savor
this beauty at leisure. Up
the Avenue de la Grande
Armee....
He was conscious that
Miss Christina Dane had
entered this kitchen garden,
had paused by the grey
lavender bush. This Miss
Christina... .petite, charm-
ing, delicious; the one note
of grace in this harsh tumult.
In Paris she would be a
lovely memory. For one
thing, she understood to eat,
was intelligent to criticise a
work of art. For another
she came sometimes into
this walled garden in the
afternoon to practise her
French with him, and her
accent was good and made
him forget Australia for a
moment at times. Also
But she approached. He was on his feet, bowing.
“No, sit down again, mon cher chef,” she said, seating
herself and turning to him. Her eyes, as always, seemed
too big for her littleness. “You will be on your way home
to Paris soon now.”
He bowed again. “To my regret,” he told her steadily.
A smile flickered in the large wistful eyes. “I don’t
think so, Monsieur Pecochet. You will be glad to go. You
don’t like Australia.”
Before his horrified protest could find words she was
continuing. “But that is because you don’t know it, I
think. You judge by the city, which is not the
real Australia. For that you must know the
country, where the true Australians are made,
where the work is done.”
He shuddered in spirit, but smiled hardily at
her. It was absurd for her to be speaking of
work while her dainty hands plucked at lavender
stalks.
“You don’t believe me, I know. And perhaps
you wouldn’t like it very much in the country,
if you did know it. To a Parisian, used to the
graces and the—the gentlenesses, it would seem
hard.”
Being much of her opinon, even in his ignorance
of the country, he let this pass also in smiling
silence, while he watched the wistful shadow
in her eyes. She, too, was bruised, his sensitive
artist’s spirit told him
“It is hard,” she went on. “But it makes
men, you know, Monsieur Pecochet, the kind of
men that Australia needs.” The shadow deep-
ened. “Sometimes too hard, perhaps But you
can see that we want strong, vigorous work
before we can ask for gentleness.”
Her voice had dropped. A man of sentiment,
he could feel sorrow in the air. His heart rose
in rebellion. Sorrow for him, yes—he had asked
for it! But for her, so small and sweet —never
in life!
“For example, Mr. Raymond Benton, who
comes here—so often.” The shadow was deeper yet. “He
was born and brought up in the country; had to do with-
out things and work hard, you know, on a farm, before
he was able to come to Sydney and do the work he wanted.
He is doing it now; he thinks of nothing but Australia and
Australia’s good. Nothing at all. There is nothing for
him but his work. And those are the men Australia
wants”
She paused and flushed suddenly, falling silent.
He had seen her in the garden and on the terrace
listening to this young man, this Monsieur Benton, who
was a politician and was always talking. He knew him,
also; iq Monsieur Benton’s desire to be always talking he
had come sometimes to compliment the chef upon a dish.
A young man full of life and personality, distinguished,
disturbing; a very pronounced young man who had plenty
of time to talk, and yet, one could see, worked all the
hours he was awake. Talking about the dishes he did not
at all understand, he seemed somehow to be addressing
YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
INQUISITIVE OLD GIRL: “You was driving past our place with a lady yesterday, Doctor
FAMILY DOCTOR: “Yesterday — oh, yes, Mrs. Smithson senior.”
INQUISITIVE OLD GIRL: “Well, did she now? I didn’t know she knew me.”
multitudes—and still to be working ferociously all the time.
“He has the golden dream of statecraft, Monsieur
Pecochet. And there is no room for anything else. He
was here last night and he talked about Alfred Deakin
until he went away.” Her voice was abstracted and solitary
now. “He dines here on Thursday, and he will talk about
his work again until he goes away. It is his work, you
see. And on Friday Igo to New Zealand with my mother.
Thursday’s will be a—a farewell dinner, mon cher chef.
Make it a good one, please.” The shadow of her voice
faded away.
Very tenderly Hyacinthe Pecochet received these
words. There was a bloom upon them, despite their
sorrow, a bloom with which he, as a man of sentiment,
was en rapport. The bruised heart of this lovely Madem-
oiselle Christina! And that impossibly stupid young
man coming here to talk about his work! His work! Was
he blind, the ingrate? But this was serious. In effect,
one bruised heart had turned to another for compassion
and the help of comfort. It was not so confessed, naturally.
But a man of feeling did not need it to be confessed.
He sighed, glancing at her. That poor little one, so
like a drooping flower, with her branches of lavender and
her sweet eyes. This was Tuesday, and on Friday she
would be gone; and that big ingrate would be lonely for
her submissive listening to his talk and would find it
elsewhere. Then, behold! the tragic finale!
She rose. “I must go in,” she said. “Give us a good
dinner, please, Monsieur Pecochet. Soon we shall be
hungry for your good dinners, you must remember. Au
revoir.”
Ah, there w r as the graceful word—they would be hungry
for his skill! She smiled faintly and turned; his eyes
watching her go were dim. So small and delicious in this
harsh country !
But something must be done. He shook his head,
returning slowly to his kitchen, his eyes now narrowed
in thought. It should be possible for something to be
done, as from one wounded heart to another. To-night
he must devote himself very seriously to thinking of this.
Something, some wayward quality in the ’Loo, appealed
to Hyacinthe Pecochet. At the far end of the Boulevard
Beaumarchais and on the fringes of La Butte and Mont-
martre lived people like these of Sydney’s lower waterside
—lazy, watchful, contented in danger and poverty, and
taking life always as it came. Delinquent, doubtless, and ?


problem to the police and to the Raymond Bentons, for
example; criminal and more than a mere problem a.t times
m the hidden lanes behind the idle broken houses; but
with a dusty childlike smile, as of a bad boy who yet was
kind and friendly. It was a thing hard to define; but the
place took his heart, as it were, so that often between
lunch and dinner he walked through the quiet prosperous
security of Elizabeth Bay and Potts Point and down the
steps into the careless poverty. Here he loitered, looking
into the dingy shop-windows and letting the atmosphere
steal down upon him with its half-happy, half-sorrowful
mystery, its feeling of epitomised life. The wayward some-
thing made it worth while to wander about these shabby
streets, and to do no more than that with one’s time of
rest between lunch and dinner—to walk up out of the
noisy indifferent charm with a dim regret into the silent
stolid riches of Potts Point and Elizabeth Bay.
. But to-day his loitering had an object. Sometimes in
these afternoons he had seen that self-centred young man
Raymond Benton striding masterfully through here —en
route, no doubt, from Macquari e-street or Bridge-street
to his flat in Potts Point, and walking for the exercise. He
had breathed a fervent prayer that Monsieur Benton would
not neglect this healthy routine to-day. If his prayer was
answered it was his purpose to engage Monsieur Benton in
conversation—never a difficult thing to do.
The night’s thought had been not without fruit. As
a greater than he had written in imperishable words, the
touchstone of life was the stomach. For all beauty, grace,
inspiration, we turn in the last resort to the stomach, as in
the crises of life we find in this paramount stomach our
solutions.
Some great souls do more than understand to eat.
To eat is their theme, the inspiration of their days. They
are the elect, immune from all wordly problems; to cook
for them is the highest peak of ambition. Below them
come those who understand to ea.t, who may be cajoled,
flattered, delighted. Below, far below, these come the
poor souls who do not understand to eat, who would seem
to be as immune as the elect in their sanctuary.
Monsieur Pecochet applied Brillat-Savarin’s theory of
the all-embracing stomach. By a process of delicate reason-
ing he reached the solution. As a boy, even if he must
unhappily belong to Monsieur Pecochet’s third and lowest
class, the Australian was sincere, sympathetic, romantic.
Only ambition, achievement, made him hard, inaccessible,
blind, as a man. One would make him, then, a boy
again to give him eyes. How? By the stomach! By the
dishes his mother prepared, to which he ran, hungry from
the fields, and which his stomach will never forget!
Hyacinthe Pecochet repeated his fervent prayer, and
awaited the issue with hopeful tranquillity.
His prayer was gi'anted in full measure. Monsieur
Benton, coming purposefully across from the Domain,
almost ran into the arms of Monsieur Pecochet, who raised
his hat and greeted him.
“Ah, the undecorated Cordon Bleu! And in the ’Loo!”
Mr. Benton smiled in his vivid way. “What have you been
up to? Going my way?”
Monsieur Pecochet fell into step beside him. “I like
the ’Loo,” he told Monsieur Benton sedately.
“Yes, the ’Loo might be worse. Bit of a pickle,'
though. I say, how does that Paris arrondissement system
work—l mean, as from the private citizen’s point of view?
Talk French to me—slowly; lam a fool at French—l can
read it, but that’s all. I imagine that twenty mayors for
one city—one for each arrondissement—must be a bit of
a dog-fight at times. But Paris is practically English now,
so perhaps they are learning to calm their transports. I’d
like to have a look at the system on the spot.”
“You do not know Paris, Monsieur?”
“No. Born in Australia and never been out of it. Too
young to get a free trip in 1914, and too busy ever since.
My mother always wanted to show me Yorkshire, but it
couldn’t be done. I say, what’s to stop them tearing up
those cobbled streets and putting down asphalt or wood-
block? Barring the boulevards and avenues, every street-
in Paris is cobbled. That’s mediaeval. And you can't
drain, to say nothing of the wear and tear. They waste
the cost of asphalt or wood-block every year in wear-and-
tear. And that taxation of foreign visitors”....
As he had expected, there was much of this for Mon-
sieur Pecochet to endure in patience while he waited
politely for some small opportunity. It was not his part
to judge this young man’s worthiness of the high destiny
he could not see; Mademoiselle Christina, that drooping
GUESSED IT IN ONE.
COUNTRY MAYOR (reading prepared speech) : “This brings us to the er-um-m”
TOWN CLERK ( prompting): “Crux of the matter.”
MAYOR ( whispering ): “Crux? What do ’ee mean by crux? Do ’ee mean guts?”
wistful rose, had chosen him. Presently, mounting the
steps into Macleay-street, the shadow of an opportunity
emerged.
“Your mother wished you to see Yorkshire, Monsieur
Benton?”
“Yes.” For a moment Monsieur Benton’s face was
quiet and young. “She came from Yorkshire, and never
forgot the place, never lost her love of it. Lots of ways
she had of keeping it alive—flowers in the garden, cooking
special Yorkshire dishes”
“Special Yorkshire dishes, Monsieur?”
The youth in Raymond Benton’s face glowed and
grinned. “Mjf word, yes! You want to come in from a
day’s ploughing and find a hot-pot and a pile of raspberry
shortbreads and some Moorside vegetable soup to break
the ice!”
This first part of Monsieur Pecochet’s work was done.
“In effect, one believes, Monsieur, that the cobblestones
remain as a souvenir, perhaps, of old times. It is a matter
of sentiment, you understand, of which Paris is doubtless
the highest exponent”
But the cookery-books were reticent as to this York-
shire hot-pot. When he did find it, on a “‘sultry summer
da.y in Sydney, and read its component parts, his spirit
seemed to wither. This was to insult, not only the stomach
but also the high gods; the resultant certain death was
CONFIDENCES.
“My wife’s dancing is almost divine.”
“My husband’s doesn’t fall far short of it, either—only misses by a couple of feet.”
surely a small punishment. The raspberry shortbreads
were harder still to find, but easier to imagine as food
for human consumption; they even had a certain elephan-
tine grace, perhaps, if a sufficiently skilful hand and mind
created them
At the Moorside soup, the most difficult of all for
which to find the text, he paused in panic. “Could this
be?” he demanded of his bewildered soul. This was not
a soup; it was a week’s rations for a regiment of Ger-
mans! Very white and still, he read once more the long
list of the terrifying ingredients, while a slow undying anger
rose in him. Sentiment and feeling demanded that he
should do it, he told himself bitterly; but one artist was
like to die of shame.
Night, soft and starry-eyed, filled the kitchen garden.
One could believe that this caporal-perfumed quietude
dreamed in a garden in Auteuil or Neuilly, so gracious
was its tranquillity. That dinner was at last eaten; now 7
the crime of its creation could be forgotten or at least
ignored. One doubted that it could ever be forgotten; yet
if it attained its object, that was one small thing to set
against the horror of it.
Even now that sweet flower and Raymond Benton
walked back and forth together on the terrace. And
the night was beautiful. The young man was full of
Yorkshire dishes, and a gracious sentiment would touch
and soften him; would open his eyes.
Hyacinthe Pecochet had done his work; now remained
this garden, Paris to anticipate, and the far hope of for-
getting Yorkshire for ever.
The little gate in the
corner clanged softly. In
the moonlight she paused,
as of old, by the lavender-
bush, beside her the tall
dark figure of the young
man whose low voice was
making a music for her.
(Regard then those grey
flowers, thou lovely one!
Touch them softly in thy
dreams that Hyacinthe Pe-
cochet, an obscure artist,
has made for thee! No
flower but is dimmed and
lost beside thyself!)
They approached, the
young man still murmuring
steadily.
... .“And if Deakin, who
is the one big selfless man,
can say this”....
What was this? She
drooped; her eyes were
wide, weary with tragedy.
Forlorn and hopeless, help-
less!
Monsieur Benton saw
Hyacinthe Pecochet. “Ah,
Monsieur le chef —I am
going home now, but I
could not leave without
coming to thank you for the
compliment of the York-
shire dinner. It was great!”
Monsieur Pecochet bowed in stunned despair. He
was going home! And to-morrow she embarked for New
Zealand! His spirit reeled. And her face, her lovely tragic
face Oh, this was too much—it was to cut the throat!
The man was a dolt, an ape! Hyacinthe Pecochet’s eyes
searched her face again in the shadows. He had failed!
“That hot-pot was wonderful. It will be a memory
for me when I’m lonely, after my friends have gone. I
shall miss this house and its welcome.” For a moment
the young man’s self-assurance seemed to falter and
Mademoiselle Christina looked up suddenly, watching him
while a puzzled half-unhappy lo °k grossed his confident
face. For this moment he was a young man bewddered a
a loss. He recovered. But I shall always lemembei that
hot-pot. .
He smiled vividly and turned to her. I mustn t keep
you here talking. You want to prepare for to-morrow.'
That puzzled unhappiness flickered again into his ? eyes,
“You’ve got a good deal to do, Christina, I expect?”
The f ocd) t h e fool! He was going! Surely one would
swoon in this crisis!
M „ tprir , pd nut of the shadows
vohL lie disS
, ' ’ W r>t f ,L pd Monsieur Benton and he
S e SM\S e J t e L™ ttlied Monsieur Benton, and tie,
spen-Douna, smieu au xei.
So little, so heroic, in fiery courage, there in the moon-
light! Hyacinthe Pecochet’s spirit bowed down and was
stilled. This was the very mountain-top of crisis, the holy
of holies.
“I know very little about the dream of statecraft,”
she said (how her gaze enfolded him), “but I can make a
hot-pot for you sometimes, if you wish.”
The world fell silent. Into the young man’s face
came, slowly, that look of quiet youth, before wonder and
beauty took its place. His confidence vanished in radiance.
He took a step forward, humbly.
“Why, Christina!” he whispered.
Her arms outstretched to him. “My dear!” she told
him, her voice dim and sweet, like bees among the lavender.
Very softly Hyacinthe Pecochet left this garden.
In his room a haggard chef stared at him from the
mirror. Amazing—beyond words amazing! He had failed;
all his thought and work were a nothing. And behold!
That little! one took the situation in her own hands.
One had failed, had been too clever. But how magni-
ficent that small rose, so proud and simple, so firm
That one could never forget; the shadow of Death would
find him still remembering that. Not in Paris could one
hope to see —Paris —Paris? The haggard chef in the glass
looked uncertainly at him. He had been caught up, his
spirit lifted to the heights; and Paris had faded. A man
of sentiment, his soul had been shaken with glory, the
glory of that little Australian one. Yet in this amazing
country they did not understand to eat. That cried to
Heaven....
The cook in the glass smiled, his haggardness vanish-
ing. A man of sentiment must be consistent. One could
doubtless teach them to eat. A small restaurant, perhaps,
in one of those wayward shabby streets in the ’L00....
THE WHEAT.
A sound like a long sigh, in the silence cleaving
The thick-set airy aisles
Of bearded grain, whose curtesying ranks are weaving
The carpet of the miles;
The chime of multitudinous carillons
Of pixie music siveet —
So the rippling scale of the long wind runs
Cool fingers through the wheat.
A town of tumbling towers and slender spires.
A sea whose shallows pale
Take the warm tint of noonday’s yellow fires;
A shimmering flood where sail
The lazy shadows of the large white clouds,
Now drifting aimlessly,
Loosed from their mooring, to the haze that shrouds
The coast of that wide sea.
No emerald bays where the mocking mirage follows
The dancing heat of day,
Where the stunted mallee sweeps to the burnt-up
hollows
And the she-oaks bend and sway.
In the breath of summer harps of the bare brown
spaces,
Thrumming low in the rain
Of sunlight the sad songs of the lonely places
Over and over again.
But in days like these, when light and shadow stipple
The level flats unfurled;
When the wind blows up from the south, and the
green miles ripple
To the golden end of the world; ■*
Beneath a sky of soft Australian blue.
I hear the slow heart-beat
Of the long winds, telling their ancient stories to
The acres of the wheat.
victoria.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
i m
mv
mMw
IIM
P
I-I
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£2O
18et. Gold and Platinum,
£l5/15/-
DIAMOND
RINGS
Fairfax and Roberts’
Diamond Rings represent
the keenest possible value.
We buy direct from the
markets of the world, and
choose diamonds for their
color, fire and brilliance.
These are mounted in hand-
fashioned settings of ex-
clusive beauty. Fx & R
Diamond Rings are offered
at pre-tariff prices, and no
better value is procurable.'
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£ l2/12/-
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£l5/15/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
fdgdg
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ABORIGINALITIES
“Dux” : Old Henare Pipiwhauroa, accom-
panied by his missus and about 20 of the
tribe, invaded my pharmacy and opticiancy,
and after a great deal of eye-testing Henare
departed with a pair of spectacles, guaran-
teed to suit or money back. The register
cheerfully recorded fl. Two da-re later
Henare’s missus and 50 dusky natives greeted
me when I arrived at the shop. One and all
demanded the return of the pound. Above
the din I demanded to know what was the
matter with the spectacles. “No good,” said
HE DIDN’T ENVY SOCRATES.
“Why, you’ve got a head like Socrates, Jacky!”
“No plurry wonder! Bin drinkit ’bout tub o’ rum last
night!”
Henare’s missus: “Henare no see with
them.” Henare’s brother-in-law, with much
gesticulation, corroborated his sister. “1
put te specs on Henare this morning,” he
shouted, “and Henare no see anything.”
The rest were getting into their stride with
their evidence when I settled the matter
(with a sad heart, I must admit) by refund-
ing the money. All departed gleefully, and
made for the pub. That evening I read in
the paper: “H'enare Pipiwhauroa died sud-
denly at Paraiti pa at a late hour last night.”
* * * *
“Elderly Infant”: Here’s a thing that
bigismund Freud and the other gentlemen
who insist that dreams have a
sexual origin might ponder upon.
I seldom dream, unless I have a
bad cold, but when I do I usually
have this. I am 15 years of age.
I rise very early on a bright sunny
morning. I wander along to a rail-
way-line that I’ve never seen when
awake. There stands a large glossy
locomotive with steam up. I
climb into the cab, pull levers and
turn throttles. The locomotive
starts, gathers speed, and careers
along rails that are absolutely
straight. There are no houses to
be seen; only trees and tussocks.
After the speedometer has been
registering 150 m.p.h. for half a
day a tunnel appears, and out of
that tunnel issues another locomo-
tive heading straight towards me
on the single track. There is bound
to be a fearful collision, but I
wake up in a cold perspiration just
before it happens. I thought that
dream was my very own, but re-
cently I have met three men who,
as soon as I commenced to relate
the experience, were able to tell me
the finish.
if * *
“Ilayeworray”: They were fare-
welling the bank manager in a
small bush town in northern Vic-
toria, and after prolonged toasting
and speech-making the guest of the
evening praised the district pioneers.
“What wonders these lionhearts
have worked for the present genera-
tion !” he declaimed. “But one
does not wonder that they willingly
cleared, fenced and tilled with un-
daunted courage and gratitude for
the glorious bounty given them by
Mother Nature!” (Here lie
paused for a sip from his glass.) Old
Larry Murphy opened one eye, and looked
at the speaker in disgust. “Ye’d have
been surproised ter see it as it was whin the
ould lady pasht it over!” he said.
Jfc :|c :J:
“Currawong”: A queer bird is the kagou
of New Caledonia. It is about the size
of a domestic fowl, with a crest or aigrette
and some of the characteristics of the kiwi.
It does not fly, though its wings are fully
developed, and its curiosity makes it as
companionable to man as the weka of Maori-
land. It can be trained to do many things.
A nature-lover who had some about his
home collected a dozen and taught them to
march and drill like soldiers.
* * * if
“Murrungurry” : During the first week in a
western N.S.W. shed several
of the shearers w r ere troubled
with “gammy wrists.” It
required very little moisture
overnight to make the sheep
too wet to shear in the morn-
ing, and a half-day’s spell in
the hut would follow. For
the sheepowner there were
many “vexatious delays.”
But near the cut-out, when
the men were working at top
speed to get away to another
shed, there was a fairly
heavy shower of rain one
night, and the wool next
day was too damp to bale.
The boss wanted a hold-up
for a few hours; but the
shearers decided that the
sheep were dry. “Of course,
they must be dry,” said the
disgusted woolgrower; “they
had a five-wire fence round
ibem all night!”
* * if
“Wandi”: A snake expert
says that killing snakes is a
stupid waste of one of our
great natural resources.
Snake venom is more valu-
able than gold, and instead
of the reptiles being ruth-
lessly slaughtered they should
be carefully trapped and
milked. A snake doesn’t pro-
duce much at a time, but it
can be milked twice in 24
hours —like Strawberry. It
doesn’t require a bail or a
leg rope—it is made to bite
an instrument for the extrac-
tion and reception of the
poison. A watch-glass cov-
ered with thin rubber answers the purpose.
Some snakes bite readily and viciously, but
others have to be teased.
* =!: * if
“Agamaggie”: I’m a female stock and
station agent. Up to the other day I thought
myself well-informed about stock, but I met
my Waterloo over a small black barrow.
James Jones (of Buttermilk .Farm) called
to see me. A very nervous young man is
James. H'e fingered his hat, cleared his
throat, grinned and then asked: “Can you get
me a small black barrow, Miss?” I thought
for a moment, but the only barrow for sale
THE SORROWS OF YOUTH.
“Two boys copied a sum off me, Miss.”
“Yes, but that’s nothing for you to cry about.”
“P — p—please, Miss, I got it wrong, and they can both lick me.”
that I could remember was a large one
painted tan that was in the local second-
hand shop. “No, I’m afraid I can’t get
you a small black one. I could get a large
tan one though, if that would be of any use.”
He twirled his hat again and murmured:
“No, I don’t think it would. Yer see I want
a black barrow;, and it must be small; just a
sucking pig.” Fluttering the leaves of my
ledger in a businesslike manner to cover my
confusion I burbled: “Oh, yes, I understand.
A barrow ! I am afraid I haven’t a barrow.
1 have Berksliires and Berk.-Tamworth cross,
but not a single barrow amongst the lot.”
“Well,” said Mr. Jones with a sigh, “I
expect I will have to take a sow.” I have
now entered in my sales-book in red ink: “A
barrow is a wether pig, not a breed of pigs.”
* * * s!:
“Lao-dah” : A variety of wild rubber-tree
from which the natives of Sarawak in Borneo
once obtained latex when rubber was at a
reasonable price has a remarkable domestic
economy of its own. While the buds are
unfolding and the leaves are tender and
undeveloped, a nectar is exuded by the bud
scales. When the flower opens this nectar
disappears, but the flower provides a fresh
attraction in the shape of honey, which is
distilled from two glands. The purpose of
this provision appears to be to attract a
particularly fierce variety of ant, with which
the tree swarms. In return for a monopoly
of the food supply the ants keep off all
other insects, especially the leaf-cutters, who
cut circular umbrellas out of the young leaves
and carry them off above their heads, like
so many pedestrians scuttling through the
rain.
* * * *
“Uramao”: According to ancient Maori
custom, when one of the tribe attains rank
of sufficient elevation his relations are quite
-within their rights in digging in on him. The
other day in Taranaki a native pecuniarily-
embarrassed was before the magistrate, who
asked him how many of a family he had.
“Apout six,” he replied, scratching his head.
“Te wife, te wife’s sister and her two chir-
ren, and my cousin. I tink tat all.” Some
time ago a lady of rank was sued by a boot-
maker for 20 pairs of boots of divers sizes
and fashions. Her explanation was that all
her relatives living in her house had their
accounts sent to her, which pleasantry she
took quite philosophically.
* * a *
“Pliilm” : Dad wanted to buy a suit. The
super-salesman undoubtedly knew his busi-
ness ; his voice had that ring of sincerity and
confidence in his goods which comes only
after constant practice, and his sales talk
tripped off his tongue fluently, impressively.
“You want the suit you saw in the window at
seventy-five shillings? Yes, it’s tip-top value,
but look at this other one we are _ putting
out to-day at ninety-five. Examine the
finish, the style, the fit. Too_ mucli?
My dear sir, just feel the difference
between the two materials; this is a
suit that will give you two years extra
wear. Work it out for yourself. Its an
extra ten shillings a year, tenpcnce a month,
five ha’pence a week, less than a ha’penny
a day for the privilege of walking down the
street in a suit that tells the world it was
made for a "gentleman. Now what do you
say, sir?” Dad was impressed. “You’re
right,” he answered, “a bloke don’t wan'ter
look cheap in cheap clobber. I reckon I'll
buy that suit I saw across the road at five-
fifteen. As you say, mister, a penny a day
extra ain’t much.”
* * * *
“Honi Pikau” : Henare Waipiro, having
decided to stand for Parliament, made his
maiden speech to his constituents. “How
did you get on?” I asked him the following
morning. Henare scratched his head. “Tami-
fino ! I talk fer rong time; pout two hours;
MOST DISTRESSING.
“It’s a great comfort this strike’s over. A
man’s a nuisance flangin' around the
’ouse all days"
“Yes, they do so smell out a drop of any-
thing you might happen to ’ave about
the place.”
orra Maori say they not know what. I
talk apout.” “And what were you talking
about?” I asked. “I ton’t know, ehoa, but
I tink if I talk tat rong an’ not know,
tat orter make me te goot man for Parriar-
ment.”
THE KOALA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
High in the fork of a blue-gum tree,
A here far through the busliland he can see,
bits Booraby all day long;
Though half asleep in the noon is he,
lie harks to the wild birds’ song.
Flung over the hills that his valleys gird,
ihe warning note of the soldier-bird
Comes sharp to his listening ear,
M hen Warrigal down in his lair has stirred
And Reynard is slinking near.
He sees the brolgas that march and dance,
And quaint furred creatures that hop and
prance
In the flowerful vales below,
A parrot flock in his roof, perchance,
And a fossicking old black crow.
He quakes anon at the thunder’s boom,
That sounds above like the crash of doom,
And blinks at the lightning’s flash ;
And he tightens his grip as the brush and
broom
Are tossed by the storm-wind’s lasli.
But the sun succeeds, and the world looks
fair ;
Then he shakes the wet from his ears and
hair,
And utters a loud deep cry
That wakes the sluggards in nest and lair,
And tells them the storm’s gone by.
N.S.W.
E. S. SOHENSON.


PLAIN At A
/
s
PIKESTAFF
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a‘Mephisto*
Copying Pencil.
It lasts much longer
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, of “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame,
London Office—29, Kingsway, W.C.2
Australian Reprssentatlve—
JOHN MACDOUGALL, P.O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
dgdg
WHEN MAKING YOUR WIEE
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. &C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5 /-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131,
“WHILE SHEPHERDS WATCHED THEIR FLOCKS BY NIGHT.”
“Sea Nomad”: The Siwai people of the
Solomons are uncanny musicians. They
tune in, so they say, to
spirit orchestras, and play
melodies which they claim
they derived from worlds
millions of miles away.
Their most impressive in-
struments are carillons of
up to 20 huge, deep-toned
wooden bells with a rich
rolling sound. The chief
ringer is invariably a
solemn person with a ring
through his nose and a
library of allegedly occult
opuses in his head. At that,
heard under the right con-
ditions, the music of these
natives is weirdly appeal-
ing. Some student of
musical evolution should
go out and get a few
gramophone records and
sort out their scale.
* * *
“Wandi”: Black Brother
has his version of “a little
bird told me.” The willy-
wagtail, or black-and-white
fantail, is a friendly little
chap, that is loved by every-
one in the bush except the
abo. women. His habit of
dancing and chattering
about the camp doesn’t
appeal to them. They say
that he comes to pry into
their secrets, a supersti-
tion common to many
tribes in N.S.W. and
Queensland. . “Him too
much talk um,” they de-
clare, and their confidences
cease immediately the little
fellow appears. When the
men find out something
about them, the gins blame
Jirri .Tirri, as they call
him. When he comes jazz-
ing about the camp the gins
drive him away. But an-
other superstition saves
him from harm. The
women believe and tell
their children that if they
injure Jirri Jirri warts
will grow on their faces.
Science III.”: Since wheat flopped to two
bob a bushel at siding, I have returned
to barter. I first arranged with our
local storekeeper, a man of wealth (in
book debts) and large family (all hearty
eaters), to take a carcase of mutton a
week in exchange for groceries. I have
extended and improved the system from
time to time as it has become necessary.
For instance, next week I shall require a
man for a day to help me repair my wind-
mill. He will go home quite contentedly
A HOPELESS CASE.
CREAM-O : “Cream-o, lady?"
OLD WOMAN: “No, yer cream ain't no good. It won’t whip—Jack Dempsey couldn’t
whip it.”
with a side of mutton and the two main
leaves of an old Ford front spring. The
garage man, who is also our blacksmith,
was the only snag I struck; but he has seen
the light at last. He is to repair nortion of
my gig in return for two large cabbages, half
a case of tomatoes (they grow like mad
here), the remains of an old wheelbarrow
and 3s. 6d. in cash. H'ere a thought strikes
me. I wonder if he would take the old
rain tub instead of the 3s. 6d.? I’ll have
to give it a fly.
* * * *
“J.T.” : Touching on the ability of horses
to “see in the dark,” there’s a very natural
explanation. Ride on a pitch-dark night
along a rough track, or no track at all, and
notice how close the horse keeps his head
and sensitive nose to the ground, and, whilst
watching for obstructions immediately in
front, picks his way carefully amongst irre-
gularities underfoot. Should he find a fence,
quite invisible to the rider, he will stop or
swerve off. Or if one is off the track, he
will nose about till he finds it. Having his
head projecting beyond that of the rider
and closer to the ground, he has the advan-
tage of nearer vision. No doubt also the
long hairs on his nose, like the whiskers of
a cat, act in some measure as feelers.
:jc # H* ❖
“Gumblegubbin”: The shortage of but-
chers’ meat in Sydney recalls the days
when ’possums and wallabies were, num-
erous on the farms of the mid-eastern
rivers. During droughts, when meat was
dear and crops were poor, many a
fat ’possum graced the cocky’s table,
and wallaby hams hung with the sides of
bacon in the chimney. Wallaby and bacon
together made an excellent dish. The ’pos-
sums were plucked and soaked in salt water
all night, then stuffed and roasted like bandi-
coot or sucking-pig. Some epicures caught
them in the barns, and kept them for
a month before killing, feeding them on
lucerne, grain and peanuts. It made a won-
derful difference in the flavor, all the
eucalyptus taint disappearing.
S: t- * *
“IJp Top”: Civilisation is a matter of
bingy before brains. You can’t have a big
brain unless your ancestors had the oppor-
tunity of growing big bingies. Take our
desert abo. and the “swamp-rat” of New
Guinea. They are skinny little devils who
haven’t any arts or culture. But in both
countries, in regions where game is plenti-
ful, the natives are a finer type, physically
and mentally. The well-fed savage squats
by his slow fire, and with wrinkles on his
beetle brow painfully fashions a better-
poised spear. He invents a method of harden-
ing the wood. His hunting now takes less
time. With the leisure at his command the
well-nourished native thinks out still more
efficient hunting devices —the womera throw-
ing-stick of the Australian abo., the bow
. and arrow of the Papuan. Coastal tribes
are the most advanced, because when the
hinterland is drought-stricken they can take
their food , from the sea. A few hundred
generations' of that and they have houses,
gardens, and well-built canoes. Also they
have leisure not only to laugh and make
love, but to make songs, stories and plays
about the love and the laughter and the
hunting. And there’s the whole epitome of
human evolution.
*'* * *
“Runa”: Quicksands can swallow people.
Jackson Palmer, a not-long dead Maoriland
Native Land Court Judge, who didn’t trifle
with facts and wasn’t suspected of fictional
proclivities, used to tell a story of how, while
at Rotorua, not far from steaming Lake
Rotomaliana, he found himself in a quick-
sand. He had a nerve-shattering experience
in trying to extricate himself from the
treacherous sands, and was in a sorry plight
when help arrived. Another of Maoriland’s
quicksands is on a beach near the Waikato
bar, where some years ago venturesome
motorists drove a big car. In the heavy,
black ironsand the car began to sink with
amazing rapidity, and the occupants had
difficulty in salvaging their gear and getting
themselves out of the danger zone. The
prompt assistance of dozens of campers with
strong ropes kept the car in sight till a
team of horses was mobilised to haul it,out.
* * * *
“Burrungurry”: A Binghi witness in a
cattle-duffing case was being examined con-
cerning some cross tracks, which he declared
were those of working bullocks. The stolen
lot were station bush cattle; these, lie said,
had struck straight out from a creek into
the bush, whilst the working bullocks had
gone down the creek. He was asked how he
could tell one from the other. “Bush bullock
fresh —walk this way,” he said; and he
walked briskly across the floor, picking his
feet up cleanly at each step. “Workin’ bul-
lock tired feller—walk this way,” and he
moved wearily, dragging his feet. There
were no more questions asked on that point.
THE ROVER COMES HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Make me a song of the swaggering tales
Of old. of the sword and gun,
The song of a fight where the fist prevails,
Of the crimps, and a cut-and-run;
Give me the toast of a thousand trails,
And I’ll drink to them, every one,
Ere I give you my toast. Not the forefoot,
lads,
Nor the far ice-blink, nor the spun
Mirage on the thirsty desert edge,
But the old road home in the sun!
It’s over the hummocks and home, my boys,
The little burnt hills that lie
Under the whip of the hot north wind
With the wheat trains whistling by!
Spin me a yarn of the greybeard seas
Where the tall Cape-Horners go,
Of an orange moon in the cypress-trees
On a hyacinth coast we know,
And a knife-thrust—ha! I am done with
these,
For wherever the hot winds blow
They drum me a tune of the old road home
And the kinsfolk to and fro,
With a rub-a-dub-dub! for the comrade hills,
And the wheat-bags, row on row!
So it’s you for Lahore, and you for the Nore,
And you for the Port o’ Spain
And a sloe-eyed wench that was made for
love,
But —I’m going home again!
The road rolls north like a ribbon, grey
And smooth where it leaves the town,
Till, hard, by the paddocks of sweet-stooked
hay
As neat as the chequered gown
My mother wore on her washing-day,
The dust lies thick and brown.
Dun-gold, as a heavy braid of hair
From a weary head loosed down,
The road uncoils where the hummocks lie
lii the. distance like a crown.
And it’s over the hills in the noonday, lad,
While the heat haze hovers blue,
And away in the west the great ships rest
As the wheat, the wheat comes through:
Sing me a song of the world’s wide ways.
. I’ve followed them all, see you,
From the Skager Rack to the rocks that laze
On Penang Beach, grey-blue,
From the Tiger’s Mouth to the sampan maze
On the river Pearl, and through
The Peaks where the Irrawaddy wakes,
And back to the Isle of Clew!
And ever the great winds heel me home,
So what is a man to do?
Oh, it’s you for Lahore, and you for the Nore,
And you for the Zuyder Zee,
And you for the Lacaaive Isles, my lad,
But—who’s coming home with me?
S.A.
ROR McCONNAJA


4av» dn ,n * W
dnnjjof moH trots
Get the banking habit. The most
fascinating game in the world is
to watch small deposits grow into
large. Start now with a small
deposit.
Have a Bank Account —Keep It Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
ASSURED POSITIONS—BETTER MONEY
dgd
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
w
London Office:
95 Gresham Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
W;
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBf U R N
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SUMMER RAIN ON HARVESTED
GRAIN.
R. K. Deea : In my State, Victoria,
the wheat season has had its ups and downs,
and the old saying- that “the crop is never
safe until it is in the bank” is proving
true. The May rains put us on good terms
with ourselves, the Government and every-
body. Then the particularly dry spell up
till July caused dismay to the farmer and
a revision of estimates by experts. Further
downpours pushed the estimates up ; Novem-
ber rains alarmed the experts into taking
another pessimistic view of the yield. Since
then parts of the wheat areas have received
nearly 10 inches.
Late summer rains are always annoying.
Hay is damaged and so much time is lost
that Dad and everyone else get irritable, but
this is a mere bagatelle to the effect heavy
and prolonged rain has on the golden grain
at the harvesting period. When the crop
lias ripened off the yield, they tell you, will
not be affected; but what of the quality?
Summer rain on harvested grain can
readily increase the moisture content of the
wheat from 10 per cent, to 16 per cent.
Some farmers think this is quite all right,
for they reckon it will- amount to a gain
of about 211 b. per bushel. That is to say,
the bushel of moist wheat will only weigh
601 b. if it weighed 6211 b dry, leaving 211 b. to
go towards another bushel. Unfortunately
there are other things to be considered. The
color, brightness and general appearance of
the wheat suffer. More important still, our
wheat must either be stored in Australia
to await a rise in price or it must be shipped
at the earliest on a hot voyage overseas.
What happens? The increased moisture con-
tent promotes “heating'’ no matter whether
the grain is in the stack, silo or ship, and
the “heating” will (a) affect the germina-
tion adversely, (b) cause rancidity (which
when imparted to the flour makes it bad for
baking), and (c) produce a flour having a
high ash content undesirable to our clients
abroad.
What holds good wflth harvested or un-
harvested mature grain also applies to the
standing crop which is not ready for the
combine- —possibly in some cases to a lesser
extent. However, in the latter case there is
the danger of producing a sample of wheat
the greater portion of which is mature while
the remainder consists of immature grain—
about the worst sample we could send abroad,
for the milling quality is seriously impaired.
For these reasons I say that early summer
rains—a godsend to the grazier and dairy-
man—are a nuisance to the wheat cocky.
What can we do about it ? Three things:
(1) Grade carefully, (2) rely on the ex-
porters not to export grain containing exces-
sive moisture, and (8) organise to use as
much wheat as possible in Australia.
. SAVING COCKY CHAFF.
“Ijigny Thilloy” : It has been pointed out
in The Bulletin that cocky chaff is a valu-
able addition to the fodder supply on a wheat
farm. Sheep fatten readily on it, if salt
is kept up to them and a good (preferably
shadedi water supply is available. Cocky-
cliaffi favers, as supplied by the manufae-
tnreraf are usually galvanised-iron receptacles
w ificw can be tipped from the driver’s seat.
Thci|suantity saved can be trebled and the
"flusf .’nuisance minimised if a hood of hessian
'is added.
of wood (fence-dropper) is bolted
• to tV angle-iron supports at either side of
llie rear of the riddles or straw-walkers, and
joined with a cross piece at a height to clear
riddles or straw-walker. A hood of hessian
is now loosely stretched from this top piece
to the rear of the chaff-catcher, the sides also
being filled in with hessian. Portholes should
be tout in the hood to allow the blast from
JiiiifcW 11 t 0 get c h?ar away, carrying with it
to the rear of the _ catcher; even
’'with a following wind there is no tendency
for the chaff to accumulate at the forward
edge of the catcher.
With this hood high winds from whatever
direction do not affect the quantity of cocky
chaff saved. The device described first
appeared in our Vic. Mallee district at the
end of last season, and was soon generally
adopted.
FOLDED HEREFORD BEEF FROM
QUEENSLAND.
“Tuart” : Hats off to Mr. W. Beak, of The
Meadows, Rockhampton, whose shipment of
Polled Hereford beef to Smitlifield is so
memorable an event in the history of the
beef-export trade, and to the staff of the
iC.Q.M.E. works at Lake’s Creek, who co-
operated by dressing the carcases to perfec-
tion !
“It is many years since such high-quality
beef reached these shores from Australia,”
writes the London salesman who handled the
parcel from the steamer Surrey. “It was
free from blemish, and the dressing left no-
thing to be desired, being equal to the high
standard of the South American product.
The steer hinds were well balanced and sym-
metrical in form with an even disposition of
external fat, the internal fat not excessive.
The general tenor of the comments was
highly complimentary on the superb quality
of tlie oxen, and no difficulty was ex-
perienced in their disposal, in spite of
the fact that South American chilled quar-
ters ranged from Old. to 6fd. for hinds and
44d. to 4§d. for fores. That Queensland
should be able to produce such ideal beef
augurs well for the future of this indus-
try.”
That this was no mere partisan opinion is
evidenced by the report of Colonel Dun-
lop Young, chief meat inspector for the Cor-
poration of London: “The steer and heifer
beef was as nearly perfect as possible—as
good as any Argentine beef, and much better
than most of it arriving at present. The
dressing of carcases was very good. If
it had arrived chilled and .sufficient, in quan-
tity, i.c., constant supply, it would be a seri-
ous competitor to Argentine chilled meat.
Let us have plenty of it, Mr Beak!”
Mr. Angliss, the Vic. M.L.C., whose firm
acted as agents for the grower, writes: “The
previous consignment sent to England was
declared by the English judge to be first in
every particular and classed as superfine.
These results have never been excelled.” He
insists that the Polled Hereford breed is
ideal for beef production: “We have been
advised by scientists that the tissue required
to grow a pair of horns in four years will
produce 50lb. of beef. We get in the horn-
less animal this additional 501 b. of beef. In
the horned animal the cream of the body-
building elements are first drawn upon for
horn growth, and consequently are wasted.
In the polled animal the beef is produced
from the cream of the body-building ele-
ments, and it is the world’s best beef.”
MAORILAND GRASS SILAGE.
“Ivooroora”: Maoriland farmers put their
surplus pasturage to good use in a flush
season by converting it into grass silage.
The same practice could be adopted in any
coastal district in Australia where humidity
makes the curing of hay difficult. Moist con-
ditions will not affect the quality of the
silage, and ,not only is this form of conserved
fodder of considerable value as stock-feed,
but the cutting of it promotes a new young
growth in the paddocks.
This method of dealing with the surplus
pasturage is most suitable in country where
clovers exjst, or where grazing lucerne has
been planted and the grass lands have been
top-dressed. Almost any surplus crops of fine
stemmed grain plants such as wheat, oats,
millets or Sudan grass, “dirty” crops of
lucerne or legumes, can be added to the pas-
ture grasses with advantage. If the- silage
is to be used as a maintenance fodder, it
should be cut wdien the bulk of the crop is
showing seed heads, but if for dairy cows in
milk, better results will be',obtained by cut-
ting just before seed heads appear. Stack
silage is the most suitable for this class of
work, as the stacks can be built in the field,
without expense and at little labor cost.
The most convenient stack is about 15 feet
in diameter, and should be- not less than 10
feet in height when settled. A stack of these
dimensions should contain about ,35 tons of
silage: allow another eight to ten tons for
loss when carting to the stack. Stacks should
be built up about five or six feet the first day,
and well tramped to ensure a firm even
foundation. Cut jus£ as much fodder each
day as can be haaidleff. and stacked in
that period. Six fe'frt- -of Inch water-piping
should be driven into thtfiqentre of the stack,
and an ordinary dairy thermometer let down
inside it to test the temperature. Stacking
may be continued when the temperature
reaches 110-120 deg. Fahr. It is generally
carried out every second day, and if at any
time the temperature rises above 120 deg.,
more material should be added at once, as
this will have the effect of reducing the heat.
The grasses are cut with a mowing-
machine and raked into windrows, a two-
horse sweep being used to convey the
material to the stack. A mast stacker and
grab, worked with a horse, is a convenient
way of lifting the fodder to the top of the
stack.
Soil to a depth of about two feet at the
centre and about 12 inches at the outside
should be placed on top of the finished stack
to assist in excluding all air. This can be
kept in place by bags of soil placed all round
the outside of the stack, or by boards held
together with wire. When using the silage,
as little surface of the cut stack should be
exposed as possible.
GRAZING A PASTURE.
“Hortus”: The best method of grazing
a pasture is what is known as the new
system of rotational grazing. This consists
in having a number of small paddocks suf-
ficient to admit of each being fed down in
three or four days and then spelled until
it is ready to be fed off again. The milking
herd should be allow T ed to graze a paddock
and then removed before their production
begins to drop. The paddock should then be
evened off, either by the use of followers
(dry stock or sheep) or the mowing machine.
Half a dozen paddocks will probably suit
the average farmer. These will suffice to
supply stock with a fresh bite every three
or four days, and each paddock will there-
fore be grazed about every three weeks to
one month. Size will depend on circum-
stances. Number of stock will decide it
generally, but type of pasture must enter
into the question, too. Stocking should be
at the rate of 8 to 16 cows an acre; in other
words, for a herd of 20 to 30 cows paddocks
should be two to three acres.
There is one thing which must be con-
sidered in this system of grazing. Pastures
must be harrowed with light grassland har-
rows, such as the tripod type,' after each
grazing, in order to spread droppings. They
should also be harrow T ed (I refer to the
perennial pastures) solidly in autumn, and
possibly in the early spring, with a pasture-
cultivating implement. If it is found that
owing to an abnormal season the grass is
beating the animals, close up the paddocks
concerned and cut for grass-hay. This con-
served fodder will be valuable for hand-
feeding over periods of lean production, such
as late summer, early autumn and winter,
as well as being an insurance against bad
seasons.
HOME TESTING ON DAIRY FARMS.
“U. Murray”: While cream cheques will
give a dairyman a general idea of what
sort of milkers he has, that is far from being
sufficient. He needs to know the private
character of every cow in his yard. No-
thing can be worse management than to
idly wait the coming of organised herd-test-
ing in one’s district. Herd-testing is all
right, when it does come, though fairly
expensive; but I could name men who doubled
their cream-production before organised herd-
testing began in this hemisphere. And
these men usually spent nothing at all upon
the job.
By far the most successful breeder of dairy
stock I have ever known, the late Joseph
Keys, of Bemboka, merely kept a cylindrical
glass vessel with two file marks thereon. One
was to show the surface level of the milk,
the lower one to indicate the bottom of the
cream that rose in 24 hours from a compo-
site specimen of the milk from the entire
herd. As each new cow came in and settled
down to her work a sample of her milk was
put into this vessel; next day Keys could
see at a glance if the newcomer was above
or below 7 the average, and by how much.
Another man I know of lifted his herd in
10 years from an average of about 2001 b.
of butter-fat to over 4001 b. He did it by
keeping the milk of each cow separate on a
given day, say one month after calving.
This milk, after being “set” for 24 hours,
was skimmed and churned; the milk was
weighed and the butter when made and
washed before salting.
These men only had to keep a cursory
eye upon individual cows to see how they
“kept up to their milk,” and at the end of
the season would know practically as much
as those wdio are pestered with the monthly
visit of the official tester —perhaps more, for
some testers have no great amount of know-
ledge of their work. It is not uncommon
for a cow under their ministrations to vary
up to 50 p.c. in a month, for no visible-
reason at all. Besides, many good cows
are very nervous about being milked by a
stranger, and may, in proportion to their
usual yields, give a 25 p.c. worse showing
than a more equable beast. Both these
sources of error are cut out by home testing
in the simple ways I have indicated. What-
ever the kind of testing adopted, home or
organised, the dairyman can be assured that
he will get a series of surprises, and, if he
is like most men, will never be too ready to
trust his own unaided judgment again.
PASTURE-IMPROVEMENT AND
WOOL.
“Kooroora”: Recent Land Page pars: on
the effect of pasture-improvement on wool
quality make more interesting the results
of tests carried out for the past three years
at Young, Grenfell and Bungendore
(N.S.W.). The rate of stocking at Young
and Bungendore was one sheep to the acre
for both natural and top-dressed pastures.
At' Grenfell one sheep per acre was fed on
the natural pasture and one and a half sheep
per acre on the top-dressed area.
In the trial at Young this year, the sheep
on the top-dressed area appeared to be a
more even lot, but the fleeces showed no
variation, and were worth 13s. 9|d. in each
case. At Bungendore the sheep on the top-
dressed area remained in consistently better
condition; and at the conclusion of the test
averaged 71b. heavier than those on the
natural pasture. The value of the fleece on
the natural pasture in this case was 15s. lid.
per sheep (or per acre) and 15s. 71d. per
sheep on the top-dressed land. The wool
from the top-dressed area was of slightly
bolder growth and more condition, with a
greater average weight of wool per sheep,
but the valuation was Id. per x >oun d less
than that from the natural pasture.
At Grenfell, owing to dry conditions, both
lots of sheep had to be run on natural pas-
ture from the middle of April till the end
of June; and between March and August
the sheep run on the unmanured land lost
an average of eight pounds per head. The
wool from the top-dressed area was found to
be better grown, slightly broader in quality,
and better nourished.
The wool from the natural pasture was
valued at 12s. per sheep; from the top-
dressed land, 12s. 5.6 d. per .sheep, or 18s. Bd.
per acre.
'Phe conclusions to be arrived at are that
there is not likely to be any gain per sheep
in the value of wool from top-dressed pas-
tures, but owing to the increased carrying
capacity of the land there should be very
considerable increase in the return per acre,
as evidenced by the Grenfell test.
POTASH AS A FERTILISER.
“Wilt” : .There appears to be considerable
doubt about the value of sulphate of potash
as a fertiliser, especially in country of iron-
stone formation. Manurial trials with
peas, beans and tomatoes in the Cumberland
district (N.S.W.) have shewn a diminished
yield where sulphate of potash was added
to b. and b. or super. In trials conducted
on my own farm, in conjunction with the
Department of Agriculture, there was no
instauce of any benefit arising from the use
of potash.
Printed recommendations as to the quan-
tity of potash required for fertilising various
crops are apparently based on chemical
analysis of the plants. Proof that the plants
are able to assimilate to any advantage the
potash applied by the farmer is lacking. Soil
conditions and possibly weather conditions
may affect the action of potash on plant
life. It is a fairly expensive fertiliser and
farmers of an experimental tui’n might use-
fully conduct trials and ascertain whether
the cost is warranted. Their judgments,
I have no doubt, would be very interesting
on the Land Page.
PROVIDING AGAINST DROUGHT.
“Mulyan”: Always keep the recurring
drought in mind. There is generally a lot
of surplus vegetation about the farm in
seasons like the present, besides abundance
of grass in the paddocks. This is easily
converted into hay and ensilage, and a good
store of fodder may be accumulated by devot-
ing a few hours to it now and again, and
without having to draw on cultivated crops.
In drought time even corn husks are worth
many pounds a ton. On most farms they
are raked out of the barn and burnt, though
they could be stored with very little more
trouble. Cattle will leave grass to eat husks
when they are clean and fresh. The husks
can be stacked with grass or stored in pits
together with such other stuff that is usually
considered rubbish. Nothing that would be
valuable in a bad year should be allowed
to go to waste in a good year. Storage of
such stuff saves any unsold stacks of oaten,
wheaten or lucerne hay, the increased price
of which then pays for time and labor spent
in providing against the drought.
REMEMBER THE PLOUGH-HORSE.
“Booraby” : When a man is ploughing on
a hot day he takes a pull at the waterbag
pretty often, and would be unable to continue
working long without that refreshment. But
as a rule he doesn’t think of giving his
horses a drink till leave-off time, at mid-day
and evening, and then he usually lets them
stand awhile first to cool. There is a notion
that to give a horse water when it is hot is
harmful. But a man drinks when he is hot,
and, provided the water is not very cold, the
drink is beneficial to a hot horse. The best
way at such times is to give him half a
a drink, and then wipe him dovrn before


CHANDLER’S
Chain and Tripod
HARROW
The Harrow which will do
ALL your job s —both
Pasture and Cultivation.
The only Harrow made in
Australia with renewable
teeth.
Chandler’s Harrow is the most up-
to-date and effective Harrow made.
Other makes of Harrows wear quickly
on front row of tripods, but the
CHANDLER HARROW, with inter-
changeable tripods, enables you to get
three times longer life.
The Spring Steel Teeth are renewable,
and can be varied in length from
2fin., 3in. to 3|in.
Chain and Tripod Harrows.
3 Rows. 4 Rows.
6ft. wide—
£lo 5 0 £l2 15 0
7ft. wide—
£ll 15 0 £l5 0 0
Bft. wide—
£l3 10 0 £l6 15 0
9ft. Wide—
£ls 10 0 £l9 5 0
Depth complete—
6ft. 9in. 7ft. 10in.
The other reasonable prices will be
sent on application.
Manufactured by
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTCfeIA.
m
Bucket or Re/easer System
THE SANITARY SILENT-RUNNING MILKING MACHINE
Selected and Purchased for Queensland Agricultural High School and
College, on its merits, being first in
1. Hygiene. 2. Simplicity. 3. Efficiency.
4. Lowest First Cost and Cost of Upkeep.
5. Minimum of Rubber Fittings.
REMEMBER rubber is porous and collects germs. Count the rubber parts in
other patents.
Will milk 4960 COWS per month ON TWO TINS OF PETROL ONLY, using lj-h.p. Engine.
IDEAL FOR HERD TESTING
“NEW WAY” MILK SAMPLER. Australian Patent No. 12218.
The “New Way’’ Milk Sampler fills a long-felt want —you can use a Releaser Milking Machine,
take a correct sample for test, and check the quantity of milk given by each cow, without dis-
organising milking.
No. Fittings.
1. The metal guide bracket
2. The wooden drive rod
3. Rod casting
4. Moving pump piston
5. Vacuum pump
6. Leather pump washer
7. Vacuum regulator
8. Air hose connector and pin
support
9. Cover for milk gutter
10. Milk sump to releaser valve
chamber
11. Milk conveyor
12. Milk tube
13. Milk tube
14. Rubber cup cap
15. Teat cups
16. Milk tubes to teat cups
17. Claw
18. “New Way” Sampler
19. Rubber stopper
20. Compo. bottle.
The “NEW WAY" is highly
recommended for Herd Test-
ing. The tap fitted to the claw
is set to allow one drop of
milk to enter the bottle at
each stroke of the pump. To
get the weight of the milk the
Releaser Sump is turned out
and the milk caught in a
'bucket.
12 >
15
19
16
13
18 17
2 tf
Sole Agents:-
W. A. PRESTON <& CO
Dairy Machinery Merchants, 175-179 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Agent for Northern Rivers of New South Wales: R. C. GIBSON, Lismore.
:l" --
'Mo.--. . !
Superfine leather
... tough but pliant
An Abbey Boot of unexcelled
comfort and smartness, built on
a flexible last. It fits your foot
exactly.... as well for width
as length.
3 FITTINGS—Each full and
half size is made in three
widths, narrow, medium and
wide.
INSTEP ARCH—An important
feature of the Abbey upper,
which curves easily over the
foot, to lace absolutely without
tightness or strain.
ORDER BY POST if unable to
call for fitting. State width and
size, and ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a complete
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf .. 57/6
Black Glace Kid . . . . 57/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 52/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 209
giving him the remainder, if he is to gtand
or spell afterwards. _
When dragging a heavy plough in stiff
ground, the horses work haidei than the man
at the handles, *enmdly .sweat in a
greater degree. Con. Q_ . J / ‘ ,
£ k w" e n n H,oy S a“ IZJnfJnLcot
tinuonsly for hours with no intake. of mois-
tore, they must suffer and ken Even
a small quantity to wu. i • ' ,
throats occasionally is a „ < •whe
dry held, which doesn t abut 01 . a e . .
nver or lagoon, the water is easily supplied
by taking a caskful on a slide t a ce .
P a l’t o£. tlie operations. . ,
Dobbin and Bowler do the heaviest a d
roughest work on the farm, ai 1 de e \ .
little attentions that add to tneir comtort
and well-being. Every care give to them is
amply repaid” they work better and keep
their condition longer with proper treatment,
On some farms it may be noticed that the
horses start fresh and active in the morn-
i„c’• on others the team is slow and weary-
lookin'' It is mostly a matter of looking
after them To remember them when the
ploughman is having frequent nips himself
is one of the important matters.
FENCING-OUT PESTS.
“Johnno” : “Mulyan” (B. 10/12/’3O) says
he has seen farms in the Fassifern (S.Q.)
district walled round with loose stones to
keep out wallabies and bandicoots. Ihe
stones were placed there because it was the
most convenient place to dump them after
gathering them up out of the way ot the
plough aiid scarifier. I know, because I
helped to wall in one farm. Besides, a
stone wall, unless it was a four-footer with
perpendicular sides, would not keep out
either a wallaby or a bandicoot. In my own
district (C.Q.) the wallabies will go over »
4ft. paling fence when feed is scarce, though
ordinarily a good paling fence of this height
suffices. And wire-netting won t keep out a
bandicoot unless the wire is sunk some dis-
rabbits” uf volcanic *wiU burrow
down a foot or more to get below an
t I 100 vino- tlio nalinss hang-
Sg in the air ’
To beat the borrower some farmers lay
a log on the gioinid clo e Once he
only hinders Bandy for a • , v cure
starts to idig a - effective
is to catch and kill h . - ' d s i l0 m
way I know (but one has ‘. fl ® in _ a
powerful °” possum” lamp to locate him in
poweirm possum i
the dark.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Row can wheat be fed most profitably to
pigs without crushing or grinding? —sl6. _
If it is not practicable to crush it, it
should be steamed or soaked in water for
24 hours. But if you are in the pig-rearing
business, instal a crusher. The whole wheat
grain is not thoroughly digested by the pig.
To balance the ration, lucerne or other green
crops and some separated milk or whey
should be fed in combination with the wheat,
What are the prospects of dairying in the
interior N.S.W. districts? Best sites, etc.?
What's the city milk trade like nowadays?
<* —**•«» <«*««< •»« P«V?
Goo ' d> if can . ied on in such districts as
Wag?a Tllmut> Mudgee and Tamworth, and
in localities adjacent to permanent streams
re lucerne and other crops can he easily
grown, either by the aid of irrigation or on
Jand where wa / er 5s near the surface. The
city milk trade is just now in a chaotic con-
dition and should not be considered. Can’t
recommend combined dairying and fruit-
growing. Cows demand constant attention,
w
Can an unnaturalism foreigner m N.S. H .
take up a selection or purchase a freehold,
independently or in partnership with an
Australian?—6 79
Yes, if he has been a resident ot the State
for one year, and declares his intention when
applying to become naturalised within a
period of from three to five years, determined
by the class of holding he is seeking. Only
one person can apply for a holding. The
Registrar-General’s Department will advise
you concerning the eligibility of an alien to
acquire freehold land.
What docs the flame-tree look like? Apart
from its ornamental qualities is it of any
commercial value? —26l.
Flame-tree is the popular name for Brachy-
chiton acerifolius. usually found in coastal
forests and confined to N.S.W. and Q'laud.
rpj ie deeply-lobed leaves are shiny, and fall
before the tree flowers. It produces masses
0 f bloom of a vivid scarlet; the stalks of
t } ie bell-shaped flowers are also red. It is
adso known as the “lace-bark tree.” When
full-grown, the bark is fully two inches
thick, and furnishes fibre suitable fnv cor-
dage( nets, mats and baskets. It is also a
g ood material for paper-making. The tow is
0 f an e ] as tic nature, suitable for stuffing
mattresses.
U) Arc the Maoriland and European
flax plants of the same families? J 2) From
what part of the plants ts thread obtained ?
(?) What is made from Maoriland flaxf-
Nq . Maoriland “flax” ( Phormium
lanax) is a huge plant with a thick, strong
fibre. The European flax is a much smaller
plant of an entirely different species. (2)
From the fibres of the leaves. (3) Rope,
binder-twine and a variety of coarse tex-
tiles. The Maoris weave their picturesque
robes and bags with it, and show much m-
genuity and artistic skill in their use of
dyes in this connection. Other uses are
being investigated.
lf ?/ bush-house plants are affected with
some pest, and the leaves are falling off.
What is the remedy? —7o7.
Remove all badly-affected leaves and burn
them; then spray with weak nicotine, cmul-
sified with soap. Keep the mixture well
stirred while using. After the treatment
mulch with well-rotted cow manure. Where
the scale is light paint the leaves with methy-
lated spirit and wash with soap and water.
(1) What is the value, of lime in the soilf
(2) When and how should it he used? (3)
What vegetables profit by it? —715.
(1) It: has no manurial effect, but neutral-
ises acid conditions which hinder growth.
(2) Where soils have been heavily manured
for two years lime is necessary. Spread it
in autumn at the rate of lib. to the sq. yd.
and dig it in. A second cultivation should
be given a week later. (3) Cauliflower,
broccoli, parsnip, onion, beet, celery, leek,
spinach and lettuce. Moderate quantities
should be given to carrots, tomatoes, cab-
bages, peas anti vine vegetables; lighter
applications are suitable for rhubarb, table
corn, kchl-rabi, beans, endive and Brussels
sprouts. Allow at least four weeks after
liming before putting in plants.
HINTS FOB THE FARM.
“Orel”: Sheepskin pelts are not worth
much, but keep a piece to put on the bottom
of the branding-oil tin next shearing time.
Cut a piece with about six weeks’ wool on
to fit the bottom of the tin exactly. It will
absorb enough branding oil to enable you to
make neat brands: without waste.
“H.P.W.”: Useful and durable feed-boxes
can be made out of ordinary 40-gallon oil
drums. Cut them in two round the middle
with a sharp cold chisel or shoeing-buffer, or
even a plumber’s hack knife. Then turn the
sharp edge in—it’s pretty stiff, but I do it
by gripping it. in the jaws of a heavy screw-
wrench, and levering it over, finishing it oil
with a hammer. A small hole or two in the
bottom to drain out rainwater completes it,
and you have a box that the clumsiest
draught-horse cannot damage.
“Bendee”: When pigs become overheated,
never throw water on their heads or backs;
spill a little on the ground, and let them
wallow in it. As they roll over, pour a little
more water on their bellies, and keep it up
to them till they cool down. In hot weather,
pigs should always be provided with a
wallow, preferably in the shade. In the
case of concrete sties it is advisable to have
a depression built in the floor, so that they
may have a bath. This will not only add
considerably to their comfort, but will assist
in retaining their condition, and will often
be .the means of saving the lives of very fat
pigs during a heat wave.
“Ken”; If you can’t coax the rats and
mice to take ordinary baits try a few pump-
kin-seeds. They’ll even take seeds soaked
in poison.
“Panurge”: That par. about the damage
done to irrigation channels in Southern
Riverina by the yabbie (B. 19/11/’3O)
should have mentioned the effective device
adopted at Tailem Bend (S.A.), where the
river bank itself is the channel bank. A trench
was cut straight along the bank and filled
with sand. When the yabbie reached this
core, his further progress was barred. In
our Vic. district we have got equally good
results by sinking a trench a foot below
the bottom of the channel and iust wide
enough to work in, using “blackfellows’ oven"
—easier to obtain than sand —to till the cut.
This has proved impervious to the borer.
“M.W.8.”: When topdressing with a
broadcaster, which throws the manure 30 or
40 feet, it is hard to know exactly where
you have been. A good idea is to have pctrol-
or kerosene-tins placed at intervals across
the paddock; with a slant towards the sun
they reflect like a mirror. It is not much
trouble to shift them to the next section ;
anyhow, you might have a boy who could
move them.
“Cockyson”: In maize-growing districts,
especially in newly-opened parts, the bandicoot
and the kangaroo-rat are often a serious
pest at sowing time. A good way to beat
them is to tar the seed before planting, mix-
ing tar and seed in an old washtub. Use
only enough tar to give each grain a moderate
coating; it should be thinned by heating
slightly, being added slowly while the grain
is stirred with a short length of stick.
The tarring done, fine wood ashes shouid
be sifted into the tub until the grains sepa-
rate freely and are no longer sticky to the
touch. Then the seed, which may be kept
for some days without losing its vitality, is
ready to go into the ground.
“Tangaloli”: This is better than "Pan-
urge’s” emergency split link (B. 17/12/’3O)
to join a broken chain, and no tool is needed
but an old file and a short round stick of
about 14in. diameter. Take a piece ol
No. 10 " wire a few inches long and
wrap it round the stick, keeping the turns
close together—if for a bullock chain, about
five turns; for a horse-trace, about three
turns. Cut off the extra wire, and you have
a split link, which you can insert in the two
links to be joined by passing the links
through by degrees. When put to work the
strain will elongate the link and last out
the rest of the chain.
“U'ortus”: Nip out all lateral shoots on
tomato plants—that is, all shoots showing in
angles formed by leaves and main stem.
This will strengthen the later tremendously,
and larger fruit will be the result.
“Hortus”: As hot weather is the insects'
paradise, examine fowls now and again to
avoid trouble. Use a kerosene emulsion
lightly on infected birds at night time ; paint
perches with kerosene, and give perch sockets,
window corners and any other cracks and
crevices you can find an occasional dab with
a creosoted brush —the greatest foe of all
insects. Help the fowls to free themselves, too
from insect irritation by having shaded dust
baths, made of fine ashes, about the yards.
Insects of this type hate ashes.
“S.J; Tell “Noah Fraid” (B. 26/11/’3Ol
a hide of land in ancient England wasn’t
100 acres. Alfred the Great defined it as
“the liveing area” that would support a man
and his family—probably the first use of
the over-worked phrase in our history. By
Domesday times a hide averaged 120 acres
or thereabouts; and the occupier was sup-
posed to keep eight plough-oxen. But there
■vyere all kinds of variations. In Wiltshire
the hide was only 40 acres.


Illusion
By ROBERT FRANK.
EARLY this year Lawrence Benjamin
Goldfinder (66), a retired police con-
stable of considerable property, jour-
neyed to Geraldton by train, carrying with
him by way of luggage only an automatic
pistol of .32 calibre. At Geraldton he bought
a horse, rode north a matter of eighty miles
or so, and went to the home of a farmer
named Hartmann, settled on the fringes of
an insignificant township. On arrival he
was seen to hitch his horse to an old tree-
stump at the door of the house, but instead
of knocking on the door he put his back
against the stump, and with apparent
deliberation stepped off a number of paces
in a westerly direction. Afterwards the
number of paces was reckoned up to be a
hundred and thirty, and that distance took
him through a small gate, which he care-
fully latched behind him, into a small wire-
netted pen in which fowls were kept. Arrived
there, to the great horror of the farmer and
his wife, who were watching him, completely
mystified, he blew the top of his head off
and died immediately.
Facts additional to these adduced at the
inquest were that Goldfinder, up to the time
of his suicide, had been apparently in good
health and spirits, had no financial troubles,
and was, in fact, the owner of many valuable
properties scattered over the State in various
1 owns. He was supposed to have a wife and
son in England with whom he corresponded
regularly, but a search of his belongings in
his home in the city revealed no correspon-
dence from any such persons, nor could any
trace of relatives in England or elsewhere
be found. Several witnesses who knew him,
however, gave evidence that the deceased
was continually speaking of bringing his
wife and son from England, and that, as a
fact, over a number of years he had pre-
pared homes for them in different places.
But never to the knowledge of these wit-
nesses had he brought anyone from Eng-
land, and he had always, in the end, let the
home and gone elsewhere.
Beyond this circumstantial evidence of
domestic trouble, or it might be eccentricity,
no motive for the suicide of Goldfinder
could be ascribed. The Coroner hurriedly
finished off his verdict with the words
“whilst temporarily of unsound mind,” and
went out to the golf links for a round
before dinner.
I did not give evidence at the inquest.
Though I was, perhaps, Lawrence Gold-
finder’s most intimate friend I think few
people knew of it, and in the search foi
people who could throw some light on his
curious end I was missed. I did not see
that I could serve any good purpose to
either Lawrence or myself by going before
the Coroner and telling what I knew. It
would have made no difference to the
finding, anjdiow.
But I know why Goldfinder committed
suicide. He did it because he had come to
the end of the illusion upon which he lived.
I knew' that he was going to commit suicide.
I saw him off on the train and I told him
where to go, and how many paces to take to
arrive at the exact spot where he was to
kill himself. I shook his hand and wished
him luck, knowing that I was saying fare-
well to a man who was as much in his
sound senses as anyone could be, and as
happy in his mind as most people.
I first met Goldfinder as a youth of little
more than twenty, back in the ’eighties, in
a little place out of Geraldton. He had
come from England to make a home for his
young wife and baby the previous year,
because he could not bear the idea of sitting
all his life in a stuffy office and sharing
his life with strangers in crowded places.
Ho arrived in the mess of swamps and lean-
tos that was Perth in those days to find
that, little but sitting on his behind in an
office awaited him there, and a few days
after his arrival he joined the police, and
was soon detailed to the Outback.
I met him under a tree a little distance
from the township at, which he was
stationed. He was having trouble with a
Chinaman who had hanged himself in the
tree. It was his first “cutting down” job,
and he had bungled it and landed himself
on the ground, to the amusement of a
callous and unhelpful crowd, his arms full
of dead and grinning Chinaman. I helped
him up, and afterwards we grew pally over
a cleansing drink.
After that we met many times over
drinks and out on the track, and looked
forward to each other’s company and the
talks we could have of the old land.
Especially I looked forward to these talks
about his wife and his baby, the latter only
a few months old when he left
home. He made them live with us,
he loved them so much.
“It was like tearing the heart out of me
to come away,” he would say, “but I thought
it best for us all to try my luck. I will
start to live again on the day that I have
made a home fit for them, and can bring
them out here.”
There was always about him a little air
of sulkiness and worry because this new
country did not do things for him so fast
as he expected of it, but his sulkiness
left him as I showed him how his immense
travelling about the country could help
him in making an honest and profitable
deal here and there, and so, on the quiet,
turn his savings over to advantage. Such
dealings brought the wonderful day nearer
and nearer. His heart glowed through his eyes.
We crossed each other’s track often,
travelling back and forth in the country
north of Geraldton, and sometimes we
travelled together. Once when we met he
said to me: “I have sent for them. In six
months they will be here. The boy, he
walks and he talks now. He recognises me
in a photo. I am building a sheep-proof
playground for him a quarter of an acre
big, so that he can run and be safe. When
they arrive you must be there. It will be
a great day.”
I was in town six months later when he
arrived back from a trip away north in
chase of some blacks who had been spear-
ing cattle. He hurried to me with a letter
he had found at his station. “I have news,”
he shouted. “They are here. They have
arrived at the port, and they are coming out
with some carters to the Eighty Mile, where
they will be to-night. I must meet then?.”
He made me go with him to look over
the house to see if I considered every-
HER LOOKS.
“She is quite noted for her looks, isn’t she?”
“M’yes. The ones she gives the men you mean, of course.”
thing was in order. It was a nest built of
love. For those times it was a little palace.
“Here is a room,” he said. “Have a
look at this!”
It was a little room almost filled with
toys and things to amuse a child, things
that he had made himself and had painted
in bright colors.
“Here is his paddock,” he said, taking me
to the back of the house, where he had
fenced in a carefully cleared and cleaned
quarter-acre. “A breaking-in paddock fit
for any colt, eh?” he said.
“You must come with me to the Eighty
Mile to bring them,” he insisted in his impul-
sive manner. “You must come and talk to
them, I shall be so stupid and happy. And
we will bring them in the morning. We’ll ride
and borrow a cart from someone there.”
The sun was then almost set, but he
would scarcely give me time to eat before
he must be setting out at full gallop. And
how he rode! We had all of forty miles
to go, and he would have foundered his
horse in the first ten.
“Have sense,” I said, “or you’ll be walk-
ing and won’t arrive there till this time
to-morrow.”
We had started out a little before six
o’clock, and, riding steadily through a
moonlit night in late summer, we were on
top of the tall-timbered hills and looking
down on the winking lights of the Eighty
Mile something after nine o’clock.
Goldfinder pulled up where the track
dipped down into a black valley between
trees in its last plunge into the heart of the
town. He filled his lungs with the sparkling-
air till it seemed that his tunic would burst.
Then he said so quietly that I could sense
the passion of longing that tensed every
nerve of him: “Down there, in the glow of
those lights that we can see, are my wife
and boy. Think of it!” Then he went into
a gallop down the black track that could
not be lit by the moon because of the trees.
As I pulled up before the pub I saw his
horse already tethered there. And I met
him coming from within with the face of
a dead man on him. He was followed by
a frightened, pale-faced woman whom I
knew was the landlord’s wife.
Goldfinder said to me in a horrible, dead
voice: “There’s a woman and a baby lost out
on the hills. You’d better come with me.”
I found from the landlord’s wife that a
woman and a child about three years old
had arrived a little before five with some
carters from the port, and had put up for
the night. The child was restive, and wanted
to run about while the mother finished her
meal. No one dreamed he would wander
out of the house. But a little later he
could not be found. A customer for a drink,
hearing the commotion of the search, said
that he had just seen a toddler a little way\
down towards the half-dry creek that ran a
couple of hundred yards below the pub, and
the mother, hearing this, had rushed out
to bring the baby back. Nothing had been
thought of the incident, because it was sup-
posed that the mother would be sure to
pick the child up and maybe dally along the
creek a little. But after twenty minutes or
so the landlady thought she would have a
look to see where the woman was, and when
she saw baby tracks crossing the half-dried
mud of the creek, and the tracks of a grown
woman over them here and there, she raised
an alarm. Ever since dark the men folk of
the township had been out searching the bush
with lanterns. If you listened you could
hear faint coo-ees away towards the hills now.
I followed Goldfinder. He no longer
raced. He walked with long, quick strides,
holding himself. I knew that he was sick
with fear. Across the creek and straight
into the bush he strode. I followed him,
not speaking, on toward the source of those
faint sounds we could hear through the
blackness under the trees. Presently we
caught the faint glimmer of lanterns here
and there ahead, and Goldfinder, with his
frozen voice and his dead face, gathered
them together, marshalled them, and
stopped the disorderly cpo-eeing.
During the late afternoon two trackers
who had been sent for joined in the search,
and towards night picked up the tracks.
They said that the mother had found the
babe and had been carrying it, but night
fell before the end of the trail was reached.
Night found Goldfinder strangely calm.
For the first time he rested, sitting on a
log in the darkness. “There isn’t any hope
for them now, poor things,” he said quite
impersonally, as if this woman and this
babe were not in any way connected with
those for whom he had been living and
dreaming. Then he continued: “You know,
so long as my wife and kid were in Eng-
land and I was- out here they were an illu-
sion; a—a very fond illusion, something to
work and hope for, something to lavish love
upon. You know how they filled my life
out.” He hesitated. I could hear him
scratching on the hard earth with a stick.
“Last night and to-day were to have been
the great night and great day of my life.
Well, last night and to-day are gone, and—
nothing is changed. I’ve never seen my
wife and kiddie out here. I’m not going
to see them. I made a mistake about them
coming out here. Do you understand! I’ve
got to keep my illusion. I’ve got to keep
it!” He sat there throughout the night,
and I with him, dozing miserably.
Before the sun was well up the news came
that the trackers had found the end of the
trail. Goldfinder rose stiffly. I noticed he
still had a stick in his hand.
He muttered with stiff lips, “I’ve got
to keep it.” His voice sounded almost savage
as he added, “What we find is not mine.
You understand!”
I said, “I understand.” But I did not
understand then.
He barely looked at what the trackers had
found —the two of them a little apart from
each other, stretched as if in sleep in the
midst of a dry claypan. He took official note.
“You fix it,” he said to me, and turned
on his heel.
I did what was to be done, with the help
of others, and arranged for the burial, and
then went to see Goldfinder at his station.
I tried to tell him as he sat at a table
already covered with sheets of closely-
written paper.
“I am writing to the wife and kid—in
England,” he said, cutting me off.
Almost immediately he applied for and
got a transfer, and thereafter became not-
able for the frequency of his shifts.
I met him often enough during the ensu-
ing years. He ‘still spoke seriously of the
wife and kid in England, and gradually I
began to understand him. His illusion
never changed. The kid was always the kid.
Years afterwards I said to him once, “You
still live with your illusion, Lawrence?”
“I live on it,” he said earnestly, and he
showed me another home he was preparing,
pretending to himself that at the end of
the year he was bringing from England his
wife and child.
Over and over again he had repeated the
process, moving from place to place.
He wrote to them every week, being
careful never to write his address in the
letters, so that they could not be returned
to him and thus smash the illusion that
there was someone on the other side of
the water to receive them. He pretended
that his wife and baby travelled a good
deal, so that the receipt of numbers of
these letters at one address in England
would not lead to inquiries. Every year
he made elaborate arrangements to receive
his wife and baby when they came out.
And then, just as they were to leave, he
would make some excuse to himself, or
banish the idea from his mind and start
again. And so, he told me, he lived from
year to year, holding himself and cultivat-
ing an illusion.
“I suppose you think I am mad,” he said.
I was sure that I understood him. I
knew that all happiness was born of illu-
sion of some sort. But I searched vainly
for words with which to convincingly express
myself. He did not wait for my reply.
“But I am a little mad,” he persisted.
“Normally, people have a number of illu-
sions on which they live, so that if one fails
them they have others to fall back upon.
I have no others. I’ve made my happiness
of only one illusion. I’ve fought to keep it
and worked at it till it has become vital
to me. It’s at the bottom of everything
that I find interesting to do. That’s rather
dangerous. But it has worked. I am
happy in a way.”
I watched him do the work of a life-
time, playing a game, building it on a
fantasy, and he seemed happy.
A night or two before he- went to his
death he came tq me. “Well, the game’s
over, Bob,” he said. “I’ve got my death-
warrant.” He looked tired.
“What do you mean—death-warrant?”
He handed me a letter. It was addressed
to his wife in England. It had been through
the post, but it had been opened and re-
sealed with the familiar “Address unknown.
Returned to sender” label.
“That’s it, my death-warrant,” he said.
“It kills illusion stone dead. Don’t you
see it? It is one thing to create a dream,
make it live in yourself, and another to
have it suddenly accepted as. something
material by some other person. I made a
slip. I did what I’d guarded against for
years—wrote my address at the top of the
letter. I suppose it had become so real to
me. For years I’ve written to my dear
illusions because it seemed to strengthen
them. Can’t you see how this kills it all?
I’ve tried to write since, but my illusion is
gone. I felt as if I was doing something fool-
ish. You don’t understand, do you? A letter
actually returned, ‘Address unknown’!”
“Yes,.l understand,” I said; “but after
all these years”
“After all these years,” he replied, “I
can’t find anything to take its place. I
don’t want to. There is just a little of
illusion left to me. I believe it would make
me happy to know where they are and to
go there and lie with them. You know
where they are. I want you to tell me.”
Far into the night we talked, and at last
I told him what he had always refused to
know before, the location of the burying-
place of the woman and the child. We had
found soft ground one hundred and thirty
paces due west of a certain tree. There
had been a wooden cross for some years,
but it had long since disappeared, and later
the land all round, when the grave was for-
gotten, was taken up. The stump of the
tree now stood as a hitching-post at a
farmer’s door.
So that is how it came about that early
this year Lawrence Benjamin Goldfinder
(66); ex-police constable, entered the fowl-
pen of a farmer, to whom he was an entire
stranger, and there blew out his brains


NEW GUINEA FASHION
A STUDY IN CONTRASTS
BY G. M. TURNBULL.
GAREVA the boss-boy was on trial for
his life.
“Guilty,” he had answered, promptly
and decisively, when asked to plead. “True
I bin kill’m.” His eyelids dropped and
flashed up again, and Riddell, principal wit-
ness for the Crown, had a sense of painful
humiliation. “True I bin kill’m.”
There was nothing defiant in Gareva’s
ready answers, his air of obliging unconcern.
His attitude expressed a calm acceptance of
indisputable facts, a polite desire to assist
the Court rather than impede it. It was for
the white man on the bench, out of the
depths of his incomprehensible white-man’s
wisdom, to determine the form of his,
Gareva’s, “pay back.”
“Fashion b’long New Guinea,” Riddell
thought to himself. A hot wave of shame
swept over him. It was not possible to mis-
understand the look Gareva had flashed at
him, not possible to misinterpret its mes-
sage. Gareva, the self-confessed murderer,
was sorry for him; Gareva had weighed
him in the balance and found him wanting.
“Fashion b’long New Guinea,” Riddell
muttered. “And a damned good fashion
too!”
* * * *
His marriage had been a mistake, Rid-
dell told himself, an experiment foredoomed
to failure. He was too old when Cynthia
came to him, too old to change his ways,
to learn new tricks. And nineteen-year-old
Cynthia, with her vivid red mouth, her
slim silken legs, her tiny high-heeled shoes
—all the exquisite femininity of her—did not
know what she was in for, what life in
out-back Papua meant. Romance had
beckoned to her with irresistible allure:
mystery, adventure; life was opening its
vistas to her; he, her husband of a month,
was a glamorous minister to unimagined
delights. And he, twenty years her senior,
commonplace, unattractive, had allowed her
to pour her adoration at his feet, compla-
cently accepting her hero-worship like the
fatuous ass he was!
How eager and excited she had been on
the voyage north! Even Port Moresby in
its unlovely regalia of stunted gums and
burnt-up wallaby grass, sprawling chaoti-
cally in a girdle of sun-scarred bills, had
not damped her enthusiasm.
She would find everything up to specifica-
tion at Variana, he had promised her.
Variana revealed in the shell-pink haze of
dawn, backed by verdure-clad mountains
thrusting their heaving shoulders into the
blue; Variana languorous under the noon-
day sun, emerald of jungle vieing with
tourmaline of sea; Variana bathed in the
silver radiance of the moon, low-hung stars
pulsating in the heavens and the. far-off
throb of drums—Variana would lay its spell
upon her, the magic of it all would take her
breath away. And he had believed it! He
had even burbled about the native servants,
the wireless set, the electric-light plant he
projected, to say nothing of the gramophone.
And so he had dismissed the drab town of
Port Moresby with an airy wave of the
hand. “A sort of jumping-off place, my
dear. A place where we outside folk come
to play at being civilised between trips
south.”
Brave words, these, from a man who had
nursed cocoanuts for fifteen years of penury
and privation, whose life had been one long
grim and lonely struggle, who had sweated
blood to achieve the modest success that
was his.
He ought not to have married her. She
was too young for it all. And he was too
damned old! Riddell’s heart contracted
painfully. She had brought life and
laughter, warmth and sweetness to Variana
—for a time; she had been something in-
finitely adorable and precious—for a time;
she had made him feel humble, conscious
of the loneliness and emptiness of his
bachelor days—for a time. It had given
him a curious sensation to see her ridicu-
lously inadequate lingerie tossed over his
bed-rail; a queer prim sense of shock when
she drew the stockings from her long slim
legs, living her life intimately with his with
a sort of delicate shamelessness that took
him by the throat like a sudden pain. They
had all the incredible quality of a dream
come true, those first few months at Vari-
ana. And, like a dream, they had ended in
a monstrous blackness.
And there was Gareva—the prisoner at
the bar.
Gareva had blundered, too, when he took
Namori to wife. Lithe and trim and vital,
firm-breasted and glossy-skinned, Namori
would have met the most fastidious white
man’s demands of beauty. Cynthia had
laughed delightedly and clapped her hands
when Gareva, the boss-boy, sheepishly
made known his desire to marry the girl.
They were, she said, so happy themselves
that to withhold a similar state of bliss
from Gareva would be an act of crifirinal
cruelty. Cynthia had not known that
Namori was one of the mission’s failures;
that the good sisters’ training had only
served to sharpen and quicken her native
cunning; that they had sighed with relief
when the little baggage attached herself
to Variana as maid to the new sinabada.
Queer -that Gareva had proved such an
easy mark; queer that he had not sus-
pected the persistent attentions of Corporal
Sinoga, of the Armed Constabulary. Queer?
Riddell’s head dropped into his hands. He
shivered as though the warm air held a
chill. He shut his eyes and saw Tarleton
looking up from under his heavy eyelids
—at Cynthia; Tarleton the immaculate,
with his narrow, shrewd face, his effortless
charm of manner, eating his salt, drinking
his whisky, calling him “Sir” with precisely
the right amount of deference in his voice.
Always at the background of their existence
at Variana, Tarleton had been there. The
swine! The damned carrion!
“John Riddell!”
A hand fell lightly on Riddell’s shoulder.
He pulled himself together with a visible
effort and moved heavily to the witness-
box.
* * * *"
He could see it in Gareva’s eyes, in his
bearing; it was written all over him for
anyone to read. Contempt! Gareva, in-
scrutably immobile in the shadow of the
gallows, had put the supreme shame upon
him—merely by looking at him. He was
an offence in Gareva’s eyes; he was an
offence in his own.
He had tried to wrap his outer being in
a cloak of indifference as he stood in the
box. He had wrinkled his brows as though
A WORD TO THE WISE.
DAVE: “Them three-card blokes ’re clever all right. They’ll do me.”
DAD: “Well, if y’ve got ’ny flamin’ sense, y’ won’t give ’em a chance.”
his table, to listen to her cool, charming
voice and Tarleton’s casual, friendly one;
to feel, after ten sweating hours in the
clearing, working himself and blasphem-
ously compelling others to work, that at
the end he was sharing in the finer ele-
gancies of life.
The curtain was down now, the farce
ended.
“There is evil in this house, Taubada,”
Gareva had said one day. “Evil, Taubada,
and the smell of evil.” Gareva’s eyes glinted
with cold fire. They were riveted unblink-
ingly on Tarleton —Tarleton and his
orderly, Corporal Sinoga, of the Armed
Constabulary.
It was seconds before he had caught
Gareva’s inference. Then his fury boiled
over. He lashed out in a vicious uppercut
and Gareva hit the ground.
“Strong medicine, sir,” Tarleton had
called out. “Lucky for you I’m blind in
both eyes.”
But the seed of doubt had been sown.
He was aware of an unpleasant thought that
all along had lain dormant in the back-
ground of his consciousness. It came for-
ward now, resolutely, determinedly, driving
every other consideration from his mind.
The idea was absurd. Yet Cynthia was
strangely vague, strangely aloof these days.
And Tarleton—what a subtle sense of
mastery he brought into the bungalow!
Nonsense! He was a muddy-minded black-
guard to harbor such suspicions. But
thrusting the evil thought aside did not
expel the phantasmal doubt.
“Look here, my dear,” he had said that
striving to recall with accuracy the sequence
of events that had brought Gareva to the
dock. God! Every incident stood out
with devastating clearness; they reeled
through his brain like figures on a cinema
screen, the scenes of that last night at
Yariana—for all the rest of his days they
would be with him!
Always there is loneliness, monotony in
the Papuan bush. It is the nature of ordi-
nary humans compelled by circumstances to
live like hermits to hunger with an abys-
mal yearning for something new, something
different. He, who had never considered
such matters, began to wonder if Cynthia
was not already a little tired of being the
centre of his world. It frightened him
sometimes to think that his devotion might
become to her an irritant. He realised now
that life must have been interminably dull
for her at times. She found her chief refuge
in popular fiction of the day, And he, who
rarely opened a book that did not send
him forthwith to sleep, found himself men-
tally defending her absorption in such trash.
Once he had rallied her with foolish fond-
ness. She flashed out at him spitefully,
hysterically even, and he had crawled away
to his office feeling crushed, defenceless.
In the beginning he had been inspired
by a genuine liking for Patrol-officer Tarle-
ton. Though their interests were poles
asunder, Tarleton, for a Government
official, was extraordinarily tolerant, easy-
going. He looked with an indulgent eye on
petty breaches of regulations; his outlook
on the native labor question was thoroughly
sane. And he was company for Cynthia, a
splendid foil for her. It had pleased him
to see his pretty young wife at the head of
night.' How thick his tongue had felt! He
was struggling to find words that would not
hurt. “I like young Tarleton—like him
fine; but don’t you think he comes here
too often?”
She had looked at him without answer-
ing. He felt awkward, shy, ashamed; fear-
ful of the anger he saw gathering in the
young eyes.
“Sounds silly, I know,” he had blundered
on. “I mean”
“I know what you mean,” she had flared
with bitter intensity. “How dare you?
Oh, how dare you?”
And she had flung past him, leaving him
standing there like a figure of stone.
The trial was drawing to its close. The
Crown Prosecutor’s address left Gareva un-
moved; his brown mask of a face was as
inscrutable as ever.
Riddell sank back heavily in his chair.
His thoughts hurried on.
He had told himself that he was a little
anxious, a little worried, but no more. Yet
in his heart he had known that the very
structure and tenor of his life was subtly
changed. Plainly he owed it to his peace
of mind to drop a hint to Tarleton—tact-
fully, very tactfully—when the opportunity
arose. But it never did.
He had gone off to his work next morn-
ing as casually as he had gone the day
before. There had been contrition in
Cynthia’s kiss, a world of understanding in
the way she had clung to him. The un-
known, horrible thing that had stirred
within him—stirred and clamored and hurt
—was gone. How inexpressibly dear she
was, standing in her dainty neglige on the
steps, waving to him! He felt his pride in
her stiffening. What a fool he was to think
that this newcomer, this Tarleton, had
insinuated himself into the kingdom which
was his!
He had stayed with Gareva and the gang
all dajr, eating his lunch under an ancient
palm whose scarred trunk spread its feath-
ery crown over him. He was pleasurably
fatigued, pleasurably conscious of a task
accomplished, when he set his face towards
home. The shadows lengthened; the insect
world commenced its nightly ovation to the
setting sun; sea and sky and hills seemed
to be on fire. The familiar dusk sounds of
the bush pleased him, the dying trade-wind
had a lilt. His thoughts forged ahead of
him. His heart was reaching out td her
in sheer blind worship.
An odd quietude brooded over the bun-
galow. The silence was a tangible thing;
it was a silence as startling as any noise.
Motionless he stood at the head of the
steps. He stared into the open bedroom,
blinking his eyes, his mouth working. A
creeping sense of misfortune, of calamity,
invaded him. Then he walked into the
room jerkily, like an automaton on a
string.
“There is evil in this house”
Treachery there had been, cheating,
lying. No need to read the inevitable letter
propped up on the dressing-table. He
knew. It was all according to age-old form.
The chill blast of disaster swept him from
his feet; the universe was in riotous up-
heaval about him.
He remembered flinging himself fiercely
from the room, slamming the door behind
him, laughing as no sane man should laugh.
He remembered dropping into a chair, his
face in his hands, striving to still the ferment
of his brain. A “house-boy” came, said
something about food, and fled before the
violence of his "tongue. Through intermin-
able hours he seemed to have sat there,
sunk in a numbness of mind and body.
Then he was on his feet, intensely awake.
It came again, the sound that had jerked
him back to consciousness. The scream of
an animal shrill with fear and pain? The
eldritch cry of that great owl natives call
the “death bird” again!
In a single bound he was over the
verandah rail, stumbling blindly in the
night-enshrouded garden. Beyond the
kitchen a lemon streak of light pierced the
blackness of the night. It shone from under
the door of Gareva’s hut. He was aware
of a hideous strangling sound, the threshing
of a body on the split-palm floor, a scream
of heart-shaking anguish. Then there was
stark silence.
There was no response to his peremptory
rap on the door. He heaved his shoulder
against it and burst the flimsy lock. He
stood rigid, stunned, powerless to move.
Corporal Sinoga, of the Armed Constab-
ulary, had died in Namori’s arms. And
Namori! What the slayer had done to
Namori would not bear thinking of.
Gareva had looked up then, grim execu-
tant‘of the ancient law. Something blazed
in his eyes and then went out. He was
sitting on the body of his enemy, twisting
trade tobacco in a shred of dried leaf.
“Fashion b’long New Guinea, Taubada,”
he had said. “Fashion b’long me!”
It was very quiet in the court. Not a
paper rustled, not a pen scratched. The
very air had a feel of terror.
“The sentence of the Court,” the Judge
was saying, “is that you be taken to the
place whence you came and there hanged by
the neck until you are dead.”
Darwin.
Man Fong Low and Whig Clieong Sing—
All the names along the street
Sound an Eastern music sweet;
A guitar of single string,
Ping of lute and tang of ’cello,
Plucked by little nails of jade.
Scarlet poinciana shade,
Cassia drooping lantern-yellow
Veil a hidden by-way where,
Eyes oblique and blue-black hair,
Chants a trousered Mongol maid.
Frangipannis white with flowers,
Altar-candles in the gloom,
Light the dimply-purpled bloom
Of the bougainvillaea bowers;
Blow soft-petalled on the wind
Through the half-closed jalousies;
While with tangled traceries
Of bamboo and tamarind,
And palms that tropic suns caress;
Far and bright and shadowless
Gleams the blue of dazzled seas.
Where the curve of jetty swings
And the pearling-luggers ride
In the ripple of the tide,
Quietly, with folded wings,
Comes a snatch of Island tongue
In across the water blown,
Or the sleepy monotone
Of a Koepang chantey sung;
Or light oars, with dip and flash,
Break the silver with a splash
Where a black man rows alone.
Curtained windows in the night,
Slippered footsteps in the day
Shuffling down a devious way
Lead to some unnamed delight;
And the sun goes down in gold
Panopling of clouds and sea,
And the moon’s a wizardry,
Subtly young and queerly old,
Where sly Love, with yellow eyes,
Crouches waiting, leopard-wise,
In the shadow of a tree.
W.A.
EENSTINE HILL.


1931.
Resolve to open a Savings Bank account! Save a little each week—
or each month—and employ the Commonwealth Savings Bank as your
safe and patient assistant.
The man with a Savings Account is not only happier, for the possession
of some ready-money resources —he is stimulated to increase these
resources, to his ultimate great benefit.
If you do not open a general Savings Account, at least start a Purpose
Account—one in which you save for a specific purpose during a definite
period of time. Provide by easy degrees for a payment at a selected
date or for the discharge of a future obligation.
A New Year approaches. You can make it one of progress and
satisfaction.
Cbmiimealtb Bavmas JBank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
dfgdfg
YOUR EYES 1
/Ss
I
The penalty of neglect may mean that cruel affliction—
partial or total blindness. When the eyes become tender,
the lids swollen or redness develops, apply ROSE’S EYE
LOTION instantly. This will check the trouble and pre-
vent much pain and suffering. ROSE’S EYE LOTION is
outstanding in the treatment of all affections of the Byes so
common in the hot arid parts of Australia, and nothing could
be more safe for the Byes of young children. Be on your
guard when purchasing. The so-called "just as good" is not as
good. Say you must have ROSB’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION —the original and genuine.
Sold at all High-class Pharmacies and Stores.
3
aa3>
SOMOKE-OH!
COROLLARY.
At hen I’d spent my money,’ said Peter Lang,
they turped me out.’ ” — News.
There’s nothing here to bleat about;
No action could be meeter.
When Peter’s “peter” petered out
Of course they anted Peter.
H. M.
* *
“The chewing-gum habit has taken root in Scot-
land.”—“Sun,”
The Campbells are gumming, hurrah,
hurrah!
OLD BORE’S ALMANACK FOR 1931.
Jan. —lntense heat affects Sunday jour-
nalism. “Sunday Sexaphone” issues special
number to which a Crime Specialist contri-
butes sensational article on Sadism Among
Sheep, and the editor gives Loathsome
Details from latest indecent novel, with
powerful leader of a highly moral nature
entitled “Ban This Filth !”
Feb. —First mare’s nest of season is dis-
covered in Trades Hall. Willie Whosit (10)
BIBLICAL GEOMETRY.
“Yes, and a fat lot you learn at Sunday
School.”
“Well, I found out in Genesis who was the
straightest man in the Bible?”
“Go on—tell us!”
“Joseph. Pharaoh made a ruler of him.”
wins miniature golf championship of Ultimo
and “Daily Gridiron” prize of ss.
March. —Sea serpent seen by “E. News”
reporter. “Churchgoer” writes to “S. M.
Herald” demanding that Harbor Bridge be
closed on Sundays. Melbourne provides most
abominable unsolved March murder for 75
years.
April, —Five Dock charwoman and local
bottlc-oli figure in Smart Society Divorce
Sensation. Learned Judge asks what a
“decner” is.
May. —Mr. Jock Garden organises fifth
disastrous strike for year. M.L.C. pays his
fare on a city tram.
June. —Winter sets in. Mr. Lang meets
inquiries about the Millennium with freezing
stare. Mr. Anstey calls for tenders for addi-
tions to the Commonwealth Note Factory.
Country visitor tries
to buy long beer with
barrow-load of £1
notes, and is charged
with attempting to
obtain beer by a
trick.
July. Melbourne
“Herald” conducts
symposium, “Should
the Statues in Fitz-
roy Gardens Remain
Undraped?” First
successful suicide
from Harbor Bridge.
Melbourne defeats
Sydney in half-
yearly crime con-
test by five unsolved
murders and eight
bashings to one bank
hold-up.
August. Bavin
called a liar in
Assembly for 108 th
time. Implores
M’s.L.A. to be more
genteel for 140th
time, and calls his
opnonents liars for
176th time.
September. De-
spondent taxpayer
ends troubles by
swallowing bank
overdraft. Italian
Consul for North
Queensland sho r t-
changed by tram
conductor. Musso-
lini threatens war.
October. Old
lady of Pyrmont
dreams Hairy Hocks
for Melbourne Cup. Tells baker. Hairy
Hocks firms from 100 to 1 to evens at Tatt.’s
Club. Politicians from all States decide to
meet in Melbourne during first week in
November to discuss economic crisis.
November. —Tommy Buggies (12) makes
120 and 192 n.o. for Snake Flat Juniors
against Blind Institute. Gets job as mes-
sage boy at £2O a week with leading sport-
ing-goods store, and writes life story for
“Referee.” Commonwealth Film Censor
bans talkie version of “Eric, or Tuttle by
Little.” Y.R.C. party finds H’airy Hocks at
back of course after search by lamplight.
Judge in Bankruptcy offers to forego Christ-
mas vacation.
December. —Mr. Lang announces Millen-
nium unavoidably postponed until next year,
“Anxious Parent” deplores growing disbelief
in Santa Claus. Taxation Department gives
colored calendar with all assessments.
XXXmas cheer goes up two bob a gallon.
“Argus” leader claims, that 1932 will open
with the most impressive deficit on record.
Angus O’Cohen.
* #
“Potatoes run light.” —Market report.
Still, let’s be thankful for small Murphys.
“THE TRUTH, THE WHOLE TRUTH”—
“And what did you do in the Great War,
Daddy?”
“My country,” smiled the General.
“Did you go to the front, Daddy?”
“Certainly not. I soldiered.”
“What is soldiering, Daddy?”
“Soldiering is a form of service to which
professional loyalists are much addicted in
great wars, my son. I taught fighting-men
how to wear those uniforms which fighting-
men don’t wear when fighting.”
“Where did you give them their lessons,
Daddy ?”
“In home-service camps and on trans-
ports.”
“You have never fought yourself, then?”
“Never, my boy,” said the General empha-
tically. “I don’t know how, and I’d be
frightened to if I did. I”——-
“I think that will be enough, General,”
interrupted the representative of the “Daily
Giggle,” closing his notebook. “Without
being over-optimistic and giving rise to hopes
that may not be realised I may say that
your son here has a very bright chance
indeed of winning our 10s. 6d. prize as the
possessor of Australia’s Most Truthful
Parent.”
“Ireland has taught the world many lessons in
democracy.”— “Freeman’s Journal.” '
Lessons which the world lias got off Pat.
A A
“The s.p. bookmaker flourishes as a green bay-
tree in Sydney.— “ Guardian.”
Beneath the spreading green bay-tree the
s.p. bookie stands,
And gathers in the cash from, mugs with
large illegal hands.
A tactful bloke, immune from raids, ’tis very
plain to see
That he allows no limbs of law to flourish
on his tree.
A A
“A New York woman has murdered her husband
because he wouldn’t talk.” — “Herald.”
He was probably struck dumb with amaze-
ment at being given the chance.
DID HIS BEST, WHATEVER IT WAS.
“He bit me, Mummy.”
“But he can’t bite, darling — he’s too old. He has no teeth—only
gums.”
“Well, then, he gummed me, Mummy.”
“In America he became acquainted with Captain
Waters, a well-known East Coast steamer skipper,
who weighs 20 stone.”— “Sun.”
A lot of Waters must have passed over
the bridge on his ship.
A A
GREETING!
Let sorrow overboard be tossed!
Australia’s spell of grief is done.
’•Thirty was-a year we lost:
This is Nineteen-Thirty-Won!
WHERE THEY WILL BE.
Inspired by press reports of how leading
publicity-seekers mean to spend Christmas,
a correspondent interviewed a few publicity-
avoiders on how they mean to spend New
Year’s Day.
Bartolo Gasoline, who strongly denies
that he is a member of the Camorra:
“Wotta you mean, how I spenda da New
Year? In dissa hospital, fool. I gotta ua
knife-stab in da back.”
Alma Wiggles, the Girl-Wife who was
acquitted of murder last week amidst scenes
of tumultuous popular approval: “Don’t put
it in the paper, Mister, but I’m going gun-
ning after the cow that gave evidence against
me. Yes ; I’m a fair shot. No ; me revolver's
not licensed.”
Juan Casanova, who deserted his wife and
five children last March: “At Long Bay.
The maintenance order was made out last
week.”
Moses O’Brien McShortodds, bookmaker:
“At home learning another trade.”
John Citizen, employer of labor: “In my
office making final arrangements previous to
filing my schedule.”
METAMORPHOSIS.
Mary had a little land
O’er grown with weeds and gorse;
Now it’s all paint, arc-lights and sand
And called “The Bobbo Course!”
A A
“There was a lil in the storm.”— “News.”
There would be; we have a Lil of our own.
NEW SERIALS.
“ ‘The Grand Babylon Hotel Mystery’ is full of
those delightful touches which only Arnold Bennett
can achieve—and the ‘Daily Guardian’ has purchased
the serial rights.”— Sydney “Guardian.”
From a contemporary :
The “Morning Yell,” whose motto is “Up to date,
whatever the date,” intends to keep its millions of
readers abreast of modern literary developments. It
has consequently arranged for the seiial publication
of the following up-to-the-minute productions as
thev come hot from the press:
Clarissa Ilarlowe, a tear-compelling story by a
hitherto unknown young author, Samuel Richardson.
It is a story of a young, pure girl rising superior
to the buffets of a callous world and evading the
snares set for her by the satyrs of the lounger Set.
No more moving tale has come from the pen of
Ethel M. Dell herself.
To be followed by
Tom Jones, an Arlenish work by the well-known
London clubman and.rake, Henry lielding. Nothing
is left to the imagination. The French censor is said
to be about to ban it. Order your “Yell” in advance
you may get crowded out. N.B, No children
will be allowed to buy the “Yell” while this dis-
gusting serial is appearing.
Next in order will be
Vanity Fair, a society novel in which the haul
noblesse of Bellevue Hill and Toorak will find itself
entirely at home. The hero, the dashing and talented
Marquis of Steyn, is a true English aristocrat and
his mistress, Becky Sharp, is a typical Bright Young
Thing. The author, William Makepeace Thackeray,
should go far.
A A
“The Council of Churches has worked out a scheme
by which it hopes to raise enough money for the
hospitals to obviate the N.S.W. Government’s scheme
for a State lottery.”
Well, we can’t gamble on that.
“We are going to have brighter tram-conductors
in Sydney. Transport Trust has decided that they
shall wear blue braiding on their uniforms.”
— “Guardian.”
A desperate effort apparently to harmonise
the uniforms with the finances.
A A
TRAGEDY OF THE TIMES.
Dear Miss Mix, —My husband is a Sydney
bookmaker. Until recently we were able to
live in the style to which I have been accus-
tomed since lie ceased earning his living as a
bottle-oli. We drank champagne day and
night. My diamonds were as famous as liis
antique furniture, and considerably more
genuine. Photographs of my face and his
Sheraton appeared in the papers every Sun-
day. Then came Mr. Lang’s infamous Bets
Tax Act. Jewels and art treasures are gone.
We have had to forswear champagne, and
my husband is losing his cirrhosis of the
liver. We have even had to put down the
limousine. What shall I do? — Desperate.
Answer.
Pull yourself together, “Desperate,” and
remember there is as much cash in the banks
as was ever taken out of it by holdmp men,
even in Melbourne. Several occupations sug-
gest themselves at which hubby might regain
your old social and financial status for you.
How about the City Council? Or the. Trades
Hall (Nominations branch) ? Again, you
might make a union organiser of him, salary
to be based on the number of dud strikes he
starts. Some are said to be doing well on
the basis of £5OO p.a. for each strike which
increases the tally of unemployed by not
less than 5000. And of course as an organ-
iser’s wife you would be able to resuscitate
the limousine. As a last resort, murder him.
This will get you into the news as that most
pathetic of all God’s Created Creatures a
Forlorn Girl-Widow; and after you have
Walked your Gethsemane (i.e., been tried)
you may rely on an offer of marriage from
A*.
HAPPY THOUGHTS.
“Oh, Teddy, poor Jimmie is so unhappy.
A big dog like that doesn’t get enough
exercise in a flat.”
“No, dear. That’s the worst of a flat.
Pwaps I could biding him, home a small
flock of sheep to-mawwow night. It
would give the poor beggah something
to do, you know!”
an Unknown Prince Charming, which will
bring back Ileav’n’s Happy Laughter to your
Wistful Child-lips and let in a Blinding
Glow of Love where the Shadows Have Been.
Get busy, “Desperate.”—Yours, Agatiia
Mix.
1931.
/ stood on the beach at Bondi
Where flappers dived and swum,
And realised with a fond eye
That another Nude Year had come!
“Airmen are considering a carnival in which fliers
from ail the world will participate in the opening of
the Harbor Bridge.”
They want to put something over us.
THE CLUBMAN.
“Cave-dwellers lived quite happily without hotels.”
—Temperance argument.
The caveman’s life was gay and, bright ,
Despite that in his social plan
There teas no corner pub.
But, though this story may be right,
He still resembled modern man
In that he had a club!
* *
“Some men won’t leave the bar till they have to.”
— Rev. Hammond.
And a good many won’t leave till they
have half a dozen.
* *
“A Sydney fisherman found a wristlet-watch yester-
day afternoon in the stomach of a dead shark. It
was still ticking.”
Proving that our national habit remains
strong in death.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital ..... £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World, Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office : ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
gfd
fdg
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
1346.
Che Brisbane Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in r
Che Brisbane Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.G.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
NOW-in E WORLD
»
M s
pAg*
OVJJ
HOV
JmCsißi
Sjfc
Hon
EWVOWK
NOW to the real business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings and plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
CANADIAN=AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
m
1
r*>
.-v,v.
Visit the Island
Wonderlands of
the Beautiful
South Seas.
Invigorating ocean voyage, then vacation
delights unsurpassed. Swimming, surfing,
inter-island sightseeing, quaint and inter-
esting native life and customs; multi-
colored coral lagoons in a romantic
setting of incomparable beauty.
Trips 2 to 4\ weeks’ duration.
Apply for illustrated Pamphlet No. 52/G to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY,
LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
Ask for “The B. P. Magazine”
—l/- a copy.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liabiilty
fdg
£7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedie St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - ... - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon- JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory, Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
BIRKMYRE S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to “BIRRMYRE’S CLOTH” be-
ing a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each com*
plete in itself.
“BX” “H” “S'* and “K"
"L" “OM” “M” and "N”
Any one of these marks will protect your
interests
GOUROGK
RoDcwork
Export Co.
LTD.
379 Keut-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
LTI
Flashlights « Batteries «Radio Tubes
dgdf
Buy the Best
Less Often
There is no economy in
buying inexpensive and
badly made Electric
Torches and Batteries.
The less you pay the
oftener you purchase
the batteries.
Ray o vac Flashlights
and Batteries are made
by one of the oldest
makers of these goods.
They are the best ob-
tainable.
New Rotomatic Switch
absolutely prevents the
light ever being rurned
on accidentally. Ray-O-
VAC is the only flashlight
madewith the Roto-
matic Switch
Your nearest distributor
will gladly show you the
complete line.
Manufacturer’! Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
~ CHICAGO U.S.A.
K -
Zhc
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—-
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING}.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without * it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.


Eyes.
J. VELDT’S
B,TORY OF AN ES CAP EE’B REMARKABLE FIND IN THE
DESERT.
SNOWY WARDLE, whose progress over
the last fifty miles had been none too
pleasant, the track being mostly gibber
alternated with w T ashed-out furrows from the
ram three years ago, stopped the engine of
the decrepit motor-bike he was riding, and
climbed off to ease the end of his spine. He
had only thirty miles further to go to the
next waterhole, and knew there was no need
to hurry, so he mopped his brow, chased the
flies from his back, pulled liis overloaded
machine on to the stand and sat down.
So far all had gone well. Back in Sydney
there was a little job that would require
the sort of explanation best furnished by an
alibi; hence his lightning trek across this
almost impossible country. He would alight
m South Australia, coming down, as it were
out of the blue. The police would never
suspect how recently he had left Sydney, and
once more they would never suspect to whom
they should credit one of the best-planned
even if unsuccessful, safe-blowing jobs ever
put up to them.
It was not Snowy’s fault that things had
gone wrong. It was his bad luck, but it
was especially exasperating that it should
be the second piece of bad luck since entering
on ins career in earnest.
Snowy Wardle had not always been a
major breaker of the laws. He had started
life as a watchmaker, but, that occupation
proving not at all exciting, he had wandered
over the back country, an odd-jobs man, turn-
ing up m all sorts of queer places, and pick-
mg up bush lore as naturally as a dog
acquires fleas. But he was not a traditional
sundowner. Shanks s pony was never good
enough for Snowy. Somehow or other he
generally managed to find something mechani-
cal on which to get along.
The turning point in Snowy’s life came
when, back in Sydney for a spell, he had
discovered quite accidentally a new way to
blow a safe, and, having acquired that know-
ledge, there was only one way of exploiting
it. So Snowy became, not exactly a criminal,
but a man with an object, and that was to
crack one crib, just one, big enough to keep
hl ®, m c „ omfort f or the rest of his honest life.
-therefore he worked alone. A few ex-
penments were necessary, and in the course
ot them he made one mistake. It is discon-
certing how quickly the police get suspicious.
Already they knew him, and their greeting
always was “Still living on your means.
Snowy?” this being the explanation he had
given a detective one day of his long idleness.
So, coupled with those suspicions, the one
mistake cost him three months of liberty.
He got off lightly, but he was not going
ri i S - a § a * n - He might even have carried
oft this last one, but to do so he would have
had to kill, and killing never was in Snowy’s
line. He hated the idea of making a mess of
a man, and so a night-watchman back in
Sydney was still on his job, alive, and Snowy
was sitting in the middle of a gibber plain,
chasing away the flies, and contemplating the
racketty machine which, in spite of an over-
load of spare petrol, water, tyres, and what
provisions he had scraped together, had
brought him so far and would probably com-
plete the job. Somewhere further along the
track he would dump it, and, proceeding the
rest of the way on foot, greet every mounted
constable he met with a smile.
“Still living on your means, Snowy?”
Not this time, Sarj. Been prospecting up
Arltunga way. Not much doin’ there, though
Comm’ to town for a spell.”
. So Snowy squatted by the side of his smok-
ing machine, watching the heat mirages
quiver in the distance, and wondering what
it was that rose and fell in this shimmer
apparently less than half a mile away. At
length he rose to his feet, took a good look,
an « C i bl M lie into an exclamation of surprise!
Strike me if it isn’t a bloomin’ car!”
. Thl ? was -interesting enough to call for
investigation. On the whole of the horizon-
wide plain he could not see another living
creature, so the car must have been aban-
doned, and perhaps be salvageable. Leaving
his own machine, he made his way across
the gibbers, and was within a stone’s-throw
of the vehicle when he pulled up with a
jerk.
“Hell!” exclaimed Snowy. “A bloomin’
woman!”
She was lying in a furrow, invisible until
he was almost on top of her, and she was
not a pretty sight. Snowy drove away the
flies to verify his first impression ; the ants
he had to leave. Not far away one of the
silken garments she had discarded had been
blown by a passing breeze against a stone.
She still wore stockings, loose around her
ankles, and the remains of a pair of fawn-
colored shoes. Snowy could see at a glance
that those shoes and stockings had cost
money.. On the mouth there was still a trace
of lipstick; on the cheeks, all grimy with dust
and perspiration, a trace of powder. Snowy
stood looking down, fascinated.
. “Poor bloomin’ kid!” he mumbled, pity-
ingly, as he brushed the flies from his own
eyes. “Died o’ thirst, that’s what it was.”
At last he dragged himself away. There
was still the car. Two tyres were flat, prob-
ably blown with the heat, and a further
glance told him what the original trouble
had been—the radiator was dry. There were
signs that someone had been trying to drink
petrol.
“Wonder if she was on her own,” thought
Snowy, as he wandered around the car. Then
something else caught his eye. It was a
large tin box in the back seat.
That box looked very much like cash. It
was locked, but there were tools on the car,
and it took Snowy less than five minutes to
get it open, and when he did he rubbed his
eyes in amazement. There before him lay
bundles and bundles of £5-notes, some new,
some old, all in rubber bands, a hundred
to the bundle, and affixed to one bundle a
bank slip, showing the amount, nine thou-
sand-odd pounds, and a few odd shillings and
pence, which were in the paper bag in the
corner.
Snowy felt a queer thrill go up his spine.
Mere for the taking was a bigger crib than
ever he could hope to crack unaided. Not
tor _him to ask how so much wealth came to
be lying here in the desert, with only the
dead body of a girl to guard it.
Already his quick brain was working.
Someone at the other end of the journey was
waiting for that cash. Well, it would never
come. The car would catch fire out here,
and the whole lot would be destroyed, and
the contents of the cash-box reduced to cin-
ders. .Here were a couple of newspapers and
a periodical that would furnish the ashes.
In the meantime the notes would be trans-
ported to a cache whence they could be
removed, by Snowy, little by little as re-
quired, when he came up on his “prospecting”
trips. Even if the remains of the car were
found, out here so far off the beaten track,
there would be no tracks left on the gibber
to make the most inquisitive trooper sus-
picious. Everything was exactly into his
hands. Henceforth he would truly “live on liis
means,” and abandon a life of suspicion for
good and all. Perhaps he would run a book,
just to throw his friends the police off the
scent and to help explain his wealth.
Exultingly he glanced around. He had for-
gotten the girl in the glamor of his find,
and presently he was startled to see, about
three hundred yards away in the opposite
direction, something else heave itself from
the ground and then flop down again out
of sight.
Hastily closing the box, he made his way
towards it, and again he was shocked. It
was a man this time. The flies were not
HUMORS OF OUR HASH-HOUSE.
“Waiter, is there soup on the menu?”
“Not now, sir. There were a few drops, but I wiped them off.”
so bad, because he was still moving, but the
ants were at him. He must have heard, in
his extremity, the sound of Snowy’s foot-
steps, for he lifted his face, brushed the
insects from his eyes, and, fixing them wildly
on Snowy’s face, tore at his black lips with
his hands before falling again, face down-
wards, to the earth.
. ‘Blime, mate!” cried Snowy, and, gripping
him by the armpits, dragged him away from
the converging lines of insects. But he was
too heavy for Snowy to carry on his own. A
few yards away he had to drop him.
“Hang on, mate. I’ll fetch some water.”
He stooped right over and shouted the
words in his ear, and then he went off at a
run.
Back at the motor-bike he unfastened the
waterbag, which still was half-full, with
trembling fingers. Here was one person,
still living, who had a claim on the money
on the car. Now, supposing he, Snowy, had
run out of water before he had found him,
that man would have had to take his chance.
It wouldn’t have been a dog’s chance. Yet
now, perhaps, he might live, just long enough
for someone else to claim the money, which
Snowy already counted as his own/
Damn it, how his fingers were shaking!
If he should drop the bag now and the
next moment the water burst to the thirsty
ground, and in a second was nothing more
than a damp spot on the stones!
Scarcely daring to breathe, Snowy stood
up and looked around and up, as if fearful
lest some dreadful sign should come from
Heaven. His heart was beating absurdly
fast, almost choking him. But the water
was spilled. There wasn’t a drop nearer
than thirty miles away.
Pie bolted to where the man lay, and his
knees as he ran were shaky.
“I got none left, mate,” he cried, a dread-
ful catch in his voice. “I’ll get along’s fast
’s I can. I’ll fetch some.”
The man on the ground raised himself
painfully on his _ elbow. His eyes found
Snowy’s once again, and to him there must
have come a flash of the second sight often
vouchsafed the dying. He knew that Snowy
liad seen the notes, he knew that Snowy was
leaving him there to die, and Snowy could
see that he knew.
Fear clutched at Snowy Wardle’s heart
fear of death, and of more than death.
“I spilt it, mate,” lie shrieked. “Gord’s
truth, I did by accident. I’ll fetch it, din-
kum I will.”
Still those eyes held him, the lips vainly
tried to form a word. Slowly the man turned
to the ground. His finger traced painfully
a letter on the stones. It was a C. Once
again it started off, shakily, and did a
wobbly curve, like the bottom of a U.
Snowy’s long shock of hair stood on end.
“I-le’s cursing me. He’s trying to write
‘Curse you!’ ” he moaned, and, skirting the
car where that other dreadful thing lay. he
got back to the motor-bike, and sitting on
the ground put his head between his hands
and burst into sobs.
After a long time he roused himself, and,
keeping his ©yes rigidly to the front, went
back to the car. It took more than one
trip to get all those notes to the place he
selected for their hiding. He took bearings
carefully, and noted the surrounding country.
Not much chance of not being able to locate
them again. He was too good a bushman for
that. A few of the notes he shoved in his
belt for immediate use.' Then he took some
of the petrol, just in case, and set fire to
the car with the rest. It burned fiercely,
and finally the tank blew up. The destruc-
tion was complete.
It was getting dusk. Nerving himself, he
made his way over to where the man lay.
It was all over, long ago. He never really
had a dog’s chance. But those eyes!
He went and had a look at the girl, and
felt a catch in his throat. He would like to
have, covered her up, made her decent, but
caution forbade it. She had to lie just as
she was in case some inquisitive trooper
came along. Once she had been warm, soft,
scented. Now she was— this!
Darkness threatened to overtake him
before he got to the waterhole, and he was
already thirsty. Mounting his machine, he
roared forward in the gathering dusk.
* * * *
. A fortnight later he stood on a street corner
m Adelaide. His suit was immaculate, and
his cigar was good. Things were really not
so bad, though at night he had once or twice
wakened, shrieking. It was the eyes that
were the worst. If ever he let himself get
down he thought those eyes might give him
serious trouble. It was an awful thing to
do, to let a man die like that. But, then, the
waterbag had slipped from his fingers. He
liadn t meant to do it, only thought of it
and it had happened—he had put this to
himself so often that by now he nearly
believed it.
But he was comfortable for life—over
nine thousand pounds, in good Commonwealth
“ v . er ®> easy to get rid of, no question ever
asked, though, when you came to think of it,
it had been strange that there had never
been any query about the missing money—
no paragraph in the papers, even.
To him on the corner came Detective-
Sergeant Horsnell.
“Hullo, Snowy! Flash to-dav. Living on
your means still, eh?”
Snowy YV ardle smiled the somewhat
twisted smile he had developed since those
eyes had taken to watching him, eyes that
would watch him now, he knew, to the very
grave.
“Sure, Sarj,” he said easily. “I might be
runmn’ a book, but you’d better keep that
to yourself, see. Anyway, I don’t see why
you chaps should always be lookin’ me ud
I’m all right.’’
“Yes, you’re all right, Snowy.’’ Detective-
Sergeant HorsnelPs eyes were fixed on
Snowy Wardle in a way that made him feel
creepy.
.“It’s not a book you’re running, Snow,”
said the detective.
Snowy Wardle squirmed, and screwed his
own eyes tight for a moment.
• “Oil, get to hell out of it, will you?” he
a yelled - so that people turned" to look.
\\ hat they _ saw was Detective-Sergeant
Horsnell touching on the arm a well-dressed,
scared-looking, fair young man, smoking a
cigar.
“I arrest you, Snowy Wardle, for passing
counterfeit notes.”
“Counterfeit!” Snowy’s jaw sagged. Was
that the word the chap had been°tryin°- to
write on the ground, out there among°the
merciless gibbers? “Counterfeit!” he echoed
blankly, and thought of the bank chit
faked, of course, by the man, just in case
“Fivers, every on e of them,” said the
detective. “Come along!”
Snowy’s jaw sagged further. The cigar
fell from his fingers. For these worthless
bits of paper he had let a man die like
that—he who had let the watchman live
j n onp f „ . ‘ ,
watch-house Snowy Wardle sagged horribly
hi s eves closed fnsr amu ,V 1
J2K
sen? a° mirfin" ll^
Sto the air g 1&Zlly
Rapture.
SO calm, so cool, so brown the shadows
L °w in the twisted gully lane,
in a secrecy of arching fern,
It hardly seems that noon-lights burn
b ar up, and drip in golden rain
inrough topmost leaves of tapering trees
\V hose trunks are columned majesties
feo calm, but listen!
Ringing through the moist, fragrant air •
Ha, ha!” and then again: “Ha, ha!”
Aot mirth, but. a clear trumpet blare-
Ha, ha!”
Somewhere in this meshed underworld of
green
There moves superb, unseen,
Ha, ha! with proudest challenge ever
heard,
The lyrebird.
Here gather groves of sweet musk-bushes
Chequered with dark and ash-pale leaves:
T»T.f? nia Roughs are thickly weighed
Vvitli berries ot many a waxen shade
As sunset skies on autumn eves,
Lilac and pink, and shimmering pearl,
i urred, coppery fists the new fronds curl:
And like enchantment,
A tenuous mist of beauty spun
About wet granite, the maidenhair
Opens unkissed by any sun.
So fair,
So finely frail, it waves like gossamer
\yith undulating stir,
J hough never a wind has stolen down so
deep
To break its sleep.
High poised, a happy thrush is singing
Lmterate on one quick note
Jhat upward leaps in phrase aloof,
Half pretty pleading, half reproof:
•Don’t go away!” Ah. silver throat!
The lyrebird listens, regal head
Lilted aside, as though he said:
“I too can question”—
Like a twin brother of the thrush
, across the dappled sheen
Mischief that sparkles through the hush
Serene —
“Can make sly plainings also. Hark to me !”
Li perfect mimicry:
“Don’t, don't!” —staccato cries of crystal
play—
Don t go away?”
Treading the waterpaths he chatters
His own exultant, endless tale:
/ have a dancing mound I built
Of woven twigs, and leaves long spilt
In the rich bosom of the vale.
I have a Love who lives unth me
ho life is doubled ecstasy.”
. A sudden whip-bird
Whistles, then snaps with lightning stroke
Ihe swell of his crescendo croon.
The lyrebird takes that elfish joke
And soon
Fairly repeats,' beguilement, lash and all,
The incredible call,
Chuckling in music : “I can do that too,
as well as you!”
Loved little friend of all the forest,
r.-, e Boft -named psalmist of the dawn,
Fp e . yellow robin flitters after,
► idling on branch or ferny rafter ;
And, to the lyrebird’s table drawn,
Come tits and warblers unafraid,
Mouse-small, mouse-colored in the shade.
Unearthly chidings
v rom rosy-crowned black cockatoos
In the far, almost mythical sky.
Drift down from dizzy whites and blues
On high—
Down, with shed myrtle discs and perfect
flowers
F rom mountain-lilac bowers ;
Down, where the cold young waters dream
along
In bubbling song.
I hrough lights of amber, lights of emerald,
( -Ihe year unfolds each fresh perfume.
“My Love and 1, we have a son
Whose wings are grown, whose feet can run
From treasure-room to treasure-room.
And we must teach him how to fly
in serried trees, my Love and
A whim of silence
Ripples and widens like a spell
Till dashed in mocking disarray
By clamor of a delicate bell:
“Away?”
“Don’t go away? We shoic him t& fly, so,
Where wattle boughs are low,
Slantwise, with effort, sturdy little wing!
Oh, brave wee thing!”
Runnels curve over rocky stairways,
Re-births of rain from old earth’s breast,
And feel their way round tree or stone
Still giving the utmost gift they own.
A thousand trustful lives attest
To that heart-breaking happiness
Little, wild, tender folk confess
Where no man murders,
The Bush has laid her beauty bare;
Her wistful, starry smile is shown,
The smile that she may only wear
Alone,
Where the loud lyrebird, singing down the
sun,
Holds kingship, harmed by none,
In hidden roads too exquisite and fleet
For shodden feet.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


The Blue Jug.
ALISON McDOUGALL’S
CHARMING LITTLE STORY OF HOW IT WAS
BROKEN AND OF THE MAN WHO PROMISED TO MEND IT.
KATHY MECHIN opened her eyes, as
she had done every morning as far
back as she could remember, to the
sounds of a waking farm. She heard David’s
clear whistle as he went, clinking the milk
pails, down the yard. She heard the stir in
the fowlhouses, the whinny of David’s horse,
the crackle of the fire her brother had lit in
the kitchen; and she slipped out of bed and
into her clothes with the rapidity of long
practice.
It was not until she was dashing cold
■water over her face and hands in the dim
light that came through her one small window
that she realised it was her twenty-second
birthday. She stopped a minute with her
hand half-raised to her hair—stopped and
looked at that hand, broad-palmed, roughened
and coarsened by farm work, and sighed.
She turned to look out at the farmyard,
drear in the uncompromising light of early
morning, beyond it the fields she and David
had ploughed, backed by a blue wavy line
of distant hills. Her life! Twenty-two years
spent ringed in by those hills, working,
working. There was a row of old books on
a shelf in the shabby living-room that told
of a different kind of life—travel, pleasure,
adventure, love.
What a lot of things in the world about
which she had only read, or heard from the
lips of her bedridden father when she sat by
him as a child and her mother worked like
a man by David’s side to make the poor
little farm pay ! It was all they had, and
there were bills to meet always for the
invalid. When Kathy was twelve he died,
and four years later her mother, leaving
Kathy and David to wrestle with a bad
season and a pile of debts. Kathy was tall
and supple and strong. She had slipped into
her mother’s place by David’s side, and
together they had worked, worked from the
rising of the sun in the morning until dark-
ness again, to get the farm out of debt and
put things straight. At night, after their
evening meal, Kathy had fallen into bed,
sometimes in her clothes, too tired for any-
thing but sleep.
Sometimes in the first few years she had
dreamed great dreams. When they had a
good year and the farm had been got out
of debt and everything was going well, she
and David would go to Sydney. They would
see all the marvels their father had told
them of—trams and shops and theatres,
and, above all, the sea. Kathy tried to
imagine what the sea would be like, and
pictured the sky, upside down, without the
clouds. And they could get on a boat and
go sailing on this wonderful thing. They
could go into great, big beautiful shops and
buy clothes—lovely, silky clothes such as
Kathy, in her washed-out cotton frocks and
sacking aprons, or the old shirt and disreput-
able trousers in which she rode and did
her outdoor work on the farm, could only
dream. They could go into other shops and
eat wonderful things that she hadn’t had
to cook herself, but which- were served up
to them by noiseless menials at tables shining
with silver and glass and beautiful damask,
under little, shaded lights.
But when she had tried to tell Dave her
dream, he had laughed. David was big and
simple and a plodder. When he saw a thing
he wanted he put his head down and went
after it, no matter how long it took him.
H’e had seen old Ellis’s girl, Jean, in the
choir at church the first Sunday of the
summer after his mother died, when he rode
into town on his big bay mare, and every
THE SIZE OF FLATS AT DARLINGHURST.
THE OLD UN: “But perhaps your flat is too large?”
THE YOUNG UN : “If we lived on as little as we live in, the tradesmen could push it
through the keyhole.”
Sunday since he had ridden over to Ellis’s to
tea, with- his dark .hair brushed very care-
fully and an old tweed coat over the white
shirt Kathy had washed and ironed, looking
very big and brown and solid on the bay,
and leaving Katliy alone at the farm until
his clear voice came singing down the road
in the dark of the evening.
Sometimes Kathy wondered whether, if she
had been fair and soft and pretty like Jean,
and had had time to curl her hair and sing
in the choir and make round eyes at the boys
who came from the little farms and the big
places further out as well, she’d have waited
four long years for David. Then she would
look at her brother and know that there was
no one in all the countryside as tall and
brown and strong, with such laughing eyes,
such even white teeth when he smiled, or
such a bewildered, little-boyish way with
him. No wonder Jean had waited! And
now they were to be married, this summer,
and she had sent to Sydney for yards and
yards of gay cretonne to make the front
room, their mother and father’s room, fresh
and pretty for Jean, and David and Jean
had said “You must always live with us,
Kathy,”
“Dunno what I’d do without you, old girl,”
said David sincerely; and “I know I could
never do without Kathy. You’ll have to
show me how to do such a lot, Kath, and
you’re as good as a man to Dave,” said
pretty Jean,
Laughing, Kathy followed them to the tea-
table. As she bit into the damper she had
baked especially in Jean’s honor, Kathy
looked over their heads out of the window,
to the blue hills that bound the horizon,
She felt that she would never get beyond
them now. Those old girlhood dreams of
another life than this would never come true,
Even love, dearest dream of all, would have
to be forgotten. Who would love Kathy
Mechin, who could drive a plough and ride
with any man in the country and outstare the
lot of them unflinchingly with her slate-
colored eyes, who wore an old pair of Dave's
dungarees, and had never had a pretty dress
or powdered her face. She despised them
all, anyway, but she hated her inability to
practise the light accomplishments that
caught and held them. A laughing pair of
red lips and a rounded soft cheek, and did
they c-are for a moment whether she could
milk a cow, or sew and bake? Kathy’s thin
cheek, burnt almost mahogony, flushed darkly
at her own thoughts, and she got up and
energetically began to wash the dishes, while
the lovers wandered out under the apple-
tree.
That had been just last Sunday, and
Kathy had tried to put the thoughts of that
evening from her mind ever since. Now it
was her twenty-second birthday. Was it any
wonder she sighed?
She didn’t know how long she had been
standing by the window when she heard the
eager barking of Dave’s dog, Spottie. Good
Heavens! Dave back from the milking,
and she hadn’t even started to get breakfast
ready! Standing there like a great fool!
With a scrape of the comb through her
hair and a grab for some sort of a belt, she
was out in the kitchen, alert as a soldier
who sallies forth to battle,
But she was arrested again, between the
door of her room and the kitchen window,
to stare.
On the table at which they had their
meals, under the window, catching the first
rays of the sun on its loveliness, stood a
blue jug, a lovely fragile thing, with the
quaintness of its aristocratic age giving its
beauty a perfect dignity. In the poor little
room with the old shabby furniture that
bright new cretonne was trying to hide, it
stood, with a delicacy'about its aged, earven
beauty that made it a thing apart. Stuffed
into it, by clumsy man-hands, was a spray of
apple-blossoms.
Katliy stood and looked. The beauty
of it hurt her. She had never owned a
pretty thing, and the jug, standing in the
golden sunlight against the heavy beams of
the old cottage kitchen, seemed to her the
perfection of all the beautiful things she had
ever seen or imagined.
She heard a sound behind her, and turned
to David, moving her fascinated gaze slowly
from the jug. Her brother stood in the door-
way, glowing and smiling like a small boy
who expects to be praised for being good,
“Happy birthday, Kath. I remembered
this time—see? I picked-up that little jug for
you. It’s a nice, color. Thought you’d like it.”
“Thanks, Dave. it’s—it’s real pretty.”
Oh the -hopeless inadequacy of words, and
the hopeless barrier of a lifelong reserve
that made her tongue-tied.
All day long she went about her work
in a kind of dream. Every little while she
would make some excuse to herself for creep-
ing into the kitchen to look at the jug, as
though it were a priceless treasure and she
feared that it had vanished in the meantime.
Every day, as the summer passed and
David’s wedding grew nearer, her dreamy
absorption grew. It was as though the blue
jug were a concrete expression of all the
beauty of life which had escaped her and
which she dimly realised. She would lie
sometimes now for hours in the lush sweet
grass under the apple-tree, gazing at the
misty blue hills, and building dream-castles
in the cities she had never seen. She
searched the pages of those old books of her
father’s, and her eyes grew wide and restless.
* * * *
One day, as she walked her horse up the
narrow street of the country town where they
did their shopping and bought groceries, she
saw a new face. A tall young man with a
MAKING HIMSELF KNOWN.
VOLGBLE NEW VICAR: “No, my dear lady, I’m afraid I’ve not got very jar in my—I
suppose one might call it ah — profession. Yet when I was young I thought
all the world was my oystah!”
UNPLEASANT LADY: “H’m (sniff). Tried to open it with a corkscrew, I suppose.”
lock of black hair straggling over his eyes,
leaned against the post at the corner of the
store, his hands in his pockets and a whistle
on his lips as clear as David’s own, a whistle
that for very light-heartedness reminded you
of laughing streams and bird song and sun-
light ; and she knew that his eyes, very blue,
still watched her after she had turned away
She strode quickly into the store, a little
discomfited ; but when she came out he was
still leaning indolently against the post, and he
watched her mount and canter down the road.
As soon as she knew the bend of the
track hid her from view, Kathy pulled her
horse to a walk and fell to meditating on the
joyous whistling and the things of which it
had reminded her. Sunlight and bird song
and running water —these
held a kind of enchant-
ment, as well as the things
she had dreamed of over
the hills; the dipping of
clean-cut sails to emerald,
jade and turquoise water;
the silks and satins in
exquisite shades in the
great shop windows; the
echo of lovely music in the
vaulted hall of some theatre
—these were the magic
things of her dream. But
there also was wonder, for
those with eyes that saw
clearly, in the water swiftly
tumbling over the round,
white pebbles of the little
creek at the bottom of the
hill, where the boronia and
white violets she collected
for her blue jug grew: and
in the songs of the birds
in the deep undisturbed
cool of the bush (often she
had dismounted and crept
softly in under the trees
so as not to disturb the
busy life of the bush) ; and
in the apple-blossom in
which she had buried her
face in the spring—could
anything be more intoxicat-
ing than its massed pink and
white perfumed loveliness
against the blue of the sky?
But now she pushed the
thought away as a traitor
to her dream, and she set
the brown colt, Solitary,
trotting swiftly to the
rhythm of a yerse she had
learned from her father’s books:
“The morning shone with April on
A little silver ship at sea,
With happy sails, and bearing bales
From Panama to Tripoli,
And fortunately bound
She went without a sound.”
That evening at tea she said to Dave, “I
saw a new man in town.”
“Yeah. Geoff Willisden. He’s a new hand
out on Black’s. Finest rider I’ve seen for
many a day and a darn good man with sheep,
but a queer silent bird.”
“Oh !”... .muttered Kathy. Already her
thoughts had wandered back to her dream,
and she was watching a gleam of sun athwart
her blue jug, where she always managed to
keep a few flowers.
She glanced at David, smoking contentedly,
and a resolve formed in her mind. She had
known, in a hazy way, that she would ask
David to let her go some time—had known it
ever since the first day of possession of the
blue jug—and her eyes brightened like the
eyes of a caged bird who sees release. She
would ask him now.
She began to speak, and her words tumbled
over each other with excitement and ner-
vousness.
“Dave, you’ll be surprised, but I’ve wanted
—oh, ever so long!—to go away from here,
to see a bit of the world, and have some of
the—some of the —oh, I dunno —the real
things ont of life, instead of just work and
work. It’s different, Dave, for you. You’ve
got Jean an’ everything; but I—oh, I want
to learn to look nice and have pretty clothes
and see the water!”
It all came out with a rush; but she
stopped suddenly, seeing from David’s bewil-
dered expression that he had ceased to follow
her words. He was staring at her, wide-
eyed, like a child.
“Go away ! Oh, Kathy ! Leave our home,
where we’ve been so happy ! 1.... I wanted
you to have everything nice, and I’d kept it
a surprise. Next month I’m getting a man
to help on the farm, so that you an’ Jeannie
can do what you like, and I’ve ordered some
dresses for you from Sydney and nice furni-
ture for your room. Jeannie and I thought
it would be a fine surprise, and we were
goin’ to send you over to Craigs for a week
while we got everything fixed up—oh,
Kathy, don’t go!”
Kathy was- on her feet, behind his chair.
This big boy she had mothered since she was
sixteen, her dear big brother, with whom she'd
worked all these years; who had fixed with
his own hands, so clumsily, the apple blossom
in the blue jug he had given her—she couldn’t
hurt him so ! Her soft heart melted at his
piteous, little-hoy plea. She pressed her
hands down on his shoulders, and heard her-
self saying:
“It’s* all right, Davey,. really it is. I only
thought”—she gulped—‘"‘that you an’ Jean
mightn’t want me when you’re married. I
never thought. .. .you’d do all those things
for me. I think —it’s —it’s. .. . Anyway, I
want to stay.”
“True? Honor bright?” He was like a
pleased child.
“’Cour.se I do.”
“As if we wouldn’t want you ! Kathy, don’t
tell Jean I told ’bout the surprise, will you?”
Reassured, he went out to lock up for
the night, patting her shoulder as he passed.
She heard his cheery whistle to Spottie as
she leaned against the table, looking dully
out to where, behind the hills, a gorgeous
sunset flamed like the derisive banner of an
army with whom she had done battle- —and lost.
The golden light filled the old dark kitchen
and gilded the little pink wild roses in her
blue jug. Lovely as a dream, the blue jug
mocked her too. It stood for all she could
never, never have.
With a quick movement she lifted it and
dashed it to the floor.
It broke in two; and Kathy stood there
looking at the scattered flowers in the pool
of golden watertears running down her face.
There was a step at the door, and she
turned guiltily to face David.
“I’ve broken it,” she sobbed, half trium-
phantly, through her tears.
The man in the doorway came quickly
forward. He stooped and took the two pieces
of the blue jug in his hands.
“It’s all right. It’s only broken in two,”
he said. “We’ll mend it.” And Kathy looked
up into the very blue eyes of the strange!-.
He held the blue jug in his hands and
looked at her.
“See? It’s all right. I’ll mend it for you,”
he said, reassuringly. And he laughed, a
quick joyous laugh that somehow reminded
you of dancing -water, and bird song and
sunlight.


Our Service Department
page ' s set a P art f°r the service of Bulletin
. i he , s ® rv * ce entirely free. All you have to do is
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Bo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
\\ anted to fc>eL or “To Let" notices are not admissible.
Wants.
"Voung man (30), married, wants work on banana
plantation. Ten years’ exp.—6sl.
kx-ship’s-steward, Vic., good cook, wants job,
country hotel or elsewhere.—663.
Strong man (28), Vic., single, wants job, N.S.W.
or Q land, in March. Exp. with horses, tractors, all
machinery, pumps and windmills; can kill, and is
handy with tools. —662.
1 oung man, Sydney, returned soldier, G.P.S. edu-
cation, seafaring and tropical exp., wants job in
1 acme Islands or North Q’land. —670.
Well educated young man, Sydney, legal, organising
and literary exp., wants secretarial position any-
where.—67l.
Girl, Sydney, just left business college, wants job
as typist.—672.
Marine engined river, Sydney, holding engine-
driver’s certificate (N.S.W.) under Mines Act, wants
job, anywhere.—644.
V oung seaman, good discharges, seeks job aboard
small boat cruising Great Barrier Reef or Islands
-—685.
Ex-officer, English, Sydney, business and scholastic
experience, wants position as secretary or tutor. —684.
Wireless operator, Sydney, first-class certificate
(Washington Convention) and sea-going exp., wants
position. Refs, and discharges.—6B3.
, oun S hidy, Sydney, knowledge of music and
French, six years’ schoolteaching exp., seeks position
as governess or in subsidised 5ch001.—677.
Two young Maorilanders (18 and 19) want posi-
tions on large sheep or cattle station anywhere in
Australia.—69s.
Grocery and hardware salesman (34), N.S.W.,
married, 18 years’ exp. with New England firm, wants
job, country preferred. Refs. —633.
\oung man (21), Irish, Eng. pub. sch., four years
exp. farm work, including accounts, wants job. Refs.
—625.
Smart middle-aged woman, Sydney, good cook,
wants position as housekeeper on bachelors’ station'
anywhere.—629.
Agent (Adelaide), exp. with motor, electrical and
hardware lines generally, seeks agencies from manu-
facturers. Refs.—637.
Expert photographer, Sydney, copyist and exp. in
architectural and interior work, wants commissions.
—635.
By married couple, N.S.W., position as wardsman
and cook at hospital, or similar employment. Refs.
—7lO.
"Wanted laboratory apparatus—glass retorts, com-
bustion tubes, burettes, flasks, towers, stands etc.
—7ll.
To buy “Building Construction,” by Prof. Henry
Adams.—694.
To buy or borrow “Lady Chatterley’s Lover,” by
D. H. Lawrence. —699.
To buy “Australian Stories Retold and Sketches
of Country Life,” by Suttor; and “Incidents in the
Early Days of Bathurst,” by Busby (pamphlet, 1902).
—658.
To hear from young man named Morton, who was
passenger on Cooma mail to Queanbeyan (N.S.W.)
on December 10. (To M. Williams, Bimbaya, via
Cooma, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
(1) What jurisdiction (if any) has the
Parliament of Great Britain over the Com-
monwealth of Australia? (2) Could the
British Parliament dissolve either or hath
Federal Houses? (3 ) What ties (other than
sentimental) exist between England and
Australia? (4) Can the British Parlia-
ment veto any Act of the Commonwealth
Parliament in the event of the latter pass-
ing legislation detrimental to the British
Empire? (5) What effect would the with-
holding of Royal assent to any measure have?
(6) Has the Dominions Office jurisdiction
over legislation passed by the Commonwealth
Parliament ? —304.
(1) As a Parliament, none. (2) No. (3)
TJio same ties as exist between the members
of a family and their dad when dad has
financed them in business. Also there is
the bond of a common sovereignty. (4) and
(6) No. (5) It could not be put into effect.
We are going camping down the S. Coast
(N.S.W.). What are some homely cures
for bites and stings from insects and sea pests
such as campers are bound to encounter? —
630.
1 )rip turps or kerosene on ticks; after that
they can be taken out complete. Dab sand-
fly- and mosquito-bites with tincture of
iodine. The laundry bluebag allays stings of
bees and ants, jelly-fish and bluebottles
(after rubbing with wet sand), stingrays
(after the wound has been made to bleed)
and catfish. If serious symptoms develop
rush for a doctor.
(1) Is it possible for an Australian-born
person, resident in Australia, to be raised to
the peerage? (2) What title or military
rank must a man attain before he can be
invested with the honors —in order of prece-
dence—G.C.B., G.C.M.G., G.C.V., G.B.E.
and higher order, such as Knights of the
Garter? (3) Is it possible for a son to hold
a title senior to that of his father, and how
would this be made possible? In this respect
what is the explanation of the term “in his
(or her) own right”? (4) An up-to-date
work on the subject? —6o3.
(1) Yes. John Forrest, of W.A. was made
a peer. An Australian is raised to the
peerage in the same manner as an English-
man. (2) G.C.M.G.’s, etc., are reserved for
officers of the rank of Brigadier or Rear-
Admiral or over, as a rule. The K.G. is
a social decoration ; a recipient said “there is
no damned merit about it.” (3) Yes. Many
sons rose to higher ranks than the fathers
during the late war. Some peers have un-
titled fathers living. There is no such thing
as a peer in his own right, but there are 22
peeresses in their own right, i.e., holders
of peerages which descend in the female line.
(4) Debrett (1930).
How are mezzotints made? —450.
(1) I' l mezzotint engraving the first pro-
cess is to macerate a plate of zinc or copper
with an instrument called a cradle or rocker,
by which a burr is raised on every part of
the surface in such a manner that, if filled
with ink and printed, the impression would
be one mass of uniform black. On the plate
so prepared the design is engraved with
scrapers.
How to make and use a lassoo? —s3B.
Any thin, strong, lissom rope will do. Make
an easy running noose. Begin practice with
a 10ft. rope and lengthen as you gain experi-
ence. Holding 4ft. of the rope noosed at
the end, swing it around the head and throw
to loop it over a post or other standing
object. When proficient at that, aim at
moving things.
Who invented (1) the barometer, (2) the
compass, (3) the thermometer, and (4) the
telescope? —6o7.
(1) Torricelli, pupil of Galileo, was the
pioneer in that field. (2) No definite evidence.
It goes back into prehistoric times. (3)
Galileo. (4) The principle was known to
Greek and Roman philosophers. Earliest
definite description occurs in a work by an
Italian, Porta, published in 1558.
Does the N.S.W. Fisheries, Water Conser-
or any other Act over-ride the Mining
Act? The Sludge Abatement Act gives little,
if any, relief, and gold ( alluvial ) cannot be
got without dirtying tea ter. —6S2.
The general principle is that where an
Act dealing with a particular matter conflicts
m some detail with an Act dealing generally
with another subject, the former prevails
over the latter. Thus it would probably be
held that a Water Conservation Act would
prevail over a Mining Act so far as it sought
to secure the non-pollution of the water area
reserved.
Dow should a cricket umpire signal his
decisions to the scorer? —716.
Boundaries are signalled by waving the right
hand from side to side, byes by raising the
open hand above the head, leg-byes by rais-
ing the leg and touching it with the hand,
w-ides by extending both arms horizontally,
the decision “out” by raising the index
finger of the right hand- above the head, “one
short” by bending the arm upwards and by
touching the top of the nearest Shoulder
with the tips of the fingers of one hand.
(1) N.S.W. probate duty on an estate
between £4OOO and £6000? (2) Does the
fact that the property will pass solely to
the widow and children of the deceased
affect the rate of tax? (3) How long after
death is the tax payable? (4'' Are debts
due and owing by deceased allowed as deduc-
tions? (5) Does the fact that deceased was
absent from the State when lie died alter
the rate of tax? —692.
(1) Tinder £5OOO, 2 per cent. Over £5OOO
and under £lO,OOO, £4 to 4| per cent, in-
creasing by 4 per cent, per £lOOO. (2)
Half rates on estates under £5OOO in value
when the property passes to a widow or
to legitimate children under 21 years of age.
(3) The tax is due and payable on assess-
ment or six months after the death of the
deceased. (4) Yes. (5) No.
What is the income-tax rate in Fiji? —6B6.
A shilling in the £ on incomes up to
£5OOO, increasing in steps of Is. in the £
for every £5OOO increase in income, up to
a maximum of 6s. on incomes of more than
£25,000. Incomes of unmarried persons up
to £250, and of married persons up to
£5OO, are exempt, with an additional exemp-
tion of £5O for each dependent child under
How can I prevent my short-wave re-
ceiver from handing when on the edge of
oscillation? —650.
By placing a 0.00025 MF condenser across
the secondary of the first audio transformer
and a RF choke in the plate and PIT
leads of the last audio valve. A second con-
denser of 0.004 MF should be connected
between the plate of the last audio valve and
earth.
(1) Where, in Melbourne, can I sell old
gold (such as broken links, rings, denial
plates, etc.) ? (2) Has the seller any means
of checking the weights? —722.
(1) All loading jewellers in Melbourne are
licensed gold-buyers. (2) If gold is hall-
marked or has Australian registered mark,
you can be sure of getting a fair price. If
you have any doubts, send it to the Mint to
be assayed.
(1) Best method of preserving uncooked
prawns? (2) Largest prawning ground in
New South Wales, and output? —623.
(1) Dissolve one heaped teaspoon of salt
mixed with three teaspoons of brown sugar in
a cup of water. Remove the heads from
two quarts of prawns, and place in this
solution in a fruit-preserving jar fitted with
a rubber ring. (2) Bake Illawarra. No
accurate figures available.
(1) Chances of making money in theN.T.
buffalo-shooting, and (2) best place? (3)
How many can a fair shot and good horse-
man kill per day? (4) Value of skins? (5)
Where can I get more information? —631.
(1) Good for men expert in horsemanship,
shooting and bush-lore. You’ll need at least
£5OO capital. (2) Darwin dealers in skins
and stores should be consulted. (3) You’d
be lucky if you got a hundred a year. (4)
Ahput 20s. per pelt. (5) Advise you to
write direct to Cecil Freer, Port Darwin,
lie is one of the best-known shooters in the
Territory, is a decent sort, and could give
you invaluable information right “on the
spot.” Successful shooters must have a
large plant, 100 or more packhorses, gener-
ally two waggonettes and all necessary gear.
Some even have motor-trucks, which truck
their skins to railhead. A, “tribe” of abo.
skinners is employed, and generally half a
dozen half-caste shooters. On account of
present low price of hides, the business is
not now so lucrative as it lias been.
What was the cause of the affair at Su’ra-
fend at the conclusion of the Palestine cam-
paign, in which Australian and Maoriland
troops were mixed up. What happened and
what was the end of it? —730.
Surafend was a rest camp for the Anzac
Mounted Division—First and Second Brigades
of the Australian Light Horse, and the N.Z.
Mounted Rifles Brigade. Close by was a
Bedouin village, the inhabitants of which
raided the camp by night. Protests to the
High Command, then obsessed with the idea
of placating the Moslem element at all costs,
proved useless. One night a M.L. sergeant
was awakened by a thief who pulled the
kitbag he was using as a pillow from under
his head. He chased the thief, who turned
and shot him dead. Roused by the shot, the
Maorilanders turned out, and tracked the
murderer to his village. The Sheik was
asked to give up the culprit and refused.
The Maorilanders, supported by the Aus-
tralians, passed all the women and children
out and then dealt with the men with sticks.
Many were killed, and the village was
burned. Headquarters asked for the arrest
of those responsible but they could not be
traced. The division was paraded and
Allenby gave it the rough side of his tongue.
When decorations were distributed the
A.M.D. was ignored.
(1) HoW is peat formed, and what does it
look like? (2) How is it cut? —353.
(1) It is a product of decayed vegetation
found in the form of bogs in many parts
of the world. The plants which give origin
to these deposits are mainly aquatic, includ-
ing reeds, rushes, sedges and mosses. They
die and rot. As decomposition proceeds they
become waterlogged and sink to the bottom
of the pool, and in the course of time are
compressed and carbonised. Peat in its last
and most characteristic stage is compact,
dark-brown stuff, resembling black clay when
wet, and some varieties of lignite w T hen dry.
(2) In Ireland, where they use it for fuel,
they used to cut it with a spade called a
“slane’’ and curl it off in thin oblongs 3ft.
to 4ft. long. Excavators and dredges are
now extensively used, and drying, which used
to be done in the sun, is effected in ovens.
(1) How many Maorilanders served in the
Great War? (2) How many were killed?
(3) What proportion of the country's popu-
lation was enlisted? (4) How much did
M.L. contribute toivards the building of the
Singapore base? _ (5) How much does M.L.
pay for her division of the Royal Navy p.a.f
—725.
(1) In round numbers 100,000 men served
in the N.Z.E.F. Many other Maorilanders
linked up with other fighting units. (2) Of
those who went from M.L., approximately
17,000. (3) Nearly 10 p.c. of the total
population and over 40 p.c. of the male
population between the ages of 21 and 45.
(4) £1,000,000, to be paid in eight annual
instalments. (5) £463,496 in 1928-29.
(1) What is meant by the terms “hard"
and “soft" radio valves? (2) “Edison effect"?
■ —649.
(3) A “hard” valve is one having an
almost perfect vacuum. When the interior
of a valve contains small quantities of gas
it is termed “soft.” Due to the ionisation
of these gas molecules, the soft valve deli-
vers a greater plate current than does a hard
valve, other conditions being equal. (2)
Refers to Edison’s demonstration that a
minute current flows between the plate and
filament of a two-electrode valve when the
plate is at a positive potential to its fila-
ment, but if the plate is negative with re-
spect to the filament this current ceases to
flow.
Proper way to use whip and spur in rac-
ing?—7os.
The Bulletin's oldest horseman says:
When applying the whip keep your elbow
planted firmly against your ribs, and strike
your horse smartly close to the heel of your
boot. Put your spurs in always on the same
place as you lay the whip. A rider who curls
his whip round the prad’s flanks and rowels
it all over is not only cruel but an incap-
able horseman.
(1) Is there a market for grey-nurse and
tiger shark-skins? (2) Price of shark-liver
oil? (3) Buyers of oil in Sydney?. —69o.
(1) Not at present, either in Sydney or
Brisbane. (2) About 2s. 9d. per gallon. (3)
James H'ardie Trading Co., 378 Kent-street.
What fighting did the N.S.W. contingent
do in the Sudan campaign? Was it used for
any other purpose after the campaign, and
how many lives were lost through fever?
—741.
It was brigaded with the Guards, and took
part in an _ unimportant skirmish at Tamai,
during which three of its members were
slightly wounded. When the campaign ended
the men were sent home. Eleven cases of
fever were left in hospital at Suakin and
Suez, and 12 at Colombo; there were six
deaths in all.
What is the science of eugenics and who
founded it? —733.
This cult, of which Galton, who ranks with
Mendel as a discoverer of laws of breeding,
was the originator, aims at the improvement
of the human race by judicious mating, and
especially by the elimination of the feeble-
minded as parents. It has formed the basis
of educational tests and methods the value
of which has been recognised bv verv high
authorities.
What is the “danger angle" in naviga-
tion and hoiv is it determined? —7o9.
The term denotes a means of determining
the distance of a vessel from the coast in
c rder to ensure safety. There are two
methods, the vertical and horizontal, the
latter being most often employed. The sex-
tant is used, and two prominent points a
known distance apart on the coast having
been selected, the angles taken on these from
the ship are then laid out on the chart with a
projector. The more acute the resulting tri-
angle, the further the ship is from the shore.
There are elaborations which require a dia-
gram to explain, but the above is sufficient for
all ordinary purposes. It is most often used
for avoiding coast-fringing reefs, the posi-
tions of which are shown on the chart. A
glance at the latter will show the navigator
at once if he is too close in for safety.
Brief Answers.
George L.: We’ll hunt up facts for you;
but we can’t undertake to express opinions... .H.M.:
No duty is payable on crocodile-skins sent to the
U.K .J.M.: Absence of iron in the soil is the
reason why the hydrangeas are not blue. After
cutting the plants back in August give each shrub
a mulching of stable manure and a liberal watering
with sulphate of iron (loz.) and water (one gallon).
Repeat this in October, and again when the buds
show in early November R. 8.: The N.S.W.
summer begins and ends at approximately the same
time each successive year. Astronomically, there is
a slight difference, but there is no tendency for
the season to open later each successive year.
Meteorologically, the date remains the same—December
1....F.A.M.: (1) A man 57 years of age is not
eligible to receive the Old Age Pension ; he must be
65, or, if permanently incapacitated for work, 60.
(2) Apply to the Deputy Commissioner, Old
Age Pensions, Chalmers-street, Sydney... .G.M.:
You should make direct application to the
Commissioner of Police, Brisbane... .W.S.: (1) In
U.S.A. at end of 1928, 262,718 miles of railway;
ordinary gauge 4ft. 84in. Canada, 42,677 miles;
ordinary gauge same as U.S.A. (2) In 1929 Canada’s
population was 9,786,800... .R.S.A.: Stipulate on the
MS. that you reserve the rights for yourself and
instruct your agent to sign no receipt unless rights
are reserved. Actually a newspaper wouldn’t object
to their re-use on the screen, but it is just as well
to be careful R.D.: (1) There are 50 or more
Australian papers which are purchasers of short
stories. See full list in the “Aust. and N.Z. Writers’
and Artists’ Year Book” (2s. 6d.). (2) From 10s.
6d. to £2 ss. and more per 1000 words. (3)
Depends upon your ability. (4) Not necessary; but
very desirable... .R.P.N.: The batsman was run out...
W. 0.: Write, indicating exactly where the fence tres-
passes on your ground, and require him to remove it
within a certain time or you will remove it at his ex-
pense. If the fence, when re-erected, is out of repair,
you may serve notice on him under the N.S.W. Divid-
ing Fences Act... .8.L.; You can search at the Titles
Office, Queen and Lonsdale streets, on payment of a
s;nall fee. A lawyer is not necessary. A friend in
Melbourne could make the search for you. Every
incumbrance on the land is recorded against the
title... .F.J.N. : Under the Anglican Prayer Book's
“Table of Kindred and Affinity,” which is the basis
of marriage law in most English-speaking countries, a
man may not marry his wife’s brother’s daughter or
his wife’s sister’s daughter. An invalidity in the
marriage would not affect the husband’s will if it
were clear to whom he wished his property to pass.
. ...W.8.: The late Sir James Garrick was born in
Sydney in 1836... .W.H.W.: The Invalid and Old
Age Pensions Act provides that a pension shall be
absolutely inalienable. .. .G.S.: Saigon T.S.F. trans-
mitting on a wave-length of 49 metres to Paris.
These two stations carry on a telephone service
between France and French Indo-China... .A.H.P.:
International Harvester Co., 229 Castlereagh-street,
John Danks, 324 Pitt-street —both Sydney.... A.A.8,:
A. Flettner’s “Story of Rotor,” published by F. O. Will-
hofft, New York, 1926... .P.M.S.: D. C. Preston and
Co., 109 Gibbon-road, Nunhead, 5.E.15 ; F. S. Witton,
148 Upper Richmond-road, Putney, S.W.ls—both
London. .. .F.J.E.; (1) No. (2) It was his brother,
William F. Hawtrey, that played the tramp in the
original production of “A Message from Mars” in
M.L. and Australia. .. .A.M.P.: Write Tost and Rohu,
30 Martin-place, Sydney... .E. 8.; The water can
swirl out in either clockwise or anti-clockwise
direction, irrespective of hemisphere. .. .C.J.: The
animals should have rugs or sacks to lie on (these
should be frequently brushed or shaken) and be regu-
larly washed with soap and water, to which phenyl has
been added... .W.A.P.: No, unless there were some
special grounds upon which the Court might be applied
to for an injunction N.M.S.: His salary is £4OOO
p.a., half of which is paid by the Federal Government
and tlie remainder by the Graziers’ Associations.
Can’t say what arrangements have been made about
travelling expenses.. . .L.: No. Apparently the contract
is for his benefit and he may ratify it on coming of
age. .. .W.J. : The rates attach to the land, and if the
certificate of title to B’s allotment stands in his
name he is liable for them. If it is a partnership
debt, you are equally liable... .H.A.P.: (1) Yes,
provided the current drain in your receiver does not
exceed 10 milliamps. (2) 80 cells. (3) Is. 6d. per
cell; total cost £6. (4) Siemens, 257 Clarence-street,
Sydney... .W.P.: The greatest depth in Sydney
Harbor is 154 ft. and is two-thirds of the distance
along a line from No. 1 Wharf, Walsh, Bay, to Blue’s
Point.... .F.S.: Wrap up the outer casings and inner
tubes separately, and store them in a dark room
not exposed to extreme temperatures. Remove oil or
grease from the tyres with gasoline. . . .F.V. : St. Luke’s,
Liverpool (N.S.W.) was built 1819, opened 1824 ; St.
John’s (new church), Parramatta, opened 1856 ; St.
Thomas’s, Port Macquarie, opened 1828 ; St. Thomas’s,
Mulgoa, opened 1838; St. John’s, Camden, opened
1849. .. .M.H.M.: The season for Murray River steam-
boat trips extends from July to November. A variety
of round tours has been arranged at fares ranging
from £7 3s. to £l4 65.. ...C.D.: An oratorio is a
sacred poem, usually of a dramatic character, sung
throughout by solo voices and chorus to the accom-
paniment of an orchestra or organ, and generally
without scenery, costumes or action. .. .N.M.F.: Under
the N.S.W. Lotteries and Art Unions Act alcoholic
liquors or tobacco cannot be offered as prizes....
W.H.: It is at Newington, on the Parramatta River.
Apply to Hospital Admission Depot, Health Dept.,
Macquarie-street, Sydney. .. .G.G.: (1) N.S.W. law
does not allow us to furnish such information. (2)
By writing direct... .W.K.D.: (1) Can’t advise
definitely. So much depends upon the individual.
(2) It would help, but it can’t teach you everything.
Only experience will do that.... C.M.K.: The P. and
O. steamer Ballarat was torpedoed in the English
Channel while carrying A.I.F. reinforcements on
April 25, 1917. No lives were lost. .. .D.T.W.: “The
Art of Serving Wine,” by Leo Buring, obtainable
from Lindeman, Sydney... .N.P.A.: Consuls are not
subject to Commonwealth or N.S.W. income tax, or
N.S.W. unemployment relief tax in respect of their
official salaries... .F.W.: Jack London visited Aus-
tralia in 1908 in his 50-ton ketch the Snark. He
died at Glen Ellen, California, November 22, 1916.
. ...E.U.11.: “Motor Insurance,” by W. F. Todd (Bs.
6d.), Dymocks, Sydney 8.A.: (1) “Sails and
Sailmaking,” by R. Kipping (4s. 6d.). (2) Samuel
Walder, 340 Pitt-street; Buzacott and Co., 7-9
Market-street; W. Kopsen and Co., 70 Clarence-street
- —all Sydney.... D.F.: James Hardie Trading Co.,
378 Kent-street; Abel Lemon and Co., 94 Harrington-
street —both Sydney... .J.Q. : (1) Pale terebine is
preferable to patent driers, and if used sparingly
will not affect the white. (2) Driers should be
added to each coat... .M.P.S.: First issue of first
edition of Conrad’s “Victory” was bound in red
cloth, contained 35 pages of advts. and was dated
Autumn, 1915. It is worth £2 to £3. .. .M.P.N.:
Rub a moistened stick of caustic on the horntips
when the animals are a few days old. Agriculture
Department, Sydney, can supply leaflet... .R.A.8.: F.
H. Powell, 25 Parker-street, Sydney... .G.P.: Write
Australian Graves Section, Room E 5, Australia
House, Strand, London.... (Many others mailed.)


WHAT WILL 1931 BRING YOU?
In the coming year great things may happen to Australia.
Thousands of men now affluent are likely to find themselves poor.
A few may make much money ou of national disaster.
How will the future shape itself?
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly” attempts to answer this question in the January number, which
will be on sale on Saturday. Price 2/~ per single copy; 22/6 per annum, post free.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Horses trained by E. F. Walker at Rand-
Avick have Avon heaps of races the last two
or three seasons, and the stable went from
one triumph to another at the Christmas
meetings. Walker has a knack of getting
hold of good mares. Until recently Venetian
Lady was reckoned the best he ever prepared;
now Pavilion, also a chestnut, must be
accounted as fast, if not faster, and equally
consistent. In the Villiers Stakes Pavilion
(5 to 2) and Waugoola (5 to 1) came right
away from the rest, and in beating Wau-
goola by three parts of a length the solidly-
built daughter of William the Silent —Pav-
lova lowered the Australasian record for a
mile to lmin. 36sec. —a sterling gallop.
Spearman (8 to 1), running past a lot of
tired horses in the straight, was third, four
lengths away; he was badly placed over the
first five furlongs, but could not have beaten
either first or second at the Villiers distance,
good horse as he is at 10 to 12 furlongs—
that was made abundantly clear.
There was 121 b. between Pavilion and
Waugoola in the mile race. They met again
in the Carrington Stakes on Saturday, the
mare this time having an advantage of 41b.
She looked as well as ever, whereas, judging
by appearances, his strenuous exertions of
a week before (he cut out the pace) had
told a bit on Waugoola, who is not nearly
so robust a type. Nevertheless Leslie Wal-
lace’s horse was solid at 7 to 2, while Regi-
nald Allen’s mare drifted to tens. Perhaps
the fact that McCarten had the mount in-
stead of Bartle, who had ridden her Afictori-
ously at Warwick Farm, liosehill and Rand-
wick, had something to do with it; Bartle
had been engaged for Gay Ballerina, and
McCarten lias gone out of favor to some
extent with Sydney punters. Greenline was
favorite at threes, his lOst. 111 b. notAvith-
standing. Pavilion was on the outside, but
jumped out more smartly than anything else,
and was within striking distance of the lead-
ers, Carnella and High Disdain (12 to 1),
entering the straight. With a furlong to
go she was in front, and from that point
nothing had a chance with her; Waugoola
came fast, but was beaten by nearly two
lengths at the end of six furlongs run in
lmin. lOJsec—a RandAvick, though not an
Australian, record. Waugoola’s rider, Mat-
thews, entered a protest, alleging interfer-
ence, but it was soon dismissed. High Dis-
dain was a good third; behind him came
Cleave, King’s Arms and Greenline, for whom
the weight was too much.
Gloriole is another of Walker’s with great
pace. She ran indifferently in the Nursery
Handicap, won by Old Ming, on the first
day of the A.J.C. meeting, but improved
greatly in the December Stakes on Boxing
Day, finishing a close second to Martand
(5 to 2), who carried a 71b. penalty for his
success in the Kirkham Stakes, and has
proved himself the best two-year-old of the
season. Saddled up again for the Juvenile
Stakes next day, Gloriole carried Bst. 61b.
to victory, and cut off the previous
best time for five furlongs at Randwick,
59Jsec. By Heroic —Gloaming’s Sister, she
showed gameness worthy of her distinguished
parentage in beating off Dermid, a nice
stamp of a Tippler colt owned and trained
by J. A. Donohue.
It was a surprise to see Jeypore favorite
for the Summer Cup, though Duggan had the
handspme little horse in excellent trim. Dal-
ston, the hope of Walker’s stable, receded
from fives to sevens, though he had been a
fast-finishing second to BaAvn-na-Glas in the
Holiday Hrmdicap on the first day. Western
Lass Avas in greater demand than Dalston.
As in the Metropolitan, Jeypore made the
pace a cracker, and turned into the straight
with a clear lead. But Dalston was just
behind him, having made up a lot of ground,
and when Bartle called on Dalston the
rugged chestnut went past Jeypore in a few
strides, going on to win by half a dozen
lengths from the gallant topweight; New
Sweet (20 to 1) was a fair third, ahead of
Voleuse, Valparaiso and Spearshot. Dal-
ston equalled the late Cragford’s time for
13 furlongs, 2 min. 43sec., which is the Aus-
tralasian record. He is a greatly improved
horse.
Spearman (2 to 1)_ and Gesto (4 to 1)
had a spirited tussle in the Denman Handi-
cap. Gesto entered the straight with a
useful lead, which Pike virtually stole after
having slowed the field down ; but Spearman,
responding splendidly for Johnstone, gained
a little with every stride and finally got his
head in front. He is.staying better than he
did a season or two ago, and may be expected
to run a capital race in Tatt.'s Club Cup
on Thursday, though Dalston, in spite of
his 101 b. penalty, will no doubt go ouc
favorite.
The attendance and tote figures suffered
compared with the corresponding three days
of last season. This was only to be expected,
as there is not nearly so much money avail-
able for racing as there was before the slump;
but most of the newspapers chose to ascribe
it wholly to the tax on winning wagers,
which is absurd. In point of fact, punters
have accepted that impost philosophically;
all the squealing (though none of the pay-
ing) has been done by McShortodds, together
with his journalistic barrackers. There was
never a chance that the Government would
get £2,000,000 in a twelvemonth from the
tax, but it conld get a lot of revenue by tax-
ing winning bets 5 p.c., reducing its tote
commission (now 9 p.c.) to the same figure,
and obliging the clubs to provide “straight-
out,” “place” and “doubles” machines. The
tote, rightly handled, would be its most
effective weapon against the starting-price
shop—the tote and a ban on the broadcasting
of race descriptions and results till the end
of the day.
❖ ❖ *
For Randwick on Thursday:—
New Year’s Gift: Killarney or King’s
Arms, 1; Firbolg, 2.
Novice Handicap: Sun Eagle; next, Sun-
lit Reef.
Flying Welter: Clarence; next, Casque
d’Or.
Tatt.’s Cup: Spearman, 1; Dalston, 2;
Western Lass, 3.
Alfred Hill Handicap: Killarney or Gesto;
next, Lord Romeo.
AN INCOMPETENT.
SWIPER : “Gam, he can’t fight!”
GINGER: “How do you make that out?”
SWIPER: “Why, I broke ’is leg with me pick ’andle first ’it.”
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Sefton Handicap: Carnella; next, Casque
d’Or.
January Handicap : Black Douglas ; next,
Dreamdale.
Berala Handicap: Sir Duninald; next,
iSolens Volens.
* * * *
The most-talked-of horse in Melbourne at
the moment is Hellenist. Holt trains him,
but he is a visitor from South Australia,
where he was bred, being a four-year-old
brown gelding by Denacre —Grecian Queen.
Denacre was only a sprinter (he won the
Goodwood Handicap in 1923), but like
Acre, another son of Binacre, he seems to be
able to impart stamina to his progeny, or
some of them; anyway. Hellenist has proved
that he can travel 11 furlongs at a fast
elip, if not farther.
The Mentone Handicap at the course of
that name was run over furlongs; carry-
ing 9st. lib. and going out at evens, Hellenist
won easily from Greencloth and the ex-
Queenslander In Petto in 2min. the
best on record at Mentone. It was Ins
third success in three starts, and Duncan,
his jockey, rode four winners that day.
Mentone Handicap placings were exactly
repeated in the Hopetoun Handicap at Caul-
tield on Boxing Day. Hellenist had 9st. rib.
this time and went out at twos; Greencloth
was at eights and In Petto at fifteens. Dun-
can had just as comfortable a ride as at
Mentone; his mount’s margin at the finish
was three lengths and a half and the time
(for 11 furlongs) 2min. 22sec. Duncan very
nearly equalled his achievement of five days
before • he was on the consistent Kenney
(7 to 1) and High Brae (7 to 2), victorious
in the Malvern Handicap and the Juvenile
Stakes respectively; and his mount, Umber-
tana, trained by Holt for. J. M. Niall, was a
very close second to Clnrius (6 to 1) m the
Christmas Handicap, while Ivedale, also
ridden by him. was even closer to Plunderer
(5 to 1) in the Koornong Trial. Duncan
was on another winner, Walter Scott (9. to
4), in the Aspendale Purse on the following
day, and almost got Rosbercon (7 to 4)
home in the Aspendale Gold Cup—it was
only by half a head that Mannie Lyons's
horse was cut out of it by Last Court (14
to 1). Lyons did not see the great effort
Duncan made on Rosbercon—he was fielding
at Randwick.
* * * *
For Flemington on New Year’s Day
Standish Handicap: Umbertana; next,
Aga Khan. . _
Bagot Handicap: Hellenist; next, In
Fetto.
“Wig”: One aspect of the N.S.W. betting
tax which has not’ been generally noticed is
that bookmakers can now sue clients in
respect of recovering the tax. About the
only other section of the Empire where it is
possible to regain money in the courts on
a gambling transaction is Queensland. The
Queensland law is rather indefinite, and
there have been several disputes already.
The N.S.W. Act leaves little room for doubt,
since it lays down that it shall be no defence
to plead any of the multitudinous Acts
against gambling which grace the British
and Australian statute books.
* * * *
India’s great annual racing event, the
Viceroy’s Cup, was won last week by Sir
Victor Sassoon’s Star of Italy, a 4-to-l-on
favorite. The winner is English-bred, as
were the second and third horses. The
owner is one of the great Bombay-London
Jewish family which occupies much the same
position in Asian finance as do the Roths-
childs in the European section. Once on a
time this race was regarded as a monopoly
of Australian horses, many “Walers’ hav-
ing taken the coveted trophy, including High-
born, second to Carbine when “Old Jack ’ won
his immortal Melbourne Cup of 1890.
Nowadays it is rare for one to figure in the
race, the buyers who used to come to Aus-
tralia for a likely winner preferring to go
to Britain or France.
;jc :!< s l*
“Hotham” : A highly popular Australian of
other days passed out last week in the
equine person of Bullawarra, once one of our
best ’chasers. His outstanding performance
was winning the Australian Steeple for the
late Norman Falkiner. He was sent to England
for the Grand National next year, but found
the big hedge and ditch jumps of the Old
Country outside his experience. In all he
had five starts in England, but never caught
the judge’s eye. He was 24 when he set
out for pastures new.
(Continued on next puge.)
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
There was £l7OO in the house when
Ambrose Palmer (list. sJlb.) met Jack
Haines (list. 41b.) for Haines’s middle-
weight championship at the Sydney Stadium,
and the big crowd saw a great fight, which
had a sad sequel. Palmer was out-punched
at the beginning. He really lost round after
round, but kept forcing, and his body blows
gradually weakened the lad from Eeeton
(N.S.W.). A left to the stomach and a right
to the chin sent Haines down in the
twelfth. The champion was dazed, but got up
at “five” and backed away; then another
right, to the jaw this time, dropped him for
the full count. Fully 15 minutes elapsed
before Haines retired from the ring. He
seemed normal, however, in his dressing-
room, and was able to leave the Stadium;
but after reaching home he again collapsed.
He was hurried to St. Vincent’s Hospital,
where he was pronounced to be, suffering
from cerebral hemorrhage. On Monday, the
poor fellow had regained consciousness, and
was expected to recover, but he is unlikely
to fight again.
Tommy Fielding, of the U.S.A., proved
too much of a fighter for Jimmy Kelso at
the Leichhardt Stadium. Kelso (9st. 71b.),
boxing cleverly, made the first round very
close, but Fielding (9st. 931 b.) dropped his
man three times in the third. The local
lad was floored again in the eighth and the
ninth, and was hopelessly beaten in the
tenth, when the slaughter was stopped.
* * *■ =i='
Pat Redmond, the Tipperary giant, whose
size was more than most of his Australian
opponents could cope with, has won his first
fight in New York; he stopped one Umberto
Torriano in six rounds. He is to box again
in America’s biggest city on Saturday night.
Redmond is managed by Tom O'Rourke,
famous for his connection with Walcott and
Dixon.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: The home address of the
goat that is born every minute must, be
London. A vast crowd of it paid fancy
prices the other day to see Camera whip one
Meen, who was induced to get into the
ring at the Albert Hall with the mountain
of beef. There was some suspicion, even
among the bleating mob. that all was not
right when the management announced that
the mill had been cut from 10 to 6 rounds.
The ref. stopped the slaughter before the
finish of the second round and the unfortu-
nate Meen —it should have been “Meat” —
was taken away on a stretcher.
The Ins and Outs
The match between the Victorian and
N. seeond elevens on Sydney Cricket
Ground was productive of brighter cricket
than some of the Sheffield Shield sides have
shown us this season. It ended in a draw,
the visitors defying the efforts of the home
side to dismiss them before time on Satur-
day, though there was only a wicket to fall
with N.S.W. 10 runs behind. Oakley, a
batsman of the Ponsfordian type, played
an attractive innings for 134, Bird, who
took 6 for 84 in Victoria’s second essay, get-
ting 3 for 83 on this occasion. Hird, who is
a colt from Balmain with a most attractive
style, also contributed a stylish 121 n.o. to
the Welshmen’s only innings, Salmon play-
ing his usual stickfast game for 145. David-
son had the best Victorian bowling figures
-with. 3 for 1 129.
* * * *
The weather spoilt the Victoria-N. S. Wales
match at Melbourne. Victoria had lost
Woodfull, Hendry and Ryder for 30 runs
when rain suspended proceedings, and there
was no resumption till what was to have
been the fourth day. Fairfax, who has
hitherto had a trot of bad luck in the Shef-
field games, got Woodfull and Ryder for 8,
Stewart disposing of Hendry.
Jim Carlton has run the 100 on Sydney C.G.
in 9 3-ssec., thus equalling professional
Jack Donaldson’s figures on the grass put
up in Melbourne 19 years ago. The spin
was slightly uphill and against the wind, _so
complied with record-making conditions. Five
watches checked it.


Gept;" Did -you Plky last night
BERT’/YeS, IWW WONDERFUL ! BROKE
ALL RECORDS UP to THE LAST HOLE*.
SERT'/'WhmT HAPPENED AT THE LAST
HOLS ? ”
e>&Rt:" i >noke up
The Ins and Outs
Big cricket during the year-end was a
reversal of the form .shown earlier in the
season. N.S.W., badly beaten in Brisbane
by Queensland, arid losing* on the first innings
to the same side in Sydney, easily won from
South Australia at Adelaide by an innings.
The locals only reached 166 in their first
reply to the big N.S.W. score of 610, Nitschke
carrying his knock to 69. Hunt took 5 for
86 and Chilvers 5 for 69. In their second
try S.A. did better, notching 310, most of it
from Nitschke, who played another capital
innings for 102, with Wall and Grimmett
making a valiant tail-end stand. Hunt again
scored with 4 for 105, his bowling all through
the match being admirable as to length and
flight.
* * =!= *
Queensland, facing a big Vic. score in
Melbourne, collapsed ignominiously for the
second time, Blaekie (4-57) and Ironmonger
(6-41) again routing the opposition. The
Bananalanders never looked like a Sheffield
Shield side, and retired well and 'truly
towelled by an innings and 244 runs.
At Adelaide they swallowed a dose of the
same medicine; —lost by an innings and 64.
South Australia’s knock (305) was marked
by a fine 142 from Nitschke, who will have
to be reckoned with as an opening batsman
for Australia. Oxenham was again in great
form with the ball; he took 6 for 51, turning
them both ways and flighting wonderfully.
Outside Grimmett, he is probably the most
dangerous bowler on all wickets in Aus-
tralia to-day. Thompson played a stout
shot for 50 in Queensland’s first innings of
124, but Grimmett (4-23) had everyone else
guessing. He was even more deadly in the
follow-on, which realised only 117, his figures
being 5-31.
* * * *
South Africa. saw the first Test against
Chapman’s English team begin the day before
Christmas. The South Africans, batting
first, collapsed for 126, but they put Eng-
land out for 193, made 306 in their second
attempt and gained a creditable win by dis-
missing the visitors for 211. Nupen (5 for
65 and 6 for 87) was the chief contributor
to the victory; for England, Hammond made
49 and 63 and Voce took 8 for 104 alto-
gether.
# * * *
The West Indies scored their first win in
Australia by downing Tasmania at Laun-
ceston by an innings and 50 runs. Tassy
batted first for 184, to which Burrows and
Nash contributed 46 and 41 respectively.
Righthander St. Hill was the best Bucca-
neer bowler with 4 for 57. West Indies
then got all on top of the Apple Isle bowling
for 353, to which Constantine contributed a
characteristic whack of 100, the consistent
Grant again coming along with 65. Tas-
mania’s second essay reached 119, D. C.
Green with 45 being chiefly responsible. Grif-
fith took 3 for 20, and slow-bowler Scott, who
has been doing well on the southern wickets,
had the nice average of 5 for 63.
In the second match against Tasmania at
Hobart, rain prevented a probable West
Indies win. Opening on Christmas Day, the
home side ran up 280 (Burrows 54, Nash
53), Constantine cleaning up 6 for 25. Rain
stopped play for the match when the visitors
had scored 228 for 2 wickets, Birkett being
116 n.o.
* $ $ *
-T. W. H. T. Douglas, who has died tragi-
cally in a North Sea collision, where his
father perished also, stood in the very front
rank of English county cricketers for more
than a quarter of a century. He captained Test
sides twice in Australia —successfully, as
far as results went, in 1912, when “Plum”
Warner, the chosen leader, was incapacitated
by sickness, and with ill luck in 1920-21,
despite the fine example in doggedness he
set the team —and once in England, in
1921, though on that occasion he was dis-
possessed of the skippership after the third
game. Douglas at his best was an all-round
cricketer of real distinction; a sound and
stubbornly patient batsman, an always dan-
gerous bowler, and a player who never failed
to put all the determination and tenacity
in his composition into the game. But the
plodding quality, so often invaluable, had
its defects, too, and led to a lot of criticism
of his captaincy, both of his country and
his county, in later years. He was past his
best on his last trip to Australia, in Gilli-
gan’s team of 1924-25, and did little of note.
A keen sportsman, with a host of friends
wherever he had played, his death is every-
where deplored, as is that of his father —a
frequent and always welcome visitor to this
country.
* * * *
“Tuart”: That tour of England has made
a tremendous difference to Alan Kippax.
For years the most stylish of contemporary
batsmen, he is now one of the soundest and
most confident. For some mysterious reason
the impression arose that Kippax lacked
heart and “the Test-match temperament.” It
was utterly unjust, for no cricketer has
done more to win Sheffield Shield matches
for N. S. Wales by plucky batting when
things had been going badly for the side,,
and the man’s appearances in Test matches
were all too few to warrant the gibe that
he was wanting in “temperament.” Any-
how the Waverley captain knew only too
well what was said about him and hinted
in writing and it naturally affected his
play. That is all over now. In England he
proved his mettle, and the English rank him
second only to Bradman—in fact, some of
their critics do not hesitate to pronounce him
more interesting to watch than the Bowral
lad. But what a pity he didn’t go abroad
with the stodgy 1926 Australian XI or the
1921 lot! It is a minor tragedy that he
should have had to wait till he vras past 30 for
his education as cricketer to be completed.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman” : It is odd to find “Aig-
burth” (B. 19/11/’3O) excusing (“wherein
lies the iniquity?”) Lancashire’s buying up
our cricketers. True, the pretence is that
only a mere club does the deed; but the
visitor i,s soon allowed to qualify for the
county. It is not flattering McDonald unduly
to say that the purchase of him altered the
whole course of cricket history. That is,
without Mac. Lancashire would not have been
champion county several seasons running;
and with him Australia would probably not
have lost the ashes in 1926. At all times
our success has depended oil a very few
men; and the buying of these ought to be
barred. Supposing—as might easily hap-
pen—Bradman, Woodfull, Ivippax and Grim-
mett all received irresistibly attractive offers
to-morrow ?
Under the Whip
(Continued from page 33.)
Offspring of imported High Force have had
a wonderful run of wins this season. While
Martand was adding the A.J.C. December
Stakes to his worthy record, Il'igli Gold, a
filly by High Force—Gold Frock, was mak-
ing an exhibition of a field in the Q.T.C.
Juvenile Handicap at Ascot. A 5-to-4
favorite, she cleared out from the bunch,
defeating the next-best by five lengths in
lmin. 2sec. Rivoli, one of the handsomest
racehorses this Page ever saw, is also enhanc-
ing the reputation of the Queensland stud;
Hourly (Rivoli —Regular Hours) captured
the Flying Handicap at Ascot and Great Idea
i Rivoli —High Idea) the Midsummer Handi-
cap. Great Idea overcame a pretty good
field (it included Marella, Trainer and Paddi
Eve, though Paddi Eve was unbacked), and
is probably the best of the Rivolis to date,
though Ike Andrews still has hopes of Salva-
dor, who beat Tregilla in a trial at Warwick
Farm before the A.J.C. Derby. An interest-
ing winner at Ascot was Mingelo, whom
Matthews the bookmaker brought to Sydney
several seasons ago, and who must be nearly
old enough to vote. The ancient scrambled
home in a Welter Handicap; there was so
little money for him that his tote div. (one
of three) was £l2 Is. for 10s.
»?• H*
The Dimmer (Spearhead—After. Glow),
who did his early racing ih Sydney, is one
of the favorites for the Perth Cup, in which
he has Bst. With 41b. more he won the
Ugly Men’s Cup at Goodwood (the second
horse was Bravado, even better known on
Sydney courses), and on the opening day of
the Perth Cup meeting he was third iu
the Perth Stakes to Knight Commander (All
Black —Steel and Gold) and Serbury. Knight
Commander comes down from 9st. to Bst.
41b. in the Perth Cup; though his ring price
was 11 to 2,10 s. each way on the grandstand
totes (10s.) brought his backers a profit of
£7 55., the divS. being £6 6s. “straightout”
and £1 19s. “place.” The Dimmer showed
promise as a three-year-old, and if the change
to Westralia lias made him sound he should
run a good two miles. Exceeder (Bst.),
Glasgow (7st. 121 b.) and Gurrana (7st.) are
ether ex-Sydney horses in the Cup ; Gurrana
has been showing a bit of form. And Taisho
(Bst. 131 b.) will represent Victoria.
Beaunilly, favorite at 2 to 1, won the
Westralian Derby from Shining Colors and
Air Lord. She is a bay filly by Beau Fils —
Spinilly, and was sold as a yearling at Mel-
bourne for 40 guineas—surely about the
cheapest Derby winner on record. Her suc-
cess should be interesting to Telford, the
trainer of Phar Lap, who bought three of
Beau Fils’s progeny at the last Sydney
yearling sales.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: N.S.W. tennis players got a
severe shock the other day when it was
announced that Harry Hopman, probably
the most consistent tennis player the Sthte
can claim, had taken a job with a well-known
Australian sporting-goods firm which lias its
headquarters in Melbourne. This will mean
that he will now turn out for Victoria, and
the Ma State is realising that he will be
a serious loss.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: In the course of
One of those retrospective moans so common
to his kind, a Victorian tennis writer de-
plores the tendency of tennis organisers to
ignore the temperament of their charges. He
recalls an American instance where Crawford
and Hunter were forced to engage in a match
on a court alongside that on which Cochet
and Mangin had to play. The Australian-
Yank game was so good and exciting that
the barracking far exceeded that for the
Cochet-Mangin performance, this upsetting
the latter players completely, with the
result that Cochet “blacklisted the Ameri-
can championships for ever.” What on
earth would be thought of a cricket or foot-
ball player who took up that attitude?
* * * *
“Top Spin”: A lad called Oliffe —never
heard of him myself, but he was a member
of the British team which took part in the
last American tennis championships—has
been writing his impressions of American
tennis as compared with English—the which,
supposing he has been paid for his articles,
should make him a professional under the
famous American rules of amateurism
wherein what is sauce for the ordinary player
is not for Bill Tilden. Oliffe thinks that
Wimbledon tries to give the spectators quality,
while America goes baldheaded for quantity.
His idea is that the Wimbledon practice of
keeping the centre court for the elite of
the game while the acknowledged duds
gambol on the outer where no one ever
wants to see them is better than the Ameri-
can notion of giving even the hopeless their
chance to figure in the limelight. I am in-
clined to agree with Oliffe. Tennis is now
largely a matter Of gates. The big stars
should be shoved to the front on every pos-
sible occasion even if they have ceased to
twinkle. That has been Australia’s policy
for years, and look what a success we’ve
made of it!
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: In golf it often happens
that the mighty are pulled down from their
seats and the humble exalted. This was
exemplified in Sydney recently when Frank
Eyre, open champion of Australia, was
beaten in the Professional Golf Association
Oup by Cohen, sometime caddie at Moore
Park. There was no fluke about it either,
for Frank had to scratch for his life to tie
with the youngster in the second round at
Elanora, each returning a card of 146 for
the two rounds. In the play-off a few days
after over a stroke round of 18 holes, Cohen
came home with 73, Eyre being 4 strokes to
the bad.
* * * *
“Gleneagles”: Brilliancy in golf is rarely
backed by consistency. Perhaps, of all
golfers, the Americans add the second attri-
bute to the first. One of the most con-
sistent of Australian players seems to be
young Jim Ferrier, of Manly, who, only
just rising 17 and still at school, promises
to go far in Australian golf. Time after
time he has. beaten the best of the N.S.W.
players on his home course, and is practically
unbeatable off the plus two mark. His
latest performance is the equalling of the
professional 18-hole record in Manly Club’s
bogey handicap. With a plus tw T o handicap
he won the morning round of a 36-hole
competition 6 up, his rounds being 37 and
32, or an average of under 4 per hole. As
the course is bogeyed at 77 the merit of
the performance is outstanding.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Joe Kirkwood (B. 10/12/’3O)
is placed ninth in the ranking list of U.S.A.
professionals for 1930. MacDonald Smith
heads it; Hagen, who had a poor season, does
not figure in the first ten. Assuredly Kirk-
wood has a great talent for the game, and
if he took it as seriously as the recognised
champions he would challenge their
supremacy. H'e is apparently satisfied to
get a lot more fun out of it than they do.
I like him for that, and for his steady
refusal to renounce his Australian citizen-
ship, in which respect he differs from a lot
of Australian champions in other branches of
sport who have gone where the money was
good.
=!= =!= * *
“Wig”: The miniature-golf business has
suffered a staggering blow; a Melbourne
entrepreneur has been fined £2 for being
“the keeper of a disorderly place within
the meaning of an Act preventing certain
abuses and profanations of the Lord’s Day
called Sunday.” The prosecution was
laid under an Act of George 111. I shall
always think the better of that pigheaded
old gentleman for notifying his royal assent
thereto.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: When the miniature-golf obses-
sion arrived in Sydney many owners of
tennis courts would have sold out cheap. For
a time their properties were deserted, mugs
who meekly paid 15s. and more for a day’s
hire of a chip court having gone over almost
In a body to the minnies. But the craze for
putting on pigmy links is obviously declining,
and the tennis-court harpies are regaining
hope. The shilling-a-round days are done,
or nearly so; sixpence a round is the charge
almost everywhere, although two or three
suburban showmen still exact a shilling and
brag of pulling in “a hundred a week.” After
the first novelty has worn off the minnies
become monotonous; the thing resembles bil-
liards without . its science or variety. A
twentieth part of the money which is fated
to be lost in Sydney on our latest attempt
to ape the Americans would satisfy me for
the rest of my days.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: From January 1 America will
officially adopt the new and larger golf ball
about which so much controversy has
been raging. The pill will measure 1.68
inch in diameter and weigh 1.55 ounce.
Which means that it is larger and lighter than
the standard ball to which St. Andrews pre-
fers to adhere. Bobby Jones, after experi-
ments, reckons that his drive will be five
yards shorter on the average, and considers
that a following wind w T ill not help much, as
has been predicted. Cyril Tolley, of Eng-
land, another mighty driver, says he gets
greater length than ever with the thing. Both
are significantly silent as to how the new- ball
will respond to control. Its larger wind sur-
face and lightness promise to make it a
tricky proposition for even experts in this
respect. What is going to happen to the
poor old mug golfer, invariably in dire trouble
with the present standard ball, no one can
prophesy with certainty, save- that his row
will be a harder one to hoe (literally) than
ever.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: Much is made of those
occasional experts who profane the. sacred
mysteries of golf by driving off balls placed
on a valuable watch or, perhaps, on the
forehead of some confiding ass. Difficult as
they may seem to the neophyte, these feats
are trivialities compared with one which a
blacksmith in Wapping—a quarter of London
much exposed to sea-going folk, and cele-
brated in song by Charles Dibdin —is ready
to perform at any time for the fee of a pot
of beer, if London “Daily Mail” is to be
relied on. He specialises in the knocking of
a sixpenny piece off anyone’s foot, employ-
ing a 361 b. sledge-hammer to do so. He has
had more clients than one would suppose,
and none has yet had to sue him for damage.
The Watermen
“Blade” : The inter-State eight-oar race for
the King’s Clip having been called off for
this year, the N.S.W. rowing heads are keen
on getting an outlander crew on which to
try their teeth in the State championships.
These, eights and sculls, will be rowed off
on the Nepean at Penrith on March 28. The
original date was March 21, but as the Vic-
torians had fixed on that for their own cham-
pionships it was altered to the later date,
thanks to the courtesy of St. Ignatius Col-
lege, whose regatta was listed for that day.
The change will enable a Victorian crew
to compete on the Nepean, and it is probable
that the crew winning the Dark Blue cham-
pionship the previous week will be the candi-
dates. As Victoria beat N.S.W. for the
King’s Cup last year, after a long period in
the wilderness, there should be added zest
to the struggle.
* * * *
“Stretcher” : Had my first experience of
a Women’s rowing regatta in Sydney the
other day. One feature that struck me W’as
the insistence on “heavyweight” events.
Under this classification there were maiden
fours, senior State championship fours and
junior fours. None of the crews boated came
up to my idea of a “heavy”—running, say,
from 14 stone in the middle of the boat to
tapering-off lighter weights at each end —
but they evidently took themselves with such
ponderous seriousness that this was counted
in. There was a time in my brief experience
of the female of the species when to suggest
she was a “heavyweight” brought instant
trouble, but that phase seems to have van-
ished.
❖ # * j|:
“Spike”: No need to worry about Bob
Pearce not being available at the Los Angeles
Olympiad. The big fellow is married and
settled now in Canada, but he can .compete
in the Olympic Games only as an Australian.
The rules state that, having once appeared
at the Games as the representative of one
country, an athlete can never represent
another. In view of the fact that Robert
cannot be claimed by Canada, it is difficult
to see why the manager of the Empire team,
as told by himself in his report, refused the
sculler’s request that his return steamer and
rail tickets to Australia be handed over to
him. It seems a pettifogging attitude. Even
if Pearce does stay in Canada —and since he
seems to have found a better job there than
his own country was willing to offer him, few
of us will blame him—he has been an un-
commonly good advertisement for the Austra-
lian athlete, and worth the price of his
return tickets.


Legal Notice.
Re THE CHILLAGOE RAILWAY AND
MINES, LIMITED.
PURSUANT to Order of the High Court of Justice
Chancery Division (England) dated 7th July
1930 re Trusts of a Debenture Trust Deed dated 18th
April 1899 of the above Company Bond v. Attorney-
General 1929 C. 4163 whereby an inquiry was directed
for the purpose of ascertaining the persons now
entitled to £4665 14s. 9d. and accrued interest
thereon representing such part of the proceeds of
sale of the properties and assets comprised in or
subject to the trusts of the abovementioned Trust
Deed as has not been claimed by certain of the
holders of Debentures of the above Company and in
what shares and proportions the said persons are
respectively entitled.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
darning to be entitled under the said inquiry are
oi: or before the 15th April 1931 to send by post
prepaid to Geoffrey Abdy Collins Esquire of Messrs.
Peake and Co. Solicitors 6 Bedford Row London
W.C.I England their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said Order unless
the Court or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before Master Ridsdale at the Chambers of
the Judge Room No. 231 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England on Wednesday the 29th April
1931 at 12 o’clopk noon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars, of his claim the name
and address of a'person in England or Wales to
whom notices to the claimant can be sent.
NOTE:—
The above Company was incorporated in 1898 ,in
Victoria Australia.
The Debentures are bearer Debentures for £lOO
each.
The Queensland Government took over the pro-
perty under Queensland Act No. 17 of 1918.
The purchase consideration was distributable
between the holders of Debentures on account of
Principal.
The above sum of £4A65 14s. 9d. and interest is
the amount divisible in respect of
(a) Principal of 42 Debentures not produced
(b) £204 15s. unclaimed warrants on final dis-
tribution certificates in respect of Debentures produced
and 4
(c) Principal of 5 Fractional Certificates for £2O
each being one-fifth of one other Debenture.
The Debentures Final Distribution Certificates and
Fractional Certificates should be produced in the
Chambers of the Judge at Room 229 Royal Courts
of Justice Strand London England between the hours
of eleven o’clock in the forenoon and four o’clock in
the afternoon, on either Monday Tuesday Wednesday
Thursday or Friday the 20th 21st 22nd 23rd or 24th
days of April 1931.
Dated this sth day of November 1930.
ARTHUR F. RIDSDALE,
Master.
PEAKE & CO., 6 Bedford Row, London, W.C.I,
Solicitors' for the Plaintiffs.
SEAL or GUARANTEE
ON N ECK OF EVERY BOTTII
ETAT MEANS
"STATE Vl*
OWNED BY THI
STATE OF FBANCE
m
lo
'la
Ws
w
\v
BOTTLED &CUARANTEEB
PURE BY THE FRENCH
COVERN M ENT
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
hcity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Watars.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME OF THE SPRINC
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
Rshe following statement defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) ts
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
i complaints,
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the vorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Examine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iV.S.W.
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
V*
bottled it Otfa n^°
<5-
GONTG
i-ICMT PORT
fi-'SONS. %r
0 ' ,,l f t ' r **6i *em»»»'s M T - s,ii '
? IIc CTED AUSTRALIAHJ^^
G. GRAMP & SONS, LTD.,
119-123 York Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA4424.
Car and Cycle
“Differential” : With the time for the trial
drawing near, interest in the Napier-engined
racing motor designed and built in N.S.W.
by Don Ilarkness for Norman Smith is in-
creasing. Smith is to make his attempt on
Segrave’s world record at the Ninety-mile
Beach in Maoriland in March, and will do
so in one of the most highly-specialised speed
machines yet seen outside of a nightmare.
The 1700-h.p. aeroplane engine required a
chassis unlike anything hitherto designed,
and the Australian engineer has risen to the
occasion brilliantly. The car is geared to
give 100 m.p.h. in first, 200 in second and
300 in third, and embodies some unusual
features. One of these in the splitting of the
drive from the gearbox, this being taken up
by parallel propeller shafts. Each is enclosed
in armor-plated tunnels, for the protection
of the driver, who sits between them, in case
of fracture of either. Disc wheels 37
inches in 'diameter, and carrying specially-
designed Tin. tyres, are fitted. From the rear
of the chassis project two wide parallel
wings intended to act as stabilisers. They
give the ear a most peculiar appearance,
which is added to by the fact that the body
is only 19in. wide on a track of sft. The
c f;y° tal le “g, h 18 2 fT a wheelbase
of 13ft 4m, and a water-cooling system will
be employed.
* * * *
“Brooklands”: If all runs to schedule
Malcolm Campbell is to have another try
for the world’s speed figures. His last
attempt W’as on a South African claypan,
but this time he is going to the dangerous
and limited stretch of beach at Daytona
in Florida. His new car will be engined
with a 12-cylinder Napier-Lion aeroplane
gadget, which sounds suspiciously like the
power plant installed in the Smith-Harkness
car. Campbell is going to make liis essay next
month. He reckons on a 250-m.p.h run as
against the standing figures of 23136‘ The
Australian car has been designed to do
300 m.ph
* ’ *
’
“Kick Starter”: Details of the recent ride
of English cyclist Wright, the first man
to top 150 m.p.h. on a motor-cycle, indicate
that he had everything in his favor. The
specially-built 1000 c.c. supercharged machine
proved too fast to be sent all out on Brook-
lands, and the subsequent trial on the French
road track at Arpajon was unsatisfactory,
However Wright was put on to a two-miie
straight concreted stretch near Cork, in Ire-
land, and duly recorded the expected figures.
Yet it has taken quite a w’hile to work up
to this high mark. Five-and-twenty years
ago Glen Curtis, on a freak bike fitted with
an aeroplane engine, kicked up 138.46 m.p.h.
on Daytona Beach. It was only a one-way
run, which kept it off the official books, but
it was not bettered until Wright’s perform-
ance.
* * * *
~T T , „
Hotham : Melbourne followers of cycling
are up m arms over the disqualification
of “Fatty” Lamb and his motor-pacer, Find-
lay, at the Motordrome. Breaches of the
pacing regulations were responsible, though
neither of the disqualified men .began the
business. In the second heat of the match
Clifford, who. was pacing Nicholson, refused
to give the right of way on top of the track
to Findlay, who thereupon came down in-
side and landed Lamb home the winner. Both
were disqualified for the heat on protest from
the beaten riders. In the next heat Findlay
played the same game as that put up against
him in the previous heat, sticking to the
red line in spite of challenges and bringing
home his man an easy winner. He and Lamb
were again disqualified, the pacer for a
mont *
up. ' rpi ~ , , *
* llie fidget craze, begun by the
? 01Iers ’- , 1S spreading. Miniature bowls has
Deei ? sl S atecl on the horizon, and now some
gen 1 1 . us in America has evolved miniature
Gyclm £> s° cal led. The addict, or whatever
u® “ ay • • Btyled > mounts a miniature cycle
iiLf i^ m m? re tra i c . ’ a l ld P edals away for
’ 1116 mach . me does not shift, but a
J )a 1 aai ' ain , a a country scene re-
), 01ves a P out tlle cycling track. The harder
T | le cycllst pedals the faster the panorama
f°? S roand ’ “ ie illusion of immense speed
P ein S attained. It seems rather puerile, but
T said t 0 “ e catching on well in the country
, ?, a . inve pted the wooden nutmeg and probi-
, a °iL . ” lien excitement is at fever heat
a , * ana the revolving canvas stops
®\ adua l y ‘ The man nearest the winning post
ni, 11 lt comes to a final halt is the w’inner.
,y iere seem to be opportunities for squaring
‘ . i . ex P ert in charge of the panorama
macainei 'V-
... ~ “ '
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: Met one of my old Dais the
other day—he is a politician Jow but used
to run the monkey-and-marble act through
the Western Queensland race-meetings while
I was earry i ng t h e Boxing Lady and the
two unrivalled sprinters who had beaten
r^ ur Tostle and Jack Donaldson. We
bota a greed that we were wise in getting
out 0G tae TT £ ame when we did, but I am not
80 sure< He reckons that recent Parliamen-
tary e JP° sure s have put his game off the
P a P ’, or my P ar L Tam certain that there
1S , * e us ® 111 giving the public the healthy
a . , imi’inlcss recreation which once it de-
| irGd • 1 had an idea of reviving the Boxing
“ ady show during the Christmas holidays,
'- )n p e u P° n a time it was a sure money-
Risker, especially when you hung up the
81 P 0 WGD ?. en or children admitted.”
' VloUld you believe me, the mug coppers
turned me down for my showman’s license?
The hardest part of it was trying to get the
Boxing Lady to cancel the contract I had
foolishly made with her. She had gone to
a lot of trouble getting into condition by
belting her old man, and had had some new
tattooing done. It’s a cow of a world,
**. * *
“Retired Urger”: With the advent of the
Gamblang Government all sorts of weird de-
vices to extract cash from the unwitting have
sprung up. The latest is the “Fruit” machine,
Queensland, in the go-as-you-p’ease days of
the Labor _ regime, first exploited this
pleasing variant of the long-banned poker
machine. When a new political party came
into power in Baiianaland, it failed to see
that a gamble which meant ringing up, say,
f° ur pictures of apples instead of four
aces was outside the scope of the aud-
gambling acts, so “fruit” was thrown out
accordingly. Well housed in N.S.W. the joke
has taken on a new lease of life, and is
all the more popular because it seems to be
about the only thing that the Government has
forgotten to tax.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: As forecast, Walter Lind-
rum, Joe Davis and Tom Newman finished
level in the big billiards tourney in England,
Lindrum was well down until his amazing
recovery against McConachy, and Tom New-
man, whom Davis could beat six times out of
seven, came home ahead of the English cliam-
pion. The trio will now have to play off —
Lindrum still giving the others 7000 points
start—and the resulting gates should be
most satisfactory to the promoters of - the
big tournament. At the risk of being slugged
for a winning-bet transaction, I am putting
3s. 9d. on Lindrum at 5 to 2 on.
“Long Rest”: Walter Lindrum’s book on
billiards, just published, makes me realise
how easy the game really is. Too many of
us have thought it an abtruse science only
thoroughly understood by the type of indi-
vidual who carries a piece of chalk in his
waistcoat pocket and calls the marker by
his Christian name, a person who, as Thack-
eray has recorded, should be avoided.
According to the young Westralian, it is
only a matter of hitting one ball against
another, with variations in the way of drop-
ping one or other of the pills into pockets
or bumping a third one. It is all very well
for Lindrum, who plays on only the very best
tables. If he had to tackle a hundred up on
the one I met at the Bunion Club on Christ-
mas Eve there would be another story to
tell. There was a heavy surf breaking on the
cloth during my two visits to the table. I
had failed to connect with the middle one
of the three reds over the left-hand top
pocket, and when I attempted to salvage
the ball I. nearly had my hand bitten off by
the pocket.
. * * * *
“Staysail”: When the highly mechanised
Enterprise held the America’s Cup against
Shamrock IV., someone wrote to The Bul-
letin asking why such a fuss was made
because the Yankee craft was fitted with all
sorts of power gadgets for hoisting sail, etc.
His contention was that these were per-
fectly legitimate, though he quite overlooked
the fact that yaclitsmanship consists not so
much in winning races by any possible means
as in clever and speedy handling of the
cloths. In any case, the British and
American authorities have agreed that the
utilisation of power-winches and other de-
vices is illegal. In future, no yacht fitted with
such appliances may compete for the Cup.
* * * *
“Il?n el Issar” : Polo players in India are
having a bad time. Even racing has been cut
into, and half the mounted troops in India
would have to take to the wars afoot if
trouble broke out just now. A wave of what
the vets, call influenza, though it is really
that form of glanders which Egypt and India
know as surra, has swept through the coun-
try, and most of the big race-meetings in
India have been postponed. The menace of
•surra has caused many countries to close
their gates against horses coming from an
infected country. It was the chief reason
for the abandonment in a strange land of
the Walers that carried our Light Horsemen
from the Suez Canal to Damascus.
* * * *
“Splash”: Not likely that we shall see
Helen Madison, the American flapper cham-
pion, swimming in Australia. She was in-
invited but is wanted at home. The Austra-
lian championships are to be held in March,
just about the same time as the American
indoor title contest, and it is announced that
Helen’s “managers” are reluctant to re-
lease her. The reference to management is
interesting as emphasising the fact that
there is, nowadays, no really genuine ama-
teurism in sport of any kind.
* * * *
“Isis”: A couple of years ago the Oxford
Athletic Union put an age limit on com-
petitors in the University sports. This was
done because the Rhodes Scholars, coming
from all over the world, were not only
mature men but athletes who had already
become prominent in their own lands. The
limit was fixed at 23 years, with the result
that for the past couple of seasons the Dark
Blues have done very badly against Cam-
bridge, to which many “colonials” of the same
type as the Rhodes Scholars resort without
any restriction being imposed on them.
Oxford has now climbed down; the age-limit
lias been abolished. While there was much
to be said in favor of it, it annoyed the
Rhodes Scholars.
❖ sfc H* *
“The Gaffer”: The Bulletin has referred
to me the question of whether Arthur Postle
or Jack Donaldson was the greatest sprinter
Australia has produced. The verdict, I
think, will have to be a both-ways one.
At anything under 100 yards Postle was
always the Victorian’s superior. He was
wonderfully quick out of the mark, and that
counts for a devil of a lot in a matter of
a few seconds. He ran the 75, then a stand-
ard event in professional pedestrianism, half
a dozen times at least in 7 l-ssec., which
remains as a world’s record to-day. Donald-
son beat him at the 100 yards; over other dis-
tances up to 300 yards Postle was a bit the
better man; but there was never much be-
tween them.
* * * *
“Amateur Tro.”: In spite of solemn under-
takings to refrain from the practice, the Eng-
lish Rugby League persists in hiring Aus-
tralians. Its latest purchase is J. Busch, the
half-back who toured the North of England
with the last Australian professional team.
To do the fine little Australian justice, he
rebelled at the thought of buying himself into
the slavery that a professional football engage-
ment stands for. But the young fellow was
out of work, and though friends did all they
could to help him, the wealthy N.S.W. League
could not, apparently, move a hand to tide
him over his bad time, though his skill
and reputation have helped to bring many
thousands of pounds to its coffers.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Next football season will
see the inauguration of an Australian Rugby
Union. In the many years that the amateur
code has been played in Australia, control
of the game has been in the hands of the
various State Unions, N.S.W. taking the
lead. With the revival of the code in
Queensland and Victoria, and its establish-
ment in Westralia, a demand for a Federal
body has sprung up and is now to be trans-
lated into fact. The Australian body will
take charge of international visits and tours
and generally act on the lines of the Cricket
Board of Control. N.S.W. will have three
delegates, Queensland two, Vic. and W.A.
one each. The idea is. a praiseworthy one,
but much will depend on how the game pro-
gresses in Victoria and Westralia. In both
these States the Rugby Union has been
established more than once, only to drift
into oblivion.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: For some years the efforts
of the Australian Rugby Union authorities
to induce a French team to visit this side of
the world have been as productive of result
as trying to catch an eel by the tail. How-
ever, the French Federation has actually
committed itself in writing to a visit to Aus-
tralia and M.L. in the 1932 season. Its lads
should prove a great success. Not only are
they in the world’s best class as players, but
they are famous for “temperament.” Their
visits to England are invariably a source of
joy to the stolid Briton.
* * * *
“Reformed Gun” : I am terribly upset over
the announcement in the Sydney papers that
a bowling-club house at Cairns, in North
Queensland, had been broken into and a
quantity of bottled alcohol removed there-
from. In my time in Cairns there was no
bowling club. There was not even the neces-
sity for one, seeing that the pubs never
closed from sundown to sunup. In those
golden.days one could wander down the only
street Cairns could then boast, and, kicking
the alligators carelessly out of the way, drop
into the nearest open door. It was always
a pub door.


10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
ISesSPp'
m
* *>/
1
mm
H
I
r
i
mi
on the hundreds of
things you use daily in
your home, your factory,
office, store or farm.
Price 211-
post FREE
NEW REVISED AND
ENLARGED EDITION.
JN every can of baking powder
or paint you buy—in the
hundreds of things you use in
your home or business—is a
goodly profit you can now save
and make your own through
the priceless knowledge con-
tained in HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY
BOOK OF RECIPES,
FORMULAS AND PRO-
CESSES.
It places at your finger-tips
over ten thousand separate
recipes, preparations, form-
ulas and processes containing
the latest scientific discoveries.
In simple, non-technical terifis
it explains how you can make
every conceivable thing in
general use, from inks and
toothpastes to asphalt, cement
and battery solutions. It con-
tains the discoveries of civilisa-
tion itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for the first time—
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European
scientists and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think what it would mean
to have ten thousand to choose from!
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it the factory cdn save money on belt dressings, amalgams
or boiler compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on
fertilisers, cheese-making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this
remarkable one volume encyclopaedia to-day?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
JF this should meet the eye of ALBERT
ERNEST DEVEREUX, will he please
correspond with his sister, H. Devereiix, 150
Warwick Street, Hobart, Tasmania. Im-
portant business. Urgent.
ALECK CAPEBREAD, born in London
1868, and late of Penge, Kent, England
Last heard of in 1895. Believed to be in
Australia. Anyone knowing his whereabouts
please communicate with JIM COOPER,
Home Hill, North Queensland.
Missing Friends.
RYAN, WILLIAM, formerly of Liverpool,
New South Wales, draper, married
Catherine Farrelly 30th November, 1867.
Information as to his death or whereabouts
is required. He is entitled to money in the
intestate estate of his late wife, who died
14th April, 1929.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee,
107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834.
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
466 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3, 6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
m
aCgtW***
s^S>9
\
J
Mr
CHINA
Exquisite variety
(50HE house of Shelley offers
boundless opportunities to the
lady -who likes her Afternoon Teas
to be distinctive social occasions.
Every Shelley Tea Set is made of
fine English Bone China, every
piece is a delight to handle. The
noble Gainsborough service and
the charming Queen Anne series
are two of Shelley’s most famous
Tea Sets, but a variety both
infinite and exquisite may be had.
Ladies are respectfully referred
to their China-dealers.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Jy Lucie Attwell
t Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• RITISH M ADC
CASE OF AMY DIFFICULTY IN ©STAINING
WRITS TO
T%V/. HEATH C CO.I-TO.
131.CLAP.IHCE IT.
dgdf
✓y HAIR
<0 N£ED
here's
•UttUJ -
dfg
<3ley Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for-
£pCUUriS (.MEXICAN)
Vkdtud §toJbtt
♦-REMOVES THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct Q/G), 6d. being postage.
fP
2 3 4 5
-J-blllJ I i I i 11
—«
(uticur
(ulicuiaßoaip
-a
MMICINA 4TOIUT
EASUR
BEAUTY M
Everyone Should Use
CUTICURA Preparations meet every
requirement for daily toilet use for
every member of the family. CUTI-
CURA SOAP is pure, fragrant and
antiseptic. Assisted by CUTICURA
OINTMENT as needed, it keeps the
skin fresh, clear and healthy, free
from pimples, rashes and irritations.
CUTICURA TALCUM is ideal for
Baby after the bath, for Mother as a
finishing touch to her toilet and for
Father after shaving.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
THE PATRIOT
■ DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN 1
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Paramount’s “Tom Sawyer,” at Sydney
Prince Edward Theatre, follows the book
with commendable attention to detail. The
white-washing act, in which Tom, by pre-
tending that it is a privilege to be allowed
to paint fences on a holiday, has every small
boy in the village fighting to do his work,
is represented in full. .What an insight it
gives into child psychology! The school-
room scenes, in which Tom wins Becky's
heart by a fascinating combination of crimi-
nality, chivalry and stoicism under unmerited
punishment, lollow. Injun Joe’s midnight
murder in the churchyard, seen by the boys
from the fork of a tree, is well done; and
the pictures down the river, with Tom, Huck
and Joe Harper in hiding on an island and!
the steamer firing, shots over the water in
tlie hope that their bodies may be brought!
to the surface, are beautiful in their obvious j
way. The memorial service, heard by the!
supposed victims from the organ loft, and<
the trial of Muff Potter for the murder which
the half-breed has committed (culminating
in his acquittal on the evidence of Tom
and Huck) ; the picnic at the caves and the
death of Injun Joe—all these episodes are
reproduced with the utmost realism. The
play ends on a charming and artistically
right note. Poor harassed Aunt Polly has
at long last become afflicted with doubts as
to whether young Sid is so much more
righteous than Tom, after all. She has just
had proof of Tom’s affection in the form
of the message of comfort that was written
but never delivered to her while he was
away. At this inauspicious moment Sid
j-ushes in with a perfectly justifiable com-
plaint about his brother, and is met with
a hearty swipe on the side of the face.
It is a picture that every lover of children
ought to see. No stage production could
approach it, if only because no collection
of.small boys and girls could act with such
spn-it and naturalism night after night.
-fheir technique can only have been regis-
tered on the screen by a wonderfully patient
process of elimination. Mitzi Green and
Jackie Coogan, Hollywood’s most celebrated
juveniles, play the leading parts, and for a
wonder they are not entirely satisfactory.
tz .h wao J las Played so many adults out
ot pictures in her. time, is in the background
during most of this show. She wears a large
fair wig, winch gives a fat judicial wooden-
her mobile little face. Jackie Coogan,
at 10, is broad in the beam and overfed-looking.
whereas Tom Sawyer was hungry and hard-
bitten. But the other children are superb—
particularly Jackie Searl as Sid and Dick
Mmslow as Joe Harper. Clara Blandwick’s
study of Aunt Polly is masterly; she is the
irritable, conscientious, loving disciplinarian
that Mark Twain no doubt knew and loved
come, to life. . There is only one Hollywood-
ism in the piece—Injun Joe’s dive through
the court-house window with the court-house
door open behind him—and the photography
and sound-reproduction are up to Para-
mount s high standard
* * *
The Last of the Duanes” (Fox), recently
presented at Sydney Regent, is worthy of
attention for its chuckleheadedness, which is
monumental. The title is irrelevant, since
the .curtain falls on the marriage of the
heroine to the stalwart lad who plays the
last of the Duanes, implying that the breed
is by no means extinct. Anachronisms
abound. The period is somewhere round the
seventies of last century, hut the language is
modern Bowery, and the innumerable guns
are as up-to-date as anything in A 1 Capone's
armory. The heroine enters as a 1930
flapper, and exits in a costume suggestive
of the early ’eighties. The sentiment is
awash with slush. “Euchre, ” an outlaw who
is sound at heart, lies in a bosky glade
stricken unto death by an enemy’s bullet.
As he takes a last look round he murmurs,
“How beautiful it all is!” and so his wild
but essentially admirable spirit passes to the
Great Beyond. As a guarantee that it has
joined the angels a mechanical bird trills.
This effect produced muted guffaws on the
night the writer attended, but merriment
must have been tempered with irritation, in
the case of many, that an actor of James
Bradbury’s quality should have been forced
to associate himself with such bilge. A suc-
cession of fine technicians passes across the
screen—Walter McGrail, Myrna Loy, James
Mason, Lucile Browne and others—so the
irritation is continuous. . The soundness of
the acting provides another grievance; it is
so good that the incongruities are not as
funny as they might be. The production is
lavish, and one leaves oppressed with amaze-
ment that so much cash should be at the
disposal of the infantile minds responsible
for the plot and dialogue.
¥ * *
“The White Devil” (Ufa), which was pre-
shown at the Film House, Sydney, last
week is a German version of Tolstoi’s
“Hadji Murat.” The White Devil is a
tribesman of. the Caucasus who, in the
course of his efforts to free his part
of the world, slaughters the Czar’s troops,
is taken to the Court of Nicholas 1.,
falls in love with a member of the Imperial
Ballet, and returns to his native village.
The scenic effects are glorious in detail
and in the mass. For the first time
in Australia Court scenes are shown which
really, suggest a great European Court. The
courtiers are a dignified lot even when act-
ing as procurers—there is not a wise-
cracker among them—and the pageantry is
impressive. The incidental music is interest-
ing where it isn’t beautiful, and it has been
splendidly recorded. But the tempo is mad
deningly slow to those accustomed to the
brisk methods of British and American pro-
ducers. Riddled with enemy bullets in his
lest engagement Mosjukine dies a thousand
deaths, so to speak, arid then defies the
eternal verities by coming to life again.
“The Last Companj’,” which was shown at
the Film House some months ago, contained
no melodramatic absurdities of the sort; ir
was a war picture that any ex-soldier could
have understood and appreciated. For that
reason the writer feared it wouldn’t be ex-
hibited publicly in Sydney, and up to the
present it hasn’t been. Because “The White
Devil” is a poor war picture, stagily acted
on the whole, it is to be hoped it won’t be
released here as a first sample of what Ufa
can do in the way of talkies. The Ufa
standard is very much higher.


A WOMAN'S
LETTER
In some respects the Christmas that has
just slipped into the past was very beautiful.
It certainly was the richest in kindness
within recent memory. Watered by the tears
of adversity the flower of charity bloomed in
the most seemingly arid spots. Men, women
and children were eager to remember others
not so well and comfortably placed as them-
selves, and a million and one little acts of
self-sacrifice were tucked into the Christmas
stocking.
The Salvation Army, as usual, was won-
derful. Rare was the back street or narrow
alley that was not left the cheerier for the
passing of scuttle bonnet and uniform. Up at
St. Vincent’s, in a building behind the hospital,
on Christmas Day 300 men sat at meat where
two days before 700 kiddies from the poor
schools of Darlinghurst had romped around
a giant Christmas tree, and where every day
for the past six months over 100 deadbeats
have found a good meal waiting for them.
Nor indeed must one denomination more
than another be singled out. All the Church
Missions were early abroad, waking smiles
in the ’Loo and Annandale and Camperdown,
and wherever the poor are gathered in the
greatest numbers. Incidentally, Archdeacon
Charlton broke every union rule that governs
the job of Santa Claus in his rounds with
the C. of E. Ladies’ Home Mission. Then,
of course, there was the Smith family. The
Smith family (Heaven bless them!), even as
the poor, we have always with us.
Randwick on Boxing Day was as unin-
spiring as a lump of cold Christnias pud-
ding from which all the thrippennies have
been gouged. Lots of the frocks looked like
something plucked off a Christmas tree
rather than the Tree of Knowledge, and if
the attendance had been just a little less
the stands would have seemed a rest cure
rather than part of a racecourse. Organdie
got an airing. One girl in spreading muslins
suggested Dolly Varden, and another up-to-
date Miss got a coy effect by pulling a
behind-the-ear curl through an opening in
her beret. A frock of sapphire-blue lace
and chiffon caused plucked eyebrows to
run up like a suddenly-released window-
blind, only to settle down to normal w 7 hen
the w 7 earer approached and revealed that a
seemingly bare shoulder was decorously
clothed in palest pink chiffon. Lady Pyers
Mostyn, in a wide white Bangkok above blue-
and-white marocains, was among the fairly
early arrivals. Mrs. Brian Poole and Eliza-
beth Knox with their mother formed an inter-
esting color composition, the lady’s greys and
blues forming a cool background for the
clover pinks and the yellow's worn by her
daughters. One of the triggest young things
was Philippa Stephen, and newly-returned
Elizabeth Macarthur Onslow 7 bore the heat
and burden of the day in fluttery chiffons
and a wide hat.
The first race day after the new betting
tax w 7 as in force caused quite a boom in the
sale of cold cream and astringent lotions,
for brows grew furrowed and the corners
of the mouth drooped sadly as lovely w T oman
handled the remnant of winnings Jack Lang
had left her. In spite of their cloister-like
emptiness, how T ever, the stands were far
from threadbare. Hats were attractive, par-
ticularly so Mrs. John McKelvey’s wide blue
velvet, the brim stitched till it. resembled
straw and lined with white. This toned in
with her blue and white patterned cr§pe de
Chine, which fitted snugly in the new way
about the hip line and then burgeoned into
pleats. Lady Pyers Mostyn aired chiffons, a
droopy hat and an air of cool detachment.
The German Consular Busings, too, were
there, and a hectic time they must have had
w’orking the odds and tax and so on back
into marks and pfennigs.
Here’s a dinkum Cliristmas-stocking story.
The littlest one of the family in great
secrecy had written a letter to Santa telling
him her wishes. She gave it to father to
post, and father thought he’d glance through
it just to prevent any mistakes occurring.
This is w r hat he read: “Dear Santa Claus, —
I know 7 that times are bad, and you must
spread out your presents, so my sister and
I aren’t going to ask you for very much.
My sister w 7 ould like a pencil, a pencil-case
and a pair of bloomers. I should like a
wristlet watch, a camera, a tricycle and a
pair of silk bloomers.”
That bright young man Johnnie Pye drops
Sydney a note from mid-Atlantic. He w 7 as
travelling by the Britannic to London from
New York, w r here he had had a hectic and
very amusing visit. One of the most inter-
esting people he met w r as Cisneros, w 7 hom he
sat next to one night in Lady Armstrong’s
box at the opera. She w 7 as interested at
once when she heard that her neighbor w 7 as
an Australian, and inquired eagerly about
Sydney and the many friends she had made
here.
When the Sierra came into Sydney Harbor
just before Christmas she flew 7 on her bow
and stern the sign in the evergreen bough.
In plain English, each end of her bloomed
with a Christmas tree, and up on the masts
sprouted tw 7 o more, above them a tiny cross.
And if that isn’t a pretty message of good-
w7ill to men to come rolling and ploughing
across the Pacific, what is?
When this Letter w 7 as ambling up Market-
street at the end of the hottest day last week
it saw 7 w 7 ith compunction a lady positively
melting away. She w 7 as a w 7 ax lady, and her
brow was running into her eyes. Her rai-
ment, it is true, was scarcely suitable for
a day that had been w 7 ell in the nineties. She
wore a squirrel coat, and carried an enor-
mous Aretic fox pelt nearly as large as a
steamer rug flung across one arm. The shud-
dersome sight reminded one of a London
letter which says that the fashionable in
that city are as befurred as the Esquimaux.
Cloth coats have fur collars that are high
and long and cuffs that are opossum, kolin-
sky, or, if you are truly smart, sable to the
elbow. Muffs of fur are once more definitely
in, though the up-to-date version does duty
for a bag also, and is equipped with a
zip fastener. Sable with the Parisian ana
New Yorker has quite given the cold
shoulder to the silver fox.
Padre Thomas Hardy and W. G. Cocks, of
the Rawson Institute, were feeling limp but
cheerful on Christmas Day in the morning.
The institute has refused to become
acquainted with depression, and the fun was
kept going for nearly a week in rooms gay
with garlands of greenery, masses of flowers
and acres of flags. Admiral Evans was part-
host of the Christmas dinner to 200 seamen,
which was the big jubilation of the week,
even though the plum pudding had been cut
out of the menu. The invitations for this
go out in the name of the ladies’ committee,
wherein the family of Knox figures largely.
The new padre, who has been with the insti-
tute only six months, faced the recent heat
wave with equanimity. He has been in Chili
for 23 years, so probably he enjoys getting
warmed up.
“Bondi wasn’t in,” declares the old nur-
sery rhyme, and it was the truth on Boxing
Day. Bondi was abroad disporting on its
beaches. Probably it shared its sands with
Annandale and Summer Hill and even
Pymble, for looking from the Esplanade there
didn’t seem room for a sandflea between the
torsos, tibias and collar-bones grouped about
the waterfront. From beneath one large
yellow-and-black beach sunshade stretched a
circle of legs. Some of the legs were longer
and more hairy than others. All were
motionless, somnolent and sun-tanned. It
looked as though some human centipede were
taking a siesta. But presently it turned out
that each pair of legs fringed a bizarre-
striped, futuristic-splashed and be-shorted
body. Young men, looking like monks in
ankle-length brown and grey dressing-gowns,
their feet in sandals, austerely walked an
esplanade where girls in blue, green, red and
white shorts and girls in white, blue or red
bell-bottomed trousers, Mexican hats, dark
goggles or sun-visored caps glanced slant-
wise at one another’s outfit and escort. The
coolie coat adorned youth and middle-age.
About youth it mostly flapped in a fine, free,
careless rapture, while middle-age drew it
decorously together in the front, thereby em-
phasising the embonpoint elsewhere. The
Perfect Sphere seemed to have been achieved
by one couple, the lady’s very globular after-
part sheathed in a sunflower-splashed coat
and the gentleman’s bowler hat front encased
in a scarlet and black costume. Little awn-
inged tents for one dotted the sands, and
into these humans crept rather like hermit
crabs. Small children with ice-cream cones
trotted beside fathers who dashed with billies
of boiling -water from the building across the
Esplanade, where everything down to minia-
ture golf is on tap. It was a spirited scene
in which the fat and the lean, the curved
and straight of line were jovially amiable
by the sad sea waves.
Westralians foregathered on a breathless
night to give one another the season’s greet-
ings. The party was held at the Lyceum
Club, and the drawing-room was simply
packed with Perthites who seemed to regard
anyone who complained of the heat as a
weak sister. Senator Kingsmill and his
wife were notabilities of the night, and a
cake-cutting and loud singing of “For They
Are Jolly Good Fellows” were cheerful in-
gredients of the celebration, which was
embroidered with music and recitation by
Westralian-grown talent, among the artists
being violinist Daisy Richards.
Mrs. Jackson, Sydney’s new Mayoress,
gazes reflectively from this Newman picture.
The lady will take up her office from New 7
Year’s Day; she is already well known
in philan-
thropic circles,
both the Day
Nurseries and
the United
Charities’ Fund
counting her
among their
friends. Mrs.
Jackson, who
is a native of
Victoria and
is just back
from a visit to
her sister in
the old Mace-
don home, is
no stranger to
public life, as
he r husband
has long been
in politics.
Gardening and
poetry are
family ho b-
bies, the new Mayor being keen on verse,
while his wife takes pride in the garden
that surrounds their Faulconbridge home.
This, by the way, was at one time the resi-
dence of Henry Parkes.
There was a par. in The Bulletin about
the Laird of Culloden, Hector Forbes, who
used to be chief clerk of the London branch of
our National Bank; and now a word about his
wife. Mrs. Hector Forbes is a Queenslander,
Maud Bearup, whose people were some of the
stalwarts in the old mining days of Charters
Towers. The Laird has a first cousin in
Brisbane, Mrs. MeKillop, wife of the rever-
end Gael whose preaching is a feature of
the Presbyterian churches.
The friends of pianist Carl Budden Morris
hit on a happy way of combining an evening
of pleasure for themselves and of profit to
the musician when they instituted a series ot
private recitals. The fourth of these was
perhaps the most successful, and the Forum
Club was crowded at the invitation of Mrs.
H'enry Baird to hear Carl whisk rainbow-
like effects and melodic phrase from the
works of Vogrich, Liszt and Mozart. That
devoted music-lover Mrs. Roystone Davey
was one of the hostesses, and others equally
involved were. Mrs. Leonard Dodds, Mrs,
A. R. Chopin and Mrs. R. J. Anderson.
Among the newly-engaged is Connie Bryen,
of Leura, formerly of Double Bay. The ring-
provider is John Triggs, of Manly.
There’s another new bride for the Navy.
Heather Young became the wife of Lieu-
tenant-Commander J. R. Miller, of Adelaide,
in the late days of December. A pale blue cloud
ol chiffon and tulle enveloped the bride, and
her bouquet of gardenias and lily of the
valley breathed fragrance as she passed. Beat-
rice "Stewart, one of the city’s clever deco-
rative florists, ’maided in a flutter of palest
pink chiffons and blue delphiniums. Lieu-
tenant-Commander Miller is attached to
Flinders Naval Base, so the new home will
be down south.
May Moore, now climbing back to health
in her Bayview home, is responsible for
one of the most interesting exhibitions of
photographs in the Lyceum Club. During
her years as one of the city’s leading photo-
graphers the tall Junoesque May met and
recorded dozens of visiting and resident cele-
brities. Her ambition was to make a com-
prehensive collection over a decade or more,
and hand it when completed to the Mitchell
Library, as she did with her gallery of Aus-
tralian writers. The pictures now _at the
Lyceum include studies of the . Prince of
Wales, Kreisler, Irene Vanbrugh, Margaret
Bannerman, and other notabilities whose
stay in Sydney has put colqr into our days.
John Dailey is a proud man these days.
He has two fine works to his credit —his new
novel, “Only the Morning,” and his baby
daughter Caroline. Caroline is to be taken
out camping at the age of two months, and
so made a dinkum gum-nut baby. __ Later on,
when she is able to walk, one of her first
excursions, no doubt, will be to grandfather's
statue. Few small girls can claim so dis-
tinguished a forebear.
Marjorie Quinn was the heroine of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers’ Christmas
party. As the Fellowship’s secretary, Mar-
jorie has for two years arranged birthday and
other celebrations for members. Last
week they retaliated by having Rebe Bloom
read some of the poetess’s verse specially
picked by Mary Gilmore, making her cut
a Christmas cake all glittery with candles,
and last of all handing her a cheque for ten
guineas in recognition of a sustained labor of
love. Incidentally, the society’s short-story
prize of 20 guineas was won by C. L. Con-
nington.
Good looks and brains are allied in Mrs.
Helen Dalziel,
the subject
of this Dayne
picture. She
is a daughter
of Justice Har-
vey, and, fol-
lowing a mode
set by several
other Judges’
daughters, is
her father’s
associate.
Somew r here in
1931 she will
stage her mar-
riage with the
well - known
John Mant,
who was con-
sidered, until
he met Mrs.
Dalziel, en-
trenched in
bachelordom.
Joan and Betty Rayner, of the T.O.Y.
Theatre, are leaving Sydney at the end of
this month for Adelaide. They and their
little company will travel by caravan, play-
ing one-niglit stands on the way. After that
the two sisters' intend to take a look at
their native Maoriland, and the kind uncle
whose cheque helped them buy the caravan.
Then off they go to America,
Mrs. Charles Walker, who for many years
has been organising secretary for Prince
Alfred’s, and whose days have been spent
inspiring tearoom, kiosk, ball and such-
like money-raisers, has just linked herself
still more definitely to the institution. She
became, with some little pomp and ceremony,
the wife of Wm. Epps, the secretary of the
hospital, in the pictorial courtyard of Bur-
dekin House (now an artery of the Prince
Alfred treasury). Presents came from all
parts of Australia, and the two are now
in Hobart honeymooning, even as Adam and
Eve, among the apples.
Dowell O’Reilly’s widow sailed last week
by the Chitral for England. An English-
woman, she intends to make a long stay in
her own country. Bernard O’Reilly is an
artist and is doing work in which good
taste and restraint (the two qualities in
which his father’s writing excelled) are
evident.
How is this for high finance? A lady
in a northern suburb got an invitation to
join a day’s excursion to “the ponies” after
her husband had gone to work. She had no
money in the house, but knew that the toiler
would return at the end of the day with a
full pay envelope. Her credit being good, she
sent small daughter to the mercer’s at the
corner for two schoolboy suits on approval.
The storekeeper, w 7 ho gets the family’s cus-
tom, folded up the suits with eagerness. When
mother received the parcel, she carefully re-
moved the price tickets, and, taking the suits
to a pawnbroker in the neighborhood, got a
temporary advance on them. She had her
day’s fun; her husband brought home his
earnings in the evening; and in the morning
she redeemed the suits, took them home,
sewed on the price tickets, and by ten
o’clock had returned them to the mercer with
a “Sorry, neither is quite what I want.”
After w r atching the bargain counters in city
shops during the sales that are, like the poor,
with us always, this Letter is bewilderingly
trying to compute the size of the cargoes of
glass beads, wood beads, polychrome and bar-
baric jewels that are now ornamenting the
bosoms, the arms and the ears of Sydney
girls. So far, thank Heaven! noses go un-
adorned. These South Sea Islandish trump-
eries are rarely becoming, and the taste
behind the buying thereof is mostly a minus
quantity. The large plaques, medallions and
beads that dangle against the uplift brassi-
ere of the moment are a throwback to the
day when woman had quite definitely a bust,
and used same as a sort of display-ground
for the diamond brooches, wmtches and chains
her husband’s w 7 ealth could buy her.
BY REQUEST.
How to Smoke Fish.
— “Sun” headlines.
Of course, it had to come to something like
this in the Women’s Section, when the rising
cost of tobacco threatens every honest girl’s
cigarette!
Who has seen Cazneaux’s Bear Book?
Within the covers live Mother Bear, Father
Bear aud Baby Bear. Not the big frighten-
ing bears of older, colder lands, but the dear
humorous, harmless little native-bears which
live in the tall euealypts. The koalas must have
been terribly pleased to have Mr. Cazneaux
visit them. They posed in the most natural
manner among the gum-tips; they sat im-
mobile in almost Napoleonic attitudes on
the boughs for his camera. Mother bears
and father bears shinned up tree-trunks
carrying one, and sometimes two, of their
offspring piggy-back much more cleverly than
the most indulgent human father could hope
to do. The pictures were taken >at Koala
Park, the reservation for native-bears
started by Mr. Noel Burnet. With the
help of Bertie Kelly, he has procured _4O
acres of ideal country at' West Pennant Hills,
and is planting thereon the particular
varieties of eucalyptus on which the native-
bear subsists.
From the Queensland capital:—
Brisbane had an excellent excuse for bowing down
to wood and stone when Daphne Mayo’s work at. the
Town Hall was completed. The statuary is symbolic
of the progress of civilisation in Queensland; the
figures and grouping compel admiration. The central
figure, 9ft. high, represents the State protecting the
citizens; one sees the early explorer with his ox and
his horse, and glimpses the receding of the aboriginal
before the white. Unveiling the group, the Mayor
claimed that nowhere in Australia could you see
a more beautiful entrance to a building. Aldermen
and their wives, architects and builders and members
of the Wattle Day League were the only invited
guests, but a crowd assembled outside.
In honor of Donna Toppin’s marriage to H. M.
Bashford, of Maryborough, Mrs. H. Robinson gave a
party at the Carlton Cabaret. The hostess was in
champagne mariette, while the guest of honor wore
a Madonna-blue gown. Madonna Toppin, always
known as “Donna,” was the child actress who played
with Nellie Bramley and other companies. Another
bride-elect honored at Atcherley Roof Garden was
Dorothy Matheson, who marries H. C. Ironmonger at
Morpeth shortly.
Ernest Finlay is here on a campaign to create a
greater interest in the work of Australian artists.
He brings with him pictures by Syd Long, Syd Ure
Smith, Bruce Robertson and Hubert Gallop.
Nell Douglas Graham, daughter of barrister
Graham, the Queensland girl whose one-act play
finished well up in the Community Theatre competi-
tion, is a pretty maid with a charming disposition to
Whom none would grudge success. She is a gifted
comedy actress herself and has more than once been
on the professional stage with companies visiting
Brisbane. She also teaches elocution and is always
ready to give her services for charitable causes. Her
grandfather was William Graham, a former M.L.C.,
of the Highlands, Albion, and St. Ronans station on
the Downs.
A wedding with a scholastic interest was that of
Francis Scott, 8.A., of Toowoomba, and William
Rankin, of Dirranbandi. Naples blue was worn by
the bride, and a blue and crin. straw hat with
a touch of pink.
James Little, of Rosedale cattle station, the oldest
resident of the Bundaberg district, is dead. He
built a church at Rosedale for the Anglicans, now
known as the Little Memorial Church. He came to
the district at 12 and lived there all his life; the
only surviving member of his family is Mrs. John
Murray, his sister, who is 91.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin gave a dinner
party to Dr. Sharp, Mr. and Mrs. Moore, Bishop
and Mrs. de Witt Batty, Canon and Mrs. W. H. W.
Stevenson, Mr. Blundell and daughter Ann, Miss M.
J. Bedford and Dr. Carmalt Jones. The doctor is a
professor at Otago Uni., and is staying with their
Exes.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to see the
distribution of Christmas gifts at the Children’s
Hospital, which was lavishly decorated. Morning glories
in blue and mauve decked the hall, and there was a
miniature lake whereon disported rubber turtles and
crocodiles. In the Outpatients’ Department, gum-
trees and koalas, a kang-aroo and the Southern Cross
were visible. Nurse Olga Gooma was Father Christ-
mas, and there were 152 little ones to be catered
fof. Dr. Carmalt Jones came with their Exes.;
Matron Billing entertained them to afternoon tea.
Before the close of business on Christmas Eve,
Pika Brothers, the outfitters, presented to Mr. G. H.
Mathams, head of the correspondence section, a
handsome gold timepiece in appreciation of 25 years’
service. This is the 18th ceremony of the kind, and
represents an aggregate service of 450 years by 18
employees, 11 of whom are still in the service of
the company.
And from Westralia: —
Christmas time generally brings a line or two from
Australians abroad. The John Somervilles write
from Kent, where John’s job as analytical chemist
at a paper mill involves frequent business trips to
France, Germany and Sweden. Mrs. Somerville was
Marjorie Ockerby, a very clever linguist. Another
globe-trotter is Olive Winter, who met fairy god-
parents in a Sydney guest house and had a marvellous
trip abroad with them. She writes of sun bathing
at Juan-les-Pins. It is there, with the blue wavelets
almost lapping their verandah, that Helen Croucher
and her father run their library and tea shop. Nearly
six years ago they left Australia to transfer their
activities to Southern France. They were fortunate
in their choice, for Juan-les-Pins has become a
fashionable tourist resort half-an-hour’s ’bus ride
from Nice.
Young folk who study music and elocution with
Lily Kavanagh showed how expert teaching can
develop natural talent at the break-up concert in
the Assembly Hall. The curtain went up on two tots
dressed as a lady and gentleman of the last century
who walked arm-in-arm to her Ex. with offerings
of a posy and programme. Mollie Dwyer and Joy
Ruse were Shylock and Portia in the trial scene from
“The Merchant of Venice.” Three pianoforte
duets, with clever little Helen Richardson, who writes
songs and verse, as a performer, and 10 minutes with
Perth’s future orators were all good items.
A troth has been plighted between Edna Dean, of
Midland Junction, and Ted, second son of Colonel and
Mrs. Heath, of Fairbridge Farm School.
The Repertory Club closed its doors for 1930 with
an informal Christmas party in the McNess Hall.
The University Oboes contributed hilarious spurts of
syncopation. Mollie Robinson managed to look nice
while she tore her posy to bits, and Martin Ketley
gave a fair imitation of a harmless madman in “A
Pair of Lunatics.” Followed another playlet about
an attractive mother who pinches her daughter’s
admirers, charades and various guessing competitions.
The committee ladies wore rosettes at a rakish Dolly
Varden angle in the hair. The A. G. Newmans, Noel
White, Kathleen Crammond, Mrs. R. T. Robinson,
Mrs. Beasley, the Bill Campbells, Joe Skinner, Pippin
Reid, Dr. Woodhouse and Dorothy Bird were among
those present.
The State psychologist and her department have
been wiped off the slate by a retrenching Government.
Only by a deputation from the Women’s Service
Guild were the records and machinery preserved from
a bonfire in the Observatory grounds. Effie Stotie-
man has changed her mind about practising here and
leaves at the end of December for London, where she
will do more psychological research work.


ASK THE MAN
WHO’S BEEN THERE—
And he will tell you that the finest holiday
he ever had was at Mt. Buffalo National
Park—Victoria’s “Garden of the Gods.”
Wide-flung views of mountain and valley, a great granite plateau with tre-
mendous precipitous walls, deep ravines and yawning cliffs, clear mountain
streams and deep, placid lakes these are some of the features which cause
those who have once visited Mt. Buffalo to return there year after year.
Excepting the Christmas period, when rather higher rates
operate, the tariff at The Chalet during the summer
and autumn is only I 5/- per day for weekly vacationists.
Book at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney, or
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or else get in touch direct with the manager of
The Chalet.
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The “Daily Mail”
is orte of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—■
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
BREAK O'DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scorfield
Synopsis: Dan Digby, a giant of a
man, transported to Tasmania: for
smuggling, escapes to the mainland,
and eventually gets to New Zealand,
the only survivor of four escapees who
set out to go there in a cutter. He
soon starts trading and acquiring
land, and has had much success when
he meets and marries Margaret Gam-
cron. Bess is born, the mother dies, and
the girl grows up with her father at
Maxwelton. until she is sent to an Eng-
lish school. Allan Macalister, a young
Highland shepherd, had got work near
Maxwelton, and throws himself into
the Land League movement to have
the big estates cut up among small
settlers. He has a son, Malcolm
Cwsar, brought into the world with
great difficulty by an eccentric doctor
and Old Mother Deans. Allan’s em-
ployer, Sir Alfred Richmond, Bart.,
is rescued from financial difficulties by
Bess, who proposes, marries him and
soon has him in Parliament and the
Hermitage and its racing stables on a
sound footing. Regarding Macalister
as a danger, she discharges him, A
little later the manager, Wiltshire, also
goes, and Angus Ross, an uncanny
figure with strong religious feelings,
takes his place. Macalister secures a
place of his own, Raeburn, where he
is subsequently arrested on a charge
of. having stolen sheep from the Her-
mitage. The ' information is laid by
Ross, and skins with the Hermitage
earmark are found in Macalister’s shed.
CHAPTER XXIII ( Continued ).
Alfred sat down, and, sipping a
brandy and soda, signified with a
nod that he was a listener.
“Very well,” spoke Bess. “In April three
hundred hoggets were put in the small pad-
dock that adjoins Macalister’s boundary,
and on the Ist of July Angus Ross reported
to me that the muster for that paddock
wa.s twenty-six shoi’t. More than eight per
cent. Ruinous, ruinous, my dear man. I
asked Ross how he accounted for the loss
and he replied at once that the sheep had
been stolen and that they had been stolen
by Allan Macalister.”
“The man must be mad. I simply don’t
believe it, Bess,” interrupted Alfred, spring-
ing to his feet and again taking up his posi-
tion on the hearthrug.
“Sit down, sir, and keep quiet,” com-
manded Bess; “you know nothing about the
matter. How could you?”
“Look here, my dear,” replied Alfred,
still maintaining his standing position, “I
haven’t got your head and I know it, but
there is one thing I can do and that is
sense a wrong where my house is con-
cerned.”
“Alfred, you talk a lot of”
“Hear me out, please,” insisted Alfred.. “I
have given way to you in all things, and I
admit that the arrangement has been good;
but in this matter of Macalister I shall not
give way. Were he a hundred times our
enemy I must see to it that we do not
wrong him. This business is for me—not
you. We have a name and a tradition.”
Sir Alfred resumed his seat, having first
bowed to his wife to signify that he in-
cluded her as belonging to the “name and
tradition.” “Yes, indeed,” he continued,
“our line has been a long one, and we
Richmonds have our pride. We have never
laid claim to many parts. I don’t know
of one Richmond who ever rose above
mediocrity; but I do know this: we have
never—at least, not wittingly—injured any-
one or anything, great or small. Can’t you
understand, my dear, that this cuts deep
with me? No action should have been
taken without my sanction. Even if Mac-
alister stole the sheep, I could settle with
him myself, because I know he would have
some good reason for his theft.”
“Alfred, Alfred! What are you talking
about? How can there ever be a reason
for a crime? Now will you or will you not
let me tell you what you have been so
anxious to hear?”
“I am very sorry I interrupted,” apolo-
gised Sir Alfred.
“Very well,” Bess resumed. “Ross said he
had suspected Macalister for some time.
Macalister was selling mutton to the
butchers to get ready money. He is very
hard up, and there were indications that our
hoggets had been rounded up a.t the east
corner of the boundary fence—that is the
corner nearest Macalister’s house. Very
well. Angus Ross has been very diligent
in this business, as I think you’ll admit he
is in all his duties.”
Sir Alfred nodded his acquiescence, and
his wife continued:
“Ross made it his business to examine
the skins which it is known Macalister keeps
stacked in his bafn till a dealer comes along.
He found seven with our earmark and six
with the ears cut off. Ross drove me to
Moana, where I consulted old Hyde, taking
Ross with me, of course. Old ‘Hyde, after
questioning Ross thoroughly, made out a
complaint or whatever they call it, and Ross
was taken before a magistrate to swear that
the contents were true, and a search warrant
was issued. Soon after our return here a
sergeant and a constable arrived from
Moana. That was the morning of the 12th.
They arranged to search Macalister’s barn
that evening while he was in Maxwelton
conducting one of his mad political meet-
ings—which you’ll be glad to hear was
broken up by the Irishmen’s row Very well.
Angus Ross led the police to Macalister’s
barn, and sure enough the skins were found
there. Then Macalister was arrested and
that’s all there is to it.”
“And still, Bess, I am not at all satis-
fied,” commented Sir Alfred. “If Mac-
alister stole our sheep and left their skins
with the earmarks on in his unlocked bam,
then Macalister has become a very different
man from the man I know. Take it from
me, my dear, there is something all wrong
about this, and I’m going to find out, if it
is humanly possible, where the mistake lies.
I can do no less. I have seen the Max-
welton ‘Weekly.’ Macalister comes before
the magistrate on the 21st. This is the
17th. To-night I shall see Angus Ross.”
“Good gracious, Alfred! Surely to-morrow
will do?”
“There is little enough time, Bess. I’ll
see him to-night at his house. And I’ll
go alone.”
Chapter XXIV.
It was after nine o’clock when Sir Alfred
reached his manager’s house, which was
distant from the homestead about a mile,
and lay in a gully, a steep hill rising between
the house and the homestead, so that one
was entirely cut off from view and sound of
the other. On this dark winter’s night the
house looked lonely and forbidding in its
loneliness. It was in two parts, the new and
the old, one set at right angles to the
other. The old part was built of sods clayed
over, with a thatched roof. The new was
of weatherboard. The place looked weird
enough on this winter’s night and a bleak
wind soughed about its eaves.
Sir Alfred made for the yellow light that
illumined a small window and knocked upon
the nearest door. He ha.d to knock three
times to get a response, which came in a
woman’s voice, “Who’s there at this time
o’ night?”
Sir Alfred having reassuringly replied, “It’s
all right, Mrs. Ross, it’s Alfred Richmond,”
the door was timidly opened, disclosing a
little thin woman, sharp-featured, with eyes
sunken and fear-haunted. Her straw-colored
hair hung in wisps about her ears. If she
was surprised to see her employer, she did
not show it, but in a meek, colorless voice
invited him to enter and offered him an arm-
chair which she placed at one side of the
kitchen fire. The room was spotlessly
clean, and the fire, though dying, gave out
sufficient heat for comfort. An oil lamp
stood in the centre of the white deal table,
and on the walls were two highly colored
pictures—one depicting the Israelites cross-
ing the Red Sea, the other Abraham about
to slaughter his son, his head turned to
behold a sheep caught in brambles in the
background.
“Has Angus gone to bed, Mrs. Ross?”
inquired Sir Alfred, taking the proffered
chair.
“ ’Deed no, sir. He’s not in,” replied Mrs.
Ross, pushing her hair back from her ears,
and seating herself beside the table.
“Well, well,” said Sir Alfred a little petu-
lantly: “that’s a disappointment. I wish to
see him most urgently.”
“He’ll be back about eleven o’clock, sir.
At least, that’s the time he comes home
most nights lately.”
“Good gracious!” exclaimed the visitor.
“I thought Angus seldom left the house at
night. Tut, tut, and, by the way, Mrs.
Ross, you’re not looking yourself at all.
Is there anything the matter?”
Instantly the woman burst into tears;
then drying her eyes with her apron, and
looking wistfully at Sir Alfred, she leaned
towards him and spoke like one who was
racked with a terrible secret.
“Sir Alfred, I’m glad you’ve come. I’ve
been so feared. I think Angus is out of his
judgment, poor man.”
“Good God, woman, you amaze me. You
mean he is insane?”
“Yes, sir. Quite daft.” And she again
covered her face with her apron.
Sir Alfred rose from his chair and paced
the kitchen. Mrs. Ross uncovered her face,
and her eyes, too dry for many tears,
glistened fearfully. Standing before her, and
looking compassionately at her worn face,
he asked her to say what form Angus’s
madness took.
“Oh, sir, this six month past, he’ll pray by
the hour, raising his voice to a great pitch
and petitioning the Lord to send His angel
to appear to him as he appeared to Moses
in the burning bush; but lately he’s taken
to going to the Mount Hole at the top of
the hill behind the sheepyards—you know,
Sir, the hill that is covered with manuka
scrub. Angus calls it Jehovah-Jireh. He
never telt me where he went, but I followed
him last Tuesday night, and that’s where he
went. I stayed by for about an- hour, and,
sir, it Was dreadful the way he carried on—
throwing himself on his knees, his hands
stretched above his head, calling out in a
voice queer-like and choking. I never heard
the likes of it. He was asking God what
sacrifice was demanded of him; then he
would listen awhile, and after that make an
answer as if a body had spoken to him.
Just before I came away, fearful lest he
should see me, he called out to the sky,
‘Behold, here am I! Even as Abraham was
willing, so am II’ You remember, sir,
Abraham was willing to sacrifice his son,
but at the last moment God provided a
ram.”
“My God, Mrs. Ross, this is dreadful!
The man may do an injury to one of
the children!” broke in Sir Alfred.
“That is what I’m feared of, sir; and look,
sir, at what he’s done to Allan Macalister.
He calls him the Antichrist, and talks in
his prayers of confining him in a dungeon
to the glory of God, arid I’ve heard him for
months past promise God he would find a
way to capture the Antichrist. He put
the skins of sheep he had sacrificed at the
Mount Hole in Macalister’s barn, and I
heard him tell God he had done it.”
“Good God, woman, why haven’t you told
Lady Richmond all this?”
. “Oh, Sir Alfred, I could move neither
hand nor foot, I’ve been so feared. I’m
near daft myself.” And the poor woman
threw her arms on the table, and, dropping
her head on them, was shaken with dry sobs.
Sir Alfred jumped to his feet. “Look,”
he said, raising her up, “keep calm. I
must act at once. I am going home, but
I’ll return in about an hour. If Angus re-
turns, say nothing of my visit, you under-
stand.”
“I understand, sir. Oh, I am so relieved
that I’ve spoken at last. If Angus is home
before you’re back, you’ll know it before
you reach the house. You’ll hear him pray-
ing a good way off.” And the distressed
woman let Sir Alfred out.
Sir Alfred mounted his hack and made for
the workmen’s huts not half a mile away.
He roused them from their beds, and, with-
out preface, told them he required their
help to capture Angus Ross, who had gone
mad. He was obliged to make the state-
ment more than once, as it was nearly ten
o’clock and the men had been roused from
sleep; but Donald Munl’o, the shepherd, who
hailed from Ayrshire and was held to be
“mighty quick in the uptak’,” said to his
mates, “Hoots awa’. Haven’t I telt ye
monny a time that moil’s as daft as a
March hare?” and Donald, delighted that
his allegations had been proved at last,
turned to Sir Alfred and spoke for all:
“We’ll be wi’ ye the noo, sir, and we'll
tak’ ropes wi’ us to bind him in case he
fechts.”
“Very good,” said Sir Alfred, who had but
a faint- idea of what Donald was talking
about. “Hurry up, men. There’s not a
moment to be lost.”
While the men dressed, Sir Alfred took
the saddle and bridle from his hack and
Set the animal loose.
With his four men, provided with ropes
and a stable lantern, Sir Alfred arrived at
the manager’s house soon after eleven
o’clock. The men waited in an outshed
while Sir Alfred approached the kitchen
door. He suspected that Ross had not
returned, as he had not heard his voice
raised in prayer.
“No, sir, he has not come back,” mur-
mured Mrs. Ross .as Richmond stepped into
the kitchen. “But I have been thinking
since you left, sir—what are you going to
do with him?”
“Mrs. Ross, if what you told me about
him is true, he must be put into safe keep-
ing at once.”
She clasped her hands, her head drooped
to her bosom and her lank hair straggled
across her face. “Oh, what have I done,
what have I done?” she moaned in her
misery.
Sir Alfred sat her in the armchair and
told her simply that she had done to-night
what she should have done weeks ago, and
that she could thank her stars that her
husband had done nothing worse than make
a false accusation against Macalister. “And
now, Ma’am,” he added, “I am going up to
the Mount Hole with four of the men. If
we don’t find him there, we’ll return here
and wait for him.”
Richmond walked to the door and was
turning the handle when the distraught
woman began to moan, “My poor little
ones! What will become of them?”.
“Be assured, Mrs. Ross,” said Richmond,
returning to her, “that, whatever becomes of
Angus, I’ll see to it that you and the child-
ren are cared for.” And he left her sitting
in the armchair staring with dry, hot eyes
into the dying fire, and went out to the
men.
Chapter XXV.
The Mount Hole was possibly the crater
of a volcano that had been extinct for ages.
It was not more than three miles from the
manager’s house, but the ascent to it was
steep and rugged, and the height some
seven hundred feet. The crater was partly
filled with boulders, and a profusion of
manuka scrub, lawyer vines and matagowri
grew around the sides, forming a belt for
twenty feet from the lip downwards. So
thick was this vegetation that the bed was
completely hidden from the view of anyone
standing above it. A little-used track zig-
zagged along the face from the crater-top
to the bed.
Sir Alfred and his men, having climbed
the face of the mount, were slowly picking
their way by the aid of the stable lantern


The cfn/ne of Queen 5 /on c/s
tf/s ft ngutshec/ §qc/o/ Life.
BRISBANE
dfg
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central BSZII-—6 Lines.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d,
<r
FREE PATIERN
EVERY WEEK
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, d
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
around it in search of the path, when sud-
denly a voice, harsh and husky, boomed up
from the black depths. The searchers stood
still, and the blackness, the depths, the
midnight and the voice amplified and rever-
berating around the walls of the crater,
urged them to creep closer together. The
voice was not raised in prayer or chant.
It was calling aloud, and the words mounted
from the depths to the men huddled on the
brink of the crater. Donald Munro, good
Presbyterian, thought of Dives in Hell.
“‘Thou shalt destroy them that speak
leasing. The Lord will abhor the bloody
and deceitful men.’ ”
The voice had begun in a groan, ascended
to a screaming crescendo, and died away
in a whining plaint.
Sir Alfred, who had not crept closer when
the voice began, now approached the group
and asked Munro if he had any idea what
the voice said.
“Certainly, sir,” replied Donald. “ ’Tis
the Psalms o’ Dauvid.”
“Then that settles it,” decided Sir Alfred.
“There’s no doubt the man’s mad. Let’s
find the track and get down to him.”
But before they could move, the voice
again overwhelmed them:
“ ‘The proud have hid a snare for me, and
cords; they have spread a net by the way-
side; they have set gins for me.’”
The track was found, and Sir Alfred led
the way cautiously downwards. The vicious
lawyer vines could scratch like a wild cat,
and the spiked matagowri stab like a viper.
When the descent was half completed, the
voice, which ceased only long enough for
breath, had lost all its power to terrify,
because the amplification and echo effects
were lost in the depths. The party emerged
from the scrub and stared dumbfounded
at the scene in the crater bed.
An altar built roughly of stones and
boulders, and fashioned in imitation of the
sacrificial altar in the colored picture that
hung in the manager’s kitchen, representing
Abraham about to sacrifice Isaac, stood in
the centre of the bed of the crater. A dried-
manuka fire flared up from the altar, and
the carcase of a sheep was being burnt in
the flames.
Standing before the altar, his back to
the search party, was Angus Ross. He was
enveloped in a long white garment—a man’s
nightgown—and about his waist he had
buckled his trouser-belt. His head and feet
were bare. The face was turned skyward,
and the arms were stretched wide. The
carcase sizzled, and the bleak winter’s wind
threw the mounting flames hither and
thithef.
Sir Alfred drew his men into the scrub
and was consulting with them how best
to approach the madman, who was now call-
ing to the sky:
. “ ‘For a fire is kindled in mine anger and
shall burn unto the lowest Hell, arid shall
consume the earth with her increase, and set
on fire the foundation of the mountain.’”
“God Almighty, he’s in flames!” shouted
Donald Munro, and leapt from the scrub,
the others following at his heels. No one
saw it happen. The flames likely enough
had reached the nightgown and, fanned by
the wind, wrapped Angus Ross in a sheet
of fire. When they reached him, coats were
trapped about him and the fire extinguished.
But as the poor man had divested himself
of all his clothing, which lay in a heap be-
hind the altar, he was terribly burned. They
carried him up the zigzag path—hard work
and painfully slow; poor Angus mercifully
unconscious. And by one resource and an-
other they bore him down the steep moun-
tain side.
But the bearers knew long before they
reached the house that the soul of Angus
Ross had quietly slipped away.
Chapteb XXVI.
Only those businesses which dealt in the
necessities of life functioned for the three
days following the death of Angus Ross,
and they carried on with difficulty. All
other operations were virtually at a stand-
still. The news from the Hermitage de-
manded full investigation and exhaustive
discussion. The hotels, especially o|Gor-
man’s and Mcßride’s, did a solid business,
cash and credit. The saddlers and the boot-
makers were so crowded with folk eager
for details that no room was available for
the tradesmen to make even a wax end, and
the blacksmiths did not bother to put on
their aprons.
The first aeeount was supplied by old
Fogarty, the doctor’s groom, who had been
awakened from an alcoholic sleep when the
Hermitage groom called for the doctor.
Fogarty gave it out that the Hermitage
homestead had been burned to the ground
“wit’ all hands.” An hour later that state-
ment was modified. Angus Ross had quar-
relled with Sir Alfred Richmond and had
set fire to him and to himself by smashing
a lighted lamp. Both were dead. No one
seemed to know who was responsible for
the amended account, but it was accepted
as the correct version, and Fogarty was
kicked out of O’Gorman’s hotel for being
a dangerous liar. When at last it became
known that Angus Ross had been burned to
death at the Mount Hole, the news was
received as an anti-climax, and doubtless
the townfojk would have returned to work
had not the question arisen as to what would
happen to the Maealister case on the 21st
July. On that question O’Gorman and
Mcßride continued to do a fine trade, and
the saddlers, bootmakers and blacksmiths to
do nothing. When the arguments were be-
coming threadbare and it began to look
as if the citizens might soon get back to
work, the news came that Angus had put
the skins in Macalister’s barn; on receipt
of which Pat O’Gorman sent a messenger
post haste for old Mother Deans to come
and give him a hand in the bar. The popu-
lace were thus busily engaged till closing
time on the night of the 19th. The day
following was Angus Ross’s funeral day.
That had to be seen to.
A funeral day in Maxwelton was always
looked upon as more or less a day of rest, a
kind of week-day Sunday. The measure of
the rest taken was in general the measure
of the deceased’s status in the community;
but sometimes it was determined by the
manner of death. All violent deaths were
granted a complete cessation from work—
a day it would have been hard to differenti-
ate from a Sunday except for the delicious
difference that the hotels did not close.
The Maxwelton cemetery lay on the
eastern slope of a gently rising hill half a
mile from the town. The Scottish folk
usually called it the graveyard, though the
more devout people would sometimes refer
to it as God’s acre. It was a pleasant,
sunny spot, guarded everywhere by pines,
steeple-shaped and trim, each pointing a
towering finger heavenwards, or bowing in
the .breeze to shed green sprigs on the graves
of tbe pioneers. It was the only burying-
place in Rewa-Rewa county. The dead
came to Maxwelton by every road, and on
funeral days the townsmen put on their
Sunday black, and walked out a mile or so
to meet the cortege, which might have
travelled as many as thirty miles and was
made up of men riding in all manner of
vehicles, which they called machines, and
men on horseback. The procession would
arrive travel-stained and straggling to the
point where the townsmen were gathered.
The relatives of the deceased, riding behind
the hearse, would look them over to note
the absentees that they might inquire later
the reason and stop doing business with the
defaulter if his reason was not considered
adequate. From that point the undertaker
would walk in front of the hearse and see
to it that the route taken was the most
public possible in the circumstances. The
townspeople expected that of him, as also
did the deceased’s relatives. The result was
that the funeral always eventually found
itself passing through the main streets of
Maxwelton. At this stage a few blithe spirits
would cause their mounts to become frac-
tious to an extent that to continue further
might be a positive danger to others, so
that there would be nothing for it but that
the blithe spirits must ride straight to the
livery stables at the back of O’Gorman’s
hotel; thence with the utmost decorum, the
townsmen in black, marching two by two
behind the relatives, and after them the
country folk in crunching and creaking
“Standing before the altar,
his back to the search party,
was Angus Ross.”
machines, and bringing up the rear the
riders whose horses were too jaded to get
fractious at the sight of the Shamrock
Hotel.
No one has sounded the depths of solem-
nity who has not attended a funeral service
at the Maxwelton cemetery. On funeral
day 3 there is always a breeze of the correct
velocity from the right quarter. This breeze
makes music by playing on the pines. At
the moment that the Reverend David Cam-
eron begins the service at the cemetery
gates, “I am the resurrection and the life,
saith the Lord,” the breeze and the pines
strike lip their music in perfect accompani-
ment to the pitch and cadence of his voice,
so that the very atmosphere becomes poig-
nant with sorrow. The breeze and the pines
are skilled in producing all the tones ox
grief. No instrument ever moaned as they
moan, always repeating “Ashes to ashes,
dust to dust,” or send notes whimpering to
the skies, “Man that is born of woman hath
but a short time to live and is full of
misery.” The instrument has not yet been
made by man that can match the pines and
the breeze in sounding the deeps of misery
when folks stand round an open grave at
Maxwelton.
The shopmen slip discreetly away at con-
venient moments, using the trees as cover
for the retreat. They want to get to their
shops to make ready for such of the country
folk as have a mind on funeral day io
mix business with sorrow.
Chapter XXVII.
The death of Angus Ross effectually up-
set the Crown case in Regina v. Macalister
and deprived Maxwelton of an entertain-
ment it could ill afford to lose, so few and
far between were cases of outstanding
interest. Apart from the court, the town
had no source from which to draw enter-
tainment, unless a concert given by local
vocalists and performers could be regarded
as entertainment; concerts were openly
spoken of in Maxwelton as entertainments,
but that was only a sop to the conventions.
In their hearts the people thought other-
wise. A murder case was the highest form
of entertainment, and a sheep-stealing case
with a well-known inhabitant in the dock
was a close second. However, the towns-
folk were reasonable. They had had the
Angus Ross sensation. One could not have
everything.
Colin Menzies, after the manner of
lawyers, had concluded, when Allan had
stated the case to him, that his client was
guilty. Lawyers get that habit of thought
because their experience teaches them that
the rarest bird known to the law is a man
charged with the commission of a crime
and wholly innocent. Colin Menzies, of
(Continued on page \6 .)


Under’
'Royal
Warrant
ToH.M.
Kind
George V
Vintage 1920. (
CHAMPAGNE (
Charleslleidsieck
mmwMß
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
m,
C) ?
Champagne, frt /J/Jt
Q»aileslleidsiec.v
"MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
S&arkiing
CIDER
I
Food
* .a
Be*d. Trade mark.
The way
of a mother.
“After struggling to keep
to the breast only, I
decided to try Benger’s,
together with breast feed-
ing. The result was won-
derful. I carried on, giving
alternate feeds of Benger’s
and the breast. He
straightway became a con-
tented and happy baby.”
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: TURNED UP
CRITERION:
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
|. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME—
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER
KING’S THEATRE:
UNCLE TOM S CABIN
DICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
MUSICAL COMEDY,
TOP HOLE.
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorite*.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The city took on a cheerful air for the
festive season, and “Prosperity Square” was
a scene of great bustle. There fairy lights
twinkled amid garlands, and xvandered,
between Venetian masts and waving pen-
nons, around Collins-street into Bourke-
street and back to the Town Hall. In front
of the civic building the elms were like
living Christmas trees, through which hun-
dreds of golden bulbs gleamed. The shops
and streets were crowded and there was an
outcrop of Santa Clauses, all in flowing
beards and crimson robes.
The weather on the day before Christmas
was horrid. It promised to be hot, and folk
who came early to the city didn’t bring
umbrellas or goloshes. By noon both were
necessary. There was the usual rush of last-
minute buying, though most of us had formed
stern resolves on the subject of economy.
Christmas Day had its alternations of
sunshine and shower, with interludes of hail.
At the Exhibition Building, Sidney Myer
entertained his 10,000 guests at dinner in five
sittings. The children were given toys and
most of the parents went away laden with
well-stocked brown-paper bags. A brass
band just outside the hall kept waiting-
diners interested. Each of the five batches
had a different colored ticket.
During the Yuletide period the first lot
of trees which will line the avenue across
the Domain to the National War Memorial
were planted. General Monasli, taking off
his coat, wielded his spade as thoroughly as
his sword in the war years, and dug in the
first two, which should be well-foiiaged when
the opening year of the shrine comes round.
The interior of the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital wore its festive dress when the founda-
tion-stone of the kitchen block of the com-
munity wing was laid by Premier Hogan,
who received a gold trowel for his services.
The president, Mrs. Norman Brookes, thanked
the Premier for having aided the building
fund with £lo,ooo—the big venture was
made possible firstly by the generous cheque
of £25,000 from knight William McPherson.
A further substantial donation was £9OOO
from the Unemployed Relief Fund. The
many visitors present at the invitation
of the committee partook of the after-
noon brew, and then wandered over
the hospital, which looked most cheery,
each ward decked out in a different color
scheme of flowers and streamers; while the
children rejoiced in further decoration of
balloons that floated heavenward from each
cot. Posies of lavender given by the presi-
dent were handed around to all the adult
patients by Mrs. Hogan.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, who is a fairy god-
mother to the orthopaedic hospital for chil-
dren, gave the little ones at Frankston a
Christmas party, Mr. Mitchell officiating as
Father Christmas. A tree was included in
the celebrations, and there was also a little
entertainment in which a clown, some clever
dogs and a juggler took part.
Melbourne toy-makers can hold their own
with the world’s best. At the Arts and
Crafts depot and at shows of the Country
Women’s Association the display of true-to-
nature animals is always striking. The
things are fashioned by people who have a
knowledge of anatomy—and children are
more attracted by the natural than by the
grotesque.
Of course, featured among these made-in-
Australia articles there are animals peculiar
to our own continent. Most natural looking
koalas and kangaroos made their appearance
at the last C.W.A. exhibition, and even
cleverer still were facsimiles of that queer
creature the platypus.
The florists had a busy time at Christmas.
Apart from the usual big orders for hotels,
flats and hospitaLs, many people sent their
greetings in flowers. Tucked in almost every
box was a bunch of lavender, which is most
profuse just now. A pretty idea was the
tying of a bunch of the perfumed blossoms
upon gifts.
The few days prior to Noel were filled
with seasonable celebrations at charitable
institutions and hospitals. The entertain-
ments committee of the Alfred Hospital,
headed by Mrs. Barry Thomson, staged an
even more gorgeous show than usual for the
children in the Michaelis ward. _ An im-
mense Christmas tree softly glowing with
electric bulbs of rosy tints was set up amid
groupings of pink and blue flowers and
balloons. W. Mitchell was Daddy Christ-
mas, a part in_ which he has had a good
deal of experience, and made the tour of
each bed, giving each young person the pick
of his basket, as it were. On the same day
the Eye and Ear Hospital had its Christmas
party, at which there were presents and good
cheer for the hundred patients, and those
who were well enough indulged in dancing.
The Little Green Shop at St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital sent a gift to every patient of that
institution.
The J. N. McNicols, of South Yarra, gave
a Christmas party to which many friends
flocked. The hostess wore black with a
sparkle of rhinestones. Her daughters, Mrs.
Frank Beavis, softly radiating in pink and
silver, and Edna McNicol, in ivory chiffon,
helped mother with the entertaining. Mrs.
Fleming Dunstan, Jean Lewis and Walter
Kirby sang, and there was dancing.
Scots’ kirk. Collins-street, was brightened
with garden stuff in pastel tints for the knot-
tying of Ewart G. Leggo and Thelma, daugh-
ter of the Robert MacC. Muirs, of Middle
Brighton. The bride wore white satin top-
dressed with Limerick lace, and carried a
sheaf of St. Joseph lilies. Two ’maids and
two trainbearers attended her, all frilled
in faint pink net. The little girls had
wreaths of pink and blue blossoms about their
hair, and straw millinery was sported by
the adult attendants. After-rejoicings were
staged at the Windsor.
Chiffon velvet of creamy tint was featured
in the wedding attire of Jean Lavinia, eldest
daughter of the A. R. Outtrims, of Mary-
borough, when she made a change of name at
St. George’s, East St. Ivilda; ' a tulle veil,
orange buds and a sheaf of blending gladioli
completed the picture. The happy man is
Keith, only son of Mrs. Baird, of Newtown,
Geelong, and of the late Rev. C. J. Baird.
The bride’s two sisters attended her in filmy
raiment of mousseline printed in a blurred
design of orange and lemon tones, combined
with chiffon hats of the shade of their amber
necklaces. There was a dinner and a dance
afterwards at No. 9.
The engagement has been announced of
Major Edric Henty, elder son of the late
Harry Henty and of Mrs. Henty, of Bath
Lodge, South Yarra, to Prudence, third
daughter of the Arthur Staughtons, whose
squattage is in the Western District.
Joan Rampling, pictured by Broothorn,
has good reason to smile, for she has won
th e gold
medals for
shorthand and
typewriting at
Stott’s Busi-
ness College.
This is the
only occasion
in the .45
years’ history
of Stott’s in
M e 1 b o u rne
that one stu-
dent has won
both awards.
Miss Rampling
is an ex-stu-
dent of the
Shel f o r d
C.S.G.S., Caul-
field, and com-
menced h e r
business-train-
ing course
only 10 months
ago. In shorthand she averaged 150 words
a minute, with a record of 60 for typing,
after allowing for all penalties.
In “The First Mrs. Fraser,” .at the
Comedy, Ethel Morrison appears in the lead-
ing role, and looks charming. Very fine
ficelle lace, fashioned with double flounces
and touched up with old-gold velvet, graces
the lady in the first act. Her second array
is of white chiffon cheered by green slippers
that match her string of jade. Very repose-
ful is her third-act attire of grey-blue georg-
ette with creamy lace on the bodice. Mary
MacGregor as the flapper chooses for her cov-
erings patterned materials —firstly, a blend of
blue, rose and black on a white ground, topped
by a black beret. In the second act she
wears brown chiffon scattered with yellow
roses, with a tight-fitting hat of nigger felt.
Noel Boyd sports Lido-blue chiffon for her
first entrance, and later appears in cherry-
red silk.
Warrandyte, 18 miles from Melbourne,
is making a creditable effort to capi-
talise its scenic beauties. Here among the
hills the Yarra from its source courses in
miniature rapids, with dipping willows fring-
ing grassy flats on one side, and gum-grown
cliffs on "the other. Another asset is (so
the publicity agents assert) that on an aver-
age the temperature at night is 15deg. I’,
below that of the city. A feature of “Back
to Warrandyte” Week was a show
of pictures by artists who have found
their inspiration in the terrain. The col-
lection was housed in the studio of the lale
Penleigh Boyd, one of the first to place upon
canvas the wattle glades of the district; for
some years he and his family resided there,
and the studio adjoins what was his home.
It was built by the painter and is composed
mostly of dab and wattle boughs and lined
with hessian. On the opening day Frank
Tate, formerly Director of Education, Mrs.
Osborne (Dr. Ethel Osborne), Prof. Osborne
and Mrs. Angela Booth made speeches.
Artist Jo Sweatman was chief collector
of the pictures, which included paintings by
Penleigh Boyd and his father and mother,
and miniatures by Mrs. Penleigh Boyd,
daughter of the late J. G. Anderson,
one-time Director of Education in Queens-
land. W. B. Mclnnes, Mrs. Southern Flinn,
Harold Herbert, Mrs. Tweddle and the Bar-
rett lady were others represented on the
walls.
Tea was spread beneath shady gum-trees
in a deserted orchard w’here cherry-plums,
pears and apples were ripening. A Clirist-
mas-cake that came from the Emily McPher-
son Domestic Economy School was on the
afternoon’s menu. Among city folk present
were the Rev. Dr. Law and Mrs. Law;
Mrs. Penleigh Boyd and her sons Pat and
Robin; the Leslie Morans, Dr. and Mrs.
Leon Jona, the Barrett lady, John Shirlow
and T. Brentnall. Artist Henri Hoile and
his wife, who reside in Warrandyte, were
there.
Dickinson-Monteath pictures here Mrs. D.
P. Mackey, the
hon. sec. of
the Melbourne
and East Mel-
bourne Red
Cross Auxili-
ary of St.
Vincent’s Hos-
pital. She is
ever ready to
lend a hand to
help any char-
ity movement.
Her husband
lately retired
from the posi-
tion of cashier
of the Board
of Works,
having been
on the staff
since the
board’s incep-
tion about 44
years ago.
The 0. E. Mission is losing a popular and
sincere worker in the Rev. Cyril Barclay.
He has been in charge of St. Mary’s, F'itz-
roy, for ten years, and prior to that was
attached to St. John’s Mission, Latrobe-
street, for seven years. Father Barclay
is a son of Florence Barclay, who wrote
“The Rosary.” The rev. gentleman is re-
turning to England by way of the Panama
Canal.
After 30 years at the Melbourne Grammar
School, Mr. B. Thompson, resident master,
has retired. A Cambridge man, he was in
charge of the lower school when he said
good-bye to his pupils.
The Metropolitan Hospitals’ Flower
League was a bright feature of Christmas
Week, and will continue on its joyful way
from a depot at No. 8 B Avenue, Eastern
.Market. It has been formed to provide a con-
tinuous supply of blooms and foliage for hos-
pital wards, and for 2s. anyone may become
a member. AH people with gardens large
or small are asked to join and send horticul-
ture. regularly, special airtight boxes being
provided. The hospitals’ auxiliaries are
arranging week about to take charge of the
receiving depbt and distribute the flowers.
A number of charitably-disposed women
who intend shortly to form themselves into
a band of auxiliary helpers for the Broad-
meadows Foundling Home visited the insti-
tution during Christmas Week, and brought
good cheer to the mothers and babies there.
Funds to the extent of £4O were gathered by
an afternoon’s game of cards at Scott’s.
Mrs. J. ,C. Westhoven was president of the
organising committee, with Mrs. M- J. Canny
and Mrs. E. Henderson as hon. secs., and
Mrs. T. Lewin as hon. treas. Mrs. Esmond
Downey, Mrs. T. J". Reddan, Mrs. T. M.
Pomeroy, Mrs. Alfred ’Wood and Mrs. T. J.
Brennan helped.
Dame Nellie Melba has been resting at
Coombe Cottage since she left Mt. St. Evins.
Though recovered from the illness she con-
tracted coming through the tropics, the diva
is still somewhat of a prisoner owing to a
slight trouble with a leg.
Dr. and Mrs. D. S. Davidson, who came
the other day from Philadelphia, U.S.A., have
taken a flat at Marne Court, South
Yarra, for the three or four months that the
learned professor will spend here studying
our aborigines.
For the first time for 26 years a male
student at the National Gallery lias won
the Grace Joel Scholarship, worth £5O. The
young man is Mr. S. Atyeo.
Our Adelaide “Little Sister - ’ writes: —
Money may be scarce, but the Christmas spirit was
never more in evidence than this season. The children
of the unemployed have been well looked after; apart
from the public teas, many have entertained the little
ones in their homes. Mrs. F. Villeneuve Smith gave
a party to all the children in the Mitcham and
Goodwood orphanages ip the grounds of Springfield
House, assisted by Mrs. W. J. Denny and others.
Mrs. A. A. Simpson (president of the Lyceum
Club) invited all the members to a Christmas party
at her Burnside residence. It was a hen conven-
tion, but the charming hostess and her daughters
saw to it that their guests had a delightful time.
There were bridge and music, in rooms fragrant with
flowers, and supper in the billiard room. Women
medicoes were well to the fore.
Harold Hope and his family have left Rose Park,
Adelaide, for Ballarat, where he has been appointed
manager of the E., S. and A. Bank. Members of
Kooyonga Golf Club gave him a farewell dinner.
P. Eardley, Registrar of the Adelaide Uni., and
Mrs. Eardley, who returned by the last mail boat,
were given a welcome home party by Professor and
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson at Urrbrae. A musical
programme was provided by Melba Ford, a pupil of
the hostess with a fine contralto voice, young Harry
Hutchins, the violinist, and Mrs. Richardson herself.
The guests included other University professors with
their wives, and members of the staff of the Waite
Institute.
Two of the Government House aides are among the
guests of the Barr Smith house party at Wairoa,
Aldgate—Captain C. Williamson and Lieutenant H.
P. Robertson Aikman. The absence of Lady Hore-
Ruthven evidently cuts out festivity at the vice-regal
residence.
Quite the best show the Adelaide University has
ever given us was the revue by the Footlighters at
the Theatre Royal. The ballets were clever, especi-
ally the footwork of the masculine ballerines, and
Dawe and Bails won well-merited applause for their
comedy.
Dr. Basedow, the S.A. scientist, got a Christmas
honor from the North Australia Commission: “a
prominent peak near the headwaters of the Alligator
River is to be designated Mount Basedow.” An
amusing argument has been going on in Adelaide
between the two old “Register” stalwarts, W. J.
Sowden and “Rufus” Whitington. The former claimed
a “Mount Sowden,” as named by a mutual
friend, in a given Centralian locality; the other
brought out plans to show that it is really Mount
Whitington, with the Sowden Soak as a neighboring
landmark.
And from Hobart:—
The Tasmanian Club’s severely male precincts
suffered an invasion of frocks and frills at the fare-
well to his Ex. and Margaret O’Grady. Dr. Harry
Butler (president), Alan Walker and Mrs. Walker
received the guests. Margaret O’Grady looked slim
and smart in a tight black frock and a small black
hat dotted with white. Mrs. Alan AValker’s frock
was of champagne lace and georgette with cape
effects; a black picture hat topped it. Dr. Butler
made a farewell speech, and his Ex. responded for
himself and his daughter. Mrs. Sheppard’s orchestra
strove manfully to make itself heard above the chatter
and the clatter of the teacups and glasses.
Kingsford Smith and his handsome bride spent
some of their honeymoon in Hobart, and provided
mild thrills for celebrity hunters in their walks
abroad. They stayed at Hadley’s Hotel, and were
enthusiastic over our scenery, but less so about our
weather.
Mrs. Tom Lyons cancelled her trip to Rangoon
at the last minute, which enabled her to be present
at the dance at the Imperial given by her two
young folk, Sibyl and Rupert, as a farewell to Miss
O’Grady. The big room was decorated with yellow
broom, the supper tables with sweet-peas. Wearing
an extra-charming frock in an unusual shade of pink,
tall, slim Sibyl, with her brother, received her guests
at the entrance to the ballroom. Margaret O’Grady
wore a long frock of lime green and looked rather
like a water-lily in colors, though not in contour.
Mrs. Sheppard’s orchestra made the music.
His Ex. presented the prizes on Hutchins School
speech night and gave young Tasmania some sensible
advice. Headmaster Harris's report of the year's
work showed that the old school is growing in numbers
and holding its own in every way. The Town Hall was
crowded with - proud parents and friends; among
those on the dais was the Bishop, looking very fit
after his trip, to Lambeth.
Twenty companies of the Girl Guides marched out
to Government House to say good-bye to Miss O’Grady.
Tas. Commissioner Mrs. Shadforth made the farewell
speech, and on behalf of the executive committee
handed Miss O’Grady a copy of Marriott’s “Great
Modern Plays,” with a bookplate designed by artist
Colbron Pearse.
Mrs. Henry Dobson has arrived home from her
travels the richer for a French honor in recognition
of her services to the Alliance Franchise —the diploma
of le Ministre de lTnstruction Publique et des
Beaux Arts. The returned traveller is well and cheery
after her trip.
Launceston’s Art Society has broken out in a new
place in the public buildings, and held its christening
party there, Mayor Osborne opening the show. Mrs.
Reid Bell, Mrs. L. M. Greig, Mrs. Frank Deans,
Stanley Fuller, J. N. Gee, Mrs. Hobbs and other
well-known northern artists exhibited and helped to
make a very successful start in the new premises.


A new Australian Creation in the
following exclusive styles:—
Rloo—An all-silk, full-fashioned
hose of service weight, with
picot-edge finish,
16/11 per pair.
RlOl—A pure silk, full-fashioned
hose of similar weight to
above, with lisle tops,
12/11 per pair.
RlO2—A pure silk, full-fashioned
hose of service weight, with
mercerised lisle tops, heel
and toe, n/6 per pair.
RlO3—A service-weight hose of
excellent value, at
9/11 per pair.
All the above lines are shown with
the new French tapering heel, and
are available in the latest summer
tonings.
CLINGS TO DAINTY ANKLES.
•X-; .
s(i.<s■?}&''
-•-■■■■ >/ t v
vMy
V S\
wb
Vj : -"'4>
m
CV ™ M v
Via
I*
&
XM
»
4*
«s
M "w
WA
wjm*
gw
m
mi
get.
*4k
wss
Wa
a®
sic^y
/U
“■*i
sfk WB
)S@K
fc
R
n\
%<?
%
%
MM
rm
am
w/>\..\
VfifcA
m
V
~js7
\. '"-vX
ils
sa»Tw
:o
m
. .**s
m
<sc*x
SP
iOrs
as
K?)
&gj&
cV
•-7, ••
O)
<x:
i*
~
• mzrtg.. i
wm%-
1
■m
m
.■STS .
£>£*/
a?*/
■• r . fl .J)
9as
MW
W’ .-•;
;• 'tv
Sj?
•,(£ X\
Xgx
xsx
THE
J^orvde
mi &ask toned d\ire Stlh
NEW AUSTRALIAN CREATION


fgd
fdg
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
WHAT A ROUSING CHRISTMAS
IT HAS BEEN AT BROKEN HILL!
Now, A HAPPY NEW YEAR to '
Everybody is what
‘THE BARRIER MINER’ wants to see.
Down with the Croaker and up with the
Joker for 1931.
Keep the Flag Flying in “The Barrier Miner, •’
the Great Newspaper for the Woolgrowers.
Missing Friends.
DASSINGTHWAIGHTE. —Wanted, known
present whereabouts of ALICE MARY
BASSINGTHWAIGHTE, widow of Essing-
ton Atkinson Bassingthwaighte, late of Bris-
bane, last heard of seven or eight years ago
at Tweed Heads. New South Wales. Please
communicate with QUEENSLAND TRUS-
TEES, LIMITED, Brisbane.
TOHN DUNN, formerly of Greytown, New
J Zealand, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, is requested to communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Masterton, New Zealand.
Public Notice.
pRIENDS ALL THE WORLD OVER secured by
joining the Intern. Correspond, and Exchange Club,
Box 29, Groningen (Holland).- Hundreds of educated
members in every civilised part of the world! Make
pen-friends all the world over. Fascinating, intel-
lectual pastime. Subscription 10/- a year. Ask for
free prospectus and monthly club magazine.
PROBAK
THE B ETTE R
BLADE
FITS EVERY RAZOR
OF TH IS TYPE
NEW AND OLD
If you use a two-edged razor, a PROBAK
Blade will fit it. No matter whether it
is of old design or new—this better
blade will fit it perfectly. And what
then ? Simply this : that you can get
from that razor, a shave such as you have
never enjoyed before! You feel youf
razor slipping so smoothly, so easily,
over your face that you wonder if the
blade is doing its job—until you put up
your hand and feel your cheek.
This PROBAK edge! It seems almost
unbelievable that steel can be honed
and ground to such a marvellous
degree of sharpness.
Buy a packet of PROBAK
Blades to-day. Sold every-
where at fixed prices : l/9d.
the small packet; 3/6d. the
large.
mmmm
mmmm
mw.
m
. . •
3
il
■
l-i"
-•• 1
«¥»
3S
gppi
Ufflg
•1-v
-V
J7EW
o*»
0? L
* s *oV»
111®
m
o-J a
O’®
m
mmt
■
gggftSp,
mmm,
m
, WF/W' :
feVV'^i
SB
it®?
PROBAK BLADES ARE MADE AND GUARANTEED BY THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR CO. LTD..
197-207 CITY ROAD, LONDON, E.C.I, AND DISTRIBUTED BY PHIPSON & COMPANY./ LTD.
181, CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, MANAGING AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: A fresh outbreak of Edgar
Wallace is expected from the J.C.W. front as
soon as Frank Harvey arrives from London.
Harvey brings with him “On the Spot,” the
latest bloodstain from Edgar’s pen. The
eminent author of plays crook in more senses
than one has been a godsend to entrepreneurs.
Ilis works helped to make a fortune for
Moscovitch and handsome profits for the
Firm.
“Adam Ant”: J.C.W., Ltd., will start its
umpteenth Gilbert and Sullivan season in Mel-
bourne at Easter. Dorothy Gill (contralto),
Gregory Stroud (baritone) and Ivan Menzies
(comedian) have signed up in London for the
new company. “Pinafore,” “Patience,”
“Pirates,” “Princess Ida,” “Mikado,” “Gon-
doliers” and “lolanthe” are the seven operas
of the repertoire, with possibly “The Yeo-
men” as well. Each of these has had Nellie
Stewart in the lead. Her last G. and S. rdle
was “Princess Ida” in 1893. By the way,
Sweet Nell often met Gilbert in London.
“Craiser’’ : No difficulty will be experienced
by the Tait publicity office in finding some-
thing to say about violinist Zlatko Bala-
kovic, the vanguard of next year’s contin-
gent of virtuosi. Balakovic and his wife will
sail and Diesel from ’Frisco to Australia
in their yacht, a vessel of 350 tons. The
skipper will be Captain Paul, one time of the
Union Co. and navigator of Shamrock V.
to the America’s Cup, though he did not
actually race her.
“Cine Ma”: The Australian field is not
the only one invaded by the Fox Corpora-
tion as owners and producers. The vast
screen octopus has simultaneously sent out a
tentacle towards the Land of the Rising
Sun ; a million yen has been invested in the
Shocliiku Film Production, the largest co.
in Japan. The first effusion is to be a talkie
version of “Daibosatsu Pass,” a historical
novel which is one of the best-sellers of the
year. Kanya Morita, a star of the Imperial
Theatre at Tokio. will lead the cast of local
players. There is a possibility that some of
the films will be seen in Australia.
“L. de Rideau” : As a writer of children’s
books I would like to know why we are not
accorded the same rights and privileges
as the authors —I suppose they have authors
—of pantomime. I refer to the obscenity
or near-obscenity permitted, without parti-
cular protest, to the low comedians called
Dames. I fully realise that there are usually
more children on the stage at a pantomime
than in the audience; nevertheless the panto,
is ostensibly a juvenile entertainment. Yet
I search in vain through the works of Lewis
Carroll, Hugh Lofting and A. A. Milne
for anything approaching the license in-
dulged in by the jesters) of pantomime. The
most probable explanation is that the stage
still carries the stigma of being a disreput-
able institution, whereas the book trade has
always been eminently respectable; hence
the stage is able to follow the natural bent
without loss of social prestige. And the
child has as much natural bent for infring-
ing taboos or watching other people infringe
them as his father.
“Craiser”: George Moore’s “Brook of
Kerith,” in which Christ is represented as
having survived the Crucifixion and gone 20
years later to live as a shepherd with the
Essenes, has at length reached the London
stage. Owing to the rule that the Deity
may not appear, the adaptation had to be
presented privately by the Arts Theatre
Club; otherwise its unconventional theme
would have raised a sectarian storm. It
is an axiom of British statecraft that the
masses should be carefully protected from
anything resembling a new idea.
“L.H.P.”: Joe Tolano, dead in Sydney,
aged 81, was associated for years with
George Rignold’s stock co. He played Nym,
Rugby, Snug, Peter and other roles in
George’s famous Shakespook revivals. He
made a hit as Wing Lee in “My Partner,”
and as Dr. Penguin in “A Scrap of Paper,”
the latter with .the ill-fated Dacres. As a boy
I recall seeing him as Trip in support of
Lytton Sothern, son of “Dundreary” Sothern,
in a big “School for Scandal” revival at the old
Victoria, Pitt-street, in 1877. He was an
excellent pantaloon in Rignold’s many pantos,
at Sydney’s old Her Majesty’s, and his
name figures opposite to William Fielding's
m a bill of “Gold,” a drama by Charles
Reade, produced at the Queen’s Theatre in
1873. He must have been 50 years on the
boards.
“M.G..5.”: It has been suggested that the
incident of the native being killed and eaten
by a lion in “Africa Speaks” is a fake
Such incredulity cannot be
deplored. I remember when I was deputed to
make a sound picture of a Dyak taking a
bead. The layman might imagine that such
a feat was an impossibility, but for one born
and bred to the traditions of enterprise and
service distinguishing Hollywood it was not.
Having discovered from a map that Borneo
was not in the New Hebrides, I eventually
landed on the place. I learnt that headhunt-
ing was practically a thing of the past. In
fact, no head had been taken for ten years.
Nevertheless, one never knew when a case
might occur. Besides, my employer had
granted me unlimited time and allowance for
drinks. Concealing myself in a spot in the
jungle, which looked as suitable as any other.
I opened a bottle of beer and prepared to
wait. The seasons came and went, but I
resolutely stood at my machine, while behind
me the mound of empty beer-bottles grew to
mountain height. From time to time there
would be passers-by, and some would stop and
talk. I expended 1,000,009 miles of cellu-
loid in recording such abortive interviews;
but my firm had instructed me not to worry
about the expense. Seven years passed, and
then one day I saw a Chinaman approaching
from one direction, while from the other
came a member of the Booloodoopy tribe.
They met in the exact focus of my lens. A
conversation began which rose to a furious
altercation. Eagerly I cranked. It appeared
that the Boolhodoopy owed the Chinaman
ten dollars on a second-hand Ford. Then the
Booloodoopy, hotly pursued by the Chinaman,
began to run—and towards me. In order
to keep the couple in correct focus I seized
my camera and started running backwards,
nimbly leaping over fallen tree trunks and
dodging the obstacles I could not see with a
sixth sense all moving-picture men have.
After a mile and a half of this progression
the fatal moment arrived. The Chinaman
raised a meatchopper and with one tremen-
dous blow clove the Booloodoopy’s head from
his neck. I had obtained what I sought!
Hastening home to Hollywood, I turned the
remarks about the Ford into a dialogue about
a tribal feud, changed the Chinaman into a
Dyak in full warpaint, and for the meat-
chopper I substituted a parang ilang —these
things are child’s play to any competent
camera-man. The picture was the sensa-
tion of the year.
“Jacky Boo” (Lond.) : Maggie Dickenson
(who is, married to an Englishman) danced
into Australia House this week to renew
old friendships. She is as sorightly and as
graceful as ever and still does stage work.
George Gee is launching out shortly under
his own management in a London theatre.
He is a firm favorite. The latest Australian
invaders to score are the Big Four, harmony
singers well known in Australian vaudeville.
They were booked for a second week at the
Coliseum. Vera Pearce is to be given ‘‘her
big chance” (according to Hannan Swaffer)
in Jack Buchanan’s new show.
“Lond” : Shakspeare enthusiasts may like
to note that London sees, in a current “Tem-
pest” revival, a male Ariel —-as the Bard
apparently intended, but as has not been
seen for about a century.
The Palette.
“F.S.: A. Bulletin writer (10/12/’3O)
says: “If, as a respected Australian critic
observed recently, George Lambert was
among the 10 greatest masters of the art of
pencil, then Tliea Proctor shouldn’t have
difficulty in _ finding a place among the
greatest 20.” It wxmld be interesting
to know who are the other nine. Is Nicholaes
Maes, or Von Ostade, or Jan Steen, or
Breughel, or Anthonie van Borssom one? 1
fancy most judges would be -exceedingly
dubious about placing any of those, to men-
tion but a few, among the first 10, though
it would certainly set them all above Lam-
bert. As for Miss Proctor being among the
first 20, considerable difficulty would pro-
bably be experienced in finding her accom-
modation among the first thousand —and I
take second place to no one in appreciation
of the fine talent of the lady. Every genera-
tion turns out hundreds of virtuosi in every
branch of art—brilliant fiddlers, dexterous
contraputalists, facile stylists in painting
and literature. But the vital spark which
makes imperishable art and which' places
the possessor among the first 10 or the first
20 or even the first 100 of his kind is given
to but few.
“C.Q.”: Just-dead Dr. Charles Bage exer-
cised great influence on art in Melbourne
as member and chairman of the Felton Be-
quest Committee for many years, and he
had very decided views on the matter, yet
he had only the man in the street’s under-
standing of it. It was his custom to
visit all important shows and examine the
pictures as if they were drops of blood under
the miscroscope, regardless of the .probability
that the artist in painting them focussed
them at 30ft. or 40ft. It was doubtless for
this reason that he stigmatised Justus Jor-
gensen's last show as a collection of meaning-
less daubs. At 2ft. Titian, Velasquez, Rem-
brandt, Constable, Corot, Old Crome and
Manet would be equally meaningless.
“F.S.”: It is seldom that a Priminister
starts an art controversy, but Scullin did
it when he told an interviewer in Rome how
thankful art should be to Christianity for its
assistance. Bernard Hall, director of the
Vic. National Gallery, remarked that art
had equally gloriously embellished the estab-
lishments of the Moslems, Hindus, Budd-
hists and Confucians. Matter of opinion, of
course. Opposition-leader Latham, in open-
ing a show in Melbourne not so long ago,
explained at length that the highest aim of
the artist is to provide refreshment for the
tired business man and the man of affairs so
that they can return rejuvenated to their
money-getting. It would be difficult to make
a politician understand any other point of
view. When the newspapers report the pre-
sentation of a portrait to an eminent poli-
tician they generally omit the name of the
painter (unless he happens to be John Long-
staff). A hundred years hence the name of
the subject will be remembered only if it
is a good painting. Good painting is very
much rarer than eminent politicians.
The Inky Way.
“Lao-dah”: Despite the depression there
are still bodies with a soul above pelf who
are prepared to continue their patronage of
the arts. The Australian Literature Society,
which flourishes very mildly in Melbourne, is
offering a prize of three guineas for the best
short story and five guineas for the best
drama. A local movie palace recently gave
a trip to Paris and back to the author of
the best 50-word adulation of a tripey Ameri-
can picture. ■
The “B. P. Magazine” for December is
a neatly-manicured inducement to travel
and a bright item on the Inky Way. as well.
Contents include striking photos by Hoppe,
articles, verse and stories, and a free trip to
the Solomons for the one who brings in the
.biggest bag of new subscribers.
• “Lao-dah”: Librarians will heave a sigh
of relief at the findings of a British expert
committee, which has declared that within
200 years practically all books printed since
1870 will be non est owing to the materials
used in modern paper-making being unable to
stand the ravages of time. By the irony of
fate, certain kinds of paper are immune
from this disintegration, but there has been
no consistent policy in the use of them.
It may be that “Hansard” will outlive the
published works of Henry LawsPn.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A pair of Sydney detectives went forth
one evening last week to collect evidence
against a hairdresser who was supposed
to have a totalisator concealed somewhere
about his premises. They disguised them-
selves before starting; that is to say, they
put on each other’s boots and brushed their
hair straight up, and assumed that air of
fathomless mystery which the detective
always wears when he has forgotten his
own name and address; and then they
walked into the suspected house arm in arm,
throwing out their legs at precisely the
same angle, and sat down on two chairs
to wait for! evidence. Neither of them
offered any observation; they merely
planted themselves and glared hungrily like
two spiders waiting for a fly. The barber
recognised them, and flew round excitedly
and asked them if they would have their
hair cut, but they replied hoarsely that
they didn’t require any assistance. _ Next
moment a hairless youth slouched in and
began to state that he would invest half
a sovereign Just here, however, the
barber rushed him backwards into the chair
and lathered him, and the sentence was left
unfinished. He struggled wildly to escape,
and swore fearfully, and kicked out like a
fury, but the barber whispered fiercely in
his ear that if he said a word about horses
he would strangle him on the spot and
bury his remains in And at this moment
a long, knock-kneed larrikin put his head
through the doorway to inquire what odds
he could get about a steeplechase. He
didn’t get far enough to commit himself,
hbwever, for with one jump the other assist-
ant seized him and began to cut his hair,
and told him in a muffled undertone that
“I never take anything in my whisky,” said the backblocks alderman, as he encircled
the glass with his large hand. “No,” replied the landlord, “you never leave
room for it.” [3O/7/’87.]
if he attempted to say a word about steeple-
chases he would never live to finish the
sentence. He went away thoughtfully and
had several drinks, and then, growing partly
oblivious, he came back to renew his ques-
tion about the steeplechase. The instant his
head appeared in the doorway he was par-
tially strangled and his hair cut a second
time. He retired in a bald condition' and
greatly surprised; and the detectives made
an entry to the effect that no suspicious
circumstances had so far come under their
notice. A huge wharf-laborer burst through
the doorway a moment later and started to
announce that he would have five bob
on Both the assistants hurled them-
selves on him and shampooed him at this
moment, while he shrieked for the police
and discharged a fiery blast of language
at them; but he was overcome and led out
in a fearful state of indignation. There was
five minutes’ calm after this, till a stalwart
young woman arrived with a message from
her brother, and she came so near to giv-
ing the whole business away that she was
partially shaved in the excitement, and had
her hair singed and her fringe completely
demolished. _ But at last she broke away
and went into hysterics outside. Three
minutes later her father came round to
wreck the whole shop, and one of the assist-
ants was assaulted before they success-
fully crushed the old man into a seat and
oiled his head in the midst of his ravings.
It was evident by this time that a| crisis
was at hand, for it required the whole
available force on the premises to hold this
last infuriated customer down and put some
hair-restorer on him, and if anyone else
came in and tried to speak it would be im-
possible to stifle him without letting the
old man out of the chair, and if once he
got out it was certain that he would kill
somebody. Just as the barber and his em-
ployee had resolved to let go and run for
their lives and leave all the stock, fixtures,
fittings and utensils behind them, the two
officers made another entry in their book
that evidently none but a legitimate trade
was conducted on the premises, and then
they rose together and clumped heavily
away. When they were gone, matters were
explained to the apoplectic father in the
chair, and business gradually assumed its
normal aspect, except that the big wharf-
laborer had taken out a summons for sham-
pooing-under-arms accompanied with vio-
lence, and refused to be pacified,
A horse with two stomachs has been dis-
covered at Collingwood (Vic.). Another
mistake of Nature’s. She probably intended
the animal for an alderman.
Garden Island, in Sydney Harbor, the
fruitful source of bickering between naval
authorities and aesthetic citizens, never really
belonged to the people. A Government order,
issued in 1841, directed that the island was
to be considered a part of Government House
domain, and that all the growth and produce
of the island, whether timber or grass, was
to be appropriated to the exclusive use of
the Governor’s establishment. Fines and
other punishments were inflicted for wanton
trespass.
Pene Parekuku, the most famous native
doctor in Maorilapd and the oldest in all Aus-
tralasia, has just passed in his checks at the
reputed age of 103. He was semi-paralytic,
apd one side of his face was dragged right
round to his ear. But he was a successful
physician in his way, and in his last hours
he bequeathed his prescriptions by word of
mouth to his bereaved tribe. His remedy for
fever was a mass of treacle on top of the
head. For jaundice he gave soap pills, and
he treated lethargy by putting snuff up the
nose, and suffocation—from whatever cause
arising—by blowing down the patient’s
throat with a pair of bellows. Probably his
most practical remedy was the one he recom-
mended in cases of dog-bite—“ Kill the dog.”
He was exceedingly popular among his
female patients, and was a man of great
resource, and equal to any emergency. Once
and only once he came in contact with a
case of alleged strychnine poisoning, the
patient being a girl of 17 or thereabouts. The
old man diagnosed it as insanity at first,
and pumped manfully on the sufferer with-
out avail. Just here he noticed that she
was tying herself up in all manner of hard
knots and making her body into an arch
in a curious fashion, and he went straight
to the root of the complaint. Under his
CONVENTIONAL SENTIMENT.
BRIDE (at sea): “I feel so sick, dear, and if I should die, and they bury me here,
won’t you sometimes come and plant flowers over my grave?” [2/7/’87.]
direction two powerful old hags seized her
by the feet and two more by the shoulders,
and among them they straightened her out
so violently that she had to stop her con-
vulsions on the spot. Then the doctor
pumped like a fiend for nearly four hours,
and ultimately the sufferer recovered.
An elaborate swell who lives in Victoria-
street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, returned home
after spending a gay evening. As he was
fumbling about to find the latchkey slot he,
with his left hand, got hold of somebody’s
beard. H'e instantly concluded it to be that
of a burglar, and a desperate struggle ensued.
The billy-goat came out on top. as the swell
was “a bit rocky on his pins.” That goat
is an evil and desperate character well
known to the police, and a warrant will be
issued for . it as soon as the disabled poten-
tate gets well enough to swear an informa-
tion.
A Melbourne clergyman’s sad reflections:
“It is a fact that our young men do not run
after the modest, simple, stay-at-home
maiden. The smart, stylish girl who dis-
regards domestic affairs, and seeks pleasure
here and there and everywhere, is the girl
who marries first.”
’Tis true the simple, homely maid
Who sits at home and darns the socks,
And who of men is sore afraid,
A failure is at “doing knocks” ;
But Mary Jane, who’s bold and gay
And makes the parsons stand aghast,
Can almost marry any day,
For still the race is to the fast.
Dear Bulletin, — The 21-mile Plain
stretches between the Bokhara and the Bulga,
and all the way there is not a splinter of
wood big enough to make a toothpick. Years
ago, when the telegraph line was first
erected, the wires were supported on wooden
poles, but owing to a habit the teamsters and
“swaggies” developed of chipping off enough
timber to boil the billy, the wires were always
coming down, so iron posts had to be substi-
tuted. One day, when the temperature was
about a billion in the shade, two raw new?-
chums were making across the 21-mile, and
in their simplicity neglected to provide them-
selves with fuel. When the hilly question
arose, Big Ned (who weighed about 16
stone) suggested that they should set fire
to the grass and that Long Patsy (the sinewy
man from Clare) should hold the hilly over
the burning grass and follow it along while
he (Ned) held the tea in readiness. There
was a nice little breeze blowing in the wrong
direction, and when the grass was fired it
started back at a good brisk pace. But Patsy
could run like a deer, and he bolted after
it, keeping the billy over the burning edge,
Ned bringing up the rear with a fistful of
tea. When Pat had cantered back about six
miles the water began to boil, and he looked
around anxiously for Ned, but the pace had
been too violent, and all that was visible of
him was a little cloud of dust against the
sky- So Pat sat down in the midst of that
baked plain and cursed Ned till he arrived
with the tea, by which .time the water was
too cool for making tea, but not cool enough
to drink. Then Ned cursed Pat for going so
fast and for not keeping the w a t er boiling,
and then Pat cursed Ned again, and tnere
they sat, puffing and blowing and gasping
with thirst, their red eyeballs glowering at
each other, and cursing whenever they could
get sufficient breath. At last, when they had
cooled down a bit, they decided to drink the
water as it was and return to their swags,
Unluckily, there are no landmarks on the
plain, and it took them the greater part of
next day to find their belongings. When at
last they succeeded, they discovered that the
dingoes had been there before them and
eaten their provisions and destroyed things
generally. Then they cursed each other at
large, after which they refilled their billy at
the claypan and marched on in sorrowful
and hungry silence.—Yours, G.
Two tons of human hair, the largest mass
ever gathered together in the world’s history,
has been given by 50,000 women of Japan to
make the necessary ropes wherewith to hoist
into their places the beams of a temple, the
cost of the temple being £1,400,000.
Mr. Thomas Roberts, of Exeter Farm,
near Braidwood (N.S.W.), has in liis pos-
session a curious old document. It is the
specification of the contract for “clearing
George-street, Sydney, from Hunter-street,
to iChivie’s butcher’s shop,” which stood
somewhere near Brickfield Hill. The re-
muneration promised is “Twenty casks of rum
and the right to purchase three bullocks
from the Government in order to enable the
men employed the. better to perform their
work.”
There is one thing that Australians can
lay claim to [writes Sappho Smith], and that
is being the best-washed people on the sur-
face of this grubby earth. In France, very
broadly speaking, they wash only about once
a month —being mostly direct descendants
(m the matter of ablutions) from that King
Louis whose morning rinse was a drop of
spirits of wine in either palm ; and in some
of the European countries about once a
year, if the weather’s propitious ; while the
Englishman, who hurls his “tub” at you in
fiction, by all independent accounts knows
less about it in absolute fact than you’d
imagine. Somebody in Sydney was taxing
a Jolinny-come-lately with the absence of
baths on his native mudbank the other day.
“Oh, but you know,” he protested, “nearly
all the modern houses have bathrooms.” “Ah
—that must be since the Australians began
going ’Ome,” said a still small voice.
“Bah ! Your blow is enough to make one
ill,” said a Sydney “drummer,” temporarily
staying at a Rockhampton (Q.) hotel. “You
don’t know me, or you couldn’t say that,”
said Stilts; “I could buy up a hundred men
like you.” “You can,” yelled the drummer,
assuming fury. “You can ! Buy me then !
I'll show my money against yours—cash
down—and the man who lias the most takes
the two lots and pays for drinks and cigars
all round.” “Done!” eagerly exclaimed
Stilts; “and I’ll go first show.” “Right.”
put down a £lOO note, some fifties,
twenties, tens, fives and ones, and some mis-
cellaneous gold and silver. The drummer
counted it carefully—“£623 14s. 9d.” Then
he plunged his hands deeplv into his pockets
and pulled out—one solitary threepenny bit,
saying: “Just my luck! You’ve won, of
course; take the money, and pay for the
drinks and cigars, please.”
ALTERED (CONDITIONS.
He wrns a simple cnuntrvman
And wore a jovial smirk,
As at the member’s sanctum he
Inquired in search of work.
“Work!” cried the M.P., “look at me
As I sit here this day,
And you will see a man who has
Unaided made his way;
Then go and do likewise yourself,
For surely you must know
You have the chances that I had
Some thirty years ago.”
The bushman gazed at him awhile
In silent contemplation,
And then he turned on him and gave
Vent to his indignation.
“I would not do a thing,” he said,
“So mean or underhanded.
Besides, you know as well as I,
The cattle now are branded.”
H.
THE PASSION FLOWER.
’Tig said that the Passion Flower,
With its figures of spear, and sword,
And hammer, and nails, is a symbol
Of the woe of our Blessed Lord.
So still in the Heart of Beauty
Has been hidden, since Life drew breath,
The sword and the spear of Anguish,
And the hammer and nails of Death.
V. J. DALEY.


DODO
A WARTIME STORY OF THE IDES OF MARCH
BY ALAN S. RANKINE.
I TRY to write of these things; but the
words do not come easily. Moreover,
there is a three-months-old baby boy
who cries sometimes, whole-heartedly and
healthily, and then crows. It is all very
disturbing; so you must pardon my style.
Arthur Beck was killed in action oil his
twenty-first birthday, on March 15, 1917.
He died that another might live—for a while*
at least. Whether he gave his life in pure
altruism, or for a rather wonderful if some-
what fantastic love, is debatable. However
it was, this was the manner of his death.
“B” Company occupied Eternal Alley and
other water channels, politely designated as
the front-line trench-system, opposite Le
011 , tlie Somme battlefield. The
Brigadier contemplated an extensive raid,
+ was preparing
i!w a ri°n» e ‘‘R”o rea t 0 t - eir Hmden-
tvricP B . Company, m anticipation of
this event, was instructed to obtain all avail-
able information.
Fifteen men were chosen to act in a silent
l PCOnn a iss an ce. Beck,” said the company
„ you are young, but a pretty
fhnn\ C ™ S T G T n with the best,
though not ovei-robust.) Hand in all per-
p ° ssessions 111 canture, and be
ready to move off at 10 pip emma. Mask
your greatcoat with the white covering
issued you. Take a line through ‘Castor and
Pollux,’ and penetrate the enemy wire if
possible. You will find little opposition if
they are on the move, as we suspect. Be ‘
watchful and observant. Much may depend
on you ” ui.yi.iiu
• ...
Arthur was mea-nwhile divesting himself of
not jet Sugl
3SajaUl7o0 d jTr* i . al ' SthalWeaPO!lthal
Arthtrrf * sir ” —e*
“Oh, a girl! Why, she has a German
name!” said the O.C. “The boy’s own name
was German,” he reflected “Very well
Beck,” he added; “it can do no harm After
all, you speak German fluently. Keep your
Ccirs open, too, and we may be proud of
you.”
Arthur flushed with pleasure as his O.C.
arose, clapped him on the shoulder, and
bade him good luck!
Heavy clouds obscured the sky at 10
p.m. when Arthur moved off; but soon the
heavens were ablaze with cold bright stars,
like twinkling points of steel. “Castor and
Pollux,” the smashed strongpoints, were
deserted, so he quietly replaced the pin in
the murderous Mills bomb he grasped in his
mittened hand. Here Arthur paused awhile,
He made sure his equipment was secure
against noisy contact. The remaining ground
he would traverse on hands and knees at best
.... The snow was soft and mushy; not
over-cold, though beneath this clear sky he
knew it would freeze before dawn.... To-
morrow he would be a man—2l years old—
and he grinned broadly as he thought of
Greta, his sister, sweltering on their Mallee
' inm* bow she could be proud of him!
Ihe whole line was unusually still; but
the star-shells were troublesome. He must
De ny, ery near the German wire.
• The ground was deeply shell-pitted under
its cold mantle, and he passed many of the
dead of the 29th British Division.... How
still they were as he stole through like a
grey wraith! Cold and remote beneath their
white garments of snow, like the marble
effigies of “ye very parfait knights” he had
seen on Crusaders’ tombs in old Salisbury
MUCH THE SAME PERHAPS.
THE BOY: “Good-oh to get out here in the surf, isn’t it? My word, the insects on
the sand put the nips into you, don’t they?"
THE GIRL: “Yes! I was getting a bit fed up of some of those sheiks myself.”
Cathedral Grey and Emmerton were
somewhere immediately left and right of him
m the darkness. Wonderfully comforting not
to feel quite a10ne!.... Could that be Grey
?w itC m , ovcd i
P e * ad i t , urnGd and
gone on again.... What a fool to advance
half-risen upright now in his white shroud.
A sentence, low, guttural and tense, in the
German he knew, answered from beyond the
wire. So the enemy also had a party out in
No Man’s Land! , Bayonet work if they
met -
Again the rocketing lights embarrassed
him, and, as he was on higher ground, he
lay very fiat and still No fire from the
enemy! Their men were not all in.... In
the ensuing darkness he crawled towards a
cavernous hole he had noted in the light of
the l ast star-shell. A last effort sent him
slithering in a smother of snow four feet to
the bottom of it.
He brought up against something soft that
moved. Instinctively, he held to his bayo-
neted rifle, and his flesh crept as he clutched
hard on the shortened rifle for the deadly
thrust,
“Mercy, comrade! I am wounded and I
die! Wasser, comrade! Wasser!”
Arthur ran one hand quickly over the
slim prostrate form. Bayoneted already!
Big Bill Emmerton must have converged on
his—Arthur’s—line. Like old Emmerton!
Always tried to protect him in a raid. But
ke would speak severely to Bill to-morrow,
.... Nice quiet piece of work, too! Run-
him through the guts without a word!
Whilst his thoughts ran on, Arthur
propped the dying boy and wet his tongue
with snow. He had the youn? German flat
against the sloping side of the emplacement,
and had removed his deep steel helmet when
the next trench-light arose almost overhead
and fell
a•.. . . .
v,-^ - ® ancc in t° the pain-racked features of
causbt the breath m Arthur s
<<Y7 j „ , . , , .. . , .
Dod |°i’» ? e involanta rOy cried. Gott in
Himmel!” he exclaimed, exactly as his own
father did in stress—“how like he i 5....
who are you?” he asked in German.
JSg?* Kristeller - comlade " the ° thcr
, S°», little Heinricl, Dodo’s
SS
Stf ** 1 W “*"'
Then % was that Arthur rose from their
c ° ver and stripped off the white snow-over-
al • H ' e bad J* ust removed his greatcoat to
wrap the dymg boy > when a German marks-
mai? no , ted something suspicious—dark
ugninst the white &nd fired. The bullet
took Arthur low in the shoulder.
Arthur was well able to crawl back to his
lines, and he knew the division that con-
fronted his company. Besides, through his
wounc l his mission was ended, and he was
free t 0 seek first ai(k
But his enemy—his new-found friend—lay
dying. And it was Dodo’s brother!
. Arthur carefully wrapped Heinrich in
bis greatcoat; and as the hours passed they
both grew very weak. The cold stars shone
down, and the frost cut to the bone.
The years fell away from them as the
Spirit of Death advanced, and in the semi-
delirium that preceded dissolution they .were
as children again.
At two o’clock on the following morning
the superstitious and the few devout souls
in the German lines tingled with awe as,
clear on the hard still air, there floated an
old German nursery song sung in the high-
pitched tremolo of two childlike voices out
among the horrors of No Man’s Land. But
soon the piping died down and all was still.
“B” Company heard the song faintly but
distinctly. “The 140th Landsturm rejoices,”
they said. “Perhaps they will not be so
happy to-morrow night.” For Emmerton
had brought in the shoulder-strap of a young
Hun of the 140th. “Couldn’t bring him in;
had to do him in,” was all his comment, as
he thrust his stained bayonet into the mud
that underlay five snow in “Eve Sap.”
“Where is young Beck?” he asked.
“Gone to supports,” they lied, as his own
comrades had lied to Bill to keep him from
red wreck in No Man’s Land
The organised attack next morning was
eminently successful. A party of stretcher-
bearers, returning, found two small forms
j n a smashed emplacement. One, a yoimg
German, was covered with a khaki overcoat,
and round his shoulders was the arm of
Arthur Beck, frozen in death. The two
figures, bloodless and still, they said, might
have been schoolboy friends. “Babes in
the wood,” one old Digger dubbed them; but
there was something like tears in the deep
growl that rose from his unshaven throat,
The most puzzling feature of the grim
tableau was that each clasped in his fingers
a photograph, a nd they were both of the
same girl.
I tell you I saw the portraits myself, and
they were the picture of a girl any man
could love.
* * * *
As the years of peace passed I visited the
Geeks farm in the Mallee, and enjoyed all
t.ie old German hospitality of the parents,
Greta grieved long for her brother; but
lime is a great healer.
A FAITHLESS WIFE.
“Yes, Mum, I bin rooned by me wife.”
“Terrible, terrible! Drink, I suppose, poor man.”
“No, Mum. She chucked up a good job, and turned me out to look for work!”
. There came a time when I met another
visitor at their _ home—a German girl visit-
ing Australia in her travels. I will say
little of her, for I loved her deeply from
the moment we met. There was a puzzling
quality about her. I felt I had known her
for years; yet I knew no German women.
It was not long before she guessed my
love for her, though I spoke no word.
Women seem to know these things.
Then one day Greta prevailed on me to
tell again how Arthur died. “Billy,” she
said, “tell Mariechen about it. She does
not know.”
In simple words I told the tale, then cursed
myself for a fool. She wept bitterly, and
Greta, long past outward grief, wept with her.
Had I grown garrulous with the years I
might have done worse. For it was I, Bill
Emmerton, who went over with Arthur the
night he died! I was about forty yards
ahead, and somewhat in front of him when I
ran into the Hun. I was about to slip into
an emplacement when he slid in from the
other side. He brushed his rifle-sights clear
of snow, and carefully “lined up” on some-
one. A glance in the fitful light showed
Arthur to be his target. I had to act quickly.
A shot would spoil the raid for us, so I
threw myself on him, point first, from the
knees. A nasty job and I was just moving
away when Arthur came up. One does not
boast of such deeds. They are better for-
gotten.
Mariechen had recovered her grief and
was smiling bravely. When she smiled, par-
ticularly in this new way—through tears —
my heart caused me grave concern.
“Will yon walk with me Mariechen?” I
asked, greatly daring.
“Yes, Billee,” she said; “I wish to talk to
you.”
Rain had fallen, and the air was sweet
with the scent of wet earth. A pleasant,
pungent, nostalgic aroma, which, when one
closed his eyes, carried him back to the long
straight roads of Picardy after summer
showers. The vines on the old arbor quietly
dripped, just as the tall sentinel roadside
trees shed diamond drops on marching
columns in those far-off days.
“Here is a clipping from an English girl’s
paper,” said Mariechen. “That is how it all
began. It is dated 1912, and reads: ‘Young
German girl would correspond (in English)
with Australian girl. Mariechen Kristeller,
Hapsburg Strasse, Bremen.’ Greta and I
corresponded. Then Arthur wrote, gnd we
exchanged photographs—-very many. We
were, oh ! so young, but we learned to love,
and yet had never met. It is very sweet and
very sad, but it is so long ago now, that so-
serious young love of ours. These are
Arthur’s many letters, Billee, and I want
you to say if I do right to burn them.
With them will go poor Dodo, for so he
named mo, the dear Arthur,”
God help me! Now I remembered those
photographs. I would have taken her in my
arms, there and then, and kissed her smiling
lips and shining eyes, but for that unsur-
mountable if. I would not declare my love
while leaving her in ignorance of what has
been and what I have done ; but next day —
a day in March, 1927—1 put to the test
the greatest issue of my life. Perhaps she
guessed. Women are quick to see such
things.
Mariechen was at the piano. She ceased
playing and gazed long at me, and still I
could find no words. Then she played,
soft and low, an old German nursery song,
one I had last heard echoing faintly from
the lips of dying boys on the March morning
in 1917 when one of them became “a man”!
I broke through the spell, and poured out my
grim story and all my burning love for
her.
She did not reply at once, but turned and
slowly completed the soul-searching melody
before she spoke,
*•* * *
m,. • ~ T ,, . , T ~, ~ .
That is all, I think. I am no teller of tales,
a nd, besides, that baby boy is awake again.
He has bonny blue eyes and yellow hair, just
like soldier-boy Arthur who died on the Ides
of March, 1917. We named him Arthur, my
dear Dodo and I.
The Fine Thing.
It’s a fine thing
And a funny thing
To make a body laugh
All dressed up in the city—
The smell o’ lucerne chaff!
The bales were on a lorry,
And I was in the street;
It came to me, it came to me
So powerful and sweet!
Oh, in a living moment
There were the pepper-trees,
The kelpies and the stables,
The cow-smell on the breeze,
The lift of lovely living,
The sea of grass that spills
Magnificently sweeping
Upon the happy hills;
The magpies in the gum-trees,
The kittens in the shed.
The poddies in the paddock
Hallooing to be fed;
The homestead in the garden,
The corrugated roof,
The creak and crack of saddle,
The chink and klop of hoof;
And over all an opal—
Oh, pale pellucid blue!—
That you can stare at, dreaming.
Until your dreams come true!
The bales were on a lorry',
And I was in the street;
It came to me, it came to me,
So powerful and sweet.
A fine thing,
A funny thing
To make a body laugh,
All dressed up in the city—
The smell o’ lucerne chaff!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


PROVIDENCE ON THE JOB
BY HENRY LAWRENCE.
DR. MARK CAREY had the floor. This
was not usual, for the doctor was more
used to sitting hunched up in an
easy-chair throwing an occasional punctuat-
ing grunt into the conversational stream of
his friends.
“You know, they say that a successful
doctor must have sympathy and tact and
knowledge of human nature and so on. Well,
there’s a lot of truth in that, but there’s
one thing I’m quite certain about. If a
man in a busy general practice hasn’t got
a sense of humor, he’ll have to get out or
go mad after a few years. I don’t mean any
perversion that sees fun in another poor
devil’s misfortunes, but the sort of faculty
that permits you to stand off and look at
yourself as a doctor —the important attitude
you’ve taken up in some cases, when you’ve
really been as much use in the patient’s re-
covery as the paper on his wall; and the
deference you’ve paid to some patients, the
trouble you’ve taken, only to be left in the
exterior darkness. It is really humorous, you
know, if a man can appreciate it.”
“But,” said Arthur Bligh, unfolding his
long loose-jointed legs, “I suppose that
applies to nearly every job, doesn’t it?”
“I don’t know,” said old Mark. “You see,
a fair number of cases in medicine are more
or less serious, so that when the slightest
excuse for anything funny crops up, the
average doctor is only too glad to seize on it.
In your game you don’t laugh much if you
get three different answers in checking over
your addition, do you? Yet it’s not a
really serious error, whereas any one of my
mistakes may possibly mean a funeral.
“Still, it’s not the laughable incidents that
seem to have left any lasting impression on
me. Experiences which might be classed as
painful, morbid or tragic appear to have
stamped themselves more deeply on my
memory.
“Getting back to the big ’flu epidemic some
twelve or thirteen years ago, from informa-
tion received I proceeded to an address in
a rather poor and depressing locality. In-
spection by the only original boarding-house-
keeper preceded my admission to a small
room where a young woman and a baby lay
in the same single bed. The woman was
obviously very ill; in fact, she already had
that dusky blue tinge of the face which was
such a certain sign of death’s fast approach
during that epidemic. She was in a mut-
tering delirium, and little examination was
needed.
“I turned round to find a masked man
regarding me from the door. No, this is
not melodrama. A well-intentioned Govern-
ment hoped to prevent or reduce the spread
of infection by forcing the people to wear
masks made of gauze. This young man was
equipped with a rather large _ one, so that
all I saw was a mop of untidy fair hair,
two keen grey eyes and a raincoat, buttoned
up to the chin.
“He stepped back a pace or two into the
ba re-boarded passage as I nodded to him.
IN SOCIETY.
“I understand they are connected with the new Governor.”
“Um—by telephone, I suppose.”
“‘How is she. Doctor?’ he said in a low
tone.
“ ‘Are you a relative?’ I asked.
“He nodded quickly. ‘Husband.’
“‘I am very sorry, old chap, but there’s
not long to go.’
“‘No doubt about that, I suppose?—
excuse me, Doctor.’
“ ‘Certainly, my lad. No, it’s all too
plainly marked.’.
“‘Very well,’ fie said as he braced him-
self. ‘May I take the baby and make some
arrangements for him?’ Looking at the fine
little baby boy on the death-bed his mouth
tightened.
“ ‘He seems quite well at present; and.
anyhow, you can’t leave him here,’ I
answered.
“Picking up the sleeping child, I handed
it to him and turned back into the room as
he went down the passage-way.
“The regular, almost beautiful features of
the unfortunate girl were now more dis-
colored ; in fact, she drew her last few
breaths as I stood there. I felt her pulse
flicker to nothing, and saw her pupils dilate.
I had done nothing for her, and was useless
except to write her certificate.
“The husband, still holding the baby, was
waiting in a room near the front door. He
seemed to be one of those men who control
their emotions well —only too well, I often
think, for the strain taxes them more than
the person who throws appearances to the
winds. Anyhow, he said nothing except to
thank me and promise to call around for the
certificate in about an hour.
“Perhaps you may recollect how that
cursed epidemic raged in the poorer suburbs,
and, like war, reversed the natural law of
the survival of the fittest. It was really
remarkable at times to see the weeds re-
cover and perfect physical specimens die
in twenty-four hours.
“I was running around like a lunatic for
weeks, had no regular surgery hours, as the
call list overwhelmed me. And that, remem-
ber, means that it still had the better of me
after spending up to twelve and fourteen
hours a day in the car. There was nothing
to keep that particular case in my mind
amid the hundreds of others who lived and
died, so I naturally forgot all about it.
“It must have been about four years later
that one night saw me dragged out, using
pretty awful language to myself. The mes-
sage concerned a case of acute illness in a
child, the address being another suburb about
four miles away. Thinking as I drove along
that quite likely the kid had been only over-
sanguine of his digestive powers and needed
no more than a purgative, didn’t improve my
temper either. However, I pulled up in
front of a fine house all lit up, and was met
at the door by a couple who introduced them-
selves as Mr. and Mrs. Ward. That name
will do, as it’s nothing like the correct one.
“The wife struck me as looking a good
deal older than the husband- —say, ten or
twelve years at least. Put him down as
thirty, then she would be forty-two or -three.
She did all the talking in an excitable style
until I suggested that perhaps time might
be important in this particular case. And,
by smoke, it was too! The raised tempera-
ture, rapid pulse and rigidity of the abdo-
men, especially low down on the right side,
betrayed the acutely-inflamed appendix.
“Then the fun started. They wanted me
to give the boy something and see how he
shaped in the morning. I took them gently
for a start and explained matters, but that
wasn’t much good. The only thing was to
be firm and tell them he had every chance
of pegging out unless lie was operated on
within a couple of hours. Eventually* we
got to particulars, fixed the hospital and a
well-known surgeon.
“Mrs. Ward looked to be taking things
very badly, so I spent a little more time
trying to reassure her while the ambulance
was getting there. I persuaded her to stay
home, promising to ’phone as soon as the
operation was over, and took Ward along in
the car with me. He must have been chew-
ing things over for a while, for he suddenly
burst out at me.
“‘Look here, Doctor, do you think the kid
will be all right?’
“ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘nobody could give you a
guarantee, but I can promise you that this
is the only way to try to save him.’
“ ‘By God, my wife won’t get over it if
lie dies,* he muttered.
“I sneaked a side glance at him. ‘She
seems to have had this baby a little later
than usual, Mr. Ward?’
AT THE YEAR’S END.
DECEMBER: “Oh, yes, I remember-, you’re the girl I thought I was going to be.”
“He swung round in the seat. ‘Yes, I
wondered what you thought. As a matter
of fact, lie’s not ours at all. We adopted
him, or, rather, she did, about two years ago.
But, listen, Doctor, she’s just living and
breathing for that kid, exactly as if she’d
borne him.’
“By this time we had arrived at the private
hospital. The car driven by McKenzie, the
surgeon, pulled up with mine, so 1 introduced
Ward, and we all went in. I left Ward
down below in a lounge-room while McKenzie
and I went up to the theatre.
“He was a great little kid and took the
anaesthetic well, while McKenzie hopped in
and out with his usual dexterity and speed.
I don’t suppose we were in the
theatre much over twenty min-
utes. There was no doubt about
his rotten appendix either, as
Mac said when he put it in the
tray.
“We changed and came down
to cheer up Ward aird ’phone his
wife. I think I said that we left
him in the lounge looking pretty
upset. Well, he was an absolute
wreck when we got back. Even
Mac’s few hopeful words added
to mine didn’t seem to lift him up.
I got him into my car after ring-
ing, and commenced to drive him
home.
“He started again then about
what was going to happen to
his wife if the boy died.' To
be quite truthful I reckoned I was getting-
more than my fill, so I said:
“ ‘Here, Ward, straighten up a bit, like
a man. It strikes me you are going on a
damn sight worse than your wife could
possibly do.’
“I wouldn’t have said that only I was
tired, but it had a remarkable and peculiar
effect.
“ ‘You really mean that, do you, Doctor?’
he asked in a quieter tone.
“ ‘Well, it seems a bit like that, old man,’
I tried to smooth over.
“ ‘Have you got half an hour to spare?
I want to have a little talk to you, and now
is the best time.’
“You can just imagine that I didn’t want
to talk to anyone, but still I could not offend
him.
“ Wes, step into my club; things will be
quiet there now.’
“There were only one or two in the club
lounge,* so I flopped into my easy chair with
a very welcome drink. Ward looked at me
keenly:
“ ‘You don’t remember me, Doctor?’
“ ‘No, my boy.’
“ ‘Of course, you wouldn’t; I forgot. Well,
here’s to get my little piece said quickly.
I'm making no excuses, remember. I don't
give a curse what you think of me, but I’m
sure I’ll feel better after telling you about
it.
“‘l’ve always had an average sort of job
since I went to work at sixteen, and 1
knocked around with a few different girls.
Then, when I was about twenty-one, I got
pretty keen on one of them, and she and I
went everywhere together, fully intending to
get married. I had not given her any ring,
because I couldn’t afford to. We were saving
all We could —she was working as a typist.,
“‘Now, this is where T begin to shine as
first-class, gold-mounted swine. I used to be
asked to one or two. places because I could
sing a bit, and sometimes Nancy, could not
go with me. At one house I met a rich
widow, a little—er—older than myself, and
after seeing her a couple of times I could
see that she—well, she liked my company. I
used to think things over, and then I got
to the stage of taking the widow-lady out to
dinner now and again.
“ ‘One night, after I had driven her home
in lier car and had been picturing what her
money could buy, I proposed to her. She
accepted me. I was not man enough to go
and see Nancy. I wrote to her, and three
weeks after I married the lady who is now
Mrs. Ward.
“ ‘Of course, I soon found out that my
wife was not fool enough to dole out all
the money that I could spend, letting me
loaf at home. We had a few rows and then
I went back to my job.
“ ‘About six years ago—that is, when I
bad been married some two years—l ran into
Nancy in a luncheon-room. She took me
pretty coolly at first, as you can imagine, but
I was really so contrite about the way I had
treated her that the poor kiddie softened a
little before I left her. I saw her at lunch
a few times after that, and then talked her
into meeting me one night.
“ ‘1 could see that I had made an absolute
everlasting hash of both our lives; and when
I looked at that beautiful girl who could
show forgiveness for the way I had treated
her, I knew there was many a better man
than I doing time at Long Bay.
“ ‘But wait! I suppose I can offer the
excuse that by this time we were both madly
in love—so help me God, it’s true as far as
I’m concerned! And I’m sure that darling
girl would never have given way to me unless
she loved me. I saw her once or twice a
week, and then it got to the stage when she
couldn’t go into her office. She gave it up,
and, as she had no people, she took a room
in another suburb until she had to go into
hospital.
“ ‘I was distracted round about this time
and was looking so bad that my wife in-
sisted on my going away for a fortnight's
holiday. I rang the hospital every day, and
at last it was all over, and Nancy went back
to her room with her baby boy.’
“Ward sat up in the chair and glared at
me as he paused.
“ ‘Now, this is where you come in, Doctor.’
“ ‘Eh, what’s that?’ I said.
“ ‘Yes, no fault of yours, you know, but
you are the only one who saw Nancy die.
Now, do you remember?’
“ ‘Well, I must apologise, Ward, old man,
but’. . ..
“ ‘All right, Doctor, listen. You came to
31 Sutton-street on the lltli June, 1919.
Oh, yes,’ he went on, ‘I remember the date
all right.’
“He stopped again.
“ ‘I hadn’t seen my darling for about ten
days, and when I went there the woman
at the house said that she’d sent for the
doctor. I rushed to the room, but Nancy
didn’t know me. She was unconscious, with
the baby asleep beside her. I waited for
you, and then took the boy away.
“ ‘My God ! I couldn’t actually watch her
die! You came out in a while and said she
was dead. I buried her alone —there weren’t
any other mourners. So many people were
dying then that anybody who may have
h >ard she was dead had relatives of their own
to think of. I got the baby cared for pri
vattly, but after a while he was looking so
ill that I put him in a babies’ home. I
thought they would look after him better.
Two or three times they said that they could
get him adopted, as he was such a lovely
child, but I refused consent.
“ ‘Well, I won’t keep you long, Doctor,
but I must finish it. You see the boy was
in the home in Nancy’s surname, as you can
see, and any correspondence between them
and me came to my office. That brings me
up to about two and a half years ago. The
wife had begun to feel the fact of our
(Continued on next page.)


@
■vm
.v mp d
.
:
'
:■?■•
.
md
H 1
m
is ' V : i
fIK Wi
B
w
&
L
r
Glaciers move m
slow grandeur
JCROM high elevations these great ice giants move
slowly down towards coast or river. Franz Josef and
the Fox Glaciers in the Southern Alps are the most
imposing glaciers in the world. Franz Josef is probably
the most beautifully set —for dark, rich bush presses close
to its icy sides and in summer red masses of rata blossom
glow against its whiteness. These glaciers are easily
accessible through beautiful bush walks from up-to-date
hotels.
Come to
dfgdf
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to—N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about Netv Zealand.
Name
Address
• "iB2A
for a DIFFERENT
Holiday
be in
NEW
ZEALAND
dfg
course, never so much as hinted to Allan
that he thought him guilty, but he advised
him this way:
“Look here, Macalister, I agree with
O’Gorman that a verdict of ‘Not guilty’ is
not sufficient in this case. We must prove
you are innocent. How we are going to do
it I don’t know at present. We must wait
till the depositions are taken in the lower
court. I shall come to Maxwelton for the
court hearing. I should like to have you
discharged by the magistrate, but it can’t
be done, as far as I can see. The skins were
fpund in your barn, and you have no ex-
planation of how they got there. The magi-
strate will commit you for trial. He’ll have
no option. I am terribly sorry about this,
Macalister. A mere ‘Not guilty,’ like the
Scotch verdict ‘Not proven,’ frequently
carries with it a stigma sufficient to put a
terrible handicap on a man who seeks public
bfe. Let it go at that till we see the
witnesses m the Maxwelton court. 111
arrive there on the 20th.
Allan returned to Raeburn depressed and
not knowing how he stood. Colin Menzies
had been most impersonal about the matter
and not very confident. Allan began to
wonder if he had at any time been daft,
and whether he had not, after all, really
stolen Richmond’s sheep,
While he was still in that dejected state
of mind, the news came flying over the
countryside that Angus Ross’s wife had
spoken. Then Colin Menzies arrived a day
sooner than he had intended; and put Allan
altogether at rest by telling him that the
Crown Prosecutor had taken an affidavit
from Mrs. Ross and was going to ask the
magistrate to discharge Allan without a
stain on his character. But Colin did not
tell Allan what a surprise -he got-to-discover
that Allan was not guilty, after all.
Allan, turning things over afresh in his
mind, was filled with a new bitterness against
the Richmonds, and especially her Ladyship.
She had sought with indecent haste to hurry
an innocent man to his doom. She had
known that Angus was always a queer fel-
low, and it was the plain duty of anyone
who knew him to inquire well into any
serious allegation he made before taking
action. Wherein Allan was not altogether
just to Lady Richmond; for though Angus
Ross was certainly insane, he had the
cunning to keep the knowledge of his in-
sanity from others.
Allan did not know how much he was
indebted to Sir Alfred Richmond. He knew
nothing at all of Sir Alfred’s journeyings
and travail on his behalf, and because of
that he chose to regard as an insult a letter
which he received from Wellington a few
days after his discharge. In this letter,
couched in the friendliest terms, Sir Alfred
traversed the painful facts and deplored the
actions of his late insane ■ manager, and
concluded by asking Allan to name a sum
of money such as he considered would cover
all his expenses, and also a sum to be paid
as damages—-“not,” concluded the letter,
“that I suggest for a moment that a wrong-
ful act of the kind you have suffered can
be squared with a money payment, but,
when you come to think of it, what else
can one do?” Allan closed the door by
replying in a curt note asking Sir Alfred
why he should seek to add insult to injury.
After which Allan surveyed his affairs and
his arid farm and his debts, put from him
every other matter and concern, and resolved
to stick to the farm until again he could
show a balance to his credit.
(To he continued next week.)
having no children, and somehow we were
living more happily than we did in the
beginning. There wasn’t much said about it,
but I knew, and I really felt very sympa-
thetic about it.
“ ‘I got another letter from the home about
the adoption of the boy, and this time it hit
me very hard to think of him up there and
of us at home with no baby. I thought,
well, if someone like us got him and cared for
him, it would brighten their house up. So
I said if negotiations were conducted pri-
vately, I’d rather not know where he was
going, but if they were sure he’d be adopted
into a good family I would consent.’
“Ward stopped and looked at me. ‘You know
what happened, Doctor. My wife presented
to me on my return from the office one even-
ing my own boy! The baby whom Nancy
had lain alongside, dying! He’s the image
of her, too.’
“Ward started forward in his chair again
and gabbed my arm. ‘Say it again, Doctor.
He’s not going to die now, is he?’
“ ‘Steady up, old man, you know what we
both told you’
“ ‘I know, Doctor, but that kid has made
my wife a different woman, and gives me
hours of pain, followed by hours of joy that
make me think I can somehow atone for
what I did to Nancy.' *
“H'e looked around the room and shook
himself.
“‘Thank you, Doctor. You see, you are
the one person in this city wdio shares with
me the honor of being concerned in most of
the story. I’d better get a taxi and see you
at the hospital in the morning.’”
Mark Carey paused and pressed down the
tobacco in liis aged briar,
Magnus and Bligh spoke just - a little
before Billy Handley:
“Did the kid get over it?”
“You bet he did,” said Mark, smiling,
“He was much too important to die just then.”
The Blue Thought of the Hills.
Set down your load; it is vain,
All that your heart wills.
The hills have a high disdain—
You must never hope to attain
To the blue thought of the hills,
Which marches beyond the thirst
Of the dragging miles, leads on
Where the last ridge beckons the first
With a promise of secrets nursed
In the far years gone;
For the hills have learnt so much
From the sky and the wide air
Their wisdom is not for the touch
Of all-brief lives that clutch
At a fleeting share.
Although your way might aspire
From the peak to the further peak,
Vision and blue retire;
Beyond even desire
They are still to seek.
N.S.W.
R. D. FITZ GERALD.
If Morgan Knew!
Kildare was bidding a long farewell to the
heat, the wind and the sand,
And he bore a letter to Morgan’s wife writ-
ten in Morgan’s hand.
We said good-bye and we wished him luck
and we sighed as we saw him go,
Then turned again to our bitter task with a
curse for the Moslem foe.
Hotter and hotter the long days grew and
Jacko still held the town ;
The monitors roared at the break of day
and they roared when the sun went
down.
For the heights of Gaza were hard to take,
with its cactus hedge ablaze—
It was boot and saddle with no respite
through the fierce September days.
Kildare was ■ forgotten until, somehow, the
stoi’y filtered through:
He! was home and living with Morgan’s wife
—and we wondered if Morgan knew!
Morgan was always a quiet chap; he never
had much to say.
A long, lean bushman, h'e did his bit in the
same old silent way.
Someone suggested he should be told—it
would come to him soon or late—
But the notion didn’t appeal to me, for I
was his section mate.
Whether the story was true or false it was
simply his own concern,
So the weeks went, by, and I thought he
grew a little more taciturn.
Next a letter came to one of the boys, and
it seemed that the yarn was true.
But I shut my mouth, for I thought some-
how there’d be trouble if Morgan knew.
An order came for a move at last, a dash on
the Moslem flank,
And we rode from the .shadow of Fara
mound as the red sun waned and sank.
We marched all night through the Dead Sea
waste, and I’ll never forget that ride
Through desolate wadis and leagues of sand,
with only the stars to guide.
But we reached our goal ere the dawn of
day, and, to give them honor due,
It was only the grit of our bush-bred steeds
that pulled their riders through.
We halted at last in a rock-strewn gorge
and the roar of the guns grew loud,
And over Beersheba the dust and smoke
hung like a sable shroud.
But the Turks were making a stubborn
stand, and the sun was almost down
When the squadrons mounted and swung in
line on a ridge above the town.
It was then the need for a ground scout
came to see if the path was clear,
To look for wire or pits ahead, and they
called for a volunteer.
It seemed a gallop to certain death. I was
sorry when Morgan spoke.
But he rode. away with 'a careless nod
through a swirl of dust and smoke.
And we —we followed in one long line, and
- it seemed like the end of things:
I guess I’ll never forget that charge, what-
ever the future brings.
I’m not much good at descriptive work. I
haven’t got much to tell;
But if ever you chance to get a whiff red
hot from the gates of Hell
You’ll have a notion of what we struck—
or of what we were stricken by:
Bullets and shrapnel and five-point-nines and
bombs from the flaming sky.
Horses went over and men went down till
it seemed there wasn’t a hope
A single horseman would live to reach the
foot of that shell-torn slope.
But it’s hard for gunners to keep the range
•• of cavalry moving fast,
And 1 ' the fighting blood of the boys was up
when we reached the redoubts at last.
Down we sprang with our bayonets fixed,
and it wasn’t left long in doubt:
I,tell you those boys in the bush brigades
could fight when you put them out.
They’d a score to settle long overdue; it
was settled, you may depend.
Some Turks surrendered and others ran and
a few of them fought to the end.
I’ve got no time for that Moslem crowd-
how could I? —but all the same,
Now that the whole thing’s over and done,
by God! there were some of them game!
Rightly or wrongly they stuck to their guns
when there wasn’t a hope, they knew.
They fought like demons and died like men;
what more can a soldier do?
And Morgan? We found him at dawn of day
* —riddled with lead, of course —
Face up in front of the first redoubt and
. lying beside his horse.
His face had a sort of peaceful smile it
never had worn in life,
And we searched his tunic for letters and
things to send them home to his wife.
And we found in a pocket just over his heart
a photo, torn in two.
And somehow or other when I look back I’ve
a notion that Morgan knew.'
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


<
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Afttralasia, Ltd..
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Oiliee—9B-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Itourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. KI.DKK, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 If.
Victoria’s Leading Mon
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age
tising, you miss one of the most '
in your Victorian campaign, and ;
who is spending large sums
advertise and sell an article c«
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscriber
confidence in their chosen publi
because it is a newspaper that no
into the home but reaches the ve
the household, the advertiser who
products or service on record in
is assured of dependable reader v£
“The Age” publishes over 1,
advertisements annual
Audited Daily net circu
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
,
National Advertisers
Who Wish to Cover South Australia
£2
o
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South .Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. S.
Thompson* “Lls-
flar House,” 30
Carrington street.
MELBOURNE.—
j. N. Bednall,
The Herald Office,
Flinders street.
XIK IMcury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
.miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
, Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cbe fldoertiscr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
t Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
les of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch J price Ud.
fEtJTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEBNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
en
e Grazier
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
m
%
A
fa
\
Ml ] J
Vs
A
Confident
cheerful
FULL of life-optimis-
tic—vigorous— th anks
to BeechanTs Pills.
BeechanTs Pills prevent
wastes accumulating and
keep the system free from
poisons. They engender
a normal, natural action
of the stomach, liver and
bowels.
Beecham’s are purely
vegetable—safe—effective
BEECHAMS
I PILLS
"Worth a
guinea
a box’*
gdf
The Examiner, Launceston’s only daily,
was established 89 years ago. It has
become the trusted Family Newspaper
in Northern Tasmania—it is the reliable
Advertising Medium for the North.
As this Graph indicates, the advertising
in The Examiner has been steadily in-
creasing. The unstippled portions show
the increases year by year. They are the
Mirror of Confidence that reflects the
reliability of The Examiner as an Ad-
vertising Medium.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising
Rates obtainable from
p92l' | 1922 | 1923 \\924\t925\ 1926 \ 1927 \l9Zt)\l9Z9 |
dgf
M. S. ALLAN,
lational Bank Chambers*
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
w. G.
Kembla Building,
Margaret Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s f j%uLletCa
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bullion /or 12, 6, 3 months from ...
for which 1 enclose £...,..
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
fgd
0
0
0°
(
*
5® 6
■■ .-••■
■ 7 ot
C,* 1 iA''


■ 8
:
'
'‘ • !
. Vk..;. '■■■:■ ■
■ ■ -
' it ,;
. - -■ ..^s*::-3a
: v f :a - r
,
, - ■ -:*
’ ■
V'vl
waiia§ajsas
V. J= • ’t’-KSbl'*"’ ■+ =:: :
'mm : ' i
iiiir
I ■:
'>i
. ■
'
r
f
li:@i
hi " f ' (K JSL !
~k
■ u as
:isß
J v V ftfSL, _
' ’ " :V%M
." ■ 1
:-. J gSEfS-
■ -u
, ‘ • 1 :; I ■ - T
glllllig ■
,
<v&v , ,;T : ; i'r,
|gg * £|§
Hite i\ m,-"~ v^'S
gfL*--;.,,' 5, 1 - -
|k^
K",\... ,-:k: - ■
:Svw
_ r %> -X
IKM J
j ?r Cf V., u ■
'.■ c >- 1 .,;v.,: - -
Bfattftf . l ' ’
MM i
k'ktf:
,
i ispi
h "'pkl
Ik Bkffkk...: . I
1 1
■M '■:. ' ' 1
iiaii|i;;i
ilSlillti,.
■ H|l|
k'Arff a
1 I
Hill
P’li-S
'
’'. > - 1 - s
■■ ! ■
:
Hi:
! -J , 1 ■>" ’iy 'V
..." ‘if
J' ' 1
/ M !
t- ~ v- ,'k, -!
m '
' ■ :■
YlOl«> tR * U ''
