

reception with
RESCH’S
PILSENER
The Bulletin
can, TtAAAn&W*'
Vol. 51.—N0. 2603.
Wednesday, January 1, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
wilj be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bandwrlt™
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name -
My Address
S.B
[LYSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
e
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
e
V
Why suffer with
Skin Troubles
WHEN Cuticura Ointment, because
of its absolute purity, and antiseptic and
healing properties, in combination with
Cuticura Soap is unsurpassed in the
treatment of pimples, eczemas, rashes,
irritations and all forms of skin troubles.
Ointment Is. and 2s. Soap Is. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Q 9?
V
HAIR
need
here's
m
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and. safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—.
StPQjUwis CMEXICAN’)
VkdfWjt StiWft
''-(IEMOVES THE GREY"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSUURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (i/6), 6d. being postage.
è
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
V
FOR 87 YEA]
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
KELL the typhoid fly.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price 1/-
é
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
An Artist’s Autobiography
Not in any accepted sense is Margaret
Preston, published by Akt in Australia, an
autobiography. It is a portfolio of reproduc-
tions representative of the artist’s compara-
tively recent work—-14 large color-plates and
a duplicate set, nine plates of woodcuts in
black and white and an original signed wood-
cut in color. Nothing there of the customary
autobiographical facts—that the artist is
South Australian-born; that she secured fo
the Adelaide Gallery the Orpen paintin
which the public of that date didn’t lik
and which was at last rejected and sold ii
America; nothing of the fact that her fathe
spent most of his time at sea, that she i
married to an Australian soldier, that she
insists upon doing her woodcuts on Austra
lian wood, or that she has been hailed in
such a distaht and cultured land as Sweden
as a world-genius. None of the ordinary
stock-in-trade whatever. Indeed, only
small part of the volume is written—
Sydney Ure Smith is named as editor; fol-
lowing a brief introduction by Leon Gellert
there are some general aphorisms by the
artist.
Yet this is definitely autobiography
That it differs in form and basis from other
autobiography does not conflict. The only
part of 'an artist that can ultimately matter
is his reaction to beauty. If he writes, pro-
vided he is an artist, he will be obsessed by
that, and so will repeat with a pen what he
has already said with his brush. The redund-
ancy of writing, however, is not inexcusable
It may help towards ready interpretation
which is rarely general in contemporary
work, especially when that work is advancec
and advancing, as Margaret Preston’s is
with no dead-end in sight, but with a vista
that is like looking through an orchard in
early morning sunlight, when trees anc
shadows, instead of obstructing, become aids
to vision, leading the eye on and on.
Those who already appreciate her work
are given to getting angry because apprecia-
tion is not general. It cannot be yet. She
has her place in Australian creative effort
as Henry Lawson has his in another branch
of it; but Lawson, having a more convenient
medium, reached a greater public in briefer
time than she or any other artist can hope
to do, and so won to quicker recognition
Also, he spoke in a more popular voice
Nine out of every ten who learn to form
sentences think they can write. The whole
ten are critics of writing. But the branch
of creative effort in which Margaret Pres-
ton works has no such following and prob-
ably never will have. Therefore there is
nothing to be angry about. It should be
enough for to-day that the people who buy
her work are fellow artists. Even such a
publication as this spiritual autobiography
cannot help much towards general apprecia-
tion. It is necessarily expensive, and it will
doubtless be bought by the same discerning
and limited section which, for example,
bought out her recent Sydney GroSVenor
Galleries exhibition before it was officially
opened. Still, inside natural limits this
portfolio helps in quickening an apprecia-
tion that must come eventually, and it
helps much more than the usual thing of
the kind owing to the color-plates being
in duplicate, which permits them to be
framed and hung or given away without
taking anything from the book. Because
it gives such help it is an important contri-
bution to creative effort in Australia. For
Australia is going to be a greater country
artistically when what this artist has done
for Australia is known and understood.
Taking a broad view, Margaret Preston is
stirring in a time of stagnation. She is
modern, but only in the sense that she is
alive in her age. Those who cannot hear
the word “modern” without a shudder
should appreciate the fact that she is not
violent, any more than Streeton, Gruner,
Heysen in landscape can be said to be so.
Like them, she is intrinsically Australian.
I ventured to suggest lately that Australian
writers are not. In reply it was pointed
out that Australian writers are handicapped
by the influence of British literary tradition.
Lawson, it was suggested, only succeeded in
being so Australian so early because he was
ignorant, if not semi-illiterate. Let that
stand as fact; and what a spineless crowd
our writers are shown up to be when con-
fronted by the achievement in this other form
of creative effort! The influence from the
past which logically ought to have made
Streeton, Gruner, Heysen, Margaret Pres-
ton impossible can be seen at work among
the early-Australia plagiarisms in the Dix-
son Gallery, Sydney. With no more time
than our writers have had, our artists have
overcome that influence, have spoken in an
idiom more permanently Australian than
any used by any of our writers, and, as
this Margaret Preston work exemplifies,
are still doing so and doing it more clearly
than ever.
Take one narrow illustration—Margaret
Preston’s treatment of Australian flora.
She does not paint “direct from nature,”
as our writers try to do. She is not like
those observers who fancy they see the
glorious accumulation that is Pickwick in
some dull bulk of individual at a council
table. She got over that “realism” long
ago. Instead, she looks at nature, and in
a medium that isn’t nature’s creates some-
thing that isn’t nature. In painting Aus-
tralian flowers she adds her spiritual self,
and the flowers are at once idiomatically
Australian, simply because she herself is
positively Australian. Her treatment of
Australian flowers is the most important
thing that I personally get out of this auto-
biography. These glorious things that our
writers, miserably pottering under the
influence of Devon-and-water, have in turn
neglected, traduced and botched; these
things that we have given such names as
“flannel-flower,” because they look like a
material that is almost anti-Australian, or
‘ bottle-brush,” because they remind our
original intellects of bottle-cleaners; these
flowers that are at once so beautiful and
so Australian, she has given a new life and
with it a new meaning. That is my simple
harvest. Artists get other grain. Others get
nothing. For their benefit, I imagine, Mar-
garet Preston wrote her interpretative
aphorisms.
Of the production itself it is hard to see
how praise could be too enthusiastic. It is
as much a triumph of Australian printing
as its contents are representative of
triumph in Australian creative effort.
CECIL MANN.
The Landseekers
1 When Gregory Blaxland, young William
Charles Wentworth and Lieut. Lawson, of
the Veteran Corps, crossed the Blue Moun-
tains at the beginning of the winter of
1813 they wrote a chapter in Australian
interior exploration more important than
the one that precedes it or any of those
that were written afterwards. For quarter
of a century development had been con-
fined to a coastal strip near Port Jackson,
not more than 80 miles long by 40 broad.
The pioneers were feeling" eramped by a
lack of wider pastures. The barrier of the
Dividing Ranges had frustrated the efforts
of explorers, and it was doubted whether
they ever could be crossed. In 1806
Governor King wrote:—
As far as respects the extension of agriculture
beyond the first range of mountains, that is an idea
that must be given up, as the rocks to the west of
that range wear the most barren and forbidding
aspect which men, animals, birds and vegetation
have ever been strangers to; a better proof of
which may not be adduced than the remark of one
of Cayley’s party in returning, who exclaimed, on
seeing two solitary crows, that “they had lost
their way.”
But Blaxland’s indomitable party did the
job. It is curiously true that the main
motive behind almost every exploring ex-
pedition that has had its share in the dis-
covery of Australia has been the same as
theirs. Sometimes the explorers were
scientists like Allan Cunningham or Leich-
hardt, or enthusiasts in discovery of the
stamp of Sturt or Mitchell, but nearly
always they were equipped and backed by
a land-hungry people who wanted wider
acreage.
In the second volume of his Australian
Discovery (Dent; Angus and Robertson),
Professor Ernest Scott deals with the
landseekers in the same way as he did
with the navigators who found Australia
and mapped its outlines. He begins with
Blaxland in 1813, and ends with McDouall
Stuart in 1861, when it had been pretty well
determined what was inside the coasts of
the continent. As he did with the seamen,
he lets the landseekers tell their own tales,
and explains the scope of the volume
thus:—
This book brings together a collection of the
original narratives of the men who unveiled the
face of Australia. The stories which they wrote
are scattered over many volumes, and few people,
even among those who are keenly interested in the
tale of the discovery of this continent, have the
opportunity of gaining access to the first-hand records
of these memorable achievements. Many of the
volumes are rare; few are easy to obtain. Here,
however, the reader will find Blaxland’s own narra-
tive of the first crossing of the Blue Mountains, and
the most important passages describing the dis-
coveries of other men who cut their way through
trackless regions and prepared the way for the
pastoralist, the miner and the farmer. By these
men, in the manner represented herein by themselves,
was the continent of Australia made known.
So we reap a rich harvest of the most
inspiring aspect of Australian history; an
anthology of exploration as diversified as
it is unique, and self- but not self-conscious
studies of great and dauntless men to
whose splendid efforts Australia owes more
than she ever did, or ever could, repay.
Gregory Blaxland tells the story of the
first crossing of the Blue Mountains, and
Governor Macquarie lets, us know what he
thought of the new country when he went
to see it. George Evans relates how he
found the Macquarie, the Lachlan and the
Castlereagh. and John Oxley how he ex-
plored and traced the western rivers. Allan
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising” has
built Anthony
Horderns’ .
iFwraj
b
1 f//i
v
la that tease, split seeoad —
A Keen Eye
A Steady Hand
and
A GOOD GUN
The best fire-arms obtainable—the kind that sportsmen feel are sensitive to
the very mood and instinct of the hunter—these are the ones that Anthony
Horderns carry. Too, they bear Anthony Horderns’ famous low prices—-
another reason why you should buy them at The Senior Store.
Don’t let that
big one get away
this year!
Buy your fishing tackle at Anthony
Horderns’ and make certain that your
skill will be supported by the right
kind of equipment.
■ i n imiWHmm.
iif"
SPLIT CANE RODS.
Allcock’s Heavy Split Cane Rod, 9ft.*, 3
joints, lock joint ferrules, agate rings, cork
grip. Price, each £B/10/-
Farlow’s Pelican Sea Rod, made with sft.
4in. greenheart top, and with 1 ft. 4in. grip,
with porcelain rings. Price, each . . £5/10/-
m
0
BALL-BEARING
REELS.
Landem make; all metal;
made of aluminium alloy,
combine the lightness with
the added advantage of a
large line capacity.
Strongly constructed and
free running on hardened
steel bearings which are
adjustable so that side play
or rattle is unknown.
4in. sin. 6in.
Line capacity
Price, each,
200yds.
60/-
500yds
75/-
800yds.
95/-
STAR BACK REELS.
Best solid brass; brass lining and flange to
prevent warping, with line guard;
Price, 20/-; 4in„ 22/6; 4-|in., 24/-; sin.,
27/6; 6in., 35/-; 7in., 45/-
(Not illustrated)
STRIKER SPOON BAIT.
Automatic; an exceptionally good spinner
for Kingfish, Tunny or Tailer. 1 -|in., 2in.
Price, each, 2/6; 2fin., 2/9; 3Jin., 3/9;
4|in., 4/9; s|in., 6/-
GENUINE CUTTYHUNK LINE
Donegal make; made from finest Irish linen
thread. 1 00yd. spools.
Size 6 9 12 15 18
Dry Test, lb. 12 18 24 30 36
Prices 6/- 6/6 7/6 8/6 10/-
Can be had in 200 yards.
(Not illustrated)
REMINGTON SLIDE ACTION REPEATING RIFLE.
Model 25 A. Calibre .32 W.C.F. is particularly adapted for shooting game of medium
size, such as kangaroo, deer, fox, wolf, wild pig, etc. Forearm slide action, 24in. special
Remington steel barrel, American half-pistol grip stock, fitted with steel rifle butt plate,
white metal bead front-sight, step adjustable buckhorn rear-sight. Magazine capacity, 1 0
cartridges; indicator shows whether loaded or empty. Take down, strong and rigid when
assembled, crossbolt safety in rear of trigger guard; designed to handle .32 W.C.F.
cartridges, black and smokeless for mid ranges and medium size game; for larger
game the New Remington Hi-speed smokeless powder cartridges, which give increased
velocity, flatter trajectory, greater mushrooming and killing power, and better accuracy
at ranges up to 200 yards. Weight, about sJlb. Price, each £7/17/6
As above, .25/20 calibre. Price, each £7/17/6
REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEATING RIFLE.
Model 12A. Chambered to take without adjustment .22 short, .22 long and .22 long-
rifle cartridges. Magazine holds 15 .22 short, 12 .22 long, or 1 I .22 long-rifle cartridges;
22in. round barrel, straight grip, walnut stock, fitted with vulcanite butt plate. Weight,
Price, each ' £4/17/6
V
ass
BAYARD D.8.8.L.
GUN.
Hammerless side lock, 30in.
steel barrels, “Demi-Bloc,”
left choke, right modified,
matted rib, with side clips,
quadruple bolt, push fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut
stock, checkered grip and
fore-end, horn-heel plate,
chambered for 2fin. cart-
ridges. Weight, about 6flb.
Price, each £B/15/-
ê
PIGEON GUN.
W. W. Greener’s !2G
D.8.8.L. hammerless; 30in.
special steel barrels, treble
wedge, fast action, independ-
ent side safety, full choke in
both barrels, chambered for
2§in. cartridges, engine-turned
rib, walnut stock.
Price, each £22
It is not necessary to pay cash for any of the above items. Pay a small deposit,
the balance as desired, and when payments are completed goods will be
delivered in the usual way.
(Dept., Ground Floor. We deliver free city and suburbs only.)
ë
’Phone:
Day a,nd Night.
(The Senior Store)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Yf
r,
9*
V
A
X
w
%
iin\
m
jfTw
V
\\
2^
\
<=Z>
c=>
l
SI
%
Tli
J 2
□
%
/
■-
/
' \
Ja(
Its style is something
to be proud of —its
comfort makes it a prized possession
TT is the immediately apparent style of
-*• Oakland, its easily realised comfort, that
have been responsible for making it some-
thing more than a moderately priced means
of personal transportation.
A sense of pride comes with the first
view of Oakland’s modern style, a sense
that becomes highly developed with owner-
ship.
Oakland comfort, too, is a source of pride
-—in luxurious upholstery, in perfect springing,
enhanced by four hydraulic shock absorbers,
in its ease of handling.
With ownership comes prized possession
of the superiority of Oakland performance
... the unusual qualities of its power, pick-up
and speed, its smoothness and silence, the
dependable addon of its internal four-wheel
brakes.
There is an Oakland dealer not far from
you who will gladly provide a car for you
to drive. The justification for the pride of
Oakland owners will immediately become
apparent.
PRICES from
Prices given subject to change without notice.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
SERVICE EVERYWHERE.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA)
PTT. LTD.
Brisbane
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Perth
OAKLAND
THE COSMOPOLITAN SIX
its a General Motors car
-—took inside and note the difference!


TRADE MARK
r\
A
/
s—
-5*
i n
|(WjKOPP£R)fIAO BULLETj
MKM
gfgwVjS
wmcHjESTm
KOPPERKLAD BULLET
STAVN LESS
Fast, Ac^ Tate ’
_ t Ke same
incheSt ldeW
tb U -
bullt ‘ -nee smooth
•*£%***•**.
3
* e u„fce of « otld
tmoos
T b Se taking of »■*"
tecotds ,2 Cal-
•
ibe i Atnmon {ot
bedeP te “" aiBb , t
surC • a dep enc^a^ e
shooting, a v
results.
£
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Rifles — they ”|
are made for each other. TKeve’s a Winchester Rifle and there's B
Winchester Ammunition for every .22 caliber shooting purpose. J
Cunningham, whose bones are enshrined in
Sydney’s Botanic Gardens, tells of his own
wide travels and what was known of Aus-
tralia up to 1832. We ride southward to
Port Phillip with Hume and Hovell, and
explore the course of the Brisbane River
with Major Lockyer. With the brave
and chivalrous Sturt we find the Darling
and the Murray, and Major Mitchell leads
us into Australia Felix. Eyre takes us
round the Great Australian Bight, and
we share in the tragedy of Burke and Wills.
Finally, with McDouall Stuart we journey
to the centre of Australia, and then across
the continent from Adelaide to Van Die-
men’s Gulf. And all the time, in this
tour of our country personallv conducted
by Professor Scott, we travel in the best
company. They are not easily to be
matched in all history, the men who found
out the inside of Australia.
As was said on this page about Vol. I of
“Australian Discovery,” Vol. II is a book
that might quite well stand by itself, with-
out reference to its companion. The value
of each to students cannot be exaggerated,
bpt an even greater value attaches to the
book as a whole. In it Young Australia
is allowed to see almost at a glance the
genesis of its country. It is a book for
every man and woman and every boy and
girl in the Commonwealth. It is as full
of romance and adventure as of latitude
and longitude.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Fourteenth
The History of the Fourteenth Battalion,
by Newton Wanliss (Arrow Printery, Melb.),
is the most comprehensive work of the sort
that has appeared. The author undertook
it at the request of the Battalion Assoc., and
as a labor of love; his son was the gallant
battalion adjutant, Captain Wanliss, D. 5.0.,
who fell at Polygon Wood. The 14th was
one of the four battalions of a unit which
represented all Australia. But, though the
brigade was recruited from all six States,
its battalions were rigidly compartmented.
The 14th was Victorian. General Monash,
who commanded the brigade during the
first two years of the war, says of the 14th
in a Foreword:—
It numbered originally a thousand of the very
flower of the youth of the City of Melbourne. It
counted in its ranks mapy public-school men of
fine morale and physique, and was officered by men
of high character and capacity. It was subsequently
maintained during four years of war by reinforce-
ments _drawn from the area of its first enlistment to
the number of several times its original equipment.
This battalion lost nearly half its original
effectives (16 officers and 387 0.r.) on the
Peninsula, and its star man Jacka won the
first A.I.F. V.C. there. Fighting was first
experienced on the grand scale in Flanders
at Pozieres, and from then to its famous out-
post engagement before the Hindenburg line
in September, ’lB, which closed its fighting
career, the battalion shared in almost every
A.I.F. action of major importance. This
book, apart from being a carefully docu-
mented history of a splendid unit, gives a
good idea of the part played by the A.I.F.
as a whole in the war.
J.B.D.
Golden Days
Published by the Colortype Press, Perth,
Golden Days, by Jules Raeside, is as queer
a document as anyone would be likely to
find if he went out hunting for such game.
It is sub-titled “Memoirs and Remi-
niscences of the Goldfields of Western
Australia,” and the reader learns that
one-half the net proceeds from its sale “is
being devoted through Public Trustees to
the Perth Hospital for all time.” The
author, who publishes a surprisingly
youthful portrait of himself, and whose
real name is W. J. Reside (his brother
John was first member for Hannans
in the W.A. Assembly), announces that
under the pen-name of “Jules Raeside” “this
and all his future works will be published.”
He also states, in an “errata” list of con-
siderable proportions, that “perhaps never
before in the history of at least Australian
literature has a book of this magnitude
been written, compiled, edited, printed,
bound and issued in 58 days.” That
accounts for the “errata” list, and other
things. The book is full of good material,
and most of it gives the impression of
having been hurled together by a violent
physical effort.
The goldfields pubs and their frequenters
make some of the best pictures. That of
Carr-Boyd, The Bulletin’s old “Pot-
j ostler,” is excellent. He portrays him in
all the glory of a khaki suit and cork hat.
Then:—
I always remember bis saying when you asked
him to have a drink, “By Gad, sir, I will. I’ll have
rum and cloves.”
A he-man’s beverage if ever there was
one! Not far from that portrait there is
a good one of George Reid at the opening
of the goldfields water scheme, beads of
sweat on his brow and a mangy mongrel
following at his heel. “Is that your Morg,
George?” shouted a wag. “No,” said
George in his queer drawl. “That’s
The Bulletin’s dog.” Hoover, present Pre-
sident of the U.S.A., is another good por-
trait, and a better one is that of Vosper,
first member for N.-E. Coolgardie in the
W.A. Assembly, who wore his hair long as
a protest against the injustice of his im-
prisonment over an industrial disturbance.
There are good yarns and pictures of jour-
nalism on the fields, with the rollicking
verses of “Dryblower” Murphy, leaning so
heavily upon consonant alliteration for his
effects, and other rhymes to add further
atmosphere.
Easily the best passage of all is the one
in which the opening of the Kanowna ceme-
tery as a mining area is described:—
It was arranged that Sergeant Smith, who was in
charge of the police, should ride into the middle
of the cemetery and at the prescribed time he
should drop his handkerchief as a signal that the
reserve was open for mining. There they were, a
thousand diggers, each of whom had a pick or
spade in one hand and pegs in the other, ready to
leap over the fence and begin the work of pegging
out. The excitement grew intense, and the last ten
minutes seemed like an hour. At last the sergeant
rode into the centre of the cemetery and held his
watch in one hand and his handkerchief in the other.
As he stood in this position the stillness became
painful. Round the fence, like hounds on leash, the
thousand eager diggers waited. The suppressed
excitement was visible on every face, as with bare
arms and heaving chests they stood there, the
noblest army in the world. The handkerchief was
held aloft, and * then dropped. Then the silence
which had reigned for a few moments was suddenly
broken, and with a wild roar, as of troops going
into battle, the crowd broke, scattered and leapt
into the cemetery. For a few minutes there was a
most bewildering scene. The wild whirl of bare
arms, the gleam of picks and shovels in the sunshine
and the clouds of dust, with all the diggers looking
like madmen. Never had a thousand Britons worked
harder, sweated more, and used pick and shovel
more effectively than in that graveyard.
That is not mere description: it is a
solid piece of prose. Incidentally, Bert
Toy, editor of the Woman’s Mirror,
and at the time earning a living in
black-and-white, was on the fields when
this spectacular rush occurred, and cari-
catured the event in a drawing in which a
skeleton, half-risen from the grave, haran-
gued his disturber, telling him that, having
filched his wife and his other worldly pos-
sessions, he might at least let him have a
bit of rest.
The get-up of the curious book is as odd
as its literary arrangement. Its illustra-
tions range from page portraits of Forrest
and other Parliamentarians to lubras, one
of whom might prove an eye-opener to any
who may think that our blacks can have
no beauty. Graves, waterholes, churchmen,
groups of miners, street scene's, nuggets and
flowers in color, camels and sundry other
topics come into the pictures, not to men-
tion an index, the “errata” list and the addi-
tions that might have been made to that
list.
A Satchel of Books
Animals in Art, by Ana M. Berry (Chatto
and \Ylndus). Outlines of the use of animals
in drawing, sculpture and painting, with
general criticism. Thirty-two page plates
illustrate the theme, those from the Chinese
being uncommonly interesting.
The Early Life and Adventures of Jean
Jtiques Rousseau, by Arthur Lytton Sells
t Mercer). Dr. Sells skims delicately over
the life of the author of the “Confessions”
up to 1740, overcoming the obvious difficul-
ties m tiie way of writing an innocuous
biography by referring the reader in notes
to original sources. He has done the job
well.
, rvests of Deceit, by Errol Fitzgerald
(Mills and Boon), is an exciting yarn of
murder, blackmail and modern London. The
principal feminine characters, and particu-
larly the hoydenish Phillis, are drawn with
great care and insight. The cheap title and
badly-drawn jacket rather handicap a first-
rate work of its class, which only weakens
m the last few pages.
The Collected Essays of Charles Lamb
(Dent). In 1903 Dent published in 12 vols.
as beautiful an edition of Lamb as any
lover of Elia and good books could desire.
It was illustrated by C. E. Brock and
others, and finely edited by William Mac-
Donald. The present issue is a two-vol.
edition of the four vols. which, in the great
edition, held all the essays—Elia, Last
Essays, Miscellaneous and Critical. Mac-
Donald’s notes and the illustrations are
preserved, and there is an introduction by
Robert Lynd, himself an essayist remarkably
in the spirit of Lamb. All the pieces left
out of “more polite” editions are included;
there is neat binding in sage and gold, and
the production altogether is line.
Love Letters of Mile, dc Lespinasse (Rout-
ledge). When in 1748 Madame d’Albon died
she left her daughter a small annuity, a large
sum in cash, which was locked up in a desk,
and the mark of illegitimacy, madame having
lived apart from her husband for some years.
To relations who strongly opposed efforts to
remove the stigma, the girl gave the keys
of the desk and saw no more of the cash.
Instead, she was given an unbearable home
with them, which she eventually left for
Paris, where she became leader of a brilliant
salon and fell in love with the Comte de
Guibert. When both were dead the Comte’s
widow published the letters, not in anger but
with the charming idea that it must enhance
the reputation of her dead hero for the world
to know that a brilliant woman had been in
love with him. The present complete form
of the human document appears for the first
time in English in the finely-produced Broad-
way library of eighteenth-century French
literature.
The Ant Heap, by Edward Knoblock
(Chapman and Hall), would earn high marks
in a Worst Novel Competition. It begins by
starring the Child Tim’s vivisecting uncle —
‘ A magnificent, amazing, intelligent being.
How right he always was in work, how
quick, how terrifyingly incisive!” The
uncle manufactures monsters to express his
loathing of humanity. Just as we are expect-
ing him to live up to his sensational character
he fades into futility, and Tim arrives in a
London slum all sweat, smells, Shavian oaths
and prostitutes—to one of whom he “sur-
renders his manhood.” Next the reader
emerges from this Zolaesque morass, and pur-
sues a treacly path of sentiment, until: —
And there I held her in my arms at last, in the
sacred silence of the valleys about, and the unseen
presence of all that had stood for the best in both
our lives.
The chief defects of the book are false
realism, false sentiment, false characterisa-
tion and humorlessness. The author colla-
borated with Arnold Bennett in “Milestones”
—another proof that a playwright isn’t
necessarily a storyteller.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unliss stamps accompany.
L.W. : Another of the things that “can’t
be done” !... . Kivva: ‘‘The Wheel” turns too slowly.
C.B.: Sorry, unsuitable W.R.F.: Very well
done and returned with regret. But that phase
has been over-stressed... .Arthur F.: Slick, but pain-
fully unreal. Yet there is a market for stories in
that fashion .W.P.0.: Sorry we can see no reason
for encouraging you. .. .S.G.: Haven’t had any such
plan put before us so far.... Agate: Thank you. So
far as circulation goes it is easily the best year
This B. has ever ■ had. .. .Z.S.: Got along splendidly
till the nice girl unbosomed herself to her sister ;
and you don’t make that sound true Forgett.it:
Willtryto. .. . W.G.H.: Cromwell stretches his legs
too far.... Tow: They will certainly be continued.
....L'.E.H.: But it says nothing, and all the pretty
rhyming in the world won’t atone for that
E. : “Dashed hopes” expresses it... .A. 1.8.: A
romantic glaze on an ugly fact... .T. 8.: Draw the
line at “color line”... .C. 8.5.: Prohibitive tariff
on imported ghosts.... H. 8.: Neither suitable....
C.H.W.: No demand for death-bed scenes R.W.J.:
Weak ending... .K.S.: “Ultima Thule” was reviewed
B 13/3/’29. . .-M.A.M.: A song, did you say?
S.L.: Rod Quinn and limejuice... .F.M.S.: You
couldn’t convert that into a sonnet without the aid
of a woolpress. . . .P.S.C.: Some music in it —and
discords... .Wag: Reads like something read before.
. ...H.T.R.: Too pretty-pretty for this shop; aim
it at another. .. .C.A.V.: Cost the Religious Editor
a new set of gnashers. .. . Opal: Grim suggestion of
Byrd going round the Pole on a plough.... Ground
F. : Two will do :
He suffered from blood pressure,
So couldn’t get insured;
He cried, “Away with pleasure,
I am going to be cured.”
He made grim resolutions,
But now he does but grieve;
For that was his last year’s solution,
And he broke them all on New Year’s Eve.
.... Pip : Pipped.... Elbatt: Some of the rhymes are
stretchers. .. .L.L.R.: Sorry, but it is the published
stuff of old hands that will be used. Thanks all
the same. . . .G.M.C.: You're a better prophet than a
poet.' It did reach the w.p.b The Duffer: Liked
best “the twitter of the tomtits”... .N.M.T.: Not in
our line, but fair of its kind. .. .A.McL.R.: Would
like you to try again, if only to get another look
at your fine handwriting... .Cochon: You seem to
know your country. Now tell us something fresh
about it.... Lyric: Your pen-name doesn’t describe
it. . . .M.R.T.: Thinner than a contortion act over
the wireless. .. .A.A.8.: Trying to make spring a
perennial season?. .. .L.McT.: By J. B. Priestley,
and a tiptop novel... .T.A.0.: You overlook that it
was a list of books of the year only. The one you
would add was very highly praised two years ago.
... .N.N.M.: Send it to Nancy, but don’t say we
told you Trade M.: No use writing a rambling
letter. Go for him. . . .P.E.S.: Season declared closed.
... .Raeside: Review will appear in the next week
or so. . . .S.M.D.: An answer already in print....
M. 0.: You’ll find a representative lot in the Christmas
Bulletin. .. .W.D.L.: Effort to edit this paper from
Honolulu appreciated.... Com. M.: “Song of the
Bellman” rung 0ut....G.M.: Rhyme about a world
without trousers regretfully declined. . . .T. 11.8.: “The
Inference” has not been taken... .T.W.: Not our
sort... .L.H.E.: Wish you’d find a typewriter....
A.T.: A picture of misery:—
The distant cry of a dying beast
Was all a man could hear;
Or the howl of a dingo finished a feast
On the strength of a putrid steer.
At least it’s better than the wishywashy bush stuff
written from fiats in Dariinghurst H.D.: Gets
close; but you'll need to make a resolution about
moralising... .F.P.T.: Most cheerful tombstone chant
read for years... .R.M.8.: Boy, bring back that
basket!. ... K.C.M.G.: You seem to just ramble where
your pen cares to take y0u.... E. 11.: Sorry, can’t
find a corner for it, either.... Mudgee: Ulster (like
N.S.W.) gave proportional representation a trial, but
has abolished it. The last election resulted in the
return of 37 Conservatives, three Independent Con-
servatives, 11 Nationalists and one Laborite....
Heaven: Only the start of it: —
There was a Wild Woollahra Boy
Jack Badly was his name,
He bountied on the wage-plugs
That worked in Richmond Main.
He drew a Hansard from his belt
And, waving it on high,
“I’ll fight and I’ll never surrender,”
Said the Wild Woollahra Boy.
....Pic: It was the other way about; John Long-
stafi was born at Clunes and Norman Lindsay at
Creswiek. .. .C.R.: Absurdly unreal; write about
the life you know... .R.McD.: Too long. ... J.Q.P.:
Flying story crashed. .. .L.F.H.: Brightly written but
not enough in it....C.M.: “Larry’s Luck” —-0ut,....
M.L.F.: Sad enough for a pessimist’s Christmas....
L.G.S.D.: Yes, Adrian Knox, C. J. of the High Court,
sat in the N.S.W. Parliament; he was M.L.A. for
Woollahra, 1894-98... .Llo: Tivey commanded the
Bth Brigade in Egypt, France and Belgium ; it
wasn’t till after the Armistice that he succeeded
Hobbs in command of the sth Division... .W. Syd.:
Well, he’s wrong. The late C. E. Frazer was only
23 when he became M.H.R. for Kalgoorlie, and he
was a Minister at 30. Beasley is 34.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.E.F.: Can’t raise a smile at the crumpled
flapper’s chatter. .. .A.M.C.: Not far off; keep going.
. ...L.A.1.: W T e holed the golf drawing in one.
. ...J.C.G.: That blessed gag again !... .R.M.H.:
Getting nearer. .. .P.P.: Joke eligible for the invalid
pension. .. .T. 8.: You’ve still a long way to go,
but don’t lose heart M.D,: Stayed up till after
midnight finishing it? Never do that again....
J.A.K.: Not here... .P.K.: Pretty good idea villain-
ously handled.


e
FAMOUS
PORTS
*:
, •:
/P \
i
m
■
,r„
'
UTi
1 if
J 1
#
/
illii
':
■
. ■ns
«
mm
:
■
m^d
%
WBmSm
m
:m. ;
/
M
■
HU
■
/
.
v
£wl
;
■
....
» ■■l
ji s.
® § llli
| . pllfc
* * ft*** ' {&*»
Lf
■
■
■H
■
L
m
i
(ill
Oil
I •'
ill
r4k£
*
iillis
m
■ ~
,
I
m‘i
m
¥
m ■
■
'*
Sill
m
mm
1
p.‘ -v
s
lie
mm
è


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2603.
January 1, 1930.
“YOU’RE NEXT. MISS!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s -; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies.-—Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional joz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elseivhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
MARGARET PRESTON’S ART—
; By Cecil Mann .. .. .. .. 2
“AUSTRALIAN DISCOVERY”—
By Prof. Scott 2, 5
THE 14th BATTALION 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEA SON . . .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A STOCKTAKING • 8
MR; SCULLIN DOESN’T WANT TO BE
HANGED 8
GREYCLIFFE-TAHITI COLLISION THE
SAILOR’S VIEW . . , 8
WHAT CAN WE DO FOR WOOL? .. ..9
MOVIE PICTURES AND POLITICS .. ..9
SCORFIELD’S MESSAGE TO AUSTRALIA . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with caricatures) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . . . .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
THE A.P.A 14
ROSELLA MANUFACTURING 14
R. FOWLER 14
PAUL AND GREY 16
POVERTY POINT 17
“DECEMBER AND JANUARY”—
A drawing by Percival .. .. .. .. 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..18
ABORIGINALITIES (with four drawings) 19, 20
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
BIG VARIATIONS IN WHEAT YIELDS .. 22
WHAT GRASSES ARE MOST PALATABLE . . 22
CAN SEX BE PREDETERMINED ? . . . . 22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . . . 28
PEN AND PICTURE .. ‘ 31
NEWEST TALKIES .. .. ... ..31
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 37, 39
RACING AT RANDWICK 35
SHEFFIELD SHIELD CRICKET . . . . 35
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!” .. ..44, 45, 46
THREE COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“THE CURE,” by L. L. Woolacott . . .. 46
“MARY THE MATERNAL”—
By Irene Williamson . . . . 47, 49
“TOLD BY THE TROOPER”—
By Osmar E. White . . . . 49, 50
VERSE —By Ronald McCuaig, Llywelyn Lucas,
E. J. Brady .. .. .. . . 46, 50
Next Week.
Prize Novel Competition announcement.
James Edmond propounds a scheme to help the
Mallee Farmer.
JANUARY 29.
GREAT “BULLETIN” JUBILEE NUMBER.
Tlie^ulldm
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 1, 1930.
TAKING STOCK.
The great Frenchman Clemenceau was
reported to have said just before his recent
death: “England, which has ruled longer
than any country, is at last showing signs
of enfeeblement and lassitude. What can
she expect? Her history has lasted too
long.” But -some countries whose history
has hardly begun are facing the same prob-
lems as England, showing that age is not
the determining factor.
Under Protection Britain was a great
agricultural country; it taught farming to
the world. Since Freetrade arrived more
and more arable land has been going to
grass, or been tutned into golf links, race-
courses or private parks. According to
official figures, for the year ended July,
1928, Germany sent 25,000 quarters of wheat
to Britain; for the year ended last July,
it sent 590,000 quarters. The double-
barrelled explanation is that the German
Government is encouraging farming in East
Prussia by a subsidy, while British wheat
is not protected at all.
Before the war coalmining was Britain’s
most important industry after agriculture.
In 15 years her production of the mineral
has decreased by 48,000,000 tons. True, pro-
duction has decreased elsewhere. It is an in-
evitable outcome of the search for other
means of energy which began with the war,
one result of which is that 38 per cent,
of the world’s merchant-ships are now
adapted to oil, as against 3.4 per cent, in
1913; also that of the total energy con-
sumed by industry in the U.S.A., that
derived from bituminous coal has fallen
from 84 per cent, in 1913 to 64 per cent,
in 1928. Those figures, however, cause the
U.S.A. no alarm, because the vast bulk of
the displaced coal is accounted for by in-
creased use of oil of U.S.A. production.
On the other hand, Britain is sending abroad
about £100,000,000 and Australia oyer
£12,000,000 per annum to pay for foreign
oil, a good deal of which, as Germany has
shown, could be extracted from coal.
Britain’s trade rivals have the advantage
of being largely self-supporting; to be self-
supporting is the most vital of their
domestic policies. The U.S.A., with a popu-
lation of 120,000,000, takes 25 per cent, less
from Britain than Australia with 6,500,000
and very little from any other country.
Britain, on the other hand, according to
some figures given recently by Sir Edmund
Vestey, the meat magnate, “takes
£300,000,000 worth of foreigners’ manufac-
tures every year, and during the last few
years unemployment has cost her no less
than £650,000,000.”
The British are no more decadent,
rightly speaking, than the Australians are.
The British fought more stoutly and with
better discipline throughout the war than
the French, and whereas the population of
France is at a standstill, Britain is prolific.
Britain’s trouble is not spiritual or social,
but political. Winston Churchill lately
put it like this:—
“If the Labor party is allowed to have
its way this powerful country will be con-
verted into a vast soup kitchen. To-day
the House is voting more doles. To-morrow
it will consider a plan for dearer coal in
order to placate the miners, who hold the
Government in their hands.”
Thomas Henley, of N. S. Wales, expressed
the same thought in different words apropos
the trouble on the northern coalfields:—
“These things are not the result of any
one man’s action at any one time, or of any
one Government’s. They are the result of
government by pander, spread over a period
of years, public and private squandering, the
allowing of political class grab to develop
into industrial hatred, and the sentimental,
criminal act of robbing the thrifty to spoon-
feed the indolent.”
Both countries, Britain as well as Australia,
are proceeding on the assumption that
humanitarian laws—including in Australia’s
case the payment of doles to strikers—can
be employed permanently as substitutes for
work. This is our only decadence; yet it
can lead to national ruin in the long run,
just as surely as a physical or spiritual
decadence. But the blame lies not so much
with the people as with a system of gov-
ernment which is liable to put political
power into the hands of unscrupulous
adventurers. And the difficulties of the situ-
ation are merely added to by the fact that
outside political life the majority of them
are neither unscrupulous nor adventurers.
Before we can be saved we must get back
somehow to a finer sense of personal respon-
sibility in our public life.
MR. SCULLIN DOESN’T WANT TO
BE HANGED.
The Red Flag was waved with extra
energy during the last days before the
visit of Santa Claus, and strenuous efforts
were made to engineer a Messy Christmas
and a Scrappy New Year, beginning on the
Newcastle coalfields and with unlimited
liability to spread. To be exact, efforts were
made to beguile Prime Minister Scullin
into starting the bloodshed, while his un-
official advisers kept their own necks out
of danger.
In the matter of the coal stoppage Scul-
lin’s position has been peculiar all through.
His party was under no obligation to drag
the matter into the recent election cam-
paign, but being a good subject for elo-
quence it was dragged in for all it was
worth. The Federal Arbitration Court had
no power to interfere unless the dispute
became one affecting more than a single
State, and as wages in no other State
were on the Newcastle scale and no reduc-
tion was proposed in any other State, the
quarrel was hardly capable of spreading.
And the Constitution gives the Common-
wealth no authority to interfere with the
strong arm in any internal disturbance
except at the request of the State Govern-
ment, which wasn’t forthcoming, nor was it
in the least likely to forthcome. But
Theodore and others committed the party
to a policy of strenuous meddling, with
the promise to give the miners a satisfac-
tory settlement within 14 days after Labor’s
arrival in office. The nominal leader neither
disclaimed this promise during the cam-
paign nor repudiated it afterwards by
leaving the hardened and masterful Queens-
lander out of his Cabinet. If he had done
so his official existence would probably
have been short, if it had any existence
at all.
The row at Rothbury supplied no cause
for interference on the part of the Fed-
eral authority either; the Government had
done its part in accordance with Theo-
dore’s outrageously reckless promise to
effect a prompt settlement, and had let
down both the miners and the community.
It couldn’t do otherwise. That was a good
time to lie low and wait events. But
the ScullidorE Ministry went into an even
worse fluster, and, among other doings,
called in as adviser J. T. Lang, leader of
the State Opposition in N. S. Wales. His
advice, which was enthusiastically taken up
by the Red element, was vigorous. He pro-
posed that Prime Minister Scullin should
seize the mines and take all risks, which
might include gaol and other annoyances.
This might necessitate the seizure also of
some roads, railways and wharves, but Lang
was willing to let Scullin take that risk, too.
There was lack of explanation as to how
the coal could be officially dug out under
the old unprofitable conditions, at a price
which could produce a demand that would
keep the mines going, but that matter was
to be left to Scullin along with the rest.
Lang said that his policy was to seize the
mines first and pass the necessary law
afterwards. How it was possible to get Par-
liament together in time, it being now scat-
tered over Australia, the orator didn’t say.
Nor did he say how he would coerce the
Senate if it was hostile, though it might be
possible to eject the hostile majority by
violence, if sufficient violence could be hired.
And no allowance was made for the time
required to amend the Constitution, so the
job of suspending the Constitution was left
to Scullin. If difficulties arose, Scullin’s
legal advisers would either find a way out
or leave him in the soup. It is suspected
that some who are supposed to be fiis
friends would prefer to leave him in the
soup.
After Lang’s simple incitement to
violence, “militants” took heart wonder-
fully, and demanded that Scullin should
“make use of the armed forces of the
Commonwealth” to capture the mines and
other property as well. If trouble ensued
the armed forces were doubtless expected
to shoot—again on Scullin’s responsibility.
No allowance was made for the possibility
that the troops might refuse to take a hand
in a civil war, and that their officers might
decline the .'risk of hanging with Scullin,
or with whoever else gave the order that
they should be employed on the unpleasant
and unconstitutional job. Yet they might
not only do that; they might even take
charge of the situation in a way that Lang
and his friends would dislike.
So Scullin went home with every reason
to be sorry that he had allowed, Theodore
to drag him into taking a hand in the coal
mix-up unless legally authorised to do so.
All he gained was an abundance of advice
as to how he might make a martyr of him-
self while other men looked on, each with
an alibi in his pocket and the information
that he was an outsize in worms for not
rushing at the opportunity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Greycliffe-Tahiti Collision.
“X.N.0.” puts the deep-sea sailor’s view:—
At last the Courts have finished, for the
time being, with the Tahiti and the Grey-
cliffe, whose collision in Port Jackson on
November 4, 1927, resulted in the loss of
42 lives. Mr. Justice Halse Rogers, sitting
in Admiralty jurisdiction (N.S.W.) to decide
a claim by Sydney Ferries, Limited, owning
the Greyeliffe, against the Union S. S. Co.,
owners of the Tahiti, for £30,000 damages
for loss of the ferry steamer, has blamed
the latter, with contributory negligence by
the Tahiti.
The matter is one of very great import-
ance, both to the public, which was and
probably still is gravely concerned about the
safety of shipping in Sydney Harbor, and
to the professional seaman because the case
is one of the most interesting on record of
a collision in which there has been no ques-
tion that one vessel was overtaking the other.
The overtaking rules in the International
Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea
require proof of certain facts before one
vessel can be definitely established as having
been overtaking the other. . Those facts are
sometimes hard to establish, but in this case
they were practically admitted by every
person and both the litigants concerned.
Consequently the matter was tried on its
merits as an “overtaking case.”
No plain seaman will be satisfied with the
judgment. Nor would a motorist driving
behind another be satisfied to be even par-
tially blamed if another car ahead of him
suddenly and without any warning swerved
across the road and made it impossible for
him to avoid a collision.
Mr. Halse Rogers threw some of the
blame on the overtaking Tahiti because she
gave no warning of her approach. But one
may search the International Regulations
from end to end without finding any clause
reouiring one vessel to warn another of her
existence. In the absence of fog the Regu-
lations pre-suppose that every skipper or
officer in charge of a ship is aware of the
existence and will watch the movements of
every other vessel in sight. The only sound
signals laid down are purely of an informa-
tive nature —“I am altering course to star-
board (or port)” and “I am going full speed
astern.” There is no signal meaning “I
am here” ; the knowledge of that fact is taken
for granted.
A Court of Seamen giving an honest ver-
dict would have settled the Tahiti-Greycliffe
case in half an hour, of which 25 minutes
might have been occupied in swearing wit-
nesses. And that Court would have said:
“If you are fool enough to throw your ship
across the bows of another you cannot escape
responsibility for the consequences on the
plea that you didn’t know the other ship
was there and that she didn’t warn you.
Why don’t you keep a look-out?”
As far as speed and proximity are con-
cerned the Regulations don’t refer to either
when the weather is clear.
The matter will not, of course, end where
it is, with the Tahiti and Greyeliffe respec-
tively two-fifths and three-fifths responsible
for the loss of 42 lives. There must be an
appeal by the Union Co. because the prece-
dent created, especially with regard to the
“warning of approach” question, is too dan-
gerous to be allowed to stand.
Ringing the Changes.
Any Ministry may reform, but few keep
reformed. One of the present N. S. Wales
Government’s earliest discoveries was that
long-drawn-out railway construction is
ruinous. It consists first in starting a dozen
works for the satisfaction of a dozen elec-
torates. Loan money is dribbled out to
them, enough to keep a number of con-
stituents employed, but not enough to pro-
duce much railway. The electorates expect
a fair division of what funds are available,
and when one work is finished there is a
general idea that another should be com-
menced somewhere as a matter of equity.
It is found that the longer a line is in
hand the greater is the distance by which
the ultimate cost leaves the estimate out
of sight. That is because the estimate be-
comes more infirm in the feet and less
able to keep up. The longer a line remains
unfinished and earning nothing, the more
interest is added to the cost, for the interest
bill runs though the train doesn’t.
Treasurer Stevens struck the idea that
he could better the position by charging
this interest item to the Railway Commis-
sioners instead of to himself. So the Com-
missioners are at a treble disadvantage:
they can’t prevent the line being con-
structed; they have to carry the burden
while it is being constructed, the Treasurer
carrying nothing except the public gratitude;
and they have to carry the annual loss, if
any, after construction is finished, and this
sometimes makes them wish there had been
less haste even than there was. During the
first year of the improved arrangement the
Treasurer was better off on paper by
£347,556, which made him a proud man.
The Commissioners were the same amount
worse off. That added to a new charge of
£326,952 for sinking fund and to other
items made an immensely increased deficit,
and so it was deduced that Chief Commis-
sioner Fraser had outlived his usefulness,
and should be replaced by a younger and
more hopeful man with no experience of
the business.
Having decided that the dilatory con-
struction of railway scraps is a losing game,
the Bavin Ministry apparently thought it
had reformed enough when it blamed the
Commissioners for the loss, and fixed up
the accounts accordingly. The chapter of
good resolutions began with Bavin’s dis-
covery, in the first flush of his youthful
billet, that the Booyang-Ballina cockspur,
13 miles long, had been straggling forward
since 1924, and making no visible pro-
gress. Yet June, 1929, didn’t find this work
announced as completed and opened and
losing money. It was still mentioned as
“under construction during the year.” The
recent Budget was a cheeseparing affair, for
Bavin and Stevens only hoped for
£9,710,800 of loan money to play with; yet
there are ten little separate bits of railway
in the making, and one or two more are
promised, and surveys have been made or
threatened to raise hopes about some more.
Treasurer Stevens’s financial “reform”
really wasn’t worth making.
The Comedy of Canberra.
However stupid its establishment may have
been, the fact remains that Canberra has
been established. It is a city. It is popu-
lated; its inhabitants will persist in marry-
ing and giving in marriage; therefore, pre-
sumably, its population will increase. Every
State must have its courts and other
machinery for clarifying and enforcing law,
and Canberra is to all intents a miniature
State. Yet Canberra has no courts.
Its law, too, is that which was in force in
N.S.W. at the last hour of the last day of
1910 —plus the ordinances, by-laws, statu-
tory” rules and regulations made specially
for Canberra since that date. This mix-
ture is administered by the N. S. Wales
Courts, chiefly at Queanbeyan, where long-
suffering magistrates and Judges have to
alternate the laying down of the existing
law of N. S. Wales to N. S. Wales resi-
dents with puzzled attempts to satisfactorily
explain to territorial residents the peculiari-
ties of their own law. The latter task is
not easy. Law of N. S. Wales which
was in existence in 1911 but repealed or
amended in, say, 1912 is still in force in
the Territory. The Crimes Act, amended
considerably in 1924, is a notorious in-
stance. Canberra, the capital of the Com-
monwealth, is satisfied in 1929 with a
Crimes Act which was considered by the
N. S. Wales Parliament to be too primi-
tive to apply to its residents in 1924! In
addition there are the ordinances of the
Territory which sometimes repeal and some-
times supplement, the “prior to 1911” N. S.
Wales law; and there are special territorial
ordinances bringing into application in Can-
berra special laws of N. S. Wales made later
than 1911; not to mention some ordinances
which have been “made” but are not to
come into force in the Territory until a
notice to that effect shall have been pub-
lished in the Commonwealth Gazette, a
publication which the layman seldom
examines; and some laws of N. S. Wales
made before 1911 but specially excluded
from operation in Canberra under the Seat
of Government Act.
What wonder, then, that the citizen of
Canberra is often prepared to suffer injus-
tices and write off good debts rather than
trust to his or his solicitor’s judgment of
whether he is in the right or the wrong
according to Canberra law!
The obvious need is for a Canberra
Court, with an official in charge who will
have time and the ability to specialise in
Canberra law, not only for the greater com-
fort of magistrates and lawyers, but also—


A NEW-YEAR MESSAGE TO AUSTRALIA.
“Well, arguing won’t chop the damn wood. So here goes!”
and chiefly—to advise Canberra residents
as to what law their particular troubles
come under.
' —— ♦
’Wax*e the Russian Exporter!
Among the plans of the Soviet Republics
for collaring the gold of other countries is
that of exporting shiploads of lumber which
has been chopped, hauled, collected on
snowy, icy wharves, dumped higgledy-
piggledy into Soviet ships, for what
amounts to the smell of an oil rag in wages,
and then hurried afar to British, American
and any other overseas port that has not
got its channels too well charged with pro-
tective mines. Britain doesn’t seem to
worry; but the United States lumber people
are bellowing hard to President Hoover to
hurry up with solid bastions of duties, be-
cause it is alleged that, notwithstanding a 40
per cent, tax at present, the Russian lumber
pours into the States and plays havoc with
the local product. When the Russian wood
has borne all its charges, it lands in over-
seas ports at under £4 10s. per thousand
feet, free on trucks, so that it starts off a
pretty sure winner for the consumer’s
favors.
So serious has been the development of
this phase of Soviet enterprise that it is
now asserted by good authorities that it
plans to run at least 100 big sawmill
stations at a cost of £300,000 each, to pro-
duce 3,000,000,000 feet of lumber per year,
the bulk of which they will export. This
timber is believed not to cost the Soviet
Government a penny. It has all been stolen
from its lawful proprietors, and the Govern-
ment regards its conversion into money as
legitimate for the development of its own
commerce. Its extremely low wage enables
it to do this successfully, but it is a positive
menace to the sawmillers in those overseas
countries without adequate protection. As
shippers the Reds are novices. They make
no attempt to grade or stow according to
standards or dimensions, but the importer
apparently overlooks that when he gets his
dump load so cheaply.
♦
What Can We Do for Wool?
“Jumbuck”: “Buttenderry’s” criticism (B.
18/12/’29) of my suggested remedy for our
wool-market ills does not destroy it. He
says Australia produces “only a com-
paratively small fraction of the world’s
requirements.” Australia produces more
than two-fifths of the world’s merino wool,
and a still larger proportion of the world’s
good to extra-good merino. It' would be
a cold and uncomfortable world without our
merino wool. An Australian wool-pool
could and would determine the world’s
prices for merino wool.
“Buttenderry” assumes that the pool
managers would be fool managers—that
they would ask impossibly high prices.
Why should they? At times the demand is
more particularly for certain classes of wool;
at other times for other classes. The poof
would see that more of the wool most in
demand was offered; and the wool in least
demand was proportionately held off the
market. At times buyers get our wool at a
penny or twopence below their limits be-
cause a section—Japanese or Bradford, for
example—are temporarily out of the market.
I agree that it would be a good thing if
all the wool required by Australian con-
sumers was manufactured in our own fac-
tories; but if this became an accomplished
fact to-morrow it would not appreciably
help our wool market—it would not increase
the demand to any noticeable extent.
“Greatly reducing drought losses” is
right, too, in its way. But this means that
our average wool production over a series
of years will be greater than ever—what’s
to become of our wool then? Does it not
suggest the necessity of a “use-more-wool”
campaign? . The real solution of our wool
industry lies in fostering the world-con-
sumption of wool. Influence fashion, pro-
duce a still more attractive woollen article,
increase the uses of wool, boost its uses in
the East, and then all the good wool that
Australia and every other country produces
will be wanted.
The Neglected Neddy.
General Anderson, of the Indian Remount
Department, who has been in Australia
sizing up the situation, told a conference
of those interested in Australian horses
that even the Indian demand cannot now
be adequately met by this country. There
were plenty of horses, but the two types
required for army use, the nimble light
draught for the gunners and the stock horse
of the cattle country, both carrying a good
proportion of blood, were getting harder to
find every day.
No one will cavil at the General’s
opinion. Lots of saddle-type horses are
being bred, but the less said about most of
them the better. There is a feeling among
many sheep-breeders and small farmers that
any, sort of moke will suffice for their
work, and that there is no sense in spending
time and money in breeding better. The
pick of the stuff that the military buyer
looks for is now to be. found mostly in
the cattle couptry of North Queensland
and N.-W. Australia. A cattleman must
breed a good sort of horse if he is to get
his work done properly. As for the sheep-
man, his theory is at its best a poor excuse
for breeding runts out of some worthless
mare by a ramshackle stallion. A bad
horse eats as much as a good one, and
apart from his initial cost there is no more
profit in him—less indeed, for if he is sold
he cannot command the price of his better-
bred brother. Whenever a batch of these
nondescripts is culled from a run and sold
for a song at the nearest saleyard, fresh
importance is given the catch-cry that the
day of the horse is done, and public interest
in a matter of great importance to Aus-
tralia is further depreciated.
Remedies for these conditions have been
suggested. General Anderson advocates a
State stallion system as in America and
France. Others prefer the subsidising of
approved sires, following the British
example. In view of our circumstances it
may be that the most practical scheme would
be to impose a stallion tax, as advocated
for years by the late J. P. Bell, Home
Secretary of Queensland and a horsemaster
of long experience. This would automati-
cally wipe out the derelict stallion and the
come-by-chance mare. The first would not
be worth his keep. No one would put the
second to a more expensive sire whose get
on a good-quality dam would bring en-
hanced prices. That these last would ensue
is a certainty, since the market for good
material is waiting and assured. As James
McMahon, of Sydney, an accepted autho-
rity, told the conference, there would be
more profit in breeding good-type horses for
many station-owners than in breeding cattle.
♦
Pictures and Politics.
Dear Bulletin, —So far as this Common-
wealth is concerned it has been left to
South Australia to realise that a plan is
being developed by the powerful movie
group to play a part in our political, social
and economic activities. That Government
intends to legislate against the use of
•picture screens for political propaganda.
In order to gauge the dangers that lie
ahead, let us look across to America itself.
For some years the movie barons there
have worked for a control in home politics.
A tremendous salary was the bait that
tempted Will Hays, the ex-Postmaster-
General, to become the political leader of
the group. It is common knowledge that
the two great movie barons, Louis B. Mayer
and Joseph Schenck, in association with
Will Hays, did untold damage to the
cause of Al Smith, the Democratic leader,
in the last American elections. But evi-
dently Hoover has. not pleased a big section
of the group, so plans are already in pre-
paration for backing Al Smith at the next
election. Sono-Art-World-Wide, a new film
concern, is to be made a much bigger factor
in the picture business before the elections;
and Democratic adherents are preparing to
build an organisation that will give their
candidate access to the nation’s ears.
Now let us take stock of our position in
Australia. Not our ex-Postmaster-General,
but our knighted ex-Minister for Markets
and Migration, Victor Wilson, took a plum
offered by a movie group here, and became
president of an association of American
movie exchanges operating in Australia.
William Fox, who is making great strides
towards the Czardom of the American Film
Industry, and who recently gained control
over a circuit of 400 of England’s greatest
cinemas, has become closely associated with
Australian theatres; and who knows how
long it will be before we wake to the fact
that one of these big American organisa-
tions has the controlling interest in our
greatest theatres?
Fox Films have an up-to-the-minute
Movietone equipment for the filming of
dialogue and sound in Australia, and Hoyts
have a fleet of trucks mounted with re-
producing equipment to carry talkies
throughout the country.
The writing is on the wall, and it is
plain to see that the movie, which had its
inception in a stable only a decade ago, and
quickly became the most powerful factor in
entertaining the masses, is likely to become
the most powerful factor also in leading the
masses politically and socially. Unless our
Governments get out of their present com-
placency and keep our vendors of amuse-
ment back on the job of entertaining us,
we will have a combine with a strong
foreign flavor swinging its powerful and
fully-prepared units into our political
battles, and we may be quite sure that it
will be there primarily to serve its own
ends.—Yours, Filmer.
*
The Rifleman in War.
One of the most futile aspects of Scullin’s
alleged defence policy which is to supersede
compulsory service is his expressed intention
of concentrating on the increase of the
air force and the encouragement of civilian
rifle clubs. While our air force can well
bear augmentation, there is little need to
dwell on the strictly circumscribed range
of the air arm, since the greatest soldiers
that the war has produced, from German
Von Seckt to our own Chauvel, are
unanimous that, as a decisive factor in
attack or defence, the ’plane is not to be
taken into consideration.
Yet it is only propounding another axiom
to say that, in comparison with the civilian
rifleman, the ’plane is a veritable match-
winner. Accustomed as the average rifle-
club shot is to loose-off over known ranges
and at a target such as could never occur
under war conditions, and aided by all the
elaborate paraphernalia of peep-sights, wind
gauges and a dozen similar gadgets impos-
sible on active service, he is, until he has
received war training, quite useless from a
military point of view. He knows the
elementary principles applying to all rifle-
shooting ; but the most important aspect
of the soldier’s rifle-shooting curriculum,
rapid aimed fire, is usually a sealed book
to him. Wedded to the habits of the firing
mound in match shooting, he is slow to
recognise the importance of fire control,
which is one of the essentials of the em-
ployment of rifle-shooting in action, and
this makes him difficult to handle.
Finally, modern warfare is running more
and more to the general employment of
machine-guns and automatic rifles. The
British Army is already trying one of these
last as a universal arm for infantry and
other troops formerly carrying the rifle.
With its adoption the last excuse for the
pot-hunting club rifleman will vanish.


S \
*•
-V.
FOR MODERN MOTORS
Thick, treacly, oils were good enough
for engines of 20 years ago, but the
fast “ revving,” high compression motors
of to-day are more exacting in their
lubrication demands.
Shell Oils are up-to-date. They give com-
plete satisfaction and perfect lubrication
under the most strenuous conditions of
modern motoring.
Be Up-to-date—Shellubricate,
Use Shell Motor Spirit, too,
m
HBM
POLITICAL
POINTS
While the sorely-tried middle-class is
about to be smitten with Theodore’s super-
tax, thousands of well-to-do people (many of
them young women who never do a tap of
work) are preparing to go abroad. A tax
on their steamer tickets would have brought
in a lot of revenue and relieved the strain
on Australian funds in London; and the cost
of collection would have been a bagatelle.
But the Government was so intent on bleed-
ing home-keeping Australians that it forgot
all about the trippers, and there will be little
use in remembering now. The rush to the
London season will be nearly over before
it can get its taxing apparatus to work.
Dr. Harris, who was one of John Allan’s
Ministers, led a
successful rev o It
against the new
Vic. Labor Govern-
men t ’ s taxation
proposals.' Just
when a deadlock
seemed imminent
seven managers
from the Council
and Hogan and six
Cabinet colleagues,
.representing the
Assembly, arranged
a compromise, as a
result of which a
half-penny in the £
goes on to the tax
on personal earn-
ings, instead of l|d.,
and a penny in the
£ will be added to
the company and
property rates, in-
stead of 3d. On
cheques l|d. stamp-
age was substi-
tuted for 2d., and
other stamp duties
and probate charges
were also modified.
But Hogan did not
Dr. Harris, un-
official leader of
the Vic. Leg.
Council.
come away from the conference with empty
hands. An undertaking was given that the
Lords would abandon their pigheaded oppo-
sition to the tote.
'The 13th Westralian Parliament held its
last sitting on Friday, the 13th of December.
Superstitious Labor men protest that the
Collier Government should have managed
things better, more especially as it had
already challenged fate by putting through a
Redistribution of Seats Act. The last Gov-
ernment that did that —Wilson’s in 1911 —
suffered the worst defeat in Westralian poli-
tical history, its party being reduced after
the rout to 16 members irf a House of 50.
Scullin’s offer to find a Commonwealth
bounty of 9d. a ton if the Newcastle-Mait-
land mines were reopened on pre-stoppage
rates was rejected by both sides. Parlia-
ment has “power to make laws with respect
t 0... . bounties on the production or export
of goods, but so that such bounties shall
be uniform throughout the Commonwealth.”
A bounty paid to one particular coalfield
and denied to the rest would never get over
that hurdle, if challenged; and Moore, of
Queensland, hinted pretty broadly that he
would challenge it.
To make sure that a hard bargain would
be driven the Vic. Jppish House sent two
Cohens (11.1. and HE,) to the conference
with the Leg. Assembly, as well as Dr.
Harris, Zwar, Currie, Edgar and McGregor.
It was the first occasion on which there
has been an official Assembly confabulation
with the other shop on taxation measures,
though there was an unofficial chat a few
years ago in similar circumstances. Nobody
saw the ghost of Graham Berry striding the
corridors in indignation at the hated Prop-
utty Chamber being made an equal partner
with the People’s House in a matter in-
volving the purse.
The Hogan Ministry, though
only a few days in office, got
its Budget through the Assembly
in good time for Christmas. All
the Treasurers, save one, de-
livered themselves before the
financial year was more than
half gone and the money was
more than half spent. The ex-
ception is Stevens, of N.S.W.,
who runs his Budget in two sec-
tions. The smaller one he pro-
duced late. The bigger or rail-
way one is still side-tracked
somewhere.
Thirty-eight British travel-
lers, describing themselves as
“Friends of the Soviet,” re-
cently turned up at Harwich,
after a month’s stay in Mbscow.
Their bags and trunks of litera-
ture were promptly confiscated,
and some of them are said to
have undergone the indignity of
being undressed in the search
for more. They asked bitterly
if British freedom was a thing
of the past, and were told that
it wasn’t —they were absolutely
free to stay in Russia and enjoy
the blessings of Soviet rule for
the rest of their lives if so
inclined.
N.S.W. Industrial Commis-
sioner Piddington asserted in
his voluminous basic-wage judg-
ment that “the rapidity of
France’s recovery after the war
was due to the extension of
family endowment.” The logi-
cal French would say that the
extension of family endowment
was an effect of their pros-
perity, and not the cause; but
“good ole Piddo” is neither
French nor logical. In any
case, family endowment is a
voluntary arrangement in
France, whereas the system
which “Piddo” has been allowed to impose
on N.S.W. is financed by terrific State tax-
ation of industry and administered by a
huge department. When it was set up he
prophesied that it would make things boom
as they did in the gold-rush days. Has any-
one seen any sign of this rebirth of the
golden age?
The attitude of Hughes, Marks and Max-
well is that, though they stood at the recent
election as genuine Nationalists, Nationalists
are and have long been a horrible lot,
and that every decent citizen should be glad
to be out of the show. Yet Hughes, Marks
and Maxwell seem as mad as wet hens at
having been helped out.
A bill to encourage the fat-lamb freezing
industry was passed in the dying minutes
of the Tas. Parliamentary session. The
Uppish House mutilated it so badly that
two Ministers and several Ministerial sup-
porters withdrew their blessing, but a
majority of the Assembly agreed to the Lords’
amendments. The business will be run by
a board financed by a levy of a penny a
sheep on all flockmasters in the State, plus
the right to call on the Government for
assistance up to £40,000 or thereabouts. The
board may, but need not, take over the
Somerset freezing works, on which the Gov-
ernment holds a mortgage of £14,000.
The new Soviet ambassador has turned up
in London and the Pravda, an important
Moscow paper, under strict censorship like
all Russian papers, has taken the opportunity
to announce that there is nothing but mul-
lock in the promise that the Soviet push
J. A. BEASLEY,
Scullin's Assistant
Minister, who sug-
gested before the
general election
that John Brown
and co. should be
deprived of their
mines and deported.
Now he has to be
“strictly constitu-
tional” like his
chief.
will abstain from propaganda, spying
and conspiracy abroad. Ambassadorial re-
cognition hasn’t trade for its motive,
for Britain is already buying a lot from
the Soviet country and selling it dashed
little. As a buyer of British produce in
1928, India was John Bull’s best customer
and Australia the second best. Ivan Blood-
ski, of Moscow, came 45th.
The Australian and South African Gov-
ernments have decided to have nothing to do
with the Tariff Conference which is to meet
at Geneva in 1930. It is hoped they will
stick to that, especially Australia. The
Commonwealth can’t afford to have outside
nations interfering with its tariff, which
means indirect interference with its indus-
tries, including hours and wages. Most
particularly it objects to discussing its tariff
with nations which have cheap colored labor,
or cheap labor of any sort. It is impossible
to take a hand in any such movement with-
out admitting some sort of right on the part
of strangers to discuss and vote on the Com-
monwealth’s private concerns, and it is infi-
nitely better to tell them that no such right
exists.
One explanation of Labor-man Frost’s suc-
cess in the Franklin (Tas.) by-election, after
being in a minority of 2300 when the pri-
maries were counted, is that his name was
sandwiched in between four anti-Labor
names, with the result that he gathered in
the careless votes from both
ends. It is not altogether con-
vincing ; still, many people do
vote haphazardly after marking
their first choice, and this weak-
ness of the preferential system
has been intensified by compul-
sory voting. When candidates
are numerous, the alphabetical
arrangement of names gives the
A’s, B’s and C’s a decided
advantage over the S’s, T’s and
W’s. Why shouldn’t candidates
draw lots for positions on the
ballot-paper, as jockeys do for
positions at the barrier?
That State Arbitration
Courts may add as many- frills
as they like to Federal awards
is the contention of President
Dwyer, of the Westralian
Court. The Westralian timber-
workers seceded from their
Federal organisation and
claimed that they were not
bound by the Lukin Federal
award. Mr. Dwyer holds that
his Court has the right to make
an award in the industry or any
other operating in his State,
while admitting that his award
would be invalid if it were in-
consistent with the Federal
award to the extent of the in-
consistency, and that difficulties
might arise when attempting to
enforce it. He may be right,
but his judgment only makes
the confusion of the dual sys-
tem worse confounded.
Massed picketing has been
tried in Maoriland. It broke
out on the first day of the
wharfies’ strike of 1913. People
who had business on the
wharves were chased away, and
before the day had finished a
truck of goods had been thrown
into the sea at Lyttelton, police
in Wellington had been pelted
with heavy iron spikes, and there were
similar tumults elsewhere. Next morning
every wharf in every port where there had
been disorder was barricaded, and special
constables in hundreds and thousands
(mostly young farmers) patrolled the streets
in strong companies, some mounted. They
carried nothing more dangerous than batons,
but mass picketing stopped abruptly. Bill
Massey had all his arrangements made days
before, and merely waited for the strikers to
step over the edge.
Up to 1927 Britain had a Protective duty
of £33 6s. Bd. p.c. on motor-cars, -bicycles and
-tricycles, tyres excepted. Then it decided
to tax imported tyres also. The other day
the information was dragged out of a reluc-
tant Minister that already five foreign tyre-
makers had established factories in Eng-
land to be inside the tariff, and were employ-
ing 5500 British workmen. A still more
grumpy Minister refused to say when the
Ram-Mac Government would keep its promise
to abolish Protectionist duties; and he re-
fused to say when he would say. The British
Freetrade hypocrisy is a wonderful thing,
yet J. Bull doesn’t want to be a hypocrite.
He “got it so badly” years ago that to deny
a belief in Cobdenism became as non-respect-
able as it was to deny a belief in witchcraft
a century or two earlier.
The annual conference of the Communist
party fell due last Saturday. Orders from
Moscow were to keep clear of the Australian
Labor party and “openly fight it on every
possible occasion.” At one time Commu-
nists were instructed to creep into the unions
and “white-ant” them from within, but the
old method didn’t bring the revolution fast
enough. The Communist conference is un-
disguisedly an organisation promoted by
aliens for the destruction of the Australian
Government and Constitution. If an attempt
was made to hold an anti-Government con-
ference at Moscow it would be reported that
a dangerous conspiracy had been discovered,
and that so many “brigands” had been put
on trial, of whom a certain number were
sentenced to death and the rest to disappear-
ance into dungeons for a term of years. Pro-
bably something happens in the dungeons to
make the disappearance permanent.
A Perth lawyer, C. J. R. Le Mesurier,
successfully contended in the High Court
that the West-
ralian Supreme
Court had not
been properly
vested with
jurisdiction in
bankruptcy un-
der the Com-
monwealth Act,
and that a
notice received
by him from the 1
Westralian Re-
gistrar had
been issued by
an unauthorised
p erso n. Leg-
islation clothing
State courts
with the neces-
sary authority
and validating
t h e appoint-
ments and pro-
ceedings of re-
gistrars was
passed before
P a r 1 i a ment
C. J. R. Le Mesurier.
rested from its labors. But another amending
bill will be necessary in the near future, for
there are bitter complaints, particularly from
Queensland, that the law is working badly.
Yet the Commonwealth legislators took a
quarter of a century to think about it.
If Bavin or Butler or Theodore or any
other distressed financier takes the frequent
short-cut this year by adding his deficit to
the public debt, there will at least be the
satisfaction of knowing that loan money
might be worse invested. Plain deficit with-
out complications is a permanent and repro-
ductive work compared with many of those
which devour Australia’s borrowings. In
1928 the (N.S.W.) rail-
way, to quote one case out of 40 in that
State, lost £3458 interest on loan capital,
and £14,254 by failure to earn running
expenses. If the case had been one! of pure
shortage, instead of shortage with a railway
attached, the loss couldn’t have been more
than the £3458, for a deficit doesn’t run.
And it is so permanent that it will be in
perfect condition when a railway is worn out.
John Bull finished the year poorly. A
promise has been given that the British
troops in Egypt shall be confined to the un-
pleasant region close to the canal, lest the
sight of them should vex the sensibilities of
pashas and fellahs. Egyptian troops have
been readmitted into the Soudan, which is
hailed as a step towards the retrocession of
the province. Work on the Singapore base
has been suspended after a good deal of
Dominion money was spent on it, lest the
existence in the Pacific of an up-to-date
British naval repairing shop for ironclads
should excite suspicion among the naturally
suspicious. Loose talk about endowing
India with “Dominion status” has moved
local disturbers to demand that British troops
and officials shall be withdrawn. The Gov-
ernment’s dealings with the Soviet look too
much like surrender to a set of arrogant
defaulters, and it is suspected that the par-
ing down of the defence forces is being car-
ried too far. The'meek are to inherit the
earth, but the date is uncertain.
Though there are still too many dark
clouds about, Australia’s immediate pros-
pects improved greatly during the last few
weeks of the year. The London money mar-
ket was much easier, and the chances of
loan-renewals at lower rates were a- lot
brighter. Rain fell over almost all the drought
area in the continent’s southern half, includ-
ing northern S. Australia and the Victorian
Mallee: a few of these parched parts had
the best fall for six years, and in many the
fall was the best for two years. The mining
outlook, except for tin, has also brightened;
and there is money available even under
present hard London conditions for Aus-
tralian prospecting ventures. The motor-
tractor is putting hitherto unpayable mines
and districts on a profit-earning basis; and
Broken Hill, threatened with a water
famine, can now see 1930 through. Added
to all this is the already marked influence
of new duties on employment. The Federal
Government has not yet found its feet; but,
if only the majority will suppress the dis-
ruptionists, it promises to do good service
for Australia. What Australia most needs
now is to realise that you can’t get a gallon
out of a quart-pot, and that it must make
the best of the quart.
SHORE-BOUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Federal Cabinet contemplates the closing of
the Royal Naval College at Jervis Bay. It is prob-
able that when the college has been closed a system
of examinations for entry to the Royal Australian
Navy will be established by arrangement with civil
educational institutions.”
The desk’s well found and trim and slick
(Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of ink!) ;
Learn, you lubbers, or swallow the pick
(The salt winds blow while we sit and
think).
Cram, you crabs, though it makes you sick;
It’s eight bells past and the night is thick,
And so are your heads, but you’ve got to
stick
(Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of ink!).
Time to set sail on a sea of print
(Yo-ho-ho and a rolling nib!).
No steering now by a starry glint
(The bos’n’s name was Sennacherib!).
It’s ’bye, good-bye, to a brown-eyed bint.
There’s work a-plenty and never stint
The midnight oil if you take my hint
(Yo-ho-ho and a rolling nib !).
Start in, my hearties, heave up your slacks
(Yo-ho-ho and a blotting-pad!) ;
There’s reefs o’ figures and rocks o’ fac’s
(Who said the voice of a gull was sad?).
No siren wails and no steam-pipe cracks,
No mess-room ditty your ear attacks ;
Here’s to the ninth and the price of sacks
(Yo-ho-ho and a spotless pad!).
The cosy room is sunk in peace
(Yo-ho-ho and a cushioned chair!) ;
From hammocks and hard-tack here’s release
(How faint the wail of the wind out
there!).
No salt-cracked hands when your watches
cease,
No mess-tins now to be scoured of grease;
You all live soft as the Admiral’s niece
(Yo-ho-ho —and a dam’ soft chair!).
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Exdig” : In spite of the indignation of
A.I.F. chiefs about the allegations of Aus-
tralian violence to prisoners .in Robert
Graves’s book “Good-bye to All That,” the
author no doubt had some evidence to go
upon, if it were only the belief of some good
people in, Blighty that all Australians are
cannibals. Some prisoners of every army in
the Great War did get killed; but, on the
other hand, there are on record memos,
passed from the Higher Command to the
A.I.F. heads objecting to the familiarity
between the Diggers and their prisoners.
We captured some pretty arrogant Huns,
but even they were treated with good-
HE KNEW HER BEST.
THE ENTREPRENEUR: “My word, your wife carries her age wonderfully!”
THE ARTISTE'S HUSBAND: “On the contrary, my friend, she’s dropped it.”
natured tolerance. “We fight,” said a Fritz
officer haughtily, “for glory; you Austra-
lians, the best-paid soldiers in the war, fight
for money.” “And,” amicably remarked the
Digger who had him in hand, “we neither of
us seem to be getting much of what we’re
fighting for.”
sj: * * *
“Mudros”: It is possible to discipline Aus-
tralians. After the Evacuation the lads of
the First Division were promised that there
should be corn in Egypt when they returned
to the land of the Effendi. But the arrival of
the first trainload at Tel-el-Kebir was,
through an inadvertence, unheralded. The only
rations available were, therefore, bully and
biscuits; there were no tents, and at night
the sands of the desert grew cold and there
was half an inch of rain. The Diggers didn’t
like it, and showed it so plainly that the C. 0.,
standing in liis stirrups, swore by the Living
Hokey Pokey that he’d have discipline in the
battalion. For a week courts-martial flour-
ished, and nearly a tenth of the battalion
found themselves in the divisional birdcage.
One day I accompanied the Old Man on his
morning ride. As we approached the enclosure
there were signs of unwonted activity; men
came running from all directions, and fell in
in two ranks just inside the barbed-wire fence
where it skirted the road. Then someone
in the rear rank yelled out the order: “Nth
Battalion, ’Shun ! General salute ! Pree-sent
arms.” The Colonel gave a life-like imita-
tion of a boiler about to burst, but he was
sport enough to return the salute.
* * :|i *
“Bloggs”: According to a recent cable
Eric Gill, the English sculptor, protested
against “the horrid sight of elderly women
dressed up to look alluring,” and said:
“Nuns and nurses are the only decently-
dressed women.” All it amounts to is a plea
for uniforms. The Diggers appeared “beau-
tiful men” to John Masefield and other Eng-
lishmen, not so much because of their
physique and looks, but because they weren’t
in a position to dress themselves in pink
shirts, mauve ties and purple hats. The
proof is that visitors never applaud the
appearance of local men in “civvies” —though
there have been kind words for those seen
in bathing-costumes on surfing beaches. A
dictator who imposed a plain hygienic uni-
form on all classes in Australia —based on
the desirability of hiding old women’s legs
and old men’s stomachs —would perform a
national economically and artisti-
cally. Any fashionable race-meeting demon-
strates that 80 per cent, of our women, and
practically all the men, dress without taste;
and most of them pay through the nose for
the right to do it.
* * * *
“Sturt”: An Adelaide firm has had a
warning against using copybook maxims—
which it calls “slogans”—in its business cor-
respondence. It had to put a batch of
men off work for d fortnight at Christmas;
and a typist unthinkingly rubbed it in by
using a form proclaiming that “Patience is
a Virtue.”
* * * *
“Beecoy”: The guard was a genial soul,
and his Irish wit made his daily advent
something that stationmasters and gate-
keepers on a N. Queensland line looked for-
ward to. On. Christmas Eve he met so many
boon companions that his condition was not
conducive to the careful handling of con-
signments. Among his parcels was a case
of eggs addressed to one of the small sidings,
and he threw it down to the ground, thus
avoiding having to climb down the two foot-
boards. A few days later he received from
the claims officer at Townsville a “Please
explain.” His reply was a model of dip-
lomacy. “I have to report the eggs were not
broken when the ease left nry hands.”
* * * *
“SS9S”: Blue, though handicapped by
crutches and a bad stammer, was seldom to
be found in his ward at Caulfield after dusk.
None knew his methods of dodging the
guards and no information was volunteered
by the envied one even when, as often hap-
pened, he returned well tanked. It was too
good to last, however, and one night Blue
set out all unsuspecting for his Waterloo.
His outlet proved to be a hole scooped under
the iron fence at the rear of the hospital.
On the fatal night Blue reached this hole,
pushed his crutches under and prepared to
follow by lying on his back. He gradually
wriggled along and had just worked his
head through when he looked up and saw two
Jacks waiting. “Where are you going?”
demanded one M'.P. “I’m gug-gug-going
b-b-back,” replied Blue and went —minus
his crutches, which played their part in his
identification and denouncement next day.
* * * *
“Prospect”: This craze for turning the
simplest and best-known of tunes into oper-
atic fantasias is very disconcerting to ordi-
nary folk. At a concert give in our village
church hall, at which the boarders of my
school were present, the programme opened
with a version of “God Save” by Flecker,
sung by the choir under the baton of the
curate. Our school didn’t know Flecker,
and when the audience stood up in response
to the conductor’s wave we came in on the
beat and sang the ordinary version, cheered
on, so we imagined in our ignorance, by the
frantic gesticulations of the curate. Half
way through he gave up the contest and
stopped his choir and waited for us to finish.
Then he icily remarked that if permitted he
would now commence the programme as
arranged, and would the audience please con-
tent itself with listening? It did, but not in
an atmosphere of amity.
WHERE HE FELT THE PINCH.
“You’re not old. You couldn’t be, the way you run round after the young people!"
“Oh, running round ajter them doesn’t hurt. It’s keeping up with the blighters that
knocks me out.”
“Shep”: Birdwood may have been a
hound for salutes within the precincts of
Divvy Headquarters, but there wasn’t much
red tape about him. He strode into our
billet on the night before Pozieres, and fell
right amongst the poker schools. With a
wave of his hand he stayed any efforts of
the mob to get off their haunchesi and spring
to it. He then told us, what we had already
guessed, that it was only a matter of hours
before we’d be into it on the Somme, and
that we’d better write to the old folks before
going into action. A thoughtful, homely
cove he seemed.
* * * *
“John Hop”: Nearly every community
contains a cripple who is a holy terror to
the police and others in authority. Bris-
bane used to have a one-armed man who
required anything from three to half a dozen
JRozzers to take him to the cooler
when he had been celebrating. The
champion, perhaps, lived in Towns-
ville (N.Q.) years ago. With one
leg off at the hip, he carried a
heavy crutch. His method was to
back against the nearest wall.
There, on one leg, he would defy
the police and the world at large
to come on. If they did, he wielded
his crutch with deadly effect, using
the point. One day he took up
a position in the back yard of a
pub, and that was his Sedan. Two
policemen got a brain-wave, and,
seizing clothes-props, attacked him
on each flank while he was engaged
in front, and ignominiously pushed
him over, to lie as helpless as a
turtle. The experience broke his
proud spirit, and he retired into
private life.
$ $ $
“Stuff”: The English Junior
Bar is complaining bitterly of the
falling off in earnings due to the
establishment of the London Court
of Arbitration, founded by the City
Corporation and the Chamber of
Commerce. The Court, made up of
delegates from the two bodies, has
no official standing, nor does it
actually adjudicate. On applica-
tion by the parties it appoints
arbitrators and umpires who are
experts in the matters at issue.
The legal element is excluded, and
fees are infinitesimal. The result has been
that it is being rushed by all and sundry,
while Costs throws dust upon its head and
curses the day the intruder was born.
H: ❖ ❖ ❖
“H.K.”: A Presbyterian clergyman, well
known in Surry Hills (Sydney), is very
friendly with two Chinamen in his parish,
and was keen to convert them to Christi-
anity. When he made one of his daily visits
to the vegetable shop recently, only one
Celestial was present. “Where’s your brother,
Charlie?” he asked. “Oh, him in hospital,”
replied that worthy. “Clistian gentleman
stluck him on the head with bottle.”
* * :|: *
“Meteren”: Port Said and Suez money-
changers must have made a lot out of the
piastres and half-disasters in the war years.
The new arrival from Australia who thrust
pound- or ten-bob notes into their-mits got
his exchange by the handful, usually in the
smallest coins possible. If he knew the
monetary value and started off to count the
shrapnel, Shylock found his presence needed
elsewhere before the victim could get half
way through the checking up. With new
chums commission up to 25 per cent, wasn’t
considered excessive. At Colombo money-
changers, squatting behind the wharves at
their tiny tables, caught their harvests both
ways. They grabbed a heavy exchange oh
the Australian money from troops going over-
seas, and saved up most of their notes to get
another pound of flesh from the drafts
coming home. Piastres from Egypt they
depreciated to about half face value, flourish-
ing an Australian note or silver under the
Victim’s nose by way of extra inducement,
and as this was the last hope of getting
any value for the cartwheels and disasters
their business flourished.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Australia’s finest
national sport has its softer aspects. A
Surry Hills (Sydney) two-up joint which
has had a free run for a long time has put
in its cash at every Christmas for the last
nine years for a Christmas tree and hampers
for the poor. Percentages are collected regu-
larly during the fortnight before Christmas
to meet the expense. One year the bene-
faction nearly missed fire; opening his heart
in celebration of the school’s 20th birth-
day, the proprietor provided a beer party,
and the riot that arose out of the hop-drink-
ing led to the school’s first raid. That
reward for his generosity embittering the
headmaster, he swore that the usual Christ-
mas benefaction was off; but he changed his
mind. Considerations of luck, perhaps.
* * ❖ ❖
“F.S.A.” : There is a casualness about life-
saving methods on the S. Aus. coast that
persists through the years. Beachport, where
the Admella was wrecked in 1859, with the
loss of 83 lives, advises recently that the
harbor-master lias enrolled a lifeboat crew
after a suspension of duties in that respect
for 18 months through the previous crew
resigning. Then there’s Port Willunga,
about 35 miles south of Adelaide, where the
Star of Greece was wrecked in 1888 with a
loss of 17 lives. The district now has a
fine lifeboat and a volunteer crew which
assembles for drill at least once every year,
but for some unexplainable reason the boat
is housed in the post-office grounds at
Aldinga, nearly two miles inland.
*** # i
“R. 11.” : The agility displayed by the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court and the High
Court on a recent occasion is a reminder that
the law can 'move very nippily if needs
must. In a small way an Australian record
that is hard to beat dates back to March
23, 1876. At noon, according to Melbourne
Herald of that date, Alfred Anderson, a
musician, died. In the same issue of the
paper (it came out at 3 p.m.) the widow
advertised her intention to apply for letters
of administration of her late husband’s estate.
“Oxmead”: In England there is a hoary
legal fiction that a Judge cannot see a bar-
rister who appears without his wig; last
week N.S.W. Judge Curlewis, who outdoes
all his predecessors as a stickler, declined to
hear a waistcoatless gent. one. The man of
law was taken aback for the moment; recov-
ering himself he dashed into the robing-
room, commandeered the essential garment
from some colleague’s spare stock, and re-
appeared in an article of apparel that fitted
him about as well as the traditional China-
man’s shirt. Counsel looked and felt ridi-
culous, but the dignity of the Court was
supposed to be improved by the spectacle.
SAY IT WITH
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are ways of expressing affection,
Our poets have always averred,
That convey quite a lot more tliau ever was
got
Into any articulate word.
There’s a sort of a message containing a
presage
That’s well within anyone’s powers
Who subtly would hint at an amorous pas-
sion ;
And when he was younger he followed the
fashion
And said it with flowers.
He’s said it —not -quite, peradventure,
As much, but they glimpsed what he
meant —
With bonbons and chocs, at a dollar a box,
With stockings, with gloves and with
scent.
He’s banked on crustacean to carry per-
suasion
At the end of a bibulous day;
When he doubted if either excuses or kisses
Would soften the heart of an obdurate missis
He’s said: it with cray.
He’s said it —whatever it stood for—
As plain as if framed by his lips,
With restaurant fare recherche and rare
Or succulent snapper and chips.
Sweet amity’s vesture he’s thrown with a
gesture
Alike around wowsers and wags;
H'e’s said it, being nothing if not compre-
hensive,
With humble cheroots and Havanas expen-
sive,
He’s said it with fags.
And now that old Christmas about us
His seasonal influence throws,
And with hearty goodwill for Tom, Harry
and Bill
And the rest of his fellows he glows.
He’s strong on a medium that lightens the
tedium
Of greetings by thousands you hear;
Instead of assuring the ones and the others
In so many words that he loves them as
brothers,
He says it with beer.
N.S.^V.
T. THE R.
IT’S HERB.
The sky is lowering and black;
There’s mud upon the street and track.
A splashed pedestrian mutters “Blast!”
As curtained cars swish moistly past.
The birds take shelter ’neath the eaves;
A raw wind shakes the dripping leaves.
Though parcelled in tremendous drops
The rain occasionally stops
And, by these tokens, it is clear
To all that Melbourne summer’s here!
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


“Herodot”: A religious organisation in
Sydney—possibly the same one that plasters
trams and ferry boats with texts —is doing
its best to supply every room in every
cheap boarding-house and residential with
a Bible. A less oblique evangelical mission
was undertaken by an old dame who kept a
boarding-house in Darlinghurst. She used
to inscribe texts in phosphorescent paint on
the walls of her rooms. In the daytime and
when the lights were on the legends were
invisible, but in the darkness they glared
out in letters of fire. One day she appeared
in the dining-room simply attired in a sheet
and said she was John the Baptist, and
that was the end of her connection with the
landladying business.
* * * • *
“Graf von Schnapps”: It appears that a
German society entitled the Knights of the
Holy Grail has gone phut because its
Grandmaster, Count Oscar Bernhardt, has
been pinching the holy funds to the extent
of £20,000 a month. The legal minions of
the country are investigating, and the police
have impounded the books. When I reincar-
nated the Order of the Troubadours of Tophet
after the war, intending members had to pay
a year’s subscription in advance, the receipt
form, setting out that the money was to be
applied at the personal discretion of the
Grandmaster—l was the Grandmaster. I
learned this lurk while helping to float insur-
ance and mining companies in Australia.
There they accomplish the same end by
issuing to the Grandmasters “cumulative
preference shares.” Poor Count Oscar —he
erred in ignorance.
* x * X-
“Exdig.” : Caught by Jacks in Amiens, a
36th Batt. Digger gave the first name and
regimental particulars he could think of, and
when the Jacks demanded his paybook he
plugged the nearest with both fists and
bolted. In camp, he put the case to a
sympathetic cobber who happened to be
sergeant of the guard that night. The
sergeant struck the idea of putting him on
guard in the place of another Digger, who
was only too glad to get off. When
the Jacks, including one who carried some
well-darkened lamps, came down on the
camp for vengeance, it was not until the
guard was turned out that they could iden-
BELL OR NO BELL.
BETTY (his fiancee ): “Oh, that’s the dinner bell and I wanted to tell you about the
frock I’m making.”
BILLY (her adorer ): “Well, you’ll have to cut it short.”
BETTY: “Oh, darling, you wouldn’t have me wear it above my knees!”
tify their man. Of course, he had his
alibi, with the assistance of a sergeant and
guard prepared to swear that he had been
on duty all night. Still the Jacks were
inclined to persist in their identification, and
the Digger was ordered to produce his pay-
book, which (naturally) didn’t bear the
name he had given before letting go his
punch. The M.P.’s exclaimed that he had
given a false name. “What name did he
give?” asked the friendly sergeant. “Walker,
J., ;1820,” responded one of the Jacks
promptly. “Still going strong,” murmured
someone, and in the resultant laugh the
grievances of the too-trustful Jacks were
somehow buried.
“Gregor”: Australia’s hardest-worked
hangman was Solomon Blay, who officiated
in the Speck for 45 years, from 1835. He
executed over 300 persons, and his busiest
period was just after his appointment, when
in order to cope with arrears he turned ’em
off in sixes and sevens. Blay took a vast
pride in his job, and nothing pleased him
more than to be congratulated by the. Sheriff
on the smoothness with which his very
simple duties were performed.
* * * *
“Nature-Student”: The experiences of
the crew of the wrecked Norwich City on
Gardiner Island (B. 25/11/’29) suggests
that the lesser carni-
vora can sustain exist-
ence very well on one
another (and them-
selves ) when nothing
better offers. The
island was found to
be swarming with
huge crabs and vora-
cious rats, and though
there was apparently
nothing else for either
to live on they were
all reasonably thriv-
ing. On one of the
Kerguelen islands, ten-
anted by wild mon-
grel dogs and rabbits,
conditions were re-
ported by a recent
voyager to be less
satisfactory. F'or years
past the rabbits have
been consuming the
grass and the dogs de-
vouring the rabbits,
but the herbage hav-
ing given out it is an-
ticipated that the
coneys will presently
do likewise, in which
case dog will have to
fall back on dog for
his dinner. There is
at least one species of
insect life that can
exist on its own breed-
ing resources, so to
speak, without any
outside assistance. In
some of the vaults of
Dublin, spiders have
carried on for genera-
tions or centuries,
although no flies ever
come their way.
Though cannibals they
are. spare feeders and proline oreeders,
which solves the problem of existence for
them.
x- x. x x-
“S.T.S.”: As to managements that fall
foul of critics, it is, I think, always the
actor-manager, and nearly always on behalf
of the leading lady, who seems to regard
such championship as her due. Anyway, in
35 years of criticism I have been denied
admission to a theatre only once, and that
by an actor-manager who objected to what
I said about liis show in The Bulletin. I
had forgotten it, but a search showed that,
while praising the leading lady in “The Chris-
tian,” I had said that she “was prevented
by Anno Domini from realising the school-
girl in the first act” —which does not seem
very dreadful. The sequel was that one of
the dailies gave the show I wasn’t allowed to
see a terrible slating, and I quoted the worst
bits in The Bulletin, with regrets at not
being allowed to form an independent opinion.
iJj •!* jJs H*
“Prof. Undo” : I drop in merely to anni-
hilate the controversy as to why people sing
in bathrooms. I never sing in bathrooms or
anywhere else, for I have not a pleasing voice.
I have, however, a very sensitive musical
ear. People who sing in bathrooms invariably
have unpleasing voices. The reason they sing
in bathrooms is (1) because they are there
safe from molestation, (2) because they do
not know—too often I am afraid, they
wouldn’t care if they did know—that their
voices are unplcasing, (3) because the in-
stinct to make a row of some sort is deeply
implanted in the human breast. Which re-
minds me of a very effective thing I said at
the expense of Prof. Ligate in 1892. I
as the world knows, play the ’cello. Ligate
is a professional vocalist. A mutual friend
approaching me from behind said : “My dear
Undo, I thought you Avere Ligate.” I said:
“Not so. There is this difference between
us. Neither Ligate nor I can sing. I don’t.”
“Shep”: Even the most modern of bush
pubs doesn’t usually look pleased when it is
asked to do anything more than sell liquor
over the bar. Bung certainly doesn’t go out
of the way to make himself popular with
carloads who land at night, after dining
on the way, and to all appearances only
wanting a doss for the night and an early-
morning breakfast before kicking off again
on their trip. One I know up north when
approached by such guests, pleaded full
house,” and they went 011 to a rival pub.
His heart bled when two crowds he had thus
rejected were floodbound in the pub over the
way for three days, during which time, for
ARTISTIC MODESTY.
“Gee, Anne, you nearly got out of the picture that time!”
“Yes, the artist shut his eyes when my costume came undone.”
want of other amusement, they kept the bar
busy. All the loser saw of them, after they got
the full strength of his rejected hospitality,
was an occasional visit from the whole mob,
who formed up in a beaming line along, his
bar and in chorus asked for the right time.
After he had cursed them they trooped out
again, fuller of glee than. ever.
* $ * $
“Pila”: I don’t know how it may have
been elsewhere; but though the discoverers
of gold in the two south-eastern States
included a few Irishmen (B. 4/12/’29),
they camp after such men as Hargreaves,
Bruhn, Esmond, Michel and Hiscock, who
were not Irish. Hargreaves was English-
born and Australian-bred. Bruhn was a
German, Esmond and Hiscock were English,
and Michel was of French descent.
sis «J. , *
“P.X.”: Talking about baths, the classic
storv out back in N. S. Wales is of the Dis-
trict Court Judge who was accompanied on
one circuit by his daughter. It was in pre-
motor days, and the Judge and
his daughter landed at Menindie
hot and dry and very dirty. As
you may quite easily learn now
that a train passes through it,
Menindie straggles on a moving
sandhill which forms one bank
of the Darling thereabouts ; and
the pub’s bathroom was an en-
closure a little higher up on
that particular sandhill and 50
yards from the back door. The
Judge’s daughter wanted a' hath,
and disrobed accordingly; then,
in her kim., she sought the bath-
room, and was directed to it.
The kim. thrown off, she looked
around for the string (out back
you generally pull a string to
release the contents of a bucket
that is fixed aloft) But things
had not advanced so far at
Menindie in those days; in-
stead. the rouseabout poured his
bucket into a perforated kero.-
tin. That required rather care-
ful aiming; so when the Judge’s
daughter didn’t stand quite
right, what could the poor man
perched aloft do but bid her
move a little to the right?
Which he did. And some people
wondered why next day the
Judge wanted to convict every-
body in Menindie and give him
at least seven years.
“Kappa” : The boy who made an explosive
out of chlorate of potash lozenges and icing
sugar and hurt himself severely had a com-
panion in chemical misfortune in a Queens-
land man who died some years ago from
mercury perchloride poisoning. This man
had taken no mercury perchloride; probably
had never heard of it. A post-mortem dis-
closed that he had taken a fairly large dose
of calomel (mercury subchloride) and soon
afterwards had eaten something containing
a high proportion of salt. The salt had com-
bined with the mercury subchloride to form
perchloride, and so had involved the unwit-
ting victim in a swift and painful doom.
* * ❖ *
“Merris”: The rummiest auction sale I
ever attended was the disposal of a dead
man’s goods at Kingscote, Kangaroo Island,
on a wet Saturday afternoon. There was
a reading-lamp, some fathoms of anchor
chain, carpenter’s tools (assorted), a chaff-
cutter that was worked by a petrol motor
and a motor-car that sounded like a chaff-
cutter. But the piece de resistance was a
racehorse, complete with racing saddle and
bridle. The steed looked noble except that
its leg - s nec ded retreading, and the man with
t ] le hammer assured us that, although he
( ]j know its pedigree, he was quite sure
wds a Very long one. The bidding was
a bit s i u^ish until .Tacky Jackson offered
ten b ob, after which it rose rapidly to six
quid. “Six paltry quid!” pleaded the auc-
tioneer. “Six miserable sovereigns for a
thoroughbred; for a possible Melbourne Cup
winner’ Whv. gentlemen the saddle and
bridle are worth more than that! Six
pounds I’m bid. Any advance on six quid?
All done at six notes?” He raised his
hammer, but it didn’t crash. “Sorry, gentle-
men, the reserve is six pound ten. The next
line is two dozen glass jam-jars with screw
tops.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Madam” (B. 18/12/’29) isn’t
the only well-meant word that can be
resented! In war-time I was trying to
reconcile the two grandmothers of a small
girl whose parents were both dead. Bach
Wanted custody of it, and I got them
together at an informal conference, saying
—as I would certainly have said of one of
my own—that “the interests of the poor
kid” must first be considered. Would it
be believed that this innocent word nearly
broke up the meeting?
* * Up x-
“O’Phisphus” : “No,” said the bespectacled
young man behind the post-office counter
severely, “ John Smith, 23 Brown-street, New-
castle, is not a sufficient address.” “An’
phwy not?” asked the stout lady indignantly:
“is it Austhralia I shud be addin’?” “How
should I know?” said the clerk gloomily.
“I’m no mind-reader. There’s a Newcastle
in New South Wales and one in Western
Australia and a couple in New Zealand and
two in England and one in Wales and two
in Canada and two in South Africa and three
in Ireland and a dozen or so in the United
States. Take your choice. It’s your letter.”
* * * *
“X2X” : In Sydney 60 years ago thefts of
women’s hair w T ere rife, there being a keen
demand for natural locks from the makers
of switches and other articles of feminine
adornment. The thieves generally worked
in pairs; their method was to hold up
a woman in a dark street and cut off her hair
with scissors. There were also fellows of
a baser sort who worked single-handed
amongst women who frequented hotels.
These first filled their prospective victims
with strong drink and robbed them of their
tresses while they slept it off. It is on record
that when some women in a Haymarket
hotel caught a hair-thief in the act of giving
one of their companions a shingle while she
slept, they first nearly killed him, then
stripped him of his clothes, dragged him
through a drain, and thrust him forth on a
cruel world.
'!* 'l*
“Hamer” : One of the classics of Sydney’s
Darlinghurst is the story of the stranger
who entered a shop on a Sunday and whis-
pered “Can I get beer here?” The reply
wa s “No ; but so far as I know this is the
only place where you can’t get it!” Alas,
those times have gone. The police have been
active; fines have been heavy, and the risk
of keping an illicit stock is so great that
the business nowadays is conducted with
many go-betweens. Having found your sly-
grogger and asked him for booze he says
guardedly that he will see whether he can
get it from someone else, and offers to
deliver it. Although the pubs that indulge
in the traffic are prepared to let the liquor
go at normal price to trustworthy vendors,
the Sunday beer may now cost the consumer
as much as 4s. 6d. a bottle, because every
hand that passes a bottle along expects a cut.
* * * *
“Viddo”: Chinese gambling-hell proprie-
tors ■ discourage interference with their
patrons.. A friend of mine won £3O at a
fan-tan joint in a N.Q. town. He carried
home the money, but he also carried a knife
wound in the arm inflicted by a fellow
gambler who had attempted to deprive him
of his winnings. When he mentioned the
matter to the Chow who was running the
joint, the latter nodded comprehendingly.
and remarked: “We fixee him.” They did.
JANUARY THE JADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
w°°l is sold, or in the bale;
The wheat is stripped and bagged the
grain;
But heat and dust and drought prevail;
Men search the skies for signs of rain
And see them come—and go again.
Mirages mock the scanty shade
By drying tank, on sand-swept plain,
For January is a jade.
The city girl in frillies frail
Just glances out the window pane
The day she planned for swim or sail,
And telephoned the waiting swain
\\ hose hopes must ruthlessly be slain—
Too hot (or cold), she is afraid.
Don’t wait for her at wharf or train;
Like January, she’s a jade.
To beach or bush the picnic trail
In flannels free from spot or stain
You take. Enjoyment cannot fail
The merry group (or just you twain
If you’ve the proper wave of brain).
Then through a thunderstorm you wade
And sneak back home, ' sad, soaked,
profane,
For January is a jade.
O weather men, forecasters vain,
Postpone awhile your tricks of trade.
No reputation you attain;
Your January is a jade.
S.A.
BILL O'C


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
IPlMißMiffl
JL.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
€2O
€2O
KB?
w
£2O
£2O
vitci
€2O
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS L TD
25-25 HUNTER ST.
J'fie (o(Abj t JewoU&uii tlouLie isi Sydney
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff, £4/4/- weekly.
Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc. Situated
right opposite Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares;
railway porter carries baggage across if necessary.
Please write for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’a
Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient address.
PERJONAL
ITEMS
Some January birthdays.:—
Prof. Gilbert Murray, 64, on 2nd; Colonel T.
E. V. Hurley, 42, on 3rd; Bishop Newton, 64, and
S. Aus. ex-Agent-Gen. Young, 54, on sth; pastoralist
Edmund Jowett, 72, Rev. W. Robertson (Hay), 71,
and Arthur Searcy (Adel.), 78, on 6th; pastoralist-
knight Graham Waddell, 53, and Dr. George David-
son, of Adel. (ex-Moderator of Presbyterian Church),
75, on 7th; artist Sydney Ure Smith, 43, on 9th;
Q. ex-Speaker Bertram, 55, on 11th; Prof. Howchin
(Adel.), 85, on 12th; Archbishop Spence (Adel.),
70, and Prof. D. Orme Masson (Melb.), 72, on 13th;
Senator Pearce, 60, on 14th; Prof. Radeliffe-Brown
(Syd.), 49, and E. J. Mulvany (Development
and Migration Commission), 59, on 17th; merchant-
knight Clifton Love, 62, on 18th; platypus-expert
Harry Burrell, 57, on 19th; shipping-knight Owen
Cox, 64, and plant pathologist Daniel McAlpine, 81,
on 21st; Colonel J. M. Arnott, 61, on 22nd; Brig.-
Gen. T. A. Blarney (Vic, Commissioner of Police), 46,
pastoralist R. H. Dangar (Taree), 62, and Q. Agent-
Gen. Macartney, 67, on 24th; Q. former-Premier
Denham, 71, and Capt. C. H. Peters, M.C. with
Judge J. J. COHEN, once Speaker of
N.S.W. Assembly, having reached 70
retired last week from the Bench.
Bar (Robertson and Mullens, Melb.), 41, on 25th;
Justice Kenneth Street (N.S.W.), 40, and historian
A. Grenfell Price (Adel.), 38, on 28th; squatter A.
B. Triggs (Yass), 62, and Eric L. Frazer (Vic. Par-
liamentary Library), 38, on 30th; ex-Gov.-Gen.
Forster, 64, A. S. le Souef (director of Taronga
Park), 53, and Guy Innes (Melb. Hekald, London),
48, on 31st.
No Victorian Premier in the last 40 years
has taken defeat more philosophically than
William McPherson. Probably it was less
of a jolt because he was none too happy as
the head of a minority Government with auxi-
liaries who were never dependable. McPher-
son improved as a leader during his term,
but he ahvays gave the impression that he
would have preferred the Treasurer’s job
without the burden of leadership.
John P. Dwyer, who fills the vacancy on
Westralia’s judicial bench created by Burn-
side’s death, was born in Victoria 49 years
ago and educated at Geelong College and Mel-
bourne University. He was admitted to the
W.A. Bar in 1904 and practised first at
Aioany and later at Fremantle. He served
with the 44th Batt. in the war, returning
with the rank of acting-captain, has been a
fine athlete and is a golfer of more than
ordinary distinction. He mustn’t be confused
with Walter Dwyer, who has been Judge of
the State Arbitration Court since 1926.
Harry Gibson, general secretary of the
Federated Enginedrivers’ and Firemen's
Association, who regards Garden and Kava-
anagh as “blatant agita-
tors,” began his connex-
ion with the Labor move-
ment on the W.A. gold-
fields, where in the inter-
vals of his union activi-
ties he found time to be a
Boulder councillor. He
was always inclined to
outspokenness, and once,
when he was acting as
returning officer in a
municipal election, his
cheerful remark to an
aspiring mayor, also a
Laborite, “I reckon you’re
gone a million,. Johnny,”
led to his being arraigned
for a flippancy that was
held to trench on dis-
loyalty to the Cause.
Gibson weathered the
storm, however, as he has
done many others. The
first engine he drove in
Westralia was in a lux-
urious steam yacht, which
carried a reputed million-
aire about the Swan.
There is speculation in
Vic. political circles as
to the future of Maurice
Blackburn, M.L.A., who
will scarcely he satisfied
to remain a mere private
member. It cannot be
long before either Irvine
(71) or Cussen (70) will
retire from the Supreme
Court Bench, and if the
Hogans continue in office
Blackburn will have a chance ; indeed, he
would have a chance with any Government.
It is pointed out that Foster, formerly a
prominent Laborite, has made an excellent
County Court Judge. A Vic. member of
Parliament may be appointed straight away
as a Supreme Court wigwearer, but he must
be out of Parliament for six months before
he is eligible for a County Court appoint-
ment.
Canon Snodgrass, who died suddenly at his
Toorak home last week, was Australia’s most
fashionable parson. One of his sisters was
Janet Lady Clarke; his two brothers are
Avell-known squatters, and he married one of
the Kiddles of Steam Plains, H'e had been
Canon of St. Paul’s for 17 years.
W. A. Holden, just dead in Adelaide,
though rather eclipsed by his brilliant elder
brother E.W., was a sound business man
and a director of the family motor-body
building co. Though only 30 at the end, he
had seen war service—enlisting on
his 18th birthday. He was a
prominent athlete till last year,
when he had a riding accident
from which he never really re-
covered.
There is an Australian Judge
who has had one remarkably un-
pleasant experience. Owing to
dissensions and jealousies among
the local Bar, he was selected for
his job in England by the Agent-
General of the period, and duly
arrived a few months later. He
was met on the wharf and officially greeted
by several members of the Government. Some
years later it fell to his Honor’s lot to pre-
side at the trial for fraud of one of the very
men who had welcomed him to the State.
The offence was a serious one, and a stiff
sentence followed conviction.
David Mares, Sydney’s official weather
prophet, was born at Dawes Point, within
a few yards of his present workshop, just
on 50 years ago. His father was a sea cap-
tain of New Bedford, U.S.A.
Orchardist C. W. Frost, with no experi-
ence of public life beyond membership of a
small country shire council, managed to win
the Franklin (Tas.) Federal division for
Labor against four opponents, including ex-
M.11.R. Seabrook and Colonel Blacklow, the.
latter a leading _ farmer. The Nats, were
aided by ex-Ministers Pearce and Gullett,
but the small fruitgrowers stuck to “one of
our own” and gave Franklin to Labor for
the first time since Federation. The suc-
cessful man was formerly a miner, and con-
ceals a gentle soul under a stern visage.
Bishop D’ARCY IRVINE, the
most sought-after “marrying
parson” in the Anglican
Church in Sydney.
A. G. Wells, lately dead in Adelaide at
81, claimed to be about Australia’s oldest
actor. He was on the boards in 1867 at
the old Victoria in Adelaide. He was in at
the opening of the Royal, and of the now
forgotten Academy of Music. But in later
life he found that wheat-buying and auction-
eering paid better, and his stage appear-
ances were as an outstanding amateur.
John B. Holme, who died in Sydney last
week, aged 57, on his physique ought to have
lived to a hundred. In his undergraduate
days he was a great athlete, and did sen-
sational things as a heavyweight-lifter—in
harness. While brother Ernest stuck to his
studies and became Professor Holme, Dean
of the Faculty of Arts,
John took to the law, and
screwed up a plate at
Wyalong, then booming;
for a while he was in
partnership with J. H.
M. Abbott. There, too,
he met W. A. Holman,
and so impressed him
that, years later, when
Holman had become Pre-
mier, he induced John
Holme to come into the
Public Service —Holman
wanted him to organise
the new Labor and In-
dustry Department.
Afterwards he had many
Public Service jobs:
when Governments
wanted an inquiry made
they got into the habit
of “sending for Holme.”
The only drawback was
that he inquired so thor-
oughly and reported so
exhaustively that busy
men never found time to
read his conclusions.
Captain William Voy,
who died in Brisbane on
Christmas Day, served
with 8.-P.’s for nearly
30 years. His earlier
days at sea were largely
spent around New Guinea
and the Solomons; later
he was on the Singapore
run, and commanded the
Mataram in the pre-war
years, when she was the
crack ship of the 8.-P.
fleet. He was 59 at the end.
Canon D. B. Blackwood, the newly-
appointed Archdeacon of Hobart, is a native
of the Island. He was a fine athlete in his
school and university days, as well as a
student of distinction, and was runner-up
for the Rhodes Scholarship in 1906. He
saw much war service, enlisting as a chap-
lain in 1914, and serving continuously until
1919 with the 13th Brigade A.I.F. He won
the M.C. for conspicuous bravery at Villers-
Bretonneux.
Still eager for work, although he is close
on 70, Henry Morgan Murphy, who used to
be Vic. Sec. of Labor, has accepted a seat
on the Charities Board. He has been special-
ising in philanthropic toil since he ceased
to be a Government officer. Murphy’s dad
was in the Leg. Council when Vic. was poli-
tically in swaddling clothes.
Alderman Osborne, re-elected Mayor of
Launceston for a second term, was born in
Wiltshire 69 years ago. He arrived in
Adelaide in the early ’eighties and spent 28
years there at his trade of printer and pub-
lisher. He founded several country news-
papers ; it was from him that Westralian
Senator and ex-Agent-General Colebatch re-
ceived his first job as a reporter. He retired
from active business before the war, and
after travelling extensively made Launceston
his home 10 years ago.
It is likely that Laurie Chapman will suc-
ceed the late W. P. Heathershaw in the Vic.
Chief Secretary’s Department. Chapman is
a senior officer, though with only second-
class status at present. He has been a
sub-adviser to Ministers in recent years, and
knows the ropes. This Under-Sec. has to
be a tactful umpire, for there are four
sub-heads of high status —the Chief of Police,
Inspector-General of Prisofis, Sec. of the
Children’s Welfare Branch and Inspector-
General for the Insane.
Frederick J. McCarthy, Queensland’s
newly-appointed Commissioner of Stamp
Duties, was horn at Mt. Morgan a mere 38
years ago and educated at the State School
there. After that he was for eight years
in the employment of the Mt. Morgan G. M.
Co. He entered the Public Service in 1918
as clerk in the Public Curator’s Office, and
was admitted to the Bar in 1922.
The new Public Service Commissioner in
S. Aus. (succeeding Price Weir, who com-
manded the 10th at Gallipoli and who now
becomes chairman of the Central Board of
Health) is L. O. Hunkin, who has had some
wide and diversified experiences. He started
as a draper at Lefroy (Tas.) and Bundaberg
(Q.), sandwiching in part of a law course
at Ormond College, Melbourne. Later he
did some sawmilling in Gippsland. He has
been in S. Aus. for nearly 20 years, in Par-
liament much of the time, and latterly secre-
tary to the Public Service Association.
Martin Plenry Hayward, just dead in Bris-
bane at 63, was the eldest son of the Rev.
Roland Hayward, for many years chaplain at
Port Arthur convict settlement, and a grand-
son of John Price, sometime commandant of
Norfolk Island. Hayward was well known
in the pastoral districts of West Queens-
land. He was overseer in his earlier years
at Tipperburra and Comongin; later on
he was manager of Ayrshire Downs and
Glenbar.
W. R. Barstow, Clerk-Assistant of Yic.
Upper House, who is approaching the retir-
ing age, is a link with the days when Duncan
Gillies was head of the Big Coalition. Bar-
stow was then a comparative junior, but he
came into contact with Gillies towards, the
end of the ’eighties. The promotion that
counts began to come to him at the time
of the Commonwealth inauguration cere-
monies in Melbourne in 1901. From then
he climbed up steadily to Sergeant-at-Arms
and Clerk-Assistant of the Assembly, whence
he was transferred to the Plush Chambah.
He has a marvellous memory for references
and precedents.
Newton Moore, who was Premier of West-
ralia from 1906 to 1910 and subsequently
Agent-General in London for half a dozen
years, seems to have established a lien on
safe London seats for the House of Com-
mons. In 1918 he was elected unopposed for
St. George’s, Ilanover-square, in succession
to George Reid. A few months later he
won North Islington at a general election
by over 11,000 votes. In 1924 he was re-
turned for Richmond (Surrey) by a majo-
rity of 14,000-odd, and at last year’s general
election he polled six or seven thousand more
than the Labor and Liberal candidates com-
bined. Newton, who is a surveyor by profes-
sion, began his public career as Mayor of
Bunbury.
Admiral of the Fleet Sir Henry Jackson,
just dead in Britain, aged 75, was a more
brilliant officer than many better known to
the public. He entered the Navy in 1868,
and was at once attracted by the scientific
side of the service. His speciality was elec-
tricity, and he did much to advance tele-
graphy, while he was the pioneer of wireless
installations, being the first to use Hertzian
waves for transmission. He served on num-
erous technical committees in connection
with the equipment of Avarsliips, and did
invaluable work as First Sea Lord in the
opening years of the Great War.
The late Bishop
Cleary’s popularity
was shown at his
funeral at St. Pat-
rick’s Cathedral,
Auckland. Among
those who attend-
ed were the Angli-
can Primate, Arch-
bishop Averill, and
other dignitaries of
that church; also
Presbyterian and
Methodist minis-
ters and Salvation
Army officers. On
the liquor question
Cleary held strong
views, and rather
unusual ones
among the R.C.
hierarchy. A favor-
ite phrase of his
on the eve of no-
license polls Avas
that “the Church
was built on a rock
and not on a beer
vat.”
E. C. RILEY,
Federal Govern-
ment Whip, very
busy these, days
trying to keep
members from
kicking over the
traces.
Readers of The Bulletin who may have
wondered what the people who have been
writing for them in the last 50 years Avere
like in the flesh will at least have a chance
to meet their portraits in the Jubilee Number
(January 29). Of caricatures and photos
there will be a hundred, or more—of editors
and sub-editors and artists and story-tellers
and poets. There is still living a man (W.
H. East) who helped to set up and print
the first issue: he writes a very interesting
article about the early days of struggle. And
there is also living the paper’s first regular
sub-editor (Wilfred Blacket, ICC.) ; he is
one of the multitude who have been photo-
graphed for this special Jubilee Number.
BALLADE OF ANOTHER EXILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The murmur of a kettledrum
Recalls my London days to me;
They might seem tedious to some,
I found ’em all they ought to be.
True, I disliked the Briton’s tea,
And eke his coffee’s turbid dregs;
But, in this exile oversea,
I jib still more at steak-and-eggs.
I did not mind the city’s hum;
And in those times no 8.8. C.
Broadcast the syncopated thrum
Of jazz-bands agonisingly ;
Instead, the latest jeu-d’esprit,
The home-delivered beer in kegs,
Contributed to bonhomie
And steak was never marred by eggs.
And, every year, the day would come
When Bushey’s chestnuts smiled to see
The spring, so fair and frolicsome,
While Wolsey’s palace luringly
Called like an old-world melody;
Unseen, but doubtless shapely, legs
Swayed in the waltz’s ecstasy
And none had thought of steak-and-eggs.
Envoy.
Princess, of your good charity,
Give thanks for. bliss’s staunchest pegs.
Mutton and ale’s good harmony,
With never thought of steak-and-eggs.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


DIARY
FOR 1930
NOW
READY.
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 91 x 6^
Price 10/-
Post, 1/- extra.
ZB
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard oi Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gejatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STRENGTH AND SECURITY
arc what a prudent man looks for in any Investment in which he may place his
money. How much more necessary is it to secure these safeguards when selecting
your Executor!
This can be done by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
as its Reserves and Uncalled Capital provide a degree of Security far beyond the
power of the private Executor.
Write or call for free explanatory booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. Y. DOUGLASS.
The Fortunes of
To-day and To-morrow
Await You in the A.H.L
The splendid courses compiled by
the Alexander Hamilton Institute
(U.K. and U.S.A.) deal in a
' broad and far-reaching manner
with the trend of modern business
to-day. Controlled and adapted
as they are for Australia by so
old and well-known a tutorial
organisation as H. & R., they
bring to the Australian executive
a wider vision and breadth of
knowledge that has already bene-
fited more than 350,000 business
principals.
Write to-day for the 78-p.p. book,
“Forging Ahead in Business,”
which gives full and complete
details.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses controlled for Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
SYDNEY : 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place;
P4l 410-12 Collins Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
Towards
Re- Nominal
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 209,103 33,378 125,378 50,347 66,755
Premium on shares .. . . 100,000 166,755
1920. . 391,102 33,873 168,575 188,654 355,409
Premium on shares . . . . 65,438 420,847
1921.. 375,163 55,332 238,044 81,787 502,634
Written off Life funds and
general reserves, £158,356 .. .. 344,278
1922.. 389,266 74,112 231,092 84,062 428,340
1923.. 417,503 70,798 205,151 141,554 569,894
1924.. 448,628 54,055 214,970 ' 179,603 749,497
1925.. 357,212 69,196 149,226 133,790 ( QQ „ oe „
Superannuation fund, £SOOO .. )
Added to establishment, £174,340 .. 708,947
1926.. 382,789 66,728 129,313 156,748 895,695
Superannuation fund taken in, £5000.. 900,695
Sept.,
1927 f. 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,648 1,061,343
L.C.A. absorbed ; added Life
fund . . . . . . 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .. 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up, £50,378 . . 1,628,497
1928.. 447,856 95,774 108,538 243,544 1,872,041
Transferred to specific reserves, £40,061. . 1,831,980
1929.. 476,034 109,362 120,497 246,175 2,078,155
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1920,
£9359; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,086; 1925,
£20,352; 1928, £17,015 ; 1929, £8595.
fNine months.
This 17-year-old life office quickly developed
a large income, but owing to unsound busi-
ness methods there was nothing like the profit
in it there should have been. Moreover,
until recently, so much rubbish was strewn
amongst the assets that the bare figures could
not be accepted as a guide to the co.’s real
position, and therefore . of its prospects.
ITence those in control were unable to give
either policy-holders or shareholders the bene-
fits they had been led to expect; so, after
an unfortunate period of rancor and recrimi-
nation, anew board was appointed and it had
the good fortune to secure E. S. Paul as
chairman —he had been trained in the law
before he was called upon first to join and
then to succeed his father in the control of
the Schweppes business in Australia. The
change in the A.P.A. was effected about four
years ago ; since then the new board has done
a vast amount of repairing and renovating,
ana lias set the business upon a course that
ought to mean good progress along sound
lines.
During the tidying up by the new board
no less than £174,340 of rubbish was raked
out of the accounts, making the heap
£368,942 at Jan. 1, 1926; it has since been
reduced to £137,000, and the board claims
that there is tangible value to represent the
difference. To get this result the organisa-
tion was overhauled, the staff reduced and
other savings made. Next the business of
the L.C.A. was merged into that of the
A.P.A., which owns all. or nearly all, the
former co.’s scrip. The transaction was
thus largely a matter of book-keeping; still
it was the chief factor affecting movements
in the 1928 figures. The tangible assets
taken over enabled the A.P.A. to add
£497,017 —being the liability under policies
taken over at the .date of transfer—to its
life fund, and £19,759 to other reserves. The
idea behind the fusion of the two businesses
was to further reduce overhead.
Another feature of the new board’s activi-
ties is that the interests of policy-holders
have been put right in the foreground.
Recently the method of valuation was altered
from a 4 p.c. modified Sprague to a 4 p.c.
net premium basis. That means that bigger
reserves will be called for, and, therefore,
better protection offered to policy-holders,
though shareholders will have to forego some-
thing to begin with. Other circumstances are
helping. Last year, for instance, the co.’s
investments turned in 6.9 p.c. on the mean
life fund as against 6.2 p.c. for the year
before. This wide margin between actual
and assumed earnings is an encouraging
feature in respect of future profits. The life
fund, by tli.e way, had the assistance of
£351.150 of share capital and £61,394 of
sundry reserves at Sept. 30.
The year’s excess of income over outgo
was £245,586 in the Ordinary and £9183 in
the Accident branch; a total of £254,769.
The growth in liabilities under policies was
£148,438, thus leaving £106.331 available
for distribution as against £171,314 at the
previous balance. Notwithstanding the
shrinkage, £50,736, or £7695 more than for
the preceding year, was distributed amongst
policy-holders as bonuses. These ranged
from 10s. p.c. on child endowment to £2 10s.
p.c. on whole-of-life policies 15 years or more
in force. A further £SOOO was added to the
special actuarial reserves in respect of L.C.A.
policies, and £40,061 was struck off the
book value of mortgages, etc., to cover antici-
pated losses. Shareholders’ div. was cut back
from 5 p.c. to 24 p.c., and that called for
only £8595.
.One unfortunate consequence of the re-
clamations of a few years ago was a heavy
falling off in the volume of new business
What happened in this and some other
respects is seen in the next comparison :
„ 1926. 1928. 1929.
Sum assured .. £1,356,663 £588,149 £559,292
First premiums .. 42,884 16,894 14,459
Renewal premiums .. 234,961 282,884 286 706
Interest, etc. . . 68,410 116,676 141,385
Claims .. .. ' 51,156 80,749 94,868
Lxes - -- -- 111,628 83,497 102,096
Last year's new assurances were less than
rnu lf thoa aunt m ’ unt put on the books in 1926.
4 he average premium per cent, was £3 Bs. Bd.
as against £3 19s. lOd. three years ago, which
probably means that more whole-of-life busi-
ness is now being written. There has been
\ heavier crop of surrenders than there
should have been —claims on that account
were £26,992 as against £9907 in 1926. Appa-
rently _ many policy-holders have not yet
recognised that their interests are now receiv-
ing much more care and attention than they
used to. Surrenders and lapses are definite
losses to policy-holders, and do the co*. no good.
The board’s difficulties again show up in
new business costs. Assuming that first pre-
miums are 10 times more expensive than
renewals, then last year’s new policies cost
200 p.c. compared with 185, 162 and 168 p.c.
back to 1926. Over the same period the
proportion of exes, to net premiums was 33.9.
-A.B, 32. Sand 40.1 p.c. The sudden leap
in last year’s ratios was mainly due to taxa-
tion, both Federal and State Governments
having decided to levy on the investment in-
come of life offices. The A.P.A. set aside
£17,000 to meet the bill when it arrives.
In the Accident branch an additional £2oß°
premiums was gathered at an extra cost
uf, Tl7Bl. Total figures were: Premiums,
£33,484; exes, £9807. Claims (£14,494)
were £530 lighter. Thus the surplus (£9183)
was £B3l better. Exes, took 29.2 p.c. of the
premiums compared with 25.5, 46.3 and 48.4
p.c. for the three preceding years.
The extent to which the margin of pro-
tection for policy-holders has been widened,
and the backing for the scrip has been
strengthened, is seen in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures :
„ 1926. 1928. 1929.
Public securities.. £639,474 £971,892 £1,015 692
Mortgages . . 521,155 683,807 668,744
Loans oil policies,
„ etc 35,234 50,010 88,400
Book debts, cash,
• etc 102,911 153,361 178,073
Equipment .. 16,302 14,893 14,642
Properties .. 198,270 372,313 413,483
Shares in other
cos 71,172 119,981 220,433
Tangible assets. . £1,584,518 £2,366,257 £2,599,467
Sundry creditors. . 318,151 117,203 133,568
Net tangibles .. £1,266,367 £2,249,054 £2,465,899
Assurance fund . . 1,195,112 2,008,973 2,213,980
Paid capital .. 339,046 339,046 351,150
At Sept. 30 the net tangibles exceeded the
liability under policies by £251,919; the
improvement has been £150,664 in the last
three years. Thus the backing for the 10s.
shares has advanced from 2s. Id. at the close-
of accounts in 1926 to 7s. Id. at Sept. 30.
The growth in the premises item is due to
alterations, now nearing completion, to the
Ij C.A. building in Melbourne, and to the pur-
chase of a freehold in Perth, where new
premises are to be built.
Of the £220,433 at which shares in other
cos. appear, £142,421 is on account of bank,
insurance and industrial stocks; the other
£78,012 represents L.C.A. scrip, but the figure
is more’ than offset by the purchase and
adjustment accounts (together £78,667),
which appear as a creditor item on the other
side of the sheet.
The A.P.A. is making a commendable effort
to. rehabilitate, itself, and its prospects of
doing more in that way are distinctly
bright. The iryestment market, which was
over-eager in its anticipations, lengthened its
offer for the scrip from 6s. 6d. a year ago
to 13s. 9d. in Sept, last; since then there
has been a sharp drop to Bs. 6d. At that
figure the return is a shade under 6 p c. on
a 5 p.c. div. basis. At that the shares d<
not seem to be over-valued.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing.
. . To Re- Nominal
kept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 14,724 10 p.c. 3: 11,510 3,214 29,457
1920.. 15,721 10 „ „ 12,500 3,221 32,678
1921.. 13,089 8 „ „ 10,000 3,089 35,767
1922.. 18,183 12 „ ~ 16,983 1,200 36,967
1923.. 24,155 12 J „ „ 18,750 5,405 42,372
1924.. 26,228 15 „ ~ 23,853 2,375 44,747
1925.. 36,620 17* „ „ 33,162 3,458 48,205
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 . . 23,205
1926.. 44,813 17* p.c. =: 39,404 5,409 28,614
1927.. 54,548 17* „ „ 46,294 8,254 36,868
1928.. 29,972 10 „ „ 29,063 909 37 777
1929.. 51,511 12* „ „ 39,488 12,023 49,800
There was a drop of over £82,000 in turn-
over for the 12 months to the close of
accounts in 1928; also during that period
keen competition, price-cutting and the set-
back due to shipping hold-ups ate into earn-
ings, so the net result w T as written at not
much better than half the previous year’s
record figure, and 71 points were lopped
oil’ the year’s distribution, reducing it to
10 p.c. During the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts, £52,000 of the lost turn-
over was recovered, competition had less of
an edge on it, and industrial troubles were
not so obtrusive in the co.’s affairs. The
result, which is seen in the last line of the
following comparison of p. and 1. figures,
was a surprisingly good one for a period
crowded with difficulties for most traders:—
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1913 .. £36,848 £21,832 £2.293
1915 .. 44,164 28,601 2,246
1920 .. 65,811 44,256 5,833
1925 .. 123,648 75,728 11,643
1926 . . 147,391 90,437 12,311
1927 .. 173,464 105,773 13,176
1928 . . 150,044 107,619 12,544
1929 . . 180,982 114,990 14,625
The spring in gross profits was £30,938, and
exes, took only £7371 of the increase; but
an extra £2OBI was visibly struck off fixed
assets. Thus, including a small unexplained
addition to reserves, the final figure bene-
fited by £21,539, reaching 16.3 p.c. on aver-
age capital compared with 10.3, 20.6 and
19.9 p.c. for the three preceding years. So a
6d. bonus was sent out with the final div.,
making 124 p.c. for the year, and that called
for a bit more than three-quarters of the
admitted net earnings.
Present co. took over a proprietary of the
same name at Richmond (Vic.) in 1910 for
£IOO,OOO in scrip, including an unspecified
amount for goodwill. . This intangible is still
lumped with all fixed assets in one untidy
entry; hence reserves in the table are de-
scribed as nominal. The business moved
along steadily until 1919, paying from 7i
p.c. to 10 p.c. Then the management set to
work with extraordinary vigor to increase
the turnover, and some splendid results were
achieved.
Over the past decade paid capital has
advanced from £125,000 to £325,000 by par
issues, including £25,000 of bonus scrip dis-
tributed in 1925. During the same period
net profits aggregating £314,840, were de-
clared, and 85.6 p.c. of them have been dis-
tributed in divs., averaging 13-J p.c. p.a.
Thus, after 19 years’ trading, visible reserves
amounting to only 3s. had been accumulated
to assist each £1 of paid capital at Sept. 30.
On the' other hand, assets are claimed to be
conservatively valued; that is to say, there
are inner as well as visible reserves. Since
1919 £75,448 has been visibly struck off
plant, etc., and then the book value of fixed
assets increased £154,263 over the same
period. Thus far the figures have raised no
doubt about these values; indeed, the sur-
prising feature is that such profitable employ-
ment was so quickly found for so much new
capital.
Much of the co.’s success has been due to
the support given by Moran and Cato, Ltd.,
an energetic inter-State firm of retailers,
whose system of chain stores has helped
greatly in winning a market for the co.’s
products. Also, of recent years the manage-
ment has built up an export trade, and that
has helped, too. Nevertheless, so long as the
board’s policy of distributing profits as they
are made continues, divs. are likely to be
up and down according to fluctuations in
trading conditions.
The co.’s activities, and other things, are
further reflected in the next comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1921. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Capital ~ £125,000 £250,000 £300,000 £325,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 64,105 53,905 187,455 102,341
Property, plant
and goodwill 79,958 153,067 218,933 219,314
Stock- .. . . 92,839 87,987 232,902 198,379
Debtors and
bills . . 55,813 100,783 102,317 98,771
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 6,263 30,086 144 166
Finances are comfortable. At Sept 30 the
more or less liquid surplus (£194,975, in-
cluding stocks) was £47,067 stronger than
at the previous balance. Stocks, which had
accumulated owing to industrial and other
troubles, were worked down £34,523 during
the year. That, the £25,000 of fresh capital
got in and the year’s surplus earnings enabled
the board to wipe £67,558 off the overdraft
(£1823), lighten the amount coming to de-
positors (£63,382) by £16,382, and snip
£1174 off the trade debt (£37,136). Though
anew factory for handling tomatoes is near-
ing completion at Windsor (N.S.W.), and:
another is being built at Adelaide for the
manufacture of pickles, and further exten-
sions are being made to the Richmond (Vic.)
plant, only £3Bl more than was written off
was spent on fixed assets last year. But
to see the new jobs to completion sharehold-
ers will presently be asked for more. The
amount has not yet been announced, but the
scrip will be offered at par.
The market, impressed by the co.’s per-
formances and its strong connections, paid
525. for the pound shares two years ago, but
after the events of 1928 revised its estimate
to 445., and, being very uncertain about the
future, now offers 31s. 6d. At that figure
the immediate return is 7.8 p.c. on a 124 p c.
div. basis.
R. Fowler, Ltd., (Sydney).
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 18,437 4000 8 p.c. = 16,631 16,136
Establishment exes, new factory, £ 1793.. 14,343
1928.. 3,258 4000 Nil 13,601
1929.. 8,779 4000 Nil- 4779 18,380
This co., which is in the brick and tile
and pottery trade, has failed to live up to
original expectations. When it took over the
old-established business of R. Fowler in 1919
trouble with, a Dressier kiln affected profits
for a while ; nevertheless the business con-
tinued to develop, and earnings reached their
peak in 1924,' when the £23,296 netted was
11.7 p.c. on average capital and a 10 p.c.
div. was paid. After that competition in all
the co.’s lines sharpened; it became especially
severe in the pottery section, owing to a
flood from cheap-labor overseas countries.
But while prices had to be cut, this co.’s
costs continued on the up grade.
Profits, of course, showed the effects, and
two years ago an assault had to be made
upon the feeble reserves to give the ords.
8 p.c. Meanwhile £65,000 of fresh capital
had been got in to provide for additions to
the. co.’s tile works (Sydney) and the exten-
sion of tile business to Melbourne. Then,
following changes in the control, it was
decided that the allowance for depreciation
had been hitherto inadequate. That is to
say, some of what hgd been previously
claimed as profit hacS not been profit at all,
but really capital consumed in the process of
earning, income; so special provision was
made for its replacement out of earnings for
the 12. months to the close of accounts in
1928. Thus the net trading result for that
period contracted to £3258, and the ords.,
which had averaged 8.3 p.c. for the preceding
half-dozen years, were passed over.
Last year the co.’s Sydney turnover
livened, due largely to the continued build-
ing activity in the city and suburbs; the
£16,438,987 spent on new buildings and ex-
tensions within the metropolitan area
notched a fresh record, exceeding the 1928
figure by £338,811. That and savings in
overhead and prime costs, which are claimed
to have resulted from an overhaul of, the
organisation, are reflected by an improvement
on the previous year’s figures. Net earnings
on Sydney account (£12,830) were £8844
better. It was in Melbourne that the co.
met with its worst troubles; there business
was so slack that the new factory did not
get a start until the last quarter of the
term. The result was a loss of £4051 over
the whole period. Thus the final aggregate
profit figure was only £8779, and after hand-
ing the prefs. their “£4OOO the balance was
1.9 p.c. on the £250,000 of ord. capital.
Of course there was a lot of interest-bearing
money represented by new premises and
plant which have not had much of a chance
to show what they can do, but competition
continues keen, and seems likely to remain
so. Future results will largely depend upon
the efficiency of the plant, the extent to
which it can be kept' employed, whether the
allowance for depreciation proves to be
adequate, and upon the course of prices.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
1927. .1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £265,622 £290,'000 £290,000
Liabilities . . . . 52,263 79,817 93,666
Freehold and plant . . 223,743 260,287 261,904
Stocks 52,787 52,535 62,975
Sundry debtors . . 39,405 39,910 46,099
Shares in other cos. . . 33,252 ,35,486 35,486
Cash, etc. ‘ . . . 61 ,201 582
During the year £13,849 was added to the
amount owing to the bank and other credi-
tors. The money went mostly into stocks
(up £10,440) and book debts (up £6189) ;
there is a suggestion there that trading was
difficult. The more or less liquid surplus
(£15,990, excluding shares in other cos.,
but including stocks) was £3161 better than
at the previous balance. Obviously much
depends upon the figure at which stocks have
been taken into the sheet, and no hint is
given as to that or the condition of the
plant.
Most of the £35,486 at which shares in
other cos. appear represents the holding in
R. Fowler, Vianini, Ltd., the pipe-making
subsidiary which set up in 1924. Thus far
it has paid no divs.; last year it registered
a loss of £643, making the balance on the
wrong side of the p. and 1. account £2154 at
Sept. 30. Paid capital was then £42,507,
and there was £16,947 coming to sundry
creditors. Stocks, book debts, etc., totalled
£8792: fixed assets, £23,953; license, rights,
etc., £25,000.
A year ago the price for the ords. dropped
quickly from around par to 135., and has
since receded to 9s. At the latter figure
the return from a 5 p.c. div. would be a
shade over 11 p.c. The net asset backing,
including shares in other cos., is 21s. sd. per
share, all of it in plant, worth what it can
earn. The prefs., for which 245. was paid
12 months back, are now at 21s. 6d. The
return at that figure is 9.3 p.c. There are
40,000 of them carrying a cumulative 10
p.c. and having priority as to capital. Last
(Continued on page 16.)


iliil
I#.
c °UNti
£2% rSj
r*','** i
Z lpp Tfp
W m
f$ : ' v s
* r*
(Mf.
'
WHmm
In tobacconists’ windows everywhere,
you’ll see this sign, reminding you of the
better value cigarette whenever you go
to buy. It tells you all the facts at a
glance: 23 Cigarettes (3 more than the
usual 20) the ordinary price of 1/6
cork-tipped and packed in handsome tin.
The ct and better,” means just this:
Country Life’s tobacco is a new blend
of finer Virginian quite different from
anything you’ve ever smoked. You
certainly should try it.
Still
23
/or
also 15 farV'
and in tins of
50 and 100
COUNTRY LIFE
CORK TIPPED
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Made in Your Own Gantry at the Garden Factory -dlaleujh%rk ' by W.D. &- HO- Wills (Australia) L td.


WHAT WILL
1930 BE?
Are things going to
be bad?
How bad? /
What should the In-
vestor do?
Can he save himself?
If so, how?
In these uncertain
days every investor
even though it be only
in a life insurance
policy—owes it to him-
self and his family to
keep himself informed.
Let the “Wild Cat
Monthly” help you.
JANUARY NUMBER
READY ON FRIDAY
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
é
r
&
YG
L
009 RD &. S Oiy
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
*4
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Asents. 30 Clarence St..
Sy finer
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
mu 111
if- Get your
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ON i™
year’s profit was a little more than twice
their annual requirements, and the cover
amounts to £7 14s. 2d. in net assets, of
which only 7s. lid. is in surplus liquids.
Paul and Gray, Ltd.
Net To Reduce
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
& £,£>£>
1920 .. 32,279 10 p.c. = 17,5751
(6 mos.) Reserved for taxes, 6,000 !- 5,704 59,296
Employees’ bonus, 3.000 J
1921 .. 26,588 6i p.c. = 21,963 4,619 54,677
Loss. Added.
1922 .. 39,425 2} „ „ 8,787 48,212 102,889
Capital written off, £52,725 .. 50,164
Reserved for bad debts, 8,836 .. 59,000
1923 .. 2,966 Nil 2,966 61,966
1924 .. 4,674 Nil 4,674 66,640
Reserves.
Capital written off, £79,087.. .. 12,447
Reserved for bad debts, contingencies,
etc., £12,447 ..
Profit. Reduced.
1925 .. 11,830 Nil 11,830 11,830
Profit on sale of asset, £783.. .. 12,613
1926 . . 12,144 6 p.c. = 13,181 11,576
1927 .. 4,409 2 „ „ 4,394 15 11,591
Former years’ taxation, £2054 .. 9,537
1928 .. 5229 4 p.c. = 8,787 5,979
June,
1929 .. 3416 Nil 3,416 9,395
For the 12 months to Dec., 1928, the p. and
1. figures of this ship-chandlery and hardware
co. showed a slight improvement; prospects
were believed to have brightened, and, thus
encouraged, the board was prompted to hand
out a 4 p.c. div., though it called for £3558
more than the year’s net profit. During the
next six months there was further slight
improvement, but the £3416 netted was at
the rate of only 3.1 p.c. p.a. on paid capital;
and the financial position slipped a little.
So, as the future is very uncertain, for
the fourth time since 1922 no dividend was
paid. Shareholders have averaged only
2.4 p.c. over the last 8J years.
Because of much increased shipping
activities in the West, the co. opened a
branch at Fremantle in August, 1928; mean-
while the management set about strength-
ening the weaker parts of the co.’s organi-
sation in the various States. The Brisbane
branch, as a result, is said to have shown
material improvement, but at Newcastle
trade is still severely depressed owing to the
coal trouble.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
1924. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities . . £153,765 £138,426 £137,038 £144,864
Premises,
plant, etc... 143,797 126,140 127,254 127,769
Stock . . 193,601 209,392 198,037 203,202
Book debts.. 45,959 38,907 50,809 45,704
Cash, etc. . . 2,931 1,611 1,341 3,137
Stocks (£203,202, up £5165) are the danger-
point, especially in these days of uncer-
tain values. They are so large, and
profit margins are so small, that results
must remain very sensitive to any fluctua-
tion in prices. Nothing is said as to the
basis upon which stocks have been taken into
the sheet, but it ia obvious that whether a
profit or a loss is to be shown will depend
largely on the value placed upon stocks.
It is hard to say whether the profits recently
claimed have been really earned; only the
future can decide that point. Certainly
the board was wise to pay no dividend in
respect of the last half-year. The outside
debt (£144,864) grew £7826 during the
term, while book debts (£45,704) are down
£5105. The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£107,179) was £5970 lower.
The tricky nature of the hardware trade
is shown by the co.’s history since 1920, when
the last and ill-judged bonus issue was made.
It was a period of hectic conditions, and
prospects looked so rosy that goodwill was
given a book value of £65,000 and practi-
cally everything else written up in order to
provide a three-for-four gift issue. Then
hardware prices began to plunge downward,
and in 1923 3s. per share was written off.
But it was not enough, and in 1925 a further
cut of 4s. 6d. per share was made, thus
enabling £12,000 to be reserved for bad
debts and contingencies, and goodwill to
be rubbed out of the accounts.
The market, which looks at the size of
the liabilities and the high figure at
which stocks appear, pays only 3s. 6d. _ or
thereabouts for the scrip. The backing
amounts to 13s. Id. per share, mostly in
stocks.'
Australian Securities, Ltd.
To
Reduce
June, Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes, £40,373.. .. 40,373
1927 10 842 5 p.c. = 8,338 2504 37,869
192817,684 7\ „ „ 14,823 2861 35,008
1929.. 19,913 7$ „ „ 15,611 4302 30,706
This discount and finance co. offered the
public 400,000 £1 shares in April, 1926.
It was originally intended to call the shares
to no more than 10s., and the contract with
the brokers allowed three years for selling
the scrip. But it was a boom period in the
motor and motor-finance business, and within
four months the whole issue had been placed.
The underwriting commission, which was 10
p.c. on the face value of the shares sold, ran
off with £40,000. Thus, when the shares had
been called to 10s., there was really only
about £160,000 0 f tangibles to earn dividends
for £200,000 of capital.
The popularity of time-payment methods
of financing the purchase of motor-cars,
pianos, and practically everything. else re-
sulted in a flood of new finance cos., and the
market was soon overcrowded. In the slump
which followed competition became acute,
and in order to keep their funds fully
employed some of the finance cos. accepted
paper which may later be found not to be
worth 20s. in the pound. In the circum-
stances Australian Securities has done well
to earn the profits shown in the table. A
year ago the chairman stated that by careful
selection of business and strict supervision
no losses had been incurred on advances;
and the “Wild Cat” is informed that that
experience continues. Of course, it is too
much to expect that the co. will always be
able to avoid losses, but the fact that it is
guarding against them, and has insurance
against bad debts, reduces the risks. Since
the beginning shareholders have averaged
6§ p.c. p.a., £4IOO has been transferred to
contingency reserves, and there is a general
reserve of £5567 as well. At June 30 last
the deficit on shareholders’ account amounted
to £30,706 net, or 13.5 p.c. on paid capital;
it is still a heavy load to carry.
It was partly because of this that the
directors in 1928 resolved to gradually call
up the remaining 10s. per share as oppor-
tunity for employment of the money offered,
and very little increase in overhead was
anticipated. At June 30 last 15s. had been
called up on the 396,265 shares issued,
making paid capital £227,392, up £29,259
during the term. There was still another
£69,806 to come in when the books closed.
The year’s net profit reached 9.6 p.c. on
average capital, as against 8.9 and 6.5 p.c.
in the two preceding years.
The extra capital got in during the year
enabled the co. to reduce the outside debt
(£50,439) by £16,275, and at the same time
put an extra £23,259 out on advance: —
1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £195,432 £198,133 £227,392
Deposits . . .. 17,650 2,646 31,666
Sundry creditors .. 23,764 64,068 18,773
Cash, advances, etc. .. 227,048 261,283 284,542
Fittings . . . . 610 679 619
Since the close of accounts another Is. per
share has come in, making the scrip paid to
12s. 6d. At June 30 the 11s. 6d. paids were
covered by net tangibles with a book value
just under 10s. per share. The 12s. 6d. paids
the market now prices at 7s. 6d.; at which
figure the -return is 12.5 p.c. on a 7i p.c.
div. basis.
Photomaton, Ltd.
Shareholders in this concern have lost
more than half their capital in a few months.
Headquarters are in Sydney, but the co.
registered in Melbourne on Dec. 8, 1928. It
bought from Photomaton Parent Corpora-
tion, Ltd., London —one of the Hatry group
—the rights in an automatic novelty which
takes half a dozen photos on a strip in 15
seconds and develops them in six minutes—
all for Is. 6d. Estimates based on English and
American figures put the Australian co.’s
net earnings at a minimum of £77,060 p.a.
from 40 machines averaging 200 strips per
day, and it was considered that over 100
machines could be profitably employed in the
Commonwealth. The scrip was soon placed,
and in April last notices appeared in the
daily press mentioning the co. as a poten-
tial money-spinner with an issued capital of
£IOO,OOO in ss. shares. It was also pointed
out that the English co.’s ss. shares had not
long since sold at 15s. 6d. on the London
Stock Exchange. Whatever the intention be-
hind all of this may have been, one immediate
result was to inflate the Australian co.’s
scrip to a premium of over 50 p.c. on the
local market. *
Then, only five months after this boost, the
co.’s books were balanced, but the accounts
were not presented until Christmas eve.
They claimed a net profit of only £239 for
the nine months to Sept. 30; but no allow-
ance had been made for depreciation of the
machines, so, actually, a loss had been in-
curred. Since the close of accounts out-
goings are said to have exceeded takings by
£177. It is, of course, now obvious that the
device has signally failed to attract the
public, and since the co.’s prospects of ever
being able to operate at a profit are ex-
tremely gloomy, the board is asking share-
holders to put the business into voluntary
liquidation.
At Sept. 30 the position was that the co.
owed £B9ll. To meet it there were deposits
(£27,798), cash (£2494) and book debts
(£10,070) totalling £40,362. Plant was
given a book value of £14,669, shares in
Photomaton (Vic.), Ltd., figured at £9OOO,
patent rights, etc., appeared at £43,012 and
establishment charges at £2107. Two things
stand out clearly from the figures: (1)
That the co. is over-capitalised, and (2) that
it has paid through the nose for the patent
rights and also for the machines. Assum-
ing that book debts were worth the figure at
which they appeared; surplus liquids were
equal to 6s. 3d. per pound of paid capital.
There was another 4s. 9d. per pound in the
combined book values of plant (2s. lid.) and
the Victorian co.’s scrip (Is. 10d.), but the
co. will be fortunate if it realises more than
a fraction of that figure.
The Victorian co. has a paid capital of
£50,000, and its experience has been similar
to the Sydney co.’s.
Adelong Gold Estates and Y-Water cos.
have exercised their option over the South
Comet lead-zinc mine, Dundas (Tas.). Since
the option was granted the bottom level has
been extended 264 ft., and is now 866 ft.
from the mouth of the adit. The shrink-
age in the length of the first lens from
175 ft. in the upper level to 70ft. in the bot-
tom has been a disappointment, but it is
the second lens on which the value of the
mine depends. In the lower level this second
lens was met with 770 ft. in, which is ver-
tically below the point of its commencement
in the upper level, where it runs for 345 ft.,
with a southerly dip. It is not intended to
spend any money on the mill until the
length and value of this lens has been
proved. Thus far, samples of the ore mined
have averaged 12 p.c. lead, 15 p.c. zinc and
Soz. silver. Provided sufficient tonnage is
available, this ore should pay, since it offers
no particular treatment difficulty and is not
as fine-grained as most Dundas ore.
* * * *
For the first time since that old Tas-
manian dividend producer, Pioneer Tin, set
the sluice-boxes running 30 years ago, the
co. lias had to acknowledge the knock. This
was due mainly to damage caused by the
disastrous floods earlier in the year, though
ground values were lower, and on top of it
all came the drop in tin prices. However,
the loss for the year to June 30 last was
only £2OBO, after allowing for- depreciation
and expenses on account of floods, which filled
the workings and submerged the electric
sluicing plant. This was out of commission
at the time of the report, but other plant
had been restored to normal at less cost
than was expected. By the middle of Janu-
ary the mine should be unwatered and the
electrical sluicing plant reconditioned. At
balanceing date Pioneer had £25,125 in sur-
plus liquids.
❖ ❖ ❖ jJ:
“Specker”; A good deal of interest has
been taken lately in Centralia mining pro*
positions. Tanami, a field now nearly 40
years old, has caught most of the limelight.
Two or three floats have been started in
London, notably those by T. E. Beckett and
Michael Terry. Many of the folk who can
only recall the days when Tanami was just
accessible by horse and camel transport—
with all the limitations that implies—do not
realise that modern conditions may put what
is undoubtedly a good field on a paying
basis; it was the heavy overhead which
settled the Tanami of long ago. To-day the
six-wheel motor-lorry, which has crisscrossed
Australia, promises a way out of the trans-
port difficulty for Tanami and isolated fields
like it. I am not backing any of the pro-
motion groups, but I am satisfied that Cen-
tralian and Nor’-Westralian fields which
weren’t worth consideration years ago be-
cause of their utter isolation are now likely
to prove their worth as reefing propositions.
* * * *
The lesson of the costly Central mine fire
has not been forgotten at Broken Hill. Zinc
Corporation is seeing to it that if an under-
ground fire cannot be prevented there shall
be a good chance of stopping it. Fireproof
doors and water curtains have been so placed
on each level that the fire area can be
quickly isolated, and the spraying of the
timbers with a coating of cement and sand
is calculated to make burning difficult,
besides acting as a wood preservative.
* * # *
Just back in Perth from a year’s hustling
in London, Claude de Bernales reckons that
when the money market becomes easy again
there should be plenty of capital available
for Westralian mining. Also he renews his
plea to the Federal Government to extend
to the gold-mining industry “a small measure
of the assistance and protection already
enjoyed by others.” With regard to Wilga
coal, Pilbara asbestos and Moonlight-Wiluna
gold, which were the main objects of his trip,
De Bernales says that a London crowd has
guaranteed the required capital, and imme-
diately moneys now tied up through finan-
cial stringency can be released, the equip-
ment and development of the ventures will
be proceeded with.
* - * =i= *
Some more deep boring is to be done by
the State Government at Ivalgoorlie (W.A.).
This time the drill will probe the extreme
north end of the field, and test country below
the old workings of the Hannans Star,
Golden Zone and Ivalgoorlie Star mines. A
lot of gold was won from the two first-men-
tioned shows, and for some years they were
worked as a side-line by the Great Boulder
Proprietary. Lately they have been rooted
and burrowed by parties of working miners.
è


Poverty
Point
DECEMBER AND JANUARY.
“Lond”: Mathcson Lang made a British
record for the queue to his “Jew Suss” first
night. The earliest comers camped at the
unreserved-seats door 30 hours before the
show! The management sent them out three
meals during tbe wait; but warmly denies
a suggestion that it paid them to come, as
an ad.
“T.P.”: I saw William Creswick (B.
18/12/’29) play Lear in Melbourne Bijou
nearly a half-century ago. His wickedest
daughter, forgetting her lines, omitted the
cue for the curse; but, suddenly remembering,
cheerily chipped in just as Lear vigorously
declaimed the frothiest bit. The grand old
tragedian—well over 70 —muttered sul-
phurous things not in any text, forgivable
in the circumstances, even though, at his
friend Bishop Moorliouse’s invitation, he did
read the Bible at Bisbopscourt to the
assembled Anglican clergy. The unco guid
of those days had their belief strengthened
that the broad-minded prelate was on the
road to everlasting woe, and told him so.
He didn’t lose any sleep over that. He held
that suffering congregations would benefit
ultimately—as they did. My own particular
parson took reading lessons from both George
Lupton and T. P. Hill, and afterwards ceased
snuffling, drawling and thumping.
“Santander” : “Nina Rosa,” one of the new
Shubert offerings in New York, is to have
Harriet Bennett in the leading role. The
announcement that Harriet is making “her
American debut” after successfully appearing
in Australia, Paris and London is a playful
comment on the inaccuracy of the Firm’s
press-agents. She was proclaimed loudly as
a Broadway star when she first came to the
Commonwealth. As a matter of fact, Broad-
way lias yet to know her and, I trust, appre-
ciate her as we have done.
“ Hangover” : As a patron of the “gods,”
I’d suggest that theatrical managers should
have acts performed as near as possible to
the centre of the stage. I missed 10 minutes
of a show altogether the other night because
that much of it took place at my end of the
stage. Does this help to_ explain some of
the popularity of the movies?
“Blum”: Points about “Journey’s End”
that go to explain why theatregoers find it
so refreshing, and why so many managers
urned it down with a heavy thud, are the
all-male cast —not even a vivandiere to
spoil the picture—and the failure of the
Demon Rum to make dints in the essential
strength of Captain Stanhope’s character. If
the play is picturised at Hollywood, I’m
willing to bet all Pitt-street to a peanut
that those two points will receive first
attention.
“C.T.H.”: In view of the poor support
won by the attempt to revive variety at Syd-
ney Palace, the Firm is unlikely to attempt
another revival inside 10 years. Before leav-
ing America for Maoriland, Harry Muller,
on the Firm’s behalf, cancelled acts total-
ling £20,000 in salaries.
“O. Kay” : Warner Bros, have just about
finished the Vitaphone production of “Isle
of Escape,” a version of Jack McLaren’s
novel. It is the .first all-talking production
made from a novel written by an Australian.
“Lond.”: London, which is only gradually
waking up to the fact that there is a
moving-picture public earlier than mid-day,
is trying to catch the a.m. lounger for the
regular theatre too. Hours, 11 to 1; prices,
“two and one”; plays, “old and new, but
mainly cheerful”; players, professionals,
mostly young, who are willing to be paid
by results. Name, the Morning Theatre.
“Windsor”: Just back from Adelaide after
a season with Bill Anderson, Lester Carey
died somewhat suddenly of pneumonia at
Melbourne Hospital. A quiet, retiring, like-
able chap, brimful of modesty, the stage was
the last thing he should have tackled,
although he was an excellent actor. He
figured notably in Randolph Bedford’s “The
Lady of the Pluckup” some years ago;
he had toured extensively with a travelling
dramatic show in India, and had played in
England. He had a decent singing voice,
too, and once figured on the same bill as
Caruso. Lester Carey’s father was a fine
actor also; he was a leading member of
Rignold’s company for years.
“Potch”: Gregan McMahon’s success
at Melbourne Palace recalls a memorable
voyage we made from Hong Kong to Sydney
many years ago in company with the Brough
Comedy Co., which had been touring the
so-called Far East. Robert Brough and his
wife and Emma Temple were aboard, and
Mr. and Mrs. Dartrey. The juniors of the
party were Leslie Victor, Percy Brough
(Robert’s cousin), Mario Majeroni and
Gregan McMahon. Bertram, the London
conjurer, then in his prime, was a jolly
fellow-passenger. The Broughs played most
of their best pieces, and we saw them in
“The Village Priest” at the Theatre Royal,
Hong Kong, where they were great favorites.
“E.EiW.”: Ellis Irving, who has just
packed his grip and boarded a gangway in
search of professional fame overseas, is an
Allan Wilkie discovery. He was Margaret
Bannerman’s juvenile lead here.
“O. Blin”: John Drinkwater, who called
on all his reserves of genius for, the writ-
ing of unsuccessful historical plays, is dole-
fully looking on the mounting bag of royal-
ties" derived from the comparative potboiler,
“Bird in Hand.” Drinkwater,, who takes a
serious view of his craft,composed “Bird
in Hand” as a souvenir of a mood
produced by a holiday in an old English inn.
He was pessimistic about the prospects of
the piece, and when London audiences gulped
down its sentiment with considerable gusto
he permitted himself a little highbrow per-
plexity about the state of the public taste.
What he must feel now about it I have no
means of knowing, but the piece has had
33 weeks at the Barrymore Theatre, New
York, with the takings averaging round
12,000 dollars a week. It is promised a full
run right over the current winter,
“Santander”: Noel Coward’s “The Queen
Was in the Parlor,” which is a mixture of
early Pinero and a French bedroom farce,
has had its baptism of criticism in San
Francisco. Pauline Frederick plays the part
of Nadya, the naughty and haphazard
Queen who openly spends a night with an
old lover before taking on an official spouse.
Another in the cast is Eily Malyon, well
remembered here for some neat etchings of
character under various managements. Eily
appears in the modest role of Miss Phipps,
but she succeeds in investing the spinster
with the sweet vinegariness of a virgin
soul.
“Verona” : Eilleen Sparkes, just now with
Leon Gordon at Melbourne Comedy in “The
Murder on the Second Floor,” is soon to
leave the stage for good. She is about to
say “I will” to L. A. Hooke, a Melbourne
man prominent in wireless. Eilleen was the
youthful heroine of many of Phillip Lytton’s
tent-show thrillers some years back—she was
the villainess in one of Norman Campbell’s
shockers, “In the Power of Sherlock Holmes”
—and showed a good deal of emotional force.
Afterwards she was in.the Taits’ “Turn to
the Bight” and other dramas. Latterly she
was with Moscoviteh, and has done a lot of
solid work under the Firm’s banner. She
is a Newcastle (N.S.W.) product.
“Francisco”: Found dead in a Melbourne
hotel the other day, John (“Porky”)
Kearns, vaudevillain. He first appeared
with Alfred Dampier in the old “Alec”
(afterwards H. M. Theatre), Melbourne, in
a panto, version of “Jack the Giant Killer,”
which Dampier perpetrated in 1891. Later
Kearns doubled up with Albert McKisson,
and the partnership lasted for many years.
The pair were well known on all Rickards
stages and on vaudeville circuits. “Porky”
last appeared at the Palace, Melbourne, in
last year’s “Mother Goose” panto.
“Ormond”: Died recently, at Melbourne
Homoeopathic Hospital, a mummer who was
the housemaids’ hero and the flappers’ fancy
for many years—John G. Patten. He began
with Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis as a semi-juvenile,
was Dan Barry’s leading man for years, and
was well known from Cairns to Camper-
down as Handsome Jack. Subsequently
he toured up and down Australia as Charles
Holloway’s leading man, what time Beattie
Holloway, now Mrs. Bob Greig, was Little
Willie-ing. Patten also played in several
city productions with George Rignold, was
in one of the early casts of “Two Little
Vagabonds” with the Firm, and played
important parts in other J. C. Williamson
shows. His luck changed in later years, and
his chances were few. He had more than
a year of hospital treatment before the end.
“Hamfat”: On the Friday before Christ-
mas only one legit, theatre in Sydney—the
Criterion —was open, which had not hap-
pened for more than 50 years. Even the
Cri. felt no particular need for extra ac-
commodation. Every year the ante-Christmas
period—a whole month of it —seems to
become more and more a time of theatrical
drought, when a night or so lost is a finan-
cial gain. The tendency is to close down
altogether for the black term.
“A.W.” (Rabaul) : E. Berkeley Ayris,
whose name figured, on Gregan McMahon pro-
grammes and who was in t repertory in
Perth and Sydney, has found the material
for a fine dramatic co., which has already
done well with “His Excellency the Gover-
nor” at Rabaul’s new theatre, the Regent.
The co. includes V. A. Garton, who has pro-
duced and played in Australia and Eng-
land ; J. E. Savage, who faced the music
in Ireland, India and Burma; Edgar Rod-
ger, whose stage work in South Africa
varied from East Lynne to opera ; Mrs. A.
E; Stoddart, a Tree pupil; and Mrs. T. H.
S. Allen, who did some amateur work in
Sydney. As the co. represents most States
of the Commonwealth, including the Federal
Capital Territory, and most other parts of
the world as well, it is cosmopolitan enough
even for a Territory which owns the League
of Nations as its ruler, particularly as for
the first show a Chinaman and a handful of
Kanakas helped to make the scenery, a Jap
sewed the stage-cloth, and the Church of
England collected the profits.
“Derry”: Percy Grainger, who has been
taking things easily since his marriage, com-
menced a series of recitals in U.S.A. about
the middle of November. His latest enthusi-
asm is for Bach, and the preludes and fugues
usher in each bill of fare. A new piece of
his own, an elaboration of an English folk-
tune, “The Hunter in his Career,” figures
on his latest programmes, and he continues
to introduce the “Londonderry Air” to thou-
sands of people in black-rimmed spectacles
who otherwise might never hear it.
“Dubug”: Ranter, left resting in Maori-
land, had got down to his last traybit and
badly wanted a quencher, when he hit on
the bright idea of putting the coin on the
railway line, so that a kindly train might
expand it to the size of a sprat. The train
arrived and passed, and the traybit could
not be found. Ranter looked after the dis-
appearing train. Then he smote his. breast.
“Like my luck,” he said, “to pick the
Dunedin express.”
“Aristophanes” : The Wall-street crash hit
Broadway hard. Bunches of plays finished
every week, and only Drinkwater’s “Bird in
Hand” and Sherriff’s “Journey’s End”
escaped. “Abraham Lincoln” closed down
after a week’s run, though it had splendid
notices. Noel Coward’s operetta, “Bitter
Sweet,” produced outside New York, is, on
latest dispatches, netting thousands.
“C.M.”: Another musicomedy is to set
sail in London under the Williamsonian
house-flag. This is “Blue Rose,” and as
“Mr. Cinders” hasn’t yet exhausted its man-
date at the Hippodrome, the Firm is think-
ing of hiring another theatre. With its own
shows running in Berlin and N’York and
most of its theatres closed in Australia,
J.C.W.’s enterprise in the Commonwealth
will soon be merely a side-line.
“Santander”: Oscar Asclie’s biography,
just issued in London, is full of piquant
comment on eminent actors, including him-
self. He alludes joyously to Tree, whose
production of “Henry VIII.,” compared with
that of Henry Irving, was like a litho.
beside an Old Master. He has the warmest
regard for Sir Frank Benson, who stocked
him up with wise saws on the art of acting,
and who, when he fell ill from typhoid, called
on the then immature Australian to take
over his part of Antonio in “Twelfth Night. ’
The most interesting chapter, however, deals
with Oscar’s financial vicissitudes, on which
he reveals the amiable philosophy of a spend-
thrift. He declares that once he actually
dossed on the Embankment, and on two or
three later occasions reached the other apex
when he could have dined off gold plate. He
made two fortunes out of “Kismet” and
“Chu Chin Chow,” and gaily dropped them
—without a word of regret.
MONEY TURNED AWAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Successful season? Well, my lqd, the night
we showed at Emu’s Nest
Though fraught with inconvenience was iu
its way one of the best.
The All-Star Combination Troupe was up
against it, I must own;
Art for Art’s sake got no reward, battle for
bread received a stone.
A churlish landlord (curse his tribe!), in
language coarse with venom stored,
Swearing he’d not be bilked, refused us credit
for his paltry hoard.
The low-born caitiff, quite unmoved (incred-
ible the sordid sin !),
Sat at the door the night we played and
took the cash as it came in.
The limit of effrontery; the boundary of
brazen hide!
Laddie, imagine our chagrin, our blasted
hopes, our wounded pride.
And yet it had its comic touch; a paradox,
I’m hound to say ;
For on that black and cheerless night money
was really turned away.
S.A.
BILL O’C.


• v.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
<1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(*>, In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sun; assured and no
j.jj 9 Asoociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(51 PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) .. “The New Moon”
Criterion (com. Saturday) .... “Journey’s End”
Palace ; “In the Next Room”
... Movies and Talkies
MELROURNE SHOWS FOR COMING' WEEK.
Royal “Turned Up”
New Comedy “Murder on the Second Floor”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
•
The show of last week in Melbourne was
staged within .sight and hearing of the
world’s busiest and noisiest intersection at -
•eleven o'clock in the morning. It was
the enthronement of the new archbishop.
Plain Frederick Waldegrave Head had to
be changed into Frederick Waldegrave Mel-
bourne. and precedent says that this is not
an enterprise as lightly to be entered upon
as the transformation of Antonio Macrio-
pulis, fishmonger, late of Athens, Greete,
into John Smith, of Lonsdale-street.
Curiously enough, ecclesiastical precedent
changes as rapidly as Parliamentary precedent
doesn’t, but luckily several enthronements
have occurred in England lately, so Precen-
tor Sherwood was able to obtain by mail
the very latest stage directions governing an
up-to-the-minute presentation. The proper
performance of the show entailed mainten-
ance of the genial fiction that the high func-
tionaries of the church were quire unaware
of Dr. Head’s arrival, although his austere
and intellectual visage beaming on his wel-
comers had already figured multitudinously
in the picture press, to the temporary exclu-
sion even of Vilma Banky’s.
Earlier in the day three processions of
ecclesiastical dignitaries, ranging from
bishops to choir boys, converged on St.
Paul’s, whose massive ports stood open to
receive them. When the triple snake in
white and scarlet raiment had accommodated
itself inside the stately fane, the carved
doors closed as if to withstand a siege, and
nobody remained outside except some curi-
ous onlookers and a garland of press photo-
graphers.
The Archbishop-elect, accompanied by his
chaplains, arrived on foot, and, producing a
small hammer, the shape of which, not un-
like a swizzle-stick, is as rigorously fixed
as that of the Speaker’s mace, rapped thrice
on the frowning portals. Whatever could
MIRIAM OSBORNE, in the funny Frith show at Sydney Opera
House.
be heard outside the cathedral, in the great
hush inside the building the summons was
plainly audible, even above the clicking of
camera-shutters.
The demand for admittance was only
acceded to after the Archbisliop-elect had de-
clared his determination to abide by the laws
that govern even archiepiscopal behavior.
Then the doors swung open in a blaze of
sunlight, revealing a small brisk figure richly
but reticently arrayed in the robes of his
prospective office. A black scarf, a black
hood and a chimere of the same sombre hue
were relieved by a purple cassock.
Dr. Cranswick, the aged Bishop of Gipps-
land, placed the crozier in the hands of the
new shepherd, and acknowledged him Metro-
politan of the province, the rest of the pro-
ceedings partaking of the character of an
ordinary church service, except for the read-
ing of the interminable articles,of associa-
tion and the taking of the oath to observe
all the laws concerning church affairs and
the amendments made and to be made
thereto.
In the evening, at the people’s reception
F‘. W. Melbourne addressed the largest reli-
gious gathering that has ever assembled in
Melbourne. For one of the few times in
its history the huge Exhibition Building had
the “House Full” notice up, the crowd being
estimated at over 14,000. The general im-
pression given by the new incumbent was
of a scholarly and capable mentality in
which _ the introvert qualities that tend to
mysticism are nicely balanced by an extra-
vert grasp of material considerations. Walde-
grave Melbourne lias a strong Irish ancestry,
and, as G. B. Shaw pointed out, contrary to
popular conception the Irish are a shrewd
and practical race, while the English are
incurable sentimentalists. Like the late
Harrington Lees, Archbishop Head has a
sense of humor, but while Lees was an in-
valuable showman whose ingratiating ways
were largely responsible for the present boom
in Anglicanism, his successor has no his-
trionic airs whatever. He told the oft-
repeated story of how he became convinced
of the heavenly origin of his summons to the
Antipodes with a simplicity touched with
sedate emotion which impressed even ( agnos-
tics present with the reality of his belief
in it.
No doubt with anHye to the numerous dis-
sensions that divide the local church, the
Archbishop humbly craved forbearance for
the mistakes he was bound to make, but
there is obviously plenty of self-confidence
behind the genuine profession of humility.
His troubles as the stage manager of the
most complicated show in Victoria are only
beginning, but he has had the encouragement
of a reception whose mass, weight and cor-
diality plainly surprised and overwhelmed
him.
* # *
In Frank Vosper’s amusing “Murder on
the Second Floor,” at Melbourne Comedy, a
dope runner with a delivery like a discharge
of machine-gun fire is found with a knife
sticking in his gizzard in a shabby Blooms-
bury boarding-house, and subsequently the
corpse of a maid with a sniffy nose and a
hayrick head of
hair falls out of a
drawing-room cup-
board, while a tall
Hindu with a voca-
bulary like the
ruins of the Oxford
Dictionary hovers
tall, menacing and
mysterious in the
offing, and a foolish
police inspector
chases wrong clues
while the hero dog-
gedly follows up
the right one.
Thus far the
piece resembles the
customary hokum-
drama ; but there
the similarity ends.
Vosper has treated
his hoary material
with uncommon
zest and humor. In
the first act the
hash-foundry is de-
picted in all its
prosy common-
placeness. Leon
Gordon is a bud-
din g playwright
who is in the
throes of composing
a highbrow drama.
H’is best girl, Mary
MacGregor, de-
sires him to acquire
fame and fortune
by writing a best-
seller according to
the right W alla-
cian traditions. He.
reluctantly con-
sents, the two step
out of the picture
and seat themselves
by the footlights,
and the humdrum
activities of the
boarding-house commence to develop sinister
characterictics. In the last act Gordon and
his girl step back into the frame, _ and the
establishment immediately assumes its week-
day aspect.
When The Bulletin saw the piece, the
violent contrasts were fully appreciated by
the audience, which thrilled at the mystery
sections and roared with laughter at the good-
humored satire. The cast is admirable. Ada
Reeve, in the biggest straight part of her
long career, takes to the role of the boarding-
house proprietress like a schoolboy to vaca-
tion. Gordon is inconspicuous but sound as
the playwright: Mary Macgregor is fresh and
vivacious as his sweetheart; Eilleen Sparkes
sniffs her way artistically through the part
of the slavey, and George Blunt, Eileen
Ogden, John Bedouin, Ashton .Tarry and
Frank Bradley vary their styles in accord-
ance with the author’s requirements wutk
admirable intelligence. Those who hold that
the legitimate stage hasn’t a kick left in it
are invited to inspect this offering.
* * *
“Mother Goose,” at Melb. King’s, goes
with the usual panto, gusto. Bert Ray is an
unusual phenomenon—a dame with some
jokes that this hardened panto-goer is almost
ready to swear are
new. At any rate,
they are new and
acceptable to his
juvenile audience.
Sadie Gale makes
an appealing flirta-
tious “boy,” but
the Silverbell of
Mary Gannon rings
with a note that is
somewhat har d.
Hector St. Clair
and Roye Rene are
the bad boys who
steal the goose, the
appearance of that
biped adding
another to the
famous repertoire
of stage animals
impersonated by the
talented William
lassan. The trans-
formation scene
under the billows is
a charming bit of
stage illusion,
which has nothing
to do with a goose
but a great deal to
do with a panto-
mime.
* H- *
The Melbourne
Philharmonics gave
their usual render-
ing of “The Mes-
siah” at the Town
Hall on Christmas
evening. Cohtralto
Adele McKay
showed much de-
velopment, and a
voice of undoubted
promise was re-
pealed when Robert
Nicholson intoned
the heavy bass role.
At the organ
veteran W. G.
Steele labored in a sea of difficulties. The
new instrument could not have been more
badly placed, even by an expert with a pre-
judice against the organ equal to an English-
man’s loathing of the bagpipes. The per-
former sits on a perch like unto the nest
of the esculent swallow set on a lonely sea-
cliff, and the r-everberations of the din
he makes must effectually prevent him
hearing the people he is supposed to be
accompanying. The mirror in which he has
to watch the baton qf the conductor is so
placed that only an organist with his' head
set at right angles to his body could use it
with comfort. The University Symphony
Orchestra provided support, and Percy Code
an obbligato on the trumpet.
# * *
The Malvern Choral Society put on one of
the Christmas performances of “The Messiah”
with the help of Melbourne Symphony
orchestra. The Governor and Lady Somers,
being inhabitants of the suburb, were
among those present. They arrived so
much to. the minute that the stage was not
set for the “God Save,” and musicians had to
be hurriedly summoned while the audience
waited. When the Anthem was raised by
choristers and orchestra it was a glorified
edition by Elgar having a first airing in
Australia. The dignified setting merits re-
gular usage.
* * #
“In the Next Room,” at Sydney Palace, is
a typical Starr turn. In it Miss Muriel
is as serious as ever and uses her pleasing
voice with the full elocutionary vigor of
yore. It is a mystery show, full of murder
and lowered lights and attempts to focus sus-
picion on the wrong laddie. Miss Starr has a
good supporting company, which includes
Mayne Lynton, Reginald Newson, Basil
Arnold and Sadie Bedford. The show arrived
on Boxing Day, after the usual ante-Christ-
mas slump, which doubtless accounted partly
for its drawing good business from the start.
But some of the credit must lie with Miss
Starr’s personal pull over Sydney audiences,
for it is a year or two since the Palace did
any business worth mentioning, and it was
the Starr who did it then. The show is
good of its kind. It has some humor in it
and doesn’t send its observers off brooding
upon the world’s wrongs.
¥ * *
Sydney Fullers re-opened, after re-con-
ditioning, on Boxing Night, and burst upon
its patrons with all the dazzling effulgence
of an elderly barmaid Who has had her face
lifted. Ernest Lotinga, who is presenting a
season of comedy drama, is an English
comedian of considerable talent, but with an
inclination to chase all the jokes himself.
* H- *
The latest recruit to Sydney’s legion of
non-professional barnstormers are the Austral
Players, aiming to cater for those who are
repelled by ultra-modernism on the stage,
especially plays of the expressionistic sex
type. The Players have the support of the
Catholic community and Archbishop Kelly
is reported to have given them his blessing.
GLADYS KENNE, a, striking success ; in the name part of
“Everyman,” staged by the Melbourne Student Theatre
Society.
Their first effort, Jerome K. Jerome’s “The
Celebrity,” staged at the Savoy, is a
hupiorously clever play of the type that
pleases those who go to the theatre for a
sedative. It is concerned with the adven-
tures of John Parable, a lecturer and author
whose bee in the bonnet is social reform.
For a decade and a half he has devoted him-
self seriously to the cause; until one even-
ing, seated on a park bench, he finds him-
self talking with a presentable and vaguely
familiar damsel.: Her femininity induces him
to break an important lecture engagement
and to go instead to a dance. The morning-
after feeling is accentuated when he learns
that his night-before colleague in giddiness is
his cook. The competent cast included
Harold Fraser, particularly good in dis-
play of agitation; Nora Stapleton, Arthur
O’Keefe, Millie Finn and Jessie McNamara.
* * *
George Marlow does his best and a bit
more for the youngsters with his “Babes in
the Wood” panto, at Sydney Opera House,
which theatre has lately had a shave and a
haircut and looks almost magnificent enough
to afford a corps of the Dismounted Pos-
tilions. When The Bulletin looked in last
week Marlow was repeating a curious
theatric idiosyncrasy which the Empire dis-
aster might have taught him to avoid. He
apparently cannot curb his generosity, and
his “Babes in the Wood,” like his “Clowns
in Clover” and other Empire offerings,
could be made into two very full shows with
little stretching. That generosity is, how-
ever, the only fault any normal taste could
find with the panto. It is colorful, brisk and
honest youngster fare, with an inset circus
thrown in, not to mention a menagerie and
Robin Hood and all the other leading charac-
ters of the original story.
* * *
Christmas Day shows in Adelaide were,
like those of other days lately, a matter of
pictures only. All opened at 1.30. In the
open-air Gardens Theatre, Paul Warton’s
“Frivolities” gave a jolly evening turn which
has more acrobatic variety in it that most
of its song-and-dance kind.
* * *
Nellie Bramley having vacated Brisbane
Royal, Fergus Gordon, Ltd., has taken over
that theatre, opening with an American
effort, “Her Great Adventure.” If the
standard is held, Brisbane theatregoers
should have nothing to complain about.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub*
lie P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers* Compensation,
etc., et-
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
è
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES <a DUNN,
Write for Catalogue B.
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
5>2 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0. )
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address:. “Fifmac,”
Sydney.
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
OPENING REMARKS.
“I call ’pon ’ee to give this young man a good ’earin’, and I warn they young fellers
in back seats beyond that if any of they tomattas hit me ’stead of ’e there’ll be
trouble.”
“5898” : A widely travelled individual was
“Squeaker,” who occupied the next bed to
me in Harefield Hospital in 1917. Camoo-
weal, Baddaginnie, Darwin, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, Gundagai, all had been honored
by visits from him at one time or another.
The boys in the ward used to fill in the time
between dressings, quacks’ visits, meals, etc.,
by trying to find some place where
“Squeaker” had not been, but it took an
English V.A.D. to break the spell She had
friends in Australia and turning to
“Squeaker” said sweetly, “Tell me, have you
ever been in Adelaide?” “Gorstruth!” was
the reply in outraged tones. “Do yer think
a flamin’ man is Burke and Wills?”
* * * *
“Dr. Nil”: “Ike Newton” (B. 11/12/’29)
is right with regard to the increased ratio of
air resistance enabling small
animals to fall without hurt-
ing themselves. But 1 believe
that the most important fac-
tor is that there is also a
difference in the ratio of
breaking strain. A small
glass rod may fall on a soft
surface from a height of many
feet without breaking; but if
a glass rod of the same pro-
portions but a hundred times
the weight were dropped from
the same height on any sort
of surface it would fly into
many pieces. A mouse is
made of the same materials
and in much the same propor-
tions as an elephant; but be-
fore an elephant could, like a mouse, fall
a hundred times his own height and get off
with a few bruises, he’d have to be re-made
of phosphor bronze.
* * *
“Eureka”: The boss had a severe head-
ache, and the noise that the abo. children
were making was getting on his nerves.
“Can’t you keep those children quiet,
Jacky?” he asked. Jacky grinned. “Those
children very stubborn, Boss; I can’t keep
’em quiet at all unless I let ’em make a
plurry noise.”
* * * *
“Merris”: There are only three subscri-
bers on the exchange at Grassfire. and I
was staying with Number One. When I
rang up Number Three for my hostess, the
postmistress seemed peeved. “You’ll ’ave to
wait a bit,” she said. “I’m jest orf down to the
paddock with father’s dinner, and ’e’s that
put out if it’s cold.” Twenty minutes later
she rang to say I could ’ave Mrs. Brown
now, but when I cried “Hallo” the dulcet
voice of Miss Smithson assured me that it
was not Mrs. Brown, and then the post-
mistress chimed in aggrievedly. “I was that
flustered with ’urrying,” she declared* “I’ve
gone and given you the wrong number.”
“F.A.W.”: I had just paid my account
at the local store, and after vainly protest-
ing that I had not purchased more than about
a half of the stuff debited to me, was walking
out in disgust when I came upon Alister Fitz-
NO ESCAPING THEM.
IKEY: “Dere isn’t a place in der uorld vhere you von’t find my people—Levis or Cohens
or Blumsteins.”
SANDY (after thoughtful pause): “What about the North Pole, eh?”
IKEY: “Veil, yes, arid don’t you find der Icebergs dere?”
roy seated on the step holding his head
between his hands and looking very de-
jected. Alister Fitzroy had apparently paid
a bill, too. I inquired the cause of his woe.
“I was just thinking,” he drawled, “that
if a something man had a something store
and six something customers, in six some-
thing months lied make six something for-
tuncs * ' 0 0
((r , i , ~ . . ... .
Golub ; The goanna is terrible when
roused. Luckily h e very seldom is properly
wound up There s a case on record of an
old man being attacked and badly injuied.
ft. happened in the Filliga (N.S.W.) dis-
trict 16 years ago. The victim, who was
burnmg-off dead timber in a large paddock,
disturbed a monster go nearly six feet m
ength, which moved off a few yards and
uphfted head stopped to ,gx him
with the basilisk glare of its kind. Picking
up a s ick he threw it at the go., where-
H,? on A le , lat^ r instantly rushed at him.
The old chap tinned to run, but the reptile
overtook him, and, climbing up his back,
clawed at his shoulder until the flesh was
torn off in strips. The old fellow shook the
creature off at last, and it vanished in the
scrub, its fury spent. The wounds never
DroDerlv healed.
* 0 0 0
“Kel P.”: It’s nearly a s hard to kill a
killer kelpie as to cure him of killing. My
brute’s tally had risen to four or five sheep
when I decided to do something drastic. The
advice of one of the station-hands was to
“put his head under water three times and
only bring it up twice.” So I marched the
animal over to the water-barrel and slammed
a bag of wheat over the top to keep him
under. On returning next morning to haul
out his carcase I found a rather bloated
dog sleeping peacefully on the bottom of the
empty barrel—he had drunk the contents,
But he wasn’t bullet-proof.
* * * *
“Todore”: A miner in the Cooktown
(N.Q.) district got up a raffle in which the
prize was his wife. Tickets were sold at
£3 each, and a roaring trade was done in
them, over 100 being disposed of in less than
two days. The winner was a half-caste
Chinese, and the drawing was declared ultra
vires and infra dig, and a new one held in
its place. This time the lady was won by a
Norwegian, and everybody was satisfied
except the Celestial, who didn’t even get his
money back.
* * * *
“Fana”: The first lost wanderer in the
arid regions of Australia who attracted
notice to his plight by cutting a telegraph
wire was a man named Stanley, who in
1880 stranded himself in the desert country
to the north of Fowler’s Bay (S.A.). When
he came to the overland line he had just
sufficient strength to climb a pole and break
the wire, after which he collapsed, having
been without food or water for three days,
Some hours later he was found by the
repair gang-and. taken into Fowler’s Bay,
where he spent a week in the local hospital
and a month in the local gaol for “damaging
post-office property.” He would have served
three months, to which he was sentenced, but
the Attorney-General, after weighing the
pros and cons for four weeks, quashed the
conviction.
* * * *
“Wallabv” • As Bunsr had never been
k , to shouL it was agreed outsidi to
start a game t ’ trap him g It was verv
s j mple . No matter wh y at quest ion was asked,
you had to answer “Sixpence pays for it,”
the penalty for failure to give that reply
being the purchase of drinks all round. This
was explained to the publican, who, con-
fidenfc of his shrew dness, joined in. After
a roU nd of silly questions, each bringing
the response “Sixpence pays for it,” one of
the) party , turning suddenly to the publican,
said . « How much to sho :\ t for t he mob? »’
“Sixpence pays for it,” mechanically
answered the publican. “Is that right?” was
the follow-on, accompanied by the slapping
of sixpence on the bar . Bun / wass flus^e |
« That ain - t fair,” he pleaded, and then a
roar of laughter showed him that he’d fallen
into a neatly-prepared trap,
* * *
„~ „ .
. Gregor : Two-up is old—rpuch older than
Australia. It was played in Rome with
three bone discs, plain on one side and with
? spot on the other, the game having
been brought from Spain nearly a hundred
W* Chr - ist - i f n era ‘ Bu f deP-
b Li Sll i llar gam l e £ lst % d m
9*f® ce , having come there probably from
A wL Tu* he f- ame ™ as
t . cs v» Be-
\ „ c i°f e „ Imperial era in Rome
m E ? glan P d a
A Vn ag °’ fi? 6 game vams h e d from
the face of the earth-
* * * *
“The Hippdgryph”: When Sheepshanks
linked three of his stations by tree-and-fence
telephone, connection was made with the
Commonwealth Telegraph Service by a mes-
senger riding the mile between the nearest
Government office and an out-station hut
20 miles from the homestead. The first
announcement over the ’phone that a wire
had been received caused consternation • a
telegram in the Outback conjuring up nothin"
short of death or disaster The boss
wouldn’t hear of the out-station boundary-
rider opening the message and repeating it
over the ’phone; it might be confidential lie
said. The man was told to start up with
the wire on horseback while a man from the
homestead rode to meet him. A second man
|eft 15 minutes later with a fresh horse;
R was a 20-mile gallop. In the meantime
all was made ready at the station for the
boss to drive away at once wherever the
direful news called him. His town clothes
were packed ; his buggy yoked up, food for a
long journey prepared. The women stood
round in tears. Then, on a drooping, sweat-
caked horse the dusty messenger arrived—
with a telegram from a firm of stoek-and-
station agents giving latest market prices for
store sheep!
(Continued on next page .}
DROUGHT MONTHS AT CARNEY’S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When last we came this way, sleek, drowsy
horses
Vi aded knee-deep; by all the homestead
doors
The peachbloom blushed, and torrents in
their courses
Roamed the green countryside like
troubadours.
Now where is all that carolling and turning?
Where have the laughing, leaping waters
gone ?
Where’er we part the boughs the earth lies
burning,
Hot underfoot the sand and hot the
stone.
The grass is withered with the breath of
summer,
The air. is ravaged with the parrot’s cry;
Even the porcupine, the wee, shy drummer,
Is plaintive as he mumbles nightly by.
When last we came the black-stemmed
ferns lay dreaming,
In purple shadow, where the orchid sprays
In sunlight, like pale naiad-bodies gleaming,
Leaned to the sanded pool through hot
noondays.
But now the sun' goes down, resentful,
flaring;
All tarnished is Night’s Scimitar, the
moon;
And the last water-lilies, past all caring,
Faint on the surface of the warm lagoon.
Sweet spring has gone, with all her blossom-
blarneys,
Summer the tyrant starves the hill and
plain;
It seems that Life itself has died at
Carney’s,
Died at the pinnacle of long, deep pain!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
A good resolution: To buy at
PEAPES, where one enjoys
the results of CONCENTRA-
TION on men’s and boys’
needs—BETTER quality,
BETTER value, BETTER
service.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydneyo
as
. _ cV of the
excellence. 1 ope rate— due
S hand pumps to on er> hl ch
* double-actmg * upW ard and
draws in aiv a inner big
downward strobe^ does rest.
WILLIAM TURNER E „ s ,
Ey‘ u«« “
procurable i g o uses.
Will fully inflate the average motor tyre in
one minute.
/ THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
v Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain
write to our Factory ,
GP.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
\
is
m
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
ouy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
ltd.
Homebush Yards, or Esioggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
“El Dor”: The absolute topnotcli in abo.
art is a ringed gidya boomerang. They were
extremely rare even 50 years ago, and as far
as I know no Australian museum has a
specimen. Surviving pioneers in the district
back o' Bourke still rave over the exquisite
beauty of a weapon of this type that was
the most-prized possession of the king of
the Upper Warrego tribe. The king himself
was almost childish in his admiration of the
boomerang, which was only brought forth
at extra-special tribal functions, where it
was an object of awe and veneration.
* * * *
“Atherton”: While fossicking behind
Barrow Point, Cape York Peninsula, my
mate and I saw a huge old man ’roo sur-
rounded by a mob of 50 joeys. The unusual
family fed in a grassy plain overshadowed
by abrupt hills. The joeys constituted them-
selves sentinels for the old man, enveloping
him in a widespread circle as he fed. A
party of bucks which visited our camp
explained that at a recent successful ’roo
battue they had concentrated on slaughter-
ing the old ’roos and had let the youngsters
go. They assured us that it was quite usual
for a number of orphan ’roos to fasten on
to an old one for guidance and protection.
* * * *
“Frigid”: “Tomb” (B. 27/11/’29) is
wrong. It is white kurrajong, not black,
which provides material tor making “straw”
hats. Grey corkwood, mentioned by “Tomb”
as generally used for brake-blocks, is a
very rare timber, and ribbonwood is used
by more coachbuilders for this job.
$ H* sfc
“Victoria Downs”: To the old droving-
hand there is some interest in the widely-
broadcast news that the Canadian Govern-
ment is shifting 3000 reindeer purchased
from breeding companies in Alaska to the
head of the Mackenzie River, some 1500
miles south. The Canucks have been chuck-
ing a chest over the feat. All they are doing
is to bring along a lot of docile beasts
trained from time immemorial to shepherd-
age and association with human beings
through a country never failing in their
natural food and drink —they eat snow in
winter and never touch water in summer—
to another location where the same condi-
tions prevail. The reindeer of Alaska are
not indigenous; they were introduced years
ago by the American Government from
Scandinavia and have multiplied beyond
belief. No cattle save the wild musk-ox can
live in the Arctic wilds, and the reindeer
was introduced to supply beef and mutton
to the community. Their staple food is the
moss of the tundras, which is unfailing. The
chaps in charge will have no need to worry
about dry or grassless stages.
•!» H*
“Birre Gurra” : Warraba, one of the black-
boys on Jimbour station, from which Leich-
hardt and liis party started out on their
successful northern trip, had a very small
opinion of the explorer. When leaving
Jimbour Leichhardt was presented with
some station cattle for rations, and Warraba
and another nigger were sent out to give
the cattle a start and to stay with them until
they had quietened down. On the second
night out from the station Warraba was
watching the cattle after the others had gone
to their bunks. It was a calm moonlit
night, and the cattle were settling content-
edly, when Leichhardt, clad in a long, loose
nightgown, walked from his tent straight
towards the cattle. There was a snort and
a rattle, and away went the beef-ration,
headed for the crest of the Bunya Moun-
tains. When telling the tale in after years
Warraba shook his old head sadly. “Him
no bushman, that pfella,” he said.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” : Fitz de Fitz-Vere during
his frequent periods of financial stringency
patronised a Darling Harbor pub which
provided bread and cheese with drinks. One
day Fitz marched in and called for a pot,
and while the barmaid was “putting a head
on it,” he went after the bread and cheese.
Finding the dairy produce reduced to a mere
shell, he very politely suggested that Gwen-
doline should make good the deficiency, which
she, being horty-torty, flatly refused to do.
Fitz knew how to deal with such a situation.
He dropped his money back into his waist-
coat pocket, favored the lady with a most
courtly bow and remarking: “Very well,
mai deah, very well! No cheese —no beak.”
marched out, leaving the lady to contem-
plate the abandoned hop-juice.
* * * *
“Dr. Dipso” : I wonder how many of those
Abo.-liars who retail with schoolboyish zest
the wonderfully intoxicating effects of some
combination or sequence of mixed alcoholic
drinks have had first-hand experience of
DETERMINED.
Picture of a short-sighted Scotchman, who has been pertinaciously waiting in the bar
for two hours for the other chap to shout.
IF HE WERE KING!
“If you teas Mussolini, Bert, what’s the first thing you’d dof”
“Up’olster the blanky park seats.”
the subject, other than very confused recol-
lections of the mishaps of immaturity? The
only intoxicating constituent of un-doped
booze is alcohol; some of the other constitu-
ents, as in the case of highly-flavored bever-
ages, may intensify alcoholic nausea when
absorbed in bulk, but that’s all. After try-
ing every combination of booze I could get at,
I’ve come to the conclusion that the degree
of intoxication attained depends, entirely on
the amount of alcohol consumed, irrespec-
tive of how many different labels there may
have been on the bottles. That’s why old
soaks go for spirits or 1 cheap wines of
high alcoholic percentage, and desert these
for methylated spirit, which is still stronger,
when brandy, whisky or pinky refuses to
bite any longer. They haven’t any faith in
the fantastic combinations advertised by
gentlemen whose last jag was the time they
got sick over half a glass of Aunt Jemima’s
elderberry brew. -
* i\i * *
“Mr. Cato”: Dad, up for the Show, was
hit by a Sydney tram, and, being told there
was money in it, saw a solicitor. At one
of his conferences with his solicitor he was
introduced to a solemn young man, who set
about interrogating him as to how he had
sustained his accident. When the young
man had gone, Dad asked: “Who was that
skinny little bloke?” The solicitor said that
was the barrister who would conduct the
case in court, and added that he would be
paid a retainer of 15 guineas a day. “Fif-
teen guineas a day fer that little whipper-
snapper?” exclaimed Dad. “Can’t we swap
him fer a flamin’ good witness?”
* * * *
“3s” : As I entered a Chinese store in Sydney
to buy satin embroidered slippers, a vision
of exquisite loveliness suddenly appeared in
the arch of the doorway that screened off
the private apartments. A little Chinese
bride of 16 just arrived to wed the rich old
storekeeper, the attendant told me. Would I
care to speak to her and to see her dowry?
Her hair was circled with jade and gold
and her hands and wrists were ringed with
emeralds and turquoise. She wore a dress of
grey satin heavily embroidered with silver.
Taking me gently by the haftd she led me to
the room where her treasure reposed. Ten
sandalwood and camphor wood chests of it.
Nine with silk and satin suits, blue, grey,
black and ivory, all perfect, each in its
scented silk bag. One with jewellery—gold
rings and bracelets set with emeralds and
sapphires; ornaments for the hair set with
jade and beryl; clasps of rubies and turquoise.
The fat old Husband seemed pleased at my
admiration, and showed me the carved
ebony chairs in the living-room and. the great
red bed. And the little bride, who had never
seen her husband till she landed in Sydney,
seemed serenely happy.
* * * *
'‘Pick” : With edible wild plants in plenty,
there is no constant menu of corned bullock
and damper in the camp where the chef
knows the capacities of Bushland. Pat-hen
sprouts from every abandoned cultivation-
ground and on burnt bush areas. Prince
of Wales feather springs from old sheep folds
or cattle camps. Ground nettles flourish
healthily along the gutters or in the shelter
of logs and fences. Gathered young and
properly cooked each provides a pottage that
would have won the birthright from Esau.
When in springtime the sun lifts the snow
blankets spread over the Alpine regions, a
crisp, wild lettuce is exposed that grew
underneath during the rigors of the winter.
Almost every streamlet has its margin of
watercress, and tender sour grass may be
obtained from the fringe of every tableland
morass. A tasty salad can be made from
either. Yams grow in the moist gullies, wild
carrots on the plains and wild beans in the
upland hop-scrubs. Then, too, for dessert
there are the geebungs, five-corners, cape
gooseberries, wild raspberries and cherries,
abundant in almost every forest.
. jji J|C
“Brasher”: Nearest thing to a true ghost
yarn I know was first told at Wollomombi
(N.S.W.) 25 years ago. A lad of the village
conceived the brilliant idea of dressing him-
self up to represent a most gruesome type
of spook, with the intention of frightening
the eyebrows off a couple of girls, who,
returning from a dance, had to pass through
a dense clump of timber. About the time
the ladies were due to pass he seated himself
upon the end of a log and waited to spring
his surprise. The plot is here thickened by
the appearance of another young fellow,
who, having overheard the first gentleman
stating his intentions, dressed himself up in
an even more terrifying manner, and, follow-
ing ghost No. 1, succeeded in taking the
other end of the log unobserved. He said
nothing. Just sat there until the first ghost
looked round and saw him. Ghost No. 1
glanced round, caught one glimpse, and.
uttering the most bloodcurdling yells this
side of the Big Oven, took to the bush.
He spent the next six weeks in hospital.
THE SHREWDIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Thoro's this about old Ted,” said Jim,
“’E’s not a cove to skite,
But you can take wot comes from ’im
As pretty nearly right.
“’E looks at you with eyes 'arf shut
An’ sticks ’is big chin out.
’E mightn’t answer quickly, but
’E knows wot ’e’s about.
“Another bloke might yap an’ yap
Until ’is breath ran short,
But Ted is quite a diff’rent chap,
A mighty si-lent sort.
“Whoever asks ’im for advice
On any sorter thing,
’E’ll count to twenty once or twice
Before ’e ’as ’is fling.
“An’ then ’e nods an’ shakes ’is ’ead
ah’ never says a word.
There ain’t no doubt about old Ted:
’E is a knowin’ bird!”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


\
T-v* •*' r
. ' </ A S/ v#
•'A K i,-.
'MI W%r/i
•S
ill
-^V7Xt
Mm
NCW
CAP
SC
cw
t'-k
%
m
cS
PIE, SAFE
ECU RE
in;
<1 ah
SEALED UNDEf\, VACUUtVP
in
SOLD LABEL
u
OLD SCOTCH WHISWI
wnowu
b m
9
mwn
] ('
•m
m
-r,ri W -'fl]
xT
Kmonro
7
«
Vd
OOio
>
dyj, iih^y** a * r
a
? c P'rVA#to
%
i
mtitntxl ,n
I
I ,Q °Uc.
LL"« .r*»o
9C oti>* ••?;
r
rivyw
US
I
a
>A‘t
ss&i
II
I
n
HH
9
ii
&
I
sodi
■
0
m*
&jgp
is
ts
;■«*
tr<v
',r,;- .A.'V:
§A mr
1®
MB!
a
Vi' 1
hbn


PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
The Prizes (£25, £lO and £5) for the past half-year’s contributions
that have been judged most helpful to the man on the land will be
announced on January 29.
At the same time arrangements with regard to future prizes will be
published.
WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
►j. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
Sydney Grammar School.
Day and Boarding School for Boys.
Applications for prospectus or interview should be made,
by letter to the Head Master, as early as possible. New term
begins 4th February, 193 Q.
Special features are the Preparatory Form, for boys of
9 to 12, in its own self-contained building and grounds, and
the New School House, with excellent accommodation for
60 boarders
Early application is desirable.
Headmaster: H. S. DETTMANN, M.A., B.C.L.
Chairman oj Trustees: SIR MUNGO MacCALLUM, K.C.M.G., M.A.,
LLJD., D.Litt.
Victoria Means Variety
The stupendous panoramas of
BUFFALO and the placid, rippling
beauty of the GIPPSLAND LAKES —
The sandstone crags and peaks of the
GRAMPIANS and the sweet-smelling
charm of HEALESVILLE —
The thunder of surf along Victoria’s
gold and azure coastline, and the clean,
fresh winds, across the BOGONG
HIGH PLAINS.
ALL THESE AND A HUNDRED
AND ONE OTHER VARIED
DELIGHTS VICTORIA OFFERS
THE TOURIST.
•Ghe
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
Martin Place, Sydney,
will help you to make your choice.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
VARIATIONS IN WHEAT YIELD.
“Yeoman”: The tremendous difference in
the returns harvested by farmers emphasises
that the problem of success on the land is
not one of marketing, but is a question—in
the majority of cases—of increased produc-
tion. This conviction is abundantly eon-
firmed by the S.A. Government Statist’s
analysis of individual yields Secured by
wlieatgrowers in 1928-29, which is here sum-
marised.
Central Division: Rainfall, 12.54 in. (aver-
age, 16.46 in.) ; average yield, 11.74 bushels
per acre (mean average for last 5 years,
14.22 bushels). In this division 714 farmers
(17.33 p.c.) got 18 bushels or more per
acre, 84 reaped 27 bushels or more, while
12 farmers exceeded 33 bushels p.a.
Lower Northern: Rainfall, 8.58 in.
(12.75 in.) ; average yield 11.24 bushels
(15.89). Yields of 18 bushels or more were
obtained by 509 farmers (15.93 p.c.), and 33
growers exceeded 27 bushels p.a. The best
average crop was 36 bushels per acre.
Upper Northern: Rainfall, 5.20 in.
(9.47 in.) ; average yield, 6.34 bushels (10.61
bushels). Even in this division 84 farmers
(7.20 p.c.) reaped 18 bushels and over, and
15 had yields exceeding 27 bushels. The
best crops averaged 33 bushels.
Western (Mallee) : Rainfall, 7.05 in.
(11.34 in.) ; average yield 3.66 bushels (8.31
bushels) ; 89 farmers (4 p.c.) averaged 15
bushels and over; the best crop averaged
27 bushels.
Murray Mallee: Rainfall, 7.46 in. (10.89-
in.) ; average yield, 6.17 bushels (7.77
bushels) ; 126 farmers reaped 15 bushels or
more, the best average being 21 bushels.
South-Eastern: Rainfall, 19.18 in. (19.66-
in.) ; average' yield, 19.54 bushels (16.54
bushels) ; 296 farmers (56.38 p.c.), reaped
18 bushels and over and 33 averaged more
than 33 bushels. The best crop averaged
40 bushels per acre.
In short, drought conditions notwithstand-
ing, scores of farmers in every division
reaped payable crops.
GOOD RESULTS FROM NOONGAN
WHEAT.
“Wescocky” : Let me put in a good word
for a new Westralian variety of wheat,
Nqongan.
We bought our seed from a Government
experimental farm, and planted it on fal-
lowed heavy land —451 b. to the acre, and 701 b.
of super. In my opinion a little more super,
would have done no harm, while 401 b. of
seed would have been ample.
It was sown on May 1 and harvested
on October 24. Yield, 19 bushels to the acre
—and it is not a good year in our part
of Westralia, although there are fine crops
nearer the coast. We had 3in. of rain in
May, a very fair quantity in June and July,
about an inch in August, and no more until
the beginning of November, when 3in. fell
—too late, of course, for this crop.
BURN THE STUBBLE !
“Glenfield”: On two occasions portion of
my Vic. Mallee wheat-crop was infested
with caterpillars. Each time they started
in paddocks which had been grazed and the
stubble ploughed-in at fallowing time.
Another time I had a paddock of crop
almost wiped out with take-all. That pad-
dock previously had been grazed and the
stubble turned-in.
My decision is to burn the wheat stubbles
after a month’s grazing, and harrow immedi-
ately.
SUB.-CLOVER IN SNOAV COUNTRY.
“Arrub”: In the Western Monaro
(N.S.W.), at an altitude of over 3000 feet,
subterranean-clover grows well on the gran-
ite hills and slopes, but not on the flats,
probably because the soil is too heavy and
cold; it seems to prefer a sandy or gravel
soil, which is warmer.
This is in the snow country. Snow falls
every winter, lying for two or three days,
and in the drifts up to a week; the ground
is sometimes frozen all day. This last win-
ter it never thawed for a week. Sub-clover
under such conditions is at a standstill until
October, when, as soon as the frosts ease
off, it makes rapid growth up to Christmas
or later, depending on the season.
That Canadian (B. 11/12/’29) would be
well advised to obtain a few pounds and
experiment for himself.
“Hillside” : I have seen sub-clover growing
right up on Mts. Barrow and Lomond (Tas.),
and this last week I found it growing on
the highest cultivable land above Bright
(Vic.). This year I am going to try two
varieties right up on the Bogong high plains.
Pass along name and address of your Cana-
dian correspondent and I will send him a
trial sample of seed. (This The Bulletin
has done with thanks.)
CRIMSON CLOVER IN TASMANIA.
“Feeder” : I have grown this splendid crop
for years in Tasmania. We sow it in
February or March on well-prepared land
with the usual seeding of Algerian oats.
Sow the oats first with the drill in the
ordinary way, with usual amount of
super.; then sow the clover seed in the
husk, at the rate of about half a chaff-bag
to the acre.
We feed the oats off all the late autumn
and winter, and the clover gives a wealth of
feed from September to November; then if it
is shut up for a month it can be cut for hay.
Do not give it too much field room; two
days is plenty in warm weather —it can be
spoilt by letting it get too dry.
After it is carted in, keep the paddock
shut up for a second crop for seed. Let
it get very ripe and cut it with a mower.
Cart it to a tarpaulin in the field on a hot
day, thresh it with a flail, and bag up the
husks. The straw can be easily forked off.
A good man can thresh enough in a day to
sow 20 acres, and it does not matter if you
put a bag on to the acre., Give it a stroke
with the light harrows after sowing.
“Crimson” will grow on poorer ground
than either of the red clovers. It is a fine
crop for ploughing in, especially for potatoes,
hut in that case there must not be a symp-
tom of eel-worm in the district.
THE PALATABILITY OF GRASSES.
“Buckwong”: Having seen with surprise
in a recent Government publication a notice
derogatory to the grazing qualities of meadow
foxtail, I took a cruise through some Upper
Murray flats, where luxuriant growth and
very light stocking gave an opportunity to
check the preferences of fattening cattle
among a great number of introduced grasses.
My observations were to the following effect:
Paspalum dilitatum; Eaten into the
ground. White and subterranean clovers
and various common trefoils: From one to
three inches (apparently according to the
admixture of other herbage, the pure tre-
foils being always preferred). This was
the main diet of the stock. Meadow fox-
tail : Leaves eaten pretty bare; seed-stalks
avoided. This was the only grass touched
where growing in the shade. English rye
and prairie grasses: Considerably grazed
where intermingled with clovers; elsewhere
almost untbuched. Couch-grass: Somewhat
grazed where recently burned off; elsewhere
untouched.
Among the also-rans were cocksfoot and
Yorkshire fog (both untouched) ; sweet-
scented vernal grass (not only untouched,
but legumes growing amongst it also
avoided) and annuals other than trefoils
(untouched).
Among indigenous herbage, kangaroo grass
received some attention where recently
burned off; elsewhere only an odd mouthful
of young seed-stalks cropped. Wallaby and
windmill grasses were untouched, as also
were many minor native grasses, of which
I do not know tho names.
Next to English rye, Kentucky' blue grass
was the commonest introduced grass; it was
also, at the date of my examination—mid-
November —quite neglected, the more so from
its dense habit prohibiting the growth
of legumes through it. At- that time Pas-
palum distichum (swamp couch) was only
just struggling through the slime and sedges
of the swamps. In Jan., Feb. and March
this will be gnawed out more eagerly than
any other, native or introduced.
CAN SEX BE PRE-DETERMINED?
“Red Poll”: Some years ago, with the
object of testing a theory of sex-control in
stock-breeding, I commenced keeping a care-
ful record of a herd of pedigreed and grade
cows, showing the successive dates of ser-
vice, calving, sex of calf and other relevant
particulars. This record establishes con-
clusively that there is no connection between
the time of service and the sex of the calf,
but it also indicates certain determining
factors which may be employed to give a
measure of control.
It would appear that there is a ten-
dency on the part of each sex to reproduce
its opposite, and consequently the sex ot
the predominant parent is likely to be re-
versed in the offspring. This sex-predomin-
ance is partly an inherited trait peculiar
to the individual, as witness the remarkable
consistency of some bulls in begetting heifers
and of some cows in dropping bull calves,
but in average circumstances it is sub-
ject to a considerable measure of control.
Any condition which tends to lower the
vitality of the bull, whether it be overwork,
over-fatness or improper feeding, is likely to
result in an increased percentage of males.
My record shows that from 20 cows served
by a young Red Poll bull in the short space
of a few weeks the first seven calves were
all heifers while the last seven were all
bulls.
The breeder who aims at a large per-
centage of heifers should use only pedigreed
bulls of prepotent strains, and should spare
neither feed nor care in developing their
vitality to the utmost.
TREATING STABLE MANURE.
“P. Aitch”: In Europe the climate and
mode of farming necessitate the housing of
stock, and consequently the gathering of
stable manure is a daily duty. In the sub-
sequent handling continental economics
come into play; but let us only mention
transport. Australian charges are so high
in this respect that the value of the manure
does not permit much handling. To under-
take the Krantz process, as outlined by
“Yeoman” (B. 27/11/’29j, the farmer must
spend time and money. The value of stable
manure in pounds, shillings and pence in
Australia is mainly shillings and pence.
The work of Krantz on the hot fermenta-
tion process has not been confirmed. It
has been proved that stable manure made
by the Krantz process has less dry weight
and is not so rich in nitrogen as that pro-
duced by the cold process. Further, the
decomposition in the soil of Krantz stable
manure is slower and the crop yield slightly
lower than in the case of the cold fermented
product.
The best method of treating stable manure
in Australia is to dust a handful of super,
over every barrowload prior to dumping it
in the pit, to ferment in the cold how and
when it likes. Cart the stuff out into the
paddock when there is nothing else to do.
In any case, don’t make it dear humus!
SHEEP IN A DRY SPELL.
“Hortus”: What can the small sheep-
owner do in the way of getting ready for
a dry spell? He can plant shelter trees, for
one thing. These trees, besides giving
shade, prevent the grass from being sub-
jected to wholesale drying up by the wind
and sun. Different trees, of course, will be
required to suit different climatic conditions.
On this point the superintendent of the
Botanic Gardens in the capital city of each
State can be depended upon to give sound
advice. Other courses that lie open to the
small man are as follow :—-
(1) The laying-down of one or two pad-
docks with selected grasses suited to the dis-
trict. The Department of Agriculture will
cheerfully advise.
(2) The growing of fodder crops. If the
conditions are favorable cowpeas is a valu-
able summer crop, and it can be grown
in conjunction with maize or sorghum.
(3) The growing in cooler districts of
a crop of the mangel-wurzel family, which
when harvested can be pitted and kept for
months. Mangel-wurzels and the like
dropped in the paddocks every now and again
(and split, if necessary) are relished by sheep
and help to make what feed there is avail-
able more succulent and nutritious.
(4) The construction of some silage
scheme, whether of the overhead or pit type.
(“Stack” is to be avoided as being wasteful
unless it is impossible to carry out others.) If
there is any feed in the paddocks at all lib.
of silage per day will keep a sheep going,
and even if there is a scarcity of feed it
takes only 31b. per sheep per day.
(5) The harvesting of a bush hay crop
and the stacking of the residual straw after
the threshing of a wheat, oats or barley crop.
A mixture of hay and straw is a good stand-
by, and really necessary to supply bulk in
food, if silage is being given.
(6) The growing and dry storage of pump-
kins in large quantities. It is contended
that 21 tons of pumpkins are equal in nutri-
tive value to 1 ton maize silage. Avoid
keeping dry vines, as they are liable to cause
death from impaction of the bowels.
RAISINS IN LIVESTOCK RATIONS.
“F.S.A.”: “The Ringer’s” (B. 20-11/’29)
information with regard to the Mildura Co-
operative Fruit Co.’s experiment in turning
out a low grade raisin product (raisine)
as a ration for sheep is interesting. But
economic success depends upon price. Some
months ago the River Mtirray branches of
the Agricultural Bureau of S.A. asked Prof.
Perkins (Director of Agriculture) how low-
grade raisins compared with other feedstuff's
as a stock food. The professor thinks they
should prove useful at a, price. They con-
tain about 40 p.c. of sugar, but he is not
sure to what extent stock could consume
sugar without injurious effects. From a
rough calculation, based on chemical analysis,
it would appear that if bran were worth
£6 10s. per ton, the comparative feeding
value of raisins would be nearly £9 per ton,
or approximately Id. per lb. As a livestock
fodder 001 b. of wheat is equivalent to 031 b.
malting barley, 701 b. raisins, 731 b. oats and
cape barley, 801 b. pollard and 951 b. bran.
Thus with wheat at ss. and oats at 35.,
raisins would be worth only about o.Bod.
per lb., or £7 3s. a short ton. If low-grade
raisins cannot be sold at Id. per lb., then
they would certainly be too dear.
ROCK FERN A SHEEP POISON.
“Sporous” : Rock fern has long been sus-
pected as a cause of shivers in sheep, and
experiments made this year by the Stock
Branch of the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment have put the matter beyond reasonable
doubt. The symptoms of poisoning by this
plant ( C. tenuifolia ) are only apparent
when it is attempted to drive the sheep.
They appear very tired, and if hurried
stagger a few steps and then shiver violently.
If they are hustled after that they are
likely to drop dead. Rest is the only cure.
The same symptoms follow the eating of
mallow, stagger weed and dull nettle, and as
one or more of these may have been present
in cases where rock fern was suspected, it has
not hitherto been possible to prove the toxic
effect of the fern. In the departmental
tests the symptoms were obtained on a diet
of rock fern only. As far as experiment:!
have gone it would appear that the young
growth of the fern is especially poisonous.
TOMATOES AND SOIL INFECTION.
“Hatter”: “R.X.8.” suggests a tempera-
ture of 150 deg. F. for soil sterilisation (B.
4/12/’29), but this is too low for good
results. A uniform temperature of 210-
212 deg. F. (just about boiling-point) should
be maintained for about half an hour;
heavy soils require a little longer than light
sandy ones. The heat can be applied either
by baking or steaming; steaming is prefer-
able. Both methods increase the fertility of
the soil, as the bacteria most favorable to
plant growth are the more resistant to heat,
and also complex organic substances are con-
verted into forms more readily assimilated.
Several more or legs complicated means
have been devised for sterilising soil in
bulk, but for small quantities the box and
grid construction is both simple and reli-
aoie. It consists of a wooden box not mpre
than 2ft. 3in. deep, which may hold a ton
of soil or less. One end is hinged to facili-
tate emptying, and a false bottom of 3-16 in.
plate perforated with fin. holes is
fixed 3 inches above the real bottom. A
steam pipe lin. in diameter is introduced
below this from one side, reaching to within
4 inches of the centre, where a baffle plate of
2-inch T-iron 9 inches long is fixed to dis-
perse the steam. The upper portion is
filled with soil and covered with a wooden
lid, with a tarpaulin or canvas cover.
Tomatoes and potatoes should never be
grown as successive crops, since they ar#
subject to the same bacterial diseases.
Fusarium wilt is characterised by stunted
growth, yellowish lower leaves and discolora-
tion of the stems. When these are cut
across a dark brown color is seen between
the bark and the pith. This wilt is soil
borne and must be controlled either by steri-
lisation or by the use of wilt resistant
varieties. Root knot, or eel-worm disease,
and stem rot are also due to bacteria in
the soil.
Mosaic is shown by abnormal leaf growth,
which sometimes approaches a fern-like habit,
and by a variegated or mottled color. This
(Continued on page 25.)


Designed for War Service!
POWERFUL MILITARY WIRE CUTTERS for bolts or wire, up to iin.
é
è
Made in England, these cutters were intended for' use under the severest
conditions. They fold from 14in. to 9i!in. long. Every one is fitted with a
lanyard. An excellent tool for farm, home or workshop. Price, 2/6 per
pair. Postage within State, 1/3.
The Last Word in
GRINDERS
The frictionless ALL-BALL DRIVE
revolutionises the conversion of recip-
rocating to high-speed rotary motion.
Efficiency is doubled. Wear eliminated.
5000 runs per minute. 3500 to one
stroke. Runs for several minutes as if
motor-driven.
Farm and Garden Tools, Harvesting
Sickles, Joiners’ Tools, etc., are taken
with surprising ease and control across
the Horizontal Wheel, which, being
recessed £in. gives maximum conveni-
ence and wear.
Easily fixed anywhere. Quickly oiled or
adjusted. Throws no dust to the face.
Maximum wheel surface and service.
The All-Ball is guaranteed to stand
up to the heaviest use.
No. 1, complete with 6in. x lin.
medium wheel etc. Price, CIS/
each i “
No. 2, as illustrated, 6in. fast-cutting
and 4in. finishing wheels, adjust-
able rests, clips, etc. Price, HtLI
each iU/ “
Height, 40in. Weight, 121 b. Any
wheel of fin. bore may be used.
5000 Revs, per Minute.
British Built.
é
A Copy of latest Catalog sent on request.
Proprietary limited
DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE I 860.”
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
582-92 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-30 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
DOUBLE
GEARED.
•a m,
COMPLETELY
ENCASED.
“Billabong”
The Extra Powerful Windmill.
When purchasing a WINDMILL, as in buying anything else, the Mill, as well
as the price, needs your full consideration. A defective or heavy-running
windmill is dear at any price. There’s exceptional value in the Billabong.
The Superior Ball-bearing Bedplate, Complete Encasement and the Perfect
Lubrication of the Billabong make it an easy-running Windmill that responds
to the lightest of breezes and is capable of working many more hours. For
heavy and continuous service experts recommend the Billabong.
The “Busy B” sft. Windmill.
To meet the demands of those who require but a moderate amount of water
which does not warrant the installation of a more powerful and higher-priced
mill, the “Busy B” will be found a sound proposition. It is of the direct-acting
type, has a ball-bearing turntable, and is automatically regulated to suit all
winds. Its sft. Wind Wheel is the Billabong Standard Design. The “Busy B’
can be supplied with fittings for mounting on a wooden post or with steel
tower as desired.
Send for Windmill Catalogue.
uniimiiiiiiinii
iiiniiimniims
1 JOHN
&SON
nmumiiiiiiiiiiii;
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiujf
: L- rP
pry-
-391-403 BOURRE STREET, MELBOURNE,
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
C.l.
THE SUNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc Cultivating Plough
10-DISC
SIZE
CUTS sft.
14-DISC
SIZE
CUTS 7ft.
Supplied
with
levers for
either
team or
tractor
use.
mmmmm
'
m
■
m
' . .
Mm l
IK
»
..
iKmiimm
H
H
■4i
Wm
WW-M- WL
■
■ti
■*
H
* *■ . *
ll^®}
m
V
bMBMHHMB
® f/;":■ i® ®
H
s
■
*
■
■
H
it*#
lllti®
H
shmi •• B
, , .V •’ ’i*
I® : ® ‘
£1
WSSr
BBgSI
.
msm
.M':
1
am
m
The
Summer
fallowing
implement
supreme.
Deals
effectively
with
Paddy-
melon
and other
heavy
weed
growths.
The “Sundercut” has a greater sale in Australia than any other disc implement. It works successfully in any type of country, amongst stumps
and stones, in hard set fallow, in virgin Mallee soils, and in fallow rank with weeds. The alternate 1 8 and 20-inch discs set with undercut, cut
a level bottom and leave a lumpy tilth ideal for moisture conservation. Differential Cog Jump allows high jump without increase of draught.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Descriptive Folder, Price and Terms posted free on request.


hiii AM
&
mi
I
u%
1
if
mm
i
§
(
m
I
S 3
V-S
m
m
tr«
P
*
5^
V
H ARDT'S
SPA RICLIJVG
“As refreshing as a fountain.
»


f
i<
A
VHB VI
Lightweight Pliancy
Completest comfort is assured by
the special designing of this smart
Abbey Boot. For all its lightness it
is amazingly durable—there’s no
tougher leather available than is
used for the sole.
The upper is snug and easy-fitting.
It drops slightly at back of ankle
to eliminate all bulging. It lies over
the instep arch in a natural curve.
The toe is squared and roomy.
Order by post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are obtainable in each full and half
size. No “breaking-in” is needed.
Specify width when ordering, and
ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy new cleaning outfits (2/6
complete) .
TAN CALF , 457-
BLACK CALF 457-
PATENT LEATHER . . 55/-
New summer sporting catalogue post free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 157
Second-hand Saddles
r .
jB JSS *s issfe^
ifjFw ■'■ '1
as
We have a few
GOOD SEC-
OND - HAND
and shop-soiled
SADDLES for
sale. So here’s
your chance while they last,
which won’t be long.
SNAP No. I—31 —3 slightly-
used Poley Saddles, as
photograph, in perfect con-
dition ; fully mounted.
Worth £lO, for £6/15/-
SNAP No. 2 —4 shop-soiled
Poley Saddles, good shape,
in perfect order ; with stir-
rups, leathers and girth. Worth
£6/10/-, for £4/15/-
SNAP No. 3 —6 British Military
Saddles, unbreakable steel arch
tree, fitted up complete. Worth
£7, for £4/17/6
BUY NOW AT BARGAIN TIME.
JOHN BRUSH,
The Saddle Specialist,
BRISBANE, Q.: 434 Queen Street.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: 371 George Street.
•r;,,
Martin Ditcher
Most useful farm implement
in Australia. Quickly saves
the cost, £35, in speed, effi-
ciency and wages. Ditches,
levels, irrigates, drains, re-
claims, builds and repairs
roads, etc.
J. B. WALLIS LTD.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. Building, Light Street, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth.
B.K,
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ce
GRO\v/ r '
You owe it to yourself to collect the
interest that is your due.
Form that most profitable of all ab, * s *“
the bank habit—by making regular deposits
m the Primary Producers Bank, where
interest is paid on all monies.
Have a Bank Account —Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Head Office: tz iv«artu» emce, Svdney.
Branches througnout the
Commonwealth and at London.
AUTO TENTS
Made in our own factory so that all work is guaranteed. Suitable for
camping out in conjunction with a motor-car. Fitted with wall between
tent and car. Can be rolled into small space. Bft. x Bft. x 3ft. back
wall, “A”—Special heavy calico, 67/6; ”B’—Calico front and sides,
with English duck roof, 85/-; “C”—Duck sides and front, with heavy
duck roof, 102/6. All supplied complete with necessary poles and ropes.
SPECIAL AUTO TENT “D”—Same material as our “C” tent, excepting
has extended front and back, which covers car completely in, £6/17/6.
All complete with fittings.
Goods Delivered Free on Rails or Boat, Melbourne.
H
HA
111
Oha BIGGEST HARDWARE MOUSE IN VICTORIA
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
disease is transferable by knives, fingers or
insects. It may be checked by a teaspoon of
Epsom salts per plant. The more deadly
spotted wilt is infectious in the same way.
and any affected leaves or plants should
be removed and burnt. Blossom rot consists
of yellowish spots around the blossom eud
of the tomato, and appears to be connected
with droughty conditions. The use of soil of
high moisture-holding capacity is considered
to reduce losses from this trouble.
THE HORSE'S HOOF.
“Tumbe Munda”: Keep the horse’s hoof
cut back to a convenient length. In soft-
soil districts you see many animals working
with what look like Charley Chaplin boots.
The waste of power is enormous, as every
step the horse, takes he has to resist the
leverage of his long toe, and lift his body
over the obstruction as well as draw the
load. Besides wasting power there is grave
danger of injuring the coronet.
When cutting back do not use the rasp
on the outside or wall of the hoof, as this
removes what nature has provided to resist
the action of sun and wind. The frog should
always touch the ground if the hoof is set
squarely thereon ; this is nature’s method of
preventing the hoof from contracting, and
also provides a resilient grip on smooth sur-
faces. In summer time the hoof needs water,
not oil or grease. Nature meant the horse
to drink at swamps and creeks, so that lie
would stand in water while drinking; thus
the sole could absorb the moisture necessary
to keep it healthy. It is advisable at times
in dry weather to let the trough overflow,
and form a pool in front, so that this need
may be satisfied.
__ QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from. Service Department.)
A suitable lick for sheep being fed on
scrub ? —3956.
Magnesium sulphate, 15 p.c.; bone meal,
20 p.c.; molasses, 7 p.c. ; balance salt.
One of our cows sometimes lias one of
her teats clogged with what appears to be
congealed milk, which comes away in lumps.
This happens only at long intervals and any
of the teats may be affected, though not
longer than a day. The cow has been milk-
ing about IS months, and is milked thor-
oughly twice a day. What’s wrong? —3B9o.
Apparently a slight derangement of the
cells of the udder. Give the cow one drench
consisting of fib. of Epsom salts in 3 pints
*fl cold water. Two ounces of liypo-sulphite
of soda should also be given in the drinking
water daily.
A cure for rickets in Mackay ( Q .) dis-
trict cattle? —3754.
Rickets in the Mackay district are due to
lack of phosphates in the soil. Prevention is
better than cure; once the animal is
affected the abnormalities in the bony .struc-
ture are hard to counteract. The complaint
is particularly prevalent among heavy milk-
ing cows of the dual-purpose breeds, but
does not affect the lighter-boned breeds, such
as the Jersey and Ayrshire, to the same
extent. Marked digestive derangement among
heavy milkers of all breeds is often solely
due to lack of phosphates in the soil. The
best way is to supply this lack in the most
assimilable form possible, and sterilised bone
meal is recommended. It may be mixed
with 50 per cent, of Nauru phosphate or
ground rock phosphates, and may be fed in
amounts of one tablespoonful per day in the
food or placed in bulk in a trough, con-
structed so as to prevent the mixture de-
teriorating through unfavorable weather
conditions. Rock salt should also be sup-
plied.
How to clear out fleas from my cowbails,
sheds and yards ? —3504.
Insecticides may be used in the form of
powder, liquid or gas. Sulphur, borax and
pyrethrum are powders; the last-named is
a common ingredient of popular insecticides.
Compounds of arsenic mixed with lime or
plaster of paris are also used, but these
arsenic mixtures are very poisonous and great
care should be taken. Kerosene, petrol and
bisulphide of carbon are the principal liquids
employed. Kerosene or petrol may be used
with the aid of a spray or a syringe; petrol
is preferable ; it evaporates quickly without
leaving stains. It should be used in the duj
time only with the windows open, and y>u
must never strike a match in a room con-
taining petrol fumes. Also, walls and floors
may be sprayed with a mixture made of soft
soap, loz.; standardised tar derivative (for
example, accol, cyllin, liycol or izal), lioz. ;
kerosene, 30z.; water (boiling), 1 gallon.
Add soap to the boiling water and stir till
dissolved; add the tar derivative and mix;
then add the kerosene slowly, with con-
tinuous stirring.
A method of destroying fruit fly? —3Bl9.
The Queensland Department of Agricul-
ture recommends Harvey’s “Fruit Fly Lure,”
which, diluted as directed on the container,
is placed in ordinary glass fly-traps in a
shady part of the tree. One trap should
be used for each five ordinary-sized trees.
The preparation is sold in Brisbane at 10s.
per gallon, but smaller quantities may be
obtained. It is essential that all fallen fruit
be immediately collected and destroyed.
A mixture for manuring citrus trees, and
how to apply it? —4000.
Sulphate of ammonia, 6cwt.; super.,
3cwt. ; sulphate of potash, llcwt.; mix all
together well, and apply lib. per tree for
each year of its age. The mixture should
be evenly distributed, and don’t place it
close to the butt of the tree; spread it out
well beyond the outer fringe of the foliage
a small area at a time, and work in with
plough, cultivator or forked hoe. The trees
should receive a dressing twice a year, the
first near the end of winter and the second
about Christmas time.
A beetle, about {in. long, with yellow
body and legs and bright cerise patches
on each shoulder, has been attacking fruit-
trees and maize in North Coast ( N.S.W.)
districts. Species, and how can it be de-
stroyed?—4olo.
A native species known as the yellow
monolepta beetle, so far confined to the dis-
tricts mentioned. The use of flares at night
is recommended. A bag is wrapped round
one end of a stick or polo, 6ft. to Sft.,
dipped in kerosene, lighted and carried up
and down between the rows of fruit-trees
where the swarms have settled. The beetles
fly up into the flare and are killed in thou-
sands. And good results have been obtained
by the use of sprays, applied under strong
pressure. If the beetles are attacked on
fruit trees not in bloom, kerosene and soap
emulsion (1 part kerosene to 11 parts water)
or resin and soda (lib. resin and trlb. wash-
ing-soda to Bgal. water) are perhaps the
best sprays to use. For fruit trees in bloom
a miscible-oil spray (1 part to 40 of water)
is the safest. Perhaps the best method of
control, however, is dusting with arsenate
of lead powder mixed with lime dust —lib.
powdered arsenate of lead to 201 b. lime. Such
treatments are ('specially effective if they
are used at night or in the early morning.
A method of crushing and sterilising hones
on farm for later use as part ration for
livestock? —3751.
Can’t recommend any. Commercially,
bones receive special treatment to remove
fats and excess moisture; this requires
suitable machinery, and the process could
not be carried out profitably on a farm.
Sterilisation of a temporary nature can be
achieved by thorough boiling, but the bones
would be readily subject to re-infection.
(1) Many of my young turkeys have gone
under to a disease marked hy a scale on the
head, blindness and fits. What is wrong, and
what can I do? —374!).
(1) The trouble is, perhaps, chicken-pox,
which would commence with little yellow
sores on the head and eyes, later turning
black. The sores on the eyes would cause
the birds to scratch their heads and accentu-
ate! the trouble. The sores about the head
should be painted with tincture of iodine,
and those on the eyes rubbed over with the
blue-bag, and the eyelids should be kept
open, so that the birds can see to eat. It
is also possible that it may be entero-hepati-
tis (blackhead) ; this could be determined
by holding a post-mortem. The affected birds
would have a spotted liver. A good preven-
tive is a dessertspoonful of ipecacuanha wine
in each quart of drinking water once a
week from the time the birds are a week
old. Any birds affected with the disease
should be given 10 drops of the wine twice
daily till recovery.
(1) N.S.W. districts and (2) soils best
suited for the cultivation of sweet potatoes?
—3996'.
(1) The coastal districts. (2) Sandy
soils well supplied with organic matter.
Suitable varieties of peas to plant in A.
Q’land in Jan. or Feb., and thence on? —
3615.
Green peas are grown only in the cool
months in tropical Queensland. On the high-
lands, 2000 feet and upwards, sowings may
be made between February and August; or
1000 feet to 2000 feet between March and
July; at lower altitudes between April and
June. Early varieties suggested are: Mc-
Lean’s Little Gem, Wm. Hurst, Daisy and
English Wonder; main-crop varieties, York-
shire Hero, Green Feast, Dwarf Defiance
and Veitch’s Perfection.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bill R.” : When stacking hay damaged in
harvesting, scatter a few pounds of salt
on each load. It will help the flavor and
prevent mouldiness.
“Moreton Bay”: The so-called Spanish
windlass is useful for emergency pulling of
almost any description. You tie one end of a
rope to the object to be pulled, and the
other end to a wooden handspike; the hand-
spike is then wound round a pole secured
so that it can revolve without giving. In
the case of a bogged animal two stumps of
trees, or even posts put in and stayed, will
do to rest the pole against.
“Otnim”: Pigs feel the heat very much,
and should have abundance of shade. From
now till the cool weather comes they, will
appreciate a bucket of water thrown in some
puddle more than an extra feed at mid-day.
If you have a small dam you can fence in
for them you’ll save both pigs and condition
in a hot summer. Besides it helps to keep
the skin free from itch and vermin.
“Bribb”: A way of saving piglets from
the mother rolling on them in her slumbers.
As the youngsters invariably sleep against
the wall of the sty, a rail put up all round
the pen, about one foot from the wall and
just high enough to allow' them to walk
beneath it, will prevent the sow from reach-
ing them.
“XSA”: As soon as a cherry-tree shows
an inclination to bear at the top only, it
should be cut hard back to force low bear-
ing. It is sometimes necessary to slit the
bark dowmwards each year—a clean cut
varying with the age of the tree —until it is
bearing. This prevents gumming, and keeps
the bark from tightening. The cut should
always be made on the side away from the
sun. This method of cincture will stop
gumming on all deciduous trees prone to
this trouble.
“Shirley”: When citrus trees have set
very heavy crops, orchardists are advised
to give the trees a dressing of 2|lb. of sul-
phate of ammonia, or nitrate of soda.
Nitrogenous fertiliser will help to develop
the well as encourage the growth
of fruiting wood for the following season.
“Will Seer” : Trees may be quickly grubbed
by the use of a tractor with a good soil
grip. Fasten a stout chain around the
trunk about three feet from the ground, and
secure the other end to the tractor. One
stout pull, and up she comes—roots and all.
“Bushman” : Small clumps of blackberries,
if fenced off, will be worried out by pigs,
provided the top growth is rolled or burnt
off to allow of their getting at the roots. A
goat will also poison a patch in no time.
“Specker” : Tasmania has over 1100 acres
under flax this year. Some growers expect
two tons to the acre. A sample forwarded
to a Belfast firm was Haced equal to
average Irish and superior to Russian. Some
time ago it would have beon worth £BO
per ton, but there has been a drop of £3O
per ton owing to Russia flooding the market.
The Tas. corporation intends to erect mills
for the production of canvas for Australian
consumption.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Fool (24), Q’land, wants job. Has paid too much
attention to sport since leaving school and desires
another chance. Educated Scotch College, Mel-
bourne; knowledge of accountancy.—399l.
English lady, companion, housekeeper, good cook,
seeks position Sydney ; refs. —3987.
Stenographer, secretarial, journalistic and sales
experience, own typewriter, wants country job,
N.S.W., Vic. or Q’land. —3933.
Youth (18) four years’ exp. wants job W.A. farm.
—3936.
Young man (Q.), good education, exp. wool and
cattle, can drive car and truck, wants work (sheep
station preferred) any eastern State. —3924.
Constructional engineer and engineering drafts-
man wants position in Malay States. —3926.
Ex-Scotland Yard detective, smart appearance, is
available for position as house detective, any
investigations.—4oo6.
Two exp. domestic male servants, two years’ present
job, would like positions in gentleman’s residence;
bachelor preferred.—39B2.
To exchange, postcard Ensign camera (plates and
films) and leather case for No. 3 camera and case,
plus difference.—394s.
To buy pair of young brolgas; have permission
to keep them. (To H. Davidson, Flagstaff, Coota-
mundra, N.S.W.)
To buy Adams’s “Maoriland”' and “Galahad
Jones,’’ Favenc’s “Last of Six,” Warung’s “Tales of
the Convict System” and “Tales of the Early Days”
and Brady’s “River Rovers.” —3961.
To buy, new or second-hand, Wilson’s “Hydraulic
and Placer Mining.”—39s9.
Words of verse “Light” containing line “Free from
the dints and scars of priests.”—4ooB.
Briton, from Asia, holidaying in Australia, would
be giad to correspond with readers engaged in educa-
tional work. —3931.
Young man would like to correspond with lovers
of Emerson’s essays.—3993.
Californian boy (18) wishes correspondents Aus-
tralia and Islands. Interested in journalism afid
other writing.—3B4l.
Head stockman (26), North W.A., would like
correspondents.—3Bsl,
Young lady, Sydney, would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers, either sex, 22 and over, in
Aust., U.S.A. or Pacific Islands.--*-3877.
Information Sought.
(1) How is the reserve fund of a co.
used? (2) Is interest earned from it added
to the gross profit? (3) Is Federal income-
tax payable on gross or net profit? —3BBs.
(1) Generally in the business; that is, it
is not separated from capital and unappro-
priated profits. But (2) in some cases
a reserve may be created for a specific pur-
pose:—insurance, say, or the replacement of
plant—and the money may be invested
separately. Most often the earnings of re-
serves go into general profits; but not always
—especially if the reserve is for a specific
purpose or is invested in non-taxable securi-
ties. (3) Net.
Comparative “all-in” costs of similar capa-
city dredges ( bucket ) in Malaya, and Aus-
tralia ? —3443.
Few Australian figures are available, and
most of them are irregular, owing to sea-
sonal variations. As far as this department
can determine it, the average cost in Aus-
tralia is somewhere between Bd. and Is.
per yard. A number of Australian-owned
dredges in Malaya turn over ground at a
cost of 4d. A group of 13 show an average
of 5.36 d.
Did the Australians land on Gallipoli
before the 29th Division? —3767.
Yes. The first men of the Third Brigade
A.I.F. reached Anzac at 4.30 on the morning
of April 25, 1915. Two companies of the
King’s Own Scottish Borderers landed at
Y Beach about five o’clock. A little after
six o’clock came the landings at X Beach
(Royal Fusiliers) and W Beach (Lanca-
shire Fusiliers). Those of the Dublin Fusi-
liers who escaped the merciless fire that
met the River Clyde waded ashore about
6.35, and the South Wales Borderers occu-
pied S Beach at 7.30.
(1) Class of paper (or board), size and
colors most used in the making of poster
sketches? (2) Name of Sydney firm pur-
chasing posters or other designs? —3744.
(1) Any water-color board ; the size should
be based on 30 x 40 sheet, and must be in
units or multiples of that size. Any color
may be used. To know, among other things,
what colors various inks will give when
superimposed, so that posters may be pro-
duced economically, necessitates some techni-
cal training. If this is out of the question,
you might get a book from a lending library.
(2) Hollander and Govett, Grosvenor-street.
I re-directed a registered letter; the
local post office charged for re-registration.
Is that right ? —3983.
It all depends. Regulation 75 (2) says:
“Additional postage or registration fee shall
not be charged upon re-directed articles
if they are presented for re-registration not
later than the day (Sunday and public
holidays not being counted) after being left
at the original address; but if presented
after that time fresh postage and registration
fees shall be payable.”
(1) My ear has had five years' service and
gone 32,000 miles. Except for the grinding-
in of valves three or four times it has never
had a spanner on it. Naturally it hasn’t
the sting it had when new, but it is run-
ning satisfactorily, except that there is a
slight big-end knock in one of the bearings
and also a bit of a leakage past the rings
in one cylinder. (1) Would re-boring and the
fitting of new pistons be advisable while
the engine is being overhauled? (2) Is re-
boring considered a lasting job? (3) What
about the theory that re-boring gives a
■safer wearing surface in cylinder walls ? —
—5913.
(1) As the car has done 32,000 miles,
obviously some wear must have taken place
on the cylinder walls. Piston-rings should
have been renewed at, say, 20,000 miles;
had this been done it probably would not
have been necessary to consider re-boring.
A measurement should be taken of the
diameter of the cylinder walls to see the
amount of wear; this naturally varies
according to the conditions under which the
car has been operated. Subject to exami-
nation by a competent man, re-boring and
fitting oversize pistons are recommended. (2)
It should run satisfactorily for about the
sable period as the original pistons. (3)
Careful running in after re-boring is required
so that the cylinder walls- may again take
up a polished surface; this, from a wearing
point, should be as hard as the original
surface.
(1) Most suitable material for the manu-
facture of an. inverted horn for a gramo-
phone? (2) Name of any technical work
oh acoustics as applied to the gramophone?
(3) Is “prismaphonic” a trade word? —3899.
(1) Zinc. (2) “Modern Gramophones and
Electrical Reproducers,” by Wilson and
Webb; obtainable Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. (3) Yes.
(1) Official name of regiment referred to
as the “Green Howards ,” employed in quell-
ing the disturbance in Jerusalem? (2) How
did they come by it? —3923.
(1) The Norfolk regiment. (2) From
the color of their facings of long ago—
green. The Green Howard was a variety of
the linnet-canary crosses, for the production
of which Norfolk has long been famous.
Possibility of getting a position as a con-
structional engineer or engineering drafts-
man in the Malay States? Names and
addresses of cos. that might be tried? —3920.
Not bright, especially as regards a drafts-
man’s job; Hindus and Tamils monopolise
work of this sort. For constructional job,
you might try United Engineers, Singapore;
Poole and Steel, Sydney, and the Charles
Ruwolt Prop., Richmond (Vic.) ; all
builders of Malayan mining machinery. Of
the dredging cos., Austral Malay, Martin-
place, Sydney, and Alluvial Tin. .Tamieson-
street, Sydney, might be approached.
(1) I am about to take up a position in
Papua at £5OO p.a.; shall I be liable for
Federal income-tax? (2) Is there a local
income-tax? —3699.
(1) No; in the Federal Income-tax Assess-
ment Act (Sec. 5) it is stated definitely that
the Act does not apply to any income de-
rived from sources in Papua by a resident.
(2) No.
In country electric service extensions from
Sydney, ivhat distance from high-tension or
usual copper-wires must trees or branches
be . cut away?■ —3726.
Trees are usually cut so that no branch
can come in contact with the wires under the
most severe weather conditions. The nature
of. the tree will determine the amount of
cutting required when it is growing under-
neath mains. In the case of a slow-growing
tree a clearance of 2ft. from the top to the
mains is reckoned sufficient, but quick-grow-
ing trees need a greater amount of cutting
back. Generally it is found advisable to
remove them altogether.
Is a person who has been through the
Bankruptcy Court eligible for election as a
N.S.W. alderman or mayor? —3B2l.
Yes, if he is not otherwise disqualified.
Section 36 of the Local Government Act,
1919. covers the matter: “If any holder of
a civic office becomes bankrupt within the
meaning of the law in force for the time
being' relating to bankrupts, or if he com-
pounds his affairs with his creditors, he shall
thereby cease to hold office, but shall be
eligible for re-election if not otherwise dis-
qualified.”
I have laid a fine concrete floor, thanks to
advice from the Service Department; now
liclj) me over the next hurdles. (1) How can
I put a polished or smooth face on it? (21
How to cement the inside of a galvanised-
iron tank? —3586.
(1) The only satisfactory method of put-
ting a polish on concrete once it has set
is to use a series of carborundum blocks, fric-
tion polish being applied in the same manner
as to marble or granite. (2) Holes should
be punched in the sides; about liin. diam-
eter, and spaced about 12in. apart. The
inside of the tank should then be lined with
small-mesh wire-netting, held in place by
means of loops passing through the holes.
A mortar (two parts clean, sharp sand and
one part cement) should then be mixed to
a medium-dry consistency and applied
to the interior of the tank as in plas-
tering, in one or more coats, as may be
necessary to build the wall to a thickness
of about 2in. This plaster should be kept
damp for about 10 days, when the tank will
be ready for use. .
When tuning-in distant broadcasting sta-
tions I find on removing my hand from the
dial that the strength of the station falls off.
What is this due to ?— 4020.
May be this. When the hand is placed
on the tuning dial the capacity of the tuned
circuit is increased sufficiently to slightly
throw the receiver out of tune with the in-
coming signals. This causes the signals to
fall off in strength. It may be reduced or
eliminated by connecting the moving plates
of the tuning condensers to the filament side
and the fixed plates to the grids. If this fails
it will be necessary to shield the front of
the receiver by placing a brass sljeet behind
the front panel and earthing it, care being
taken to avoid short circuits by providing
clearance for jacks, switches, etc.
Best material to color mud-plaster walls?
I require a plain color, with stencil de-
sign at the top. Would it be possible to
color after oiling? —3749.
Stencil work is usually done in oils on an
oil ground. It is not, however, recommended
for mud plaster, preference being given to
kalsomining the walls and applying a paper
valance at the top. This is a popular treat-
ment and comparatively cheap. Many beauti-
ful designs of these paper valances are
obtainable from paint merchants.
Cause and cure of pruritis? —4ool.
Pruritis may occur all over the body, and
may be caused by neuroses, anaemias, mycosis,
skin diseases, diabetes or dirt. Treatment
depends on the cause. Generally alcohol,
tea and coffee must be cut out, while rest
and absence from worry are essential. Equal
quantities of eau-de-Cologne and water
applied on lint every little while give
relief. So does bathing" with very hot water.
But a doctor should be seen at once.
Is it possible to improve the reproduction
of an old gramophone, 1924 model? If so,
would the results be worth the cost of im-
provement?—4oo7.
Replacing your old tone-arm and speaker
by a new-model instrument will effect con-
siderable improvement in reproduction, and
if the motor is still in good condition this
course may be advisable. At the same time
it will not give results equal to those to be
got from a new instrument incorporating the
latest improvements in sound-chamber design.
When purchasing a new tone-arm, ascertain
the correct method of mounting it on the
table of gramophone. Misplacing the instru-
ment will result in poor reproduction and
reduced record life.
The N.B.W. State award rate for a shear-
ers’ c00k? —3975.
It was 9s. per week with keep for every
man in the shed, or £5 4s. per week with
keep; the employer to pay the deficiency
if there should be a deficiency. But the
recently-passed Industrial Arbitration
(Amendment) Act applies to pastoral em-
ployees, and the award is not now in exist-
ence.
(1) Is the Australian pilchard distinct
from the pilchard of Europe? (2) Does
it occur in large numbers about our coasts?
(3) Has it been commercially exploited to
any extent? —3951.
(1) There is little if any difference. (2)
Yes; the south coast especially. (3) No.
(1) Necessary qualifications for the posi-
tion of boiler inspector in Vic. Mines Depart-
ment? (2) Salary? (3) Has each inspector
his own district, and are they all dispatched
from Melbourne? (4) Approximate length
of time away from Melbourne?. —4024.
(1) Possession of a first-class marine
certificate. (2) £4OO to £416 p.a. (3)
Yes. (4) Depends on locality, but never
more than a week.
What are the Government standards in
Queensland respecting milk for sale? —3847.
Milk must be clean and fresh, and have
been obtained by completely emptying the
udders of healthy cows, properly fed and
kept. It is not to be sold if got during 15
days immediately before and 10 days imme-
diately following parturition. It must con-
tain not less than eight and five-tenths parts
per cent, of milk solids not fat; three and
three-tenths parts per cent, of milk fat, and
12 parts per cent, of total solids ; nor must its
freezing-point be higher than 0.55 deg. Cent,
below zero. It shall not contain pathogenic
micro-organisms, or more than 1,000,000
micro-organisms to the cubic centimetre from
October 1 to March 31, or more than 500,000
from April 1 to September 20.
Conditions relative to clerical positions
for youths in the Commonwealth Bank?. —
3976.
Lads are admitted to service between the
ages of 16 and 18 years at a commencing
salary of £BO p.a.; the first six months’
service being probationary. The public
examinations in the State concerned, Inter-
mediate or Leaving 'Certificate, junior or
senior, or the Institute of Bankers’ examina-
tion are taken as a guide to educational
qualifications. Applicants should apply per-
sonally at a branch of the bank.
Without asking permission our N.S.W.
shire scooped out a drain through my pro-
perty to a gully. The drain is icashing
away badly now, and has almost cut off
access for stock to part of the paddock. Can
I compel the shire to construct a crossing
to give the stock such access, and take steps
to prevent further erosion? —3792.
On the facts stated you have a pretty good
case. Sec. 524 of the Local Government
Act gives councils wide powers of entry upon
private lands to enable them to carry out
drainage and other works in the public
interest, but they must “do as little damage
as possible,” and also “provide where neces-
sary other means of access for works of
accommodation in place of any taken away
or interrupted.” But as you would have
a financially well-placed opponent to face
you should not enter into litigation without
grave consideration. Is there no possibility
of arriving at a friendly settlement?
A method of dyeing sheepskins? —3B9B.
It is not easy for a home dyer to get
satisfactory results. You might try pale
blue, lavender, pink, scarlet, light crimson
or green. Wash the skin thoroughly with
warm water and soap, finishing with several
rinsings in clean water. Give the skin
ample time to dry. Peg out firmly with wool
uppermost, on a wide board or table. Mix
the dye in the ordinary way and apply with
a brush. Have plenty in a vessel beside
the skin, and fill the brush every dip. Work
fast and endeavor to just saturate, the wool
without overflowing; spread the dye evenly
over the surface. When the dyeing is
finished, let the skins dry on the board.
Information Supplied.
3657. —If lie is going to be any good, a
cattle pup will take to work naturally. Teach-
ing him to obey commands and checking his
impetuosity are the chief things to do. When
about to drive quiet cattle lead the pup on
a long line. Let him work, but pull him
sharply back when he fails to attend to
orders. To teach him drafting, repeatedly
single out a' particular beast, and encour-
age him to assist in holding it hack from
the herd. Discard the line after a few
lessons, hut put it on again if he is per-
vei’se. And always address him in the same
words and tones. —“Rotom.”
Brief Answers.
Y.Y.Y.: See B. 23/10/’29. As far as we
can see, though they might have made a much
better bargain elsewhere, the policy-holders in the
New Era are protected to the full actuarial value
of their policies. It is the shareholders who are
in the soup. . . .A.E.L.: There are safer; but, con-
sidering the return, 1 and 2 pass. Don’t like 3.
... .G.H.T.J.: None of those finance cos. are in favor
just now, and all are liable to hard knocks. Look
up January No. “Wild Cat” Monthly ... .G.H.K.:
If safety is important, certainly n0t.... Geo. W.: A
bull is one who, by buying more than he can pay
for or otherwise, tries to drive up the price of a
stock. A bear is one who, by selling what he
hasn’t got or otherwise, tries to depress a stock
U.M.: The nationalist party in Indian politics aims
at Swaraj or Home Rule, but only by constitutional
means H.D.; At Wagonga, South Coast (N.S.W.),
thin seams of green turquoise have been discovered,
but the color is unsatisfactory. .. .C.R.: Appointments
to the Malaya States police are made by the Colonial
Office on the basis of examinations. Full particulars
from Colonial Office, Downing-street, London, S.W.I.
. ...J.A.D.: “Tri-yearly” is correct; “triennial”
means once in every three years... .C.J.8.: Write
Registrar-General’s Department, Cathedral-avenue,
Perth. .. .N.R.: The N.S.W. coasting steamer Abersea
was known as the South Bulli before she was given
her present name P. J.: (1) Can’t state from the
information supplied whether or not you are liable;
write, giving all particulars, Deputy-Commissioner
of Taxation, Forrest-place, Perth. (2) and (3) Get
in touch with U.S. Consulate, Nat. Mut. B’l’d’gs,
Perth. .. . J.E.S.: Agricultural chemists consulted are
unaware of any process by which the shooting of
new potatoes may be hurried up... . N.T.; Kanandah
(“land where the sun sets”), Eli-elwah (“the rising
sun”), Euroka (“the sun”), Wilruna (“sunset”)..*..
S.G.: This is how the N.S.W. law reads: “When two
motor vehicles are approaching each other at an
intersection, so that if both continued the vehicles
would arrive at the same point together and collide,
the driver of the vehicle which has the other on his
right-hand side shall slow up and allow such other
vehicle to pass in front of his vehicle”. .. .A.L.:
The only N.S.W. railway job for which the youth of
20 would be eligible is that of engine-cleaner, and
there is no prospect of additional engine-cleanCTS
being required for some time. And there are
hundreds of applicants, including retrenched men,
waiting.... M.C.; Several automatic signalling devices
for motor vehicles have been approved by the N.S.W.
Police Department, though none is on the market
yet, as far as is known. . . .R.S.R.: According to
Fox Movietones, Gilbert Emery who was with Bland
Holt is the Emery who played in “Behind That
Curtain”. .. .M. 8.: A copy can be got from the
publishers, Kolff, Batavia, Java... .A.W.; Claim
does, not lapse, but the longer you delay the greater
may be your difficulty in establishing it... .8.L.H.:
If the facts are as stated, consult a solicitor at
once, and he may lodge a caveat warning the depart-
ment not to pay over the money until your judgment
is satisfied... .J.C.: Apply Air Board, Defence Dept.,
Melbourne... .S.M.: Place facts before Law Society,
100 Chancery-lane, London, W.C.2... .L.L.: It is
from the Latin: “In nothing do men more nearly
approach the gods than in giving health to men”....
E.N.S.: Abo. census, 1927: 59,945 full-bloods and
15,468 half-castes... .M.E.C.: Imports of raisins and
currants were generally greater than the exports
prior to 1912. During the last five recorded years
exports of these fruits exceeded imports in value
by £7,289,940... .R.M.8.: The wettest known part
of Australia is in north-east Queensland, between
Port Douglas and Cardwell, where the annual rain-
fall ranges from 144 and 165 inches; the driest
known part is in the Lake Eyre district, S.A.;
annual average, 5 inches. .. .T.J.H.: Yom Kippur
(the Day of Atonement) is a Jewish fast dajj>
observed on the tenth day of the seventh month,
Jewish calendar; the object is to cleanse sanctuary,
priesthood and people from sin... .G.A.G.: Yes, there
is a S.A. branch; write sec. Theosophical Soc.,
334 a King William-street, Adelaide. .. .C.R.A.: The
Fitzroy (342 tons) foundered off Cape Hawke in a
heavy south-east gale on June 26, 1921; 31 lives
were lost and there was only one survivor. The
Our Jack (125 tons) sank off Manning River the
day before the Fitzroy went down ; five lives were
lost, several persons being saved by the crew of
the Brundah N.P. J.: Philander, meaning “to
play at courtship,” is from the Greek “philandros.”
The fictitious character you have in mind is Phil-
ander, a Dutch knight in Ariosto’s “Orlano Furioso,”
with whom the Baron’s wife falls in 10ve....
C.H.R.: Capital punishment may be inflicted in
N.S.W., but executions are rare. Since the beginning
of 1918 there have been only two executions —both
in 1924. .. .A.M.S.: It is a French car; Brodribb
Bros, 372 St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, are agents....
C.E.Y.: Yes, the Swords Club, 355 George-street,
Sydney. .. .R.C.N.: Armenian Relief Fund, 333
George-street, Sydney.... G.C.M.: A bill of lading on
goods to be carried beyond N.S.W. is subject to a
stamp duty of Is K.F.: You have no remedy
other than vacating the flat. Such a matter does
not come within the scope of the inspector’s duties.
Apparently the nuisance existed when you took the
flat. ... J. J.M.: Your disapproval was not sufficient
without following it up and having the matter
referred to arbitration, as the Dividing Fences Act
(N.S.W.) provides, if you objected to the proposed
style of the fence or questioned its sufficiency.
Otherwise you are liable ,H.M.S.: Practically im-
possible these days—preference to unionists, un-
employment and the selection of only those with
seafaring experience are obstacles... .J.H.: From
Swains, 123 Pitt-street, Sydney, 2s. 6d W.C.R.:
Arkins Pianoforte Academy, 284 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney L.D.: A license (£1 p.a.) will be re-
quired. Apply on the first ordinary sitting day to
Court of Petty Sessions in your district. .. .U.P.8.;
Apply Amalgamated Coffee Plantations, Yorkshire
House, 14 Spring-street, Sydney... .R.S.: (1) and
(2) See Searle’s “Modern Brickmaking” (255.) or
Bourry’s “Treatise on Ceramic Industries” (18s.) ;
both Dymock’s, 428 George-street, Sydney. (3)
Bramwell and Vincent, John-street, Newtown; Foster
and Sons, King-street, St. Peters; Willard and Co.,
651 King-street, Newtown; and Marrickville Engi-
neering Works, Victoria-road, Marrickville —all of
Sydney... .A.L.F.: Book has no value... .C.W.E.;
Non-alcoholic beverages should contain less than two
per cent, proof spirit A.S.K.: The record price for
Australian greasy wool in modern times was 109 d.,
secured in London for “NC,” from Geelong, in
February, 1920. A line of scoured wool realised
136 d. per lb. at London in March that year. In
1827, according to the Sydney Gazette, John Mac-
arthur got 196 d. per lb. for a single bale of the
historic “JM’A” brand at Garraway’s Coffee House,
Cornhill, London D.T.: Mosquito was a N.S.W.
abo. Transported to Tasmania for the murder of
a woman, he was employed as a blacktracker for
a time, but, escaping, he led the Oyster Bay natives
in a series of outrages against isolated settlers. He
was eventually captured, and executed at Hobart in
February, 1825 E.A.G.: Still going. Write sec.,
C. H. King, 100 Queen-street, Melbourne (Many
others mailed.)


Q*OC
"••if
1
tv
N
is
5^
m»
m
m
w
i
S=^z'
m
*
KS<
NJS
Spg
1
m
iii
raw
m
m
Endurance
THE BATTLE OF THE MARATHON.
Before the famous battle of the Persian invading forces and
the Athenians, on August 12th, 490, the Son of Epopeus,
King of Sicyon ran the whole distance from the field of the
battle of the Marathon to Athens carrying news. A feat of
endurance rarely surpassed in history.
Barnet Glass
Tyres
Jor endurance
8.G.9MJ9.


RIN-TIN-TIN
ë
the
famous
Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
on
KenT : Ration
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
ē
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress—money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men—P. &C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors ; Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
fe. COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY. -sS
ĕ
Pith
Helmets
21/-
Po;ft Free
The Bombay” India Pith Helmet is a style
of Cool Headwear in which we specialise.
No hat is cooler for the wilting hoc days of
our Australian Summer, nor lighter on the
head. The Bombay” is a genuine Pith,
covered with Grey Alpaca or White Drill,
Leather Chin Strap, Self Puggaree.
21/* Write Desk “ W "
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
BRISBANE
SMOKE-OH! .
“City Swept by Wind.”—Sun,
More free labor.
* ¥
A man should be guided by the grey mater given
to him for his use.” —News.
But so few maters are grey these days.
“He bowled, he yelled, he screeched—at Mr.
Weaver, who merely smiled.”—Guardian.
It is the man who yells first and bowls
afterwards that makes these Parliamentary
bats look serious.
BUT SHE ALWAYS WAS A CAT.
“You can’t imagine how I dread to think
of my fortieth birthday!”
“Why, dear, what happened?”
Sydney experienced the hottest day of the
year last week —yet there’s still “snow” in
Darlinghurst.
* ¥
OSCULATORY STRIFE.
“A young man in a Sydney poisoning case gave
evidence that he took a chum to see his girl who,
later in the evening, kissed the chum. ‘I got wild
and went out into the kitchen and kissed another
girl,’ he told the Court.”
This caused the local policeman, who had
a lien on the second girl, to jump the fence
and (though normally a good-tempered
man) kiss the lady next door. Her husband
went out in an uncontrollable passion and
imprinted an enraged salute on the lips of
the widow-lady in the mixed-goods shop.
With a cry of despair the latter’s lodger
rushed into the Italian greengrocery and
kissed the Dago’s sister-in-law. The insulted
Dago kissed his wife, whereupon the sister-
in-law defiantly kissed an inoffensive clergy-
man who was trying to buy tomatoes. By
twelve o’clock next day the trouble, which had
started at Dulwich Hill, reached Mosmau,
where a prominent financier, in order to
express his opinion of a bank manager who
had dishonored his cheque, kissed a girl in
the wharf kiosk.
Woop-Woop, Thursday.
When the Sydney express reached here to-
day the enginedriver leaped angrily from his
engine and kissed a middle-aged farmer’s
wife who was waiting with the rest of the
inhabitants to see the train come in. The
Government is sending 200 police to the dis-
trict, and all hotels have been closed.
Stop Press.
_J. T. Lang kissed dc Chair Bavin
kissed Garden High Court now con-
sidering injunction application aga/inst
all parties.
Australia has one firm friend abroad.
Overseas finanqiers always regard the Com-
monwealth’s interest as their own.
“A woman who was attacked by a rooster suffered
severe pecks.” —Melbourne Argus.
The long-suffering male gets no such pub-
licity when he is henpecked.
* *
“Mary, Mary, quite contrary, why are your
skirts like shorts?”
“Men like them so for what they show;
At least, so my grannie reports.”
* *
THE CURIOSITY.
There was a rush for front positions. Men
raised their hats and cheered. All eyes
were fixed upon the proud, imperious flapper
who swept by conscious of and yet superbly
indifferent to the attention she was attract-
ing.
“Who on earth is she?” gasped the visitor
from Woop-Woop.
“That's Daisy Boatem,” replied his city
friend. “The only girl in the suburb who has
never won a place in a Queen Competition!”
* *
“He was admitted to hospital suffering from
alcoholic poisoning.”
An inn patient, presumably.
* *
EVOLUTION OF A NAME.
Jacky Smith.
John Smith.
Mr. John Smith.
Mr, J. R. E. Smith.
t J. R. Erroll-Smitli, Esq., Solicitor and
Notary Public (Mortgages, etc., arranged).
Before the Registrar in Bankruptcy.—ln
re J. Errol-Smith cx parte Amelia Mugge.
Quarter Sessions. —John Smith. Embezzle-
ment.
No. 130,133.
D. J.
* *
HADES V. HEAVEN.
Some Old Friends Distinguish
Tiiemiselves.
Hades was sizzling with excitement, for
it was to meet Heaven in the annual Test
on the Gehenna C. G.
The teams called forth the usual captious
criticisms. The celestial XI consisted of
St. Peter (captain), Adam Jthe veteran of
the team), Job, Noah, Abel, Thomas, Shak-
speare, Daniel, Byron, Moses and Elias.
The inclusion of those promising youngsters
Shakspeare and Byron was appreciated.
Hades fielded Old Nick (captain) Henry
VIII., Charles 1., Cain, Ned Kelly, Herod,
Ananias, Bluebeard, Julius Cmsar, Mark
Antony and Sandy MacDougall. The ability
of the last-named in the field, where he gave
nothing away, earned his inclusion.
The celestials were given a warm recep-
!l oa arr ival, and both teams took
the field —or, rather, asbestos. Fortun-
ately, before the coin was tossed Peter
at the instigation of the doubting Thomas!
inspected it and found it was a double-
headed penny belonging to Ned Kelly. St.
Peter called correctly and elected to bat,
opening the innings in person with Job.’
Peter took strike to Henry VIII., and pre-
sented his usual rock-like defence. Henry
bowled a maiden over. Cain, Hades’ mur-
AND A VERY GOOD BRAND, TOO.
THE ISLAND BRUNETTE: “D’you grow dates in Sydney?”
THE SYDNY BLONDE: “No, but we make them!”
derous bowler, took op the bowling to Job,
who patiently blocked every ball. After a
few hours of this the crowd got impatient.
“Yer worse than Jardine,” roared one hoarse-
throated barracker. When at last Ned Kelly
got Job in the head with a “shooter” the
excitement was great. Job had taken three
hours to make 1 run and the score stood at
1 for 12! Peter (11 n. 0.) was still playing
the rock. Adam joined Peter but tripped
over a serpent and fell on his wicket. Two
for 12. The applause from the Pit was
terrific. Noah stayed for a while but the
ary wicket did not suit him, Abel was next
bi*t Cain shattered his stumps with one fell
blow. Thomas scratched around for a while,
and then offered a catch to Sandy Mac-
Dougall. The inevitable happened. Young
Shakspeare gave a dashing exhibition; his
innings was a poem. Daniel proved more
of a rabbit than a lion, and went for a
duck. Byron was very dashing until Mary
Queen of Scots gave him the glad-eye from
the pavilion, upon which he lost his head,
heart' and middle stump. Moses shaped
nicely until a lost soul yelled, “Where were
you when the lights went out?” Elias was
last man. Ananias
deceived him, and
he was very much
put out. Heaven
all out for 86,
Peter carrying his
bat for 43. No
wonder the damned
were exultant!
But, lo and be-
hold! on the fol-
-low i n g day it
rained in torrents.
Peter opened the
bowling with
Noah, the wet-
wicket champion,
and Noah’s sub-
marine ball proved
practically unplay-
able. Old Nick
was out tail be-
fore wicket, and
Henry VIII., un-
nerved by the hos-
tility of his wives
in the pavilion,
failed to sco r e.
Charles I. executed
some nice late cuts
before getting it in the neck. Cain was
unable to raise a run. Ananias was caught
behind; he denied it, but no one believed him.
Bluebeard made a murderous swing, missed,
and was bowled. Sandy MacDougall made a
desperate effort to save his side, but the
rumor of free drinks in the pavilion proved
too much for him. Ned Kelly held up the
bowlers well and deserved his n.o. Heaven
won by 1 run, and great was the disappoint-
ment of the Hellites, but that was forgotten
as Ned Kelly glanced at the watch he had
.lust stolen. “Gripes!” he exclaimed, “ten
to six, boys! We’ve just time to sink a dozen
Richmonds at the old ‘Fire and Furnace.’ ”
A. J.
* *
\ HOP IT.
What with its thugs and razor-gangs
Darlingliurst must have many a nook
In which the adjuration hangs:
“Be warned, and leap before you look!”
* *
STRATEGY.
We young husbands hated him practically
from the day he arrived in the suburb. Un-
fortunately, t li e
women liked him,
had him on their
committees, invited
him to tea-fights
and so on. What
was worse they
used to ask us
such questions as:
“Why don’t you
dress like that nice
Mr. Wasser ?” Bah !
However, we
fixed him. He’s
gone now, moved
under cover of
night. And the
funny thing is
that few of the
women regret it.
“He was mad,”
confessed my wife
as she fondled our
precious bundle of
squalls.
Yes. We made
the poor devil sole
judge of our first
district baby-show
last week.
Darken.
* x
The N.S.W. Gov-
ernment says there
is too much kid
about Child En-
dowment.
An Englishman fights for his rights, an
Irishman for his wrongs and a Scot for his
principles. And there’s another race that
will put up a very good battle merely for
its interest.
•V- *
THE VEGETARIAN.
A sportive girl, she would persist in calling
him “Old Bean.’’
And he the name accepted hi a manner quite
serene.
But her expensive habits gave his cash an
awful clout,
And now his nickname is “Old Pea.” He’s
always shelling out.
* #
On arrival in Melbourne a Scotch professor said
that Australia had a distinctive smell.”
Others who have arrived by way of the
Yarra have noticed it.
One intriguing aspect of the coal dispute
is that, if it goes on much longer, our coal
merchant, unable to get supplies, will be
driven to confess what the stuff is that he’s
been selling us all these years.
HOME TREATMENT.
THE BILLAGE SMITHY: “Now then, are you going to let Daddy
pull that tooth out, or do you want to go to the cruel
dentist?”
You never truly realise the high cost
of leaving until, your stay at the pub at
an end, the hotel staff lines up for its tips.
THE RED ROLLS.
While Mr. ‘Jock’ Garden was speaking in Hyde
Park he was interrupted by cries of ‘Why don’t you
Beit your car and give the money to the miners, you
big loafer ?’ ” —Sun.
The toiler’s car is deepest red.
Oft from the coppei's it has fled,
And.down some handy side-street bowled
When words grew hot but feet grew cold.
Look round! ,The Yankee has his Stutz;
brenchmen in Renaults rush o’er ruts •
Germans for Benzes sell their souls.
Why should a Scot give up his Rolls?
Let Bankers sniff and Merchants jibe!
The Toiler scorns the plutish tribe,
And he •will be the one to scoff
When his instalments are paid off!
Chorus.
Then, ivorkers, raise your hats on high,
And with united voices cry:
“E’en though we have to dock our beer,
TT 7 e ll keep the Red Rolls running hpre.”
10-2-4.
H IS CHRISTMAS PRESENT
Daddy’s a golfer.
He plays on the links
Every Saturday
In between drinks.
■ He’ll think it awfully
Thoughtful of me;
I’ve bought him a caddy
,To carry his tea.
SYBELLE.
EYE TROUBLE.
There's something wrong with Ethel's eyes,
And so the girl I will not wed,
For in eugenics I am wise.
The fact is, she's in love with Ted,
And does not view me as a prize.
That is wlmt’s u)rong with Ethel’s eyes!
p.
THE DIGGER.
All mine! What an ecstatic thought!
The whole wide world seemed bright
When to my home my bride I brought.
I know, now I was right.
All mine she is! She mines, untaught,
My jackets every night!
H.


BRITISH
HADE
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
Managing Agents for Australia >*—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
3/-
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch,
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car....I was looking
at the poster. . ..."
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?”
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah, the blade’s tH? thing!”
“—are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.”
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?”
“Any dealer’s. 3 >’’ ,0 <- 012216 for ,he
entire set, all with the same principle.”
PAINFUL POEMS
My housekeeper, from some
unknown cause.
Stupidly forgot to order, '
Fresh provisions from the Stores
She's buried in the herbaceous
border,
L^lUu-
'A *\
t '. * ». 4VV
?K^ j 7
-•l v r*
■.<y
rt«
' ,V?.*. 2
s Ss>i^2
' • fi ;
'^£s
-*z?lfas. v~
_= --.;• jVc-.
1 z: . m.:f-/„ /- :„ ~-~-i>._- JT-C£sj
■Tr
KJ*.
£
Jv»v^M6C-
Between the pinks (the double
sort)
And the primulas of many colours,
—And all because she ran so short
Of cigarettes .... ABDULLAS !
—Fougasse
SUPERB (Tgarettes
VIRGINIA TURKISH EGYPTIAN


AAAAAM
BS
AAI&£
GRAHAM-PAIGE offers a variety of
body types, including Tourers, Cabrio-
lets, Coupes and Sedans, on five chassis
in sixes and eights, at a wide range
of prices.
A Car is Ready
for You to Drive
ė
The new Graham-Paige Model 612 is
being received with enthusiastic acclaim
throughout the entire world. Every-
where favorable comment follows this
motor-car of exceptional value.
Many cars compete in price with the
new Model 612, but few cars, even
those costing considerably more money,
are in the same quality class. Examine
the Model 612 carefully, and you’ll
find throughout the extra size, extra
sturdiness and extra quality charac-
teristic of all Graham-Paige models.
cvmS
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand:
NEW SOUTH WALES ..
VICTORIA ..
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
..... WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
.. MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED,
QUEENSLAND ... MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
£AAMAM-PAl££
STRENGTH
GIVES out
You Have Neglected Your
Health Trouble Too Long
PROBABLY the majority of men (and women, too)
who complain of constant dreadful dizziness, pains
in back, joints and muscles, irritableness, loss of vigor,
fail to realise that the seat of their trouble lies in the
kidneys. The kidneys are certainly the most vital of all
bodily organs. On them depends the purity of the blood
and consequently the strength or weakness of nerves and
auscles. When the kidneys fail, poisons accumulate in
he blood, which cause pain in the muscles and joints.
Nerves become frayed and irritated. No wonder you are
often weak and dizzy.
What is the good of “doping” the system with so-called
“tonics” ? Why weaken the body with purging salts when
the only possible means of re-establishing health and
vigor is to restore the kidneys to healthy action?
Thousands of one-time sufferers
say this remedy is marvellous!
Do you know thousands of people have found that by
taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills they have enjoyed a new lease of life?
Lien arfd women once crippled with pain, bed-ridden,
have once again enjoyed splendid vigor and vitality.
Thousands recommend this remedy, which sells by
millions of bottles the world over. Why not ask your
chemist about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills? Ask
him his candid opinion. He will tell you all about the
splendid prescription printed on the box, and why it can,
will and must do you good.
M
1
0^
1
7
U
i
l
HERE IS TESTIMONY
TO CONVINCE YOU
There are a host of people around you,
a number in your own district, who have
proved how quickly De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills have brought relief from pain
and suffering. It is for you to follow their
example. Read just this one letter of thanks
for health restored by “De Witt’s.”
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright Street, Adel-
aide, writes: “About five years ago I was
laid up for sixteen weeks with neuritis and rheumatism, partially
paralysed. I was recommended De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, which, lam happy to say, pulled me through. I am 74
years of age and sull able to hold my own with younger men.
I have enjoyed the best health ever since.
If you are troubled with
Pains in the Back
Bad Taste in the Mouth
Bad Nights
Rings or Bags under the Eyes
Depression and Tired Feeling
Loss of Vigor
Aching Limbs
Sallow Complexio
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Pains in Joints
Weak Back
Sciatica
Bladder Trouble
ę
De WITT’S
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
PILLS


&
h
■\ sh V^t^
TH£ MARK Of THE GENUINE
“ Your Radio Pleasure depends
on the Speaker The ONLY
Speaker guaranteed against hum
or rattle for the life of the Speaker.
That is the X-Core Dynamic Speaker—
made by Magnavox, of course —for only
Magnavox may make a Dynamic Speaker.
Obtainable all Radio Dealers.
Battery operated D.C. Units, £5/151--
A.C. operated from House Mains. A.C. Units, £7/1 5/-
Through several generations of
master and man/ Stuarts of
Stourbridge/ England/ have
made and cut fine crystal
The old/ traditional methods
remain: the same patient/ lov=
ing skill is expended on every
piece that bears the etched
name "Stuart"—that guar=
antee of flawless craftsmanship.
m
m
m
mmmmm
mmm.
mmm
English Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
CIDE
WL
KITZS
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
The finest drink with meals, as it
aids digestion and prevents acidity.
Dr. D. T. Fernie, of London, states:—
Cider is not only the most wholesome and
hygienic of all drinks, but is a preventive
against and a remedy for
Stone, Gravel, Gout, Obesity
and Fermentative Indigestion.
Agents in all States.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“Fast Company” (Paramount) is at least
a refresher after a surfeit of crime talkies.
It is a story of American baseball and
the efforts that are made to win a match
with the aid of oof. There is a love-story
of the usual standard, involving the star
player and putting him off his game. Also,
there is the rumor that he has been bribed
to play like that, and in the end there is
the reconciliation that makes him rush on
to the field and pull the final out of the
fire, to the everlasting glory of the whole
universe. Not being very well up in Ameri-
can baseball language, present Showman
takes it for granted that there is more
humor in the dialogue than he could find
there; anyway, he hopes so,. Novel photo-
graphy and natural characterisation make
the piece a passable iight entertainer.
“Pleasure Crazed” (Fox) is a fatuous story
of a writer who, to get his wife away from
her lover, takes a lavishly advertised house
in California. Doing so, he falls in with
che scheme of a pair of crooks who appar-
ently planned his taking the house as a
MARGUERITE
CHURCHILL
in “Pleasure Crazed.”
means of get-
ting hold of
his wife’s
jewels. The
crooks have in
their clutches
asob f u 1
young lady
who, a fur-
ther part of
the scheme,
stays on as
h o u se keeper
after her sinis-
ter comrades
leave. It is
like shift-
ing a mount-
ain to rob an'
ant s’ nest,
and the
scheme falls
down eventu-
ally through
the girl fall-
ing in love with
the writer.
There is a
chase in
motor-cars, which, in spite of the sotind
accompaniment, is no more exciting than it
was 30 years ago, and the concluding pas-
sage, wherein the altruistic writer laddie
lets the crooks go, is a miraculous example
of false sentiment.
Something like that occurs also in “High
Voltage” (Pathe). Here a laj'ge motor-’bus
is discovered ploughing across a waste
of snow, with the inevitable plunge
into a drift ready to happen at any
moment. When it does, a building is des-
cried out in the midst of the waste, and
the ’bus’s complement, driver, detective, lady
crook, pompous gentleman and sweet young
thing, plod across a few miles of snow to
find the place a church. It is occupied by
a brawny gentleman with a baritone-speak-
ing voice, who turns out to be a crook.
Considering that the church is not less than
10 miles from anywhere, this chap has an
amazing store of food in stock, for he is
able to split it up into rations that will
keep the party going for 10 or 12 days.
There is some effort to suggest a psycholo-
gical struggle between the crook and the
detective for leadership in the party, and
some attempt also to give the impression
of passing time, neither very successful and
both uninteresting. When they’re all down
to the last bite, a passing- ’plane is signalled,
but goes on. That night the crook and
the lady crook decide to clear out and trust
to the patron saint of the profession to get
them to civilisation. On the way they see
an illuminated ’plane searching for the party.
They discuss in the snow whether the others
in the church will hear the ’plane, and,
agreeing that they won’t, decide to give up
their chance of freedom and go back. So a
fire is made, and the ’plane sends down
illuminated boxes of food. Then the detec-
tive, appreciating their self-sacrifice, lets
them go. The Bulletin has seen better.
Emulating Ramsay MacDonald, the King
of Spain and other all-talkies, Prime Minister
Scullin permits himself to walk out along
a passage, stand on some steps and address
Fox’s speakie recorder. He extends the
hand of friendship to the world, pins his
faith for the abolition of war in the ditto
of armaments, and explains that Australia’s
attempts to restrict immigration are not a
matter of bad friendship but of social neces-
sity. Considering that it is often some such
necessity which starts wars, the P.M.’s
logic isn’t remarkably acute. But it is
popular, high-sounding stuff, and, after all,
we owe the movies something, don’t we?
“Under the Greenwood Tree” (Cinema
Art) is a British talkie, unambitious, but
very well done. Simplicity is. its note, and
it comes as an effectual antidote to the sort
of thing this Showman saw it contrasted
with at Sydney State. The other picture,
“The Woman Lies” (Paramount), has a
pair of ultra-precocious modern children act-
ing_ as liaison officers for Cupid between
their widowed father and the woman he
eventually collars. It is sticky with abomin-
able sentimentality. “Under the Greenwood
Tree,” on the contrary, is as unsophisticated
and idyllic as its title. It concerns an old
English church choir which represents
several generations and is threatened with
extinction through the introduction of an
organ. The lovers are the youthful loader
of the choir and a maid who is also loved
by the villainous rich man of the locality.
There is the old hag fortune-teller in the
rich chap’s pay, and her halfwit grandson
who eventually blabs of the bride that rigged
the horoscope in favor of Mammon, frothing
could be less “modern.” This heart interest,
however, is merely incidental. The picture s
merit lies in the comedic pathos attaching
to the passing choir, and that is expressed
with fine feeling, clean sentiment and whole-
some humor.
The Inky Way
“X.”: John Lane Mullins, papal knight
and expert in prints, will soon publish his
“History of the Bookplate in Australia.”
President of the Bookplate Society, treasurer
for the Society of Artists, and good friend
to artists generally, John Lane’s last pub-
lication was the superb “Satyrs and Sun-
light” job he did for Hugh McCrae and
Norman Lindsay.
“Parnas” : David Syme wasn’t the founder
of Melbourne Age, though it is generally
credited to him (B. H/12/’29). John and
Henry Cooke started it, and employed
Ebenezer Syme (David’s elder brother) and
others as writers. The Cookes passed the
show on to a co-operative association, which
included employees. It was held by the co-op-
eration until 1856, when Ebenezer bought it
outright from the rest. David came from the
goldfields with a small fortune, joined his
brother, and soon had charge.
Anyone who isn’t satisfied he has had
his coin’s worth out of the Mosman Daily’s
Christmas number can have his money back
and no questions asked. The Daily, issued
gratis, is an example of the rather wonder-
ful development of these free papers, of
which about half a dozen round Sydney
suburbs are tethered by one string. The
Christmas issue is almost as big as The
Bulletin, to which it pays the compliment
of borrowing the red jacket. It holds news,
social items and sundry other such aids to
forgetting what the snails are doing to the
lettuce; but what this paper is chiefly inter-
ested in is its encouragement of the short
story.
The Palette
A striking small item in the Bennett
Galleries, Sydney, is “Shadows,” by Will
Mahony, a woodcut view of a tiger with
light shafting down through black jungle
on to a flank. There is a feeling of life
about it, which is more than can be said
for sundry of the imported etchings of
atmosphere which help to eke out the show.
The difference applies to most of the Aus-
tralian work in comparison with the other.
There are nine Van Raaltes, with several
gems among them, including a beautiful
aquatint of hills, stream and weird trees.
Henry Fullwood has several interesting
glimpses of Old Sydney, T. Friedcnsen some
good Australian bush, and John Banks a
neat decoration of ancient high-deckers. Wili
Mahony, by the way, is a son of Frank, tin
artist who delighted a former generation
with his spirited horse (and other animal)
drawings and paintings.
Celebrating its jubilee the N. S. Wales
Royal Art Society lately strung up an
impressive bunch of representative pictures
at Farmer’s. The society goes further on
its jag by issuing “Fifty Years of Austra-
lian Art,” a selection from the recent hang-
ings in color and black and white, with a
rather fearsome bust of Henry Lawson and
useful biographical notes on the society’s
leading lights. The book, competently turned
out, without being startling, is value for
the 7s. 6d.
Sydney Macquarie Galleries pinned faith
over the holidays on a black-and-white show,
worth while chiefly for a bunch of fine
Lionel Lindsay etchings of bits of Europe.
Beside them hung work by Sir D. Y. Cam-
eron, James Mcßey and Francis Dodd. In
time overseas artists will learn that their
second-rate work is likely to have a frozen
time in Australia, where really fine stuff in
etching is done from time to time. The
Camerons were the best of the imports, and
included two excellent pieces. Robert Gib
bings filled out the rest of the show with
19 angular woodcuts, very well done, but
stark and cold. Sydney Art Gallery bought
Lindsay’s view of a Seville church and
Cameron’s reading of St. George’s, Hanover-
square.
NOOS.
[For The Bulletin.]
“A sea captain who arrived in Sydney complainec
that New York reporters furnished their papers
with long, exciting and entirely imaginative accounts
of a fire on his ship, which was actually extinguished
before any of them arrived. One enterprising journal
published a faked photograph showing him (the
captain) throwing cargo out of the hold.”
With an enterprise colossal we abandon all
the fossil-
ised ideas of journalism that made old-
time papers dull;
With our tales of fire and slaughter (if they
do not hap they oughter)
We keep our journals daily of pep and
vigor full;
We divorce the still unwedded with a caption
triple-headed,
And surprise the new arrival with a
statement of his view’s ;
With a crisp and slangy diction we com-
pile our mass of fiction
On the general assumption that a good
lie must be “noos.”
Should a film-star lose his collar-stud, in
headlines black we holler
Of a robbery of jewels that is “Wropt” in
mysteree,
With a photo of the valet (and his aunt who
lives at Calais)
Hinting, since he is a Frenchman, a sus-
picious wight is he.
Should a rowboat lose its rudder there’s a
yarn to make folk shudder
As the story of a liner drifting helpless
they peruse;
If a slight fact’s there we _ fake it, if it’s
not we simply make it,
And America’s great public gets the stuff
served up as “noos.”
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Hanking:, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
703,125
3,750,000
4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Australia > Nevv
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ; tJ'Ttdr.
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Australian
and' New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
ofiices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charged
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
e
IRcgfeter
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS.
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP OOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading:
Advertising Agencies.
“THE WOMANS MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
Sail for
Honolulu
on
February 6
m
»
H
WHETHER on board the liner
en route for Honolulu or holi-
daying on the Sunny South
Sea Isle, your enjoyment is assured.
For Hawaii is a world-famous
holiday resort, whilst the vessels
engaged in this tov^r —the Niagara
and Aorangi—are imposingly large,
wide-decked and splendidly fitted for
pleasure.
Last Summer Excursion Tour via
Auckland and Suva:—
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second
(return).
Leaving FEBRUARY 6.
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
AUSTRALASIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE
m
f
/%
wm
O';
*n
BURNS-PHILP
TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland
of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES—
NATIVE BAZAARS. EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (.7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and
situated only seven days’ steaming n.-e.
of Sydney. The comfortable and
popular S.S. MATARAM sails from
Sydney on February 5, and six-weekly
thereafter, visiting 30 picturesque
Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4\ WEEKS.
FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/8 to
BURNS, PHILP AND
COMPANY, LTD.,
7 Bridge Street,
Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
è
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
1 a hie remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening:;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE'.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/fc/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
, Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
fiuddart Parker L
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER U IVHTED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
See the Great Lakes
cross Canada bifßail
and Steamer,
'V,
3
|-juimmi' ~^ij:
gSSTttSW-.v,.,«w»
Leisure and sociability of
steamer travel via the C.P.R.
Great Lakes Route. Two
nights in the train to cross
Canada. —Lake Superior—thirty
thousand islands, beaches, sum-
mer camps—a va"* holiday resort.
Spacious decks, airy cabins,
all comforts of ocean travel over
these fast inland seas. Write
fa r beautifully illustrated
literature.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
/
<
JVC; O 'a 'S% lf?£32al»
TRAINS, Z ~ , HOTELS
STEAMERS:
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts,on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.


EM© IN THE MORNIM
HEALTH ALL DAY
0
c o o /. .
9f\)
. o V
ooc
Y\ !'=
\ '
ecc
■vOk)
dM?-
o OOOC CO j
r k
M
(> < >
r v / ..<*
r
? -lgi«
-x
Q 4?
MgflPW*-
\
&r
THOSE who take Eno’s “Fruit
Salt’ ’ know the joy of a sparkling
morning draught which both stimu-
lates and invigorates. It starts you off
feeling that all’s right with the world.
More important Eno keeps you
feeling right all day long. It increases
your zest for work and play.
For Eno promotes that perfect inner
cleanliness on which really good
health depends. It gently yet
thoroughly eliminates from the system
the food waste and poisons of yester-
day. It keeps the blood-stream clean
and vigorous. Eno contains no purga-
tive mineral salts, so that its regular use
does not form an indispensable habit.
Follow the lead of countless healthy
people all over the world—start your
day with a glass of water sparkling
with a dash of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores
ENOS
"FRUIT SALT
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Sales extents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE tt CO. LTD. SYDNEY. N-S.??,


TjCtlMf
Insist upon
G@rd®i» ,, s
GIN
The Ingredients used in the production of GORDON’S GIN
are of the finest quality procurable, and contain the greatest percentage
of those important properties which are considered by the Medical
Profession to be most beneficial to the human system. It is very
highly rectified and contains no impurities of any kind; it is there-
fore very easily digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very highest standard of
quality and absolute purity; a reputat’on enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
WHITEST, PUREST & REST
The Heart of a good Cocktail
BY APPOINTMENT
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World.
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
MYIX3Q3 qooa
( Al6DtNoaboo AVM3ni
I MPOWgI HI o>vu-tiia
lilNVil
mSg-
o mnom
wasmuaei
HID AMO
|g|S
SHoaaoO
:a
<V Cs


Repairs.
“Our Hands Make Good Arms”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
»
RELIABLE ENGLISH HAMMERLESS
12-GAUGE GUNS.
Holloway & Naughton, £l7/10/-, £2O, £25,
£32/10/- and £65. Cashmore, £2O; Bone-
hill £2O; Webley and Scott, £2O; Claborough
and Johnston, £22/10/- and £65.
Both barrels full choke, chambered for 2§in.
Some 3in. These guns are specially made for
me to suit Australian conditions.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
’Phone MA3540,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing .”
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
Breakt
a st
Tariff
,f desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
lUhetf
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
• “Usherotel,” Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Moss, the Sydney racing man, got a good
colt cheap when the Maoriland-bred Ven-
mond, by Limond —Veil, was knocked down
to him for 575 guineas. Veilmond has been
placed first three times in four starts, and
on each occasion he has finished like a
stayer, while lie also looks the part. An
odds-on favorite for the December Stakes
(added money, £2000) at Randwick on Box-
ing Day, he gave (Caravel Boy (8 to 1) a
long start over the last furlong of five,
and beat him by a head in lmin. lfsec.
Backwood’s son Longwood ((> to 1) was
third. Caravel Boy is smart, but ‘evidently
Veilmond will always be his master over
any distance.
Booth, who owns and trains- Caravel Boy,
saddled up the winner of the Chisholm Han-
dicap in Luita (4 to 1), who races in his
daughter’s colors. Luita, who is by Sir
Dighton—Berylacre, cleared right away from
a big field,, and at the end of six furlongs,
run in lmin. 12|sec., had an' advantage of
three lengths over Otway 1 alkiner s lea
Miss, Samuel Hordern’s Clear Blight being
third. It was her second success at the
Christmas meetings, and she immediately be-
came a strong fancy for the Carrington
Stakes.
Star God looked trained to the minute for
the Summer Cup, and the bookmakers offered
no better than 2 to 1 in g field of .15. But
lie was obviously'in a piggish mood , when
going out to do his preliminary, and in the
race he refused to do his best for John-
stone, being tailed off most of the way. He
beat only three horses, and it is now no mys-
tery why his Maoriland owner let him go
QEQT *’* DoNT PAW MV BACK i "
B&rt:" Its all right, g,ert,
\'m JUST PRACTISE q
VN PRACTIGINq WHAT ? "
&E-RT 1 " \HE SiROKE t
OF COURSE
for a few hundred guineas. He can gallop
when he likes, but the difficulty will be to
catch him in the mood. The race was an-
other triumph for Donald (10 to 1), who
won it last year; Davidson rushed him past
Jeypore (25 to 1), who had made all the
running, two furlongs from the finish, and
the Newcastle horse romped home, John
Buchan (33 to 1) being a length behind
Jeypore —he just pipped Baverwrac-k (25 to
] ) who was too much of a handful for Ins
small jockey, for third place. Donald is by
Don Reynaldo—Andol, and is owned, by Rnc
Smith. He covered the 13 furlongs m
461,sec. and it was a sterling performance
for a horse in his ninth year who has done
a power of racing.
* * * - *
Donald’s weight for Tatt.’s Cup at Rand-
wick'on Wednesday is now 9st. olb., but no
is used to carrying big burdens, and is by
no means out of it. Habashon, with 101 b
added for his Villiers Stakes victory, will
have Bst. lib. The Bulletin will have to
discard Star God. while recognising that the
brute is capable of improving greatly on Ins
Summer Cup showing, and will choose
Baverwrack instead. For places: Raver-
wrack, Donald, 2 \ John Ducnan, o.
* * * *
Holiday racing in Victoria began in
earnest on Boxing Day at Caulfield, when
the Christmas Handicap (six furlongs) and
the Hopetoun Handicap (11 furlongs) were
contested. Before the V.A.T.C. decided t
content itself with one real Cup per season,
the middle-distance event was known as
the Hopetoun Cup. St Lucia, trained by a
former jockey, Ralph Horne, and held by
him on lease from Wallace Mitchcl the
bookmaker, won a sprint ev ® t f ] llfie i J
on December 17 in cake-walk fashion ana
on that form had strong backing foi the
Christmas Handicap. E. M. Pearce s fi y
Spanish Galleon, however, ousted her fiom
favoritism and beat her for pace; m fact
Spanish Galleon beat everything bar Lucie
Manette (8 to 1), who finished too strongly
for the other chestnut, Lucie came home
a bit erratically, but Scanlon convinced the
stewards that it wasn’t his fault.
The weird frequency with which “S. A,
Rawdon” prads finish second or third m
races is a fruitful subject of conversation
in Melbourne turf circles Strogoff one of
the best horses in the unlucky stable, was
third to Lucie Manette and Spanish Gal-
leon.
Not often does a three-year-old win over
a distance at this time of the year, but
Romany Rye accomplished the feat m the
Hopetoun Handicap. Second favorite a >
to 1, he won by three-quarters of a lengt
after a stiff fight with Heroics half-brother
Cimbrian, who has had a of racing
these last few months ; Finsbury and Coro-
maudel broke even for third. hirst and
second are owned and were bred by A. x.
Creswick; Romany Rye is by Bucklaw—
Dame Lybia. Elliott rode him right out.
- " sit V * *
' For Flemington on New Year’s Day: —
Standisli Handicap: Strogoff; next, Span-
ish Galleon. . ,
Bagot Handicap: Balmenno; next, Sir
Roy. '
* * * *
Waranton, possibly the greatest weight-
carrier up to a mile that the Victorian
turf has. produced,, has been taken in hand
again at Caulfield by E. J. Riley, who pro-
nounces the St. Anton—Warram gelding to
be as fresh as a two-year-old. Waranton is
on the road to being 12 years old. He met
with a leg injury while competing m the
1928 Maiden Hurdle at Williamstown, won
by Longlands, who captured the V.R.G.
Grand National that season. Riley intends
to confine him to flat-racing.
* * * *
Star God’s elder brother, Star Stranger,
went out favorite for the Auckland Cup, and
gave his supporters a capital run for their
money. He fought out an exciting finish
with Concentrate and went under by a
neck. Count Cavour —also well known at,
Randwick —being a close third. Concen-
trate is a brother to Oratrix, and the pair
finished well up in Loquacious’s Metrop.
after both had been under a cloud. He ran
the Auckland Cup distance, two miles, in
Binin. 27sec., and his div. was “substantial
—the Government doesn’t allow the amounts
to be published. Paquito, who was second
to Nightmarch in the Melbourne Cup, was
next in demand to Star Stranger ; he came
in seventh.
* * *
The South Aus. Derby winner, Hot
Spring, was taken to Perth for the West-
ralian Derby. Even money was his price in
a field of 10, the local three-year-olds being
reckoned of poor class; but he was fated to
be beaten into fourth place, Ozonia, the
outsider of the party, winning from Pure
Blend (4 to 1) and Star Sir (7 to 1)
Quoted at 50 to 1 in the ring, without
takers, Ozonia returned £29 12s. straightout
and £4 14s. for a place on the 10s. machines.
P»y Seacrest —Barinia, he is owned by E. A.
Hall and was ridden by Charles.
* * * *
Harry Hope engaged Dempsey to ride his
fine sprinter, Merab, in the Port Adelaide
club’s Christmas Handicap. Merab had 10st.,
and it proved too much of a burden; I auras
(Stardrift —Density), who had solid support,
got home by & bead from a rank outsider,
Double It, a son of lownit. Taurus’s div.
for £1 was £3 135.; Double It’s was £l4 12s.
Some Quality, winner of the Australian
Cup. danced away from Killara, Kidaules
and nine others an the Cheltenham Stakes,
and returned £7 4s. for £l. The distance—
-1 mile 260 yards —was thought to be too
short for the little mare.
The Ins and Outs
NS W. which won the opening match of
the Sheffield season against Queensland in
Brisbane, took the knock in its turn from
South Australia at Adelaide, the local men
winning by 5 wickets. The Wlieathelders
increased their first-innings total to 508, the
N.S.W. bowling being pathetically ineffective.
Victor Richardson carried his score to 64,
while Pritchard was 148 when he was caught
by McCabe off Hooker. Fairfax, with 3 for
80 had the best average among the visitors.
Behind 194 runs, the Welshmen batted
manfully to get 434, Jackson (82) Bradman
(84) and McCabe (73) giving their side a
good start, while Allsopp, by adding id
to his first-innings score of 77, showed it has
not taken him long to get the hang of Gnm-
mett’s slows. The bosie bowler bagged t tor
136 or 9 for 178 in the match. Bor the
home side; D. M. Pritchard, who is playing
great cricket, took 75, and Vic. Richardson
44 while Hone (61) also completed a
sterling double. Hooker’s 2 for 89 was the
best of the N.S.W. bowling averages.
*’* * *
Queensland opened well in its Sheffield
match at Adelaide with 380. In spite of the
fact that Grimmett was at his top—he took
6 for 146—Goodwin (93),Bensted (82) and
F C. Thompson (74) fairly got the better
of the bowling. The story was repeated
when S.A. came back with 363 for b, the
score including a sparkling 126 by Vic.
Richardson, who went for the runs when the
the rest of the team showed signs of collaps-
ing. Rain wiped out play on Friday, when
the Wheatfieldcrs were only 17 down with
4 wickets in hand.
Victoria was badly rattled out when the
State eleven met N.S.W. on the Melbourne
Cricket Ground. The Cabbage Gardeners
had the first knock, and achieved only 229.
Ponsford, let off twice, ran to 65, which was
the best score of the side. The brilliant
young Melbourne Uni. batsman Rigg was
again among the runs with 44. Hendry did
his best trick of the season with 4o (run
'out). The in-and-out Everett took s.for
57 he had 2 for 52 earlier in the innings
but later was put on to kill the rabbits.
* * *
“Glenelg” : Nothing has so much cheered
South Australian cricket as the recovery by
Victor Richardson of his form of a season
or so ago. His first innings against Queens-
land of 126 was played in that tempo accel-
erate that has marked his finest efforts
against all aind sundry in the past, and
following, as it did, on his 108 for the two
innings against N.S.W.. must cause the eyes
of the Australian selectors to dwell seri-
ously on him, especially as his fielding is
so great. Another South Australian who
lias come into the Sheffield limelight
with the bat thus early in the season is
D E. Pritchard. If he keeps going as lm
has started (148 and 75 against N.S.W.,
and 62 r.o. in his State’s first innings
against Queensland), the lefthander will also
have to be considered by the selectois.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: A curious item in the
report presented to the N.S.W. Cricket
Association by the management of the Shef-
field team which recently visited Queens-
land is the statement that the bats sent up
with the team were not fit for use m a
big game. It is surprising that in Sheffield
matches players are content to bat with
a “companionate” waddy, so to speak, instead
of having their own carefully-chosen and
well-tested sticks. In a long experience ot
cricket I have never known a good bats-
man content to use a strange bat, save in
dire emergency. If the practice is now
general, no wonder some of our performers
are patchy. They are putting themselves
in the position of Walter Lindrum or Willie
Smith asked to put up a four-figure break
with the quarter-butt, or a broomstick.
* =l= * *
“Tenth Slip”: The present Australian
cricket season has been remarkable for Its
casualty list. Apart from the sorrows of Gil-
ligan’s men, all the Sheffield -shield matches to
date have added* their quota. In Adelaide,
Jackson developed an illness that sent him
to hospital, and bowler Campbell injured
his hand. Woodfull took a bad knock against
Queensland in Melbourne, while Oldfield is
also in bandages for some tune to come.
Jackson’s affliction is not serious, though lie
was unable to turn out against Victoria
in Melbourne, but it is to be hoped the run
of bad luck will not continue, If it does,
something in the way of intensive tiaining
ought to be undertaken to toughen up the
candidates for the Eleven. The writer suggests
a course of League football or Stadium
wrestling. Following on that, the team might
work its passage home in the stokehold or
a coal-burner, as sculler Jim Stanbury did.
* * * *
“G.P.S.”: Another interesting inter-State
school fixture (B. 25/12/’29) was played
in Sydney during the Christmas holidays,
when Sydney Scots College went up against
Melbourne Scotch College, and won by one
run. Bowlers were on top all the time,
Hall having the good figures of 5 for ob
in the second innings of Scotch. Just why
one of these schools should call itself Scots
and the other Scotch no one seems to know.
It is ad big a mystery as the intense popu-
larity of the Melbourne foundation among
the upper-class Chinese in that city, who
send their sons there almost without excep-
tion.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: Gilligan's Englishmen
continue to do fairly well in M.L. without
setting Cook Strait on fire. After the
draw against Wellington two more have
followed against Nelson and Canterbury.
Against the first-named, Duleepsinliji put
up his first century of the tour, 127. He
followed that up by getting 4 wickets
against Canterbury. Nicholls and Worth-
ington have divided the bowling honors of
the tour so far, Woolley having been com-
paratively innocuous with bat and ball. The
first Test will begin at Christchurch on
January 10.
(Continued on page 37.)
Typical North of England weather —which
means mud, snow, slush and sleet —has
heavily handicapped the Kangaroos in their
Christmas-week series of matches —four of
them, no less, in the seven days. Billed to
go up against Hull Kingston Rovers, they
put in a weak side to play Hunslet, in-
considerable Yorkshire hamlet club. They
were beaten by 18-3, the usual process of
smothering them down by the English for-
wards being resorted to. However, they got
a bit back by beating the Kingston Rovers,
one of the most famous teams of the
Northern Union, by 10 to 5. A close thing
it was; the conditions suited the Australian
style of play. The Rovers tried to beat the
visitors at it and failed.


/
£
37
if
/r
v
TP*
dt
** \
&
KM*.
<aS&
C A
*«»w
&
>; *
fe' 2
.t
ms
1
yu t«
=/if
£
è
I'li Tons of REX Foods
Wanting greatest food-value in small bulk,
wanting at the same time meats unimpeach-
able in quality and a pleasure to eat, Sir
Douglas Mawson has taken with him:—
1080 one pound cans of REX-PYE
5 cwt. of REX Canned Pork Sausage
5 cwt. of REX Canned Lorraine Smoked
Sausages
5 cwt. of REX canned Beef Sausages
1 ton of REX Bacon
% ton of REX Hams
Conclusive proof to add to your own
experience that the famous REX Products
are of supreme quality; for Sir Douglas
could not afford to take risks with his food
supply.
Ask for REX products at all grocers and smallgoodsmen. *
REX-PYE
and 29 other food products, besides Hams and Bacon and Smallgoods
Writ* to us for a complete list.
GITT JONES PTV. LTD
REX Hams and Bacon and Packers of REX-PYE and other famous REX Delicacies.


é
ê
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin” : What looks like a tentative
selection for the Davis Cup team has been
made. There will be two sets of trial
.matches, in Melbourne and Sydney respec-
tively. Crawford, Hopman, Jim Willard,
Hawkes, Moon and Cummings have been
asked to play in both series; Schlesinger
and Hasset, of Victoria, with the South Aus-
tralian E. T. Rowe, are to be given a gallop
at Melbourne only. On the Sydney side,
Kalms, Dunlop and Sproule, all N.S.W. men,
will also be asked to turn out. The Mel-
bourne trials will begin on January 17;
those in Sydney on January 29. Provided
Moon shows up well in his southern matches,
he may find a place. On hard courts, such
as those on which most of the European
Davis Cup games will be played, he has no
superior in Australia. Crawford, Hopman,
Willard and Moon look a likely quartette,
though such brilliant players as Kalms and
Dunlop have also to be reckoned with.
* * =!: *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: That supervision of
the next Davis Cup team’s expenses (B.
11/12/’29) will be even more drastic than
was implied. In addition to the matters
already set out, it is laid down that meals
will only be paid for when they are chosen
by the manager. If a player selects from the
carte, say, faisan aux truffes de Morny, and
the manager picks just plain hash, the player
has either got to take hash or pay for the
other expensive plat himself. Similarly
“ordinary drinks at meals when ordered by
the manager will be provided by the asso-
ciation,” but these “shall not include cham-
pagne, highly-priced wines or liqueurs.” What
a life! A fella might as well be a touring-
footballer.
# * * *
“Cut Shot”: The voluminous regulations
which will hedge the next Davis Cup team
to go abroad lay down that the clothing and
equipment allowance for each player will be
£25 —a drastic cut on former figures.
Further, members will not be allowed to
send reports of any kind to the press regard-
ing tournaments or other competitions. This
'is a welcome change for the better, as those
who recall the sensational stuff cabled out
concerning Crawford’s play against the
Italians during the last Australian tour will
admit. In any case, it brings, the tennis
player abroad into line with the cricketers,
Olympic teams and Rugby Union players.
The only Australian athletic body which
now permits its players to burble for cash
in the press is the Rugby League.
Newspaper knight DENISON, owner of
Habashon, winner of the A.J.C. Villiers
Stakes .
“Hiroshima” : Asian mails recently to hand
show that the Japanese provided a surprise
for the strong French team which has been
touring Eastern Asia, and was last heard
of in India. The Japanese won all four
singles, the great Cochet going down to the
well known Harada, while a younger brother
of the latter defeated Rodel. Jiro Sato,
a Waseda University student, was too good
for Brugnon, while Gen Makino, another
Davis Cup man, came out ahead of Landry,
France won only one rubber of the doubles,
so the licking was a pretty convincing one,
even if the tourists were not at their top.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Your tennis star is mostly a
law unto himself, not forgetting herself.
Not only are the spectators kept waiting
for these doggy young persons, but when they
do arrive they waste another quarter of an
hour in a “knock up.” Since the authorities
don’t seem inclined to move, the writer sug-
gests that the spectators take matters into
their own hands. If the crack who was 10
minutes late was greeted with a volley of
overdue eggs, or hauled into the front seat and
spanked by as many of the assembled mul-
titude as could get at him, he would probably
consider mending his ways. What would
happen to a footballer or cricketer who
hung up play for ten minutes by his un-
punctuality? After the crowd had finished
with him, the executive of the game would
probably put him on ice for life.
The Watermen
“Blade”: The N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion’s regatta drew a big crowd to the Nepean
course at Penrith to see the battle for the
State eights title. A battle it was, for the
holders, Mosman, only scratched home by
half a length from a most determined chal-
lenge by Sydney. Leichhardt was 15 lengths
away third, but would have done better but
for swamping from the wash from the
umpire’s launch. This is Mosman’s eighth win,
and the club now ties with the veteran Syd-
ney organisation in its total of victories. The
time for the 3 miles was 17min. 38 2-ssec.,
and the club is now assured of the N.S.W.
rowing premiership for the 9th time—another
record. Bobby Pearce won the State sculls
at his ease, in 20min. 30 1-osec., a record
for the 3 miles event, though .1. Ooulding
gave him a good spin for the first mile.
iji ❖ # Jfc
“Slide”: The Sidney Henley Regatta
Committee has resolved to change the venue
of its annual function from the salubrious
Haberfield canal to an attractive natural
waterway which runs into the 1 arramatta
River at Hunter’s Hill, and is known as
Tarban Creek. The canal had many draw-
backs, and though the oarsmen did not,
as a rule, object to ramming a too defunct
dog or a bagful of kittens, the spectators on
the lee side of the narrow strip of water
were more emphatic. The same objections
applied to the Japanese lantern carnival,
which was part of the show in the evening,
and the committee decided that more sylvan
scenes must be sought.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Baffy”: Sydney saw yet another chal-
lenge match for a £5O stake the other day,
when C. Campbell, of the N.S.W. club, and
D G Soutar, of Moore Park, beat W. J.
Clark, of Killara, and V. James, from
Bonnie L)oon, by 7 and 5. The match was
for £5O a side over 72 holes, the first 30
at La Perouse and the second on the Royal
Sydney links at Rose Bay. Campbell and
Soutar were 2 up at La Perouse, and by
wonderful putting ended the game on the
31st at Rose Bay.
,i= =1- * *
“Fitzcray”: That scheme for turning a
portion of the old Yarra wharves into a
golfing practice ground (B. 18/12/’29) in-
volves more than putting greens for the
Melbourne lunch-hour crowd. Not only are
seven greens to be put down on a suitable
earth formation, but provision is also made
for approaching and driving spaces. The
latter will, of course, consist of small com-
partments where the ball is driven off a
mat into a canvas screen, as is the practice
in the various golf-instruction schools
established by outfitting and sports-goods
firms. The approach lay-out promises to be
a more difficult matter, but something should
be accomplished, since the length of the
wharfage is'Booft.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane golfers leaped with
joy the other day, for the millennium had
arrived. In plainer words, the long-prayed-
for municipal golf course in Victoria Park
is about to become an established fact. For
years the trouble had been that the Victoria
Park site had been earmarked for the Uni-
versity. The other day the transfer of a
large area at St. Luci’a, which is up the
river from Toowong, was made to the Uni-
versity authorities, who have surrendered
Victoria Park in consequence. The park’s
area will permit a very sporting 18-hole
coui;se, which, in its accessibility from the
heart of the city, will have no rival in Aus-
tralia. It has taken Mayor Jolly a long time
to see the light. Still, the hopes entertained
of him when he was inoculated with the
golf virus a couple of years ago have at
last been justified.
* * * *
“Brassey” : Cyril Tolley, who returned to
England recently after a golfing tour of
America, is loud in his praise of the new
ball which the Yanks have adopted in defi-
ance of St. Andrews. The British amateur
champion says that while there are great
advantages to be gained from using the new,
ball any fault is greatly exaggerated. That
being so, it is difficult to understand Cyril’s
admiration for the innovation. There is not
another first-class golfer living who plays
more villainous shots at times than the ex-
Cambridge Blue. He is universally acclaimed
as the worst-best golfer among the amateurs
of the world.
% * Hs
“Hoylake”: London Field has announced
that a party of Australian golfers will be
in Britain for next year’s championships.
No one on this side of the water seems
to have heard of it, though some step of the
sort has been continually urged by those with
a desire to see the standard of Australian
golf improved. With one or two notable
exceptions, our leading players are only
great by contrast, and neither they nor the
also-rans among whom they chuck such a
large chest are likely to do better until
they go abroad to learn something about the
game. One lesson likely to be impressed on
them is the severity of the big British
courses. In Australia, clubs are too prone
to spoon-feed their members by making
things easy for them.
X X X X
“Cranoustie”: There is a lot to be said
for the old-time Scottish method of turn-
ing out a youngster on the local links with
one club —usually a cleek. It teaches a
player resource, at any rate, and it is doubt-
ful if it makes any difference to what the
theorists like to call style. A good instance
is the recent feat of L. W. Hore, of the
Moore Park (N.S.W.) club, who went
round the extended course in 77 with only
one stick.. There are a good many players
in Australia who fancy themselves mightily
yet couldn’t go round the course in any-
thing like those figures, even with the aid of
all the arsenal of weapons their unhappy
caddies stagger under.
x * * *
J. L. Humphreys, Governor and C. in C.
of British North Borneo, who died while
holidaying in China recently, was a member
of a famous English golfing family and him-
self a player of no mean merit. An Oxonian,
he entered the Colonial Office in 1905. and
held many important positions in the East,
for the most part in Malaya. He was an
authority on Malayan language and litera-
ture, and wrote much on the subject, but it
was as a golfer and big game shot that he
was best known in s.-e. Asia. Only recently
he Vffin the open championship of Asia at
Shanghai.
* * sH sk
“Historicus”: Everyone is familiar with
the surmises of modernity over objects found
in ancient ruins.-- One wonders what the
Queenslander of a.d. 5000 or so will say when
examining the fragments of the now new
bridge across the Brisbane River and coming
across certain curious .spherical objects in the
cement which is being used to build its piers.
The gravel is taken from the river bed along-
side the Indooroopilly golf links at a parti-
cularly tricky hole. The percentage of balls
that goes into the river is high, and in due
course they are finding their way into the
cement. Many have been picked out, but it
is equally certain that many have been
embodied in the piers.
(Continued on page 39.)


•
When your friend is complimented on his socks and
says that they are "Merino-Knit,” do you say "That’s
just what I wear ? ” If you do, you are wearing the best
in quality, colour and design. "Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters are just as pleasing and satisfactory
as " Merino-Knit ” Men’s Hose.
RAMENO
ERINO-KNFf
“RAMENO” Brand
Men’s Half Hose
w
YM
A
7/jFM
I 1 .1
~~TT^r
r
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose? and Golf
Hose are made of Pure Australian
Merino Wool entirely, or, in the
lighter weight Half Hose, of Merino
and the best English Artificial
Silk. The colours are carefully
chosen to tone with present*
daij fashions for men.
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose is
made to fit snugly round the
ankles and firmly on the lees,
ensuring the acme of comfort
and smartness.
Ask for "Merino-Knit”
Garments Stocked by
ail good Mercers.
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLUNGWOOD, VIC
r
I
S
»o" 0
rm
a*
c i//j
t Oc4 />
il»
mi
Be PLeadu
with a
FIR.E
EXTINGUISHED
Country homes are far from Fire Brig-
ades and particularly need fire-fighting
equipment. Where kerosene lights and
oil engines are used the danger is doubly
great. Have a “Pyrene” Fire Ex-
tinguisher handy! It needs no attention
until used, and refils are always obtainable: It
is many times as effective as water, and will ex-
tinguish petrol fires, which water will not.
Works like a pump. Standard Model, with
chemical and Bracket for fitting to wall: 70/-
(Brass) and 75/- (Nickel). Write for Folder
“'B”
HARRISONS RAMSAY Pty. Ltd,
666 Bourke St., Melb.; Grenfell St., Adelaide;
52 Clarence St„ Sydney; Adelaide St., Brisbane;
A.M.P. Buildings, William Street, Perth
ANNOUNCING
TENNIS: Two excellent
hard courts. Night
playing.
Set within glorious
grounds on the ram-
parts of the Blue
Mountains.
'tii \ I?
§«
mm «
mmm
■
m
: . :
:';
.
&ii&>
Tariff: Bed and Break-
fast, 12/6 a day.
Lunch: Min. cost, 5/-
Dinner: Min. cost, 67-
Afternoon Tea: 27-
All liquors same as in
Sydney.
Lapstone Hill Hotel, Australia’s premier country resort, invites the motorist, holiday-maker
and tourist within its portals. This magnificent new hostel is a combination of fashionable
modern hotel and exclusive country club, built along the lines of a stately English country
home, and set in the middle of a 5-acre garden amidst some of the finest and most picturesque
scenery in the Commonwealth, if not in the world. Here are all the conveniences that you
would expect of the finest city hotel, with the added advantages of bracing mountain air and
out-door life.
Eighty minutes’ run from Sydney along the Western Road brings the motorist to Lapstone
Hill, and to the hotel on the top, where dinner or afternoon tea can be had, and where dancing
is held in the cool of the evening. A la carte meals may be had at any hour of the day or
night.
A New Year’s Eve Carnival will be held. Special Dinner Dance, 15/6.
Location:
40 miles only from Syd-
ney on a perfect con-
crete and bitumen road.
ursmtmu mm
Slue Mountains ~ Sydney ~~ Australia
GOLF: A nine-hole
course has been laid
out by Fred. Poppel-
well, and will be ready
early in the New Year.
Book your reservations
now and avoid the last
minute rush.
Cables and Telegrams:
“Lapstone,” Glenbrook.


WALTHER 8 STEVENSON’S COWBOY SADDLERY
e
WRITE FOR NEW
CATALOGUE
Showing also New
and Low-priced' Aus.
STOCK & PARK
SADDLES
Lassos braided cotton
with brass honda, 15/-
Braided linen, 40ft.,
with brass honda, 22/6
Cowboy Quirts made of latigo leather, shot-loaded, 8/6
Fancy Breastplate as illustrated 75/-
Fancy Bridle to match breastplate, complete with gold-
color cowboy bit 76/-
Cowboy Cartridge Belts—sin gle row,’ 10/6; double, 20/-
Cowboy Chaps of dark, flexible hide, with fringe . . 87/6
Cowboy Spurs—gold color, with nickel horsehead, without
straps, 35/-. Straps, fancy, pair .... 7/6 and 8/6
Texas Ranger Cowboy Saddle —double-rigged, with cord
cinchas and wood stirrups £l3/18/6
Add 'pontage to above —the saddle is freight free.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
è
For iflif betters have
a
w
a
SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
From Stores,
Chemists and
Hairdressers.
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges that last and
give a cleaner, far,
far better shave.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Kirby Beard and
Co., Ltd., Raven-
hurst Works, Bir-
mingham, Eng.
Also London, Red-
ditch and Paris.
‘BSSS X
KIRBY BEARD & C^Ud
t«Q
ij
Garages equipped with
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING APPARATUS
< render the best service to Car Owners by
keeping cars “youthful” and eliminating
the cause of 80 per ceni. of repairs.
Particulars from
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
ATKINS (W.A.). LTD. Hay Street, PERTH
CORNELL, LTD. ------ 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD. - Bateman Street, MELBOURNE
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD. Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Factory Representative - - - - Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD. Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, LONDON, N.W.10
If any illustration, in THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, Write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original
IT SELLS AT SIGHT.
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars.
,>°v
z &' <o° .•*
%%
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch” : One point that most of the
scribes have missed in describing the new
car in which Kay is going to try to beat
Segrave’s record is the unusual building up
of the i tyres. These high-speed runs must be
made on “naked” tyres, since the ti’emendous
friction, plus the speed of the wheel revolu-
tion, would mean the throwing off of any
tread with, possibly, disastrous consequences.
The tyres for the new car will be made,
primarily, of silk. On to this rubber will
be sprayed in solution —a new departure in
tyre manufacture.
* * * *
“Tourist”: During the last two or three
years picnic-reliability tours by family
parties journeying by the same make of car
or motor-cycle have become increasingly
popular. The Harley-Davidson Club, of
Westralia, opened the ball a couple of years
ago with a run from Perth to Sydney and
back, and other organisations have made
journeys between Sydney and Melbourne.
The latest trip of the sort is now in pro-
gress, the Oakland-Pontiac Club having
started a run from Melbourne to Sydney
via Canberra. The tourists are due back
in Melbourne on January 7. The return
journey will be by the Prince’s Highway
route, the travellers camping . out at the
halting-places or otherwise bestowing them-
selves as best pleases them.
* * * *
“Trembler”: Overseas writers are giving
a lot of space to a run from Singapore to
London in a Riley-9 by one Walter Gideon.
The total distance covered was. 13,218 miles,
of which 1568 miles were by sea from Singa-
pore to Calcutta. Thereafter, save for occa-
sional skips over the Dardanelles and the
Channel, the little car ran on her own
wheels, travelling through Northern India,
Persia, Turkey, the Balkans and so to
London via Calais. Only recently a similar
journey by two young Hindus in a Ford was
reported, but in their case they reached India
by the land route from Singapore—a much
more praiseworthy feat than that of the
sahib.
* * * *
“Despatch”: Geelong West (Vic.) cycle
club recently put up a good relay perform-
ance over the 45 miles between Geelong and
Melbourne. Fifteen riders were selected to
LLEW EDWARDS, the 17-year-old Vic-
torian boxer, who has been awarded
the Martin medal for the most im-
proved pugilist of the year. He has
just won his 18th fight.
carry a written message, each cyclist cover-
ing a distance of three miles and then handing
the message on to the next The
schedule set for the job was 1 hour 50min.,
but the riders ticked off the 45 miles in
95min. 45sec. —very good going for a push
bike, even on that road.
ijj sjc JJ*
“Sprocket”: At long last the N.S.W.
League of Wheelmen has resolved to dis-
cipline its naughty boys. A rider looking
round to see what the deuce the other fellow
is doing is in for half a dollar for the first
offence, with a rising tariff up to 10s.
Abusive language is to cost ss. and 10s. a
time, for the first and second shot respec-
tively. Of course it is unnecessary to say
that the referee will be allowed his own
discretion in dealing with the third offence ;
everyone understands that only, referees are
concerned in matters of this kind.
Miscellaneous
“Bias” : The Americans are furious with
the International Bowling Board, which con-
sists of delegates from the British and
Dominion associations and has so far re-
fused to admit the Yankees to the circle.
The other day formal application was made
by the American body for admission on the
ground that America is the only English-
speaking country not on the board, but again
a cold refusal has resulted. The fact is—
and the Americans should be able to grasp
it—that it is impossible for British bowlers
to affiliate with those of a country devoted
to prohibition. Imagine the agony of, say,
a Scottish team being exposed to the horrors
of a whiskyless tour of the States! No one
south of the Tweed is inclined to undue
sentiment in the matter of Scotsmen, but
there are some prospects at which the imagi-
nation boggles.
* * * *
“Splash”: The International Swimming
Federation has chucked a Mills bomb into
the works of the M.L. and Australian swim-
ming controls. Beach lifesavers have been
rated as professionals by the 1.5. F., and both
M.L. and Australia have been reinstating
them, once they leave the paid job, after
two years’ repentance and purification. The
I.S.F. has notified those concerned that this
really isn’t done; once a professional always
a professional. Unless oil is spread upon
the waters Australian swimmers may be
barred from the next Olympiad at Los
Angeles.
* * # *
"Swan”: The Westralian swimming cham-
pionships brought to light nothing very
startling in the way of new talent. N.
Unbehaun picked up the 100 yards sprint m
attractive style, but bis time, 58mm.
does not give him much chance in the Aus-
tralian championships, wherein halt a
dozen clocked in the neighborhood ot obsec.
will be starting. E. W. Jones, of course, col-
lected the half-mile. His time was 12mm.
8 4-ssec. —a slow swim for him. The only
record put up was by Miss W B. Uliver,
who won the women’s quarter-mile in onim.
54 2-ssec. It is 8. St£it6 record, but the lady
has a iong way to go to catch I army
Durack’s figures of Gmin. 3 2-ssec. made as
long ago as 1917.
* * * *
“Booroodabin” : That N.S.W. backstroke
swimming record over 50 yards (B.
25/12/’29) is a reminder that the Ma State
is always setting out to put up records for
freak distances which no ordinary swimmer
ever attempts. Getting down to the legiti-
mate distances, give a little publicity to
Queenslander Tom Boast's attack on the
150-yards backstroke Australian record put
up by Marsden Campbell last year for the
distance. Marsden’s time was Imin. 58sec.
Boast knocked' 8 4-ssec. off that without
being pushed. The world's best by Georges
Kojac in a short bath is lmin. 39sec.
• * : i c *
“Old Q.” : The fusion of the Queensland
Rugby Union and. the Brisbane Rugby
League is an accomplished fact, though
some of the old brigade will view the mingl-
ing with mixed feelings. One hopes the new
executive will drastically deal with the foul
and rough play which has so marked League
football in Brisbane and Sydney for . years
past. The example to be kept in view is
that of the Waratahs on their tour of
Britain. It is in striking contrast with that
of their professional brethren at present in
the North of England, whose trip has been
one long story of stoush and consignment
to the pavilion.
■j,, * * *
“Headingley” : The Kangaroos had a mixed
experience prior to Christmas. They were
taken to that great Rugby Union stronghold,
Newcastle-on-Tyne, for another propaganda
match, the opposition being also imported,
from Yorkshire and Lancashire. They won
the game against a makeshift side, prac-
tically identical with that which played the
previous missionary game at Cardiff a few
days before, by 32 to 22. Back to Lanca-
shire, they were beaten by the Warrington
club, 17-8 (4 goals, 3 tries to 1 goal, 2
tries) ; as usual, the English forwards
smothered up the game. Warrington has only
once lost to- Australian League teams. That
was in 1911-12, when the visitors were with-
out exception Rugby Union players who had
gone over to the professional code.
* $ * *
“Vermicelli” : Not content with abolishing
Rugby football as too feverish for the
Italian temperament, the Sports Federation
of Mussoliniland has resolved to discontinue
the use of English terms in sport. In future
a boxer will be known as “pugile.” What-
ever football is to be played will have its
Italian baptism as “calcio.” Game or match
is to be rendered as “gara,” so a football
match will, in future, fill the headlines as
“calcio gara.” What those disagreeing with
the referee’s decisions, are going to call him
is left to the imagination. Italian is a
poorly-equipped language to do the subject
justice, and I am willing to lay a shade
of odds that the tongue of Shakspeare and
Chaucer will have to be resorted to in such
an emergency.
*** . *
“Headingley”: Frank Mitchell, the York-
shire, England, and South African Rugby
Union and cricket representative, has come
straight out into the open on the subject
of Dominion and British Rugby football con-
trol. He says that an Imperial Board, with
each Rugby Dominion represented, is essen-
tial, this to supplant the present International
Board. The 1.8., as at present constituted,
consists of delegates from England, Wales,
Scotland and Ireland. Last year it refused
the anplieation of France, for a place on the
board, though few countries have done more
since the war to spread the gospel of the
great amateur game among the heathen.
# sjs Sic eje
“Amateur Pro.”: The British. Olympic
authorities have laid down a definite ruling
on the subject of payment for loss of salary,
etc., while competing in any athletic event.
This may lead to Britain’s abstention from
the Olympiad. On the last occasion the
Continental majority on the Olympic Council
authorised the payment of such compensation
to players taking part in the Soccer football
events, in spite of strong protests by Britain
and America. The matter cropped up at
the last moment, and, sooner than upset
arrangements, Britain agreed for once to
waive the objection. Now its policy has been
definitely announced, it remains to see if the
international body persists with the compen-
sation payments. It may mean the begin-
ning of the end of the unwieldy gathering
“Ike Newton”: Airmen who travel at
speeds of 200 to 300’ m.p.h. are up against
a peculiar phenomenon when they seek to
turn —at least it feels peculiar, though the
dynamics of it are fairly simple. W hat
happens, in effect, is that the gravitational
force is suddenly multiplied four to six
times, according to the sharpness of the
turn. A hundred -pounds of petrol in the
tank may momentarily exert a pressure of
6001 b. on the bottom, and burst it, and
the blood in the flier’s head drains swiftly
from his brain, so that all goes black before
bis eyes. It isn’t centrifugal force, as was
at first supposed, but a direct downward
pull, something akin to the force, out of all
proportion to its weight, exerted by a
gyroscope against attempts to disturb the
line in which its shaft is spinning.
* * •* *
“Blue Chalk”: Willie Smith, who hasn’t
had much luck against Walter Lindrum in
his ain countree, turned the tables on the
Kalgoorlie-born left-hander last week, when
he won the fortnight’s match between the
pair by 23.985 to 22,884. Though Smith
beat Lindrum in one of their three Aus-
tralian matches, this is the first time the
Englishman has come out on top in Britain.
Smith, who had topped the thousand during
the match, was in the 900’s when time was
called. Lindrum asked for an extension
to permit his opponent to get an additional
four-figure break, but the Briton failed at
988.


24,D.L.58 —Lady’s “De Luxe” Wrist
Watch, dainty design, 9ct. Gold Lever,
15 Jewels, £5
24.D.L.73 —Gent.’s “De Luxe” Wrist
Watch, 10 year Gold Filled Case,
Lever, 15 Jewel*, Luminous Dial, £4
Catanach’s De Luxe Watches
Make Ideal Gifts
In giving a “De Luxe” Watch you give a lifelong friend. Catanach s guarantee
them for Accuracy and offer for your choice a most pleasing range of designs.
There are “De Luxe” Watches for both men and women, at prices to suit all buyers.
CALL AND SEE THEM.
Comer Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
24,D.L.60—Lady’s 9ct. Gold “De
Luxe” Watch, Distinctive Design,
Lever, 15 Jewels, £6/7/6
&
o t<|
24.D.L.55 —Dainty Oval “De Luxe”
Wrist Watch, 9ct. Gold, 15 Jewels,
£B/10/-
W-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 200[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
A fad rampant in the other hemisphere
and on its way to this country is the use of
the Standard Diet Card. This is a printed
schedule of menus for the use of fat women
who want to get thinner, and it covers 18
days, with a special arx-angement of tucker
for each day. The course is being served
at many London teashops, and all the client
needs to do is to murmur “fourth day,” or
“tenth day” according to pi-ogress. The one
meal that never varies is breakfast, which
consists of a half a grape-fruit and a cup
of unsweetened black coffee. It isn’t all as
Spartan as that, and it doesn’t look as if
any of it could harm anyone, but Sir Bill
Arbuthnot Lane, who is one of the medicoes
who have a right to count George Rex’s
pulse and tell him to say “99,” warns that
it isn’t safe for anybody to undertake any
sort of diet without qualified supervision.
Auxiliary workers got busy in the wards
of Queen Victoria Hospital and turned them
into bowers of blossomry in honor of Father
Christmas. By the time Lady Somers
arrived to distribute gifts and smiles to the
ailing inmates, a wee black cat had attached
itself to each bed as a luck-bringer to the
coming year. Mrs. Norman Brookes, Adel-
aide Allan, Mrs. John Sutherland, Matron
Simons, Dr. Alison Ingram and other mem-
bers of the committee accompanied the Gov-
ernor’s lady and left souvenirs of l their visit.
The combined auxiliaries donated tui'key and
pudding for the staff and patients on Christ-
mas Day, and carols were sung by All
Saints’ Choir.
To perpetuate the memory of the first wife
of the late Dr. Harrington Lees, who was
Archbishop of Melbourne, a bursary has_been
founded to be awarded to a woman training
for mission work for the Church of England.
The first holder of this bursary, known as
the Winifred May Lees, is Leonora Appleby,
who formerly was on the staff of the Glamor-
gan School, Toorak, and of Wesley College,
and is now training in Kenya Colony, East
Africa.
Melbourne had just about made up its
mind, to celebrate Christmas by gathering
round the Yule log and indulging in other
fine old English winter pastimes, when the
thermometer took a sudden bound, aixd a
young sirocco made firesides de trop. Many
hied them to the beaches and sought refuge
from the duststorm in the sea, and those
who stayed home barred doors and windows
against the grime-laden wind.
All Melbourae didn’t go to the sea or
hills on Boxing Day. Many took the turning
that led to Caulfield, and there was a real
holiday crowd at the Heath. The thermo-
meter jazzed all day, mostly on the upper
notes, but there were intervals of rain and
cool breeze. Early patrons came in under
showers, so dressing wasn’t elaborate. Not
many of the usual patrons were in the mem-
bers’ stand, and the committee ladies’ box
looked a bit deserted. Bananaland’s Chief
Justice and Mrs. Blair were visitors. Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Garrels had a last look
at the course before sailing for Japan, she
in black figured in white, with a large black
hat. The T. H. Robinsons accompanied
them. Mrs. Pulteney Mein, wearing en-
semble of black and cream-flowered crepe
de Chine, was with her daughter Alison.
Others on the lawn were Mrs. C. J. Neun-
hoffer and her daughter Mrs. Leix Buxton;
Mr. and Mrs. James Purves, she wearing
sapphire blue and white; Mrs. T. A. Tabart,
witli her daughter Pixie; and Mrs. A. War-
burton, Mrs. A. V. Kewney and Mrs. W. R.
Thomson.
A packed house gave the musical comedy
“Turned Up” a cheerful reception at the"
Royal on Boxing Night. Unusual color com-
binations are exhibited in Act I. Maidens
in pale gi’een and yellow frolic against cur-
tains and cushions of cerise _ satin. The
gentlemen of the chorus are in shorts and
sweaters of greenery-yallery tinges. Molly
Fisher is attired alternately in yellow and
white tulle until she drops into blue to do
a classic dance. Some nice evening gowns
are featured by the ladies in Act 11, in which
changes are rung on white axid orange. Mai*y
Lawson sports summery raiment of white,
banded in blue, and has an outfit with un-
eyen skirt edges in tourmaline pink ninon.
Bertha Belmore combines flowered ninon in
blue and petunia with her snow-white coif-
fure. The John Taits, Archie Scotts, Pat
Kendall, wrapped in a black velvet coat with
white fur collar and elbow-length cuffs, Roger
Barry and the Percy Blackbourns, the Colin
Frasers, Mrs. Hudson Eastwood, Mrs. N.
Menzies and her son Archie were first-
nighters. Flowers were liberally bestowed
upoix the principals at the final curtain.
Lady Somers made two flights in her
Moth ’plane last week. She wore the regu-
lation leather helmet and goggles and a
tweed coat over a browix and white frock.
Leon Gordon’s excursion into gory melo-
drama, “The Murder on the Second Floor,”
had a well-attended opening at the Comedy,
which is chiefly notable for the elaborate
stage-carpentry .in the second act with its
vista of boarders’ bedrooms. Ada Reeve, in
a landlady role, was given a cheery welcome
and an array of floral set pieces. Mary
Macgregor dresses her pai’t in a white and
green patterned frock in one act, and. in
another sports white georgette under a rosy
chiffon coat. The two Eileens, Sparkes and
Ogden, shared in the outcrop of vegetation
that appeared on the stage on the first night.
In the audience were Dr. and Mrs. Lennox
Spiel's, Beryl Ainslie, the Ivan Gutmanns,
Mrs. Allan Robei'tson, Mrs. Gilruth and Mrs.
J. G. Latham.
Alyson Edith Syme followed her mother’s
example by marrying a doctor, the bonds
being forged at St. George’s kirk, all redded
up with climbing roses, tall hollyhocks, car-
nations and delphiniums. The second daugh-
ter of the late surgeon-knight George Syme
and his lady, of Mayfield-avenue, Mal-
vern, the bride dressed the role in blonde
lace, with veil of Carrickm across flowing-
over the train of cream tulle; she carried an
armful of lilies. The happy man was Dr.
Malcolm Turner Cockburn, only son of the
Alexander Cockburns, of Adelaide. The two
’maids, Theo Syme and Roma Smith, wore
very full frilly frocks of white chiffon
splashed with pink and beige blossoms, and
their turbaned straw millinery was matching.
The Syme lady entertained the guests, mostly
of the younger set, at No. 9.
There were favors of white heather sent
from Scotland and tied with the Maclntyre
tartan for guests at the wedding of Mary
Maclntyre and Stafford Vernon Northcott,
a bank manager at Hay, on Boxing Day.
The skirl of the pipes was heard at the
kirk on Toorak-road and at No. 9 after-
wards, when about 50 guests rejoiced. The
bride, only daughter of the Donald Mac-
Intyres of Fort William, Scotland, came
here in the first instance to nurse the small
son of Lord and Lady Stradbroke, and later
had given service as a hospital madron. Mrs.
W. G. Downie deputised as hostess in the
absence of the bride’s parents. The bridal
gown was of white georgette, _ much beaded,
trailing a train of white satin and topped
with a veil of Limerick. Margaret Prajtz
was attendant maid in pelargonium pink
with a tulle head-dress and a sheaf of gladioli.
Marjorie, daughter of the A. E. Ivimptons,
is to be married to Aubrey Hicks Lawson
Gibson at the Melbourne Grammar School
Chapel on February 3.
Keith Tolhurst, brother of tennis-cham-
pion Susie, has persuaded the W. I. Winter
Irvings’ second daughter Janet to give a
promise in exchange for a ring.
Linda Francis, caught here by a Ruskin
camera, is a valued member of the staff of
the School
for Deaf and
Dumb Child-
ren. She has
just returned
from a visit to
England and
Germany,
where she was
sent by the
Institute t o
look into the
working of
similar schools.
She came back
more than
favorably im-
pressed with
the conditions
of the small
mutes at
home. Miss
Francis has
been over 11
years at her
post
For a close-up view of democracy take this
Letter to the swimming baths—any swim-
ming baths. Here you arrive in a frock and
hat which, even though of a mature vintage
now, were once both model lines. The
woman ahead of you is a nice creature in
clothes obviously cut out with a rake and
stitched with a poker. Ahead of her again is
a plump woman, all smiles, who leaves two
diamond jings worth the world with the
proprietor. (Her husband owns two city
hotels.) With her is a small girl dressed
as though going to a party. She’s an
amiable child, though, and greets as an old
friend a smiling tadpole clambering out of
the children’s basin and at the same time
half-way out of a bathing costume which is
made up of a pair of little white knickers
and a singlet. Off the springboard in fine
style leap a white-toothed Italian girl, brown
as a berry, a golden-haii’ed Swedish lass, and
a slim, exquisitely-shaped Chinese youngster.
They’re water-mates, and they’ll spend the
afternoon together, diving, racing and life-
saving one another. The woman coming
down the baths with that slow, leisui-ely
stroke is a well-known physical-culture
teacher. The eager little seal beside her has
the day off from a cigarette factory. Here
a srirl who looks about 20 and is a fledged
accountant swims beside an attractive little
woman with a beautiful speaking voice who
is a housemaid—they’re on their backs ex-
changing coixfidendes. It’s a funny thing,
once day clothes are left in your bunk
and bathers are the wear, how strong the
sisterhood of woman becomes!
“The Spider’s Telephone Wire” is the
name of a book for the youngsters which
came last week from Robertson and Mullens.
It is the joint
effort of the
Rev. David
Millar, of
Armadale, and
Mrs. Otway
Falkiner, of
the broad acres
of Boonoke,
N.StW. The
padre has
penned a series
of talks to
small girls and
boys, taking
for his text
everyday say-
ings, and using
them to adorn
Christian pre-
cepts. Mr.
Millar, pi c -
tured here by
Alice Mills,
was born near
Geelong and educated at Ormond College
within the Uni. He has been minister of the
kirk at Armadale for the last 21 years, and
was Moderator ill Vic. last year. Mrs.
Falkiner has provided illustrations in color
and monochrome for Mr. Millar’s volume,
and some glimpses of her home and station
life, caught by her camera, are included.
Melbourne, according to a newly-arrived
from New York, has something new to see
in the way of hose. Evening stockings dis-
played by the millioixaires’ brides wear a
butterfly motif in gold, silver or platinxxm
directly above the heel when the frocks
above them aye of metal brocade. Chiffon
stockings are particularly striking when the
clock is of genuine diamonds set in platinum
—a flexible arrangement that allows adjust-
ment to the ankle. Even hankies can’t
remain simple in the city where Wall-street
makes paper millions in an hour. For even-
ing wear kerchiefs of chiffon in pastel tones,
folded in a diamond shape and pleated in
that manner, are fashionable. There are
also larger kerchiefs in black chiffon witli
a five- dr six-inch border of black Alengo’Tl
or ecrix lace. The borders are, in most
instances, hemstitched on in a jagged design.
Popular colors for evening include jade with
ecru lace, flesh chiffon with peai'l-grey lace,
orchid and turquoise.
Margaret Tompkins and Ethel Burrows,
fashioners of hand-painted china, have had
a good year. Now Miss Tompkins is going
over to the Speck for a holiday, and Miss
Burrows will rest with relatives at Riddel.
Betty, daughter of the Arthur Moules, of
Tintern-avenue Toorak, is collecting her
trousseau. Her wedding with the Vicomte
Henri de Janze will take place in France,
and the couple will reside in Paris.
Girls who have taken to painting their
faces and limbs bronze brown should remem-
ber that the stuff melts rather readily, and
is apt to come off on the togs of dancing
partners, who find the stain difficult to
remove. Wallflowers alone can use it with
impunity.
The Evan Davieses, who stepped ashore
from a liner after a tour of the Old World,
are finding a shelter with their daughter,
Mrs. Rees-Price, at her Caulfield home till
after the New Year.
Before settling down at home two Mel-
bourne girls, Margot Begg and Florence
Herd, on finishing their education, resolved
to discover how cheaply one could live
abroad. They put in five years in England
and on the Continent, alternately working
and holidaying, and found the experience
very enjoyable. The best bargain they made
with a landlady was Is. 3d. for bed and
breakfast in a Paris pension, with central
heating, and hot and cold water services
thrown in. Miss Begg taught at various
English schools, and then took up interior
decoration. Miss Herd continued studies
in physical culture, commenced in Sydney,
in England and Sweden, and then taught
what she had learned, first in a London
school and later as governess to a wealthy
Miss who was travelling Europe.
Wilma Clarke and Phyllis Holmes Hunt,
who have been sharing a flat in Paris, left
that gay capital in time to spend Christmas
with their families. The returned exiles
looked like fashion-plates as they stepped
from the Mooltan into a circle of waiting
relations and friends.
Commander and Mrs. Spooner and their
family, recently arrived, are settling in the
Caulfield home of the William Notts, who
will be at their summer bungalow at Aspen-
dale for the next three months.
A lax*ge, well-laden Christmas tree grew
overnight in the Michaelis Ward for children
at the Alfred Hospital. President Mrs.
Barry Thomson and the committee of the
entertainment branch were responsible.
Balloons and streamers decorated the ward.
Betty Mitchell, Joan Campbell and Betty
Spencer were the nimble assistants of Father
Christmas, and before the tree was stripped
each small cot was piled with gifts. Mrs.
F. D. Michaelis, Mrs. H. J. Robertson,
Wallace Mitchell’s wife and Ellie Ball were
useful in the background.
Lavender was late this season, and the
first bunches offered in the streets were
rather poor specimens. Christmas week,
however, brought forth a plentiful supply of
the best, and many used the fragrant flower
to garnish their Christmas greetings. Florists
turned out pretty holders of raffia as an
alternative to the usual long boxes bedecked
with ribbon.
’Cellist Gwen Prockter and her fiddler
sister Marjorie have decided to voyage to
Europe for study.
The travelling scholarship of the Vic.
National Gallery, which crops up every three
years, has been won by Miss C. Parkin with
a figure study, and she goes off for two
years’ study abroad. Miss Parkin also gained
the Ramsay prize, but, having won the
scholarship, she had to relinquish it in favor
of the runner-up.
A pleasant garden party was squeezed
into the dying year by Mrs. Reggie Boyd at
her Rowsley home, Glenmore. Many guests
motored from the city. Daughter Gweiida
gave her mother a helping hand by looking
after the games. Amongst those smiling over
teacups were John Gurner’s wife and daugh-
ter, Mrs. Poineroy Greene and her doctor,
the Hugh Bullivants, Clive Robertsons and
John Molesworths.
The white temple which decorates the
beaclx of Sydney’s Balmoral is to be used
as a summer school next year by Dr. Demar-
quette, of Melbourne, husband of singer Joy
McArden. Dr. Demarquette’.s teachings will
be in reference to life beyond the grave.
Harold Smith, pictured here by Broothorn,
is one of our
very few solo
pianists of his
sex in this
city. He en-
joys consider-
able popular-
ity, being no
end of a good
fellow and
ready to lend
a hand to any
good cause.
Music and the
acquisition of
artistic furni-
ture are his
hobbies. H e
has toured
Australasia in
the train of
visiting stars.
Even the busy shopkeeper has his Christ-
mas joys. Two samples reach this Letter.
(1) Into a chemist’s shop in a northern
suburb on Christmas Eve drifted a lady who
asked the assistant to mix her a shilling’s
worth of rosewater and glycerine. The
assistant retired to the back of the shop
to prepare the brew, and the lady, making
the moment good, seized a bottle of perfume,
hastily wrapped it, and then, to make every-
thing look serene, tied it with an end of
the ball of string in the canister-holder on
the counter. Either she was not able to
break the string, or the assistant, coming
back, flustered her, for she took the glycerine
and rose water, wished the youth a Merry
Christmas and walked from the counter. And
then the chemist saw his string disappearing.
With great presence of mind he commenced
gently to haul it in, and went on hauling
till his own bottle of perfume in its wrap-
pings came bobbing back to him out of the
lady’s basket!
(2) A small boy rushed into a suburban
grocery shop and asked for a jar of crystal-
lised fruits which was priced at 4s. In
exchange he handed over two two-shilling
pieces. There was something about the coins
that didn’t look right, and, ringing them, he
found they were both duds. He knew the
mother of the small boy, as a good casual
customer, so he decided to keep the coins
to show her when she next called. About
half an hour later the small boy reappeared.
“Mother doesn’t care for those preserves,”
he said. “Will you please give me the 4s.
back?” “Certainly,” said the grocer with
a wide smile, and handed over the identical
coins with which he had keen paid!


Drummond’s Diamond Rings
of Exclusive Design
S 19—£30
S 2—£25
S 12—£30
S 13—£25
S I—£37/10/-
S 17—£45
S 20—£125
S 3—£so
S 4—£Bs
I
S I I—£3o
S 10—£250
S 9—£150
S 29—Circle King,
set with 25 brilli-
ant cut diamonds,
Best value in
Australasia.
£lB
All Diamonds are set
in pure, hard platinum.
S 30 Diamond
Cluster Ring of
exquisite design,
£6O
The exquisite designs that are continually being added
to their selections of Diamond and Gem Rings reflect the
latest examples of a firm that for more than half a
century has specialised in making rings that are designed
for the discriminating. Into the manufacture of
Drummond’s rings enter not only the choicest gems
available, the finest workmanship procurable, but also
the direction of experts whose entire experience has
been inseparably associated with the expression of the
perfect ideal in ring production. Thus it is that
Drummond’s Rings are recognised for their exclusiveness
and individuality. An invitation is extended to inspect
the latest calibre-cut Diamond Rings set with baton-cut
diamond shoulders.
m. ®rummonD & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Commence the New Year by joining the
BOOKSTALL
Circulating Library
CITY and COUNTRY
A LIBRARY DE LUXE.
’Phone: M 4361.
Situate in Rowlandson House, every attention has been given to its
appointments for the comfort of subscribers.
The many varied tastes of readers have been studied. The latest
books and magazines arriving by each mail from England and
America being added to the catalogue.
Both City and Country Subscribers are catered for, the latter
enjoying special freight facilities, Library Books being carried at
quarter rates.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
CITY.
Country Clients pay freight both ways at specially reduced rates.
New Books added immediately on arrival.
Subscriptions may start at any time ... Payable in advance.
Books may be changed as often as desired.
ROWLANDSON HOUSE,
BOOKSTALL CORNER,
Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
A Summer holiday
of rare pleasures ,
“A Thousand
Things to See and
Dor
THERMAL MARVELS
Rotorua
LAKES AND FIORDS
Taupo
Manapouri
Waikaremoana
Milford Sound
Dusky Sound
MOUNTAIN GRANDEUR
Mount Cook
Mount Egmont
Tasman Glacier
Franz Joseph Glacier
Tongariro Park
TOURING, CAMPING
GOLF, SWIMMING,
SAILING, FISHING,
SHOOTING
m
■NH|
-> V JIF
m
B
»
N>i
iilill
fe:..
,
i ' ' >,
S®;i
PUT
YOURSELF
HERE
The 9000 ft. high dying
volcano, Mt. Ruapehu
—viewed from the new
Chateau in the Tonga,
riro National Park.
No Other Trip
Like It
Plan now to come!
“New Zealand is a wonderful country, and all that
is said about it is true,” was the comment made
by Lord Burnham, head of the British Empire
Press Delegation, in 1925. “We have been
shown such extraordinary phenomena that it is
difficult to do justice to them,” he said —yet the
envoys did not see half of the principal scenic
wonders.
However, even if a visitor has less than a week
for sightseeing he will be able to enjoy con-
veniently a great variety of beauty, for the
principal towns give easy access to many of the
world-famed localities.
Plan now to take the holiday that will give you a
complete change. Where day follows day of ideal
temperate summer weather. Where every day
brings you to fresh, famous, unforgettable scenes
that others, less fortunately located, are glad to
come from the other side of the earth to see.
Full details and information may be obtained from the following:
MELBOURNE: - Mr. H. J. Manson, Dominion Chambers, 59 William St.
SYDNEY: - Mr. W. R. Blow, London Bank Chambers, 20 Martin Place.
BRISBANE: -Mr. T. E. Dewar, King House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:—Mr. Victor H. Ryan, Director of S. Australia Tourist Bureau
PERTH:-Mr. A. S. McClintock, Queen’s Buildings, 285 Murray Street
And the offices of Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son & The Union Steamship Co,


Royal
.Warrant
e
To H.NL
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsieck
Australasian A grants—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACHE
QiarlesUddsicc^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Awards —
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
EXPERTS OK THE R - J - A!
Absolutely
without a rival
for appearance
and reliability.
A GIFT FOR ALL
TI ME
Sold by all Jewellers
—from £4/10/-
“ The Quality Watch”
The Finest achievement in
the Watchmaking World.
R. cJ . A
LEVER
WATCH
m
m
VOUIUINEN
CASH’S NAMES ARE BEST.
DISTINCTIVE AND FADELESS.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on”
Sold by
Leading
Drapers
K.S.Ta!bot\
Actual
Size of
Style No.l
lib
\U
bid
s l6
3 AO*
it! inn
nr m
Jlljrm in n in Maw M
Write for Name Style Circuitr to
J. & J. CASH, LTD
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND. MEIB.
il II IIII
L^nerS
Joe Lingerie
crtsWeiO a/leA,
a)ashuiX'‘
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Did you city dwellers send your out-back
sister a thought on Christmas Day? While
the weather was kind to you she probably
looked out on a parched wilderness in the
morning—and later on wasn't able to look
out on anything; for over a great part of the
Far West such a duststorm raged that win-
dows and doors were shut fast, and the
housewife proceeded to do her cooking amid
grit and heat that a suburban matron would
call unendurable. Even Broken Hill passed
Christmas Day dimly behind shut doors and
windows, with pads to keep out the drift
of smothering dust. Nor was the misery
ended with a belated Christmas gift of 24
points of rain which fell on Boxing Day, for
the inhabitants who had emerged for a
breather were sent indoors again by another
duststorm. Truly the courage of the woman
out back is a thing to make the city dweller
ashamed of her grumbles about such trifles
as a Christmas parcel gone wrong.
In Sydney Christmas Day was radiant
with blue banner of sky and sea. In its
thousands it sought the beaches at Manly
and Coogee; and if Palm Beach was
giddy with fashion’s last word in pyjamas,
shorts and batliing-suits, Bondi, where 20,000
surfed, was a paroxysm.
Forty-two thousand followed the beckon-
ing finger of the A.J.C. and went out to
Randwick on Boxing Day to see Donald win
the Summer Cup. But oh the stickiness of the
day ! Scuds of rain had suggested cloaks and
umbrellas and the second-best hat, so that
the members’ and official stands wore a
sulky bits-and-pieces air. Distinctly this
doesn’t apply, though, to Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar, the smartest person in the stands.
Her black georgettes showed the latest thing
in hip fittings ; the sleeves were elbow-lengtli,
and the yoke was of vellum lace. Mrs.
Pat Osborne’s pink-and-black chiffons hung
limply about her, as indeed did the
diaphanous wear of every woman. Mrs.
Warwick Fairfax was a pretty creature in
Wedgwood blues, and Elizabeth Knox con-
trived in spite of the heat to look smart in
black and red.
Few of the sex went out to Randwick to
see Habashon win the Villiers. Those who
did go dressed for coolness rather than
fashion, and the stands for the most part
were empty spaces. Barbara and Janet
Knox looked as smart as any, the first
in a greenly-patterned silk rig-out, the
second in airy black and white chiffons.
Dryad-brown ninons breezed about Joan
Diiley, Mrs. Colin Venn contributed black
chiffons gay with pink roses; Enid Hull, in
red-wliite-and-blue patterned crepe de Chine,
was as arresting as the first bars of the
National Anthem, and Mrs. A. E. Hughes
(a Randwick model we’d all like to copy)
looked cool and collected in fragile black and
white.
Town and country are suffering from a
violent attack of sea-fever. Everybody wants
to go down to the beach in shorts or pyjamas
or eye-dazzling bathing-suits. Leafy trees
and emerald grasses don’t appeal in competi-
tion with the tang of the sea and the tan of
the back. Until Bong Bong, Bowral threat-
ens to be a wilderness as far as the young
and the unwed are concerned. Katoomba,
Leura and other mountain eyries were well
packed for Christmas, but there are few book-
ings in advance. But Palm Beach and any
place out beyond Manly are booked up with
hordes and battalions, and Wollongong has
taken a sudden leap into favor, though it
has always been a beach favored by Bowral
and Moss Vale.
Who’s for Bondi? According to the
suburb’s figure-fiend, 12,000,000 men, women
and children answer that question in a year
by producing a tram fare to this ocean front,
and six millions more visit it by car and
’bus. But not satisfied with her conquests,
and spurred by Coogee’s shark-proof beach
and other improvements, Bondi has been
beautifying herself, and last week the Mayor
of Waverley, David Hunter, was a proud
man when he was told that there was an
audience of 120,000 for him to address.
Curving the beach are lawns gay with flow-
ers ; stripling Norfolk pines dot the view, the
beach is girdled by a promenade. There’s
a wide driveway, too, along the sea-front,
and a surfers’ pavilion into, which 12,000
human ants may crawl and drag off the
“bathers” which beach regulation still de-
mands. Bondi has spent over £160,000 on
this latest beauty culture of hers. Her life-
savers, banded together as far back as 1906,
are still her proud boast —wonderful crea-
tures these, all tan and sinew. There are
170 of them, and any day when you find
life running short of vitamines, dash out
and take a look at them. If the whole 170
aren’t on view 17 at least will be.
Le Souef, of the Zoo, is a proud man—
for the first time in the history of Taronga
Park a couple of seals have been reared.
Hitherto the little bundles would insist on
drowning themselyes. This time arrange-
ments were made under which they couldn’t
go near the water till they had reached the
age of. discretion. A month was enough
in their case. Some human girls don’t
attain it till they’re 60.
But seals haven’t been the only little pets
in Le Souef’s nursery. Early in 1929, you’ll
remember if you were in Sydney, we had
feet of rain. At once came the finest crop
of summer grass this generation has seen;
later came the finest harvest of wild flowers
(Christmas bush included) Sydney’s neigh-
borhood has had for years. Spring saw
another wonderful growth of grass. Mother
Nature took note of it all, and sent Le
Souef the greatest increase of animals the
Zoo has ever had. If you’re a gardener
you’ll probably have noticed, too, that she
sent you the greatest number of crawling,
creeping plagues you can remember. Old
Mother Nature hates wasting good grass.
“It’s never too late to blend,” thought
John Hubert Murray, knight and Lieutenant-
Governor of Papua and a distinguished wid-
ower, when he met Mrs, Arthur Vernon, of
85 Cromwell-road, London, S.W. So the
twain will be wed in Sydney early in the
New Year. This paper has written so much
about the tall, sun-tanned headman of
Papua that any more details would be need-
less repetition. Of the lady all this Letter
knows is that she’s a widow, that her
departed husband was George Arthur Pom-
eroy Vernon, LL.D., that her father was
Henry Bloomfield Trench, and that among
her first cousins she numbers Colonel Trench,
secret-service officer, who was imprisoned in
a German fortress for undue inquisitiveness
a good many years before the Great War.
He is reported to have spent his enforced
holiday translating Schiller, and Edward
VII. is said to have obtained his release by
a personal request to the ex-Kaiser.
The Gordon Dixsons, of Point Piper, have
given the usual blessing to daughter Peggy
and her betrothed, Bert Barrett, crack polo
player, of Young. Another ring-gatherer is
Mary Ludowici. Her young man has the
soothing name of Camille Dezarnaulds. Mary
is the daughter of the medical Ludowicis, of
Darling Point. “Pinkie” Holdship, whose
charming and clever mother was for some
time organising secretary for the Sydney
Hospital Auxiliary, is another nominee for
the Choir Indivisible. John Gunn, a good-
looking electrical engineer with an irre-
proachable manner, is her choice.
Here is a girl who is following in father’s
footsteps. She is Estelle Oxnard Smith,
secretary these last few years of the Royal
Art Society,
of which her
father was
honorary sec-
re ta r y for
nearly 40
years. He
started his job
when the first
art society was
formed in Syd-
ney and the
shows used to
be held in the
gallery at the
top of Vic-
kery’s Cham-
bers in Pitt-
street. That
was quite an
artistic centre
in its day;
Lambert,
Streeton, Long
and a host of
others had studios on the same floor as the
gallery. Strangely enough Oxnard Smith
never took brush or pencil in his hand; and
his daughter, though so closely connected
with art, has never tried to be an
artist. But she can handle visitors to a
show; she has five already to her credit, her
last being the R.A.S.’s “Fifty Years of Aus-
tralian Art.” Elizabeth Mahony made the
picture for us.
Marjorie Curtis, of Killara, and Dr.
Maurice Asplin, of Warrawee, emerged one
from St. James’s in King-street the other
night. Farchment moire formed the bride’s
ankle-length frock, and the veil was a froth
of tulle and Brussels lace; and roses,
begonias and gardenias flavored the whole.
Molly Dodds and Margaret Waterhouse, sug-
gestive of slim stems of delphinium, ’maided
and were balanced in the procession by best-
man Dr. Jim Black and groomsman Dr.
Neil Francis. Afterwards, at the Went-
worth, the bride’s mother w T as very smart
in black satin, shaded by a hat of black
Baku, the whole served with inspiring red
roses.
Trahlee, the Bellevue Hill home of Mark
Sheldon and his lady, has been in a tremen-
dous flutter with Christmas doings and
wedding preparations. Almost on the day
the engagement of Millie with the big eyes
was announced she was being fitted for the
palely-gold raiment in which she will go to
St. Mary’s and a Nuptial Mass. Marcus
Rex is the name of the ’groom, and he
comes from the Malay States. The engage-
ment follows a friendship of four years.
“Hop.” That name needs no introduction
to old Bulletin readers the world over. It’s
a name that brings up memories brimful of
laughter, for humor and the grotesque lived
in the, cartoonist’s pencil, though he him-
self resembled some tall, thin Prince of the
Inquisition rather than a continent’s fun-
maker. His youngest daughter, Dorothy,
pictured here
by Bernice
Agar, lately
pu b fished a
biography of
her father, in
whi c h old
friends, old
letters and
(i n se parable
from,the two)
old Sydney are
r e p r o d uced,
making a long
gallery of por-
traits of other
days. Dorothy
is first a viol-
inist, after-
wards a writer
of verse and
short stories.
Her talent for
the violin is in-
herited. “Hop”
was not only a player of fiddles but a maker
of them, and from his old room in The
Bulletin office would often steal the golden
note of a ’cello, the stirring throb of a violin
as he tried ever-lovingly the vibrant creatures
he had fashioned. Dorottiy lives at Mosman
(the Hopkins family always has lived there),
but occasionally emerges from her sheltering
trees and becomes one of a concert party on
tour; the first of such adventures she made
in company with Australian contralto Essie
Ackland, now making her way in London.
The widow of one-time Labor Premier
John Storey—the man with whom the
Prince chummed in so well —died last week
in a private hospital at Stanmore. John owed
much of his political success to his wife.
In 1904, when he was defeated for Balmain,
she and veteran Kate Dwyer went out after
the electorate with such tact and vigor that
in 1907 John again represented Balmain.
Thirteen years later he became Premier; but
fate wasn’t any longer kind, for he died
a year later. Three sons and two daughters,
Nancy Storey and the younger Mrs. E. R.
Abigail, are in sorrow.
There’s a sad home-coming for Dr. H. 0.
Moxliam, of Macquare-street, who, with his
wife and son, left by the Oronsay early in
the month for a holiday trip to the Malay
States via Colombo. Mrs. Moxham con-
tracted pneumonia between Fremantle and
Colombo and was buried at sea on December
20. She was a sister of the late Dr. Her-
schel Harris. Dr. Moxham, leaving the
Oronsay at Colombo, will return to Sydney
by the first boat available.
There is a hitch in the Elizabeth-street
extension scheme, and the Union Club may
not be demolished after all. The mem-
bers view the situation with mixed feelings.
Their original claim for land, buildings
and “disturbance” was over £300,000.
The City Council offered £lOO,OOO for the
building, £164,000 for the land, and £5OOO
for “disturbance.” This was accepted.
There are compensations in getting out of
an old club building; many famous London
clubs, for example, would give the equiva-
lent of their eyes for the opportunity of be-
ing rebuilt at the public expense. New
lifts, new bathrooms, central heating, the
latest in hot- and cold-water services—these
and a hundred other amenities and comforts
can be introduced with a new building, but
cannot be installed in an old one.
The chief gainers, in every sense of the
word, if the club remains, will be the citi-
zens of Sydney. It may be old-fashioned
inside, but it is a- thing of beauty as seen
from Bligh-street—almost the last of the
Georgian mansions which the craze for flats
has sent into the discard.
One member, at least, will be delighted if
the authorities decide against resumption—
Consett Stephen, the president. He has
grown up with the club, and every member
of his family who is eligible by age and
sex belongs to it. The best of his speeches
(and he is the wittiest after-dinner speaker
in New r South Wales) have been made within
its walls, and most of his intimate friends
have belonged to it. It is the veterans of
the Stephen, Knox, Lamb and Allen families
who most resent the thought of a change.
Still more encouragement for the novelists
of this country! Of his abundance T. E.
Kofe is presenting a gold medal (through
the Henry Lawson Society) valued five
guineas to the writer of the best novel pub-
lished in book form in 1929. A copy of
the book must be sent not later than March
31, 1930. The author of even a moderately-
successful novel hasn’t much use for a medal;
but if it will help to sell a few more copies
it won’t come amiss.
At a fashionable wedding one night
lately two of this Letter’s girl-friends were
among the onlookers. They had decided at
dinner to sandwich an eyeful of the bride
between the repast and a musical comedy.
Both were well dressed, one muffled in silver
fox, the other in a summer ermine, collared
and cuffed in Arctic fox. Unfortunately as
they stepped from their taxi an usher began
to call in stentorian voice: “Make way for
the bride ! Gangway for the bride, please!”
and they hurriedly took their stand on one
side. But if they had planned it maliciously
they could not have done worse, for in their
haste they stood in front of what up to that
moment had been the front-rankers. While yet
the bride and her maids were shimmering past,
irate women at the back were prodding the
newcomers’ spines and spitting out contumely.
“Woolloomooloo—that’s where you come
from! No manners—sticking yerself in front
of people that way !” snapped one of the early-
door queue. “Woolloomooloo wouldn’t own
’em,” her neighbor told her. “Cheap picture-
actresses, that’s what they are—them and
their wild rabbit!” At that moment the
last of the procession disappeared into the
church, and the two fled to the big city, to
give their furious hundred-odd guinea coats a
chance to cool down.
A big green parrot turns a loquacious
beak on passing events from the door of the
Wentworth. To all comers he calls cheerily:
“Hello, Doctor!” and to each, as he makes
his exit, a sadder “Good-bye, Doctor! Good-
bye, Doctor.” But he has not yet learned
to distinguish between the enlightened Chris-
tian Scientist, who will have nothing to do
with drugs, and the benighted world which
is 8.M.A.-ridden. So when the other day
an eminent follower of Mrs. Eddy entering,
the portals was greeted with a piercing,
“Hello, Doctor! Hello, Doctor!” feathers
were ruffled.
While various school “heads” have been
grieving over the tortured English spoken
by Young Australia, and largely blaming
moving-picture “titles” for it, the Victoria
League has been working for the purity of
the spoken word. Seven years ago, at a
conference of the Victoria League, Professor
Mungo MacCallum urged the need of foster-
ing correct speech. Thereupon the league
offered prizes to students within the
Teachers’ Training College for Shakspearean
recitation and verse speaking. The prizes
for the past year were claimed by Mr.
De Ferrant, Emily Pope, Joyce McTavish,
Kathleen Sherwood and Thelma Codwell; the
few words that went with them were spoken
by Miss Macarthur Onslow.
It is one of the refreshing experiences of
life to hear Mrs. Bertha McNamara, the
old, old lady who still attends A.L.P. con-
ferences, talking about the virtues of the
husband who has long been taken from her.
A native of Germany, who still betrays the
land of her origin by her tongue, she was
a widow with a family when McNamara, one
of the first A.W.L. organisers, married her.
Together they worked for Labor in the later
’eighties and chaotic ’nineties, and they
established a radical bookshop where fiery
pamphlets and political treatises could be
obtained. When the bookshop, in its way
a landmark of Sydney, had to go, owing to
building changes, the business, in a less dis-
tinctively radical form, was moved on else-
where by Mrs. McNamara’s son. One of
the lady’s daughters is Mrs. J. T. Lang.
Another is the widow of Henry Lawson,
who, for a time, lived in lodgings over the
old bookshop.
The latest letters from Mrs. Herrick
Knowles come from Oak House, Fair Oak-
lane, the home of her sister Frances. Brother
Dion Titheradge was oyer from Cap Martin
to produce another musical success in Bir-
mingham, and at latest Madge was flying
from the rigors of the New York winter to
Florida, where her millionaire husband has
one of his numerous homes.
Mrs. Jack Keelan, now living at Thirroul,
whose husband was in the Papuan service
for many years, is bringing out a book based
on a diary kept during four years’ residence.
Those who have read the MS. compare it
with “Sally in Rhodesia.” Mrs. Keelan was
Etta Matthews, of Wollstonecraft, and her
marriage took place at Port Moresby on Mr.
Keelan’s return from the war.
OVERHEARD.
The Pretty Sister: “I got another pair of silk
stockings to-day.”
The Plain Sister ( enviously ) : “Yes, you would.
Life always seems to hand you the hose and me
the ladder.”


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.1.1., General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds - -- -- -- -- -- £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed - - - - - £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in the following departments:—
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS.
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
All Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim Bonus.
E. H. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
M
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to—
A„Hinri«ed Representatives: O. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
Autnorisea LARS g. BRUNDAHL. 6 Dailey Street. Bex 312 VP G.P.0.. Sydney.
e
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet Restful —Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motoi.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Legal Notices.
*yo PHILIP CECIL LAING son of JOHN
A WILLIAM LAING who died intestate
at Waitara in New Zealand on the
28th October 1926 and to his children
if any and to all persons claiming by
through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
Bth November 1929 by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st March 1930
your claims to the estate of the above-
named deceased, failing which the said estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 18th day of
November, 1929.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TN THE' SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1682 of 1929.
BETWEEN EVELYN GLADYS JOYCE
Petitioner and VOLLENEY RICHARD
JOYCE Respondent.
TO VOLLENEY RICHARD JOYCE late
of Gundagai.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Evelyn
Gladys Joyce has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of. marriage on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the eighteenth day of March One thousand
nine hundred and thirty and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this nineteenth day of December,
1929.
For the Registrar.
(Sgd.) C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. A. Leask, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
17 Martin Place, Sydney.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OP
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1876 of 1929.
BETWEEN RUBY MARY QUIGLEY
Petitioner and WILLIAM GEORGE
QUIGLEY Respondent.
TO WILLIAM GEORGE QUIGLEY late
of Cowper Street Glebe in the State
of New South Wales Woolpresser.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Ruby Mary
Quigley has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the seventeenth day of March One thousand
nine hundred and thirty and in the event
of your not so doing within the time granted
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this sixteenth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
N. V. Menlove, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
'TO STANLEY EDGAR WALLACE
WALKLEY formerly, of Boolarra in
the State of Victoria Farmer present
whereabouts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Lily
Caroline Walkley has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion and habitual cruelty UNLESS
YOU ENTER AN APPEARANCE in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the twenty-first
day of January One thousand nine hundred
and thirty the case may proceed in your
absence.
COURTNEY & DUNN,
Solicitors,
127 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
TO HENRY HARCOURT BUCK formerly
of 42 Lily Street Bendigo in the State
of Victoria Tinsmith.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GWEN
PRISCILLA BUCK has instituted proceed-
ings against you for Divorce on the ground
of desertion. Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court on or before the twenty-
first day of January 1930 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs. C. H. AUTY, of 430 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor, Proctor
for the Petitioner.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a ‘woman needs to know.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE NEW MOON.
(Commencing Saturday).
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
(Commencing Saturday).
PALACE: IN THE NEXT ROOM.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
*'• MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
TURNED UP.
With GUS BLUETT, LEO FRANKLYN,
CECIL KELLEWAY.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
MURDER ON THE SECOND FLOOR.
With ADA REEVE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
UNIVERSAL 100 PER CENT. TALKING AND
SINGING SENSATION,
BROADWAY.
With GLENN TRYON and EVELYN BRENT
and a huge cast.
(Children under 16 not admitted.)
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went
to the Red Cross convalescent home at Cor-
inda for the Christmas party there. His
Ex. handed a woollen cardigan, the gift of
the Red Cross, to each patient, and he and
Lady Goodwin had interesting chats with
the men before the concert, arranged by Mrs.
Stark, began. Mr. C. J. Ennor, president
of the Old Contemptibles, is one of the
patients. Sunflowers and gumtips decked
the supper-tables, where Matron Macdonald
entertained the guests.
Another Red Cross Christmas party
attended by the Goodwins was at Rosemount.
Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Robinson received the vice-
regal party; Mrs. A. E. Moore was also a
visitor. A shirt and .socks were handed to
each patient by Sir John for the Red Cross.
Mrs. J. W. Ward arranged the musical pro-
gramme, and the Junior Red Cross served
supper.
At the luncheon for widows and orphans
of soldiers and sailors at the Exhibition
Grounds 600 children and 400 adults gath-
ered in the dining-hall, and 300 kiddies took
part in the sporting events. It was the
10th annual feasting. The Lud Mayor presided
and welcomed the Governor, and Speaker
Charles Taylor complimented Mrs. Grave and
her band of helpers. Over £3OO worth of
gifts was distributed, and each mother re-
ceived an iced Christmas cake.
The Queensland Press Institute enter-
tained Dr. J. S. C. Elkington at a Hotel
Canberra lunch. The doctor gave a breezy
address on “Chaps I Met Abroad.” The
president and Mrs. A. E. Lavis welcomed
the guests, Mrs. Lavis wearing navy blue
crepe de Chine, patterned in crimson and
grey, with a ballibuntal hat in grey and
crimson.
Morgan Rees, second son of the M. T. Rees
couple, of Lutwyche, was married to Eileen,
daughter of the E. Duncalfes, of Milton
Heights, in the Albert-street Methodist church.
The bride wore shell-pink Chantilly over pink
silk, and a pink hand-broidered veil, with a
silver cap; she carried a sheaf of steplian-
otis, carnations and lilies. Miss D. Richards
’maided, in pastel-blue mariette over shell-
pink satin, a blue tulle cap and veil, with
pink forget-me-nots; her bouquet was of
roses and hydrangea. Mervyn Rees best-
manned. Margaret Lloyd sang a solo, and
a guard of honor was formed by the choir, of
which the bride was a member.
When Robert, son of the E. J. Perretts,
of St. Kilda (Vic.), married Nancy, only
daughter of the G. E. Drivers, of Auchen-
flower, Brisbane, pink and white decked St.
John’s Cathedral, and the bride wore white
satin beaute mounted over pink satin, with
a silver cap and a silver-piped tulle veil.
Lilian Fisher ’maided, in pink silk tulle, with
a silver lace hat.
Doreen Reid announces her engagement to
E. W. Watmore, third son of the late G.
W. Watmore and of Mrs. Watmore,
Nyrambla, Clay Ascot. She is a daughter
of David Reid and the late Mrs. Reid, of
Baloochmyle, Clayfield.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This portrait shows Miss Gladys Smith,
teacher of dancing, eurhythmies and physical
culture, whose pupils recently showed their
proficiency at
the City Hall.
The most
charming item
on her pro-
gramme was
the interpreta-
tion of the
story of Pyg-
malion and
Galatea, i n
four scenes.
Del i g h tful
music by
Sinding, Grieg
and Chopin
was played by
Miss Leila
Read. Miss
Smith teaches
at all the
leading
schools, and
i n vacations
flits to the
mainland to pick up the latest wrinkles in
her art.
A pretty Longford wedding was that of
Peggy Richards and Clive Steel, at Christ
Church. The bridal frock of cream lace
was surmounted by a veil of exquisite
Limerick, falling from a half-circle of orange
blossoms. The three ’maids, Miss Perry,
Flora McFie and Nora Steel, wore deep pink
romaine frocks and beige summer felt hats.
Another smart wedding was that of the
W. Ross-Reynoldses’ elder daughter Nancye
to A. L. Vanneck, Archdeacon Whitington
tying the knot at St. David’s Cathedral.
The bride was frocked in deep buttercup-
yellow satin, opening in front over a slip of
gold lame. The headdress of flat gold flowers
surmounted the long veil of gold tulle, and a
bouquet of roses in every shade of amber and
gold completed the sunshiny effect. Sister
Betty Ross-Reynolds was chief ’maid, the
other two being Mollie Eady and Grace Stops
—all golden girls in taffeta, with gold
lace hats and crooks topped with deep crim-
son roses. There was a throng of guests
at the Ross-Reynolds home in Montpelier-
road for the wedding supper, and the younger
section danced at the Imperial afterwards.
The bride’s going-away turnout was in brown
cloth, a long coat over a satin frock; small
brown hat to match.
The Launceston Golf Club farewelled Miss
Nancy Cuff at the Club House, King’s
Meadows, and presented her with a silver-
mounted pyrex dish, before her impending
plunge into matromony. Tea was served m
the men’s lounge and bridge tables set in
the associates’ lounge.
Our veteran instrument,, the Town Hall
organ, has had something in the nature of
monkey gland treatment, and the city organ-
ist. J. Scott Power, is. all smiles. The open-
ing recital drew a big crowd, and Mayor
Soundy gave the history of the instrument
from its installation in 1870.
Beth Hay, third daughter of the John
Hays, Sandy Bay, and Alan Travers Crosby
announce their intention of entering into
domestic partnership in the near future.
The Allan Wilkies open at the Theatre
Royal on Jan. 4.
Miss Eve Masterman has returned after
spending two years in Europe.
The Gillett family, which has spent the
last three years in the Cold Country, have
returned to Wetmore, Ross. Daughter Mar-
garet has joined the ranks of the grown-ups,
having made her curtsey at the first Court
this year.
The numerous friends made by Mr. and
Mrs. Hugh Tyser when they lived in Sydney
and Tasmania will be grieved to hear of the
death in England of their young married
daughter, Mrs. John Eyton, as the result of
an accident in the hunting field.
A recent engagement is that of Ethel
Power, second daughter of Mr. Silas and
and the late Mrs. Tinning, Lambert-avenue,
to Robert Forbes, elder son of Dr. E. W. J
Ireland, Macquarie-street.
London sends us word of the engagement
of Mr. PI. W. Ely, sec. to the Agent-Gen-
eral, and Irene Catherine, daughter of the
Rev. J. and Mrs. Wharton. Mr. Ely made
a host of friends during his years of office
in the Speck.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The pretty face belongs to Maxine Mac-
kenzie, who has returned to the footlights
to be the life
and soul of
“The Opt i-
inists,” a cos-
tume comedy
company at
the Coliseum.
In the days
before Queen’s
11 a 11 was
scrapped, and
w h e n the
Olympia
housed amuse-
ments other
than boxing,
Miss Macken-
zie toured
Australia and
M.L. with
“The Scarlet
T roubadours”
and “The Eng-
lish Pierrots.”
Her forte is
soubrette work, but she is also a pianist, and
has other gifts. Six days a week at 5.45
p.m. she becomes Auntie Maxine and broad-
casts bedtime stories from 6WF. She is an
Adelaidean, a daughter of the Duncan Mac-
kenzies, of Largs Bay.
Repertory members had a jolly time at the
club’s wind-up for the year, a Christmas
party in the Assembly Hall. Santa Claus,
modern enough to discard whiskers, distri-
buted prizes to winners of competitions.
Joyce Mortlock produced W. S. Gilbert’s
skit on “Hamlet,” with herself in the part
of the soliloquising prince. There were
charades, and coughs and hiccups from weird
instruments spiced up the jazz band, Sol
Sainken being a lively conductor. Popular
secretary Molly Ick was handed a presenta-
tion from the committee, and an informal
supper was spread in the club rooms next
door.
St. George’s Cathedral was crowded for
the enthronement of the new Anglican Arch-
bishop, Dr. Frewen Le Fanu. A procession
of choristers and clergy bearing _ aloft a
banner was followed by the Administrator
of the diocese and the Dean of Perth, who
walked down the nave and waited besides
the western door. Then came three knocks
and the deep, far-carrying voice of the Arch-
bishop-elect asking admission. In his scarlet
robes he was escorted up the aisle and in-
stalled and enthroned by the Archdeacon.
The Archbishop and his eldest daughter
were guests of the Governor and Lady Cam-
pion for the first few days after their arrival.
Their headquarters are now at the Girls’
High School, Claremont, where two more
daughters and two sons were already in-
stalled. Bishopscourt is undergoing renova-
tions.
His Ex. unveiled a tablet at Perth Plos-
pital on Saturday that will mark another
stage in the campaign against cancer. The
cost of the building and the necessary
apparatus will be around £17,000. Public
subscriptions and Government grants, pro-
vided most of it, but donations for mainten-
ance are welcomed.
From the hospital his Ex. went to Cottes-
loe to turn a gold key in the lock of the
new bathing pavilion. Tea was served on
the roof garden above. From the restaurant
there is a worth-while view of the ocean.
Songbird Irene Stancliffe has returned
after touring Europe and representing Aus-
tralia at the Welsh Song Festival. Her voice
was highly commended abroad. A glittering
trinket is her newest possession. It was
slipped upon her finger by Russell West, of
West Leederville.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
Recent mails bring news of the death, in
Sydney, of Mrs. Kirkland, wife of the former
owner of the Northern Territory Times.
One of the largest funerals seen in Dar-
win was that of Laurie, wife of R. H. Bow-
man, our one and only dentist and a
former town councillor. Mrs. Bowman died
after an operation, leaving four little ones.
She was 37, and had been a resident of the
North for over 20 years.
Another well-known resident of the Ter-
ritory passes out in James Fleming, of 001100
loo station, on the Douglas River. He and
his brother Mick held adjoining runs,' and
their bullocks always brought good prices in
the markets. James was 73, and had been
a resident of the North since 1886.


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining. and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant —
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
'Phone M 4 I 3 1 for your reservation.
Visitors to Adelaide
WILL FIND
THE GRAND
COFFEE PALACE
AN IDEAL HOME.
Centrally Situated.
ALL CONVENIENCES—EVERY
COMFORT ASSURED.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
LARGE MOTOR GARAGE
ATTACHED.
TARIFF: £3/10/- WEEKLY.
HINDLEY STREET,
NEXT WEST’S THEATRE.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will nevei be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
7hp cen/ne of Queen s /an c/s
c/is/ingu/sh&c/ Soc/o/ Life.
ernorn
motel
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bail*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cable*: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telepkone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
Merry Christmas!
BY ARTHUR GROOM
IILUrTDATED BY HARPY J. WEJTON
Synopsis: Sandy Jackson, tired 0/
looking for icork and utterly broke in
Brisbane, decides to get back to fami-
liar surroundings, as far west as
possible. Pratten, commercial traveller,
refuses him a lift in Queen-street, and
Sandy crawls into the small space in
the back of thg car, and after sundry
mishaps meets his old friend Jim Wal-
ters at Gloncurry, and accepts a job
to go with him to Boolgooroo
station. Reaching the station, Jim
Walters meets an addition, a city girl,
who is looking after the store, and
whose name, station-owner Jack Hin-
ton tells him, is Helen Delaney. Her
presence embarrasses Walters, but
it is not long before a strong love
affair develops between them. Walters,
Sandy and others go out to the stock
camp at Eldeetil Waterhole, where,
mustering the unmanageable cattle,
some of which have never seen a
white man, Walters is badly injured’.
The destruction of the thorouglibrace
by fire prevents his being taken back
to the station, and though two hands
set out on horses it is doubtful
whether they ivill get through in time.
The blackboy Ardell, however, sends
up smoke signals, ivlvich are answered.
Suspense in the camp is accentuated
by threatening heavy rain, which
those icho are watching over Walters
fear ivill prevent assistance from
reaching them.
CHAPTER XXI.
Picking up the Signals.
JACK HINTON had come into Warkon
township on business connected with
the valuation of the Boolgooroo leases.
He had driven in by the station’s only car,
and it had rained heavily during the night,
delaying his return. At sunrise he had
searched the grey horizon, noted the dying
storm-clouds, and had decided to postpone
his return trip at least a day—until the
roads were a little drier. He had wished
to return urgently; but that was no reason
why he shouldn’t rejoice meantime. The
fall of rain meant thousands of pounds to
him. It was worth a little celebration.
He entered the bar of the township’s
only hotel and looked about.
“Hullo, Pender!” he said genially.
A tall man came forward and shook
hands. He had another man with him. In-
troductions took place.
“Mr. Hinton—Mr. Wallace, from Nor-
manton. This is good—drink with us,
Jack.”
As Peggy Bryant served the drinks she
glanced out. through a window looking
south-west. She paused, then went on with
her work; but something had puzzled her,
and she returned and peered out again.
Evidently she was still uncertain, for she
went on to the hotel verandah and
watched the south-western" horizon for a
long time. The sky was clearing slowly,
and she was trying to distinguish some
strange marks.
When she returned to the bar she called
Mr. Hinton over. “Mr. Hinton,” she said,
“isn’t Boolgooroo homestead south-west
from here?”
“Just a shave west of south,” he an-
swered readily. “Thinking of paying us a
visit, Peggy?”
“No, but if you look outside you’ll see
that you’ve got the sweetest
little bushfire down that
way.”
“What? After all that
rain!” Hinton’s laughter
was meant to ridicule. “No bushfires this
weather, Peggy. Even if there were there’s
heaps more rain coming. You wait.”
“Well, what’s that smudge—three of
them? What are they if they’re not
smoke?”
Hinton bent a little and looked out
through the open window. Pender and
Wallace bent beside him.
“It’s smoke all right,”' Hinton agreed.
“I’m sorry and everything else, Peg. It’s
somewhere away porth-west of the home-
stead; but it’s not grass burning—not after
all the rain last night. Must be spinifex;
that’ll burn like blazes, wet or dry. I
suppose it’s some of the niggers rejoicing
over the breaking of the drought.”
As they laughed and joked further the
smudges grew darker.
“I’d like to know what the signal means,”
Hinton said as he walked on to the western
verandah, at last gravely interested. “That’s
what it is—a signal of some sort.”
“Possibly a little dark star has risen in
one of the blacks’ camps,” Pender sug-
gested, “and they’re telling the daddy black-
feller all about it while he’s out on hunt!
Eh, Hinton?”
Binoculars were borrowed, and it looked,
though it was impossible to be sure, that
many miles behind the first signal another
was rising slowly. Yet it seemed too
shadowy and too distant to be real.
“That second one—whatever it is—would
be out on the country north-east of the
Eldeetil Waterhole, and north-west from
the homestead,” Hinton declared. “Very
little is known about it.”
Sunlight broke through the storm-clouds
and caused the smoke to appear momen-
tarily blacker. Then shadow followed again,
and all returned to indistinctness.
Toby, of the Arunya tribe, watched the
distant smoke from the shelter of his camp
on the western bank of the Georgina. He
watched it silently for a long time; then
his keen eyes picked out the very dim blur
of a signal many miles behind again. He
scratched in perplexity, trying to reason out
the origin of the signal, and determine just
how far it had come. The message it con-
veyed was quite plain to him; but he was
not sure of the exact locality of the “white-
man sickness.”
Perhaps it would be worth reporting to
the white-lady doctor who ruled the health
of Warkon. He could not report it to the
police sergeant, because that big-feller was
out of town. But perhaps the lady doctor
would give him tobacco, like the sergeant
did sometimes.
The little Warkon Cottage Hospital
appeared deserted to Toby. He dared not
venture inside. He had seen dead men car-
ried from it.
Out in the back yard a long mud-spat-
tered yellow car stood partly covered with
a small tarpaulin, and it puzzled him. It
was strange to the district. He knew all
the local cars, from Manning’s down to Hop
Wun Loo’s; and this car had never been
in the district before. Toby shook his
head in dull surprise.
He wandered on towards the hotel, and
walked around the back of it. There he
discovered Mr. Hinton’s Ford and scratched
his filthy head. The smoke was somewhere
away down on the Boolgooroo desert coun-
try, and perhaps the sickness was in some
of the Boolgooroo stockmen. It might pay
to tell Jack Hinton—he had plenty of good
things to give. Toby turned and stole into
the hotel by a back entrance.
“What’re jmu after, you?” the bearded
hotel cook barked as he rose from
reading a tattered magazine and glowered
at the frightened blackboy.
“Me gottim messager longa Misser Hin-
ton—big-feller messager altogether,” Toby
declared in fear. “Where Misser Hinton
sit down ? Big-feller messager come up for
smoke longa me—yabber all about white-
feller sick- I —close-up tumble down all-a-same
dead for die, s’posem Misser Hinton no
see.”
“Peggy,” the cook yelled. “Here—yer
boy wants yer!”
Peggy Bryant came out of' the kitchen
wiping her hands on her apron.
“You—Toby? What you want? You get-
no tucker here to-day!” a-
“He’s after Mister Plinton,” the cook
interposed. “Yabberin’ about somebody
dyin’ on Boolgooroo. Got a special note
from a smoke-signal, he says. Better march
him inside to Hinton.”
Peggy Bryant led Toby into the bar.
“Here’s a special messenger for you, Mr.
Hinton,” she announced. “You’ve got a
man on Boolgooroo with indigestion or
something—so he says.”
“I have a man down there who’s love-
sick,” Hinton laughed genially. “Funniest
case in the world. Well, Toby, you damn
cadger, what you want now?”
“Smoke signal all-about sit down longa
sky big-feller,” Toby commenced. “Him
yabber longa me all-about lundera feller
longa Bullager, maybe sit down for die
altogether. Him yabber him altogether bad
one—maybe finis’ now.”
Hinton scratched his head. “Who told
you this?” he demanded grimly.
“That one come for smoke signal.” Toby
walked to the open door and pointed to the
faint, dying smudge of the nearer dark
column. “That one signal all-about jabber
white-man sick—bad—close up finis’ alto-
gether. Me see ’nother signal—long—long
way—close, up no more —that-away,” and
pointed out to the south-west.
“That’s a bit east of the Eldeetil Water-
hole, where Jim Walters’s stock camp is,”
Jack Hinton told his companions. “I’d
like to know if Toby’s message is dinkum.”
He turned again to the blackfellow.
“This all-about true feller you yabber
longa me?” he snapped.
“Yowi,” Toby agreed readily. “All-about
true feller. Me findem messager long smoke
signal, all-a-same white feller close up
finis’.”
Hinton bit his lip and looked out into
the south-west again. The smoke smudges
were fast disappearing; a wind was flatten-
ing them. A new bank of clouds was mov-
ing in from the west.
“Sounds queer,” he declared. “You’ll
excuse me, Pender, and Mr. Wallace, won’t
you? I’ll try to get a call through to the
homestead. Perhaps they can explain it.”
The post office was across the road. As
Mr. Hinton entered he was confronted by
the puzzled postmaster.
“Just looking for you, Mr. Hinton,” the
official announced eagerly. “Boolgooroo’s
calling, but the line’s a bit out of order. I
can’t make head or tail of it at all. The
rain last night”
He pointed to the telephone, and Mr.
Hinton picked up the receiver.
“Hullo! Hullo! That the homestead?
Hullo!”
Like an endless murmur the hundred and
thirty-odd miles of wire hummed away
across the soaked land.
“Hullo—hullo!”
At the other end of the wire a faint voice
answered.
“Yes—is that—hullo! Hullo!”
The line became dead. Hinton listened
and shook his head.
“The line’s been crook all the morning,”
the postmaster continued. “Boolgooroo’s
been trying to raise me since nine o’clock.”
“Hullo—is that Mr. Hinton?” The
voice sounded very faint before it left off
suddenly.
“Yes, yes, I’m speaking. What is it —that
you, Helen?”
“Hullo, is Mr. Hinton there?”
“Yes—speaking.”
“Uncle, (Warry’s here” the voice was
cut off 'again.
“Damn!” Hinton muttered. “Hullo—
hullo!”
- three columns.... from” ,th,e
scrappy conversation continued. “He
reckons.... Eldeetil.... must be dying....
boggy and what shall Hullo, hullo,
are you there?”
“Yes, I got part of it,” Hinton answered.
“Go on.”
“Warry’s” A few seconds of silence
followed the crisp name; then the line
cleared again. “Smoke signals in three....
man north-west... .dying at”
Hinton’s face cleared.
“Righto, Helen, I got you. Hear me?”
Faintly audible the broken reply came
back.
“Yes.,.. .don’t know heavy rain. Warry
says”
The voice died out and did not return.
Hinton replaced the receiver. He wiped his
forehead.
“Phew!” he muttered. “I didn’t think
I’d get it—haven’t got much of it, for that
matter.”
“Anything wrong?”
“Yes, they appear to want help. Some-
body’s dying—apparently—out at the stock-
camp at the Eldeetil Waterhole—hundred
and twenty-odd miles past the homestead.
Damn! It’s a hundred and forty-odd miles
somewhere sou’-west from here. Warry,
one. of the niggers, saw the smoke signals—
I saw them myself from the pub.”
“How can we send help?”
“I’ll have to try to get through with the
old Ford. Very boggy, though. I’ll see
if I can get Dr. Lowndes to come with me.”
Mr. Hinton commenced to hurry from
the building.
“I believe there’s an ambulance car over
at the hospital,” the postal official broke in.
“I sent a message through to the ’Curry
last night, just before the line went down,
that bearers Caldwell and Pringle were
stuck here in the storm. They had an
appendicitis case on board. It was meant
for the ’Curry; but one of the creeks was
up high and they had to come back to this
hospital.”
“Good!” Mr. Hinton turned and com-
menced to run across to the old hospital
building a furlong up the boggy road.
Dr. Lowndes pmerged in response to
knocking. She was a substantial woman of
middle age and reputed to be of indepen-
dent means.
“Oh, good morning, Mr. Hinton. You
look worried.”
“I’ve just received news from the home-
stead that someone is in a bad way at the
back of the run and they need attention.
Could you”
The lady shook her head.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.!
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .... - BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Head Office
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
VICHY
SSSES
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Every whan.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“I’m afraid not, Mr, Hinton,” she
broke in. “I’ve an appendicitis case on my
hands. We finished operating only a while
ago. The case should really have gone to
the ’Curry; but the bearers were blocked
by flooded creeks, and had to turn all the
way back here.” She paused. “Would they
be of use to you—the bearers? You see, I
couldn’t leave my patient, and I have only
one assistant.”
“The ambulance men!” Hinton almost
shouted. “They’d be just what we want —
if they’re still here.”
“Oh, yes, they’re still here.”
Dr. Lowndes turned back into the build-
ing. She was gone almost five minutes
before the two men came out on to the
verandah. They appeared tired and were
swollen-eyed.
“You have a case?” the taller man asked.
“Is it urgent?”
“I’m afraid it is,” Mr. Hinton replied.
“A very serious one, from the report I
received.”
“What is it?”
“I can’t tell you that,” Hinton answered
quietly.
“How far out?”
“A long way, I think. I’m afraid it will
take two or three days of solid driving,”
Hinton said apolo-
getically. “If the
report is correct
the distance may
run to four or five
hundred miles or
more. My own car
hasn’t the slightest
chance of getting
through in this
bog. I was going
to give it a try,
but”- He broke
off and shrugged
his shoulders.
The tall man
showed little sur-
prise. His face
lightened a little.
“Plenty of benzine
and oil on the
route?” he asked.
“Plenty of food?”
“Yes,” Hinton
answered readily;
“but I can make
immediate arrange-
ments to take an
additional supply
with us.”
The man nodded.
“Do so, then,
will you?” he
asked. “.We’ll have
the ’bus ready in-
side five minutes.”
Mr. Hinton
looked at his watch.
It was twelve
minutes past ten
o’clock.
A long yellow ambulance car swung
around a muddy corner and slid to rest
before Cronin’s store. Benzine, oil, tinned
beef and other provisions were loaded into
its capacious back.
CHAPTER XXII.
The Ambueance Car.
The powerful car ploughed down the
one street of Warkon, turned on to a
road which Hinton pointed out to the
driver, and commenced to gather speed over
the slippery black soil. Rain had caused
little rivulets to spring up in the road, and
before any distance had been covered water
commenced to fly up over the windscreen.
“I didn’t get your names?” Hinton called
above the sound of the engine.
“My name’s Pringle—Jack Pringle,” the
tall man, driving beside him, answered.
“Cobber’s name is Scotty Caldwell.”
“Good. Let her go as hard as you like.”
A few stray camels gazed lazily up as the
great yellow car slid past them. Already
the “Q.A.T.8.,” over a maltese cross of
red, was almost obliterated by mud. The
rear vent was closed with a waterproof
curtain.
The road ran out off the stock route and
became boggy. The car slowed down; it
churned through the mud, almost axle-deep,
yet with a fair store of reserve power. The
non-skid chains rattled a little loosely, but
that was of no importance.
While the station-owner and Scotty Cald-
well clung to their seats, Pringle settled a
little closer to the wheel and opened out.
The road grew better and increased speed
was possible. . , , ,
Hinton watched the driver through half-
closed eyes, and noted his remarkable skill.
There was an instance when the car stopped
suddenly after surging through a particu-
larly deep and long stretch of water. Pringle
motioned to Caldwell, and without any
hesitation or doubt Scotty wriggled out into
the rain, slithered about in the mud, lifted
the long yellow bonnet, and immediately
located the trouble within. He did not
falter. Experience and knowledge told him
exactly what was needed.
“’S all right so long as I don t skid
away out on to the grass,” Pringle said
when the car was running along a fairly
firm stretch of track. No bottom beneath
these roots—l’ll bet. We went off the road
once when it was raining like this away
down near Kynuna. Storm water lay on
the road for more than half a mile ahead,
and alongside the ground seemed to be
innocent— hard-looking claypan sort of stun.
We went out on to the claypan for only
about fifteen feet, but it took us seven
hours to get back on to the road again.
And we were out after a poor ola boundary-
“‘Here’s a special messenger for you, Mr. Hinton.’”
rider with a badly smashed leg. A mis-
take like that hurts a bit. We had special
pull-out gear issued to us after that trip.”
“There’s a bad patch half a mile ahead,”
Mr. Hinton advised.
Pringle did not reply. But he drove more I
cautiously; and when a mass of stunted,
coarse dead grass showed up in the centre
of a patch of swampy ground, he stopped.
“Some road!” he commented, and climbed
out.
Almost a hundred yards of swampy water-
course crossed the submerged track, which
appeared like a narrow canal.
Pringle walked halfway through the water
until it rose above his knees; then he turned
and came slowly back, pausing to consider.
“I’ll want a push through,” he said. “We
might get there’s no sound way
around.”
Hinton and Caldwell got on either side
of the car and a slow approach was made
to the edge of the water. Then the engine
was accelerated a little and in low gear
the car entered the bog.
The gears ground louder as the load
grew heavier on the engine. The wheels
slipped and threw water and slush behind.
The car rose, dropped; bumped over deep
potholes in the silted ruts; moved a little
further ahead.
“Now, push like blazes!” Pringle shouted.
“Heave!”
The engine spluttered beneath the load,
the wheels almost ceased to revolve ; moved
ahead again; then stopped.
“Huh! We’ll have to try to back a
little,” Pringle muttered. “She’s boggy all
right! ”
He changed into reverse. Accelerated a
little.
“Push again!” he shouted.
They pushed, and the car slid back a few
feet and sank a little deeper.
“I think she’s on bottom now, Scotty
said, with his face streaming mud, and
if it’s not hard it means pulling her out
with the gear.”
A second attempt was made. The wheel
skidded, then gripped, and the car shot for-
ward a few yards.
“That’s not so bad at all,” Pringle de-
clared eagerly. “We ought to shoot straight
through next time.”
The third attempt was successful, and
within a further few minutes the car
groaned out into moderately firm mud
again.
“It’s nearly three o’clock,” Mr. Hinton
advised them as he looked at his watch.
“We’ve been five hours so far, and that big
black rock on the plain ahead is a little
the Boolgooroo side of halfway.”
“According to the speedo. we’ve come a
I little over sixty miles,” Jack Pringle
answered.
As the journey continued the ground grew
a little firmer. The rain here had not been
as heavy. The car sped on faster. The
plain became dotted with cattle, which
raced away ,in alarm.
The Northern Territory border fence rose
up in a dark line of wet posts and wire
netting just as the sun burst through a low
bank of dispersing rainclouds; and as the
car crawled through the gates the three
men noted that it was not long to sun-
down. The yellow and crimson beams of
reflected light in the west would not hold
out much longer.
“You’ll strike the first creek within a
few miles,” Hinton told them as a few
scattered coolabahs flashed by. “It’s known
as White’s, and it’s a rotten job when
running.”
Pringle stopped within a few yards of the
creek bank, got out and ran forward, fol-
lowed by the others.
“Good God!” His tone was of dismay.
“She’s running strong! How deep is it,
Mr. Hinton?” „
“ Nearly two fe6t of actual water,
Hinton replied; “but all on this side she s
bedded with a deep silt of sand. The only
way you can cross is to take a chance and
dive through it, or you’ll never drag your-
self out of the sand. You’ll want to hold
hard to the car.”
Pringle waded out into the stream. At
every footstep, until he reached the middle,
he sank deep into sandy silt. His face was
anxious and troubled when he returned.
“I’ll have to chance the engine,” he said.
“She’s well protected; but if that water
gets in it may be the end of the trip.”
Caldwell and Hinton waded halfway
across and stood in mid-stream roughly
fifteen feet apart, indicating the passage
between them. Both realised that a push
at the right moment might save hours of
delay. , , , ,
Pringle reversed the car nearly a hundred
yards, then . started forward. There came
a low roar as the back wheel skidded, a
sudden scream and a groan as they gripped
the exposed dry ground.
The yellow machine came on, right to
the top of the bank, racing. Hinton and
Scotty Caldwell saw it top the bank,
saw Pringle s
tensely drawn fea-
tures, saw the car
almost capsize,
and then all was
fl yin g, thrashed
water and a mon-
ster smashing
between them.
There came a
slackening in pace
as the treacherous
sandy bottom laid
gripping hands on
the wheels; but
momentum and
weight carried the
car forward —car-
ried it up on to the
rocky bottom with
a terrific bump,
and halfway up
the other bank,
where with a queer
splutter the engine
hissed out.
Within a few
seconds Caldwell
had raised the bon-
net. His face was
gleeful.
“It’s all right,”
he declared eagerly.
“Nothing serious.”
He rubbed and
dried the wiring
system, looked
over the engine,
rubbed it here and
there, inspected the
whole job with a
critical eye, then
closed the bonnet.
“Try her,” he
said. “She’ll snuffle
a bit.”
With a few re-
fractory splutters
the engine started and a few seconds later
commenced to run steadily again.
“Broke a leaf in the front spring, left
side,” Caldwell said. “It’s still well held
in, though.”
“Mere detail,” Pringle answered. “It’s a
blooming wonder I didn’t break my head
against the ceiling. Some road!”
The car continued its journey again. The
sun was just about to set and great yellow
and red tongues of light travelled across the
sky.
“Ought to be a fine day to-morrow, any-
how,” Mr. Hinton ventured.
Winding through sandy hills the road
grew rapidly better. Less water lay about
and boggy patches were farther between. A
sunset stillness crept over the land, and
the other creeks were crossed with very
little trouble and the car ran out on to
another plain.
“Not much farther,” Mr. Hinton an-
nounced after tlie lights had been cleaned
once more. “We have to cross the Georg-
ina River soon; but we built a good stone
crossing there years ago.”
A light showed fitfully ahead and then
(Continued on next page.)


■ -I n Ladies Hands
HERE is magic in the
featherlike lightness of
a Shelley teacup. English
Bone China, made nowhere
but in a few square miles
in Staffordshire, and the
Shelley workers’ 75 years
of continuously inherited
craftsmanship are the secret
of this fairy loveliness. The
name of Shelley under every
piece guarantees genuineness
Ask ro see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets
Coffee Sets-
Horning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
by Lucie Attweu
v Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulos
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
MISSING BENEFICIARY.
QEORGE MACKIE, son of Robert
v “ Jt Mackie, deceased, and formerly of
Auckland, New Zealand, or any person
knowing the present whereabouts of the said
George Mackie, is requested to communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
at Hawera, New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
WOULD ARTHUR RIDGE, of Cork, Ire-
** land, Civil Engineer, employed for some
time at Lock 11, Mildura, Victoria, and
now probably employed at Alice Springs,
Central Australia, please communicate with
his brother Francis R. Ridge, of Somerset
House, Sandycove Avenue West, Kingstown
Co., Dublin, Ireland. [349
Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, F.C.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
ē
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
umi
[DIRECT WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
WOOL !
Special Monthly Articles, Inter-State Reports and
Statistical Information on the WOOL Situation.
A FINANCIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL
REVIEW OF THE TEXTILE INDUSTRIES OF
AUSTRALIA.
Bhe TEXTILE JOURNAL
of AUSTRALIA
Established 1926—Published Monthly—64 Pages and Cover.
Subscription Rate, 20/- per annum. Overseas Subscription
Rate, 25/- per annum. (Postage prepaid.)
FRANK C. MARDEL,
Managing Editor and Publisher,
Temple Court, Melbourne, C. 1.
Specimen Copy of the “Textile Journal of Australia” forwarded
Gratis on receipt of Official Request from Individuals and Firms
engaged in the Industry. Apply on business letterhead.
'.Jilt JUlst. %%»sW
\d,vour\
At all good hotels 1
and tobacconists I _
Special box prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG &AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
the glorious, welcome blaze of a camp-
fire. It was quite close.
Trees gloomed in the distance. The
ground gave way into a slope. Pringle
slowed down. The Georgina River glis-
tened through the darkness.
“That fire is at the blacks’ camp,” Hinton
announced. “When you get over this
crossing take the road to the right. It’s
half a mile shorter.”
As the steady roar of the car approached,
black figures stiffened to life and moved
before the camp-fires. Arms lifted and
pointed; one or two figures bolted. They
had seen cars before, but none like this
great yellow monster that came hurtling
almost at them out of the dusk.
“Yowi! Lundera debil-debil! ” The cry
rent the air and black figures disappeared
into the low bushes and down towards the
river.
Five minutes later the yellow car drew
up at Boolgooroo homestead.
(To be continued next week.)
The Cure.
L. L. WOOLACOTT'S
ê
ë
ERNEST GLASSON’S huge figure
sagged into an armchair and he
stared across the room at his wife.
“Well?” she snapped impatiently.
“Cancer—what I’ve been afraid of all my
life,” he mumbled, and to Alice’s horror
burst into* tears. She rose hurriedly, crossed
the room, sat on one side of his chair and
placed an arm across his immense shoulders.
“Ernest, Ernest,” she whispered, “con-
trol yourself. Tell me what Dr. Barnicr
said.”
For some moments Glasson did not reply.
He fought with liis emotion, dabbed his face
with a handkerchief and sighed gustily.
Despite herself, Alice felt inclined to be
contemptuous instead of pitiful. Twenty
years of childless married life had toughened
her heart.
“Barnier examined me,” her husband was
saying, “and he told me—he told me that
for a man only forty-five years of age I
was in a disgraceful condition. Said I liad-
blood-pressure and atrophy of the bowels.
Said it was all brought about by excessive
meat-eating. Lectured me about the num-
ber of times he had warned me since I was
forty that I had to cut down the amount of
meat I ate. I told him how many times I’d
tried to cut it down —how I’d tried to fast
—and how my body simply demanded meat.
He laughed at me when I mentioned that
I had often tried to diet myself. He said:
‘Diet yourself be damned! I’ve been telling
you for five years that meat three times
a day for a man in his forties is suicide.’
And then he out with the truth! ‘Here,
you may as well know,’ he said. ‘You keep
coming to me to be patched up—you’re
always more or less seedy. Well, the truth
is you’ve got cancer —cancer of the stomach
there’s only one hope for you.’ ”
“An operation?” breathed Alice, smooth-
ing what remained of his hair.
“No —a fast. He says I’ve got to do a
complete fast.”
“What does that mean?”
“He explained that I must go to bed
for fifteen to twenty days and have nothing
—absolutely nothing—to eat. Only warm
water to drink. He said that’s the latest
cure for cancer. And he wants to see you
before the fast begins.”
“When is it to begin?”
“As soon as he has arranged with you
about how —how to take care of me. I feel
-—I feel —oh, Alice —I ' feel that this is
death!”
Alice soothed him.
The Glassons were comfortably off. As
an indent merchant Ernest had been very
successful since his return from the war.
By the time he had reached his forty-third
birthday he had virtually been ready to
retire. He owned a fine villa at Rose Bay;
kept a decent car; played golf; loved his
wife, but loved his stomach more. Neither
to himself nor to his wife would he admit
that he over-ate. He “liked good food”;
he had “a big frame to feed” ; he had “no
time for fads” ; he believed, and voiced his
belief, that, “if a man enjoyed his food, his
food did him good.” Vainly his wife pointed
out that he was growing fatter, and that the
fatter he grew the more often sundry ail-
ments drove him to the doctor. When he
weighed sixteen stone (he was five feet
seven inches high) he happened to hear
himself referred to by his stenographer as
“Fatty Glasson.” She was speaking to his
book-keeper. That remark cut him to the
quick. His stenographer was young and
charming, and he had formed the habit of
flirting heavily and paternally with her.
From that day onward he began to worry
about diet, and made many half-hearted
attempts to limit his rations. He read books
on diet; he studied Sinclair’s “Fasting
Cure” ; he waded through J. Ellis Barker’s
“Good Health and Happiness.” And steadily
he grew fatter....
That afternoon Alice visited Dr. Barnier.
When she returned to the she was very
quiet.
“What does Barnier say?” demanded
Ernest.
“There is not the slightest need for alarm.”
replied Alice, “provided you do exactly as
you are told. It’s quite true —you’ll have
to fast for fifteen to twenty days. Doctor
has given me full instructions, and lie will
visit you every day. There is no danger at
all.”
“And—and he really believes I’ll be
cured?”
“It’s certain—if you obey orders. Now
come and get ready for bed.”
During the first two days Glasson suffered
tortures. The doctor’s instructions were
very simple. The patient could drink as
much water as he pleased. But he was to
have 'absolutely nothing to eat. In the day-
time Glasson lay, warmly covered, on a
sunny verandah overlooking the bay. At
night he walked to his twin bed, and there
was snugly tucked in by Alice.
To his amazement, after the first two
agonising days were past, hunger died. He
simply did not desire food. After the fifth
day the fat began to fall away from him
as if it were butter beneath a summer sun.
Daily the doctor, a tall, thin young man
with twinkling grey eyes, examined him
thoroughly. At the end of the twelfth day
Dr. Barnier announced heartily:
“Old chap, you’re nearly well. About
another five or six days and you yvill be
cured.”
“Sure of that, Doc.?”
“Absolutely certain. The —er—growth
is subsiding with quite satisfying rapidity.”
Alice, standing on the other side of the
bed, smiled down at him cheerily,
“I feel as if I could fast for forty days,”
boasted Glasson.
“Oh no, you Avon’t,” answered Barnier.
“No fancy stunts. Just enough to make
you normal.”
At the end of the twentieth day Glasson,
feeble but clear-headed, was allowed to sip
a glass of warm milk,
_ “Gee,” he crowed between sips, “this
isn’t milk. This is the nectar of the gods.”
Within a week Glasson, anew man, was
up and about. Still on a very light diet,
lie weighed only twelve stone. As he put
it himself, he felt as if he were walking
on air. Dr. Barnier had assured him that
there was no trace of the cancer left, and
that as long as he kept to a reasonable
diet there would be no re-appearance of the
dreadful thing. By appointment Glasson
was in the doctor’s surgery on the night
after he had returned to business,
At his office he had been greeted with
squeals of amazement and admiration from
the stenographer.
“My, Mr. Glasson,” she had concluded,
“you look like a man in his twenties! And
to think that all the time you were suffer-
ing from cancer! My,, but you were brave
to fast for tAventy days!”
Glasson had clucked deprecatingly. In-
wardly he had glowed Avith joy.
In the surgery Glasson started to doff his
coat. The doctor put up a hand and
remarked:
“You needn’t take off your coat.”
“I thought you wanted to sound me and
all that?” Glasson asked, pausing,
“No. I want to have a little talk with
you. Sit down.”
Apprehensively, Ernest sank into a chair
facing Barnier.
“What is it, Doc.?”
“You never had cancer.”
“What?”
“You never had cancer. But you did have
a very high blood-pressure, and there were
distinct signs of atrophy of the bowels.”
Glowering, Glasson rose from his chair,
“You mean to say that it was all a put-up
job?”
“Yes. The end justified the means. I
took your wife into my confidence. You
had to be brought to your senses. You”
“Did I have cancer?”
“I have already told you—no.”
“And my wife kneAv that I had no
cancer?”
“She knew, but”
Glasson had already stalked to the door,
He turned and barked at Barnier.
X dam .me joke, eh. Now listen to
me - I m going to town, and I m going to
eat a large porter-house steak. To-morrow
morning my wife s going to make the girl
cook another porter-nouse steak for my
breakfast. And Im dam well going to eat
what I like wnenever I like. And, last of
Ml, whenever I want a dam’ doctor again,
which,, 1 doubt, it won’t be you! Good-
-111 Spt •
The door slammed.
Doctor Barnier sighed, turned to his desk,
opened Ins case-book, and, under the head-
mg Glasson, Ernest, wrote neatly at the
i°ot °f the page :
Memo. Fasting _ temporarily cures
chronic stenosis and high blood : pres_sure, but
effects no permanent change in either the
cerebrum or the cerebellum.”
Sonnet.
Sadly the hours are dulled to this duress
By sordid accidents of space and time,
Till sleep come softly with her peace sublim
To charm my eyes from trifled weariness.
Slowly the hours grow days. Weeks, months
progress
To wanly sorrowing years. Empires decay;
Men rise; men fall; men act the ambitious
play
Till death fall swift, sleep’s promises to
bless.
O Death, against your sure transcendent
peace,
We range our wild ambition—ever to rise—
An awful fear of thee when life shall cease
And all the allurements of a woman’s eyes.
But Love and Folly soon to thee succumb,
And Terror, touched by thee, is swiftly dumb.
N.S.W.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
Mind Flower.
When you consider that the sun will set
A thousand years from now, and throw
the same
illumined veil on earth, why should you fret
Making your garments from a little flame?
When you remember how the centuries
In April showers and turning of the leaf
Have passed, with butterflies upon the breeze,
You surely find futility in grief'
Why should you toil to draw your little
plan?
Or spill the life wine from so small a bowl?
Or prove the ape was father to the man?
Or sacrifice your body for a soul?
Because there is no consciousness so wish
To you and me as our desiring eyes,
Queensland.
LLYWRLYN LUCAS.


I
lIU
Ew
TRUCK
Model “Fourteen”
GROSS CAPACITY, 52CWT., INCLUDING
* +*>
■
BEAN COMPANY’S
TRUCK CHASSIS
SECRET TESTS IN
AUSTRALIA.
(“Pictorial” Special
Service.)
LONDON, Friday.
Mr. Noel Martin, man-
aging director of the
Bean Motor Co., announ-
ced at a luncheon the
details of a !fi-50cwt.
Empire model truck
chassis.
He revealed that the
company built eight
experimental chassis
quietly, and shipped
three to Australia, with
instructions that they be
broken up if work could
break them up.
They were most
severely tested, and ran
collectively 150,000
miles before they were
reported on.
Extract from the “Telegraph
Pictorial,” 7/9/’29.
After nearly three years’ experience
with Bean Trucks, Messrs. Anthony
Hordern & Sons, Ltd., have purchased
six of the new models, bringing their
fleet of Beans up to 33. This truck
is one of the six.
Chassis available for Immediate Delivery.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
163 William Street, Sydney.
BEAN CARS, LIMITED,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Mary the Maternal.
ė
BY IRENE WILLIAMSON.
MARY ANN CLARK sat on the door-
step of her home with her sister’s
baby in her arms. You had only to
look at Mary Ann, the baby and the unclean
step cheek-by-jowl with the pavement to
know her social status. A glance convinced
you that, like her social condition, Mary
Ann’s physical condition lacked stamina.
The baby was big, she was small. She
had to curve her body inwards and stretch
her arms outwards to cradle the child. She
had been in the same position for nearly an
hour and the pain in her back made her
feel sick, but her mute devotion never for a
moment gave place to something more intelli-
gent and more self-centred.
She was used to backaches and babies.
Hadn’t she come into the world first so that
she could nurse her brothers and sisters?
At least that was how her mother looked at
it—the mother who in the intervals between
child-bearing went out charing to supplement
het husband’s sporadic earnings. And be-
cause Mary Ann was “not quite right _in
the ’ead,” she accepted vicarious maternity
thankfully.
The child she was nursing had come along
when the last baby it was possible even for
Mrs. Clark to have had struggled out of
Mary Ann’s arms and turned its back on
her, as they all did in time. With inde-
pendence came knowledge—knowledge that
Mary Ann was different from them; in-
ferior. It was amazing how quick they were
to realise that and how slow they were to
realise the pain in her heart when she lost
them.
Her teachers called her dull, and Mrs.
Clark kept her away from school as much
as possible to take care of the children.
Besides, “learnin’ wasn’t no good to Mary
Ann.” But, in spite of dulness, Mary Ann
was more innately conscious than any of
her brothers and sisters that in the eyes of
the world the child in her arms had no right
to be there or anywhere. Estelle Eunice
(names became more ornate with the growth
of the family) was not married when little
Jackie came. She didn’t want him —no one
wanted him but Mary Ann. And though
he was big and heavy and made her back
ache more than it had ever ached before, it
was nothing to the heartache which in her
dull way she knew was coming.
Presently the child stirred, and she ceased
gazing across the street at nothing, and looked
into his face. Already it showed signs of
the vice of its father, Ted Read. It was
dirty, and distorted in readiness for the
howl with which little Jackie always parted
from sleep. But as Mary Ann looked at it
her eyes were, no longer dull. There was
something in them that more than atoned
for their lack of ordinary intelligence—
something allied to that, highest intelli-
gence, love.
Love tempered the pain of the blow deliv-
ered by a small, dirty fist on an eye that
was inflamed in preparation for one of the
sties which had eaten away nearly all the
lashes. But love increased the pain of
knowledge that Jackie was no longer willing
to be nursed unless sleep made him docile.
He was scarcely awake when he struggled
out of her arms to the dirty pavement. He
rarely slept in the day-time now —very soon
he wouldn’t sleep at all until he crawled into
bed at night, and already he did that “on
his own.” There was a hungry look in
Mary Ann’s face as she stared at him while
he clawed the slimy gutter with his toes.
That was the last time he consented to be
nursed, and she knew wliat it meant. Very
soon he would join the scorners, and she felt
afraid when she thought of her empty arms,
and she thought of them most of the time.
Daphne was married and had two babies,
but she lived too far away to appease Mary
Ann, who could only snatch a very little
comfort when Daphne brought her babies
along. She had married what Mrs. Clark
called well and did not want Mary Ann
hanging round her home.
So now that there were no more babies
to increase the curvature of her spine and
the pain in her back, she was afraid —afraid
of loneliness and of something else. Ted
Read had wanted her more than once. And
Estelle had a baby that way But deep
down in Mary Ann’s nature there was some-
thing that said “No!” and the week after
Jackie joined the scorners she struck Ted
Read across the face when he tempted her.
Because there was so little to do at home
now that the children were well on their
feet, Mrs. Clark bequeathed her charing to
Mary Ann. The bequest introduced the bene-
ficiary to what ordinary people called a lift-
man, hut Mary Ann called “a real gen’le-
man.” Touched ’is ’at w’en ’e said good-
mornin’, ’e did! She was not used to real
gentlemen. But she liked them.
The day lie carried her brooms in the lift
marked an epoch. Never before had anyone
thought of doing a thing like that for Mary
Ann And he did it so nice! No woman
Stepping from her Rolls-Royce ever felt
prouder than Mary Ann felt as Peter Scott
opened the door of the lift and handed out
her brooms. And the bed of it was that,
though this became a custom, she didn't get
used to it as some women get used to Rolls
R< Week after week the thrill endured, and
while the lift went up and down he talked to
her first about the weather and then about
himself. The day he told her that he was a
single man marked another epoch, and she
was glad that she had strufck Ted Read
across the face.
She began to put ribbons on her dress
and powder on her nose. Until now her
clothes had been as drab as her life had been
since Jackie gained wisdom. Her shiny
Hose used to be the brightest part of her,
but now cheap powder subdued it into some-
thing which Mary Ann believed was dis-
tantly kin to her sisters’ elegance.
Soon ribbons and powder had done then-
work and Peter Scott and Mary Ann Clark
were lawfully keeping company. Estelle
Eunice turned up her nose at Mary Ann’s
young man. Daphne and the others laughed
at him—simple he was; almost as simple as
Mary Ann. Still, she was lucky to get
even him. . , „
By the time they were married, Fetei
Scott had risen from liftman to caretaker.
The nuarters that went with the new job
were dingy and dilapidated, but Mary Ann
thought them palatial, and scrubbed and
polished until they looked almost bright.
Weren’t they just what she wanted? 1 here
was plenty of room in them for children
children who wouldn’t turn their backs on
her as the others had done!
"When finance recovered from expense mci-
dental even to the humblest wedding, she
bought a money-box—a capacious one that
stood at the end of the kitchen mantel-
piece and swallowed every penny she could
spare and some she could not spare, though
Peter never lacked. It was the children s
money-box. When they came they would
need things that couldn’t be bought with
Peter’s wages. And, of course, they must
have them. Yes, you had to get ready for
children.
A year passed, two years,_ and the money-
box grew heavier and heavier. At the end
of the third year there was a heaviness in i
Mary Ann’s heart, too—a heaviness that
had not been there even when little Jackie
grew wise. Peter never guessed that the full
money-box had a lot to do with the slow
draining away of the color that had come
into her face since he married her. But at
the end of another year he noticed that she
was always quiet, always tired. He said
she must go to the doctor —the doctor would
give her medicine to make her better.
She didn’t want to go to the doctor, but
before long she was an out-patient at a
public hospital. She made the other patients
feel superior; and because superiority rarely
came their way, they welcomed the queer
little woman whose name they soon got to
know. It was generally agreed that Mrs.
Scott was funny—funny in her dress, her
ways ; different. The little girl at whom she
always smiled wouldn’t smile back for a
long time because of that, difference. But
the little girl’s mother was an opportunist,
and after Mary Ann had overcome the child’s
shyness with sweets and other blandish-
ments, she became its nurse when Mrs. Mit-
cliel went into the surgery.
She told Peter about the child, and because
he was not altogether wise he wondered
why she always hurried off on hospital days.
He used to have to take her right to the
door and see that she went in. But now
she wouldn’t wait for him, she was in such a
hurry to get there.
As time went on he heard more about the
little girl whose mother sometimes smacked
her ’ard. Mrs. Mitchel had a baby in
her arms and four more children at home.
Mary Ann looked very wistful when she
spoKe of such wealth, and there were tears in
her eyes while she told Peter that sometimes
Mrs. Mitchel was that rough with the little
girl she made her cry.
One morning, when Mrs. Mitchel’s sense
of the glory of maternity was at its weak-
est, the child ran to Mary Ann for comfort.
While it sheltered in her arms,, Mrs. Mit-
chel’s turn came to go into the surgery. As
she reached the-. door she looked back at
Mary Ann and said:
“You can keep that brat if y’ like, noo-
sance that she is.”
No one but Mary Ann took any notice.
The lives of most of the patients who came to
the waiting-room had tampered with the glory
of maternity, and with every other kind of
glory. They were used to remarks like that.
Not one of them noticed that Mrs. Scott
was staring open-mouthed at the doorway
through which Mrs. Mitchel had passed, or
that her face went red, then white, then
red. Not one of them knew anything about
the storm that was raging in the heart and
mind of the patient whose dissimilarity made
them pity her. No one was concerned when
she suddenly hurried out into the street with
the child in her arms. She often took the little
girl into the street —traffic amused children.
But to-day Mhry Ann took no notice of
the traffic. With tire child held close against
her breast, she hurried down the street. The
miracle of what had happened made her
oblivious to everything else, and there was
something miraculous about her safe passage
across busy intersections.
When she reached home Peter was not
there. It was Thursday—he wouldn’t be
back till after dinner. It was only half-
past ten now.
Hurrying to the mantelpiece, she took
down the money-box. The child was ragged,
dirty; Peter mustn’t see her like that—he
mightn’t like her! Mary Ann trembled as
she opened the box, and then, putting the
money into her old black bag, she hurried
out into the street.
When Peter came home, she was coaxing
the last strand of the little girl’s hair into
a curl, for which other curls were sleekly
waiting. The child was transformed, and,
the curl accomplished, Mary Ann stood
back, face flushed, hands quivering, and
gazed triumphantly at the marvel. New
dress, new shoes, new socks —a new child,
surely! Her triumph almost equalled Peter’s
amazement. When at last he found 1 words,
they asked where the child had come from.
“Mrs. Mitchel, the lady wot got cross,
said she didn’t want ’er—she ’ad four more
at ’ome.”
Her voice was hoarse, and there was a
look in her eyes that made Peter feel uncom-
fortable.
He was puzzled, uncertain, a little guilty,
a little afraid. It didn’t seem quite right,
somehow.
But at last her assurances that the gift
was bona fidq won him over, for, as Daphne
and the others said, he was almost as simple
as Mary Ann.
In the afternoon they, went out to
buy a cot, sheets, blankets. The salesman
showed them some little eiderdown quilts
—just the right size. One of them
was blue, a lovely blue —like the sky.
Mary Ann’s eyes glistened vd ien she
looked at it. It would cost a lot* 1 of money
-—ever so much! But it was lovely—
(Continued on page 49.)


H*s Own Vault!
iN
A
Underinflation Caused
This Tyre to Wear Out
Be/ore Its Time
c s=/#s s y'*
Modern tyres are so well made
that, if kept properly inflated, they
give good service until their treads
are worn threadbare.
The greatest enemy to
Tyre life is underinflation
Eighty per cent of all tyre failures
have been traced to improper infla-
tion alone. Premature tread wear ...
fabric ruptures .. . rim cuts ... side-
wall breaks . . . typify the costly re-
sults. Thus the added mileage science
builds into tyres today is being largely
wasted. Tyre expense has been in-
creased far beyond actual heed.
Costly Tyre trouble
easily avoided
Have your car or tyre dealer tell
you the correct air pressure for your
tyres. Then buy a Schrader Tyre
Gauge, for balloon or high pressure
tyres, as you require. The Schrader
Gauge is sturdy, dependable, easy to
use, easy to read. Use it at least once
a week and before long trips to check
the actual air pressure in your tyres.
Always keep your Schrader Gauge
in your motor car.
Long life to your Tyres!
Now you can join the thousands
of experienced motorists who keep
their tyres correctly inflated, and get
every last mile of service from them.
k
Sold by
Accessory Dealers
everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 184 a
Tyre Valves :: Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
PfrM
fMi,
$
5*46
-&•
<e
W I'M
a
-^TZ^
4^5
%
Vs
a/v&
V !
7Rwi
How
You
Would
Laugh
—if a dairy farmer told you that because of a drop in the
price of butter fat, he intended to give his cows less feed,
and so reduce the “cost of production.” But would you
laugh if a fruit-grower said that due to market conditions,
or the ravages of some pest, he was going to leave Nitrogen
out of his fertiliser programme on the plea of expense.
Yet they’re parallel cases. To maintain an orchard or
a farm at its maximum of profit, regardless of the
state of the market, the soil must be fed properly. To
ignore Nitrogen is to underfeed the soil. The use of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
Australia’s Premier Nitrogenous Fertiliser, is the easiest
and most practical method of Nitrogen restoration.
Supplies of Sulphate of Ammonia can be had from all Fertiliser Manufacturers or
their Agents.
Literature from
THE AUSTRALIAN SULPHATE OF AMMONIA PROPAGANDA COMMITTEE
Melbourne Address
360 Collins Street.
Sydney Address:
Box 481 A.A. G.P.O.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
Model C.T., as illus-
trated. Suitable for
most American Cars.
In sealed
metal box.
li
in
m
A New Set of
LODGE
PLUGS
Is a wonderful
stimulus to vour
Engine.
Lodge Plugs can be bought from
leading accessory dealers, garages,
and stores.
LODGE PLUGS. LTD..
RUGBY. ENG


You can own a Car
while in England for
as little
as :
Under our “Buy Back”
Plan, we can sell you a
brand new British made
car for your own use,
while on holiday, for as
little as £4O, or even less
Let us explain.
We will sell you a car at its list price and we will then fix a
figure at which we will buy this same car back, two or three
months later. On some of the popular cars, with a good second-
hand value, our buy back price comes within £4O or £5O of
the new price of the car. Certainly there is no more satisfactory
or economical method of running a car while in England than on
Henlys’ “ Buy Back ” Plan. It is much cheaper than hiring and
infinitely more pleasant.
Illustrated Brochure obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
HENLYS
England’s Leading Motor Agents
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.I
and at Manchester , Leeds and Bristol.
a
ikACKNnRD’
POUNTfpNS
jfie Mcuk of t
Good Va£ut!
The ‘ Blackbird ’ Self-filler represents
the best value which money can offer
in low-priced fountain pens. It is
made for hard work and has a
reputation second only to the * Swan.’
Fitted with a I4ct. gold iridium-
pointed nib, strong vulcanite holder,
and reliable feed, this pen will
give years of faultless service.
For all Pens use ‘ Swan ’ Ink.
From
9/-
upwards
OF STATIONERS & JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents & Repair
Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Q (A.)
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than SO years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has heen proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
wonderful! In the end Peter carried it home,
though it could have been sent with the
other things. Even after paying for it,
there was some money left—more than
enough to buy things for tea.
Tea was just over, a tea that was a
feast —bread and butter with hundreds and
thousands, cakes, oranges, ice-cream, ban-
anas. Tired out with food and adoration,
the child wanted to go to sleep.
Then Mary Ann’s moment had come. At
last, at last, she was going to hush a child
of her own—hold it for a long time —not
put it down when she was told. For this
child was hers— hers —to do what she liked
with; to be loved; to love. She told herself
so, inarticulately, fiercely.
The fingers that undid the fastenings of
the new clothes trembled, with adoration.
The lips that murmured endearments
trembled, too. The new blankets and the
wonderful blue quilt were tremblingly turned
back ready for the child when she had gone
to sleep. But she had to be hushed first
—hushed for a long time.
Mary Ann was hushing ecstatically, when
she heard somebody knock at the back door.
Peter rose clumsily to answer the knock,
but a crescendoed “Hush” from the next
room made him tiptoe towards the door.
A policeman was outside and he wanted
to see Mrs. Scott.
When Peter went into the next room
and explained, the color that had been in
Miary Ann’s cheeks ever since she hurried
from the waiting-room ebbed suddenly.
Swift memories came of what visits from
policemen had meant at the old home.
Policemen always used to bring bits of
paper with writing on them that made Mum
cry. Afterwards more of the furniture went.
Policemen never came unless you were
going to lose something.
Turning quickly, she put the child into
the cot, and covered it with the quilt that
had been the crowning glory of a glorious
day—covered it until only the end of a
curl showed on the pillow.
Fear stiffened her hands, face, body, and
made her feel dull, so dull. But she pulled
the quilt over that straying curl. Some-
how the celestial glory seemed as though it
might protect the child from what was
threatening out there in the kitchen. Then
she went to the door.
Standing with a hand grasping either
side as though to guard the sanctuary
beyond, she stood staring at the constable.
“Mrs. Scott?” he asked.
Her lips were too stiff to answer, and
the white blankness of her face made the
constable speak more softly.
“Mrs. Scott, your husband tells me you’ve
got a child in there. How did you come by
her?”
She stared.
Peter answered for her, stumblingly, -his
eyes on her face.
The policeman said they must come along
to the watch-house, and Peter dressed the
child, while Mary Ann stood staring at the
empty cot. He had to find her hat, her
coat, to dress her almost as he had dressed
the child, she looked “that strange.”
Next morning he thought she looked
stranger still as she stood in the dock while
the Crown charged her with having unlaw-
fully taken away a child under the age of
14 years, with intent to deprive the parents
of possession of such child. She didn t
know what they were talking about. _ She
didn’t seem to hear the formal question as
to guilty. While Mrs. Mitchel gave voluble
evidence against her, she stared across the
court at a little girl in a new red dress
whose curls had merged into a tousle of hair.
When she was asked if she had anything
to say, her white lips moved, but only those
who were very near heard her defence:
“She said I could ’ave ’er —said she ’ad
four more at ’ome.”
When at last the Crown had absolved
her of criminal intent and she stood out
in the street with Peter, she didn’t seem
to notice anything until Mrs. Mitchel came
along with the child. Even then she had
no eyes for the dramatic gesture of owner-
ship‘that Mrs. MStchel made as she passed.
But her eyes followed a little flash of red
until distance claimed it. Then she went
home with Peter.
He got the dinner and ate all that was
eaten. After he had finished washing up,
he followed her into the next room.
She was standing in the middle of the
floor*, staring at the cot with the wonderful
blue quilt thrown back. He stared at her
for a minute, and went into the kitchen.
He did wish she wouldn’t look like that!
A week later he took the cotl to pieces
while she was out. Over and over again
he had come in and found her staring at
it. All the rest of the place was tidy as
usual, but the beautiful new quilt Was
thrown back as he had thrown it on the
night when all the color had gone from
her face—gone for ever, it seemed. He
hadn’t liked to touch the cot while sho was
there, but he thought that if it was taken
away some of the color might come back
to her face, and her eyes might lose the
look that wouldn’t let him relish his meals.
Afterwards he said to Mrs. Clark:
“W’en she come ’ome, she didn’t seem to
notice the cot ’ad gone. She would ’ave
said if she ’ad.”
But not even Peter knew the strange
heart of Mary Ann.
Told by the Trooper.
OSMAR E. WHITE
ě
e
r begin with, we never caught Brandon.
Either he was too slippery or we were
barking up the wrong tree. Or maybe
he was just lucky. I will leave you. to judge.
His was a remarkable case which provided
one of the very few failures in the, records
of the North Australian Mounted Police.
I will tell yo"u the part that Sergeant Cooper
and I played in it, beginning at the begin-
ning.
He and I were assigned the job of bringing
Brandon in, just after we had returned
to Darwin from a 400-milc leper-chase. The
leper, poor beggar, pegged out when we were
halfway through the return journey; they
do things like that. To tell you the truth,
the precise manner of his end did not worry
me much, green though I was, firstly, I
suppose, because he was a nigger, and,
secondly, he was a damned sight better off
in nigger-H'eaven than he would have been
in the Darwin lazaret. With Brandon, some-
how, it was different. He was a white, you
see, and, I honestly believe, had far more to
fear from the Law than from Justice.
You who read the newspapers will remem-
ber him as the well-known surgeon who fol-
lowed his wife and the other man, a Malayan
rubber-planter, as far as Darwin; caught
them there and thrashed him so thoroughly
that his malarial heart gave out. Brandon
was gone—God knows where —before the
possibility that a be-flannelled tourist and
distinguished doctor could commit a felony
had entered the head of anybody in authority.
The woman, who probably realised that
she had given over a real man at bore-
dom’s whim, became so conveniently upset
that she was unable to give us a description
of him, and the others disagreed flagrantly
about certain essentials. All we had to
work on, therefore, was the information that
someone like him had jumped a cattle-train
bound for Pine Creek.
We cast about for a week or so and came
upon the tracks of a stranger at Katherine
Waters who had come in five or six days
ahead of us, bought an outfit, with six
months’ grub, and made off into Arnhem
Land, which lies to the north and east. The
station people told us that he was a pros-
pector. In the Territory even that scanty
information was enough to work on, for
strangers are as rare as cool beer.
If, as Cooper remarked, the stranger was
a newchum —and we had every reason to
believe that he was —he was up against a
tough proposition. To us, as we set off after
him with our meagre train of pack-horses,
it seemed merely a matter of time. Either
the Territory would get him —or we would.
And I rather fancied that the odds were on
the former.
Yet, as the days went on, Billy the
tracker, the sergeant and I came upon
ample evidence that, whoever he might be,
the man ahead knew well enough how to
look after himself. His choice of camping-
places, near water, yet far enough away from
the ravening hordes of black mosquitoes;
his small, compact cooking-fires, which
were soon stamped out after use; the little
improvised camp-gadgets abandoned by the
trail—these and other things stamped him as
a man who knew as well as we did the
arid, lonely places and how to make life
bearable in them.
Towards the middle of the first week out
it began to dawn on us that perhaps the
man ahead wasn’t the one we were looking-
for, after all. I had never heard of a doctor
who could choose and follow the right
ridges among a thousand monotonously simi-
lar ridges of tangled, scorched mulga, and
could find waterholes in the endless netted
miles of dry creek-beds by aid of the trail
signs of thirsty animals alone.
North and further north he trekked on,
day after blistering day, with unswerving-
surety.
Though hardened by the last four months
of. heavy work over Murchison way, we
gained on him but slowly, for he travelled
incredibly fast. Yet, hour after hour, Billy
picked up signs which were fresher along
the never-ending miles of broken, stony
ground.
You say it was a gamble? Of course; we
Territory coppers gamble all the time —the
C. 1.8. and the Records Office are a mighty
long way off.
So it happened that, when we were ten
days out, the tracks were not twelve hours
old. It was mid-January and most of the
waterholes had dried up. That was a pretty
serious business for us: two of the
horses died of the constant toil, heat and
flies, which pestered us from dawn to sun-
down, and we were forced to abandon more
than half of our gear. Snowdrop Creek —
queer irony of a name —was no more than
a parched, blue ravine, glaring back its
defiant brightness at the heat quivering sky.
Once, topping a small divide, we looked down
on a small plain whose rocky surface shim-
mered in the haze of heat. Through the
glasses we saw a lonely figure trudging
ahead of four laboring mules. Then the
glare swallowed him up and a mirage came.
In one place along the deep-scored banks
, of the creek is a billabong, half hidden in
a patch of scorched scrub. There we halted,
for Billy thought it possible that we had
overrun our quarry. It was the most miser-
able camping place that a man could find in
all the Territory, but we had to play the
hunting game. Brandon—or any other man
within a day’s journey—would have to come
in to fill his water-bags. It was the only
permanent waterhole marked on the section
of the map.
All day we waited there, squatted miser-
ably in the acrid smoke of a small dung-
smudge in hopeless endeavor to escape the
singing fog of mosquitoes and small black
flies that came up from the water.
Billy sat stoically, gazing at the darken-
ing horizon when it was near nightfall. His
shiny black back was dulled under a blanket
of insect pests, which he ignored. .1 wished
that I had some of his blackfellow philo-
sophy—or hide.
“God!” grunted Cooper, “that man must
be as tough as a coolie to keep the pace
with a full kit up. I’ll lay ten to one he
knows the country as well as I do or better.”
I told him that I had known for over a
week now that we were trailing some infernal
bushwhacker bitten by the gold-bug. This
man a Sydney doctor? Huh!
“You close your trap,” the sergeant
snapped irritably. “I’m going to have a
look at this fellow, anyhow. The man’s
a stranger, and a stranger’s worth looking
over. You” —he grinned maliciously at me—
“are going to sleep down by the reeds to see
(Continued on next page.)


*€very picture ,
Veils a Story' -!_i -j-LJj
L_L.-Ll_
n
L I
1
%s\ife!==
Makes Rapid
Headway
Add This Fact to Your Store
of Knowledge.
Kidney disease often advances so rapidly that many
a person is firmly in its grasp before aware of its
progress. Prompt attention should be given to the
slightest symptom of kidney disorder. If there is a dull pain in the back, headache, dizzy spells, or a
tired, worn-out feeling, or if the kidney secretions are irregular and attended by pain, procure a good
kidney remedy at once. Sydney people recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Read these
statements: —
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. Chas. Clift, 59 Kellick street, Waterloo, .Sydney,
says: “In common with many others I have nothing but
good to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Before I
took this remedy I was suffering a lot with my back, the
pain at times being almost unbearable. I could not stoop or
move freeely and always felt tired and had no energy. The
secretions were affected, being thick and cloudy with a red
sediment, and I had dropsical swellings on my legs and
ankles. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were one day
brought under my notice, so I sent for a bottle. They
gave me relief almost at once, so I persevered with the
remedy until I was quite cured, using in all four bottles.”
Fourteen years later Mrs. Clift says: “I have had no
reason to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. They cured me over 14 years ago, and I am still
well. I always keep them in the house and take a dose
now and then, just as a preventive against any return of
my old complaint.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. William Goodger,;lsl Pitt Street, Redfern, Sydney,
says: “About four years ago I began to suffer terribly
from disordered kidneys. The first warning I had of the
trouble was a pain across the small of my back, which
rapidly got worse and worse until I could hardly bear it.
My limbs began to swell and were soon so large that I
could not put my clothes on. The kidney secretions were
in a very unhealthy state, being thick and cloudy with
a red sediment. I also suffered a good deal from rheuma-
tism. I was really very ill and confined to my bed for
months, and I shall never forget what I went through. I
tried several kidney medicines but nothing gave me any
relief. One day I came across an advertisement for Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and after reading it decided to try
this remedy. They did me good almost at once, and four
bottles completely cured me. All my friends marvel at my
wonderful cure, and I am never tired of praising Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills for the good they have done me.
I feel splendid now and can get about as well as ever I
did.”
e
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
è
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
that he doesn’t slip through in the night,
You needn’t think you’re particularly hard
done by either, my lad. Nobody’s going to
sleep by the fire to-night. It was hereabouts
that that swine Jimmy Byas cleaned up a
camp of lubras and kids when he was out
after buffalo. The poor devils of tribes-
men haven’t forgotten. Neither have I.
Did you see that fellow shake his spear at
us from the top of the hillock over there?
I’ll get a few sticks of ‘soup’ out and plug
’em, just in case. And I’d take a few
sticks with me, if I were you.”
Cooper’s home-made bombs of plugged
gelignite inspired little confidence, somehow,
and I fell into a resentful silence.
When darkness came it came suddenly,
as it does in the tropics. Cooper slid his
.44 into a more convenient position and I
ganced at him inquiringly. He grinned at
* . . „ , ~ ... t(r . ~
Listen, he said quietly. Down there.
I guess you won t have to sleep on your
own, after all. .
I waited. A minute passed—two—and a
faint coo-ee came up from the water. A
little later there was the sound of crackling
bushes.
“He’s one of three things,” Cooper spoke
softly, squatted springily on his haunches—
“a damn fool, not the man, or bluffing.”
I nodded as I caught the first glimpse of
the quarry coming into the red circle of the
firelight—a huge man, raw-boned, with the
long careless swing of the bush in his
stride “Hell!” murmured Cooper—almost
inaudible it was, though I knew the depth
of feeling there was in that little word.
I understood. Long odds it meant a two-
hundred mile stroll over drought-stricken
spinifex and mulga for nothing.
Two pairs of hostile eyes combed the new-
comer from the crown of his freckled, bald
head to his ungainly rawhide boots.
“Night, Sergeant!” he said, grinning plea-
santly at Cooper’s tattered stripes; and to
me, in my old dungaree shirt, “Night, mate.
Mind if I camps hereabouts? Them boogers
acrost the other side of the ridge is kickin’
up a devil darnse or somethin’. Company’s
healthiest to-night ”
Cooper nodded nonchalantly as if he had
seen him every day in the week for years
and pushed over the damper. “Drovin’?”
he asked facetiously. “Where you bound?”
a, j < lC < •
The bushwhacker guffawed. Sure thing
I m drovin. Out ere. Yairs. Great place
fer a mob. He fell on his tucker wolfishly,
chuckling to himself between mouthfuls.
On a prospect, he gulped. Up A°iPi ,
Annie Gwydir—if I git there. Old bloke
what died give me the dinkum oil. Any’ow,
1 always reckoned there was colors up that
way- He turned to me, frankly, friendly.
“What you been doin’? Sarge takin you
* n , ~ , _ , . ,
I m not, snapped Cooper. We re look-
ing for someone. ’
“Yairs? Both cops. I see.” He wagged
his head comprehendingly. “An’ my name’s
Blady O’Malley. Ain’t done nothin’ as I
knows of. ’Cept drunk. I’m just over from
Normanton way.”
I could see from Cooper’s ramrod neck
that he was not satisfied even yet. I
watched the other man’s eyes; bitter grim
they were, with a reddish tinge in the fire-
light.
For the best part of an hour we swapped
bush gags, and never once was there word
or motion which might indicate that he
was anything other than he represented him-
self to be. Either the man was genuine or
the coolest liar and the best actor I have
ever set eyes on.
All the while Cooper was more and more
restless, scratching at his stubbled nails and
scraping his boots, taut with nervous tension.
Then suddenly I caught his wink and sat
U P- _ , , „ , , , ,
. I sa y, Brandon! he called sharply and
. , . „ „ . mi,„„
O Malley looked . lound. The he ti c
to I ml uinnsly ' „
Jffiat abouL settffid Tt? y & '
“Never mind.” said Cooper wearily.
An hour i a ter Cooper was busy with his
ammun ition dump, for Billy reported that
he had again seen natives whose behavior
was suspicious. Cooper was biting on
detonators and cutting fuse in short lengths,
O’Malley sat quietly by, watching him with
critical eyes.
“Good wrinkle that,” he said. “Put the
wind .behind them cows, my oath ! Rummy
I never thought of it.” Cooper nodded and
clamped another cap between his teeth,
“Many a good man’s had his head blowcd
off that way, though,” continued O’Malley
conversationally. “These days them caps
ain’t such a rough job as they used to
be, and the unions make the mineowners
supply clippers. Yet I never heard of a
dinkum miner who used ’em—not if he had
a sound tooth in his head.”
“This is the last, anyway,’ said Cooper,
grinning pleasantly, for he _ was a philo-
sophical old devil. “Watch it.
I was looking at the fire at the time and
thinking of the long trip back, so that I
have no clear impression of what happened,
It sounded something like the crack of a
toy pistol—not much louder, anyway and
Cooper toppled forward into the fire, scat-
tering a little cloud of sparks and embers,
lu the confusion of the next thirty inter-
minabie seconds only one thing remains
c^e ar OMalleys cursing, grim aid e
cl 'ate: 1 can t tell you.
r We Pulled Cooper out of the ashes, still
alive, and laid him on his old blanket, tace
q U i ver ing an( j oozing, bright drips all the
way f rom temple to chin. His jaws had
b een smas hed to a pulp of shredded flesh and
S pii n tered bone. We said nothing—only
stared at him blankly—squatting on either
id of th twitching body,
O’Malley was looking past me out into
thc night His reddy eyes stared out of a
c h a ik-white face, which moved now and then
mogt s t ra ngely.
“Look,” he said quietly—“he’s not dead!”
i felt a shiver run up and down my spine
as j watched O’Malley. Some dreadful
fight in his brain showed in his face, his
e yes—something that I had never seen before
in a man.
Cooper began to whimper and roll over;
then to grope with blackened fingers, seek-
ing to crawl back into the heart of the fire,
“Get me the ambulance kit from the
pack,” I muttered. “Maybe there’s some dope
in it. I don’t know. I never looked. It’ll
quiet him, if there is.”
When I looked up I saw O Malley with
his hands in a billy of near-scalding tea,
working feverishly at his nails.
I stared at him for a minute, open-
mouthed, uncertain whether it was he or
I who had gone mad. He stood up.
“I’ll be glad if you’ll get me that stuff,
trooper. Leave him to me. And wash your
hands!” .
I asked no questions.
B, was not until he had commenced the
work of building a mans face out of a bloody
pulp with lancet, a pocket-knife and a bent,
pewter teaspoon that I saw his hands.
* * * *
If it has anything to do with the story,
you may as well know that Cooper pulled
through. We managed. to get him to a
station within the fortnight, never certain
from hour to hour whether lie would live or
die. O’Malley silent and with drawn face,
carried through his terrific labor of saving
this man as though all his heart and soul
were in it. I was a child beside him, doing
his bidding. ■
When we had been in at the station for
two days, and Cooper was comfortably fixed,
O’Malley came to me and asked when we
were leaving. .
“Where for?” Tasked, astonished.
“Darwin,” he answered simply.
“God bless me,'man,” I replied,' I m not
going to Darwin. I’m down here after a
chap called Brandon. Sergeant Ashburton
and I pull-out the day. after to-morrow for
Katherine to look for him. ’ .
Aor a he seemed , to sag m the
middle, then grinned in sick surprise.
He held out his hand. Good-bye, trooper,
uncert aimy.
So long, mate, I said. And good luck.
Old Ships.
When day is fading along the strait
That southward falls from my landward
gate,
And seawinds drown in a dreaming dusk
The shore winds’ scent of wattle and musk,
My thoughts float back to the long ago.
To the men and days that we used to know r ,
When “taking their time” by Sydney shores
I learned the ways of the stevedores.
I heard them singing their chanties to
The harsh response of a strident screw;.
I studied the shipping and earned my pay
Of three and fourpence, twelve hours a day ;
I counted men and their hours of sweat;
I noted down, I am noting yet,
The figures entered by Stress and Strife
In red-lined ledgers of human life.
The world was wider when to and fro
I tramped and tallied for D. and Co.
And under the glare of office lights
“Made up the wages” on Friday nights.
Far wider the seas, ■ for young was steam,
The tall ships berthed by the old Tank
Stream,
And mast and cordage one visioned still
Around the harbor from Flagstaff Hill.
Mid storied ships of that bygone' day
No fairer craft at her moorings lay.
I mind her well with her graceful trim,
Her rounded yards and her topmasts slim,
Build of a sea yacht, painted dark,
A dainty fabric, the Cutty Sark;
Fast as a dolphin, winged like a bird
Many a tale have the sea-folk heard
Of the wondrous speed, of the logs she
made
In record runs on the sou’-east trade;
When Moore was skipper, Millet a lad ;
Of all the worries old Woodget had
When well ahead and holding her pace,
She slipped her rudder and lost the race,
But left her backers in hopeful glance
Of further trial, and win perchance.
When ’prentice Gilbert that time from sea
Came home in his proud Thermopylae,
The Cutty’s friends in their anger made
Indecent fun* of his gold and braid.
The fight began at the Bonded Store
And ended somewhere down by the Shore,
Leaving all argument still in doubt,
Saving the problem of who should shout!
But when the Sark with her. royals set —
And it blowing a gale—came off Fasnett,
And when she homed on a later day,
The crowing was all the other way,
Her rival beaten, five days to spare!
They hurled their hats for joy in the air,
And the drinks flowed on Miller’s
Point.
Thermopylae's nose was out of joint.
Bold daring days, with the clippers fine
Rolling and racing down to the line,
Their t’gallants set to a lively breeze,
Coming for cargoes of China teas ;
Or, mains’ls drawing and tops’ls full,
Racing to London with tallow and wool,
Humming along to the north or south;
Roaring along, a bone in the mouth.
Down to the wash-streaks, deep in the
trough,
Piling on canvas, easing it off,
Weather-wise captains calling commands,
Urging and coaxing their hard-driven hands,
Proud of their houses, careful and keen,
Dunbar and Shepherd, Wigram. Jardine,
Cprry, of Belfast, Devitt and Moore—
Hard-doers all of them, thrifty and dour.
No more she comes to the southern seas—
They sold the Sark to the Portuguese !
’Tis ever the way with ships and men:
You’ve lived your day and they scrap you
then....
The seas still roll to the east and west.
And Woodget’s gone to his port of rest.
And ’prentice Gilbert with sandy hair,
He may be living—l know not where.
But sweet are our yarns of years gone past.
I sometimes drink at the First and Last,
With some old crony I chance to find,
A glass or two to those years behind ;
To a world yet wide when tall ships still
Were counted in scores from Flagstaff Hill,
And waiting among them still might be
The Cutty Sark and Thermopylae.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BEADY.


1
illßgMjgr /IranM®
Ss2sN*k \ 1*1? v
k "•(;
W'
ku fk /■*•■> dw-P
:
<;J|
r ST
: £g
llllc mJ!®! 1 ?, I§3
£*
.si®
■■
w *
BSaw» ,i'
-"sL^
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
£nsure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Qu««ii8laiul Agent*—IHiLMiss et CliUKCH, Urisbaue.
N.5S. Ollice—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
__ ..
Victorian Office—‘'Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
Queensland’s Largest
Home-Read Daily
Newspaper
Xshe
“BRISBANE COURIER”
Unequalled in circulation the “Brisbane Courier” gives to
advertisers the most effective coverage in City, Suburbs and
Country.
Tested campaigns have proved the “Courier” to yield 75 per
cent, of returns.
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies
combined.
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
“THE AGE”
Established 185
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in ail States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Offices 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Cbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and dll
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3f>s Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
}T is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
piiOFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The _ Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
JT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
1 and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square.
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office :
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
EYES BRIOHT
Wim
m
m.
■mm
m
m
xx
■IIIIIIM
S' V-
m
nVoo
M
3sss&
m
PIUS
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
Bright eyes -cleat cycs-reved
cleansed system working in hat*
mony-a system from which real health
is obtained. Let the whites lose
their brilliance, let them become dim.
dull and discoloured, and it tells o
Constipation-elimination is irregular.
incomplete, or both. Biliousness
Headaches, Flatulence are other
symptoms.
The remedy is simple —Beecham’s
Pills. This famous medicine does
its work gently and thoroughly—
is not habit forming. Beecham’s at
night will soon put you ri
the best of health lious-
r ° se< Constipation, Sick Head* h** Liver
rotn Con*«P pi attt lencc, l K
~
-onstipatton, Ta tf*
BRITANNIA’S LOVE STORY
The girl who could
have been a queen.
A FEATURE IN THIS WEEK’S ISSUE OF
vvc*
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRRO
FINE SEWING BY MACHINE.
WASTING GOOD CARDS.
The Science of Calling at Bridge.
CARE OF THE SCALP.
FEED BABY YOURSELF.
By an Everyday Mother.
VALUABLE FREE PATTERN.
A Semi-evening Frock.
Start the New Year well
3d. READ “THE MIRROR” 3d.
*
1
\o
S e


DEWAR'S
.
4
&
l
'
\
SWAP DEE
§0 urn
Ipelthl
r
# \
FINE
near
s
EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
InPGROL!NSTITOT6
5 ?b)cst6no dues
JohnDewaroSons L d
Distillers PERTHlScotlandU LONDON
*>«OOuCE OF SCOTLANO
""»» moo
...... «*«■>
!il
2J
SCOTCH WHISKY SUPREME
V ■
