

Q
$5
a
%
K-*f
1 1 il< I W t •
o
KING GEORGE IV
A POPULAR "SCOTCH" SELECTION
Produced by
The Distillers Agency lib
EDINBURGH
954.
is®
Kv.
&
m
m
m
: 11 •• . /‘Mi
The Bulletin
ffeut Cbsu&lsiafitb tfii* u*eeA*
Vol. 52.—N0. 2658.
Wednesday, January 21, 1931*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"THE New Library Catalogue is now ready,
1 and will be forwarded, with full terms
and particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
*ffiB
ilU*
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation , your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
5.8.314
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
è
THE BREAKFAST
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce stim-
ulates the appetite
for breakfast.
Just a few drops
with the eggs and
bacon ah ! what
a delightful zest.”
•'/////S//S/////S"fS///S/f//f/////S///&S////
:\i/'
er
(//ffgj
r
<y HAIR
ff *«°
here's
■umv; -
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPOttvris CMEXICAN)
WcUrud Sticutt
♦-REMOVES <TH£ GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
ŕ
ŗ
Ills
ř
THE BATTERY YOU GAN ALWAYS RELY ON
L
F
E
Type 6GHX9.
p
'• 1 P 'ey
o
w
E
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 15 6
6 VOLT 15 PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Buy a “Dagenite” Battery—Save Sales Tax.
■
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
London and Sydney,
Amalgamating Peto & Radford and
Hart Accumulator Co., Ltd.
Representative - - - JOHN ARNOLD
386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl,
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Wondrous Purilia
A marvel about Elmer Rice’s A Voyage
to Purilia, (Gollancz; Roycroft; 7s. 6rl. net)
is that it was not taken before. Purilia is
that pink-cloud planet where all trains travel
round curves; where fat ladies fall on golf
balls and flatten ’em; where all negro men
are porters named George and all negro
women are middle-aged guardians of the
offspring of the rich; where all mothers have
grey hair and wear -white shawls and are
worshipped; where the postal system is so
wretched that all important letters go
astray with calamitous results; where con-
viction for a crime is proof not of guilt
but of innocence; where a keg of gunpowder
is always open on the footpath so that some
ass can drop a lighted cigarette into it
and be blown into the modiste’s where the
elderly lady is half undressed, and crash past
her into the cask of molasses on the floor
below; where biology does not enter into
marriage; and where, to help the adventur-
ous narrator of the story of this voyage,
there is always an unseen Presence ready to
oblige with such introductions as “Mrs.
Malone, Pansy’s mother, old before her time
with work and worry”; or, “Jim Slocum, the
hired man, never ate peas for fear of cutting
his mouth.” In short, that strange planet
created by the makers of the Hollywooden
film. It is fiction with a kick in it; full o’
fun as the donkey qf “The Demi-Gods.”
And nothing in it is more engaging than
the manner in ..which all that passes for
tragedy on the movie becomes comedy, and
all that passes for comedy becomes tragic.
More Comedy,
But of a different brand, retrieves Edith
Wharton’s latest, Certain People (Apple-
ton; 7s. 6d. net), half a dozen short stories
as formal as a gathering of Galsworthian
maiden aunts. The comedy is of a kind
broadly describable as womanish, and its
best example is in the story of the evolu-
tion of Aunt Audred from, at the outbreak
of war, a dowdy, man-forgotten state to
command in a woman’s corps and pros-
pective marriage to the Bishop of the Mac-
aroon Islands. “Atrophy” also is rich in the
divine quality. It is merely the story of
the polite snubbing of one woman by an-
other, but it has a wondrous frosty nip in
it. Rice’s comedy is exhilarating, but slap-
stick. There is nothing slapstick about
Edith Wharton. She is a serious writer
with as-- strong control of her feelings as
of her craft. “Too much control,” prompts
the Devil, looking maliciously in through
the window. Yet, while it permits the tell-
ing of stories like those mentioned, and
like “A Bottle of Perrier,” it should stand
pardoned.
W ornan, with Spanner
Anyway, Old Horny, you should find
nothing to complain of on the score of
order in The Collected Poems of Edith
Sitwell (Duckworth; Roycroft, 95.). Appa-
Miss Sitwell can’t help throwing
a spanner into the works on every occasion,
and between whiles. On the one page—and
this instance serves for pretty well every
page—such a couplet as
Within the bear-dark forests, far beyond
This hopeless hunting, or Time’s sleepy bond,
jostles it with this collection of cracked
cogs
I hunted with the country gentlemen
Who, seeing Psyche fly, thought her a hen
She has such deliciously absurd titles as
“Ass-face,” “Trio for Two Cats and a Trom-
bone” and “The Hambone and the Heart,”
and such poetry as:—
The gardener was old as tongues of nightingales
That in the wide leaves tell a thousand Grecian tales
And sleep in golden nets of summer light.
In a preface Miss Sitwell makes the inter-
esting point that “women poets are faced
with even more difficulties than are men
poets, since technique is very largely a mat-
ter of physique.” She must have her share.
Vigor is her leading attribute. And, begging
the spanner, she has a superb lyric gift.
Also, like Christina Rossetti, whom she
admires, she is an innovator—in the
spirit; not in any fantastic splitting of
words. She does not trouble to brand her
work modem in that way, nor in any such
child-easy trick as the dropping of initial
capitals. She writes in her time and lets
it go at that.
A Gallery of Males
Apart from a late chapter on the leg-up
the war gave to women, Philip Gibbs’s
Since Then (Heinemann; 15s. net) is
mainly about, males, creditable and other-
wis.e. Briefly, it is
a first-rate journal-
istic survey of con-
temporary and
near-contemporary
events most likely
to last as history.
The publisher’s blurb says that “he has
schemes for our Empire prosperity.” If he
has, they have escaped one reader. There is
a suggestion that England, shrinking from
Dominion contact, may eventually become
as comparatively significant as Denmark,
but there is nothing in the way of helpful
suggestion that a pin can be got through.
The essential figures are such as Bela, Kun,
the Russian emissary who mutilated Hun-
gary ; General Wrangel (“Although more
merciful than other generals, Wrangel him-
self lined up 350 officers of the Red Army
whom he had taken prisoners and had them
shot”); Hugo Stinnes, ex-pitboy and coal-
heaver, who in post-war Germany employed
an army of 250,000 workers and was able to
offer to reconstruct Russia, rebuild its rail-
ways, supply railway engines at the rate of
8000 a year and trucks at the rate of 60,000;
Stresemann (very fond of beer; in fact,
Gibbs holds the flabbergasting belief that it
was beer that killed him). Mussolini, Lloyd
George, Mustapha Kemal—all the other
leaders walk the page. The setting is mostly
a place of violence and murder—the Russian
Terror, the stabbing of defenceless Turk
porters by the Greeks and the terrible
vengeance in the burning of Smyrna, the
revolts in Germany, the massacre of Jews
in Palestine. And yet he thinks we have
not done so badly; indeed, he stands amazed
at the rapidity with which peace came to
Europe, and more amazed at the survival
of civilisation against the forces that threat-
ened and all but wrecked it in the years
just after the war, when “Europe nearly
went under in a general dissolution of law
and order.” Peace, he believes, is now
assured for a fair spell of human progress.
Periwinkles’ Teeth
The fact—if it happens to be a fact—
that a periwinkle has a tongue twice as
long as its body, with 5000 teeth on it,
is nothing to some of the serviceable know-
ledge that can be gleaned from A Year on
the Great Barrier Reef, by C. M. Yonge
(Putnam; 21s. net). The book is of the
large order (it has been carefully estimated
that it would take two small boys some
time to lift it), but that is only to accom-
modate its dozens of splendid photographs
and several maps, to say nothing of the nice
large print in which Dr. Yonge lucidlv tells
his story of the important Reef Expedition
which, fostered in England by Matthew
Nathan on behalf of Queensland, set out
with the author in charge in 1927 and in-
vestigated on the spot from July 16, 1928,
till July 26, 1929. “This is a book about
the sea and coral teefs”; but there is space
in it for human incidentals. One cook to
the party, for instance, had a matrimonial
encumbrance named Stanley (wife’s name
Teresa—“alas for the forgotten names of
their savage ancestors!”) whose leg troubled
him sometimes because he had stopped a
bullet in a Ned Kelly encounter. Dr.
Longe, a good, if solid, descriptive writer,
has assistance of a scene that sets imagina-
tion on fire—in Australia, at least. Color
and romance are native to it, and he uses
both in his picture, which is broader and
more complete than any other of the Reef
I have come across.
Ananias, and Others
Dr. Yonge mentions ruefully that the fish-
ing was not as good as had been expected.
He might have found a reasonable substi-
tute in An Angler’s Anthology, edited by
A. B. Austin (Country Life; 21s. net), a
collection of passages “memorable in the
prose and poetry of angling from the ‘Boke
of St. Albans’ to the present day.” The
enthusiasms range from “It’s a maist inno-
cent, poetical, moral and religious amuse-
ment” to “A worm at one end and a fool
at the other.” Two dozen full pages from
Norman Wilkinson dry points complete the
fine catch. Success, the latest novel from
the author of "Jew Suss,” is of the very
long order, with modern German political
and social setting. It will be given a fur-
ther hearing. Kipling’s Thy Servant a Dog
(Macmillan; ss. net) is a pleasurable col-
lection of civilised-dog stories told by
Boots, who, although a son of Kildonan
Brogue, Champion Reserve, speaks a kind
of unreserved babu. There are tip-top illus-
trations, and plenty of ’em, by G. L. Stampa.
RED PAGE
A Fine Air Book
On the whole, the literature of the air
is dismal stuff. If the distinguished aviators
write their chronicles themselves they be-
come self-consciously literary as soon as
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


r
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—an assurance of accuracy.
Unquestionably—it*s the
Sale of the Season
Genuine
m
A
I ... . i
Suits to-measure from
Anthony Horderns
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Set a New Standard of Value
having purchased the entire stock, of a
York Street Woollen Merchant
Here is an offer that will be eagerly welcomed these times—but it must be availed of at once.
It ushers in a startlingly new era of value—for even the lowest priced of these materials are reliable quality
All-Wool Worsteds and Tweeds—-while the other qualities include some of the finest English
Suitings. As the new duties make these fine imported fabrics prohibitive in price it is most unlikely that
you will ever have such an opportunity again.
There is a big range of extremely smart and new patterns in almost every conceivable shade. The suits
are made to your own measure by our skilled staff—which means the best of everything. Come in at once,
or write for range of patterns and simple self-measurement form. You can save more than £2 on a suit in
some instances.
Prices 84/- 105/- 135/- 170/-
Sale Prices 67/6 84/- 105/- 129/6
{All Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George Street.)
f 3 7^6
’Phone: M 2401
Day and night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Woman Be Beautiful, 2/10 ; Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 2/11 ; Cocktails and How to Mix Them,
3/10; Safe Marriage, by Ettie A. Rout, 6/5; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 2/11; Wise
Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/10; The Wrinkle Book, by Elinor Glyn, 4/-; Aust. Nuts
and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4 ; Lawn Tennis, by Suzanne Lenglen, 4/-; Foulsham’s
Letter Writer, 3/3; The Letter Writer’s Handbook, 5/10; Cocktails, 2/9; Recitations for Boys
and Girls, by Alice Hasluck, 5/6 ; More Recitations for Boys and Girls, by Alice Hasluck, 5/6 ;
Elocution and Gesture, by Alice Hasluck, 3/11; Recitations for Ladies, by Alice Hasluck, 5/6;
Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for Boys and Girls, 3/4; Ten Best Card Games for Two, by
B. Dalton, M.A., 1/3; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A., 2/10; Official Rules of Card
Games, “Hoyle Up-to-date,” 2/-; Chambers’s Etymological Dictionary, 3/4; Popular Card Games
and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/3 ; 50 Best Conjuring Tricks, by Charles Crayford, 1/3;
The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/3 ; Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4 ; Mystery
of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; The Handyman, Home Jobs and Repairs, 1/-; Minor Ills and
Ailments and How to Treat Them, 1/-; Draughts and Dominoes, 1/-; Chess, 1/-; Poultry Keeping
for Profit and Pleasure, 1/-; Billiards, 1/-; Life After Death, 2/6; Practical Hypnotism, 3/3;
Practical Palmistry (illustrated), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand Reading
Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/-; Chess and Draughts and How to Play, by A. Belasco, 1/3 ;
12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/3 ; Best 100 Puzzles Solved and Answered, by
Tom King, 1/3 ; Good Stories and Jokes, by Charles Roberts, 1/3 ; Sex and Disease, by Storer, 8/1;
Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; How Shall I Word It? 2/8; The
New Ford, by E. T. Brown, 4/4 ; All About Photography, by P. R. Salmon, F.R.P.S., 4/1; “The
Bulletin” Reciter, 2/2; First Aid to the Injured, 2/3; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8;
Hands, and How to Read Them, 2/9; How to Read the Hand, by Kanna, 4/-; The Correct Guide
to Letter Writing, 5/8 ; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/6 ; Plumbing, Soldering and Braziqg
for Amateurs, 1/6; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/6; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/6;
Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; Stories from the Operas, by Gladys Davidson, 6/2;
Dictionary of Modern English Usage, by H. Fowler, 11/4; Doctor at Home and Nurse’s Guide,
by Geo. Black, 8/3; The Health Book, by R. S. Copeland, M.D., 14/11; Contraception, by
Marie C. Stopes, 22/7; Mayes Aust. Builders and Contractors Price Book (Illustrated), 15/10;
Bookstall Gem Dictionary, 2/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Farmers’ Handbook, sth Edition,
13/4; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/5; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 10/8;
Pruning, 3/10; Boot Mending for the Amateur, by S. H. Lane, 1/3; Painting, Ironwork, Steel
and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/3; Oxford School Atlas for Aust. and New Zealand, 4/-; The
Candy Cook Book, by Alice Bradley, 9/3; More About How to Draw in Pen and Ink, by 11.
Furniss, 6/11; Consult Me, 4/4; Every Woman’s Enquire AVithin, 1/7; Horse Buying and
Management, 2/8; Zangig’s New Complete Palmistry, 2/4; The Collie, 2/10; Every Man llis
Own Mechanic, 8/2; Good Manners, by Lady Kitty Vincent, 8/2; Enquire Within, 4/5; Wonder
Book of Knowledge, 12/5 ; AVhat to Draw and How to Draw It. 4/2 ; Poultry Farming in N.S.W.,
by James Hadlington, 4/10 ; Owner Driver’s Handbook, by Edward T. Brown, 5/11; Painting and
Decorating, by Audel, 13/10; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/2; Polishes and Stains for
Woods, 2/7; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 8/2; Labor Saving Hints and Ideas for the
Home, 3/2 ; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; How to Drive a Gar, 4/1;
Aust. Enquire Within, 3/2; Novelty Evenings, 2/5; Manners and Rules of Good Society, 5/8;
Home Made Toys for Girls and Boys, 3/6; Boys’ Book of Carpentry and Electricity, 3/6 ; Modern
Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/11; Enduring Passion,
by Marie Stopes, 6/7 ; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 6/7 ; Sex and the Young, by Marie
Stopes, 4/2; Parenthood —A Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 3/4; The Sex Factor in
Marriage, by Helena AVright, 5/7 ; “Bulletin” Book of Humorous Verse, 1/3.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPT.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY,
99
it
MC«
SHIRTS
FI3XMAS & SOFT COLLARS
Clean, Cool and Comfortable.
Anight spent in “ luvisca ”
Pyjamas is a night of sustained
rest. The texture is pleasingly
smooth, and each garment is tailored
for wear as well as for comfort.
“ LUVISCA ” Shirts (and soft collars)
keep their smartness and ease,
and all colours are fast to washing.
Sold by Leading Stores.
ŕ
ŗ
If any difficulty in uotaining,
please write
THOROLD, HARPER & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
308 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE ;
181 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
courtauld
’Arrl_£.
f
- -^T--
SI
»?53S
i
/
X
2
7*
3
t^NV
111
57
zV^
*3?
VO*
} i
a
Vi
ES»
vv A
gIL / JT o © O , IV
o q ,
wßHmrgi a o © ©■ oml
HVTfo o oo o c TI
/o © o o o onL
0/0 O o o O 0 0,1
fO<3§) 0/ o © O 0 ©
[0 O g O o O O £> O 6
* 0 <#o O o o O O o ©
0 ®/>0 0 O o 0 o 0
# o o 0 Of o 0 © o
#!oVo\* VA
&<> 0%%° ©% 0 ®>
?I1
n
3«D
f^n
Produced
by the
makers of
“Tricoline”
—the equal
to silk.
Pretty
Children
and pretty garments go well
together. “80-Peep” Print for
Children’s Wear is both pretty
and practical. Children may play
and tumble in it with impunity,
and mothers need never worry,
because “80-Peep” Print is made
to stand hard wear. And never
mind the washing, because the
original charm will not disappear
in soap and water, no matter how
many times you wash it.
“80-PEEP” PRINT is 36 inches
wide, and is obtainable in many
styles, designs and colorings.
H
99
OOf
"Looks tfood-
isgood."
for Childrens Wear.
GWcmcti
JcUxric
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write:—
Mr. H. G. Randell, The Grace Building, York St., Sydney
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AERTEX IS HEALTHIEST
ř
Quality 931 MEN’S
VESTS with button front \
and half sleeves. Size .
32m. to 44m. chest.
MEN'S TRUNK !
DRAWERS, size 321'n. to I
44-in. waist.
Aertex, the original cellular underwear,
has been world-famous for over 40
years.
The wonderful weave affords a natural
protection against all changes of
temperature, and allows the body to
breathe. Each garment is finely fash-
ioned and cut sufficiently full for
freedom.
Aertex is durable, comfortable and easy
to wash, and there are sizes and styles
to meet every requirement. For your
health’s sake wear Aertex—made in
Australia by Australians. Doctors
recommend it.
There is also a complete range of
AERTEX for Women and Children.
AERTEX DE LUXE
QUALITY 1601.
The latest development of this
famous fabric is made of the finest
Egyptian cotton, in a close, firm
weave, with a superfine softness of
texture. Aertex de Luxe is designed
to meet the demands of the most
exacting taste —it is the aristocrat
of all underwear materials.
ERIE*
See this Labai
on all Garments
AERTEX
Obtainable from all Mercers, Drapers and Outfitters.
In case of difficulty, apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO., LTD.,
Wenley House, 313-315 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Cl.
(Wholesale only.)
Telegraphic Address: “Cellular, Melbourne.”
Al 6


r
they make their final landing, drop the joy-
stick and sit down to their typewriters.
Of these was Ross Smith. Sometimes they
are ghosted by journalists who have never
flown anything larger than a kite, and then
the results are generally worse. The views
from the empyrean are described conven-
tionally in the verbal stock-in-trade of every
earth-bound novelist. The reflections on the
countries alighted on for sleep and refresh-
ments are culled from hotel guidebooks.
A brilliant exception is Solo to Sydney, by
F. C. Chichester (Hamilton; 7s. 6d. net).
Chichester is a young Englishman who
turned Maorilander at 18, and suddenly
burned to add to a career already full
enough of adventure the feat of giving him-
self six months to get to England, learn
to fly and bring a Gypsy Moth to
Sydney. His description of the flight
is delightful reading. It bubbles with
humor, makes interesting even the tech-
nical aspects of air navigation, and, more-
over, contains descriptive writing that might
well be the envy of any professional scrib-
bler. Present writer has often gazed at
tropical heavens from the decks of steamers
and the backs of coral reefs, but here is a
picture of them that could have been
painted only by an airman. The Moth is
flying between Singapore and Batavia:—
As far as the air was concerned, it was like wending
one’s way through a gigantic forest of colossal squat
mushrooms, dirty white in hue, the tops of the mush-
rooms being represented by the flat-based clouds and
the stalks—as wide as they were high—by the rain
pouring from the middle of the clouds. Here and
there the sun found its way between the mushrooms,
brightening the heavy green of the foliage in
circular or oblong patches. While traversing these
patches one glimpsed the blue sky as if seen through
a chimney, of which the walls, 7000 feet high, were
composed of blowsy cloud. When under the clouds
their presence weighed on one heavily, oppressing one.
These monsoonal monsters confronted the
airman for hundreds of miles, and his
account of how he doubled and turned to
avoid the menace of their hundreds of tons
of moisture is so vivid that the reader gets'
the impression of a bird or butterfly fight-
ing its way through a fantastic jungle. The
enormous strain affected his nerves, and his
short sleeps at the painfully inadequate
landing-grounds were invariably visited by
a nightmare in which he saw himself flying
when his vision went completely and he
waited in total darkness for the inevitable
crash. “Usually I awoke to find myself
clawing at the window or a wall, trying to
escape.”
The description of the flight from Darwin
to Brisbane is even better, and the account
of a forced landing at a deserted bore
in the middle of the .desert with only two
gallons in the tank is a fine bit of natural
drama.
One of the most refreshing features of the
book is the writer’s lack of pretence. A
recent syndicated account of an England-
Australia flight contained profound observa-
vations about the manners, customs, politics,
flora and fauna of the countries flown over,
obviously copied from the year-books.
Chichester is satisfied with what he sees with
his own eyes; consequently his remarks
are often as penetrating as they are amus-
ing. In the Dutch East Indies he encoun-
tered the inevitable “Dutch wife,” redis-
covered by every tourist, and he remarks on
the “long bolster, the use of which I am
not quite certain about, but I imagine you
drape one arm over it.”
M.G.S.
The Cant of Primitivism
“F.S.” says (R.P. 7/l/’3l) in'a review of
my novel “Only the Morning”:—
The hero has learnt to wear a white tie with tails,
and a black tie with a dinner coat (or is it the
other way about?), and that you never drink port
with fish (or is it with meat?), and so he can
afford to feel tolerant towards people Who Don’t
Know. But is it a very .interesting achievement
after all ? For himself, the present writer sneakingly
feels a greater admiration for the naturalness and
unsOphistication of the American barbarian.
Let us, as the lawyers say in libel cases,
look for the innuendo. Here it is:—
I, “F. 5.,” am not as some Australians are. I
don’t care how I dress on ceremonial occasions, and
X despise those who bother about such things. White
tie, black tie, or no tie, it’s all one to me. I’m
the same about eating and drinking. When told
that I mustn’t drink port with this or champagne
with that, I smile, knowing that rules of the sort
are devised by snobs to enable them to crow over
their neighbors Who Don’t Know. Give me an
unsophisticated American barbarian before one who
takes these absurdities seriously.
Bunkum—also Pharisaism, which is worse 1
Does “F.S.” go to dress-circles on theatrical
first-nights in old flannels? Would he turn
up at a Town Hall lunch in the clothes he
had worn at a dance the night before? Or
go shopping in pyjamas? Of course he
wouldn’t. Not that dressing conventionally
gives him a feeling of superiority, but from
a decent reluctance to be conspicuous and
a source of embarrassment to his relations
and friends. There are posturers in every
community with the courage of “F.S.’s” im-
plied sartorial convictions; a couple of
them—l7-year-old girMV-got into the news
the other day by parading Bathurst
(N.S.W.) in beach shorts, gut the normal
citizen prefers to dress like (he people he is
with, whether it is a question of white ties
at dinner parties or white trousers at
tennis parties, and so achieve the comfort-
able knowledge that he isn’t creating a
sensation. And that is all there is to it.
The rules that govern eating and drinking
don’t derive from a desire to impose infer-
iority complexes, either. There is only one
class that can afford to ignore them; the
small one which consists of people without
palates and with the digestions of ostriches.
“F.S.” may be an exceptionally simple
eater and a teetotaller. But, even so, he is
bound to have his conventions like the rest
of us. For instance, if a barbarian arrived
from the U.S.A.—one so completely un-
sophisticated that he had never had a meal
of more than one dish—and suggested eating
a four-course dinner backwards, “F.S.
would probably be just as staggered as a
Frenchman who was asked to drink vintage
claret with bread and treacle. Experience
has proved that certain kinds of food and
drink are palatable to certain races in con-
junction, and vice versa, and are best
absorbed in a fixed order and at certain
hours. What would the average Australian
say if offered limejuice with his morning
bacon-and-eggs? Or asked to change his
dinner hour to midnight?
As for drinking port with meat, or whisky
with oysters, or what is known as “mixing
drinks”—well, let “F.S.” try defying the
rules in these matters for a while, and see
what happens to him. “He jests at scars
that never felt a wound.” The inhibitions
against such practices have no more to do
with snobbery than the provisions of a
Poisons Act. Human beings learn, and
observe, them as soon as they begin to com-
plicate their lives on the dietary side, or
they die in short order of one of the liver
diseases. -
This question is of considerable sociologi-
cal importance. The habit of criticising
the beliefs and ways of others without
knowledge—even commoner here than in
insular England—is the very trouble that
the hero of my book suffered from in youth
but got rid of as he grew older. It is
a form of inverted snobbery which accounts
for about 75 per cent, of the misunder-
standings that crop up between Australians
and visitors from overseas, and it is also
responsible for a lot of disastrous class and
sectarian hatred.
JOHN DALLEY.
A Satchel of Books
German Lyric Poetry, by Norman Macleod
(Hogarth; 3s. 6d. net). Tracing the main
line of development in German poetry, with
examples and translations. Up to the stand-
ard of the Hogarth Lectures, of which it is
No. 13.
lan Hamilton’s Gallipoli Diary, 1915, first
published in two vols. in 1920, has been
shortened and issued in one vol. at 7s. 6d.
net by Edward Arnold and Co. The diary
—one of the best of war books —has not been
materially shortened; chiefly it is the super-
fluous that has gone. Remains a steadily-
written account, with bursts of enthusiasm
that will be especially relished by those who
knew the scene or would have liked to know
it. Such flashes of sarcasm as: “June Bth,
Imhros. Wonderful! The Cabinet ‘are deter-
mined to support’ us!” give the human touch.
The Poets’ Corner (Chatto and Windus;
2s. 6d.). An anthology of “the hundred most
popular English poems.” Some may doubt
whether some of the inclusions are either
English or poetry, but there will be no ques-
tion as to their popularity. Anyway, “in
no case has the question of merit been
allowed to influence the selector’s choice.” The
anthology business is getting a bit overdone.
Intrigue Island , by Arthur Mills (Collins),
throws some side-lights on life in the Gov-
ernment House set at Hong Kong, where
vice-regalities are required to deal with
sterner problems than Girl Guide rallies and
charity meetings. A Chinese millionaire who
is on his Ex.’s list of dinner guests makes
repeated attempts on the life of a handsome
young Secret Service officer. Fortunately for
Ulick Vyse, Ming Cha, the millionaire’s
daughter, falls in love with him. Every
time her parent thinks out a new way of
dispatching him Ming issues a warning, and
a new scheme has to be devised. Ulick’s
great, though strictly honorable, love for the
Governor’s wife complicates matters; but
the ending is happy for almost everybody
barring the anti-British plotters and poor
Ming. A brightly written thriller with
plenty of local color.
New Zealand Birds (Fine Arts, N.Z.
Ltd.), by W. R. B. Oliver, of the Dominion
Museum, is frankly a work for ornitholo-
gists. It marshals facts in laconic style, is
well illustrated, and puts the coping-stone on
the work commenced by Bullcr half a cen-
tury ago and carried on by hundreds of bird-
lovers since. Maorilanders are, naturally,
very proud of their country, and it will add
to their pride to know that there are five
distinct families of the wingless birds popu-
larly known as moas, and that these and
their little brothers the kiwis can be divided
into 24 distinct varieties. The funny little
penguins that haunt the southern islands
and beaches, half-bird, half-seal and neatly
garbed in a ludicrous resemblance to a civil-
ised male’s evening dress, also boast five
families, and 12 varieties are listed. If you
ask a Maorilander why his country has so
many wingless birds he will tell you that in
the course of time all the birds there will
be in the same condition —there’s no need
to fly from the finest country under Heaven.
The little godwits, who annually migrate
from their northern summer homes in the
Arctic, have chosen Maoriland as their
breeding ground. They arrive in hundreds
and depart in thousands. The reason for
their departure has puzzled every Maoriland
zoologist. Seriously speaking, however, Mr.
Oliver’s work is worthy of a place in every
library in the world. It is authoritative,
comprehensive, logical in arrangement, and
efficiently indexed, and the dimensions of
each variety of bird are catalogued in milli-
metres. Even a layman wouldn’t have much
difficulty in identifying any one of the 300
feathered creatures described after consult-
ing Mr. Oliver’s charts and specifications.
The Old Bovs’ Union of King’s, Parra-
matta, is looking for a school song of four
verses, or three verses with a refrain. Prize
£10; closing date March 31.
The Australian Literary Society, a Vic.
concern, has presented Henry Handel Rich-
ardson with its gold medal for 1929, on the
ground that “Ultima Thule” was the best
novel of the year. High Commissioner
Ryrie handed over the gaud in London.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice fexaept of a hostile character) will _ be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
ana addi'ess must appear on, the MS . No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
ana no MS . will be returned), unless stamps accompany.
F. 0.5.: Afraid it would be merely a red
herring at the moment D.P.: De Presh G.G.:
Don’t fancy that sample, but suspect you might
do better... .D.T.0.: A trifle academic for this
market O.O.: Too funny to be bloodcurdling;
too bloodcurdling to be funny.... Sen: That lofty
subject was treated better by “Bellerive”....
T. 5.8.: “The Two Men” has a rather weary theme.
... - A. 11.: Marketable stuff, but not here....
G.W.R.S.: Rocklets and droplets, and what n0t....
Max: Just one, though all have their points:—
There are some young women
That are very straight laced
And a kiss from a stranger
Would be right out of place
They are very particular
And modest in show
Not that I condemn them
I believe in a fair go.
... .J.L.O’D.: Address a letter C/o The Bulletin
to the one you think might help you, and it will
be forwarded C.P.: Not attracted by the dis-
order. .. .H.G.W.: A poem should get the reader
somewhere; give some satisfaction. Yours merely
creates the impression that you are groping....
Olive: The singsong treatment beats it....M.G.:
No taste for the kind of thing that must be pre-
faced with “apologies” N.V.5.8.: Nothing for
this market in that batch; the work lacks feeling.
A.J.B.: Might make a par. out of it
W.H.8.: Workmanship isn’t the best Spindrift:
Sorry to hear you have the “wander thirst.” It
has been the ruination of many good poets
W.D.W.: Sympathise with your feelings, anyway.
....Helen Emily: That isn’t the way the Religious
Editor spelt it....N.P.: Miles too long for its
interest.... J.L.: Did you call it “Tennis” to
make it more difficult ?.. . .E.P.O’C.: To get in,
a parody has to be so good that a company of
Diggers couldn’t keep it out W.A.H.: The
pioneer tribute business is a bit overdone V. J.:
Of course that fits yours, too J.W.L.P.: “The
Lunatic’s Song” fails to win the price of a nip
of lunatic soup. .. .G.L.L.: Blunt, when delicacy is
essential 1.M.E.: Pretty—that’s all S.M.: All
right as an epitaph F.W.: Verses which you call,
with an egotism not unusual in poets, “the ravings
oi an idiot mind” have sundry flashes of sanity.
Try some more, but for Heaven’s sake pinch a pen
somewhere Telopea: Have read much worse in
the same vein. It reads just a shade too bumpy.
.1..G.M.: Sorry; but the answer’s n0....A.T.:
Has really good moments Bellerive: They’re off!:
MOTOR-BIKE RACE.
Around and around at a terrific pace,
A thrilling event is a motor-bike race.
Viewed by thousands of peering eyes
Daredevils speed for a tempting prize.
Around and around at a terrific pace,
A thrilling event is a motor-bike race.
(.Next week: “Recollections of Professor Miller.”)
H.V.B.: You’re mixing cause and effect. It
was the borrowing madness which created the boom
—in motor-cars and picture “palaces” as well as
other things J.S.M.: You want constructive
criticism. Well, when a man has been living
beyond his means, the best constructive criticism
anyone can offer is that he should (1) reduce his
expenditure, and (2) work harder and earn more.
The rule applies to a country, too. Elaborate schemes
for dodging the inevitable are mere politicians’
tricks.... B. Enry: The out-of-luck prospector in
four lines:—■
His feet were sore and tired was he in body, and
his soul
Was heavy, for Dame Fortune ceased to smile;
But he plugged along in patience to the miner’s
cherished goal,
A show he’d sell for thousands and so finish
weary toil.
But should it be pronounced “smoile” or “tile”?
E.Ii.: Too sugary. .. .W.C.T.: Philosophic
fiddler said nothing new....F.5.: Masked marauder
a dull creature who mixed his metaphors 8.A.;
Began with a misquotation and ended in a fog
M.D.: A task beyond you; try something more
simple... .D.C.: Abandoned it when we reached the
fifth broken heart A. J.W.: Merely a squalid night-
out. .. .F.E.M.: Gave heroine a sniff of smelling
salts before sending her home H.J.D.: No place
here for writers who go to mental hospitals for
comic characters 8.0. P.: Creaks every few lines.
. ...M.L.M.: From what Wild West U.S.A. yarn
did you lift that horsebreaker ?... .A.L.S.: Have
met those Jews before... .G.W.: You’re more inte-
rested in the tree than in the persons underneath it.
M.R.: Our war debt to Britain was partly in-
curred at the start of the war, before Britain
had borrowed anything from U.S.A. The balance
was mostly for maintenance of various troops. It
is therefore not true that Britain borrowed money
from U.S.A. at 3 p.c. to lend to Australia at
5 p.c. And, anyway, Australia’s entire war debt
to Britain is 82 millions, whereas Australia’s non-
war debt overseas is 528 millions.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.M.C.: Might do if better drawn... .8.A.: You’re
coming on—slowly D.S.: Just thrown together.
... .W.K.: Thought we had heard the last of that
joke 20 years ag0....C.C.: You get lost in a maze
of lines... .T.T.: Crude... .A.D.: No use sending
in stuff like that N.C.: “How far is it from
being good enough?” What’s the distance from
Sydney to Wyndham? R.L.N.: Stiff and scratchy.
. ...G.M.E.: Good in its stolid way, but gags are
behind the times R.M.: Don’t like your line....
J.J.: You have a lot to learn... .N.P.A.: What is
the object on the left—a taxi-driver or a futuristic
lamp-post?... .S.C.W.: Immature; lessons should
help considerably F.G.: Terrible J.M.: “Four
drawings enclosed”—and returned W. 8.: The
fishmonger’s customer needs to think up a few fresh
jokes... .G.8.L.: Shorten the legs and lengthen the
arms, and he’ll look something like a bandmaster.
W.J.: Would rather forget the lady scooped
up by the cowcatcher S.W.T.: Being slack will
get you nowhere... .8.R.: The wrong shop for
illegible pencil scratches T. J.: Heard four of
those jokes over the radio last week, so the other
two are suspect W.R.: Nothing to be proud
about... .F.M.C.: You didn’t tell us Sarah had
measles and Dave a deformed left 1eg.... K.N.: You
forgot to send stamps with the absent-minded pro-
fessor, so he went into the basket.


r
ŕ
■ ">
, -i '
I
/ ’i
■
:»wa»
■
#F
3H|
I
i m
*
it
m
V
■
Hi
r
..
■;<
Iki
“n t
St .'« /'
\ /■ / r ;
1
i:
f v;
, / ’
&!■**
! -,t
2


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2658.
January 21, 1931.
THE BUSTED UMBRELLA.
“Although France has been practising inflation, she confesses that she has now half a million unemployed, with the number rapidly increasing.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: W, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IV/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 72 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7 s. ■ .
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 Bis.',
C months. Us. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji.
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 5 -
THE RED PAGE —HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS -
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. • • "
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . • . • • 7
EDITORIALS 8 ’ 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL . . • ■ • • "
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) •. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . • • • n > 72
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. •• ■ • 1“
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14 > 78
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 77
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 11
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) ■ • • • 1°
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings)
MAN ON THE LAND 24 ’
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT • • • • 28
SHADOW SHOWS 27
New Serial—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole •• 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) .. • • * • 30 > 37
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. 32, 34
SERIAL, “BREAK O’ DAY”—
By John Crisp Al
COMPLETE STORY—
“IMPULSE,” by Patricia O’Rane • • .. 3»
VERSE —By Will Lawson, D. P. McGuire,
Kathleen Dalziel . . • • • • 37, 38
IS THERE A WAY OUT?
We have wasted six months or more.
Before the Prime Minister left for Europe
we were well on the way to rehabilitation.
Progress would have been slow, but it
would have been sure. Sir Otto Niemeyer
told us no more than we knew; neverthe-
less his telling of it was important, because
it represented the requirements of London
financiers, and at that time nobody could
have given us more valuable help than
they. Then, unfortunately, in the absence
of Mr Scullin and without effective leader-
ship, the Wild Men of the party were heard
from. They did what any group of very
noisy men could do; they shattered con-
fidence in Australia. At the moment
when it was most necessary that we should
be trusted abroad, they denounced every
orthodox process of rehabilitation, and
declared that whoever else might suffer the
working man of Australia must not. As
Parliamentary representatives of the work-
ing man they might have been applauded
if they had put forward any scheme by
which Australia could recover its pros-
perity without inflicting hardship upon the
wage-earners, and without being dishonest
to others. The Bulletin does not know
one citizen who would not have joined them
in such a scheme. But none was forth-
coming.
The first essential was to arrange matters
so that the. period of deflation would not
press unduly upon us. We had been living
in a fool’s paradise, and our folly had
grown with the years. Only once since
1920 had our exports paid for our imports;
and they should have paid for our imports
and our interest bill as well. Year by year
we thus lived far beyond our means; in
four years out of the seven between 1921
and 1929 we increased our overseas debt by
an average of 45 millions annually. That
vast sum of unearned capital, pouring into
this country in the shape of goods,
demoralised the community. Tens of thou-
sands of men were taken away from pro-
ductive occupations and were provided with
jobs on public loan works, thousands more
in operating those works after construction
and other thousands in ministering to the
needs of the rest. Had there been no
crash in world prices for our products, the
sudden stoppage of these unearned millions
would have thrown Australia into confusion.
Accompanied by that crash, it threw our
industry and finance into chaos.
Time to readjust ourselves to the new
conditions was absolutely essential. Aus-
tralia is not like an old country with a vast
accumulation of capital and a large quan-
tity of outside investments. Even from
this handful of people in Australia, Britain
draws upwards of 35 millions a year in
interest and charges, and many millions
more from its exports of manufactures and
its shipping services. When the bottom
dropped out of the markets for rvool, wheat
and metals, our affairs were thrown into a
disorder which Britain, with all its unem-
ployed, can hardly conceive. Moreover,
Britain has a large field of taxation which-
can. be tapped without seriously interfering
with the nation’s industries. Australia has
none. Every atom of direct taxation im-
posed in Australia is a burden on industry
—as the history of N. S. Wales at this
crisis is clearly showing. Thus, every
effort to relieve unemployment througn
further taxation is adding to the numbers
requiring relief.
We should have had assistance througn
this period of deflation, as it is called, and
we certainly would have got it if it had
not been for the Wild Men of the Laboi
party. We were told pointedly how we
could get it. But first we had to win and
hold the confidence of the financiers of the
world; and we deliberately destroyed that
confidence and are still destroying it. And
as it w'as destroyed abroad, so it decayed
at home. Nobody is putting money into
those new industries which ought to be
growing up under the new highly protective
tariff and employing labor; on the contrary,
everybody who can get a few pounds out
of the country is scheming to do it. And
the more the Wild Men of the party talk
of inflation, the worse these adverse condi-
tions will grow.
The inflationists offer a policy to carry us
through this period of readjustment, even
though it is one of flagrant dishonesty.
They propose, in short, to ease things down
by robbing everybody who has made any
provision for the future —through savings
bank or other deposits, investments in public
securities or mortgages, the purchase of
life and other insurance policies or in a
hundred other ways—and making payments
correspondingly easy for all who are in debt.
It is for those who oppose that policy, who
want this country to retain its reputation
for honesty, who dread the industrial and
commercial chaos which inflation always
brings in its train—it is for those to say how
they propose to cany the country through
this period of readjustment; of deflation,
as it is called.
This is work that Mr. Scullin ought to
have done in Britain; and the undertaking
of it was the only thing vyhich would have
justified his departure. Sir Otto Niemeyer
could merely suggest things. “You must do
so-and-so,” he said; but he had no authority
to continue—“ And if you do it we will see
you through your troubles.” Only the
British Government can say that now. The
British Government can borrow hundreds
of millions without effort. Capital for such
investments is as plentiful and cheap as it
is scarce and dear for industrial risks. The
only shadow of an excuse that any honest
man has for listening to the plans of the
inflationists is that the latter seem to realise
that we must be helped through this
period. And that is true; we must be
helped, unless we are to suffer more than
it is fair to ask of any people. If the
British Government would tell us that it
would advance us, say, 60 millions, payable
by lessening instalments over three years,
and on condition that we balanced our
budgets before June, 1933, the bottom
would be knocked out of the campaign of
the inflationists.
If the Scullin Government will not put
up such a proposition to the British Gov-
ernment, there is no reason why the board
of the Commonwealth Bank should not do
so, either directly or through the Bank of
England It has quite enough at stake.
It is fighting with its back to the wall
against inflation, and the chances are that it
may have either to yield ground or to leave
the field altogether. In such circumstances
something like desperate measures are
justified. But it would be infinitely better
for the negotiations to go through the
Commonwealth Government, which would
have some authority for saying that anv
conditions imposed—as to balancing
budgets, for example—would be observed.
MR. SCULLIN’S NO-POLICY SPEECH.
Mr. Scullin’s talk at Ashfield last Thurs-
day was a policy-speech without a policy.
Fifteen months this Government has been
in office; and all that its leader can say
now is “Give us a few weeks more and we
will tell you what we propose to do.”
The Government was further ahead six
months ago. It did have something very
like a policy then. It was resolved—or
said it was resolved—by hard economy and
any other measures that might be necessary
to balance its own budget; and every other
Australian Government undertook to bal-
ance its budget. Mr. Scullin says that un-
expected difficulties have got in the way.
No doubt they have; but they have been
wholly within Mr. Scullin’s own Cabinet.
Outside there have been none that could
not have been foreseen. It is true that
the prices of our staples have fallen. But
that was foreseen as inevitable: and, any-
way, the fall was very well on its way in
August last. What was not foreseen was
the bumper harvest and the good season
generally—helps which no Government can
expect in more than one year in six.
No, the whole fault lies within the
Cabinet and the party; and Mr. Scullin
shows no disposition to deal with either of
them. And that is all the more deplorable
because it is clear that, in the main, he
knows what is the matter. He knows that
our great lack is confidence. Further, no-
body knows better than he what destroyed
that confidence: at any rate, what de-
troyed the budding regrowth of confidence.
It was his colleagues Anstey and . Beasley
in particular, and the Left Wing of his party
in general. These men stand for inflation. Mr
Scullin tested his audience at Ashfield on
that point, and the result should have en-
couraged him to take his courage in his
hands. But he is not built in that fashion.
So old Mr. Anstey and young Mr. Beasley
must apparently remain—Mr. Beasley to
make such speeches as that which he vol-
leyed at this very “policy-speech” meeting :
“I agree with honoring our obligations; but
I warn you that I have obligations in more
ways than one.” . .
What Mr. Scullin fears is a split in the
Labor party. There is nothing sacred about
the Labor or any other party. It is merely
a means to an end; and it is time this
professed horror of a split in it was picked
up and examined. The dread of a split
has been used again and again by cunning
wirepullers to fasten upon the party things
of which the majority disapproves; and it
is being used that way now. What are
these men of the Left Wing doing but advo-
cating something which the leader of the
party, the deputy-leader of the party and
the leaders of the party in every State
except, perhaps, one, declare will be disas-
trous not only to the country in general,
but to the workers in particular? If a
split in the party would be so terrible a
thing, why do they not accept the verdict
of the majority? Could there, for instance,
be a more impudent challenge flung in the
face of a leader than Mr. Beasley’s speech
at the meeting at which his Prime Minister
told his tale?
Mr. Scullin complains that the press has
offered no constructive criticism. It is
not true. This paper, at any rate, has
repeatedly put forward, as the first essential,
the recovery of confidence. Mr. Scullin
agrees with that; But he takes no plunge
to rescue it; he stands shivering on the
brink, while colleagues and Left Wingers
pelt the poor drowning object. Either their
place is outside the party or his is. A
party which can shelter both those who be-
lieve that a certain policy will ruin the
country and those who believe it will save
the country is no longer a party.
No party can be greater than the country;
and if the party must be preserved though
the country is ruined in the process, then it
is time its members faced the situation and
decided each for himself where he stands.
It is the situation which faces Mr. Scullin
at this moment, no less than it faces Messrs.
Anstey and Beasley.
WE MUST PRODUCE MORE.
When a badly-fitting saddle has given old
Carbine a sore back, it is the right thing
to attend, of course, to the sore; but you
don’t cure the saddle by curing the back.
And it is just the same with our unem-
ployed. They also must be attended to;
but we don’t cure the cause of unemploy-
ment by relieving the effect. Nevertheless,
because the Federal Government and the
Govex-nments of all the south-eastern States
are Labor, the effect has been almost
monopolising official attention, and the
cause is in danger of being entirely over-
looked.
Fortunately the cause of our disti’ess is
quite obvious, and that greatly reduces the
liability to ei’ror in treatment. In seven
years our imports exceeded our exports by
56 millions sterling, whereas our exports
ought to have exceeded our imports by 180
millions in order to square our overseas
bill for interest alone. It may be that dui’-
ing this period we did quite enough work
to maintain ourselves; but a gi'eat deal of
it was not the right sort of woi’k. We were
buying foreign goods tremendously: in those
seven years 1922-29 we bought from abroad
no less than 1037 millions’ worth of one sort
and another. Now, we were quite entitled
to do that if we produced enough of our
exportable goods to pay the bill along with
the interest on our foreign debt. But year
after year our products failed to pay even
for our imports, let alone the intei-est,
and excess imports, seeing that we were
not paying for them with exports, had to be
squared by foreign loans. The Govern-
ments borrowed in London at an average
annual rate of nearly 40 millions. But they
wanted funds also in Australia; so the
importers accepted the money in London
and handed the Governments an approxi-
mately equal amount in Australia, using the
money in London to purchase goods for
shipment to Australia. Thus not only was
the money we borrowed used to buy from
the foreigner goods which we should have
made for ourselves, but gradually two
armies were built up—one which depended
wholly upon the construction of non-produc-
tive works for a living, the other of men,
also largely non-productive, who adminis-
tered and operated those works.
This expenditui’e on works became such
a confirmed habit that we are finding gi’eat
difficulty in breaking away fi’om it; thus far
Govei’nments have proceeded on the
assumption that to get out of our troubles
all that is necessary is to find employment.
But the fact is that this country could go
just as utterly broke with all its work-
people employed as with half a million of
them idle. Economically there is no differ-
ence worth mentioning between idleness
and employment that is non-productive.
In ordinary circumstances the non-pro-
ducer is merely a burden on the producer,
and nothing happens worse than that the
producer’s standard of living gradually
falls as the number of parasites upon
him increases. But ours are not ordinary
circumstances. There probably never was
a country anywhere or in any age that
was so heavily in debt to the outsider on
a population basis. And if that is so there
never was a country to which production
mattered so much. A country without a
foreign debt is like a company without out-
side liabilities. Such a company may do so
poorly that its shareholders may have to go
without dividends; but it cannot be forced
into liquidation. Once, however, let it
acquire a debt involving a heavy annual
payment of interest, and it must keep those
payments going or it will be forced into
bankruptcy. So in our own case. If we
had no foreign debts and were wholly self-
contained, we could put as many men on to
sand-shifting, road-making and other un-
productive works as we pleased, and nobody
would suffer but our own people who had
to maintain them. But with our foreign
debt, we have pledged ourselves in the first
place to produce something between 30 and
36 millions a year in excess of our own con-
sumption; and, since we are without the
means to supply some of our own necessi-
ties, we have practically pledged ourselves
to produce anything up to another 80
millions a year. Towards meeting this
pledge the non-producer contributed nothing
whatever, no matter how hard he may work.
This is not to say that in the normal
community there is no room for the non-
producer. In such a community and in
normal times the producer can comfortably
carry several persons who are contributing
to his comfort and pleasure. Further, a
great many people who are not directly
producers are necessary to production: these
include the large army of distributors and
those who minister to the needs of pro-
ducers and distributors. But, obviously, as
the prosperity of the producer diminishes,
so must the number of satellites and para-
sites which he is capable of maintaining.
The only remedy in such a case is a trans-
fer from the non-productive group to the
productive. No other way exists —except
emigration.
Our misfortune is that production is
about the least profitable job we can offer a
man in this country. There are thousands
of wheat-farmers who have not been aver-
aging the basic wage; and hundreds of sup-
posedly well-to-do squatters are on the
dole, the only difference between their dole
and the one better known being that theirs
is paid by the banks and the other by a
Government. Nevertheless, not merely the
maintenance but the increase of production
is so tremendously important, if we are
to avoid national bankruptcy, that the only
course open to us is to do everything pos-
sible to brighten the position and prospects
of the producer. In the first place, it must
be recognised that the chief reason why for
years past he has got so little for himself
is that so many non-producers have had
to be fed out of his product. And, in the
second place, Governments must be got to
realise that, instead of reducing the number
of those living upon the producers, they
have greatly increased that number, under
the guise of providing unemployment re-
lief.
If we are contemplating national bank-
ruptcy we are doing very well. In that case
it aoes not matter much what we produce
or don’t produce. If we don’t send away
enough to pay for such imports as are indis-
pensable and to square our interest bill
well, then, we shall default. We have only
staved it off thus far by skinning the
country of most of its gold and by making
something like forced drafts upon our
banks, practically requiring them to pay
50 millions in London during the past three
years —nominally short loans to the Gov-
ernment. Obviously this can’t go on. The
gold can’t be exported twice, nor can a
bank’s till be emptied of the same money
more than once. If our protestations that
we are determined to pay our debts are not
merely hot air, then we shall set about in-
creasing our production: primary production
to increase our sales abroad, secondary pro-
duction to replace foreign goods and so
reduce our purchases abroad. Without this
we must crash. With it there is no reason
why we should not make a quick recoveiy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
What the War Cost Australia.
Australia has mopped up loans greedily,
and now owes about 1140 millions. But we
have not been always a sponge, and in our
extremity it may be as well to remind both
ourselves and Mother England, also Father
Bull, of the comforting fact.
When the war-gong sounded and Australia
offered its services to Britain there was a
good deal of doubt and discussion as to who
should do the paying. As to the cost of
cleaning up the Germans in our own part
of the world, there was no question at all:
that was our pigeon. But there was a good
deal of doubt as to who should bear the
cost of equipping, transporting and main-
taining Australian soldiers when they went
abroad.
The British Government itself seems to
have had some qualms about passing on the
entire bill to us, and finally adopted what
looked at the time like a compromise: Aus-
tralia was a good deal interested in the
Suez Canal and the Mediterranean route;
wherefore Australian troops would be used
to hold and safeguard those passages, and
we might reasonably be expected to pay for
that. But then the load upon John Bull’s
shoulders grew very heavy, so that when


HALT!
Australian soldiers were taken into Belgium
and France there was no longer a whisper
about the cost. Practically the whole nation
backed Andrew Fisher’s pledge of “the last
man and the last shilling.” We believed
Britain was hard pressed; and this was Aus-
tralia’s answer to the enemy’s challenge.
At the very outset, not having had any
serious suspicions, we had not provided
ourselves with a treasure-chest, and we had
to suggest a temporary loan. The British
Government counted up what it thought
would be a fair thing, and undertook to
supply, us with a million and a half per
month for 12 months. The expenses were
much greater than had been provided for,
and early the next year 50 per cent, was
added to this advance. Not until late in
1915 was it realised that the war was cost-
ing Australia a vast amount of money.
But there were no grumbles. On the con-
trary, when the first loan of a modest five
millions was offered, it was subscribed
times over. The second loan—ls millions
this time—was almost as successful. Then
we began to talk real millions. In seven
War Loans and a Peace Loan we subscribed
£213,490,810.
And meantime we were not sparing our-
selves in taxation. Between 1914 and June,
1930, we spent out of revenue no less than
367 millions. Altogether war services have
cost us 744 millions. Of that sum all that
we have not taken out of our own pockets
is 92 millions— millions represented by
the early loans; the balance bills for
the Diggers’ supplies and other odds and
ends. Under an arrangement made in 1921
we are paying a shade under 5 p.c. interest
on that debt and wiping it out by instal-
ments spread over 35 years.
We are not squealing about what the
war cost us. But we do say that our sacri-
fices were such as to give us a large claim
upon Britain’s consideration in our present
financial distress.
*
The Rush of the Rats.
Last week the exchange rate was twice
lifted, and it now costs £25 10s. to send
£IOO to London. The premium has thus
been almost trebled since the beginning of
the year, and that in the face of a great
improvement in our trade figures. On those
figures the exchange movement should have
been definitely downward.
There are, however, two reasons why it
has been the other way. First, there is a
belief in some quarters that the Australian
producer will gain something by the £ Aus-
tralian being worth much less than the £
English; but far more influential than that
is the dread of inflation and the consequent
rush of those with capital in Australia to
deposit it somewhere else.
Ordinarily the banks do all but a trifle
of the exchange business. Lately, however,
since the associated banks entered into an
undertaking to give the Governments first
call on funds in London—the object, of
course, being to avoid national default—
it has become necessary to ration ex-
change. That is to say, when a man applies
to a bank to transfer funds to London or
New York or anywhere else overseas, it
asks him what he is going to do with the
money. If he is able to satisfy the bank
that the money is to be used for purchasing
machinery or merchandise to be sent back
to Australia, it may let him have all or
part of the money asked for—always assum-
ing that it has it in London. If the man
cannot so satisfy the bank, and especially
if it has a suspicion that he simply wants
to get his capital out of Australia, it re-
fuses to sell him any London money at all.
Hence those who are eager to get funds out
of Australia, dreading inflation, have gone
into the market and bought exchange
against the banks. The process is simple.
A woolbuyer purchases 10 bales from Smith,
of Australia, for Brown, of Yorkshire. As
a rule Brown establishes a credit with a
bank in Australia, which pays Smith, and its
London office collects from Brown. But it
is just as easy for Robinson to arrange with
the buyer to pay Smith and for Brown to
bank the amount, less exchange, to his,
Robinson’s, credit in a London bank. Sup-
plementing this demand is that of traders
who, in order to get ahead of competitors
or for some other reason, want more than
any bank will allow them,
it is these two classes of people who are
responsible for the bids which have more
than doubled the premium in three weeks,
Neither of them deserve the smallest con-
sideration. On the contrary, it is the duty
0 f both the national authority and the banks
to block them. Apart from the fact that
every 5 p.c. extra adds.£l,Boo,ooo a year to
our overseas interest burden, two important
results flow from this high premium: (1)
Our credit is further shattered and the con-
fldence of Australians in their own country
is severely shaken, with the result that
business of every sort is checked; and (2)
the hundreds of Australian enterprises more
or less dependent upon overseas raw mate-
fial are so heavily loaded that Australian
industry is collapsing in all directions.
Something must be done about it. We
can’t go on handing ourselves over to the
tender mercies of the rats_ who are abandon-
mg what they believe to be a sinking ship,
Their rush to get out is not fair business
competition.
♦
The Beam in Our Brother’s Eye.
. .
The fuss arising out of the League of
Nations’ report on the near-slavery condi-
tions existing in Liberia and the ■ cocoa
plantations of Fernando Po is interesting
if only as. illustrating man’s forgetfulness,
The situation seems to have grown out of
the exploitation of Liberia by American
rubber-growing companies anxious to break
the alleged English monopoly. Of course,
the American Government has repudiated
all connection with the situation, and no
one can question its attitude. At the same
time it is unfortunate that American cos.
manufacturing rubber for export to America
should have come into the limelight under
such circumstances just at a time when
America has been “telling the world” how
much she objects to the application of
“penal sanctions” to unsophisticated native
races. Congress has recently been filled
with such holy wrath over the matter as
to forbid the importation into America of
the produce of any country in which penal
sanctions are in force.
Briefly, these sanctions permit imprison-
ment for breaches of contract and similar
laches by natives which would, amongst
Europeans, amount to a cause for civil
action only. Sanctions of the kind exist
in most of the South American republics.
They are in force in some of the Afri-
can colonies as well as in the Union, and
in the Empire’s South Sea Island territories.
They obtain also in New Guinea and
Papua, where a native laborer breaking his
contract of employment, by desertion or
otherwise, is liable, not to a suit for dam-
ages, but to imprisonment if the verdict
goes against him. Quite a quantity of
copra goes direct nowadays from N.G. and
Papua to America. If the resolution of
Congress is to be enforced, it would seem
this trade has ended.
What happens within America’s own
gates is, of course, America’s own business.
Yet Congress seems to have forgotten that
a system is permitted in several of the
southern States whereby gangs of prison-
ers are hired out by the State to contrac-
tors, such gangs including men imprisoned
in certain circumstances for debt. The
manner in which the unfortunates are
housed,, fed and worked has more than once
attracted vitriolic press criticism in America
itself. They are, however, American citi-
zens and therefore too near home to fan
that passion for freedom’s cause which
always bums brightest “as far away as
Paris is.”
Sydney’s Milk Supply.
The Sydney Metropolitan Milk Act, passed
early last year by the Bavin Government,
has been in operation long enough to show
up many of the difficulties in the way of a
well-ordered big-city milk supply.
The board administering the Act is com-
posed of four dairy-farmers and two con-
sumers’ representatives, with an ex-civil ser-
vant as chairman. The area from which
milk may be drawn extends from Nowra
in the south to Kempsey in the north, and
west to the Blue Mountains. It happens at
present that six times more milk is pro-
duced within this area than the Sydney
milk-jug calls for; and as the price of milk
for the metropolis is always considerably
in excess of what it brings for butter- or
cheese-making purposes, it follows that the
producers all want their milk laid on to
Sydney. Just now, owing to the low price
of butter, on the basis of two and a half
gallons to the pound milk is worth no more
than approximately per gallon, even
with the Patterson bounty business thrown
in. Hence a majority of the Milk Board,
when it fixed lOd. on the fai’m for the same
milk, earmarked for the Sydney market, in-
vited trouble. Cocky, unschooled in the
solidarity of the Trades Hall, is often ready
to sell Strawberry juice at cut rates, provided
such rates are better than the alternative
butter price, and the greater the difference
between the two prices the more “moon-
shine” product there will be hawked round
Sydney. The difficulty of enforcing the pur-
chase price on the distributing cos. which
buy from the cow-farmers is further accentu-
ated, and already there is a lengthy list of
prosecutions pending.
At the retail end, the board is only em-
powered to fix a maximum price, and this is
now 7d. per quart pasteurised and Bd. raw.
Suppose the average price in practice to
be 6d. per quart, the difference of 14d. per
gallon between the farmer’s price and the
price to the consumer seems outrageous;
and either better methods of distribution
must be brought about or the law must
drop interfering with prices and concern
itself only with quality.
• ♦
Why Not Birth Control?
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. John Anschau (B.
14/1/’3l) has brought out into the clean
open air a most important national ques-
tion that is usually discussed in hushed
breaths in such places as public bars or by
women in the shelter of the bedroom.
While the greatest gift that Nature can
bestow on the human race is the wanted
child, the greatest tragedy will be found in
the unwanted child. The reproduction of
species is so essential that Nature has over-
loaded our passions in order to overcome
the many difficulties that may prevent this
duty. One of the results of this endow-
ment is the urge in youth to mate long be-
fore it is in a position to marry. This
urge is appeased in all phases of life, and
one can rest assured that in all civilised
countries the majority of people have a
good knowledge of contraception. This is
supported by the figures quoted by Mr.
Anschau. In Italy, where the law and
Church forbid the practice, the natural in-
crease is slightly lower than in Holland,
where the people are instructed in it at
special clinics.
A system of humanely sterilising the
mentally and physically unfit, combined
with a system of instructing the poor, would
greatly improve any nation in a very short
time; and the sooner our thinking people
get down to honest discussion and realise
the importance of the subject the sooner
we will build up a clean and healthy race
of people that will be able to deal with
its problems under the least possible handi-
cap.—Yours etc., Douglas Johns.


WHAT WILL 1931 BRING YOU?
In the coming year great things may happen to Australia.
Thousands of men now affluent are likely to find themselves poor.
A few may make much money ou of national disaster.
How will the future shape itself?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” attempts to answer this question in the January number, which
is now on sale. Price 2/- per single copy; 22/6 per annum, post free.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Ex-Treasurer Theodore is due to make his
bow in Brisbane in April, when the Mungana
case, in which he is one of the defendants, is
set down for hearing. The wish being father
to the thought, no doubt, there has been a
rumor m Labor circles that if Theodore is
readmitted to the Federal Cabinet the pro-
ceedings against him will be dropped. Pre-
mier Moore, of Queensland, has very pro-
perly disposed of that rumor. The matter
is now in the hands of the Court, and the
plaintiff—-the State Government—has not the
slightest intention of withdrawing its claim.
The matter is only likely to end with the
verdict, and, if the delay has been vexatious,
Theodore has only himself to thank for fail-
ing to comply with repeated requests to give
evidence before the Royal Commission in
Brisbane.
The sooner the N.S.W. Churches tell the
Government to go ahead with its own plans
for raising money for the State’s hard-up
hospitals the better. The Council of
Churches, mistrusting the State lottery,
begged for a chance to send round the plate;
and if it has brought in enough to pay exes.
“Not enough to pay the laundry bill.”
some people will be surprised. This oppo-
sition to the well-conducted State lottery has
merely helped to keep in existence the flock
of very dubious “art unions” which con-
sume anything up to three-fourths of the
ticket-money in “expenses.”
By vague talk about “releasing credits”
and the like some otherwise good Labor
men are putting nice wads into the pockets
of speculators in exchange. These gentry,
who are common in Europe, haven’t until
now had much of an opening in Australia;
but they are making hay while the panic
lasts. For the rush to get money out of
Australia has amounted to a panic during
the last month. The higher the banks
pushed up the exchange rate in order to keep
London money from going past them, the
surer some people were that the bottom
was about to drop out of everything, and the
higher their offers for money. As much as
27 p.c. was paid last week. Here and there
a primary producer benefited; but for the
most part the high prices were paid to
speculators who had bought London wool
and other money and now resold it at any-
thing up to double the premium they had
paid. And so another little nest of parasites
has been hatched.
“How about Theodore?” somebody asked,
apropos of something or anything, at Scul-
lin’s Ashfield meeting. “I have sat with him
in Cabinet for ten months,” the interjector
was told, “and there tvas no colleague more
loyal to me than Ted Theodore. I believe in
giving every man his due.” The statement
was notable in that it was one of the very
few in the course! of the hour’s address that
the speaker didn't" qualify or water down
before leaving the subject. But, then, Theo-
dore was at his elbow on the platform.
Among the things which Lang professes
to have received instructions from the people
of N. S. Wales to do is the reorganisation
of transport. Exactly what he proposes he
hasn’t mentioned, except that some tame
commission or other will be appointed to
decide apparently whether a man shall be
permitted to carry home his own three-
ha’porth of cat’s meat or be compelled to
employ a State caravan for the job. In
order to get some ideas on the subject, Lang
proposed to borrow first one and then two
officers from the railways; and Cleary de-
clined to let them go at the moment. Where-
upon Lang decided that a man with as much
mind of his own as that in the public service
was a damned nuisance, and proceeded to
bring Cleary and his colleagues under the
rationing clause. That is Mr. Lang’s idea
for improving the morale of the service!
Playing the game isn’t too strong a Labor
characteristic. While Customs Minister Fen-
ton, former acting head of the Federal Minis-
try, and Premier Hogan, head of the Vic.
Government, were feasting Priminister
Scuilin and M.L. Priminister Forbes, the
unemployed march arranged by the
Trades Hall was carried on. The shouts of
the procession pene-
trated the room, and
the effigy of Hogan
which was carried
could be seen from the
windows, as well as
a banner demanding
the State Govern-
ment’s resignation.
The procession would
have done any old
day, but one’s josses
could not on any
other day be flogged
so publicly.
Convinced that short-
weight is prevalent,
Beckett, Vic. Minister
for Health, has started a campaign
against it, and has asked municipali-
ties to co-operate by scales-checking and
by prodding health inspectors to make
test purchases occasionally. Across the
border, however, in the territory of the un-
impeachable Lang, it is still the thing to
collect 48 hours’ pay and give 44 hours’
work for it.
The latest proposition among the people
who are trying hard to restore Australia’s
credit by rolling it out flat and depositing
it in the morgue with a ton of paper on its
chest is that the Commonwealth should borrow
£30,000,000 of gold from the United States.
Some tbink the money could be got at 10 or
possibly 12% per cent., but others are doubt-
ful, and believe that it would pay to offer
15 per cent. These confidence gentlemen
don’t of course want the gold: what they
w r ant is a better excuse for printing notes
for £120,000,000. Thirty millions’ worth of
gold would be a good excuse for printing
30 millions’ worth of paper in Australia—
and not a bean more. And even then the gold
would have to be kept under lock and key—or
three locks if certain people The Bulletin
won’t mention were at the Treasury.
France, posing for some time past as the
only country in Europe with no unem-
ployment problem, has thrown in the towel
and confessed that there are about half a
million workers unemployed or on half-time.
The country, with an enormous gold reserve,
has been recklessly inflating the currency by
printing vast quantities of notes, with the
inevitable result that cost of living and unem-
ployment are racing each other to the top
of the pole. What is happening in France,
and has happened in Germany and Russia,
will certainly be Australia’s portion unless
the present political system of madhouse
finance is scotched.
When The Bulletin reported the other
day that Lang would soon have to face a
lot of passive resistance to his taxation
schemes, it didn’t know where the first out-
break would happen. As a matter of fact,
it occurred among wheelers on the South
“Why should we keep them Unemployed
Fellers?”
Coast, who struck against the “bob in” tax
for the relief of the unemployed.
Exchange on the Dominion is, roughly,
the difference between what it costs to
send money (1) from Australia to London,
and (2) from Maoriland to London. At
present it costs £25 p.c. to send from Aus-
tralia to London and £9 from M.L. to the
same village ; hence it costs 16 p.c. to send
from Australia to M.L. This means that
100 notes issued in M.L. by an Australian
bank are worth 116 Commonwealth notes.
It is a feather in M.L.’s cap, but a ridiculous
anomaly all the same.
Two or three years ago there was a “S.
M. Herald” reporter in the gallery at Can-
berra with a wonderful flow of caustic poly-
syllables. There were few men on either
side he didn’t pelt with epithets, and one
aggrieved legislator voiced a protest in the
House over some fun that had been poked
NOW THAT OUR LEADER IS
BACK
at him, and stirred up a hornets’ nest in
the press gallery thereby. But the humorist
with the extensive vocabulary had only one
adjective for Scuilin, who hardly looked like
a potential Prime Minister in those days,
and that was “frothy.” In view of ail
Scullin’s brave words during the last three
or four months, “frothy” looks just right.
Unless he can work a complete change, if
the present Prime Minister is remembered in
years to come it will be as a vessel with a
head like a pot of beer in a brewery ad.
and an entire absence of body beneath it.
The Queensland Government has got tired
of waiting for the Cacklewealth to do any-
thing for the wheatgrowers, and has taken
steps to give them the promised 4s. a bushel.
Of course the problem there is a bit simpler
than it is in the southern States; Queens-
land doesn’t quite fill its own breadplate.
So it does with wheat what it has long done
with sugar—taken over the whole crop and
fixed selling rates for flour at £l2 10s. per
ton in the south and £l3 in the north, Glad-
stone being the half-way pub. As that is
a rise of £3 in the south and £3 10s. in the
north, bread will go up a ha’penny, maybe
three farthings.
Heaven knows things are bad enough in
Australia; but there are some people who
won’t miss a chance to make them seem
worse. It might have been better just
now if there had been no change in our
fashion of appointing the Governor-General;
but seeing that the appointment had been
made and the King had made it and the
appointee had long ago ceased to be a poli-
tical partisan and never had been much of
a one, anyway, and hadn’t been a Labor
member but instead had been for nearly 25
years a brilliant High Court Judge—well, in
all the circumstances the obvious best thing
to do was to make the best of a possibly
indifferent job. But some people can’t help
slinging ’arf a brick at the Labor party,
even, though it is likely to miss the party
but is certain to hit Australia; so counsel’s
opinion was taken on the validity of the
appointment, and another handful of fuel
was thrown under the pot in which Aus-
tralia’s affairs are kept on the boil. It
is all so unnecessary and so futile.
Queensland’s proportion of unemployment
to population is by far the lowest of all the
States. The official figures are 12.5 p.c.,
arid the nearest neighbor is another sanely
governed State, Victoria, which owns up to
21.9 p.c. When the Moore Government
suspended most of the State arbitration
awards it conferred an inestimable hoon
on Queensland wmrkers of all types and
classes. All over the State men are working
on half or threcquarters of the artificial
wages they were previously able to maim,
and none of them seems any the worse for
it, since the cut in wage payments has
naturally been followed by a cut in living
costs.
Queensland, which knows him best, learned
to always look for the “catch” in Theodore’s
stories; and those who listened to the re-
marks with which he followed up his dear
friend Jim Scullin’s no-policy speech could
easily find it. Like his dear friend Jim he
didn’t believe in “mad inflation or drastic
deflation.” Presently he can —doubtless will
—advocate inflation. “But,” somebody will
say, “you distinctly announced that you
didn’t believe in inflation !” “My friend is
mistaken,” Theodore will reply: “I am only
opposed, as I said, to mad inflation. This
is not mad inflation. This is a wise mea-
sure of inflation, to be introduced and oper-
ated under safeguards that rob it of every
danger.- To mad inflation I am as deter-
minedly opposed as ever I was.” It is not
the first time the happy adjective has
allowed Mr. Theodore to jump with the cat;
he is a pastmaster in its use.
A gang employed on a relief job at West
Maitland (N.S.VV.) struck work because
one of their number had worked at Asliton-
fields colliery as a free laborer. The West
Maitland council told them they could stay
out, and called for a fresh batch from the
local labor exchange. Most of the strikers
were re-issued to them and the council
refused to employ them, whereupon the
Minister for Labor expressed pained surprise
at the refusal to take back men who had
already hung up operations and who threat-
ened to picket the relief work if a non-
unionist were employed. It is monstrems
that when work is supplied by the taxation
of every wage-earner in the State to keep
men and their families from absolute want,
the Government or anyone else should coun-
tenance discrimination between unionists and
non-unionists.
Queensland’s Parliament is likely to run
its full three-year term, the general elec-
tions coming along in May or June next year.
A commission is to be appointed to carry
out the redistribution of the State elector-
ates, 72 in number. The reform is long-
overdue. The gerrymandering by the Ryan-
Theodore Government of the boundaries kept
Labor in power in the northern State long
after the electors were sick of it and all its
works, and it needed what amounted to a
revolution in popular feeling to oust it at
last. No mention is made by the Govern-
ment of any reduction in the number of
seats. There is a golden opportunity, here
for Premier Moore to economise. A Hoq.se
of 72 members is out of all proportion to
Queensland’s population. Two-thirds of the
number would be ample. But they should
be in two chambers.
Scuilin returned to Australia to find his
policy torn to tatters and the Caucus in
charge. And the Caucus has no settled
policy—its policy for the moment is that of
the little group which happens to have most
members present. In the circumstances the
poor man didn’t know what to say, and
kept on saying it with great energy for a
week. During this period he was pursued or
waylaid b.y a couple of hundred reporters,
and, he being for the first time in his life
FIRST REPORTER: “Hear him sigh? What do
you make of that?”
SECOND REPORTER: “Two columns — easy.”
tongue-tied, they had to guess from his sighs
and his sneezes what was in his mind. They
mostly spent a column over it, whereas two
lines would apparently have held the lot.
Queensland’s cost of living continues to
shrink. For the last quarter of 1930 the
index figure dropped 5.09 below that of the
July-September period, and 16.05 below that
for the last quarter of 1929, makinv the
lowest figure recorded since 1918. This
state of things is an eloquent testimony to
the confidence inspired by a reliable Govern-
ment, and the wisdom of cutting out as far
as possible the artificial wage-standard.
Workers in other States are watching the
effect of reduction with great interest; and
one of the terms of settlement of the Labor
trouble at Broken Hill last week was that
employers should co-operate with employees
to reduce the local cost.
Theodore, who is now promising Scuilin
that things will be all right if his wild-cat
'scheme of “issuing credits” is is
the same Theodore who promised the West
Maitland coalminers that they would be back
at their jobs within a fortnight without loss
of pay if they returned his party to power.
Incidentally, he is the same Theodore who
also promised Queensland prosperity,_ landed
it in as bad a mess as any State in Aus-
tralia. and then fled across the border and
acciuired a N. S. Wales seat; he didn’t have
either the pluck or the decency to stay and
help clean up his own wreckage.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“0..W.W.”; I met Henare carrying a new
lawn-mower towards the local hardware
store. “I takin’ pack te Tristmus present
t’at Topi kive me,” he explained. I said
something about it being unusual to return
a present. “Werra, you see,” went on the
nhtive sourly, “he just pay te harf-crown
town, an’ ’spect me to pay orra te rest in
five pobs for 20 weeks.”
* * * *
“Shep”: When the Government begins to
harry unlicensed s.-p. operators many
cripples and semi-invalids will lose their
meagre incomes. In the past a man’s infir-
mities often brought him immunity from
police attentions, provided he didn’t defy
the law too openly. Last winter I made
some remark to a constable about the occu-
pant of a wheel-chair sunning himself on
the footpath. “Sunning himself be hanged!
HER GUESS.
“Do you know what would have happened if I’d asked your grandma as many questions
as you ask me?”
“Yes, I spect you’d have been able to answer some of mine.”
He’s picking up bets with about a two-bob
limit,” I was informed. But the John evi-
dently didn’t care to feature himself wheel-
ing the offender in his chair to the police
station. Or he may have had memories
of another legless operator who refused to
pay a nominal fine for s.-p. work and took
out his sentence. After warders had a couple
of weeks of wheeling him around in gaol and
performing various duties only expected of
hospital attendants, they’d have willingly
forked out any further fines themselves to
keep him outside the walls. He was never
arrested again.
$ * * *
“Franzac”; We were not long at Anzac
when somebody hit on the idea of marking
the name of his home town on his hat' band.
Others followed suit, and it led to many old
townies meeting for the first time for years.
A Digger in my unit marked his hat “Pent-
ridge,” which was regarded as an effort of
humor, and earned him the nickname “Con-
vict 99.” On' being promoted a corporal,
however, he showed himself a strict dis-
ciplinarian, and presently admitted that he
had been at Pentridge as a warder. Yet his
nickname clung till he left the battalion.
* * * *
“Mells”; Very deliberately and efficiently
a youth of 18 hanged himself in his cell at
Long Bay (Sydney) a few days ago. The feat
in itself demanded catlike activity as well
as inflexible resolu-
tion ; he had to tear
his blanket into strips
and climb aloft to
fasten the improvised
rope to a grating, and
afterwards to operate
as his own hangman,
or, rather, strangler.
The prisoner was
awaiting his trial for
murder; he had
knocked down an aged
woman and robbed
her of her handbag
Captured, he was at
first charged with
doing grievous bodily
harm; when the vic-
tim died the charge
was altered to murder.
He was in no great
danger of the regular
gallows, but evidently
he reasoned that a
quick death was better
than 20 years or more
of imprisonment. A
young ruffian, doubt-
less, but obviously one
of rare determination,
for whom existence
should have been full
of possibilities. And
two lives have termi-
nated over a little
matter of 305.; that
was all the handbag yielded.
“Lone-Piner” : Among my war souvenirs is
a photo of a German soldier, killed during
one of our advances and buried behind our
front line. I sometimes wonder if his rela-
tives ever learned when and where he died,
or if he was one of the thousands merely
listed as “missing.” There must be many
such mementoes in the .possession of ex-sol-
diers who fought on either side. If the Gov-
ernments concerned made an effort to collect
and exchange them, I suspect that the
mystery of many a missing warrior would be
cleared up. Soldier organisations might
deem this suggestion worth considering.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: I have known the ocean to
return the dentist’s work as well as the
oculist’s (B. 14/1/’3l) with commendable
dispatch and almost uncanny precision. At
Cottesloe (W.A.), not many years ago, a
pretty girl emerged from the breakers in
tears and minus her upper set of pearly
teeth. It was in the Christmas holidays,
with no earthly chance of replacing them for
a week or two, and she returned to the
boarding-house and stayed there, tight-lipped
and inconsolable. The very next morning
some children from the very same boarding-
house, playing among the rocks a quarter of
a mile further down the shore, saw the miss-
ing molars smiling shyly at them from under
an ebbing wave and promptly retrieved and
restored them. If it had been a pearl neck-
lace that girl couldn’t have been more grate-
ful.
V $ *i!
“Kerys”: No beach round Sydney
developed an appeal like that of Maroubra
during the recent holidays when it became
known that an English visitor had there been
bereft of an £BO diamond ring by the sad
sea waves. Carload after carload of motor-
ists and throngs of pedestrians sought
the beach in the hope of finding the bauble
and collecting the £lO reward. offered, or
perhaps a little more. But though
thousands tramped the sand for a whole
day the ring remained hidden.
jJj jjc «Js «i»
“Franzac”“Bumpkin” (B. 24/12/’3O)
mentions that many people are living on
small craft moored in the River Yarra, pay-
ing a few shillings a year mooring fee. An
BRAINS WILL TELL.
“Cobar — that’s a queer place to go for a holiday. You’ll be bored to death, won't yout
“Well, you see, I’ve only got three weeks, and I want to make it seem longer:
increasing number of Melbourne families and
bachelors have found another way of escap-
ing house rents and municipal taxes. Covered
waggons may be picked up cheap, and horses
may be hired for a few bob to pull them to
paddocks and waste land. Lately I’ve noticed
many waggon-homes amid clusters of trees
only a few miles from the G.P.O. The
waggon-homers cook in the open and obtain
water from near-by houses. Their discom-
forts may be many, but they aren’t worried
about keeping up instalments on “comfort-
able” homes..
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : Australia House
presents a dismal winter appearance. Re-
trenched officials are
bidding gloomy fare-
wells and there are no
tourists to make the
library a home from
home. The vestibule
bookstall is closing-
down and no longer
do London’s unem-
ployed flock to the
free cinema in the
basement. Neverthe-
less the institution
didn’t deserve the
cheap gibes of “P.
Penitent” (B.
15/10/’3O). His Scot-
tish chief of the In-
telligence Department
“who has never seen
Australia” is a well-
known Melbourne
journalist. As a
pressman I know well
enough that any in-
formation sought at
Australia House was
always furnished cour-
teously and readily.
Australians who used
the place as a free
business office and
rendezvous, read free
papers, used free note-
paper, pestered offi-
cials with inquiries
and had their mail
sorted and forwarded
free of charge show
poor taste and gross
ingratitude in attack-
ing the institution.
Now that the axe has
fallen it’s time some-
body gave a pat on
the back to the rank
and file who carried
o n valiantly and
patiently in spite of persistent newspaper
disparagement.
:ji $ ❖ ❖
“Harold Hardupp” : The sun-tanned pair
were running joyously, hand in hand, from
the Bondi dressing-sheds towards the .surf
when a grim-faced woman confronted them
and announced, for all the world to hear, that
the two ought to be ashamed of their goings-
on, she herself being the lawful wife of the
tanned male. Neither gainsaid her, and she
followed her torrent of abuse with an active
assault, directed impartially on the erring
twain. Presently they wrenched themselves
free —“Bet’s get into the surf; she can’t
follow in there,” panted the girl—and into
the surf they got, while the pleasantly stimu-
lated gallery grew in numbers as the details
of the fracas were bandied about. The grim-
faced one watched them for a few T minute?;
then she arose and disappeared, as if in
* embarrassment at finding so many eyes on
her. Actually s.he wasn’t embarrassed at
all; in the scuffle she had become possessed
of th.c keys of the pair’s lockers in the
bathers’ sheds. When the two surfers pre-
sently sought their clothes an attendant in
the male section said that a woman had
come to him with a key to say that her hus-
band had had a slight accident, and had sent
her to collect his clothes; she had done the
collecting in the women’s section unquestioned.
A shamefaced couple with only their bath-
ing costumes and no money had to face the
problem of getting home as best, they could ;
but the vanished clothes may turn up again
—possibly in a divorce court.
* $ * *
“10-2-4”: Any award that there may be
for the world’s most undignified attempt at
suicide must go to the Mascot (Sydney)
horsebreaker who stood on his head in a
lavatory last week after plugging the vent
and pulling the chain aiid tried to drown
himself. But at least his idea had the
merit of being original. About 75 per cent,
of our suicides, attempted and otherwise,
are witless imitations of others, and repre-
sent some of the 'most agonising and un-
sightly methods of shuffling off the mortal
coil. Not long ago there was a run on
lysol, which hurts like the devil and leaves
the victim looking repulsive. And then there
are the devices which look worse than they
probably are. The plunge over the Gap,
Sydney’s best-advertised way of retiring
from life’s struggle, seems so terrifying from
the top that most of those who make the
tram journey with the intention of ending it
return home to await a finer day. Also,
according to the police, few who put their
head in gas ovens remain in position long
enough to provide the undertakers with work.
The most graceful and considerate suicide
I ever heard of was that of a world-famous
war-time surgeon (he wrote a textbook which
is still used in every medical school)_ who
settled up his affairs, travelled to a distant
land, hired a room under an assumed name,
left the rent, a generous sum as compensa-
tion, and his funeral expenses for the pro-
prietor and opened a vein in his arm. The
ancients used to suicide on these efficient
and gentlemanly lines, but then they were
always at it. It was the arrival of Chris-
tianity that made the practice illegal, and
afflicted society with bungling amateurs.
$ * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide" author has had an
early glimpse of the risk of using proper
names in fiction. In a short story in a
local paper, he imagined “Nolan,” a returned
soldier, reduced to playing a cornet on the
kerb in Bundle-street : also gave him a busi-
ness partner named Smith. And now the
partners in a real firm of Nolan and Smith—
it dissolved only two years ago— are busy
with protests and denials.
% :j: ❖ $
“Buna”: The discovery of Chinese coffins
round the Sydney foreshores recalls that
nearly 30 years ago a cargo of about 300
went down off the Maoriland coast when the
steamer Ventnor foundered. She had been
chartered by the Chinese population of
Maoriland to convey the bodies back to their
homeland. There was some difficulty in col-
lecting a crew, and any superstitions enter-
tained by sailors on the subject of coffins
may well have been deepened bjr the disaster
to the Ventnor. It was always prophesied
that after the breaking up of the steamer
there would be a possibility of some of the
coffins drifting on ocean currents, to be cast
up on near or distant shores.
$ $ $ $
“Uramao”: The monotonous placidity of
out-back life in Maoriland is occasionally
ruffled by school-committee affairs. Recently
two factious partisans in a dispute over the
site of the village school burned down a
bridge to prevent members of the opposition
reaching the meeting to record their votes.
Even more recently at Honilciwi, ten miles
from Otorohanga—names suggestive of isola-
tion—at the opening of a new school a wire-
whiskered individual inquired if the building
was to be let for dancing. Somebody yelled
“Shut up!” whereupon the friend of Terpsi-
chore incontinently dealt the interjector a
staggering blow between the eyes, the chair-
mam attempting the r6le of peacemaker, stop-
ping a second with his jaw. Then a real
donnybrook ensued, while women screamed
and charges of sheep-stealing and other.mor-
tal offences in village life split the air.
THE DISTINCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Labor party does not stand for inflation,
but for a corrective to deflation.” —Senator Daly.
I’ve little patience with some
Poor fish this land is cursed with,
Who reckon only beer or rum
Is fit to quench a thirst with.
Strong drink’s a curse, to which I’d give
Short shrift and speedy slaughter.
And yet—l wouldn’t care to live
Where there was no alternative
To tea aqd soda-water.
My fiscal faith is just as sound
As any man’s, I’ll warrant.
Free Trade I loathe. I’ve always found
The very words abhorrent.
Gobden and Bright my scorn excite;
Still, on mature reflection,
I sometimes think it would be quite
Legitimate to try some slight
Correctives to Protection.
Deep in my heart I hold the crowd
Misguided and mistaken
Who Shakspeare’s fame have disallowed
And handed it to Bacon.
But that admission’s qualified
(Please note) with this addendum;
Those deathless plays that move our pride,
None can with certainty decide
That Will of Stratford penned ’em.
I tell you straight, I don’t agree
Our troubles would be ended
Were good Australian £ s. d.
Inflated, swol’n, distended.
These casuists will never sway
Me to their way of thinking—
Except, perhaps I ought to say,
There isn’t any other way
To stop the stuff from shrinking!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Eightbeone” : Sunday morning is a brisk
time for hotel trade in our Maoriland vil-
lage, and old Tom the publican was in the
bar preparing for the after-church calls, when
one of his kids rushed up crying from the
kitchen. “Lizzie hit me,” he disclosed
between sobs, “cos I was goin’ birds’-nesting
and wouldn’t take her.” Tom looked judicial
for a moment and then indignant. “The
idear of it—birds’-nesting on a Sunday!” he
said, shaking his head in reproof. “You’ll
watch the door for the cop, that’s wot you’ll
do, me lad!”
* * * =l=
“Disc Harrow”: The minny-golf fever has
invaded the Yic. countryside, and many farms
have a home-made course laid out round the
house. On the main roads near Melbourne,
the game is used to inveigle the passing
motorist, for in these times a good proportion
of orchardists and small farmers supply teas
and refreshments. Peach crops at the moment
are in full swing, and one grower of my
acquaintance exhibits a sign “4s. case —
Pick Your Own.” There seems to be a
curious fascination for the city-dweller in
roaming round the trees and harvesting the
fruit, and my friend, backed up by his nine-
hole golf course and afternoon-teas, earns
a good many welcome shillings each week-end.
* =:= * *
“Sinnik” : From the “S. M. Herald” :
After successive years of increase the number of
divorce petitions in New South Wales shows a decided
decrease.
It is one of the compensations of the slump.
There is a close connection between easy
money and uneasy marriage the world over.
The worst combination from the standpoint
of practitioners in divorce is the husband
with a modest earned inzome, a penniless
wife, and a child —or, ;;ven more hopeless,
children. The best consists of a rich hus-
band, rich wife and family. In Australia,
ESTABLISHING CREDITS.
“Don’t you think you could put up with me—as an uncle, say?"
“No, hut I think you might he my buy friend.”
at the first sign of that boredom which
invades every marriage at some stage, the
rich wife leaves for England “to educate the
children,” and she rarely comes back. The
most indissoluble of all alliances are those
in which the wife is plain and extremely
wealthy and the.husband poor. Hundreds
of them have been entered into between Aus-
tralian girls and A.D.C.’s or R.N. officers,
and they have almost all been successes. The
husband takes care to be good, or at least
careful (it is his career, so to speak), and
the wife isn’t tempted to stray. Marriages
in which the husband has all and the wife
nothing are also liable to persist. The hus-
band is rarely faithful, but it doesn’t pay
the lady to object. A spectacle which almost
causes lawyers who specialise in divorce to
burst into song is that of a youngish couple
who have suddenly got hold of money. Aus-
tralia produced tens of thousands during
its boom years, and they were very largely
responsible for its divorce boom. The pro-
cedure is invariable. Exciting new friends
are made. Parties are staged at which the
husband is eventually landed by a young
woman on the make. The wife retaliates by
taking a boy friend, and the break follows.
Slumps bring the runaways “back to their
’osses.” Because of the present one thou-
sands of middle-aged men are happily mow-
ing domestic lawns who would otherwise
have been miserably apprehensive with pretty
ladies in expensive hotels. #
“Shop” : War-historian Bean estimates the
cost of compiling the complete story of the
A.I.F. at £80,000; how much of the huge
outlay will ever be recouped is
doubtful. When preliminaries were
being arranged, returned Diggers
were offered a concession price;
had only five per cent, of them
taken advantage of the offer, print-
ing the volumes —there are nine
of them —would have shown a
profit. Except in reference lib-
raries there is little demand for
the hard facts of the war, but it
is unfortunate that better records
have not been kept, for future
generations, of individual units.
Some got in early and printed their
own histories, which are of more
value to the men of' those units
than a conglomerate history of the
whole A.I.F. The final blowing-up of
our own canteen funds went towards
the printing of a brief history in
diary form, and direct from the
London publishers went a buck-
shee copy to every Digger who’d
served on the strength before the
unit disbanded for good in France.
I remember voluminous monthly
returns from the unit to lI.Q. cov-
ering every activity, line
work, fighting, casualties,
salvaging, fatigue work,
sport and even canteen busi-
ness. Copies of these re-
turns should have been avail-
able to any authorised col-
lector of data .soon after the
war. Ours, when some of the mob were in
the mood, were even illustrated.
* * *
“Sharpe”: The American movie producer,
meticulous as he is as regards detail, fre-
quently slips, not only when he is working
on pictures dealing with conditions foreign
to him, but when he is engaged on subjects
with which tradition and literature should
make him familiar. A case in point is a
specimen now being exhibited at the head
of Martin-place, Sydney, of the “covered
waggon” on which pioneers crossed the
American plains from east to west. The
waggon advertises a picture and is stated to
be one of the originals. Yet a broken spoke
in one of the wheels is “fished” with a piece
of timber the binding of which is good old
Australian No. 8 fencing-wire. The pioneers
who crossed the plains in 1850 probably
never saw fencing-wire. The binding they
would have used to “fish” that spoke wouid
have been buffalo hide, what the Boer and
the Australian who used the same material
in the long ago would have called either
“rimpi” or just plain “greenhide.”
AMBIGUOUS.
GLADYS: “Grandpa, how do you like my new dress? But you don’t like our dresses
nowadays, do you?”
GRANDPA: “No. And the longer you wear them the less I like them.”
GLADYS: “Gee, Grandpa!”
“Kyn”: When Tom Bent was Minister
for Vie. Railways nearly 29 years ago a
big deputation of Sabbatarians protested to
him against the running of Sunday trains
to the Dandenongs. Tommy listened with
the utmost patience to their arguments, and
then announced that he was so impressed
that he would request the Commissioner to
“stop all Sunday trains.” Fighting Larry
Rentoul was the first to recover from this
thunderclap and explain that it was not
desired that the suburban church trains
should be interfered with. “All or none,
persisted Bent, and the deputation scattered.
He was not bothered any further while he
was Minister for Railways.
* * * *
“Durbeyfield”: There are to be celebra-
tions at Falaise, Normandy, this year m honor
of William the Conqueror’s birth there 900
years ago, and a number of Englishmen who
claim that their ancestors fought on the
winning side at blastings will have leading
places at the shivoo, the Earl of Derby, at
their head. This particular nobleman’s title
of descent from a Norman invader is one of
the few beyond dispute, according to the
London correspondent of the “Age” ; at the
same time, he reminds us, there are English
families who can trace their pedigrees back
to pre-Norman times, and he cites as ex-
ample the Kingscotes and the Wakes. The
latter, at all events, are widely diffused ) over
the Empire nowadays, even if they don’t all
dwell in marble halls. A Wake—and a
Hereward Wake at that—died in Westralia
the other day. He first came to this country
as valet to the Earl of Hopetoun when that
peer was Governor of Victoria.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Ex-Afrikanders will be in-
terested in the cabled announcement that
still another attempt is to be made to find
the legendary plant of gold bars said to
have been buried somewhere on the Rand
by the Boer authorities just after the cap-
ture of Jo’burg by the British 30 years ago.
This hidden treasure has for . years vied in
popularity in South Africa with that other
probable myth, the “Kruger millions.” This
last was supposed to consist of an immense
sum in Transvaal sovereigns loaded by Oom.
Paul on the train in which he skedaddled
from Pretoria to Lorenzo Marquez. The old
man took some time over the journey, living
in the train, and when he embarked for
Europe it was very doubtful whether the
alleged treasure chests were shipped with
him. A yarn got about that the stuff had
been buried in the bush veldt of the Eastern
Transvaal. Only one of the many expedi-
tions which have gone after it has achieved
any - results. This was one in which the
promoter murdered his companions for what
they had on them, and was subsequently
hanged.
* * * *
“Jungor” : The thirstiest bank manager I
ever knew —and when it is known that a
bank manager appreciates being shouted for
there will always be plenty to oblige him—
had his office next door to the local club in
a Westralian seaport town. He was a
member, of course, and there was a well-
grounded local tradition that he would prick
up his ears, even as a horse that hears the
corn-bin open, at the mere tinkle of the bell
for the drinks waiter in the adjoining estab-
lishment, and dash out to be included' in
whatever hospitality was going. At a big
Westralian police station of 30 years ago
there was a well-known inspector who was
credited with an even more unerring scent f
gratuitous liquid refreshment. The cracking
of a social bottle in the office of one or other
of the heads, to commemorate a birthday or
some successful police achievement, was by
no means unknown in those spacious days, and
this particular officer had an ear that was
always cocked, for the clink of e-lasses or any
other indication that thirsts were being slaked.
One baking afternoon a discharged constable,
half-crazed with his grievances, forced his
way into the Commissioner’s office and took
a pot shot at the chief with a revolver. For-
tunately the bullet merely grazed its mark.
The “pop” was heard all over the building,
and from all sides police came running, the
Falstaffian inspector in the van, convinced
that someone had just opened a bottle of the
best. “Who’s doing it?” he asked breath-
lessly—anyhow, that was the story I had from
a grinning sergeant.
* * * *
“Nieuport”: “Shep.” (B. 24/12/’3O) gives
several reasons why the kilt had to be dis-
carded as part of the active-service dress, but
emits the most important of all, the advent
of mustard gas in 1917. Kilted troops operat-
ing in gas-drenched areas afforded gruesome
sights to the surgeons and dressers at the
clearing stations, and even the diehards were
convinced that the ITighlander’s time-honorea
garb must go. It is a pity, too; there is
no grander sight than that of a kilted regi-
ment on the march.
* * * *
“Hops”: An ingenious gambling machine
—a highly-perfected version of the poker
machine of a few years ago—has made its
appearance in Sydney bars. Instead of an
array of spades, hearts, diamonds and clubs it.
bears on the peripheries of three large drums
tasteful little representations of fruits and
flowers, bells and other Chrismas-card devices.
There’s a table of odds on the front of the
thing. You buy a token from the barmaid
for a tanner, pop it into a hole at the top
and pull a lever. The drums spin and then
come to rest with a click. If they rest on
a winning combination, tokens as per schedule
tumble down a chute. The machine I tried
worked all right. I got seven tokens back.
But your winnings resemble the discs
obtained in the poker machines; you may
spend them at the bar or feed them back
to tlie machine —but you can’t get casn.
Even at that I was lucky. An habitue ot
the pubs told me he had seen one man do
in 30s. and another £3 in the course of an
hour with a return in tokens that didnt
represent much more than 5 p.c. on the
investment.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: That delightful publication
“The Tailor and Cutter,” which tells us how
statesmen and princes should dress (and
too often don’t), has been sparing time for
a glance at the habiliments of poets and is
impelled to suggest, quite seriously, it would
seem, that the present Laureate might live
up to the dignity of his office by taking hm
walks abroad with a wide sombrero on his
head and a flowing cloak around his
shoulders. It just shows how hard the
Tennysonian tradition dies. Tennyson was
a great poet and he did affect that garb—-i
retain a dim boyhood memory of a figure thus
apparelled crossing an Isle of Wight down.
There have been no major poets since his day,
except Swinburne, who hid himself at Putney,
and Bridges, who ceased to smite the lyie
before he became Laureate, and none at all
with anything like Tennyson’s appeal to the
general public. Therefore Masefield might
try to look more like Tennyson, even it he
can’t write as well, and he might then have a
chance of being accepted as the genuine
article. Still, not the most picturesque cloak
and the most romantic-looking sombreic
would have saved Alfred Austin from the
jeers of the reviewers.
A HUNDRED DEGREES—RISING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Summon the little green things and the blue
things out of the distance,
And the very end of a tendril and the
newest leaf on a bough,
The cool little things that smell like frogs
and water lilies and grass,
Until they come to succor us and to make
us cool somehow.
Summon the top of midnight and the moon-
stones threaded on dew,
And call to the creeping gloaming that is
brown and amethyst,
And fish the weed from the rocky pool and
the moss that lurks in the crevice,
And the bullrush spear from the bogland
and the spirals out of the mist,
And bring them here to-day, where the sky
is a burning glass,
And the awnings flap in the scorching air
and the buildings glisten with heat;
And whistle a wind of morning tasting of
gum and heather,
And lure it into the city with its wet and
shining feet!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


ini
DONT FLIRT! STICKTO
Ssi
Mil
31®
■ CR.AIG &AITKEN
GEORGE SI SYDNEY
PISttUBUTORS FOR CLOD REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
sa
1
m
P
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
11. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
England has two ex-Prime Ministers,
Lloyd George (68) and Stanley Baldwin
(63). Australia has four, Joseph Cook
(70), W. M. Hughes (66), J. C. Watson
(63) and Stanley Bruce (47).
Jim Graliame, an old mate of ITenry Law-
son, who now has a Government job on the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation settlement at Lee-
ton (N.S.W.), is collaborating with the
poet’s daughter Bertha (of the Mitchell
Library) on a book which may be relied
upon to present the real Lawson, too often
obscured by previous writers. Jim Grahame’s
own bush ballads are due to see stiff covers.
At an Australian Literature Society gather-
ing in Melbourne recently, Vance Palmer
gave readings from these ballads and ex-
pressed the opinion that they ought to be
published in book form.
The Commonwealth Bank board, which
gets so much publicity these days, consists of
men who mostly have no use for it. Robert
Gibson, the chairman, is as well disposed
towards it as any of them; and lie wouldn’t
run after it. A remarkably well-balanced
little crowd these directors make: Gibson, a
manufacturer, mostly of stoves and other
ironware, before he gave his whole attention
to finance; McComas, the board’s wool and
pastoral expert, chairman, as a rule, when
Gibson is absent; Drummond, of Lockhart
(N.S.W.), the bank’s high agricultural
authority ; Mackenzie Lees, formerly general
manager of the Bank of Queensland, and
offered the governorship of the Common-
wealth Bank before Denison Miller was
appointed; Reading, of the Tobacco Co., the
modern business representative; and Duffy, of
the Melbourne Trades Hall, put on the board
lately to represent the Labor view. Besides
these there are the governor of the bank,.
Riddle, who started his banking career at
16 with “the ’Asia” at Narrabri (N.S.W.) ;
and Heathershaw, secretary to the Treasury,
born in a Vic. country manse, and in the
State Treasury before he went over to the
Commonwealth.
When Arthur Eedy was ready to leave
Sydney High School—he was one of its
first pupils—-James P. Garvan was looking
for a youth to help him with the newly-
launched Citizens’ Life Office. Luckily for
Mr. Garvan he found Arthur Eedy, and
luckily for Mr. Eedy he found James Gar-
van. After the latter’s death his son John
became managing director, with Eedy as
secretary; and that combination lasted many
years, until John Gaf van’s death called
A. M. EEDY, of the Mutual Life and
Citizens'.
the secretary to the managing-director's
chair. He maintains all the old traditions
of an office whose heads have always worked
hard and played hard. At a shade over 60
the M.L.C.’s present chief plays a good game
of tennis, and he still takes a keen interest
in the doings of his old school, whose assist-
ant masters in his day included two men
who afterwards climbed high in other work
—A. B. Piddington, K.C., and General Legge.
James Fenton, who has just returned to
the Customs after having acted for five
months as deputy for Scullin at the Pri-
minister’s office, began life as a comp. He
served seven years in a country newspaper
office at Avoca (Vic.), and when he was
due for a journeyman’s job there was none
for him, so he had to shift. He ran a paper
at Broadford long before going into poli-
tics, and he has tackled a variety of occu-
pations in his time.
Charles Melton, a former sub-editor of
the “Queenslander,” who died last week,
was associated with the Brisbane Newspaper
Co. for 70 years, going through all the
departments before he retired two years ago
at the age of 84. There are older pressmen
who still write, but none with such a record
of service to one company.
The Town Crier was sent out the other
day to try to discover what had happened to
a Royal Commission. Some months ago,
when the Federal
Government had
just got up from
the penitent form,
after the mission
services of the Rev.
O. Niemeyer, it
decided to appoint
a Commission to
go (for the 99th
time) into the
whole question of
the basic wage.
Wick e n s was
appointed first;
then he was joined
by Messrs. Mc-
Dougall and Gib-
son, the former
managing director
of the ancient and
honorable firm of
Sands and Mc-
Dougall ; the latter
well known as the
enginedrivers’ sec-
retary. But,
though all hands
have been holding
themselves ready
for the big job, the
Commission appa-
rently hasn’t been
issued and no in-
structions given
concerning it. Mr.
McDougall h a s
taken a very active
interest in the
affairs of the
D. McDOUGALL, of
Sands and McDougall.
Chamber of Manufactures, and a year or
two ago better equipped himself for both
public and private service by making a tour
of Europe and North America.
A. E. Nott, dead in Adelaide at 72, started
life as a banker and was manager at Birds-
ville (Q-) of a Town and Country branch
when that bank went out of business about
1886. He then joined the S.A. Brewing Co.,
and was its manager at Broken Hill for
10 years, and at the head office for 17. Good
at all sports, he was the first president of
the Broken Hill Bowls Club and a success-
ful owner of Westendale and other jumpers
in Adelaide. His only son is the golf-tennis-
aviation expert, Dr. Harry Nott.
Colonel Donald Cameron, who for years
has held the Federal constituency of Bris-
bane by sheer force of personality, some time
ago announced that the quack had forbidden
him to stand again for the seat he
has held since the war. His party dumbly
realised that this, in ordinary times at least,
might mean the loss of the seat to Labor.
But recent improvement in the warrior’s
health has been so marked that it is more
than likely he will again represent his party
in Queensland’s key constituency.
John Saunders, ex-senior superintendent
of N.S.W. police, who died last week, was
the sergeant in charge in Broken Hill’s
wildest days; and he handled the job with
rare discretion. The new silver rush was
so far away from Sydney that officialdom
didn’t much care what happened; so Saun-
ders had to trust more to the goodwill of
the mob than to the strong arm of authority
or the holding capacity of the local gaol, out
of wdiich any able-bodied malefactor could
escape if he wasn’t chained to a log. Yet
the only time Saunders let the camp take
care of itself was on the first Saturday
night the navvies who were building the
railway arrived in a mob and announced
their intention of cleaning up all the Cousin
Jack miners in sight. Later he saw most
of Broken Hill’s big strikes through, and
later still directed the hunt for Jimmy Gov-
ernor. He was in his day a fine horseman,
and there weren’t many boxing tournaments
in the early days of Broken Hill in which
“the sergeant” didn’t strip.
Died on Christmas Day, within four days
of his 101st birthday, Francis Crystal
Meston. He was a well-known identity of
the Tenterfield (N.S.W.) district and a
cousin of the late Archibald Meston, the
well-known authority on aboriginal lore and
languages. Born in Aberdeen (Scotland),
he came with his parents to Australia, in
1843 and was soon engaged in the pastoral
activities in which all his life was to be
spent. His father, Robert Meston, sat in
the first N.S.W. Parliament as member for
New England. Francis overlanded cattle
to Port Phillip before Victoria became a
separate colony. At different times he
held different station properties and
finally he settled down, a lone bachelor, 50
miles north of Tenterfield. When 87 years
of age, he surprised the local Land Board by
riding 50 miles to support an application
for a settlement lease, and indignantly re-
pudiated the suggestion of the chairman
that he was “too old to manage cattle.”
“I do all my own mustering and other cattle
w r ork,” he said. He got his lease.
“Uramao”: Perhaps the most interested
person in Maorilaud to read of the eleva-
tion to the House of Lords of that brilliant
Maoriland-born scientist, Ernest Rutherford,
was Lady Rutherford, who is at present on
a visit to her native land. Her first inti-
mation of the news was when her mother
pointed it out to her in the morning paper;
a cable followed very quickly. The new
peer’s wife is a daughter of Mrs. M. de
Renzy Newton, prominent at one time in
feminist movements in Christchurch. The
Rutherfords’ only child, Mrs. Fowler, of
Cambridge, died only a couple of weeks ago,
leaving two sons and two daughters.
Arthur Dudley Dobson, Maoriland’s new-
est knight, arrived in Christchurch 80 years
ago, a boy of nine, with his father, a civil
engineer. He grew up to follow dad’s
calling and was engaged in survey w r ork in
many parts of the Dominion. In the ’eighties
he took a trip to England, and after spend-
ing some years in Melbourne and Sydney
returned to become city engineer of Christ-
church at 59, holding the job until he was
80. Since then he has practised as a con-
sulting engineer.
George Curtis, who has just been
appointed manager of Harold Clapp’s big
railway workshops at Bendigo, is one of
the best all-round home-grown engineers in
the Vic. railway service. He was an appren-
tice at Ballarat in 1902, and his subsequent
experience has covered every phase of mech-
anical engineering. He was in Charge of the
preliminary test-runs of the first Pacific loco-
motive built in Australia, and for seven years
he was engineering member of Clapp’s bet-
terment board, which receives and considers
suggestions and inventions from the staff.
Sir James O’Grady, now on his way back
to England after six years in the Speck,
was born at Bristol 65 years ago, and is the
first ex-Labor M.P. to have occupied an
Australian Government House. The O’Grady
got his job during Ramsay Macdonald’s first
administration; he had the choice between
this and being British Ambassador at Mos-
cow and, after some hesitation, decided in
favor of H'obart. It was probably a wise
choice, for his health has not been of the
best.
S. Australia’s two Lionels are having a
busy time: 2000 unemployed the other day
tried to reach one of them, the Premier;
the job of the other, Leane, the Commis-
sioner of Police, was to see that they didn’t.
Leane, a garrison officer before the war,
Brigadier LEANS, Police Chief of South
Australia.
did great things on Gallipoli, where he was
knocked in one of those amazing attacks on
the Turkish trenches; in France he was
best known to the 48th Digger battalion.
Adelaide is lxis home town.
North Coast (N.S.W.) farmers lost a
friend by the death in Lismore at 61 of
Thomas MacKenzie Hewitt, known on half
the show rings of the State as “T.M.” Secre-
tary of the Lismore Agricultural Society for
25 years and founder and secretary of the
North Coast Agricultural Societies’ Associa-
tion, he was the moving spirit behind the
North Coast exhibit at Sydney and Brisbane
shows. He took over control of the Lis-
more paper when his father relinquished
the pen, and retained it till a limited liability
company was floated. His chief interest
in the newspaper was to use the opportuni-
ties it gave to advocate improved agricul-
tural methods.
W. E. Wearne, who led the N.S.W. Coun-
try party into its coalition with the National-
ists, has been a sick man for several years;
The late W.E. WEARNE.
and he had to stand down at the last State
elections. He died at the week-end, aged
63. As a youngster he went on the land
at Bingara and stayed there all through.
He got into Parliament in 1917, and was
soon in the front rank; four .years later he
was George Puller’s deputy-leader in a
coalition Government. His speeches sug-
gested the Methodist pulpit he often occu-
pied ; but he prepared them better than
many parsons do their sermons. Also, per-
haps, he was surer of most of the things
he talked about.
J. J. Simons, the long enthusiast who
founded in Perth the Young Australia League
a quarter of a century ago, to become “The
Boss” to a long succession of clutches of
boy tourists at home and abroad, is a
native of Clare (S.A). Simons first came
into public notice in Westralia as a vigorous
A.N.A. man, along with Arthur O’Connor
(now quartered in San Francisco to attract
American tourist traffic to the Common-
wealth). But the A.N.A. offers scant scope
for political ambitions nowadays, and Simons
presently transferred himself to the Labor
party and secured the nomination for a Fed-
eral division. He was unsuccessful, but
in 1921 he won the State seat of East Perth.
He might have been there yet, for it is a
Labor stronghold, and some professed to
see in the fiercely energetic new member, a
future Labor Premier; but rigid party dis-r
cipline soon jarred on him and he flung up
the seat to re-contest it as an Independent,
whereupon the machine flattened him out.
Amo'ng his numerous activities lie is a cap-
able journalist.
“lodide”: Re Major Connell, chairman of
committees in the N.S.W. Assembly, and
what Broken Hill did for him (B. 7/l/’3l).
He and W. F. Dunn, now also an M.L.A.,
were sent to Broken Hill as schoolteachers;
they joined up with the Burke Ward Labor
League, and soon were delegates to the Dis-
trict Assembly. Then the trouble started;
members of the Public Service weren’t in
those days (1909) allowed to belong to the
wrong political party, and Connell and Dunn
were carpeted and eventually' transferred
from Broken Hill —deported, we called it.
The late Bill Dunstan, afterwards of the
Queensland Arbitration Court, was president
of the District Assembly at the time, and
the standard of debate was astonishingly
high.
It seems pretty certain that Australia’s
old friend Birdwood will step into Lord
Byng’s shoes as Commissioner of the London
Metropolitan Police. Byng, a soldier all his
life, has regalvanised the Metropolitan Force,
and more especially Scotland Yard. That
the alert and understanding Birdwood will
follow in the lines of his predecessor need
not be doubted.


INSURE WITH THE
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED i 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 66,402 10 p.c. = 18,000 48,402 325,741
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 305,741
1920.. 90,906 10 p.c. = 22,500 68,406 374,147
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 349,147
1921.. 83,975 10 p.c. = 25,000 58,975 408,122
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 358,122
1922.. 58,862 10 p.c. = 30,000 28,862 386,984
Transferred to capital, £26,000 .. 361,984
1923.. J 4.839 10 p.c. = 32,500 42,339 404,323
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 379,323
1924.. 74,711 10 p.c. = 35,000 39,711 419,034
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 394,034
1925.. 91,546 10 p.c. = 37,500 1 44 046 438 080
To Pension Reserve, £lO,OOO )
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 413,080
1926.. 66,321 10 p.c. - 40,000 26,321 439,401
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 414,401
1927.. 66,748 10 p.c. = 42,500 24,248 438,649
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 413,649
1928.. 67,403 10 p.c. = 45,000 22,403 436,052
1929.. 66,862 10 „ „ 45,000 21,862 457,914
1930.. 68,231 10 „ ~ 45,000 23,231 481,145
This 68-year-old Australasian fire and
marine office has long had the _ financial
strength, organisation and goodwill neces-
sary to write a much larger business, yet
it preferred to remain a little pernickety in
the selection of its risks. But finding that
its underwriting results were becoming con-
sistently less attractive —the surplus on that
account was £127,000-odd for the five years
to the close of accounts in 1929 as against
a surplus of £212.084 for the preceding quin-
quennium—the management has taken off its
coat and put more ginger into the hunt.
Thus for the period covered by the latest
accounts, when premium incomes generally
shrank, there was a spring of £196,453 in
United’s gross receipts (£912,716). Allow-
ing for reinsurances the improvement in net
premiums, interest, etc. (£413,015) —the
board has not separated the two items for
the last two years—was £85,035 :
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1905.. 88,609 42,250 35,832 47.7 „ 40.4 „
1918.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0 „
1915.. 188,28-7 88,220 77,029 46.8 „ 39.4 „
1920.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
1923.. 263,558 93,600 132,363 35.5 „ 50.2 „
1924.. 285,093 120,668 128,149 42.3 „ 44.9 „
1925.. 297.720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1926.. 296,273 131,016 143,572 44.2 ~ 48.4 „
1927.. 303,470 127,573 155,778 42.0 „ 51.3 „
1928.. 346,391 162,914 164,724 47.0 „ 47.6 „
1929.. 413,015*185,236 160,916
1930.. 498,050'*261,695 168,124
includes interest, etc.
The wider policy-writing brought a heavier
crop of claims, leaving the underwriting
surplus about £17,000, much the same as for
the previous year. That is assuming that the
co.’s own funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) have continued to earn at the same
rate (5.5 p.c.) as in 1928.
On that basis the year’s interest, etc., was
over £5OOO more than the div. called for;
indeed, for the last 18 years interest has
annually outpaced advancing div. require-
ments. The policy has been to keep the div.
steady at 10 p.c. and distribute bonus scrip.
Thus, £325,000 of the £450,000 of paid capi-
tal has been provided out of surplus earn-
ings since 1912. But these gifts worked
their own cure, so a halt was called a couple
of years ago.
What the future holds is, of course, im-
possible to say. The ghost of inflation has
arisen. To what extent, if any, it will play
havoc depends upon the course of events in
politics.
When the books closed, policy-holders were
strongly protected. Net tangibles equalled
208 p.c. of the year’s net premiums, which
-was 58 p.c. more than is usually considered
adequate. Funds were held in this form: —
1920. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Government
seourities .. £276,175 £487,432 £494,828 £503,313
Cash, book
debts, etc. 206.778 274,372 272,091 323,796
Debentures .. 60,831 40,688 40,688 40,688
Mortgages .. 53,988 117,695 123,550 131,729
Premises .. 104,281 103,691 118,759 118,759
Premises are known to be very conserva-
tively valued in the books; but no hint is
given as to the basis on which Government
securities were taken into account.
On the market the £lO shares paid to £5
are now priced around £7 as against £lO a
year ago. At the lower figure the return is
7.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to £lO 6s. lid. in net tangibles.
Farmers and Settlers’ Co-op. Insurance Co.
Income. Losses. Exes. Profit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
July, 7087
1926*.. 87,041 36,173 47,184 3684 3403
1927 . . 63,419 32,739 30,575 105 329 S
Reserves.
1928 . . 61,406 25,601 32,321 3484 186
1929 .. 68,886 29,978 34,596 4312 4498
1930 . . 62,020 25,828 33,259 2933 7431
*lB months.
Shareholders have not received a div. for
the last eight years; and that defeats the
object of the scheme. In order to reinsure
part of the risks the co. was compelled to
charge the same premium as the tariff offices.
Since no concessions could be made in this
direction, policy-holders were invited to take
up shares in proportion to their insurance
business. It was hoped in this way to
quickly develop strong connections at small
cost, and so ensure good divs., which, in
effect, would amount to a rebate of pre-
miums. But poor underwriting results stood
iu the way. The seeds of the trouble were
sown in 1922, when the board decided to
push the business faster than it was inclined
to go. After that £6llB spent on extension
and organisation was capitalised; the item
still stands at £6OOO, though accumulations
had climbed £7431 higher than that when the
books last closed.
Crop insurance is the backbone of the
business. During the last few years the
area under wheat in Australia has been
greatly increased, largely in response to
Government propaganda, but the yield has
been up and down according to seasons, and
the open market price has slipped from 7s.
6d. a bushel in 1928 to Is. Sd. at last week-
end, due to world-wide overproduction. Also
the growth in unemployment has affected
workers’ compensation business.
Thus the co.’s harvest of gross premiums
(£89,710) was £9456 lighter last year.
There was a drop of £2281 in reinsurances
(£29,774), leaving the slip in net premiums
(£59,936) at £7175. Claims were easier,
but exes. (£33,259, including £443 struck
off motor-cars, leases, etc.) made off with
54.7 p.c. of the net premiums compared with
51, 53.8 and 49.4 p.c. back to 1927—they
are much too high considering the semi-
co-operative nature of the business. The
contraction in the underwriting surplus
(£1292) was £1628. Interest, etc., brought
in £2084; the net result (£2933) was 5.3
p.c. on capital as against 8 p.c. in 1929.
Paid capital is in 146,336 shares of 10s.
each called to 7s. 6d. The funds are in-
vested in this way :
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £54,844 £54,990 £54,990 £55,043
Sundry creditors 4,905 5,635 4,062 3,255
Equipment, leases,
etc .. .. 2,905 5,484 6,741 5,985
Sundry debtors . . 24,164 15,283 16,734 16,322
Cash, investments,
etc 29,277 39,744 39,959 43,365
Shares in other
cos 500 5*90 500
At the close of accounts policy-holders could
see net tangibles with a book value of
£62,474. In addition, there was £18,075 of
uncalled capital; together equal to 134 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, and a bit more
than that is usually looked for.
Until a larger business can be handled
at less cost, and reserves accumulated, there
is not likely to be much in it for share-
holders. The net tangible backing amounts
to Bs. 6d. per share.
Paterson, Laing & Bruce, Ltd.
, Dividends •,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
Juiv, £ £ £ £ £
1920.. 94,105 29,750 12J p.c. =31,250 33,105 104,116
Loss.
1921.. 13,746 30,000 7J „ „ 18,750 41,620
Profits.
1922.. 51,961 30,000 7i „ „ 18,750 3,211 44,831
1923.. 84,545 30,000 10 „ „ 25.000 29,545 74,376
1924.. 67,014 33,000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,014 83.390
1925.. 61,377 36,000 7* „ „ 18,750 6,627 90,017
1926.. 58,321 36,000 7\ „ ~ 15,750 3,571 93,588
1927.. 61,756 36,000 10 „ ~ 25,000 756 94.344
1928.. 63,550 36,000 10 „ „ 25,000 2.550 96.894
1929.. 59,875 36,000 7-1 „ ~18,750 5,125 102.019
Transferred to Pension Fund, £5000.. 97,019
1930.. 27,970 36,000 3 p.c. = 7,500 81,489
There is £850,000 of share capital to feed,
including 600,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs.; also
there is £230,000 of 4| p.c. first-mortgage
debenture stock, redeemable in 1950 at a
premium of 10 p.c. So £830,000 of the share
and debenture capital combined is costing the
co. a moderate 5.6 p.c.; yet J:he board had
to draw upon reserves for £15,530 last year
to pay that rate on the sum mentioned and
3 p.c. on the quarter-million of ordinaries.
Things looked good enough to pay the ords.
an interim at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. for the
first half, but no final div. was paid.
Since the books closed and the figures were
sent to London, where the headquarters are,
and back again, events have hastened to make
importing vastly more difficult and expensive.
Owing to the shortage of Australian funds m
London, due to the stoppage of overseas
credit on Government account and the coi-
lapse of prices for our staples, £125 or more
has now to be paid here for £lOO in London,
and the amount available at that; price is
very limited. Also, when imported goods
arrive, heavily increased tariff, primage and
surcharge levies have to be met. Meanwhile
prices generally are easing, turnovers con-
tinue to contract and the bad debts question
daily becomes more acute, especially in the
country, where much of the business of this
and other softgoods wholesalers is done. It
is obvious therefore that the future ot the
Australian wholesaler lies mainly in sup-
porting and working in with Australian in-
dustry. , .
But how long the change-over is likely to
take, and what may happen meantime, is
impossible to say at the moment; it depenus
upon factors mainly outside the co. s con-
trol. Until the general price-level ceases
to fall traders will continue to adopt a hand-
to-mouth buying policy. Moreover, the co.
may find that it is unable to employ the
whole of its present capital in the business
with satisfactory results; one danger is that
part of the liquid surplus might be consumed
in unprofitable trading, thus reducing the
amount of capital that it may be possible
to return. The future, in. fact, is full ot
uncertainty; it depends chiefly upon what
happens in respect of the currency, and it
might be a while before the Government
sets a definite course in' this respect.
The large risks to which the co. is exposed,
and how it is equipped for a stiuggle, aie
seen in this next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:— ml 1926 . 1929 . 1930.
Ordinary .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Preference .. 500,000 600,000 600,000 600,000
Debentures .. 233,642 233,642 233,642 23^,642
Sundry creditors 682,664 487,675 390,811 367,070
Freeholds,* etc. 341,901 383,285 379,519 378,621
Stock.. .. 959,713 678,303 715,753 692,215
Book debts . . 305,085 509,457 390,028 375,731
Investments and „
cash . . 125,542 121,233 118,547 104,139
Stocks are claimed to be clean and vigorously
discounted, and a lot depends upon that and
whether allowances for bad debts prove to
be adequate. The more or less liquid sur :
plus (£804,510, including stocks) was £29,UO<
lighter than at the previous balance.
Both lots of prefs.—3so,ooo A’s and
250,000 B’s; the div. on the latter is free of
English income tax up to 6s. in the £ and
the ords. are listed on Australian ’Changes,
but they have not a very active market The
net tangible backing amounts to 535. 2d. and
465. 6d. for the A and B shares respectively,
and to 265. 6d. for the ords.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct. Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 80,802 12J p.e. = 75,000 5,802 114,062
1921.. 48,727 8 „ „ 48,000 727 114,789
1922.. 48,484 61 „ „ 37,500 10,984 125,773
1923.. 49,103 61 „ „ 37,500 11,603 137,376
1924 59 163 61 „ „ 37,500 21,063 159,039
Hit.. 38,3 M 61 „ „ 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £36,310 .. •• •• 128,568
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. •• 135,661
1926.. 7,412 Nil 128,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,352
Profit.
1927.. 48,486 71 p.e. = 47,723 763 141,115
Written off goodwill, £12,104 . . 153,219
L 928,. 33,042 5 p.e. = 31,816 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £100,000.. 254,440
Loss. •
1929.. 105,342 Nil ■
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500 .. 116,603
1930.. 104,435 Nil 12,168
Profit margins are so narrow in the Maori-
land freezing business that even a small drop
in Smithfield (Eng.) lamb and mutton
prices plays havoc with the cos.’ figures. Last
year’s recessions in the mutton and by-pro-
ducts markets ranged from about 30 p.e. to
50 p.e., while competition kept fat stock at
relatively high figures. _ Moreover, the co.
missed top prices early in the season owing
to dry conditions. So. despite record slaugh-
terings, and notwithstanding that it operates
in one of the best lamb- and mutton-produc-
ing centres in the world, it again registered
a heavy loss.
Recognising that the unsound features of
the trade were likely to cause trouble sooner
or later, the board strengthened inner re-
serves wherever opportunity offered. It was
thus able to bring £lOO,OOO from hiding 12
months ago. This and the previously exhi-
bited accumulations enabled the co. to rub
out the trading losses of the last two years
(£209,777), strike £32,500 off the debenture
on the Pukeuri Farmers’ Freezing Works
“in accordance with the satisfactory work-
ing arrangement” with the purchasers, and
start the current term with the whole of its
capital intact and visibly £12,168 besides.
Capital, by the way, was doubled in 1919
by a transfer from profits accumulated during
the war years; which explains the moderate
run of dlvs. since, and why the scrip lias
been at a discount for the past decade.
Though a smaller lambing is figured upon
for the current year, markings promise to
be well in excess of the average for the last
five seasons. Prices overseas appear to be
steadier, but there is little prospect of a rise;
competition from the Argentine is keener,
and the overcapacity of the industry in
Maoriland tends to keep operating costs
higher than they ought to be. Early divi-
dend prospects have also been impaired by
the need for the co. to strengthen its shock-
absorbers. Thus the market has dropped
its bid for the pound shares from 13s. to Os.
over the last 12 months. The net tangible
backing is 20s. Id., all in plant, etc., worth
what it can earn.
Here is the skeleton of the business as the
published accounts reveal it: —
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £636,310 £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Liabilities . . 699,379 534,112 752,702 951,954
Fixed assets.. 755,545 774,164 764,144 780,417
Other assets.. 726,201 582,519 773,972 820,015
Liabilities, which include advances received
against shipments, and something _ set aside
for depreciation and contingencies, were
£131,939 in excess of liquids at Oct. 31 as
against a liquid surplus of £21,270 a year
earlier. Much obviously depends upon the
figure at which unrealised consignments were
taken into account. The co.’s five works are
reported thoroughly efficient. The electrifica-
tion of the Imlay plant and rebuilding of the
Smitlifield (Eng.) premises added only
£10,273 to the book value of fixed assets last
year.
Red Funnel Fisheries, Ltd. (N.S.W.).
To lie- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 9566 7i p.c. = 4304 5262 1814
Deficit.
Added preliminary exes., £4392 .. 2578
1927.. 8605 8 p.c. = 6645 1960 618
Reserves.
1928.. 1963 Nil 1963 1345
1929.. 1953 Nil 1953 3298
Capital reduced by 12s. per share —
6s. returned and 6s. written off —
and £BOO of reserves disappears . . 2498
Loss.
1930.. 2498 Nil
This Sydney trawling enterprise quickly got
into rough water. It bought a couple of
vessels from D. P. Ilann and the New State
Fish and Ice Co.’s business for £35,000 (in
scrip) about five years ago. Soon it had
eight trawlers, and paid capital grew to
£i24,550. Then, owing to changed condi-
tions in the industry, the co. found itself
over-capitalised. Meantime Captain Fred-
erick Waley took the helm, and he appears
to have put the business on an even keel
again, though 6s. per share of the capital
had to be jettisoned.
Having made the fleet A 1 at Lloyds, he
was able to sell a couple of the trawlers in
1929, and, rather than tie them up, he sold
another two “at a satisfactory figure” early
in the last term. Thus the board was also
able to return 6s. per share in cash, reducing
paid capital to £49,940 in 175,000 fully-paid
Bs. shares at Nov. 30.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts the demand for fish was not suffi-
cient to keep the co.’s four vessels fully
employed, and prices eased. Also the fish
had to be trawled for at greater distances
from Sydney, making it difficult to restrain
operating costs. Thus a loss of £2498 showed
up, which exactly wiped out the paper re-
serves. As for the current term there is
little prospect of either a better demand or
stronger prices, much will depend upon the
extent to which overhead can be kept in
hand. Until some of the weaker concerns
in the overcrowded industry drop out, and
so enable the survivors to build up an ade-
quate turnover, nothing much need be looked
for in the way of profits.
The sale of the trawlers, however, _ has
placed the co. in a much stronger position
for a struggle, as this next comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows :
1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £57,389 £124,850 £49,940
Liabilities .. .. 43,885 14,425 3,828
Fixed assets . . ~ 103,201* 136,591* 30,664
Government securities. . 6,892
Book debts . . . . 3,816 4,939 3,068
Cash 375 1,043 13,144
* Iricludes investments.
Thus, after returning £37,455 of capital,
the liquid surplus was £19,276 when the
books last closed. The £37,455 of capital
that was jettisoned, together w T ith of
reserves, enabled the board to rub out £1787
of preliminary exes, and lop £40,261 off the
book value of fixed assets.
On the market buyers offer Is. 6d. and
sellers ask ss. for the scrip.
Gowing Bros. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
8 p.c. £47,039
1928. . £14,023 £3288 7 p.c. = £9910 £825 47,864
1929.. 13,664 5943 5 „ „ 7113 608 48,472
Added Reserves, £6729 55,201
1930.. 3,317 6000 Nil 52,518
Gowings, who have been in the men’s
clothing trade for over 60 years, made some
handsome profits out of buying and selling
city properties during the boom years. In
the end it was decided to put up a substantial
head-office building of 14 storeys, with plenty
of letting space. Also the freeholds of most
of the co.’s branch shops were purchased,
until the money invested in properties caused
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


ŕ
SJ
THE MAJOR
THE ARISTOCRAT
-s*-
J TKE FRETS’
AN IMMEDIATE
EFFECT of the TARIFF
Godfrey Phillips’ enterprise
now enables you to buy the
original English quality cigar-
ettes at 9 for 6d. They are made
in Australia by Australian
workers in an up-to-date Austra-
lian factory built by Australians
with combined Australian and
English enterprise and capital!
But we do not appeal to your
patriotism alone! No matter
which blend you most fancy—
Army Club, Greys or De Reszke
—you get greater value, the
original English quality for 9
for 6d.
Australia now produces the best
cigarettes in the world .
JrmyClub DE RESZKE
Now 9 (or 6d.;
THE GREYS
18 for 1/-
ORIGINAL IMPORTED QUALITY GUARANTEED BY GODFREY PHILLIPS (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LTD. GPA.4c


Watch Your
Step f
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
JANUARY NUMBER NOW
ON SALE.
. SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEli ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
❖ * Sfc *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colj.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Because Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-corrosive, it
gives longer, more economical and equally efficient
service, when compared with any other type of
conduit. These facts —when considered with its initial
low cost and ease and cheapness of handling and
laying—provide the reason why Pioneer Wood Pipe
is to-day recognised as the ideal conduit for water
supply or any undertaking calling for the use of
piping. Fullest particulars on request to the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foots-
cray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
r
m
ŕ
LORRIES . FEED CUTTERS \ . -' PETROL ENGINES
RUN BETTER and LAST LONGER WHEN LUBRICATED 4 vith
ALE MITE
THE HIGH RRESSiJRE. LUBRICATION.*
INVINCIBLE
MARINE MOTORS
are stocked in
12 popular sizes:
2J h.p to 60 h.p.
“The World’s Best Since 1906”
All Spare Parts always available.
Write for 30-page illustrated
Catalogue.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LTD.
Sydney Showrooms:
53 North George Street
(near Harbor Bridge).
a strain on finances. The co. had been work-
ing on a paid capital of £140,535, all in pri-
vate hands, but in December, 1927, the public
took up 75,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. Since
then the outlay on the new build-
ing has been heavy, over £200,000 being
added to the book value of fixed assets during
the last two years.
The new headquarters were completed in
December, 1929, and the co. took up occu-
pation of the lower floors. Though considerable
benefit to turnover was expected from the
new showrooms, the reduced spending of the
public affected trade ; and, to make matters
worse, the bottom fell out of the letting
market. Thus the co. has been left with much
vacant floor space on its hands, while
interest and other fixed charges re-
main unabated. The year’s operations re-
sulted in a profit of £3317, a drop of £10,347
compared with the previous year, and £2683
short of the pref. div. requirements. No-
thing was written off furniture, fittings, etc.,
but the directors consider that previous
allowances have been ample.
During the year a resumption claim
against the N. S. Wales Itailway Commis-
sioners was settled, and the co. added £6729
to reserves. It has undertaken to repurchase
a resumed property from the Commissioners
in about a year’s time for £125,000; the co.’s
present interest in the freehold appears at
£13,265. R'ere is the position as balance-
sheet figures show it: —
TQOQ IQ9Q IQOft
Ord. capital .. .. £142,120 £142,545 £142,545
Pref. capital .. .. 72,149 75,000 75,000
Liabilities . . . . 92,781 194,447 296,288
Freeholds, leaseholds,
fittings, etc. . . 220,629 331,139 422,397
Stocks 49,661 43,387 53,886
Book debts . . . . 12,037 13,239 11,356
Investments . . .. 78,257 78,257 78,711
Outside liabilities totalled £296,288 at July
31; £233,500 of that was on mortgage, and
the balance represented overdraft, creditors,
etc. The excess of liabilities over liquids
(£152,335) increased £92,770 during the
term, mainly because of the outlay of £91,258
on fixed assets (£422,397). Stocks (£53,886)
were £10,499 heavier.
The chief danger is that the heavy
outside debt may hamper the co.’s trad-
ing operations. Advantages usually go
to the retailer with ready cash, and at the
moment the banks are unable to give much
assistance. Thus, though on paper the prefs.
are covered by £3 12s. in net tangibles, ail
in freeholds, etc., the market looks at the
large outside debt and the shrinkage in
property values, and offers only ss. for the
scrip; sellers stand off at 12s. 6d. The
ords. are all held privately.
Broken Hill
The militants tried hard to stop the
Broken Hill miners from agreeing to any-
thing at all without a fight; but after an
emissary had been rushed to Sydney and
doubtless been shown around the Treasury,
there, was little official encouragement to
fight. At the last big meeting >a speaker
said that Mr. Quintrell, the emissary before
mentioned, “had announced that the Govern-
ment would assist them.” Promptly Mr.
Quintrell took safer ground than that. He
wanted them to understand that they were
not his words, but merely those of a couple
of Ministers. The meeting was held in the
open air on the Jubilee Oval; a division.
being called for, the “Ayes” (for acceptance of
a hostile motion) poured out through one gate
(856) and the “Noes” through another (1386).
The effect is that the basic wage is fixed
at the State basic wage (£4 2s. 6d.) plus
7s. 6d. a week. But if the State basic wage
falls below £4 2s. 6d„ then the unions may
give two months’ notice of the termination
of the agreement; during that two months
they must work at the reduced rate, what-
ever it may be. The North was ready to
start work on the new terms forthwith; the
South and Zinc Corp. took two or three
days to get ready. It is still doubtful
whether the Sulphide Corp. will resume pro-
duction. The others cannot do anything on
these terms with metals at present prices.
The three named are, however, easily the
biggest of the group nowadays.
There is a curious addendum to the terms
of settlement: “That we accept the mining
cos.’ offer of co-operation in bringing down
the cost of living.” It will ,be interesting
to see how the two parties will co-operate.
The negotiations were carried through by
delegates from the unions led by Messrs
O’Neill, Ericksen and Quintrell, while Cyril
Emery led the owners’ negotiators. W. S.
Kobinson, of London, chairman of the Zinc
Corp. and heavily interested in other cos.,
visited Broken Hill during the proceedings,
and had a private talk over the situation
with representative unionists. There is no
doubt that the information he gave them
greatly influenced some of the leaders.
Briseis tin-mine, practically destroyed
with all its plant by a bursting dam in
April, 1929, has been sold to a syndicate.
The shares are mostly held in Britain, and
though the Tasmanian shareholders and
directors made valiant efforts to bring about
reconstruction and the formation of a new
company, the weight of opinion in London
was against them, though the Tasmanian
Government offered to lend the co. £25,000
for 15 years, free of interest for the first five
years, conditionally on the co. spending £2
for each £1 lent. The old co. went into
liquidation in March, 1930, and though the
formation of the new co. was attempted, the
expected financial backing—£9o,ooo was asked
for from old shareholders—did not materialise.
The capital of the original co., formed in
London 30 years ago, was £600,000, and on
this divs. amounting to £517,500 have been
paid. The estimated cost of getting the
into working order again is only
£b5,000. Though no details are available
the price paid for the property is said to
be ridiculously low. There is no question
about its tin content either; the floods have
laid bare additional deposits whose exist-
ence had not hitherto been suspected.
* * * *
Old Gira” ; One of those queer gold finds
which knock the expert mining man bandy
has been reported from Larkinville, near
Kalgoorlie. A local youth was rooting about
after the manner of the average goldfields
youth, and tumbled on Westralia’s biggest
nugget, weighing 11230 z. fine. Already it has
“Golden Eagle,” and an offer of
±OOOO refused. That would be approximately
its actual value at £4 ss. an ounce, plus
the premium of the exchange. The usual
rush followed, and a few other good finds
were recorded, including one of 114 oz. The
country is bare red loam bottoming on
cement about 18 inches down. The early
•Vestralian dryblowers were familiar with
this type of surface gold, but no one has
ever given a satisfactory explanation of how
1 , sot there. There have been similar finds
elsewhere m Australia, notably at Poseidon,
m Victoria, where some fine lumps were found
Aist under the grass roots, and at Dee
Kiver, outside Rockhampton, in Central
Queensland. In this last case the gold was
found in red clay flats at a shallow depth,
in none of these instances have there been
any indications of “shedding” in the nuggets
themselves, nor was any sign of a parent for-
mation found in the vicinity.
* * * *
“Retort”: “Shale” (B. 31/12/’3O) makes
a very high estimate in taking the Tas-
manian shale oil ex retorts as worth 6d. per
gailon (yield of 40 gallons = 20s. per ton),
ihe oil has a calorific value considerably
less than crude well petroleum, which can
be imported at a cost not exceeding 3d. This
crude oil also contains a greater proportion of
j Eaotor-spirit fraction, much less sulphur,
and higher grade lubricating oil fractions.
The value ea: retorts would. I think, be less
than half that given by “Shale.” Quantity
1S disputed: the Tasmanian Department
of Mines estimates that in the Latrobe-Rail-
ton, Kimberley, Oonah and Beulah areas the
oil shale (tasmanite) totals 42 million tons
containing 1,770,000,000 gallons gross.
* * * #
Tongkah Harbor’s 24th annual report to
September 30 strikes a somewhat gloomv
" ote ' Tlifi co. which first put Australia on
the Malayan tin-dredging map finished the
year with a loss of £6O, after allowing for
depreciation and leave pay. Working profit
was £9009. During the year the co. was
5 0 Q?o P^ d t to , raise nominal capital to
£.H2,500 from the original £250,000 by mak-
ing another ss. c&ll&blG on o&ch of the
original pound shares. Two calls of a shil-
ling have since been made, and the sale of
shares on which the calls were not paid
brought in another £25 000. Owing to low
metal prices only two of the dredges, No. 7 at
Ohelong and No. 8 at Bidor, worked full
time, the chance being taken to recondition
the others. Working costs were low at
3-779 d. per yard, this being reduced to
2.90 d. per yard during the last months of
the year. Credit at p. and 1. account at Sept.
oO stood at £59,225. To date the co. has
recovered 30.928 tons of tin oxide, sold for
±2,569,381. Dividends of 85s. per share have
been paid, totalling £640,000, or more than
two and a half times the original authorised
capital. In spite of present metal prices the
potential value of the properties held by the
co. are considerable, and several offers have
been made by other companies desirous of
joining in. If the outlook improves, some-
thing of the sort may be undertaken, or
some of the properties in question disposed of.
* * * *
Selayang Tin, a Malayan co. registered in
London but with Australian affiliations, has
decided _to suspend work until tin prices
again rise to a profitable mark. Mainten-
ance charges have been cut to tne bone,
and the directors and mine staff have agreed
to halve their fees and salaries. The. stop-
page will enable the, co. to conserve its
cash resources and avoid sacrificing its ore
reserves. The original vendors of the pro-
perty were Malcolm Newman and F. G.
Pratten, of Alluvial Tin, who received
£40,000 in f.-p. shares. Capital is £140,000
in fully-paid pound shares. The mine, while
a moderate producer, has never lived up
to the original boring estimates, which ran
from ,601 b. to .901 b. per cubic yard. A
rough limestone bottom, the existence of
which was not suspected until digging set in,
has hampered recoveries.
The outlook for gold-mining in West-
ralia is brightening, and the inddstry is
unlikely to have any dark or dismal days in
1931. It has a substantial premium on pro-
duction and a bonus to help it along, the
great Wiluna mine will reach the producing
stage in a few months, increased outputs
are expected from two other big mines, and
some old mines which years ago furnished
large returns will probably be re-worked.
In addition, prospecting parties have been
sent out and others are preparing to follow
suit. The most important factor, however,
is that the exchange premium and the bonus
should make payable many low-grade ores,
which in the past were looked on as
unprofitable. All over the fields there are
deposits of ore which, without these extras,
mining men wouldn’t bother their heads about.
* * *
Interest in the oft-prospected Lightning
Paddock (Tullamore, N.S.W.) has revived
lately. Several prospecting parties are work-
ing, and a small quantity of fine gold, with
one idwt. speck, has been won. Most of
the metal is surface stuff. A new platinum-
and-gold find lias also been reported, showing
a gram to the dish on the surface. The
exact location is known so far only to the
finders, Arthur Cornett and party.
* * *
“Clodhopper”: Re Bulletin inquiries con-
cerning New Guinea. When I was in Papua
less than two years ago, experienced miners
for the Ellyou Co. at Edie Creek were get-
ting £35 per month and “found.” Three
went over from Queensland during my stay;
I understand they were engaged in Sydney.
A prospector needs to have at least £509
to land with in New Guinea or Papua. The
most advisable thing to do is to get a job,
but according to recent information things
just now are dead, and work is scarce both
in Papua and the Mandated Territory.
There is also talk of retrenchment in admin-
istrative affairs, and the markets for copra,
metals, etc., are very dull.
Re Lucknow Pups. (1) What extent of
pyrites ore have they? (2) Cost to treat
per ton? (3) Quantity of brown vein ore?
(4) Prospects? —B3o.
(1), (2) and (3) Impossible to say. Sec-
retary A. J. Peacock, 339 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, might be able to supply particulars.
(4) Development is proceeding, and exten-
sive dewatering done. A return from the
first parcel of concentrates is expected
shortly, and a complete battery return by
the end of this month should throw some
light on prospects.
(1) Density of osmiridium? (2) Hard-
ness compared with steel? (3) Value? —6So.
(1) Osmiridium is an alloy of osmium,
iridium and other rare minerals, such as
rhodium, ruthenium, etc., in varying propor-
tions. The density or specific gravity of
osmium is 22.48 and iridium 22.42. The
melting point is 2500 deg. C. (2) Hardness
in mineral scale 6-7 (harder than ordinary
steel). (3) Value of Tasmanian osmiridium
is £l5 to £l6 p n r ounce (nominal). South
African, £l2. The value is dependent upon
the percentage of iridium.
How could a low-grade ore which goes
3 dwt. over plates and same in tailings be
made payable without the heavy expense of
battery erection? The ore is very soft; lode,
Bft. x 20 ft., with 20,000 tons in sight. —879.
Ore yielding 6dwt. to the ton may be made
profitable in one district while in an isolated
part it may prove unprofitable. Much de-
pends upon its location and the existing
local conditions. Many mines in the Ben-
digo and Ballarat districts paid large divi-
dends on ore of this value, but of a free
milling nature. Some form of crushing is
necessary before the gold can be recovered
by amalgamation, concentration or cyanide,
but whether this is done by battery or rolls
is immaterial. Crushing plants are usually
less costly to instal and run.
(1) Bulletin (7/l/’3l) said: “The
greater the fall there is in the value of Aus-
tralian money the stronger will be the move-
ment to 'withdraw deposits from Australian
banks, and the more imperative will it then
be for the banks to. get in advances.” Why
is this? (2) In several issues The Bulle-
tin has indicated that the adverse exchange
rates against Australia constitute a form of
local inflation. Why is this? — llos.
(1) A fall in the value of money makes
people want to get it out of the country to
a place of safety, or, if they can’t or won't
do that, to put it into something which they
believe will be less damaged by inflation.
Deposits will be specially liable to damage
because the bank will repay the depositor in
inflated currency. And obviously as a
bank’s deposits shrink, so must its advances.
(2) Our £1 is certainly worth less than £1
sterling; and if that is not inflation, it is
one of the first results of inflation. Our real
trouble at present is that we have no stan-
dard of value, being “off” gold.
I am holding a sum of money for two
dependent children. How can I protect it?
—ll2B.
Thousands have been trying; read “The
Rush of the Rats,” Plain English page,
this issue. Lately the popular plan has been
to buy wool and ship it for sale in Europe.
That can still be done; but the panicky rush
for wool has, it is believed, driven the local
price considerably beyond what it would have
reached with only ordinary trade competi-
tion ; on the other hand, the European market
is steadily falling. There is consequently
plenty of room for large losses in the busi-
ness, and it is quite possible that this method
may cost the exporters of capital much more
than the present 25 p.c. exchange. We know
no sure way of transferring money over-
seas for less than that, and the question is,
Is the risk worth it?
Would inflation help the hanks to make
more profit and cause their shares to rise in
market values? —lo92.
Inflation in general helps the debtor to
get i»id of his debts and robs the creditor.
Quick inflation would thus enable the bank
to rob the depositor, and the man with ah
overdraft or a mortgage to rob the bank —
unless it could see ways and means of pro-
tecting itself, which is not easy when a
debtor can pay the bank off with inflated cur-
rency. Many banks in Germany were ruined
by inflation; a few escaped without serious
loss. None appear to have actually made
money out of it. Really, the only people
who seem to have made money in Germany
then were the speculators who in one way
and another got hold of fixed property—
often by borrowing on it and letting the
inflation practically wipe out the debt. In
many cases these men retained the means
to operate by sending money out of the
country before the inflation got well into its
stride- —when, in short, there was only going
to be “moderate inflation.”
BRIEF ANSWERS.
K. J.F.: Depends on circumstances of each
co. A crisis shouldn’t injure them unless they
were dependent on calls to carry 0n... .M.D.H-:
Hang on as long as you can Very Anxious: Very
uncertain; but, if you are not willing to risk
inflation, Coles, Herald and Glass, in that order.
P.S.C.: By no means sure; the inflationists
have more than one nasty hurdle to get over....
N.D.: But thousands have been doing that for four
months past; and it would cost you at least 25
per cent. At the moment M.L. purchases are the
most popular... .Way Out: (1 and 2) Yes. (3)
At the moment it costs £l6 10s. to send £lC*3
from Australia to M.L. (4) Possibly the B. H. P.
Co. (5 and 6) Impossible to say; financial crashes
take so many forms.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Should Interest Rates Be Reduced?
Dear Bulletin, — The recently formed
Producers’ Advisory Council has joined hands
with the Wild Men of the Labor party in
their demand for a reduction of interest rates
as a panacea for our present difficulties;
the argument being that reduced rates wouid
remove much of the burden on industry, and
so promote a business revival. The idea is
apparently that Government borrowers, sav-
ings and trading banks and other financial
institutions should take simultaneous and
concerted action, and offer a lower rate for
deposits, thus forcing down interest rates
generally.
Quite apart from the impossibility of
securing such concerted action, and over-
looking the fact that any arbitrary reduc-
tion in interest rates would be playing
into the hands of the present holders of
long-dated securities, thus favoring one class
at the expense of the rest of the community,
it is open to grave doubt whether reduced
rates would be of any benefit whatever in
restoring prosperity, if indeed they did not
retard its return.
All parties agree that prosperity can only
be regained through a business revival, but
it has yet to be proved that, “generally speak-
ing, a low rate of interest provides an en-
vironment favorable to revival,” as the Pro-
ducers’ Advisory Council avers. There is
no need to expose this fallacy by theorising ;
the facts gleaned from the current experience
of other countries speak for themselves.
European interest rates have been falling for
a long time past, until now the bank rates
of the more important countries, incluaing
Britain, stand at the lowest point in many
years. And has any revival accompanied
these low interest rates? Indeed, each pro-
gressive fall seems to have been attended by
a fresh wave of depression, until now the
number of British unemployed is the highest
on record, having been nearly doubled in 12
months. So much for the British experience
of low interest rates.
There is only one Way known to attract
the investment of capital in business enter-
prise and that is to offer a sufficient return
to compensate for the supposed risk in-
volved. And no doubt it can be fairly argued
that an excellent way to divert money into
trading channels is to force down the return
on gilt-edged investments, and so make the
former type of investment more attractive by
contrast. But “Safety First” is the investor’s
motto these times.
Suppose, however, that interest on gilt-
edged investments in Australia were reduced
to such a level as to actually divert money
into trading channels, what hope would there
be for Governments when it came to floating
a new loan, or even arranging a conversion
loan?
This is not an attempt to prove that high
interest rates are a good thing for a country;
but money is only a commodity and is gov-
erned by the same laws that control all other
price levels. If there was a rumor that the
Government intended by legislation to reduce
the price of, say, flour, there would be an
immediate drop in that commodity. At
present there is a fear abroad that the
Federal Government will reduce the value of
public securities by inflating the currency,
and so there is a fall in that commodity, and
a consequent rise in the wages of capital.
Once let the fear of inflation be removed
from the minds of investors, and there will
be no need for the Producers’ Advisory Coun-
cil to worry so much over the rate of interest.
Interest rates arc not so much a cause of
a nation’s troubles as an indicator of iLs
financial health. If we wish to heal the
nation, let us get down to the root causes
of the trouble and not tinker about with the
symptoms.—-Yours etc., A. L. H.
Was Australia’s Leg Pulled?
Dear Bulletin, —The prospectus for the
recent loan was vague and indefinite enough
to satisfy the most Irresponsible company
promoter.' All loyal Australians were asked
to subscribe to a £28,000,000 “Conversion
and Redemption” loan —that’s all. The papers
amplified this information and gave us to
understand that £18,000,000 was required
to cover the amount due on December 15,
£1,000,000 was for our good friend Mr. Lang,
and the balance of £9X100,000 was intended
for future conversions.
It is now announced that about £29,000,000
has been put up, there is £2,000,000 to come
from the sinking fund, and the Savings Bank
of N. S. Wales has not, we are informed,
converted its £5,000,000-odd of the old loan;
total 36 millions. This gives the Govern-
ments a surplus of £8,000,000 to work on.
In addition to this, the difference between
£18,000,000 and £29,000,000 can be played
with “until w r anted”; then, having gone,
never to return, another “Conversion and
Redemption” loan may be floated.
The position has great possibilities, and
here may be found Lang’s promised millions.
What funds are here, my countrymen, to
create the right atmosphere for a double
dissolution! There are suspicions of a con-
spiracy of silence on the part of the Loan
Council, and it is at least a curious coinci-
dence that immediately the loan was filled,
the Federal Government voted £500,000 to
the unemployed, and wheat-farmers in several
States were promised immediate remittances.
•Have the Loan Council and the Federal Gov-
ernment conspired to use a portion of the
loan for revenue purposes?—Yours etc.,
A. J. T.
Developments in Borneo
“E.V.A.” (Sarawak, Borneo) : Sarawak
is the only country in the world that is ruled
by a white Rajah. The present Rajaji, Sir
Charles Vyner Brooke, G.C.M.G., fs the
3rd Rajah, having succeeded his father, Sir
Charles, in 1917.
The first Rajah, the present Rajah’s grand-
uncle, was the famous Sir James Brooke,
who, by force of personality and without
any help from outside, so impressed the
natives that they asked him to remain as
Rajah, and to such good purpose did lie
rule that he turned what w-as a pirate-ridden
and bloodthirsty country into a contented
and happy land. His successor continued i.he
good work and stamped out head-hunting and
extended the borders of the country, and
now under the 3rd Rajah Sarawak is making
great commercial strides. .
The principal industry is oil-production,
the Sarawak field turned out about 7CMJ,OUU
tons of oil last year and the output is
increasing, which means Sarawak produce
the second largest quantity of oil m tie
British Empire. , .
The headquarters of the oilfield _are a
Miri, which in 1908 was a small fishing vil-
lage and now is quite a big town. In con-
nection with the development of this oilfield
not enough recognition has been granted to
the late' Dr. Chas. Hose, D.Sc., without
whose constant efforts Miri to-day would per-
haps still be the little fishing village o
former days. Dr. Hose, in spite of rebuff
after rebuff, stuck to his theory that Min was
oil-bearing and eventually got people inter-
ested. Owing to there being a bar at tfie
mouth of the Miri River it is impossible for
big ships to come close, and the difficulty
of shipping the oil away has been overcome
by laying sea-loading pipe lines. After
several more or less failures the longest sea-
loading line in the world (over 14,500 feet—
-2-| miles) was successfully laid in UZI. it
can load 190 tons of liquid fuel per hour
and 150 tons of benzine or kerosene. .
There is a comparatively unexplored in-
terior which the writer has had the privi-
lege to travel and which will undoubtedly m
the future be found to contain valuable
minerals; moreover there is a plateau at a
height of 4000 feet where the climate will
rival any in the world and where the fer-
tility of'the soil should make it a paradise
for colonisation by white people.
Communications are being improved by
roads and there is wireless installed through-
out the country; and aeroplanes have been
used in survey work. They regularly carry
mails.
Retail Price-fixing by Manufacturers
“Tackaburra”: “P. I. Napple,” defending
the manufacturer’s efforts at controlling
retail prices, states that the matter is or
utmost importance to the manufacturer,
because without distribution there can be no
manufacturing. But the lnaniua.cturer can
always do his own distributing, as Australian
manufacturers of farm implements have so
long done. The truth of the matter is that
the manufacturer allows himself to be dictated
to by some twopenny-ha’penny merchants asso-
ciation or traders’ organisa-
tion, which exists solely to l
the purpose of keeping prices
up. A charge is frequently
made against unions by these
very people that the efficient
worker is brought down to
the level of the slipshod one
by the policy of day labor,
consequently he has no in-
centive to do more or better
work than the careless chap
who works alongside of him
and receives the same pay.
Is this not on all-fours with
the case of the inefficient
trader whose profits are
“protected” by the manufac-
turer, which means that the
buying public has to pay. a
higher price to keep the in-
efficient man in business?
An Australian Motor
Industry
Dear Bulletin, —In our
present extremity every en-
couragement should be given
to the establishment of an
Australian motor industry,
which, it may reasonably be
supposed, could ultimately
absorb the present sales and
accessory organisations.
The petrol engine, accord-
ing to reputable authorities,
has practically reached the.
peak of development, and no
radical changes seem prob-
able to make existing de-
signs obsolete. Certainly the
lieavy-oil engine is receiving
much attention on the Con-
tinent and in England, but
it is not likely to supplant
the petrol engine in general
use for some time to come.
Hence we can pin our faith
to the petrol-driven vehicle,
and, by eliminating most ot
the luxury gadgets, which
mainly function as selling
points, get down to the pro-
duction of a car quite good
enough for business and more
in keeping with our means.
But no plan will help an
Australian motor industry of
the “back-yard” type to suc-
cess. The days have passed
when a great manufacturing
organisation can be develop-
ed from the efforts of an
enthusiastic skilled mechanic,
and the venture demands
strong and courageous finan-
cial backing (not so easy
now), the establishment of
modern plant, and no experi-
menting at the expense of
the customers. Defence con-
siderations alone demand
that we be self-contained in
the production of automo-
biles, and there are many
auxiliary manufactures,
such as aircraft engines and
farm tractors, in which it
may be profitable to engage
as the industry develops.
There seems no better way
to commence than by manu-
facturing under license from
a reputable. British firm. In
this manner we secure the
accumulated experience be-
hind, their products and
(what is vital to success)
reduce the risks of an un-
satisfactory job to a mini-
m u m. —Y ours faithfully,
Decapod.
How Taxes Work Out
“Fitzwilliam” : I have a professional friend
who 12 months ago had four or five clerks
and a comfortable practice. He has now
sacked all the clerks but one, thus saving,
apart from their salaries, family endowment
tax and workers’ compensation insurance,
He has cut out one of his telephones, and
finds his telephone bill is £lB less this year
than last. He has laid up his car, saving £9
per annum. He has cut out whisky—say 40
bottles a year, out of which the Common-
wealth used to collect about 7s. 6d. a bottle —
£l5. Last of all, he has decided that neither
smoking, picture shows nor wireless are
essential to his scheme of life; but the tax-
gatherers lose a wad on each item. So far as
he is personally concerned, the economies
have made very little difference to him. His
gross income has diminished considerably, but
not his net. He cannot always take all the
business that is offering, but is in a better
position to discriminate. Every professional
man knows that there are every year a number
of cases that one writes off as L.O.G. (Love
o' God) on the ledger. While one is run-
ning a big practice, these don’t matter, and
they fill up otherwise idle time for the
clerks. But when one is down to bedrock,
these cases are the first to go.
I can’t quite work out the ethics of my
friend’s case. Whether it is his duty to run
a big practice, and provide salaries for four
extra clerks, besides contributing about £6O
a year in taxes, or whether he should cut
out all the extras, and live simply, while
depriving a number of people of a living, is
beyond me. I only know that I am going
to follow his example, and will continue to
do so, even when the good times come again,
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Would inflation with silver be better than
inflation with paper?.—lo4la.
Presumably, since it would be awkward to
carry around more than two or three pounds’
worth of silver, an amount of notes equal to
the silver lodged would be issued; and those
£ notes could not fall much below 5s. —
approximately what you could get by export-
ing the silver. A large issue of silver or of
notes against silver might check what, in
the jargon of the moment, they call deflation
-that is, decline in. values-but this could
only apply to the local market. It couldn t
in the smallest degree affect the overseas
markets, on whose purchases we depend for
the means to pay our interest bill and for
our imports.
The big American railway cos., instead of
trying to combat the motor-transport menace
with what is practically penal legisla ion,
attack the enemy <at his own game. Eveiy
road route paralleling the leading American
rail lines to-day carries a heavy transport
service owned and run as part and paice
of itself by the railroad co. So successtu
has this system proved that the Inter-State
Commerce Commission has been appioac e
by the private exploiters of road motor triune,
who complain that their interests are be ng
seriously threatened by institutions origi-
nally organised and licensed as railroads
only. How the Yank private fines ha ee
taken the matter up is seen in the tact tnat
one line alone owns a fleet of 2ow mot
lorries,_ and the Railway Express Agency,
which includes most of the leading American
lines and the big shipping interests, as
9750. Britain, inspired by the g en £’ ’ a
transport strike of some years a S°>
conceived this method of offsetting rail los ,
and the privately-owned lines there now run
a motor-transport system on a similar ia 10.
* * oa/io/’am
“Ricardium : b.A.R. (B. -t/tz/ )
says fluorspar used m Adelaide Le e
Works comes from Broken Hill district
one interested in the fluorspar de PP slt
Broken Hill, I should like to say that we
have not railed any ore to Adelaide, our
whole output having been consumed Dy t
steelworks and Sydney foundries. *
* * . ,
For some years past Australia lias Deen
talking about manufacturing petrol . irom
the coal she finds a difficulty in disposm^,
otherwise. Germany is now selling the sin
in open market, and tank waggons loi tie -
livery of synthetic petrol are almost
as common in the streets of German cities
as those carrying the imported petro.
stuff is produced by the hydrogenationt po-
cess from brown coal such as Austialia
possesses in vast quantities at lall0 “ , .
Victoria and elsewhere, and the daily P
is about 100,000 gallons. It is a 0 .
cheaper than ordinary
and improved methods are_ expected to redue
costs heavily in the near tuture. *
* , " lin
The whole world appears to be hard P,
and one of the signs of the times is tne
decision of the great Atlantic
senger lines to cut t p Britain and
passenger fares between Bn firgt a
America. For the year just JL. exten * t
class passenger list fell off to
of 30,000 travellers.
THE PUZZLE.
FIRST WILD-GAME HUNTER: “Betcher he’s going up.”
SECOND DITTO: “Garn, he’s just hangin’ on.”
THIRD SAME: “A quid he’s climbin’ down.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s “The Belle of New York”
Criterion “Eliza Conies to Stay”
State .- Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
OYAIi “The House that Jack Built”
Comedy “The First Mrs. Fraser”
Tivoli “The Film Girl”
State Movies and Talkies
The place of “Turned Up” was filled on
Saturday by the Firm’s classy presentation
of “The Belle of New York,” which will
hold the Majesty’s fort till January 31, when
another of the older guard, “Lilac Time,”
moves into the line. Apart from Fifi, now
being done by Dulcie Davenport, there is
little change in the last year’s cast of the
“Belle.” Ivellaway gives his brilliant por-
trayal of the Polite Lunatic as realistically
as ever —in fact, the realism of it is a
strange note in musical comedy, out of which
a shiver is the last thing an audience usually
expects, or gets, or perhaps wants. Sidney
Burchall, a steadily-improving lead, has
gathered a good deal of polish since he used
to sit in a row of half a dozen and tenorise
the holiday trippers at Manly. Marie
Bremner is, if possible, an even more charm-
ing Belle than ever; Leslie Holland man-
ages another capital performance, and Leo
Franklyn is best of the lot in an all-round
jolly good show.
* * H-
At Sydney Cri. the stagey “Eliza Comes
to Stay” is still proving the great success
of the Bradley and co. season. Nothing
could be more mechanical than its charac-
ters ; nothing more patently obvious than its
plot. It is all so very traditional that it
seems to uphold that giving the public what
it is used to is the way to tickle its fancy.
The chap on whom Eliza comes to stay is
a typical well-to-do stage youth. Eliza is
the customary frumpishly-dressed young per-
son who becomes overwhelmingly attractive
when she gets into other clothes. So on
throughout. Nothing happens that the audi-
ence does not know beforehand is going
to happen. Suspense exists only in the
sense that the audience must listen to such
and such dialogue before Eliza and the young
man throw their arms round each other’s
necks. There is not a solitary dramatic
moment. And yet, because it holds the
mirror up to a life that never was on land
or sea, it provides better entertainment than
most of the serious-minded, purposeful efforts
of the playwrights. The bill is nicely
balanced by the good one-acter “In Port”;
and in any case “Eliza” is wmrth looking at
for the excellence of *-'•« a^ing.
9 ?
On the day that “JLilac Lime” begins at
Her Majesty’s Frank Harvey will be “On
the Spot” at Sydney Cri., and the present
fine Cri. bunch will head for Melbourne.
Harvey’s opening gun is an Edgar Wallace;
subsequently he may appear in
the play of his own which he
lately turned into a talkie.
“That ballad concerning
The rich
What gets the pleasure.”
Still a jolly show is the finding on the second
edition of .the “Beauty and the Beast” panto,
at Sydney Opera House. The panto has been
pretty completely overhauled, and the cur-
rent edition holds many new and some
brighter turns. Heather Jones, the first half
of the title, is no mere ornament. She has
an agreeable voice for warbling about the
delights of hammock swinging or roadside
rambling. Dorothy Dewar, who also has a
voice, plus a fetching stage presence, reminds
an audience that there were days when
princes, instead of falling off horses, looked
after the ladies —and even married them!
Nat Phillips is the most' industrious Idle
Jack this Showman remembers. He is on
the stage whenever there is a humorous song
to be sung or a piece of clowning to be done
—which is practically all the time. And he
has able backing.
The show, finishes on Friday. On Satur-
day Nat Phillips leads his co. back to revue.
First offering, “Hot and Strong.”
* # *
Improved business or something of the sort
led to an extension of the “Puss in Boots”
season at Sydney St James, which was due
to end last week but now has its last per-
formance to-morrow (Thursday) night. On
Saturday afternoon Rolls continues his occu-
pation of the ex-talkie house with “Topsy
Turvy,” described as a vaudeville revue from
London Empire.
* # *
That non-unionist Jack, who twice daily
rears his House at Melb. Theatre Royal with
song and dance and charming setting, is due
to push off with all bits and pieces on the
bOtli. Next evening first-nighters will inspect
“Sons o’ Guns,” which proved a winner in
Sydney. Gus Bluett, Elsie Prince, Cecil
Kellaway and Bertha Riceardo are listed
in the piece.
•¥ * #
Ethel Morrison, as the first Mrs.- Fraser,
J. B. Rowe, as the dour husband, and the
rest of the family -and maid of the St. John
Ervine play at the Comedy, still hold the
interest of Melbourne—or that part of it
that goes to the theatre. The piece is prov-
ing one of the best success 's, for some time.
* *
Musical comedy at Melbourne Tivoli will
have a second spasm on Saturday night with
‘The Film Girl”; and there are a few more
Girls yet to make up the quota of vocal
shows of the promised season’s series. “Top
Plole.” the golfing piece, has had a profitable
round, and altogether Mclntosh’s experiment
in putting musicomedy into a vaudeville
house has paid.
Poverty Point
“Stephen Sink”: In “Confessions and
Impressions” Ethel Manin tells the story oi
Hanneri Swaffer remarking to Noel Coward,
“You’re a better actor than writer,” and
“Tickets given away
To purchasers
Of cheap camisoles.”
Coward’s retort, “So are you.” I recall
an Adelaide Swafferess renowned equally for
her brutal frankness and her obvious make-
up. Sent by her newspaper to write up the
modest exhibition of a struggling young
woman artist, she concluded some exasper-
ating verbal criticism in the presence of
others with the words: “No, my dear, they’re
hopeless; you would be advised to give up
painting.” Stung beyond endurance, the
artist earned a newspaper roast with the
retort, “So would you.”
“Tee-guth” : “Shoot, Darn Yuli” lately esti-
mated the cost of producing Chaplin’s soOp-
to-be-released “City Lights” as about equal
to that of starting a London musical .comedy
and said it is simple arithmetic. It is; very.
“City Lights” was in course of making for
over 14 months and the cost of
Chaplin’s own time over this
period, taking a line from his
past earnings, would be greater
than the whole cost, much less
the initial, of any stage produc-
tion ever foaled, except, perhaps,
“Abie’s Irish Rose,” which ran
perpetually (five years) in Noo
Yark. Add the wages of the men
whose credit Chaplin hogs as
nominal author, director, pro-
ducer, etc., also those of electri-
cians, carpenters, sound techni-
cians, cameramen, not to mention
the studio overhead and the cost
of hiring whole streets in Holly-
wood for weeks at a time, and
you have an outlay which war-
rants confident anticipations of
a $7,000,000 gross take. Unoffi-
cial advices from Aussies in the
picture colony who saw a preview
say that it is the goods.
“Say Bo”: Forthcoming Gil-
sullivan revival will have recruits
from England. J. Ivan Menzies
lias been comedian with the
D’Oyly Carte companies and
Dorothy Gill has sung contralto
roles. Rest of tlie principals will be Aus-
tralians, or, at any rate, will be enlisted
here. Leo Darnton and Bernard Manning,
tenor and bass respectively, were in the
previous revival.
“Jonop” : Moscovitcli, playing the London
East End, found disfavor with his Yiddish
actors. All but one joined in a deputation
asking for bigger salaries. The minority
leant against a post and awaited the result
while talking to a friend. At length a
mournful procession emerged from the stage
entrance, and with disconsolate air trouped
silently into the street. “What is it?” asked
the friend. The other shrugged: “The return
from Moscovitcli,” he said.
“Hops-and-Scotch” : During Leon Gordon s
last tour of Australia one of the company
suddenly announced that he had gone on
the water-waggon for good, and immediately
began setting up a reputation for moroseness
that irritated his fellow-mummers consider-
ably. Ultimately he decided to give teetotal-
ism the go-by and joined one of Gordon s
parties. Frank Bradley brought him in.
“Here he is,” he said. “Glad to join us
again. His sufferings have made him a nicer
and wetter man.”
“When in doubt
Lead strides.”
“D.C.”: Melbourne’s latest B-class broad-
casting station, 3KZ, has a session of repro-
duced music entirely devoted to > Australian
artists. The station is flooded with requests
for Melba, Amy Castles, Gladys Moncrieft,
Florence Austral, Peter Dawson, John
Brownlee, Evelyn Scotney and the rest o
’em —all at least a cut above the mediocre
Yankee jazz-singers and the depressing
“novelty” music of the A-class stations.
O Art;
O Great and capital-
Lettered Art,
I.
Oft called the Sundry Showman,
But really
A superb poet in disguise,
Salute thee.
Not thee as Bradley conceiveth thee at the
Cri.,
Getting inside the part and all that sort of
Theatrical critics’ claptrap.
I see him
Walk over to the lowboy
And swallow enough strychnine
To put the kibosh
On a cartload
Of ducks.
I see him
Writhing
With a pain
In the binge.
I see him
Fall forward on his knees,
Propping himself against a table,
Dead
As the Complete Works
Of Dorothy Dix.
But that sort of thing
Is not Art,
As I conceive it,
At all.
“Striking some poor cow on the onion
Encourageth momentary and idyllic sleep.”
Bather
It is pulling the audience’s leg,
An underhand and reprehensible practice,
Especially as
The audience’s leg is not invariably
Clad in socks with the toes out
And elastic suspenders around hairy calves,
But inclineth also to silken hose,
Ascending whence
It would be both inartistic
And indelicate
To follow;
And surely the more reprehensible because
The act of pulling
Acteth upon the brain,
Situated more or less distantly above,
In the manner of a sedative,
Or, say,
Half a brick,
Heaved in the small hours of Surry Hills,
And which,
Striking some poor cow T on the onion,
Eucourageth momentary and idyllic sleep.
Not slumber in the ordinary sense
That one enjoys it
In the moving-picture palaces;
But, shall I say, coma—
That other Lethe
Which the claptrap critics
Call Illusion,
And which,
Translated into the parlance of th ■ “S. M.
Herald”
And back again,
May be rendered,
“Bradley puts the ’fluence over ’em.”
I mean to say
That in the movies
You sleep,
And know you have been asleep,
And,
Unless you are a prize angora altogether,
Thank Heaven
For it.
But with Bradley
You have been mesmerised,
So that you have believed,
Honestly,
Completely,
Albeit unwittingly,
That he had,
In fact,
Kicked the bucket.
Which may or may not be
Great acting.
I am concerned not
With great acting,
But with Great Art.
I am reminded here
Of one,
A Digger,
With a voice like nothing on earth.
Severely wounded
Whilst gallantly opening a bottle
Of cheap wine at St. Omer;
He went to Blighty,
Where,
Visiting his relations in Brummagem,
He politely acceded to their request
That he should sing,
And, remembering how we laughed
When he used his voice
In those halls of song,
The estaminets,
He bellowed forth,
In a voice which nobody knew r better than
himself
Was damnable.
“The audience’s leg is not invariably
Clad in socks with the toes out.”
That ballad concerning
The rich
What gets the pleasure,
The poor
What gets the blime;
And, having ended,
Paused for their laughter,
And was greeted by
The unsmiling handclapping
Of his pained relations,
And caught the next train back to London.
Which is an illustration
Of how Great Art
May be wasted upon the common herd;
As is invariable,
And had its latest illustration
When the herd
Alhrwed “Turned Up”
To be turned down
Last week at Sydney Majesty’s,’
Where,
Because the lease has not run out,
Or for some other immaterial reason,
J.C.W.
Continues
To parade those masterpieces of the drama,
Musicomedies,
Allowing them to percolate
Through to the audience,
Straining its respective necks
Around the posts
That stand like a forest
In the auditorium;
And where, '*
As recently as last week
(When it took the count
Iu spite of tickets given away
To purchasers
Of cheap camisoles
At the leading stores),
“Turned Up” had on offer.
In the person of Elsie Prince,
A perfect exponent
Of Great Art
At its Greatest.
No;
You did not catch Miss Prince
Piling one subtlety on top of another,
After the manner of Bradley.
Instead,
She had one trick
Worth ten of that old fox’s.
She
Simply
Pulled up her skirts
And permitted
The audience
To look at her pants;
Which,
As I conceive it,
Is Great Art
At its Greatest;
The kind of thing
That,
I earnestly submit, _
Is holding the legitimate theatre
Together.
O muse of bridge—
I mean the game,
Not the infliction across the harbor —
Earnestly I thank thee
For the terminology _
Which permitteth this
To be reduced to a formula,
Saying,
When in doubt,
Lead strides.
"A superb poet in disguise.”
And Art,
O Great and capital-lettered
Art,
Again
I
Salute thee.
Here, if I mistake not,
Have we seen thee at thy highest,
Unless,
Meanwhile,
Some benefactor of humanity
Happens to invent
That too-long-withheld boon,
Elastic skirts.


%
a
v
x
9
m
sP^c>
9«t
V
Oft
4aJcj
C/ A/
m
0
«e
>,
w
*t>
o
0>
fi
*o
»
£
**
Co
4
Sy
C/Af
/7> £z>
*/?£
•7
6
u
*A
A
30.
Pl 6 A
fbr a Summer
thirst* * a long
beer--* a cool
beer*--the best
beer of all—
Resch's Pilsener/
Ask for the
lona
bottle.


8q
Reduced Tariff
New “Room Only” Rates
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room . . from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet. . . . from 21/- per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet . . . . . . . . from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and Toilet from 40/- per day
The
C
c
Hotel
SYDNEY
Breakfast,
2/- and 3/6; and d la carte.
Luncheon and Dinner,
d la carte in Grill Room, minimum kb
d la carte m Dining Hall, minimum 5/•=
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
ABORIGINALITIES
“Rill Chin”: The other evening in the
lounge of one of Melbourne’s theatres, a
party of spinsters started .swapping dog
yarns. One set the ball rolling by deserib-
THEY BE SUCH QUICK GROWERS.
“Go’st ’long and thin out they little carrots, boay.”
“’Bout ’ow much shall I pull up, Maister—’alf av ’em?”
“’Arf bain’t ’nough Do twice’ s much as that. An be careful don’t ’ee loosen up th ’
rest.”
ing the expression of dignified reproach in-
variably registered by her tyke if she. ven-
tured to offer him a “grocer’s” biscuit on
baking day, while the aroma of the home-
made article was fresh in his nostrils.
“They’re creatures of environment,” drawled
a languid little woman at her elbow. “You’d
hardly credit it, but our Nicky isn’t worth
tuppence of a day till he’s had his morning
tea.’’ “Ma’am,” broke in an old gentle-
man from an adjacent lounge, “you’ll pardon
my butting in, but your remark reminds
me poignantly of Bonzo, a canine friend of
my own. Crossing the bridge at Heidel-
berg the other evening, his master had the
misfortune to drop into the Yarra the com-
mon bag of cloves, and they were obliged to
face the woman of the house in an atmo-
sphere perfumed with Old Court. Imagine
the embarrassment of Bonzo! I happened
to be present at the interview, and, believe
me, ma’am, that poor little beggar nearly
choked himself trying to hold his breath.”
* * * *
“Brasher”: Scotty and Ginger had been to
town and were returning to their claim in
the head of the Bellinger River, both hor-
ribly under the influence. Scotty was carry-
ing a hundred detonators. Half-way down
the spur he fell off his horse three times
in succession, which prompted Ginger to put
in a claim for possession of the fireworks
on grounds of public safety. Scotty refused
to hand over; so they got down and com-
menced an argument. After an hour’s
debate they agreed to share, the custody of
the detonators, taking 50 each. Then they
remounted and galloped down the rest of
the spur, highly satisfied with their sagacity.
* * # *
“Nitric”: A large turtle made her way
from the beach at Yeppoon (Q.) to the
sheltered seclusion of the hospital and de-
posited her eggs next to the maternity ward.
The caretaker, a fellow without sentiment,
cut her throat. Result—turtle soup for
many other mothers.
* * * *
“Alias”: The permanent records by which
abo. myths and legends have been handed
down from generation to generation do not
receive much attention, though every
museum collection of native gear is pretty
sure to include one or two smooth, round,
yellowish “letter-sticks,” pointed both ends
like tip-cats, and well scored with black
lines and symbols. These are native docu-
ments. They constitute the tribal reference
libraries. Normally natives of my district
in W.A. scatter in small family parties over
16,000 square miles of arid territory; but
twice a year most of them assemble. At
each of these corroborees there is a presen-
tation of a myth, played faithfully in accord-
ance with a record in the hands of the M.C.
or prompter. Most of the legends relate to
perilous journeys. On the letter-stick the
route is indicated by a thin, unbroken spiral
line from a mark at one end, round the
stick a few times to the other, and part or
all the way back. Cuts, dots, signs, hatchings
on and beside the line tell the tale. The
line is understandable; the symbols await
solution.
HE COULD FEEL IT MOVING.
Drunk: “Stop that! Can’t you see you’re turning everything round?”
Larrapinta”; Where a rival is concerned,
queen bee is a bloodthirsty little insect.
Yesterday I was removing caged queens
which had only hatched a few hours before
from a queen-rearing colony, when I acci-
dentally knocked the plugs out of two of the
little cages. Out popped the two inmates.
They gave each other a single touch from
their antennse—nnd the next second they were
fighting like tigers. Over and over they
rolled, locked together, each seeking for
the deathgrip. Finally, one secured it, and
before I could pick up my tweezers to sepa-
rate them the queen had bent her abdomen
around and driven her sting into the other
one’s body. The victim gave an agonised
buzz and a convulsive jump, and lay still,
while the victor, after another jab from her
sting to make certain, released her hold and
made for another caged queen. But then I
had my say. The violent lady went into
solitary confinement.
* * * *
“Wandi”: The ’possum is a tidy creature,
and likes to spruce up before going abroad
to meet other ’possums. On coming out of
its hollow at dusk it carefullv surveys its
surroundings, and its first act is to make its
toilet. It very rarely feeds in the same tree
that it sleeps in, and invariably has a brush
up before descending. Sitting on a limb, it
goes through the cleaning process in the
same manner as a cat does, licking its paws
and washing its face and brushing its fur
with its tongue. Though it wanders a lot and
has sometimes to drink at muddy gullies, it is
never found with dirty paws; and its brushed
tail, though it often gets wet in long grass, is
never seen in a soiled pr matted state, nor
with grass-seeds or burrs adhering to it.
* * * *
“Emmalina”: Out of the darkness two dim
shapes moved slowly towards each other.
Presently the moon shone palely, and re-
vealed the silhouettes of two cats seated
on the fence about four feet from my window
—our Claude and next-door’s Cuthbert.
Gravely they regarded each other. Then, as
if moved by some common impulse, they
rose and in chorus uttered disparaging re-
marks. Then they sat dowii again. Then
silence. Somewhere a bird cheeped sleepily.
Placidly the cats gazed into space. Then
Claude, in even, tense tones, revealed to the
world a scandal deeply involving his rival.
More silence. Both brooded awhile. From
the recesses of his mind Cuthbert then pro-
duced a train of circumstantial evidence con-
cerning the moral character of Claude’s
mother, grandmother and great-grandmother.
Beautifully modulated was his voice, low
as he came to the more delicate portions of
his recital, high as he reached his final
indictment. Silence ag;ain. A bat squeaked
its way past. After a~n interval Claude pre-
dicted a gloomy finish for Cuthbert, who
tersely muttered dark forebodings as to the
fate of cats with dusky pasts. Both pondered
deeply. Claude rose and stretched himself.
Cuthbert followed suit. Then, with tails
erect, and stepping daintily along the fence,
they set outffn opposite direction's in search
of more exciting adventure.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “In the event of a referendum,”
said the politician who was visiting Dad on
the farm, “you will support the Govern-
ment?” _ “No,” Dad replied stoutly. “I’ve
got a. wife and six kids and that’s as much
as I can manage with butter at the price
it is!”
* * * *
“Avon”: The only time I ever went pig-
hunting in Maoriland I was 13. I was
accompanied by a couple of brats of about
my own age, one of whom, wearing an air
of ponderous responsibility, carried his
father’s double-barrelled Greener shotgun,
which he had abstracted from the old chap’s
sanctum without permission. We roved
oyer hills and down valleys, and never a pig
did we see till late in the afternoon, when
an old boar, probably annoyed by our cackle,
broke out of the bush and charged straight
at us. The kid with the gun let it drop, and
we all ran for our lives. It was an hour
later when we retrieved the firearm. Let
those who haven’t seen a “Captain Cooka”
in action do a smug smirk.
* $ * *
“Sanp.”: “Wandi’s” snake expert (B.
31/12/’3O) is wrong—there is not a
national asset in snake venom. The oversea
market is limited to a very few laboratories,
since the venom of any one species of serpent
is of no use for making antivenene for treat-
ing the bite of any other species. The yearly
deaths from snakebite in Australia don't
average four, and the preparation of anti-
venene in this country is not worth while.
Moreover, venom collecting is not quite so
simple as he suggests—long-fanged snakes
require to have the fangs lifted by a thread
before milking the glands, and if the operator
is not careful he may lose an eye in the
process by a jetted drop of venom. This has
bnnuened with the Indian snake, Russejl’s
viper.
THE GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At last, ’ said Dave, “I think I’ve met me
fate.
I’m trackin’ straight
As fine a sheila as you’d wish to see.
I own she fairly knocks me off me feet,
An’, dinkum, how she came to pick on me
’As got me beat!
“ ’Er sparklin’ eyes are brownisli-like, an’ —
well,
It's ’ard to tell:
I m kind o’ muddled—done me flamin’ block.
But anyhow I know they’re big an’ bright,
The sort you find in stylish Jersey stock
Whose breedin’s right.
“No other diner ever ’ad such ’air,
An’ that I’ll swear;
I ain’t no poet, but it calls to mind
The tints of autumn on the apple boughs,
That lovely shade of red you often find
On Tamworth sows.
“So help me bob, but I could sing ’er praise
For days an’ days.
'Er little feet, the way she wrnlks an’ stands,
Like one of them two-tliousand-guinea
mokes,
Trained to the minute under Godby’s ’ands,
Fit for an Oaks.
“You blokes might think I’ve dingbats in
the loft,
I may be soft.
I’ve got it bad, but, ’struth, who wouldn’t
fall?
She brings not only beauty as ’er dower,
But she can milk with ease, to cap it all,
’Er twelve an hour!”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


$
I Feed
Him
n
Right
A properly balanced meal keeps dogs in good
condition the year around. Meat is essential.
When mixed with fresh vegetables, cereal,
ground bone and cod liver oil, it makes the
best dog food. It is known as KEN-L-RA-
TION—the Dog Food Supreme.
Buy a tin today. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
r
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7/je standard ci Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
N.Z. PERPETDAL FORESTS LTD.
The World s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3 qqq
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £528,671
(Including over £283,237 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank 0 f New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembs a Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
l ' ole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. ‘ London, Bombay,
.. . .Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
RUPTURE
IUFIiMRia
E /
Know security of body and peace
of mind by wearing Denver's
Elastic Truss —the truss with the
patent water pad. Gives comfort,
freedom and effective support.
Trusses also made specially to order.
ORDER AT HOME.
Write now jor Free Rupture Pam-
phlet and Self-measuring Form.
Sent in plain envelope.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
DEN Y E R BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street*
Sydney.
. 1 Carrick, A. B.”: The green glow men-
tioned by various contributors as a tropical
sea phenomenon hasn’t come within my
experience, but I’ll testify that green is the
color mostly chosen by Nature for storm
warnings. Over 25 years ago, on the Yankee
tramp Charlotte Fenwick, in the Tasman
Sea, the weather suddenly changed from a
cloudless sky and calm to a lumpy swell, and
the sky was covered with a criss-cross of
mares’ tails, through which the firmament
glowed with what one of our chaps, a Cock-
ney, described very aptly as “a ’orrible eat’s-
eye green.” A few hours later we copped a
hurricane. Just before the war I was on
a tramp which was plugging north as hard
as our black squad could send her along to
get out of the track of a West Indian hurri-
cane. In this case the coming storm showed
as a huge pall over the sou’-easter sky, its
inky mass blotting out the stars. Jagged
lightning darted across its face, and where
sea and sky met was gleaming a broad band
of phosphorescence shading from sickly yel-
low to a brilliant, livid green. In this case
also we caught merry hell when the wind
hit us.
* * * *
“Edinbury Swan”: While droving Queens-
land cattle, we killed a bullock one morning
below St. George, on the Balonne. When the
beast was shot it fell on a nest of soldier-
ants, which quickly swarmed all over it.
pome of those Queensland nests are 20i't.
in diameter, and though this one wasn’t an
outsize, it was big enough to overlap ail
round. To do anything with the carcase in
such a position_was impossible. The drovers
had gone on with the mob, leaving the but-
chering to the cook and horse-tailer. The
cook drew the line at soldier-ants. He wouldn’t
approach within yards of the outskirts, for
the soldier-ant doesn’t wait in ambush for
an enemy; it flies at him. So the horse-
taijer gathered a quantity of dry leaves and
twigs, and burnt a wide track, by which
means he and the cook got a chain round a
hind leg of the singed beast and drew it
clear with a horse.
* * * *
“Up North”: Among wild ranges that
frown down upon the Pascoe River (Cape
York Peninsula) stands out, black and
abrupt, “The Mountain of Devils.” This
striking landmark is a tower of granite
boulders in piled confusion harboring neither
grass nor shrub. It is honeycombed by
caves through which (so swear the natives)
FULL PARTICULARS.
“Ah, my poor, deah fellow, and what brought you here?”
“The patrol-waggon an’ fifteen cops!”
evil spirits wail and gnash their teeth and
sigh and shriek. Certainly it is a place of
weird sounds. When a wind blows in from
the sea the rock-pile roars and rumbles as
if all the gods of native mythology were
writhing in agony within. When a gust
ricochets off the. gorge it smacks through the
caves with a noise like the flapping of an
enormous sail.
NOTHING COMMON IN MIRANDA’S SET.
MIRANDA: “I’m learning about common multiples now, Ma; there’s one lesson about
the highest and another about the lowest.”
MRS. LAMBSFRY ( newly rich): “That’s right, dearie, and w’en you’ve learned about ’em,
’ighest and lowest, I ’ope you’ll avoid ’em.”
“Maxie”: He may be a praying mantis —
personally I prefer “preying”—but he is a
bloodthirsty ruffian. Saw one to-day upset
a baby ground-lark which was waiting for
mother’s return from the hunting field. The
little bird lay on his back helpless, the
mantis astride of him, plucking the breast
feathers with his jaws until the blood came
through. The leggy one settled down for a
long deep drink, and I slew him. I’ve seen
the mantis suck the lifeblood of flies,
spiders and such, and have known cannibals
amongst the fraternity, but this is the first
time I have witnessed them tackle a b’rd.
The lark was about long; the mantis
a bronze-colored one, about 4in. from beak
to tail tip.
* * * *
“Hamer”: N. S. Wales’s belated law pro-
hibiting the looting of bush flowers has had
the effect of encouraging the establishment of
flower-farms to meet the demand for “wild”
blooms. As a result, some of the flowers
have been greatly improved. Some of the
Christmas bells sold in Sydney lately were
giants—the result of nurture; and "Christ-
mas bush has benefited by the pruning that
cutting for sale gives it. It used to be a
superstition that flannel flowers and wara-
tails could not be cultivated, but I have seen
both growing splendidly under artificial con-
ditions. Efforts are being made to produce
new and improved varieties.
“Polycarp” : Does anybody know liow far
inland the silver gull goes? I’ve watched
plenty of them following up the plough for
grubs in the Spririgsure (Q.) district, about
200 miles from the sea, and seen them near
Berrigan (N.S.W.), at least the same dis-
tance from the coast. Are these seabirds
gradually taking to land life?
* * * s|c
“Tincan Bay” : A party of South Queens-
land fishermen recently had an unusual ex-
perience for that part" of the world. They
were sitting in a small anchored motor-boat
which suddenly be-
gan to move of its
owii volition. Tugs
at the ke 11 ic k-
rope showed that
something under
water had the craft
in tow. Further
efforts only succeed-
ed in rousing the
tower to fresh
efforts, and soon the
craft was careering
frantically all over
the harbor. Another
launch came to the
rescue and the pait\
getting their engines
going, worked into
shallow water. It
was then seen that
the cause of the
miracle was a huge
ox-ray estimated at
12ft. across the back.
Just as the party
were hoping to land
the big fish he broke
away and escaped.
There are many in-
stances of this pecu-
liar performance on
the part of the ray,
which abounds in
N.Q. waters. The
beast has two pecu-
liar “claspers,” one
on each side of his
head, the horned
appearance of which
gives him his name.
It seems to be an
obsession of his to
grab a mooring-rope
with these. Once he
gets hold he seems
too rattled to let go,
and many small-
craft fishermen have
been given free joy-
rides as described,
sometimes with fatal consequences.
* * * *
Pick”: At sunset on the tidal reaches
of the inlets and estuaries of the N. S.
Wales South Coast mosquitoes and sandflies
ascend from the mudflats till they make a
blue haze that rises yards from the surface.
What do they do when there’s no one there
to welcome them? On other evenings the
fishermen hunting sand-nippers for bait, or
the rake-men dragging for drift oysters, are
instantly regarded as victims for attack.
The onrush seems always by a concerted
plan. Mosquitoes advance to the attack or
retreat with the inrush or outflow of the
waters. The sandflies waft backward and
forward with the veering of the breezes, but
their onslaughts are never simultaneous. At
the instant of tide-turn, the regiments dis-
appear, the atmosphere clears, and the ping-
ing and humming are stilled.
“Georgina Washingday”: It had been a
shocking season, and Dad’s lucerne paddock
was little better than a sea of dry, whitish-
yellow barley grass. However, there was a
certain amount of green lucerne through it,
and when the grasshoppers came in their
myriads and began to strip everv leaf. Dad’s
whiskers bristled with rage. He sniffed the
breeze—a fairly strong one, said something
about the Lord tempering the wind pretty
right sometimes, disappeared into the shed,
and returned with a bag soaked in kerosene
in his hand. “Now, you just wmtch them
’uppers ’op,” he said: and he lit the bag and
proceeded to draw it across the bottom end
of the paddock, which was the windward
side. Though the barley grass blazed up
merrily, the green lucerne was hardly
scorched. But the ’hoppers rose in waves as
the heat and smoke touched them —one
strong hop, then a weaker one. When the
fire had passed, their bodies lay in irregular
lines, like the debris on a beach after a
storm, or hay when it has been raked into
rows; and the lines were precisely two hops
apart
* * * Jjc
“1.L.1.”: Bourneman was a dingo scalper,
a taciturn man, deep as his New England
ranges. He loved a selector’s daughter and
she would have made him an ideal wife.
She would have camped out there in the
loneliness and sung as she cooked his mutton
and damper. But Reynolds, a newclium
selector, came along. His city manners won
her. Bourneman had a dog that had wor-
ried a sheep or two, and the district stock-
men rejoiced when it took a bait. But
Bourneman loved that dog. He retired
deeper into the hills than ever. Reynolds
had a pedigreed racing mare whieh he hoped
would lay the foundations of his fortunes.
When he found her with a bullet in her
brain, it spoilt his wedding morn. Months
afterwards, he and his wife, driving from
the township, met Bourneman, riding in
with scalps. Reynolds jumped from the
sulky and grabbed the rider’s reins. “You
WASTE NOTHING.
“Did ye hear about Sandy McCulloch findin’ a box er corn-
plasters?”
“NoT
“Yairs—so ’e went an ’ bought a pair of tight shoes!”
damned scoundrel!” he snarled, “you shot
my mare because I took your girl! Why
didn't you punch me and let the best man
win?” Bourneman puffed his pipe. “It
wasn’t the girl,” he grunted; “it was the
dog.” “What?” “You poisoned my dog, sb
I shot your mare.” And he rode on.
DROVING FEATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I ve done a bit of drovin’,” said the skiter
by the fire,
“An’ seen a whole year round without a
roof;
I took a thousand bullocks from the north
to Nevertire,
Three thousand miles, an’ never lost a
hoof.”
“That isn't much to blow about where cattle-
men are free;
It’s done on every drovin’ track I know;
I ve put it in the shade myself, and I don t
claim to be
No champion,” said Wonnaminta Joe.
“I started from- the Norman with a thousand
head of stores -
For Thargomindah, rushin’ station kine.
An’ after months of drought an’ flood, an’
battlin’ at the bores,
We got there with a thousand head and
nine!”
sr.s.w.
E.S. SORENSON.


HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ASK THE MAN
WHO’S BEEN THERE—
And he will tell you that the finest holiday
he ever had was at Mt. Buffalo National
Park—Victoria’s et Garden of the Gods.”
Wide-flung views of mountain and valley, a great granite plateau with tre-
mendous precipitous walls, deep ravines and yawning cliffs, clear mountain
streams and deep, placid lakes these are some of the features which cause
those who have once visited Mt. Buffalo to return there year after year.
Excepting the Christmas period, when rather higher rates
operate, the tariff at The Chalet during the summer
and autumn is only 1 5/- per day for weekly vacationists.
Book at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney, or
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or else get in touch direct with the manager of
The Chalet.
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at I a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S FOPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
SMOKE-OH!
IN. RECESS-lONAL.
The tumult and the shouting dies,
The politicians all depart,
And tour the country telling lies
And cadging votes icith practised art.
* *
The N. S. Wales Betting Tax has unbal-
anced the Leger.
* *
“Can Mussolini Shake Australian Government?”
If he only would —the whole seven of
them!
Elevation to the Bench in Australia simply
means that some politician has been put on
the shelf.
* ¥
. “Despite mishaps, Amy Johnson intends flying
on to Pikin.”— “News.”
She always was fond of the pikin’s.
SILVER LINING.
“I met my wife on a rainy day. I shared an
umbrella with her.”—Melbourne evidence.
Though winds may Wow and sides he dark,
Things don't unceasingly remain so.
And here’s the proof of my remark —
This Melbourne storm produced a rain-
beau.
* *
Sydney “News” finds the right word, as
usual: —
“The opening of the wife’s letters by the husband
and vice versa, has been the cause of much martial
unhappiness.”
* *
“The Earl of Yarmouth was not wealthy.”
—“Sun.”
Yet he might fairly have been termed a
bloatered aristocrat.
* *
“Having studied advertising in U.S.A., he came
to Australia and banked the big drum.”— “Guardian.”
And then, probably, tried to raise an over-
draft on it.
’Phone subscribers are hoping that 1931
will see a reduction in the exchange rate of
wrong numbers.
* ¥
Despite the wickedness of the modern
world, there are still angels in our midst.
There are still paragons of goodness—Little
Mothers. Devoted F'athers, Splendid Aussie
Sons and Daughters—who hate evil in
tnought, word or deed, and brighten the earth
by their presence.
If you doubt it, go to the Criminal Court
and listen to a K.C. defending a client on
a charge of murder.
THINK THIS ONE OUT.
An engagement ring costs a lot of cash,
Yet the man may soon forget it.
But the girl does not who did a dash
On the clothes she bought to get it!
FAUX PAS.
A full moon silvered the harbor. The
lovers sat in the Domain gazing at the
bridge. “You are like the heavens, sweet-
heart,” he said. “In that bright star I
see your eyes. The night is not darker than
your hair. And see, see the glorious archway
which is a portal to our fair city! It
might have been modelled on your mouth !”
And the idiot still wonders why she
smacked him.
FREE RENT.
“Neutral Bay, three weeks’ free rent, desirable
House, 8 rooms, garden, electricity, gas, garage.”
—Advt.
This is an indication that the long-pro-
mised wave of philanthrophy is about to
sweep away the grasping attitude towards
the houseless which has hitherto character-
ised property-owners. The wave, of course,
is only as yet in the ripple stage. Eventu-
ally, however, we may expect this kind of
thing:—
Bleakhurst.—Two months’ free rent. Undesirable
cottage on pinnacle wind-swept hill overlooking
Dullasel Park. Three miles from station. Four
rooms (one almost habitable). No garden. No
bathroom. Roofless outhouse. Back yard partly
fenced in.
And later: —
Oozeville. —Two years’ free rent. Dilapidated,
whiteant-riddled ancient weatherboard house (be-
lieved haunted). No conveniences. No sanitation.
Nearest ’bus stop half-hour’s plootch across vile-
smelling swamp.
And if the wave of philanthropy keeps on
spreading, even this :
Squidge Bay.—Five years’ free rent during owner’s
enforced absence Long Bay. Crab-infested, mussel-
bound waterfront residence, partly submerged (owing
builder’s miscalculation) high tide. Railway
station, nearest water tap, hotel, store, cemetery,
etc., one hour’s zigzag unfeneed walk to top of
overhanging mountain. Nervous tenants ' not con-
sidered. jj
SOUVENIR.
She's jilted me, yet to my ring
She hangs on like a leech;
And so the sad refrain I sing:
“She is my cling-stone peach!”
C.
# *
NOTABLE EVENTS OF THE WEEK.
Sydney tabloid daily published article
about aviator who flew non-stop to New-
castle and didn’t refer to him by his nick-
name or invent one for him. The aviator
described his aeroplane as an aeroplane, and
not as “the old ’bus.”
No new midget courses opened between
Monday night and Wednesday morning.
“S. M. Herald” leader contained a clear
two inches in which neither “depression, ’
“inflation” nor “caucus” appeared.
A politician was seen buying a railway
ticket.
STRICT SECRECY.
“Of course you understand, dear, our en-
gagement must be kept an absolute
secret.”
“Oh yes, darling, Eve impressed that on
everyone!”
“Trials are good for us,’’ sighed the cele-
brated Society beauty as she read through
the enthusiastic press clippings relating to
her latest divorce.
NO DIFFERENCE WHATEVER.
If only the sky was always blue,
And sports weren't marred by rain;
If only we had no work to do,
Or worries to tire the brain;
If only business was always brisk,
And profits icere easy to get;
If backing horses involved no risk,
And one never got in debt;
If only there teas no war or strife,
And days went on like the brook;
If only we all had an easy life! —
Why, we'd most of us still go crook!
DORIC
HONORS FOR ALL.
Were you missed or insufficiently re-
warded in the New Year Honors List? Is
your wife d-issatisfied with your Order of
the Hooded Nitwit (sth class) ?
Let the Federal Labor Ministry help. In
response to widespread requests (and with
the kind permission of Caucus, which is after
its cut) the Ministry has decided to insti-
tute a number of proletarian Orders which
will be granted in future in lieu of the
bourgeois honors previously emanating from
England. First selection includes:—
Order of Mugs (0.M.), available for all
who have consistently done in their wages
at the ponies. Coat-of-arms (which may also
be worn as a vest) : A punter rampant in
a field of crook-’uns, surmounted by a book-
DEPRESSION RATES.
ACTOR-RR: “My last engagement netted me fifty a week.”
MANAGER: “Prepare yourself for a surprise — I’ll give you five.”
ACTOR-RR: “Prepare yourself for another, laddie — I’ll accept it.”
maker adamant holding aloft a closed bag.
Motto; “Betclier!”
Knighthood of the Gab (K.G.), which will
be conferred upon politicians, professional
luncheon speechmakers and all who live by
sound. Coat-of-arms: A cockatoo couchant
on a bag of wind. Motto: “Boom or Bust.”
Companionship of the Greased Palm
(C.G.P.), to mark distinguished self-service
performed by aldermen, professional charity-
workers, etc. Coat-of-arms: An alderman
ambidextrous being fed by a covey of muni-
cipal contractors, divided by a bar sinister
from a collection-box improper. Motto:
“Charity begins at home.”
Order of the Long Loaf (0.L.L.), to mark
feats of chair-warming in the civil service.
Coat-of-arms: A clerk dormant on a loaf in a
field of letter-files, based by a taxpayer
mordant bound in red tape. Motto: “We
sleep as one.”
Each and every Order carries with it. the
right to wear handsome regalia. Court
dress (whether Divorce or Criminal) will
consist of a stomacher of hand-knitted bull's-
wool inlaid with beer-bottle tops, purple-and-
green kilts, scarlet suspenders and bluchers.
Be patriotic! Convert into the new
chivalry. Trade in your 0.8. E.. M.V.0.,
K.B.E. or Cross of the White Elephant of
Cochin-China for a 1931 Labor model. Fees
are reasonable, and t.p. can be arranged if
you are in regular employment. Don’t delay!
Get a quote at once from your local Labor
League secretary, or any licensed bottle-oh.
O'COHEN.
FOR THE PRESS.
“There was no quarrel, and certainly no blows
were struck. There was not that sympathetic
synchronisation in our work together which is
essential to good results. So we parted.” —Boxing
trainer in Sydney sporting paper.
“If you require further details,” said
“Spike” Mulligan, examining his well-mani-
NOTHING TO BE ALARMED ABOUT.
COUSIN TOM: “So my fiancee asked you what you thought of me, eh?”
COUSIN KATE: “Yes, but I wasn’t so stupid as all that—of course, I didn’t tell her.”
cured fingers thoughtfully, “I must explain
that Bill the Bleeder and I have taken diver-
gent views more than once on the subject
of his taste. ‘My dear boy,’ I said to him
on the morning of our final rupture, ‘you
must not think me unduly fastidious, but
unfortunately I have often to admonish you
on the subject of your garish raiment.
With no intention of reflecting upon the
cultural environment of your. youth, I sug-
gest that in matters of sartorial’ ”
“Gor blime, Bill —edge it!” cried Spike’s
listener. “Wot’s come over you?”
“Oh, ’ell!”' and the trainer started as if
awaking from sleep. “I tole the cow off, an’
’e tole me what I c’d do, an’ I tole ’im
if a fatherless whelp like ’im opened is gob
ter me like that I’d put me crimson fist right
inter it. That’s ’ow we bust up.”
“Yes, but what made you use them lurid
long words jest now?”
“I thort fer the moment that I was talkin’
ter that reporter bloke again,” said the
trainer.
H.M.
FUTURISTIC.
Once girls walked home beneath the moon,
When gallants got too pressing. Soon
The careful maid, unless Em wrong,
Will take her parachute along.
P.


The Dawn of Brighter Day
POTTING OUR MEAT EXPORT ON A
PROFITABLE BASIS
Prosperity for New South Wales is Dependent Entirely
on the Prosperity of the Producer.
This page is devoted to a description of a Sound,
Practical Method of Materially Reducing Costs of
Production WITHOUT sacrifice on the part of
Capital or of Labor.
The Adoption of Common Sense in deciding the
method of Control of our Meat Industry will mean —
1— Success for Our Grazing Industry.
2 Cheaper and Better Meat for the Consumer.
3 The Building up of a Profitable Meat Export
Market
4 Definite Advancement for the State.
The most important section of our
Primary Production, the Grazing
Industry, has just about reached the
dead end. It has left one source of
revenue—wool—that is to-day, in many
cases, bringing less than the cost of
production.
Australia has no longer a monopoly
in Merino Wool. Our competitors are
making their presence felt more defi-
nitely year by year. If a miracle
happens in the shape of a marked
advance in values, then all will be
well; but if not (and remember this is
the year 1931), we must prepare to meet
the altered conditions and the way is
clear:— Graziers must effect an all-
round improvement in the quality of
their clips.
Unfortunately the economical carry-
ing out of this work demands periodical
and liberal culling of our flocks, but,
because we are a hopelessly indifferent
people, imbued with the gospel of "Let
someone else do it,” our antiquated
method of controlling the meat indus-
try still holds sway and Prime Mutton
is bringing l|d. .per pound and Sucker
Lamb 3-id. per pound under a system
that is a disgrace to a civilised com-
munity. The most serious result, how-
ever, is that there is absolutely no
market for the Graziers’ Culls.
You, Mr. Eeader, irrespective of
your occupation, should be vitally
interested in this —the greatest prob-
lem Yew South Wales has to face, and
be thankful that the remedy, practical
and sure, is at hand. It is the adoption
of regulations that will demand the
slaughtering of all sheep and cattle in
country centres near to the source of
supply. That will further demand
the Meat Industry being owned and
controlled by producers. The City
Speculator and Carcase Butcher should
be told in definite terms—Hands Off
the Meat Industry.
Now for a comparison of the two
systems that will enable every reader
to form a definite opinion and then to
lend his assistance to this National
Movement.
The moment sheep are placed on
rail, the owner’s jurisdiction over them
ceases, except that he must pay a
multitude of charges—excessive freight
-—the loss in weight that Occurs in
each animal railed —the serious loss in
quality in each animal (this quality
loss makes it impossible for New South
Wales to successfully compete in the
Export Market) —the loss by mortality
—the Yard Dues and Handling Fees
and Auctioneers’ Charges, etc. Should
the Grazier attend the sales, he has the
mortification of seeing his sheep sold,
under a make-believe competition, for
a song. He knows that within a few
hours the Carcase Butcher will nett at
least 100 per cent, profit, plus the
value of the shins, by-products and
offal.
State-wide country killing would
present an entirely different picture.
It would bring manifold benefits to the
producer, the consumer and to the
State.
Nearly one thousand Graziers have
already supported a truly co-operative
movement called the Australian
Graziers Meat Co., Ltd., whose objec-
tive is the establishment of sufficient
works in country centres to economi-
cally treat the sheep and cattle from
the' various pastoral areas of New'
South Wales.
Each of those Standardised Plants
will undertake every process associated
with a modern killing works. From
time to time, owing to unfavorable
seasons, one or more of these establish-
ments will be unable to secure supplies
of fats. During such a dry period, the
works in question will confer an im-
mense benefit upon producers by treat-
ing stores and the poorer sheep that
under to-day’s system are a total loss.
The distributing depot in Sydney would
never fail to give continuity of supply
of first quality meat. The deficiency in
supplies caused by the drought at one
or more centres would be adjusted by
increased supplies from the remaining
works; Simply stated, the Company’s
Live Stock will be received from exactly
the same source that Homebush —good
season or bad —relies upon to-day.
Consider the position. The Grazier
receives l£d. per pound for mutton,
less expenses. The consumer pays
an average of Bd. per pound. If
a. list of genuine expenses in connec-
tion with selling could be compiled that
would justify that tremendous differ-
ence, we would still exclaim: “There
is something radically wrong in the
State of Denmark.”
Surely, then, it is time that every
thinking man in the State voiced his
opinion, when we know that a system
can be introduced that will mean a
marked advance in the price paid to
the producer, and a reduction in the
price paid by the consumer.
Selfish City interests will tell you
that New Zealand has special advant-
ages, succulent grasses, an abundant
rainfall, plus productive soil. They
fail to advise you that every acre of
land, to produce results, must be top-
dressed annually, that pastures must be
continually resown with English
grasses. New Zealand will produce
abundantly but only on condition that
the Producer puts an abundance of
energy into his job.
The Co-operative Freezing Companies
of New Zealand realise that an in-
creasing export is dependent entirely
on quality, and the railing and roading
of live stock long distances is barred.
Last year, the Dominion exported
7,000,000 carcases of lamb, while New
South Wales showed a miserable total
of under 540,000 carcases. The
world’s markets are becoming keener,
owing to the depression, and if New
South Wales is content to continue with
her antiquated system of control of the
Meat Industry, the great likelihood is
that our meat export figures will con-
tinue to decline year by year.
An interesting comparison regarding
lamb prices, as the Frenchman says,
“Makes one furiously to think.” Our
best quality sucker lamb that brings
3d. to 3|d. per pound at Homebush
realises something like 7|d. to Bd. in
England, so that there is a difference
of about 4d. per pound between the
price the Producer gets and the London
figure. New Zealand prime quality
brings about Id. more on the London
Market than the Australian lamb, and
yet because Producers’ co-operative
companies rule in New Zealand, the
price given to the producer is within
Id. per pound of the price realised in
London.
The above statement sounds ridicul-
ous, but it is true. The Co-operative
Freezing Companies, by scientific
treatment of the by-products, by
canning and the manufacture of fer-
tilisers, are enabled to make a margin
of profit over and above the total ex-
penses.
The railway department must effect
an enormous saving in the cost and up-
keep of rolling stock and, because the
manufactured manures would not be
subject to double freight, Farmers will
receive cheaper fertiliser.
The substantial profits from the
treatment of by-products will be re-
tained by the Producers, and, in addi-
tion, the saving in freight and the
saving in weight, the marketing of meat
under co-operative principles instead of
under the auspices of the Carcase
Butchers will enable the Grazier to
profitably cull his flocks and thus pro-
duce better quality wool and'will enable
the consumer to secure cheaper and
better meat.
The Meat Export Market can be
fostered. N.S.W. may never, generally
speaking, produce a quality equal to
super JSTew Zealand mutton and lamb,
but in a few instances, even under to-
day’s conditions, Australia has beaten
New Zealand for price in open com-
petition. Given “Country Killing
QualityNeiv South Wales must take
her place .
That strict system of grading for
export as in operation in New Zealand
is part and parcel of the proposals of
this company. It will undoubtedly
create a better demand for Australian
beef, mutton and lamb abroad, and
must quickly solve the serious problem
of the smaller man, in that it will
justify him in fattening sheep and
lambs because of an assurance of a good
return for his labor right at his door.
A market that will give him every
penny of profit from the carcase, the
skins or hides, and the by-products.
Our leading Banking Institutions
have millions tied up in advances on
Grazing areas, and it appears quite
logical to say that unless either “the
Miracle happens” or this co-operative
cure be put into operation it will be
necessary to write off- a great percentage
of the huge sums they have at stake.
Our Governments, State and Federal,
have in the past looked to our producers
for substantial sums in the form of
Income Tax. We offer this as the
one practical method of again turning
our Grazing Industry into a valuable
asset instead of a liability to the State.
The Australian Graziers Meat Com-
pany, Ltd., has a definite policy. It
: aims at Graziers taking control, under
truly co-operative principles, not only
of the producing side of their Meat
Industry, but also of the marketing
end, and no modification of this pro-
posed scheme will solve the serious
problem that to-day affects City
Dweller and Producer alike.
Co-operative production with Staie-
vAde co-operative marketing is the one
way to ensure N. S. Wales gaining a
place and having a name abroad as an
exporter of quality meat.
Every Grazier must play his part —
leaving it to the other fellow ivill result
in the present abuses continuing; with
to-day’s ruinous system in operation,
and the Carcase Butcher and the Specu-
lator in the Box Seat.
One final word is necessary. Share-
holders’ capital will not be expended
in the erection of one, two or three
works. Such a modification must fail.
If you believe that the proposals out-
lined are necessary to you and 3mm-
fellows, write for particulars to-day to
the Secretar}% Australian Graziers Meat
Company, Ltd., Ist Floor, Barrack
House, Barrack Street, Sydney.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
if A BRITISH
//MANY LABOUR-
™“RENRUT”
PUMP
WITHY\
SAVING FEATURES\\
QUADRUPLE
One of the “super” productions
of Britain’s leading pneumatic
engineers, the “RENRUT” Quad-
ruple is the finest hand-pump made
for motor tyres. This pump works
on a patented quadruple-compres-
sion principle which delivers a
larger quantity of air with very
little effort. It has a push-on
connector, instantly adjustable to
any valve-size, and an accurate
pressure gauge can be supplied
fitted on the pump to order.
There is no other hand-pump that
will, last as long and give such con-
tinuous efficient service as the
“RENRUT” Quadruple.
Price, 60/- (with gauge 5/- extra).
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENG.
If unable to obtain, write to our
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
m-
WIN. FOWLES
(of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne)
hands you a g'arag'e
for nothing
A large adjacent garage, free of
charge, is another service Car-
lyon’s Hotel offers you in addi-
tion to what is recognised ns
Australia’s greatest refined hotel
values. Tariff: Single Rooms
from 4/6 per day; double from
7/6. All meals optional in tea-
rooms or cafe at competitive
prices. Inclusive, from 11/3
daily; or 70/- weekly. Right
opposite Spencer Street station
—no taxi fares for train travel-
lers. Please write for idetailed
tariff card.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
GRADING OF N.S.W. WHEAT.
“Valerin” : This year’s farce should bring
about the abolition of the present system of
determining the quality of wheat received
at N.S.W. country silos. In a normal
season the quality varies very slightly, and
on the rough and ready f.a.q. standard
presents little difficulties. 'This season, with
so much rain and disease in the plants, the
variations are very “tricky,” and the amateurs
in charge of the silos are hopelessly at sea.
As a result, there will be no difference
between the first and second grades.
The department lias really laid down no
definite standards, so the question of grading
is left to the whims of the man in charge.
I am carting wheat to two sidings, and get
an eyeful of the business, which is not
going to do Australian wheat any good in
foreign countries. Half a dozen experts
should have been sent out to teach the men
their job.
“NO FLIES ON MY FARM.”
“H.A.”: “Tuart” (B. 24/12/’3O) seems
to think that the only hope of getting rid of
the blowfly is through the scientist. I have
my doubts. In N. S. Wales we have had
scientists catching blowflies, painting their
wings and liberating them to see how far
they would travel. They caught 400 in
traps (flies, not scientists) within 10 miles,
and the public was given to understand that
this would lead to something great. .Another
scientist was sent on a world tour. He
brought home 15,000 killers (a small wasp),
and when he has bred enough he is going
to liberate them and they are going to eat
up all the flies.
Why concern yourself about how far the
fly travels? If you kill him in his breeding-
ground he won’t travel. Strike at the cause,
I say. Millions of flies are bred in back
yards, and as our population increases so
will the blowfly increase, though in im-
measurably greater proportion. The pan
system does an immense amount of damage
on its own account, and then the sanitary
man empties the pans into a shallow trench
at the depot, covering the ordure with a layer
of earth—just what the maggot wants to bury
himself in and come forth a fully-fledged
fly. My proposal is that every w.c. should
be made fly-proof, that the sanitary man
should spray the excrement in tlie trench
with a solution of arsenic, and that every
settler who uses a pit should be compelled to
flush it every week with a solution of arsenic
of soda. I do mine every week on my
place in the West Wyalong (N.S.W.)
district. There are no flies on my farm.
DEALING WITH GRASSHOPPERS.
“Mulgo”: When they are in the wing-
less stage, and where grazing areas adjacent
to cultivation paddocks are not too large to
work, a log roller eight or nine feet long
will destroy millions in a few hours. This
method is even more effective against cater-
pillars, which usually travel in massed for-
mation, whereas ’hoppers are more scattered.
Against winged ’hoppers the roller is useless.
Poison destroys them at all times, but it
is likely to do harm among other life that
is useful in combating the pest. Where
grass can be burnt it is better to use the
firestick as soon as the ’hoppers appear in
plague form. They won’t leave much of it
if it isn’t fired, and then they pass on to
the crops. Besides destroying the enormous
vanguard,, the burnt ground is a check to
later comers; but it should be at least a
mile wide.
One way of dealing with the invaders in
the winged stage is by trenching along fences
and outside cultivation fields. Eight years
ago a plague hit Canberra, and made a clean
sweep of grass, herbage and cultivated plots
over a wide area. A hundred acres of lucerne
was eaten to the last speck in one day.
Trenches were made along cultivation fences,
and these were quickly two feet deep with
’hoppers. The leading battalions, how-
ever, had advanced too far before the trenches
were made.
The trench has been used successfully in
protecting cane crops in Queensland. In
the .Isis district the ’hoppers were systemati-
cally driven into them. The pest had appeared
in billions, attacking unprotected plantations
and eating everything but the midribs and
stalks of cane. As a last resource, shallow
trenches were dug, and from these calico
wings were run out for about 100 yards;
then men and boys, armed with bushes, drove
the ’hoppers before them to the trenches,
into which they fell in seething heaps and
were then easily killed. In some places the
bottoms of the trenches were covered with
molasses, obtained from the mills, which gen-
erally accounted for the first drive. The
trenches had to be filled in, as dead ’hoppers
have a decidedly objectionable smell.
BUTTER-MAKING FOR BEGINNERS.
“F 3.4”: The man starting with a small
herd would do well to consider selling his
product as .butter instead of cream. In my
Queensland district factories are paying
IBJd. per lb. of butterfat for first-grade
cream, while my, storekeeper is offering Is.
4d. per lb. of butter. Taking 51b. of fat
to make 61b. of butter that price is equal
to Is. 7d. per lb. of fat; moreover, he is
willing to take almost any quantity of
dependable dairy butter.
The first essential for good butter is good
cream. That means clean utensils, clean
bails, and, above all, clean dry-handed milk-
ing. All the complaints of second-grade
cream that I know of relate to where wet-
hand milking is practised. Make the butter
regularly, so that each batch of cream has
reached approximately the same degree of
ripeness. It helps greatly in turning out a
uniform product. Every morning I churn
the cream separated the previous morning
and the cream separated the evening before
that, having mixed the two and stirred well
the evening before I churn.
The two greatest handicaps to making
good butter, at least under Queensland con-
ditions, are lack of temperature control and
(what is dependent on it) over-churning.
The cheapest refrigeration is to stand the
cream in the churn overnight in a large
plate of water, cover it with a damp rag-
dipping into the water and put the lot in
the draughtiest place one can find. As it
is the evaporation of the water that does
the cooling, this is much more effective than
standing the churn in a tub of water without
the rag. Have a water-bag to cool the
“break”-water, and if that isn’t large enough
to provide the Wash-water as well, put out
enough in a bucket overnight. It will be
much cooler than straight out of the tank in
the morning.
Except in winter, try to churn before sun-
rise. A glass churn with a wooden beater
is best, as it doesn’t rust, and also one can
see as soon as the cream gets gritty. A
clock is handy to time the length of churn-
ing and so helps to save over-churning. /When
the cream first gets gritty add the break-
water. It lowers the temperature and
helps save the grain. In warm weather it is
as well to add at least as much water as
there is cream, and so the churn should
be rather less than half-full for a start.
Only practice can teach when to stop
churning. In summer, the time from the
cream becoming gritty to the time when it
is a greasy mass of butter and buttermilk
may be only a few turns of the churn-handle.
As soon as the cream shows sign of a break,
add the break-water and churn slowly
until the milk is clear of the grains. The
cooler the cream and the more water added
the longer is this time and so the less
chance of over-churning. Pour off the
butermilk and wash with cold water until the
water comes off clear and salt. One tea-
spoonful to two of salt for each lb. of butter
is about right. Keep the butter in a
cool place and covered with a damp rag
until it is delivered.
WORMS IN PIGS.
“Bendee”: Tables showing the amount of
various feeds required to produce a
pound of pork make no allowance for
worms in the pigs. It is hard to over-
estimate the damage, direct and indirect,
caused by these parasites. For a start, a
wormy pig is not a healthy pig, and he is
likely to develop all sorts of ailments through
being out of condition. Again, wormy pigs
mean more. worms in the next batch of pigs
to be' penned in the same sties.
Powdered alum or powdered resin—say, a
teaspoonful for a porker, and less in pro-
portion for younger pigs—in a little, feed on
an empty stomach will usually get rid of the
ordinary intestinal worms, but their erad'ea-
tion may be effected too late for a pig which
has wasted feed and condition to show a profit.
A young pig is naturally restless and
inquisitive. When pigs are penned up in
confined spaces, they nose round in filth,
lick dirty troughs and walls, and pick
up the embryo of the worms. Worms are
present in nearly all confined piggeries. Pigs
grazed in the open, with changes of pad-
docks, can be kept free much more easily, and
there will be no wastage of feed and condition.
For pigs to be profitable, they must be
kept growing all the time and must be mar-
keted the moment they are piume. The
only way to combat parasitical troubles is
to prevent them, and there is no better means
of accomplishing this than by seeing that
the young pig gets plenty of fresh air and
exercise.
SCRAP THE WINKERS !
“Bad Australian”: “Booraby’s” long list
of disadvantages attendant on the use of
winkers (B. 7/l/’3l) is correct in every par-
ticular, and why horse owners continue to
submit to those disadvantages, the resul-
tant doctors’ bills and the cost of replacing
wrecked vehicles and harness beats me. When
a horse has been broken to drive in winkers,
he is always more or less suspicious of what
is happening behind him, but he is not suie
until some fault in the winkers or their
adjustment reveals the disturbing fact that
he is in imminent danger of being run over.
Startled by the unaccustomed sight he
promptly increases his speed, and, finding
himself unable to shake off his relentless pur-
suer, concentrates his whole energy in a
frantic effort to escape, until the inevitable
smash puts an effective stop to his wild
career.
A harness horse should be broken to work
in an open bridle, the same as a saddle hack.
The bridle allows him an unrestricted view
of everything that surrounds him, und he
soon becomes accustomed to sights that would
drive him frantic if suddenly sprung on him
by the failure of a faulty pair of winkers.
If the old horses must be worked in winkers
because thev have always been worked tiiat
way—well, ' I suppose they must; but for
the' love of Mike, teach that colt to drive in
an open bridle!
MOLASSES AS MANURE.
“Raccoon” : An interesting experiment in
the application of molasses to cane-sugar
land is reported from Bundaberg (Q.). The
block chosen for the trial had been under
lucerne for tw T o years prior to March, 1928,
when it was ploughed out and fallowed.
Light were given in May and
October, 1928, followed by a deep ploughing
in July, 1929. At the end of August it was
harrowed and rolled, and molasses at the
rate of 10 tons to the acre was applied
evenly over the surface of the treated plots.
Dry conditions followed and the molasses
remained to a large extent unchanged until
the middle of October, when good rain fell.
The land was harrowed, drilled out, and
planted shortly afterwards. A good strike
was obtained in all plots, which grew uni-
formly until the wet season, when the
treated plots went ahead and maintained
their advantage.
The molasses-treated land gave a yield of
37.09 tons of cane' per acre, equivalent to
4.84 tons per acre of commercial sugar;
where no molasses was used, the yield was
only 22.69 tons of cane per acre, or 2.96
tons of sugar. Says the chemist at Bunda-
berg, furnishing details for the 1930 report
of the Bureau of Sugar Experiment Sta-
tions : “The value of molasses on the red
volcanic loams is amply demonstrated by
the results of this experiment, where a
10-ton application of this by-product resulted
in an increase of over 14 tons of cane. Un-
doubtedly this is due in a large measure
to the heavy supply of potash and nitrogen
added in this manner. The plots will be
ratooned, with no further fertiliser treat-
ment, in order to determine the residual
effect _of the molasses.”
Incidentally the Bureau mentions' that the
output of molasses in 1929 was 15,861,948
gallons, of which only 298,395 gallons was
used for manure. Of the rest, 5 638,465
gallons was sold to distilleries, 4,202,588 was
burnt as fuel, 2.382,192 was used for feed,
215,933 was sold for other purposes and
871,292 kept in stock; 2,253,083 gallons was
run to waste.
THE CANVAS HOUSE.
“Cooramin”: The canvas building with
its appropriate fittings, or with ordinary
furniture, forms the first home of many a
new selector and his family. It can be
erected anywhere like a tent, and repairs
are easily effected. For the man who wants
to get to work at once on his land, it is tiie
cheapest and most convenient form of tem-
porary residence. He can take his family
with him when he goes on to his block, and
they are comfortably domiciled and settled
down to their housekeeping in a. few hours.
Light pieces of pine wood bolted together
serve for the frame, which can be put up
while the dinner is cooking. The rest is
canvas or hessian, with a tarpaulin for roof.
Everything is put together so that the build-
ing can 1 be pulled down in an hour or so
without damaging any of the material. The
house is generally long and narrow, divided
into three rooms, the living room being in
the centre, and the fireplace outside —where
the kitchen, the first of the permanent build-
ings. is erected when the timber has been
obtained.
Properly the canvas house belongs to the
dry inland parts, where it makes a delight-
fully cool residence for the long, hot sum-
mers. House and contents, together with
much outside paraphernalia, can be packed
into one heavy dray. Yet an average family
can enjoy within it every comfort and con-
venience of a bush home. It is favored by
wandering bush workers and contractors. I
saw one, the residence of a tanksinker, stand-
ing alone in a dry paddock, that had “water
laid on.” This was accomplished by a piece
of piping with a tap on the end being screwed
int-o an iron tank that stood outside the bac.K
wall. The furniture was mostly in keeping
with the building—folding canvas chairs and
beds, boxes that made chests of drawers
when stacked in the bedroom, and work
benches that stood on trestles.
Another place was the home of a bore
contractor on the Warri Warri (N.S.W.),
the furniture of which included a piano and
a well-filled bookcase; and there was a
verandah in front, a mere awning of canvas,
under which were canvas chairs set on bare
ground.
The canvas house enables the settler to
start at once with his fencing and cultiva-
tion work, and leave the building of his
permanent residence for a slacker time.
GOOD MONEY FOR GOOD CURRANTS.
“Wodgil” : Mere production is not enough ;
we must have the quality. High-quality
produce will always command buyers at a
price profitable to the grower, where low-
quality stuff is a drug on the market. For
illustration, take a recent statement of Mr.
A. Yeates, the Westralian representative on
the Dried Fruits Control Board. Westralia
produced nearly 1500 tons of currants last
year. The best were as good as the .Vistizza
currants of Greece, which country, in 1928,
sent £2,597,800 worth of currants to Britain
alone. For primest Westralian over £6O per
ton has been given on the British market,
“and the demand for high-quality currants
continues,” Mr. Yeates says.. “But,” he adds,
over 5000 tons of Australian currants are
still unsold in England, proving that it is
quality that is wanted.”
Through the “Primary Producer” Mr.
Yeates appeals to Westralian growers to do
their best to provide what the overseas mar-
kets so clearly require. “Currants properly
cured should,” he points out, “be quite black,
with the bloom on, of a velvety touch, and be
able to stand a good hard squeeze of the
hand and to spring open again without being
smashed or exuding any moisture.” He
gives the following useful hints :
Do not pick the fruit until it is quite ripe.
If no rain has fallen and split the berries,
they should be quite black before being picked.
Be careful to pick, dry, box and deliver to
the packing-shed in accordance with the
size and quality of the fruit.
See that the fruit is shade-dried and se-
curely covered against rain ; it pays.
Handle carefully when picking and placing
on trays and racks, taking care not to bruise
or smash the berries.
Do not handle or remove the fruit from
trays or racks until sufficiently cured, and
never in the heat of the day. The hours for
handling from trays to hessian and from
hessian to boxes should be before 9 a.m. or
after 4 p.m. Berries are much crisper then.
When boxing the currants, do not unduly
press. If possible, allow the currants to
sweat for at least two weeks before deliver-
ing to the packing-shed.
Remember that unless the grower delivers a
good sample the packing-shed cannot make one.
A SUCCESSFUL VIC. TOMATO-
GROWER.
“Country Ped”: Under glass covering
nearly a quarter-acre R. J. Moft'att, of Don-
caster (Vic.), grows 3000-odd tomato plants
twice a year. Thus far this summer tomatoes
grown in the open in northern Vic. have
seldom brought higher than 7s. 6d. a case
in the Melbourne market. Moffatt hasn’t
sold a case at less than 16s.
Not only are Moffatt’s plants carefully
selected and grown, but he never puts one
second-grade tomato in a case. When local
home buyers consider his culls excellent
eating, one understands that his stan-
dard is a very high one. The good stuff pays
the buyer, too, for Moffatt’s tomatoes will
keep for three weeks in a shop-window.
THE KNAPSACK SPRAYER-PUMP.
“Jack Point”: The “knapsack” is in very
common use amongst orchardists and
Queensland banana-growers. They fand it
much more economical to keep down weeds
by spraying with poisons than to chip them.
For spraying fruit trees, the “knapsack is
particularly good; you can obtain extra
lances and" nozzles which make it easy to
reach every part of tree or plant. It can
be used to dip Strawberry, to wash the
car and for nipping an outbreak ot fire in
the bud. In addition, it can be put to all
the uses a bucket-pump can, such as spray-
ing the sheds and fowls’ houses for lice, and
general disinfecting and clean-up purposes.
A good “knapsack” is being made in
Australia, as a result of the tariff on the


r
'dU
Supple-soled and
tough
And with an upper of pliant calf
lined throughout with soft leather.
The Abbey Riding Boot, inset with
stout elastic pieces at ankle, is close-
fitting and comfortable. It is light
in weight, the upper arched to lie
easily over the curve of the instep.
No tightness or strain. . . .nothing to
chafe the foot.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order also a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 42/-
BLACK BOX CALF .. 35/-
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 212
CHANDLER’S
Chain and Tripod
HARROW
The Harrow which will do
ALL your job s —both
Pasture and Cultivation .
The only Harrow made in
Australia with renewable
teeth .
Chandler’s Harrow is the most up-
to-date and effective Harrow made.
Other makes of Harrows wear quickly
on front row of tripods, but the
CHANDLER HARROW, with inter-
changeable tripods, enables you to get
three times longer life.
The Spring Steel Teeth are renewable,
and can be varied in length from
24-in., 3in. to 3fin.
Chain and Tripod Harrows.
The other reasonable prices will be
sent on application.
Manujactured by
CHANDLER
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
CLOTHES
FOR MEnJWMSaND THEIR SONS
CiUSSET SIOES
PREVENT GRASS SEEDS
CNTeRiNC BOOT
IMAKE INSIDE OF BOOT
OAMP oQoor
The
CAlf lINIMO
PREVENTS
-STRAP KQOM
WORKING OVER
TOP OF QOOT
DOUBU WEIGHT
STAN DABO SC BE WED SOLE
UIVVf 17 Y l/0 A TVT ** Fc am °us all over
IVIH A.l the Commonwealth.
Now Substantially Reduced in Price
Owing to the great popularity of the “Mexican,” our own
patented riding boot, sales have so increased that the
volume of production has cheapened costs and Pike
Brothers are passing this saving on to their customers.
The new two-fold tops prevent sand and grass-seeds
entering the boot and ensure perfect fitting over the
instep. All sizes in Black Box Calf, soft Black Wallaby
or Tan Calf with double weight standard screwed soles.
WAS 32/6 NOW 28/6 PER PAIR.
Send Your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
in QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
And at TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH and TOWNSVILLE
imported article. Of special brass alloy,
all working parts on the outside of
the 3i-gallon tank, a nozzle that will give
you half a dozen different kinds of spray
and everything complete, this Australian-
made line is a credit to the country.
SAVING THE FOWLS IN SUMMER.
“Jack Point”: During the next couple of
months, a little extra attention to the farm
poultry will obviate the danger of death
from excessive heat. It is a danger; in-
stances where, half the flock, and more, were
killed on a single day are not rare. Three
essentials are shade, water and green feed.
If the fowlhouse has a galvanised-iron
roof, it probably won’t do for shade unless
you put some branches over the iron to
help cool it. Chokos can be trained to cover
the roof .with thick green leaves which will
cool it —incidentally they are relished by the
birds. Provide shelters of boughs or even old
bags if there isn’t much natural shade where
the hens run—anything is better than nothing
at all.
As to the water supply, keep it cool and
clean—lukewarm water is injurious. Above
all, never let the birds be without water.
The best form of green feed for the summer is
lucerne. Silver beet is also very good if
water can be spared, and it will do very well
when the fowls’ droppings are used as
manure.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
At wliat age can a hoar he used for
hr ceding ?, —602.
Eight months.
(1) In connection with article “Give the
Cows Concentrates” (B. 24/12/’3O), how
often would the ration have to he fed
to the coivs? (2) What breed of dairy
cattle would you advise a beginner to start
with in Gym,pie district? (3) A good publi-
cation on dairying in Queensland? (4)
Ditto on pig-raising in Queensland? (5 j
What are the prospects ahead of dairying in
Queensland? —S4l.
(1) Concentrates for balancing rations
should be fed daily. Further information
could be obtained from the Department of
Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane. (2)
A.I.S. and Jersey cattle are generally
favored. (3) and (4) Publications on dairy-
ing and pig-raising in their various phases
can be obtained from the Department of
Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane. (5) Large
areas suitable for dairying await develop-
ment. Improvement in industrial conditions
generally will be followed by improved values
ot primary products.
(1) How many times per day should cream
he stirred? (2) In cream-making, should
milk from cows advanced in their milking
period he used? —1065.
(1) Stirring of cream two or three times
daily helps to maintain it in good condition
and to liberate any gas which may form. If
the cream is left standing for hours before
stirring there is a tendency for the heavy
portion (casein, etc.) to settle towards the
bottom and for the fat to rise to the top,
especially N if the cream is inclined to be
thinly separated. A tinned steel or tinned
copper stirrer should be used. Don’t ever use
a wooden stirrer. (2) Milk from newly-
calved cows will cause trouble if included in
the general supply before it becomes normal,
but it is not so generally recognised that some
cows when advanced in their milking periods
secrete abnormal milk, which affects the
cream and causes it to be graded second
quality. This is particularly so when a cow
has been milking for a long period, say, 12
months or more, as happens when a cow
does not go in calf readily. When this type
of cow begins to spring the milk will pro-
bably become abnormal, and the cow should
be dried off, or the milk fed to the pigs.
Why is it that foxes and crows are diffi-
cult to poison with cyanide, while eagles take
it readily? What’s the best method of killing
foxes and crows? —845.
Foxes and crows are extremely cautious,
and have a strong sense of smell. Cyanide
gives off a strong odor. Eagles are not nearly
so. cautious, and are more ravenous. To
poison crows, take sufficient powdered strych-
nine sulphate to cover the surface of a
threepenny-piece, mix it with a small amount
of fat, roll up in shape of a pellet, and place
on fresh hides or sheepskins. Do not allow
your hands to come in contact with it.
In the case of foxes, take some suet and cut
into small baits. Make a small slit in the
centre of each bait with a clean knife, push
into this slit as much strychnine as will fit
on a threepenny-piece, and press bait into
shape again. Handle the baits with paper
in your hands so the fox will not smell them.
Drag a freshly-killed sheep or its paunch or
several dead rabbits, slit open, along the
ground for some distance. This can easily be
done by tying them to the axle of a cart or
sulky. Put the baits from three to five chains
apart.
Method of gathering subterranean clover
seed and machines available? —763.
The Schumacher Works, Grandham-street,
Port Melbourne, make a machine costing
£250 which they claim will do a satis-
factory job. The crop, when ripe, is gath-
ered with hay-rakes and swept with rotary
brushes. The dry material is then put
through the threshing, hulling and cleaning
plant which prepares the seed for sowing.
The threshing and cleaning work is done in
South Australia by machines costing £5OO
to £6OO each, or by a series of five machines,
each costing in the vicinity of £3OO. Kaesler
Bros., of Adelaide, offer threshing machines at
£250. In a small way a hay-rake and yard
brooms may be used for gathering. The coarse
material is then put through a cliaffcutter
and later through a winnower, which removes
dust and light straw, leaving only the burrs
and coarser pieces of straw. This burr is
quite satisfactory for home use. With cer-
tain adjustments to drum, riddles and blast,
the . ordinary header lias been used with
stationary drive for threshing the gathered
stuff, and produces a satisfactory seed
sample. F. Hill, of Upper Lurg 7 Vic.
offers a huller at £9O.
(1) What varieties of pineapples are best
suited to the N.S. TV. North Coast? (2) 1
should appreciate a few hints regarding grad-
ing and packing pineapples. —lo 63.
(1) Smooth Cayenne, Queen and Ripley
Queen. From Tweed Heads to Coff’s Harbor,
Smooth Cayenne is proving the most satis-
factory variety. (2) ' The fruit should
be graded to size, and fruit of the same size
packed in each case. Tropical fruit-cases
(inside measurements, exclusive of any divi-
sion, 24|in. long, 12in. wide, by 12in. deep)
should be used. The number of fruit in a
case ranges from ten upwards. Slack pack-
ing should be avoided. It is best to so pack
a case that slight pressure is required to
bring the lid into proper position. The
number of pines in each case might with
advantage be stencilled on the end of the
case, together with the grower’s name, leaving
the other end for the shipping marks.
We have two large apricot-trees about six
years old. Each year they are covered with
flowers, and fruit forms, but when it reaches
about | in. size drops off. Trees have plenty
of leaves and seem healthy. What’s the
remedy? —9o9.
Can’t diagnose without further particu-
lars. Soil, water supply, fertilisers, cultiva-
tion and pruning are all more or less im-
portant in this connection. Furnish Vic.
Agriculture Dept, with full particulars, and
it will probably be able to advise.
Which breed of Muscovy ducks will grow
to *the largest size—black or white? borne
years ago I had some black ducklings that
grew to a great size. Is tjie breed procurable
now, and, if so, where? —B3s.
No difference in size. G. Craft, Ingleburn
(N.S.W.), is a breeder of black Muscovy
ducks, and may be able to supply.
What causes bumble-foot among fowls and
how can it be cured? —1059.
(1) Bumble-foot is frequently caused by
the fowl running about on hard, stony
ground, oy dying from high perches down on
to a hard floor, cinders, gravel or the like.
At the commencement of the trouble a corn
forms under the ball of the foot. Eventually
this festers and turns into an abscess, with
the result that the foot swells between the
toes. Fowls so affected should be confined
to a house the door of which is covered with
litter, or given a coop on a grass plot. The foot
should be immersed for about ten minutes in
water as hot as can be borne by the hand. If
the abscess contains pus, it may be lanced.
In doing this, care should be taken not to
cut the tendons of the foot. There will be
less risk of this happening if the incision is
made the same way as the toes run. Before
operating on an affected fowl, examine a
healthy bird to get some idea of the anatomy
of the foot. After making the cut it should be
bathed with an antiseptic solution. The wound
should then be dressed by spreading some
Venice turpentine on a piece of cotton-wool,
which should be bound between the fowl’s
toes right under the foot, and finished off by
tying it around the leg just above the foot.
The ligature can be left on for three or four
days at a time. In the incipient stage, paint-
ing with tincture of iodine daily will some-
times arrest the development of the lump
into an abscess.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“H.E.S.”: A cure for lung worms in sheep
(B. 10/12/’3O) ? Mix two parts of fresh milk
with one part of turpentine, shake up well
and give loz. with an ordinary drencher.
I have drenched hundreds with this mix-
ture and never lost a sheep.
“Wrash”: When clean removal of hair
from a hide is required, treat the skin, if
possible, fresh from the beast. In other
case first soak the hide in water until it
is soft, fold the skin hair inwards, and bury
it for three days in sand. Then spread it
on a floor, sweep clean and brush two
bottles of vinegar into the hair. H'ang the
hide in the shade to dry off, and next day
take off the hair with scraper or curry-comb.
“Gardener”: Brown rot is appearing in
stone fruit in N. S. Wales. Pick it all up
and burn it, as well as other diseased stuff.
Don’t bury it or leave it lying on the ground.
“Wandi”: Better than paper mulching,
which, among other things, makes the ground
untidy, is to cover the space between the
rows of plants with straw or dry grass. This
is more convenient and is easier to handle,
and when ploughed or dug in improves the
soil. Another good mulch and fertiliser is
sawdust; and timber mills are usually glad
to get rid of it.
“Gwalior”: For removing scale of all
descriptions on citrus trees, I have had
excellent results from waste oil from the
car. I strained and diluted it with boiling
water, one part oil and five parts water,
and sprayed it on trees while warm. One
spraying was generally found sufficient to
clean up badly-infested trees. A seed mer-
chant and horticulturist, I have recom-
mended it to customers, and they haven’t
reported a dud so far, though about 30 have
tried it.
“K.M.E.”: When feeding maize or roots
to stock remember that leguminous hays
make a splendid addition, thanks to their
richness in protein. As protein is essential
to milk production an increase in yield will
be noted. Protein can also be supplied by
linseed.
“E.H.M.”; For open wounds in domestic
animals the most useful medicament I know
is Stockholm tar. I have used it with success
on horses’ hoofs which have been punctured
by rusty nails, on dogs mangled in fights and
on cows’ teats which have been torn right
through to the milk-vent by rusty barbed-
wire. And if you don’t know how to tap a
beast which has blown from the effects of
an overdose of clover, try applying tar to
the root of the tongue with a piece of rag on
the end of a stick. In most cases the animal
will immediately belch out the gas.
“Broom”: Kimberley horse disease, which
is somewhat similar to the “walkabout” of
the Gulf country, costs the North Westraiian
squatters hundreds of pounds annually for
new horses. A theory that the mischief was
due to the shrub known as whitewood has
been upset by F. J. S. Wise, agricultural
adviser to the Westralian Government.
Wise has discovered that on Obagooma
(McClarty’s), which has the highest mor-
tality in horses in North Westralia, little or
no whitewood is to be found, whilst on
Rosewood (Kilfoyle’s), the horse paddocks
are full of whitewood and horses live to be
2o years old on that station. So the Council
of Scientific and Industrial Research is now
investigating 0 n another line. '


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Nurse would give services in exchange half-fare
to England, February. Refs. —1030.
War pensioner (44), Sydney, single, handy with
tools, used to house repairs, drainage, etc., wants
job as caretaker or storeman. —1003.
Young man, nine years’ exp. with sheep and cattle
in West Darling and N. Q’land, handy windmills
and oil engines, wants job on station or farm. Refs.
—lOOl.
Joiner (56), Sydney, capable of all repairs,
gardener, wants position as caretaker; wife (51),
capable domestic. Refs. —984.
Well educated young man (23), Yic., wants job.
Experience shipping and customs costing, sales, etc.
Do anything; go anywhere.—lo 23.
Yoyng man (23), S.A., English Public School,
wants position with tobacco manufacturer, N.S.W’.
or Vic. Refs.—lo2l.
Information Sought.
What were the final steps in the aboli-
tion of the Q’land Legislative Council? —
972.
A sufficient number of abolitionists having
been appointed on the nomination of the
Theodore Government, a bill to amend the
Constitution by abolishing the Council was
passed by the Queensland Parliament on
October 26, 1921; was reserved by the Gov-
ernor for the royal assent; was assented to
by the King on March 3, 1922. A proclama-
tion notifying assent was issued by the
Governor on March 23, 1922.
(1) What chance has a man of making a
living in the pearl and shell fisheries in the
North Australian waters? (2) Minimum
amount of capital necessary? (3) What
gear is used in the business? (4) Where can
I obtain information on the subject? (5)
Best time of year to make a trip round the
coast from Melbourne to North Queensland
in a 16/t. half-decked sloop? (6) Whefre is
shell marketed? —924.
(1) Poor. The world’s markets are over-
stocked with shell, and only half the fleets
are in commission this season. (2) £2OOO.
(3) Lugger and pumps (motor-driven) ; 2
sets latest diving gear; dinghies (several
must have motors), crew and stores. (4)
Morey and Co., T. 1., and Q’land Fisheries
Dept. (5) April or May. (6) U.S.A. (the
heaviest buyer), Great Britain and Japan.
What started what is known as “The
Battle of the Wozzer” in Cairo, during the
war? What happened, and how did it end
up ? —955.
On Good Friday, 1915, a few Australian
and N.Z. soldiers determined to exact pun-
ishment for frauds practised upon them in
the street known to them as “The Wozzer”
—the Haret el Wasser, near Shepheard’s
Hotel. Beds, mattresses and clothing from
several houses were thrown out of the win-
dows and piled in a bonfire in the street.
The British military police arrived, but
withdrew after firing a few shots which
harmed nobody. A Greek drinking-shop
was burnt, and the native fire-brigade was
roughly handled. A company of Lancashire
Territorials was then brought up with fixed
bayonets, and the demonstrators dispersed.
(1) Who invented double-entry book-keep-
ing? (2) When did it come into general
use in England and in Australia? (3) What
are its advantages over single entry? —976.
(1) Unknown. The Chinese had a system
of book-keeping thousands of years B.c. that
registered debits and credits and enabled a
trader to discover his annual. balance of
profit or loss. (2) In England it was well
known in Elizabethan times, but it became
general with tradespeople not more than 180
years ago. In Australia it dates from the
first settlements. (3) Single entry is a
means whereby sales and purchases are
recorded in separate books. The ledger,
which is the basis of double entry, records
both sales to and purchases from a client.
(1) Is agapanthus evergreen? When to
plant it? (2) What are the names of the
plants and color of blooms? —971.
(1) Agapanthus (South African lily) has
evergreen foliage and the bulbs can be
planted at any time of the year. (2) The
flowers are carried on long stems -during
December and January. Umbellatus albi-
florus (white), Umbellatus flora plena (dark
blue) and Welleighri (blue) are catalogued
by seedsmen and plant merchants.
I planted a small-leaf privet hedge in
June, 1929. I then cut the small plants to
9 in. high. I let them grow without pruning
till September, 1930, when I trimmed to
I (tin. high, leaving 1 in. of young wood, The
hedge has grown splendidly since; it is now
18 in. high, and I pinch back the strong
leaders. Hotv should I trim from now on?
When is the best time to trim and how many
times per year? Must I cut the plants loio
down again?. —B92.
Your treatment should have established
good root-growth and sturdy plants, and
pruning can now be done at any time of the
year. After each pruning, give a liberal
watering and mulching of old manure. If
it is desired to let the hedge grow tall cut the
new growth back to about six inches above
the old wood, and keep doing this until the
desired height is attained. The regular prun-
ing will make the privet hedge grow wide,
and if cut carefully an excellent hedge can
be made. Since privet makes poor growth
in cold climates in winter (especially in
your district) force the plants in the next
few months.
Who were the pioneers of seaplane flying?
—953. . ,
Among the earliest aircraft designed to fly
from and alight on the water were a French
craft by M. Fabre (1910), the Parseval
monoplane constructed in Germany in 1911,
and the Grahadini monoplane tested at
Monaco in 1911. In October, 1911, Glenn
Curtiss flew from the water on a craft
adapted from the Curtiss aeroplane which
won the Gordon Bennett trophy at Rheims
two years before. In England the first flight
from the water was made by Commander
Swarm, R.N., and S. V. Sippe on an Avro
biplane with 35-h.p. Green engine at Barrow
in November, 1911.
(1) Were Baxter prints the first colar
prints made? (2) Why are Baxter prints
valuable? (3) Was Baxter's output great
and what are his prints worth? —700.
(1) No. The earliest known color print-
ing in England is to be found in the “Book
of St. Albans’” (1486), impressed from wood
blocks. Baxter was born 1804 and made his
first blocks in 1827. (2) Their wide range
of subject and (in the case of the later
prints) their elaborate detail, perfect regis-
ter, brilliancy, depth of color and delicacy
of finish appeal to collectors. Baxter’s pro-
cesses were known only to a few, and after
his death his art languished for many years.
(3) He produced about 400 prints, current
value of which is from three guineas up-
wards, according to size and subject.
(1) How many unemployed are there in
Australia? (2) What teas our national
debt at the end of the last financial year?
How much have we paid to America for (3)
films, (4) motor-cars and (5) motor-tyres
during the past two years? —B49.
(1) According to an official estimate, about
200,000. (2) At 30th June, 1930, Common-
wealth, £372,957,362; States, £727,639,836.
(3) Imports of U.S. films were valued for
Customs purposes at: 1928-29, £192,883;
1929-30, £247,633. But the owners of the
films are estimated to have received
£1,250,000 or thereabouts in each year for
hire. (4) Imports of motor-cars (bodies,
chassis and parts): 1928-29, £10,677,361;
1929-30 £6,794,901. (5) 1928-29, £443,132;
1929-30, £240,451.
(1) To what race and to what period
does Hellenism belong? (2) Briefly, what
are the principal characteristics of Hellen-
ism? —900.
The term may be used to denote ancient
Greek culture in all its phases, and even
those elements in modern civilisation which
are Greek in origin or in spirit. But while
Matthew Arnold made the term popular in
the latter connection as the antithesis of
“Hebraism,” the German historian Droyson
introduced the fashion of using it to describe
particularly the later phases of Greek
culture from the conquests of Alexander to
the end of the ancient world, when those
over whom this culture extended were largely
not Greek ( i.e., Hellenes) in blood, but peoples
who had adopted the Greek speech and way
of life, Hellcnistai. (2) The name is usually
applied to that type of Critical taste in litera-
ture and art which prefers to Hebraic in-
tensity and Gothic exuberance the severity
of artistic restraint and the chaste purity
in design and execution characteristic or
Greece during the Perielean epoch.
What is the origin of the Amei'ican song
“Yankee Doodle”? —911.
It is a matter over which there has been
a great deal of controversy. According to
Grove’s “Dictionary of Music” the first
appearance of the tune in print is dated
1784, and relates to a song by Arnold, “Two
in One,” but it is a lot older than that.
“Yankee Doodle” scored in a more lively
manner than Arnold’s polite adaptation, and
with doggerel verses was sung in America
in 1755 by Amherst’s troops, who were en-
gaged in a campaign against the French and
the Indians. It has been fitted to many sets
of words, none now worth recalling, and in
the words of “Grove’s” it “remains the
national air of the United States.”
Are there any instances where songs that
were unsuccessful when published were later
“ discovered” and made popular? —94o.
Yes, there are many instances. The “Stein
Song” was published 28 years ago, and re-
mained in obscurity till 1929. when a bari-
tone radio singer in New York put it in
his repertoire; 4,000,000 copies have since
been sold. “The End of a Perfect Day,”
written 20 years ago, had practically no
sales till 1920. Ferdinand Dust’s song, “The
Rosary,” brought him practically no royal-
ties, and he died a pauper, but it has, since
his death, sold in millions. “Star of the
Sea,” published 48 years ago, was sold by
its schoolgirl composer for 165., and lay on
music-sellers’ shelves for years. A vogue
for it set in in 1910. and the composer, then
a widow, bought back the copyright in 1911.
Sales to date total 9,000,000 copies.
What was the origin of Boxing Day? —
935.
In England in mediaeval times it was the
custom on the day after Christmas to open
the “poor boxes” of the churches and dis-
tribute the contents to needy parishioners.
In later days it became customary on that
day for well-to-do folk to give tips to the
tradespeople—butcher, baker, milkman, etc.
—who had served them throughout the year,
and also to their own servants.
How did Binghi solve the water problem
in springless country? —B33.
The abo. is an expert water-finder, vege-
tation and the lay of the ground, plus long ex-
perience, telling him where and how deep to
dig for water. Some of these “blackfellow
wells” were thatched to prevent evaporation.
Also he tapped needle-wood shrub roots and
made troughs and other water carriers
from animal skins, bark (stripped from
gums during the wet season), pandanus
leaves or split cane. Shells, skulls and
twisted leaf scoops were used as drinking
vessels.
What are bouts-rimes, and can you fur-
nish an example? —BB2.
Addison described them as “lists of words
that rhyme to one another, drawn ■up by
another hand, and given to a poet, who was
to make a poem to the rhymes, in the same
order that they were placed upon the list.”
The more odd and perplexing the rhymes
arc, the more ingenuity is required to give
a semblance of commonsense to the produc-
tion. As an instance, the rhymes breeze,
elephant, squeeze, pant, scant, please, hope,
pope were submitted, and the following
stanza was the result: —
Escaping from the Indian breeze,
The vast, sententious elephant
Through groves of sandal loves to squeeze
And in their fragrant shade to pant;
Although the shelter there be scant,
The vivid odours soothe and please,
And while he yields to dreams of hope,
Adoring beasts surround their pope.
An outline of botanist Yon Mueller’s
career? —809.
The son of Danish parents, Ferdinand
Jakob Heinrich von Mueller because of
tubercular diathesis migrated to Pt. Adelaide,
Dec., 1847. He was then 22, university
educated (rh.D., Kiel), with six years’ ex-
perience of botanical research. A chemist
at the Port for four years, he spent his
leisure in the near-by ranges and coast on
botanical investigation. His papers*on his
finds led, in 1852, to his appointment as Vic.
Government Botanist, a position he held up
till his death in 1890. He traversed most of
Vic., discovering new flora and country suit-
able for settlement. In ’55 he was with
Gregory’s expedition tracing to its source
the Victoria River (N.T.). He was, as
part of his Government job, Director of Mclb.
botanic gardens, 1557-1873. The King of
Wurtemburg made him a hereditary baron in
1871 (hence the “Von”). In 1867 he carried
out investigations in King George’s Sound
and, 10 years later, Shark Bay (W.A.) and the
Tas. highlands. li'e helped Burke and Wilis
and Forrest to organise their expedi-
tions, and he raised funds for New
Guinea and Antarctic exploration. Most of
the European nations honored him during
his industrious lifetime for his contribu-
tions to botanic and geographic knowledge.
Did Rubens leave any etchings? Gan it be
said that he influenced the art of engraving,
and did he teach sculpture? —B2o.
Some etchings have been ascribed to him,
but except a head of Seneca and a, beautiful
figure of St. Catherine, there isn’t much
that is held to be authentic. All the same
he exercised a valuable influence on the art
of engraving. Under his guidance Sout-
man, Varsterman, Pontius, Witdoeck, the
two Bolswerts, Peter de Jode, Lauwers and
many others produced many beautiful
plates, reproducing the most celebrated of
his paintings. He taught sculpture, his
most celebrated pupil being Luke Fayd’herbe.
I wish to charge a 6 -volt 40 amp.-hour
accumulator from a 32-volt house-lighting
plant. (1) Value of charging resistance?
(2) Could a 4-volt 40 amp.-hour battery be
charged at the same time? (3) What would
be the charging rate? (4) Is a meter neces-
sary, and if so what type? —9Bo.
(1) 6.5 ohms. (2) Yes; connect the posi-
tive 6-volt battery terminal to the positive
charging lead and the negative 6-volt battery
terminal to the 4-volt positive battery ter-
minal. The negative charging lead is con-
nected to the negative 4-volt battery terminal,
and the value of the charging resistance
reduced to 5.5 ohms. (3) 4 amps. (4) A
0-10 d.c. ammeter is desirable to keep a
check on the charging current.
(1) What did it cost Australia to equip
and maintain her soldiers and nurses during
the Great War? CD What did the Common-
wealth Line steamers cost and what did they
fetch when sold? (3) What has it cost Aus-
tralia to pension soldiers and their widows
and orphans and to maintain disabled and
maimed soldiers? Any estimate of private
contributions ? —609.
(1) Total expenditure on war and repatri-
ation services, including war pensions, from
August 4, 1914, to .Tune 30, 1920, was
£335,769,950. (2) The five “Bay Line”
steamers cost £5,953.797. They, with the
Fordsdale and Ferndale, were sold for
£1,850,000. (3) Expenditure from July 1.
1920, to June 30, 1930, was £150,616,151.
It is estimated that more than £12,500,000
was subscribed in Australia to patriotic
funds.
My chrysanthemums are malting much leaj-
growth. (1) How shall I treat them to get
good flowers? (2) What treatment is neces-
sary for rust and aphis? —9B3.
(1) Where only a few large blooms are
desired remove all the lateral growths except
four or five near the top of the plants. This
can be done up to the second week in Feb-
ruary. Chrysanthemums are heavy surface-
feeders, and applications of fertiliser (prefer-
ably blood and bone) can be given in
January. When the buds show at the end of
the laterals remove all except one, and feed
the p’ants with liquid cow manure. In wet
weather be liberal with water to minimise
mildew. (2) For rust, spray with lime-
sulphur wash (1 gallon in 32 gallons of
water). Aphis can be got rid of with a
spray of Black Leaf 40 (according to trade
formula). Spray under the leaves as well
as on top.
(1) When is the best time to top-dress
couch lawns in V. S. Wales? ( 2) The best
material to use? (3) How to get rid of
worms which throw up earth mounds and
spoil the appearance?—- 985.
(1) January or early February. Work
the top-dressing well into the roots and then
water heavily. (2) Loam, with a little sand
and finely sieved, is preferable at this time
of the year. The addition of sulphate of
ammonia will improve the color of the grass.
(3) Worms responsible for the casts can
be destroyed by applying lime-water made
from slaking 41b, of stone lime and then add-
ing 20 gallons of water. Apply it with a
watering-can on the affected patches late in
the afternoon.
What is the law relating to the discovery
of buried treasure in N. S. Wales?— 99B.
Can’t find any statute of the State bear-
ing on the subject. As a matter of Common
Law finds of gold or silver, if ownership
cannot be established, go to the Crown. It
is an indictable offence to conceal such a
discovery.
Brief Answers.
F.R.M.S.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
.. . .A.R.: Send them to Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-
street, Sydney A.C.L.: Nothing to prevent the
executrix taking out probate of the will. Communi-
cate with the Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court
House, Elizabeth-street, Sydney, and ask for the
forms... ,<S.F.L.: No doubt the trustee takes the
view that the lessee’s action in paying the mortgage
interest was taken to protect his lease and not to
benefit the trust estate. Put the facts and documents
before a solicitor... .J.R.H.: Refer to N.S.W. Liquor
Act (1912) J.D.: Can’t find any record. Give
us the date. . . .E.M.D.: (1) Director of National Art
Gallery of N.S.W. has never heard of either Von
Kaspelen or T. Tsaikoska. (2) Cannot determine
value of engraving without knowing name of artist.
G.T.: Write S. J. Squires and Co., Brisbane
J. : A society formed for the purpose of pro-
viding such benefits would require to be registered
under the N.S.W. Friendly Societies Act, and it
would be necessary to provide an actuarial certifi-
cate as to the sufficiency of the contributions for
sick pay and funeral claims. Several friendly societies
have hospital funds, and you might be able to obtain
from them some information as to the rates of contri-
bution found to be necessary... .R.K.T.: Rydge and
Collier’s “Commonwealth Income Tax Acts’’ (£2
25.) and “N.S.W. Income Tax Acts” (£1 155.),
the two, £3 125.; Brierly and Irish’s “Annotations
of the Crown Land Acts” (£2 10s.); obtainable
Law Book Co., 14Q Phillip-street, Sydney
H.S.K.: Three-hand (or “cut-throat”) euchre is
the same as the four-hand game. The two other
players combine against the maker of the trump
on each deal. Player making the trurnp scores three
points if he wins five tricks, one point if he wins
three or four tricks. If he fails to win three or
more tricks, each opponent scores two points (a
euchre) R. 8.: Try 1 p.c. yellow oxide of
mercury rubbed along the lids. Use hot fomentations
over the eyes very frequently after being bitten....
P.M.: For five years ending 1914, convictions for drunk-
enness per 10,000 inhabitants totalled 135.78 p.a. For
five years ending 1927 (latest figures available),
convictions totalled 99.96. .. .C.C.N.: Australia ranks
fourth as an exporter of butter to the United King-
dom, being exceeded by Denmark, New Zealand and
Irish Free State... .W.P.F.: (1) Caucus is really a
secret meeting held by a political party to decide
its vote on a question before Parliament. (2) Its
derivation is disputed, but is generally believed to
come from a North American Indian tribe word,
kaw-kaw-was, meaning to talk Tom H.: Bs
claim is correct. Note, too, that D takes 15-2
for his play. .. .N.F.: A howitzer is a short-barrelled
cannon which “lobs” its projectile slowly with a
high trajectory. A salvo is a single discharge of
the guns of a battery in succession. .. .F.8.N.D.:
(1) Yes. Any contributor is eligible to be elected.
(2) Yes R.K.G.: Get in touch with Lvster Ormsbv,
235 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .J.: If by “mis-
conduct” is meant adultery, and you can prove it,
the “cheapest and best method” is a suit for divorce.
Desertion without reasonable excuse during three
years and upwards is also a sufficient cause for
divorce in N. S. Wales... .W.P.M.: Oscar Asche was
born at Geelong (Vic.) June 26, 1872. He is Nor-
wegian by descent. He married Lily Bray t0n....
K. : Bruce Bairnsfather served with the Royal War-
wickshire Regiment from 1914 to 1916... -Seottie : (1)
It is a proprietary co. (2) No connection. (3)
No T.M.D.M.: Cost of Parliamentary government
for year ending June 30, 1928, latest recorded:
Commonwealth, £473,288 ; N.S.W, £302,880; Vic.,
£128,507 ; Queensland, £115,118; S.A., £89,166;
W.A., £118,190; Tas., £49,266; total, £1,276,415.
M.J.O.: Write Will Andrade, Central Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney... .J.M.L.: Entries for the Com-
monwealth Scenario Competition closed last March
and the results were announced a few months back.
Winners were Mrs. Margery Brown and Victor Ree
—both of Sydney R.C.: (1) No special size. Make
them from three to five times as large as they’ll
appear in the paper. (2) We are always willing to
consider black-and-white drawings. (3) Limited at
present. (4) From 30s. upwards... .W. 8.0.: See
Federal Hansard (No. 3, third period, first session,
1930), page 387 D.D.: (1) The co. employs only
three electricians and can always get sufficient labor
locally. (2) Must be qualified. (3) Wages and
holidays as third engineer, rated as electrician. (4)
Apply to shipping cos G.H.: Write again saying
that if the matter is not expedited you will place
it in the hands of a solicitor, and, if you cannot
then get satisfaction, do 50... .A.D.: 118, 33 (v.
S. Aus.) ; 31, 51 (v. Vic.) ; 0, 12 (v. Q’land) ; 2,
73 (v. S. Aus.) ; 7, 134 n.o. (v. Vic.) D.W.G.:
Chances very slight. Write to the various island
traders H.N.L.: David Low drew the Alf Vincent
caricature and A. H. Campbell the one of Norman
Lindsay. .. .M.F.L.: Detailed information not available.
Australian-born in A.1.F., approximately 77 p.c
C. 8.: Papyrus, the 1923 English Derby winner, was sent
to the U.S.A. to run a match with Zev, the American
champion. The race was held at Belmont Park, New
York, in 1923, over a distance of 14 miles. Zev
won easily... .L.E.W.: The umpire was correct in
giving the striker of the ball out... .R.L.J.: (1)
British Astronomical Society, 8 Northbrook-road,
London, 5.E.13. (2) American Astronomical Society,
Princeton University Observatory, Princeton, N.J.,
U.S.A W.D.H.: Bareena (“tree resembling a ti-
tree”), Burradoo (“many brigalow trees”), Corramar
(“shade of trees”), Derribong (“trees”) ... .P.N.: At
June 30, 1930, 138,678 N.S.W. schoolchildren had
school savings banks accounts, and deposits totalled
£197,035 G.E.: The woolsack is the seat of the
Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords, placed in
front of the throne. Its origin dates from the days
of Queen Elizabeth, when the export of wool was
forbidden, and it was thus dignified in token of its
importance to the national prosperity... .W.S.P.:
The characteristic odor of cypress pine is due to a
phenol named callitral, which probably causes the
dai'kness of the timber and also its resistance to
the ravages of white ants... .L.C.: The botanical
name of the evergreen shrub known along the Clon-
curry River as “ngeen-gerry” is Sesbania aegyptiaca.
Its leaves and branches are used for fodder and the
wood makes good gunpowder charcoal... .S.N.D.: You
will find the lines in Tennyson’s “Locksley Ha 11”....
P.W.: Good Friday in 1924 fell on April 18; in
1899 on March 31; and in 1896 on April 3
8.L.: Tanganyika Territory (late German East
Africa) was captured in 1918 and was
subsequently divided between the British and
the Belgians. The country is administered under
Mandates from the League of Nations... .H.R.C.:
The phrase is from Boileau: “A fool always finds
a greater fool to admire him”... .N.S.: (1) East
Sydney Technical College, Darlinghurst, Sydney. (2)
It would be foolish for the girl to give up her
present position. She could do her ordinary work
and study at 1 night. .. .W.M.K.: Phil May drawings
are worth anything from two to twenty guineas,
according to the subject. To sell at present would
be to sacrifice. Send us full particulars. .. .K.E.A.:
Lord Alfred Douglas is alive. • He published an
autobiography two years ago... . A.8.A.: A monitor
is a warship of shallow draft and low freeboard,
intended for use in coastal defence or attack, usually
armed with a gun of at least 12in. calibre...*
(Mapy others mailed.)


o
4-
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Ace. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Speeial” rooms (h. and c. wafer'). 16/- or
m r.j
■■
wm
m
Over the Sea
On the Sea
Under the Sea
THE world's leading en-
gineers have tested bat-
teries under every possible
condition of service, and for
places where life is at stake,
and batteries must not fail
—their choice is usually Exide.
More than ninety* per cent, of
the world's submarines are
Exide equipped.
Exide has been chosen on
great pioneering flights, to
maintain radio communication
and for other important pur-
poses. Kingsford Smith used
Exide in his flights across the
Atlantic and to Australia.
The Exide you buy from your local
Service Station is built with the
same care and skill, has the same
unfailing dependability, the same
reserve of power for any emergency.
Exide Batteries are made in Australia
and there are Service Stations
throughout the Commonwealth.
>The Longer Life Battery
FOR CARS. RADIO and HOME LIGHTING
State Distributors
NEW SOUTH WALES : Exide Battery
Service (Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.),
Hunt and Commonwealth Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s
Bridge, 2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : Exide Battery Service
(Q.) Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
Stanley St., Sth. Brisbane ; Sturt St., T’ville.
S. AUSTRALIA : Unbehaun & Johnstone
Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : M. J. Bateman
Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan St., Perth.
TASMANIA : Medhurst & Sons, Pty. Ltd.,
141 Collins Street, Hobart, and 09 Brisbane
Street, Launceston. C 5
SWAN
N
K
ŗ
SHOP BY POST—WRITE FOR SAMPLES
ESSS^i
ip- i
*
IF YOU’RE CRITICAL
ABOUT YOUR WALLS
You’ll like our exclusive Wallpapers all the better.
We are showing some new designs just to hand in
GAY AND COLORFUL TAPESTRIES
PLASTIC EFFECTS IN EXQUISITE
METALLIC
IMITATION ROUGH CAST
FUTURISTIC AND SPANISH MORENE
These all give tone and atmosphere to homes and flats.
In addition we have designs of Conventional papers which never
go out of fashion.
If you pay either of our Showrooms a visit we will demonstrate
these modish wallpapers and at prices which will save you money.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The W Plan,” at Sydney Lyceum, is a
secret service drama. The British G.0.C.,
whom Charles Hallard makes up to resemble
Haig, gets hold of a mysterious diagram
taken from a dead German. Diagnosing that
there is mo're in it than meets the eye, he
sends Brian Aherne, as a Germanicised
Argyle and Sutherland Highlander, over the
line in a ’plane to solve the problem. The
rest of the picture deals with the spy’s ex-
periences in Germany, which include a meet-
ing with Madeline Carroll, whom he had
known and loved before the war, and his
return to G.H.Q. by way of No Man’s Land.
The action moves slowly owing to the direc-
tor’s predilection for wordy dialogue, and
there are some cheap effects. The debased
countenance of a Hun glaring through the
bars of a W rushes sensationallv out of the
screen, and recedes. Also the audience has
its leg badly pulled in connection with a
firing-party. The hero is on the point of being
shot when a switch to his prison cell reveals
that it was all an irrelevant dream. Still
the atmosphere of the Western Front per-
meates the whole production. The fatuities
of so many American war-pictures—the
cheering, carefree front-line villagers, the
erotic C.C.S. nurses in high-lieeled shoes, the
low comedy n.c.o.’s and privates—are merci-
fully absent. The officers look and talk
exactly like officers, with the possible excep-
tion of Hallard, whose measured articula-
tion is a little too faultless for the fashion-
able cavalryman that Haig was; and the
other ranks are just right—genuine Tommies,
and not a wise-cracker among them.
Put the letter W on a map of the Ypres
sector, with Strezeele near the middle and
Poperinghe and Menin at the top, and you
get an idea of the plan which the Scots
major and the prisoners of war whom he
gathers round him succeed in frustrating.
Actually, it was the plan which the Germans
put into more or less successful practice in
the spring of 1918 when they surged up to
Neuve Eglise, took Ivemmel Hill, and domi-
nated the surrounding country from it. But
that rather adds to the interest of the show,
and the photography might have been done
in Flanders. The scenes in No Man’s Land
are more realistic, partly because they are
less lurid, than anything in “All Quiet’’;
and the sound effects, and more particularly
the machine-gun fire of the ’planes as heard
from the ground, are uncanny. Brian Aherne
is the complete British officer who trans-
forms himself into the complete Prussian
officer, and later into a Boche ranker. Made-
line Carroll is stiffer than in “Young Wood-
ley,” and the accomplished Hallard doesn't
shine either. Both have a good many punch
lines in which the ends are telegraphed,
as the pugs say. “It is far easier to get into
enemy territory,” says li'allard with slow
impressiveness, “than it is to get out of it.”
And there is the film equivalent of a “cur-
tain” after that piece of sapience!
¥ 9 *
“The Dancers,” which has been shaking a
leg at Sydney Regent, affords further proof
that Hollywood makes most of its pictures
with eyes on the home market only. This
one will cause derision in most British com-
munities. Rarely outside the Tower of Babel
can so many conflicting voices have been
assembled. Phillips Holmes’s Tony—heir to
an English earldom, and idol of one of those
wild spots in nor’-western America where
men are men and women cabaret-dancers—
is a self-consciously winsome lad, badly in
need of a haircut, and the owner of a New
York accent. In England, three years earlier,
he had loved Diana, played by Lois Moran,
who has an accent very like liis. She lives
with her Aunt Emily (Mrs. Pat Campbell),
who has the chesty, mannered voice of Vic-
torian England. Berwin, who has won Diana
from Tony, lives in a Mayfair pent-house, j
talks English with occasional lapses into
American, and gives parties at which practi-
cally all the guests are New Yorkers. When
Diana flies to France in her ’plane to save
Tony from himself, and becomes a teacher
in a village school, she finds a scholar with
a Bowery accent and a mayor who speaks |
broken English. Mae Clarke is a confessed
American. She plays Maxine, the dancer j
with a heart of gold who loves Tony, but, j
realising he is not for her, turns him over
to Diana.
It is all as unreal as a flapper’s pearls,
and as sloppy as a flapper’s mind; on the
other hand the acting is sound of its kind,
and much of the dialogue is bright. Mrs.
Pat Campbell, whose once svelte figure has
grown monumental, gets laugh after laugh
without straining after her effects. is
interesting to notice the way she puts her
lines over w’hat used to be the footlights.
* # *
“Call of the Flesh,” starring Ramon
Novarro, was also on the Regent bill. The
story begins in a nunnery which, astonish-
ingly, abuts on an open-air cabaret show.
A novice by climbing on to the convent wall
can see and hear the all too fleshly enter-
tainment, and Maria (Dorothy Jordan)
imperils her soul by doing so. Her facial
and physical contortions as she listens to
the carollings of Juan (Ramon Novarro)
express unbounded passion, and we are
grieved but not surprised when she takes up
with him, and has a bad time of it. Novarro
is unbeatable in this kind of part. He has!
the naive vanity of a mannequin, and a per- j
sonality which enables him to get away
with deeds that would make a British-born!
mummer loathed. In this show he tells an
infatuated lass how she may win his love,:
and then, with an arch giggle, skips pro-;
vocatively off and leaves her lamenting. The,
born rasta, as they say in his native land,
and he has a nice tenor voice to intensify
his gift for inflaming the ladies.
Apart from Novarro, no member of the
cast gets many opportunities, though Nance
O’Neill, Rene Adoree and Ernest Torrance
figure on it.
It may be significant of something that on
the night the writer visited the Regent the
loudest applause was for Stan Porter and his;
fine orchestra in Liszt’s Rhapsody No. 2.1
Five pianos helped to interpret the popular !
classic, and the audience literally shouted I
its approval at the finish.


ŕ
To
enhance
ijour beauty
BEAL IY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most of your
hair as a background for your beauty by
using Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the oil well into your hair, when :t
will show the gloss of health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
Oj all Chemists
ŗ
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair.
Golden for fair
or grey hair.
ftowland’s
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND.
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail ”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the Daily Mail is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The Daily Mail
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
A Meal & Room
for every,
taste /
Whether your first demand
be for comfort or for economy,
the Grosvenor meets it. 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all doors. Fire-
proof. Meals a la carte
from 1/6. £3/10/- weekly.
Bed and breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenou
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
NO ESCAPE
BY Velia Ercole
Chapter I.
(1)
IT was midnight, still, hot. The kerosene-
lamp threw grotesque shadows on walls
and ceiling. The corners of the room
were dark, a menacing dark which now and
again, in obedience to the lamp’s flickering,
threatened to jump forward and obliterate
the light-encircled bed. There was no
sound beyond the woman’s moaning, the
occasional hoarse muttering of the old
nurse.
In an, instant the doctor had taken com-
mand and all was changed, except the
woman’s agony, which continued through
the long night.
Once Leo went out on to the verandah.
It was scarcely less hot ’there. There were
no stars, no breath of wind. The pepper-
trees bordering the street were dark, un-
stirring. He leaned against the verandah
post. Then there was a movement behind
him and a woman’s voice said,
“Is that you, Doctor?”
“Yes. Doctor Gherardi. You want me?”
He peered into the dark corner whence the
voice came, but could see nothing. Even
when the woman stood before him he
could not distinguish her features.
“I’m Mrs. Ferrars, Mr. Gilbert’s cousin,
Doctor. I came in with Mrs. Gilbert to-
night. I was waiting out here and I fell
asleep. I told nurse to be sure and tell
me when you arrived.” Her voice was low-
pitched and cultured. It held some quality
which attracted Leo and made him curious
to see her face,.
“You could do nothing,” he said.
The woman gave a low cry, swiftly sup-
pressed. “I didn’t know I didn’t mean
to fall asleep.’’
“No matter now. Where is the husband?”
“He’s in Sydney. That’s the trouble of
it all. We didn’t expect this for a couple
of weeks. I’ve been staying with Mrs. Gil-
bert, and this afternoon when she seemed ill
I thought it best to come into town at
once.”
“That was right.”
The nurse came to the door and called
softly: “I think you’d better come, Doctor.’’
WLen dawn was paling the eastern hills
the child w r as born. It had been a long
fight, and walking home through the silent
streets Leo felt almost as exhausted as
the spent woman who had appeared to care
very little for the life he had insisted on
her retaining, and still less for the red-
faced, screaming daughter who lay against
her limp arm. Well, that was nothing.
Nature would soon adjust all that.
He found himself thinking of the woman
who had spoken to him on the darkened
verandah, and wondered again what per-
sonality and appearance belonged to that
voice. He had looked for her as he was
leaving, but the verandah had been empty.
He was very tired, so tired that he was
scarcely conscious of his plodding body;
but his mind circled restlessly. He won-
dered why the woman Gilbert had chosen
the old midwiife and the odorous, ill-
equipped little maternity home. The Gil-
berts were rich; the woman could have had
a dozen trained nurses, could have gone to
Sydney. But she had remained in Banton.
Well, this was her town. She belonged here,
probably felt safer, was more content. The
old nurse had said, “I brought this girl
into the world, and now her daughter. Time
moves, doesn’t it? It seems like yesterday.”
But the people, it seemed, did not move.
The roots went deep into the soil of the
place, but the branches did not spread far.
He had been in Banton only a few days,
but he had heard of the Gilberts, whose
ancestor, Jeremiah Gilbert, had been the
first white man to settle in the district.
Curious, he thought, that his first case
should have been the birth of a child of
Gilbert’s stock.
The fitness to their environment of those
two women and the child seemed to accen-
tuate the fact of his own alienism. They
belonged here so incontestably. This little
town was their heritage, and to-night he,
Leo Gherardi, exile, alien, had helped the
Gilberts into the possession of that heritage.
To his fatigue was added an overwhelming
sense of depression. Life, he thought wear-
ily, had strange twists, curious by-paths
which trapped the feet of the unwary. One
turned from the main road, thinking to
regain it at any time. But life has no sign-
posts. It is difficult to get back, it is easy
to get lost.
Before he tumbled into bed he thought,
with a spatter of dispassionate blasphemy,
“What am I doing in this town? I can’t
see myself staying here long.”
(2)
On a moonlit night in 1834 Fate, drowsing,
woke to see Emilia di Rienati fleeing from
the palace of her fathers.
And Fate laughed, well pleased.
“As it should be, as it should be, my
little one,” he said. “But wnat now? You
humans are poor material, after all, for an
eternity of jokes. You react so similarly.”
His laughter passed to a sort of grumpi-
ness.
“Well, I will cast far, very far,” he said,
and he left Emilia and the young Gherardi,
her Inver, to find their way through the
dark streets of Milan. The earth was small
to the tired eyes of the god, and what he
sought seemed hard to find.
In Iceland a fool was meditating on the
edge of the Vatna Jokull.
“I will cross it,” he said. “I will do what
none of the young men can, I, Thorgeir.”
But Fate laughed.
“You will not, my fine fool. And you
are no good for the joke I have in mind.
Soon you will be cold as the ice you think
to scorn.”
In the white wastes of Siberia was a
black moving line staining the snow. Man
chained to man, crawling, stumbling, with
the saltmines for an end. The line moved,
and left a blot on the icy desert.
“You?” said Fate, but the dead man was
beyond even Fate.
He left the wastes, cold and void as inter-
stellar spaces.
On the trail which led to Bahia Blanca,
on the prairie of Buenos Ayres, a horseman
rode, the silver bridles which weighed his
horse clanking in the still air.
“Perhaps you,” said the god meditatively.
But then his eye wavered. Its wavering was
a matter of many thousands of miles; the
horseman of the Tres Arroyos was lost,
and in his stead was a rider who drew rein
in a grove of young gums.
The god slapped his thigh. Australia!
Here was the thing. He regarded the young
man, who slacked in his saddle, motionless,
watchful, perhaps a little afraid of the
Unknown, the solitude, the silence, afraid of
his own temerity in penetrating to this
place, which, until his coming, no white
man had ever trod.
“You will do,” he said. “The old and
the new. Go, breed your line, civilise your
wilderness. You can set the stage for the
comedy w’hich the spawn of Emilia shall
enact for me. We shall see what we shall
see.”
But to the young man in the clearing,
Jeremiah Gilbert, the fight of the day, the
progress of the day was all that mattered.
(3)
In 1813 when Blaxland, Lawson and
Wentworth blazed the trail over the Blue
Mountains in New South Wales they found
a fertile wilderness. Then with dreams in
their tired eyes and triumph, they held
out the key to the west. And in due course
the slender, tentative track was broadened
to a road.
Men came: ardent, or timid and dubious;
adventuring joyously or flogging their
courage, but all impatient. And in course
of time, as they hacked and hewed, each
one became silent, and impatience died,
their strokes grew slower and surer, and
they realised that time was illimitable.
Young Gilbert, in the weeks of toil
and hardship which had passed since he
set out from Parramatta, had learned, like
all who went before him, that the day’s
progress was all that mattered in the day.
It is doubtful if he visioned the town
which was to spring from his coming, the
town which Fate had marked for his joke.
Had you asked him he could not have told
you what drove him on. He was not given
to dreams or deep thinking, but in him
was the .instinct to break new trails, to
make his earth a servant to his needs. Now
at last he had passed beyond the marks of
ail who had gone before, beyond the fur-
thest fluttering filament of civilisation.
A party of friendly blacks had directed
him when he stood hesitating on the brink
of the unknown. For a mess of pottage they
had surrendered their birthright, for a few
pounds of flour, of sugar, they had given
up their domain. Childlike, eager, harmless
despite their warriors’ spears, they had
pointed him to good country, well-watered
and suitable for stock. And Gilbert had
gone on, marking with shrewd eyes the
tufted grasses, the wooded slopes, the
lagoons and waterholes and the creek mean-
dering down from some guessed-at source
in the hills.
In the gathering dusk he hobbled his
two horses and made his camp for the
night. There was no terror in his young
heart, but a deep and quiet joy in the
knowledge that his journeyings in the
wilderness would bear fruit. In the pallid
dawn he marked the tree which was to
form the centre of his acres, and without
loss of time or sentiment he turned his
horses towards the gilded east and com-
menced the return journey.
In an effort to stem the oncoming tide of
free adventurers, which threatened to alter
the whole complexion of the convict colony,
and to preserve the original plan, the Gov-
ernment had made squatting illegal. But
the men of worth and enterprise, allured by
the promise of the new continent, were
not easily balked. The teeming of the old
countries denied the surrender of the new
land to a handful of convicts, and the tide
of free settlers swept up the golden shores
and covered the country. The contrary
efforts of the Government were abortive;
squatting was legalised, and the wilderness
passed into the strong hands of men com-
pelled by no force beyond their own spirit.
YQung Gilbert returned to Sydney, paid
his ten pounds, and took out his squatting
license,' applying for 100,000 acres. He
bought sheep and horses, cattle and pigs.
On his two bullock-drays he loaded flour,
sugar, tea and slop goods. He bought tools,
and hired shepherds and workmen. Then,
with high courage, he began the wearisome
return journey.
In the year which followed he learned
patience. As he hacked a way through the
scrub for his drays, as he forded creeks,
he learned it; as he slowly and painfully
rescued bogging cattle or searched for stray-
ing stock wdnle sirocco-like winds seared
his body, he learned it; as he halted for
breakdowns and repairs, he learned it; as
his workmen deserted and he retrieved
them, drunken, from some wayside' inn, he
learned it; as he crawled over hills into
valleys, across plains, he learned it; and by
the time he stood again in the little clearing
and stared thoughtfully at the tree marked
fourteen months before, he knew that he
would never forget what he had learned.
He took six weeks to build a hut. Pine-
trees yielded their resinous lifeblood; the
trunks were split into slabs and squai*ed with
the adze; the roof was neatly thatched with
bark. As a concession to remembered
luxury, the walls were lined with unbleached
calico, and green baize was stretched across
the upper half. Sleeping bunks, a few
stools, and a table completed the furnish-
ings. For his shepherds he built huts three
or four miles distant from each other, in
a rough circle, as was customary.
Many trees were felled and split that first
summer, and in the winter, when the ground
was soft, postholes were dug, and horse-
paddocks and stockyards erected. The
nearer acres were cleared for the plough, to
be sown with wheat for bread, with barley
and oats for the horses. His first shearing
was done in a thatched woolshed, his wool-
press a makeshift with a tree for leverage.
He felt a god as he watched his first waggon-
load of fleeces take its slow way through
the trees making across country for the
Bathurst-road.
If there was loneliness in the immensity
of that wooded, silent place, he had not
noted it. Resolutely be had made a friend
of the silence and the space. There could
have been menace in the thick, pulsing pres-
sure of the dense forest. Rest a moment,
it seemed to say, and we will reclaim all
this. But Gilbert gave no heed to the
threat. He heard the cry of a mopoke, the
swift scurryings of the hidden life about
him, the neighing of a wakeful horse; far
off, the dismal wail of a dingo, and gradu-
ally, as his intrepid spirit was caught up
and made one with the night, these sights
and sounds overcame the picture of the
winding bullock-waggon and its precious
freight till then so present in his mind, and
he knew in that instant, though not con-
cretely, that the desire to wrest riches from
this country and return gold-laden to his
homeland had given way to a greater,
more intangible one. That night his trust
in the silence was rewarded, and the reward
was the breaking of the silence. Never
more would the voice of the bush be mute
for him, but would speak to him with its
thousand tongues and be understood. For
the first time he fell asleep without melan-
cholic remembrance of his home, his family
and his friends. For the first time he forgot
to resent the. loss of comfort and culture.
In a few years his station was in working
order. Uniike many another squatter he
had decided against convict labor, though
he numbered among his workmen some
emancipists. He was by his native shrewd-
ness more fortunate than most in his selec-
tion of men, and it was a rare occasion with
him, though frequent in the times, to come
upon his shepherds drunken and disdainful
in their huts while the flocks entrusted to
their care wandered into the remoteness of
the hills. By no means a minor feature of
his routine were these long rides of inspec-
tion to the outlying shepherds’ huts.
His flocks he had disposed in the dry,
hilly country which ringed his acres. On
the low-lying ground, browsing beside the
creeks, were his sleek cattle. The horses,
provided their trespass was not too wanton,
were allowed to roam at will.
Others followed where Gilbert led, and
soon the country for miles around was
selected by men who realised the potenti-
alities of this vast unexplored country.
(4)
Oh, the days of blazing sun and a sky
so blue it seemed a tangible thing to pass
through one’s hands! The thick, scented
wattle-scrub drugging the senses, the ring
of the axe in the still air, a satin-coated
horse to bear one, and each opening in the
trees an exploration!
Days passed into months, months into
years, and the men twisted and shaped the
wilderness to meet their needs. Searing
summers struck at the astonished pioneers,
winters made mock of the dour and bitter
weather of their remembered homelands,
spring seemed to quiver overnight into
summer.
The work of the day left little time to
yearn for society, and there was little
society in those first years. Chronicled in
Gilbert’s diary would be found perhaps .the
visit of the Commissioner, of a stockman
from a near-by station in search of straying
stock, of a neighbor come to argue over an
infringement of boundaries, or a prospective
squatter who wished his judgment con-
firmed. But more often it was the blunt
story of the day’s achievement: cattle
mustered and branded, stock drafted and
culled, weaners handled, wheat sown or
potatoes planted, bullock-waggons dis-
patched with produce or with supplies for
the outlying huts.
The woolgrowers prospered in those years.
Lean, stern-mouthed and bronzed, Gilbert
was fine-tempered by the white fires of toil.
His native shrewdness had developed into
an almost uncanny precision of judgment.
He imported stallions from England, and
soon his stud was well known throughout
the colony. He worked and he saved money.


c9a
cen/ne of Queens Lonets
cf/s/t'ngut&fac/ Soc/o/Lire.
Wot el
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisban.:.
Telephone, Central 83511—6 Lines.
r
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
<r
free pattern
EVERY WEEK
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
!? t§y
®!!i' iJriij’Jii
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week,
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
Foreseeing the inevitable end of the low
land-rentals and purchase price, he bought
what he could of his lease at the ruling
minimum of five shillings. When in ’39
prices began to soar he was secure in a
sizable possession. In that year he married.
Not all his love for his bride, or the
protection of the stone house he had buili
for her, could save the young English girl
from the cruel surprise of those first months.
It never occurred to him to save her.
There was work to be done. Sometimes the
bewilderment in her blue eyes, the fragile
whiteness of her hands turned to unaccus-
tomed tasks, woke in him a chivalrous regret.
He was faintly surprised at this emotion,
would view it dispassionately as might a
man stumbling on a forgotten code, vouch-
safed a glimpse of other times, other
manners. She was for him a partner in the
yoke, pulling her share of the burden. In
the grey dawn he would fling an arm across
her as- she slept deeply beside him. He
would wake her with a kiss, but he would
wake her. The day- was come, the day’s
work waited, and not all his realisation of
her tired body could excuse her from the
day. As the months passed her white skin
browned, her eyes became clear-sighted as
his, her limbs gained strength, the dawn-
found her ready and the dusk content, and
in incoherent gladness of soul Gilbert
realised that he had found for himself a
fit mate.
Something of her husband’s kinship and
understanding of the bush was imparted to
Johanna Gilbert. Because of him and
through him she contrived to feel for the
new country an affection which would have
been impossible independently. But she
never shared with him the almost mystic
apprehension of the strange and brooding
spirit of the land.
On the subject of this psychic link be-
tween him and the field of his labors he
was dumb, cognisant of it only in rare
moments and incapable of imparting it to
any human being. “You know,” he said,
“I feel that this is more home now than
England for us.” But he knew how inade-
quate was the banal phrase. Impossible to
tell of the surrender of his being to the
imponderable force. He did not try.
When in the early ’forties, during the
unpopular Gipps Government, bad times
struck the colony, Gilbert was scarcely sur-
prised and the blows of financial loss made
little impact on his stern spirit. He only
grew sterner, less communicative. He hus-
banded his resources, he left legislation to
his more politically-minded colleagues. He
worked and he trusted, and he was never
surprised. When the boiling down of sheep
for tallow was instituted by an Irish farmer,
he was one of the first to adopt the expe-
dient. The wool market was negligible and
a sheep worth more dead than alive. But
he did not go about it dolefully as his
neighbors. “It had to come,” he would say
to one or another rare visitor, speaking in
his clipped, grave way. “You should have
seen and been ready.” And when many,
lacking reserves, were driven from the land,
he watched them go with something like
contempt. Slowly, straining every nerve,
like a strong swimmer with brain and
muscle tensed against an overwhelming
wave, he fought and won slowdy, painfully
through it.
Then, as though impatient of his victory,
of the confidence of such mites crawling
arrogantly on its vast body, the land, like
a giant tired of sleep, awoke to shake itself
free.
In ’49 began a terrific drought in the
south-west. Deluded, unexpectant, the men
gave little heed at first. Autumn and winter
passed without rain; the earth was faded
and. barren, mocking the lush fertility of
other years. Spring slid by in unmarred
serenity. The men began to look askance
at the vivid bowl of the skies. A cloud be-
came a thing of beauty to eyes sickened by
uninterrupted brilliance. But the sun,
triumphant, dispersed the infrequent grey,
claiming again for itself the whole vast
dome. Spring passed. There was no rain.
The summer came; the scant grasses died;
the leaves of the trees curled and withered;
the waters dried. Burning winds, dust-
laden, swept across the valleys; fires rose in
the hills and blazed through the country.
Another year began, another year of pallid,
hazed night skies which gave all too swiftl}'
on the brassy days. The starved cattle gave
up their lives beside the dried waterholes;
the baked beds of creeks, the brown, bare
paddocks were strewn with dead stock. And
on these the crows grew fat. Alone in the
dead land they lived, glutted with the warm
blood of the dying animals, cawing their
way through the desolation. The kangaroos
and emus migrated further south. The bush
emptied.
One by one, as the water failed, the men
and their families were compelled to leave
the drought-stricken area, and at last there
was no one in that part save Gilbert.
Months since, when existence became un-
endurable, he had sent away his Johanna
and their children. He fought alone during
those weeks. Shepherds and workmen, lured
by the discovery of gold in California, had
deserted in droves. Grim, undaunted, Gilbert
performed his tasks, herding his stud horses
and what flocks and cattle he could into
the paddocks near the house. Sparingly he
watered them at the precious lagoon, the
now solitary source. From the red dawn
until the grateful dusk he worked, cutting,
hacking, tearing at such trees as might pro-
vide nourishment for the starving beasts.
He lived in death; the winds which choked
him were laden with the stench of rotting
carcases; his body had sweated until it could
sweat no more. He was lean and dried and
hard like the withered sticks around him.
When the water in the lagoon was almost
gone, he realised that it was dangerous and
vain to remain longer. Even his faith died.
A long time he stood staring with crazed,
sunken eyes at the mark he had made in the
wilderness, at his cleared barren acres which
should have been riotous with growth, at
the huddle of sheds and yards, at the stone
house so proudly built, at the smaller hut
which had seen the birth of his love for this
land, and through his pain was a child’s
astonishment that the land could use him so.
And then, like a vain wench who re-
kindles by a smile the ardent flame in the
breast of a spurned lover, the land relented.
Searching forlornly for water in the dried
creek-bed, he perceived a trickle of moisture.
A few minutes’ scrabbling and scratching
revealed a spring, a thing unsuspected in
those parts. Triumphant, God-filled as
Moses when he struck the rock, Gilbert
hurled his pick into the moisture. Again
he was enslaved, chained to his torments;
again he drove his dwindling stock to
water; again he wielded his axe. These
months were the worst.
At last it rained, ceaselessly for days; but
Gilbert was sick in mind and, scarcely
realised that the earth grew fair again,
turned kind. Those days, when he sat
blank and unfeeling, watching the grey
downpour, were as a curtain which shut
out the memory of his trial, shut out the
vision of the land’s cruelty. He emerged
sane and unembittered, calm, with renewed
faith.
Returning squatters finding him alive
were astonished and a little awed. Like
Lazarus he could tell nothing of the coun-
try of the dead through which he had passed.
Brief and cryptic were his comments. A
silent man, and strange, they said, and
went on their way uncomprehending. Onhy
Johanna knew what the months had been
for him, and she got the story from his
eyes, not from his lips.
With his remaining capital, Gilbert re-
stocked as well as he was able, and, in the
years which followed, the land blossomed
to his touch, smiled upon and caressed him
as if, by a surfeit of gifts, she would atone
for her previous harshness.
Slowly the country recovered from the
economic depression, and the definite return
to health was made possible by the dis-
covery of gold; a new and glistening thread
was woven in the web, a thread which for
the time glittered brightly across the con-
tinent and dazzled the eyes of the world.
The discovery created a demand for Gil-
bert’s horses, and he sent them, a steady
stream, overland to Port Phillip.
Unlike most of the squatters he was not
actively inimical to the diggers. He realised
the necessity of the new stream of popula-
tion which poured into the colony. With
Mr. Stephen Callew, who came riding that
way one day, he was not in agreement; the
fears which the neighboring squatter enter-
tained for his property and superiority did
not touch Gilbert. “It is a stimulus we
need,” he said. “We are beginning a nation.
Many of these men will be worthless, many
will pass when the gold passes, but many
will remain to take up land, to open the
continent, and they will be free men
jree men. That they come here at all
shows they are men of courage and enter-
prise. They will be blood and sap for our
young national growth. I think, Mr. Callew,
that our class is mistaken in its abhorrence
of the diggers”
Yet, for the new element, in its present
state, he felt a deep spiritual disgust. The
crude extraction of wealth by this fevered
greed conflicted with his creative instinct.
The brilliant tales of fortunes made in a
moment on hillside or stream left him un-
moved. To his son Gregory he offered no
garrulous opposition when the lad, intoxi-
cated by visions, announced his intention of
setting off for the diggings. But that night
he took him by the arm, a gentle and un-
usual familiarity, and they walked for an
hour or so to the edge of the cleared acres,
through the ring-barked scrub, and pene-
trated into the untouched forest, and, as
they walked, Gilbert told his son a little
of what the years had meant to him. In
the thick gloom of a timbered hill he said,
“I have gone this far. I have done this
much. It will be for you and the others of
your generation to go farther. Never for-
get that, You can go to the diggings, but
always remember that the real thing is here.
If you return with gold enough to buy the
country, you won’t be able to feel as I do
when I look on that valley.”
He was not seduced even when the
golden lure beckoned from his own pastures.
New South Wales had discovered its gold
and the colony was in the delirious grip of
the gold fever. But Gilbert was quiet in his
quiet acres; his paddocks and hills were
undisturbed, his flocks grazing unmenaced
in their Arcady.
Then Fate, mindful of his plans, put the
cornerstone in the town which was the
stage for his comedy; and the stone was
veined with gold. One of Gilbert’s shep-
herds, a.n Irishman, l’eturned from watering
his flock at a distant dam, pitched his camp
on a thickly scrubbed hillside. Resting
after his midday meal, he began an idle
game with the pebbles which scattered the
slope. As idly he examined one of the
pebbles and found it veined with the
precious metal. In a frenzy of delight he
commenced fossicking about and discovered
a gold-bearing reef. He returned to the
home station, surrendered his flock to an-
other shepherd, and rode to register his
claim.
Now began the second era in the develop-
ment of the district. Impotent, sick at heart,
Gilbert watched the transmutation, watched
the lustful world crowd into his solitude;
but through his disgust ran always the
vein of optimism. “This will pass; from
this fire will emerge real worth; from this
greed, these passions, will come something
enduring.”
One day he went down to the diggings.
Ageing now, he was weatherbeaten of coun-
tenance; his eyes, though keen and bright,
were deeply sunken in their sockets; his
hair was sparse and grey; but he was a
great framed man, stalwart still and power-
ful as his sons. Aloof he threaded his way
through the tent city pitched in a declivity
between the gold-bearing rises. Further
back the mountain range encircling the
valley reared its slate-colored bulk. Sur-
veying the tent-crested knolls he remem-
bered the silence, the impenetrable scrub,
which three months before had known no
invaders save a solitary shepherd, a drover
or stockman.
Outside the thousands of tents the women
were preparing the midday meal over the
camp ovens; the children were noisily play-
ing. Unaccosted he passed down the tracks,
already well-defined. He saw the rough
wooden dance-saloons, somnolently waiting
for the night’s traffic; the shack which did
duty as the first hotel, concerning itself not
at all with providing accommodation, but
greatly with dispensing liquor. Outside the
one store he saw three newly-arrived bullock
waggons unloading supplies, finding after
the week’s slow journey from Lambing Flat
a little excitement in hurtling their burdens
at the feet of the clustered would-be pur-
chasers. Up-the track from Wallaby Springs
came the wafer carters, recompensed for
their five-mile trip by the sale of water at
two and sixpence a bucket; he saw the glint
of the little tin church through the trees,
and the slab hut of the Gold Commissioner;
he heard the babel of strange tongues, per-
ceived on all sides strange faces, and felt
the friction of alien peoples who, in all ways
disparate, appeared nevertheless to possess
a ghastly similarity, the mark of the quest,
the imprint of the gold fever.
Suddenly round a bend in the track
appeared a phaeton drawn by two chestnut
horses. Behind the driver, a grinning African
negro, lolled a miner resplendent in snowy
moleskins, scarlet tasselled sash, black waist-
coat and cabbage-tree hat. Solemn, proud,
he was borne towards the Main Lead, a
swarming antheap. “Michael Cassidy,” said
a woman to Gilbert, her admiration burst-
ing her very body. “Only five weeks since
he’s been working his mine, and he got out
near three thousand ounces. They say it
brought four pound an ounce.” Wistful,
she gazed after the retreating pha;ton, and
suddenly, as if driven by some irresistible
pressure, she swung round in nervous haste.
“I’ll go and see how my old man’s getting
along,” she said to Gilbert. “He might have
struck it this morning.” Her lips stayed
slackly parted, and in her eyes was a strange
fire.
Watching her as she strode away in the
direction of one of the smaller rises, Gilbert
felt himself for the first time in unison with
the furious tempo of this new world. In
an inexplicable way, while he stood there,
his mind had gone hurtling after hers, catch-
ing fire from her impatience, agonising with
her in suspense. Now with her he had
topped the rise.
Becoming aware of the acute tension of
his body, his nails digging into the palms
of his clenched hands, he relaxed. The
momentary madness had passed. Slightly
he shrugged his broad shoulders, smiled at
his susceptibility, and, leaving the crude
and colorful market place, he wandered to
the edge of the settlement. Leaning against
a tree trunk he watched the motley proces-
sion, remembering his own solitary arrival,
the almost supernatural hush which he had
scarcely disturbed by his coming, and con-
trasted it with this tumultuous incursion.
Hours later, as he rode homeward, he
paused for a last look at the diggings, little
more now than a white blur cradled in the
drab, bluish olive of the encroaching scrub,
and the thought came to him that these
people, unknowingly perhaps, were creative
as he. Unconsciously they had built the
framework of a city. The rough tracks,
pounded out by their eager feet, could be
streets. From the primitive satisfaction of
their demands might come organised trade
and commerce, churches, hospitals, public
works, a settled community. In a few
months these people had done what he and
his brothers had failed to do in thirty years;
laid a definite urban foundation in the
wilderness. But on how insecure a founda-
tion!
The sun was riding to the western hills
and long shadows lay across his paddocks.
The level flat behind the house, planted
with wheat, rippled like a green sea. He
had planted fifty acres, extravagant enter-
prise, and leaning on the rail fence he
reflected that the enterprise promised re-
ward. The valley had proved aboundingly
fertile under cultivation. Suddenly it
occurred to him that in this fact would lie
the firming for those foundations built now
so insecurely on shifting gold. These people
must not be allowed to pass. In the cul-
tivation of the country there was work for
many.
Fired by visions, he gazed around him.
In imagination he stripped away the forest
growth, revealed the rich earth, vale and
slope and plateau. On this clear, stretching
canvas he marked the groundwork of his
picture. With the plough for brush he laid
a rich brown wash over the neutral-tinted
surface. He spattered the seed. The brown
turned to palest green, to vivid emerald, to
waving gold which fell before the sickle.
And in the centre of his picture was the
smoking blur of the town.
He died, seeing before he died the first
sure steps taken towards fulfilment. But
the reality was colorless, drab, far removed
from the gilded pattern. The gold tide
had passed, leaving a little town like flot-
sam on the shore.
Its makers had learned that to-day does
not die but only yields to to-morrow, and
on that hot night in the year 1905 when
Leo Gherardi took his cue from the children
of Gilbert and spoke the opening lines of
his part on the stage of Banton, it was still
a little town set in scattered farms.
(To be continued next week.)


A mu moments.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BELT/E OF NEW YORK.
CRITERION:
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
T C. WILLIAMSON, LTD..
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME—
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
LAST NIGHTS.
SON’S O’ GUNS
(Commencing Saturday, January 31).
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER
OICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
R MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE FILM GIRL
(Commencing January 24),
With a Brilliant Cast ot Popular Favorite*.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
L<ea:al Notice.
yo the Children of first cousins of Thomas Caldbeck
deceased and particularly to —-
(a) The Grandchildren of John Sawyer Isaac
Sawyer, Frederick Sawyer and Rachel Gale (nee
Sawyer)
(b) The Children of Peter Sawyer
(c) Thomas Block and Susan Armstrong (nee
Block).
Pursuant to an Order of the High Court of
Justice Saorstat Eireann made in the matter of the
Estate of Thomas Caldbeck deceased Lewis Goodbody
and Another Plaintiffs and Joseph M. McClure
Defendant all persons claiming to be children of the
first cousins of the said Thomas Caldbeck late of
161 North Circular Road Dublin living at the
date of his death on the Bth day of February 1930
and particularly
(a) The Grandchildren of John Sawyer Isaac
Sawyer Frederick Sawyer and Rachel Gale (nee
Sawyer) children of a Thomas Sawyer who resided
at Munnagh in the Queen’s County Ireland in or
about the years 1790 to 1810. (b) The children of
Peter Sawyer (a grandson of said Thomas Sawyer)
born in the Queen’s County Ireland believed to have
gone to America about 50 years ago. (c) Thomas
Block and Susan Armstrong (nee Block) both children
of Annie Block (nee Lalor) who was married about
1845 are on or before the 25th day of March
1931 to come in and prove their claims at the
Central Office at the Courts of Justice The Castle
Dublin or in default thereof they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Friday the 27th day of March 1931 at eleven o’clock
of the forenoon at the Examiner’s Office High Court
of Justice Dublin Castle is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims. Dated this 11th
day of December 1930. JOHN HEALY, Examiner.
A. & L. GOODBODY, Solicitors, 24 Dame Street,
Dublin.
Legal Notices.
THE ATTENTION of all persons interested IN
THE ESTATE OF FLORENCE MARTHA
COCKING nee FLORENCE MARTHA PITT Wife of
Sidney John Cocking and late of Latchley Garners
Avenue Marrickville near Sydney in the State of
New South Wales Deceased Intestate is directed
to an advertisement appearing in the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Gazette dated the Sixteenth day of January
1931 calling upon all persons having any claim or
demand upon or against the estate or otherwise
interested in the property and assets of the said
deceased whether as next of kin, creditor or other-
wise to send particulars of their claim to the
undersigned in care of the undermentioned Solicitors
on or before the Nineteenth day of March next.
This advertisement is particularly directed to the
brothers and sisters nephews and nieces of the said
decehsed and the children of CHARLES JOHN PITT
deceased formerly of the Public Instruction Depart-
ment of New South Wales. Persons having any
knowledge of the whereabouts of any of the before
mentioned persons are requested to direct their
attention to this advertisement and to communicate
with the undersigned.
SIDNEY JOHN COCKING,
Administrator.
SAMUELSON & COWIE, Proctors for the Admini-
strator, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
yo ERICH GEORG GUSTAV WIRTH formerly of
St. Kilda in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ADA CLARA WIRTH has instituted proceedings
against you for a divorce on the ground of three
years’ desertion AND UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne on or before the 14th day of
February 1931 the case may proceed in your absence.
GAVAN DUFFY & KING, 125 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HAZEL KATHERINE SMITH also known as
Hazel Kathleen Smith formerly of Devonport in
Tasmania late of 8 Great Buckenham Street Redfern
Sydney in the State of New South Wales the wife
of Vere Aubry Smith of Bufriie in Tasmania
Slaughterman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
Fifteenth day of October One thousand nine hundred
and thirty was issued out of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania citing you to appear and answer the
petition of the said Vere Aubry Smith praying for
a dissolution of his marriage with you on the
ground of desertion. AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that unless within Thirty days from the
publication hereof you cause an appearance to be
entered in the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquari e-street Hobart to answer the
said Petition And unless you attend at the said
Court in person or by your Solicitor at the hearing
of the said Petition the Court will proceed to hear
the said charge proved and pronounce sentence your
absence notwithstanding.
(Sgd.) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar.
CRISP & EDWARDS, Town Hall Buildings, Catlev
Street, Burnie, Petitioner’s Solicitors, by their
Agents Crisp & Wright, of No. 122 Collins
Street, Hobart, in Tasmania.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
At Caulfield last Saturday the V.R.C.
rule requiring races of a mile and under run
round a turn to be contested in divisions if
there are more than 20 aspirants came into
operation. None of the 21 Tooronga Handi-
cap acceptors was withdrawn on the course.
It had been hoped by club officials that at
least one would be scratched. To prevent
any division of the approaching Oakleigh
Plate, the V.A.T.C. framed a condition that
there shall be a £2O sweepstakes if the
acceptors exceed 20. This is a severe pun-
ishment to impose on aspiring owners. No
fewer than 34 horses saddled up when Wild
Rose credited W. Sayer with the Oakleigh
Plate of 1891, and the inference that more
than 20 cannot safely compete is resented.
An exciting finish was witnessed in tfye
first division of the Tooronga Handicap,
Hathalie, trained by Fred Foulsham for
Norman Mendes, a former bookmaker, was
favorite at 9 to 4, with Binna (W. Duncan)
next in demand at 3 to 1. Wise force, con-
queror of Amounis in the spring on weight-
for-age terms, was allowed to go out at
double-figure odds, being regarded as rather
“new.” However, the superior class of Wise
Force enabled him to start from 17 barrier
position with 9st. 131 b. in the saddle, join
issue with Binna two furlongs from home,
and run Duncan’s mount to a head. Hatha-
lie, who came on the scene a trifle late, was
half a head farther off. Binna weighed in
correctly; but, through the electric sema-
phore getting out of order, “Winner Dis-
qualified” was hoisted. This caused conster-
nation and delay in the settlement of wagers.
Mystic Peak, the last Cantala Stakes hero,
acquitted himself with high credit in the
second division. Like Wise Force, he was
neglected in the betting, and beat all but the
winner. Byron, who shared favoritism with
King of Revelry, scored handsomely. Mystic
Peak came home splendidly to defeat David
Garrick by half a head for second place.
Both W T ise Force and Mystic Peak promise
to play a prominent part in the forthcoming
autumn sprints. Wise Force looked a picture
on Saturday, and must be nearly cherry-ripe.
His trainer. Jim Accola, landed the Rowena
Welter earlier in the afternoon with Quick
Reward. This Maoriland-bred gelding was
picked out as a yearling by Bob Lewis for
Son Hearn, who combines the functions of
bookmaker and punter in Melbourne. Hearn
is a daring bettor at times, but hq could not
have plunged on Quick Reward, 12 to 1 being
easily obtainable.
Another bookmaker to taste 'the joys of
success at Caulfield was Wallace Mitchell, in
whose colors Romeo took the Hawthorn
Hurdle. Romeo is trained by C. T. Godby.
He ran unplaced in a Jumpers’ Flat at San-
down Park on the previous Saturday, and
was weak in demand on that account. Tire
favorite, Nauru, had to be content with
third honors. With a stand-up, Cobranveil
probably would have won. He fell half a
mile from home, when mowing down the
leaders. Olina split Romeo and Nauru. He
belongs to a brother of E. A. Connolly, and
is in line for an early success.
For the middle-distance Anniversary Han-
dicap, punters pinned their faith to Prince
Dayton, who had won at four previous
starts in succession. Had this Cyklon geld-
ing caught the judge’s eye it would have
been the third triumph during the afternoon
for a bookmaker’s horse. Prince Dayton
races in the colors of J. Hurley, a paddock
fielder, who supported him liberally. Billy
Duncan had the mount, as on former occa-
sions. He looked to have the race won;
but Ashley Reed, on Mira Donna, waiting
for the last run, got Reggie Power’s filly
home by a head. Stowe (by Stedfast), for
whom F. H'. Robinson paid 2000gns. in
England as a three-year-old, gave evidence
of returning form by assisting Clarius to
make the running for the major part of the
journey. When prepared by E. J. O’Dwycr
at Mentone he broke down in training. The
English horse is now in charge of Jack
Sing, who used to ride Haoma over fences.
Ned O’Dwyer expected to win the Holiday
Stakes with Viol d’Amour, but the Violon-
cello colt got away badly. The victorious
NOT OF THE BULLDOG BREED.
BLOKE ON THE MOKE: “Seen me dorg goin’ this wayt”
COVE ON THE HOOF: “Yow.”
B. ON THE M.:‘ “Was ’e chasin’ an ’are?”
C. ON THE H.: “Nah; th’ flamin’ ’are wuz chasin’ ’im.”
juvenile was MUlette, a grand-daughter of
Traquette. Iler owner, M. S. Cooper, of
the Y.A.T.C. committee, has a half interest
in Lucky Saint, who ran second to King
Pos in the Koakaribb Trial. The . rider of
Lucky Saint lodged a protest against Pos
for interference, but it was dismissed.
Selections for Moonee Valley, Saturday :
William Reid Stakes: Greenline or Vise
Force.
Caldermeade Handicap: Santorb or Taras.
* * * *
There was not so much whining about the
tax on winning bets at Moorefield on Satur-
day, doubtless because the bookmakers re-
ceived some pleasant surprises. The first
of them was furnished by a Maoriland-bred
nag called Bowery (Nassau —Burraba) m
a division of the Kogarah Stakes. Bowery
has done a bit of racing on the North Coast,
but this was his first appearance on a byd- •
ney course, and it was a rather impressive
one; racing alongside the warm favorite,
Workman, he took all the fight out of that
steed and then easily withstood a challenge
from the heavily-backed Calendo. Few
wagers were written about the interesting
stranger; £5O to £2, taken by one fielder
from another, was the biggest noticed.
The Moorefield Handicap was likewise
gratifying to McShortodds. Black Douglas
was favorite, and his backers were on good
terms with themselves when they saw him
galloping easily among the first three pass-
ing the stand, but going up the hill he lost
his position, and it did look as if Cook, his
rider, had made poor use of a good oppor-
tunity. By this time Puff (12 to 1) had
got to the front, and, skilfully handled by
Knox, the chestnut mare won by a neck from
another outsider in Philippic (20 to 1),
Star d’Or being a creditable third. Puff
had failed at Canterbury Park the previous
Saturday, but had previously shown. to
advantage on the Kogarah course. Gemlight
and Bosmina, both well in the market, ran
badly.
Black Douglas’s defeat notwithstanding,
followers of Cook’s mounts had a profitable
day. He left his run pretty late on Lord
Romeo (5 to 2") in the Moorfield Mile, and
it was only in the last few strides that
Marks’s gelding disposed of old Cavedweller
(8 to 1), who had cut out the pace; but
the jockey made no mistake on Satmoth (5
to 1) in a division of the Juvenile Handicap
or on Legislator (6 to 1) in the Three-year-
old Handicap. Caravel Boy was at evens for
Legislator’s race, but shaped poorly for a
horse so highly thought of. Legislator is a fine
stamp of a Legionnaire gelding, of whom
the best has yet to be seen. The same is
true of Porneit (6 to 1), who ran second
after being interfered with.
Few Sydney horses are as consistent as
Celtic (2 to 1) whose success in the first
division of the Carlton Welter was his thir l
in four starts. My Talisman (6 to 1).
Strength and Starolf made the finish interest-
ing, and the second division was also excit-
ing, Carnella (7 to 2) having to be ridden
out to defeat the ancient Nolens Volens
(4 to 11 and Leisure Hour. Carnella is by
Caravel —Galtee Queen, dam of several good
horses.
* * * *
For Randwick on Saturday and Monday:
Bondi Handicap: Legislator; next, Del-
wood. . ,
Challenge Stakes: Casque d’Or, 1; Auda,
2 ; Porneit, 3.
January Handicap: Valparaiso; next,
Voleuse.
Paddington Handicap: Black Douglas;
next, Celtic. „ _
Anniversary Handicap: Dalston, 1; Val-
paraiso, 2 ; Voleuse, 3.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Homedale; next,
Silent Bird.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Billy Grime, who was an Australian triple
champion when he went to the United
States in 1927, made a gallant attempt to
come back in his contest against American
Tommy Fielding at Leichhardt. Fielding
(9st. 131 b.) fought too consistently for Grime
(9st. 101 b.), and the local lost on points.
Plumper than previously, the New South
Welshman did not display his former speed,
and Fielding, with a chin-cracking left,
scored a nine-second knockdown in the first
round. Grime was apparently gone, but he
battled back with great gameness, and his
right leads to head or body made the final
scores close. Fielding led by a nose at the
finish.
* * * *
Patrons of Sydney Stadium Saturday-
night shows were discontented with the mix-
up that resulted in a “popular” programme
being staged last week-end, the entertain-
ment finally decided on failing to satisfy a
small crowd. The management first
announced Ambrose Palmer v. Tony Tuzzo-
lini as the attraction, but our middleweight
champion did not cross from Melbourne for
the match, and four 10-round tussles were
advertised in place of the big bout. The
most promising of these- —one between Billy
Mack and Reg Wilcox—also failed to materi-
alise (Wilcox fought at Leichhardt
instead), and the show consisted of three
contests over 10 rounds, with two support-
ing four-rounders. Ted Moroney (Bst. 111 b.)
met Billy Cooper (Bst. 81b.) in the last
fight of the night, and Moroney won because
Cooper caught most of the punishment.
Harry Mack (Bst. 9ilb.) outpointed Tiny
Wayne (Bst. 1011 b.), and Spider Roach
(7st. 81b.) held Billy Rolls (7st. 31b.) to a
draw.
The Ins and Outs
The West Indies made a good start in
Brisbane in the third Test against Australia,
getting rid of Jackson in the first over. If
a catch from Constantine had been taken
in the slips a few balls later, Bradman
would have followed his N.S.W. confrere
to the pavilion. It was dropped, and the
Bowral batsman went on to score 223 before
Grant caught him off Constantine. Pons-
ford helped him with 109, made in much
faster time than usual for him and chance-
less until after the century was passed,
when Birkett held him off Francis. Ivippax
soon ran to 84, when he was bowled _by
Birkett as the result of a wild swipe.
McCabe, Woodfull and Fairfax did little,
but a stand by Oxenham (48) and Oldfield
(38 n. 0.) helped to hoist the score to 558
by lunch on the second day. The fast
bowlers, Griffith (4-133), Francis (3-76)
and Constantine (1-74), were the wicket-
takers, the bowling of Francis being excep-
tionally good, while the fielding was again
first-class. Disaster came early to the visi-
tors when Oxenham got Roach l.b.w. for 5.
Grimmett and Ironmonger' disposed of
Martin and Sealey. Grant went early on
Monday, and was soon followed by Constan-
tine and Birkett, but Headley, at last m Ins
true form, was 71 n.o. at the lunch adjourn-
ment, when scores read 140 for 6 wickets.
BALLADE OF BROKEN BATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bradman broke two bats while making 223.”
Our plight in truth is deadly grave;
We’re up against it bad and hard;
Material for a cheerful stave
Is mighty scarce for any bard.
One can’t afford to disregard
Aught that will hearten up a bloke.
Come, Muse, in song we’ll have them
starred,
The brace of bats that Bradman broke.
While statesmen sat in glum conclave
Discussing how to best retard
Grim unemployment’s march, and save
The land their mad finance has marred,
He donned his pads and gloves, took guard,
And many a deft and flashing stroke
Attests, upon the scoring card,
The brace of bats that Bradman broke.
Work —is it work that toilers crave
Where sweat is shed and sinews jarred?
A quantum suff of that he gave
A team of triers, tanned and tarred,
And each as nimble as a pard.
What uproar glad the welkin woke
Ere out they carried, sprung and scarred,
The brace of bats that Bradman broke.
Black care we’ll for the nonce discard.
What pleasant pictures they provoke:
While for his hundreds twain lie sparred
The brace of bats that Bradman broke!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


GERT: I GOT AWFULLY SUNBURNT
Last week-end?'
Bert: "So I notice, your'e quite
THE BELLE OF THE &EKC.H*
Gert */'Oh Bert, how nice of you!"
EjERT’/Ves, VOUBt'e PEELING,!"
The Ins and Outs
The Queensland Sheffield Shield team,
which went up like a rocket at the beginning
of the season, has come down like the pro-
verbial stick. In Brisbane the side which
beat N.S.W. twice was well mastered by
the 1 West Indies. The habitual tendency of
the Queenslanders to drop catches no doubt
helped to their downfall. The plain fact
remains that though the opposition set them
no tremendous scores to master, they were
well and truly beaten. The Buccaneers’ first
knock of 309 was not a formidable hurdle
to face. Bananaland could only answer it
with a pathetic 167, to which Goodwin, blown
into the side at the last moment by a blast
of popular opinion, contributed 60. Con-
stantine and Francis got wickets cheaply, and
once more the medium-pace bowler, Scott,
made a good showing. The Indies staged a
characteristic collapse in their second inn-
ings, 5 wiekets going for 80. Then Constan-
tine again got going, and was not disposed of
till he had hit up 97. However, the lot went
for 265, leaving Queensland 407 to get. This
time the Northerners reached 188, Goodwin
once more showing well with 54. Francis,
Scott and Constantine divided the wickets
and the visitors had a good win by 219 runs.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: All this blow about Don
Bradman makes the average Victorian as off
color as if he had just taken a walk through
Footscray. For instance someone wrote the
other day that Bradman, by making liis third
double century in Sheffield games, had
rivalled the record of George Giffen, the only
other batsman to perform the feat. Rats to
him! A Victorian called Ponsford has made
six scores of 200 and over in Sheffield games
—437, 352, 336, 248, 214, 202; and has
always figured as an opening batsman. The
N.S.W. man has yet to prove his ability to
face that proposition.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W cricket followers
have noted with appreciation the return
of lefthander Alec. Marks to the State
Eleven. Lie, Darling, of Victoria, and
Nitschke, of South Australia, are all left-
handed batsmen of exceptional quality, and
the Australian side, which has rarely been
without that most disturbing factor to
bowlers and fieldsmen, a molly’hander, is
badly in need of a successor to Warren
Bardsley. A most effective stylist, M'arks
had a very good season in Sheffield cricket
last year—he averaged 38 for 7 innings—
he is also a speedy outfielder and a useful
change bowler. For some reason he was
dropped this season.
# * * *
“Lansdowne”: Every now and then I
notice it mentioned approvingly of Don
Bradman that he neither drinks nor smokes,
which, of course, is highly creditable to
the young man and may assist to keep him
at the top of his form for many a year.
Probably a moderate amount of smoking
never did any cricketer much harm, hut
Warner has placed it on record that the
four finest batsmen he ever saw in action
rigorously eschewed tobacco. Who were
they?—W. G. Grace, Victor Trumper, Ran-
jitsinhji and Arthur Shrewsbury. Bradman
may furnish the fifth. Turning to strong-
drink, there have doubtless been many great
cricketers who never touched it, and many
more who might have been greater or lasted
longer if they had exercised similar restraint.
But I have read somewhere —on the author-
ity, I think, of Walter Brearley, of Lan-
cashire—that no teetotaller was ever in the
very first flight of fast bowlers. I wonder
if anyone can quote an instance to the
contrary.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The English team in South
Africa has done so badly that our old friend
“Chappie” had to requisition the services
of 11. W. Lee, who is putting in a season as
a coach there. He was blooded against the
weak Natal side, making 14 as opening bats-
man in conjunction with J. C. White, of all
people. England eventually won by an inn-
ings and 70 runs, but their batsmen, with
the exception of Patsy Hendren, who had a
characteristic go for 79, did nothing wonder-
ful. Lee plays for Middlesex and is a
thousand runs a year man and a fair change
bowler. England totalled only 284 in their
single innings, A. Woods taking 6 for 83.
Natal made 107 in each innings. Woods,
who has been a stock bowler for Natal for
some years, has not yet fisured in a South
African side. He bowls righthand medium.
Racquet and Bawl
“Amateur Pro.”: Following on the an-
nouncement that Tilden had turned profes-
sional and was to enter on a world tour with
the Hungarian Kozeluh, it has been an-
nounced that the famous Frenchman, Gochet,
had also thrown his hat into the professional
ring and would tour with Tilden and Co.
It is possible that Vincent Richards will re-
consider his intention of retiring and join
the band. In that case, the tennis world is in
for a treat, for it is doubtful if such an all-
round quartette has ever been got together
as a tennis team.
* * ♦ . *
The N.S.W. country tennis week in Syd-
ney opened with an overwhelming defeat of
the men from the great open spaces, to say
nothing of the women. City won the men’s
events by seven rubbers to one, not counting
odd games, and the Country was bumped in
the women’s games by the same margin—
seven sets to one. To do Country justice,
players of the calibre of Kalms, the Spencer
brothers, and others were unable to come
down. Newcastle scored a meritorious double
in the Country premiership tourney by win-
ning both the men’s and women’s events.
This is only the third time the double has
been brought off, Armidale doing the trick
in 1912, and Tamworth, runners-up on this
occasion, last year.
* * * *
“Rev. Ivnuckleboneski”: The spirit of
Moscow, which had been brooding over Rusli-
cutters’ Bay tennis courts during the N.S.W.
Country Tennis Week, made its influence
felt when the ball boys struck for higher
wages as the tourney was just getting into
its stride. The minions of capitalism forth-
with blacklisted the strikers and in spite
of vigorous picketing engaged volunteer
labor. The strike was remarkable for the
fact, if for nothing else, that it was the
only one which has taken place in N.S.W.
for" some years past into which the Rev.
Jock Garden did not butt. At the same
time the boys have something to growl at.
The pay was cut from 4s. to 2s. 6d. a day,
and no one can say the first amount is an
excessive reward for galloping- about a court
all day in Sydney summer weather.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton” : This happened in Queensland.
Two fellow club members who notoriously
hated each other with a hate passing the
hate of women arrived at the club late one
day and found that if they did not pair off
there would be no golf for them that day.
They made a virtue of necessity and started
on a stroke round. Somew-here on the jour-
ney, McMethuselali found his ball badly
cupped in a horse’s hoofprint on the fairway.
Failing to shift it with a spoon, he resorted
to his niblick and took three heavy divots
before he succeeded. A conscientious golfer,
he replaced two of the divots and trod them
down. Looking about him for the third he
said, “Where’s that other blanky sod?” His
partisan caddie, lighting a fresh gasper,
spoke up, “ ’lm, ther cow,” he said; “ ’e’s
flamin’ well dug in at ther second bunker.”
* * * *
“Uadine”: That competition held in Port
Moresby among the native golf caddies (B.
24/12/ 30) turned out a tremendous success.
It will be remembered that one of the con-
ditions was that the boys should play with
clubs manufactured by themselves. They
turned out in great style, some with home-
made bags holding as many as half a dozen
woods and irons. The Papuan is a natural
woodworker, and many of the wooden clubs
were of a style and quality that even an old-
time Scots pro. need not have been ashamed
to own. The irons presented a greater diffi-
culty, but even here some very practicable
and well-made weapons were made of mate-
rials varying from piping to hoop-iron. The
competitors, ranging from nine years up,
showed the greatest coolness in front of a
critical crowd and some of the iron and
approach shots with the primitive clubs
opened the eyes of the European spectators.
The driving with the woods was first-
class right through, and the putting turned
many of the onlookers green with envy.
“Simon Simple”: The same hole in one
three times in the one season is surely a
record. It has been accomplished on the
Mansfield (Vic.) golf links by the club presi-
dent, Dr. Cohen, during the past season.
The hole is 134 yards and the play match
play, with the hole in a different position in
the green on each occasion.
=&
“Divot Digger”: A mysterious communi-
cation has reached the writer to the effect
that a secret plot is afoot to send an Aus-
tralian professional to compete in this year’s
British Open Championship. The last to go
from this side was Rufus Stewart, of South
Australia, who, though he did not actually
set the greens on fire in the big tourney,
came back a mightily improved player to win
the Australian open title. Stewart was
sent over by private subscription from South
Australian followers of the game. Though
details are being kept dark, it is understood
that this time the leading Australian clubs
are being circularised to throw into the hat.
Most of them can afford a sub., but past ex-
perience has shown that many of them have
Tightwad for their middle name when it
comes to a proposition of this kind.
Car and Cycle
The annual general meeting of the Royal
Automobile Club of Australia is set down
for S p.m. on February 12 at the clubhouse
in Macquarie-street, Sydney. The club will
open its season of road fixtures early in
March, and members will be notified of the
programme and conditions in plenty of time
to enable them to get their cars into buckle
for the work before them.
“Ten Cents”: The odds are that Malcolm
Campbell will never s,-e Daytona jL> Utlcil cIC
all (B. 14/1/’3l). If cabled news is cor-
rect he shipped liis car to America, but was
pulled up on the verge of embarkation on
a later boat by a wire from the management
of the Daytona speed track telling him that
the Daytona heads refused to sanction the
attempt or to find funds for officials. Camp-
bell, however, is carrying on, and if on
arrival at Daytona he finds the same tone
prevailing he will probably come out to
Maoriland to try the Kaiatia beach —if that
be the name of it, for no two people seem
to spell the Maori name the same way. It
is rough luck on Campbell, or, rather, liis
backers, hut the reason for Daytona’s aloof-
ness is easy to understand by anyone cog-
nisant of Yankee sporting ethics. As long
as the American drivers and machines were
winning at Daytona the crowds gathered in
gratifying numbers. When the darned Brit-
ishers began to scoop the pool with mono-
tonous regularity interest waned.
Hi ❖ * ❖
“Fitzcray”: Conditions for the Tourist
Trophy race for motor-cycles on the Phillip
Island (Vic.) course on January 26 have
been determined by the Auto-Cycle Union.
The senior solo division has been divided,
machines with an engine capacity of from
501 c.c. to 1000 c.c. forming a new division.
The 100-mile sidecar event will start at
9.30 a.m. and the solo event five hours later.
All adjustments during the racing must he
made! by drivers only, and though tyre
changes may be permitted no wheel changes
will be allowed. Entries for both classes
have been fairly heavy, and include both in-
dividual and trade applicants. The Phillip
Island course has been much improved dur-
ing the past couple of years since it has
come to be recognised as Australia’s only
road-racing course for car and cycle, and
attendances are expected to break the high
records of last year’s contests held by the
Light Car Club of Victoria.
jjc H* *!* V
“Hotham”: Melbourne saw some sensa-
tional dirt-track racing at the Motordrome
when four of the riders who have been star-
ring on the English tracks appeared in in-
dividual and team races. The riders were
Frank Arthur and Max Grosskreutz, of
Queensland, and Arthur Duncan and Ray
Tauser, from England and America respec-
tively. All have been riding against each
other in Britain and are masters of the fine
points of the game. The outstanding figure
was Arthur, who won the first six races in
which he competed and was second and third
in the last two. Rated in Britain as the
world’s best at the game, he lived up to his
reputation.
The Watermen
A notable oarsman of other days was
M. G. Scott, who died in Melbourne last
week. For years associated with the Albert
Park club, he rowed in more than one vic-
torious eight from the Cabbage Garden, his
last inter-State race being in the Dark Blue
eight of 1911, when the crew finished second
to N.S.W. on the Parramatta. When he
retired from active rowing he had consider-
able success a» a coach, being in charge of
the Victorian ciVht when Tasmania won in
Melbourne in 1914.
>l= * * *
“Wendouree” : Rowing is one of the sports
which do not usually run in families, though
there have been notable exceptions; one re-
calls the Bell brothers, of Queensland, three
of whom rowed in the Cambridge eight. There
was another instance, the other day, at the
Colac (Vic.) regatta. Rowing stroke and
seven in the Ballarat cre\ which won the
maiden eights were the Suffren brothers. The
pair are sons of Jack Suffren, years ago one
of the most famous of Victorian oarsmen.
He was the best stroke of his time, and
figured in this capacity for Ballarat and
Victoria frequently in the days when Vic-
torian crews were almost invincible.
* * * *
“Blade”: When a State championship race
for junior eights was incorporated in the
programme for the N S.W. Rowing Associ-
tion’s season, the idea was received with
general favor, and the race was allotted to
Sydney University regatta in April. Unfor-
tunately, when the conditions were drawn up
it was forgotten to specify exactly what con-
stituted a junior—a rower who came into that
category this season only or figured as one
in prior years. This has hung up the event
until the rule can be amended at the Feb-
ruary meeting. Junior rowers get little
enough encouragement as it is, and any-
thing that will make the sport more attrac-
tive to them should be welcomed with open
arms by the authorities.
* * * *
“Cox”: Where was Harry Searle, the
world’s champion sculler (B. 24/2/’3O),
buried? Last year a small forgotten quaran-
tine cemetery was discovered in a desolate
spot near Newport (Vic.). Searle died at
the station that was established hard by,
and it is believed in some quarters that he
was interred there. Decayed wooden tomb-
stones were found on some of the graves. I
always thought Searle’s body was taken to
liis native Clarence River and there buried.
Miscellaneous
“Huon”: Queensland boats made a clean
sweep of the Australian 16-footer champion-
ship sailed at Hobart, the five craft from
the Northern State picking up every point
in the score. The actual championship was
won by Ajax VI, steered by A. Whereat, one
of a family famed in the annals of Queens-
land open-boat racing, with a score of 19
points. Westralia, Tasmania and N.S.W.
were all strongly represented, so the Banana-
landers are fully entitled to give themselves
a pat on the back.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Spike”: As anticipated, Maoriland ath-
letes have sent an invitation to Jim Carlton
to cross the Tasman and meet the flying
American, G. S. Simpson. It is intended to
match the pair on February 21 and March
21, but it would be impossible for Carlton to
fill the second date, since the N.S.W.A.A. is
sure to insist on his showing in the State
championships on March 28. It is possible
he will accept the invitation if it stands for
February 21 only, and it is to be hoped it
will, for under Australasian conditions Carl-
ton is probably the fastest sprinter in shoes
to-day. There is precedent for the trip,
since “Slip” Carr was invited to M.L. in
1923 to meet M. Ivirksey, an American flyer
of that day. The result was a great race
in which Carr was beaten by an inch or
two.
❖ H* ❖ *
“Crawl”: The Australian swimming com-
munity got the shock of its existence last
week when the Sydney swimmer, Jean
Cocks, who holds eight Australian records,
was beaten by five yards in the Australian
220 yards championship in Svdney. The
winner was Molly Mitchell, of the Sydney
club, and hitherto only a moderate club
performer. Nevertheless she cut out the
distance in 2min. 44 3-ssec., taking nearly
two seconds off the previous best for an Aus-
tralian mermaid, and coming within four
seconds of the world’s record by Martha
Norelius, of America, all of which suggests
a carefully planned “stable” coup.
=l= *l* * :]■•
“Altcar”: A number of folk who count
themselves good sportsmen will shed no tears
over the announcement by the N.S.W.
National Coursing Association that the past
season has resulted in a loss of close on
£7OO. Coursing the live hare in the open is
one of the oldest of those sports which con-
sist in the pursuit of game—its history goes
back so far that it cannot be traced. The
modern development whereby tame hares are
kept and coursed in an enclosure in order
that they may be made the medium of
gambling has no element of true sportsman-
ship in it. “Plumpton” coursing is on a
par with the shooting of pigeons out of
traps. The dog employed for enclosed-hare
coursing is on the same plane as the pro-
fessional shooter who stands on a fixed mark
and cuts down trapped pigeons with liis first
or second barrel as the betting prompts.
Both are useless for practical purposes and
both are agents for a particularly sordid
type of gamblers, though the reservation
must be made that the dog at least doesn’t
know what his job counts for.
$ $ $ $
“Ride Off” : Following the examnle of the
Australian Ashton brothers, the English
polo side defeated for the International Cup
in America auctioned off their string of 48
ponies before going home. The lot brought
£37,000, top price being £2600 for an Irisli-
bred mare belonging to Captain Roark. The
buyer was Stephen Stanford, who in 1928
gave £4400 for an English pony and £2700
for another two years earlier, these standing
as the three highest prices ever paid for a
polo pony. It will be remembered that the
best of the Ashtons’ lot went for £2054.
$ * $ *
“Triangle” : When Lindrum, Newman and
co. return to Australia next June, it is likely
that a big snooker tourney will be arranged
in Sydney, in which the Frank Smiths,
father and son, of N.S.W., will take part.
The pair have strong claims to be considered
the finest snooker exponents in the world,
the senior having recently scored 139 out
of a possible 147, clearing the table in four
shots with breaks of 45, 31, 30 and 33 un-
finished. Frank, junior, snooker champion
of Australia for 17 years, is credited with
a 116 break on his first shot, clearing the
table with his next and scoring 141 out of
147. The official world’s record is 105
credited to Joe Davis, hut if the nroposed
tournament comes off it is good betting that
new figures will go up.
He ❖ ❖
“Blue Chalk”: This year’s British billiards
championship will not see Lindrum or Mc-
Conachy, for both are returning to Aus-
tralia as soon as their present engagement
is over, probably with Tom Newman in
tow. This would have left the present cham-
pion Joe Davis in for a walk-over if it hadn’t
been for a last-minute entry by Smith. The
Yorkshireman has been for some years at
daggers drawn with the controllers of the
championship, and lias refused to compete.
His change of heart will add fresh interest
to the famous tourney and, if Smith has
maintained his form, may loosen Davis’s
hold on the title.


Under
Royal
V&rrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.M.
King
George V
CHAMPAGNE
riesrieiasi
w
Champagne
Qiariesllcidsiecv
REIMS
***»«» \yj «*»**•
Wwanrg*
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
"MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only from 10/- per day
Single Room only, with Private Bath from 15/- per day
Room and Breakfast from 12/b per person
Inclusive Tariff from 20/- per day
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath from 27/6 per day
Private Suites quoted on application.
Luncheon 3/6 or a la carte. Dinner 57-
Meals served in rooms, 1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM COURT LINKS
Open from 11 a.m. till midnight—lB Holes for 1/-
Golf and Morning Tea or Coffee 1/-
Golf and Afternoon Tea 2/6
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
U/)e WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH HILL SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
in* BtST WASHING RIBBON.
There is even a best in there-
fore make sure you get Cash’s Washing
Ribbons for Shoulder Straps and all
Lingerie. Cash’s Washing Ribbons do
not break or fray, and need never be
removed from the garment, as they come
out of the wash like new. Obtainable in
many dainty shades. Ask your Draper.
r
TO MARK7o:I LINEN.'
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.’
d$c C J3. IYZllccutiA*
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
: Writc for Name Sryle Circular to
J & T f ASH AUSTRALIAN
KX. 'WIOU, WEAVING CO PTY. LTO
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
12 d
7/6
6 d
Sf
3d
oz.
3/6
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Mid-January is here. Here also are the
vapor bath day, the insect-thronged night, the
annual controversy in the papers as to why
men don’t wear crepe de Chine shorts and
chiffon silk socks as they go about their law-
ful occupations of bricklaying, hodcarrying,
penpushing, pocket-picking and so on. Here,
too, are mermaids. This is their season.
They precede the blue-bottles by about a
month. They come as a boon and a blessing
to men. They look as tonic as Neptune him-
self, these swimming girls, and fit to seize
and hold all kinds of championships, as they
stand on firm, shapely legs, gripping the
edge of the baths, waiting for their take-off.
In their sunbrowned faces their teeth. flash
dazzlingly; their arms are as shapely, if not
so white, as the much-sung Hoa’s. They
arrive quietly from various States. They are
unobtrusive. They don’t wriggle about the
city like eels nor go clothed in scales. They
wear berets and beads just like ordinary
girls. The only hint they give as to their
calling is an occasional water wave in their
locks.
That they can sling an evening frock on
with as deadly an eye to conquest as they
can climb into their water togs was proved
by the swimming girls at the dance in the
Arts Club. This was a reception to the
inter-State visitors and found Mrs. Cham-
bers, the secretary of the N.S.W. Women’s
Amateur Swimming Association, at her
cheeriest and best. Others who helped make
the party go were J. Dexter and H. Bennett,
of Victoria (bigwigs of the Council of the
Swimming Union)_, Mrs. F. Buckle and
Mrs. J. Dexter, who both chose black rai-
ment in contrast to the white chenille em-
bossed chiffons of Mrs. Chambers. Queens-
land’s Miss MacGregor, Mrs. Simpson, of
Tasmania, and Mrs. Hack, of Western Aus-
tralia, who are in charge of the teams from
their respective States, were handed up
baskets of flowers —though why not clumps
of coral or sailing-ships in bottles, to be
really in the picture?
Each of us has her own particular worry
these hard times. The wives of the popular
staff have their thinking caps jammed hard
down on the little grey cells over the affairs
of the Balmain and District Hospital. The
chief trouble is the electric light bill (and
that’s a worry every Jill citizen will under-
stand), which now totals £2OO. Unless it
is paid up in a month or so, the power will
be cut off. The hospital’s money-box is
empty, the bank refuses an overdraft, and
still patients clamor for entry to the health-
building wards of this excellent institution.
Balmain is never a wealthy district. Just
now the hospital’s customers are harder up
than itself —few of them can afford to pay
even a trifle for the care they receive. Now,
who wants to play Aladdin to a well-
equipped, honest and hard-working hospital?
This Letter liked the look of Maoriland
Priminister Forbes’s wife and the consort of
Attorney-General Sidey. The city found
them thoroughly amiable and attractive
women, but we aren’t going to copy their
hats. The New Zealand Women’s Associa-
tion hummed the National Anthem, unrolled
a rich carpet of greetings, such as Kia-ora,
Wakatipu, Waikouaiti, Hokitika, Haeremai,
ran up the Maorilapd flag, and beckoned all
North and South Islanders to wave the
buttered crumpet of welcome in honor of
our distinguished visitors. The Enzed group
took us in on its way home from the Imperial
Conference, and as the liner was late com-
ing up Port Jackson, the ladies had to
drive direct from the wharf to Farmer’s.
President Mrs. Stanley Hempton came speci-
ally down from the mountains to do the
honors. Other guests were journalist Amy
Kane and Miss McGill, and each lady was
presented with a basket of flowers or a
shoulder spray, according to her exaltation.
If you want a laugh massage for the
wrinkles in your face and the pleats in your
purse, call on the Marx Brothers at the
Prince Edward. The opening night was one
of stilly heat (you might even have called
it distilly), and many a man present must
have wished he had had the courage
of Ilarpo, who, as the,butler in the nearly-
ancestral hall, removes his cloak and tall
hat, and stands revealed in a cool and snappy
shirt and shorts. There are other mad-
nesses, aided and abetted by Australia’s old
friend Bob Greig as the butler, and a
former charming acquaintance of this city,
Kathryn Reece, who takes the part of Grace
Carpenter, one of the house-party beauties.
In the audience was Mrs. E. J. Tait with
her tall husband and daughters Dorothy and
Jessie. Mrs. Dan Carroll wore blonde satin
with her blonde hair; and dark-eyed Mrs.
Budge sparkled above yellow chiffons and
talked about the beauties of Mt. Wilson,
which she is about to revisit.
Of city dance places Romano's is still
keeping the flag flying, but the Ambassadors
is closing down until Easter. The Australia
created a' precedent on New Year’s Eve
night with a 12s. 6d. dinner and as much
dancing as you liked thrown in afterwards.
The cost of pleasure is coming down with
a hop, skip and a jump, whatever that of
necessaries may be doing.
Josephine O’Keefe, struggling back to
health, is holding daily court in her room at
Pomeroy and its gay-awninged balcony, blaz-
ing with flower-boxes. Half of Sydney, or
so it seems, has called on the convalescent
these past two weeks.
This morning, before ten o’clock, out from
Central Station slid the travelling clinic
which is to bring health to mothers _ and
babes in the arid North-West. It is a
venture of the Far West Children’s Health
scheme, and its funds will pay the rent and
upkeep while the Railway Commissioners
will donate the haulage. It will travel out
West and in its , three months’ itinerary
(drawn up by Padre S. Drummond) journey
between Trangie and Cobar, Bourke and
Brewarrina. Sister Hilda Brooks, who is
in charge, will be pleased to give mothers
the benefit of her four and a half years
experience of public health work in England
plus four years’ knowledge gained m the
Leichhardt Baby Health Centre.
A table covered with snails and mosses
and woolly, crawly things in the nursery
of an English country home was the absorb-
ing playground of Miss L. E. Cheesman, the
lady in this
Monteith pic-
ture. The
table was an
expanding one.
With the
years it has
spread out till
all the islands
of the Pacific
are its sur-
face, and the
insect life of
New Guinea,
New Heb-
rides, New
Caledonia, the
Mam uesas,
and the isles
between are
its burde n.
Miss Chees-
man, on her
way to Lion-
don after just
completing two and a half years research
work in the New Hebrides, looks forward
to fresh voyages of discovery. But for the
next 18 months or so she will be busy classi-
fying and writing the life story of the 20,000
insects which she has already forwarded to
the British Museum of Natural History.
For some years before her appointment to
the Museum as research worker, she was the
curator of insects at the London Zoo.
In preparing for these extended jaunts
the woman behind the specimen cases has
to give as much thought and attention to
her trousseau as any bride. Shoes by the
dozen are included in the outfit. They are
of canvas with rope soles. The wearing
thereof for months on end seems conducive
to the moulding of graceful feet, for Miss
Cheesman’s were among the nicest to
call on this office since Christmas. Then
there is the matter of cotton tunics, knee-
long and worn above a sort of cotton plus-
fours. Experience has taught that bloomers
must come over the knees because the re-
search worker’s life is just one scramble
after another. Sleeping soft is a luxury
that had to be cut out when the lady went
on her expeditions. She usually carried a
square of tarpaulin with her, and if a yam
shed were not available she spread her open-
air tent. But it was nearly always the
j am shed.
Isn’t it a jewel of a thing to own—the
knack of being able to drop a smile or even
a chuckle into an unpleasant job? This
State’s former senior Superintendent of
Police, John Saunders, had it. That first
opening of the box in which the dead man
has deposited his will and other personal
papers, that first rummaging among the mes-
sages from the other side, is mostly a de-
pressing business for an already overwrought
family. The old superintendent knew all
about that. They were sure they would find
all his affairs in perfect order; all his papers
filed and docketed. But they weren’t quite
prepared for the first things they opened:
a neat little packet of good-tempered bush
verses that he had picked up in his wander-
ings. Having, as it were, broken the ice
with these —“Now, then,” he seemed to say,
“let’s get to this uncomfortable business.”
One of the lovely but mysterious females
who occur now and then on the Australian
coast came out with Prime Minister Scullin
on the Ormonde —which doesn’t mean that
he paid her passage out, but that they
chanced to be on the same ship. Scullin cleared
off in a hurry at Premantle, not because
he wanted to get away from the lady, but
because he wanted to reach Sydney early and
take advantage of a suburban by-election to
declare the Labor Government’s policy up to
date. Otherwise there were signs that ex-
Treasurer Theodore was willing to _ do- the
declaration for him. The lady remained on
the vessel by a sort of mild compulsion, being
suspected of druggery and also being short
of money, though she has immense natural
resources available by cable. She is de-
scribed as a society beauty—pc-ssibly the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, for her downfall is ascribed to the
heartless inhumanity of her husband. His
name hadn’t transpired at time of writing,
but he is possibly the Lord h<ozoo, a peer
casually mentioned by Dickens. This person
is absent on a hunting expedition in the
mountains of Africa, where peers risk their
lives, and occasionally lose them, shooting
bears, wolves, pemmican and other hazardous
Apparently he had been there uf ten,
a-nd on his return he had brought with him
niggers who accumulated and posed as ser-
vants at his “mansion in the Midlands.
In these parts he was, and perhaps still is,
not only Lord of the Manor but also Mastei
of the Hounds, which may have included the
Hound of the Baskervilles, purchased from
the late Conan Doyle’s well-known kennels.
In pursuing these animals the Lord JNozoo
was splendidly mounted and apparelled, while
his patient wife, the lady who came out on
the ship with Scullin, trotted behind on any
old wreck she could find, and fell oft ire-
quently through the animal fainting by the
wayside. There is pathos in the picture ot
the procession of three —the Hound in front,
then the Lord of the Manor in all his ram-
pant bravery; and, finally, his ill-fated bride
just landing on her head.
The final act of the short-drawn-out tragedy
took place just before the wicked husband
last started after the baboon in Africa. The
servants of all colors were drawn up m tue
hall, where they formed fours, and the hap-
less Lady of the Manor was paraded before
them, and was pointed out to them (though
they had probably seen her before), and they
were told that she didn’t matter tuppence,
and they need take no notice of her. After
that she somehow got on the same boat witn
Scullin, and was just sinking into an early
grave when she was interrupted by the
refusal of a permit to land.
The waters of the Coogee Aquarium were
like limpid jade under the electrics when
Australia’s mermaids met there last week m
generous rivalry. The gallery, with its
frieze of heads, two and three deep, must
have been rather unnerving for the highly
strung. Bonnie Mealing flogged the jade to a
pearly foam as she flashed by in her back-
stroke marathon, and as for the girls sprint-
ing in the 100 yards they torpedoed from
bottom to top, from top to bottom, between
the blinking of your eyelashes. But none
of the entrants, not even winner Mollie Mit-
chell, slipped round the turn with the grace
of Fanny Durack. Full of grace, too, was
the exhibition of diving given by a group
of girls in blue-green suits who sailed out
into the air from the diving-board like a
flight of swallows, fluttered through space
and cut the depths below with scarcely a
sound. , ,
A middle-aged Maorilander who had list-
ened-in to Priminister Scullin’s speech the
other night turned to the other people m
the room and held their attention for a
quarter of an
hour with a
description of
a campaign
speech of the
late George
Reid. Much
of the person-
ali t y which
made that
political leader
memorable has
been handed
down to his
only daugh-
ter, Mrs. L.
Cleaver, th e
subject of this
picture. Mrs.
Cleaver is re-
visiting Syd-
ney after an
absence of 18
years. She
finds the city quite changed from her school-
day memories of it, but declares it the most
likeable and admirable of all the cities she
has known. She is very keen on. politics,
and is watching the Parkes election with
interest. Two of her Australian friends in
London are Eugenia Doughty and Alice
Grant Rosman.
Herbert Brookes, Australia’s conscien-
tious and hard-working Commissioner for
the 'United States, returned to Sydney
with Mrs. Brookes by the Monowai. The
busy bee could show the pair nothing in
industry. Not only was Mr. Brookes inde-
fatigable in the service of Australia, but
Mrs. Brookes toiled with him, in the office
before lunch, doing welfare work in the
afternoon, and in the evening bearing the
white woman’s burden of social entertain-
ing. The Monowai, which replaces the lost
Tahiti on the Australia-America run, was
formerly the P. and O. liner Razmak.
Norah Cordeaux has chosen the laat
of January for her linking up with Laurw
Rutherford. Norah is a daughter of th
Bowral Arthur Cordeaux Laurie
father is Dr. A. H. Rutherford, of Point 1 ipei.
OVERHEARD.
She ( jealously ) : “Her legs are like posts.’
He ( admiringly ): “Rather! Winning posts.
Our Brisbane “Little Sister” writes.
William Smith, son of the late W. Smith,
Barrow-in-Furness (Eng.), married Mary v «®
Connelly, daughter of the late P. J. Conne y ,
Dalby, at St. Agatha’s, Clayfleld. The bride, in a
sleeveless gown of Honiton lace over white sati.n,
was given away by her uncle, Mr. R. T. H. Mack .
Her veil was of Brussels lace, and she came
gladioli, carnations and roses. Lettie Connelly
’maided in gold ninon with a bead band of gold
net. The reception was at Atcherley; the turn
Mountains and Sydney see the ’moon.
Una, youngest daughter of the Moncrieffe Scott ,
of Wandowalla, Warwick, announces her engage-
ment to John C. Mathison. „ , ,
J. M. Hefferan, of Bundaberg, married Ethel
Mary, daughter of the late J. M. Lee, Cloncurry,
and Mrs. M. Lee, Gavndah, in St. Stephen a
Cathedral. The bride, who was given away by hei
brother, was in powder-blue mariette with a hat ol
beige pink. Mary Lee ’maided in white and lemon
with a black hat. Atcherley saw, the feasting,
and the Northern Rivers reflect the ’moon.
While Brisbane thermometers soar beyond the
hundred, the roads are full of cars rushing seawards
and mountainwards. Dr. and Mrs. Earle Page
and family have been at Southport. Sir John and
Lady Goodwin are away in N.S.W., and there is
little doing socially. Inigo Jones and his wife
entertained the Astronomical Society at their Dutton
Park home. . , .
George King, Maryborough, married Xma, only
daughter of the Rev. C. W. Tompkins, rector of
Groveley, at All Saints’. The bride, in ivory cr6pe
de Chine with a veil of broidered net, was given
away by her father. White dahlias, stephanotis and
jasmine made the bouquet. Miss M. Allbrand ’maided
in Nile green. Pink roses decked the Hotel Can-
berra for the breakfast.
On the same day Lionel Morrison, of Oxley, took
to wife Brenda Marie Carey-Carter at Tarings
Baptist Church. The bride, in ivory mariette,
a Victorian hood of fine silk straw and a Brussels
net veil, was given away by her father. Stensa Caitei,
Nell Fisher and Evelyn English ’maided in nastur-
tium-tinted floral georgette, with Victorian hoods to
tone. The reception took place at the bride’s home.
Mrs A. E. Moore is chairwoman, Mrs. Baillieu
acting-sec., and Mrs. C. A. Macfarlane. treasurer
of the newly-formed committee of the Social Service
League. Unemployed women will be given sewing
for five or six hours a day on five days a week,
the Mayor having lent the old South Brisbane Town
Hall for a sewing-room. Already a sufficiency of
sewing-machines has been lent, and ap appeal is
being made for cottons and buttons and material.
Girls must have been resident for a year in the
State to be eligible.
Mrs. Edgar Robinson had a welcome-home party
to Mrs. J. Craven, who is just back from the
grand tour. Colonel and Mrs. Craven, Dr. and
Mrs. King-Patrick, and Roy Dewhurst, Sydney, were
amongst the guests. The hostess was in green
mariette and silver; floral fleurette was worn by
Mrs. Craven.
And from Perth; — „ .
The week lias been filled with parties for Kath-
leen Walsh. There was a bridge afternoon at Mt.
Yokine CVub-house, given by Mrs. Fred Curran and
Mrs. Alec Hardy. Card tables were unfolded on
the verandah, which commands a long-distance view
of green bush and fairway, and tea was served in
the dining-room with its attractive interior of red
brick, jarrah panelling and blue felt, a background
for roses and blue hydrangeas. Pink figurings twined
about Mrs. Curran’s romaine, and narrow pleatings
and dainty ’broideries ornamented Mrs. Hardy’s
white voile. Kathleen wore primrose silk and a
jade hat, and her sister Alice chose an ensemble of
strawberry shantung. Another sister, Mrs. Tighe, of
Kellerberrin, looked smart in an all-black rig.
Some other parties for the bride-to-be were
arranged by Nell Connaughton, who had bridge in
her home in Mt. Lawley; by Mrs. Ernest Chase, who
brought pink roses to the winter garden of the
Ivarrakatta Club for her card-shuffling; and by Jean
Eastwood, who let her imagination loose on her
tennis court, with a midget golf links as the result.
Margaret and Ellen Mulcahy gave a Cottesloe party
with swimming, follovred by tea and midget golf
at the Ocean Beach Hotel. The final festivity for
Miss Walsh —her passage is booked on the Manunda
as Mrs. Kevin Sullivan, and her new home will
be in Deloraine, Tasmania—was an evening of bridge
hostessed by Kathleen O’Dea. Gold and pink rose-
buds nestled in a posy for the principal guest, whose
long green gown and rhinestone necklet were much
admired. Miss O’Dea wore flowered black georgettes,
and her sister Bernie was in pale pink.
Peggy Coll has been lured once again to the
seductive Bast for a holiday. Her first port of
call is Singapore and a visit to Gwen McCallum that
was and her attractive American husband, Fred
Waterhouse.
After a year at the Royal Academy studying
elocution and dramatic art, Hope Ives is home
again. On the Largs Bay also came St. Hilda’s
new principal, Miss C. W. Small. Her last job
was on the teaching staff of the Holly Lodge High
School, Liverpool.
Horace Minors, secretary of the Children’s Hos-
pital, took a day off recently to marry Annie Jane
Beecham, of Dover. The Rev. King performed the
ceremony in St. Luke’s, Cottesloe.


s
Security for Saving
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
456 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6, 12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
WHAT A ROUSING CHRISTMAS
IT HAS BEEN AT BROKEN HILL!
Now, A HAPPY NEW YEAR to
Everybody is what
‘THE BARRIER MINER’ wants to see.
Down with the Croaker and up with the
Joker for 1931.
Keep the Flag Flying in “The Barrier Miner,”
the Great Newspaper for the Woolgrowers.
50
ON SALE AT
AI.L
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly,
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
o*’*
G*
s
*
if
%
r
•tw
y^A
iV)^
-v-
Write to Desk “R**
for your copy—no
obligation whatever.
? H ¥r 1? 0
A» JEf JC# e
THIS Book of
Bargains
for man
and boy—the big-
gest in Australia!
It describes and
illustrates a wealth
of sensational price
reductions which
means pounds in
your pocket!
A Sew of the Big Savings
Usually
59/6
22/6
to 35/-
24/6
14/6
75/-
Men’s Grey Worsted Sac Suits,
ready to wear
Pure Fur Felt Hats, “Snap Brim”
style
Men’s Black, Tan or Nut Brown
Calf Shoes . . *
Men’s sturdy Quality Tweed
Trousers, Cuff Bottoms . . .
Youths’ stylish Worsted Sac Suits
ready to wear
6/9S
n/6
9/41
ii/4l
9/6^
3313 d 31VS
Freight paid on above goods.
If writing, address your letter to Desk “R,”
Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
\
M
paRK&GEQRGESI SYDNEY
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”
Five thousand seven hundred Australian artisans are employed making farm implements in Australia.
They and their dependants form a group of over 28,000 customers for everything the farmer has to sell.


K e , e P
a clear
MlNDand BODY
tkjA
W
V>
YOU cannot be
perfectly “fit” if
your system is
being slowly poisoned
by toxins arising from imperfect or
incomplete elimination. Such con-
ditions cause bodily fatigue and mental
weariness, and reduce efficiency.
A clean, properly functioning diges-
tive system is an essential to health.
Keep your intestinal tract clean and
healthy with the aid of Figsen, the
natural, safe laxative. Does not purge
or gripe, does not create habits, has
no unpleasant after effects and is just
as good for children as their elders.
Figsen is pleasant and easy to take,
and you can rely on it.
FIGSEN
There Is a Nyat
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
/at
or y
i
£
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
At the Caulfield meeting on Saturday there
was rather a thin attendance on the grand-
stand. Many habitual racegoers are still at
hill or seaside resorts. The weather, which
in the morning was warm, hazy and dusty,
developed into a pleasant fresh afternoon,
and the outing was delightful.
The committee ladies’ box carried only a
small population. Mrs. Ben Chaffey, wife of
the chairman, was smartly attired in black
and white. With her was her daughter Mrs.
A. Campbell, wearing scarlet and white
with matching hat. Mrs. R. G. Casey was
accompanied by Mrs. Traill, whose burgundy-
colored marquisette gown was patterned in
stone, red and maroon. Mrs. Merson
Cooper, in black, was companioned by Marie
de Bavay, whose ensemble suit and hat were
light beige. Mrs. Alec Hunter, of Seymour,
mixed in her chiffon gown tones of cream
and golden brown; her hat being berry red.
Mrs. Albion Walklcy and Mrs. W. Pulteney
Mein favored navy blue and white. Mrs. H.
Dunstan, Mrs. J. R. Dunstan and Mrs. Percy
Blackbourn, the last-named in scarlet
sprinkled with white spots, were visitors from
Frankston. The Richard Lintons, who have
been holidaying at their farm at Lilydale,
among the strawberries, were there; also Mrs.
James Purves, whose ninon gown in tints, of
black, blue, green and pink was covered with
a black coat.
Warrnambool held its three-day summer
race meeting in fine weather. Attendance
was sparser than in recent previous years
and the social jollifications that usually
accompany the fixture were dropped. The
course, with its well-kept lawns, bright
flower beds and golden cypress-trees, was at
its best, and some pretty frocks were sported.
Chief interest in the meeting centred round
the Lindsay Cup, given annually by W. Lind-
say, president of the W.R.C. It was the
principal race of the third day. Mrs. J.
Lindsay, of Quamby, was there in magpie
array. Mrs. Marcus Whiting, whose husband
is president of the W.A.R.C., wore crepe de
Chine of pale amber tint with touches of red
and brown, and a brown straw hat. Mrs.
J. Twomey, of Langulac, was in navy blue
suit with navy-and-white straw hat.
Entertaining in connection with the tennis
tournament at Macedon for the C.W.A. funds
finished with a dance at the home of the
Oswald Symes, to which house-parties from
all around rolled up in full force. Nancy
Syme hostessed in floral ninon, her sister
Margaret lending aid in a frock of blossom-
pink softly flounced. Black georgette cut on
princess lines was worn by Mrs. Syme. The
Clarke lady was there in chiffon of burgundy
hue with a glint of rhinestones, Beverley
Jackson wore opal-green chiffon and Mary
Murray sported tapestry brocade. Aimee
Shackell trailed draperies of black lace, Pat-
ricia Clarke swathed her slim lines in simi-
lar material and Roma Smith’s gown was of
satin of a pale coffee tint.
The Minton Boys’ Home at Frankston, a
philanthropic undertaking which at present
is providing 50 boys with a home and edu-
cation, had to send out an SOS for financial
help the other day. The call was answered
by the Frankston Auxiliary. Mrs. J. R.
Dunstan, president, Mrs. E. P. Ackman, hon.
treas., and Mrs. W. Gilbert, matron of the
home, hon. sec., set things going for a car-
nival at Frankston Park which brought in
£lOO. Mayoress Luxton came from Portsea
to launch the affair and residents and visitors
gave it good support. Further monetary aid
came from a dance at the Fernery in the
evening, staged by the Ladies’ Auxiliary, of
which Marea Lucas, who danced in a
flounced bright green gown, is hon. sec.
Padre G. E. Hale, of Adelaide, welded
the links between his niece Violet, a daughter
of the Charles H. Hales, of East Malvern,
and Roy, son of Mrs. A. E. Smith, of Albert
Park. Two ’maids in pale green frocks
attended the bride, whose white georgette
gleamed through a cloud of Limerick laco
floating from a wreath of orange buds. A
little trainbearer in a Kate Greenaway frock
of light green guarded many yards of
silver-embroidered transparency.
Beatrice Madge, younger daughter of the
W. H. Taylors, of Overnewton, has promised
to wed John, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. S.
Bloomfield, of Gisborne district. Corona,
daughter of the Edmund Shepherds, of
Armadale, wears a sparkler given her by
William, son of Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Catanch,
of Brighton.
The proceeds of the floral carnival
engineered by Victor Crowe and a committee
of returned soldiers a few weeks ago in aid
of the Lord Mayor’s Fund amounted to
£2160. Lud Mayor Luxton has popped
£2OO of that into the Distressed Soldiers’
Relief Fund.
Phillip Island is now on the aviators’ map,
for the aerodrome at Cowes has been
approved by the Civil Aviation Board for
use by all save the very largest ’planes. An
aerial Derby conducted by the Aero Club
celebrated the opening of the new ’drome by
Col. Brinsmead, the accompanying luncheon
being presided over by shire president
Sambell.
Last year was an active one for the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Sudan United
Missions, and the receipts, which constituted
a record for this band of workers, amounted
to £6OO.
Author Dale Collins and his wife are
staying at Menzies’. Having acquired a
taste of life on the ocean wave, the couple,
when they reached London after their last
voyage from these parts, signed on as
steward and stewardess on the City of Delhi.
As the vessel carries no passengers this was
a polite fiction. They have now been afloat
18 months and will rejoin their ship when
it has acquired a cargo and is ready to leave.
Mrs. F. Scarlett and her grand-daughter
Nancy Scarlett have returned after 12
months of travel that took in South Africa,
Britain and the Continent. Mrs. Scarlett,
who is president of the Victorian centre of
the Ministering Children’s League, attended
the league’s annual conference in London.
In England she did a lot of sight-seeing by
motor-car, with Nancy at the wheel.
Rose Browne has just had a novel
“passed” by Macmillan’s local representative,
which means that it will probably be pub-
lished in London in the spring. Her gift
for writing, which is considerable, is inher-
ited. She is a descendant of the Browne who
under the name of Rolf Boldrewood wrote
“Robbery Under Arms.” Ink stays in the
blood. Gilbert Frankau, whom Melbourne
saw a lot of and liked shortly before the
World War, has a daughter, Pamela Fran-
kau, whose “She and I” is a London best-
seller. Her father saved himself by his
pen after the war had bankrupted his to-
bacco business. Her grandmother was
“Frank Danby,” whose “Pigs in Clover” was
a great success in King Edward’s day. And
her great-grandfather was Karl Marx!
John W. Sharwood has returned from Lon-
don with' A.R.C.M. tacked to his name and
diplomas that certify that he can teach
organ-playing and singing. He meditates a
career as an organist.
An uglier lot of patterned dress materials
than are being shown in this city just now
would be difficult to find. Hard and harsh
combinations of color, most unbecoming to
complexions of any sort, glare from every
emporium window. Why anybody should dis-
figure satins, silks and cottons with such
dreadful color schemes is more than most
women can understand.
Notwithstanding the unpopularity of
domestic service there is no lack of students
at the Homecraft Hostel opened in ’29 under
the auspices of the Secondary Schools Head-
mistresses’ Association. The hostel has now
become too small to accommodate all those
anxious to become good housewives, so larger
premises have been obtained. A big house, in
Mercer-road, Malvern, with accommodation
for about 20 students and several dajr pupils,
is now being made ready for occupation, and
will be ready about the middle of next month.
Free lessons in cookery and other domestic
arts offered to unemployed girls at various
domestic economy schools are being rushed.
According to a law dating back to Charles
One midget golf can’t be played on the Sab-
bath if a charge is made for the use of the
links, so proprietors of such enterprises have
decided to make no charge for admittance
on the Day of Rest, but to put a price on
the stick and ball used by players. What
the law will say to that remains to be seen.
After seven years’ residence in London,
Lorna Stirling, pictured here by Broothorn,
and her mother,
Mrs. Belton
Stirling, have
return ed to
this city. Miss
Stirling, who
studied the
piano and
violin at the
Uni. Con. be-
fore she went
away, is also
a journalist,
and in London
she for a while
edited “Pan-
pi p e s,” a
musical maga-
zine for chil-
dren. Later
she became a
freelance and
many of her
articles were
written and
published in Germany and France.
Anna Brennan, barrister, who had her
first experience of overseas travel when she
accompanied her brother, the Attorney-Gen-
eral, and Mrs. Brennan on their Imperial
Conference jaunt, returned with them, but
motored from Adelaide. The party disem-
barked at Naples and spent, three weeks
touring Italy, visiting the chief cities and
the famous lakes. While Mr. and Mrs. Bren-
nan were at Geneva, Miss Brennan went off
on her own to see the Passion Play at
Oberammergau. The play, presented on a
Sunday, lasted seven and a half hours, with
an interval for luncheon. She speaks enthu-
siastically of the beauty of London and Paris.
In Dublin the Brennans were the guests for
some days of the Governor-General, Mr.
McNeill, and Mrs. McNeill at the Y.-R.
Lodge, which is about three miles from
Phoenix Park. Miss Brennan, who is a
great walker, did some rambling in Donegal
and visited her father’s birthplace, Inver,
a fishing village that is much the same as
it was a century ago.
In London Mrs. Brennan met her brother,
Manus O'Donnell, known to Melbourne as
a violinist of considerable ability. He is now
a member of Sir Henry Wood’s orchestra.
Olga H'ay, of the teaching staff of the
Methodist Ladies’ College, returned last
week after a European tour. During her
18 months’ absence she attended an. inter-
national education conference at Helsingfors
at which were present 1000 educationists
gathered from 52 different countries.
The latest style of picnic-basket, has, in
addition to china, cutlery, sandwich- and
cake-tins and a thermos-flask, an ice-chest
i.icr enough to hold the butter and the but
no Perhaps it isn’t intended for that but
it’s a very convenient size for those fellers.
Prof A Gunn and Mrs. Gunn are spend-
ing the long vacation at Flinders. The prof,
is studying there the psychology of golf.
Contralto Morva Davies has attracted the
attention of the famous Bach Society of
Paris, which gave the singer a part in the
performance of the Mass in B Minor.
The Wallabies farewelled one of their
members, General Monash, wishing him the
best of luck in India, where he goes as
Australia’s representative to celebrations in
honor of the new Delhi.
The Consul for Belgium, Rene Vander-
kelen and his wife have returned to their
home’ at Ivooyong after a visit to their native
land to take part in the celebration. of the
centenary of independence. Exhibitions of
Flemish art and industry, many concerts and
performances of grand opera figured in the
proceedings.
Christmas greetings came by the last mail
from Amy and Eileen Castles, who have
settled in Hollywood. Amy’s voice has been
tried on the talkie machine, and even the
operators are enthusiastic about the results.
Dorothy Brunton has again enlisted under
the banner of the Firm and will appear in
“Dear Enemy” next month.
By cable comes news of the engagement in
London of Phvllis Mary Dunne, a Melbourne
girl, and Lieutenant D. W. Nicholl, who was
tor a time aide-de-camp to Lord Stonehaven.
Though we are still waiting for our
summer weather, autumn millinery is being
shown in the rag-shops. The beret seems
to be the basis of most of the modes. In
its original form, the beret could be worn
successfully only by the very young and
pretty, but now it has been decorated with
bits that turn back, flaps and other gadgets
that make it suitable for women of all ages.
It is possible to have this style of head-
wear made from the material of any frock,
and they are done in velvet, tweed, fur,
braid and straw. Some of the most attrac-
tive models are made of felt.
This is Ivor Bonstead, whose pupil John
Brownlee is making Europe sit up and take
notice. Mr. Bonstead, pictured here by
Talma, is son and pupil of William Bon-
stead, of Bal-
larat, who for
over 40 years
has been
organist of one
of the kirks
in that city.
Ivor Bonstead
has a good
baritone voice,
and was
coached in
operatic roles
by Cecil Out-
trim. For
about eight
years he was
on the teach-
ing staff of
the Albert-
street C o n.
While visiting
Geelong he
gave lessons
to John
Brownlee, and advised the youngster to
migrate to Melbourne and prepare himself
for a career as an operatic singer. Utnei
notable pupils are Marjorie Lawrence, now
studying with Madame Dinh Gilly in Pans ,
tenor Norman Bennett, who recently won. a
scholarship at the Eastman School of Music,
New York; and Victor Harding, bass-bari-
tone, who sings for the British Broadcasting
Co. and St. Clement Danes choir in London.
The new dull hose make full ankles slender
and slender ankles fit for a J. C. Williamson
chorus. The colors in these lustreless sur-
faces are richer than in the sheeny socks
with which we have hitherto clothed our
legs. Fashion also promises us a georgette
crepe stocking which, it is claimed, has more
durability than the chiffon hose of our former
delight. So says a girl newly-returned from
New York, who also exhibits with pride , a
necklace to be worn at bathing parties. This
is composed of gaily-colored, narrow rubber
tubes, joined with metal clasps. Bracelets in
rose quartz, topaz and tourmalines are to
dangle from the wrist of every woman, and a
“wealthy” effect is gained from twisting a
string of glittersome beads eight or nine
times about the arm. . .
The small hats for winter which are arriving
like single spies in the best shops are worth
a note. One geranium-red felt toque, cut up
over the right eye, has bright red quills
stuck through its turn-up brim over the
right ear. The quills are wide and the
feather point down —a decorative sort of
shoulder-tickler. Still others have ne.ar-
osprey mounts, inverted, and very flattering
to the profile. The forehead veil that has
come in to cover the empty spaces left bare
by the off-the-brow styles isn’t likely to prove
popular here. It is a rare woman who can
wear these quarter- or half-veils without
looking too decorated.
The town girl had run into the country
mouse at the glove counter and invited her
to lunch. She had a brand-new uninflated
ten-shilling note in her bag and with quite
an air handed the menu to the girl from
out back. The young lady glanced down
its length with a slightly scornful eye,
such as Lucullus might have cast over a
Technical College first half-year effort, and
decided slowly on oysters, small plate, chicken
mayonnaise, a liqueur, ice and black coffee.
The town girl did a little lightning arith-
metic, bit on the bullet and gave the order
to the attendant. “For two?” ouened that
damsel. “Oh, no,” smiled Townite brightly,
drawing her belt in another hole, “for one.
I’m on a diet. Would you bring me a glass
of ice-water and a wafer?”
Our Adelaide “Little Sister” writes: —
The L.V.R.C. had a dusty day for its meeting
at Victoria Park, but the unpleasant weather did
not spoil the attendance. Mr. W. A. Piper (chair-
man) and his wife presided at luncheon and tea.
The former has been cut out of the racing pro-
gramme lately, but some guests of note who were
passing through by the Ormonde were entertained
at this one. They included the Prime Minister and
Attorney-General of Maoriland, with their women-
folk the Prime Minister’s secretary, E. D. Thomson,
and’the Controller of Customs, Dr. G. Craig, with
Mrs. and Miss Craig. Premier and Mrs. Hill, with
other local Parliamentary lights, were also in evi-
dence. Mrs. Piper wore a smart frock of bottle-
green marocain and a beige baku straw hat.
On the same afternoon at Birkalla there was an
unofficial opening of the Adelaide Polo Club. The
president (Mr. Frank Downer) entertained at after-
noon tea, and there was a good gathering of
supporters.
The State has lost its oldest inhabitant, Mrs.
Flora Smyth, who lived to be 103. She arrived in
1850 from the Highlands, and shared in the hard-
ships of the pioneers.
Quite a number of Adelaide society folk have been
living the simple life camping at Port Vincent,
which is quite off the beaten track; they are drift-
ing back to the city bronzed and tanned.
A floral party was held at the Lady Colton Hall
to say farewell to Miss Dorothy Arland, who has
been secretary of the girls’ sports department
at the Young Women’s Christian Association for t ( wo
years.. Among me
leather suitcase and a handbag.
Mrs. W. Gosse, her daughter, Miss Nancy_ Gosse,
and small grand-daughter Nan are returning to
Adelaide by the Orama at the end of this monch
after an extended visit to England.
Mr. and Mrs. Dudley Hayward have left on an-
other trip to England; the former will return m
a few months, but Mrs. Hayward will remain longer.
And from Launceston: —
The Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Evans have taken
Lenna, the late Alfred Ashbolt’s house at Batting
Point, for the term of the Fleet’s visit to Hobart.
Jean, third daughter of the Sydney Burburys,
Glen Morey, Woodbury, and Gerald, the W. Scotts
second son, announce their intention of entering
into a life partnership at an early date.
Longford races always mean a jolly, informal
day’s outing, and a perfect day drew a big crowd
from the surrounding districts and Launceston.
President R. 0. Field and Mrs. Field looked pleased
at the success of the fixture. In the throng were to
be seen Mrs. Norman Gatenby, the Guv
Merediths, Mrs. Walter Menzies, the Jim Melroses
(Mrs Jim very attractive in deep red silk ensemble,
beige spotted), the Harold Archers, the Norman
Fields, Dr. and Mrs. L. O. Macnamara, the Tom
Dowlings, the Frank Browns, Mrs. R. Affleck, Dr.
and Mrs. Clemons, the Rupert Agnews, the Russell
Ibbotts, the Jack Archers, the Reg Taylors, the
Geoff Martins, Misses L. and G. Mackinnon, Anne
Clemons, Sybil Youl, Mary Viney, Von Steiglitz,
Lyne and others.
A score of Midland bachelors, with G. Reach as
secretary, fonned a committee and gave a dance
ar Powell’s Hall, Campbell Town, as their contri-
bution to New Year festivities. The hall was
decorated out of recognition. Supper was spread
in the annex, and there were bridge tables in
the lounge of the hotel. Quite a big contingent
went up by car from Hobart, and among visitors
from afar were Mrs. Harden (Eng.), Mrs. Hugh
Austin (N.S.W.), Miss Wyly (Melb.), Miss Audrey
Cox (Vic.) and Miss Faery (Sydney). Local lights
included the T. W. H. Clarkes, the Tom Fields,
the F. Youls, the Cam. Hinmans, Mrs. Alec McEwan,
the Alan Camerons, the Norman Nicolsons, the
David Taylors, the John Fosters, the George
Reaches, the Frank Browns, the Ivo Agnews, and a
host of youngsters, including Sybil Lyons, Margaret
Gillett, Barbara and Molly Bennett, Cynthia Cameron,
Betty Oldrey, Zelda Bisdee, Margaret Miller and
Esther Fenn-Smith.
Golf enthusiasts had a good time at the summer
tournaments, though high winds made things un-
pleasant on several days. Betty Nankivell (Vic.),
was an outstanding competitor; she and R. Nettle-
fold made the record score in a mixed foursome of
77. The Bisdee Cup went to F. X. de Bavay.
Others who showed good results were Mrs. Nankivell
(Vic.), Miss O’Donnell (Geelong), R. Cullinane,
R. Moore, Nancy Giblin and Rupert Lyons.
Mayor Soundy, assisted by his daughter in the
absence of the Mayoress, called a posse of musical
folk into his parlor and gave a welcome to Gladys
Moncrieff. The singing lady, all smiles, wore an
ensemble of navy-blue crepe satin with parchment
satin blouse. Some of the guests enjoyed a chat
with her and with pianist Gil Dech. Among those
present were the Frank Purchases, Mary Corvan,
the Scott-Powers, Mdme. Josie Miles, Mdme. Vera
Tasma, the Glanville Bishops, the E. J. McCanns,
Olive Wilton, the George Jacksons and several
aldermen and their wives.
The skiff championship races kept the yachting
fraternity strung up to concert pitch of excitement,
and the Derwent was a picture during the events.
Queensland pulled off the championship with Ajax
VI.; A. Whereat helmsman. A smoke social at the
Royal Yacht Club wound up the week, and Lieut.-
Governor Herbert Nicholls presented the prizes to
the winners.
Two enterprising young women, D. Mosey and
Elizabeth Thorold, have opened an Arts and Crafts
depot at Entally Lodge, Hadspen. Their opening
day, just before Christmas, was a huge success. The
Tourist Bureau sent out car-loads of visitors from
Launceston, and the whole district turned out to
give the girls a friendly hand, with the result
that the rooms were packed and nearly all the
goods on display sold. The depot is on the main
road to the n.-w. coast, and near the Hadspen
tea-gardens.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
1845.
SThe Brisbane (Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
Sfhe Brisbane Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. 8. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F39OS
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z jr_ HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World's Leading
Advertising Agen -ies.
A™! AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
£T,* ea ! ander " Reading-room at the offices,
tv no •\ ustra lia House, Strand, London,
vV.L.2, where they can see the home papers,
r fiends, use the telephone aiul
°f a L n ln f° rma tion without charge. Copies
tne paper and general information can
ne obtained at the Australian Advertising
A Sency. Ltd.. 850 George Street, Sydney!
or 484 Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
and all BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
lilfiiil
ifliii
■
IIlIlIlIHB!*!®
iilCTlSsi
tr m<
11'
» !
v ; i
PL
IU-m* CANADA" EIUIROIPE
Travel round the Sunny South Seas and
enjoy, not some, but every possibility of your
overseas trip. U.S.A., Canada, or Europe
may be either reached, or happily rounded off,
by a tour through the South Sea Islands, and
splendid accommodation on Royal Mail Liners
obtained with the expert assistance of Union
Company Officials.
Union Steam Ship Co., 247 George Street, Sydney ; 59 William Street, Melbourne;
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane—Adelaide—Perth.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL LINES
BURNS PHILP TOURS
VISIT JAVA
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
Smooth Water Voyage
which is a Holiday in Itself.
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,"
5000 tons.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.'
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
a
BURNS. PHILP &C?,LTP
7 BRIDGE ST. SYDNEY.AUSTRALIA
WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE YORK HARROGATE EDINBURGH
and other beautiful Cathedral Cities. These are on the
LONDON AND NORTH EASTFRN RAILWAY
the track of the “Flying Scotsman.” Illustrated Booklets gladly supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 7-11 Bridge Street, Sydney, and all branches, or
L.N.E.R. West End Offices, 71 Regent Street and 59 Piccadilly, London W.l.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liabiilty
r
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and, Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
ŕ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C Ltd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
HOTEL
METRO POLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
horn Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fEuripides . . 15,000 tons, Feb. 17, *3l
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Mar. 13, ’3l
JCeramic . . 18,500 „ Mar. 24, ’3l
fDemosthenes 12,000 „ Apr. 11, '3l
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
JCabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgcty 8 Co., Ltd. |
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. J
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Tel.
Tel.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
: 86701. 5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
: 87512. 247'* ! Gcorge Street, Sydney.
TQ
*9
♦«*
a®*
*♦*
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yoseinite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. M 35,
AMERICAN RAII.WAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
3 Steps to protect
and beautify,
your skin
ufceura
7?
MEDJCmAL
•<OIU>
Cleanse
the face,
neck, arms
and hands
every night
with CUTI-
CURA SOAP and hot
water, using plenty of
soap. Rinse with tepid
and finally with cold
water.
Where the skin is ir-
ritated gently smear
with a little CUTICURA OINT-
MENT before bathing. In five
minutes bathe as already directed.
CUTICURA TALCUM, pure and
fragrant, gives the perfect finish-
ing touch to the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Ciitienra


MicK Simmons’
Unrivalled
Stocks of High-
Grade Guns,
Sporting' Rifles
and all
Shooting
Equipment
4
SHOOTING
SPECIALS
HARRINGTON AND
RICHARDSON'S
FAMOUS 5.8.8. L.
GUN, 12 GAUGE.
Regular Price .. . 50/-
Mick Simmons* Price
••■•42/6
(Carriage extra.)
Top action, automatic self-ejecting, steel
barrel, solid case-hardened, pistol-grip,
walnut stock; weight about 6|-lb.
Famous ‘Winchester’
Rifles Reduced!
WINCHESTER
SINGE E-S HOT
RIFLE, 1904 MODEL
Regular Price
Mick Simmons* Price
(Carriage extra.)
For 22-short, long or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 2 1 in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear-
sight; length of rifle overall, plain
front-sight; weight about 41b.
42/-
3 51-
WINCHESTER
S I N G L E-S HOT
RIFLE, 1902 MODEL
Regular Price .. . . 34/-
Mick Simmons’ Price
{Carriage extra.)
For 22-calibre, rimfire; 18in. round steel
barrel, bolt action; peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard; rubber heelplate; weight
about 31b.
27/6
F.N. SINGLE=SHOT
RIFLE.
Outstanding Value, at . . . .
{Carriage extra.)
21/-
22-calibre, takedown, with safety bolt;
21 in. barrel; weight about 3^lb.
MR. LIONEL L. BIBBY.
ŗ
Firearms Expert and Aus-
tralia’s Finest Revolver
and Rifleshot (late of
the Winchester Repeating
Arms Co.)> is now attached
to Mick Simmons’ Shoot-
ing Section. Mr. Bibby's
valued advice in the selec-
tion of a Gun or a Rifle,
or on any matter pertain-
ing to Shooting, will be
appreciated by sportsmen.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
790 HAY MARKET, SYDNEY
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
Missing Friends.
[F this notice should be seen by THOS. W.
BLYTH, at one time employed by F. H.
Faulding and Co., Ltd., Perth, they would
be pleased if he would communicate with
them immediately.
Re ABDOOL HOOSSAlN—Deceased.
INFORMATION is required concerning the
1 whereabouts of MARY ISABELL BATES
and her daughter ISABELL BATES, at
one time residents of Einasleigh and George-
town, Queensland, and lately of Edgeciiff,
Sydney.
E. DANAHER,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Cairns, Queensland.
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
In addition to ‘‘BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH” be-
ing a Registered Trade Mark the following
are also Registered Trade Marks, each com-
plete in itself.
“BX" “H” “S” and ‘‘E”
“L" “OM” “M” and “N”
Any one of these marks will protect your
interests
GOUROCK
Rooework I Tn
Export Co. LI Ui
379 Ken.t-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders-street, Melbourne, Vic.
ř
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act. 1863. Established 18 <2.
Directors —James Love, ' Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. liyan, Esq. 1
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N\ S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Banit offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BARB WIRE FACTORY
Hibiscus ft! Wirs
We have now installed the latest
Electric Machinery for the manufac-
ture of Barb Wire—producing the
highest grade Wire yet manufac-
tured in Australia.
We are the only Barb Wire Manu-
facturers in Australia supplying
direct to the Public.
LOOK AT THE PRICES!
FENCING WIRE
PAINTING
MATERIALS
TARPAULINS
WATER BAGS
COLD SAFES
THREE-PLY WOOD
SHEEP & CATTLE
LICK
FLY OIL
12g Hibiscus lowa Barb, four coils to mile, 26/- per coil.
12ig Competitive Barb, with barb 4in. apart, four coils to mile,
20/- per coil.
12Ig Hibiscus Special Bai'b, three coils to mile, 27/6 per coil.
12jg Special Barb (similar make), three coils to mile, 26/6 per coil.
8g’ Galvanised Wire, £lB/5/- ton .or 18/6 per coil.
Also Netting—ah sizes—quote 36-x 2xl9in 50 yard rolls at
9/- per roll.
You have heard of the world renowned British; Firm of; Blundell
Spence—manufacturers of Linseed Oil, etc. We have now been
appointed Sole Queensland Agents for the famous paint.
With paint it pays to buy quality—you get direct agents’ prices
—namely:—
All colors in 1-gallon cans 25/- per gallon
Write for color card.
Can also do Australian Crown Paint at 10/6 per gallon.
Linseed Oil in 4-gallon tins: Raw, 5/3 ; Boiled, 5/6 per gallon.
All Sizes. B.M. 6ft. x Bft. 16/-
„ 10ft. x Bft 30/-
„ 10ft. x 12ft. • 42/6
Up to 28 x 32 feet in 8.M., at 334/-. All less 10 p.c. for cash.
Write for full list.
Best quality 12in., 1/6; loin., 1/9; 18in., 2/-.
Verandah Bag, with lid, 5/6.
The Hibiscus 18 x 18 x 33 inch High at 50/-
24 x 24 x 39 inch High at 75/-
Write for illustrated list.
Best for Panels and Partitions, etc.
Q.P.S. Price 6ft. x 3ft.—Unsanded, 2/3 ; Sanded, 3/- sheet
Oregon Doors, 3-Panel, 6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Bin., Q.P.S. Price, 20/- each
We want you to get in touch with us—we actually manufacture
to your own and Government Formulae.
Hibiscus Stock Lick, in 1001 b. bags 11/6 per bag
Hibiscus Stock Lick, ton lots £ll/10/- ton of 20001 b.
Hibiscus Medicated Salt Blocks, 40 x 50 poa.,d blocks to the ton,
£ll per ton or 7/6 per block.
Summatra works out, when mixed, at a cost of LESS THAN
ONE SHILLING PER GALLON.
Lowest for all Groceries, Netting, Spray Pumps, Nails, Galv. Iron, Saddlery,
, Oils, Stoves and Ranges, Cream Separators, Tools, Furniture, Cutlery, etc.
WE ARE DIRECT CASH BUYERS ALL WOOL, HIDES,
SKINS, ETC. WRITE FOR DETAILED PAMPHLET.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
TO ALASKA
via
The Scenir Inland
.Waterway
MS
Ten days of delight in the far
North narrow channels tower-
ing peaks and pine clad slopes
—quaint Indian villages—the ro-
mantic Klondike mystic sunsets
and purple twilights wonderful
climate. Make this thrilling side
trip from Vancouver on your way to
Europe. C.P.R. steamers, comforts
and service all the way. Write
for interesting booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street,
i
kj!-''
'3
&
to 1 .
Hs*
<ed. i
fgl
13
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS • STEAMERS - HOTELS
r
A. W. A.
Communication
Services
Ring up England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales or twenty-two
European countries, Canada,
New Zealand, U.S.A., Mex-
ico and Cuba from your own
home or office via
A.W. A.
Radiophone
Telegraph England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, North and
South America and all Euro-
pean countries via
Beam W ireless
Telegraph your friends at sea
and in the Pacific Islands via
COASTAL
Radio Service
For full information telephone
A.W.A. offices, Sydney 8W2211, or
Melbourne F 4161, and ask for
"Traffic," or apply at any Posf
Office or at Amalgamated Wireless
(A'sia) Ltd., 47 York St., Sydney,
167-9 Queen St., Melb.; Collins
House, Collins St., Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.


BREAK O'DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scor field
Chapter IX.
THE defeat of the Government at the
polls ended the monopoly of political
power that the propertied classes had
enjoyed as an inheritance from the Mother
Country. The workers had realised them-
selves. They were no longer a rabble to be
dispersed, but an army, disciplined and effec-
tive, the dispositions of which were skilfully
made to protect “God’s democracy” from
falling a prey to the plutocrat. Allan
Macalister had been returned by a substan-
tial majority, and at the subsequent meeting
of the victorious party was given Cabinet
rank as Minister of Lands.
Allan and Jessie no longer lived at Rae-
burn. The old dwelling-house had become
an annexe to the large, ugly building that
housed the batteries from which poured the
precious dust. They had purchased ten acres
of first-class land close to Maxwelton, on a
gentle slope overlooking the river. They
had built there a home to their liking, and
caused the fertile soil to produce beautiful
things such as had never reared their heads
on arid Raeburn. Allan proposed to give
himself entirely to public affairs. He and
Malcolm were hard put to it to convince
Jessie that it would not be wrong of her to
enjoy in peace the comforts with which,
for the first time in her life, she was sur-
rounded. Malcolm lived with Allan and
Jessie, riding a horse between the mine
and the new home, as he had ridden the
pony from the farm to the Maxwelton
school. Many nights, too, he spent at the
Hermitage. The business of the mine was
transacted from there, and not infrequently
it became more convenient to stay the
night than to travel all those lonely miles
to his father’s home. Far better to rise
with the dawn and ride with Lin over the
manuka-scented hills to meet the sunrise.
“‘Can it be, Lady Rich-
mond, that we have both
lost?
“‘Certainly not, Allan
Macalister,’ replied Bess,
placing her hand on his
shoulder. ‘We have both
won.’”
Allan had come to see that his son, far
from being a stumbling-block in the path
of his ambition, had by his thirst for a
knowledge of the natural sciences caused his
father to rise from the slough of poverty,
with its attendant mean shifts and corroding
anxieties. And Jessie looked upon her son
as a man indeed, one who would take second
place to none—with the possible exception
of the minister of the kirk.
With the end of the Parliamentary ses-
sion had begun the election campaign, into
which Allan threw himself with the whole-
hearted vigor of one who saw victory in the
offing. In his changed circumstances he
was not quite the Macalister who had
herded sheep on the Hermitage station and
had fought with inhospitable Raeburn for
the living that it hardly gave him. He was
realising in his maturity that wealth, though
it had not changed his opinions, had sob-
ered his mind and permitted him a broader
outlook.
The greatest surprise of the campaign
came to him before nomination day, in the
form of a letter from Sir Alfred Richmond.
The letter informed Allan that Sir Alfred
Richmond would not be a candidate at the
forthcoming elections, and gave shortly the
reasons why. It stated also that the writer
would call upon Allan at his home the
following evening.
The news contained in the letter came to
Allan out of a clear sky, and, had it not
been that Allan knew that Sir Alfred was
incapable of playing a trick, he would have
suspected a trap. As it was, he awaited
with a quick pulse Sir Alfred’s visit. He
came through the front door to meet Sir
Alfred riding up the drive, extended his
hand to his visitor, and led him into a
sitting-room rather overcrowded with the
solid furniture of the period.
“This is amazing, Sir Alfred, you and I
thinking alike on a political question.”
“As I wrote you, Allan, I have come to
the conclusion that as this country is, and
will be for many a year, wholly dependent
on primary products, its first need is a
vigorous land policy that will as speedily
as may be bring the best lands under culti-
vation. Well, it has been evident to me
for some time that the present Government
has no land policy, and is not likely to
acquire one. It is therefore my belief that
the policy that is connected with your name
must sooner or later be operative in this
country, and the sooner the better.”
“It does me good to hear you say that.’’
“And it does me good, Allan, to say it.”
“And do I understand, Sir Alfred, that you
will publicly support me?”
“Certainly. In every possible way. I
have sent to the Moana 'Times’ and the
‘Star’ a full statement for publication of my
position. That statement leaves no doubt
as to my intentions towards your Candida-
ture. I make it clear that I support you
for your land policy, though I might be
opposed to much of your party’s proposed
legislation. You may think, Allan, that it
has taken me a long time to see what has
been apparent to you.”
“What I think is that you are a very
brave and honorable man to do what you
are doing. I don’t know of another within
my acquaintance who would be capable of
it.”
“We all change, Allan. Time sees to that.
Your outlook on public affairs is a very
different one from what it was, say, ten
years ago.”
“I know it. A man grows with the
years. He never, stops growing. But,
nevertheless, one can’t but marvel at the
surprising situations that can develop in
one man’s lifetime, and also at the changes
in its outlook that a thinking man’s mind
will undergo. Look what has happened
between your family and mine. For years I
regarded you and your class as the enemies
of mankind. My own son, with a head
better than mire, showed me in the most
practical way possible how wrong I was
there. I used to think there was virtue in
poverty; now I believe poverty to be the
breeder of shifty and evil things.”
“Allan,” said Sir Alfred, taking the de-
canter proffered by his host, “apparently
it was written that the interests of your
family and mine should be interwoven, and
that your boy and my girl should be
brought into the world for that purpose.”
Sir Alfred extended his hand, which Allan
grasped. Then they raised their glasses in
silent salutation.
Chapter X.
It was springtime, and the day when
Malcolm and Linley were wed.
There had never been a day like it in
Maxwelton. No funeral day within the
memory of the oldest inhabitant could
touch it—and that is saying a good deal, as
funeral days were the standard by which
days claiming the distinction of the red-
letter were judged. Everyone in the town
of Maxwelton and throughout the county
of Rewa-Rewa was invited to share in the
festivities at the Hermitage. The invita-
tion had been published on the front page
of the Maxwelton “Times.” All were in-
vited in honor of the marriage of Malcolm
Caesar, only son of the Honorable Allan
and Jessie Macalister, with Linley, only
daughter of Sir Alfred and Lady Richmond.
No question arose as to the extent to
which the day should be observed in the
town. It was taken for granted that an
invitation so uniquely indiscriminating
warranted a complete cessation of labor.
In the actual ceremony, which took place
in the Maxwelton Anglican Church, only
the women of the town were interested, and
but a small proportion of those who gath-
ered about the church managed to squeeze
inside. The men considered the ceremony
as an unimportant, if necessary, incident
compared with what was about to go for-
ward at the Hermitage, if all that they
heard were true. Fancy Pat O’Gorman
being obliged to call in Billy Mcßride to
lend him a hand to fulfil an order the likes
of which for quantity, quality and variety
had never been heard of within the county
or out of it! It was said, too, that not a
turkey, goose or duck was left alive around
the countryside. The Hermitage home-
stead, by all accounts, resembled a military
camp. Nothing to be seen but marquees
and tents, and workmen putting the finish-
ing touches to this and that, and making
ready with wonderful decorations the great
woolshed for the ball at night.
An early start was the thing: be on the
road before the crowd and avoid accidents.
There were fifteen miles to travel, and the
going would not all be smooth. It was
necessary to be on the spot when the wed-
ding party returned from the church. That
is when the fun would begin.
The weather might have been ordered
.with the Comestibles. An exhilarating day
with a tang in the air, and a warming sun
in a deep blue sky.
At five minutes past eleven Sir Alfred,
with Lin on his arm, entered the church, and
proceeded to join the bridegroom and his
party at the altar.
It would have been difficult to imagine
a spectacle more satisfying to the human
eye than Malcolm and Linley standing
there side by side making the time-hon-
ored responses, Youth and Beauty being
united in the bonds of holy matrimony; the
scene nicely rounded by the snow-white hair
of the aged clerg3unan; the parents looking
on, lost in their own thoughts, their minds
stirred by the scene to memories of the
past. Sir Alfred was again at Richmond
Hall, the long line of his ancestors looking
down at him from their oak frames, every
countenance benign and approving. He
was giving away the last of their line to
the man she loved. Allan was sleeping
again on the roadside through a winter’s
night with his evicted parents, and wonder-
ing if all that had happened to him since
could have been but the shadow of a dream.
Bess was standing again in front of Dan
Digby’s log cabin, her hand clasping his, her
feet wet with the morning dew. Together
they were looking out at a strange ship,
swarming with men, women and children, and
Dan Digby was saying: “Aye, aye, lass.
They’re white just like you and me.”
Jessie’s mind, as was its wont in joy or
sorrow, sought solace in remembered pas-
sages from the Book: “Whither thou goest,
I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will
lodge: Thy people shall be my people, and
thy God my God.”
The wedding equipages returned to the
Hermitage to find a princely reception
awaiting them. The long pine grove that
twisted tortuously from the entrance gates
to the house was lined with people waving
handkerchiefs and cheering themselves
hoarse. And on tl\e lawn in front of the
house the Maxwelton band accompanied
their entrance with the strains of the
“Wedding March.”
O’Gorman, as Mayor of Maxwelton, de-
clared the festivities open, and as the land-
lord of the town’s leading hotel gave all
the necessary directions for distributing
food and drink to the multitude. He then
mopped his perspiring face with his hand-
kerchief, and, as a leading citizen, made his
way to the dining-hall to attend the wed-
ding breakfast.
Again the pine grove was guarded by the
wedding guests to watch the bride and
’groom depart on their honeymoon. As the
carriage horses drew up to the front door
the band was ready to speed the happy pair
with a spirited march, and the lawn and
flower-beds were crowded with guests eager
to catch first sight of them as they stepped
through the door. And at last, when they
appeared, smiling and bashful, the flower-
studded hills echoed again and again the
pagans of the people.
The relatives stood grouped on the
verandah, waving their blessings. Allan
and Bess in the foreground.
When the carriage had disappeared around
the bend of the grove Allan turned to Bess.
There was a tear on her cheek. He smiled
on her, and said:
“Can it be, Lady Richmond, that we have
both lost?”
“Certainly not, Allan Macalister,” replied
Bess, placing her hand on his shoulder,
“We have both won.”
[The End.]
The Sailor’s Bride.
Her hands lay idly on her knees,
Her eyes saw ways impearled
By moonlit waters such as these
Whose crests are landward hurled.
She heard the shouting of the seas
That tramp around the world.
“If we should give the greybacks heed,”
She said, and sadly sighed,
“And woke to feel the rushing speed
Of waters overside,
Where would the league-long rollers lead
And where would we abide?
“If we should cross the Coral Sea
Which no one day can span,
Or take the roads from Albany
That spread out like a fan— .
Where would the journey’s ending be
Which passes by Japan?
“Far roll the bright blue waters, born
Of polar ice and snow,
That shout their challenge to the Horn
Where storm-thrashed steamers go;
Perchance to some far place, forlorn,
We’d come at evenglow.”
He heard the tramping waters, too,
Who’s sailed beneath strange skies,
And closer to her side he drew
And answered lover-wise:
“Whatever road I took with you
Would lead to Paradise.”
Her hands he lifted from her knees
And kissed, a lover’s toll,
But though she smiled no dream of ease
Was hers, or any goal.
Because she knew the siren seas
Had won him heart and soul.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


Backache /
that’s KIDNEY^JROUBLE
rtf
SO IS YOUR
RHEUMATISM
WHY THIS REMEDY
MUST BENEFIT YOU
Rheumatism and Backache are the most
serious of all health troubles. Starting with
twitching of the muscles, stiffness in the
joints, pains in the back, the trouble gradually
goes on until many are badly crippled and
cannot go about their daily work. Then,
too, the excess of poisonous acids in the
blood has a serious weakening effect on the
heart.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of
rheumatic pains, chronic pain at night-time
when trying to rest, pain when going about
your work or pleasure, if you find limbs and
joints swollen, if your blood is being poisoned
with excess of uric acid, here is a doctor-
recommended remedy that one-time sufferers
say is “ wonderful ” in the way it quickly
ends chronic pain. De Witt s Kidney and
Bladder Pills are a sure, safe and certain
remedy for all rheumatic conditions or any
body or joint pains arising from Kidney
Trouble. A short course of De Witt s
will quickly rid you of your pain and bring
you back youthful vigour and vitality, and,
remember, you purchase your supply on
satisfaction or money-back conditions. Every
chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Blad-
der Pills at 3/6. Get your supply to-day.
It will be the best investment you will ever
make. The young and the oldest can take
De Witt’s Pills with confidence. No danger-
ous drugs, but a scientific preparation that
will do you good from the first dose. Get
* De Witt’s ” and get health.
OVER FORTY YEARS OF SUCCESSFUL RESULTS
For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have been on
sale all over the world. Everywhere the success of these wonderful
Pills is being consolidated daily. Thousands and thousands —a never-
ending stream —of letters testifying to the efficacy of De Witt’s Pills
are pouring in from one-time sufferers who have become convinced
that there is no finer remedy. That is why you, too, should give
“ De Witt’s ” a trial now.
OUR GUARANTEE.
Every box of De Witt s Pills
sold bears this definite guar-
antee that twenty-four hours
after the first dose you will see
results. If this is not so, re-
turn to the proprietors the
partly-used bottle and your
money will be refunded ui full-
De Witt’s Pills are invalu-
able in cases of :
rheumatasm, lumbago
BACKACHE, SCIATICA
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all form* of KIDN “
and BLADDER TROUBLE
Impulse.
PATRICIA O’RARE'S STUDY OF MAR’S EMOTIONS.
THE flames caught suddenly at a branch
smothered in dead leaves, and shot
higher with a tearing noise of triumph.
Driven by the fiercer heat the dark man
shifted back, and put a hand up for a
moment to shield his face. It was then, by
some trick of shadow or of movement —or
perhaps of both combined —ithat Marshall’s
suspicion became certainty. It was Bradley.
No movement betrayed the mad fury of
emotion that shook him. He felt his eyes
smarting, his face burning, his heart beat-
ing wildly. He felt the triumphant elasticity
of youth pulse back into his tough, mature
body; his legs were like iron, his arms the
arms of a giant. Something within him
seemed to gather itself together and crouch
as an animal crouches; fierce, soundless,
exultant, there went up out of him a song
of praise to some dark pagan god that oppor-
tunity had come while he still had strength
to kill.
In that moment, wholly animal, his body
worked a bare second behind his brain. He
was on his feet, liis hand at his knife,
already braced for the leap and the lunge,
when the royal silence of the bush was
suddenly and shockingly violated by a noise
so hideous, so unspeakably eerie and malig-
nant, that all action was smitten dead. The
scream burst like an overstrained dam; it
held all the wild protest of human misery, all
the creeping horror of inhuman malice. It
left them both white and shaken, staring up
into the dark trees where a black thing had
swooped and passed. Something else, in those
seconds, had swooped, and it, too, had passed.
The murder-lust interrupted left Marshall as
a love-lust interrupted might have left him—
tired, limp, depressed. He looked across to
where Bradley, tense asi a wire, was staring
at him through the flickering light.
“Good God! What was that?”
Marshall, sitting down again, answered
curtly:
“Eagle-owl. They call it the Powerful
Owl.” And he added irritably: “I’ve heard
the damned thing before, but every time
my flesh creeps anew”
H'e moved restlessly. Not the owl only
but his own wild flood of primitive emotion
had unnerved him. He saw Bradley still
staring rather queerly across the firelight,
and heard him ask:
“Heard it rustle before it began to scream,
eh?” His voice was constrainedly casual.
He had noticed, then, that split second
between his companion’s movement and the
shriek of the owl. Marshall acquiesced,
thanking him mentally for an explanation
so plausible. And yet, he felt, Bradley did
not altogether believe it. There was some-
thing in the way he was still covertly glanc-
ing up, and then staring down again at the
fire, which made Marshall suspect that he,
too, had been recognised.
A physical weariness gripped him. After
all, he was fifty, and he had done twenty-five
miles that day. Hard going, too, some of it,
in this mountainous country where you
could never go straight to your goal, but
won to it deviously by skirting cliffs and
following ridges, by scrambling on treach-
erous sandstone, and slipping on moss-car-
peted mud.
He felt a lethargic resentment that his
trip should have been so spoiled. Here there
should have been the solitude, the blessed,
blessed rest that, to him, was only possibie
in the bush. He watched the firelight touch-
ing with its own rose the rose-pink stem of
the gum in front of him. The smell of
the burning leaves was the best smell in the
world ; the sound of the creek cascading to
its fall was the best sound in the world.
It should have been perfect. And there,
just opposite, sat Bradley.
He looked up resentfully, and the man
asked :
“What’s your name?”
Marshall threw another log on to the
blaze. The touch of it inspired his fumbling
brain, for he was not used to lying.
“Wood.” And he added nonchalantly:
“What’s yours?”
Bradley was ready.
“Stephens. Funny thing, you reminded
me of a chap I used to know —only he was
clean-shaven.”
Marshall looked up, full at him. He knew
that the ten years had changed him far more
than they had changed Bradley. He heard a
faint note of relief in the voice as it went
on: “But now I see you’re not really like
him. Just a trick of the firelight, I sup-
pose.” And then, after a pause: “Do much
of this camping?”
“A good bit. And you?”
“Lord, no! Tell you the truth I wms
stuck when I saw -your fire. Oh, I’d have
got back in the end, but for the moment I
was bushed all right.”
“Yes?” . . „
Marshall was filling his pipe. Bushed.
Yes, the chances were that he would have
got back at last, but perhaps not. Here, if
one faced in the wrong direction, one could
wander for weeks with no sight or sound of
human habitation. He had, then, saved
Bradley from possible death.
He thought of his daughter.
“Joy.” The name was like a stab, like
a turn of the rack, like any kind of torture.
He went back into dark days where Bradley
had walked with J0y....
Joy, he thought, was as straight and
young and lovely as the silver-stemmed gums
that gleamed faintly over there through the
darkness. He felt the anger that always
seized him when he saw such trees mutilated
—the almost superstitious horror of the
paganly-minded at the sight of beauty
maimed and broken. His tired brain seemed
to see trees falling everywhere—young trees,
their silvery bark torn and gashed, slender
trees that shuddered to every blow of the
axe and shivered in their leaves. He heard
the sickening sound of living wood as it
breaks, and, though his mind dared go no
further, it cried, “Joy! Joy!' with the
death of every tree.
* * * *
They woke early, ate their breakfast, and
set out into the morning. Marshall led the
way, a queer mood of fatalism upon him.
Broad daylight had shown his face anew to
Bradley, and again he had seen uncertainty,
suspicion in the black, bright eyes. He knew
as he walked that at any moment a push
from behind could send him spinning down
to death hundreds of feet below. Some
oddly detached part of him knew it, but it
seemed unreal. The realities were the great
ferns he parted as lie walked, the exquisite
plants and mosses beneath his feet, the tiny
fungi, unbelievably colored, creamy and
mauve and gay vermilion, the vast overhang-
ing cliffs that dripped with water from the
recent rains. Below, out of what looked like
a carpet of ferns, the white trunks of the
trees brandished glittering leaves. Magpies
were singing. It was their song, perhaps,
always an intoxication to Marshall, that
dulled his hatred to this queer apathy.
Resolutely his conscious desire for beauty
had crushed down a hatred that tore and
writhed and itched at the very core of his
being. He walked faster than usual, his
mind now concentrated upon sound —the way
the liquid song of the magpies diminished,
overwhelmed by the soft roar of the water-
fall they were approaching.
Round the next corner they came upon
it. Instinctively, for the ledge they were fol-
lowing had narrowed and the rocks were slip-
pery, they stopped to look up at the sheet
of yellowish water hurling itself from be-
tween the trees above, crashing on to the
rocks below, stampeding away among the
ferns. The noise was tremendous here;
Marshall, as he went on again, heard Brad-
ley shout something, and threw up a hand,
shaking his head to indicate the impossi-
bility of talking in such a tumult. The ledge
continued straight under the fall. From
behind the yellow curtain of water Marshall
glanced hack. Bradley, some twenty feet
behind, had paused, and, holding on to a
sapling, was peering over the edge into the
black, troubled pool. Marshall felt his
hatred stir and mutter, felt the hot pricking
of the anger-lust creep over his body..
Then, in the cliff that slanted only slightly
back above his enemy, he saw a vast mass
of rock shift and tremble. His voice,, beyond
his own volition, yelled uselessly against the
uproar: “Look out!” His feet, miraculously
sure on the slimy path, were racing back
along the ledge. His arms had gripped
Bradley round the waist; all his weight had
flung them both, panting, struggling, into
safety as the tons of rock crashed down.
But the two men still crouched there quite
motionless, staring at each other, and Brad-
ley at last said:
“Marshall. I thought it was you.”
And then :
“God ! What are you”
Marshall had leapt at him. Not till he
had felt the man under his hands, not till
the moment of their physical contact, had
he sounded the full depths of his hatred.
The very excitement of the moments wheq
lie had saved a life whipped him on now to
destroy it. The triumphant strength of the
night before surged into him again ; his body
strained and strove.
He lay on his stomach and watched the
ferns below part softly to receive his enemy.
My Heart Turns Home.
I saw the land that I had seen in dreams,
The brown marsh-fallows, and slow, silver
streams,
And harvest meadows and the misty hills.
I wandered on, and all day long my mind
Bent like an aspen willow to the wind
Of those warm fields, where I have yearned
to come.
I saw, far off, the rising smoke of fires
From hearths I knew, and roofs, and towers
and spires;
I heard, far off, the singing, singing bells.
What sang they of but thoughts of other
times!
And old men weep, remembering old rhymes;
They sang, “Why do you roam? Why do you
roam ?”
I found the path I could not find before,
Down from this lonely height. I hope no
more
But to lie down in fields my brother tills.
Strange gods, vain images, dark quests were
mine,
But, like a child, to the familiar shrine '
My heart turns, sad and glad, at evening, home.
ENGLAND.
D. P. MCGUIRE
The Old Conflict
Rain on the roofs of the little town, and
dark mist draping the hill;
Rough winds beating the roses down beyond
my window-sill.
I thought my sorrows lay all behind me, but
some of them head me still.
Though the road of the years was smooth at
whiles it was always a lonely road,
Where one went stumbling through the dark
and never a signpost showed;
Lone as a soul must always be who never
may share the load.
Times it was gold and dew and fire and
Pan’s wild woodnotes brave;
Times Hope sprang like a lark from the
brier to pour me a joyous stave.
But there were times when the dark shut
down on the heart like earth on a grave.
I had dreamed that peace at the end was
mine, that the hosts of pain and tears
Had passed me over for younger hearts, with
the heart to challenge cares.
Mine would not break as it used to break
in the old passionate years.
But I was wrong, and in reproof Fate calls
for surrender still.
The chill rains sweep on the iron roof, and
the dark night drapes the hill.
I thought my sorrows lay all. behind me, but
some are ahead of me still.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


r
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
n , , 4 CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street. Melbourne
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO , LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS’
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 _ per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its dolumns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
National Advertiser
Who Wish to Cover South
9
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
EGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY.
Thompson, "Lie-
Oar House,” 30
Carrington street.
MELBOURNE.—
J. N. Bednall,
The Herald Office,
Flinders street.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar Huuse,
80 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cb« Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “TEE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all i?iter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch y price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King -William Street, Adelaide.
r> rrirr. N.S.W. Representative:
r* THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
„ Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald 5 * Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
DoY ou Know ?
“The Week"
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph"
daily —l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’,
Tuv, PU n lSh , ed * ln the Common:
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern t
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co
214 George Street, Sydney. **
m
m
4
UTY
COMES FROM
REAL HEALTH
REAL health comes from
a system working in
harmony—one that is clean
vital. Beecham’s Pills keep the
system active and in order. They
make you feel gloriously fit and
hill of life. They cause no
sluggish reaction because they
do not force. No habit is formed
because they act persuasively.
Purely vegetable.
1
"WORTH A
GUINEA
A BOX '
MIRROR OF CONFIDENCE
The Examiner, Launceston’s only daily,
was established 89 years ago. It has
become the trusted Family Newspaper
in Northern Tasmania—it is the reliable
Advertising Medium for the North.
As this Graph indicates, the advertising
in The Examiner has been steadily in-
creasing. The unstippled portions show
the increases year by year. They are the
Mirror of Confidence that reflects the
reliability of The Examiner as an Ad-
vertising Medium.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising
Rates obtainable from
VV. R. ROLPH & SONS
Ptv., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
|T1922 1*1923 | [ 924 | 192 5|1926 |1927f1928 | 1929 |
M. S. ALLA'N,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
W. G. DOUGAN,
Kembla Building,
Margaret Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 3 months jrom
jor which 1 enclose £
NAME .... .
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ŕ
0°
e
6)
%
s 6
SS&
..*•* vVjfrl* o<
C*'
# V*V


AUSTRALIA'S VOTE
records a more than 2 tol
preference for Goodyear
Tyres over any other make
OTHER tyre-makers may
claim leadership; Good-
year has it! The public
confers this leadership on
Goodyear because the public
prefers Goodyear Tyres.
In an investigation among
thousands of Australian Tyre
users, the replies to the question,
Which Tyre do you prefer?”
gave a preference of more than
2 to 1 for Goodyear over any
other make.
This expressed public prefer-
ence means that thousands of
Australian Car, Truck and
’Bus owners have found in
Goodyear Tyres those factors
of value and performance
which you are seeking,
Goodyear leadership in the
matter of public preference is
the reward of merit; the public
accepts Goodyear Tyres as the
best. That is why In Australia
as the World over, More
People Ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make .
mm
sew
'- —, ' . \ - 7J
- \~=sgf
..'■va^A a ,:'
=s^
PT
'. - ; : •
Sr 'f&SFyjl
Sfc=?
rtagj=a.
:-scs-~
*@Bj
S 5
Sv-
'^.* i
ft, '
t. - 1 ?>. - r .
:-v
ss£3sB'S S :-I!«£ i.'-- -''iSVv^v.<»
VZ&VK&
SSse i
! ®-
.
SiM
*n :v •
s& i^:
fSp
*3?«l*
tZ&pH
Tkv
1
gi!
a • v>"
A x
■*&?
f/
L-f ;
%
?
fl l :---_.. >-- '‘r-M -AMTs-'J 1 Ui M' 1
=>l»
|Ht J
nt\ * 1
Sv
/V
m
ip i
y&i , ;
rsw
l*
•ffli*‘ Til
<"
' fU' 1
M
m.
&
'- ■ f ,-r^i
iK'ii
fs&
13M
y
\w<
3^
PI
UMi
II
in*
*1
»111 <i
m
i. ni
C PI f
K
i^-i
fl f r r
£?»
GOO
Goodyear Tyres are made in Australia
71
ftnd cost no more than arty other make,
V
