

ŕ
yet?
Thousands have . .
and are getting a
new thrill in driving
ŗ
ř
Fill up to-day with the amazing NEW MOTOR FUEL
which gives super performance at regular price
:tra quality in
every essential
No extra cost
W.F.5-56.
Probably you are among those
who have already thronged the
Union pumps for a tankful of
UNION WHITE FLASH
the amazing new premium
spirit which sells at regular
price.
If not, be sure to go to-day.
Theres a real experience wait-
ing for you! UNION WHITE
FLASH is a 1931 product. It
has extra quality in every es-
sential—at no extra cost . In the
coldest weather, it will start
your engine instantly; warm
it up quickly.
UNION WHITE FLASH will
be the most popular fuel motor-
ists have ever known. The very
first time you use it, you’ll know
why. Make that time to-day .
The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2682.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Uftnt /u*aaA ? — P.
Wednesday, July 8, 1931*


OUR0 UR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
how ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post, free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney,
Mm
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Tree
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bnu-ETIX.
My Name *
M" Aildress
SB, 181
KNOWN FOR ITS REMARKABLE EFFICACY IN ALL
AFFECTIONS OF THE THROAT CHEST AND LUNGS
Hudson's
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes carry the
endorsement of the medical profession,
and the confidence of the public through-
out the world. For over 40 years there has
been nothing better for all affections of the
throat, chest and lungs.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
K e , e P
a clear
MINDandBODY
Manat
k
, \
A
YOU cannot be
perfectly “fit” if
your system is
being slowly poisoned
by toxins arising from imperfect or
incomplete elimination. Such con-
ditions cause bodily fatigue and mental
weariness, and reduce efficiency.
A clean, properly functioning diges-
tive system is an essential to health.
Keep your intestinal tract clean and
healthy with the aid of Figsen, the
natural, safe laxative. Does not purge
or gripe, does not create habits, has
no unpleasant after effects and is just
as good for children as their elders.
Figsen is pleasant and easy to take,
and you can rely on it.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family M ecLicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
15/
Everyone Should Use
CUTICURA Preparations meet every
requirement for daily toilet use for
every member of the family. CUTI-
CURA SOAP is pure, fragrant and
antiseptic. Assisted by CUTICURA
OINTMENT as needed, it keeps the
skin fresh, clear and healthy, free
from pimples, rashes and irritations.
CUTICURA TALCUM is ideal for
Baby after the bath, for Mother as a
finishing touch to her toilet and for
Father after shaving.
Soap la. Ointment la. and 2a. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each tree.
Addrest: K. Towns & Co., .Sydney, N, S.W.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland's
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
Ton can more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marhetj from:
Che Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L S MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents • H, C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Oppos/te Union Club and Two Minute*
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ALT AUSTRALIANS visiting London
. should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable new 3 from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
uid at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
(14-17 Australia H'ouse, Strand, London,
.V.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
btain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Vgencv, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney ;
r 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Pons Asinorum
One of the most consistently-laid-charges
against Australian writing is that it is lack-
ng in humor. What the complainants mean
I think, is that it is lacking in specific
kinds of humor; and if they were to fine
their charge down to that, tffey might pos-
sibly go on to discover that the kinds of-
humor whose absence they lament are not
so very conspicuous in our life. One that
I, at least, have not noticed arousing any
boisterous appreciation is the nonsense
humor regarded by George Edinger and
E. J. C. Neep in Pons Asinorum, or The
Future of Nonsense (Kegan Paul; 2s. 6d.
net), and which is immortally illustrated
and identified in the excerpt from Boc-
caccio :
They tie their vines up with sausages and run
get a goose tor a penny with a parrot thrown ii
and when there is a mountain made entirely of
grated cheese and people on ton of i'. do nothing
all day save make macaroni and - dumplings and
cook them in ehieken broth and throw them down
for anybody who happens to be passing to pick
up...." '
One simple proof that we do not live much
in the spirit of that is evident in our not
laughing till our ribs ache at one of the
most nonsensical institutions in the world:
yet another proof may lie in my having to
add that I refer to our literary censor-
ship. Why, at the time of writing this a
group of serious men are working them-
selves up into a serious deputation to go
before a serious Attorney-General and
seriously point out the mistake the serious
police have made in seriously confiscating
all available copies of the special issue cf
“Art in Australia” in which the serious
paintings and etchings of Mr. Norman
Lindsay are seriously reproduced! In a
country with any appreciation of nonsense
the whole affair would be cherished as the
funniest thing that has happened since
Bligh got under the bed. One other minor
proof. Discussing the “Art in Australia”
case with a friend, I used that sentence.
“In a country,” etc. “Yes,” she said, “but
I wish you hadn't added that about Bligh,
because I don’t think he ever did get under
the bed.” That is how we tend to take
things: the only attractive bit of nonsense
in our serious tradition, and they’d smother
it under our very noses! The writers of
this engaging survey seem to hold out
some degree of hope for us in their expec-
tation that nonsense will come into its own
“even if its path is by way of the advertise-
ment hoarding and the cinema screen.” If
that can’t do it here, the cake is surely
dough.
Another Brand of It
One other brand of humor for which our
writing is not. overwhelmingly notorious,
though, unlike nonsense, it can be surprised
on its nest here and there, is the smart
satire of such writers as Michael Arlen,
who is represented on the current shelves
by Men Dislike Women (Heinemann;
7s. 6d. net), the only nonsense about which
is the title, a spontaneous signpost stuck
up with the idea of giving no directions
to anywhere. Arlen, as usual, rather over-
does his smartness; but he manages at
least two things not usually done success-
fully—creates a first person narrator who
is not a bore, and gives convincing glimpses
of the current American scene. He has not
much of a story to tell, but. such as it, is,
he tells it with the sure touch of an enter-
tainer who has no doubt about his ability.
His stories generally are so thin compared
with his talent for telling them that ho
seems in fiction a first-class straight com-
mentator gone wrong.
If a Frenchman is a world's champion at tennis,
as even Frenchmen sometimes are. his compatriots
are delighted hut are not therefore convinced that
he wears wines beneath his tennis shirt. In Eng-
land and America it is taken lor granted that a
man whose eye for a ball commands respect must
necessarily have more Good in him than the other
fellow. Why? Bui this illusion persists in face
of the fact that there is a great deal more hum-
bug, conceit, caddishness and corruption among
the well-known sportsmen of the world than among
the politicians, whom it is convenient and human
to blame for everything.
Or again:—
As 1 drove back to New York I realised that
there was one strange and significant fact about
my conversation with the old humbug, and that
was that he was not a humbug about his absorption
in the classical poets. For he had not said one
word about poetry. He had asked me to have a
drink, but he had not asked me if 1 read poetry,
for that mattered to him more than drink.
The “old humbug" of t hose reflections, Pete
Fox, is an exceptionally realistic portrait
of a kind of successful American citizen
that must appear fairly commonly in life,
judged by the number of palpable carica-
tures made of him
by the designers of ’
the weird and won-
derful things that
get loose in the
talkies, and also
by writers who are
held in far higher esteem among the high-
brows than Mr. Arlen. i
Bottled Souls
To step from the light, and airy to the
deadly serious, consider The Weigher of
Souls, by Andre Maurois (Cassell;
Dymocks; 55.). The gentleman of the
title is a London doctor, who, bv a process
of weighing bodies, discovers when their
souls leave them, and proceeds to catching
the souls in glass jars, and from that to
uniting souls of persons who in life were
spiritually united. To me it seems shot ini
logic. Why, I wonder, after having ascer-
tained that, souls united in life grow joyously J
when bottled together, should the doctor!
set so much store upon his own soul and j
that of the woman he loves being bottled i
so that they can “have a few years of
happiness together”? Admitting the fan-
tastic postulates, surely the reasonable thing
for the doctor to accept would be that
they would similarly mingle without
recourse to bottling. The small book is
interesting enough for its idea, but its
metaphysical discussions are sham and Guy
Boothby made the macabre more convinc-
ing.
"All Quiet’s” Sequel
At least one reader is not surprised that
The Road Back, by Erich Maria Remarque
(Putnam; Dymocks; 7s. 6d. net), gives ho
promise of being the popular success All
Quiet was until a N.S.W. politician crossed
the ancient bridge by way of an act of
banning. There is a great difference between
the two books. The treatment here is as
sound as ever, and the language is even
more an outrage on drawing-room taboo
(though I did not meet a word in it that
was not hurled ironically at the padre who
broke the news to my particular crowd
that an armistice had been signed). The
difference is that, whereas in All Quiet
Remarque expressed the reactions to the
fighting game of ordinary German soldiers
and gave his book out at a moment when
a latent sentimental interest in war was
ripe for exploiting, he in his latest book
deals with the same sort of soldiers on the
road back to normal, and there is not as
yet. probably there never will be, much
sentimental interest in that. The struggle
to get back to normal is going on where-
ever there are returned soldiers. Many of
them saw nothing and have no knowledge
of the struggle; many who saw much har e
won through; many others have not. Where
it occurs, it is a grim, silent and mostly
private struggle—for all you can tell, any
apparently normal, well-positioned Digger
may be having it out. But it is without
pageantry or spectacle, and the war at
least had those things. Therefore I fancy
that, as far as sales go. The Road Back will
be a washout. But I fancy, too, that Dig-
gers—those of them who had enough sense,
or experience, not to rear up at All Quiet
and call it an insult—will find much of true
drama here that will be lost upon the
general. Personally, I think the book every
bit as important as All Quiet. No other
writer that I know has dealt with the
generally unrealised drama of that, road
back as Remarque has dealt with it. Over-
look that he retains his penchant for such
sentimental contrast as that butterfly on the
skull in No Man’s Land, and regard this:—
Compared with these fellows [some Americans}
we are a perfect band of robbers. Our uniforms
are bleached with the mud of years, with the rains
of the Argonne, the chalk of the Champagne, the
bog waters of Flanders; our great-coats ragged
and torn with barbed-wire, shell splinters and
•shrapnel, cobbled with crude stitches, stiff with
clay and in some instances even with blood; our
boots broken, our rifles worn out, our ammunition
almost at an end; we are all of us dirty, alik
gone to wrack, all weary. The war ■ has passed
over us like a steam-roller.
So on; to find their country in the grip of
revolt and themselves the butt of it.
But l.udwig is down, already ; what with the
wound in his arm he is as good as defenceless....
"A lieutenant 1” screeches a woman's voice. “Kick
him to death, the dirty blood-hound.”
Diggers—the translator, A. W. Wheen, is
one—have not had to face that, though
enough of them may have thought Re-
marque’s sentence: “Yes, things were much
simpler at the front —there, so long as a
man was still alive, all was well.”
RED PAGE
Paul Wenz: A New Novel
'I he flyleaf of IV fir horde (“The Splinter"),
the new novel by Paul Wertz, shows that this
book is his tenth, without indeed counting
his translation of a South Sea novel by Jack
London. Nine of those books were written
in French and published in Paris: the tenth,
(Red Page continued on page 6.)


\
■
Z- ' -:;x
f
■
■
/ k
kOM'M
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Truth in everything.
Anthony Horderns'
“The Senior Store”
G®*
Begins
Thursday,
July 9.
r
Serviceable Materials, Perfectly Tailored.
V7itH the object of catering for the man who wants a better suit at a lower price
Anthony Horderns’ make this special tailoring offer during the Sale. Every suit is
perfectly tailored. Our own staff of expert cutters and tailors attend to your needs
promptly and efficiently, and satisfaction is guaranteed always. Remember, we do not
charge for any extras.
Country customers, too, may benefit from this offer. On receipt of a card we will
immediately send a full range of patterns, tape and self-measurement form. This
entails no obligation whatever.
Australian Tweeds, Cheviots, All-wool V/orsteds and Serges. To measure 63/-
A large variety of All-wool Suitings, in Tweeds, Serges, Herringbones, Worsteds,
in almost any shade and design. Price 84/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price to Measure 757-
Fine Botany Serges. Conservative Greys, fancy weaves and shades in Tweeds and
Worsteds. Price 105/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price to Measure 95/-
Super-grade English and Australian Worsted Serges and Tweeds. In all the new season’s paterns. Price .
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price to Measure
( Men’s Tailoring, Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
126/
115/
FROM
63
Pure Australian Wool Travelling Rugs
Here is a Sale bargain that will be appre-
ciated by the keenest of thrifty shoppers.
Pure Wool Travelling Rugs of superior
quality at 25/-. Come and see them and
you will realise what an exceptional offer
this is. Country customers may order
with the greatest confidence.
Made in a - soft, fleecy finish. Many
serviceable designs to choose from; some
have plain backs. Fringed ends.
Size 60in. x 72in. Price 42/
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price. 25/
( Department, Ground Floor. George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
42^
25
ŕ
9(6 Striped Poplin Golf Shirts
'//Mi 1
IMA
f-rli
SH*f
r? Eh I
it* • , V ; t
H"'!| I l JlVt
■ * >:* 4 !! : •: lli * * II: iJ I r'-L-
-iiiil.1 1
i :;
Kit*
76,.
Men’s Striped Poplin
Golf Shirts. Made in
our own workrooms,
with V-cased fronts,
double cuffs and
detached collar to
match. Newest
stripes on colored
grounds.
Prices
9/6, 10/6, 12/6
Sale Prices—
7/6, 8/6, 10/6
8/6 MEN’S GOLF SHIRTS NOW 6/9
Men’s Golf Shirts in striped Poplinette. Fast dye. Made
in our own workrooms, with V-cased fronts, double
cuffs and detached collar to match. Dressy stripes on
colored grounds. Price 8/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 6/9
(Men’s Mercery, Ground Floor, George Street.
We Pay Carriage .)
8/6 All Wool Underwear
6>6
Per Garment
Undershirt
or
Underpants
This is just another of
the exceptional sale
bargains offering for
men!
Men’s Natural All-Wool
Underwear. Medium
winter weight. Warm
and durable. Shirts
have half sleeves.
Underpants to ankle. Sizes 34 to 44 inch chest.
Price 8/6
Anthpny Horderns’ Sale Price 6/6
Per Garment
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
Anthony Horderns'
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 c, G.P.


Make no mistake
about getting
■a better drop of whisky
the very NEXT TIME.
Order KING GEORGE IV
■mm the superfine
—*COLD LABEL
Scotch.
A marvellous blend
mellow, smooth, rich,
- EVERYTHING
that youd expect
in a really superior whisky.
KING GEORGE IV
Superfine
Jurg Qccrrj&fl/
GfaL&ptdiWkutoj
M
9ximfStii£jJX l
rc: , \
COLD LABEL
Scotch WHisk<j


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
■r
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Eirskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the Young,
by Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex Factor in
Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3; Plain Facts bn Sex Hygiene, by Howard, 7/-; Hygiene of
Marriage, by Isabel Hutton, 5/-; Practical Birth Control, by Horiiibrook, 5/-; ■ Exercises for
Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; The Culture of the Abdomen, by Horiiibrook, 7/10; The Doctor
at Home, by Geo. Black, M.D., 8/-; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4 ; Cocktails and How
to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter
Writer, 3/4; The Letter Writers’ Handbook, 5/10; Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for. Boys and
Girls, 3/4 ; Ten Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6 ; Cards for Three, by Basil
Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card
Games and How to Play and Win, by .F. Ings, 1/5 ; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Squter, 1/5 ;
Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4 ; Table
Rapping, 2/6; Practical Palmistry (Illust.),-Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3 ; Hand
Reading Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/.-; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6;
Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; How' Shall I Word It? 2/8 ; The New
Ford, by E. T. Brown, 4/3; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8;
Hands and How to Read Them, 2/9 ; How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; The Correct Guide
to Letter Writing, 5/5 ; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/9 ; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing
for Amateurs, 1/9; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/9; Upholstery for Amateurs. 1/9;
Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise
English Dictionary, 3/2; Pruning, 3/10; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L.
Savage, 1/6; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Man His Owm Mechanic, 8/2; What to Draw and llow to
Draw It, 4/10 ; Poultry Farming in N.S.W., by’James Hadlington, 4/5 ; Owner Drivers’ Hand-
book, by Edward 1 T. Brown, 5/5 ; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard,4/l ; Polishes and .Stains
for Woods, 2/6; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-;'How to Drive a Car, 4/1;
CONTRACEPTION
Birth Control, its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes.
'This book is the first manual on the subject and is packed with both
helpful and interesting matter and much that is new and noteworthy.
Price, 22/4.
Manners and Rules of Good Society, 5/8; Double-bed Dialogues (very special), 1/2; Modern
Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/-; Napoleons Book
of Fate 3/4- Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1;
GvdsV Queen’ Dream Book, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Bell’s Acrostic
Dictionary for crossword puzzles, 5/5; Nuttall’s Standard Dictionary, 12/6; Dictionary of Quota-
tions (Wood) 15/-; Games of Patience —series 1 to 5, 2/6; Profit and Discount Tables (Ody
Rooks! 9/8 • Fruitgrowing Under Irrigation—Australian practice—Arndt, 11/-; Universal Trade
Reckoner 4/3; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Sex and Disease
(Storer)—every young man should, have this book, 7/9 ; -Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by
lon Idriess 5/6; Housepainting, Decorating and Paperhanging, the best book on color mixing
and painting methods published, 13/9; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games) 2/9; All About
Photography, 4/1; Enquire Within Upon Everything, 4/4; The Wrinkle Book How to Keep
Looking Young, by Elinor Glyn, 2/6; Australian Squab Culture, 1/6; Marks Timber Ready
Reckoner, 2/2; Long’s Book of the Pig—Special Price —7/6; Storage Batteries Simplified, 1 age
—Special Price —6/-; Motor Cycling, by Wyatt—Special Price —2/-; Automobile and Radio
j , • _ /~i r /o . 9/8 • Prunin'
/IIHiaUUL A”X J.<7UX, «7/ u , m tunc y - 7 • m 1
Jones—Special Price—ls/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3; Contract Bridge in Twenty
Minutes, 1/8; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2; Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3; The Art of Boxing,
by Jimmy Wilde, 1/8; Everybody’s Pocket Encyclopaedia, 1/8; Hypnotism Made Practical, by
J. Louis Orton, 3/11; Nervous Breakdowns —How to Avoid Them, 4/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
a very small and slight one, The Diary of
a Newchum, appeared in English, and was
published in Melbourne by H. H. Champion
more than 20 years ago. It would be safe
to say that it is now excessively rare.
None of the French books has been trans-
lated into English, but all of them could be
read by anyone who had had even a few
terms of French at school. The phrasing
is simple, the sentences are short, the
thoughts clear, without elusive overtones or
metaphysical mists. M. Wenz once said
that his experience of Australia as a youth
began with 18 months’ drought on the Mur-
rumbidgee. It is some such uncompromis-
ing dry light that operates on his characters,
landscapes and language.
The matter of language, when a French-
man writes about Australia, is, of course,
very curious. In L’Echarde, which is set
almost entirely on a big sheep station two
days’ journey from Broken Hill, there are
all sorts of details, circumstances and
customs for which no French word exists.
Moreover, even a Frenchman, if he has
spent a great deal of time in Australia and
spoken English, may begin to think in
English at times. “Boundary-rider” was
probably untranslatable: one does not
boundary-ride in France: so the word has
been kept, but in quotation marks. The
same with “lady,” “sundowner” and “meet-
ing.” Other English words are used without
quotation marks —manager, speeches, penny,
bookmakers. Yet the result is something
monolingual and even. It would be very
interesting to hear the impressions such a
book made on a French reader who had
never known Australia.
We are indeed given the impressions of
one French reader, in a foreword to the
book, written by the compiler of a series to
which this belongs. The preface, though
complimentary in intention, hardly does
justice to the work of Paul Wenz in general.
The writer has evidently read with care
only the less characteristic of his books,
such as the Land, of Their Fathers, a short
novel concerned with the experiences of
Australian soldiers in England. To show
the real value of Paul Wenz’s contribution
to letters, it is necessary to read the bizarre,
ironic and authentic short stories he picked
up, mostly on the banks of the Murrum-
bidgee. These were published in two
volumes, A L’Autre Bout du Monde and
Contes Australiens, as well as in his more
recent novel The Sundowner ( L’Homme du
Soleil Couchant ).
The present novel, L’Echarde, is laid on
the banks of the Darling, with its “milky-
blue” waters. The “splinter” is a woman,
who, conceiving herself scorned by the
owner of Tilfara, sets out to injure him,
his wife, his child, his men, his sheep, his
water supply and his fences, and keeps it
up over a term of 20 years. “Hell hath no
fury” The theme gives a thread upon
which the characters and events of 20 years
can be displayed, either in the well-studied
interiors of a homestead or beneath the
vivid sky.
Reading L’Echarde, though, is like
coming upon a solid, interesting photograph
album, not very old, with someone to tell
you who all the people were and what they
did. Some of the photographs represent
the same person at different stages. You
have Tom, the station manager, first in his
shirt-sleeves, smoking after the evening
meal with the boss and the store account-
ant, and thinking over his pedigreed rams.
You have him in another photo, wearing
uncomfortable wedding-clothes on a hot
day. You recognise him again, before
you close the album, seated on his horse
beside a huge, ringbarked tree; it is in his
character, both ioyal and imaginative, to
be vehemently angry with the woman who
has caused the famous “Old-man” tree
to be killed. Indeed, most of the people
in this album are safely in character, but the
most convincing are those of whom noth-
ing is attempted beyond a silhouette. The
psychological perspective that would be
required to reveal the “splinter’s” develop-
ment is not present; but clear outlines
of the various types of inveterate gambler
are effectively shown. There is the station
accountant who has a huge “picture” on
his wall, showing a fan-shaped genealogical
tree of his favorite horse, though, indeed,
his passion for betting would not require
such an impressive subject, since he would
gladly have taken a bet on the antiquated
horse-trams of Adelaide! There is the
neighboring station-owner who, after gamb-
ling away most of his property, takes a
return ticket to Monte Carlo and works
off what remains, ending his days on a
tiny income in Sydney, where he finds a
shabby cottage with a view of a racecourse,
and bets with his wife, using haricot beans
for coin.
Neat, crisp or witty, the comments on the
photos, succeed one another. If they are
not adequate to the tragedy suggested by
the theme, we can take what they have to
give, paragraphs like this, which, outlining
the responsibilities of a station accountant,
adds drily:—
The rabbits themselves had necessitated an order
for 80 kilos of arsenic; the dingoes had not been
forgotten; for them two kilos of strychnine had been
brought.
Fortunate dingoes on a well-managed
station! On the other hand, we are shown,
without any irony at all, the perfectly sin-
cere grief with which Tom, the manager,
gives a dignified death to 25 aged rams, no
longer fit even to be shorn.
By a slip of the pen, or from ignorance,
the writer of the foreword has said that
Paul Wenz is the only Australian writer
up till now: more still, that from his youth
he was destined to be “the novelist of the
Southern Hemisphere.” This is a little
hard on Olive Schreiner, on certain Argen-
tinian and Brazilian novelists, to say
nothing of our own. M. Wenz himself
would be distressed by the making of such
a claim for him. The fact remains that
over a long term of years he has consist-
ently made an Australian pattern that will
become clearer and clearer to French eyes
and very interesting to our own. This was
a difficult thing to do. German and Scan-
dinavian writers have occasionally described
Australia, but they have never built up
Australian characters with their backgrounds
and problems as Paul Wenz has done.
NETTIE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
Moonfisher, by Philip MacDonald (Collins).
Cheery fiction concerning a bright young chap
who has to earn £lOOO in a given time in
order to inherit a fortune, and does it
because Moonfisher is one of the best show
jumpers ever foaled.
Whitehall, by E. V. Timms (Skeffington;
7s. Gd. net), describes an attempt by Louis
XIV. to buy England from Charles 11. for
Home. Louis makes his offer in a letter
which he hands for immediate delivery to the
Chevalier de Toqueville at Versailles. The
Chevalier is outwitted all along the line by
very gallant Englishmen, and the heroine
causes him and two other would-be seducers
to crowd into a bath on the representation
that it is the king’s night for visiting her.
Good robust stuff in which the right never
fails to triumph.
Edgar Wallace says on the jacket of The
Devil Man (Collins ; 7s. 6d. net) “This is my
best book,” and one can believe it. The
central figure is Charles Peace. Many of
the episodes, and some of Peace’s sayings
(for example, the weird appeal for mercy to
Hawkins, who sentenced him at the Old
Bailey), are on record, and they have been
woven into a typical Wallace romance. The
horror is intensified by the unpretentious
style, and a life-like portrait of England’s most
accomplished burglar emerges. There is an
odd anachronism (“If these barbarians had
telephones we could speak to Sheffield”), and
the 1875 heroine is a modern, but for the
most part the period is effectively recreated.
More Yarns, by “Stalky” (Jarrolds; 7s. Gd.
net). These are the sort of gossipy, collo-
quially-told fragments that may be heard
from Anglo-Indians on P. and O. ships. A
few have a smoking-room flavor. For
example, the one about the righteous English
baker who became convinced that French
women were virtuous because he met one in
Paris who said she would only go to a
cinema with him if he meant to fdire la noee.
He looked up “noce” and found it meant
“marriage.” “A very noble retort from a
truly moral woman,” was his reflection. Most
of the other stories are about regimental life
in India, and very amusing they are. The
author is. of course, Kipling’s friend Major-
General Dunsterville.
Murder Out of Tune, by Marcus Magill
(Hutchinson; 7s. 6d. net), isn’t a success.
It is three parts farce to one part horror,
which is an unsatisfactory blend in itself;
and the author doesn’t know most of his
characters. Ronald Pepper, the young book-
keeper whose advt. for a girl-friend brings
a herd of Bright Young Things to his humble
Pimlico rooms, is well done, and so are the
Ready Ramblers, who go for improving
country walks, and Ronald’s friend Guy, the
butcher’s son; but Lady Wassell-Jowett is a
stage dowager, and the Bright Young Things
derive from “Vile Bodies.” The solution of
the murder, which is as tame as a motor-bike
accident, comes as an anti-climax. A Cock-
ney novel of undiluted comedy by Mr.
Magill should be worth reading.
The Dispositions of Diana, by Joan Ken-
nedy (John Long; 7s. 6d. net). Everyone
has met Diana—in books. She is the loveliest
girl in London society, but cold, scheming,
and in other respects unworthy of Harvey
Harding, the millionaire with the kind, strong
face. Suddenly deciding she will marry one
who is referred to as “the prince,” Diana
sends Harvey back his ring by Tiny Brown,
a sweet, imbecile Cockney seamstress with
an oh! so loving little heart, and an in-
expressibly touching habit of cherishing
withered violets “for remembrance.” What
more natural than that Harvey should sug-
gest a mock marriage to Tiny practically on
sight, or that Diana, belatedly realising her
loss, should pursue and try unavailingly to
separate them on their mock honeymoon?
There have been sillier plots, and more
improbable people in the movies, but not
many.
Imperial Air Routes, by Major A. E. W.
Salt (Murray; 95.). Gliding and Sail-
planing—a Beginner's Handbook, by Stamer
and Lippisch (Lane; 7s. 6d.). Henley's
ABC of Gliding and Sail-flying (Henley
Publishing Go.; 12s. Gd.). All from Robert-
son and Mullens. The wild rush of books
on aviation to the reviewer’s table is a sign
of the times. The young man or woman who
can’t afford an aeroplane nowadays hops
off from the top of a hill in a glider, and
two seconds or hours later comes down 10
yards or miles from where he or she started,
and more or less in the locality intended.
There are several gliding grounds round
Melbourne; and an orchardist in Adelaide
glides home to lunch—his only trouble is
that he has to make two trips back to com-
plete the enterprise, one to get his horse and
cart and the other to take his machine to the
starting-point. Henley’s book tells the
beginner how to make his own vehicle, and
Stamer and Lippisch give the latest develop-
ments in the home of the craze, Germany.
Major Salt’s book deals exhaustively with
the amazing expansion of air services
throughout the Empire. The maps are as
red-lined as maps of Imperial cable communi-
cations. There is a long and fascinating
chapter on the discovery of Australia via
the ether: Australian airmen also fill the
bulk of the chapter on “Crossing the
Oceans.” This country’s isolation may not
have produced a sea-going nation, but it is
in process of creating an air-going one.
Technically, politically and romantically, a
book worth reading.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficientlystamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accomnany.
11.E.G.: Had to let “The Doomed Man”
take it in the neck. .. .E. 8.: Some true feeling, but
treatment is, as usual, rocky.... Mem. R.: “The
Darkness” has since been warmly illuminated....
E. : Your thoughts seem a bit windy about
moving up into the front line. .. .M.S.': Supply of
that gentle sort of thing rather heavy... .Lil.W.:
Pleasing little exercises.... Pat: Couldn’t swallow
“The Desperate Remedy”.... Teebeedee: Like more
bone with the political roast.... E.H.: Obituary poem
doesn’t do the lady justice. .. .Moses: No manna
falls where “The Flat Looks Up” .R.W.P.: Has
merit, but dunno whether you’ll ever get enough
of it into one piece to warrant print. .. .Orland:
“The Modern Knight” bit the ancient dust. ... D.P.:
The poem made out of a broad contrast is a fairly
regular f10p.... M.W.M.: Don’t swallow what you’re
told; read the paper and get at its requirements
yourself... .A. D.C.: Too long and loose for this
market... .C.E.C.: No space for “The Evolution of
Miss Jessica Harcourt”.... R. the G.: Glad to hear
from you at any time, but so far you’re missing
on a cylinder or two... .F.J.8.: None of them gets
beyond the verse-exercise class. .. .A.J.: Good in
places; prefer ’em good all through.... C.J.: “The
Baker” cooks only basket f odder.... Sand Plain: So
Steele Rudd “crucifies English” in permitting his
characters to speak ungrammatically ? What a deuce
of a lot you have to learn about narrative!
. ...T.L.: You manage the theme all right; it’s
not much of a one.—E.D.l.: “The Big Gun” is
only loaded with padding... .W.J.C.: Topic should
have aroused stronger feeling... . Ciet: W r eak as an
amateur actor’s memory... .F.G.: The verse has
sincerity, but the craftsmanship is very shaky....
Gillean G,: Worth better treatment. .. .A.M.: Your
case seems to call for a steady course of modern
poetry.... G.L.: A realistic fragment from grand-
dad’s rejuvenation:—
He tried to play handies with the girls,
Called our twelve-stone slavey a little peach.
W T hen he asked her if she’d like a kiss,
Lord, you orta heard that slavey screech!
. ...G.W.: “I enclose a contribution for your w.p.b.”
There is many a true Word spoken in jest....
F. : Looks as if it was written by a centipede
in the grip of bootleg... .F.W.D.: “War’s After-
math” is. a pretty bad experience.... Max P.: Trifle
heavy for this taste... .0.K.5.: The slender thought
won’t support it into print.... Kit: Nothing suitable
in that lot.. ..Erum: It is high time this was said,
whatever it means :
And now to “Fool-heads” be it said,
Let Poets head
Of brains be read,
And judged by those of kin a-bred ;
And not by cynics
Or critics,
Who slander-monger mimics:
Let he disperse,
Who knows not verse,
And all goes well with the universe.
... .C.J.E.: Too late for the market by a good
many years... .K.8.D.: Don’t care for it, though
you get a good sense of the topic into the metre.
....N.C.T.: Nothing that has seen print, please.
And read some more recent verse than the kind
you’ve been dieting 0n.... V.G.1.: Has to be a bit
worse than that to stir active hostility... .N.W.:
“Whom the Gods Love” might have'"been a good
poem. You don’t quite make it... .Math. W.: Please
don’t paste 10 or 12 pieces of paper together in a
strip. They burn better separate.... M. J.C.: Let
your». muse alone for a while and she might treat
you kindly when you’re older... .Vag: Not bad,
but the tinny metre knocks it....L:F.: Very loose
in the joints. .. .L.C.: Gleams here and there, but
it’s an easy method.... Jane U.: Fairly dose....
Irad: “Poor old Nig.” He is dead... .11. M.: Sorry;
they don’t quite do it... . Bellerive: Lovely lyric
quality in
A DRIVE AROUND QUEEN’S DOMAIN.
Fanned • by the breeze
Of the splashing main
Exhilarating’s a drive
Around Queen’s Domain,
In a char-:'-bane motor. • / ■
When the sky is blue,
Pass the Botanical Gardens,
„ Government House and Zoo.
I’ve often yearned for
The chance again,
Of a char-?!-banc drive
Around Queen’s Domain.
{Next: “Fern-tree Bower.”)
. ...T.M.8.; “Like a Lost Sheep” is a very micro-
scopic literary effort... .W. E. Thiem: “If‘Sol Mala-
prop’ finds it difficult to locate ‘The Lost Tribes’
he might read one or more of the 20-odd million
pamphlets, books, etc., issued by the headquarters
of the British-Israel movement since the Federation
was formed eight years ago.” Suggestion passed on
to “Sol.” J.K.H.: You haven’t a winning style.
.... J.8.C.: Neither good enough. ... A.M.: Feeble.
. ...G.W.P.: An old talkie p10t... .P.M.: At least
you didn’t prolong the agony. .. .G.J.8.: Worth 10
lines at the most... .C.W.R.: Put them in story
form... .W.H.M.F.; Tie a few knots in the middle
and make the end stronger... .D.K.G.: Not a laugh
in it....N.L.: Very few can handle kid characters;
afraid you are not one of the few... .V.P.AV.: Pig-
sticking in India is a long way off our beat....
N.C.T.: No reprints, thank you!... .C.8.R.: Might
score elsewhere... .C.T.: The clowning spoils it....
A. : Told more seriously it might 5e11... .W.E.E.:
Needs to be rewritten in fiction form.... C.A.S.:
Doesn’t fit in with what we know of newspaper life.
. ...R.S.P.: Another good idea badly handled.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.F.V.: Too stiff and harsh. .. .C.P.: On the rough
side. ... J.R.: The jest is too frayed to stand another
twist T.M.W.: What’s it all about?... .W. 8.:
Lacks polish.... M.H.R.: Did you pose your models
behind a smoke screen?... .F.C.P.: Made no impres-
sion. .. .P.A.8.: Lacks the briskness of the American
who originated that style J.C.M.C.; Not worth
while continuing unless you can "take lessons....
B. : Crude C.C.: No improvement... .H.C.: Art
is not your vocation... ,U.M.: You draw flappers as
if they were bits of furniture.... J.C.P.: If that is
all the Nat. Gallery could teach you, there is some-
thing radically wrong with you or the Nat. Gallery.


ŗ
ř
/>'- > '
' . . .
"
mu
nil
/
m
i 1 *
r
85
m
t
l
.
■
m
mn
i
'V,
3®s
,
MM:
v . ?#'■
»


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2682.
July 8, 1931.
END OF ANOTHER AMOK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man*
HEAD OFFICE: 2U George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria- IU-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 l/S.; 6 mouths, l~s. 6d.,
3 months, 7s. . . . .
To any address Overseas : 1-. months, -O 1 10s.,
0 months, 15s. ‘id.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
<>d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route. ~d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
HOW WOULD COMMUNISM
SUIT YOU?
The time has passed when Communism
might be pushed aside as not worth serious
consideration. It has been accepted by one
of the most powerful nations on earth,
and adopted by thousands of sincere it
academical souls outside Russia. It has
been largely misjudged because ot the
character of the noisiest of those who profess
it’ It has nothing to do with seizing all
wealth and dividing it up equally among
the people. But it has attracted thousands
who think it has. For every one who comes
to it because after earliest study he be-
lieves the world would be happier if there
were no “production for profit,” it seems
safe to say that a score profess Communism
because they have not been financially suc-
cessful themselves and hate to see success
in others apparently no better gifted; or
because they have nothing and think Com-
munism will give them a chance of grabbing
something; or because they believe that
under the new dispensation they would go
easily through life, well fed and well clothed
and housed.
In other older countries especially,
there is appalling inequality in the distribu-
tion of wealth. Here and there men come
into the world to inherit tremendously valu-
able city property from which they will draw
rents for the rest of their lives; and much
of the unearned money they will spend on
luxuries while the people who contribute
it have insufficient necessaries. But the fact
that the present social system has its bad
spots does not prove that every other pos-
sible social system would be better. It
is a question not only of which has the
lowest bad spots but of which can be made
into the best. When we look at the condition
of Australia to-day, and compare it with that
of the Britain of 150 years ago, we must
confess that the capacity of the capitalist
system for adjusting itself to the needs of
the moment is extraordinary. There is no
reason whatever to suspect that this cap-
acity has been exhausted. On the contrary,
the changes have been continuous up to this
moment. Indeed, the chances are that the
system is too pliable—that changes can be
and are made without sufficient thought,
and with immediately evil results.
But, notwithstanding those changes, great
inequalities of possessions and income,still
exist; and they feed the Communist ranks,
If only those who have too much could
be relieved of what they have, those who
have too little, it is said, would have
enough. But the cold, hard figures are dis-
appointing. J. T. Sutcliffe, of the Govern-
ment Statistician's Department, in “The
National Dividend” shows from official
sources that over 75 per cent, of the total
income is derived by persons in receipt
of £5OO a year and less. That was in 1920-21,
and to-day, in consequence of the great
fall in the market values of wool, wheat
and metals, it is certain that the propor-
tion is over 85 per cent. F. R. Benham
(“Prosperity of Australia,” 1928) showed
that, even in the period of affluence of
which he wrote, so few people got more than
£lOOO a year that if the whole of the income
above that figure which could be distributed
was distributed, “only, say, £20,000,000 at the
outside, or about £3 10s. per head of popula-
tion, would have been available for distribu-
tion.
Russia the people were deceived in
the same manner. The “tall poppy” is con-
spicuous in a field of 10,000 smaller poppies.
Ihe ostentatious wealth of one grand duke
or prince was conspicuous among a million
peasants. “If only what this man wasted
+° i n „ sa ved, we . should have little need
to labor,” the Russians said; and when the
tall poppies were beheaded there was a
wholesale slowing down. But no country, no
matter under what social order it lives, can
have more than it produces; and the quan-
tity that the tall poppy consumed was so
small that the slowing down far more than
counterbalanced it. The immediate result
was great hunger and distress; the more
remote result was the introduction of the
rive Year Plan and that system of forced
labor at which the world professes to be so
much shocked. As a matter of fact, all
labor is forced. Disaster only arrives when
the force is removed—as it is in Australia,
and especially in N. S. Wales, to-day; as to
a ex^e . n t R also is in Britain. Lenin
and his Ministers might approve of the
steps Lang and his Ministers are taking to
sovietise N. S. Wales; they might approve
of the dole as an excuse for expropriating
private property and as a means of procur-
ing unemployment and chaos and thus
discrediting the present social order, just
as they might say—rightly or wrongly—
that the smashing of the Government
Savings Bank was a shrewd plan for sweep-
ing away private property. But nothing
is more certain than that, once these things
had done their work, once Communism
had been established, labor would be forced
in Australia just as it is forced in Russia.
It is inevitable, inescapable.
Given a community wholly enthusiastic
about making a success of Communism, no
doubt force would be unnecessary. But
what hope is there of that? To-day when
a man can accumulate private possessions
and get all that money will buy, there are
millions who do not think the effort worth
while. Is it likely that these millions will
do better when there is no personal reward
and no hope of it? Whether Communism or
Capitalism rules, nothing but the spur of
hunger and cold will drive most of us to
work. Under Capitalism it is a matter for
the individual; if he likes to go hungry,
he may. Under Communism he must pull
his weight. If he is not disposed to do it,
then the Communist Government is bound
to use a compulsion which the Capitalist
Government does not feel itself in any way
called upon to employ.
And Lenin and his Ministers, as they well
knew, must compel a great deal larger pro-
duction than current consumption requires.
This, indeed, is the point at which labor
needs most forcing. Under the Capitalist
system we see millions upon millions of
profits going apparently into the pockets of
the employers. Actually those profits are
the capital with which new works are built,
on which new industries are launched.
Under Capitalism the worker who did not
think assumed that if there were no em-
ployers to feed, this money might all be
divided among the workers. That was quite
wrong; Communism can no more do with-
out those profits than Capitalism could.
So we reach this melancholy conclusion.
While Communism relieves us of our sayings
bank deposits and all other such private
property, it does not guarantee us an easy
life. On the contrary, it is bound to see
that we do not live an easy life. Under
Capitalism we may loaf if we want to and
can; Communism is concerned to see that
no man loafs. To it the dole is unthinkable
except as a purely temporary device; if a
man will not labor willingly lie must be
forced to labor. Communism is too coldly
logical to be concerned much with human
feelings.
WE MUST COME DOWN TO EARTH.
All the plans of all the politicians will not
save Australia. A country can balance its
budget and still be poor and miserable:
there is every reason to believe that Black
Brother balanced his budget every year for
a thousand years and still lived precari-
ously on ’possum and goanna. We may cut
down public-service salaries 50 p.c.
and reduce the interest on the public debt
to 2 p.c. and extend Lang’s brilliant idea
and pay no more interest to Britain for
ever and ever, and still be the most back-
ward country in the world: as a matter of
fact, Black Brother reduced his public-ser-
vice salaries to the first slice of the roasted
snake and the first pick of the eligible
girls, and he paid no interest whatever to
anybody; and yet his best habitation was
a bark hut.
Thus far we have been almost wholly
concerned about saving money here and
there. It is very important, too; but no-
body ever got prosperous or rich by merely
cutting down expenses. A factory could
pay its leading hands 2s. a day and still
go broke: if the leading hands didn’t earn
2s. a day, and the others in proportion, it
would go broke. Low wages, low salaries,
low rates of interest are not good things.
They may be necessary things, but they
are bad things, and the sooner they become
unnecessary the better; for Henry Ford is
quite right there —you can’t have low wages
and prosperity, and you don’t have much low
interest and prosperity either. Yet you
can’t bring in prosperity by whistling up
some good old Piddo and instructing him
to put wages up high. For high wages
can be just as destructive as low wages—
perhaps more destructive. The only thing
that will justify high wages is high pro-
duction. In fact, that is the only thing that
will make it possible to pay them. Black
Brother lived on the ’possum and goanna
scale because he produced ’possum and
goanna; you can only live on the scale of
your production. All the good old Piddos
in the world can’t fix a country’s standard
of living: only its production can do that.
Still there is one way of living beyond
your means; you may borrow or steal to
do it. On those terms Black Brother on
a ’possum and goanna production may
have roast chicken; but if he expects to
go on having roast chicken he is a fool.
Nearly as big a fool as White Brother.
White Brother borrowed an average of
about 40 millions a year for seven years,
and expects to go on in the same way now
that the borrowing has stopped.
This must be because he has been deceived
and bedevilled in some way. A terribly
significant remark is made to-day by a
country correspondent who comments on
The Bulletin’s suggestions for re-employ-
ing 100,000 men. He and his neighbors,
he says, agreed to employ what labor they
could, believing that the more money they
could keep in circulation the better it must
be for the farmers with products to sell.
He came back from the experiment with
this dreadful verdict upon many of the
men they had attempted to employ: they
don’t want to help to pull Australia around.
It is our business to find out why.
There is probably more than one explana-
tion. Some don’t want to help because
they find hard, steady work a bore. Per-
haps it is a bore. But the penalty for re-
fusing to tackle it ought to be hunger. As
long as the dole will come to the rescue
of such men they will continue to be para-
sites upon industry and enemies of their
country. There is only one reason why
anybody should be mealy-mouthed with
regard to them, and that is that they have
votes. Well, they can’t be permitted to
sell them and ruin our countiy in the process.
By no means would we suggest that the man
who loses his job should necessarily lose his
vote; but after a man has been on the dole
for, say, three months he ought to be auto-
matically required to justify his retention
of the franchise. Proof that he has got
employment and has kept it for two weeks
should entitle him to re-enrolment. We
have suffered severely from putting the
public servants on the general rolls: they
have on occasion become masters of their
masters. It will be a far more damaging
thing if we should allow those who take
the dole to get into a position to control
those who give it. It will introduce a com-
pletely new form of slavery.
Next to those who will not help Aus-
tralia on to its feet because they dislike
effort come those who will not help because
they don’t think it necessary. They have
been told glowing tales of the tremendous
wealth of Australia; they have been told
of the millions of profits that have hitherto
gone into the pockets of the employers;
they may even believe that the reason why
there are so many unemployed is that we
have over-produced so tremendously, and
that if production was properly regulated
nobody would have to work more than
half as hard as he has done hitherto. Only
education can touch these men; and it is
not easy to reach them. Most, of them pro-
bably don’t want to hear that the story is
all nonsense—that it is absurd to talk of
over-production when there are tens of mil-
lions who haven’t enough to eat and wear,
and no homes to live in. And so those who
ought to lead them from error merely for
the most part confirm them in their
heresies.
Meantime Australia is only maintaining
the present standard of living for a few
by condemning the many to the miseries
of unemployment and the dole; and the
number of those who can contribute grows
steadily less, while the number of those
seeking help grows steadily greater. Balanc-
ing the budgets will bring back a certain
amount of confidence, and with it employ-
ment. But there can be no return of
prosperity without a great addition to pro-
duction. Inevitably the country which
produces on the ’possum and goanna
standard must live on the ’possum and
goanna standard. But the country with a
roast-chicken production can just as surely
live on the roast-chicken standard.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Conversion Loan.
It does not matter what Mr. Lang is or
does, the Conversion Loan has to be a
great success. It was a poor scheme of
which it formed an important part; but
the scheme was adopted, and for the
moment that fact must end all controversy.
In a sense the conversion is voluntary;
for practical purposes commonsense will
say it is compulsory. If it is not carried
through, along with the other sections of
the plan, a financial crash is sure. Out of
an orderly reconstruction the creditor at
any rate knows exactly what he will get;
out of a crash nobody knows what will be
salvaged.
But it is the psychological effect from
which the greatest benefits may be expected.
We have lost our morale; and in that
condition are allowing foreign enemies to
wipe their feet in our hair. In the ’nineties,
even as late as 20 years ago, what would
we have said if it had been suggested to
us that we upstanding Australians would
presently hand over our government and
the control of many of our unions to poor
human runts from the slums of Glasgow and
the ghettos of Continental Europe! What
we need as much as anything is to recover
a rational pride in ourselves—pride that
will scorn the dirty little tricks and mean-
nesses which have crept into our public life
and, it is to be feared, largely into our
private life as well.
If the loan is a great success we shall
hold our heads higher, and square our
shoulders and begin to think with a puzzled
grin of the time when we let the runts of
the slums and ghettos take Australia’s
business out of our hands.
♦
“Dear Mr. Lang” Again.
Last week the N. S. Welsher Government
advanced some furlongs further towards
chaos. The Soviet measure in which it was
sought to wipe out the middle class by
seizing another 25 per cent, of its tragi-
cally reduced income was rejected by the
Leg. Council, A.W.U. men joining with
Nationalists to protect skilled workers
whose “margins” would have been swept
away, and to prevent the shattering of the
Federal Government’s financial rehabilita-
tion plans. Under the Commonwealth
taxation law State tax is a legitimate deduc-
tion from taxable income, and a deduction
of 16 millions, or of even two-tliirds of
Lang’s estimate, would have reduced Federal
revenue disastrously. This, no doubt,
influenced what the admirers of the N. S.
Welsher Premier are pleased to call his
mind; the idea now is that if a crash can
be accelerated and everybody goes broke,
the Lang plan will be justified, and a crazy
Communistic edifice will rise out of the ruins.
Following the defeat of the Emergency
Taxation Bill another interest payment fell
due to the Commonwealth, and the Gov-
ernment, which was a party to the Premiers’
Conference resolutions, scabbed on its
mates once more.
The State Governor then came into the.
picture. Eight months’ association with
Mr. John Thomas Lang having evidently
taught him nothing, Sir Philip Game pro-
posed a round-table conference to his princi-
pal adviser. The reply was, in effect, that
the Labor movement would never consent
to “a coalition with Mr. Bavin and the
Opposition”; and there were further re-
marks, written in a strain with which the
N.S.W. public is familiar, about “hostile
and malevolent newspapers” and the “solici-
tude” of John Thomas for “the welfare
of the State of New South Wales.” The
Governor, of course, replied that he had
never dreamt of suggesting a coalition, and
back came a letter from the Premier’s
Department in which the fact that he had
“taken exception to the interpretation the
Cabinet gave to the suggestion made by
your Excellency” was abruptly noted. The
correspondence was printed, as were other
letters, equally amazing. In one of these
the King’s representative asked dear Mr.
Lang’s pardon “if I seem to change my
mind very rapidly,” and assured dear Mr.
Lang that “I should be entirely wrong if
I were to ask you to surrender your com-
mission.”
In another missive written in December
his Excellency asked dear Mr. Lang to
“endorse the honors list I sent Home when
Mr. Bavin was Premier,” the reply being
that “the idea of honors is repellent to me.
and abhorrent to my party”; besides which
“some of the nominations are distinctly
objectionable.” In glaring contempt of the
rules of the political game as N. S. Wales
Labor has hitherto played it, the nomina-
tions were attached to the letters handed
to the press and published; but the
Premier did not apologise for the publica-
tiom—the Governor did. It is expected that
the Government will requite his
by asking the Dominions Office to recall
him.
One thing John Thomas Lang has done,
without intending to do it. He has revived
the waning sentiment in favor of second
chambers. Without the safeguard of a
Senate or a Legislative Council, the middle
class will not trust a Labor Government
again for many a long day. Another result
of Langism is that public opinion is setting
hard against full-time salaries for ordinary
members of Parliament. It is an open
secret in Macquarie-street, Sydney, that a
score or more of Labor Assemblymen dislike
their leader and loathe his policy, but they
are afraid to hint at their real feelings lest
they be turned loose on a cold world. The
pay and perks make cowards of them all.
• ♦
The Governor’s Job.
Lang’s meek followers in the N. S. Wales
Assembly last week unanimously resolved
that the State Governor is an echo of his
Ministers, and bound to say Aye to their
Aye and Nay to their Nay. When they
give him advice there is, they say, only
one thing for him to do—accept it. Granted
that in general it is the Governor’s duty
to do what his Ministers tell him, there are
occasions when it is the Governor’s plain
duty to do nothing of the kind.
The Governor is the guardian of the rights
not of the House of Assembly, but of the
people. When he accepts the advice of
his Ministers it is because prima jade they
represent the people. But if he has at any
time doubts whether they do represent the
people, it is his duty to resolve those doubts.
If it were not so—if a Governor were
obliged to accept the advice of his Mini-
sters —he might be faced with the extra-
ordinary position of having a Ministry
which would compel him to prorogue the
House after a no-confidence motion had
been carried against it, so that it might
retain office without a Parliamentary
majority.
Being the guardian of the rights of the
people, the Governor is also one of the
guardians of the Constitution. The Legis-
lative Council is as much part of the con-
stitutional machinery of the State as the
Leg. Assembly is, and is as much entitled
to his protection. The place of the Council
in our scheme of government is admittedly
not as clear as it might be; but some things
about it are quite clear, and one of them
is that it, too, is not intended to be merely
an echo in all things of the majority in
the Assembly. If it can be shown to the
Governor that, as constituted, it is opposing
the clearly expressed will of the people, he
is bound to assist Ministers in carrying that
will into effect. But the rejection of a
measure upon which the people have not
clearly spoken is not a ground for making
the Council an echo of the majority party
in the Assembly. On the contrary, it may
be a very good reason why the Governor
should tell his Ministers to go to their
masters, the people, and ascertain their will
beyond question.


Strangling Primary Producers.
The position of the two great unsheltered
primary industries, wheat and wool, and the
almost hopeless nature of their struggle for
existence against overwhelming odds, is
emphasised in the following table of figures
(supplied by the Commonwealth Bureau of
Census and Statistics, 17/6/’3l): —
Fall
First Fourth Below
Quarter, Quarter, 1926
1926. 1930. Level.
Average nominal weekly P-c.
wage adult males .. 97/- 96/9 0.3
Ist Qr. 1931.
Retail price index
numbers (food and
groceries only) .. 1815 1526 15.0
Retail price index
numbers (food, gro-
ceries, rent) . . 1748 1531 12.4
Wholesale price index
numbers (Melb.) .. 1841 1407 23.6
Average price of wheat
on trucks, Williams-
town, per bushel . . 6/- 3-16 2/2] 63.6
Average price of wool,
per pound . . • • 1/5 11-16 */9l 48.4
Wages have fallen since the last quarter
of 1930, although the statistician has not
yet computed the extent of the average drop.
At the same time, while the farmer has to
face a shrinkage of 63.6 per cent, in wheat
prices and 48.4 per cent, in wool, he has
received very little relief with regard to a
drop in his cost factors in production,
because the latter have not yet reacted
to the influence of the relatively small fall
in price levels of other commodities and
wages. There is no reduction in rail freights,
terminal handling costs, telephone charges
or taxation.
Still another example of how wheat-
growers are penalised or exploited is shown
by the comparative costs to overseas ship-
owners for berthing dues, stevedoring
charges, income taxation on freight on ships
loading wheat in the following countries: —
Per Ton. Per Bushel.
Australia .. .. 11/6 3.7 d.
South Africa.. .. 5/11 1.9 d.
South America .. 5/6 1.75 d.
Canada and U.5.A... 3/4 1.05 d.
India 3/8 1.2 d.
It does not require an economist to see
that it will be impossible for Australian
farmers to carry on unless price levels are
brought more or less into alignment with the
prices of wheat and wool. Returns for
wheat and wool are basic values, and must
be the guiding factor in determining local
production costs.
4
“Let’s Re-employ 100,000 Men!”
Dear Bulletin, —Your re-employment idea
is very good, but it won’t work under
present conditions. A big percentage of the
unemployed will not help to pull things
around. When they get a job they sit back
and earn about half what they are costing.
Some of us cocky-farmers do use our brains
sometimes, and at one of our P.P.U. meet-
ings we discussed the matter and decided
that, as the more unemployed the less sale
for our produce, we would each employ
what extra labor we could. I will give my
experiences; my neighbors’ were very
similar:—
No. I—A fair worker, but unteachable. Although
a city lad, he knew everything; also was in the habit
of taking my stockhorses away without permission
and bringing them back knocked up. Finally left
for what he said was a better job, where he lasted
a fortnight. Is now on the dole.
No. 2—Came to me starving. I gave him a job ;
went with him first day; set him on easy work to
give him a chance. Sent him out by himself next
day. That night he told me he wanted a few bob
to get down to his sister’s place—she had a good
job for him. Gave him 10s. and some tucker and
let him go. Found out afterwards that he had not
done a tap of work that second day. Now on the dole.
No. 3—Begged so hard that I gave him a job.
Not much use when you were with him ; and when-
ever he could get the chance used to sneak back
to his hut and lie on his bed and read. Got so
over the odds he had to be sacked.
No. 4—Worked 21 days, and brushed about half
an acre of fairly thin lantana. Impossible. Sacked.
No. s—Seemed5 —Seemed a good worker. Worked one day;
left next morning during my absence, without ex-
planation. Didn’t even draw his pay. Told some
people it was too lonely.
No. 6 —Poor worker. Used to be out nearly every
night and continually causing trouble among the
other employees. Sacked.
No. 7—When I pointed out to him that he was
barely earning his wages, and doing nothing what-
ever for his board and lodging; he said he could
get tucker anywhere, and I ought to be well
satisfied if he did earn his wages. Sacked.
No. 8 (and last) —Used to sit round the fire in his
bare feet till “start work.” Then would leisurely
roll a cigarette and go and get his boots. In about
half an hour he would be ready to start. I always
give my employees at least an hour’s rest after
dinner for a smoke and a read. He would take the
whole afternoon if not watched. No use to me.
No. 9, I suppose, would have come and
gone ere this, but Lang got busy and broke
our bank, so we had to close up on all our
re-employment schemes. In case you think
I am hard to please, may I say that some
of my employees have been with me for
seven years. One of my neighbors, who was
giving anyone who came along a job, had
five on at one time. He had to sack the
lot; they were not trying to earn their
tucker, let alone any wages.
The Bulletin’s re-employment scheme
can be worked, but the provisions would
have to be drastic:—
(1 —and foremost) : No dole for any able-bodied
male.
(2) Any adult who owas property and who applies
for the dole, three months’ hard labor on public
works.
(3) Loans to primary producers for 10 years, free
of interest; capital to be repaid in yearly instal-
ments after the first three years. Al] loans to be
used directly or indirectly in producing goods for
export.
(4) All arbitration awards, etc., to be suspended.
(5) Any employee who shall lose his employment
three times in 12 months to be brought before a
court of inquiry. If found guilty of laziness or
indifference, to be placed under military discipline
on road work for six months,
(6) Any unemployed refusing employment when
offered, cancellation of all assistance.
In 12 months the volume of goods for
export would have increased vastly, creat-
ing more demand for labor, which would
automatically lead to a rise in wages; and
we would be back on the road to prosperity
again.—Yours etc., L. Chevalley.
• ♦
Deadhead, M.P.
One indefensible item of Commonwealth
and State expenditure is the very consider-
able sum wasted annually on the free con-
veyance of members of the various legis-
latures over the railways of the country.
Ninety per cent, of the journeys are for
private purposes only, these ranging from
joy-riding to the furtherance of the poli-
tician’s business interests. The others
include visits to the politician’s constitu-
ency, the only legitimate excuse for the
pass privilege.
There is no discoverable reason why a
system of travelling on specially issued
Treasury warrants should not supersede the
costly and dishonest gold-pass convention.
This system is universal in the Defence
Department, and, save in the case of a
few privileged officials, obtains in the civil
services of the States and Commonwealth.
In Britain, where members receive much
less pay than in Australia, the universal
pass system Is not tolerated. Every mem-
ber of Parliament desiring to leave London
to go to his constituency and return must
obtain a warrant from the appointed autho-
rities for the journey. He can only get it
for the trip to his own constituency, unless
official business calls him to another man’s.
It is thus impossible for a Glasgow member,
say, who desires a week’s holiday, to be
carted at the public expense to the Cornish
Riviera or some other holiday resort—he
must pay for anything of the kind out of
his own pocket.
In Australia the holder of a Parliamen-
tary pass may travel all day and night
from one end of the country to the otfier
all the year round while the nation pays
for the junketing. It does not matter a
rap whether or no he represents a metro-
politan constituency, a contingency which
in London would debar him from even
the privilege of a warrant.
■ ♦
Christ, Communism and Combustion.
“Titus Salt”: A Communist organiser
recently got a moderate sentence at Perth
on a variety of charges. These included
the ownership of a bad reputation which
stretched over several years and right across
the continent, consorting with criminals,
addressing crowds to incite them to violence,
lack of honest visible means of support, and,
as a suspicious circumstance, having in his
possession a recipe for spontaneous com-
bustion. One witness—Katharine Prichard,
the novelist—attested that she had known
defendant for three months. He hadn’t
consorted with criminals or urged large
audiences to crime or practised Incendiarism
in her presence. She knew him (or at least
she considered him, after 'three months’
acquaintance, starting with a letter of intro-
duction from some person unspecified) as
a man of the highest moral character. In
fact, she regarded his character as similar
to that of Jesus Christ, and considered that
he was being persecuted for similar reasons.
The frequent dragging in of the Re-
deemer’s name by, or on behalf of, infidel
Communists savors of historical inaccuracy.
The Lord was the object of no definite
persecution, though he fell a victim to a
confused outburst of polite sectarian annoy-
ance. He was (barring the fact that
Joseph is described as a “reputed” father)
the direct heir to the Hebrew throne, but,
to the bitter disappointment of Hebrew
patriots, He showed no sign of shifting the
idolatrous usurper. It seemed that He
might rouse the boss idolators to make
trouble and annoyance through the popular
recognition of Him as a leader, yet as a
leader He seemed remarkably ineffectual.
An itinerant preacher of great vigor who
founded no new church and yet denounced
the ministers of the existing one, and who
was also the inheritor of a dormant throne,
made a combination that aroused suspicion.
If He were out of the way (and life was
fairly cheap) His next brother would inherit
the Crown of David, so no harm would be
done. It must have looked at the time
like a very ordinary sacrifice to expediency,
as did at other times the sacrifice of Wil-
liam Wallace and Joan of Arc.
There is no earthly reason why this
politico-religious misunderstanding should
be used as a sort of whitewash for an indi-
vidual of aggressive godlessness, with no
honest visible means of support, carrying
around with him a recipe for incendiarism,
and known to the police of several States.
Unfortunately it is a way Communism and
its dupes have got.
4
Sincerity in Politics.
Dear Bulletin, —It is interesting to watch
the forensic contortions of some of the men
who are trying to get selected by Lang’s
A.L.P. to jump the seats of brother Labor
men at the next Federal election. Some
time back Donald Grant was one of Lang’s
most enthusiastic supporters. On a recent
Sunday, in the Domain, I heard this same
Donald Grant say, “When Lang at the last
election promised to get millions of loan
money to' carry on public works, he either
was entirely ignorant of economics or else
was purposely misleading the electors.”
Bavin nev.er said more than that! One
wonders whether the fact that Jock Garden
is understood to carry Lang’s blessing in
the selection campaign at Cook has any-
thing to do with Donald’s belated frank-
ness. The most amiable of dogs are apt
to quarrel if there is only one bone between
two of them.—Yours, Arthur Griffith.
4
Not Too Old at Seventy-two!
Wanting a chief for a new department, the
N.S:W. Government went outside _ the
already bloated public service and appointed
the 72-year-old W. H. Whiddon at a salary
of £l5OO a year. And no doubt it is a very
good appointment, apart from the fact that
the overgrown service should have pro-
vided a man. But the interesting point is
that Mr. Whiddon, for many years head of
the State Income Tax Department, was
retired two years ago upon reaching the
age limit, the presumption being that he
was no longer capable of doing his job,
We Australians have for a long while
inhabited a fool’s paradise, one of our
obsessions being that we occupied a country
so rich that its inhabitants could do things
nobody else in the w r orld could afford.
Actually the bulk of Australia is very poor
and the rest not very rich: it is dread-
fully deficient in mountains and rivers, and
its good harbors are comparatively few.
Further, we are not prodigious workers;
we have neither the hustle of the American
nor the grim presistence of the Scot. Yet
we have decided in most of our services that
a man should go out at anything from 60
upwards, and the States are liberally
sprinkled with able-bodied pensioners, the
country having decided that it is quite able
to support everybody over 60 or thereabouts
in idleness.
It is one of the large and lordly gestures
which we shall have to reconsider. No
doubt there are some difficulties in the
way of a complete change. Especially is
the cry always raised that “the younger
men should have a chance.” Of course
the younger men should have a chance. If
they can do the job better than the old
men, the latter’s years should not save them.
But it is ridiculous to put old men right out
in order to make places for young men.
There are things youth can do which
old age cannot; and old age has qualifica-
tions which youth does not share. Our
wastefulness is in assuming that because
old age cannot do the jobs it did yesterday
as well as younger men, therefore it should
go right out of the service and become a
burden upon industry and production.
Wisdom would require that we should fit the
age with its job. If the job is not so exalted,
it cannot be helped: old age is generally not
so foolish as not to know its limitations.
The Whiddon case shows, at any rate,
what an appalling waste there is: a man
judged fit for one of the most exacting posts
in the service would but for a lucky chance
have been forced to join the multitude
thrown out of their jobs because they have
reached a certain age, and without any
regard for their qualifications. There must
at this moment be fully 200 senior officers
of the police service alone pottering about
Sydney in thoroughly good health, capable
most of them of strenuous toil, physical or
mental, and by reason of their experience
capable of giving, perhaps, rather more valu-
able service than the 200 men who have
followed them. Yet they are utterly
wasted; and this is only one of many
economic sins for which to-day we are
paying the penalty—some of us in unem-
ployment, some of us in a crushing load of
taxation.
4
Lang’s Progress towards Communism.
It is silly of one section of the N.S.W.
Communists to abuse Lang as a “traitor to
the revolution.” He is taking the only
logical steps to bring in Communism. The
State can never have a revolution of
violence with only 100,000 unemployed.
After years of organisation and oratory the
Comrades still have to bolt to the police
for protection whenever they try to start
anything serious. Hunger is the only argu-
ment that drives mobs to frenzy.
If Lang is allowed to swamp the Council
with nominees of the Trades Hall, and to
put his Wage Tax Bill through, certain
results are inevitable. The people who have
to hand over from 25 to 75 per cent, of ,
their incomes in taxation will sack employ- .
ees as an alternative to insolvency, and in ;
that way the tally of unemployed may well
jump to 200,000 almost at once. When the
diminished purchasing power of the extra
100,000 begins to be felt, there will be
further sackings in shops, offices, private
dwellings, garages, etc., and further thou-
sands will come on the dole. Unemploy-
ment caused by over-taxation being pro-
gressive, it can only be a question of time
before the dole system breaks down, and
people begin to starve. The Communists
won’t need to do any inflammatory spell-
binding then. The revolution will arrive
spontaneously.
And, unless it differs from all its prede-
cessors, the first visits of the rioters will be
paid to the Premier’s home and Garden’s
room at the Trades Hall. In European
countries political leaders who make mis-
takes are usually able to shield themselves
behind an army, but we have none in Aus-
tralia now. That makes the possibility of
the Lang Government getting its measure
for the creation of unemployment through
all the more appalling.
4
The Share Shark.
Scarcely a day passes without bringing The
Bulletin a letter, generally from the coun-
try, saying that in 1927 or at some other
time the writer applied for so many £1
shares in some limited liability co. or other,
on the assurance of the salesman that they
wouldn’t want more than 6s. a share; that
calls bringing the total up to 12s. had been
made, and that now the co. had gone into
liquidation and the liquidator had de-
manded the balance of Bs. per share. Always
the writer wants to know whether the de-
mand can be enforced; often the question
is asked whether the liquidator would be
likely to let the matter drop if the share-
holder agreed to forfeit the amount already
paid.
Unhappily only one answer can be given
to all such questions. Provided there were
no substantial misrepresentations in the
prospectus, the contract must stand. If they
are pound shares the applicant agrees to
pay up to a pound. He has joined a part-
nership with a limited liability, and; has
agreed with the other partners to put up
that much capital if and when wanted. He
has done more even than that—he has
announced to the public that he will back
the co.’s bill to the amount uncalled on his
shares; and on the strength of that under-
taking the co. is able to get credit. It would
be a most unjust thing, therefore, if the
unpaid capital was not recoverable from the
people who had agreed to provide it. It
would be a fraud upon creditors.
Perhaps nothing can be done to wholly
protect the public from the sharks who sell
shares on a small deposit and with a large
liability; but undoubtedly more could be
done than is done. Especially ought it to
be required that every form of application
for shares in a limited liability co. should
carry clearly printed words to the effect
that the applicant makes himself liable for
the full amount of the share, and that the
money is recoverable at law. It might stop
many sales; but, after all, that would be
its purpose.
Military v. Martial Law,
Dear Bulletin, — “Martial Law in Civil
Life” (B. 17/6/’3l) states the facts; but
it reiterates an old fallacy when it says
“the Diggers were able to realise the full
disabilities of martial law.” Members of
the A.1.F., as such, never came under mar-
tial law. In the introductory chapter to
the “Manual of Military Law” (chap. 1,
para. 7) it is written:—
In the proper sense of the term, “martial law”
means the suspension of ordinary law, and the
government of a country... .by military tribunals
of its own army. It must be carefully distinguished
from “military law,” the code which regulates the
conduct of soldiers as such, but does not apply to
civilians, and from the law (also spoken of as
“martial law”) which a commander in occupation
of a foreign country imposes upon the inhabitants
thereof.
This, of course, is not in any way a
rebuttal of the arguments or, generally, the
statements in the article named: far from
it, for I, too, suffer from this flood of so-
called “regulations.” But they are not
martial law. That is the point I want to
make clear.—Yours, Slinga.
♦-
Is the Grazier to Blaine?
“Grazier” (B. 3/6/’3l) declared that, “with
exceptions, of course, sheepmen are them-
selves to blame for most of the mess they
are in.” A flood of letters has come in
answer or in support. Very little new
ground is broken; and these two fairly
represent the whole: —
Dear Bulletin, —I will not go so far as “Grazier”
and say that nobody who has been on the land for
10 years or more should owe one penny to the
banks. I will say that if we had cut down all
expenditure hard when we were making a pound a
head a year, we might have been free of debt. We
did kick over the traces, some of us ; but, honestly,
weren’t we entitled to? It is the sort of business
we are in—good times to-day; hard times to-morrow.
(For, remember, even the men who are not in heavily
to the banks are having a tough time.) But so far
as most of us are concerned, the money wasted on
personal extravagance was a fleabite compared with
the money spent on the holdings themselves: I will
admit that some of it was spent on adding to the
comforts of the homestead; but God knows the
womenfolk at least deserved it. In any case now is
a poor time for “Grazier” to throw his harsh
words at us. If he had lectured us four or five
years ago it would have been more to the point.
I was down in Adelaide about that time; I remember
seeing Boucicault, and I can still hear the end-words
of one of his plays—“ Aren’t We All?” Yes, aren’t
we all fools—and not we woolgrowers in particular?—
Yours, Off Shears.
Dear Bulletin, —If “Grazier” had read the Queens-
land Settlement Advisory Board’s report and investi-
gated the question of average selling prices and costs
of production, the economic effects of arbitration
courts and the tariff on the rural industries, he
would have thought twice about the wisdom of' his
tirade against the graziers whose cuts of 50 to 60
per cent, for 1929 and 1930 leave them with a return
quite inadequate to pay the expenses of their indus-
try—showing, indeed, a big loss and leaving no
money for clothes, living expenses and trips to the
local town, let alone “round the world” or to
“luxurious flats and hotels.” Many a boy at an
early age has been withdrawn during 1930 from
“costly colleges,” his education uncompleted, to do
a station-hand’s work, breakfasting at 6 a.m. and
returning home with the stars well alight in the sky.
Certainly some station-holders —a very small per-
centage —do make trips round the world, live in
luxurious flats and have their offspring at these
costly, colleges; but they have the means and have
the right to do so. Not such is the position of the
average grazier, known for his thrift and good
management, battling along against taxation, exploit-
ation by Governments, railway commissioners, unions
and flies. —Yours etc., Albert J. Studdy.


REDUCED TARIFF.
Single Room only, from 12/- per day
Double Room only, from 22/6 per day
Breakfast: 2/- and 3/6; and a la carte
Ask for Illustrated
Folder.
geographically
the centre of Sydney
iUJI
Lttt
111 II II l L
111 II U I L
liuul.il
111 II II I.L
111 ll II I L
LL L 11 II —11 — I
LL L 11 II II I
LL L II 11 II I
LL L lULILI
ilililiL
pr~ ■— r l ],
U-i_LVJ
Patrons are benefiting by our reduced costs.
Room Only rates are lower and so is the tariff
in the Dining-room and Grillroom. But there is
no reduction in the quality or the service that
is maintained and always will be maintained at
the world-famed standards of the Hotel.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address
“Austraotcl, Sydney
he
3ustr
POLITCAL
POINTS
Queensland’s Moore Government has at
last made up its mind to restore the Leg.
Council; and for this the Labor Opposition
is cursing Lang. The coming session will
see the necessary legislation introduced. But
the Council of the future won’t be a nominee
chamber that a Theodore or a Lang may
swamp. It will be elected on a limited
franchise, like the Leg. Councils in Vic.,
South Aus., Westralia and the Speck.
The Federal Nationalist party was cradled
and coffined in compromise. Becoming scared
of the A.F.A.L., and believing (as Keane,
of Bendigo, put it) that it was All for
Aloysius Lyons, the Nats, took that gentle-
man for their leader and transformed them-
selves into the U.A.P., just as the Libs,
became Nats., under Hughes’s leadership, in
1917. Now the A.F.A.L. flatly refuses to
"He mag be a nice cuckoo, but, after all,
it’s our nest.”
have anything to do with the U.A.P. It is
an embarrassing position, and sensitive
members of the U.A.P. feel it keenly, especi-
ally when the “Worker” suggests that they
are asses led by Lyons.
Before Slang became Premier in 1925 it
was the invariable custom of N.S.W. Cabi-
net Ministers to throw in a few pounds a
week for the honorary in the Upper House.
But Slang hated Coates, whom .Caucus
appointed A. C. Willis’s offsider, and Coates
got nothing, though he served the Ministry
loyally for two years. He was one of the
nine excluded from the Slang “Scabinet.”
Coates had his revenge when Slang tried to
wipe out the middle class with his 55.-in-the-
f tax. In a few telling sentences the ex-
Minister made mincemeat of the Ned Kelly
measure, and Avhen the division was taken
he led a flock of Labor members to swell
the triumphant Noes.
While Avar pensioners are told they will
have to get along on £2 a week or there-
abouts, it is announced that the septuagen-
arian G.-G. must not be deprived of
a penny of his £lO,OOO a year, be-
cause his social duties are so import-
ant and expensive. Stuff and nonsense!
When Jellicoe was in Maoriland, and he was
told that the Government must retrench, he
voluntarily sacrificed one-fourth of his salary
and said he was glad to do it. If the
Jellicoe precedent is not followed in a much
graver emergency, Australians will bitterly
conclude that the appointment of an Aus-
tralian-born G.-G. Ava.s not worth the trouble
it has caused.
Twenty-tAvo Vic. Labor members defied
the party’s central executive and are sup-
porting the financial rehabilitation plan
which Hogan and Jones helped to shape at
the Premiers’ conference. Realising that
its “instruction” might be ignored, the
A..L.P. junta held a special Sunday sitting,
at which half the delegates were for with-
drawing it, but the casting vote of the
chairman (avlio followed precedent) was
against them. There Avon’t be much of a
Labor party if Hogan and his 22 are ostra-
cised ; anyAvay, the Lygon-street Lilliputians
have been forcibly reminded that the tall
Premier, in spite of his poor health (he had
to go out of action again after introducing
his measure to give effect to the conference
resolutions), is not a cipher yet.
Queensland’s balance-sheet for the year to
June 30 shows an honest attempt to live
within the State’s means. The deficit was
£842,044, but £511,541 of that was due to
exchange on interest and repayments abroad;
expenditure was £333,267 less than Barnes’s
estimate. Railway revenue dropped no less
than £920,000, but expenditure on the ser-
vice was reduced by £950,000 —
eloquent of the scandalous over-
loading of the railways under pre-
vious Governments.
As befits a farmer-Premier,
Moore, of Queensland, looks for
the silver lining. In mentioning
that increased exchange rates had
cost his State over half a million
on its overseas commitments, he
stressed the fact that if Govern-
ments were getting it in the neck
the producers were benefiting. The
operation of exchange is giving
woolgrowers an additional 2d. a
pound and cow-farmers another
2Jd. a pound., while metals are
favorably affected, gold especially.
The Westralian Farmers’ Dis-
abilities Commission has been in-
formed by the manager of the
Agricultural Bank that 21,000
farmers owe that State concern
and the joint-stock banks about
£30,000,000, and that if prices con-
tinue at the present level the pros-
pect looks bleak. The “disabili-
ties” witness attributed in a mea-
sure to “extravagance in the pur-
chase of tractors and cars, high
interest rates and the placing of
moneyless men on the land.” West-
ralia, he added, has “some of the
w r orst farmers in the world” —a
natural result when politicians go
in for “placing moneyless men on
the land.” All the same, a State
in which settlers get 25 to 30 bushels of
wheat to the acre on eight or nine inches of
rainfall may fairly claim to have some of
the best farmers in the world. Such men
will succeed though the slump last till 1936.
Culley’s withdrawal from the Federal
Ministry was no selection-ballot gesture, like
Hollaway's, and it has mystified “comrades”
not in his confidence. The truth is that
the unskilled sections of the Trades Hall
crowd (lumpers, carters, and the like) are
feeling rather less enamoi-ed of politics and
politicians than usual, and are passing their
sentiments on to the Culleys. The man from
Denison (Tas.) is one of them; bone of their
bone and flesh of their flesh; their will is
his will, their gods his gods. And in time
of stress, when attempts to follow the intri-
cacies of the political game, as played
between parties and sections of parties,
would give an ordinary bloke a headache,
chaps like Culley naturally decide to line
up with the people they understand.
The one thing wrong with most Governors
to-day is that they don’t know their job, and
couldn’t be expected to. They are appointed
because they could do with a temporary
billet and happen to have a friend. Up to
the moment when the friend surprises them
with the news that it may come off, they
haven’t a glimmer of knowledge of what a
Governor does; and though they swat up
a few books on the subject, more or less, they
learn just enough to know how little they
know. In that state of mind the more con-
THE MOSCOW PET: “You’re referee here,
see, so you’ll do as I tell you,”
scientious a man is the less he does for fear
of doing wrong. Governors used to be mostly
professional—starting with small jobs and
working up to larger: Loch, for instance,
after lie left the Army, was private sec. to
the Home Secretary, and then Lieut.-Gov.
of the Isle of Man, before, he was Governor
of Victoria, and from there he went on to
be High Commissioner of S. Africa.
The N.S.W* Government gamble is getting
under way. Lang says he won’t take a
ticket, because it would create a bad impres-
sion if he were to win a first prize. It might,
but it should create a very good impression
if he won a first prize and gave the money
to the poor, with something like the careless
generosity of Railway Commissioner Cleary,
“Giving himself airs because his deficit’s only
eight hundred and forty thou!”
who spends half his salary that way. Oi
course, John Thomas would he five bob out,
but he might open his little heart and take
the risk, especially as his salary hasn’t been
reduced yet, and he is supposed to be a rich
landowner. Deposits in the busted State
Savings Bank won’t be accepted in payment
for lottery tickets. On the other hand, prizes
are not to be paid in cheques on the Rural
Bank.
Maoriland is not really due for a general
election till December, but Forbes announces
that the present session will be cut short
with a view to dissolution about the end of
next month. He holds that as the country
is facing conditions undreamt of when his
United party took charge, the electorates
should be consulted at the earliest possible
moment. It seems improbable that there
will be any marked change in the strength
of parties, but Forbes, as an old footballer,
has always evinced a strong sentiment in
favor of putting himself “on side.”
Another half-dozen prominent men have
quitted the British Diberal party, one of
them being John Simon, about its biggest
intellectual gun. Their grievance is that
the party is going nowhere, and has nowhere
to go to. Nowadays the Labor party waves
the banner of Freetrade, which has become
definitely associated with a desire to lend
trade facilities to foreign Communists and
with hatred of Dominion preference, so
while some Liberals tend to drift to
the Left, others tend towards Conser-
vatism, holding that the Foreign-trade joss
isn’t worth the price. The Labor Govern-
ment has a small majority so long as the
Liberals give it support with no prospect
of reward, and would be in a small mino-
rity if they went home to bed and stayed
there. Between 1923 and 1929 Labor gained
96 seats, while the Liberals lost 97. Having
faith in their own future the Ram Macs are
barely civil to Lloyd George’s perishing
party.
“The policy of political bribery at elec-
tions will have to be stopped,” said Senator
Pearce virtuously last week. This from a
member of Ministries that brought in the
baby bonus, the war gratuity, the civil-ser-
vice superannuation scheme (introduced just
before the 1922 election and dated back two
years) and the Federal-aid roads folly and
that doubled the old-age pension. The gall
of it!
Pleasant it is to read that the organisa-
tions of limbless and consumptive ex-soldiers,
as w,ell as the R.S.L., were among the first
to turn in their Commonwealth bonds for
the new 4 p.c. securities. This fine spirit
moved even the Government that after three
Caucus elections of Ministers is still without
a returned soldier; and, partly for that rea-
son, the pensions of disabled warriors, sailors
and nurses, of war widows, orphans and
mothers who were dependent on dead A.I.F,
and R.A.N. men, are not to be cut. In other
cases, however, there is to be a reduction
of 22$ p.c., though old age and invalid pen-
sions (which cost 3$ millions more than war
pensions last year) are to be reduced only
12$ p.c. It is an unjust differentiation, and,
harsh as it may seem, the Commonwealth
cannot really afford to pay 17s. 6d. a week
in non-contributory old-age and invalid pen-
sions, nor (while there are adequate checks
on military pensioners) does it provide anj
real safeguard against fraud. Witness the
ease of the Sydney lady who drew the invalid
pension for nine years while plying a bri.sk
trade in bigamy.
The question of a compulsory wheat pool
is once more to be put to the vote in N. S.
Wales; and men who ought to have learned
something from the collapse of the Canadian
pools and the N.S.W. Govern men t Savings
Bank arc repeating the parrot talk about
“orderly marketing” that people expect from
glib politicians like Dunn, Forde and
Moloney. The State which has made the
greatest advance in wheat production these
last do-zen years is Westralia. Over there
the farmers have found that they do best
when they can choose between a body of
merchants and a voluntary pool, each a check
on the other. Sometimes (as last year) the
merchants take a chance and offer more than
is got from the pool. If the compulsionists
prevail, N.S.W. wheat (whatever may be
alleged to the contrary) will be controlled
by the gang that wrecked the Savings Bank
and caused Rural Bank cheques to be dis-
honored. That ought to be enough for
farmers capable of seeing a hole through a
ladder.
An observant stranger visiting N. S.
Wales last October might have wondered
whether Government school-teachers were
paid for teaching school or spouting Labor
politics. One of these teacher-politicians has
written a book in praise of the Lang plan,
and possibly the Lang plan will be added to
the curriculum by Minister Davies —the per-
son who blackguarded the Chief Justice and
was not man enough to apologise when he
was bowled out, and who has placed Govern-
ment schools at the disposal of Lang-planners
and socialisation committees, at a rent which
would not pay for the electric-light globes,
for their poisonous propaganda. Government
schooling in N, S. Wales costs nearly six
millions a year, and, judged by results, would
be dear at half the price. With excellent
material to work on, the system turns out
multitudes who spell and .speak vilely, and
whose reading is confined to flapper and
gutter papers—in a word, mugs. Probably
95 per cent, of the newly-enfranchised voters
swallowed the lying rubbish that the Lang
gang spread before them at election time, and
they were nearly all “educated” in Govern-
ment schools.
No notice need be taken of the fact that
one mob of alleged Communists chased Jock
Garden out of the Trades Hall and that
another mob gnashed its teeth in front of
Lang’s home at Auburn. Nobody has any
right to say what Communism is, and when
a hundred of them get together they expound
98 different gospels and gnash their teeth
“Dat voz der game I played in ninedeen-
vourteen.”
simultaneously. The man who can get hold
of most ruffians wins in the end, which
explains why Trotsky ran harder than J.
Garden and left Stalin in charge; and Stalin
will have to take pedestrian exercise as
soon as Biffski can get command of a few
more murderers. There are 27 .Communist
factions in Australia, including the unions
of unemployed; and the true-blue Commu-
nist with dreams in his eyes generally turns
up his nose sin. or 6in. at all but one of
them.
J. T. Lang figures as the hero of an
article in a paper entitled “World Federa-
tion,” which is printed in Urdu and published
in Nanking. The article refers to the N. S.
Welsher as “One brave Mr. Lang fighting
single-handed a horde of agents of the British
banks and British Imperialism.” _ This is
qualified, it is true, by the somewhat cautious
and slightly ambiguous addendum: “We do
not know who is this Mr. Lang—there is no
guarantee that ruffians will not be leaders —
therefore the fact that the hero of this note
happens to be a Premier does not describe
the man.” Still, to win approbation even
from a Hindu-Chinaman who admits that he
doesn’t know you is something.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“E. B. Land” : I suppose clerks of court
have got to use up their stock of official
envelopes, but the slogans on the back of
some of them could certainly do with revi-
sion. This week in S. Aus. I received an
0.11.M.5. communication from Broken Hill.
On the back of the envelope is set forth in
imposing capitals “The Best Place for Your
Savings is the Government Savings Bank of
N.5.W.,” and over the flap one is further
urged to note that “The Money You Save
May Save You.” Now, I ask you!-
* * :!:
“Lex”: Sydney police headquarters in-
stance a feat of last week as “probably the
quickest piece of work ever performed in
the world's history of crime.” A confidence
man made an appointment with a prospec-
tive victim at 2.10 p.m., was met by two
’tecs, taken to the Central, charged, sen-
tenced to six months and sent on his way
to Long Bay, all inside 30 minutes. I saw
an even brisker effort put up in Dubbo years
ago. A local farmer was up for sheep-
stealing. The defence was an alibi, the prin-
cipal witness being a neighbor. The evi-
dence for the Crown was overwhelming. The
minute it concluded the Crown Prosecutor
A LITTLE BIT OF SALVAGE.
“Poor Ethel! She in one of those who have loved and lost.”
“Oh, I don’t know. Not altogether. She got five hundred damages.”
applied for a perjury indictment against the
witness ; he was put in the dock, a jury was
empanelled, and he was tried, convicted and
sentenced to five years before the jury came
back with a verdict against his friend.
* : I- *
“Borderer”: The latest of record-breaking
aviators, Harold Gatty, tin; Australian, and
the U.S.A.’s Wiley Post, who rounded the
world half-way between the Arctic circle and
the tropic of Cancer, travelling nearly 16,000
miles in less than nine days, spoke disrespect-
fully of the Ural Mountains, which make an
impressive show upon the map, as no more
than hills. Evidently they struck the main
barrier between two continents at its southern
end, where Europe, for some unascertainable
reason, overleaps it considerably. Inciden-
tally, one may wonder who it was in the
remote past that settled exactly where Europe
ended and Asia began, both in this section
and where the boundary runs between
Georgia and Asia Minor. One has come
to think of the continents as contrasting so
sharply in every respect that they could only
he divided by towering ranges or deep waters.
In reality the division is sometimes about as
arbitrary as that between English counties.
❖ ❖ * *
“Hard Cider” : Niagara has been utilised for
a carefully-thought-out murder. While an in-
dustrious bootlegger was delivering his goods
on the U.S. side, certain unscrupulous busi-
ness rivals sawed half-way through the oars
of his humble craft. Unsuspectingly the
victim began his return jour-
ney ; the oars broke when he
put liis back into them, and he
was whirled, frantically yelling,
to his doom. A large propor-
tion of the crimes committed in
U-ncle Sam’s country nowadays
seems to be a direct result of
the Eighteenth Amendment.
And even when the miscreants
who hit on ideas like this for
lessening competition are caught,
there is little chance of the
number of rum-runners being
decreased thereby. The demand
for forbidden liquor is too in-
sistent, the business of supply-
ing it too profitable, to be
checked by gang-fights, battle,
murder, or death in the electric
chair.
* si: sic
“Limers”: In these days of
great flying achievements, the
recent trans-Tasman flight of
Chichester has been almost
overlooked, yet it is question-
able whether equal navigational
ability has ever been displayed.
To fly in a well-equipped ’plane
for a goal even 3000 miles away,
when it is as big as Europe, is
in some ways a much less re-
markable performance than to
fl.v single-handed in a small
'plane a mere matter of 500
miles for a spot whose area is
a matter of a few square miles,
and to find it. To take an
astronomical sight in a ’plane
like the Southern Cross is diffi-
cult. arid for the pilot of a baby
machine like Chichester’s would
be well-nigh impossible. Wind,
however, i.s the greatest factor
of uncertainty that has to be
contended with over water, and
at a height of 2000 feet it
would be impossible in a clear
sky to detect any change of force or direc-
tion. I shall never cease to wonder how
Chichester did it.
**- •!• -k -c
“Old Timer”: The depresli has brought
Sydney’s emigres back in shoals, and taught
them a lesson they would never have learned
outside the stern academy of experience.
Some have been abroad for no more than
10 or 15 years, but in that brief time they
find that most of the social leaders of their
day have become nobodies, and that clans
which were either unheard of, or banned as
being insufficiently remote from the family
shop, have become, not merely somebodies,
but the rulers of fashion’s highest roosts.
Take yachting. Before the war the R. S.
Y. Squadron at Kirribilli was fashionable;
now it is no more exclusive than the R. S.
Golf Club with its 1500-odd members. The
phenomenon is always to be observed in
communities where wealth isn’t based on
land. In N. S. Wales money is no longer
being made out of wool or wheat, and there
are no country estates to speak of, as in
Britain, with tenants (squireens, farmers,
villagers and so on) who return the land-
lords comfortable incomes. The local for-
tunes* such as they are, come chiefly from
trading enterprises and gambles—particu-
larly gambles. There is nothing static about
such a state of affairs. It is as certain as
anything can be that in another 10 or 15
years many of Sydney’s newly-enriched
hidalgos, whose Christian names are. now
on the lips and pens of the gossip-hounds
and press girls, will be bewailing the good
old days, and sneering at the. outsiders who
have started to pollute Government House.
The latter —the aristos'of the next genera-
tion, so to speak—are at present selling
socks and the like, and battling for pride
of place at linen teas in outer suburbs; and
they, too, will go the way of their kind in due
course. With a few rule-proving exceptions,
such as the N.S.W. Stephens, it is only
families like the Osbornes, Onslows and
Dangars that survive—those that get hold
of land and live on it.
❖ * $ *
“Oran”: Two trials which have taken
place in Maoriland on the same day showed
a remarkable similarity of cause and effect.
One was decided at the Hamilton Supreme
Court and the other at Napier, Hawkes Bay.
In each instance a man became enamored of a
young woman whose parents frowned on the
affair, and each dutiful daughter heeded the
parental warning; whereupon each man in the
case took his gun, and, merely to impress
on the young woman that he wasn’t the kind
THE WAY OF THE SEA.
ATTRACTIVE PASSENGER: “I found a bonser place last night where one could get away
from the crowd.”
DEJECTED OFFICER: “You mean where two could.”
of person to stand any nonsense, fired it off
in her direction. Each girl was badly
wounded. In one case the plea was “moral
insanity”; in the other merely drink and
jealousy. Both juries made it guilty, one
taking five hours, the other 40 minutes ; and
each prisoner was handed seven years by
an unsympathetic Judge.
* * * *
“Agrippa”: Queer accidents? A young
mother of my acquaintance went into her
linen-press to put away some clothes. Her
tiny son, toddling behind, pushed the door
shut. The press was old-fashioned, with
no room to turn, and could be opened only
from the outside. With breakfast just over
and no prospect of visitors, the case of the
imprisoned one seemed almost hopeless, as
a couple of hours at the most would have
meant suffocation. And at every cry little
John shouted back, scenting a new game.
Then, the novelty wearing off, luckily John
lifted up his voice and howled. The inquisi-
tive lady next door ran true to form, and
came to the rescue just as the prisoner
collapsed.
* :]! * *
“Baton Sinister”: The biggest joke of the
year seems to have been the meeting of the
“descendants” of William the Conqueror at
Falaise, the old Normandy town where Wil-
liam was born. There were 300
descendants, mostly Americans, of
course, and they unveiled a tablet
purporting to contain the complete
roll of the Conqueror’s “original
companions who fought at Hast-
ings,” which is a tall order. Battle
Abbey roll, the only authentic re-
cord, is an imperfect list of the
knights and gentlemen of coat-
armor who went up with William
against Harold on that memorable
day. It takes no account of the
thousands of men-at-arms and camp followers.
$ * $ *
“A. Jack”: The landing of an aero-
plane in the main street at Menindie
(N.S.W.) is a less imposing feat than
it might appear, as the said thoroughfare
exists mostly on the plan, and, except during
week-ends in the summer-time, it would be
hard to find anything for an aeroplane to
hit. Mollison has the credit for the
best landing in those parts. Losing the aero :
drome and visibility in a blinding dust storm
he came down on a cricket pitch in the heart
of South Broken Hill, a thickly-populated
suburb Daniels, the flying parson, also
missed the aerodrome recently. Spotting
some nice flat ground beneath him, and, not
knowing it was a mine slime dump, he was
about to descend there. Fortunately for him, a
resident, seeing the danger, waved a sheet in
the direction of the aerodrome; and Daniels-
altered his intention. He landed on a vacant
plot at the end of Patton-street, South
Broken Hill’s main street.
* * * *
“Bundawadra” : Excise officers are an in-
dustrious lot. A few weeks ago a N.S.W.
citizen was haled before a beak and fined
pretty stiffly for having converted black-
berries into an alcoholic drink, and
the other day an unemployed householder
learned, at the cost, of a, fiver, that home-
brewed beer containing more than 2 per cent,
of proof spirit is looked on with disfavor
by the Law. In neither case was it sug-
gested that there had been any attempt to
sell the stuff. As a matter of fact, some of
the alleged non-alcoholic drinks that are sold
would doubtfully comply with excise require-
ments. Writer remembers an enterprising
Polish Jew on the Westralian goldfields
whose hop and horeliound beers were calcu-
lated to make the world look as bright as
any brewery product could. His brisk trade
was a matter of extreme dissatisfaction to the
local publicans, but without the evidence of
qualified analysts prosecution would have
been useless, and the Hebrew had a discon-
certing way of skipping from one settlement
to another (along with his Galician recipes)
whenever the police got too inquisitive. The
fact that he eventually struck trouble in
connection with an illicit still may have fur-
nished some clue to the nature of his earlier
activities.
“M.G.” : The Hogan Ministry has made at
least one solid economy by installing the
Chief Justice as Acting-Governor; if some-
body would buy or rent Stonington, the
vice-regal residence in Malvern, there would
be a further saving. The vast, rambling
edifice, which was one of the boom palaces
of the ’eighties, belonged to the Wagner
estate until the Government bought it for
£35,000. Its seven acres will be worth more
than that when better times arrive. Mean-
while the Lieut.-Governor will continue to
occupy his flat near Parliament House.
* * * *
“Columba” : Lever’s selection of “Viscount
of the Western Isles’’ for his title wasn't the
only occasion when objections were raised
against such a choice (B. l/7/’3l). There
was an outcry in Ireland when Lord Aber-
deen, on relinquishing the Lord-Lieutenancy
after his second term and receiving a step in
the peerage, proposed to call himself “Aber-
deen and Tara.” The Hill of Tara was the
traditional meeting-place of the kings of Ire-
land, and the idea that a Scot should describe
himself as “of Tara” was so repellent to my
countrymen that it was abandoned.
* if
“X.N.0.”: “Dog Barker” (B. l/7/’3l)
makes one mistake in his comments on the
reversal of the meanings of “port” and “star-
board” as steering orders when he says that
tillers gave place to steering-wheels. They
didn’t; the wheel, with its various connecting
ropes, rods and (in steam steering)
engine, merely provides a means of operat-
ing the tiller from a distance. The tiller
itself, either in the form of a yoke or a
quadrant, still remains and always will while
rudders remain. There is a strong argument,
in the Navy at any rate, for retention of the
old system in the fact that there are still in
the service far more boats steered with
tillers than ships steered with wheels. The
case of the tiller-steered boats, in which
helmsmen learn their job, has now become
very involved.
* * * $
“Inner Temple”: Sid Mack, K.C., com-
plained to a Sydney Judge the other day
that he couldn’t understand what a witness
was saying “because of his Australian
accent.” Absurdly enough, Mr. Mack has
a strong Australian accent himself. So have
the other members of the N.S.W. Inner Bar
except Lamb and Canaway (who, like the
late B. R. Wise, might be mistaken for
London “silks” when they start talking),
and all the members of the junior Bar that
I have heard in court, except H. S. Nicholas
and B. Burdekin. An Australian accent is
anything but unintelligible. In point of
fact, it is easier to hear than an English
accent, and almost as easy as a New York
accent, which talkie-addicts agree is the
most audible of all. Nor is an Australian
accent a possession to be deplored—at any
rate, by Australian advocates. So far as
they are concerned it is an asset; it helps
them materially to get on companionable
terms with juries. Pew juries anywhere in
the Empire, by the way, care about an
“Oxford accent,” and there is supposed to
be a prejudice against it even amongst King’s
Bench Division and Old Bailey juries, who
hear it oftenest.' I have yet to meet a jury,
though, that isn’t enthralled by an Irish
' accent in Judge or counsel, and London
juries are partial to a Cockney accent, such
as the late Sit Edward Clarke had.
GONE A MILLION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A million sovereigns, packed in neat white
wooden boxes, were consigned to the Bank of Eng-
land by the Moreton Bay; four million more are
to follow.”
It’s bound for London, stowed the liner’s
hull in;
Off, like the Scotchman’s saxpence, with
a bang.
It’s gone—a million! Much the same as
Scullin
And quite as irredeemably as Lang.
Raise it a dirge and toll a requiem
(Pity we couldn’t pay our debts with them).
A thousand thousand sovereigns in trans-
mittal
Across the world in boxes white and neat.
So much to us. So relatively little
To the Old Lady of Threadneedle-street.
Yet only thus, it seems, can we arrange
To obviate default and dodge exchange.
A. million gone, another four a-going!
No flimsies pledging “payment on demand”
Acceptable just now for what we’re owing,
Or any virtue left in notes of hand.
While credit lasts who couldn’t cut a dash?
But when it’s gone you’ve got to pay in
cash.
A million gone, not in the worthless ficos
Borne by the other sort of Moreton Bay.
Like Regulus, some maerentes arnicos
It well may leave behind it, one would
say.
A record crop, in truth, for any tree.
Bid it a long farewell, a sad vale!
A gloomy funeral march on the carillon
Might the prevailing sentiment express.
A million gone! And if they’re gone-a-
million
Too, who have landed us in such a mess,
There’ll be, ’tis almost needless to remark,
No sadness of farewell when they embark.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“P.X.”: Moscow doesn’t leave much to
chance. Two young friends lately joined de-
bating clubs in their respective Sydney
suburbs. Both of them had more than aver-
age success: they were not only well edu-
cated but fluent and presentable. After the
third time one 0 f the two had spoken a
visitor began to take an interest in him, tact-
fully introduced politics, and discovered he
still had an open mind about most things.
At once bundles of Communist literature,
obviously selected with care, began to reach
the young man. The other chap, when he
was similarly approached, was more explo-
sive. Like most young men he rebelled at
countless things he saw around him. He
began to have Communist literature dropped
in on him, too. But quite different bait had
evidently been prescribed in his case: he
didn’t have to be handled so carefully. Do
you wonder Moscow makes converts among
the impressionable?
% * * *
“Mells” : The latest form of advertisement
in England consists in showing at what
speed wearing apparel can be fashioned
from the raw material into the fin-
ished article. This has enabled Jimmy
Thomas, the Labor Minister, to walk
abroad in a tailored suit that, a little over
two hours earlier, was wool on a sheep’s
back, and a felt hat that was evolved from
its primal elements in even quicker time.
The idea seems capable of indefinite expan-
sion. Thomas has the reputation of a
ELOQUENCE.
BILL (whose best points have all been anticipated): “Mr. Chairman, the last speaker
said the speaker before him had stolen his Well, I had a bit of
thunder up my sleeve, too, but they skinned me of it till I haven t got a
feather of it left to fly with.”
valiant trencherman who never misses a good
dinner; and, being a happy post-prandial
speaker, is in much demand at such func-
tions. It is now up to some enterprising
restaurateur to demonstrate the minimum
period in which the ingredients for, say, a
steak-and-kidney pudding can be hurried
from a grazing ox and half a dozen sheep
on to a smoking dish for the Minister’s delec-
tation. After that some brewer may cut in
and, with the assistance of modern chemis-
try, find the briefest time in which a sheaf
of barley and a bunch of hops can be con-
verted into the foaming contents of a tan-
kard. It’s all good for trade, and Jimmy,
unlike some of his ascetic-looking colleagues,
is just the sort of man to enjoy it.
“Spokeshave”: The soapbox orator who
asked his hearers to “consider the future in
retrospect” (B. 24/6/’3l) is equalled by a
character in Beresford Fowler’s Australian
war play, “Greater Love,” recently produced
in Melbourne. In a solemn moment he turns
to another character and says, “Some day
someone will write your autobiography.”
* * » *
“Craiser” : The statement that the Sydney
Mitchell Library had the only existing copy
of the manuscript issue No. 1 of Fawkner’s
“Melbourne Advertiser,” January 1, 1838,
was premature. Before the claim can be
conceded it will be necessary to destroy the
three copies in the Vie. Public Library, one in
the Parliamentary Library in Melbourne and
several which are in private hands else-
where. A dozen or 14 copies of each issue
were reproduced by Fawkner’s amanuenses,
and it is reckoned that at least half of them
have been preserved.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A copy of “New Zealand and
Its Inhabitants,” by Rev. Richard Taylor,
M.A., published in London in 1545, has
been retrieved from an Auckland destruc-
tor. It deals mainly with Maoriland
a century ago, but contains some N.S.W.
early-day history as well. The Rev.
Samuel Marsden is the hero (?) of one
anecdote. When Sam was shepherding souls in
the young colony, a man married a woman
convict, and later complained to the chaplain
of her laziness. “Send her in,” commanded
the rev. gent, sternly. “You have been false
to your vow when you were married,” he
told his parishioner, and followed this up
by belting her with his whip till she screamed
for mercy. She subsequently became a model
housekeeper, and the Rev. Taylor apparently
didn’t regard Marsden’s methods as unduly
harsh. “We must remember this was in a
convict settlement,” is his comment on the
incident.
* * * *
“Exon”: It isn’t so much that English
public schools, with a few exceptions of
which Eton is the most notable, have little
use for rowing (B. l/7/’3l) as that they
have little chance of learning it, very few
being on or near decent-sized streams. In
that regard Oxford has, or should have, a
tremendous advantage over Cambridge, the
Cam not being in the same class as the
Isis. Hence innumerable witticisms have
been levelled at the former, though the stan-
dard of rowing at the two universities is
much the same over the years. One hardy
annual featured a Cambridge visitor to
Oxford standing on Magdalen Bridee and
gazing rather disappointedly at the Cherwell
under the impression that he was looking at
the Thames. “There’s no great difference
between your river and ours, after all,” he
was represented as saying. The Cherwell is a
sluggish brook that carries little on its sur-
face but punts and summer picnickers.
* * * *
“Kayeff”: The Chinese dragon of pagean-
try may be a vanishing quantity a't Port
Darwin (B. 8/4/’3l), but it persists in all
its ancient splendor at Ocean Island, the
little-known neighbor of Nauru. The five
or six hundred coolies and mechanics
employed by the Phosphates Commission
stage a first-class performance there on their
national holiday. It’s a small island, con-
sequently their dragon is only about 75
yards long, but it makes up for that in
flashing eyes, fire-breathing nostrils and
general impressiveness. It is preceded by
coolies bearing an immense drum and leap-
ing rhythmically to music, and followed by
more coolies carrying pigs roasted whole.
At the rear of the procession trail the picca-
ninnies from the Kanaka village. In other
days the pigs were carried to the ceme-
tery, where they were left for departed
countrymen to stoke up on, but this part
of the programme was abandoned when a
stray Chinaman, passing the cemetery at
night, came on a mob of pork-gorged young
Kanakas dancing a Ruia among the tomb-
stones. Nowadays the Pongs carry the
kai-kai back to barracks, and clean it up
themselves.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The attractive idea of making a
fine marine drive along the 15 miles of
sandhill from Adelaide’s Outer Harbor to
where the rocks begin at Marino has been
revived. Optimists say there will never
again be a chance to do it as cheaply as
now. Financiers say, “Where is the esti-
mated £lOO,OOO or so of cost coming from?”
A practical compromise is that the exist-
ing stretches of esplanade shall be gradually
lengthened by the seaside resorts en route —-
Largs, Semaphore, Grange, Henley, the new
West’ Beach, Glenelg, Brighton, Seacliff;
and that meanwhile private interests shall
be prevented from grabbing any more of
the foreshore.
“Clerk”: That “stationmasters never
knew when to expect” Yic. rail-chief Harold
Clapp on a visit of inspection (B. 17/6/’3l)
is hardly correct. The time-tables of the
special train in which the hustling slogan-
writer travels are issued a week or so in
advance, and stationmasters are in fact
instructed at what hour and date to assemble
deputations of townspeople in an orderly
queue. One railway brass-hat who used to
make lightning-like and unsuspected calls at
Country stations was Arthur Hyland, sometime
chairman of Clapp’s betterment board and
now director of Australian trade publicity in
England. Hyland, the sort of man who would
dictate a report to his secretary while walk-
ing down Collins-street, always travelled un-
heralded, though an alert station telegraphist
would sometimes dot-dash a warning along
the line. One Morse man fell in badly when
he rashly click-clacked the tip to the next
station while Hyland was passing the open
door. “Thanks, but I’ll tell them myself
when I get there,” said the subject of the
message drily above the tapping of the instru-
ment. For he was himself one of the best
sound-operators in the railways, having
served as Sparks on a troopship.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A woman sentenced in N. S.
Wales for bigamy in an aggravated
form was shown to have had the following
sources of income: (1) Money
from husband No. 1 for support
of a child; (2) payment from a
man she somehow neglected to
marry for the support of two
children whom, incidentally, she
got the State to keep; (3) 30s.
per week from husband No. 2
under a maintenance order —she
had him committed to gaol when
he failed to pay; (4) £3 ss. a
week from husband No. 3, who
further declared that she had
spent £4OO of his savings; and
(5) £1 a week invalid pension
which she had drawn from an
indulgent Commonwealth for
nine years on the plea that she
was without support. A feature
of the case noted by one of the
dailies was that the three husbands
were observed in an amicable dis-
cussion outside the court. They must have
had plenty to talk about.
* * * *
“Tray Bit”: Periodically Britain is scan-
dalised by the misconduct of some church
congregation which interrupts the sermon
of its shepherd by interjections and pro-
tests. In a way a sermon is as trying to
some people as listening to radio ; one may
disapprove but contradiction is out of the
question. Still, we have the precedent of
Jenny Geddes and the cutty-stool she flung
at the head of the episcopalian preacher in
St. Giles. And a tradition still lingers about
that Duke of Cambridge who was one of
George lll.’s sons, and his habit of comment-
ing aloud on the Ten Commandments as they
were read out. “Very proper, very proper” ;
“Quite so, but devilish hard sometimes”;
“Never did that; it was my brother”
and so on.
* * * *
“Morita”: A dinner-plate strewn with
silver staring up at me from the cloak-room
counter at a recent smoke-oh acted as a re-
minder that, although the attendant’s lawful
screw, is . doubtless protected, by, umpteen
awards,; he refuses to relinquish liis per-
quisites. I knew one who always started off
“kitty” himself with a florin, and removed
all threepences in an endeavor to persuade
patrons that bogey was sixpence. Yet in war
time it wasn’t infra dig for London’s elite
to toss coppers on the plate as their tribute,
Coming out of a theatre to retrieve my
Stetson I found two superior Tommy officers
holding up the queue at the counter while
they struggled into their greatcoats. A Digger
came next, and the three dived into their
pockets for tips about the same time. The
officers each placed twopence on the plate.
The Digger gazed at their offerings open-
eyed, made another search in his pocket and
siammed two bob on the counter, with the
accompaniment for all to hear: “Take this
’ere fer the flamin’ three of us.”
* * * *
“Centurion”: Armchair colonels and club
majors will be perturbed at the decision of
the War Office to organise the infantry units
of the Army in threes instead of the familiar
fours. There will be three men to a. section,
three platoons to a company and three com-
panies to a battalion. The change is expected
to simplify deployment and take up less road
space when troops are in column. Once upon
a time the cavalry was grouped in threes in-
stead of sections of four. To this day one
Hussar regiment is known by its enemies as
“The Threes About.” It won the sobriquet as a
Light Dragoon regiment at Chillianwallah in
the Sikh wars. Someone gave the order, and
the regiment skedaddled, with the result that
the infantry got it in the neck. Fifty years
later at Capetown the famous taunt caused
a record Donnybrook between the regiment
and a mixed lot of “Colonial” details brigaded
together in Maitland camp.
* * * *
“ Jungor”: Plenty of people will tell you
that they met U.S. President Hoover when
he was on the Westralian goldfields towards
the end of last century (B. l/7/’3l), but
their reminiscences are of the haziest. Every-
body knows that he was one of Bewick,
Moreing’s young men, and a few recall that
he was a teetotaller, and for a short period
was manager of the Sons of Gwalia mine. I
doubt if he could have spent more than a
couple of years on the fields at most. The
reference books simply say of him: “In
West Australia. 1597”; a year or two
later he was in China. Bewick, Moro-
ing had control of some remarkably
rich mines in their heyday, and a larger
number of very indifferent ones on which
they were perpetually worrying wardens’
courts for terms of exemption—often deter-
minedly resisted by townsfolk and miners
generally. This annoyed the firm so much
that it pulled right out of some districts,
leaving the objectors to regret the slaughter
of the goose that might have laid golden
eggs. Such properties couldn’t be worked
without outside capital, and some remain un-
worked to this day.
* * * *
“Centurion”: I note that the House of
Reps, has baen staggered by the receipt
from a returned soldier of a. letter of
156 pages plus 60 pages of appendices.
The document sets out his grievances
- against Repat., and the appendices are, of
course, the latter’s replies and evasions.
An I Egypt I sat for three weeks on a
board of inquiry which was detailed to
find out why a field amputation case had been
found in the luggage of a medical officer when
Cook’s depQt for officers’ baggage was raided
by the Provost Marshal. The board knew
it had been pinched as abandoned Gov-
ernment stores during the last hours of the
evacuation of Gallip. Yet I should hate to
have to reckon up the number of folios that
•were written in “Please explains,” the sub-
sequent explanations which always called up
a new batch of yellow forms from the Heads,
and our own unanimous concealment of the
bald truth in the lengthy finding we delivered
at last.
OPTICAL ILLUSIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Petitioner deposed that he found the co-respondent
embracing his wife in the kitchen. When he remon-
strated both of them insisted that his eyes had
deceived him.... Decree nisi, with costs.”
—Sydney divorce-court item.
You might have almost felled him with a
feather;
He gazed upon the pair in stunn’d sur-
prise—
Linked in a passionate embrace together.
Philandering ’mid pots and. pans and pies.
For half a jiff he hesitated whether
He could believe the witness of his eyes;
And when he voiced remonstrance, quick and
hot
Came their assurances that he could not.
What could he think, he asked with grim
decision,
Who’d seen another’s kisses on her cheek?
They treated the indictment with derision,
Pooh-poohed the bare idea, so to speak,
Insisting vehemently that his vision
Rather than their behavior was oblique.
Their morals reprehensible? No fear!
’Twas just his deadlights that were out of
gear.
He’d see his lawyer, and with that conclusion
I think he smote the dresser with his fist.
They heard with no appearance of confusion
And doubtless hazarded the point he’d
missed,
That since ’twas all an optical illusion
The man lie needed was an oculist.
No base deceivers they, it was conveyed;
His visual organs cruel tricks had played.
He could have sworn —and did —they were
caressing
Among the crockery and kitchenware.
They reckoned his myopia distressing.
The conflict of dpinion ended there
Until the Law, the pros and cons assessing,
Essayed to indicate the “erring pair,”
And found, as any cynic might surmise,
The erring pair in question weren’t his eyes.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
COMPLIMENT.
If I had the sea as a loom for thee,
The silver, the green and the mirrored blue,
Sunlight on the waves, green fettered in
gold,
And the rocks, wine-purple, darkhng
through,
And silver as damascene
A-ripple through the soft sea green—
-7 would weave a shawl that was passing
fair.
But now I give you the thoughts of a fool
As an airy net for your streaming hair,
The dreams, the sighs, the songs of a fool
To fringe your face and to kiss your hair.
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.


TOWERS ofCOMFORT/iABSERyiCE
Canadian Pacific Hotels
YOU’LL never forget Canadian
Pacific Hotel service; it is so
complete; so different nothing that
will make for comfort and pleasure is
forgotten. It is this service, linked
with delightful appointments and ex-
cellent cuisine which makes C.P.R.
Hotels so famous the world over. A
chain of fifteen C.P.R. Hotels cater to
the needs of travellers at all cities and
resorts on the C.P.R. route to Eng-
'and. Write for literature and details to
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. 1/31 2
(ARABIAN pacific
(TRAINS STEAMERS HOTEIS
poTnoo
If OOBQ B r
rw-,
M
m
u oo
The “Royal York,”
Toronto, largest and
most up-to-date hotel
in the British Empire
ZJhe Worlds GreatestJravel System
it*
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
, NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private nospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Butters, once in charge of Tas-
mania’s big water-power scheme and then
Chairman of the Commission to build and
govern Canberra, has got a steady job under
his friend Hugh Denison. Campbell Jones
having retired, his place as “executive direc-
tor” is taken by Butters, who was the Asso-
ciated News director in special charge of
the “Guardian” before that bad bargain
was thrown out. Butters, of course, knows
nothing more about newspapers than the
average man knows. But it isn’t considered
necessary to know much about newspapers
to run newspapers these days. Which pro-
bably explains why so many of them cease
to be newspapers. . r
Bruce Smith, who lives at Bowral
(N.S.W.) nowadays, had a birthday last
month, his 80th. As a lawyer he can look
back a long way—--he was called to the Eng-
lish Bar in 1877 —and commercially he can
look back even further, for he was familiar-
ising himself at Melbourne with the ship-
ping business of his father (William Howard
Smith) 10 years before that. His political
career began in 1882, when he was first
returned to : the N.S.W. Assembly, and it
continued with intervals for 38 years. He
was a' State Minister in the days of Parkes,
he might have been Speaker of the House
of Reps, if he had cared, and he refused a
Supreme Court Judgeship 10 years before
Federation came along. South Australia’s
Jos Symon is about the only retired lawyer-
politician who dates back a few years earlier
than Bruce Smith.
Picturesque W. H. Whiddon, Lang’s
appointee as director of the N.S.W. State
lottery at £l5OO p'.a,, has played many parts
in his 70-odd years in Sydney. In his early
days he kept the Adelaide Hotel in Park-
road, Paddington. Then he turned to the
pursuit of the wily taxpayer, entering the
N.S.W. Taxation Department 35 years ago,
and rising to be commissioner. Although he
had long passed the retiring age it was not
until twb years ago that he was allowed to
throw up his job. In his spare time he has
W.H. WHIDDON, director of the new
State Lottery (N.S.W.).
played the organ at various churches and
conducted numerous suburban choral soci-
eties —J. C. Williamson tried to get him
once as chorus master. The turf also knows
him well, and Tattersall’s .Club, Sydney, has
twice had him as chairman.
A curiously versatile scholar is Henry
Brose, of Adelaide, just appointed Professor
of Physics at Nottingham, at the age of 40.
Before he went to Oxford with a Rhodes
Scholarship he had won music scholarships
and been French master at his old school,
Prince Alfred's; he was also known as a
fine runner at anything from 100 yards to a
quarter-mile. He is now Doctor of Philosophy,
and is also reputed to be one of the few who
really understand the relativity of Einstein,
who is his personal friend.
William Tate, said to be the sole survivor
of the Hann expedition that discovered the
Palmer goldfield in 1872, is now an old-age
pensioner in Rockhampton. He was 89 the
other day.
Ted Grayndler, M.L.C., Federal secretary
of the Australian Workers’ Union, earned
himself another black mark in the books
of the Graves-Garden group at Sydney
Trades Hall when he voted against Lang s
preposterous wages-tax bill in the Leg.
Council last week. Grayndler, who was born
on Gulgong (N.S.W.), and has been a
battler for the rural worker all his life, pre-
sented the shearers’ case in the House. As
he pointed out, these men work only about
20 weeks in the year, and may earn £lO to
£l2 per week during that period, or about
£2OO to £250 for the year ; yet while they
worked they would have to pay ss. in the
£, just as if they were 011 the £520-a-year
mark. A burly figure in the middle .sixties,
EDWARD GRAYNDLER, M.L.C.,
gen. sec. A.W.U.
Grayndler has been actively associated with
the A.W.U. almost from its inception in
1884. As a young man he shore over most
of eastern Australia, and took a part in
the big strike of the early ’nineties. He
filled many minor posts in his union, became
secretary of the Vic.-Riverina branch at Bal-
larat, and upon the death of Donald Mac-
donell was elected Federal secretary in 1912.
For the last six years he has been returned
to the post unopposed. In his earlier days
he had Parliamentary aspirations, and gave
the late Hans Irvine, viticulturist and
grazier, a good run for Grampians (Vic.)
that was ih 1906. In 1921 John Storey
sent him to the N.S.W. Upper House. He
has the backing of the biggest union in Aus-
tralia—a circumstance which isn’t likely to
escape Gov. Game’s notice should he have
to take the gloves off to Premier Lang.
Joseph N. Grace, who died at ITaberfield
on Sunday, saw the small drapery business
started by himself and his brother less than
40 years ago with a capital of a few hun-
dreds grow into one of the largest trading
concerns in Sydney. The Graces were born
in Buckinghamshire and were indentured to
the trade in London. The whole history of
the venture they entered on in such a humble
way was one of growing custom and expan-
sion of their activities and premises to meet
it. Fourteen years ago the partnership
became a limited liability company, the
whole of the share capital being held by the
family. Joseph Grace ranked as one of the
keenest, most enterprising and successful of
Australia’s retail traders.
. Although he is now 94, the Coligrega-
tionalist Rev. Fred Hastings, of Eastbourne
(Vic.), still regularly preaches a good ser-
mon. One of his most recent, discourses
was on “Can We Escape Worry?” For a man
of 94 it seems to mostly depend on what s
the other side of the grave.
“D.”: Dan Levy, father of the N. S.
Wales Assembly (he was first elected just
30 years ago), is an unusual character, how-
ever you look at him. He is the smallest
Speaker N.S.W. has had, and perhaps the
most knowledgeable as regards Parliamen-
tary procedure, of which he has made a life-
long study. From the time he was first re-
turned for Fitzroy, which included much of
the area he now represents, he has nevdr
lived outside his constituency, never lost
touch with the electors, and never been
sure that his next election wouldn’t be his
last. You don’t know what zest and con-
centration are till you have seen Danny
battling, as he believes, for his political life.
Like Andy Lysaght, he has graced both
branches of t.ho legal profession, and is now
back in the lower division, where he started
on leaving the University. Law reform is
Levy’s strong suit (he was listened to with a
good deal more respect than his leader when
Lysaght’s bill was being debated), but he
can give Parliament specialist assistance in
a dozen other directions. Thoroughness is
his watchword. He is an orthodox Jew, un-
married and lives with a devoted sister.
The hard-up Vic. Treasury got £54,000
in death duty from the £486,000 estate of
Edward Manifold, of Wiridgil. The widow
and three sons share most of the property.
Campbell Jones told a meeting of Asso-
ciated News that he’d had a hell of a time
lately, but he probably touched the bottom
of Tophet when it came to throwing in his
job of managing editor. Before the board
broke in halves and the smaller half joined
the old “D.T.,” and the “News” and the
“Guardian” and the “Sporting and Drama-
tic,” etc., etc., on the co.’s dump, Campbell
Jones was managing director. He was one
of the “Argus” team Monty Grover brought
over when he took hold of the “Star” and
turned it into the “Sun” 20-odd years ago.
Campbell Jones, big and loud and “manag-
ing,” and with a large capacity for engi-
neering, knew what he wanted and went
after it; and in the end it was a battle be-
tween him and Hugh Denison. Denison
could talk better, was more ingratiating and
had been photographed 2763 times of tenor.
So Campbell Jones went out.
A score of the 45 M’s.L.C. who voted out
Lang’s Emergency Tax Bill were Labor nomi-
nees, and although many left the fold long
since, some occupy prominent industrial posi-
tions. Grayndler is secretary of the A.W.U.;
Yager is secretary of the Eight-hours Com-
mittee. When Allan McDougall “topped the
score” in the election that put the first
N.S.W. Ldbor Senators into Parliament,
Jack Travers (another opponent of Lang’s
bill last week) took his place, and Yager
became assistant-sec.; w T hen Travers became
M.L.C. Yager got the major job, which he
has held for the last 14 years.
Dan lieese, of Christchurch, one of the
newly-appointed Railway Board of Control
in M.L., is a successful business man of 51
and holds a marine engineer’s ticket. But he
is best known as one of the finest cricketers
that the Shivery Isles have produced. He
represented Canterbury when he was 16,
and later captained the M.L. team. During
his sojourns abroad he played for Essex.
Brigadier-General Cecil Foott, Comman-
dant in Victoria, has resigned after 42 years’
service with Australian troops. His mother
was Mary Ilannay Foott, waiter of much
graceful verse and for years editor of the
women’s section of the Brisbane “Courier.”
“M.M.M.”: Norman Makin got his Metho-
dist Church education and his grounding in
elocution at Broken Hill, but not his Labor
politics (B. 24/6/’3l). They were learned
when he was ’ pattern-making in the S.A.
railway workshops at Islington. Makin’s
parents still reside in Broken Hill.
W. J. Poison, president of the Maoriland
Farmers’ Union, is one of the few out of
many journalists in the Ricketty Islands
who left the Inky Way to go farming and
made a success of it. He_ was born in
Wanganui, and once upon a time ivas editor
of “Truth”—-not the John Norton publica-
tion, but an ultra-respectable evening journal
run as a side-kicker to the “Christchurch
Press.” Now he has a sheep-run in the
Manurewa district, and numbers his jum-
bucks by thousands. He was one of the very
“ FARMER " POLSON, of Maoriland.
early members of the F.U., and as a district
chairman was frequently at loggerheads with
the Dominion Council. He has developed
into a forceful, effective speaker, and at last
election Stratford, centre of the cow-cocky-
ing industry, put him into Parliament.
Poison holds his opinions very strongly, and
is extremely definite about them. In addi-
tion, events usually prove him right.
G. W. Martens, M.H.R. for Herbert, was
prominent in the North Queensland A.W.U.
for years before he was selected to oust Dr.
Nott in 1928. Nott had staggered that section
of humanity represented by the N.Q. Labor
leagues by beating the much-fancied Theodore
at the previous election, for, though Bamford
had turned against Labor for several elections
previously, he had originally won the seat
G. W. MARTENS, M.H.R. for Herbert
(Q.).
as a dyed-in-the-wool Laborite, and had
only retained it, after ’verting, on his person-
ality. The machine was well behind Martens
on this occasion, and he headed Nott by
154 in a poll of 54,082. The following year,
when 57,178 votes were cast, Martens won
by 3041, bringing Herbert definitely back
to the Labor map. In Parliament, though
he has much to say, he has thus far said
nothing much.
Fifty years ago two of the leading lights
in the Methodist Young Men’s Debating
Society, Nicliolson-street, Fitzroy, were Dr.
Henry Howard, at present occupying the
pulpit of the Fifth-avenue Presbyterian
Church, New York, and Dr. F. W. Norwood,
minister of the City Temple, London. Both
are natives of Melbourne; Dr. Howard,
is 73, is revisiting Australia.
Tom Molomby, third Vic. Railway Com-
missioner, has been given an extension from
Aug. 1 next to April, 1933. Second Com-
missioner Shannon’s term will be up in that
month, too, and whatever Government is in
office then will have to decide whether a
single commissioner or a triumvirate should
run the lines. Molomby is 64. He joined
the service the day before the abolition of
pensions.
“X.”: Senator R. D. Elliott is all that
The Bulletin said about him (B. 24/6/’3l)
except that he isn’t an Englishman. He
was born in Kyneton (Vic.) in the late
’eighties, and started to earn his living be-
fore he was into his teens.
“Swansdown”: Of the two Australian
politicians who have sat in three different
Parliaments (B. 24/6/’3l) Fate was far
kinder to Ewing than to Carpenter. The
latter left S. Aus. because the constituency
that returned him was abolished; he got into
the House of Reps, and the Westralian
Assembly, but in neither was he able to stay.
Ewing, on the other hand, never lost an
election. He resigned his seat as M.L.A.
for Swan to stand for the first Senate, and
he was successful. Before his term was quite
up he resigned his Senatorship on leaving
Perth for Hobart. Six years later he was in
the Speck’s Assembly, and there he remained
until he was made a Judge.
W. N. Kernot, who is to succeed Prof. H.
Payne as dean of the faculty of engineering
at Melbourne Uni., was acting-professor a
few years ago, and lias been associated on
and off with the engineering school since he
took his degrees. Payne, who goes out at
the end of the year, was born at Geelong
63 years ago.
Dr. J. I. Connor, a native of .Coleraine
(Vic.) arid a graduate of Melbourne and
Cambridge Universities, lias won the Ches-
terfield gold medal of the Lpndori. Dermato-
logical Society and been elected a Fellow.
An elder brother was , killed on Gallipoli
in 1915.
Two more books of verse by Australians
are on the road. Robertson and Mullens
will publish Mary Gilmore’s newest volume,
“The Rue Tree,” in August; and Paul
McGuire has one not so far advanced. It
will appear in London, where the author, a
S. Australian, is now living. Cape’s, the
London publishers, included some of his
Bulletin work in their 1930 “Best Poems.”
Angus and Robertson are going to publish
a book of Abbott's Bulletin and other
stories about the hundred-year-old King’s
School, of Parramatta.


1
7
LEATHER
OVERCOATS.
Double - breasted
Style, in best Chrome
Calf, with full belt,
vertical pockets,
check cotton-lined.
Smart shade of
Nigger, waterproof
and stormproof.
Price, £6/19/6
Send your order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Toowoomba, Longreach and Townsville.
The “ Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All
Kinds Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCR
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective
High Explosive Known.
Largely used by Quarries, Road
Contractors, etc.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at
ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
e
PIONEER Belting
for Long Service
'J’IIE many long service records
established by Pioneer Leather
Belting justify its use for the
hardest and most difficult drives.
There is no guesswork when you
buy Pioneer Belting, because there
is a special grade to suit each
type of drive and every working
condition. For many years of
dependable service specify
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Made and' guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-2 G Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
1920.. 117.912 16,374 13 p.c. = 58,500 43,038 114,577
1921.. 311 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 51,437 166,014
1922.. 90,818 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 15,944 181,958
Profit from sale of assets .. 29,338 211,296
1923.. 119.497 16,374 15 p.c. = 67,500 35,623 246,919
1924.. 116.321 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 32,447 279.366
1925.. 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 38,521 317,887
1926.. 107.690 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 23,816 341,703
1927.-133,021 16,374 15 „ „ 71,250 45,397 387,100
Assets written down, £112,500 .. 274,600
1928.. 100.901 16,374 15 p.c. = 75,000 9,527 284,127
Reserve adjustment, £5500 .. 278,627
1929.. 76,272 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,898 288,525
Reserve adjustment, £7500 . . . . 281,025
1930.. 61,359 16,374 8 p.c. = 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,500.. .. 260,510
Loss.
1931.. 20,806 16,374 Nil 223,330
It was a succession of lioorays for the first
18 years after the public became interested
in this cash-drapery business in 1909. Lumped
together the div. and bonus climbed, from 8
p.c. to 15 p.c., £lOO,OOO of goodwill was
rubbed out of the accounts, and £387,100 had
accumulated to support and assist £772,902
of capital, including £272,902 of 6 p.c. pref.
money, at the close of accounts in 1927.
Then it was decided to rebuild the co.’s
main premises; five storeys were added, and
the board went to its bankers for the money,
raising the overdraft to £349,337 at the close
of last accounts. The work interfered with
earnings, and the 5 p.c. bonus was jettisoned
in ’29, leaving the div. at 10 p.c. Next term
the early effects of the slump caused a further
recession in the figures, so the div. was
dropped to 8 p.c.
During the 12 months to March this year
the slump got slumpier; there was a sharp con-
traction in turnover, and a steady recession
in stock values necessitated cuts in most
lines to ensure clearances. So, after taking
stocks into the sheet at £93,121 below the
1930 figure, there was a slip of £127,129 in
gross profits (£262,689). And, of course,
taxation and the weight of the overdraft
made themselves felt. However, exes.
(£283,495, including something for contin-
gencies) were got back £44,964; yet a p.
and 1. _ loss, of £20,806 showed up.
Taking into the reckoning an unexplained
reduction of £25,500 in the taxation reserve
(now £22,500), which reduction may have
some connection with the shrinkage in the
stocks item, the year’s net loss was £46,306.
This and the pref. requirements bit into
reserves for £62,680, reducing them to
£223,330 at March 31.
The financial position suffered of course:
1920. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £722,902 £722,902 £772,902 £772,902
Liabilities .. 27,181 35,572 361,793 383,801
Property .. 306,000 371,641 702,307 723,629
Plant, etc. .. 20,805 76,420 163,810 160,260
Stocks .. 494,611 630,482 546,217 453,096
Book debts .. 17,114 62,195 41,617 38,300
Cash, etc. .. 92,818 35,126 14,941 12,935
During the year £6425 was added to the
overdraft (£349,337) and £15,583 to the
amoant coming to sundry creditors
(±34,404). Including stocks, the more or
less hquid surplus (£120,530) was £120.452
lighter than at the close of accounts in 1930.
until things becomes more settled and
prices steady, trading results will remain
doubtful; meantime, much will depend upon
whether the provision for contingencies
prove.s to be adequate. Conditions which
put the glitter into the figures of a few
.years ago are not likely to reappear, and the
overdraft and growth in taxation may stand
m the way of the ord. div. for a while.
On the market 14s. is asked for the ords.
and 9s. 6d. offered; they fetched 495. two
years ago The backing is 2Ss. lid. in
net tangibles. The prefs. at 12s. 6d. return
tangibles are covered b y 13s. in net
Mulgrave Central Mill (Q.)
„ De-
Jan <s„rr,i , . To Re- Re* preciation
Jan., Surplus, preciation. serves, serves. Reserve.
1928" l?snn 1626 63 > 29 1 58,151
1929 lfi’ano ~ 62,981 70,961
i»Z9.. 16,362 16,066 296 63,277 84,695
Unexplained additions to
1930 ISM o Reserve, £9301 72,578
1931" is oaf Jf’*£o 248 72,826 92,720
mi •’' 18,986 18,803 183 73,009 109,367
in‘no o' h Queensland co., which operates
ln the Cairns Strict, is a purely co-opcra-
Lve concern, with growers as shareholders.
No divs. are paid; excepting sums sent to
reserves, profits are distributed in the price
paid for cane. This was ss. lOd. lower at
a ton year, but a further
small distribution is expected.
The weather affected crushings, which were
28,(50 tons lighter; also the sugar content
of the cane was lower :
Cane Raw Sugar
Crushed, Produced, Gross
Tons. Tons. C.C.S. Income.
1925.. 175,419 22,343 13.3 p.c.
1926.. 179,754 24,887 14.0 „ £485,041
1927.. 189,349 26,870 14.5 „ 665 490
1928.. 163,706 23,370 14.7 „ 521 758
1929.. 189,749 26,660 14.3 „ 567 859
1930.. 207,857 31,647 15.2 „ 642 656
1931.. 179,107 26,123 15.0 „ 505^578
Thus the out-turn of raws dropped 5524
tons.. The lot was passed on to the C.S.R. for
refining and marketing, and was taken into
account at £l9 per ton. The final figure
has since been declared at £l9 13s. la., ex-
cluding sugar in excess of mill quotas. This
excess will apparently be paid for at £8 ss.
a ton, the average price received for the
export surplus.
The slip in the year’s gross income was
£137,078. Exes. (£107,481, including £29,870
spent on maintenance and repairs) were got
back £15,898, leaving £398,097 to be cut up.
Of this £397,111 was paid to growers as
against £500,588 in the previous term,
£18,803 was tossed into the depreciation
reserve (now £109,367), and the balance
(£183) into general reserves, raising them to
£73,009, including a burnt-cane reserve of
£40,136.
To help finance the erection of a fourth
mill £45,000 of share capital has been
got in during the last three years. Also
improvements have been made to the electri-
cal and other equipment, to the benefit of
costs: —
Paid capital— 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
A shares .. £104,984 £112,484 £119,984 £127,484
B shares .. 90,493 97,993 105,493 112,993
Capital levies. 4,629 6,743 11,957
Overdraft .. 66,561 49,563 48,128 27,176
Other liabilities 12,343 67,993 31,166 46,139
Mills, etc. .. 194,962 202,282 234,595 240,461
Tramways,
rolling stock,
etc 102,659 115,368 121,801 129,822
Mortgages .. 58,500 58,500 58,500 58,500
Stocks, stores,
etc 14,311 15,447 11,107 14,547
Shares in other
cos 5,956 5,956 5,956 5,956
Debtors, etc... 32,054 82,612 44,529 57,947
Fittings .. 367 469 570 891
To meet last year’s net capital outlay of
£13,587 on fixed assets, 15,000 new shares
were issued. Capital levies have been made to
help pay for tramway extensions to growers’
areas. The mortgages are held mainly
over shareholders’ properties; debtors’
balances are chiefly amounts due from the
C.S.R. The year’s improvement in. the finan-
cial position was £45.051; outside liabilities
exceeded stocks and book debts by £B2l at
the close of accounts.
Though there has been a check on the
planting of new areas since 1925,
improved methods have swelled tonnages,
and the crop now being harvested at Gor-
don vale is expected to reach the record
figure of 215,000 tons. This and a lower
base price for raws, £22 per ton from Sept. 1
next as against £26 10s. at present, must
mean smaller returns for the miller and
grower. Moreover, the renewal of the
embargo for another five years was made in
the teeth of bitter and apparently growing
opposition from the Southern States, where
the position is not generally well-understood.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c.=12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 ~ „ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 .. 52,646
Sept.,’24. .33,851 4000 8 p.c. =16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 18,229 110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,261 130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 ~ „ 20,000 15,422 145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,580 155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 19,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 13,085 200,619
Mar.,’29. .50,771 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 16,771 217,390
5ept.,’29..52,151 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,775 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,775 248,316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 9,020 257,336
Mar.,’3l. .28,109 4000 8 „„ 20,000 4,109 261,445
When this co. took over the scattered Gor-
don and Gotch business a dozen years ago,
the management set to work to stop up some
of the outlets and generally improve the
organisation. A lot of attention has been
given to weeding out dead lines and livening
turnover in others. Additions, etc., to pre-
mises have provided improved facilities, and
the Maoriland business is on a much better
footing than it used to be. So the div.,
which climbed from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in
March, ’27, was sweetened with a 2 p.c.
bonus 18 months later, and comfortable
margins remained. Reserves, however, are
not all that the word usually means; they
are subject to £118,074 of goodwill, and
therefore labelled nominal in the table.
But conditions have changed, the div. is
back to 8 p.c., and there is no certainty
that it will be maintained at that rate.
Exchange and primage and other taxes have
swelled outgoings, and the debts question has
become a worrying problem. During the last
half, which includes the Christmas trade,
gross profits (£53,058) slipped £9357. Exes.
(£25,166) were got back £4486: so, after
allowing for minor adjustments and the
pref. div., the balance was at the rate of
9.6 p.c. p.a. on the half-million of ord. capi-
tal. The figure for the 12 months was 10.6
p.c. as against 17.3, 17.9, 16 4 and 14 p.c.
back to 1927.
The next table shows the financial struc-
ture, and further reflects the year’s lighter
trading:—
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’3o. Mar.,’3l.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages .. 69,000 8,571 6,429
Sundry creditors.. 127,050 101,251 95,199
Bank overdraft .. 79,880 128,086 7,170
Total liabilities.. £275,930 £237,908 £108,798
Freeholds .. .. £199,230 £208,070 £207,767
Leaseholds . . 25,515 23,858 23,583
Plant, fixtures, etc. 46,595 48,131 44,054
Stock .. .. 332,896 262,725 233,526
Book debts .. 353,249 335,499 300,721
Other assets •.. 18,560 145,203 84,257
Tangible assets.. £966,045 £1,023,486 £893,908
The reduction of £29,199 in the book value
of stocks, of £34,778 in debtors’ balances
and £60,946 in other more or less liquids
enabled £120,916 to be wiped off the over-
draft, reducing it to £7170. Altogether the
more or less liquid surplus (£509,706, in-
cluding stocks) improved £5187 over the
twelvemonth. Much, of course, depends
upon the soundness of debtors’ balances and
the figure at which stocks have been taken
into the sheet.
All shares rank equally for capital; they
were covered by 245. 9d. in net tangibles
at the close of accounts. The prefs., which
are entitled to a cumulative 8 p.c., fetch
225. 6d. in the market; at that price the
return is 7.2 p.c. For the ords. 17s. 3d.
is offered as against 275. a year ago. The
return at the lower figure is 9.2 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis, or 6.9 p.c. should the div.
drop to 6 p.c.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921 .. 14,549 12-$ p.c. = 7,500 7049 48,830
1922 .. 6,850 8 „ „ 6,000 850 49,680
1923 .. 9,704 10 „ „ 7,500 2204 51,884
1924 .. 15,486 12$ „ „ 9,375 6111 57,995
Premiums on shares, £6250.. .. 64,245
1925 .. 15,811 121 p.c. = 9,375 6436 70,681
1926 .. 19,031 124 „ „ 12,500 6531 77,212
1927 . . 22,165 12$ „ „ 13,802 8363 85,575
Premiums on shares, £6250.. .. 91,825
1928 .. 24,693 124 p.c. =17,578 7115 98,940
1929 .. 19,732 12$ „ „ 19,531 201 99,141
1930 .. 17,949 10 „ „ 15,625 2324 101,465
Loss.
1931 .. 2,735 4 „ „ 6,250 92,480
Not since pastoral and agricultural incomes
were withered by the great drought at the
beginning of the century has this carrying
and produce business, which is scattered
through the back country of Yic. and N. S.
Wales, been hit so severely. Last season
promised well at the outset, and an interim
at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. was paid. But
the acute position brought about low prices
for our staples was aggravated during the
second half by scorching winds, followed by
floods. Meanwhile the management decided
to shorten sail owing to the perplexing
nature of the debts question; and gross earn-
ings (£76,121) were figured £55,732 short
of the previous year’s. The smaller busi-
ness and tightening up of outlets enabled
exes. (£78,869) to be got back £35,035; still
a loss of £2735 showed up. That was pre-
ceded by profits of 11.4, 12.6, 17.6, 20.1,
18.9 and 25.1 p.c. on average capital back
to 1925. when wool and wheat were fetch-
ing about top prices, and the business of
Broadbent Bros., in western Vic. and the
Mallee, was taken over.
To finance clients, and otherwise provide
for expansion of the business, the co. more
than trebled its capital and leant substan-
tially upon outsiders during the decade to
the close of accounts in 1929. Since then
the debt has been worked down as advances
were repaid:—
1920. 1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
£>££££
Paid capital 50,000 75,000 156,250 156,250 156,250
Liabilities. 79,212 63,415 129,091 114,548 69,019
Plant and
property.. 47,193 38,571 79,288 67,433 65,468
Book debts 90,583 119,109 212,150 207,630 176,982
Merchandise 32,883 44,244 78,706 82,234 50,753
Shares Mur.
ray Ship-
ping .. 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000
Cash, etc... 6,834 22,797 13,306 10,278 8,845
The item which catches the eye first is
book debts; much obviously depends upon
the size of the contingency fund. Compared
with the previous balance they were £30,648
lighter, and the book value of merchandise
was reduced £31,481. Thus the board was
able to lop £10,079 off the overdraft (£7359),
repay £6292 of advances (£26,231) and
reduce the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors (£35,399) by £29,158. Altogether the
more or less liquid surplus (£167,561, ex-
cluding shares) slipped £18,033.
Though immediate seasonal prospects arc
satisfactory, low prices, the stubbornness of
costs and uncertainty as to the future
threaten to keep earnings at a moderate
figure. Thus the 255. paid shares, which
fetched 48s. two years ago, are now at 20s.
on the market. The return at 20s. would
be a shade under 6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The backing is 395. 9d. in net tangibles,
largely book debts, which are not. the assets
they were a few years ago.
West’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921.. . 16,914 10 p.c. = 9,644 7270 21,484
1922 .. 6,954 7* „ „ 7,233 21,205
1923.. 8,488 74„ „ 7,233 1255 22,460
1924.. 13,009 10 „ „ 9,644 3365 25,825
1925.. 12,068 10 „ „ 9,644 2424 28,249
1926.. 9,863 10 „ „ 9,644 219 28,468
1927.. 16,112 124 „ „ 12,055 4057 32,525
1928.. 16,417 124 „ ~ 12,055 4362 36,887
1929.. 17,929 124 „ „ 16,402 1527 38,414
1930.. 27,042 10" „ „ 24,017 3025 41,439
1931.. 7,047 2j „ „ 6,750 297 41,736
There is £270,009 of capital to feed. Chief
asset is shares, debentures, etc., in the
General Film Co., which controls Union
Theatres and Australasian Films—-the latter
does the hiring. At March 31 West’s hold-
ing, etc., in the General Film Co. figured at
£285,289; freehold, £36,452; Government
securities, £24,154; cash and book debts,
£9121. There was £1665 coming to creditors.
Hence profits, and therefore divs., depend
mainly upon the earnings of the two operat-
ing cos., over whose figures the curtaiu
is kept drawn. Each found it “impossible
to make any distribution” last year, and
prospects of either being able to pay a div. at
an early date are anything but bright. The
co.’s other investments turned in a triilc
more than the 2J p.c. div. called for.
Union, certified to have averaged 28.8 p.c.
(£86,436 p.a.) on its capital for the three
years to June 30, 1928, is chief of the group.
Encouraged by the rich harvests of the
boom, years, and spurred by competition from
Hoyts, it plunged into expenditure on elabor-
ate premises, bought a string of suburban
and country theatres and installed talkie
equipment throughout. To help finance the
outlay it gathered £700,000 of fresh capital
during the last three years, raising the total
to £1,000,000. Of this £483,200 has been used
to buy 520,700 ords. (there is ss. at call on
150,000 of them), making a total holding of
693,800 ords., in two subsidiaries, which own
the “State” theatres in Melbourne and Syd-
ney. These buildings cost over £BOO,OOO more
than originally intended. At their last balanc-
ing dates the combined debts of the pups
(£320,035, including £292,500 on mortgage)
exceeded their combined liquids (£61,800) by
£258,235. Their £600,000 of pref. capital,
8 p.c. cumulative, is guaranteed, both as to
principal and dividend, by Union and Aus-
tralasian Films, jointly and severally. The
Vic. subsidiary has thus far been able to
pay its own pref. div. But for the 12 months
to Dec. 31 last the guarantors put up
£16,000 of the £28,000 pref. div. in Union
Theatres Investments, the Sydney offshoot,
which had let not quite half its 75,000-odd
square feet of shop and office space. Last
week the interim div. on these prefs. was
passed, the guarantors being “unable to make
the necessary funds available.”
It is plain from this and the announce-
ment that “negotiations to stabilise the co.’s
finances have been proceeding for some
weeks,” that Union is making heavy weather.
Moreover, the public has curtailed its spend-
ing on amusements; admission prices have
been cut, and the taxgatherer now takes
a larger slice of the attenuated earn-
ings. Hence 3s. 3d. is offered for West’s
pound shares on the market as against 325.
a couple of years ago.
Commonwealth Real Estate Co.
This is the Commonwealth Real Estate
and Investment Co., Ltd., a Melbourne con-
cern. which is on the hunt for, £30,000 of
pref. capital, 8 p.c. cumulative. The offer
is in pound shares, which have priority as to
capital, and are sugared with the right to
advance with the ords. beyond 8 p.c.
In an effort to place the issue, or part of
it, the co. recently circularised shareholders
in Yellow Cabs of Australia, who have just
received a part return of their capital. In
some instances this enterprising move was
followed by a telegram urging the recipient
to apply for the new pref. scrip. Amongst
the inducements held out were prospects of
substantial dividends, and a confident anti-
cipation that the value of the shares would
“increase over two pounds.” This method
of endeavoring to interest the public in
shares ,by telegram is unusual in Austi’alia,
though it was a common enough practice
for unloading scrip in America and Britain
during the boom years.
The collapse of real estate values, their
continued downward trend, the frozen state
(.Wild Cat continued on page 16.)


pr
*:y
r
\
o
.....
ill!
m
i
m
mm
•kos*
0
BETTER
TOBACCO
The tobacco that has made
the "Country Life" flavour
so popular is a special
blend of finest Virginia.
This blend is definitely not
obtainable by other
makers so that "Country
Life’s" fragrance cannot
be copied.
&
B ETTER MADE
Comparison proves that "Country Life"
are better made. Take one in your
fingers—fee! how firm it is. Light it
and see how evenly it draws, how
cool the smoke. Those simple tests
give you certain proof of better
making.
©
BETTER PACKED
To bring you all the advantages of
Better Tobacco and Better Making, the
greatest care is taken in packing
'"Country Life." Tissue, tin-foil, a sturdy
tin or packet, and an outer air-tight
wrapper, are all used to guard the
goodness for you.
V lfe
And in tins of 50, 100
and 150. Also in 50s,
Round Air-Tight Tins.
Made in Your Own Country at the
Garden Factory —Raleigh Park —by
W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.
Country
Life
CORK TIPPED
VIRGINIAN
CIGARETTES
>944


The Hated
Middle Class
The object of the Communist
party is to dispossess the “capi-
talist” of all he has—to abolish
private property.
The International party no
longer aims at doing this by revolu-
tion involving bloodshed. It has
found a better way—a way of
doing it gradually through taxa-
tion and expropriation.
What progress with this plan is
the Moscow party making in Aus-
tralia ?
This, the most important ques-
tion before Australia to-day, especi-
ally for all who hold any sort of
private property at all, is discussed
in
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
FOR JULY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* # * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The important factor of economy is one that makes
a strong appeal in Pione'er Wood Pipe. This conduit
costs considerably less than metal pipes, and yet it
is strong, durable and absolutely efficient in every
way. Being non-corrosive, its flow capacity never
lessens, and it is light, easily handled, and laid with
a minimum of labor and cost. Full particulars from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1873.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES, SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.: —
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF OUR OFFICES.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 he Standard ai Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Make a Will
and appoint as your Executor a corporate
body which for forty-four years has acted in
the capacity of Executor, Administrator,
Trustee, Attorney, etc., which can never die
or leave the country, and which offers the
utmost security for the funds of your Estate,
viz., Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION £40.5^0,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
of the market and the uncertain outlook
are flimsy pegs on which to hang
hopes of a bright future. Nor is
much encouragement to be had from
the co.’s own figures. At last balance
(June 30, 1930) paid capital was £68,878
in 14,586 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 54,850 ords.;
there was £558 to come in. For the 12
months to that date £9082 was gathered
in commissions, services, etc. Exes, took
£4835. leaving £4247 net, or sufficient to cover
a full year’s pref. requirements, and then
show 5.6 p.c. on ord. capital as at the close
of accounts. But no divs. were paid on
either class of scrip.
At June 30, 1930, outside liabilities, in-
cluding the subsidiaries’ credit accounts
(£4655) and a mortgage of £7828, amounted
to £25,875. Cash and book debts totalled
£11,309, including something owing by the
pups. Thus the floating debt (£18,047)
exceeded liquids by £6738. The main asset
was “freehold property, including cost of
survey, subdivision, etc., and goodwill at
cost,” £68,019. Shares in subsidiaries
figured at £10,683. An establishment account
of £9345 was partly offset by reserves of
£4603.
On the basis of figures at June 30 last,
and assuming that the new pref. issue will
be fully subscribed and paid, the book value
of the net asset cover’ for the prefs. would be
£2 2s. sd. per share, excluding establish-
ment account, but including an unspecified
amount of goodwill in the freehold item, and
subject to any intangibles in the subsidiaries
and the unpaid pref. div. The scrip is ex-
posed to heavy risks, which have been made
obvious by the recent failure of many groups
of land speculators.
Victorian Butter Factories Co-op.
Dividends. Bonusto Written
April, Profit. (10 p.c.) Clients. Off. Reserves.
1920.. 12,239 1219 3898 3521 17,102
Reserves capitalised, £12,191 .. 4,911
(6 p.c.)
1921.. 4,401 1485 500 7,327
3 922.. 1,781 1486 500 7,122
1923.. 3,457 1486 750 8,343
1924.. 3,256 1496 750 9,353
1925.. 4,865 1496 1500 11,222
1926.. 3,092 1496 2000' 10,818
7 p.c.
1927.. 5,065 1745 3252 10,886
1928.. 5,263 1745 1281 500 12,623
1929.. 9,369 1745 1962 1700 16,585
Rebates.
1930.. 11,623 1745 4403 2500 19,560
1931.. 13,226 1745 5473 2500 23,068
This co. markets the produce of Victorian
butter factories, its principal shareholders,
on a semi-co-operative .basis. It also exports
other primary products, including frozen
meat and rabbits, and acts generally as
dairy-produce salesmen and commission
agents, besides supplying all kinds of butter-
manufacturing equipment. The co.’s freezing
works are at Victoria Dock. Melbourne.
In 1930 it was decided that, instead of
paying bonuses to shareholding suppliers,
rebates of commission would be allowed. Last
year £5473 was handed back in this way,
as against £4403 the year before. Taking
this into the reckoning, gross profit (£22,753)
improved £1641; exes. (£9527, including
£l5OO reserved for taxation) were only £3B
heavier, so the improvement in the net result
was £1603. Allowing for the rebates,
and £2500 set aside for depreciation of
freezing works (shown as written off in
the table), £5253 of profit remained, out of
which shareholders received their usual 7 p.c.
div., and £3508 was carried to reserves,
lifting them to £23,068, including an insur-
ance fund (£3500).
The dairying industry has been helped
greatly by the Patterson scheme, under which
butter producers pay a levy, and out of the
proceeds a bonus is paid on the export
surplus. The levy was originally lid. a
pound; it was raised to lfd. in October,
1928. The bonus paid has varied; commenc-
ing at 3d. it rose to 4£d., but subsequently
dropped to 31d., and to 3d. again after
April 1, 1931. After the scheme came into
operation this co.’s figures brightened. Since
1926 reserves have benefited by £12,250
(bringing them to within £1862 of paid
capital), the div. rate has been raised from
6 p.c. to- 7 p.c., and over the last four years
shareholders have received substantial re-
bates. The div., though nominally 7 p.c.,
is worth 14 p.c. to old holders; capital was
doubled in 1920 by a one-for-one bonus issue.
There is nothing uncomfortable about the
finances :
1922. ' 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £24,762 £24,930 £24,930 £24,930
Liabilities . . 40,181 41,202 25,876 27,831
Premises and plant 26,847 33,145 31,712 29,229
Stocks . . . . 3,358 1,623 1,163 5.206
Book debts . . 29,398 21,233 18,825 22,787
Cash and War Loan 219
Shares in other cos. 15,497 25,198 25,403 25,405
Since 1922, when the box factory was passed
to a subsidiary, in which the parent holds
£16,810 of scrip, £15,637 has been spent on
freezing works, and £13,452 has been written
off, making a net increase of £2185 in their
book value. Shares in other cos. also- include
a holding of £7500 in the Co-op. Insurance
Co.
Recent heavy rains have brightened the
seasonal outlook, but to what extent, if any,
the Soviet’s attempt to butter England’s
bread will affect London prices for the good
Australian article remains to be seen.
The co.’s £5 paid shares are covered by
net tangibles with a book value of £9 12s.
The scrip is not listed.
“M.M.M.”; The old Prop, mine at the
Barrier, once the largest of its kind in the
world, is a sick and; sorry sight these days.
Its two ore mills, capable of treating up to
10,000 tons weekly, the acid treatment
plant, and various buildings spread all over
its 120 acres, are being offered on the basis
of “no reasonable bid refused.” Mostly the
galvanised iron has been, gone for; the tim-
bers now showing resemble the skeleton of
a gigantic mammoth. The sight has been
too much for Jack Lindsay, who was chief
engineer and who designed and built most
of the plant and the structures which
housed it. At the end of July he leaves
for Blanchetown (S.A.) to construct cow
bails and milking-pens on his dairy farm
there.
* * * *
“Cog” : I have been six months in the Drake
district (Pretty Gully to be precise), recom-
mended by the N.S.W. Mines Department,
and in that time have seen at least 150 men
pitch camp, fossick for a week or two and
then pull out more hopeless than ever. I’ll
guarantee not one of those who came with-
out special nozzle pumps, etc., went away
with ldwt.; and of the specially equipped
parties few got an ounce. At many of the
old fields, of the type of Pretty Guily, Too-
loom, etc., there is* a slim chance of striking
a small rich leader of reef gold, but only if
one can stand a long siege of prospecting.
* * * *
Placer Development, which floated Bulolo
Gold Dredging in New Guinea, threatens to
break out in a fresh place, North Queens-
land. Oriomo Explorations has located a
promising gold-dredging area of 5000 acres
of river flats in the Goldsborough district,
with wood and water in plenty. Placer is
sending W. Bristock, once attached to Aus-
tral Malay, to inspect the ground in con-
junction with Oriomo’s engineer. .J. D. Rob-
inson. Placer has thrown in £so'o towards
the cost of investigation, and for the right
to say within four months if it will go more
thoroughly into the proposition. On exer-
cise of the option Oriomo is to get a further
£lOOO cash and fully-paids equal to 10 p.c.
of the issued capital in any co. formed to
work the area.
* * * *
“Old Warden” ; Queensland has high hopes
of the new goldfield at North Arm. Golden
Surprise, the original mine, continues to
show high-quality stone, and the work done
on adjoining claims is already giving pro-
mise of good returns. The Surprise put
through another crushing of 48 tons at the
end of May, yielding 493 ounces of bullion,
this panning out 180 oz. of gold and 2670 z.
of silver. Value of the lot, including the
gold bounty, was £9ll. Prospecting is
active on the new field, and a lot of Brisbane
and Gympie money is backing it.
'•* H 5 ❖ jj:
The Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, at Har-
rietville (Vic.), has put through four
crushings this year, totalling 1218 tons of
stone, for 14280 z. of gold ; plate-scaling has
added 2320 z. to this, making 16600 z. in all,
or over 26dwt. a ton. Four 9d. div.s. (£6000)
have been paid, and a taste remains on the
ice. No estimate of the ore reserves has been
made. Stoping is being carried out on
four levels, and all the working faces are
in profitable stone. Still, the 10s. shares
paid up to 9s. 4d. are offered at 6s. 4d. The
mine has always been patdhy.
* * * *
The Westralian Mines Department has
altered the regulation which made it incum-
bent to man areas “14 days after lodging
lease applications” to “14 days after the
ground lias been recommended by the war-
den.” This amendment was long overdue.
Also, manager Thorn, of Lake View and
Star, has offered the department some hun-
dreds of stampers dirt cheap. But what is
required just as urgently as crushing facili-
ties is supplementary cyaniding plants. Noth-
ing is more distressing to prospectors than
watching their tailing, the gold content of
which often represents the profit on the ore
treated, being sluiced to waste in the mulga.
* * * *
North Kalgurli, which is aiming at an
ore reserve of 500,(1)0 tons, i s undecided
whether to erect its own plant or cart ore
to adjacent mills for treatment. The co.
fears the tariff, and doubts whether ex-
change premium and gold bonus are stout
enough props to lean upon. Paid capital is
£75,000 in fully-paid 2s. shares.
* * * *
Empire Extended, an Adelaide co., has
secured an option over a show at Mulwarrie.
Payable ore is said to be exposed in the
old shaft, sunk to a depth of 140 ft. Mul-
warrie is in the Davyhurst district, 100
miles n.-w. of Kalgoorlie. In the early
days John de Baun and Nat Harper made
big rises from rich patches they struck there;
both men got out while the going was good.
Golden Bounty Syndicate, formed in Kal- I
goorlie to open up the rich find north of
Fraser’s mine, Southern Cross, has com-
menced operations. A small quantity of rich
quartz has been obtained, and there is more
in prospect. Fraser’s was a quartz reef in
the best sense of the term, but the ore bbdy
in Fraser’s Central was patchy. The new
show has a chance either way.
Great Boulder Perseverance (W.A.)
netted only £533 from a gold and silver
production valued at £178,930 for 1930. The
manager says a suitable new plant would
enable a profit to be made on much ore
which has now to be left underground. The
directors are considering the question;
finance is the difficulty.
* * * #
Alluvial Tin’s eight subsidiaries in Malaya
all came out on the right side for June.
Rawang Tin Fields, which has shut down
in accordance with the restriction scheme,
produced 76 tons worth £4841; costs were
£3208, leaving a surplus of £1633. On
small turnovers and recoveries Malim Nawar
cleared £76, and Kundang £644. Kuala Kam-
par won £3383 worth of ore at a cost of
£2129. Changkat’s realisation of £3208 was
docked £1896 for exes. Kampong Lanjut,
with a recovery of 95 tons, cleared £1983.
Rawang Concessions put out 85 tons valued
at £5366; costs were only £1516. Kramat
also did well; the 70 tons recovered at a
working cost of £2246 realised £4491. Re-
coveries for the group realised £30,814; costs
were £17,819, leaving a total working profit
of £12,995.
❖ $ ❖ ❖
Ratrut Basin dropped £23,399 for the
year to Dec. 31, including the interest on
£70,000 of 20 p.c. debentures, thus piling
the deficit on shareholders’ account to
£42,064. There was £3806 coming to sun-
dry creditors; cash, book debts and ore at
grass totalled £4252. The co. was fairly
successful with its first property at Renong,
on the west c'oast of Siam. When this was
worked out a new area was bought at
Sichon, and a second dredge was purchased.
But the heavy nature of the ground restricted
turnover, increased costs, and made the
proposition unprofitable with tin at under
£2OO London. To overcome the difficulty
it is proposed to loosen the wash with
explosives. To do this, repair No. 2 dredge
and stock up with spare parts, debenture-
holders have been asked to convert into
special 10 p.c. first-mortgage debentures of
275. each.; 225., including 2s. accrued in-
terest, to be credited as fully paid. Thus
far holders of £43,345 worth of the old
paper have responded. Assuming that esti-
mates are realised, and that all old deben-
tures are converted, tin will need to average
over £l2O London to cover costs and deben-
ture commitments, including redemption
charges. On the market lOd. is offered for
the pound shares.
* * * *
“Spare Towkay”: Australian speculators
in Malayan tin ventures were heartened by
a sharp rise in the price of the metal at the
end of June. The average for the month was
£lO5 per ton; on July 1 spot quote was
£llB 7s. 6d., but was back to £ll3 3s. 9d.
last week-end. The May average was
£lO4 Bs. Visible supplies in London at June
30 were 40,913 tons compared with 30,207 a
year earlier. Moreover, trade in the metal
in America, the world’s greatest consumer,
is in the doldrums; whether the decision to
further reduce production is at last bearing
fruit cannot be said definitely at the moment*
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Banks charge about 18 p.c. to send Aus-
tralian money to Fiji, but will not allow any
premium on Fiji money sent to Australia.
Can that be justified? —3s7l.
In practice the same thing has been hap-
pening in Maoriland: while theoretically
shippers of money from M.L. to Australia
should have got about 18 p.c., they have had
some difficulty in transferring even at par.
It merely shows that more than one factor
is considered in fixing exchange rates. Both
in Fiji and M.L. there has been grave
anxiety lest there should be any flight of
capital; and it was felt that the offer of a
high premium would encourage what it was
desired to discourage.
(1) With tin at £llO a ton in the Lon-
don market, what, should be the Sydney unit
price to the producer? (2) Can the small
producer demand the benefits of the exchange
premium from the tin buyer? —4o63.
(1) The Sydney unit price for 70 p.c.
ore is at present about the same as the
London market price, worked into units.
(2) The above allows the exchange. Prior
to present exchang'e trouble the Sydney unit
price was about £3O per ton of tin lower
than London market price.
(1) Where could I secure directions for
making a miner’s cradle? (2) The cradle
at the N.S.W. Mining Museum, Sydney,
appears to be very antiquated. Aren’t there
any more up-to-date ones? Isn’t the use
of perforated iron and bagqing old-fashioned?
—3885.
(1) Directions how to make a cradle are
contained in “A Guide Book for the Use of
Prospectors in N. S. Wales,” published by
the Department of Mines, 25., postage 2d.
extra; and “Prospecting for Gold (second
edition), by I. L. Idriess, published by
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, os. 121
There is little or no difference in the cradles
of to-day and those used in the early days
on the goldfields. Whether copper gauze is
used instead of perforated iron, and blanket
instead of bagging, is not so material, cos-
being usually the first consideration with
the fossicker.
(1) Who is responsible for the difference
in value between the English and the Aus-
tralian £? (2) How was it brought abouti
(3) Who gets the benefit of it? —4373.
(1) The people who kfept in power Gov-
ernments which borrowed extravagantly and
maintained Arbitration and other Courts
which awarded rates of pay, etc., based upon
our artificial prosperity. (2) We borrowed
heavily in London, incurring debts for
interest. At the same time we got into the
habit of leaning on imports; for the bor-
rowed money arrived in the shape of imports.
When borrowing ceased (because people
wouldn’t lend us any more) we couldn’t
pay interest, etc., out of new loans. We
had to export gold or goods for the purpose.
We had very little gold, so it had to be
goods. But we hadn’t a great quantity of
goods, either, our production having been
retarded by artificially-raised wages, etc. So
there was an extra-heavy demand for the
exportable goods—really for the money they
had been or would be sold for overseas —
and people soon began to offer a premium to
get that money. Thus the premium on
exchange is the penalty we pay for past
(and to a less extent present) extravagance,
swelled-head, go-slow and other national
shortcomings. (3) For the moment, the
producer whose goods command the premium
should benefit, though the middleman some-
times intervenes. But in the long run it
is doubtful whether anybody benefits, because
prices (and costs), expressed in the depre-
ciated currency, go up to counterbalance the
producers’ gain.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.C.H.: Such new enterprises are highly
speculative. Consider all the untested points at
which it may crash.... XY: See reply to 4150 Ser-
vice Depart, page, July 1. . . .L.8.M.: (1 and 2) No;
you undertook to pay 20s. per share, and that con-
tract can be enforced. (3) It is unlikely.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
THE FATAL CITY.
“For nine months the Lang Government has been assiduously following the teachings of the Bolsheviks, and the proportion of unemployed has increased to
over 30 per cent Mr. Lang’s organ, the ‘Labor Daily, has lately been repudiating Communism.”
NAPOLEON (sympathetically): “I see Moscow has treated your followers as badly as it did mine.”
The Banks and their Rates
There was bound to be and there is a
good deal of growling because the banks,
while at once reducing the deposit rates by
1 p.c., have not generally pulled down in-
terest on advances by the same amount. It
will come, they say, but it will have to
come gradually; they couldn’t afford to
charge the lower rates on all advances while
continuing to pay the old high rates on
deposits fixed for as much as two years in
some eases.
If banks can’t reduce their overdraft and
other advance rates without a reduction of
rates on deposits, then so important
is the. reduction of interest on advances
that it might be well worth while
following up the appeal for the volun-
tary loan conversion by another appeal
for a voluntary reduction of deposit rates.
That would, be a test of patriotism—far
more so than loan conversion, seeing that
behind the refusal to do the • latter stands
the spectre of punitive taxation.
In any case the question arises whether
banks should not make better arrangements
for the future. There was a time when it
didn’t seem to matter much whether the
hanks incurred popular disfavor or not; but
it matters a great deal to-day—matters not
only to the. banks themselves, but to the
threatened social order under which for the
time being wo live. That being so, what can
he done to enable the banks to introduce a
general reduction of interest on advances
whenever a general reduction of interest on
deposits is announced?
It is not always that rates fall. Some-
times they rise; and when that happens,
while the bank gets the benefit of the higher
rate on advances, it gets also the benefit
of the low rate on fixed deposits till they
mature. If the extra revenue thus derived
were reserved, instead of being taken in as
profit, it looks as if interest on all advances
might be reduced simultaneously with the
interest on deposits, the loss to the banks
being made good out of the reserve.
Russian Timber
“Bill Ding”: As far back as; January of
last year Tiie Bulletin drew the authori-
ties' attention to the export-lumber schemes
of the Soviet Government, which were to
embrace the whole world as time and cir-
cumstances allowed. Everything it forecast
has come true. Commencing with the mar-
kets of Finland, Sweden and the Baltic
States, Russia has secured an almost- com-
plete monopoly of the timber trade of Bri-
tain, Germany, the Netherlands and France.
France is making strenuous efforts to pro-
tect what hit of trade she can do for her-
self with her very depleted forest reserves;
but Britain and Germany, lacking suitable
resources, have welcomed the cheap timber
—to the consternation of the TJ.S.A. and
Canada. The Soviet scheme has got its
tentacles into the United States’ trade de-
spite the Yankee sawmillers’ efforts to block it,
and within a year Russia is to ship to the
States ports immense quantities of timber,
all obtained from confiscated sawmills and
forests without a penny of compensation to
owners and lessees, and manned by deported
kulaks (peasants who had managed to save
more roubles than the Communist consid-
ered good for them), educated people who
could not of their own volition tackle hard
labor, and who may have questioned the
Communistic policy, and any other man-
power not wanted in the city factory or on
the co-operative farms..
The hundred huge sawmills—for Russia
is aiming to outdo even America’s prodigious
industrial plants—-comprised in the timber
plan are all supposed to be in com-
mission before the coming northern autumn,
and they embrace not only the forests of the
White Sea and Murmansk regions, but go
right across to Siberia, and it is from this
great province that Australia has most to
fear. Russian workers get but peppercorn
wages, and the timber gets down to Vladi-
vostock loaded and trained partly by im-
pressed women. It. has not cost at port of
shipment as much per load as an Australian
sawmiller will pay a hauler for his log.
Tobacco in Queensland
The success of the Queensland tobacco-
growing experiment at Mareeba has moved
the Government to throw open 50 additional
blocks- —170 in all, since the scheme was
started 12 months ago. Another 100 are
being prepared, and these are already applied
for. The sum demanded of the beginner is
£4OO, and some of the original settlers
cleared themselves from their first year’s crop,
the product selling for from 3s. to 6s. per lb.,
the last price the highest ever given for
Australian tobacco. The average was 3s. Bd.
In all 107 acres were under cultivation last
season; this season it is expected there will
be 500. Though there have been some
failures, the success of most of the pioneers,
many of them new to the game, is hearten-
ing. The Government supplies instruction
and supervision, and one of the conditions
of the grants is that a kiln drier of official
design must be erected on official specifica-
tions by every grower—this to ensure uni-
form treatment of the leaf.
Whales or Cocoanut Palms?
Like everything else, the once profitable
copra trade finds itself in the doldrums,
chiefly because of the huge supplies of whale
oil which have recently come on the market.
For the 10 years from 1910 to 1920, the
annual output of this oil,was about 90,000
gallons. The total for the 1931 season alone
is expected to top 300,000. One of the pos-
sibilities beckoning on the copra-grower is the
decline of the whaling industry owing to
depletion, and the development of the mar-
garine industry is also promising—so far as
the copra-grower is concerned; for the cow-
grower it threatens disaster. The better
qualities of margarine contain up to 80
per cent, of cocoanut butter and are diffi-
cult to distinguish from the real thing except
by experts. Synthetic cream is also growing
in demand in Europe ; it consists of an emul-
sion of 50 per cent, milk and 50 per cent,
cocoanut oil. But this spells more trouble
for Australia’s important butter industry,
and urges on improvement of pastures arid
herds and lowering of costs.
Russia Reaches Maoriland
“Muriliiku” (Wellington) : In Maoriland
some young En Zedders get enough Soviet
gold to encourage them .ip the organisation
of Communist activities. But the police
know these young hotheads, and. apart from
leading a procession or two. nothing really
happens. A far more dangerous Russian
invasion by means of cigarettes and petrol
has commenced. The trade agent of the
Soviet I-iepublic has made public announce-
ment of the fact that last year the Soviet
bought some M.L. wool, and in return the
inhabitants of these Shaky Isles are expected
to buy the Russian cigarettes and Volga
sturgeon now on sale in the Wellington
shops. Shipments of Russian beech ply-
wood and matches are now on the water.
Russian oak plywood has been used here for
some time. Russian petrol was tried in the
four centres, and the agent says that in all
cars the result was Al. This representative
of the Soviet Republic gives an assurance
that no M.L. industry will be interfered with
by the importations. But surely the very
bad Russian match will interfere with our
locally-made matches, while the beech three-
ply will be a competitor with our own South-
land beech. Unquestionably our butter in
Britain is depressed by the sale of Soviet
butter, and if the prices our dairy-farmers
receive are to be on a par with the Russian
prices, then our MaoriUmd standard of living
must inevitably come down to the Russian
level.
“Frigid”: Crystallised pawpaw, packed in
Soz. cartons, has proved a success on the
London market—thanks to E. H'ennequin, a
northern chemist. So keen has been the call
for canned pawpaw that a factory has been
built at Abergowrie (N.Q.) to treat the out-
put from the plantation of the Gowrie Syn-
dicate, on the upper reaches of the Herbert,
26 miles from Ingham.
* * * *
The Queensland State abattoirs on the
Brisbane River will strike out in other
directions than the handling of cattle and
other stock for food purposes. Dairymen
and others who own useless culls are to be
invited to send them in to the big works
to. be treated for special purposes. This
will also enable the owners of useless sheep
and cattle to get something back on animals
which otherwise would have to be left to
the crows and blowflies. Two methods of
dealing with stock of this type will be
exploited. One will be boiling down to
pulp and grinding the residue, after drying,
into fertiliser. The other is treatment bv
the dry rendering process, by which meat
and scraps are converted into a dried pro-
duct which has proved most valuable as an
addition to stock foods.
* * * *
. A sign of the times is the decision of a
big Victorian cool-drinks and cordials firm
to supersede its motor transport by horse-
drawn vehicles. One reason is the cost of
registering a truck for 12 months when only
about 40 per cent, of the firm’s fleet are
used for more than four months of the year;
The reversion to Dobbin will also mean‘that
primary and running costs will be distri-
buted locally, among farmers, horsebreeders,
harness-makers and coachbuilders; and this
attitude is finding increasing favor all over
Australia.
=!= * * *
Queensland pineapple-growers are bucked
by a cable from W. Ranger, the agent for
the State Committee of Direction of Fruit
Marketing in Canada, that he has sold
150,000 cases of processed pineapple. The
order will clear stocks in store and necessi-
tate arrangements being put in hand at
once for processing this winter’s crop.
Delivery of the big order is to begin forth-
with, since it has to be finalised by tlie end
of this year. Ranger goes on to London to
try to place the Queensland product on
the British market under the same condi-
tions.
* * * *
“Fourwalls”: Effort is being made in Mel-
bourne to market in Eastern Canada 10.000
cases of first-grade Australian navel oranges
a month. The trade with Western Canada
is substantial; consignments are sent regu-
larly from Sydney to V aneouver. But to get
oranges to Eastern Canada is a harder pro-
blem, because the vessels on the Panama
route have not the equipment to maintain
air-circulation by which oranges are kept in
condition. Experiments to rectify this
trouble are now being made.
* * * #
“Wire Fence”: I often wondered why my
friend Postan-Railes was so much in favor
of note-inflation. Postan-Railes is generally
a very conservative neighbor, who cusses
the union organiser and wages awards and
all that kind of thing as bitingly as any-
body in the district. But inflation he wouid
insist had always been misunderstood, and
was particularly favorable to the man on the
land. Lately hyplien-Railes more or less
explained matters. Like most of the holdings
in our part of N. S. Wales his place is
partly freehold, partly conditional purchase,
partly conditional lease convertible into pur-
chase. To make the whole thing freehold
my neighbor would have to pay into the
State Treasury close up to £lO,OOO. He has
the right to pay, off the c.-p. money any time.
No wonder our friend wants inflation. If
it went far enough it would make him a
present, practically, of several thousand
acres of first-class grazing land, with good
agricultural land scattered through it. And,
incidentally, the State would be diddled out
of the proper purchase money.
•* s * *
Dear Bulletin,— “X.N.O.” says (B.
l/7/’3l), anent the impersonality of the
limited co. system, that “there are heaps of
ways in which individual responsibilities for a
person’s own actions can be insisted upon.”
They should be, too—certainly in the sphere
of company administration, where directors
seem able to do almost anything, and if it
proves disastrous go unscathed because they
can plead that their actions were bona fide.
All a director has to say is: “I sincerely
thought I was acting in the best interests of
the company.” To disprove such a statement
would generally involve the admission of
evidence from a thought-reader. Surely
directors ought to carry a heavier respon-
sibility than this. —Yours, Co-Sec. ,
*■ * * *
The scheme for building a suspension
bridge for foot and vehicle traffic across the
Brisbane River at Indooroopilly. 15 miles
above Brisbane, has been revived. Indeed,
the matter can be regarded as settled if the
Government will grant toll rights to the
private syndicate which has offered to build
the bridge. Premier Moore is personally
favorable, and the Commissioner for Main
Roads is now going into details with the
promoter, W. Taylor. The latter, a well-
known engineer, has an agreement with Dor-
man Long, whereby a number of the steel
cables utilised in the construction of the
Sydney Harbor bridge will be made avail-
able in addition to other material. The
bridge is not expected to cost over £55,000,
and if the toll franchise is granted, work
on it will be commenced before the end cif
the current year. As a convenience to the
traffic between the areas divided by the
Brisbane River the value of the proposed
bridge can hardly be over-estimated.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Royai, (com. Saturday) “My Lady’s Dress
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “H.M.S. Pinafore
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville & Revue
State Movies and Talkies
Poem: Murder Will Out
O Edgar C
Wallace •
To this play, M
This amazing murder mystery,,
“The Calendar,”
Sometime of London,
Melbourne,
Pfungstadt
And Popocatepetl,
Now of Sydney Royal,
I
Thankfully,
Thirstfully,
Dutifully
Drink,
As becomes a poet,
I know not,
O Magnificent, 1
Whether to admire most
The consummate artistry
Or the originality
With which you have
So concealed the murder ;
That ■ I
The unobservant rabble
Describe it one to another,
During orchestral performances
Or at bridge,
As a play of the English turf, .
In which there is no murder.
No murder!
No murder in a play by Edgar Wallace! ’
Why, the world,
Seeing a noble canon so deserted,
Would turn ten handsprings on an empty
stomach.
No murder, Edgar?
Of course there is a murder!
There has to be a murder!
Did not you
Concoct the pretty thing,
And is it not
Your mission in the world to set up men
And knock ’em colder than a flapper’s “No”?
Let it be admitted
That the play certainly
Appears
To be without a murder.
Here Frith abuses his license by drawing
something that is neither in the poem
nor in the play. It is supposed to he
Tal Ordell (trainer), Darcy Kelway
(jockey) and Srikealight (horse) on
their way to the track.
How does it go?
An English snoozer by the name of Harvey
(Hi.s other name is Frank)
Has the experience
Of being warned
To keep for life
His suspect dial from the sober view
Of racecourse stewards,
Simply because
He was such a prize angora
That,
Having decided,
On the suggestion of his jockey,
A bloke named Ivelway,
To pull his neddie,
Though Ordell, his trainer,
Favors the more curious idea
Of trying to win, •'
He,
That is to say, Frank Harvey, ■ > >
Writes to Miss Coral Brown, <,
Wife of a jealous whisky-soak named
Oopelin,
A letter that would get a man suspected
Even at the ponies.
Then, A- ; i.;
Being an English sportsman,' _
And also feeliirg that- his horse canwin,
He sends another 'note- in- cancellation,
And
Commissions his agent, • •
The genial and rotund Mr. Blunt,
To wop on Strikealiglit,
Or whatever the neddie’s name is.
A solid poultice while the going’s g00d....
(I bog your pardon— • V*
Several thousand pounds at English odds.)
So much for that. ■ , v .
Alas, for trusting nature.!
When his moke
Is beaten by a whisker,
The bad Brown woman
Presents the stewards
With the first note he sent her;
And there’s poor Mr. Harvey
Telling the truth and being disbelieved
By blokes like Harvey Adams,
Leonard Stephens
And Alexander Marsh,
In spite of the fact
That
Quite probably
He bought the ungrateful dogs a drink
In Usher’s or the Carlton that very day.
It’s a damn shame.
Well, there he is,
Warned off for life,
A lonely figure,
Friendless save for that
Pocket edition of great Falstaff, Blunt!
“Miss Coral Brown,
Wife of a jealous whisky-soak named
Copelin.”
And also Elma Gibbs, A\
Who/ really loves him, ' \
In spite of everything,
Including the fact
That
Her 1 acting’s not as convincing as it might
be.
Why* even that haunterer of lady’s bedrooms
[Speaking dramatically)
Piri'e Bush
Can look on him with contumely and con-
tempt.
And yet,
All is not lost.
There is still that second note;
And Mr. Fernside,
Who used to be a burglar
And is now
Frank Harvey’s butler,
Soon helps him to get up to Miss Brown’s
bedroom
And pinch it from her safe.
So Virtue triumphs;
And since the owner
Of the -winning neddie,
A wealthy Frenchman.
Went west to sunstroke out in Africa
Just prior to the race,
Automatically,
Under the racing rules,
The winner is disqualified,
And Harvey’s moke
Duly collects the bacon.
Well, there you have it.
That is “The Calendar’’ to the casual eye.
And do you not agree
That the foul murder is cleverly concealed?
So cleverly that as you wander forth
Into the cold night air of Castlereagh-s'treet,
Among sweet women disguised to look like
rabbits
And men disguised as waiters,
You ask yourself
Where is the murder and who committed it?-
v
And then you think: v -s.
That fellow out in Africa!
Presto! * ,
You have it!
And you stand amazed
At the profound genius,
The exquisite simplicity
With which Mr. Wallace disguised the deed
By calling it a sunstroke.
Sunstroke ?
Ridiculous ! r , .
That fellow out-in Africa
Was murdered all right.
He must have -been murdered—
Is the play'not by Mr. Wallace?
But' then—
How murdered?
That is the question, ,
Tantalising,
Alluring,f 1
Gripping the imagination.
As the talkie ads. would put it.
“Pocket edition of great Falstaff, Blunt,
And also Elma Gibbs.”
How murdered, eh?
Was he poisoned n , ,
At dead of night
By some witch-doctor,
Drunk with Voodoo magic
And smuggled rum?
Or did some wretch
Of a bedraggled beachcomber,
For the reward
Of a handful of filthy lucre
And a soul for ever damned,
Sneak on him while he slept there,
And,
With the fluting of the mangrove swamp
about him,
And the incessant walloping of tom-toms,
Plunge, a red-hot rhinoceros horn
Into his unsuspecting Gallic heart?.
V" A'
Nobody knows.
And that is why '.V
I humbly here contend
That this is the finest murder, mystery, play
That Mr. Edgar Wallace ever wrote.
The fiddle is not, strictly speaking, a solo
instrument, and its capacity for producing
harmonies is somewhat limited. Though
mechanically the simplest instrument in an
orchestra, it is the hardest to play, a fact
which is frequently impressed upon the con-
cert-goer. Yet there’s something about it.
.... A Mr. Zlatko Balokovic, whose name
sounds Muscovite but who is reputedly a
Croat, sailed into Sydney Harbor some days
ago in his yacht, and on Saturday night
he undertook to show a Town Hall audi-
ence that in addition to his nautical quali-
fications he could manage four strings and
a bow. He was assisted in this endeavor by
Baron Fleetwood, who isn’t in Debrett but
is doubtless far better than many who; are,
and who has a kindly way with pianos. • .
Whether Mr. Balokovic is a Rpss or? a
Croat or v what couldn’t be discovered from
his playing: On his performance of . the
Handel G Minor Sonata he coukhbe adjudged
an Englishman—the English seem ; to under-
stand Handel better than George .Friedrich’s
own countrymen. Exquisitely* correct' phras-
ing and shading, a mellifluous*legato,Land a
crispness in allegro passages: that* made one
think’of shiny.steel screws, each one.;perfect,
dropping from an automatic turret lathe —
that’s the way Balokovic plays Handel.
Cesar Franck’s violin sonata was delivered
in a mode both' scholarly and genial, and
for fireworks there were Paganini’s Concerto
in D and Sarasate’s always popular fantasia
on gipsy airs, in which the player showed
his mastery of all the digital tricks of the
trade. Schubert’s “Ave Maria” and Nell
Stewart’s favorite, “The Londonderry Air,”
figured amongthe encores. The Russes got
a look in with Rimsky-Krorsakov’s “Hymn
to the Sun.” Kreisler’s “Tambourin Chinois”
—the Chinks don’t play tambos, but perhaps
that is how they would play them if they
did—rounded off a nicely-balanced pro-
gramme.' Balokovic .is a very fine musician
and his Baron is a jewel.
* * V-
“The Constant Nymph,” at the Indepen-
dent Theatre, Sydney, is a rare and beautiful
“And there’s poor Mr. Harvey
Telling the truth and being disbelieved
By blokes like Harvey Adams (right),
Leonard Stephens (left)
And Alexander Marsh” (centre).
production. Compared with current theatri-
cal offerings it is a brave ship of drama
sailing over a. sea of bromide. In a remark-
able way its amateur players rise to its own
high level. Their acting is as inspired as
with such inspiration it ought to be.
It is a savage criticism of those respon-
sible for Sydney’s general theatrical fare
that this play should have been left for
amateur production. Margaret Kennedy,
with the help of Basil Dean, soundly drama-
tised the famous novel. It is as good, in
play form as in fiction form, and that is an
extraordinary achievement. The settings are
the crude living-room at the Karindehutte,
the “silver sty” that the composer Dodd
finds himself in after his marriage with
Florence Churchill, the artists’-room at the
Queen’s Hall, from where, after his sym-
phony has proved a stunning success, he
floes with Teresa, and then the pension
Marxse, in Brussels, where the drama reaches
finality in Teresa’s death. Those settings
are admirably suggested with the scantiest
of props and a slight manipulation of fawn
drop-curtains. They are made wholly con-
vincing by the tone of the acting, or, rather,
they are forgotten in the face of almost
completely sustained artistic sincerity.
The casting, but for one or two minors,
is capital. George Cassidy does not quite
seem the part of Jacob Birnbaum, the rich
theatre-owner who seduces one of the Sanger
girls' and eventually stages Dodd’s master-
piece, and Hugh Pigott l is too stiff and
prosy for a wholly satisfying English gentle-
man. Of the rest. Charles Degotardi, who
does Roberto, is the only player with a
true gift for comedy that present writer has
ever seen on: the amateur stage. Richard
Parry, as Dodd, is the part, through its
sundry wide variations, without any letting
up, and Winifred Green - gives an uncom-
monly fine touch of the tragic and an impres-
sive dignity to the bitterProle of Florence
Churchill. Grace,>Hart,-in the title role; is
a captivating juvenile, justia little stronger
in comedy than direct pathos, but very' good
all the same, and Marguerite Cullen-Ward
and Marie Rosenfeld, as her sisters, do-quite
as sincere work in those slightly lesser parts.
Ailsa Sutherland, Georgia Maund, Pinksfan
Blackwood, Raymond Bawtrjee and Ilawdon
Wilson are among the best of the other's.
Doris Fitton, whose producing is more than
anything else responsible for the success,
makes a sinister moment of the very brief
part of Madame Marxse, in whose pension in
Brussels tragedy, which fights a steady battle
with comedy all through, performs its miracle
\ ' . '
of having a natural victory without making
an unhappy ending.
* * *
Lucille Bruntnell was responsible for
Sydney’s most unusual show of the week.
At the Savoy she turned the stage into a
nursery and herself into Christopher Robin,
and elocuted items from “When We Were
/Vjjlry Young” and “Now We Are Six.” She
sat at the table and ate rice-pudding, played
nmVi’v chairs, visited the Zoo, stepped care-
fully; in the
pavement
squares, put the
little; black hen
on its nest,
spied out
brownie, and
altogether gave
the fairly
crowded audi-
ence an enter-
tainment that
won its enthusi-
astic applause.
In the cir-
this
Showman ’ has
to count' him-
self as assort of
o;dd man out.
For one?; thing,
’ he thought Miss
Bruntiie'li in-
“And Mr. Fernside,
Who used to be a burglar.”
tioduced far too much of, wliat in stage
directions is called i “business.” To cat rice-
pudding she had to have, a real plate and a
real'spoon,’- To do “Vespers” she had to get
into the cot. “Down by the Pond” called
for an actual:rod " and line. In other words,
the lady made her main address to the
physical eye and.. ear. A Watson or one of
the Rayner sisters would achieve a greater
reality with no props at all. The difference
is that the:|Watsons and the Rayners of
art never waste gestures, whilst the Miss
Bruntnells throw gestures about as Lang
throws folly. The only part of gesture is
to heighten the effect —that is, enhance the
illusion of reality—and all gestures that do
not serve that end are not merely wasted;
they are disastrous.
Idle main thing, however, that prevented
present writer from numbering himself
among the enthusiastic and well-dressed
hand-clappers was that he could not accept
Miss Bruntnell’s interpretation of Milne.
She does very well in interpreting the pieces
that appear to be iChristopher Robin speak-
ing, though dressing herself up in a little-
boy suit is another touch of “business”
that does not secure the effect intended,
especially as Miss Bruntneli is the best
part of six feet nearer to Heaven than when
she was a girl. But is it necessary or right
to assume that it is Christopher Robin
speaking in such things as “Vespers’ ?
To make “Vespers” fit in with her masquer-
ade Miss Bruntneli had of course to lop off
the stanza which, shutting in the scene at
both ends, makes that closing piece of “When
We Were Very Young” as near to poetry as
anything that Milne has written. Plainly,
the whole poem and the rest of them are
not Christopher Robin speaking at all; they
are Milne —sometimes talking for Chi’istotpher
Robin and sometimes telling you how he
would speak if he were that son of his.
Taken that way,, Christopher Robin is
almost as real and dear as Alice. He could
not be that if he were a little prig, and as
Miss Bruntneli presents him he occasionally
looks something like one. Thus much of the
humor and pathos of such things as
“Vespers” is lost, and instead you have only
a mother’s little pet being a little smarter
than usual. Yet Miss Bruntneli has appear-
ance, poise and plenty of talent. Before a
plain curtain in a plain dress she would
probably be an artist.
* * *
The Frank Neil season looks as if it is
proving difficult at Sydney Criterion. After
a week’s run “Almost a Honeymoon” had to
make way for “Mary’s Other Husband,” and
Neil is vacating the premises in favor of the
Opera House, where Nat Phillips and co.
have reigned since last year, and, judged by
the audience present at last Saturdays
matinee, are still doing good business. Neil
will probably do better for himself at the
new address; the Cri. has too high a reputa-
tion-for quality to make his kind of fare feel
at home. What is most surprising is that
the Firm should risk what really amounts to
theatrical goodwill by letting him in. Noth-
ing as cheap as his goods has been offered
there for years.
* * *
Adelaide, which used to be somehow
unlucky in Merry Widows —Carrie Moore
and Florence Young, for example—who were
“That haunterer of ladies’ bedrooms.”
, „ „
not exactly It, has welcomed Dorothy Brun-
ton and-the old melodies; glorious singing
all round, and the fruity "humor of Stigant
and Bradley. Rendall, former manager ot
the Royal, has come back, to book large
houses. .
Adelaide Rep., surprises itself by now
having its large hall crammed for each club
evening.. The latest was a Prof. Fitzherbert
talk on Greek comedy, and three short plays,
including a Molnar trifle, and a Shaw-like
“St. Simeon” on his pillar, with assorted
touring visitors. New players who may be
noted for future fame include Marion Hardy,
Mavis Stephens and Mavis Tierney, Glennon
and Matthews.


%
r
J
>
1
After illness your
Doctor will prescribe
7bot/)'S SHEAF STOUT
Lowered vitality calls for
special nourishment. Then is the
time you need Tooth’s “Sheaf”
Stout. Rich in essential vitamins,
this easily digested beverage is "a
definite aid to bodily health. It’s
food as well as drink.
Tooth’s “Sheaf” Stout costs no more than
bottled ale.
;In quarts and half-bottles.
-IT MUST BE
0 $
Is
I<A
UfSJ-
<m
'xK
P
■sSh
'Sis
M\
4f
Sfc
SSI9.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
D
1
EACH
CHOIC
CIGAR
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITIiEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO MEET THE TIMES
n
Oriental -
Melbourne? Premier Hotel
Reduces tariff 30% without sacriticing'
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “Th’ champeen .snake-charmer
an’ -killer I ever knew,” said old Dan address-
ing the crowd in Ryan’s bar, “was a chap
I once worked with named Herb Tinker.
Ev’rybody knows how fond snakes is of
music an’ milk. When y’ get th’ two com-
bined it’s something that no snake can battle
against. That’s what made Herb secli a
champeen snake-killer. He Avas th’ hap-
piest-natured chap I ever kneAv, alwus
smilin’ an’ good comp’ny; never had a bad
word to say of anybody. Him an’ me had
a job puttin’ up a few miles of post-an’-
\A r ire fenbin’ fer a squatter. It was on th’
open plains miles away from anywhere.
When we first went there we found th’ place
alive with snakes; but in less than three
months there wasn’t a snake t’ be found
within coo-ee. Herb had finished ’em all
off. He was a born musician, that chap
was. Of an evenin’ he useter get a short
piece of iron bar an’ tap th’ wires in the
fence with it. He cud play ‘Home, Sweet
Home,’ an’ ‘Cornin’ Thro’ th’ Rye,’ an’ a
lotter them old tunes on them wires like’s if
it was on a pianner. An’ th’ way them
INSPIRATION.
LANDLADY: “And if I don’t get your rent to-day”
COMIC ARTIST: “Hold that pose a moment, please. I’ve just struck an idea for a funny
picture!”
snakes useter come slitherin’ along attracted
be th’ music was simply wonderful. Herb
wud play a tune an’ then knock off fer a
quarter of an hour till he killed all th’
snakes what had gathered around. Then
he’d start again till he had another batch
waitin’ ready t’ be polished off. Yes, he
wus a champeen, all right!” “That’s right
enough,” remarked Ryan in a puzzled sort
of way; “but where does th’ milk part of
th’ bizness come in?” “Ah,” replied Daniel,
“I’d fergot that. As I tole yer this ’ere
Herb Tinker was a happy-natured bloke,
alwus jokin’ an’ jolly. Full of th’ milk o’
human kindness, ’e was, an’ th’ snakes knew
' it.”
“S.S.S.”: I can testify
to the fear of the Kuku-
Kuku that afflicts the folk
of Papua. Shy folk are
they. Government patrols
would stride into their vil-
lages and find food still hot
in the cooking pots, but
the people fled. Red cloth
and tomahawks laid on the
grass on the outskirts of
thy villages didn’t bring
them back. Rumor said
that the men wore long
grass coats that reached to
their heels and high conical
hats, and that the women
went naked. Also that they
bred little black dogs and
had a nasty way of spear-
ing up through the floors
of houses. When I was
in charge of the camp hos-
pital at Nepa, my quarters
were a grass house with
neither doors nor windows.
Every afternoon at four
, o’clock terrific flashes of
lightning zipped through
the quarters, followed by
floods of rain, which went
on all night. After 10
months of it I got a bit
nervy—my orderly had
seen a little black dog
down by the creek —and
the R.M. lent me his old
Kiwai corporal, whose
orders were to walk about
every hour throughout the
night. His headquarters
were the fireplace in the
lean-to kitchen. Every
hour by the clock the splen-
did old soul came to my
window place, flashed his
hurricane-lamp over me
and inquired, “You fright,
Sinabada?” Upon assur-
ing- him that I was not,
his reassuring reply came,
“B ehind you fright,”
Which meant that there was no longer any
need to be scared. All the same, I took the
precaution of putting all the blankets I
could get hold of under my canvas hammock.
* * * *
“Dr. Mivart”: The spirit of disorder and
rebellion so rife in Sydney just now has in-
vaded the Taronga Zoo, which is now buzz-
ing with the misdeeds of Theophilus, the
young seal. His mother, Penelope, and his
father, Rliadamanthus, have striven hard to
steer him into paths of righteousness, instead
of which Theophilus climbs trees and tears
down staghorns. Taking water with his
latest prize, he was told by Penelope to put it
back where he got it, but he refused point
blank. A disgraceful struggle then took place
in the seals’ pool for possession of the stag-
horn, in which the plant was seriously dam-
aged, and Penelope’s eye was scratched,
Rhadamanthus gave the boy a severe flip-
ping, but with little moral effect, for Theo-
philus was next detected plotting to break
CONFIDENCES.
“D’ your father and mother fight like cat an’ dog?”
“No. Me mother scratches, but me father doesn’t bite.”
into the spider-monkeys' cage. If there
is no improvement in Tlieophilus’s conduct
his parents threaten that he will be re-
moved either to the crocodiles’ -or the hippo-
potamus’s pool, a prospect which daunts the
scapegrace not a whit, but. which is occa-
sioning a lot of anxiety on the part of Mr.
Hippo, and the crocs.
i\i :!: &
“Bad Australian”: Like other business
enterprises, the boomerang-making industry
at La Perouse. Sydney, is feeling the
effects of the financial stringency. Although
visitors show unabated interest in Jacky
and his boomerang, they do not yield
so readily as formerly to the salesman’s
appeal to “Take one home ’longa y’, Boss.”
For all this, one member of the tribe
is still doing a very .satisfactory business.
When this wily old capitalist meets with a re-
fusal to invest in his wares he staffs a demon-
stration of throwing the weapon, ending up
with an invitation : “Come on, Boss. Have
a coupla shots; that won’t cos’ y’ nuthin’.”
Then, selecting a boomerang from his bundle,
he hands it to the unsuspecting visitor. All
goes well as long as the weapon falls flat,
but the first time it strikes the ground end
on it .snaps into several pieces, whereupon
.Tacky weighs in with the demand, “By eripe,
Boss, that’ll cos’ y’ two bob.” The-boomer-
angs are made from free-splitting timber, cut
across the grain, but this is neatly camou-
flaged by a coat of red or yellow paint.
* * =i= *
“Hamer”: Government departments in
Sydney have finally settled matters in regard
to a man who has been some worry to them,
his desire being to find out his right name.
A neglected child, he was boarded out and given
the name, of his foster-parents. When he
bolted from home he took another name,
and altered it frequently thereafter as a
consequence of succeeding misadventures.
More frequently than anything else he
was Smith. But Smith left him dissatis-
fied, and when he won one of the top
prizes in a sweep he decided to find out
who he really was. Government departments,
though slow, are usually obliging. It took
months to dig up each detail; but bit by
bit the official sleuths got back to the
nameless one s beginning. The trail led
back through a lot of names, for it appeare
that his stepfather, Bangs, had married the
widow of a man who had married Srnitn s
mother but wasn t his lather: thats
a bit involved, but it was an involved busi-
ness. Anyway, at the end of the trail was
a birth registration, which revealed the name
of his father. It was' Smith.
“Blum” : 'Upon the street the other night
I chanced to meet Bill Blatherskite, and Bill
remarked to me : j“l!ye thought out a
notion grand ;_„wufhout ,-n , doubt, ;if put in
hand, ’tw.ould set the whole world free from
grim depression's gloomy blight, and 1 happy,
prosperous and bright our days would ever
be. It’s simple, too, as ABC —just an in-
surance policy on profits gone aglcy through
falls in price and market slumps and all the
pitfalls, snags and bumps that stud the busi-
ness way. When times are good, and com-
merce brisk, the premiums upon the risk
we’d very gladly pay.” “Yes, Bill,” I. said,
“your " notion’s good, and might do all you
say it would, but—man’s' a curious cuss.
When times are hard > tlie welkin rings with
curses, howls and sobs and things; the fact is
obvious. But good times bring a silence
bland; so snugly it enwraps the land they
are unknown to us. If the good times of
yesteryear in some dim future reappear....
Ah, Bill! we’ll never know they’re here!”
❖ H* sjs
“Menzies”: Phil Saunders, recently gone
west, was the doyen of Australian pros-
pectors. He went through from Gympie (Q.)
by way of Pine Creek (N.T.) when the first
rushers invaded Kimberley (W.A.), going
by way of Victoria Downs and Wave Hill
past the then undiscovered Tanami and on to
Hall’s Creek (1882). He was one of the first
into the Murchison, and pioneered the dis-
covery of gold at Mount Margaret. Ten years
ago, nearly blind, he was still prospecting, in
the Menzies country, working single-handed.
It was suggested to the veteran, then 83, that
he had reached the stage at which, without
loss of dignity, he could accept the old-age
pension. His reply was to throw his hat
on the ground and invite his well-intentioned
adviser to come on and swap punches. The
pension, he stated warmly, was intended for
the benefit of old men, and he didn’t intend
to apply for it till lie grew up.
MOUTH-ORGAN BILL.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We gathered round the myall logs
When mists began to rise,
And all the heights were crowned with fogs
Beneath cold, starlit skies.
The serried ranks of_ irpubark
That climbed the Granite Hill «
All seemed to listen, mute and dark,
To old Mouth-organ Bill. - ;
He played the tunes a dead world knew,
The ancient Irish airs ;
You’d see the lasses tripping through
Green meadows to the fairs,
And mournful banshee melodies
That hymn a nation’s . tears
Went crying through the ghostly trees —
They haunt me down the years.
And though I’ve heard a singing bird
With nations at her feet,
Her golden notes have never stirred
My heart to quicker beat
Like those tunes calling on the night
That listened, tranced and still,
When youth Avas SAveet and hearts Avere
light,
To old Mouth-organ Bill.
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


PARENTS SHOULD KNOW
THIS.
HOW TO SAVE MONEY BY MAKING
\ FAMILY COUGH REMEDY.
It is essential that all parents should know
how to save money by making their own
family cough remedy that will prove safe
and effective for every member of the family,
from the youngest baby up to the oldest
adult. Here is the recipe, given by a leading
chemist: Into a jug put four tablespoonfuls
or sugar, three of either treacle or honey,
two of vinegar, and a large breakfast-cupful
of warm water; stir until dissolved, and,
when cold, pour into a large bottle. Then
add a bottle of concentrated HEENZO (it
costs 2/- at all leading chemists and stores;,
and you will have a family supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the usual remedies
for chest and throat ailments, which if
purchased in single bottles would cost up to fl.
You will be astounded at the speedy way
HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the chest
and banishes coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis,
influenza and whooping cough. Make iti a prac-
tice to always have HEENZO in your home.*
SAFETY AND PROFIT
SECURITY. There is no safer place in Australia for the
custody of the savings of the people than the
people’s own Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank
. of Australia. _ >
SERVICE. Complete Savings Bank facilities are provided
throughout the whole Commonwealth, through Branches
in the principal towns and 4,000 Post Office Agencies.
INTEREST. Every account maintaining a balance from £1
upwards earns interest at the rate of 4% per annum.
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
The dangers of the mighty deep
Loom thro’ the darkness of the night,
Where ships in anxious caution creep
Until pale dawn brings hope and light.
’Tis thus in countless homes ashore,
Where anxious mortals colds endure,
Until they hope and ease restore
With Woods’ Great Peppermint' Cure.—Advt.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
“Mundowie” : Two respected residents of the
Manning River (N.S.W.) have nursed a life-
long grudge.against cockatoos. In their youth-
ful days they used to walk 20 miles every
second Sunday, over rough and often boggy
STILL ONE THING LEFT.
“Once you do sign this ’ere pledge, m’ lad, you mus’n’ drink,
gamble, steal, tell lies, swear or smoke.”
“Can I spit, Maister?”
roads, to see their girls. They would have
gone every Sunday, but they had to take
turn about minding cockatoos—and mind-
ing cockatoos on two farms at once, though
the farms adjoined, was no easy job. On
the Sundays they were free each started on
the courting track at daylight, and rarely
got back before 2 a.m. the following day. In
those strenuous times they started work
about 4 a.m. They didn’t mind that; what
made them sore was that after they had
walked about a thousand miles the girls
married other fellows. “They had the Sun-
days that we were chasin’ cockatoos,” re-
marked the jilteds bitterly.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Two walls of mangroves cast
shadows black as the pit, but the channel
of the river gleams like polished silver under
the moon. The crests of the ripples glint
like stars. A hoarse,
menacing bellow
breaks the silence of
the night. Sounds like
a bull, but no wild
cattle live along that
lonely North Queens-
land river. Again and
again comes that
hoarse, rasping outcry.
Then suddenly
emerges from the
depths what looks like
a black log. It moves
round and round, fas-
ter and faster, in a
swiftl y -wide n i n g
circle. Suddenly the
log develops a tail and
snout, which it flings
high out of the water,
and short paws, which
work convulsively as
in a frenzy of rage.
The beast roars and
writhes as if his belly
were contorted into
knots. Like a demon
of despair he doubles
himself and catapults
upon the water, back-
wards and forwards
and flat out, with
crashing smacks, Long
he rages, as if chained
to that frothing spot
by cruel but invisible
bonds. Suddenly he
is still. In silence a
smaller black log, just
visible above the
water, glides . towards
him. He forges ahead
and noses this new
slim shape, murmuring thankful rumblings.
Then both logs disappear into the black
mangrove shadows. The bull crocodile has
wooed and w r on his lady love.
* * S: Hi
“Old Gira” : Many old North Queensland
mining hands will'back up the assertion that
the Australian abo. is a first-class prospector
once he has been broken to the game (B.
24/6/’3l). In North Queensland at least
he has learned in
some instances to use
his knowledge for
his own benefit.
Plutoville rush, near
the Batavia River,
was discovered by an
abo. named Pluto in
1910, and later he
dropped on another
lucrative little find
at Chock-a-block in
the same country.
The gold instinct
must have been in
the family, for
Pluto’s spouse fol-
lowed up these finds
w r ith one of her own,
which kept a small
field in good money
for 12 months or so.
Pluto, who died at
the Coen in 1916,
worked claims on all
these finds with
some success. The
Papuan, too, takes
to prospecting well,
and I have known
more than one “boy”
whose services were
eagerly sought for as
director of the
native labor always
employed by Papuan
miners. For this
reason the Gov-
ernment in the past
forbade the mining
of gold by natives,
and penalised those
purchasing the metal
from mining boys.
An exception was
made in the case of
the island of Sudest,
where the natives
learned to fossick before the ordinance was
put in force. To this day they get gold from
the slate-beds of the creeks, and are allowed
to sell it to storekeepers and traders.
* =h * *
“C. Coral”: Birth control based on im-
munisation gives food for thought to those
who. like myself, have contact with colored
brother and sister. Here in Thursday Island
unsophisticated Jimmy Susu regards it as
by no means a new idea. He has a com-
pound of his own manufacture which is given
to a girl at puberty, and which he declares
renders her immune for a period. “S’pose
I give her that medicine, she can’t have pic-
caninny for long time—might be five years.”
Whether it is always infallible I can’t say;
but the first case that came under my notice,
some years ago, was that of a damsel whose
father had thus safeguarded her. I accepted
his statement somewhat sceptically, but cir-
GETTING DESPERATE.
“If them dam’ bees don’t leave orf worryin’ me, I’ll pull up all their dandelions.”
cumstances later led me to think there mightbe
something in it. In another case there was
every reason to conclude that a young girl
of 17 should follow the process of nature
after certain happenings and become a
mother, but the father was quite emphatic.
“I give her that medicine three year ago, and
that stop her,” he assured me. “By-and-bye,
when she marry, after 18 years old, she have
family, but not now ” It was two years
after marriage when she had her first in-
fant. Whether the old men adopted other
methods on the quiet after the immunisation
mixture had been administered, I don’t know.
* * # *
“0.W.W.”: Lord Bledisloe, G.-G. of
Maoriland, has grievously wounded the feel-
ings of Henare. When a programme of en-
gagements was submitted during a recent
visit to Gisborne, he turned down a meeting
with the Maoris in favor of a visit to the
local freezing works. Captain v Pitt, a big-
wig in local native affairs, voiced the sad-
ness of the Maori people in ' a letter to a
Gisborne newspaper:—
It is an unwelcome awakening to , realise that a
slaughterhouse is preferred to a meeting with the
remnant of the Maori race. Those who, know and
understand the Maori can realise the deadly insult
offered The heart is sore and the mind seeking,
searching—wherein have we failed -in loyalty to
king and country?
* * * &
“Tiki”: Maoriland’s equivalent of the
banshee and the bunyip is the hakawai. Every-
body who mentions the liakawai is sure it is
a bird, but that isn’t absolutely certain.
Though never seen, the hakawai is often heard
on moonlight nights in one restricted locality
in the far south, bounded by Solomon’s Island,
the Pontama group and Big South Cape. The
sound commences overhead, apparently at
an immense height—a sullen booming that
increases in volume till the air palpably
vibrates with it. Just as it seems that the
sound is coming down to earth it changes
to a grating, rattling note, exactly like the
anchor-chain of a small craft running out.
Mutton-birders who have been working the
hakawai region lately report that the sound
has frequently been heard. Edgar Stead,
one of the Dominion’s leading naturalists,
plans to spend some weeks on Solomon’s
Island next summer with a view to solving
the mystery. The only clue at present avail-
able is that there is a species of snipe in
the north of Scotland that makes a similar
booming, emanating from the drumming of
the air with wings and tail.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Australians who are never
likely to see one are, as I write, to have an
opportunity of hearing the powders of mimicry
of the lyre-bifd, who in this kind of virtuosity
beats every other living creature except
my milk-boy. A popular rendezvous was
located in the Dandenong Ranges (Yic.)
with a hollow log adjacent. This is the nest-
ing period, so the bird is unusually eloquent.
Manager Bearup, of 3LO, had a micro-
phone hidden in the log with a cable running
to an amplifier at a distance. The Post
Office people agreed to lend a land line,
and arrangements were made to relay the
result to ' Sydney and Adelaide. A dinkum
bushman has been in charge of the operations,
* * * *
“E. Swan”: An old chap named August
gtibbe hopped the last hurdle the other day
at Kalbar (Q.). and under the floor of his
tumbling slab hut two hundredweight of
coins was discovered. H'e had no faith in
banks or banknotes, and when he sold pro-
duce or cattle from his little farm he con-
verted the cheques or notes into coins. The
hoard recalls the passing some years ago of
Agnes Nelson, of Topship (Q.). Agnes
kept a small store, but never admitted that
she was doing better than “very poorly.”
One day she was found stiff in her bed, which
was covered with piles of money. The hoard
was made up of 552 sovereigns, 206 half-
sovereigns, 210 ten-pound notes, 480 five-
pound notes, 240 one-pound notes and £53
THE RICHOCHET:
“The doctor says I can do without
stimulants now, Alf!”
“I thought the cow had me set!”
in sil i nclu ding 2150 threepennv pieces
It was a ’ n on the bed Where she ill Whv
i._, .. ■ y l ■ , ;
,?’* , her last nl^<-
rw ho ® r J , was a P u^’
g h J expired suddenly b ° en 00 ,9
SAILOR BILL’S PHILOSOPHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Sailor Bill, ere he toiled ashore,
Had served his time on a man-o’-war,
And a handier chap you couldn’t wish,
Like most of his calling, with pan or dish.;
Pick and shovel, or hammer and drill,
They were all alike to old Sailor Bill.
And he never went crook when things looked
blue,
As many a mate you’ll have will do.
His only comment would always be :
“Ah, well, there’s worse things happen at
sea.”
To many a mulga rush we went
To find that it wasn’t worth a cent;
When there were chances, every claim
Was bound to be pegged before we came ;
For one reef that pinched in the hungry
ground
There were twenty more that we never
found;
There were shows we worked, and we
thought would pay,
Till the tell-tale stampers had had their say.
But Sailor Bill would just slap his knee
And recall that worse things happened at
sea.
With water scarce on the dusty track,
Or dripping hard in some leaky shack,
If our luck was out and our credit bad,
The same old formula he had.
One time, I keep it in memory plain,
Our camp was wrecked by a hurricane—
And I can’t but think, though I never knew,
He’d have said the same in an earthquake,
too—
“Ah, well,” I heard as we struggled free.
“There’s worse things happen than this at
sea.”
It’s true that Shakspeare has somewhere told
That none a fire in his hand can hold
By thoughts of the frosty Caucasus—
And it’s cast-iron logic to put it thus.
Yet ever and oft, when things go ill,
I find me thinking of Sailor Bill.
And I wish he were here at my elbow now,
When gloom envelops sp many a brow,
For still and all, it seems to me,
’Tis a cheery sort of philosophy:
“Ah, well, there’s worse things happen at
sea.”
N.S.W.
PIPABDS.


You get PROOF
the first 7 Days
I can make
YOU
a NEW MAN
Latest photo of
Athaldo by
“Sun” News-
papers.
m
Mm
i
m
m
91
1 :
sjWßp
tTSM
'
DON ATHALDO,
Re-Creator of
Men.
Proclaimed the W ovld’s
Super Man ot Strength.
I’VE helped thousands of men’
—young and old- —under-
weight and overweight—
weaklings and even “strong
men” and other physical
directors who wanted my kind
of Muscle Power. Now I’ll show
YOU my quick, sure way to re-
build yourself a new body, and make
“a new man” of yourself.
Spending just a few minutes a
day in your own home, doing what
I tell you. without tricky apparatus,
starving, or gorging, using only my
natural methods of Dynamic-Tension
—in ONE WEEK you begin to SEE
and FEEL the difference in your
bodily condition and physical appear-
ance.
And my methods will dig down
into your system, banishing such
ailments as constipation, pimples,
skin blotches and the others that
do you out of the good things and
good times of life. Your new health,
pep and vigor will show even in
your eyes, your hair, and the way
you carry yourself. If you’re timid
and bashful, you lose all that —-
you have a new, more forceful per-
sonality—you become a NEW MAN.
Send for FREE BOOK.
It’s a shame if you are being held back
by a below-par body—now that you can
so easily and quickly make this new man
of yourself. Do what my thousands of
other pupils did—send for a free copy
of my new’, large, illustrated book,
“Muscular Power.” Learn how i built
myself up from a weak, no-muscle speci-
men until I have been proclaimed the World’s
Super Man of Strength. Mail my coupon—to
learn how YOU can win the biggest prize in
life —a handsome, healthy, husky body.
ATHALDO, 64 Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
I’m interested. Send me FREE COPY of your
AMAZING BOOK. I’m enclosing 6d. in stamps
for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
SMOKE-OH!
The N. S. Wales wage-earner calls it his
shrink-ome now.
* *
“Mr. Thomas Cool celebrated his 80th birthday
at the Haven, Rosanna-road, Heidelberg, on Satur-
day.”—“Argus.”
And let’s hope that Heidelberg will keep
Cool for many a year to come.
# *
“Australians had the opportunity at the last elec-
tions of obtaining sane government. But did they
take it? No!” — A.F.A. speaker.
Exactly. And now they’re paying through
the noes!
* ¥
PUTTING IT PLAINLY.
“You are just as big a goat as an ostrich which
buries its head in the sand and refuses to see the
truth.”— Lazzarini, M.H.R.
Continuing, the lion, member said: “If
you were not so sheepish you wouldn’t
swallow the snake-yarns spat out by capital-
istic octopi who are nothing but blood-
sucking leeches. You are an ass, and an
unscrupulous hound, but what else can be
expected of a worm with bats in the belfry?
There is no need for you to dog my footsteps
like a cat. The way you monkey with my
affairs, and then crow about it like a parrot,
is a fair cow. But if I shouted myself blind
1 couldn’t penetrate your rhinoceros hide.
There’s something very fishy about all you
birds.”
C. E. D.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
“Dear, I’m. not at all sure that Billy is
faithful to poor little Helen. You know,
her baby is not the least bit like him.”
“For a wager, a London film actress took a bath
in a Trafalgar-square fountain. When asked by a
policeman to desist, she came out.”- — ■“Herald.'’
If she hadn’t, of course, she’d have gone in.
* *
“Public opinion demands a leader.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
It isn’t exactly crazy about “Herald”
leaders, though.
“Now that Mr. Lvsaglit is relieved of Ministerial
responsibilities he is almost jovial.”— “Sun-”
Yet he’d probably be annoyed if one called
him a merry Andrew.
“Australia is in grave financial difficulties.”
—London “Daily Mail,”
It is. We can feel it in our bonds.
* *
THE SERPENT’S TOOTH.
“Ann Humphries charged her husband with
assault. .. . She gave him his dinner and he bit
her.” — Police-court report,
Though Humphries' stories may be grim
About the life she led him.
Harsh punishment is due to him:
He bit the Ann who fed him.
H. M.
* *
“Must we give Lang everything?”— “Sun,”
Everything, apparently, but what we'd like
to —viz., chloroform.
* *
“William Stone., claiming £5O damages, was
awarded £l4.” — “Argus.”
Well, fourteen pounds always did go to
o Slone.
“Father and son usually quarrelled after they had
been drinking.”—W'ifw-ess in Melbourne court.
They got at lager-heads with one another.
“One denizen of the underworld is suspected of
having received rewards for the betrayal of at least
three of its prominent members.” — “Truth.”
His slogan evidently runs: Put someone
away for a rainy day.
THE “DAILY BLOODHOUND'S” GOSSIP
COLUMN.
A Philosophic Ancient.
I heard a good one about our chairman of
directors the other day. For some time
past no prominent funeral has been complete
without him. His assiduity is frankly in-
spired by “a lively sense of favors to come.”
“I’ve scratched your back, and I expect . you
to reciprocate when my time comes,” he
says, in effect, to the corpse —or rather to
the latter’s dear ones. Judge of his surprise
when, at the recent interment of Sir Hercules
Mump (who bought 10,000 of
our shares at £5 and immediately
saw them go to 9d.), he was
curtly asked to leave the ceme-
tery. “Well! Well!” laughed
the old scoundrel as he wended
his way to the gates, “it’s the first
time I’ve ever been taken to task
for crashing a burying-party!”
A Birdie’s Whisper.
A rumor has reached me that
Trix Limelight—our best-adver-
tised Society beauty in the over-
-50 class —has bought a caravan,
and is off caravanning with some
ultra-exclusive friends. Or she
may have bought a camel with
the intention of going camelling.
Anyhow, no one cares a dump
what she does, and I only men-
tion it because she has just rung
up and asked me to. I couldn’t
hear her properly, from which I
deduce that she was speaking
without her false teeth.
The Convert.
On (lit that Jim Ferrier has become a
devotee of miunie golf. He swings a wicked
putter on the Manly Spare-a-Sprat Links,
which has been compared to Carnoustie. He
went round last Saturday in 4 under twos,
thus earning the management’s special pi’ize
of a handsome flannel penwiper. As the
old song goes:—
Oh. lucky .Tim !
How I envy him!
(N.B. —The above is a lie, invented because
the editor rang down to say I’d better shove
in some drivel about Ferrier. The boy has a
news value since he won the N.S.W. golfing
championship.)
Inside Stuff About Celebrities.
Chatting with Borgia X. Slimcxsl, of
■ Hollywood, who is here to inaugurate a new
chain of movie palaces,
I gleaned some start-
ling facts about the old-
world notabilities who
are his intimates. “My
pal King George,” said
Mr. Slimcxsl, “is par-
tial to a good cigar. No-
thing under 4d. is any
good to the Royal con-
noisseur. He is a small-
ish man with a beard.
The Queen— Mary, as
he calls her —is tall and
buxom, and wears comic
hats.” The conversa-
tion turned to the Pope.
“One of my most valued
friends,” admitted our
visitor. “He lives at
the Vatican, which is
considerably larger than
your Town Hall.”
(N.B.—This write-up
is supplied in considera-
tion of the advt. on
page 3.)
The Dinkum Oil.
Arid now for some information straight
from‘the horse’s mouth before I fold up my
typewriter like the Arabs, and silently steal
away in quest of another job. The “Daily
Bloodhound” is doomed. Its circulation has
gone to blazes, and the receiver is expected
in any day. To show the extent of the rot,
the directors have decided to let the “Sun”
have it for £500,000. Vale !
10-2-4.
THE ESCAPE.
“Lions and tigers are particularly susceptible to
colds if brought within reach of contagion.”
—“Geographic Magazine.”
“It was indeed a perilous moment,” said
Baron Munchausen. “My cold must have
rendered me deaf to the approach of the tiger.
The jungle monster sprang on me at the
moment I was restoring my handkerchief
to my pocket. As I fell, with the fearsome
creature on top of me, I observed with a
sinking heart that my gun had been flung
several yards away. I was helpless. Sud-
denly the cruel claws relaxed, the razor-like
teeth eased their grip on my waistcoat, and
the mighty head was raised, lifting its
gigantic owner from the ground. The tiger’s
face was curiously crinkled. With a sound
like an explosion, I felt myself hurled' through
the air. My germ-laden handkerchief had
done its work.
“The tiger had sneezed!
“The force of my propulsion before that
frightful blast had landed me beside my gun,
which in an instant was in my hands. One
of Dr. Musket’s Leaden Pills for Wild
Beasts cured the tiger of its cold in two
seconds.
“It was, gentlemen, probably the most re-
markable escape I ever experienced.”
Percy Pawnticket.
* *
SAFETY FIRST.
“The N.S.W. Minister of Agriculture [Mr. Dunn]
complained bitterly of inter-State trading, which
resulted in the import of 2,500,000 dozen eggs into
New South Wales.”- — “Argus.” . •
The Minister's brow was creased with fear;
He thought of his deeds in the bygone year,
And quaked at the recollection.
“My friends,” he prayed , with a furrowed
dome,
“For pity's sake, keep your eggs at home —
Till after the. next election
P.
* *
Paradoxically, the N.S.W. unemployed com-
plain that they’re not sufficiently doleful.
“There are allegations of corruption at the Sydney
municipal pre-selections.”— “Herald.”
Evidently another buy-election is immi-
nent.
* *
SUBS’ INTELLIGENCE TEST.
(«) The cable edition is due. No provision
has been made for a photo, of the Harbor
Bridge “taken from an unusual angle!”
Describe steps you would take to avert this
calamity.
( I) ) Give reasons why you should always
refer to female morons as “Queens of the
Underworld,” and to the youths whom they
support as “Daring Gangsters.”
(q) Sales fire dropping arid advts. are
scarce. Which of the following topics will
A ROSE BY ANOTHER NAME.
MRS. POTTS: “I don’t know what these
domestics are coming to.”
MRS. POINT: “Why, have you got another
new maid?”
MRS. POTTS: “Yes, but she insists upon me
calling her a working guest.”
you discuss in your daily batch of letters to
the editor? Give reasons.
(1) Should our girls shed any more clothes?
(2) Are men justified in combing their hair in
lifts ?
(3) Which of the architectural beauties of modern
Burw*od are to be compared with those of medieval
Rome ?
(4) Is Jack Lang the master, intellectually and
morally, of the elder Pitt, and if so, how and why ?
(d) Your talkie critic has condemned the
current offering at the Palatial (one of
your best advertisers) as “cheap American
pornography, vapid of plot, and witless in
diction and acting.” Draft a revised
critique stressing the “moral uplift of this
bright entertainment.”
S. W. K.
POLITICAL HOMES.
“Lord Elmley, who is Liberal M.P. for East Nor-
folk, has taken up his residence in Winterton Light-
house. He must be the first member of Parliament
to live in such quarters.”-—' “Sun.”
N. S. Wales Parliamentarians laugh at
his lordship’s claim to distinction. Scores
have lived on fences for years. Mr. Lang
lives down a well. Truth, as the proverb
mentions, dwells there, and he has to keep
a watchful eye on her in case she gets out
and ruins the Lang Plan. Billy Hughes
lives on £25,000. And then there are the
legislators who live on the game, skite, the
taxpayers, lies and so on. Most of them
inhabit a second home known as “The Edge
of a Volcano.” Patriotic Mother-Staters
pray that it may blow up soou, and deposit
them in some remote spot where they won’t
be able to do any more damage.
Lab-Nat.
¥ *
“It is estimated that in the future aeroplanes
will soar into the stratasphere and fly round the
world in less than a week.”
That ought to make the earth look small.
SUNS AND DAUGHTERS.
“Sylvia thinks the sun shines out of her
new boy.”
“Pooh! She needn’t kid herself — they’re
always pretty warm to start with.”
“A woman described as ‘a model’ was fined at
Sydney Central for drunkenness and obscene
, language.”
>s 'hr stayed a Bacchanalian spree;
Her speech with wicked words teas rife.
Far from a model girl is she.
This lass who leads a model life.
* *
“Augustus John, feeling that he owed a friend
thanks, painted a picture of him.”
—"John o’ London .”
Now all his patrons will expect to be ta'd
with the same brush.
ADVANTAGES OF LIVING IN A
SUBURB.
(1) When you are late* for work and dash
for a tram, the driver always waits.
(2) If the driver is so unfortunate as to
miss seeing you, the passengers never grin.
(3) When you board a tram the conductor
never signals the driver to start while you
are off your balance. On the contrary, it is
his courteous habit to wait till you are
seated.
(4) When you enter a compartment with
a vacant seat, room is cheerfully made for
you. , _
(5) People without newspapers don t
dream of leaning over to read yours.
(0) Women never barge into smoking com-
partments and glare at men who don't give
up their seats. „
T. F. O.
SONS OF THE SOIL.
Lord , what a dirty world ours has become,
With gutter pressmen wallowing in blood,
Bust workers shifting sand and looking glum ,
And party politicians slinging mud!
O. W. W.
¥ ¥
THE OPPORTUNIST.
“But why this sudden desire to get your
daughter married, Mr. McTavish? I under-
stood that you considered her too young.”
So saying, the Sydney solicitor leaned back
in liis office chair and scrutinised the rugged
countenance of his client with frank surprise.
“Losh, mon !” expostulated the Aberdonian,
“dinna ye ken that it’s the custom for the
bride’s parent to donate a cheque? Mull, 1
want to give one on yon wee Government
Rural Bank before it re-opens.”
T. B.
* *
DOWNFALL.
I sought my friend but he was “out'’;
His clients called but found him not,
By signs like these, without a doubt,
I knew my friend had gone to pot.
H.
ISLES OF GREASE.
Homer and suchlike spread the fame
Of gallant days of yore,
When Greek met Greek in festive game —-
Also in bloody war.
The heirs to\ the Acropolis,
When now they come to grips,
Bo it in a metropolis,
Purveying fisli and chips.
PHILM.
THEOLOGY
Lang and his pals don't seem to he
Religiously inclined, yet they
In one respect, at least, agree;
They yearn to take our gilt away.
P.


Soon ~ the calm
of the lagoon
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
W ,r,//'A*
t.
m
A<-»err^t=-
Beyond the chill grip of winter, the languid appeal of
Rarotonga and Papeete induces travellers to linger amid
alluring surroundings.
Such a holiday awaits you, within easy reach of Sydney by
the swift modern liners of the Union S. S. Co.
SAILINGS
MAUNGANUI, JULY 9.
MAKURA ... AUGUST 6.
UNION S. S. CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
UNIONROYAI? MAI LLINE
e
PAC I F IC/.
1 l/LAND J
Follow the Sunshine
And Spend a WINTER HOLIDAY in
TROPICAL SOUTH SEAS—
Via Brisbane, thence through the glorious Whitsunday Passage, inside
the renowned Great Barrier Reef, Townsville, Cairns (Barron Falls)
and Coral Seas,
to PAPUA
22 Wonderful Days Fares from £4O
(No Exchange).
Passengers live on steamer throughout
voyage.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P, to
BURN? WHIP
è
&CWLT9
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Ask for “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
m
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fThemistocles 11,500 tons, Sept. 9
*Nestor .. 15,000 ~ Oct. 6
JCeramic ■. . 18,500 ~ Oct. 24
*Anchises . . 10,000 ~ Nov. 23
tEuripides . . 15,000 „ Dec. 2
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
JCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—STEEL SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON k CO.,
Tel: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
é
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PROFESSIONAL
GOLF
TUITION
on
MicK Simmons’
Roof Sports
Ground
By Will Cony and Assistants.
Moderate Fees.
&
A
*i
i msm a
“WILL CORRY"
Steel-shafted
De Luxe
Golf Clubs
No matter what the grade, every
“Corry” Club embraces the most
advanced scientific developments in
golf-club construction, as well as being
representative of the very highest
standard in golf-club craftsmanship.
De Luxe Steel-shafted Gun-
metal Finish, Matched
Woods, Nos. 1 to 3 .... . 30/-
De Luxe Steel-shafted, Gun-
metal Finish, Graded Irons,
Nos. 1 to 9 ........... . 30/-
D e L u x e Steel-shafted
Hickory Sheath, Matched
Woods, Nos. 1 to 3 .... .37/0
D e Luxe Steel-shafted
Hickory Sheath, Graded
Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 35/-
“Corry” Super De Luxe
Graded Woods, with Tru-
temper Chromium-plated
Steel Shafts, Inlaid Head
Faces . . . 45/-
The Loyd-priced . . .
Distinctive
“Will Corry
Lig'htning'”
SERIES
serves the player who seeks a better-
grade Club within reach of his income!
“CORRY LIGHTNING” SPECIAL,
Bright Steel-graded Irons .... 10/0
“CORRY LIGHTNING” SPECIAL,
Rustless Graded Irons . . 19/6
“CORRY LIGHTNING" SPECIAL,
Matched Woods . . . 17/0
(Carriage Paid on Golf Material.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK
SIMMONS
LIMITED,
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home
Entertainment.”
SHADOW SHOWS.
The leitmotiv of “Doctors’ Wives” (Fox),
at Sydney Plaza, is the struggle waged by
the leaders of the medical profession in de-
fence of their honor. The prominent doc-
tors whom the writer has met have not been
required to play a Joseph’s invidious part,
being well stricken in years, as a rule, and
the possessors of such prophylactics against
feminine lasciviousness as bald heads and
dropped stomachs. However, one of the
Plaza doctors is Warner Baxter, complete
with eyebrow moustache, satin dress waist-
coat and buttonhole, and another is Victor
Varconi, who looks and talks like a gigolo.
You can’t blame the girls in the circum-
stances. Joan Bennett marries Mr. Baxter,
and discovers that he is too wrapped up in
his profession to go on a honeymoon. In
addition to being neglected, she suspects him
of carrying on with one of the innumerable
ov£r-dressed females who haunt his consult-
ing-room, and turns for solace to Mr.
Varconi. Mr. Varconi lias never known
woman’s love, having forsworn it for
work, but he falls for her on sight.
You can guess the rest —the illness of
the unhappy betrayer, the desperate opera-
tion by Mr. Baxter, the appearance of the
now-chastened wife at the operation as a
nurse, the reconciliation. Most of the dia-
logue is as trite and artificial as the plot.
The sets are interesting—a fortune must have
been spent on the operating-theatre ones—
and the photography is the work of an artist.
Joan Bennett’s part suits her —that of a
winsome, warm-hearted flapper.
¥ * #
Sydney Capitol on Saturday night was an
object-lesson in an interesting aspect of the
slump. By eight practically every seat in the
huge theatre was occupied. It isn’t a proof
of affluence: thousands seem to be using the
talkies as a kind of dope. Both pictures
were meant to be funny, which is another
sign of the times. Sydney doesn’t want any
moaning by the star that it pays out to see
nowadays. The principal offering, “Oh,
What a Man !” (Fox) is genuinely funny in
its preposterous way. Jeannette Macdonald,
as a temperamental prim a donna, falls in
lcve with Reginald Denny, as an unemo-
tional Irish burglar, when he calls on her
professionally. She has him taught to sing,
and he joins the company. After a while
he gets, so fed up with the moronities of her
profession that he goes back to his own.
Miss Macdonald, who has only had oppor-
tunities to sing and look beautiful in the
past, turns out to be as bright a comedian
as Gloria Swanson: Her study of an artist
who has been cruelly walked out on, but
is persuaded to face life with a broken
heart for her public’s sake, is great stuff.
The picture is spoiled for naturalism by the
return of the burglar, and an emotional bed-
room reconciliation, but that only occupies
a minute or so at the end. The other picture,
“How Dry We Are!” (Universal), misses
from every angle, though it is a cod on the
U.S.A. gangster business which supplies
laughs ready made. Slim Slummerville and
Harry Langdon, as hoboes, become involved
in a feud between rival rum-runners. They
are mistaken for renowned killers, and ter-
rify the genuine desperadoes in a series of
tedious slapstick acts. Everything is pain-
fully overdone, and what might have been
good satire, becomes bad farce. The Fox
picture got a much better reception, which
is another sign of the times. Local talkie
audiences have, become sophisticated, and
knockabout business that used to provoke
shouts of merriment in the era of the silents,
and that are still acceptable to America’s
flannel-nightgown belt, leave them unamused.
* ¥ ?
About all that remains of the original in
Fox’s “The Yankee at King Arthur’s Court,”
at Sydney Regent, are the names of the
characters. .Most of the nineteenth-century
miracles which Mark Twain represented as
staggering Arthur and his entourage have
been scrapped in favor of wonders of recent
origin. However, the writer’s method is
retained —a succession of short, swift episodes,
each of which depends on the confrontation of
a bewildered savage with what he takes to
be magic. The first is out of the book —the
one where the Yankee, when about to be
burned, utters a curse condemning the king-
dom to eternal darkness, having discovered
from his pocket-book that an eclipse of the
sun is due. After that he never looks back.
His prestige rises higher and higher as he
produces telephones, factories, advertising
systems and fleets of cars, the final wonder
taking the form of a bombing ’plane fitted
with a gyroscope which demolishes the resi-
dence of his enemies. There are many enter-
taining lunacies, as when the Yankee meets
the renowned Sir Sagramor in the lists, first
lassoes. the knight’s lance and chivalrously
hands it back, and then lassoes the knight
himself. There is some first-class burlesque
in this scene; the radio-announcer is alone
worth the entrance money, though his charac-
terisation lasts only a few minutes. Will
Rogers is disappointing, but the nature of
the production is to blame. The mind is
constantly diverted from the actor to his
next miracle.
M.-G.-M.’s “Shipmates,” also at the
Regent, is another picture about Uncle
Sam’s talkie service. The Washington Navy
Office has obviously ordered its tars to deny
the magnates of Hollywood nothing, and
they have responded with gusto. Fleets,
battleships, pinnaces, admirals’ barges,
orderly-room proceedings, dances on board,
battle-practice by real crews—these and other
aspects of naval life have been brilliantly
photographed. As in the other picture there
is some mild sentiment. The lover is Robert
Montgomery, a facile young beauty-sailor.
He enters at the bottom of the ladder as a
rating on an oil-supply barge, and exits head-
ing tor the altar with an officer’s uniform on
his back and the Admiral’s daughter on his
arm. This variant of the “log cabin to White
House legend is apparently considered use-
ful propaganda for a navy which finds diffi-
culty in manning itself. Once you swallow
the premises, Montgomery makes a satisfac-
tory sailor and Dorothy Jordan is nice as
ms lass. Hobart Bosworth (Admiral) and
Ernest Torrence (petty-officer) are good;
they always are. But you don’t want to
consider this production as drama. It is a
news-gazette of the American Navy, and as
such it ranks high.


A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY
Is presented to-day to purchase
SHEEP PROPERTIES IN QUEENSLAND
at reasonable prices.
The Lower Working Expenses and good length of Tenure create great
possibilities in th*
PASTORAL INDUSTRY
We invite intending buyers to call upon us and discuss their requirements,
as we have an attractive list ol
LEASEHOLD and other Properties carrying from 4000 to 50,000 sheep.
Particulars of areas required will be sent on application to
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES & MORTGAGE CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
Price 10/6
Correct
tyre
pressure
always.
c/his unique flat reading surface gives
ê
greater accuracy
•w THE IMPROVED _
RismeT
Universal
TYRE TESTER
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
“LITTLE FARMS WELL TILLED.”
“Tuart”: Senior-experimentalist Clayton,
of the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, is
contributing some . uncommonly interesting
articles on the outlook for wheat to, the
departmental “Journal” ; in the latest the
Russian menace to Australian wheat produc-
tion is examined in the light: of facts obtained
by way of the U.S.A. The Five-year Plan
in agriculture is based on the mechanisation
of production. There are vast State wheat
farms on which it is designed to produce
300,000,000 bushels, averaging 12 to the acre,
by the end of 1933, leaving an estimated
surplus for export of. over 200,000,000
bushels.
The largest State farm is 427,000 acres in
area. On this 280.060 acres of grain were
grown in 1930 for a • yield of 3,865,000
bushels —say, 14 bushels per acre. In 1929
on this farm the crop, although injured by
drought, yielded 12 bushels per acre; cost
of production, as quoted in the Government
report, was about 3s. 4d. per bushel. The
1930 cost is not yet definitely known, but
is officially estimated at 2s. Id. a bushel.
On the Yerblud farm, near Rostov, the cost
per bushel was said to be 3s. Id. in 1930.
These results are not exactly brilliant, and
they were to a large extent attributable to
U.S. machinery and expert advice. In five
years the U.S.A. has shipped about 39,000
tractors and 5000 combines to Russia, and
factories are being built in Russia to pro-
duce agricultural machinery. What will
happen when the experts are withdrawn and
the Russians have to depend on their own
resources remains to-be seen. When the Red
Republic was isolated from the civilised
world, its railways, ' permanent way and
rolling-stock alike, a rqelancholy i
spectacle of decay. The ruling Communists i
could make speeches, but they couldn’t run
rail ' ays : the simplest , repair jobs were be- ’
yond I' '.'u. And so it may be with .their
power-farming schemes, which, in addition
to demanding unquestioning obedience on the
part of the new serfs, will necessitate intel-
ligent and unremitting attention to replace-
ments and repairs.
Still Russian production is a threat to
the Australian wheat-farmer, and Mr. Clay-
ton insists that “the movement towards
higher yields and the cutting of costs of
production by better methods should be accel-
erated. There is now more necessity than
ever,” he adds, “for the application of know-
ledge and field research to agriculture. The
need for sowing a greater proportion of our
wheat on fallowed land is worth stress-
ing. It gives greater stability to wheat
production and certainly lower costs. A
smaller acreage is harvested to yield a
given number of bushels, consequently re-
ducing the sowing and harvesting costs. A
substantial increase in the practice of fal-
lowing is desirable” ; this should be “one of
our main objectives in the fight to reduce
production costs to meet foreign competi-
tion.”
Unassailable propositions all; but even
so intelligent Australian farmers arc
getting far better results on their small hold-
ings than the Soviets on their serf-manned
State farms. Consider the magnificent re-
turns brought to light by that Padbury com-
petition in Westralia (B. 24/6/’3l). On a
rainfall of less than eight inches during the
growing period, one man got 9126 bushels of
wheat from 337 acres. Another, with 987
points of rain, stripped 9537 bushels from
299 acres. A third, who sowed 468 acres,
and whose district rain-gauge registered 1062
points, took off 13,908 bushels. Australians
will have to go back to “the little farm well
tilled” ideal of their rustic forefathers. When
they do they will have nothing whatever to
fear from Soviets or their slaves.
THOSE SELF-SOWN CROPS.
“Glenfield”: Self-sown crops of prolific
growth are to be seen throughout the Vic.
Mallee this year. Many cockies are in a
quandary as to their treatment, but each
must solve his own problem, bearing the fol-
lowing observations in mind. In older-settled
Mallee country, only in odd years do self-
sown crops give payable yields; probably
this year will be one of them. In newer
country, where the ground is cleaner, the
assurance of a good crop is greater. And
a three-bag crop free of cost promises a
better return financially than a five-bag crop,
sown and manured.
As all self-sown crops got a very early
start, the type of wheat must be considered.
Preference should be given to the late-matur-
ing varieties such as Sepoy, Yandilla King
and Free Gallipoli. Their good stooling pro-
perties tend to choke the rubbish, and they
do not flower too early.
The self-sown crops of the early-maturing
wheats, such as Rajah, Mac’s White, Gluyas,
Waratah and Ranee, are already too far
forward. Many are in the shot blade, and
when-in flower are likely to catch the frosts.
The'best chance with these crops is to keep
them eaten back with stock till mid-August,
but that, of course, gives the rubbish a
better chance where the paddock is dirty.
AVhere the leaving of a self-sown crop is
going to prevent the farmer from preparing
his full measure of fallow and getting back
to his rotation, plough it in.
BREEDING OF WHEAT VARIETIES.
“Wodgil”: . Noongaar wheat!, which, as
mentioned by Bulletin correspondents, is
increasingly favored by Westralian farmers,
is not as “new” as was supposed. Asked to
give its history by the Perth “Sunday Times,”
Agricultural Director Sutton replied that
a cross between Sunset and Gluyas Early
was made at the Chapman Experiment Farm
in 1917. The cross was transferred to the
Merredin State Farm in 1919, where it was
subsequently fixed. The name Noongaar was
given to the variety in 1926.
Mr. Sutton added some interesting remarks
about the,work of the wheat-breeders, to whom,
from Farrer down, Australia owes so much.
“With'regard to the usual method of crossing,
the seeds of a wheat plant are usually formed
as the result of heavy pollination. When a
new variety, however, is produced by cross-
breeding, Nature’s plan is interfered with to
the extent that the pollen from what is a
male plant is transferred to the stigma of
what'becomes the mother of the new plant.
this Work fails, and there is no
resfllt. When it is successful a seed is formed,
and this is the beginning of a new variety.
Before the new variety is suitable for culti-
vation a great deal of selection, extending
over a number of years, has to be followed, as
the new crossbred in the early stages is un-
fixed and produces many different types of
plants.”
The Westralian Director was a pupil of
Farrer, and his own name has been given
(though not by himself) to a cross between
Nabawa and Carrabin. He mentions that
“the modern requirements of new varieties
are more exacting than formerly. The un-
fixed types have to be subjected to a number
of tests to ensure that they reach the stan-
dard, particularly with regard to the degree
of disease resistance that is in the seed.
ROTATE, DON’T GAMBLE NOW!
“Glenfield”: The year following a big
drought the experienced Mallee cocky goes
for a win by putting in every available acre.
The successful yields of the past season have
again confirmed his judgment, but on this
occasion without the usual happy financial
returns. His experience has also taught him
to return immediately after his gamble to
sound rotation methods. With an apparent
cycle of good years ahead, and an intense
desire to reach solvency following a general
financial illness, the temptation is strong
to gamble again, but it is a temptation
fraught with peril.
It has been proved beyond question that
the only safe way to farm in the Mallee —
that is, to grow the greatest quantity of
wheat on a block over a term of years—is
by a rotation system, including fallow. Con-
tinuous sowing of wheat on the same land,
as has been considerably practised during
the past four seasons, will, if carried further,
result in dirty crops of low or no yield,
decreased soil fertility, and (for a certainty)
wheat-sick paddocks diseased with takeall.
Careful treatment extending over seasons
will be required to make these paddocks
healthy again. Loss of wheat returns dur-
ing that period will greatly offset any chance
success of the present.
It may be suggested that the cocky’s
immediate requirement to keep him on his
land is a big yield, but the odds are against
a big yield in a dirty crop. Good advice
for the Mallee man to-day is, “Get straight
back to fallow and the rotation system.”
The Mallee has been depleted of sheep
through drought and financial stringency,
with consequent loss .of natural manuring.
Ploughing into the fallow of straw and the
prolific green growth will help to restore soil
fertility.
WIMMERA RYE AND SUB. CLOVER.
“Myrtle Ford” : I can support “L.W.M.”
(B. 3/6/’3l), particularly as regards pasture
improvement with a mixture of W.immera
rye and subterranean clover. Recently whilst
on a tour of the Ovens Valley (Vic.), I
noticed a bright green patch up on a foothill.
It proved to be a paddock of sub. clover
carrying two head of sheep per acre. The
system in the district is to cut down the
patches of St. John’s wort and bracken, salt
the former, sow a mixture of Wimmera ryie
and sub. clover, and finish off by scattering
super, over the patch. The paddock is then
stocked up with woollies (being overstocked
in the early stages), who eat the- young
bracken shoots as they appear and any
salted wort or weed which may survive. In
the flush of autumn the clover comes away,
to perfection—you know what that means —
and is followed later by the Wimmera rye.
The district has a late and short summer,
so that the full benefit is reaped from the
clover before it dries off. Rainfall is about
30 inches and generally includes an inch or
two of summer rain ; soil is a reddish clay
loam by no means rich. The grade is steep,
and therefore requires harrowing with
weighted harrows to open up the surface and
provide a lodgment for seed and fertiliser.
It takes a year or two of persistent attention
and hard graft to clear up the land and to
free it from bracken and wort, but the labor
is amply rewarded, the value of land being
quickly trebled.
On these foothills the clover spreads fit a
great bat.. The climate, I should say, is
particularly adapted for its cultivation, so
much so that I wonder why one or two of
the local energetic mixed farmers do not
harvest and market the seed.
TREATMENT OF FOOTROT.
“Goat”: Some years ago I bought 1100
wethers in the Henty district (N.S.W.). A
number were slightly lame, but agent and
owner assured me it wasn’t footrot —just
scald from the sheep running in a damp pad-
dock. I had several caught and examined ;
there was no sign of footrot within the hoof,
but there was inflammation between the toes
and above the hoof. I knew little about
footrot, and paid for my ignorance by having
200 badly footrotted sheep left upon my
hands. It was two years before I got the
last of them cured.
Since then I prevent my sheep from
developing footrot in a wet season by treat-
ing them with a strong solution of blue-
stone wheh the first sign of lameness appears.
Get an earthenware vessel, put in blue-
stone to about one-twelfth its capacity, fill
with boiling water and keep very hot. Have
sheep caught, and hold the lame foot in a
large pintpot of the solution for five minutes
—it should be hotter than the; hand can
bear. This method has never failed me if the
sheep are treated within two or three dayii
of the lameness.
Should sheep be neglected and footrot get a
firm hold, it is a different matter. The use
of a knife and frequent applications of blue-
stone will be necessary.
SUCTION-GAS FOR FARM TRACTORS.
“Yeoman” : The wood-gas producer evolved
by A. G. Pritchard, of Adelaide (B. 10/6/’3l),
has certainly passed the experimental stage;
but what about suction-gas from charcoal?
H. E. Nankivell, an Ardrossan (S.A.) far-
mer, is working a tractor oil producei'-gas
at a cost of 2s. per day (that being the cost
of burning roots into charcoal), as against
30s. per day for a tractor of the same size doing
the same work on kerosene. C. H. Smith, a
local engineer, is associated with him in the
invention. Mr. Nankivell has not had the
slightest trouble with the producer-gas,
claims 100 per cent, efficiency in power
developed, and has reduced the consumption
of engine sump oil by two-thirds. Producer-
gas plants have been manufactured by Mr.
Smith for other tractor-owners with equally
gratifying results. A third gas-producer has
been evolved by an Adelaide engineer and
fitted to a caterpillar tractor, which is now
being tested in the Malice.
The disadvantage of the wood-gas producer
is that the fuel must be on the dry side and
cut into two-inch cubes. This involves a con-
siderable amount of cutting. On the other
hand, charcoal can readily be made on the
plant by burning stumps or long wood in a
pit. With a little experience, there is no
difficulty in turning, out„good charcoal with
a minimum of handling. A tractor-owner
myself, I prefer the charcoal-gas producer.
The other is efficient, too, and both* will save
tractor-owners the necessity of using imported
fuel, besides reducing costs to a level which
will enable them to face the future with
more assurance.
POT AND FIELD TESTS.
“K. Alyum” : Pot trials are advocated, not
in lieu of tests in the field, but rather as a
preliminary thereto. “Wilt” (B. 10/6/’3l)
may be eminently practical, but I fear he is
neglecting his theory. To run out a plot in
the field is too much of a nuisance to the
average farmer. The box (pot) test is easily
controlled, and the fertilisers may be applied
to the soil in the liefuid condition.
All field trials are prone to irregularities.
For instance, there is great difficulty in
obtaining a suitable area of soil of the one
even, grade. In box trials this is a sinecure.
Fertiliser trials with the majority of soils
may extend over several years. The pot
system, is in vogue in Germany, and from
the result of these trials field work is (or is
not) undertaken.
Referring to potash again, if the soil is
pronouncedly deficient in potash the result
will be immediate, and if deficient the potash
dressing will finally disclose the fact in the
case of one of the various crops. Inciden-
tally, although control—like the cut —is the
thing, the fayt that, several crops may be
growing, in the boxes at the same time is
another advantage of the suggested prelimin-
ary box trial. In conclusion, potassium sul-
phate in concentrated solution will burn.
Again, the fertiliser is actively absorbed
and retained, by the average soil. There-
fore, sow it- prior to sowing the crop.
TUNG OIL.
“Titre”: Recent signs and portents have
called the attention of some of the North
Queensland sugar districts, to the possioility
that the sugar industry may not always bene-
fit by the agreement with the Federal Gov-
ernment. There has lately been a marked
swing-over to dairying, especially round about
Innisfail, where 30,000 acres thrown open
at Silkwood are being rapidly taken up. The
timber- and banana-growing industries, impor-
tant jin the days before sugar became king,
are also being revived. Large-scale produc-
tion of tung oil is also being considered.
Tung oil is an essential ingredient of
waterproof varnishes and paints, waterproof
papers and oilcloth, while most shaving
creams have it for their base. It is obtained
by crushing the nuts from a medium-sized
tree whose home is China, and which has
so far proved itself immune from pests. The
nuts can be harvested four years after plant-
ing the seedling—the latter needs no nursing,
as Para rubber does —and the kernels yield
from 50 to 60 per cent, of oil, the residues
being a valuable fertiliser for the tree. The
life of the trees is about 30 years, and a
plantation in the fifth or sixth year should
average 1300 tons of nuts per acre. The oil
is quoted in London somewhere round about
£7O per ton, on the average.
The Innisfail soil and climate are said to
resemble those of Florida, where the tung-
tree has done well. Queensland Forests have
some fairly large groves of the trees in
the district, and many farmers are setting
out plantations. Even as a side-line to sugar-
growing these should prove payable, since
from 100 to 116 trees can be planted to the
acre.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Cure for hots in a sheep’s head? —4l2B.
As a preventive, place a supply of Liver-
pool salt in long troughs, covered by lids per-
forated by holes about 2in. in diameter, the
margins of which are smeared with tar, or
some other repellent substance, so that when
the sheep take the salt, their muzzles • are
automatically dressed.- Methods of treatment
are (1) blowing tobacco smoke from the tail-
end of a pipe up the nose; (2) fumigation
with fumes of burning tar and sulphur in a
suitable building; (3) injection of a mixture
of turpentine, ether and oil; (4) trephining
the skull and removing the hots surgically.
(1) What is “fire sapping ”? (2) What
is the distinction between grass and herbage?
—4030.
(1) A method of destroying green trees.
Small wood is heaped round the tree and
burnt. The effect of the fire on the bark
causes the tree- to die. (2) Herbage in
N.S.W. parlance means pasture softer and
more succulent than grasses, and includes
plants of the type of trefoil, crowfoot and
mallow, and many edible weeds.
My four-year-old thoroughbred gelding has
just done a 500- mile trip on the road with
stock. His coat is very rough and he has
a small but harsh cough. Best means of
getting him back to condition? —4l2s.
Administer one pint of raw linseed oil.
given as a drench first thing in the morning.
The horse’s, head .should be held in an ele-
vated position and the drench given slowly.
(1) llow to poison foxes in a paddock in
which ewes are running without losing your
own sheep-dogs. (2) Is there any better
way of getting rid of foxes than poisoning?
—4025.
(1) Apply strychnine, phosphorus or
arsenic to a dead carcase, trail it across the
course which the foxes would take to
enter the paddock and leave it as far away
as possible. It is important that the carcase
should not be touched by the hands. While
the bait is laid, and until it is collected,
station dogs should be tied up. (2) Don't
know of any more efficient way, but shooting,
trapping and digging out should be resorted
to in conjunction with poison.
One of my pigs, aged four months, has lately
been acting in d very queer manner. It cocks
its head on one side, shakes it to and fro
and occasionally runs round in circles. It
also has something wrong with its off hind-
leg, which apparently doubles up under it at
times. It is in good condition but is not pul-
(Continued on page 26 r )


IM.S.W. t Cj). Production
Commercial Butter
in lbs.
tr
il
/ _ i/1
e
#
c°
\
MARCH 1930
21000000
lbs.
4H*
JULY 1930
9,000000
lbs.
BRITISH COW '
5740 lbs miKk
ar
/M Australian coni
mi '29o} lbs milk I
RA\ ,j er i e °A I
7T
What’s wrong with
the Australian Cow?
—she. is equally capable of high production. The trouble is that now—in this month of July—half the
cows in New South Wales and Queensland are not getting the right food to make them milk to full capacity.
The result—July production will again be half that of March.
Are you going to stand by and needlessly lose half your legitimate income? You already have 95 per cent,
of the materials on the farm to make a “balanced” ration which will keep your herd in full profit. You
will need to buy the other 5 per cent., but what of that? Long before the account comes in you will have
practically doubled your income.
HERD PRODUCTION CAN BE INCREASED
—Look what one man did last July
June
July
August . .
September
October
1929——Unbalanced Ration.
Cow-cane only.
3BBlbs. butter
349
311
450
675
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
With 41 Cows. .
. 21731b5. butter
1930—Balanced Ration.
Cane, Saccaline, Bran and “Meggitt’s.”
With 38 Cows 40801bs. butter
NO NEED TO FEED HEAVILY
The farmer, with ensilage, green maize, oats, saccaline, cow-cane, etc., need only feed a good handful of
Meggitt s Linseed Meal and a good handful of bran, morning and night, in addition to his ration of farm-
grown crops. This will double the winter production of a cow and keep her in milk for at least a month longer.
MEGGITTS
ë
ē
SEND FOR BOOKLET 61
To MEGGITT, LTD..
Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney.
Advisory Dept.
If you would like advice on a balanced ration, send particulars of
pasture and present ration.
Name .. . .
Address


Longer-lasting
upper
Nothing but top-grade leather is
used for this shoe. . . .calf, kid or
patent for the upper, and the
toughest obtainable leather for the
sole. It is made, too, in one of
Abbey’s smartest shapes, with an
upper that is specially adapted for
easy fitting over your foot’s instep
arch. There’s absolutely no strain
at the lacing. The sides are com-
fortably low-cut, the toe squared in
the present popular style.
ORDER BY POST
Every half-size is available in three
fittings narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish, (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf 50/-
Glace Kid 50/-
Black Box Calf 47/6
Patent Leather 57/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” Sydney.
FPL 236 __
Keep flopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: ♦♦ Bridge Street. Sydney.
e
è
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Orescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Read “THE BARRIER MINER” PLAN
for curing unemployment.
It shows the way to real Productive
Work for All.
No bogus money without backing.
No Doles or Relief Works.
See Last Saturday’s “Barrier Miner, the Great
Western Daily, published at Broken Hill, with
the largest paid circulation west of Albuiy m
IST S W
Missing Friends.
HAROLD DAVIS.
WOULD HAROLD DAVIS, formerly of
W Sydney, grandson of late Rabbi A. L.
Davis, or anyone having information regan -
ing his whereabouts, please eomunicate with
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPAN i
(LIMITED). 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney,
New South Wales.
IV/I ARY ELIZABETH MAROUSEN died
iVA in Sydney about June, 1920, leaving two
children, Nellie and Herbert. Anyone know-
ing their whereabouts communicate
with THE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY CO., LTD., 412 Collins
Rtreet, Melbourne.
FARMERS...
II RuralTopics.Dairying.
B™ Stockbreeding. Poultry.
■ Horticulture. Veterinary
9.. Notes Etc .... All in ..
|THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES
THINK-
yob CAN SAVE ON
YOUR HOT WATER BILL
“Ideal” Boilers are used tjie world over and one is sold every two
minutes of the working day. They are British, and are manufactured
in Hull, England, by the National Radiator Co.
IDEAL
“IDEAL” Hot Water Boilers
are for the supply of hot water continuously for baths, sculleries,
kitchens and for many trade processes, in an efficient manner
at a lower rate than other systems.
“Ideal” Boilers burn coke, are simple in operation, and raise
50 gallons of hot water from 91b. of coke.
A HOT BATH FOR A PENNY.
Where water is colored by foreign matter, rustproof boilers are
supplied, preventing “rusty” water.
Reduce your expenses—inquire to-day.
An hotel-keeper writes: “Your Ideal Boiler supplies tiro bath-
rooms and kitchen with continuous hot water for tiro shillings
per week for fuel.”
“Ideal” Radiators used in conjunction with “Ideal” Boilers
heat average-sized rooms for 24 hours for about twopence.
Write or call for free booklet.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
ting on weight, and is a very slow cater.
What’s wrong, and what’s the cure? —3704.
The condition is probably due to suppura-
tive otitis. Warm, mild antiseptic syring-
ing of the affected area is recommended.
Temperature for water to scald a pig to
remove hair after killing? —4oBs.
Varies, according to breed and size, from
150 deg. to ITOdeg. Fah. The time of immer-
sion is from one to two minutes. A pig
six months old is scalded at IGOdeg. Fah. for
one and a half minutes.
How to destroy wallabies which are dam-
aging young Rhodes grass just becoming
established on burnt scrub land? Shooting
is out of the question. —4o3l.
To poison, take about as much powdered
strychnine as will go on the point of a small
penknife and insert it into lin. cubes ot
sweet potatoes, or use corn soaked in strych-
nine dissolved in vinegar. Gather all baits
that have not been taken overnight, and post
notices adjacent to all roadways to the effect
that poison is laid on the property. Also
inform neighbors.
(1) Is the breeding of Angora rabbits for
wool on a commercial basis profitable (2)
Number required to make a living? (3) Is
the wool much in demand? (4) Any market
in Australia? If not, where? —4265.
(1) Very doubtful. It has been attempted
by many people in Australia, but apparently
none have made a success of it to date. (2)
There is no information on which to base
an answer. (3) None in Australia; some
demand in Europe and England. (4) None
in Australia. Wool produced here has been
exported to England.
(1) How to graft orange and mandarin
trees? (2) Is it possible or advisable to
graft oranges or mandarins on lime or com-
quat seedlings? —4ol4.
(1) Not advisable. The growth would be
very poor and unsatisfactory, and though
the trees might last for a few years in pro-
duction their life would be very limited. (2 )
No. Rough lemon, mandarin or orange stock
would do for mandarins, and lemon and
orange for oranges.
Has pruning, except for the removal of
dead or diseased branches, been given up? I
am told that in California the pruning of
citrus trees has been abandoned. Should it
be given up in Gland? —4001.
Conditions in California are very different.
There the naturally dry climate makes the
use of intensive irrigation systems impera-
tive to grow citrus on a commercial basis,
while in Q’land the usually good rain-
fall in the fruit-growing districts tends to
an overgrowth of the trees at the expense of
the fruit. This condition must be counter-
balanced by pruning.
My young fowls get wliut appear to be
warts about the head and eyes, which rapidly
spread over the whole of the head, causing
blindness. Cause and cure? —4241.
The trouble is chicken-pox, more commonly
termed warts. This is a blood disease and
can be transmitted from bird to bird by para-
sites such as mosquitoes. Burn all dead
birds and isolate affected ones. Paint wart-
like growths with one part carbolic acid to
10 parts of glycerine. In addition, dissolve,
by boiling in one gallon of water, lib. lime
and lib. sulphur. Strain any sediment and
administer the mixture in the drinking water
at the rate of one teaspoonful to each pint
of water daily. The birds may not take to
it at first, in which case break it down to
half strength for a couple of days until they
acquire the taste. Green feed, should be
given liberally ; if it is not available,. salts
should be administered at the rate of loz.
per gallon of drinking water for well-
developed birds and half this strength lor
chickens.
Handbooks say that stable manure must
be “well rotted.’’ How is it done? —4090.
When the stables are cleaned out the
manure and whatever material is used for
bedding are usually heaped up in some out ot
the way place, in the absence of rain, if
given ail occasional watering the mass will
very soon rot down. A top-covering with
soil assists in the retention of nitrogenous
compounds, much of which might otherwise
leach out. Another and better method is to
place the refuse in pits specially dug for the
purpose and cover with a layer of soil.
Method of eradicating prairie grass in
couch- or rye-grass lawns? —4354.
Only way is to root it out with a weeder.
Chemical weed-destroyers would kill other
grasses, as well.
(1) What, strength should the brine be
in curing bacon? (2) Row long must the
bacon be kept in brine? (3) Should it be
rubbed or pumped? (4) How long should
bacon be smoked? (5) Is bacon artificially
colored? —3714.
(1) To 100 gallons of boiled water add
2001 b. salt and 201 b. saltpetre. Test pickle
weekly. The density taken by salimeter
should be 90 p.c. to 95 p.e. (2) Six days.
Then stack and salt for 14 days; 10 p.c. of
sugar can be added during stacking; change
stack and continue for further 12 days.
Wash in warm water, dry and smoke. (3)
Pump hams and around and along shank
bones. (4) From 15 to 30 hours, according
to density of smoke. (5) No. For further
details see “Bacon Curing,” issued by
N.S.W. Agriculture Department.
How to make sawdust briquettes? —424B.
Place 201 b. sawdust in an old tub, and add
41b. saltpetre or 41b. washing-soda, pounded
finely. Mix thoroughly, and then add tar until
the mixture is of the consistency of dough.
Sprinkle wooden moulds with sand and fill
them with the mixture ; or strew sand on a
flat surface, form the mixture into handy
shapes with a trowel, and allow to dry.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”; Saturated fallows on a slope
can be improved by running single furrows
a chain or so apart down the slope, provided
preparation of the soil can be carried out
soon after—otherwise further heavy ram will
cause erosion. Fallow on which excessive ram
has fallen will have to be reconditioned ; as
soon as Dobbin can be got on to it skim
plough to a depth of not more than three
inches and follow immediately behind with
a disc drill. This makes a satisfactory seed-
ing job on the newly-worked land. Don t
delay with the drill.
“Tallama”: On the Comboyne Plateau
(North Coast, N.S.W.) cow rugs cost about
3s. each. Two local farmers are using wool-
packs instead. A pack can be bought for
3s. 4d. Two rugs are made from each;
clips, rope, etc., require a few more pence.
“Ivilkivan”: Further to my par (B.
3/6/’3l) about self-sown crops, I notice that
a Melbourne “Argus” correspondent lias been
writing about the number of good self-sown
crops he has encountered during Ins travels
this season. Also that a professor toured
the Mallee and advised the wholesale plougli-
ing-in of self-sown crops. Ridiculous advice,
in my opinion. I know of thousands of
bags having been taken from self-sown crops.
There is also on record a crop which was
self-sown with December rains, and was har-
vested in May. What is wrong with mowing
these crops, with the mower blade well up,
and letting the cut stuff lie?
“Floodmark” : When planting trees in and
country, and water is scarce, use ordinary
galvanised iron cut into strips about 3tt. long
by 34in wide, then curved and soldered, to
make an inch pipe. Bury one end among
the roots, placing it on a handful of small
stones or charcoal to keep it free from plug-
ging. Through this pipe a gallon or two
of water can be delivered direct to roots at
any time. I have successfully transplanted
almost full-grown kurrajongs thus, always, of
course, lopping their limbs before removing.
“Homby”: When selecting a bush handle
for your maul or splitting-hammer, choose
one from a young tree partially dry. it
will retain its toughness and resilience longer
than one green. For eyed-tools have the
tool end an inch or more in diameter than
actually needed. The tool will work its own
groove and outside burr, and obviate con-
tinuous wedging. Always bark the handle
before fitting tool.
“Dai R.”: To make a handy vest-pocket
knife-sliarpener, on one side of a 2in. x lin.
block of wood tack a thin piece of zinc-
turning the ends over for tacking so that the
knife-blade won’t strike the tack heads. On
the other side of the block affix leather
similarly. Strop first on zinc and then on
leather, using grease of some sort on each.
Half a minute on each side will give a keen
edge to any knife that isn’t too badly gapped
or rounded.
“E.H.M.”: Bananas intended for distant
markets must be cut green, but it is also
necessary that they should be properly
matured, otherwise they 7 come out of the
artificial ripening-rooms a poor quality.
Judging by numerous complaints many
growers have made the mistake of sending
immature fruit. Bunches should not be cut
until one or two bananas have ripened on
the tree.
“Gardener”: N.S.W. seedsmen report
heavier sales of gramma seeds to farmers for
stock feed. Grammas thrive better and set
and mature more quickly 7 than cattle pump-
kins. They store and last well, yet are easy
to run through the cutter. They are sus-
taining and fattening, being full of sugar.
“Kilkivan”: Ordinary pruning maxims
break down under irrigation. With hard
pruning you get violent growth ; trees shoot
up in the air, lower limbs die out and spurs
die. Always use a “block” cut; in other
words, prune where a limb branches to a
smaller one, and leave a portion of the
lateral. This has the effect of damming the
sap and forcing growth lower down. Hard
pruning would kill an irrigated peach-tree
in four years. Work a peach tree to six
leaders, with short laterals all the way up,
no sub-leaders, and all fruit carried close to
the leader. Keep pruning these short laterals
on the “block-cut” system; they will always
be fruitful. Irrigationists should study
their trees, never overload them, but give
each tree individual care so as to keep the
laterals and spurs from dying out, and avoid
hard cutting like the Devil —except to a
“block cut.”
“Disc Harrow” : If there is any spraying
oil over after spraying the apple-trees, put it
on any cherries you have. Even if there
are no pests on the trees, the oil is a tonic
and brings the fruit in earlier. In the case
of cherries, a fortnight may mean a difference
of a pound a case.
“Dimon”: Growers of maize generally
prefer the red grain, and when selecting seed
el’oose the cobs with red cores. Though white
is just as good, and the grain is larger, buyers
show a prejudice against the color when buy-
ing for stock food. For all that, the white,
some varieties of which yield up to 80 bushels
an acre, is worth growing. It is the special
grain used in the making of breakfast foods,
and the Botany manufacturers have been
giving prizes to encourage its cultivation.
For farm use, whites are good both for gram
and green feeding, most sorts being quick
growers and heavy croppers.
“Grunter”: A few feet of three-strand
plain run makes a handy strainer, particu-
larly for telephone lines. Wind the rope
around the broken ends of wire, opening up
the strands as you go and incorporating
the wire into tiie rope as an additional
strand. Then pull the two ends of wire
together by applying a “Spanish windlass’
to the rope. The more strain you put on
the tighter the rope grips the wire.
“Hornby” : To bind an axe-handle that has
begun to split near the head, the best thing
is fine copper wire. Attach one end to a
tree-limb, cut a groove in the handle to
take the first round, and fasten the other end
to the handle witli a tack. Keep a good
strain up and wind on by turning the
handle towards tree, thus securing evenness
and tightness. Fasten off with groove for
last round, and tack. Greenhide or well-
waxed double hemp is also good.
“Bad Australian”: “Ivoolonga’s” instruc-
tions (B. 17/6/’3l) relative to mounting a
young horse are correct, but the rider who
adopts his method of holding the reins and
grasping the cheek-strap will find he has very
little control of the animal. In retaining
his grip of the cheek-strap his body is thrown
so far forward that he is at the mercy of
his mount from the moment he bears his
weight in the stirrup until he is seated in
the saddle. In mounting a young horse
the near rein should be drawn tight enough
to bring the animal’s head well round
towards the rider, the off rein being allowed
just sufficient length to permit of this. Then,
with both reins and the horse’s mane gripped
firmly in his left hand, the rider may swing
into the saddle with the comforting know-
ledge that he has a firm hold on the animal’s
mouth, whatever may happen.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
- must be confined to one subject.
The right of. selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell'’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gardener, Woollahra (N.S.W.), exp., wants work, by
day or hour. —3717.
Carpenter, plasterer, plumber, Sydney, wants work,
town or country.—-4201.
Gardener, English, N.S.W., 18 years’ Australian
exp., wants charge of garden or small estate. Refs.
—4211.
Young woman (21), Sydney, 2 1 years’ nursing
exp., wants employment that will involve-travelling.
—4235.
To exchange position as stenographer in Sydney-
office for one in bookshop or with publishing co..
Sydney or Melbourne. —4224.
Old Scotch tailor and cutter, Sydney, seeks em-
ployment as instructor, —4316. ,
Gardener (40), N.S.W., used to oil engines and
motor mowers, wants employment. Refs. —4322.
Partially incapacitated Digger, with 12 years’ com-
mercial exp. Malaya, China, Java, available as em-
ployee, or agent for exporters.—42 Bo.
To get in touch with anyone conducting an allow-
ance post office within 30 miles of Sydney who is
thinking of retiring.—427l.
Digger wants Part 86, Vol. VII; Parts 206 and
207, Yol. XVI ; Parts 210 and 211, Vol. XVII ; and
Part 231, Vol. XVIII of the “ ‘Times’ History and
Encyclopaedia of the War.” —4269,
To buy (Sydney), set of second-hand boxing
gloves.—423l.
To buy “Canberra Illustrated,” published Christ-
mas, 1925. —4082.
To buy early books, magazines and newspapers
relating to Australasia.—4l93.
To buy “The Disciples,” by 11. E. H. King.—4326.
Wanted to buy, S.A., fishing cutter, with or with-
out engine, on easy terms. —4320.
Words of poem containing the line “Them was
the day's at Wirths’.” —4239.
Whereabouts of George and Angas Fritsch, origin-
ally of Nhill (Vic.).—4232.
Whereabouts of children or grandchildren of the
late Charlotte Mary Stewart (nee Giffin), who died
Hobart, July, 1910.—4317.
Information Sought.
What amount of capital must be possessed
by a British subject entering Australia with
a view, to permanent , residence? —39BB.
There is no regulation, but British immi-
grants are liable to be restricted if the
authorities consider that they are likely to
become a charge on public funds through
insufficiency of means. It is considered desir-
able that an immigrant who is not coming to
assured employment or to join relatives
should possess at least £4O.
Is it true that the directors of the Bank
of England are largely Germans and Ameri-
cans who represent German and American
interests? —4191.
There are records in “Who’s Who” of 22
of the 24 directors of the Bank of England :
17 are English, four Scotch and one Can-
adian. The governor and deputy-governor
are Englishmen.
Is a resident of Australia receiving, a war
pension from South Africa entitled to the
benefit of exchange on remittances?— 42l9.
Exchange premium is to be paid in
July as from January 1, 1930, to March 31
last. In future adjustments will be made
in October and April in each year, until
exchange is again at par.
(1) Lawful dimensions of drum net for
use ih'N.S.W. inland waters? (2) Method
of measuring nets? (3) Where can I get
full particulars as to fisheries closures, law-
ful sizes for fishing-nets, fish-traps,
etc.?— 3734.
It must consist of not more than three
hoops, not more than 4ft. diameter, covered
with net of not less than 4in. mesh. The
outer hoops must be nbt more than sft.
apart. Length of wings must not exceed
10ft., with a mesh of not less than 6in. (2)
Length is measured along the cork line on
which the net is hung. Mesh is measured
diagonally from knot to knot. (3) “Fish-
eries Gazette,” obtainable from State Fish-
eries Branch, Chief Secretary’s Department,
Sydney.
(1) A dynamic speaker of 25 ohms imped-
ance is connected across the secondary of a
20.1 step-down transformer. What ivould
be its equivalent impedance across the
primary? (2) How is this determined? —
4291.
(1) 10,000 ohms. (2) The equivalent
primary impedance is obtained by multiply-
ing the transformer turns ratio, squared, by
the impedance of the speaker: 20 x2ox 25
equals 10,000.
(1) In building a short-wave receiver what
is the most suitable capacity for tuning
condenser? (2) Suitable A-volt detector
valve? (3) Number of turns and wire
gauge for grid and reaction coils for recep-
tion between 20 and 30 metres? (4) Would
two audio stages be sufficient? (5) How is
the aerial connected to the receiver?— 429B.
(1) .00025 MF used in parallel with a
2-plate midget condenser for fine adjust-
ment. (2) Phillips A 415. (3) Grid coil
5 turns, reaction coil 4 turns wound with
No. 22 enamel wire on a 1-Jin. bakelite
former. (4) Yes, if transformer coupling
is used. (5) Connect the aerial to the high-
potential end of the grid coil through a
7-plate midget condenser.
lam an Australian exiled in America. I
want to tell my American friends how to
make a damper and the old bush potato
cake. Could you tell me how? —4l7o.
First, have a bed of red coals ready. For
this, heavy, dry hardwood is needed'. A good
damper fire is one that has been banked over
night. For the damper take a pound of
flour, a tablespoon of baking-powder (soda
and acid were used in the old days) and
a pinch of salt; mix with warm water
and knead until the dough is dry and springy.
Flatten to a disc not less than ljin. thick,
and scoop out a deep, round hole in the
ashes; put in a shovelful of red coals, tamped
level and covered with ashes, drop the damper
on that, cover top and edges lightly with hot
ashes, so that no coals will touch the dough,
then heap over with glowing coals. When
cooked, stand on edge to cool. Potato cakes,
which are composed of half flour and half
cold potatoes, mashed, are usually made into
a batter and cooked in a pan like pan-
cakes. To cook in ashes mix the ingredients
into a stiff dough, using dry, floury potatoes;
roll out, and cut into the required size.
Another way of cooking them in camp is to
place them on levelled coals till stiff, then
toast.
What are the legal limitations of time in
Vic. in regard to: (1) Order of a County
Court not 'paid? (2) Order of Petty Session S
Court not paid? (3) Dishonored p.n.f (4)
Money advanced on loan without security or
documents f—4094.
(1) and (2) Under the Statute of Limi-
tations, applicable in all the States, an action
to recover a simple contract debt must be
brought within six years from the time the
cause of the action accrued. In Vie. war-
rants of execution bear the date of issue
and continue in force for 12 months. Where
there has been no payment on a judgment
for four years, leave to issue execution must
be obtained from the Court. (3) Yon should
give notice of the dishonor, and if then .the
note is not met the amount due may be
recovered in court. (4) If not subject
to any time condition you may recover
forthwith.
What dues docs a ship the tonnage of
the s.s. Cathay have to pay to pass through
the Sues Canal? —4157.
Transit dues are payable on the basis of
six francs 65 centimes per ton on net regis-
tered tonnage. The Cathay, whose net regis-
tered tonnage is 8696 tons, would pay 57,824
francs 40 centimes; at present rate of con-
version, approximately £467. In addition,
transit dues are charged on all passengers at
the rate of 10 francs per passenger aoove
12 years of age, and five francs between
three and 12.
Can wonga pigeons be reared in captivity?
Any special care needed? —4134.
Wonga ’pigeons, as a rule, breed in small
shrubs, but if it is not possible to plant such
in your aviary, the next best thing is to
place a box about 9in. long by Bin. wide and
2in. deep on the side of the aviary, about
sft. or 6ft. from the ground. The birds
should be provided with thin sticks for nest-
ing material. The keeping of wonga pigeons
in captivity is against the laws of most
States.
What are the usual tests carried out by d
doctor to determine whether a man is sober
or n0t? —3747.
There are no standard tests. Amongst
those commonly used are: walking a straight
line; repeating difficult phrases like “British
Constitution”; standing still with the feet
together and eyes shut, and putting tip of
finger on point of nose without hesitation.
Flushing of the face, dilation of the pupils
and general appearance are taken into con-
sideration. Tests of the alcohol content of
blood and urine are not allowed in ordinary
police work. The smell of the breath is no
test, as a man may smell strongly after a
teaspoon of whisky.
How to cast hollow-lead statuettes? —
4179.
Make a core of moulding sand around an
iron spindle, paint with plumbago or whiting
and bake dry. Place core centrally in mould,
using projecting ends of spindle to keep it in
position. Let core project at one end, which
will form a hole in the casting through which
the core can be dug out when casting is cold.
As 1 a fresh core is required for each casting,
these can be made in a wooden- mould or
core-box.
How to identify a lillipilli-tree? Is it
identical with the vinegar berry-tree? —3742.
The tree commonly known as “lillipilli” is
a myrtle, Eugenia smithii. The leaves are
smooth and more or less shiny, with an
aromatic odor when crushed, and if held up
to the light will be seen to be thickly studded
with transparent oil dots. We can find no
record of a “vinegar berry-tree.”
Number of civil servants in the Common-
wealth and State services, and ratio of civil
servants to total population in each case? —
3754.
The following figures, computed Dec. 31,
1929, exclude temporary (except in the rail-
ways and governmental tramways) and part-
time officers (registrars of births and deaths,
postal contractors, etc.) ; naval, air and
military employees; and certain others, such
as those employed in State-trading under-
takings : Commonwealth, 30,395; ratio to
pop., 4.74 to 1000. N.S.W., 76,722; 30,97
to 1000. Vic., 45,437; 25.57. Q’land, 28,917 ;
31.06. S.A., 14,405 ; 24.82. W.A.. 14,228;
34.14. Tas., 3975; 18.15. Total, 214,079;
33.37.
I wish to erect in an outer Sydney suburb
a small factory for the manufacture of fire-
works. Must I get a license and work under
Government supervision? Any other condi-
tions with which / must comply? —4oB9.
A license under the Explosives Act 1905
must be held (annual fee £1). The terms of
the license will specify conditions under
which the factory may operate. Explosives
Department, Lands Building, Sydney, will
give .full details.
What is telecartography?— 4266.
A method by which charts are prepared in
rolls of up to 10 miles in length, housed in
a cabinet. All the features of an ocean, in-
cluding the position of lighthouses, known
wrecks, harbors, and depths, or the entire
coastline of a country, can be thus repre-
sented in one roll.
My daughter, aged 23, has won a travelling
scholarship and will spend two years at an
English university. Will she have to pay
British income tax on her scholarship money t
—4270.
No; income from a scholarship held by a
person receiving full-time instruction at a uni-
versity, college, school or other educational
establishment is exempted from British
income tax (including super tax).
What powers has the N.S.W. Leg. Council
in regard to appropriation and taxation hills f
What happens if it refuses to pass a money
Milt— 427s.
It may not originate such bills, and it
may not amend appropriations for ordinary
annual services, nor taxation bills, but may
suggest amendments by message. The Con-
stitution (Legislative Council) Amendment
Act 1929 contains provisions for preventing
a deadlock in the case of disagreement between
the two Houses. In regard to a disagreement
relating to appropriation for ordinary
annual services the Assembly may direct
that the bill, with or without any amend-
ments suggested, be presented for Royal
assent. If the Council fails to pass a bill
relating to any other appropriation or to
taxation, and the disagreement continues
when the Assembly has passed the bill a
second time after an interval of three months,
the Governor may convene a joint sitting of
both Houses for the discussion of the bill.
A vote is not to be taken at the joint sitting,
and after it has been held, the Legislative
Assembly may pass the bill for Royal assent
with or without the suggested amendments.
(1) What type of ’plane was used by
Amelia Earhart on her trans-Atlantic hopt
(2) Was the “coast to coast ” record of
Capt. Frank Hawke non-stop or were there
landings? (3) Speed of Bristol “Bulldog ”
fighters? —3942.
(1) Fokker seaplane. (2) Stops were
made at Albuquerque, Wichita and Indian-
apolis. (3) Approximately 175 m.p.h.
(1) How long should the veterinary course
at Sydney Uni. take for a holder of a
Hawkesbury College diploma? (2) Can it
he taken without a language? (3) Cost? —
4156.
(1) Four years. (2) Candidates who hold
the Hawkesbury diploma may be admitted to
the first-year course if they have passed the
intermediate examination in English, a lan-
guage, mathematics, and a fourth matricula-
tion subject. (3) £l2O.
In auction solo whist a “misere” call beats
“abundanceand “abundance in trumps ”
beats “misere.” Does a call of 10 tricks
in an outside suit beat “abundance in
trumps ” ? —4228.
Auction solo whist is a hybrid game not
recognised by Hoyle. The usual procedure
in playing it is to apply, wherever applicable,
the rules of solo whist and auction bridge.
Doing this, a “misere” call does not beat
“abundance,” the order in calls being: Pro-
posal, 5 out of trumps, solo, 6 out of trumps,
6 trumps, 7 out of trumps, 7 trumps, 8 out
of trumps, 8 trumps, misere, abundance,
abundance in trumps, 10 out of trumps, 10
trumps, 11 out of trumps, 11 trumps, 12 out
of trumps, 12 trumps, open misere, abund-
ance declared, abundance declared in trumps.
How to rid a garden of slugs and snails?
—4240.
Give the ground alongside fences and
rockeries a regular dusting of lime. This
will kill most of the pests, and the rest can
be poisoned with baits made from bran and
arsenate of lead, or bran and calcium
arsenate, to which is added a little sugar.
Keep poultry and pets away from these
mixtures. If you don’t care about using
poisons, get a couple of Indian-runner ducks,
which should be allowed in the garden for
about an hour each day.
Which is the best manure for flower gar-
dens: (a) animal, (b) chemical?—— 42so.
(a) For light soils, cow manure; for heavy
soils, horse manure, especially when mixed
with straw. ( b ) Superphosphate is generally
useful, being mild in action. Wood ashes
are suitable for use about roses and native
shrubs, and nitrate of soda and sulphate of
ammonia (both in linuid form) hasten
growth.
Did Germany deliberately go in for infla-
tion after the war? If so, at whose instiga-
tion and for what purpose? —3469a.
No doubt Germany was forced into infla-
tion during the war, just as Britain was;
and another drink is always the easiest thing
to take. There is, however, much evidence
that the final burst of inflation was deliberate.
A German statesman-financier justified it in
these words: “I, with others, had hoped
to get big loans from America with a definite
term of payment and with a definite rate of
interest. We could get the loan and we
could do it without cither interest or a date
of repayment if we printed paper marks and
sold them to the world. So we started our
presses going and with the product bought
raw materials. Your speculators, too, bought
them freely. In this way we got both our
currency and our loans. The device avoided
a total economic collapse, enabled us to re-
pulse Communism and to survive as a Con-
stitutional Government.”
What is “radio-stenography” ? —4299.
It was the name given by Theophilus
Metcalfe, an Englishman of Elizabethan
times, to a book that outlined his system
of shorthand.
(1) Was Shakspeare a good actor? (2)
Did he ever collaborate with other play-
wrights? (3) Did he make much money out
of his plays? —-4295.
(1) According to Aubrey, he was, but he
played only minor parts, such as the Ghost
in “Hamlet” and Adam in “As You Like It.”
(2) It is believed that he collaborated with
Fletcher towards the end of his career, and
his first play, according to some commen-
tators, was written partly by Marlowe and
others. (3) He left an estate worth £2OO to
£3OO a year; liis known investments in pro-
perty total only £960. Even for those times
he could have been only in fairly comfortable
circumstances.
TFas the Wallace of “Scots Wha Hae ” a
Scot ? —4289.
By birth, yes, being a younger son of Sir
Malcolm Wallace, of Elderslie, near Paisley.
Ilis family, however, is believed to have
come from England with the Fitzalans, the
hereditary Stewards of Scotland.
Brief Answers.
S.M.F.: That’s a debatable point and could
not be settled without inspection of policy and
mortgage... . J.M.G.: Trapping of ’possums in N.S.W.
is limited to unemployed residents of the State, who
may obtain a permit from police officers to trap on
Crown lands 0n1y... .W.D.: From “The Mallee Fire, ’
by C. H. Souter, Tepublished in “The Bulletin
Reciter” P.F.R.: (1) and (3) In case of rejection
of a home and living according to husband’s circum-
stances, maintenance cannot be demanded. (4) Child
would live with the mother unless latter can be shown
to be unfit to look after it. (5) No. The wife must
follow the fortunes of her husband. .. .K.W.H.:
Strips of gauze are used so that the wound may
drain freely. The gauze helps to keep the wound
open and forms a channel for the discharge to
make its exit. The credit of antisepsis in surgery
is generally attributed to Lord Lister, who was the
first man in the British Empire to use the carbolic
spray whilst operating... . S.J.Y.: Your condition is
a puzzling one and could only be diagnosed by
personal examination... .L.H.: Robber-flies are useful
in decreasing, by their incessant attacks, numbers
of harmful insects; but some species have recently
taken to attacking bees and threaten to become
a pest to apiarists... .J.C.C.: The matter has
not yet come within the scope of the Commonwealth
Dept, of Transport, and no information is available.
R.W.G.: Can’t tell from (sample. Send a
damaged boot to the Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning
School, John-street, Waterloo, Sydney... .J.G.: (1)
22401 b. avoirdupois. There is no troy pound. (3)
At £4 per troy ounce, £157,283 17s. sd. The troy
ounce is slightly heavier than the av. ounce —31.1035
grammes as against 28.35... .L.J.F.: Only by direct
application to shipping cos. Stewardesses are paid
£lO 12s. 6d. to £ll 15s. per month Curious:
Four 4’s and a 7 in cribbage score 24.... B.B.: (1)
You are not liable for N.S.W. income tax in respect
of commission earned in Q’land. (2) You are liable
for dividends derived from N.S.W. cos A.J.N.:
Communicate with either the Board of Trade or the
Canadian Manufacturers’ Association, both at Vancouver.
W.J.W. : No such society known. Try Mines Dept.,
Brisbane... . J.P.S.: “Poultry,” 13 Goulburn-street,
Sydney C.T.: The fee for a telephone conversation
between Australia and England is £6 for a minimum
of three minutes and £2 for each additional minute.
F.M.: “The Bridge of San Luis Rey” is by
Thornton Wilder, author also of “The Cabala ’ and
“The Woman of Andros” H.H.: A Q’land pearl-
dealer’s license costs £5 p.a. and is obtainable from
the Harbors and Marine Dept., Brisbane. .. .T.D.:
Ordinary couch grass can be recommended. Kikuyu
and Para grass propagated by cuttings should also
be suitable. Ask Agriculture Department, Townsville,
for experimental lots of woolly finger and Urochloa
grass roots... .L.0.N.: The coin is a French
1792 two-sou piece, worth 9d. to 3d. according to
condition L.W.: Value of cigarettes consumed in
Australia, 1929-30, was £5,726,282—175. lOd. per
head... .P.K.: At the census of October last, Java
had a population of 41,563,460. The Europeans
numbered 191,134. No further classifications are
available 8.N.: America takes the bulk of our
rabbit, hare and kangaroo skins. Fox, ’possum and
wallaby skins are mostly sent to Britain... .F.M.A. :
There are a number of plastic surgeons in Australia.
Ask your doctor to give you a letter to one
N. :It is"a 1787 Danish two-skilling piece, worth
3d. in good condition... .C.U.: “Household Refrig-
erators,” by H. B. Hull, 325. 6d., Dymocks, Sydney.
J.S.: The star is Alpha Centauri, estimated to
be 25 million million miles distant.... H. 8.: If the
total amount received for the 12 months is £5O
or more, a return must be lodged... .P.lt.: (1) The
striper is the newer model. The jacquard is being
offered at reduced prices. (2) Foster Knitting-
Machine Co., 26 Jameson-street, and Central Agency
(Australia), 114 Day.-street —both Sydney. (3) Try
Foster Co.* advertise, or search “S.M.H.” on Satur-
days M. 8.: Wash with turpentine, kerosene or
petrol, and allow it to soak a little... .R.D.H.: (1)
84-needle sock machine, £lB in Sydney; 108-needle,
£2l. (2) A good flat machine costs from £4O to
£6B. There are German flat machines on the
market at from £7 10s., according to size. (3)
Socks are best done on sock machines... .P.R.: Miss
Jessie Newman, 9 Angel-place, Sydney.... A. N.M.D.:
“Weedex,” Shirleys Fertiliser Co., Little Roma-street,
Brisbane. This is non-poisonous... .R.G.D.: Permaline,
Is. per 21b. packet, Mick Simmons, George-street,
Sydney.... G.F.: Yes, the earnings of the wife are
taken into consideration. The Act prescribes that the
income of each will be deemed to be half the total
of both S.: One of Bryce’s “Tom Thumb” series,
of no special value G.H.: If you are working on
a station, you are not now covered by any N.S.W.
industrial award. If you are covered by a Federal
award you should get in touch with the Deputy
Industrial Registrar, Courthouse, Darlinghurst,
Sydney W.J.11.T.: N.S.W. Stamp Duties Office is
of the opinion that the receipt is liable to duty....
8.L.: Gallows, though originally a plural form, is
now singular....E.H.N.: Get in touch with Aus-
tralian Mines and Metals Association, Little Collins.
street, Melbourne H.N.M.: Gold-buyers in N.S.W.
are not licensed. .. .C.C.: It is a chapter in “Is
Unemployment Inevitable?” a book by a number of
authors published by Macmillans, 13s. 6d.
F.A.T.: A taxpayer in Queensland who earned £264
during the year ended June 30, 1924, would be
liable to pay 9s. Id. in State income tax. No
deduction would be allowed to him for the mainten-
ance of his wife if she received £52 income....
S.D.M.: Your tickets won no prizes. .. .E.J.M.D.:
The co. is still at 58 Pitt-street, Sydney H.M.A..
(1) A can ask B, the dealer, how many cards B
drew, but only if A is still in the pool and has not
yet made a bet. No information must be given by
anyone concerning the cards drawn by other players.
(2) A five-card buy must be delivered- straight off
the top of the pack... .T.P.C.: The “ten most
beautiful poems in English” is too tall an order.
. ...C.G.: Write to J- H. Smythe, 121 a Castlereagh
street; Fred Hagen, 184 Phillip-street; or F. Everilt,
333 George-street—all Sydney. .. .W.S.: Write to
Lindsay A. Cormack, 4 Underwood-street, Sydney
O. : No, there are many instances where stories
published in serial form in Australia have later
been published in book form in England C.D.:
(1) “Prospecting for Gold,” by lon Idriess, ss. Id-
posted, Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (2) Apply
Dept, of Mines, Sydney... .F.R.H. : Call at the office
of the Metrop. Water Board, 341 Pitt-street, Sydney,
and see assessor and receiver... .T.C.E.: Sydney
agents are W. A. Crowle, Ltd., 105 York-
street C.H.S.: The only sound advice you
can get is from a solicitor who has all the facts
and circumstances before him. Better seek it....
D.M.K.: Apply to the Registrar of Probate, Sydney;
the fee for the inspection of the will is 25.; the
cost of a copy depends on length... .T.G.0.: Absence
for seven years would only raise a presumption of
death. Desertioh without reasonable excuse during
three years and upwards is a ground for divorce.
You might sue in forma pauperis. Write to Legal
Aid Department, Queen’s-square, Sydney. .. .D.H.0.D.:
(1) Write Dept, of Home Affairs, Canberra. (2)
No brighter than elsewhere G.L.: Tf they are
steel engravings, their value is very small. Write
Lyster Ormsby, 235 Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
(Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J. HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corolla station, in North
Queensland, ichither she has been in-
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend, is rescued from a
seemingly inevitable coach crash by
Ken Craig, who, riding, out of the
bush, shoots the leaders of the bolting
horses. Margaret, who is dressed like
a boy, tries to help him cut the others
loose, but the strain is too much, and
she falls unconscious. Craig, who
had mistaken her for what she looked
like and used language accordingly, is
more embarrassed than ever ivhen he
discovers liis mistake. They, go on
together to the station, where Donald-
son is pleased to have her as company
for his daughter, Peggy. Margaret
falls under the spell of Craig's roman-
tic personality, though she resents the
fact that . he is repeatedly doing
things that appear to her to put her
in his debt. The latest of these is
letting her take his favorite pony,
Dawn, without protest. He goes away
to help a queer character, Larry
Nolan, with his horses, and before he
returns to Corella Larry gives him a
magnificent black, which he calls
Eaglehawk, and the popular opinion
regarding which is that Larry . must
have pinched it as a foal. Ken takes
Eaglehawk with him when he goes out
to take charge of the work at Cattle
Camp, where, some time later, Donald-
son and the girls unexpectedly arrive.
By the time they depart Ken, trying
to beat his growing feelings for Mar-
garet, has returned to the old reclusive
ways that her coming had disturbed.
CHAPTER XI (Continued).
KEN was fighting hard to regain his old
philosophic state of mind, and this, he
decided, was only possible by keeping
away from the disturbing element and by
resolutely banishing her from his thoughts.
Early one morning he rode westward, alone,
unheeding. Out on the limitless swell of
the downs he laid bare his innermost
thoughts and analysed them mercilessly. He
had realised he was falling in love with
Margaret Kennedy.
Fiercely he decided to cut and run—to
do anything to avert what seemed to him a
catastrophe.
He had been attracted by the calm, deep
reserve lending a trace of mystery to her
personality, but, thank God, he had broken
away in time! The memory of the past
leered at him. Never again! He had come
out here to find peace, and, having found
it, was he going to shatter it again?
He would leave Corella—plenty of room
further out, where white women were not;
where the station-manager’s children were
half-castes, and free from the world’s dis-
dain of the hybrid.
He would go buffalo shooting—prospect-
ing—anything to forget.
Then saneness returned—he had reached
the spinifex and scrub and giant red pillars
of the white ants. If he stayed at Cattle
Camp he was almost as safe as anywhere
else! Running away was an admission of
weakness. He would stay and see it out,
and studiously avoid the womenfolk at the
station. He had the black horse to occupy
his time, to claim his thoughts, his devo-
tion. Horses were safe!
Suddenly the big horse stopped dead in
front of a big clump of spinifex, snorting
with fear, and bringing Ken out of his
black thoughts with a start. As he looked
up, a tall aborigine, naked save for the
uluba, the rope of human hair round his
waist, seemed to appear from nowhere. He
stood on one thin, straight leg, two long
spears pointing to the ground in front of
him—the sign of peace.
“Üburingundah!” Ken exclaimed.
“Ee-oh!” The black smiled recognition,
and as he raised his spears half a dozen
aborigines flitted noiselessly from behind
trees, armed with spears and red boomerangs
and the cruel, hooked guanga. Two of the
number slipped back into the scrub, re-
appearing with trophies of the hunt—huge
goannas, the , limp, saurian heads sagging
grotesquely, and a thick, brownish-black
snake. !
Ken recognised several of the natives and
greeted them by their names, when the tall
leader, with the scarred ridges of skin on his
arms and chest, addressed the horseman in
his high-pitched, soft voice:
“Debbil-debbil drive the benungra [white
man] back to the Wogya?”
Ken shook his head slowly as he replied
in the same language:
“Little-fella debbil-debbil this time—
debbil-debbil close up goarany [dead]
now!”
The leader nodded and glanced at the
man. “We go to eat the berimundyah
Igoanna],” he said gravely.,
Ken coaxed the frightened horse m the
wake of the party, which spread out fan-
wise and dissolved noiselessly through the
timber. Even by careful watching he could
only occasionally catch sight of a black
head or brown shoulder, till, arriving at a
patch of rank kangaroo grass, he found the
party already preparing, the meal. One was
scraping carefully at the ground beneath
a big box. Ken watched with growing
interest as he saw the ground beneath the
carpet of fallen leaves and dead grass grow
moist. A hole was scooped out, and there
in the desert he saw the muddy water
seeping up. This was one of their “native
wells,” whose location each tribe jealously
guards, and seldom, if ever, discloses to a
white man.
A fire was quickly made, Ken’s matches
saving the operation of the firestick, to the
amazement of some of the bucks, who, never
having seen matches, looked on them with
awe—big fella debbil-debbil these!
The goannas were thrown on the coals
without any attempt at cleaning, and sizzled
odorously.
Ken had brought no food with him, and
after a big drink from the soakage he
squatted silently among the blacks, till
the leader, pulling a charred goanna from
the fire, satisfied himself with its culinary
progress, and broke off the long, tapering
tail—the titbit—which he handed to Ken,
who accepted it in silence. It was not his
first taste of goanna. He had lived with
the tribe when he first came to this country,
and had shared their food.
Holding the hot morsel gingerly, he used
his knife to remove the skin from the butt
of the tail, disclosing a white, appetising-
looking flesh—a bit like fish, and something
like chicken. Seizing a section, he pulled
the flesh gently clear of bone and skin,
and ate it with enjoyment. The remaining
two “fillets” followed, and he felt better, but
refused further offerings, as he saw they
had barely enough to go round among
themselves.
The tall man, rubbing the goanna oil
from his fingers on his curiously mutilated
chest, turned to Ken.
“Laimbahn, where is he?”
Ken remembered that the man was a
relation of Jerry’s, and, pointing back to
the east, replied briefly:
“Laimbahn? At Juan-Yung-ah” (the
native name for the Cattle Camp water-
hole).
Ken got a vague impression from the con-
versation which followed that the Wogya
would hold a big corroboree over a month
hence. • Jerry’s gin, having reached the
marriageable age, was ready for him, and
should be claimed by the time of the big
corroboree.
Ken repeated the message as he under-
stood it, and received affirmatory nods and
“Ee-oh” [yes] from the ring of dark figures.
He considered a moment, then spoke:
“When Noogal [the moon] is so”—he
scratched on the ground, the outline of the
moon before it reaches the full—“the ben-
angra, Laimbahn and oogia nundoh [many
horses] will chase the bulago [cattle] from
Jin-di-Jin-ding-ao [native name for the
Bluebush Swamp]. Laimbahn will return
to the Wogya, and the benungra will leave
Yougungah bulago [one bullock] at a smoke
for the Wogya.”
The circle nodded understanding. Brown
eyes and perfect teeth flashed in anticipa-
tion of the feast.
Ken intended to muster the Bluebush
shortly; only in the dry season was the
swamp penetrable to horses, and then the
going was rough and heavy There were
bound to be a few “lumpy” cattle there,
and the blacks would appreciate the gift.
As he rose from the group to return
home, the tall leader handed him a message-
stick for Jerry—a thin piece of wood like a
carpenter’s pencil on which he had carved
with his stone knife what looked like a
series of bars and crosses; but Ken, knowing
a little of their ways, pocketed the stick,
and waved a hand in farewell to the little
group of myalls—aborigines, unsullied by
the civilisation of the white man—living
their primitive life in their own fashion, in
their own natural surroundings.
He rode back to Cattle Camp, his mind
more at rest, his course of action settled.
CHAPTER XII.
The occupants of the long chairs on the
corner of the varandah were only dimly
visible in the darkness, and vaguely con-
scious of one another’s presence. Dinner
was over, and they lingered patiently in
the hopes of an occasional breeze to stir
the languid hot air and scatter the mos-
quitoes. The light frocks of the girls
were indistinct blurs, and the dim glow
from a pipe-bowl advertised Tom Donald-
son’s complacent bulk. Even Peggy was
quiet, with the' lethargy bred of hot days
and hot nights.
Margaret leaned listlessly back, eyes
half-closed, her lazy thoughts drifting un-
checked and unheeding, lulled by the steady
puffing alongside her. Then some sudden
telepathic change in the atmosphere roused
her—brought her wandering senses to the
alert. Her eyes peered questioningly
through the darkness in the direction of
Donaldson. His pipe no longer glowed—
the deep, contented breathing was almost
inaudible, and even in the darkness a feel-
ing of tenseness emanated from him. He
was listening, rigidly intent, his sharpened
faculties picking up something still in-
audible to her.
Then she heard it. Far away on the hot
waves of the night air it came to her—
faintly at first, gradually increasing
Peggy had caught the sound, and uncon-
sciously the three sat forward gripping the
arms of their chairs, hardly daring: to
breathe, listening to the rapid beat of
hoofs.
The clatter of a galloping horse was an
everyday sound; these still, hot nights,
when the mosquitoes permitted neither man
nor beast to rest, the drumming of hoofs
and the sharp whistle of a horse would often
float to them from the horse-paddock. But
this was different. They: could picture the
rider urging the tired horse to the best in
him—riding all out.
The desperate, flagging beats held them in
suspense. A sense of impending tragedy
gripped them as they sought one another’s
eyes in the darkness, wondering what could
make a man ride like that.
Donaldson rose sharply, the girls follow-
ing him to the edge of the verandah, peer-
ing into the night, past the vague lumi-
nance of the station buildings.
They heard the horseman slacken, shout
indistinctly; then the. tired horse jumped
as the spurs struck home. He was coming
straight up to them.
The little group moved out to the white
gate as the horse thundered up, the rider
vaulting off and landing at their feet.
Donaldson grabbed the figure. “Scotty!
What’s up?”
“Quick! Get a doctor! Ken’s hurt—bad
—maybe dead! My God! Hurry, man!”
He clutched wildly at the big man, holding
him.
“Steady, man! Steady! Ken’s hurt, you
say?”
“Yes! Yes! Nearly killed, I tell you!”
Margaret gripped on the gate.
Her mouth felt suddenly dry, her knees
weak. She craned forward while Scotty
gulped, recovering his wind, and becoming
more coherent.
“Where is he?” she heard Donaldson
demand.
“Coming along in the cart, ■ Dusty’s bring-
ing him steady. All smashed up—my God!
He did it for me, too!” His voice
broke with a sob.
The big man turned brusquely. “Peggy,
get Carinda on the ’phone! Tell Price to
get the doctor roused out, and to hang
on for details.”
The girl flitted away in the darkness.
Margaret found her tongue at last. “Tell
me—how did it happen?”
The man lurched towards her, his voice
uneven, his accent broad with emotion.
“It was the Bluebush cattle. We got
them to the camp—bad to yard, too, they
were, but we got them in. We left our
horses outside, and were forcin’ them
through to the back yard—it was awfu’
dusty.... everybody yellin’.... and beasts
bellowin’ and tryin’ to break back.
“I was next the rails, and a cow came
straight at me but I bashed her back;
then somethin’ else came fleein’ oot o’ the
dust and I yelled and jumped at it. But
it was a bull, a big roan deevil!” His
voice shook, but he gulped and continued:
“I jumped back, but too late; he dunshed
me as he went lay, and down I went. He
wheeled and at me like a shot. I saw the
red fire in his eyes and the hot breath of
him and I yelled—and that’s a’ I mind till
I got up, feelin’ sick; and there was Ken,
lyin’ like dead, the bull on top o’ him,
kickin’ an’ strugglin’, an’ the boys fightin’
the cattle back off him.”
Margaret gasped, her face drained of
color, fingers gripping fiercely on the gate.
“We raised the bull and dragged Ken
out, covered with blood, still as death.
God! I couldn’t hear him breathing.”
Suddenly he dragged himself erect.
“They’ll be bringin’ him now,” he ex-
claimed. “We’ll want fresh horses to take
him to the hospital.”
He lurched towards the horse standing
dejected, done, flanks heaving convulsively,
drawing long, sobbing breaths.
“Wait!” They recognised Margaret’s
voice, and both men turned at the note
of command. “Is he still unconscious?”
“Must be. He looked like dead when I
left him—why couldn’t it ha’ been me!” 1
The girl cut him short as she turned
to Donaldson. Figures were looming up
from the direction of the station, and her
voice was crisp and businesslike.
“How long would it take to get him to
Carinda?”, she demanded.
“Might do it in twelve hours.”
“And when could the doctor get out
here?”
“We could rush him out in five, I reckon.”
“That settles it. It may be too late
now”—her voice broke, but she quickly
pulled up—“but if there’s a chance to save
him we’ve got to take it here. If you don’t
mind we’ll fix up a bed, and I’ll look after
him till the doctor comes.”
The big man took a step towards her:
“Can you manage it?”
. “I spent two years nursing in a Sydney
hospital before... .once!” she corrected her-
self quickly. “Unless I’m mistaken he has
concussion, among other things, and the
sooner he’s out of that jolting cart the
better^
“Good! That’s fixed! ” Donaldson turned
to the little silent group. “Billy Smith
there?” -
“Here, boss!”
“Take a couple of boys and get the horses
in. Ken Craig’s badly hurt and we, want
the doctor here as soon as possible.”
A small figure detached itself from the
group and ran for the night horse. The
men straightened apprehensively, full of
unuttered questions, eyes on Scotty leaning
weakly against the knocked-up horse.
“Tom Sanderson?” the manager went
OI “Here!” The quiet voice sounded along-
side him and a tall figure stepped forward.
“Get a horse and ride out the Cattle
Camp track till you meet the cart. Tell
Dusty Rhodes to be quick but steady, and
to come straight here.”
“Right! ” And the darkness swallowed
the lean form.
“Can I do anything?” queried another
voice.
“Who’s that?”
“Joe Taylor.”
“You can. I thought you were out?
“Got back to-night.”
“I was going to send a boy with spare
horses, but you had better take them. Billy
Smith will drive the buggy till he meets
the doctor. You follow with a change of
horses. I’ll send another change to meet
the buggy about the Ten Mile. We want
that doctor here —in good shape, mind you
—but every minute counts. Now go for
your life! Scotty, let that horse go and
tell Blue Bob to make some coffee. And
have a good feed.”
He strode into the house to find Margaret
at the ’phone. She surrendered her place
to him.
“I’ve told them all I can imagine—there
will probably be concussion, broken bones,
and perhaps internal injuries.” '
Donaldson nodded approvingly, then
swung to the instrument.
“That you, Price? Yes”
But Margaret waited to hear no more.
She flew to help Peggy get a bed ready
in the wire-gauze enclosed comer of the
verandah, fear clutching at her heart at the
thoughts assailing her.
She did not stop to think why the prob-
able fate of this man should affect her so.
As she worked feverishly, she played fer-
vently that there might still be a chance.
It flashed on her that here was her oppor-
tunity to repay the debt unwittingly scored
against her, but the thought was as. quickly
banished as unworthy.
Nothing mattered now—a life hung in the
balance and she was ready to battle for it
with every ounce of energy in her body.
Everything prepared, the two waited
through an age of suspense, their thoughts
far out on the rough rutted track, following
the course of the heavy cart, living the
anguish of every jar and bump, gazing
desperately at one another, then turning
away to peer for the hundredth time into
the darkness.
The station was humming with unwonted
movement, every man desperately anxious
to do something to help. The manager
had gone down to dispatch the buggy and
relays; the doctor had already left Carinda
—fairly sober, the ’phone assured them.
Margaret experienced a surge of indignation
at the man. What if he made a mess of
things! Her thoughts ran white hot. If
the drunken beast failed in his duty! She
would kill him—slowly—painfully—and
revel in it!
They clustered at the gate to meet the
approaching horseman, ea,ger for news. It
was Tom Sanderson—cool, unruffled as
ever.
“Boss there?” he inquired diffidently.
“No. He’s down at the station. What’s
the news?” Peggy was bursting with
impatience.
“Cart’ll be here in five minutes!” He
paused, and Margaret felt the chill of cold
fear at her heart.
“He doesn’t look too good—still out to
it!” He swept his horse round and can-
tered back to the station, and the girls,
avoiding one another’s eyes, returned to
smooth the sheets, see that the water was
boiling—anything to occupy them, to busy
their thoughts.
At last the low rumble of the cart
lights bobbing like fireflies at the station
the quiet procession wending its way
to them Dusty’s deep, fervent “Git up
there, Boxer”... .the long-drawn “Wa—a—
ay—ah!”
Men clustered round the cart. Low-
voiced orders boomed.
“Steady, men! Now lift together —
e-easy!”
They laid the still form on the bed, and
Margaret took charge. An icy hand gripped
her heart; she acted automatically, her eyes
avoiding the face pallid beneath the deep
tan; scissors snipping through cloth, till
they tenderly removed the sodden shirt, dis-
colored with blood and caked with dust.
With the assistance of Tom Sanderson,
who helped silently, efficiently, his long


Sig Sen
-s>.
A
z
on duty ... day and night
IJIG BEN luminous points the hour . . . day and
night. In the dark, hijs glowing hands and
numerals are easily seen ... no need to make a
light.
And, day or night, Big gives you the right
time. Like every Westclox alarm, Big Ben is
precision built for years of use. He outlasts
several clocks of cheaper make ... is worth the
trifle more it costs to own him.
Your dealer has dependable Westclox alarms
in durable nickel finish or a choice of colors, in
several models.
Prices from 9/6 to 26/6
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
Melbourne :: Sydney :: Perth :: Brisbane
102
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
Assets exceed £43,000,000
è
460 Offices and Branches in Australia
hands tender* as a woman’s, they washed
away, the congealed blood, only to disclose
terrible bruises.
Peggy had quickly retreated to the
kitchen, and most of the men had with-
drawn to a respectful distance.
At last Margaret faced the two grave
men across the bed —Sanderson, lean, calm,
enigmatic; Donaldson, feeling strangely
impotent, but full of confidence in the girl.
“He’s alive—but only just! We can do
nothing more till the doctor comes.”
The men nodded grave agreement, and
moved slowly away, leaving her alone with
the still form under the sheet.
The little group moved quietly out
through the gate. The manager turned to
Dusty.
“How did it happen?”
The men, all ears, craned closer.
“I didn’t see the start of it,” Dusty began
slowly. “We had the Bluebush mob in the
big yard and was pokin’ some through to
the back when I hears a screech. Thinks I,
Scotty was late up the rails that time!
With that Ken lets out a hell of a roar
and dives into the dust. I follows him, and
there’s a big roan bull bellerin’ over Scotty.
Scotty he’s down along the bottom rail,
and that’s what saved him I reckon. Ken
jumps straight at the bull, belting him
over the eyes with his hat, and yellin’
at the boys to keep the mob from breakin’
back. The bull looks up quick, and I
swings on to his tail and gives it a pull, but
no hope of shifting him. As the bull rips
his head down at Scotty, Ken threw himself
fair at the bastard’s head between his horns,
and bull-dogs him. Up goes the bull’s head,
shaking Ken like a rat, but he hangs on,
sawing at the jaw. I jambs Scotty under
the rail and yells to Ken to get clear if he
can; but the bull swings half-round,
staggers, and over—all his weight on the
man.”
Dusty slid his hat off and mopped his
face. The men were hanging on his words.
“I reckoned Ken was done for—God, you
should’ve heard the whack when they hit
the ground. Ken’s still hanging on—the
bull’s big head plunging up and down on
him.” Dusty paused, shifted uncomfort-
ably. “I must ha’ pithed him—don’t re-
member doin’ it, till I found me knife in
me hand and the blood runnin’ off the
bull’s head all over Ken. We got a rail
and levered the bull up, and got Ken out,
I thought he would be crushed flat, but
reckoned there might be a chance, so we
brought him in.”
The listeners were silent. Knowing Ken.
and reading between the lines, they
showed their appreciation of the epic feat
and of the man whose bare recital left
many things unsaid.
Margaret, standing alone by the bedside,
gazed at the immobile form, searching the
uttermost crannies of her brain, digging up
the memories of her hospital training,
asking desperately if she could not do more.
She had done everything she could pos-
sibly think of. Until the full extent of
the injuries was diagnosed she had nothing
positive to work on, yet she remained un-
satisfied. Despite her inward tumult, she
presented a cool, business-like exterior.
Peggy, tiptoeing cautiously to the wire
door, marvelled at the girl’s composure,
and when Margaret beckoned, she slipped
stealthily forward, clutching her arm and
emitting a low “O-o-oh!” at the sight of
the death-like face.
Even Margaret had her doubts—the pulse
was almost imperceptible. Cautiously she
held a hand-mirror over the colorless lips.
Quickly the girls scanned the surface, and
at the sight of the little blur their
restrained breathing burst forth in sighs of
relief, and Peggy tiptoed away, instinct-
ively avoiding the creaky boards of the
verandah.
A long hour passed, every minute an
hour in itself. Forms floated by outside,
paused a while, and she would meet their
questioning eyes with a grave headshake.
Otherwise her eyes never left the man’s
face. Somehow the face had .escaped
injury; the hard, firm lines had disappeared,
and the features held a calm, peaceful
expression. It chilled her with apprehen-
sion—it held too much of the resignation
of death, seeming to say, “Oh, well, I did
my best. There’s nothing more to worry
about.”
The more she thought of the man the
more she marvelled. Where others were
concerned, his own life ceased to hold any
value in his eyes. Her recollections flew
back to their first meeting—the flying horse-
man streaking down that broken hillside
in pursuit of the doomed coach; the assured,
masterful touch among the plunging,
screaming horses. And when the danger was
over, the job done, his relapse into the
casual indifference that had annoyed her
so much at first.
She had to admit herself baffled. There
were times when she thought she was begin-
ning to understand him; then suddenly a
new phase of his character would present
itself, and she would find herself more
bewildered than ever.
Then this his latest exploit, which looked
like being his last.
She recalled fragments of conversations
overheard, bits of advice proffered by Alan
Gordon as she sat on the top rail of the
yard watching the milling cattle below.
She remembered the sight of a fear-stricken
animal on the fringe of the mob, unable to
force a passage through the tight-packed
bodies, plunge back through the dusk at the
encircling line of men; the nearest man’s
lightning glance at the form looming on
top of him—“only a cow!” His hat, thrown
in the dust in front of the charging cow,
distracted its attention—the man ignored.
But a bullock—or a bull—not on your
life! .Get out of his way, quick. She had
seen a boy, with no time left to dodge the
huge, looming form, throw himself in the
dust, while the beast jumped over his
prostrate body then the hurried scramble
to safety. All cattlemen respect a bull in
a yard; big, slow and unwieldy in appear-
ance, he can move quick and light as a
deer, and wheel on a sixpence—and you
can’t bluff him like you can a cow.
This man, then, must have known the
danger when he threw himself at the mad-
dened bull—yet he saw a man in danger
and did not hesitate a second.
Her hands clenched, and her heart was
in her throat as she sobbed dry-eyed:
“He mustn’t die! He mustn’t die!”
Desperately she rose to her feet, glaring
into the blackness beyond the lamplight.
Would that doctor never come! Why did
people live in such an outlandish place!
The feeling of impotence, with a life at
stake, added to the tension of watching,
waiting; and her knowledge that every few
minutes made a difference was breaking
down her self-control.
Cautious footsteps were approaching and
she pulled herself together. Tom Donald-
son beckoned, and she walked noiselessly
out to meet him.
“How is he?”
The dark head shook with a hopeless
gesture: “Just the same. How long now
before the doctor”
He fumbled at a big watch. “Three an’
a half—four hours yet!”
The girl’s eyes were desperate.
“I’ve done all I can; but—you saw....
one side of him is pulp. And yet what
can we do?”
Donaldson’s head was bowed; his whole
form oozed tragic desperation.
“It will be a big job when the doctor
does come?” he ventured.
She nodded quickly.
“You’ll be wanted then—and after. How
about trying for some rest in the mean-
time?”
She dissented Vigorously. “No! I’m
better here. I couldn’t rest. Anyhow, I’ve
done nothing for days. This won’t hurt
me. Make Peggy lie down for a while —
there’s no sense in her staying up.”
He turned slowly away. “All right! I’ll
get you some coffee. Back in a minute.”
The hours dragged past like centuries
and the girl’s mind felt benumbed. A sort
of fatalism had fallen over her like a black
cloak. Nothing could be done but wait—■
wait—wait endlessly.
The doctor must be getting close now.
Her mind ran over all her preparations so
that not an instant should be lost.
A figure halted irresolutely on the edge
of the circle cast by the light. Her list-
less eyes opened a trifle when she saw it
was not the manager but her tall helper,
Tom Sanderson. Concealing her eagerness,
she tiptoed across.
“Come round yet?”
“No. Just the same! Any news?”
He nodded quietly. “Buggy coming.
’Bout a mile away. Everything ready?”
She nodded quickly, new life surging
through her.
“Will you sit and watch for a few
minutes? I’ll see to things,” and she slipped
away towards the kitchen.
At last the buggy rattled noisily nearer
and nearer, but she stayed with her patient
and heard the doctor’s loud, hoarse voice:
“My God! What a trip! How are you,
Mr. Donaldson? Yes, all right. I want a
good wash first.”
She rose as the doctor approached with
Donaldson.
“This is Miss Kennedy, Doc. She’ll ex-
plain things better than I can.”
Margaret saw a middle-aged man of
medium height, who would be stout if he
had a chance, his dark hair plentifully
besprinkled with grey. She noted the heavy,
baggy eyes with a sinking feeling. He was
carelessly, shabbily dressed, his clothes look-
ing as if they had been frequently slept in
—which was nothing less than the truth.
But the bloodshot eyes steadied and took
on a different look as they took in the
scene, and his hoarse voice had a crisper,
business-like tone.
“How do you do, Miss Kennedy? Mr.
Donaldson tells me you’ve had some nursing
experience. Right! Now a little more
light—please. Thanks, Mr. Donaldson—
another lamp each side of the bed.”
For an hour they toiled over the broken
form, Margaret mechanically holding, hand-
ing things, instinctively obeying the man
who had suddenly been transformed from
a shambling waster to a cool, keen-eyed
genius—long delicate fingers working skil-
fully, unhurriedly, all forgotten but the job
in hand. She caught a glimpse of the
real man, who should have been in Harley-
street now instead of drinking himself to
death in a God-forsaken hole on the edge
of nowhere.
The sweat poured from him as he worked,
and the keen eyes of Tom Sanderson, hold-
ing a lamp to the best advantage, held a
new respect for the man they had looked
on as a brandy-sodden wreck.
At last the doctor straightened up, two
pairs of eyes on him—one questioning
steadily, the girl’s imploringly.
(To be continued next week.)


è
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
I for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6 room with breakfast from
6/6* single or 11/6 double, all
less 10 p.c. if staying one week
or more. All meals optional (also
at reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe 1 . Inclusive board from 10/6
daily, or 65/- weekly, both nett.
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is' in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
• - ; few
Pyrox Plugs are guaranteed
gas-tight and electrically
efficient —the fact that they
are made by Bosch precision
methods is your assurance of
the highest quality.
Sold by all
Garages and
Accessory Houses.
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE
Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty. Ltd.i
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler .Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Cockcrow won the Grand National Hurdle
at Flemington in most decisive fashion. Far
back for more than half the journey, he was
the only horse really galloping in the con-
cluding five furlongs. Racing students con-
demned the Crowdennis gelding because of
(1) erratic jumping and (2) doubtful
stamina; yet this comparatively young per-
former negotiated 14 out of the 15 hurdles
perfectly, and covered the three miles with-
out revealing any signs of distress. It is
strange that Crowdennis, himself a mere
sprinter, should have sired a genuine stayer.
Cockcrow belongs to H. N. Leonard, a
Queensland pastoralist, and has been under
the care of Joe Mulcahy, of Caulfield, since
his purchase as a yearling. “Bert” Leon-
ard’s father, the late William Leonard, sat
on the V.R.C. committee almost up to the
time of his death. He raced extensively, and
won a Caulfield Guineas (1907) with
Master Foote. That horse was trained by
W. S. Hickenbotham, for whom Mulcahy
acted as foreman; when Mulcahy started
on his own account he naturally received
Leonard patronage. Though Joe has won
several races for H. N. Leonard, Cockcrow's
victory was the first witnessed by the owner.
Mulcahy originally trained Mosstrooper, the
1930 jumping hero, who was sold because of
flat-race failures. Now we find Cockcrow
gaining highest honors over the battens, with
Mosstrooper beaten into third place.
Gert: “I had to come here e>v tram
TODAY
Bert :“whats happened to your
CAR. ?
~
Gert : Some blighter has stolem rr
&ERT : ‘Serves HIM RIGHT
The track was so heavy after recent rains
that it took 6min. 9isec. to run the three
miles, or 34-isec. outside Fiscom’s record.
One jockey alleged that there were holes
in the turf large enough to go to sleep in.
Horses sank to their fetlocks on landing.
With the exception, of Polygonum, .who
attempted a one-act victory, the competitors
labored in the mud until Howson set to work
on Cockcrow. Mosstrooper was disinclined
to take a chance at the hurdles, and treated
those obstacles as if they were fences. Harris
knew the handwriting to be on the wall seven
furlongs from homo, and picked Cockcrow
out as winner at that stage. However, it
must not be overlooked that Mosstrooper
was conceding the victor 3st. Polygonum
would have been third if he had not fallen
at the last flight, where Cockcrow blun-
dered so badly that Howson was nearly
unseated.
Kendler was prominent for more than two
miles, but dropped out of the hunt then. Ap-
parently the track did not suit Eccles’s prad.
The much-boomed Longlands gave his jockey
a clear view of the race throughout. Olina
(second) came home very tired, and is no
champion. Gadray, from N. S. Wales, put
in his best work at the finish, but came on
the scene too late to be nearer than fourth.
The form of Mosstrooper brought him into
enhanced demand for the G. N. Steeplechase,
which is popularly regarded as a match be-
tween the gallant chestnut and Rakwool.
If the owner of Rakwool is any judge, Best-
man is the hardest horse that the son of
Woorak will have to beat; Bestman ran
Rakwool to half a length at the V.R.C. June
meeting. In the great contest on Saturday
next much will depend on whether Moss-
trooper has been knocked out by his
gruelling effort in the G. N. Hurdle. . After
carrying 12st. 31b. for three miles in the
mud, a ’chaser does not recover readily;
but Gus Powell said Mosstrooper was never
so fit before.
Olina, runner-up in the Grand National
Hurdle, is owned by H. E. Connolly, whose
brother E. A. landed a double during the
afternoon with Veridique (Myross Handi-
cap) and Dark Man (Winter Handicap).
Eric and his friends and followers backed
Veridique “off the card” in the juvenile
event. She had a commanding lead, but had
to be desperately ridden by Ashley Peed to
stall off Te Huon by half a head. Three
horses were preferred to Dark Man m the
middle-distance contest. With Frank Demp-
sey up, he scored handsomely. Dark Dawn
captured the Maiden Hurdle through Laniroi
coming to grief. Night Lark landed the
Kensington Steeplechase, and Larrabee
scored in the Iramoo Welter with a brilliant
finishing effort.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday:—
Lawn Handicap: Princess Betty; next,
Spanish Galleon.
Doutta Galla Hurdle: Kendler; next,
Cockcrow.
Grand National Steeple: Mosstrooper, 1;
Rakwool, 2; Bestman, 3.
* * * *
Tom Pinch, who this time last year was
reckoned a possible rival of Phar Lap, had
another win on Saturday, after a succession
of failures; and the change of luck was anti-
cipated, for he was a 6-to-4 favorite for
the Flying Handicap at Moorefield. But. his
showing quite disposed of the notion, which
still lingered, that he might yet turn out a
high-class horse; he tired to nothing over the
last quarter-furlong of “six,” and in a few
more strides would have been passed by
two third-raters, Style and Erbie. Bowery,
the second favorite, got into all sorts of
trouble (as he had done at the last Moore-
field), but contrived to finish well up, just
ahead of First Acre —now within a few
weeks of his 10th year and still able to pace
it with the young ones.
The Moorefield Handicap was a good bet-
ting race, six or seven horses being backed.
There was a desperate finish between the
Maoriland-bred Ring Boy (7 to 1) and the
tliree-ycar-old Trenette (12 to 1), who was
considered a mere sprinter earlier in the
season, and the judge could not separate
them. Behind the pair, and travelling better
than either at the finish, was Don Moon (4
to 1). With an equal-division tote, such as
Randwick now provides, following Don
Moon of recent weeks would have been pro-
fitable to place bettors; but place dividends
on the 60-20-20 machine are nearly always
wretched. If the N.S.W. Government had
any intelligence it would compel race-track
proprietaries to supply straight-out, place
and doubles tote facilities, but of course, it
has none.
:|: * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Valmena or Eulclare;
next, Sir Duninald.
Rosehill Handicap: Stately; next, Spear-
shot.
Carlingford Handicap: Bowery; next, New
King.
* * * *
“Retired Leg”: Recently an unknown
steed rejoicing in the name of Gagoola was
made the medium of a red-hot, plunge at a
Melbourne meeting, but was just beaten out
of first place. Then, like the character in
“The Hunting of the Snark,” it softly and
suddenly vanished away. The boy that rode
the alleged novice was of the opinion that
his mount shaped like a sophisticated old
hand on the course, and investigations began.
Then the unfortunate animal broke a leg
in secret and was shot and burned, also m
secret, all that remained for the investigators
when they arrived on the spot being a heap
of calcined bones and an explanation from
Gagoola’s ex-guardians. About this time
someone remembered that a good Maoriland
performer named Simba had been sold to
some unidentified Australian. The horse
was taken over on the wharf from the agent
by an unknown person and at once dissolved
into thin air. Anxious inquiries have failed
from M.L., is also reported missing. It is all
to get any news of him. Praetor, another
deeply perplexing.
* # * *
“Eagle Farm”: Queensland looks like
bringing its tote system up-to-date. The
device has been in use in the North for over
50 years, and for a long time paid out on
the winner only. This was changed for the
1-2-3 system, which still obtains. The
Q.T.C. lias been considering the addition of
a straight-out tote to the place system,
following the A.J.C. example. It has now
been approached with a suggestion for insti-
tuting a doubles machine, such as has proved
so popular in West and South Australia.
Private interests have offered to erect the
necessary buildings and it is proposed that
doubles should be worked “on the blind.”
A provisional permit for six months is asked
for by the promoter, and if that proves satis-
factory to all concerned, an extension of
10 years.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
To,the general surprise, the German Max
Schmelling (13st. 71b.), who won the world’s
boxing championship last year on an alleged
foul by Sharkey, successfully defended
his title against Stribling (13st. 4ilb.) in
America. More than that, he gave Strib-
ling a hiding throughout 14 rounds, when
the third man stopped the slaughter. It
argues a tremendous improvement on the
German’s part, or a woeful slip-back on that
of the once-capable Stribling.
By battling at full speed from first to
final bell at Leichhardt last Friday night,
Lee Brander (9st. 641 b.), the young light-
weight from Gilgandra (N.S.W.) beat Chris
Halliday (9st. 441 b.). When all out Halli-
day’s more finished work gave him an
advantage, but he fought only in flashes.
Brander’s consistent attacks —his long right
swing knocked Halliday across: the ring
and down for nine in the tenth—brought
him a decisive verdict.
* * * *
Ern Connors (Bst. 121 b.) and “Togo”
Robinson (Bst. 13|1b.) fought. like wild eats
in the 10-round tussle which headlined an-
other popular programme at the Sydney
Stadium. There was so little between them
that the contest was called a draw. Robin-
son scored' well with lefts to head or body,
and earned a slight lead. But Connors
kept with him at all times, and the decision
was well received. Ken Turvey (10s. 131 b.)
outpointed Bill Bremeyer (lOst. 1041 b.)
over six rounds.
Footbrawl
The inter-State football season ended, as
far as the Rugby League is concerned, with
the fifth clash between Queensland and
N.S.W. in Brisbane, the Northerners getting-
home in a desperate battle by 4 to 3—two
penalty goals by Maloney to a try by Prigg.
The match was played in dreadful weather,
and the Queenslanders, adapting themselves
to conditions, rushed the ball through on
the ground, and in the second half took full
command. The visitors, in spite of a dogged
defence, were fortunate that the margin
against them was not wider. Queensland wins
the rubber for the season, having taken both
the matches in Brisbane and one of the three
played in Sydney last month.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby League grade games pro-
vided no surprises, though some of the teams
were weakened by the absence of players
in Queensland. Eastern Suburbs, well in
the lead, had an easy trot against Uni-
versity at Pratten Park, piling up 30 points
to 5 after taking things easily in the first
half —it scored 6 tries and 6 goals to a
try and a goal. Rogers, in the forwards, and
Lynch, in the backs, had a field day for East
against feeble opposition. Western Suburbs,
who are running second in the competition,
had a stiffer job with St. George at the
Sports Ground, winning a poor game by 10
points to 5. Penalty kicks wnre too numerous
to count. McMillan, for West, and Kadwell
for the Saints, were well above recent form.
South Sydney beat Newtown at Marrick-
ville by 36-20, Wearing scoring 3 of South’s
8 tries,.and adding 4 goals. Ellis was sound
at full-back for Newtown and added 4 goals
to the 4 tries scored by his side. Another
slow game at Bircligrove saw' North Sydney
emerge victors over Balmain by 12-8.
ij: * ❖ *
Manly, leading in the Sydney Rugby Union
grade competition, got the shock of its life
at the hands of North Sydney on the latter’s
ground, winning on the post as the result
of an almost miraculous Tolhurst-Louden
run just as the Village appeared to be
truly in the soup. The game was one of
the fastest and keenest seen in Sydney this
season, and had the big crowd on the yelp
from start to finish. North Sydney won
many of the scrums and was quick to take
advantage of the fact. Back and forward
the side played like one inspired, and if it
had not been for the elusive genius of Mal-
colm Manly would have gone home licked
for a certainty. The pace and dash shown
by both teams was another refutation of
the theory that the return to the inter-
national rules would slow up play. Forbes,
the Northern full-back, was the star of his
side, while, next to Malcolm, Tolhurst played
fine football. It is hard to distinguish
between any of the 16 forwards. Western
Suburbs’ forwards pinned down the erratic
Uni. side, winning by 16-11 at Uni. Oval.
Randwick’s cup of bitterness was added to
when St. George took a game from it at
Il'urstville by 15-13. Eastern Suburbs, thanks
largely to 17 points from Alec Ross’s boot,
romped over Drummoyne at the Cricket
Ground by 32-3.
* * * *
Melbourne’s star game on Saturday was
at Footscray, where the locals received Col-
lingwood. They were fast and clever,
but lacked steady purpose, and took scores
of pot shots at the goal, apparently on
the principle that some mud thrown will
stick. Four went straight, 16 went “behind,”
the others out of bounds. ’Wood’s play was
nothing to make a song about, but what they
did they did properly, so they totted up 6
goals 8 behinds (44 points) to ’Scray’s 40;
25 000 viewed the disaster. On the water-
logged M. C. Ground the faster Saint Ivilda
side put it all over Melbourne and finished
easing down with 63 points to 36. Geelong’s
better air and ruck work gave it the call over
Hawthorn—B7 points to 61, 9328 Hubbites
coughing up £226 17s. 9d. to watch the mud-
larks. Carlton’s Blues put up a great feat
on the old N. Melb. gluepot, scoring 20 goals
10 behinds —130 points-—to North’s 50. Rich-
mond similarly had little trouble with Fitz-
roy maroon, notching .101 points to 61.
Also the improving South Melbourne outed
Essendon with 73 points to 63.
(Continued on page 31.)
As all anticipated, Bobby Pearce walked
off with the Diamond Sculls at Henley.
F. Bradley, of Cambridge, was his opponent
in the final.


FAMOUS WHEREVER STOCKMEN GO
SUPER GRADE
ELASTICS.
REG. DESIGN
No. mB.
EXCELLENT
FITTING LAST.
é
WHOLE
CUT BACK. NO
SEAM TO RIP.
PATENTED
HEIN FORCED
SIDE SEAM.
SELECTED BARK-TANNED SOLE.
STANDARD SCREWED.
ê
“KOOREELAH EMPEROR”
(REGD.)
LOOK FOR THE TAG AND BRAND ON SOLE.
made from HIGHEST-GRADE materials
THROUGHOUT. STRONG ENOUGH TO WITH-
STAND THE HARDEST CONDITIONS OF WEAR AND
WEATHER.
STOCKED BY ALL SHOE STORES
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHNSON & SONS
BRISBANE.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.)
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING MANUFACTURERS OF
HIGH-GRADE FOOTWEAR AND LEATHER.
o.
o
*<?
f/A
?&
<& m
f/cof
A®' \<S"
<;■'/ >®
7 V0 C jW
*\°
wV>l>
x JtiP ~*
-i®
O 0
\\©
0
ss e
<\
o&
x>
<b^>
0&
&
9°
\o
X*
xe
V\9»
k©
o$
k)
s<?
\°
nP
6 '
\x>
>
\o
1>
V?
W.
Jk
51
Si
Footbrawl
“Glenelg”: South Australian football
authorities are indignant over alleged
attempts of Victorian football officials who
were in Adelaide with the State team to lure
away prominent local players. The Vies, deny
this, asserting that the players themselves,
many of whom cannot get work in Adelaide,
spoke first. Rates of pay for footballers are
much higher in Melbourne than in Adelaide
and this is a strong inducement to men to
seek transfers in these hard-up times. All the
same, the Victorian League has an unenviable
reputation for poaching promising players
from country clubs and the other States.
N.S.W., Westralia, South Australia and even
Queensland have protested in their turn, but
without any visible effect.
* * * *
“Fitzeray”: The Victorian Football Asso-
ciation has agreed to cut its terms of 75
p.c. of the gates and a £250 guarantee for
sending a team to Sydney. Provided the
Welshmen can arrange for the game to be
played on the Sydney Cricket Ground, the
visitors will be satisfied with a 66 p.c. cut
and pay all their own expenses. There
should be no difficulty in arranging with the
Rugby Union and trustees for the use of
the Cricket Ground, but the question of cost
intervenes. At Erskineville, the N.S.W.
League headquarters, the cost of stag-
ing the game would be £3O. At the
Cricket Ground it would be £7O. August 15
is the date suggested for the game.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Rugby Union followers are
taking the keenest interest in the forthcom-
ing clash between Queensland and N.S.W. in
Sydney, the first match being set down for
•July 25. The fixture Queensland v. Met-
ropolis has been altered to July 28
instead of the following day, and the
second inter-State game will be played
on August 1. In their recent tour of Queens-
land, N.S.W. won the first inter-State game,
but were lucky to win by a point from' Too-
woomba in the mid-week match, after which
Queensland held them to a draw. Since
then Toowoomba only just beat Brisbane on
the Downs by 12-11. so the Northerners are
evidently now well into their stride.
* * * $
Tom Gleeson, drowned recently while rock-
fishing near Sydney, was one of the most
notable of the N.S.W. Rugby League three-
quarters of pre-war days, representing the
State in 1911-12. He was also one of the
pioneer exportations of the League game in
Australia, signing up with Huddersfield, then
the champion of the North of England pro-
fessional clubs. He and another N.S.W.
player, Rosenfeldt, were the stars of that
clever combination, the pair scoring 136 tries
between them in the 1913 season. Rosen-
feldt’s share was 90—still a record for the
game.
Racquet and Bawl
“Footfault”: The finish of the Davis Cup
tourney is close up. The European zone
final between Britain and Czechoslovakia
has to be concluded by July 12, and the
winners will encounter America at Paris.
The side that emerges victorious from that
turn-up will then tackle France on July 17.
IS and 19. Before the All-England meeting
one would have liked the British team’s
chance of being the challenging party, but the
collapse of the Britons before the Americans
in the semi-finals at Wimbledon discounts
that hope, supposing that they are able to
beat the Czechs, as they should easily do.
* * ' * *
“Top Spin”: One of the sets in the mixed
doubles at Wimbledon last week ran to 32
games, the figures being 17-15. This has
been claimed as a record, but has been
equalled in Australia. Last year, in Sydney,
playing in the County of Cumberland cham-
pionships, Norman Peach and Aubrey Wil-
lard lost a 32-game set to ,T. Griffiths and G.
Ilungerford. The other sets ran to 11-9 and
13-11, or 76 games in all. Something like
a marathon, that.
ijc
“Cut Shot”: The Australian tennis heads
are still striving to get some sort of a team
from overseas as a gate-money attraction for
next season. A Japanese side has been
definitely invited for this year, and the Ameri-
cans are to be entreated to send over at
least a couple of players, one of whom will
probably be Allison, who has expressed him-
self as keen on coming along. The Aus-
tralian championships are to be held in
Adelaide in January—unless Melbourne or
Sydney can jockey the Croweaters out of
the fixture, as they are trying to do —and
the presence of a few overseas contestants
should add considerably to the contents of
the till.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: America made no mistake
about wresting the Byder Cup from Britain
when the two teams of professionals met on
the Scioto Club’s course in Ohio last. week.
Led by Walter Hagen, who himself downed
the English skip., Whitcombe, the Yanks
took nine of the 12 matches played. Abe
Mitchell and Archie Compston won one of
the four doubles matches for Britain, while
Davies and Havers were successful in the
singles.
* * •-]= *
“Univ.”: Golf is the game every father
should make his boy specialise ip. It is
the only one that can offer the spectacle
which is to be witnessed in Sydney at the
present time—a lad of 16 (Jim Ferrier)
within half a dozen strokes of a man of 70-
odd (J. S. Marks). Marks (5) is a match
for many a scratch-player on his day, and
he would have done better than some of the
erratic performers who got knocked out in
the early stages of this year’s amateur cham-
pionship at Rose Bay if he had been a
starter. In every other outdoor sport Time
lays a restraining hand on the enthusiast
just as he has learned something about it.
Rowing has to be dropped in the early twen-
ties by 99 men out of 100; footballers and
boxers don’t last over 30, or cricketers over
40, as a rule. Few cross-country riders are
anywhere near their best after 35, and many
find thc.ir nerve going before that. Golfers
are like old soldiers and amateur gardeners
—they never die.
* * * $
“No. 3”: The handicapping of the N. S.
Wales Golf Council is a puzzle to many.
Young Ferrier, for example, is on the same
mark with players he could lick every day
of the week, and he is adjudged, two strokes
worse than Fawcett, Hattersley and Apper-
ley, whom he wore down and beat at the
36th hole in the Manly and N.S.AV.
championships. Several entered for last
week’s amateur championship who, in the
handicappers’ estimation, were six. and even
seven strokes behind the cracks. That they
should have started, in the circumstances,
argues. either astonishing optimism, or a
low opinion of the handicappers’ opinion.
* * * *
“Hamilton” : Queensland associate golfers
wound up their annual jamboree in Brisbane
last, week after a record meeting. The
singles went to Mrs, G. IT. Turner, who
finished three up on the second player, Miss
Gardiner, with a card of 165 for 80 holes.
The weather was very rough and stormy,
which accounted for the high figures. Miss
Hood, the former champion, had to be con-
tent with fourth place. With the ex-cham-
pion, Mrs. Turner again scored in the
women’s foursomes, while in the closing event
of the meeting, the mixed foursomes, last
year’s winners, S. Francis and Miss Hood,
tied with Miss Gardiner and AV. F. Boyce.
“Sandringham”: Victorian golfers will
start the eighth annual iCountry Week on
July 27, the events comprising the country
championship and various handicaps. The
first round for the “Leader” shield will be
played on the opening day at Royal Mel-
bourne and Victoria, the second at Kingston
Heath and Commonwealth, and the final at
Victoria. The championship, 36 holes of
stroke play, will be staged at Metropolitan
on July 30. The competition has grown in
popularity every year, and has helped con-
siderably to improve the standard of coun-
try golf.
Car and Cycle
“Fitzcray” : The suggestion some time ago
in The Bulletin that a great Australian
rally be held for motor-cars on the lines of
the Monte Carlo fixture is likely to
be carried out, with Melbourne as the goal.
It _ will probably be arranged to allow , the
finish to click with the Cup and the Motor
Show. The International Sporting Club of
Monaco has made available to the Dunlop
Rubber Co. a copy of the rules governing the
big fixture, and these will be applied to local
conditions. In brief, competitors may start
from any point they please, all finishing at
the spot agreed on. The winners are decided
by an elaborate points system, which gives
or deducts points for several items other
than actual car performance. Last year's
event at Monte, was won by a man who
started from Stavanger, in Norway, and
covered 2260 miles to the finishing post.
* ' * *
“Disc Clutch”: An ambitious motor tour
is to start from Melbourne early next month
when half a dozen men and women, headed
by B. Beatson, will leave on a trip through
Darwin, Singapore, India, Persia and Egypt,
winding up in London. The only time a
ship will be utilised will be between Darwin
and Singapore and from Penang to Calcutta,
unless the trip across the English Channel
be included. Three cars will be used by the
party.
K. Starter” : Though Aussie riders on dirt
tracks cajrry, off mpst of the big prizes in
Britain and the Continent, they do not do
so well in match races between teams.' For
the* secoxid time the series of annual test
matches between English and Australian
teams has been Avon by the Englishmen, who
scored 55 points to 37. Victor Huxley was
the outstanding rider for Australia, and
scored in all his heats save one—in that he
fell. The Queenslander has been riding with
greater success than ever this season and
should clean up a fat cheque.
* * * *
“Sprocket” : Last week saw the commence-
ment of the Tour do France race for push-
bikes, 81 riders from six countries, including
Australia, starting from Paris to Caen on
the first of the 24 stages. The Australians
Opperman, Lamb, Nicholson and Thomas
have been grouped with four Swiss riders,
and are reported in first-class nick. Lamb,
who has been out of luck, was cheered a
couple of days before by winning a good
race, the Grand Prix de Marseilles, in which
Opperman came third. The Tour will cover
some 3000 miles in all, with stretches over
the mountains running up to 7000 ft., and
is due to finish on July 25. This is Aus-
tralia’s third appearance in the race, the
first having been in 1914, when Don Ivirk-
ham and I. R. Munro finished 17th and 20th
out of 145 starters.
Miscellaneous
The. Maorilanders made a splendid debut
in Test cricket at. Lords last week, fairly
taking the honors in a drawn game with a
strong English team. Batting first they
went for 224 after a promising beginning,
Peebles and Robins sharing the wickets. At
stumps on the first day they had seven Eng-
lishmen out for 190, but a stand between
’keeper Ames and the ex-Australian amateur
Allen, each of whom topped the century with
137 and 122 respectively, saved the situation
and brought the score to 454. It looked all
over, but the All Blacks faced the stiff’ job
pluckily and reached 469 for 9 wickets before
declaring. England’s second innings realised
140 for 5 wickets when stumps and the match
Avere drawn. Dempster (53 and 120), M. L.
Page (104) and Blunt (90) batted well for
M.L., Avhile Cromb and Merrit divided the
bowling spoils. The English bowling was not
formidable. Larwood was unable to play
and Voce disappointed.
* :!: * *
“Retired Leg”: A old dodge cropped up
the other day in a French casino when a
game of baccarat Avas in progress. A gang
squared the croupier to give them some
sealed packs of the casino cards, and these
Avere marked on the backs so as to distin-
guish the “naturals,” the eights and nines,
which play such an important part in the
game. The marking was done with a sub-
stance invisible to the naked eye but easily
seen by anyone wearing tinted glasses. One
of the gang stood by the game as an onlooker
and signalled his confederates. The coup is
so old that it is a marvel the lads got away
with it for a time, as they are said to have
done. People Avearing colored glasses are
objects of deserved suspicion in Continental
casinos Avliere card games are being played.


CASH’S RIBBONS WASH WITH THE
GARMENT.
Cash’s Washing Ribbons once threaded
need never be removed. The dainty
pastel Shades come out of the wash like
new. Cash’s Wash Ribbons meet every
requirement of modern Lingerie, and
are universally popular for Shoulder
Straps. Ask your Draper.
Are Indispensible to tverynome.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.
| cs<s?. jyZticcunA- jj
Actual Size, Style No. 6
12 d fCEs
7/6
6 do
S/
3 do*
a/6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
' 'Write for Name Srylc Circular to
J & J. CASH, wt , v *Ntt T C o FTY. LTD
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
Driven into the Cold Snow
by a Harsh Father
If it isn’t a harsh parent who’s doing the driving, and if the cold snow is
falling on the heights of MT. BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK—well, there’s
more cause for exhilaration than despair in such an experience.
Still, on reflection, no one ever needs to be driven into the snow at Buffalo,
while the harshest and most brutal father would soon be mellowed into a
gently tolerant frame of mind by the invigorating joys of skating, ski-ing,
falling off toboggans, sculpting Epstein-like snow-men and hurling snowballs
at unsuspecting guests.
A big reduction in the winter tariff at The Chalet has brought the cost of a
week’s holiday at Mt. Buffalo (Vic.), between July 24 and August 20, DOWN TO
£B/10/-, all travel charges from Melbourne included. This rate also applies
during the Christmas fortnight. For the rest of the year The Chalet tariff is
only 15/- per day (day visitors slightly higher). Full information and booking
at the Government Tourist Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne; or Martin Place,
Sydney (Vic. representative).
ë
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
To be threatened with reduction to £5OO
a year and then with recall would cause a
wrinkled brow in even the most philosophic
Governor. However, Sir Philip Game finds
time to think of others in distress. Hearing at a
monster charity flutter that the small son of
George Fitzpatrick, of St. Margaret’s, was
ill with diphtheria, he took out a card and
wrote the youngster a note, telling him to
hurry up and get well enough to come and
play with Rosemary and David.
A crowded house turned attentive ear to
Balokovic’s violin on Saturday night. The
Governor and Lady Game were there with
Miss Crowdy and aide Gifford, and in the
Government House group sat the Harry
Budges and Mrs. Balokovic. She was in
black satin, the bodice wearing a cowl collar,
the wide hem of her skirt weighted by black
marabout almost to the knees. (Perhaps
she had heard of our draughty Town Hall.)
It was one of the best-dressed audiences
gathered together for many a night. Mrs.
Charlie Lloyd Jones sat in eye-ravishing
ermine—coat and cap of it —like a heroine
out of Hans Andersen. On the other side of
the aisle another marvellous catch of ermine
was displayed by Mrs. Frank Albert; this
with her jewels was worth a rajahs
ransom. In the same row was Mrs.
Squire Morgan, of the Burne-Jones head.
This emerged from a rose velvet cloak,
its bolster collar banded in gold in the way
of an old Venetian gallant’s. A snowy
Arctic fox collar and chiffons like a sunset
cloud were allied in Mrs. Scammell’s Lock-
ing (as Dagmar Thomson she is known for
one of our brilliant violinists). Another
fiddler of renown among the front-seaters
was Dean Talbot’s wife.
The Glorious Fourth was celebrated at
the Wentworth with much clinking of glasses
below a balcony on which an outspread eagle
soared above the star-spangled banner. While
the turkey and cranberry sauce were being
served the Confederates (led by the orches-
tra) were marching through Georgia; then
Doughboy and Digger were in France singing
the charms of Mademoiselle from Armentiferes.
It was the dinner of the American Colony,
and the ballroom was crowded with dancers
of sostenuto powers. The Consul-General
Tredwells were absent (she is in mourning)
and Vice-Consul Doyle took the head of the
official table, which held a particularly spark-
ling company, including knight Henry Brad-
don, who, as chief of the English-Speaking
Union, proposed the health of America’s
President.
When the members of the Royal Yacht
Squadron at Ivirribilli give a party they cer-
tainly do the thing well. Last Friday the
comfortable old club-house, sweet with
flowers and gay with bunting, rocked on a
sea of jazz, and all the foreign Consuls in
Sydney with their wives were the _ guests
of honor. The night was mild as in late
spring, and a high lucid moon flung a waver-
ing track of silver on the polished mirror
of Port Jackson. From the wide verandah,
the bunting looped back to let in the night,
the dancers, even Windeyer, K.C., probably
found their thoughts winging like birds into
the realm of fantasy. Among the Consular
ladies, Norway’s Mrs. Hans Fay was dis-
tinctive in her water-green moire, the coat
edged with white fox. The W. A. Mackays
were an attractive couple, and Mrs. M.
Robson, who was Lesley Martin, shimmered
at graceful length in her bridal satins. Pretty
Mrs. Don Taylor, in hedgerose pink, was
with her sister, Mrs. Geoff Marquis, from
Calcutta. Mrs. Marquis has beauty of the
quality which film magnates serve with
queenly contracts; she wore black lace and
pearls, as did that great lover of books Mrs.
Bayly Macarthur. Jimmy Milson and the
Commodore Paul Ross couple were active in
the interests of the visitors. Young Tom
Kelly was there, and Stewart Jamieson, and
artist John Banks with his picturesque wife,
Elizabeth, who wore black chiffons and
radiated gentle pride over John’s success in
the recent American exhibition. Mrs. Ivuraz
shone like a topaz in her glinting satins and
tulle; Miss Crowdy, in platinum laces, came
with Bertie Kelly after the students’ concert
at the Conservatorium.
The Frank Alberts nearly had their
luxury yacht, the Boomerang, stolen in
the early streaks of a grey dawning last
week. A string of pearls left carelessly in
the cabin by the lady desperado of the
party seems to indicate that the storming
party wasn’t down to the bread-line. How-
ever. as the Girl in the Flat Opposite says,
the Frank Alberts shouldn’t leave an ex-
pensive yacht lying about the harbor; they
should put it in their safe deposit.
The Society of Women Writers had Mrs.
Florence Baverstock for its guest of honor
last week, and to an overflow attendance of
girls used to the radio, the aeroplane and the
motor-car as news-transmitters this pioneer
writer drew a picture of journalism in the
days before even the telephone. Apparently
when a girl scribe was in a hurry in those
days she jumped into a cab (a four-wheeler
if it was in Melbourne, or the more risque
hansom in Sydney ) and galloped off at the
rate of 10 miles an hour in pursuit of her
scoop. On one historic Cup day, a Melbourne
newspaper woman, having, as was the cus-
tom, got particulars from the city’s well-
dressed of the gowns they would be wearing,
wrote them all up the day before. The rain
rained and the wind blew, and none of the
smart set wore the frock she had vowed to
wear. But the social writer was helpless. She
couldn’t ’phone the office and say. “Hold” or
“Discard,” and a long list of ladies in sun-
shine fripperies duly appeared.
Who said depression? Two thousand five
hundred dancers made the Palais Royal as
congested as Noah’s Ark last week when the
Movie Ball was in motion. So great had
been the demand for tickets that the sale of
them had to be stopped 24 hours before the
event. Nearly half who attended went in
fancy costume, representations of film-stars
being popular, which would mean either the
cost of hire or the cost of the whole outfit
added to the dance ticket. Still, judging by
the look of things round about eleven, the
fun seemed worth the money. Ernest Baxter
organised the dance, and a whack of the
takings goes to the Theatrical and Amuse-
ments Employees’ Association. Old friends
J. C. Bendrodt, Tom McMahon and S. Hig-
ginson were among the judges.
More ingenious than beautiful were the
decorations at the Royal Motor-yacht Club
dance at the Ambassadors last week. All the
tables looked overweighted, but that was the
result of each host trying to get as nautical
an horizon as possible in the circumference
of a tablecloth. For instance, one club mem-
ber had a model made to scale of the Broken
Bay clubhouse. It was complete even to the
jetty, with water surrounding it and small
boats tied up to it. Even the club’s garage
and parking space with small cars
were in the floral picture. On another table
floated a model of Fort Denison, six feet
long, built entirely of African marigolds. The
one-o’clock gun was made of sweet-peas, and
there were rocks and a flagstaff of forget-me-
not. The centre-piece of another table was
a large glass tank in which multi-colored
fish flashed. The seven ages of the yachts-
men were exemplified on Jack Copeland’s
table by sketches in between the seven spokes
of a steering-wheel.
The Commodore of the Navy (L. S. Hol-
brook) and the commodore of the motor-
yacht fleet (Stuart Doyle) judged the
floral architecture and awarded the prizes,
after which everyone settled down to
enjoy the night. Commodore Holbrook
and the violinist Balokovie couple were
the guests of the occasion, and out of com-
pliment to the latter one of the tables had a
model of the Northern Light moored among
its cutlery. Mrs. Balokovie emerged, shy as a
violet, from flared black moire. The lady
is already noted for saying little. But to
make up for it he laughs a great deal, in
a boyish, irresponsible fashion, although,
judging by his Papal decoration, he must
have his serious moments.
Ellen Patricia Glavin, who, with her teens
just behind her, goes to Corowra High
School as a
teacher of
French, has a
h e a v yweight
brain. She
p r o g r essed
through Mel-
bourne Uni.
on a scholar-
ship, and got
her B.A. and
diploma of
e d u c a tion;
and in March,
1930, she shar-
ed the Wyse-
laskie Scholar-
ship in mod-
ern languages
(German).
She’s a good
sports girl,
too ; and owns
to a weakness
for poetry
and the Australian writers.
The female form refined (where is the
buxom lass of even six years ago?) filled
the reception-rooms of the Town Hall with
the slim tailor-made or the figure-outlining
topcoat of the moment on an afternoon last
week. Outside a blue sky tented the streets,
down which no harsh wind whistled. The
city was at peace, or so it seemed, and the
chief civic lady welcomed her guests in an
atmosphere suave with camellias and warm
with poinsettia and wattle. A great bowl
of holly berries burned on a centre table,
a hint of the more vigorous air of Macedon,
Mrs. Jackson’s girlhood home. Lady Game
was the guest of the afternoon, her Dorset
complexion at its best between nut-brown hat
and furs. With her came Miss Crowdy,
whose dark-blue costume was finished off by
a slim fur necklet. Mrs. Jackson herself
looked a John Longstaff study in grey and
amethyst.
There were many knights’ ladies in the
assemblage. The unavoidably lukewarm tea of
the outsize junketing was sipped by all,
but the woman who sat scored over the
woman who stood, being able to juggle
successfully with the. savories. Fur wraps
were of the luxurious order. (Indeed, Syd-
ney streets are a procession of rich fur coats
these days, whatever may be happening to
the furriers.) One lady displayed a whole
ermine, or maybe it was two, on a black
coat; the Julius lady sported the enviable
Persian lamb; and Chief Justice Streets
little wife was all animation, skunk-bor-
dered. Mrs. Arthur Scrivener and Mrs.
Harry Budge were among the smartest wear-
ers of grey; Mrs. Harrie Vale and daughter
Mrs. Schartl wore two of the brightest faces
in the room; Marjorie Quinn and Edna
Dettman chaperoned their respective
mothers. By half-past five the yellow bro-
cade curtains had rustled once more into
quietude.
When Grace Hart smiles there’s, all of
vitamins A, B, C and D loosed in the room;
probably that is one of the reasons for her suc-
cess in “The Constant Nymph.” Grace is
playing Tessa
in the current
production of
the Indepen-
dents at the
Savoy, and is
quite half the
charm of the
play. She is
a North Shore
girl who went
to Europe
some time ago
for a visit,
and remained
18 months in
London study-
ing stagecraft
at the Tree
School. Later
she toured the
provinces in a
Gals worthy
company. But
romance .
lurked for her in her native city. On her
return she joined up with the Independents,
and in their second production, “The Mar-
quise,” met Hawdon Wilson, and the result
was a bit of business for the engagement-
ring merchant. The two are booked to act
together in Barrie’s “A Kiss for Cinderella”
during Christmas week. Photo from Rene
Pardon.
The best-dressed dance of the week was
the effort of the young committee of the
Industrial Blind Institution. It filled the
Blaxland Galleries with the muted sibilance
of fresh chiffons and the soft swish of moire
and satin. This dance lured the vice-regal
lady, and she and Miss Crowdy went in com-
pany, aide Gifford dancing at the Motor
Yacht Club dance incog.,i as one girl put it—
meaning he wasn’t embellished with his blue
lapels. Lady Game wore a sheath of gold
lace, Miss Crowdy shining in cruiser grey.
Anne Gordon, the president of this success,
appeared in snow-white chiffons, and Mary
Adams was another nice youngster in white.
There were nine fledglings trying their social
wings. Mrs. A. V. Roberts led them for-
ward to the vice-regal greeting, she herself
very pictorial in trailing vellum satin. Mary
Hordern, in sea-blue, and Ruth Harper, in
blue moires, were. bright happenings in the
night. ■ i
The Ladies’ Home Mission has a bulging
collection-box since its fortnights shop-
keeping in the Queen Victoria Markets. The
committee started out with the intention of
selling 800 pots of home-made jam. It
found itself with 1600, so the shop was
opened, and tea and light lunches were
added. Profits amounted to nearly £l7O. Of
course, that great worker Mrs. Scrivener,
was in it up to her eyebrows ; Mrs. Arch-
gaiters Wright also did her bit, and another
stalwart was Mrs. George Hall.
Mrs. Ames Coleman is the organising
genius behind the Women Writers’ dance.
This will fill the Arts Club on Friday even-
ing with revelry. There will be a group of
attractive sweet-sellers. The takings go
to the National Council of Women’s Appeal
for women and kiddies.
At Apia (Samoa) on July 1, Helen Bur-
kitt, of Sydney, was married to Captain
Geoffrey Heal, A.D.C. to the Administrator,
Brig.-General Hart. Mary Hart was brides-
maid, General Hart gave the bride away,
and a reception was held at Government
House. Bridegroom hails from Enzed,
and as his term of office has just expired, he
and his wife intend to settle there. Bride’s
father is Captain Leonard Burkitt, of the
Huddart, Parker line; he was one of the
few survivors of the Elingamite wreck.
St. Aloysius’s College, on the hill above
Miller’s Point, has a band of old friends
working for this year’s ball of the Old Boys’
Union. Mrs. Gregory McGirr is secretary
for the third year in succession, Mrs. A. J.
Robilliard has the balancing of the budget to
keep her busy, and Mrs. Austin Callachor, as
president, has to be brisk and persuasive.
V. J. Flynn, president of the University
Students’ Council, and Harry Stokes will be
among the galaxy of he-stars at the Blaxland
Galleries on July 27.
Probably it was due to Edgar Wallace, the
fashion for detective stories and the import-
ance of the holeproof alibi; anyway, the
men friends of a Sydney ’groom, who gave
him a pre-wedding dinner at the University
Club, stripped him of his boiled shirt, wrote
their names on its immaculate front and sent
it along to the bride-to-be, who was at the
same hour dining at the Queen's Club with
some girl pals. The shirt, in company with a
basket of flowers, was handed to the lady
while she was still toying with her fish.
But, this Letter asks, will this put ideas
into the heads of jealous wives? “Yes, dear,
you may go if you promise to send me your
shirt, complete with the company’s auto-
graphs, by eight o’clock.”
OVERHEARD.
Who is this Marie Stops, anyway?
Brisbane’s bunch
The races at Ascot were well patronised, Mrs. N.
A. H. Campbell was in black cloth, fitch furs and
a black felt hat; Mrs. M. Henry (Sydney) chose
grey tweeds; Mrs. 0. Lukin’s lemon-gold and black
crepe de Chine was worn with a fawn fur coat and
black velvet biretta; Mrs. C. P. Buchanan was in
beige tweed; Mrs. Roger Hartigan’s black was
worn with a Castilian-red scarf; Jean Hall was in
brown; and Jeanne Ranken was in a dark grey
tailor-made.
The main hall of the Uni. presented an interesting
sight at the evening and external students’ dance.
R. 0. Bennett, Rhodes Scholar for 1931, was handed
a leather travelling-case as a gift from the Uni.
Union. The hall was filled with pixies and gnomes
and spirits of the night and forest, while Professor
and Mrs. H. C. Richards looked benignly on the
revels.
The Mayoress presented the prizes at the benefit
for the Travellers’ Aid Society in the Women’s Club.
Mrs. H. Pole, who arranged the party, wore amethyst
silk lace; Mrs. Greene was in dawn pink with a
black velvet wrap ; Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart, president
of the T.A.S., was in coral pink velvet.
There have, been plenty of social amenities ior
prospective brides. For Naomi Archdall, who is
shortly leaving for Rabaul to be married, Florence
White had a tea at the Cozy Dell. Floral maroeain
was worn by the guest-of-honor. Helen Laing gave
a. tea for "bride-elect Joyce Smales at her Ascot
home. For Grace Bennett, Mary Shand had a party
in the Botanic Gardens, and Helen Hull staged a
tennis party in honor of Thelma Deshon (married
on July 1) at Mrs. P. P. Fewings’ home at Aucheu-
flower. For Peggy Lansdowne, Gertrude and Myrle
Kirke entertained at Darimba, Dornoch-terrace; the
tea-tables had festoons of bignonia venusta overhead,
from which flew white doves and where horseshoes
hung.
A sale of work for general charitable funds was
held in the lounge of the Town and Country Club.
Gold and brown, the club colors,, adorned the stalls,
and streamers and poised butterflies added a gay
note. Mrs. Harry Cameron opened the show, and
Jean Naylor arranged the programme and gave a
Song of Queensland, composed by Nella Nocholas.
Mrs. A. E. Moore was among those present.
Eileen Macleod Mackenzie, daughter of Major and
Mrs. A. J. Mackenzie, Agricultural College, Gatton,
announces her engagement to Archibald F. Nixon-
Smith, of Brisbane.
Sarian Newton Russell, who has devoted her life
to the little ones, is demonstrating her Rainbow
method in Brisbane. Colors and numbers and easily-
understood symbols make work a pleasure to kiddies,
particularly those Who learn with difficulty.
Adelaide blows in :
The Adelaide University and the Hunt Club held
their annual balls last week, and both were well
attended. At the former 49 debutantes made their
bows to vice-royalty—quite a record. His Ex.
brought a party with him, including Chancellor
George Murray, Miss Murray, Vice-Chancellor William
Mitchell, the Martin knight and lady, and Mr. and
Mrs. J. G. Duncan Hughes. The guests were received
by Mr. R. R. P. Barbour, president of the Sports
Association, and his wife. One of the most charming
among the debutantes was Jean Corpe, a graceful
girl with russet shingle, who wore ivory taffeta
smartly cut. Supper was served in the Lady Symon
building, buffet fashion.
Charles J. B. Symon, eldest son of the Josiah
Symons, has announced his engagement to pretty
Margaret Craven, the only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Walter H. Craven, of McLaren Vale.
After the arrival of his Ex. in his “pink” at the
Hunt Club Ball, at the Palais Royal, there was
quite a rush for seats to watch the Lancers by the
two sets; private practice had made the dancers
very efficient. His Ex. had Mrs. E. A. Brooks
(wife of the club’s president) for his partner. The
women looked well in the regulation white satin
frock and scarlet coat with lace ruffles, black
velvet hat with plumes and the hunting crop.
The Victoria League’s hospitality committee scored
a success with its gift tea to raise funds for the
Kuitpo Industrial colony. The Liberal Hall was
massed with autumnal foliage, and Mrs! F. G. Fisher
arranged a programme that included items by
Adelaide’s silvery tenor Fred Williamson. The Rev.
S. Forsyth gave an address upon the work of the
colony.


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating qn Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
r THE PATRIOT 1
■DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
114 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MY LADY’S DRESS
(Commencing Saturday).
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
H.M.S. PINAFORE,
also
COX AND BOX
(Commencing July II).
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE & REVUE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
Legal Notice,
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND,
WELLINGTON DISTRICT
(Napier Registry).
To MAY GEAKE wife of Alfred Geake of Hastings
in the Dominion of New Zealand Orchardist.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Napier
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
ALFRED GEAKE of Hastings Orchardist wherein
he prays for a dissolution of his marriage with you
on the grounds of desertion. AND such Citation
intimates that in default of your filing an answer
to the said Petition the Court will proceed to hear
the said' Petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your, absence. NOW THEREFORE
TAKE NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid you
are before the 6th day of August 1931 to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Napier New Zealand and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be allowed
to address the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for same at the
Supreme Court Office at Napier New Zealand.
Dated this 22nd day of June, 1931.
P. MARTIN,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to her the foregoing advertisement.
STANLEY HERBERT MORRISON is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service is at
the Office of Messieurs Hallett, O’Dowd and Morrison,
Solicitors, Shakspeare Road, in the City of Napier
in New Zealand, aforesaid.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 700for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited,
So[?] So M[?]
The sun shone brightly on National
Hurdle day at Flemington, but the lawns
were damp after recent rain, and feminine
racegoers kept religiously to the flagged
paths. The snow-clad mountains near by
imparted a tang to the air, and not many
women came without coats. There were an
affluent display of furs, and many fur-col-
lared cloth surtouts. generally with hats,
hose and shoes of a shade to match. Posies
of daphne, violets and orchids were in favor,
some of them artificial. So closely is art
imitating nature that the slipper orchid,
of blended pale green, white and bronze, is
being reproduced with such fidelity as to
deceive even the horticulturist. A lady
who wore one on her mink collar was con-
gratulated over and over again upon the
size and perfect coloring of the supposed
hot-house bloom, and no friend was more
enthusiastic than one who was wearing some
grown in her own conservatory. To get
back to the coats, long ones, fitted to the
figure, are becoming popular. One, of cherry-
red hue, was cut in veritable princess-robe
style, with long shaped seams. The tailored
coat and skirt costume was chosen by many,
and the small felt hat that hangs on the
back of the head by some seeming miracle
was seen everywhere. But they don’t suit
everyone, and many of the larger size were
sported, the brim being mostly at the side
and back, sloping from a mere fraction over
the face. Black velvet millinery is coming
back into vogue, and most becoming it is,
especially to those getting on in years.
Among the fur-wearers were Mayoress
Luxton, Mrs. Ben Buxton ( her’s was a
sable-dyed squirrel), and Mrs. Harry Henty,
whose short wrap of summer ermine topped
a wine-colored gown. Margaret Cochran,
who lately returned from England with her
mother, Mrs. George Cochran, had a wealth
of lynx fur bordering her black coat. Com-
mander Hugh Currie’s wife looked snug in
a fawn coat trimmed with nutria. Iris
Connolly wore an attractive cloth coat of
natural kasha with felt hat and accessories
of the same tint. Patrons from the Western
district included Mr. and. Mrs. William
Ardlie, of Warrnambool; Mrs. T. W. Laid-
law and Margaret and Dorothy Robertson,
from Hamilton, From Adelaide came the
Hackett Moulden lady. Melbournites who
watched the racing included Major and Mrs.
Alan Currie, she wearing brown felt mil-
linery with a heather tweed coat; Mrs. R.
G. Casey, sen., Mrs. Askin Foster, General
Chauvel and his lady, the R. M. Cuthbert-
sons and Dr. and Mrs. Cleve Best.
More sunshine than we have had for weeks
made Moonee Valley course a pleasant spot
on the occasion of the Oaklands Hunt Club’s
races. Patrons sought seats in the warm
rays, and when odds were very short basked
and chatted instead of trying to pick winners.
There was rather a poor attendance, but
the hunting fraternity were well to the fore.
Mayoress Luxton was there, accompanied
by Mrs. U. J. Nicholas. Mrs. J. S. Merril-
lees and Mrs. E. Buller Allen sought winners
together. Gwen Johnston, looking smart in
a suit of navy blue and matching felt
millinery, was with her father, Major-
General Johnston. Mrs. Sheahan, in tweed
skirt and green suede coat and felt hat;
Mrs. Fred Gilder, in leather tweed suit,
with same brand of felt hat; Mrs. Barry
Thomson, Mrs. Ben Chaffey and Mrs. Rogers
Thomson were others who gathered about
the lawns of the members’ stand. Club mem-
bers, headed by their president, Alister
Clark, came in full strength.
At the dance of old students of Firbank
Grammar School, held at No. 9, 11 debs,
broke away from the all-white tradition and
dressed in petal-pink chiffon, with posies and
halo-like wreaths to match. They curtsied
to Mrs. lan Macfarlan, wife of the M.L.A.,
being introduced by the headmistress, Miss
M. Cameron, who is also president of the
old girls’ association. Mrs. Macfarlan’s
black gown was cheered by her presentation
bouquet; and Miss Cameron, who shared . in
the flower distribution, was in velvet-em-
bossed georgette of wood-brown hue. Joyce
Young, the lion, sec., came in draperies of
floral georgette; and Miss D. Tonkin, the
treasurer, wore raiment of light brown tone.
Old Grammarians staged their dance at
the Embassy, proceeds being marked for the
scholarship fund. Wearing cosmos-hued
georgette and gold tissue, Mrs. John Lloyd,
president of the 0.G., welcomed the princi-
pal, Miss Gilman Jones, who was arrayed
in cornflower-blue lace, and received a posy.
Mrs. James Barr, in delphinium blue, and
Jean 'Cuming, the hon. sec., assisted to
run the function.
Many smart frocks wore displayed at Mal-
vern City Hall when the women students of
the Uni. had their dance. Among official
guests were Prof. Agar and his wife, she
in georgette and satin that combined the
lines of flame and gold; Helen Stuckey, presi-
dent of the Melbourne Uni. Women’s com-
mittee, who chose blue satin; and John
McKie, president of the Students’ Represen-
tative Council. Violet Rechner, in almond-
green georgette, and Elizabeth Pearson, in
flowered chiffon in steel and cherry tones,
were the hon. secs, of the hop.
Five debs, were hostesses at a ball at
No. 9 —Elizabeth, daughter of the A. Blacks,
of Tarwin Park, South Gippsland; Mary,
daughter of the Reginald Boyds, of Bacchus
Marsh; Dr. and Mrs. Cecil Tucker’s lass
Kathleen; Joan, daughter of Dr. and Mrs S.
V. Sewell; and another Joan, fhe daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. J. J. Black. All chose
satin for their coming-out frocks. Elizabeth
Black’s dress of white melted into a tulle
hem, and Joan Sewell's gown was of parch-
ment tint; Miss Tucker was in pale green ;
Joan Black wore with her white frock a
jade-green coat, and Mary Boyd favored
peach pink. The parents of the buds were
there to lend a hand. Among the guests
was the pretty brunette Jacqueline Mackin-
non, in gown of old-gold velvet.
The lower chamber of the Town Hall was
tile bivouac of ; the officers of the Signal
Corps for their dance. The president of the
rneps, Lieut.-Col. O. F. Metclier, greeted
the guests, backed by his wife, who danced
in black crepe satin. Lieut.-Col. W. P.
Farr came with Mrs. Farr, who wore sap-
phire-blue satin. Eieut.-Col. T. R. Williams
brought his wife, who chose pink grosgrain
silk, Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. A. M. Martyn,
and'.Major and Mrs. W. A. Steele were
among those who joined in the dance.
Prof. Ileinze and Sutton Crow gave a
reception at the' Uni. Con. to Mrs. J. R.
Hartpence (Madame Masson), the pianist,
and Dudley Glass, the composer. Mrs. Hart-
pence was accompanied by her husband.
Shirley Tweddle, president of the Students’
Club, was on hand to proffer a tribute of
flowerg, and nice speeches were made by
Prof. Heinze and Mrs. Herbert Brookes.
In the throng were the Hennessy lady and
daughter Valerie, Mrs. Edward Stevens,
Robert Best’s lady and Thomas Brentnall.
Dudley Glass, who wrote the music for
“The Beloved Vagabond,” “El Dorado,”
“The Toymaker of Nuremberg” and other
London productions, will spend a few weeks
here with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Philip
Glass, at Cliveden Mansions.
St. Catherine’s Old Girls’ Association put
on at the Comedy, in the cause of
charity, Laurence Housman and H. Gran-
ville Barker’s
“P rune 11a,”
whi e li was
produced by
Nancy Ford,
Kathleen Las-
celles being
business man-
ager. The play
tells the story
of an early-
Victorian miss
brought up by
three maiden
aunts. The
mother of
heroine Pru-
nella eloped
with the
F r en c li man
w T ho laid out
the garden,
which is a
setting of the
play, with a
statue of Cupid over the Mg fountain. Fol-
lowing in her mamma’s footsteps, Prunella
creeps down a ladder one moonlight night
and flits with a dashing Pierrot in white
and black satin—the leader of a band of
mummers who have come for the country
fair. Cupid, who carries a violin instead of
a bow and arrow, comes to life and patches
up a broken romance. Joyce Turner brought
her repertory experience to bear in the lead-
ing role, and was satisfactory both as the
nicely-brought-up young miss and the dainty
dancer in white tulle ballet skirts. John
Holdsworth made a dashing Pierrot, and the
aunts, Prim, Privacy and Prude, were effec-
tively personated by Betty Blogg, Margaret
Peterson and Kathleen Lascelles. Olive
Rosenthal and Pat Peterson, in Quaker-like
frocks, were housemaids. The statue was
played admirably by Neill Campbell. Among
other pretty girls in the cast was Corona
Shepherd, pictured here by Broothorn. As
one of the mummer companions of Pierrot
she twirled most gracefully in the dances.
On the first night there was a great show-
ing of short-coat wraps—velvet, brocade and
white fur —in the audience. In their very
latest mode these garments are sleeveless,
a deep cape sheltering bare arms. One of
the prettiest ' was of petal-pink satin, the
cape bordered with grey fur. Mayoress
Luxton and her daughter Mary occupied a
box with Mrs. U. J. Nicholas and Judith.
Opposite were the headmistress of St. Cath-
erine’s, Miss Langley, and some of the teach-
ing staff. Mrs. Harold Clapp and her
daughter Noel, Mrs. Oswald Syme, Mrs.
Norman Falkiner, whose daughters Eliza-
beth and Tempo were helpers; Mrs. W. M.
Robins, the A. E. Kimptons, Kathleen
Rogers Thomson and pianists Roy Shepherd
and Lindsay Biggins were in the first-night
audience. Dorothy Gill. Gregory Stroud and
Ivan Menzies came around after “The Yeo-
men of the Guard” to draw some raffles, and
Mr. Menzies auctioned a picture donated by
artist Dora Wilson, which brought nine
guineas.
The Ormond Women’s Association cele-
brated the Uni. college’s jubilee year with a
dinner at the Lyceum clubrooms. Holly and
crimson carnations titivated the room, and
the Ormond colors, black, red and gold, were
trailed about the tablecloths. Miss A. S.
Laing was in the chair, and the guests in-
cluded Chancellor MacFarland, who Avas the
first master of Ormond; the present head,
Iv. Picken, and Mrs. Picken; the vice-master,
H. W. Allen; and Mrs. Brady, first secretary
of the associa-
tiou.
Broo thorn
pictures here
Jean, daughter
of the F. W.
Egglestons, of
Caulfield, who
with four or
five other girls
is engineering
a dance, to he
held on the
final night of
the inter-
national gala
at the Town
Hall. She
was one of the
bridesmaids at
Jessie Groom’s
wedding in
Queensland.
The ancient building in Little Collins-
street opposite the Wattle Tearooms, which
used to be the John Bull tavern, has now
become a centre of culture and of what Earl
Beauchamp would call the arty-tarty. The
corner shop, where books, new and second-
hand, are vended, is a blaze of blue. Next
door the Primrose Crockery Shop justifies
its name with a dress of yellow, and the
dress-designer next-door-again displays glad
rags of all sorts of shades. Above a little
wooden staircase picked out in apple-green
H'elen, daughter of The Bulletin’s Mervyn
Skipper, has a library, “The Beckoning
Bookshelf.” Fiction and the heavier forms of
brain-fodder are segregated in separate apart-
ments. Josh McClelland, who deals in old
furniture and other antiques, has his office
on this floor, and painter Jim Minogue has
taken possession of a big front room and
hung out a sign, “The Meldrum Gallery.”
This is an> atelier with rose-tinted walls and
wine-colored velvet curtains, at present de-
voted to a show of works by Clarice Beckett,
Alma Figuerola, Eustace Jorgensen, Colin
Colahan and John Farmer, former students
of Max Meldrum. A still-life study by Mel-
drum himself, in which Iceland poppies, jars
and a teapot are depicted, occupies the place
of honor.
The Peninsula. Golf Club had a gala day
at its links, Fraukston, to help the Queen
Victoria Hospital, and; was favored by fine
weather. The doings were organised by a
committee headed by Mrs. Georgeßussell,
with Mrs. Drake Brockman and Mrs." H. R.
Hamer as hon. sees., <and Mrs. Brewer * and
Mrs. R. Martin ini charge of ~fhe. treasury.
Among the players were Susie and Shirley
Tolhurst, Lesley Bailey and Mrs. Alec. Rus-
sell. Bazaar stalls; and bridge helped to rake
in the shekels.
A bridge party at; Mrs. R. Lawrence’s
flat at Kinnoull, Heyington, Toorak, had as
its excuse the needs of the library of Toorak
College, Frankston. Among the organisers
were Mrs. E. Herring, Mrs. Frank Faulkner,
Mrs. Godfrey Mason, and Mrs. J. Riddle.
Margaret Cumming and Mrs. Lawrence secre-
taried.
An engagement that is interesting musical
circles is that of violinist Reginald Bradley,
an ex-student of the Uni. Con., and pianist
Eunice Garland, who had her training at the
Albert-street C°m Mr. Bradley was the
leader of the Sisserman quartette, and is now
the leader of the Melbourne quartette, which
will shortly commence a series of recitals.
Mrs. James Crow and Mrs. Gerald Gar-
rett hostessed a tea-party at the . Wattle to
give greeting to Mrs. Clifton Smith, who as
Mabel Sandes was first principal of the
Lonsdale-street College of Dom. Econ.—now
the Emily McPherson School. Mrs. Smith,
now a resident of Sydney, is over on a visit.
Mrs. John Asche, of Hongkong, and her
mother, Mrs, Adam, were among the guests,
all of whom save Mrs. Adam were diploma
students of the college during Mrs. Smith’s
regime.
A taste of Tassy:—
Lorna, twin daughter of the P. A. Findlays,
Winborne, Launceston, walked down the aisle of St.
John’s as Mrs. R. A. Ferrall in a frock of ivory-satin
romaine, the pointed hip-yoke deepening at the back
into a panelled train falling in fish-tails. The tulle
veil was held in place by a halo of pearls, two
strings of them worn round the throat. Three
’maids, Nancy Findlay, Gwenda Coogan and Marjorie
Findlay, wore turquoise-blue taffeta and fisher-net
frocks. A reception at the Metropole followed, with
about 80 guests at tables decorated with scarlet
salvia and green.
Incessant rain and scarcity of snow have made
the season a poor one for winter sports at National
Park, but there has been more golf played than
usual. Mrs. Pearce, mother of two of the Speck’s
best players, kept up the family reputation at Rosny
Links the other day by holing in one at the eighth
hole. She honored the prevailing custom by enter-
taining members of the Royal Hobart Golf Club
at tea.
Mary Sharland took the Theatre Royal for her
pupils' show in aid of the Collegiate School building
fund, and a well-filled house rewarded her. The
youngsters averaged 10 years, except in the last
playlet, where two old pupils performed. There
were four one-act plays on the bill, and the whole
went off with quite professional smoothness. George
Jackson provided a small orchestra and conducted it
himself.
Dr. and Mrs. Lines are off to the mainland for a
three-months’ trip to help the former recover from
his long illness. They will stay some time in
Adelaide with their son and daughter-in-law, Mr.
and Mrs. Ted Lines.
The big ballroom at Lindfiqld, Holebrook-plaee, is
in great demand for social shivoos. Mrs. Peacock
engaged it for a dance recently for her daughter
Margaret’s birthday, and a big crowd of young
folk kept things humming till a late hour. Mrs.
Peacock’s gown was black lace with velvet coat, and
her daughter was in black Chantilly lace. Marcus
Trappe’s orchestra made attractive music.
The performance of “The Amazons” by the Uni-
versity Dramatic Club revived pleasant memories of
Brough-Boucicault days. The show went very
well, and Lt.-Col. Thomas managed his team and
the production very neatly. Mary Harbottle. Joan
Clemes, and Helen Reid played the “Amazons”
parts with charm.
Cicely Kelly, Launceston’s young singer, at present
training at the Melbourne Conservatorium, gave a
recital at the Albert Hall and delighted her audi-
ence. There is no doubt about the quality of her
voice.
The rest from the West: —
Small boys with scrubbed knees, polished hair
and ears pink and shiny had a night out at the
C.B.C. annual ball. Some trod a measure with
small girls, mothers or sisters; others, self-conscious
over such refined education of the feet, preferred to
gloat over the band* and the bobbing balloons. Scarlet
poinsettias flaunted their beauty at the edge of the
Temple Court ballroom, and sweet-peas, carnations
and gladioli ran a pinky riot over the supper
tables.
Mrs. Walter Dwyer, in all-black georgettes,
came with her husband and daughter Mollie, a
young thing in her first ankle-length frock. The
committee’s president, Mrs. T. Abern, wore beflared
satins of a burgundy hue. Black taffetas suited
blonde Mercia Scott; carnation-pink chiffons fluttered
about Mrs. Nelson Mills; Mrs. Danny Mulcahy, of
the fascinating brogue, wore tiers of black ninon;
Marjorie Bannon chose powder-blue; Jo Davies,
tangerine peppered with gold; Kathleen C'onnaajhton,
primrose; and Eleanor Holland, pale pink satin.
Nora Monaghan’s green frock was effective and Elsie
Paxton’s lace confection was a masterpiece. Frances
Regan wore blue taffetas; sister Patsy, dawn-pink;
and Mollie McCarthy was a youthful rustle of
flowered pussywillow. Cream with a dash of black
was Joan McKenna’s choice; deep red had a devotee
in Mollie Scott; Nancy Dunphy pinned a flower to
the sash of her cherry chiffons; and sister Mollie
wore the shade of ripe corn. A wraith of pink net
blew about Joy Ruse.
Medico and Mrs. Harry Thorne have sailed Cold
Landwards. After a holiday there they' will go to
India, where the doctor has obtained a military job.
The sisters of Parkerville Home will receive a
welcome donation as the result of a bridge party
engineered by Mrs. Arthur Jacoby. Unfortunately',
Mrs. Jacoby was prevented by the influenza wog
from seeing the fruits of her labors. Mrs. George
Ridgway and Mrs. Alfred Raphael stepped into the
breach.
Though nurses are up before the lark and their
hours are long and hard, they always have a gallon
or so of energy in reserve for dancing. The minis-
tering angels of the Children’s Hospital got into
their gladdest rags for their annual frolic in the
Subiaco Masonic Hall. Shades of blue predominated
in the decorations and Iceland poppies and young
gum-leaves nodded upon the supper-tables. Matron
Stokes, wearing lemony georgettes, gave the welcom-
ing handclasp. Drs. McKellar-llall and Paton each
had a few words to say. The hospital superintendent,
Dr. Walter Seed, brought his mother, Mrs. W. P.
Seed; the Theo Ambrose couple, Miss Homan and
Miss Walsh (who laid aside their responsibilities
with their crisp veils), and Drs. F. L. and H. B.
Gill, with their better halves, were present. Mr.
Geoff Burgoyne and Mrs. Shortland Jones represented
the board.


Rheumatism
Whether you suffer the first agonising: twinges,
or are now gripped in “untold agonies,” here is
something you should know and——know at once!
If you are a sufferer from early
symptoms of rheumatism —swollen
joints, short, sharp twinges of pain, back
aching, shooting pains down the legs and
arms —and if you are neglecting these
symptoms you are surely walking
straight towards health-breakdown.
You, too, will come to the stage of “un-
told agonies” night and day. You will
be a misery to yourself and all around
you.
THIS REMEDY BEARS
A GUARANTEE
Therefore, when we most strongly urge
you to prove for yourself, in your home, .whilst
going about work or duties, what De Witt s
Pills will do for you, please read these facts.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not
a new, untested, untried craze-of-the-
moment” preparation.
For over forty years they have been bring-
ing health, yes, and happiness to thousands of
men and women. That is why they sell by
the million.
In practically every town and village there
is someone relieved of terrible rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, bladder weakness, kidney
trouble who could tell you just how good
this remedy is.
Doctors in many countries recommend and
use De Witt’s Pills. There are records of
thousands of cases of bad rheumatism, bed-
ridden, hospital cases relieved by De Witt s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
In hours from the very first dose of
De Witt’s Pills you will see results. This is a
definite guarantee. If not proved, return ; your
partly-used supply and your money will be
refunded in full.
With these simple, clear facts before you,
let De Witt’s Pills banish your pain and once
again build up health. Personally, for pride
in your health and vigor, no matter what
your age, we say—go to your chemist now.
He can tell you all about this 40-year-old
remedy. Do not continue in dangerous suffer-
ing a day longer, but start with De Witt s
Kidney and Bladder Pills NOW. They are sold
in a popular size,, price 3/6.
\AA\V»(I 1 1 111 ih///////////y/.%',.
KIDNEY AND BLADDER
\ 'W\ v ~
e
ONE BOTTLE OF De WITT S PILLS ENDED
TERRIBLE PAINS.
Miss D. Keenan, ‘‘Engadine,”. : 6nslow; Avenue, Eliza-
beth Bay, Sydney, writes: “I .am delighted with the
results obtained from De Witt's Kidney.and Bladder
Fills, ' which ended the terrible ] pains in my back
before I had finished one bottle, I had tried many
other remedies witliout- getting ■relief •
The Blood of the Mullitons.
HAROLD MERCER
TELLS THE DRAMATIC STORY OF A GREAT OBSESSION.
TOM MULLITON’S buggy dashed into
the township and pulled up at the
hospital. A little later Tom, always
a good mark for hangers-on, was at the
Commercial Hotel. It leapt to sudden life
with his arrival.
“Sorry to hear about the youngster,”
said Dr. Bruce, who had drifted in upon
the information that Tom was about. Bruce,
the derelict medico, who had been there since
the township was young, was a sort of
courtesy member of the hospital staff. No-
body depended upon him, though everybody
liked him.
“It’s my fault,” said Mulliton. “Have
another whisky.”
Bruce had it.
“Can’t see it’s your fault,” he said. ‘ The
boy’s got simple pulmonary trouble.’’
“Look at the way I married,” said Tom
moodily. “Never thought of the conse-
quences! Well —I married! And now -I
have a whole brood of ’em. I suppose this
is only a start! And I was fool enough to
think the blood of the Mullitons good enough ! ”
“What bee’s got you?” demanded Bruce.
“You know as well as I do —me marrying
Dolly. When a man’s young he doesn’t
think; though he’d be as careful of the breed-
ing of his stock as if his own life depended
on it. The guvnor was always talking to me
of it —the need for keeping the blood of the
Mullitons pure. Yet I go and marry Dolly
—and here I am!”
“Here we are!” agreed Bruce, with an idea
of distracting Mulliton from his melancholy.
“And the whisky’s good !”
“It’s all very well to joke,” glowered Mul-
liton. He stopped. “Here, Ted! fill ’em
again. I’m going out for a time. Be back
directly.” * , „ .
With Tom gone, Bruce could dwell on his
drink. Presently, .however, he went to the
door, hesitated, came back swiftly and
drained his glass. Then he, too, went out
in a hurry.
He had sensed that there was something
strange about the way Tom was taking the
illness of his boy. The trouble was old
enough, of course. The blood of the Mulli-
tons allowed for no human frailties; and
Tom was blaming for this illness the vitiated
blood he had brought into the family when
he married Dolly. Dolly had come inland
to a job as barmaid because of a chest
weakness, and she had made little resist-
ance when dashing Tom Mulliton decided
that the barmaid at the Commercial was a
right and proper person to be Mrs. Mulliton.
Bruce remembered the ferment of the dis-
trict when Tom impetuously carried out his
will. His own sympathies were all with
Dolly. Had Tom the elder been alive the mar-
riage might never have taken place, but his
restraining influence' had been removed quite
early. He had been found lying on the bush
road near the entrance to. the homestead with
marks on his head which showed how a
hanging branch of a tree, broken down by
the storm of that wild night of long ago,
had swept him from his saddle.
Dolly had taken the coldness of the
families in the surrounding district philo-
sophically, and had settled down contentedly
with her home and children. As for Tom,
he was several times a father before doubts
of the wisdom of his act began to assail him.
Bruce had discovered them family
had been first caught by an epidemic.
“No need to let it worry you, Tom,” he
had said. “All children pick up these things
at some time or another.”
“I didn’t,” Tom had retorted.
Whenever the children made a quick re-
covery it was the blood of the Mullitons that
had pulled them round. When they didn’t
Dolly’s miserable constitution was to blame.
Tom was very fond of his children. The
idea that there should be anything physically
imperfect. about one of them was torture to
him. In his own herds he: was ruthless in
weeding out the unfit—stock perfection had
been a Mulliton tradition. “Only the best
are good enough for me to keep,” had been
old Tom Mulliton’s dictum. And so with
humans: only the best deserved to live. The
rest were a misery to themselves and others.
The idea that he had been less careful
of the breeding of his children than of his
cattle was a constant worry to Tom. It
maddened him to think that bone of his bone,
flesh of his flesh should be doomed to future
suffering. He was fond of Dolly, too, in a
queer way, that had something of hatred in
it, regarding the affection she had inspired
as a trap that had caught him.
Bruce wandered down to the hospital to
have a talk with the matron and look at
the boy, for whom he had a peculiar affec-
tion. Half-delirious, little Tom only par-
tially recognised him, but smiled wanly when
the doctor’s whisky-palsied hand lay for an
instant on his forehead.
“Mind he doesn’t have anything to eat,” he
said to the matron. “His father may leave
him lollies, but .he mustn’t have ’em.”
Conquering the thirst that was in him, he
kept away from the hotel for a time. When
at last he did go there, it was to find the
bar almost deserted.
“Tom Mulliton gone?” he asked Burns, the
publican.
“About half an hour ago. He’s been heavy
on the booze to-day—even for him. Seems
to be worrying over that kid of his. I tried
to get him to stay—the way he was —and go
back to-morrow. He’ll be breaking his neck
one of these nights.”
Bruce wandered down to the hospital
again. A stack of picture-books and toys
was on the locker by little Tom’s bed. The
child was sleeping the fitful sleep of fever.
“There’s these chocolates, too,” said the
nurse. “I didn’t leave them where he could
see them.”
“I’ll take them,” said Bruce, and stood
talking for a while on the verandah, with the
box in hi.s hand. The expectant look of a
mongrel that had followed, at his heels from
the hotel caught his attention. Opening the
box he tossed the dog a chocolate, which it
adroitly caught and swallowed at a gulp.
“Storm working up to-night, nurse,” he
said. There was a quality of yellow in the
fading light, and the trees in front of the
hospital were tossing wildly. “My God!
Look at that dog. Nurse !”
The mongrel’s prick-eared expectancy had
changed suddenly to almost ludicrous puzzle-
ment. The hair about its neck and shoulders
bristled slightly, and a whine came from its
throat. It turned, staggered a few steps, and
collapsed.
Bruce burst into the hotel bar, gasping.
“I want a horse, Burns!” he cried. “Now.
Not a second to spare.”
“Wliat’s the hurry, Doc, anyway?” asked
Burris.
“Tom Mulliton,” said Bruce. “He’s been
trying to poison that kid of his. I vvant to
get to his home before he can reach it.”
Bruce’s indecision was all gone. Friends
volunteered to go with him; but he was the
, first to mount, the first to gallop out of the
township.
The night had closed in quickly and the
wind had risen; but through the racing
clouds the moon threw a cold gleam on the
road. The track was tree-lined and the
branches' tossed and groaned - in the rising
gale. It gave an eenness to the surroundings
as the group of horsemen sped recklessly along.
It was a long ride to Campbell: Downs.
Bruce felt the irk of the saddle ; he was
insecure in his seat, but he took a grip on
himself and pressed on. He had a horrible
dread , of what might be happening ahead;
thinking of it. his heels kicked sharply into
his horse’s side. Charteris’s horse loomed
up alongside. • .
' “Tom seems to have been driving errati-
cally,” he shouted. “Watch the tracks—-from
side to side of the road. See there! He
went over that stump.”
“I hope he’s smashed himself up, said
Bruce gritting his teeth. He recalled the
queer look he had seen in Tom g eyes that
morning. It was pregnant with meaning
now. The illness of little Tom had brought
a crisis in the father’s mind. Having tried to
destroy his son, his next, move would be to
destroy his family. Bruce liad an agonising
picture in his mind of gentle little Dolly
facing a determined maniac in the defence of
her children.
The horses’ hooves thudded on the soit
clay of the road. Low hanging branches Of
the trees, swaying downwards under the
pressure of the gale, constituted a danger ,
the riders, time and again, had to bend low
over their horses’ necks to avoid them.
Charteris gave a “Hallo!” as a smudge
came into sight on the road ahead. There
had been a smash, then; the knowledge
brought a sense of relief to the doctor’s heart.
Charteris, a better rider, had pushed ahead
and was off his horse, and standing by the
broken buggy when the others arrived.
“It’s a wreck,” he said. He must have
driven into the tree full rip. But Tom
evidently wasn’t hurt; he’s not here.
“Come on!” shouted Bruce. He s taken
the horses and ridden on !” li'e could pic-
ture the maniacal determination with which
ic had been done, and the thought re-awak-
cned his terrors.
Wobbling in his saddle Bruce clung on
desperately. The thud of the horses’ hooves
and the panting of their breaths, the creak
of the saddle girths, made a note of alarm
amongst the eerie noises of the storm.
“That’s where old Tom Mulliton was found,
isn’t it?” yelled Chartcris, with a sweep of
his arm.
Bruce nodded. He remembered starkly that
night of tragedy, for it was he who had found
the body, lying spread out on the road. And he
feared there was to be another night of tragedy.
Chartcris, slightly ahead again, pulled up
sharply, and Bruce nearly shot over his
horse’s head as he followed suit. A black
girl had stepped into the road in front of
Chartcris. The white of her eyeballs glis-
tened in the darkness, and her teeth chat-
tered as she spoke.
“Misser Mulliton him bin wild. Him
bin tell'it me get to Hell outer the house. He
bin chase me out.”
“Ifor God’s sake let’s get on,” cried Bruce.
The gate was wide open and he dashed
through it ahead of the others. A frightened
scream from the house, long-drawn and piti-
able, gave him hope. If she could scream
she was still alive.
He threw himself against the front door.
It did not yield.
Within there was the sound of splintering
wood, renewed screams, and the whimpering
of children.
“Come on—all together!” cried Chartcris
at liis shoulder. Under their concerted rush
the door gave. . , .
An oil lamp, hanging from the' ceiling,
threw a yellow glow on a long hall. Mulli-
ton was pounding at a closed door with an
axe. In his left hand he held a revolver.
He turned sharply to. meet the intruders',
and Bruce winced as the revolver went up in
the air.
“So the boy’s dead—poor kid!” Tom cried
exultantly. He evidently believed that these
men had come to capture him on that
account. “I loved ; the;boy ; but I’d rather
see him dead than-grow up to be a weakling.
That’s one good thing done, anyhow.”
A shot rang out' as the men, who had
hesitated for a moment, rushed forward, too
late to seize the'revolver, which Mulliton had
turned on himself. '
, . * * r .* *
■ “The blood of the Mullitons!” said Bruce,
explaining matters; to Chartcris later. “Poor
Tom was so proud of itbut it’s the common-
sense stolidity of Dolly that will probably be
the ' salvation of those children. They
haven’t a sign of the Mulliton hysteria, which
was marked in Tom even as a baby. Tom’s
mother was a highly-strung woman —the very
worst type to be the wife of one of the
Mullitons, with their strain of hereditary
insanity.” ■
“Hereditary , insanity !” exclaimed Char-
“ Yes; Tom’s father .suicided knowing it
was coming' on him —it develops towards
middle age. So 'did his grandfather. We kept
it from Tom in . the hope that ignorance
might save him.” ,


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome ail transmission troubles-^—Ensure rtiaximum life.
Highest efficiency—-Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
AVrite for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS. DEAKIN & CIO., LTD.. Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
4S.A Bourkc Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you 'want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. G:.t
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 122,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Kates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Clk new Zealand
Rcfme
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
.4 us I rnlmn Representative i
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
'l’hone: 145241,
tbc mercury
—by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest' influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “IHE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISERmay be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Got eh, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N'.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON'. Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
<?. N T . BEDN'ALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It foil ows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
! i» the most popular 64-page woman's
paper published in the t'onunon-
. wealth. It features everything- *
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you .will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern j 4
<’ free for the. asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original,
“Prominent Politicians” Puzzle
IN AID OF ROYAL ALEXANDRA HOSPITAL FOR CHILDREN.
£3O-0-0 IN PRIZES
First Prize . . . . £l5 0 0
Second Prize . . . . £7 10 0
Third Prize . . . . £2 10 0
And Ten Consolation Prizes of Ten Shillings each.
Prizes will be awarded outright on pure skill solutions. No points for neatness.
THE PUZZLE
Here is an assortment of fifty letters of the alphabet.—-*
AAAAABBBCD
EEEEFGGHH I
I LLLLLMNNN
NNNOOOPRSS
SSTTTUVVYY
And here are the names of twelve prominent Federal and State
politicians: BAVIN, BRENNAN, FENTON, GABB, LANG, LYONS, LATHAM,
LYSAGHT, MOLONEY, SCULLIN, STEVENS, THEODORE.
The puzzle is, how man;/ of the above politicians’ names can you
extract, or make, from the fifty letters, no letter to be used more than once
Prizes will be awarded on points, to count as follows: Six points for each
politician’s name included in solution. A deduction of one point for each of
the fifty letters not used
Example: A solution containing seven names, with, say, ten letters not
used, would score thirty-two points nett.
In the event of two or more competitors tieing with equal number
of points, those competitors will contest a second round of a puzzle of exactly
the same nature. The handsome prizes must be won outright by the most
skilful competitors
YOUR ENTRY FOR THIS COMPETITION GIVES YOU AN ADDITIONAL
CHANCE OF WINNING THE FIRST PRIZE OF £5OO OR OTHER PRIZES
TO TOTAL VALUE OF £BOO IN THE No. 3 ART UNION.
Entry must be accompanied by a Postal Note for One Shilling, and a
stamped envelope bearing your name and address. Results of this competition
will be posted to you, together with one Art Union ticket, promptly after
adjudication of puzzle.
CLOSING DATE. Entry must be posted not later than JULY 11,
addressed to—•
Organiser, Box 4209 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.
sv^
X
Now in its 90th Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.
73-70 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Obtainable from
, Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Mi’. W. G. Dougan,
Kombla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Thousands Subscribe to Australians Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box SSSIBB, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please Jorward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months. 7/.
Overseas—l 2 months, 30 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
yf
(K
r'
0°
a\ 6
S
„ S» f f***
€ V S
••• A,‘‘ 9 ,v?.


c
!\
w
K
PC 9-5 ,
THE NEW
A Guaranteed Quality Tyre
at a Lower Price
Existing economic conditions in Australia have created a demand by
the Motoring Public for a tyre of good quality at a moderate price.
Goodyear recognising this demand now offers the New Pathfinder —
a tyre with an already established reputation among millions of car
and truck owners in many parts of the world where it has been tried
and proven during the past six years.
Made in Australia and guaranteed by Goodyear, the World’s Largest
Tyre Manufacturer, the New Pathfinder may be purchased with
the assurance of securing a full measure of service.
Ask the Goodyear Dealer to show you these New Pathfinder Tyres
you will agree that at the Prices Listed they offer tyre values
previously unobtainable in Australia.
