

i m
a
Cowell.
WE feel that the moment has arrived when the leaders of Commerce and Industry,
and all those who are financially capable, should come forward with a practical
demonstration of their faith in the future of this great Continent. By this we
mean that instead of restricting their operations and forcing Economy to a point where
it ceases to be a measure for reasonable Retrenchment, and becomes merely an express
sion of Fear, they should “carry on” to the limit of their ability.
By spending capital judiciously, by giving employment wherever possible, by keeping
money in circulation, they can replace hardship with happiness in numerous homes
throughout Australia.
Many firms in the various States are pursuing this policy with great benefit to them-
selves and the community, and by spending large amounts on buildings, publicity and
other activities are proving their Faith in Australia and helping to keep up the spirit
and morale of the people.
It has been our pleasure, after considered judgment, to prove our Faith in this country s
immediate and ultimate prosperity by founding in Australia a great new industry, and
completing a large modern Gin Distillery at a cost of over £125,000. This enterprise
gives employment to a large staff embracing many trades and occupations, and the
manufacture of our world-famous products utilises many thousands of pounds worth
of materials grown or made in Australia.
Australia’s commercial history has been punctuated by periods of financial stress such
as the bank failures of 1893, the great drought of 1902, and many earlier national crises,
each of which has been quickly followed by a corresponding era of prosperity. History
is about to repeat itself. It is impossible for a country such as ours, so lavishly endowed
by nature, to labor for long under the yoke of man-made difficulties. The fighting spirit
of White Australia, the natural optimism and commonsense of the vast majority of our
people must shortly rise superior to the dissensions of the present and prove that these
great national characteristics are as strong to-day as in the days of our forefathers.
Let us all pull together, and by putting the Country’s needs before our personal ends
help Australia to a speedier recovery from existing conditions.
# appoint
KID
&
Sx)
m
R
osi
f u
o p
H.M THE rt' 1
FAITH f
Ltd.
The Bulletin
te? P— $S’
Vol. 52.—N0. 2670.
Wednesday, April 15, 1931.
Price 6d.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"W/lUTE f or Dymock's Library Catalogue,
” and lists on all subjects, which will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTTS Technical Correspondence Colleoe
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Rooldct, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Fame
Mil Address
SB-181 ”*.*.*
m
wearq men-
listless women
dull children
take this road
to healthy energy
DO you realise that your trouble
comes largely from imperfect
elimination? Take Figsen,, the
natural laxative which does not purge
or gripe and see what a difference will
be made to your he<alth. That is the
sensible way to follow Nature’s own
road to health. Figsen is as close to
Nature in its action as human skill can
make it. No unpleasant after effects,
perfectly safe and utterly dependable.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
o
THE PATRIOT
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HIN'CHCLIEEE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
PRICE
S MIRROR.”
.. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Jcnow.
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The. prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Above the Dark Circus
By HUGH WALPOLE.
I Dominions Edition.
The “Spectator”: “Mr. Walpole has always
been fascinated by the problem of motiveless
evil and cruelty, and in the presence of these
men he transcends the plodding craftsmanship
of novel furnishing, and loosens himself in pas-
sages of fine descriptive vividness.”
Tobit Transplanted
By STELLA BENSON.
[Empire Library-
February choice of the Book Society.
“An illuminating novel, and a most amusing-
one.... a gay, satirical and fantastically funny
peep-show.” —Times Literary Supplement.
Father
By the author of “Elizabeth and Her
German Garden.”
[Empire Library-
The romance of a daughter who breaks away
into freedom after a restricted home life.
MACMILLAN’S SIXPENNY LIBRARY
Five New Titles.
“The Care of the Child,” by CECIL
WEBB-.IOH NSON, M.D.
“investment and Speculation,” bv
GEORGE J. HOLMES.
"Your House: How to Buy and Build
It,” by P. D. HEPWORTH,
F.R.1.8.A.
“How to Choose, Buy and Run Your
Own Car,” by PERCY W. PEEL.
“Ultra-violet and Other Rays: their
uses in Health and Disease,” by
F. H. HUMPHRIS, M.D.
The Marywood Readers
By SISTER MARY ESTELLE, of
the Sisters of the Order of Saint
Dominic, Grand Rapids, Michigan,
U.S.A. With illustrations in color.
Pre-Primer 1/-. dPrimer 2/-. First
Reader 2/-. Second Reader 2/6.
Third Reader 3/-. First-Year Manual
2/-. ; . ■■■.,. - ,
This new series of readers for Catholic
schools is composed of almost wholly new
material, with attractive illustrations in color.
A notable feature of the three readers is the
introduction of language lessons.
To be Obtained from a/I
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
sir
9
iwm
/'''■■;■
:.•••:.•.•./ "■■■.■••. \'j .. '*■*•;■' k -.-
« /
l»i
W
‘
SsS'
w
A pee
Will conufnce.
A
\ PEEP, of at the wonderful
variety of Patterns of “80-Peep”
Print—the popular fabric
for Children’s wear Frocks,
Rompers, Overalls, etc. “Bo-
Peep” Print is 36 inches wide,
and is obtainable in many
styles, designs and colorings.
Sold by Leading Drapers and Stores.
Produced by the makers oj “Tricolinethe equal to silk.
if.
Loo tsi°od'' for Children 's Wear a Zi 7smc
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write
MR. H. G. RANDELL,
The Grace Building, York Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in ‘THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price (or the original.
The Red Page
Tybal Men
It would be quite easy to dismiss Louis
Kaye, author of Tybal Men (Wright and
Brown ; Dymocks; 75.), with a fine flower
in his literary buttonhole. One could say
that his is a vigorous and authentic Aus-
tralian novel, and even call it a milestone
(risking the fool who will surely read that
as millstone). That is the sort of treatment
Australian authors prefer. They purr under
the soft stroking of overseas critics, and can
see no reason why an Australian critic
should be more particular. Yet he should
be. He feels keenly about Australian litera-
ture, and wants to see it better. That
leads him to finding fault, and that leads
the authors to yell- that he’s catping. Not
only the authors—their worshippers; few,
but snappy. For daring to suggest that, I
found “Ultima Thule” a gloomy novel I was
bitten in about 18 places at once. It is in
spite of those bites that I now venture to
suggest, that Tybal Men is an ill-managed
good novel. The telling wanders rather
wildly, almost as if it were patterning itself
on “Smiler” Hales’s outrageously wild
introduction. What, the devil But no;
there is space here only for Tybal Men.
Apart from that looseness of general con-
trol, there is an unfortunate looseness in
the control of one character—Vivian, up to
a point the only real Digger that I have so
far met with in fiction. Even after that
point is past he is an admirable piece of
work; but the author did his very best to
ruin him by making the poor beggar
declaim the weird and wonderful anti-war
oration that pours from his lips as he dies.
Yet in spite of these things Tybal Men—
one more outstanding novel to have a
West Australian setting—goes on to my
shelf of sound Australian work, along which
the names of Henry Lawson, Katharine
Prichard and Vance Palmer figure largely.
On the whole, it is good to read; in patches,
it is superb. There is no suggestion about
it that Louis Kaye is a one-book man. He
is almost certain to do better.
A Look at Russia
Frankly, I don’t believe Vivian said half
of what he is accused of saying in “Tybal
Men.” The speech is merely the author in
a soap-box mood; proving, among other
things, that he stopped thinking of the
peace problem at the point where those
who really do think about it begin. Wells
had regarded all that easy no-more-war
childishness before he looked towards Asia
and saw Danger written all over it, I, for
one, cannot look at Italy and Southern
Europe without seeing the same signal; and
in About Russia, by Ernest J. P, Benn
(Benn; 6s. net), I find a direct expectation
of war from Northern Europe. But that
expectation is in the way of an aside. Benn
asserts roundly that he has not been to
Russia and has no intention of going. He
forms his conclusions from general evidence.
He believes that by being invited to Russia
he is
asked to acquiesce by my visit in the murder or the
deportation of persons of known literary, artistic or
scientific qualifications, and to accept as substitutes
for them the most amateur and stupid propagandist
tumblers that it has been my experience to encounter.
Anyone who will take the trouble to examine the
Bolshevik Press—‘-and it must be said to the credit
of tlie Bolsheviks that they make no effort to hide
this side of their system—‘cannot fail io be struck
with the simple fact that every day of the week
numbers of Russians are shot. Methodical examina-
tion may show an exception here and there, but it
is substantially true to say that no day has passed
since the beginning of the Revolution without its
quota of executions. ,
He asserts that, no one, other than a Com-
munist, can leave Russia without leaving
his ftimilv behind as a hostage, and that
everyone is warned before leaving that any
damage done by him to the reputation of
Moscow would be repaid in damage to his
family at. home. Such things seem in-
credible; vet they represent the trend of
accusation that runs throughout the book.
Some no doubt will swallow it whole. I
cannot.
Another on Russia
Nor can I swallow whole Henri Bar-
busse’s One Looks at Russia (Dent; 6s.
net). I hate to do it with a writer of
Barbusse’s quality, but he is so uniformly
eulogistic that I cannot help suspecting him
of occasionally gilding the dungheap. Con-
trast this Russia with Benn’s:— *
Everything this people does is alive and instinct
with life. It plans ils economic processes for several
years ahead. In everything it feels its way towards
reality and grasps it. Its paint ing seeks 'for truth
between the formulas of exactitude in detail and
the conventional canons which define the essentials
of pictorial art. Its cinema is a profuse reflector
of life. Its new literature springs up like a crop
out of the soil. It is realism in action. Its col-
lective body performs
immeasurable feats and
does them with a wifi;
and the innumerable
workshops of factories
and public services de-
light over every new
stone with which they
... . , , cover its territory.
1 thought i heard Beim shout, “Yes; headstones!”]
w. ,*?. a renaissance comparable with that of the
Middle Ages; and that fact alone testifies to the
difference between this people of to-day and the
mystics of yesterday.
( forward on the wave of youth, with the
icsh wanes of the childhood of the red flag coming
up tor support, this people which is in process of
becoming a new race unified by labor is not 6nly
the purest and cleanest in the world; it is also
the happiest.
j u Lim P re P&red to swallow <1 fair amount of
that : Barbusse is a Frenchman, writing from
the front line. But I ehnnot bolt him down,
immeasurables,” “innumerables” and all.
It is, however, not such obvious overstate-
ment. which loaves me dissatisfied with his
Russia. It is simply that the place he pre-
sents is a steely, metallic place; and I have
an unshakable dislike for the atmospherics
of steel riveters. Many, I know, will bolt
his book whole; but most who' take the
trouble to read both his and Benn’s re-
marks will probably come out of the ex-
perience unconvinced by either, and in more
of a giope than ever. Still, it is interesting
company, especially that of Barbusse.
A Thundering Abbot
There is little enough left in that Russia
of Barbusse’s to have engaged Armand de
Kance, of Henri Bremond’s The Thunder-
mg Abbot (Sheed and Ward; Rovcroft;
11s. 6d.). In Russia to-day,
Once a week, in fown and village, every church
still open has its handful of people who, with their
eyes closed in ecstasy, may imagine if they will that
they are a multitude. Those open churches testify
much more vividly than those that are eloSed to
the death of religion.
But there was plenty of religion to thunder
about in the France in which Ranee lived.
Abbe Bremond’s work is considerably more
than a pen picture of that reformer and
genius of the Trappist Order. It is good
also as a piece of ironic writing; and again,
as an example of the fine art of critical
sifting: It is not a long book; yet into
it seem to be compressed the outlook, the
writings and the personalities of the others
who have touched upon the thunderous
abbot. There is no gentle mimbling of
the panegyrist about it, “Even saints have
no right to anything but the truth,” is
the basis on which the Abbe Bremond
attacks. Yet the “St. Bernard who did—
unsparingly and, as he seems to have
thought, with the most saintly intent—every
single thing that could ensure his not being
canonised,” is the Abbe’s hero. And one
reader, at least, admires him a good dhal
more on account of this unsparing treat-
ment. The book is rich reading as well as
being sound biography.
Pierpont Morgan
To appreciate just how good “The Thun-
dering Abbot” is, it is only necessary to
read in succession to it John Kennedy
Winkler’s The Life of J. Pierpont Morgan
(Knopf; Roycroft; 15s. net). It opens
thus:—
Perhaps once in a hundred years is born a mind
capable of entering a sphere of higher mathematics
closed to ordinary mortals. A direct and synthetic
mind that cuts across lots and flies straight to
conclusions, intuitively and bv processes unknown
to itself.
Such a mind we call genius.
Such was the mind of John Pierpont Morgan.
By sheer mental magic Morgan solved the most
complicated problems. He was a mathematical
marvel.
The inspiration of that bad writing had
certain superficial points in common with
Ranee. He was a great hater, and a
thunderer. He was, after his own fashion,
deeply religious. His religion “was a strange,
depthful thing the strongest impellent
in his nature.” But for all his religion he
was so worldly that when he established a
maternity hospital—one of his many acts of
philanthropy—the ribald seized on it at once
as the basis of a storm of lewd jests. His
biographer comments rather sniggeringly |
on the fact that several doctors married j
beauties who had been Morgan’s favorites;
even asks:—
Why should physicians and surgeons be lessj
squeamish than most men in such matters? Does
their mental training tend to lessen respect for
chastity and lead them to believe that modern
Puritanism absurdly overvalues it?
The clashes between Morgan and Roosevelt
make engaging reading, and the book, as a
whole, is good rough-and-ready biography.
But the writer is always at the top of his
voice, and the American voice can be a
loud, loud voice when it feels that way.
RED PAGE.
A Censored Book
A tiling that strikes me as import tint
above the current welter of wrangle and
squabble and bitterness that is Australian
party politics is the attitude towards litera-
ture of our so-called fighters for liberty.
{lied Parje mntitnml on page 6.) o


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Plain Statements of Fact.
mm
*» fe-
" ..-reriv * * *
w*nt ~
W"
If
II
111 H
•'*l *:
I U
111
i#
it
, m
i *
M -
I
s« t
» »
Unbleached
Turkish Towels
113
Cream ground, Red or Blue
stripes. Size 20in. x 40in.
Excellent value. Price, each, 1/3
Unbleached
Turkish Towels
1/6%
Cream ground, small centre
Block design. Blue and Black or
Pink and Black. Size 2 1 in.
41 in. Price, each 1/6
Unbleached
Turk. Towels
2|6
An exceptional value in unbleached Tur-
kish Towels. A splendid wearing and
absorbent towel. Recommended for hard
wear. Size x 50in. Cream ground,
with Blue, Pink, Tango or Helio design.
Price, each, 2/6.
pEAD about these towels, note the remarkably
Low prices, .then come in and look at them;
feel them, test the absorbent quality of the strong
and soft terry cloth. Then you will not wonder
why we sell hundreds of thousands every year.
You will know it is because of the wonderful
value we give. Get your towels from Anthony
Horderns’, and prove this claim of astounding
value. Prompt attention given to mail orders.
Unbleached
Turk. Towels
l/ll
As illustrated on left. Heavy-
weight quality. Cream ground.
Red or Blue stripe. Size 22in. x
44 in. Price, each 1/11
Unbleached
Turk. Towels
2/3
As illustrated on right. A good
wearing quality. Cream ground.
Red, Blue or Mauve stripe. Size
22-Jin. x 44in. Price, each, 2/3
(Towels, First Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
innmiMvwwdMimnww/wuimwwiwv
White Turkish
Towels
2/6
Australian manufacture, extra-
soft and absorbent quality. Red
heading. Size 22in. x 46 in.
Price, each 2/6
PTrainmaT
I
ft X I'
Unbleached
Turkish Towels
2^ll
Heavyweight unbleached Turkish
Towels. A very serviceable towel
which gives every satisfaction.
Cream ground. Red or Blue
stripes. Size 23in. x 48in.
Price, each 2/11
r<; rv/wwi it" \mrm%mu
i ii in ii iis I-: thim iar
llfti 4 iMAI> 1 Ikl ;h ffi < 11<1 % vvwl /IAHoI
Anthony
Hordern s’
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
’Phone: M21&1
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A New
Goodyear
H eavy Duty
Bal
a Giant . .
for Strength
Here’s a new tyre by Good-
year for the heavy car, the
fast driver, the tough and
rocky road ... for any ser-
vice that’s arduous in the
extreme!
It stands apart from other
Heavy Duty balloons not only
by its greater strength and
improved construction, but
also by its strikingly handsome appearance.
It’s a big stout massively proportioned tyre,
armored with an extra-thick and extra-safe
All-Weather Tread, and around its sleek black
side-wall runs a single identifying stripe of silver.
a Beau Brummel
for Looks
New and original is the way
in which the outer rows
of All-Weather blocks are
faceted down to re-inforce
the sidewall, a touch as
smart as anything in modern
sculpture
A new tyre throughout, a
tyre which gives you extra
immunity against puncture,
extra protection against blowout, extra mileage
even in hard continuous service .... If you
feel that way about it, keep this tyre in mind,
and let it be your motor car’s equipment as
soon as you need new tyres
r


SPECIAL VALUE!
FLEECY TWEED OVERCOATS
Here is a typical example of Men’s Wear inexpensively
priced to meet the times I A fleecy overcoat, lined
throughout, and guaranteed to give really excellent
service, made in Australia from pure wool materials !
Single and Double Breasted styles in fawn, mid and
dark grey, with Raglan and Set-in sleeves. A size to
fit every figure at only 47/6
MAKE USE OF THESE SERVICES FOR MEN!
One-Day Cleaning and Pressing Service.
Men's Barber’s Shop. Haircutting now only 1/6.
Socks Darned
Shoes Repaired a One-Day Service
Shirts made-to-order.
Watches Mended.
Personal Stationery Printed.
Hats Reblocked.
Tobaccos Blended to-order
J%Cen : s cffiear JZower ground & (jeorge St.
WHEN IN TOWN, LUNCH AT DAVID JONES’ RESTAURANT
THE LARGEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
DAVID JONES’
Ow Service
It may be answered at once that poli-
ticians—Labor or any other sort —have no
attitude towards literature. They know
little and care nothing about it. In one
way that is true as a whole; in another, it
is only half-truth. About literature as a
part of life they doubtless care nothing
whatever. They probably know' vaguely
that it bothers sometimes to present’, them,
naked as the absurdities and grotesqueries
that they are; but because when it does
this it does it with a subtlety that is lo§t
on the mob, there is no danger of their
' being pressed into taking heed of it.
Literature forces itself upon their atten-
tion only when its existence or suppression
spells votes. That is the sense in which
they may be said to have an attitude to-
wards it. And in that case, as they know
very well, it is only through suppression
that they can hope to gain that which
they most seek in life. For such is the
“attitude, not of politicians only, but -of
the general public towards literature, that
the suppression of a book, however good,
will spell nothing in votes cast against
the suppressor, but may spell at least a little
sum in votes cast jor. The people who
want to see books suppressed are invariably
fanatics, militant fanatics. They do not
take it lying down, as the mere believers
in literature do. They imagine themselves
as saviours. They stand up, they point,
they insist, they grow noisy—and those poor
pallid cuckoos, the Fordes and Chaffeys, do
their bidding. Having done it, they immedi-
ately forget their temporary affair with
literature. Perhaps they may not forget
it altogether. Perhaps each of these two
may think respectively of himself at times,
either with ignorant pride or with enlightened
shame, as the man who banned “Redheap”
and the man who banned “All Quiet on the
Western Front.”
In regard to Forde’s piece of illiber-
ality, one has to give up hope of any early
correction. It belongs to Labor, and Labor,
having made its liberty pretensions absurd ,
in that act, cannot be expected to do any-
thing about it now. If somebody in Caucus
did happen to mention “Redheap,” he
would be told to assure his constituents
that their. railway would be put through
when money became available. If he re-
plied that it was a book, he would probably
be kicked out for jesting in a sacred place.
Men' seem to have been kicked out of it
for less. But, after all, the banning of
“Redheap” is a bit of Labor’s own stupidity,
and since it sticks so tenaciously to other
of its stupidities, it must be expected to
stick to'that bit.
The banning of “All Quiet on the West-
ern Front” is a horse of a different brand.
This book was banned in New South Wales,
and remains banned here, at the instance of
Nationalist politician Chaffey. It is by
allowing this book to remain on the Index
that our Labor politicians prove their nega-
tive attitude towards literature. I once heard
one of them—Gosling, if I remember rightly,
but I am speaking from memory—telling an
enthusiastic audience of how he was doing
his bit to stamp out the war spirit by not
letting his children have toy-guns to play
with. If I am wrong in crediting Gosling
with this specimen of maternal wisdom—for
all I know he may be a bachelor, without
children—l duly apologise. Anyway, the
speaker was a Labor politician, and Labor
politicians in general assert loudly that
they hold the kind of feelings he was trying
to express. Yet a piece of literature which
is vibrant with those very feelings, which
is set against war and militarism, can re-
main suppressed on the say-so of one whom
Labor, if its noise and pretensions about
liberty were anything more than noise and
pretensions, would hold to be its enemy
more on this ground than on any other.
But the truth is that “All Quiet on the
Western Front” remains banned in New
South Wales, not because Chaffey banned it,
nor because the present Labor holder of
Chaffey’s office agrees that it is better
banned, nor because the humblest Parlia-
mentary follower of Lang believes that to
lift the ban would be to blight some hypo-
thetical weakling’s nebulous morals. It
remains banned because our so-called fighters
for liberty do not care a damn about liberty,
nor about anything other than their political
skins.
CECIL MANN.
Minds—Valet and Otherwise
“F.S.” seems to have got all of a twitter
(R.P. l/4/’3l) over my reference to ..the
Russell brethren:—
“Both were cranks,” says “Jeames.”... . Thus
always speaks the valet mind when confronted with
the spectacle of uncompromising intellectual courage.
Bertrand Russell went to prison in war-time because
he happened to have one of the clearest minds of
his generation.
I didn’t say he was a crank because he
went to prison, but because he was, and
is, a crank. I know all about his clear
mind. Every arty flapper in my suburb
has been gushing about the thing (“Like a
flashing sword, darling”) since Ethel Ma.n-
nin made its owner the “Boy” Bradman of
the Bohemian kultur game in her “Confes-
sions and Impressions.”
It wasn’t because of the clarity of his
mind that Russell got locked up during the
war; it was because his mind became
clouded by the family crankiness, as it often
does. Webster defines a crank as “one
possessed of a hobby; one given to irn-
practicable and fantastic projects.” How
it fits Russell! While we valets were at
the front helping, amongst other things, to
save the estate he has just inherited, he
was propagating a most impracticable
doctrine—that if England would only go
conchy, like himself, the Germans, over-
come with admiration or something, would
hurry peacefully home. ,• Cobden, another
crank, used a similar and equally idiotic
* argument in support of economic pacifism
80, years ago.'
\ Miss Mannin supplies ample evidence of
Rpssell’s crankiness in her famous chapter
ph\his clear mind.
“IVdon’t regard stealing as abnormal in a child,”
he said. “On the contrary, I should regard a child
'as abnormal if it didn’t steal.”
“I don’t mind the natural vices.”
“Let people send pornographic postcards through
the post if they want to,”‘he said. “What does it
matter ?”
You will always get folk who pose as
released, and bravely scornful of conven-
tion, and the rest of it, to applaud such
rubbish. But they are almost invariably
bogus. The moment they find their own
offspring practising what the Master has
preache d—pinching the housekeeping
money, practising “the natural vices,” show-
ing one another indecent photographs—
they spank the unfortunate kids as hard as
if the household was pure bougewaw. I
have been watching it ever since I first
entered service.
“F.S.” evidently imagines that people with
beautiful minds are perfect in all else, like
desert sheiks and movie stars. We valets
know better. Pascal, a greater mathe-
matician than Russell, was a crank. So
were Voltaire, who had the clearest mind in
eighteenth-century France; and Swift, who
had the clearest mind in eighteenth-century
England, and died mad. Johnson, who
couldn’t walk along Fleet-street without
counting the' pavjng-stones, was another
kind-of crank, v and some more names that
will occur to'most people who know their
owners’'-histories are Swinburne, Poe, Shel-
ley, Chatterton, Turner and Keats. Shaw
(vegetarianism, pacifism, etc.) is our lead-
ing crank at the moment. There are always
two or three posturing in the limelight;
and let’s hope the breed never dies out.
God knows what some of our Bohemian
girls would find to enthuse about without
them.
JEAMES.
A Satchel of Books
Justin Moberly, hero of Pike's Peak, by
Courtney Ryley Cooper (Collins; 7s. 6d.
net), was a banker in America’s Wild West
in the middle of last century. His bank
got into difficulties, and one of the first to
rush it and draw out all her money was his
affianced, Letitia Calleau. Afterwards, when
he had made money and given his heart to
winsome little Patsy Gray, Letitia had the
nerve to be annoyed because he wouldn’t
marry her. An exciting adventure story in
which colorful stuff about old-time Kansas
goldmining is judiciously mixed with villainy
and sentiment.
Tendencies of Modern Science, by Prof.
A. M. Low (Elkin Mathews; 2s. 6d. net).
volume of the Library of New Ideas.
The scientists are our new romantics. Modern
tendencies, in love, religion, clothes, crime,
etc., are projected into the future, and the
reader' is requested to contemplate with
steady nerves an epoch in which the flapper
wiil be hairless, toothless and jellylike, with
a head larger than her body. The pro-
fessor’s mind is so packed with thought and
his style is so condensed that he is some-
times almost unintelligible to the layman,
but lie has written a thoroughly entertaining
volume.
Amphion, or the ’Nineteenth Century, by
Dudley Ilarbron (Dent; 6s. net), is a very
sprightly account of last century’s archi-
tectural achievements (or absence of them).
There is nothing at all dry about it; it is
hugely engaging general reading, perhaps
chiefly because it is of the people rather
than of the things that the" author writes.
Now Wilde, when he left Oxford for London,
cultivated a distinctive costume, on account of which
he was selected by Mr. D’Oyly Carte to go to
America in 1881 and lecture on “House Decoration,"’
for it was thought that the Americans having seen
a typical aesthete in the flesh would be encouraged
to flock to see “Patience,” then presented as a comic
opera burlesquing his type. Wilde went because he
wanted money and because he knew he filled the
part. He was intensely serious. In America he
condemned horsehair sofas and cast-iron stoves
decorated with funeral urns. Such outspokenness
astonished his audiences.
Very rarely has architecture been so engag-
ingly written about.
The Industrial Situation in New Zealand,
by F. W. Rowley (Tombs; price not stated),
is the work of Maoriland’s ex-Secretary of
Labor. Mr. Rowley was an officer of the
M.L. Labor Department from its very early
days up till a couple of years ago, when he
retired, and he was for 16 years permanent
head of the department. He has produced
an accurate and useful review of the whole
field of the Dominion’s industrial legislation
and puts forward various well-considered
proposals for the improvement of the arbi-
tration system, the remedying of unemploy-
ment and the development of manufactures.
The book, covering a much wider scope than
Broadhead’s work on the M.L. Arbitration
Act, as well as being 20 years later and
much more impartial, fills a long-felt want.
Mr. Rowley is neither a doctrinaire nor a
politician; he is sure of his facts, and his
comments upon them are worth the con-
sideration of every student of social pro-
blems.
Sane Jane (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.
net) is another one from Rosemary Rees,
who specialises in pure M.L. girls and com-
plications of a sentimental nature which are
eventually, resolved at the altar. On this
occasion the maiden gives her heart to one
who is not •'o’nly" already married, but blind.
He only recovers his sight and comes to claim
her-as the family homes!end is being sold
up. Pleasant, ingenuous stuff by a skilled
storywriter.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
James C., Dorothy H., Feno, Morris H.:
Only failed at the third reading... .J.P.: Even in an
agricultural ode “The orange, the pawpaw, the
banana!” rings a bit odd C. 8.: Couldn’t make room
for it. .. .A.J.8.: Rather fine in places and the idea
capital, but the complete piece doesn’t quite satisfy.
. ...F.G.R.: Could accept a reply only from the
author himself Ground F.: The Religious Editor
has framed the two haunting lines:
What is sin ?
Sin is a banana-skin.
. ...C.J.L.: No harm done at all. In fact, the idea
has points... .R.C.G.: A girl wlio’d say “I fain would
plight my troth with thine” wouldn’t be worth
courting. She’d be far too dead The B.: Even
in the cause of rhyme sparrows can scarcely be
likened to glancing arrows... . D.C.J.W.: Competently
enough done, but don’t care for the moralising....
E.L.: No place for it... .S. En. (Tas.) : Four experts
and a tin-opener failed to decipher it.... Spindrift:
That view of the birds has been better done....
W.S.W.: Like neither idea nor treatment... .D.A.8.:
The promise is not great.... Hec. K.: Liked the line
on Lang: “But his roe is pretty hard.” It reveals
him in a new r 011... .Mill: Both went close to scor-
ing... .R.D.Y.: That’s an old story, without a new
name Habet: Even the fact that you want to
buy Boswell couldn’t get them accepted... .D.A.S.:
No punch in that 0ne....C.C.: Rather noisy
invective... .R.E.: As usual with that easy brand
of verse, it may express your thoughts and inner
feelings, but it does not convey them. .. .F. 8.: But
don’t you think you yourself might have gone off
a little?... .N.J.D.: Fancy prose would have been
a better medium... .T.A.: You sang it too late....
J.N.T.T.: No offence meant, but if you wrote that
at 12 you’re not only a genius, you’re a dead genius
named Rossetti.... J. 1.: Don’t fancy it, but have
confidence that you’ll write something really g00d....
R.H.W.: Not much in those... .M.G.: No; but the
twist nearly got it in.... R.W.: The covering letter
very good; then came the verse... .8.H.C.: Appro-
priate enough, but that form’s weak... .Bellerive:
A touching picture:—
RECOLLECTIONS OF OLD NIGHT-SHELTERS.
Ragged middle-aged men
And greybeards old
Put up at the shelters
On winter nights cold.
A suspended oil-lamp
Shed a faint-like glare
Upon human wrecks
Of ruin and despair,
Men who’d endeavored,
Failed and were crushed,
By grim destiny linked
To the very dust.
The reality and power
Of misfortune’s curse,
And blasted hopes
And a empty purse.
{Next: “The Men, up in the Flies.”)
. ...H.T.J.: You make the pursuit of the “only girl
in the world” extremely du11... .K.F.: Let’s have
something • shorter and better... .P.M.D.: Do you
call that a silver lining? It’s not even nickel-
plated. .. .R. 8.: Too much bloodshed... .C.M.S.: Did
you hear that thud ? It was your “Gate-crasher”
going 0ut....0.N.: Queer mixture of Rider Haggard
and D. H. Lawrence.... L.F.: Your bandits ought
to take a correspondence course... .C.R.P.: That new-
chum has been jumping into a saddle and riding
the station outlaw for half a century... .M.J.:
That’s not how the police catch criminals... .M.C.:
Don’t like the way it is presented... .P.H.E.: It’s
silly... .G.U.S.: About as crude as it could be....
H.G.F.: Awful... .L.M.D.: Want a lot more meat on
the bones... .11. R.: Bring the lady more into the
picture and send it to a paper for the sex....
R.G.M.: Abo. editor gets the same story every month.
. ...J.E.: A bit off this track... .8.W.R.: Try the
“manes—blames” rhyme on Lang. He likes substi-
tutes for work.... Clag: Not quite as weak as usual.
... .N.W.: The “Wet Night” opens admirably, but
none of the other stanzas come up to the first....
R.W.T.: Have neat twists to them, but the content
is light... .E.M.: Can’t swallow night as a he-lover.
. ...A.K.: Small fragile bits not to this taste, but
may be marketable V.E.: “The Bushranger” took
so long to get his gun out that the cashbox was
easily removed to the strongroom.... E.H.D.: One or
two lines almost worthy to appear in the same
column with Bellerive. .. .G.8.U.: With the best
intention in the world, suggest that you abandon
verse-making for something easier—say, concrete-
mixing or finance... .8.L.P.: “Which Way?” To the
flames, brother.... Myee: But is it better to en-
courage the obviously bad?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.C.: Discipline that wandering hand... .F.8.A.:
And it cost us threepence for short postage!....
W.0.L.: Not' good enough to prffyt; not bad
enough to rail at....P.8.: Treatment ineffective.
. ...N.E.J.: Fanciful, but right out of our line.
. ...T.M.: There’s an improvement, but you have
a long journey ahead... .R.G.: Don’t like picture
of two ’roos swapping scandal W.H.H.: Person
handling snake seems to have been run over by
a motor-lorry... .F.T.: Most emphatically n 0....
J.L.C.: An idea in it, but you don’t do it
justice... .G.H.R.: Another recruit to the stovepipe
school... .M.P.: Leave cartooning to cartoonists....
E.V. J.: A few dim and unimportant lines... .N.N.:
Test dubious, sketch amateurish... .H.L.D.: You
can’t draw Scullin, and Mrs. Australia looks like
somebody’s faded mother-in-law. .. .C.C.T.: The idea
is rather neat, but the handling is n0t....T.M.:
The mere fact that McTavish and Goldstein are in
the drawing doesn’t make it funny... .J.J.R.: Lack-
ing in skill and humor.'... E.N.: Gag is beginning
to show its age C.G.: Interesting composition, but
a stale jest... .E.Q.: Joke about the Chinaman and
the Salvationist is, older than the Salvation Army.
It is older than the army of Jenghis Khan, in fact.
J.C.: Two of the mouldiest gags in captivity.
S.D.: Try not to draw them as broad as they
are 10ng... .C.H.M.: Quite believe that you “just
slashed it out”. .. .H.P.: Not a chuckle in it....
T.S.L.: Don’t stab at the paper.


o
o
■ t
w
I
-
mm
s
, ,7
ii
/ •
' :
m 5“
■ '
’ y. ..
<•?/ '
**’* .. ' -
an
1
:r> jp . . a f .-
14 s wfiwli _ T' 7s j
***• yiF -
JWm - fv- -Ymi 1
E * * . .ii j#
<-H 5 \ v
/ \\
: V ? \
'. 11 A
.: m
W 'wmHKiMnr'' ' ,<#A > .JK^K»an
f * * *'%l
'• k 5
• 4mL~... k
*
|Ml|> ■- - ’ . iSuSt* ' * :
■
r ni
Si
« . s
hMP
> ,
hp
i
I " W
I;
9 •
V
:A:V "
-
Hi
,; •?' i | . i
I IKI 1
. A A -->
K
7^7
a
v, ' : . : :■
k m
« ’A --
1
.
K • -.^-
44:,- ' 44>:,
i.: : '
m
mm
SHI
I
■
■I
■■l
■
-,.
■SiSII
H - :
WAm
I
■ |
m
■—
!■
■I
A&AAIAAS
» <
-
*'*■ +.* \
. I • - T
■ '1 , 3
'%< <
Steeiw
: :
Wii;
K B KR -,
V-KS«
'■•44' *
¥■■■ T
•vc • ■
• m
£/he decietofahealt/wofdage:
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2670.
April 15, 1931.
OLIVER TWIST REFUSES MORE.
"Promises no longer count with the Australian elector—he has been so frequently and so bitterly disappointed by the Australian politician.”— Labor Daily.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 2L} George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone BTJU.
Victoria: IU/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W. 0.8,
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £t 1,5. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7 s.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
C months, ISs. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO ■CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY PERCIVAL .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY LEASON 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
SUNDRY SHOWS 18
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 19
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) . . . . .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. ..27
SERIAL—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole .. 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . . . 30, 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 32
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. 32, 34
SHADOW SHOWS 35
SAID BEFORE—(Drawing by G. R. Ashton) . . 36
COMPLETE STORY—
“THE TALGAI MARES,” by Steele Rudd 37, 38
VERSE —By E. J. Brady .. . . . , . . 38
ANZAC DAY NUMBER NEXT WEEK.
“SOCIALISATION” AND THE
LABOR PLATFORM.
Forty-five years ago, when the foundations
of the Labor party were being laid, Social-
ism was the fashion among advanced intel-
lectuals, and Fabianism was the new
thought. Almost inevitably, therefore,
“public ownership of the means of produc-
tion, distribution and exchange” was made
either a plank in the platform or a “general
objective.” No other course was really
possible. The world had had a very long
experience of private ownership and con-
trol, and the results were not much of a
success. In Europe, at any rate, there were
hundreds of idle and undeserving rich and
millions of industrious and deserving poor.
Things seemed all wrong: and why should
not the values that were created by the
community belong to the community, and
why should the profits that went to the
few not go to the many who provided them?
In these reforms there seemed a strong hope
of bringing about a much more even and
just distribution of the world’s wealth.
“From each according to his ability, to
each according to his needs.”
The party came into being in Australia,
then, and Socialism was the Promised Land
towards which the Labor pilgrims were
to patiently toil. Meantime public owner-
ship was to be extended whenever a chance
offered. The progress that way was, how-
ever, too slow for the most ardent of the
idealists. In Australia these sought to put
their complete theories into instant practice
in village settlements, chiefly in South Aus.;
those with larger ideas or more money
looked to South America to give the world
an object-lesson in public ownership and an
inspiration to seek it. It was a tragedy
that every one of them failed—failed utterly
and hopelessly. Their victims could only
console themselves with the thought that
the world was not ripe for the change.
Meantime not only was public ownership
and control of “utilities” and “instrumen-
talities” pushed forward, but old privileges
of property were gradually withdrawn and
control placed in the hands of more and
more people. Property qualifications for
members and electors of Second Chambers
were whittled down or abolished; property’s
plural votes disappeared practically every-
where ; universal franchise followed man-
hood franchise for the purposes of Parlia-
mentary elections; payment of members
(increased over and over again) sought to
throw Parliamentary life open to the
poorest; boards were financed by public
funds to do many things on the public’s
behalf. Railways, tramways, posts, telegraphs,
telephones, electric light and power, water,
sewerage, wharves, docks, abattoirs—these
and a hundred other services have been
either kept or taken out of the hands of
private enterprise and reserved for the
State. And working in from another direc-
tion towards the same object, Parliaments
have sought by taxing unimproved land
values to take for the community some of
the wealth the community has created, and
by graduated income taxes to lop the lieads
off the tallest financial poppies to provide
funds for public purposes. It can be said
without a doubt thad much more than half
of the objective of the early Labor party
has been realised.
In Russia they concentrated into 10 years
most of the experience we gained in
40-odd, and they discovered that for the
present, at any rate, and most likely for
all time, “socialisation” and democracy will
not work together. You might have success-
ful public ownership, but you cannot have
it along with public control.
We have carried our experiment farther
than any other people in the world, and
at the moment our position is as unhappy
as that of any people in the world. In
working all our publicly-owned services we
have brought into being a vast army of
employees, who, being also electors, are so
influential that they control the employers
who should control them. Instead there-
fore of working and being obliged to work
in the interests of the people, they regard
the latter merely as taxpayers from whom
the money which the services do not them-
selves earn may be squeezed. But the
system has produced a worse effect upon
Parliaments themselves. The provision of
public utilities supplied politicians with the
excuse for borrowing enormous sums of
money from-the private capitalist; and they
saw in the spending of this money a unique
opportunity for vote-buying and corruption.
To this fact we can ascribe most of the
degeneration of Parliaments during the past
20 or 30 years. To-day we see men like
Scullin and Lang confessing each in his
own way the hopelessness of the position.
Lang says, “We cannot pay both the people
from whom we have borrowed the money to
carry on this policy of socialisation, and
the workers whom the policy has beggared;
so, as the workers have votes and the others
haven’t, we will pay the workers.” Scullin
says, “We cannot pay both these people;
so we will pay the outsiders with gold and
our own people with paper and trust to
Heaven something will turn up to save us
from chaos.” There is really not much to
choose between the two.
Yet neither is as much to blame as the
system which has made them its victims.
The shrewd Hebrews and others who
brought the new plan into operation in
Russia soon saw where it must lead. They
saw that under private ownership two forces
were at work to make for prosperity: among
the employers the expectation of personal
profit; among the employees the fear of
unemployment. The employer therefore
insisted upon economy and efficiency; he laid
out no capital from which he could not foresee
a probable return; he knowingly employed
no one who did not earn the wage; and
he paid the most the worker was worth
because his trade competitors were always
on the lookout for better workmen. Under
“socialisation” they found that there was
no employer struggling forward to make a
personal profit; no employer brain-sweat-
ing out new machines and new methods in
order to gain something over a competitor;
no workman doing his best in order to
catch another employer’s eye, or to other-
wise advance himself in life. “The Czar is
dead: we are the Czar” “The people
are the masters: we are the people”—these
were two of the emblems on their banners
in an early Soviet demonstration. Three
years ago the need of the five-year plan
became evident. The “dictatorship of the
proletariat” was abandoned. The dozen
heads of the Communist Government set up
the greatest oligarchy the world has seen;
and slave conditions were reproduced such
as private enterprise had not known for a
hundred years. Under these conditions
Russia may presently reach prosperity.
Already it has become again a great wheat-
exporter, and under forced labor vast new
areas are being developed; the timber-export
trade is being reorganised; railway lines are
being built or rebuilt to connect with sea-
ports.
They, too, still hold out the hope that
some day Russia will be fit for self-govern-
ment; meantime, in order to save public
ownership, every pretence of public control
has been abandoned. Whether public
ownership can be maintained without public
control is for the future to decide. In the
light of our knowledge of human nature
it seems very doubtful. But it is more
doubtful whether ownership and control can
be combined, as we have tried to do it in
Australia. It seems much more likely that'
in order to preserve our democracy—our
right of self-government—we shall gradually
throw the largely illusory ownership over-
board.
OUR DEBT TO BRITAIN.
From a flood of correspondence on the sub-
ject of Australia’s debt to Britain:—
“Tarwoona”: If England can help us, well and
good; but isn’t it about time we gave up squalling
like a spoilt brat? We went into the war because
Britain declared war and we were a part of the
Empire. Some people take the attitude that we rushed
gallantly into a fight that didn’t concern us; but
when there is any talk of Empire preference, they
are there with both hands out. It was vital to
Australia that the Allies should win, and Australia
was helping herself first —not merely being chival-
rous to the Old Man. How proud, and how justi-
fiably proud, we were of our army —better clothed
and better paid than any other! How the Tommy
rank and file envied the Digger! And how sick
poor Tommy must feel now when he finds big,
hearty men who despised and jeered at him are
alternately whining to him and blackguarding him
for not stumping up for that extra pay !
“D.M.L.”: It has been said that Britain fixed
its other- debtors’ payments according to their
ability to pay. There was, however, another con-
sideration. Debts were reduced because it was
seen that the only way a country could pay was
with goods; and in view of Britain’s position as
a great manufacturing country, and in view also of
the vast number of just-discharged soldiers, it was
inadvisable that foreign countries should be spurred
to compete with Britain in its home market and
overseas. Australia, how'ever, was not a competitor;
it produced raw materials, and the more it could be
spurred to produce the better. Granted that we
ought to pay our own debts, and granted that our
self-respect should prevent us asking for assist-
ance, the fact remains that, in arranging the terms
of repayment, Britain did not err at all on the
side of generosity. In short, she made or withheld
concessions just as it suited her self-interest best.
Britain is not the Britain we used to know; and
the more clearly we realise that the less likely
are we to be disappointed.
“F.S.A.”: We are most properly asking our
civil servants and our workmen in private employ
to accept much reduced wages, and about three times
a week The Bulletin shows us that we will be as
well off after the reduction as we were before,
because of the fall in prices. Presumably Britain
does not want to make money out of this debt. She
knows it must be paid in goods. Very well; then
let her accept as much goods as the money would
have bought when she lent it to us. Surely that is
fair. It is fair, anyway, when it is applied to
the civil servant and the wage-earner; and rents
are being reduced for the same reason —money
buys more.
“Anglo-Australian”: Let’s stick to the facts about
this debt to Britain. We are told that we threw out
our chests and borrowed this money to pay the
highest soldiers’ wage in the world to our Diggers.
That is not so. Actually we had two loans from
Britain—the first of 18 millions at the very outset
of the war, the second of 31 millions: this also was
early in the proceedings before we had a chance
to get our own loan arrangements in order. The
balance of 43 millions was charged up for all sorts
of services, mostly maintenance of troops, including
sick troops, in England.
“W.F.0.”: Australia did not indulge in war for
another country, but for herself, to help to secure
her existence free from foreign domination. To help
to secure this position for Australia and fulfil her
obligations to Belgium cost Britain in lives and
money about 12 times as much as it cost Australia,
though on a basis of population Australia should
have done one-eighth as much as Britain. Thus
Britain proportionately did 50 per cent, more than
Australia in helping to save Australia from German
domination. Australia proposes to turn her blind
eye to this, talks of debt repudiation and trades
enormously with U.S.A. to the detriment of British
manufacturers.
“Penguin”: What I don’t like about this sugges-
tion that we should ask for relief from England is
that England is in so poor a position to grant it.
There is great wealth in the Old Country still, but
there is, I know from a recent visit, appalling
poverty: almost everywhere in England it hits you
in the face; in Australia, though you may see an
occasional beggar, you don’t see obviously long-con-
tinued poverty and want. I venture to say the
average Australian could not live comfortably in
London because of this very fact: its poverty is so
pitiful. I brought back with me a bundle of papers
picked up at a stall just before I boarded at Tilbury;
and this is what I read in the “Observer,” London’s
soundest Sunday paper: “It is becoming more and
more evident that our position in this country is
similar to that which has led Australia into her
present disastrous position. Where Australia talks in
thousands we talk in millions, but the root causes
and the disastrous effects are the same.” And the
“Observer” concludes that Britain needs a Niemeyer
every bit as much as Australia. To make an appeal
to Britain in such circumstances, while we still waste
millions, seems to me the acme of selfishness.
“Nem”: If “inability to pay” governs all inter-
national demands, then Mr. Lang is justified in
repudiating interest payments to British bondholders,
since he pleads this excuse. Inability to pay may
justify a request for time, but not entire repudiation.
Again, it is argued that remission of the debt would
remove one excuse for refusal to economise; but
surely it is more logical to reverse the argument
and say that by making economies Australia would
remove one excuse for Britain refusing to remit the
war debt. When Britain undertook to purchase the
total Australian output of zinc concentrates for a
period of years at a high figure she did not repudi-
ate when the price of zinc fell, although she might
easily have done so, but she kept her word, and as
a result lost 20 to 30 millions.
“J.F.D.”: There would have been no trouble about
our war debt to Britain if Britain had not dealt more
generously by others and been dealt with a shade
more generously even by the United States. It is
this singling out for least favor which has hurt
our pride. We thought we had done remarkably
well in the war; and now we find a harder bargain
driven with us than with others who surely
deserve less well of England. If England sent us a
message to salve our hurt pride—and that would
be quite easy—l believe there would be few in
Australia who would ask for any remission.
The Bulletin’s view all along has been
that, though we could not ask anything as
a matter of right, Britain might well offer
us something as a matter of both justice
and expediency. Of justice, because, as one
correspondent observes, we must pay in
goods, so if nothing is done we shall repay
almost twice as much as we borrowed; and
of expediency, because a gesture of gener-
osity will go far towards restoring a kindly
feeling at a time, when the absence of it
may do incalculable harm.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Inbreeding of the Country.
“Nobon”: To me, an inspector of schools,
it seems extremely probable that, despite
. a few outstanding examples of genius, hardi-
hood and gallantry, we shall, within a few
generations, have such a proportion of
morons and near-imbeciles among us that
we will rightly be regarded as a nation of
very low type.
My work brings under my notice thou-
sands of children in isolated country dis-
tricts, and my considered opinion is that,
despite costly medical supervision, provi-
sion of hygienic buildings, special attention
to physical training and healthy games,
modern teaching methods and expensively
trained teachers, the children of many dis-
tricts are steadily becoming lower in intelli-
gence and physique. I recently inspected a
school of 25 and found only two of normal
intelligence, although records seem to show
that the general intelligence of the last
generation of pupils was fairly high. A
school of. 80 in the same locality has 30
defectives; one of 16 has five near-imbeciles;
another of 21 has five morons; still another
of IS in the same district has 10 below
average.
There appears to be no doubt that, in
all these cases, the cause—l nearly typed
“curse”—is inbreeding. In the first-men-
tioned school the two normal pupils were
new arrivals from Scotland; the 23 defec-
tives were closely related to one another,
15 of them being children of first cousins,
and one of a brother and sister. The young
Scot- may prove of benefit in that commu-
nity in more ways than one. In three cases
the consanguineous parents were also chil-
dren of first cousins. Three of these chil-
dren, three classes behind where they would
have been with average intelligence, were
unable to control their feelings, ciying and
laughing hysterically without reason day
after day.
I shudder for the next generation, as
these young morons (or lower) have
already to be watched closely by their
teachers; and, if local history repeats itself,
a big boy of 15, who cannot be taken beyond
the eight-year standard, will within a year
or two be a father to the child of his
cousin, now aged fourteen, and also in third
class. And it is not dairying or farmwork
that has caused this awful defectiveness in
this district; a little more tiring work might
be an advantage in some cases. It is noth-
ing but inbreeding for three generations.
There is an idea abroad that we are a
nomadic people, and that our strong men
cany their swags over hundreds of miles.
Nonsense! The present-day swaggie is found
year after year along the same confined
tracks; I have picked the same one up time
after time along the same stretch of road,
and he is certainly not the swaggie of a
generation ago. Indeed, there are too few
nomads, too few forays by strong warriors
for brides from afar, and too much blood-
stagnation in many districts. In some dis-
tricts, so low is the intelligence standard
and so clannish the community of relatives,
that outsiders are regarded with suspicion,
and made distinctly unwelcome.
These communities suffer because of
another influence; they have repeatedly
been skimmed of their best, the bright boys
and girls getting bursaries or scholarships
and leaving for the towns and cities. The
skimming may go on for a few more years,
but the time must come when there will be
no cream rising. The skimming during
the war was fairly thorough in many of
these places.
The aborigines of Australia are believed
to have degenerated after their arrival in
the continent, the only comparatively
superior types being those of the North,
where they benefited from contact with the
outside world, especially with virile types
possessing qualities that made them success-
ful voyagers. The others, even against
pathetic tribal attempts to prevent inbreed-
ing, by the institution of unkulla and unawa
totems, did inbreed and descend the hill
physically and intellectually. Are we not
just as pathetic in our institution of totems?
Are we not forbidding, by making it impos-
sible, marriage between degenerating Aus-
tralians and virile Nordics? Who is likely
to receive the better welcome—the hobble-
dehoy farm-laborer or the skilled artisan?
♦
Bolshevism and Parliament.
A hundred times the stupid part of the
daily press has made great fun of the hand-
ful of votes polled by the Communist can-
didate at any Parliamentary election; where-
upon the public has turned in its sleep and
said that that noisy menace amounted to
nothing, anyway. And in Communist head-
quarters there have been chuckles over the
continued success of the old scheme, the old
scheme’s purpose being to get before the
public without arousing suspicions.
The “Socialist Labor Party”—the Com-
munists having commandeered the name
“Socialist” for business reasons —has de-
clared its objective:—
The S.L.P. is a revolutionary political organisa-
tion seeking to build up a Communist movement in
this country which will not look to Parliament for
redress, which sees that the future society can only
be built upon the industrial field —a movement which
realises that its political work is to sweep away
the mass of debris which was once known as
Parliamentary institutions.
But, though this British branch of the Inter-
national Communists declares that its busi-
ness is to sweep away “the mass of debris,”
it still runs candidates for Parliament and
does it in opposition to the Labor party.
“We enter the field,” it has explained, “with
the object of revolutionary agitation.” Par-
liamentary elections offer a good opportunity
for propaganda, and it is seized. “The
social revolution,” the St. Louis (U.S.A.)
Convention declared, “not political office,
is the end and aim of the Socialist party”
And a “Red Book” accompanying Lenin’s
addresses refers to their assaults upon “the
damnable trinity of Religion, Government
and Capitalism.”
Communism is the sworn enemy of every-
thing that we have regarded as of much
consequence in the world. It is the sworn
enemy of trade unionism. It has nothing
but contempt for democracy and “govern-
ment by the people.” Majority rule it
despises as “the rule of the 'unconscious
and lazy”; only the minority is ever to be
trusted. And into the discard along with
private possessions and marriage as we
know it goes religion, one of “the damnable
trinity.” Democratic government is another
of the damnable three, and Parliament is
“a mass of debris,” ,to be got rid of as soon


as possible and doing more harm than good
meantime.
It is difficult, no doubt, for us to conceive
of any great change in which Parliament
has no part. Brought up in political tradi-
tions, we turn that way instinctively. The
Communist party, born under other condi-
tions, does not give even a glance in that
direction. It is a revolutionary party, seiz-
ing every pretext and opportunity to arm
for the purpose. The programme of the
Clyde Workers’ Committee, which is more
closely affiliated with the Australian
organisation than any other, includes these
clauses:—-
The disarming of all non-proletarian soldiers.
The seizure of arms and ammunition by the
Workers and Soldiers’ Councils.
The arming of the. entire Labor population as a
Red Army.
“Removal of Parliament and Municipal
Councils, to be taken over by the Revolu-
tionary Council,” is Clause 8 of the pro-
gramme: the others quoted are Clauses 1,
2 and 3. Their position clearly indicates
what the Communists rely upon and why
they have a contempt for Parliaments.
♦
The Lazy Majority.
The Easter Labor Conference in Sydney
rescinded the motion in favor of a three-
year plan for bringing in the Social Revolu-
tion. It refused to be bound to a month or
so. And then what the conspirators hoped
for happened: the motion having been re-
scinded, Bolshevism in Australia was widely
believed to be dead and buried. With a
comfortable grunt Australia turned over and
went to sleep again. There had been one
more false alarm.
It had been no false alarm. Bolshevism
in Australia is not dead, let alone buried.
It is more ali-ve and aggressive than ever
it was. But from the very nature of its
attack the less hostile public attention it
awakes the better. Hence every possible
effort is made to allay suspicion.
What above all things we must realise is
that this is not Parliamentary or political
reform. It is a seizure of all power by
a group which proposes to abolish Parlia-
ment and transfer all authority to so-called
“workers’ councils.” When we look to
Parliament for reform we know we must win
a majority to our side. Bolshevism despises
the majority. It is prepared to seize or
attempt to seize all power as soon as it
believes it is in a physical condition to do
so. And it knows that a prepared minority
can control an unprepared majority 100
times as great. In Russia it knows that
less than a million Communists—some esti-
mates make it only a quarter of a million—
brought over 100 millions into subjection
and still masters them.
Ordinarily we could appeal to the Federal
and State Governments to see that every-
thing in the shape of military preparation,
everything in the shape of preparation for
forcible conquest, was ruthlessly suppressed.
, In present circumstances it would be mad-
ness to trust to anything of the sort. Only two
courses are open, then, to those who are
opposed to this madness. First, there must
be counter-propaganda and counter-organi-
sation. And, second, we must use every
effort to put out of power every Govern-
ment in Australia which cannot be trusted
to root out this most dangerous growth.
4
The Farmer and the “Fiduciary” Issue.
Farmers at Lockhart and one or two other
places have held meetings and asked the
Senate to pass Theodore’s Fiduciary Bill in
order that they may get relief. But the
only relief they would get that way is the
relief that a man suffering from toothache
would get from a tap on the head with a
hammer. He would know nothing of the
toothache for a while; but he would know
a whole lot of aches when he recovered his
consciousness—if he ever did.
The farmer can get no real benefit from
calling sixpence a shilling; it will still be
sixpence. It is said, however, that if we
had all these extra notes we should have
an enormous amount of extra credit, and
that it is credit the farmer wants. But we
should have nothing of the sort. Credit is
based on confidence. Now, you don’t have
to destroy everybody’s confidence to destroy
credit. It is quite sufficient for a few
people to shrug their shoulders regarding a
certain bank, and there is a withdrawal of
deposits; and so a run starts. Theodore’s
“fiduciary” issue has its friends, of course;
any plan of inflation will have its friends.
But most plainly there are millions who
have no confidence in it; and that will
destroy all hope of the issue leading to
large advances. It is far more likely to
further weaken the little confidence that
remains, and lead to still more advances
being called in.
We can see the effect already. The bill
has not passed yet; but the mere threat
of it is having evil consequences. On the
morning this is written:—
Shippers of general cargo have been notified that
in view of the uncertainty of the financial position
of the Commonwealth, freight on cargo other than
refrigerated cargo must be paid at the port of
destination.
In other words, before the wheat-shipper
can get his cargoes away, he must in future
undertake to pay freight, not in Australian
currency, but in that of the port of destina-
tion ; and as exchange always rises with
inflation, the shipper will have to cover
himself against such a rise, and will there-
fore pay less for the wheat he buys. And
this is only one of a multitude of ill-effects
of monkeying with the currency.
Farmers are the most practical of men,
and they ought to have no difficulty in
deciding upon the right course to pursue.
It was clearly indicated by the perfectly
disinterested specialist who came here at the
invitation of the Government and the Com-
monwealth Bank over a year ago. “You
are still spending millions a month more
than you are earning,” he said, “and that
obviously can’t go on. The first thing you
must do is to seriously attempt to balance
your budgets.” It is no more than the
farmer has been struggling to do for years;
and it is because Governments have not
even tried to back him up that his struggle
has been so bitter. With the fall in the
price of his products he- would have had a
lean time, anyhow; with wages, taxes and
other costs piled up against him, he has
had no chance whatever. The indispensable
thing is the reduction of wages, taxes and
other costs. Not necessarily farm wages;
on the whole they are not high. But fares
and freights are too high because there is
gross extravagance on the railways, and
prices of almost all of the farmer’s neces-
saries are too high because far too many
well-paid non-producers are maintained by
the producers.
The fiduciary note-issue is, in short, a
mere dodge to enable the Federal Govern-
ment to go on avoiding the facts, since
many of its supporters naturally don’t wan’t
to face them.
■ ♦
The “Daily Fairfax.”
The “S. M. Herald” is having a 100th
birthday party this week, and it deserves
most of the congratulations it will get. For
nearly the whole of the century it has
been in the control of the Fairfaxes, from
“Mr. John” on through three following
generations. There has never been a bril-
liant man among them. Had there been, it
is unlikely the “Herald” would either have
been what it has been, or be what it
is. Instead of brilliance the Fairfaxes, one
generation after another, brought to the
“Herald” honesty and a large store of plain
commonsense, a well-rooted love of the fair
thing and a growing knowledge that the
public expects) the “Herald” to be abso-
lutely trustworthy in its presentation of
facts and wholly public-minded in its presen-
tation of opinion. It is no easy thing to
live up to the traditions of such an office,
and lately there were doubts and fears when
it lost in rapid succession its general
manager and its two managing proprietors.
But, though the times through which we
were passing were
difficult, the “Herald”
showed no faltering.
It continued to be a
great national asset
—often, from The
Bulletin’s point of
view, quite wrong,
but, if wrong, always
honestly wrong, and
in that and other re-
spects doing a large
service to the press,
too.
So The Bulletin
joins heartily in the
congratulations that
will flow in upon the
Fairfaxes and the very
capable staff with
which they have sur-
rounded themselves.
4
How About the
Boys?
In Sydney a few days
ago a private effort
was made to remedy
one of the worst effects
of the depression—
the closing of avenues
of employment to
boys. The result was
pathetic. Over 2000
youngsters, of from
14 to 19, besieged the
church hall where
plans were to be un-
folded, and it was
necessary to transfer
the meeting to the
basement of the Town
Hall, where names
were enrolled. Six
hundred boys wanted
to go on the land; 500
preferred jobs in fac-
tories, or somewhere
among machinery; 300
sought office stools,
and another 300 put
their names down for
a “course in salesman-
ship,” which involves,
it would appear, some
practical experience in
the way of peddling
goods from door to
door in the suburbs.
Another 200 lads went
away sorrowful be-
cause the “salesman-
ship” list was full.
The figures, though
fortuitously arrived
at, reflect fairly accu-
rately certain defects
in our present national
organisation and out-
look. The proportion
of boys who wanted
to become producers
—55 per cent. —is a lot smaller than it should
be, and than it would have been in happier
circumstances, and the quota of would-be
distributors is too large. The boys are not
to blame for that. In a city such as Sydney
it is no harder to get a job in a shop or an
office than in a factory, and the work as a
rule, is easier. The only alternative to shop,
office or factory for 99 boys out of 100 is
to join, the army of general laborers, which
offers high pay for sturdy recruits but no
prospect of field-marshals’ batons. The boys
who answered the call of padre Hammond
and Dr. Arthur in Sydney evidently wanted
to dodge that blind alley, and the pity of
it is that the community cannot give them
more powerful help.
In this country we have an' army of in-
telligent, well-educated, bright young people,
not afraid of work, who ask for a chance
to earn an honest living that offers some
prospect of advancement. The old com-
plaint that most of the boys leaving school
want to rush into “white-collar jobs” does
not hold good to-day. In 1929 the Voca-
tional Guidance Bureau of the N. S. Wales
Education Department found jobs for
2561 youngsters, of whom 1852 went into the
engineering or building trades, and 125 into
mining. The office quota was 414, and 170
entered training for professions. Last year
opportunities of employment were cut in
halves, but the proportion of artisans was
maintained.
There is nothing the matter with the
boys, and there is not much to growl at
about the land they live in save that it has
been governed, and is being governed, in
a mood that is forgetful of the past, obliv-
ious of the present and contemptuous of the
future. A tremendous lot of work must be
put into Australia before it is an ideal
land to live in, and the immediate pro-
blem of statesmanship is to connect up
that work with the people who want to do
it—especially the thousands of boys who are
beginning to feel they were born into a
world that has no place or use for them.
4
Are We Growing Dishonest?
The worst feature of the “Lang Plan” is
the psychological effect it is having on the
community. According to a report in the
“S. M. Herald,” when Opposition-leader
Latham compared Lang to “a common
cheat” the other night, and went on to
say “he is repudiating interest payments so
that he can spend the money himself,” there
were loud cheers of “Hear, hear,” and when
Latham asked “Is there anybody who
approves of that?” voices replied “Yes,”
and there was loud applause.
Not long ago Australians had a wonderful
reputation as payers. In Colombo native
merchants used to force goods on tourists
leaving or returning to the Commonwealth,
saying, “Send the money when you get
home.” And the money was always sent.
The Diggers were criticised on the other
side of the world for their rough manners,
poor out-of-the-line discipline and other
alleged failings, but their habit of punc-
tiliously paying their debts aroused general
admiration. There were very few cases of a
British or French tradesman being bilked
by an Aussie.
It will be a calamity if this name for
straight-going in commercial matters which
Australians have been building up overseas
for over half a centuiy is lost. But a much
greater danger is that Australians may not
only earn an overseas reputation for being
crooks, but may become crooks. It is a
fashion that gets hold of nations. The
Levantine races have been bilkers for gener-
ations. So have the inhabitants of several
of the S. American republics. The Italians
were fairly active in the same line before
Mussolini took charge and knocked national
honesty, which accompanies national self-
respect, into them. Life in a country where
cheating is fashionable is as uncomfortable
and dangerous as life in an undisciplined
regiment. The inhabitants can’t call their
possessions, their characters or their souls
their own.
• ♦
Lang’s Rebuff in Melbourne.
Melbourne City Council decided, almost
unanimously, that Lang could not have the
use of its Town Hall to advocate his special
brand of dishonesty. If the Premier of
Victoria had Lang’s kink and applied for the
use of the hall, it could not properly be
refused, no matter what the council’s own
opinion of the kink might be. But Mel-
bourne is under no obligation to let any
mischievous crank from outside have the
run of the house. We might put up with
our own wife smoking cigarettes in bed and
throwing the flaming matches into the ward-
robe; but if the harridan from next door
applied for a permit to do the same thing
we should certainly slam the door in her
face.
THE BRIDGE THAT DOESN’T BRIDGE.


After oil theres only oneAustrolia
VJ.
I <#
««*
tr
o
o
tOl
mz
- •
V
Svdnevs Centre
Reduced “Room only” Rales
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet from 21/- per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and Toilet from 40/- per day
Breakfast Light Luncheon
2/- and 3/6. And ala carte. in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Luncheon and Dinner
a la carte in Grill Room, minimum 4/-; & la carte in Dining Hall, minimum 5/-
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
" • W' ■ - ■ V**
TMustralia
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.S.W. Labor Conference at Easter
was a spasmodic affair. One evening it
resolved to have a Three Years Plan, in
imitation of the Five Years Plan of Soviet
Russia, and to upset the existing state of
society in 36 months, and have a new heaven
and a new earth. Next evening it resolved
by a huge majority not to have any Three
Years Plan, and to dispense with the new
heaven and new earth, and to make shift
instead with a new floor for the bottomless
pit. It is all very unsettling.
Theodore announces that “future Govern-
ment loans are to be issued at a rate not
exceeding 5 p.c.” This is interesting; also
it is rubbish. It is only when the borrower
is able to say “I can take it or leave it, as I
like,” that he can do the fixing; and so long
as we don’t balance our budgets we can’t
take it or leave it- —we’re bound to take it,
no matter what it costs. Either that or
default.
A saving of £1750 is claimed by the Post-
master-General as the result of stopping
letter deliveries on Easter Monday, against
which Chambers of Commerce have pro-
tested. On the same line of reasoning,
over £450,000 a year could be saved by cur-
tailing deliveries to one day a week, and a
still greater saving could be made, by sus-
pending the functions of the Post Office
altogether. Chambers of Commerce would
complain, but, as Minister Green jocosely
suggests, that’s what Chambers of Commerce
are for.
Lang complains that “bookmakers are
evading the Winning Bets Tax Act —using
the Government’s money as a bank to wbrk
on.” The tote never does this, and if
Lang had gumption enough to reduce his
tote tax from 9 p.c. to 5 p.c. conditionally
on the clubs providing straightout, place
and doubles machines, he would get more
revenue and there wouldn’t be many- book-
makers to bother about. Even with 124
p.c. and fractions of sixpences deducted, the
new straightout tote at Randwick beat
McShortodds badly. With a 5 p.c. tote tax
and provision for all forms of machine bet-
ting his occupation would be gone; that of
the starting-price brotherhood, too.
MR. MELBOURNE : “Madam, you may NOT
come in.”
Considering the price which a foolish
Labor Government paid for the enterprise,
the Brisbane Tramway Trust did well to
show a profit of £8750 for the year to_Dec.
31, especially as there was a loss of £385,200
on Sydney’s Government tramways in
1930-31 —it is expected to reach £600,000 this
year. Moreover, there are penny sections
in Brisbane if you buy a dozen tickets; in
Sydney the minimum fare is still tuppence.
But, as the Brisbane manager regretfully
reports,
We have to remit £105,000 p.a. to London for
interest. The rate of exchange has soared, and
unless it falls the cost of remitting the interest
will be £32,025 p.a. This expenditure could not
be foreseen and has not been provided for.
This London loan was one of Theodore's
parting gifts to Queensland.
Poor old Stuart-Robertson, xvho has been
a Labor politician since September, 1907,
has had a financial crisis of his own, and
the Lang plan could not save him. He was
a member of a very highly-paid Parliament,
for Lang’s State is distinctly liberal in this
way, and his legislative income was men-
tioned in the bankruptcy court as if
it were the one reliable pay he and
his family possessed. This vanishes now,
unless lie can qualify for re-election;
yet vanishment may not make so much
difference as appears. If the 90 mem-
bers’ salary cheques are dis-
honored what does it matter
whether one is a member or
a memory?
Sooled on by the bosses of
the Government railwaymen’s
union, the Vic. Labor (Confer-
ence had the effrontery to re-
solve that Premier Hogan and
Works Minister Jones, leader
of the Leg. Council, would
have to give personal under-
takings that they would sub-
mit to a September ultimatum
from some of the same mob.
This was that there should be
no railway retrenchment with-
out the railway-union bosses’
consent. Conference, however,
weakened when it was sought
to have Hogan and Jones de-
prived of candidature endorse-
ment. So although the new
party executive can pester
them to sign what would be
a shameful surrender and be-
trayal of the people, it cannot
sentence them to exclusion
(which is slightly different
different from expulsion) un-
less authorised by another
conference. Hogan’s health
has been impaired by close
attention to liis job, and he
has been forced to take a
coastal cruise to Cairns for
three weeks. Leaving a sick
bed, he defended his Govern-
ment spiritedly at the confer-
ence, and hit back briskly
afterwards at the “insolent
and boastful” Sear.
. One small difference between Theodore and
Lang is that Ted blames it all on to “the banks”
and Jack on to “the great finanshnl in-
trusts.” Both of them will have huge deficits
this year—Ted 12 millions and Jack eight;
that is 20 millions between them. Vic.
S. Aus., Queensland, Westralia and Tas-
mania will have only four millions among
the lot; which shows what a blessed privi-
lege it is to have Jack and Ted to manage
affairs for us. Of course all this money spent
and not collected has to be got from some-
where ; and the only place it could be got
from is the banks. In the past 12 months
the Commonwealth Bank alone has been
squeezed of £19,720,000. So it has had to
refuse advances to private customers and
call in overdrafts where it could; and even
then its ratio of cash to deposits has fallen
to a figure the directors would have shud-
dered at two years ago. Perhaps they shudder
now, instead of ’eaving ’arf a brick at the
Ministers responsible.
In the memorandum explaining his finan-
cial scheme, including the Uncle from Fiji-
sary notes, Theodore said the Commonwealth
Bank would “make heavy purchases of Gov-
ernment stock,” in order to bring the yield
to investors back to 5 p.c. Theodore is
an optimist. His idea is that when Smith’s
lOU’s are fetching only 15s. in the £l, Smith
can right the situation by issuing p.n.’s, and
buying up the lOU’s with the proceeds.
How Smith is to prop up the p.n.’s isn’t
explained. He might, of course, turn him-
self into an art union and sell tickets on
himself, and apply the proceeds to the pur-
chase of p.n/s; but this paper doesn’t think
much of his chances. And, anyhow, it seems
a clumsy way of avoiding plain honesty.
The reductions in Vic. Parliamentary and
Civil Service salaries operate for nine months
of 1930-31, and are expected to amount to
£200,000. They will yield a lot more next
year, for whatever Government is in office
will levy from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. instead of
the present sliding scale of from 44 p.c. to
15 p.c. It will be much easier to extract
10 p.c. in 1931-32 than it was to get 44 p.c.
accepted in 1930-31. With multitudes scram-
bling for jobs at any salary, the temper of
the Civil Service has changed.
Philip Snowden once said he hoped to see
the day when the income tax on the rich
would be 15s. in the £. The day has arrived
in N. S. Wales, though not in Britain. On
property income exceeding £6500 the Federal
and State income taxes and Lang’s unemploy-
ment tax amount to 14s. 44d. in the £. With
the State Commissioner demanding 74d. in
the £ for unemployed-relief on income from
other States, and the Federal Commissioner
ruling thaf his tax must be paid on what
has already been paid in State unemploy-
ment and family-endowment taxes (both
these gentlemen have been allowed by our
lovely politicians to become laws to them-
selves), the amount will rise to at least 15s.
in the £, and above it in some cases. The
theory is that confiscatory taxation promotes
the good of the greatest number, but it
doesn’t work out that way at all, as Mr.
Snowden would find if he visited N. S.
Wales. The higher taxation goes the greater
the number of unemployed.
During the bankruptcy court proceedings
against Stuart-Robertson, M.L.A., it was
stated that he has to' support two adult
sons and one adult daughter because they
are out of work. Also mention was made
OVER THE TEA AND TOAST.
“Declaring his undying hostility to King George—of whom he
once said I’ll bust him on the nose if he ever comes to Chicago’—Big
Bill Thompson, the Mayor of Chicago, has been beaten by a Czech
named Cermak.”
“I see my friend Big Jack Lang, the Mayor of Chicago,
has been defeated.”
“You mean Big Bill Thompson, dear. Mr. Lang is
the Mayor of New South Wales.”
“Of course. I always do confuse those two chaps.”
of a son aged 14, who should soon be quali-
fied to rank as an unemployed. This is a
very common state of affairs. It is impos-
sible to ascertain the worker’s average
remuneration in most occupations, but fac-
tory returns are fairly complete. They show
that wages keep nominally on the up grade
despite the slump, and that N. S. Wales pays
the highest of the lot and also the highest
in its history, always provided an employer
can afford the wages. When he can’t do
so a man or woman is driven to depend on
his or her old man, if there is such a person,
for if he or she tried to work for a wage
that the job could stand the law would fall
like thunder on both employer and employee.
It is a quaint combination that the State
with the highest wage rate in the Common-
wealth, and the highest in its own or the
Commonwealth’s record, should have started
to swindle its public creditors (the first
swindle of the kind in Australian history),
and that its Langs and Gardens should plead
as an excuse the hunger of the highly-paid
(on paper) population.
If the Tas. McPhee Government is re-
turned next month it will take another 10
p.c. off Ministers’ and members’ salaries.
That will mean 20 p.c. off altogether as com-
pared with 1929-30. But there will be no
reduction of members, McPhee says, though
heaps of Tasmanians think there should be.
The policy on which Moore won in 1929
included a promise of a referendum on the
restoration of the Queensland Leg. Council,
abolished by Theodore. The other day ex-
M.L.C. Andrew Dunn, who controls a chain
of provincial papers, led a deputation which
sought an Upper House elected for nine
years with triennial elections for eight of the
24 members. The deputation barred salaries,
and argued that a starter pledging allegiance
to any party should be disqualified. Moore
favors the second Chamber, but hates the
idea of spending £40,000 on a referendum.
Brief is the popularity of Sydney Labor
politicians. Eighteen months ago W. J.
Long got a two-to-one majority in Lang,
and chiefly on that account he was chosen to
open the campaign” for Kenneally’s Federal
Labor executive, which is trying to push the
State Labor executive (Qraves’s show) off
the map. The mob turned on its former
favorite and gave him an appalling time.
He was insulted, hissed, howled at and
counted out for an hour and a half. Once
a challenging voice was heard above the
tumult: “You are against Theodore,” its
owner yelled; “you are against Scullin;
you are against Lang; you are a lone wolf!”
Poor Long is really as mild a man as ever
mouthed a platitude. He said in the House
that he hadn’t gone to the war and wouldn’t
go, or ask anyone to go, to any war. The
complete pacifist, in short.
The League of Nations has nothing to
learn from Australian bureaucrats in the
matter, of digging itself in. Its Secre-
tariat has 800 permanent hands ; its Labor
Office 700 more. Then there are represen-
tatives all over the world working on famine
relief, opium suppression, leprosy and what
not. Although the U.S.A. is supposed,to
treat the League with contempt it maintains
20 “observers” at Geneva, and American citi-
zens have contributed over a million pounds
to the funds, mainly for health services.
Conferences used to drag on for months, but
a radio device has cut the time down im-
mensely. While a delegate is speaking
dozens of interpreters sit at microphones
behind him whispering his words, and by
turning a pointer on a switchboard and grab-
bing carjjhones in front of him every other
delegate can follow the speaker. Naturally
this comes expensive, but the expense is a
bagatelle if those who hold that the League
is a genuine insurance against war are right.
Queensland Premier Moore was recently
urged to declare an open season for opos-
sums. Before committing himself he got. his
Agent-General to feel the pulse of the Lon-
don fur market. The report was that there
were 500,000 ’possum-skins "awaiting buyers
there, and twice that number on hand
in other overseas selling depots. Moore
promptly informed the interested parties
that his State wasn’t going to swamp, the
market with fresh supplies. A previous
Government gave the cyanider an open go.
The slaughter was tremendous, but the State
benefited little.
With independence or Home Rule in view,
India, or an active part of it, is sharpening
and oiling its tusks for a renewal of the
fray which the white man interrupted. The
Romans similarly interrupted a lot of local
disturbances, and when the Roman Peace
left off some of them resumed; in certain
places the calm of the Empire which was
busted 1500 years ago hasn’t been restored
yet. The biggest difficulty, if India is left
td work out its own destiny, lies between the
Hindus (about 217,000,000 strong, including
the pariahs, who are supposed to be abori-
gines) and Mohammedans (about 69,000,000
strong). If the white man hadn’t inter-
fered the two big sects might have settled
their differences before this time by one of
them squashing the other into a cocked hat,
and there might possibly be less suffering in
the aggregate to-day through there being
many less people to Suffer.
At Cawnpore and other places Hindus and
Moslems recently anticipated the era of
freedom by resuming the old discussion. The
slaughter bill at Cawnpore is said to have
amounted to 124, being 89 Mohammedans
and 35 Hindus. As the Hindus outnumber
the Moslems in the United Provinces by more
than six to one the latter must have put
up a good fight. If left to themselves they
might have mopped up Gandhi’s crowd, and
even Gandhi himself, in the long run.
Gandhi wasn’t present, being away at a
congress held under British protection.
The Bank of England is the note-issuing
authority in Britain, just as the Common-
wealth Bank is here, and it is authorised to
put on the market £260,000,000 of “fidu-
ciary” paper. But this isn’t issued because
the Treasury is on its last legs, and the
adjective doesn’t mean that the security con-
sists of the Government’s word or its blanky
THE MAGICLAN : “Now, ladies and gentlemen,
you saw me place the fiduciary note
issue in the hat. You now perceive that
it is not fiduciary, that there are no
notes, and that they don’t issue. What
you are gazing at is the credits.”
oath. The protection is a mixture of Brit-
ish and foreign Government .securities, Local
Government bonds and a few millions of
silver coin. The British Government secu-
rities aren’t written out on the spur of the
moment to raise the wind for current ex-
penses, but are of the saleable variety. The
gold reserve is about 40 p.er cent, against
the whole issue, “fiduciary” and otherwise.
Theodore seems in a fair way to reduce Aus-
tralia’s to something more like 5 per cent.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“I. O. Uwins” : It was mentioned in the
bankruptcy proceedings against old Stuart-
Robertson, M.L.A. for Annandale (N.S.W.),
that for three months attempts had been
made to serve process at Parliament House
and elsewhere. Parliament, of course,
offers a sanctuary to financially embar-
rassed legislators something akin to what,
churches provided for delinquents in the
Middle Ages; still, it isn’t worth much
if a man has to get there and get away from
there every 24 hours. Some years ago a
Westralian lawmaker, who lived in constant
dread of being tapped on the shoulder and
presented with a blue document, tried to
make the scene of his labors a more perma-
nent refuge by turning up with rugs
and blankets preparatory to camping-
on the premises over the. week-end.
He was spared the experience, how-
ever ; news of his troubles got . around,
and some of his colleagues came to his assist-
ance to enable him to take his walks abroad
without the risk of losing his seat. Other-
wise he might have stood a protracted siege
for the remainder of the session, to the scan-
dal of our lord the King, his crown and
dignity.
“Oran” : Our neighbors were moving, and
a youthful friend of the family was impressed
into the “removalist” corps. He was walking
downstairs with three mirrors detached from
an overmantel when his foot slipped with
disastrous results. Somebody reminded him
that seven years’ bad luck was the penalty
for breaking a mirror. The victim regarded
the debris gloomily. “I only hope.” he said
fervently, “that the sentences will be con-
current.”
*❖, # *
“Chev.”: In U.S.A. 8.000,000 of the
28,000,000 automobiles in the country were
bought prior to 1925 and their value
is reckoned at £5 apiece. The menace of
NOT A SELF-STARTER.
GENIUS: “My picture for the Show, Uncle. How do you think it will go?”
UNSYMPATHETIC RELATIVE : “Go? You’ll take it, I suppose. Nobody else is likely to.”
the worst of these decrepit chariots is
so great that in some States they
are liable to seizure and destruction. A.
recent Australian census of cars that should
have forfeited the right to intimidate pedes-
trians quotes a figure of 30,000. This is sub-
ject to an increase of at least 25 per cent, at
holiday seasons, when faded and asthmatic
Lizzies are dug out of back yards and put
into commission, to the public danger. In
my suburb last Christmas a group of five
high-spirited young fellows bought one of
these obsolete conveyances for £ll, drove it
for 1500 miles and finally hit a lamp-post.
They reckoned they had never enjoyed
cheaper transport, even when the hospital
expenses were included.
“Isharagi”: A portion of the liquor. on
the wrecked Malabar escaped the police vigil-
ance that was waiting for it at Long Bay
and Maroubra. Some 250 gallons of Vic-
torian beer in barrels (“nines,” “eighteens”
and “twenty-sevens”) drifted north, to be
picked up by boats and brought ashore on
Deewhy beach on Easter Saturday. All
that day barrels were on tap in the
sandhills —and publicans in the Warringah
Shire were unjustly blaming the depression
for lessened bar takings.
*** ■ ♦
“0.R.”: “Thousands of Englishmen still
wear their school or club colors,” remarks
“Jeames,” apropos the recent epidemic of
badges in Australia (B. 8/4/’3l), “though
the fashion has declined since straw hats
went out.” Which possibly explains why
they arc sometimes carried in more intimate
portions of masculine apparel. “You were
at Uppingham, weren’t you?” I remarked
a year or two ago to an acquaintance, the
talk having turned on English public .schools,
and he beamed assent. Then he suddenly
began to unbutton his waistcoat. I won-
dered what on earth he w*as going to do,
but it turned out that his purpose was merely
to exhibit his braces. His old school colors
were artistically worked into them !
* * * *
“Pawang”: The
attitude towards the
woman medico hasn’t
changed much since
the Melbourne
“Herald” wrote, SO
years ago : “There can
be no question as to
the desirability of
having women doctors.
If necessary it could
be laid down that they
should treat patients
of their own sex only.”
The attitude manifests
itself in the attempt
to under-rate their
capacity and services
from a pecuniary
point of view. I am
acquainted with a
woman doctor who has
qualified in anaes-
thetics. She has
made a special study
o f hypnotics, and
although any practi-
tioner can dope a
sufferer with reason-
able security, her extra
qualifications are fully
admitted by the pro-
fession. Yet the best
job she has been able
to land after years of
mainly honorary ser-
vice at public hospi-
tals is worth exactly
three guineas a week
and find yourself. For
that munificent sum
she is called upon to exercise her craft on
six to eight patients daily.
# ❖ ifc %
“10-2-4” : Premier Lang made a significant
remark at the Show luncheon: “I’m a poli-
tician, so I suppose I am expected to talk
politics.” If you ask a butcher to have a
meal he doesn’t feel called on to discuss
meat, though more people are interested in
meat than in politics, while most butchers
know something about meat and few' poli-
ticians know anything worth listening to
about politics. The same with haberdashers,
chemists, grocers and undertakers; they can
rarely be got to talk about their profoundly
interesting trades. Members of the profes-
sions are forbidden by an unwritten but
potent law to talk “shop,” and so an enor-
mous amount of fascinating information
about doctoring, litigation, etc., is lost to the
lay world. Why should politicians be ex-
cepted from a rule w'hicli, though it may
cause disappointment in individual cases, is
based on decency and commohsense? I
never find myself in the company of one of
these pests without realising that I shall
be bored and irritated almost beyond endur-
ance unless I make a speedy escape; and I
fancy most people react to them on similar
lines. Their vanity and prosiness are chiefly
responsible. Queen Victoria put it well in
reference to Gladstone —“He talks to me as
if I were a public meeting.” It will be said
that Gladstone is an extreme example;
that he had been at his malign work for over
half a century when the Queen lodged her
objection. The truth is they get no worse
with age; they couldn’t. Take a normal
civilised human being—modest, reluctant to
speak out of his tuyn, ready to give con-
sideration to the opinions of others—put him
in Parliament, and inside a session he will
become a recognisable politician. That is,
loud-voiced, actorish, self-righteous, dog-
nmtic, argumentative and everything else
that is socially poisonous. His only analogue
in my recollection was the third-rate or bum
actor of the pre-talkie era. But I never
knew an actor who skited as blatantly as
the typical politician, or had so few brains
to do it with.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A co'mmon practice of Uni-
versity students the world over is to help
earn their fees by fruit-picking or some such
agricultural occupation during their vaca-
tion. The custom is so prevalent in Vic. that
union officials, after vainly attempting to sup-
press the academic laborers,
now enlist them in the appro-
priate’ organisation at a nomi-
nal figure. Few, however, have
made such a good use of their
leisure as H. Beer and J. West-
cott, twm students of the Cres-
wick (Vic.) Forestry School.
The other Sunday morning they
went prospecting and promptly
stumbled on a bit of color.
Returning to the spot the next
week-end they saw- an object
protruding from the soil. It
CONFIDENCES.
MOTHER: “What makes you think there’s something wrong with my eyes, darling?”
TOMMÝ: “I heard daddy tell another man you couldn’t see further than your nose.”
was a nugget weighing 750 z. 6dwt. They
sold it for £370, and the news made all the
school and some of the masters goldminers;
among them they pegged out the whole area.
* * =:•: *
“Chev.”: An organisation which is
weathering the economic . storm is the
Big Brother movement, started by Richard
Linton in Victoria. The latest statis-
tics show that of the 1059 boys brought
out from the Cold Land, only 45 are no
longer following agricultural pursuits. Of
these, one is an airman, eight are clergy-
men, two are policemen and two jour-
nalists. Some 85 have returned to
England-—3B at the family’s request, 10
for health reasons, and 22 because they
have found Australian conditions unsuit-
able. Fifty-nine are reported as “miss-
ing.” That is to say, they have passed out
of the fraternal horizon of their particular
Big Brothers through coming of age or other
reasons. Of course, owing to the prevailing
unemployment fresh consignments of Little
Brothers have been suspended.
* * * *
“Simon”: At one of Sydney’s tony stores
was an umbrella for which there seemed
to be no demand. It was a large sample
with buckhorn handle, which, unscrewed, re-
vealed a corkscrew nearly as large as a
spiral staircase. A two-bob “spiff” was put
on the thing, when, as luck would
have it, in came a clerical prohibi-
tionist, looking for a gamp. A sales-
man produced the bad-seller, and extolled
its virtues, saying nothing about the masked
battery. His line of patter was effective, but
a week later he was carpeted before a group of
four —three managers and the ruffled ecclesi-
astic. The shopman admitted selling the
gingham to the parson, but swore he neither
knew the capacity of the one nor the anti-
pathy of the other. He saved his job, and
the archdeacon got his money back.
* * * *
“Esters”: It is pleasing to hear that
sherry, most characteristic of wines, is re-
turning to favor, and is even ousting cock-
tails in London. The wine of Xeres has
filled a bigger place in histo'ry and literature
than any other vintage of the grape. Fal-
staff’s sack w T as admittedly mulled sherry,
and the laureate once received for his duties,
in addition to a cash emolument, a butt of
Xeres annually. I find a butt of sherry or
“tent” contained 108 gallons, or 648 ordi-
nary bottles —quite a decent allowance even
for a poet. The Prince Regent, before dark
days came upon him and he took to drinking
cherry brandy before breakfast, was greatly
addicted to the Spanish wine. Of its many
admirers in literature, I like best Charles
Lever’s Major Monsoon, who was nearly
hanged by Wellington for looting the cellars
of a Spanish monastery, and Mr. Jorrocks,
who always insisted on “brown” sherry as
opposed to “pale,” roundly asserting the
latter was but brown sherry watered.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Contrary to expectations
there has been renewed activity in the pic-
ture mart, sales at recent Melbourne
show's having been brisk, considering;
Streeton topped the list with over £5OO
worth. The explanation probably 'is
that people with cash in the bank
are investing it in this way rather than
leave it to the mercy of inflation. What
they may not realise is that inflation applies
more to art even than currency. Taste in
painting is almost entirely a matter of
fashion, and painting fashions change as
rapidly as fashions in ■women’s bonnets.
Each generation has its Orpens and Augus-
tus Johns, and he would be an extraordi-
narily detached artlover who could be sure
that his enthusiasm for a picture was based
only on its permanent qualities. As an
example of deflation it would be hard to
beat a recent acquisition of the Vic. Nat.
Gallery, which was obtained for a mere 175
guineas. The one-time eminent li.A. who
painted it got £3OOO to £5OOO for a picture
less than 40 years ago.
$ . * $ $
“C. Coral”: The cutting out of Thurs-
day Island by the E. and A. steamers, now
diverted to Rabaul, severs an old link. Ships
flying the E. and A. flag travelled up through
the Straits in the very early days, before even
Thursday Island itself was put on the mag.
Their passing leaves the northern outpost
with only tw r o regular passenger lines besides
the coaster.
* * *
“Oxmead”: Rupert Brooke, I note, has
had a statue erected in his honor at Skyros,
where he died, to make “some corner of a
foreign field....for ever England.” The in-
scription mentions his noble friendship for
Greece and his immortal poetry; Byron has
been similarly commemorated, although it
may be questioned if the two hards had much
else in common. I remember Brooke’s
father, who was a Rugby master in my time;
he was somewhat undersized and red-haired
and Celtic, the racial quality probably
accounting for the son’s poetic fire. It is
rather early yet to pronounce Rupert’s poetry
immortal, although the comparatively little
he wrote had rare promise in it. Byron,
one recalls, was esteemed a great poet in
his lifetime, but few would make such a
claim for him now.
* * * *
Disturbing report from “Prize Gladioli” :
There are going to be some distressing scenes in
our suburb (the northern Nice) when the Nat. and
A.P.A. staff officers meet to frame their projected
pact. The present position is that the Nats, are
going about making noises like Bourbons—the people
who, it will be remembered, forgot nothing and
learned nothing—while the other lot are displaying
the intellectual arrogance of a ’Varsity professor at
a talkie. Personal enmities are multiplying. Old
Jeebers (Nat.) refused Bunkison (A.P.A.) the loan
of his hedge-clippers last week, and the Bunkisons
have stopped attending the services of Rev. Goole
(Nat.). A meeting was held outside the railway
station the other night in connection with the Nat.
pre-election platform campaign. I’ll admit the
speakers weren’t impressive. There was a lad, in
particular, with an imitation Oxford accent. But
was that any reason why Colonel Fitz Weevil (A.P.A.),
who did such fine transport work in the early part
of the World War, should have disgraced his V.D.,
not to mention his status as our leading authority
on melon-growing, by shouting insults? “Who
doubled my income tax?” he yelled. “Labah extrava-
gance,” replied the orator. “Liar!” countered the
Colonel. “Your lot were a dam’ sight worse.”
The Colonel and family have since resigned from
the Pansy Society on the alleged grounds that the
president, our stationmaster, gave the Nat, speakers
what amounted to a public reception on their arrival
by the 7.35. To complicate matters further, the
greengrocer and butcher have enlisted in the A.L.A.,
and are ipso facto pledged to boycott 45 per cent, of
their customers—that being the proportion estimated
to have gone A.F.A. Jeebers is talking of organising
a boycott of all A.L.A. officers and other ranks,
within a radius of 10 miles, and Fitz Weevil said
on the 6.30 last night that if any more Nat. speakers
invaded the suburb he would lead a Necessitous
Taxpayers’ Brigade against them, cost what it might
in blood and treasure.
THE CRUSADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lang will raise the fiery cross throughout
Australia.” —Labor paper.
So Lang the fiery cross will bear
To start a new aggressive.
I rise to recommend a pair
As being more expressive.
He’s off, equipped for a crusade,
Or that is how they term it,
Although it’s not the sort that made
The name of Pete the Hermit,
There’s little in him to suggest
Those mediaeval paladins
Who strove the Holy Land to wrest
From sacrilegious Saladins.
Nor does it fit, that cross they bore,
And glen and hillside saw burn
To call the Highlanders to war,
The part of Jack from Auburn.
An urge to bilk our kin and friends,
Our lawful debts evading,
Apparently is all that sends
This doughty knight crusading.
'A fiery cross? Nay, rather two
His shield should be embossing.
A single one would never do;
His role is double-crossing.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“P.X.” : These Parliament gentlemen avlio
want to get home early have taught us some-
thing. In one N.S.W. country district the
organisers of the “Loyalist Army” the other
day received a note from a squatter with two
sons, whom they had been rounding up. The
message said that they had three labor-
unionists on their place who would all be
bound to join “the other army,” so they had
arranged pairs; and he suggested that this
plan might be formally adopted and extended.
There seems to be the germ of a great idea
in this. On a potential little soldier being
born in Germany he should be straightway
paired with a potential little soldier born
in France; and they should keep in touch
all their lives. Also they might be tripletted,
a potential little soldier born in Italy being-
introduced to make the triangle. How to
make sure that they would all stay home in
the event of hostilities I don’t quite see;
but the League of Nations lias about 3000
more or less permanent employees who might
find a way.
...
“Lex” : Melba’s will shows the boomerang
effects of attempts to penalise Fat. Most
of her money turns out to be in the U.S.A.,
and all of it, barring £22,118, was settled.
She Avas a better Australian than many
local capitalists whose fortunes were derived
from Australia. She spent a lot of her income
here, and gave generously to Australian
charities. But Proputty rarely consents
to play the part of a sitting bird. It leaves
for safer climes as soon as Governments
start taking potshots at it. _ A firm of
London stockbrokers gave their clients this
hint last week :—•
It is difficult not to sympathise Avith those who
prefer the securities of countries whose industries
are in the main allowed to work out their own sal-
ANOTHER LITTLE MISUNDERSTANDING.
“Gee, I used to think you were straightlaced!”
“Straightlaced! Why, I haven’t worn ’em since I left school."
vation Avithout the interference of politicians, and,
however strongly we may believe in our ultimate
return to economic sanity, we are forced to meet the
requirements of those who believe that United States
and Canadian securities must necessarily be more
attractive than the generality of domestic issues.
Good advice in its way, but superfluous.
Thousands of rich Britons have been pour-
ing their money into the U.S.A. ever since
the general strike. If Communism arrived
in England to-morrow the comrades Avould
be surprised to find how few valuables there
were to divide. Some big houses (useless
except as institutions), some big cars (use-
less without the cash to run them), some
land (useless unless worked) and certain
odds and ends in the way of drinks, clothes
and jewellery. London is not the place
to loot” it was in Bliicher’s day No modern
city with a red or even reddish Govern-
ment is.
“Chambertin” : The red rock-cod may be
inadequately appreciated in Sydney,_ but it is
no great tribute to the fish that it is “an
essential ingredient of bouillabaisse” (B.
8/4/’3l). According to Thackeray, every-
thing handy went into that hotch-potch,
including
Green herbs, red pepper, mussels, saffron,
Soles, onions, garlic, roach and dace.
The last two are pretty nearly the least
esteemed of European freshwater fish, and
if the sauces and spices could carry them
through they would do the same for any fish.
Skilful cookery, of course, will make nearly
anything appetising, but I have always found
the rock-cod of our coasts too soft and insipid
to be amenable to ordinary treatment.
* * * *
“Mells” : Baronets or claimants to baronet-
cies are always bobbing up in unexpected
places; not infrequently it takes
death to draw attention to their
claims. An old Sydney storeman
died and Avas buried last week
as Sir Charles George Meredytb,
12th baronet; it was mentioned
that neither he nor his father,
who drove a cab in Hobart, ever
wore the title, but both reckoned
their claim to it was unshakable.
The reference books, however,
say that the baronetcy became
extinct with the death of the
first holder 266 years ago. It
is admitted that there were some
later baronets, but the seventh of
the line, a wicked one apparently,
rigged up a pedigree that pre-
sently came under suspicion,
owing to some female forebear
not having been legally married,
and when it was blown out
Burke or some such genealogi-
cal authority ruled that there
never was a genuine baronet
after tlje first one. Nevertheless
it takes more than Burke to
shatter a well-established family
tradition.
“R. Volt”: Ilowey Court, a new tall white
building AA r ith jazzed innards in Collins-street,
Melbourne, was officially opened by Captain
Ilowey, the owner, by the pressing of a
button in London, which flooded the building
with light from the basement to the muezzin
tower. The estate on which it stands has a
romantic history. The present owner’s great-
uncle bought it for £lOO at Melbourne’s first
land sale, after resisting a friend s
urgings to pay three times as much for an
allotment in Williamstown. The Williams-
town block is still worth the _ same as in
1837 • the Collins-street area is valued at
£1,000.000.
* * * *
“Bangemall”: Westralia had some queer
exotics before the laws against alien immi-
grants began to be enforced. A man once
told me he had met an Eskimo on a Broome
pearling-boat, and in the early days of the
goldfields a couple of wandering prospectors
brought a Matabele youngster into the coun-
try. At least they reckoned him Matabele,,
but as they had picked him up in Rhodesia,
the sole survivor in a native village which
had been raided by a hostile tribe, it is much
more likely that he was a Mashona, the latter
being invariably the under-dogs in the region
that Rhodes annexed for the Empire. Any-
how, he ranked as a Zulu, which was near
enough for most people. The boy was appa-
rently ill-treated by his self-constituted
guardians, and bolted from one of the outlying-
camps to Coolgardie, where the police, not
knowing what else to do with him, presented
him in court as a neglected child. A kindly
J.P., after hearing the story, took over the
outcast and added him to his domestic
menage. Later the dusky stranger became
a familiar and rather pathetic figure in
Perth, but there didn’t seem to be any niche
into which it was possible to fit him, though
hopes were entertained for a time that he
might develop into a boxing champion. He
died in his early twenties, either from the
climate or the lonesomeness, or both.
# * * $
“Astral”: “Could anyone imagine a liquor
bar in Heaven?” asked temperance lecturer
W. F. Finlayson scornfully in Sydney the
other day. Probably not; it is difficult
enough even to outline Paradise since the
old harp-and-crown conception has faded
out. Yet in one of the communications from
the Beyond which Sir Oliver Lodge claimed
to have received from his son there
was an intimation that Heaven wasn’t
as bone-dry as it might be. I forget
the exact wording, but the gist of it
was that most of the good things of
earth Avere obtainable within reason by those
who wanted them in the spirit land, and
mention was made of the celestial equivalent
of wliisky-and-soda among them. Certainly
the Lodge spirit didn’t feature a bar—jthe
impression left was more that of a higli-
ciass club —and if the message which earned
conviction to his father wouldn’t be accepted
in any court of law, the same applies equally
to any and every other conception of Heaven
that ever was framed.
* * * *
“Franzac”: In Melbourne these hard times
there are plenty who don’t rely on train,
tram or ’bus to carry them between the
RUSHING IT.
SHIP'S OFFICER: “We’ll be tied up at noon to-morrow.”
SPINSTER PASSENGER: “Oh, you cave man! You haven't even asked my consent yet."
suburbs and city. For instance, we Footscray
inhabitants who are frugal-minded wait on
the bridge over the Saltwater River, and
we’re out of luck if we aren’t soon travelling
citywards faster than the trains would carry
us. And we’ve raipidly grown shrewd ; we
know who is good for a lift and who isn t.
We read all types of drivers like a book.
Among the cars we ignore are the oil co.
waggons, which are forbidden to carry pas-
sengers. And we seldom risk a refusal from
women drivers. Some always use the same
car, for many commercial vehicles travel to
and from the city at about the same times.
“I always take the 8.30 Blank’s Stone-quarry
lorry to the city,” I heard a man say the
other day, as if it had been the 8.30 tiain.
The majority, however, are not
willingly speeding to Melbourne in cushioned
ease and returning with a waggonload ot
gory sheepskins.
“Morimoto”: I acquired a post-graduate
co’urse in the mysteries of inflation when I
worked for an English firm in French Cam-
bodia. Our salaries were quoted
in English sterling. > After we
had exchanged sufficient for our
local needs in Cambodian cur-
rency, which stood at three times
the normal, we possessed a large
surplus which could be specu-
lated with in various fashions.
One man had a French wife, so
lie remitted all his money to
Paris, intending to retire there
when his term of service was com-
pleted. Another had an Anda-
lusian wife and a large family in
Spain, where the exchange was
against him. It cost him £7O a
month to have £3O paid to her
account in Seville. The thought
of the good fortune of his col-
league, whose income was multi-
plied many times by the French
exchange, embittered him, but he
recovered later. The Englisn
pound eventually reached par
with the Spanish currency, and
in the meantime the Gaul lost
all interest in retirement to Paris,
his wife having bolted with an
army officer. When he finally
decided to withdraw his money
from France, he discovered lie
had lost half of it, the franc
having deteriorated still further.
“Nakhoda”: Interesting to note how
quickly spiritualism has become respectable.
It is only a couple of generations since two
sisters in America started the boom by pro-
ducing the now familiar phenomena about
the old homestead. The spirit world woke
to the existence of this mundane sphere with
startling suddenness, and since then has never
ceased to work overtime. When Conan
Doyle, Sir Oliver Lodge and the great Wal-
lace lent their countenance to the movement
its social position was assured, but, as usual,
the law lags far behind public opinion on the
subject. Under English law spiritualistic
churches and associations are still ostensibly
not permitted to hold property, accept charit-
able endowments, or bury their members
with their own funeral services. Moreover,
spiritualists are liable to prosecution as
witches under an Act of James 1., and as
rogues and vagabonds under an Act of
George 111., which prescribes 12 months’
imprisonment and periodical appearances in
the stocks for persons caught in communica-
tion with the astral regions. The chances of
a medium suffering martyrdom m these days
are likely to be lessened if a bill now befoie
the British Parliament becomes law. it
protects from prosecution mediums Senti-
inely exercising their psychical powers eitncr
in religious practice or scientific investiga-
tion.” Unfortunately this leaves the matter
much where it was, since there is no im-
portant medium who has not been found
guilty, of the most blatant fraud at some
time or other, as even iConan Doyle was
obliged to admit. The orthodox explanation
is that the professional psychic only descends
to dishonest practices when his real -powers
happen to be at low ebb.
* ❖ *
“T.P.”: When Alec Peacock appointed
Frank Tate Director of Education in Vic.,
over 30 years ago, he induced him to intro-
duce plain sewing, darning, button-stitching
and the like to boys. One of my charges, a
square-jawed, bullet-headed boy, pi’omptiy
appeared in Tiie Bulletin —I was the cul-
prit. At his first lesson, he viciously jabbed
his needle through cloth and thumb, spat and
protested to the sewing mistress: “Look ’ere.
teacher, look ’ee ’ere, I ain’t no bloomin’ girl!”
The excellent scheme was ridiculed out, prin-
cipally by us teachers and the Boards of
Advice. A pity, for if it had been persevered
with thousands of men to-day would have
had sufficient knowledge to keep their clothes
in decent order without using nails, hoop-
iron, wire or string.
* * *
“Colleger”: The degrees and diplomas
obtainable at a host of American universi-
ties have always been regarded dubiously by
British institutions: according to Dr.
Flexner, lecturing at Oxford, the situa-
tion is even worse than outsiders have
any idea of. The rubbish which may
be counted towards a B.A. degree in the
U.S.A. is incredible, says Flexner, including
as it does in many cases clog-dancing,
wrestling, typewriting, beekeeping, research
in cookery, food etiquette, hospitality and
principles of home laundry [sic]. No men-
tion is made of a course in hootch brewing,
but possibly that is included in “hospi-
tality.”
# 3j— * *
“Teepy”: The other day I watched a hun-
dred big boys and girls doing folk-dancing,
eurhythmic exercises and physical jerks in
my old State-school ground of 50 years ago,
and evidently enjoying themselves. In my
time the only exercise on that ground was
drilling, with a big man plus a cane tailing
us up to catch someone out of step, and
naturally we boys hated it. Meanwhile the
girls did sewing inside. It was considered
vulgar for them to show their legs, so they
never exercised, but sat about reading novel-
ettes at recess times. We weren’t allowed
to kick footballs for fear of breaking win-
dows ; and there were no such things as
gardens or flowers. Last week I noticed a
senior master playing football with the boys,
and when he came a cropper in going for a
mark it was all in the day’s work. A middle-
aged mistress umpired a girls’ basket-ball
game and skipped about like a two-year-old.
I looked apprehensively at the windows,
but they had a bit of wire-netting over them.
Why didn’t they think of that in my days?
>!: * *
“Aussie” for the defence: —
Of all the cock-eyed “exposures” ever I read the
one in a Sydney weekly attacking the wife of
Agent-General Willis for spending £2OO on clothes
is easily the most skew-whiff. I have never seen the
lady, but presume she hasn’t had occasion to dress
very’ elaborately up to the present. In that case
her £2OO wardrobe is moderate, to put it mildly,
in view of the company she will be keeping in
London. She will meet Labor women who dress more
smartly than most Australian social leaders —Snow-
den’s "handsome wife, for example—women whose
wardrobes have cost as many thousands as hers did
hundreds. The only other grievance can be that
she bought her things here. Ninety-nine prospective
tourists out of every hundred, male as well as female,
would leave Australia in rags rather than fill their
trunks with locally-built clothes. Furthermore,
every inward liner contains its quota of passengers
who have in their luggage made-in-England (or
Paris) clothes which are represented as theirs to the
Customs officials, but have actually been bought for
friends here. Quite a smellful little scandal could
be dredged out of practices like these, and its
ventilation might do good. But where on earth is
the sense in jumping on a woman for spending her
husband’s money in the State that pays him his
screw ?
THE TROUSERED QUEEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Senorita Alvarez, the fashion queen of the tennis
world, startled Monte Carlo by appearing on the
courts in long white silk trousers and sleeveless
tunic.”
What cares she that they would have looked
askance
Or veiled their outraged eyes in old
Madrid,
Where chivalry w-as cradled, and romance,
And anything beyond the merest glance
At feminine anatomy forbid?
About the court she moves and darts and
glides
Serenely queenly in her silken strides.
Time was, unless my memory reneges,
When etiquette denied a Queen of Spain
The bare possession of a pair of legs. _
But fashions change. The Senorita’s pegs
. Could hardly be more ravishingly plain
In shortest skirts that modern usage grants
Than skimming to and fro in silken pants.
From side to side they flutter, flit and flash,
Chic cynosures of many a hard-fought set;
To cook some opposite Diana’s hash
She lifts a sleeveless arm to serve or smash,
Lob to the lines or volley at the net—
First of the sisterhood to be displayed
At tennis as a bifurcated maid.
Let wistful France lament her lost Suzanne.
But when did ever that tempestuous miss,
Whose nimbleness and ardor and elan
Had made her more than match for many a
man
Score for her sex with such a stroke as
this ?
Not Gaul but Spain, romantic Spain,
provides
An Artemis to star in silken strides.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis
and keep it there. In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Charles Scott gave his Gipsy Moth
more work to do than did such lightweights
as Hinkler, Amy Johnson and Ivingsford
Smith on their solo flights from England. He
is a six-footer, 28 years of age, and an Eng-
lishman by birth, and during his five years
with the R.A.F. he won the middle-weight
boxing championship of the Force. He arrived
in Australia four years ago and joined the
Qantas staff; he married a Melbourne girl,
Kathleen O’Neill, two years ago, and is now
the papa of a small daughter. Latterly he
has been chief instructor of the Queensland
Aero Club. The idea of the flight, which was
planned to occupy 10 days and beat schedule
by nearly 12 hours, came to Scott when he
flew the Wakefield ’plane. from Brisbane to
Darwin to welcome Amy Johnson. Every
item of equipment of Scott’s Moth was scaled
down to permit of maximum petrol storage,
and liis only clothing was the light suit in
which he left London. The only mishap was
a forced landing at Gaza, where Samson had
trouble with the Philistines.
“St. James” : The choice of Sir Clive Wig-
ram as private secretary to the King, in
succession to the late Lord Stamfordham,
whose work he had been sharing for many
years, supplies a reason why the present
Royal family is such a success. If Austra-
lian politicians could be chosen on the same
principle—that is, for merit alone —the coun-
try’s troubles would soon end, Sir Clive, like
his predecessor, comes of “the middling
classes”; his father was an I.C. servant.
He had a brilliant career as a gunner,
attracted the attention of the King in India
25 years ago by his work as royal Chief
of Staff! (he did the work, though another
got the press credit), and came to Court five
years later. Practically all those who do
the brain work for members of the Royal
family—manage their finances, “devil” their
speeches, attend to their publicity, etc. —are
of comparatively obscure origin. Neither
money, rank nor influence is taken into con-
sideration. For that matter many of the
King’s intimates —the men he shoots with
and _ entertains on his yacht—are retired
admirals and the like who are obscurities
outside the Royal circle.
F. C. P. Curlewis, a representative of the
sugar industry on the Federal committee
which recently i*ecommended the Govern-
ment to continue its liberal assistance to the
growers, is one of the numerous Victorians
who w r ent north in the early years of the
F. C. P. CURLEWIS.
century to think about cane. Satisfied with
the prospects he settled at Cairns in 1909,
and at once undertook an exhaustive study
of the economics of the industry. Finding
he had, besides knowledge, a gift of clear
expression, the Cane Growers’ Association
made him presently its secretary, and later
he has also been its industrial advocate.
Albert James, who was killed when his
’plane, the Southern Cross Junior, crashed
at Mascot, had been a resident of Sydney for
three years, spending the first 27 years of his
life in Japan, where he was born. Before he
left for Australia for health reasons he was
Tokio manager for Vacuum Oil, and he
joined the Sydney staff of the co. He spoke
Japanese fluently and it was for the purposes
of a pioneer flight from this country to
Nippon that he purchased the ’plane in
which he met his death. He engaged Guy
Menzies as pilot, and the latter made a flight
to Maoriland in the machine unknown to his
employer. Menzies then accepted a billet in
London, and the owner of the ’plane engaged
Leonard Palmer, who shared his fate on
Saturday. James was prominent in athletic
circles in Japan, earning a great reputation
as swimmer, wrestler and footballer. He had
a quarter interest in the car which is being
constructed in Sydney for Norman Smith
with a view to an attack on Malcolm Camp-
bell’s world’s record.
Of the 102
members of Vie.
Parliament who
witnessed its
jubilee und e r
responsible gov-
ernment, only
five remain in
the two Houses.
If the quintette
live till Nov. 21
next they will
help to com-
memorate the
75tli birthday
of the law fac-
tor y. Edgar,
chairman of
committees, is
the only Uppish
House survivor
of the 35 who
occupied the
cardinal plush
benches in
1906; t h e
Assembly quar-
tette are Pea-
cock, Prender-
gast, Toutclier
and Lemmon.
Solly narrowly
escaped inclu-
sion. He re-
signed on Nov.
1, 1906, but
was not long
out of the
House. Twenty-
five years ago
Vic. Parliament
had four more
members than
now, as there
were three re-
presentatives of
the railway and
public services
in the Assem-
bly and one in
PARKER MOLONEY,
who is being relied upon
to swing N.S.W. farmers
Scullin’s way.
the .Council. Solly was one of the railway
members and as his seat was vacant on Nov.
21, 1906, the tally for the Assembly was 67.
Westralia’s University has had four chan-
cellors during its comparatively brief exist-
ence ; ex-Premier Walter James has con-
fessed that, with his limited amount of school-
ing, lie hardly dreamed of such an honor ever
coming his way. His predecessors, Winthrop
Hackett, Archbishop Riley and Dr. Saw,
were all University graduates; but James
battled his way to the front without degrees.
Born at Perth 68 years ago, he was help-
ing to frame the Commonwealth Constitution
at 34 and became Premier before he was 40.
In the. Assembly another member once related
a moving story of how this particular archi-
tect of his own fortunes had only managed
to raise the money for his legal studies by
putting in a year’s work on a fencing con-
tract. The House cheered appreciatively,
but the young barrister declared it was the
first he had ever heard of the alleged occur-
rence. James has done a lot of things in
his busy life, but it is rather difficult to
imagine him fencing—except dialectically.
Commodore R. Dalglish is not the first
Australian to rise to the rank of rear-
admiral in the British Navy. There are
at least four others: Phillip Parker King
(born at Norfolk Island, in 1791) in 1855,
the brothers Gaunt —Admiral Ernest ancl
Vice-Admiral Guy—natives of Vic., and Vice-
Admiral J. Saumarez Dumaresq, born at
Sydney in 1873.
Newly-elected Senator Kneebone’s con-
nection with the press has been lifelong. He
started as a junior on Wallaroo (S.A.)
“Times,” and is at present on Adelaide
“Advertiser.” While that city had a Labor
daily, the “Herald,” Kneebone was its editor.
“C.Q.”: A. P. Herbert, the “Punch”
humorist, lived up to his reputation by visit-
ing Australia recently without calling on
Sydney. Instead, he put in a week in Mel-
bourne. On his first visit with the Empire
Press Delegation he snatched the first spare
moment to dash up The Bulletin stairs in
Sydney to meet in the flesh some of the
writers of the paper which he declared ho
admired above all others. On that occasion
he revealed an unexpected side of his charac-
ter when he told me that what he envied
about The Bulletin men was the way they
were allowed to take the gloves off against
anything the paper hated. The suggestion
was that the writer of irresponsible nonsense
would have preferred to be a satirist.
H'e also told me he was delighted with The
Bulletin office, it was so like the interior of
the “Punch” office —so morgue-like. He
struck it at lunch-time. Herbert’s latest trip
was to haye been as far as Colombo, but he
continued to Australia in order to finish a
comic opera.
Dr. Shiel, dead at 58, was the fourth R.C.
Bishop of Rockhampton—he succeeded the
present Archbishop Duliig in 1913. A
County Meath man, he arrived in Australia
in 1898, and held church offices successively
in Melbourne, Mt. Morgan, Rockhampton
and Ballarat. He returned to Ireland to be
consecrated to his bishopric by Dr. Mannix,
then Coadjutor Bishop of Melbourne, in St.
Patrick’s College, Maynooth.
Syd Deamer, the new editor of Mel-
bourne “Herald,” is no stranger to the sheet.
For a year or two before going to Adelaide
as managing editor of the late lamented
“Register-Pictorial,” he was chief sub. Four
years ago he was general president of the
A.J.A. George 4 Taylor, who has been news
editor of the “Herald,” takes the editorial
chair of the “Sun-Pic.,” succeeding Ralph
Simmonds, who becomes assistant editor of
the “Herald.”
Grant Hervey, writer of some of the most
vigorous verse ever published in Australia,
is in trouble once more: after trying him
for another forged-telegram swindle, Judge
Edwards told him he was “one of the most
vile criminals” his Honor had “ever had the
misfortune to come across.” Possibly he
is*—or possibly he is one of the most pitiable
perverts. Hervey’s handicap is that he
doesn’t look a pervert: even at 50 he is big,
broad-shouldered, loud-voiced, confident. He
will be “away” this time for two years;
which ought to give somebody a chance to
make a study of a rare psychological puzzle.
Charles Lort Smith, who passed out in
Melbourne the other day, was solicitor to
several large concerns, including the V.R.C.
He had held this post for 40 years, and helped
to draft the Australian rules of racing.
Because of his special knowledge he was
selected by the Vic. Ministry to collaborate
with Chapman, of the Chief See.’s office, and
Forristal, of the State Treasury, to draw up
the tote regulations. Smith was born at
Bendigo 75 years ago.
Retired postmaster R. D. Dansey, of
Rotorua (M.L.), has been joined on the
pension list by son George, of the P. and T.
staff at Gisborne. No other case of father
and son drawing pensions at the same time
is known of in M.L.’s civil service. Dansey
pere, now an octogenarian, was stationed in
Rotorua when the Tarawera eruption
occurred in 1888, and the old-fashioned Morse
sot he operated throughout that dreadful
night was the sole link with the outside
world. He discovered the “Postmaster”
mineral bath at Rotorua.
E. J. Holloway, Assistant Minister for
Industry in the reconstructed Scullin Cabi-
net, came with
a bound into
the limelight
when he ousted
Prime Minister
Bruce from the
Flinders seat at
the last election.
Before that he
was merely the
hard - worked
secretary of the
Melbourne
Trades Hall
Council. When
a youtli Hollo-
way drank deep
of the socialistic
doctrines of
Tom Mann, and
hi s economics
had more than a
tinge of red-
ness, but the
years have mel-
lowed him until
he is ranked
with the mod-
erates of the
party nowadays.
The strain of in-
cessant organ-
isation and in-
numerable con-
ferences has
told upon his
health, and the
party will pro-
bab 1 y provide
him with a
s a f er seat.
James Mathews,
the veteran who
has held the
Labor strong-
hold of Mel-
E. J. HOLLOWAY, who
defeated Bruce and wrote
the “foreword” to the
Australian edition of
Trotsky’s “World Crisis.”
bourne Ports for a quarter of a century, is
pulling out owing to age and infirmity, and
Holloway is confidently tipped as his suc-
cessor.
Australia’s oldest mailcarrier retired
recently at the age of 90. This hardy
veteran, Charles Prior, of Eglinton, in the
Bathurst (N.S.W.) district, has carried the
mail between Eglinton and Duramana for
S 3 years without missing a day. He didn’t
like giving it up, either.
Brunsdon Fletcher sits in the editor's
jphair of the “S. M. Herald” when the
vigorous old lady has her hundredth birth-
day party. To him as to most of the
“Herald’s” editors journalism was a second
thought; West, Garran and Curnow were
parsons; Fletcher, though born into a family
largely draped in black cloth, was a surveyor
BRUNSDON FLETCHER.
until he was 34. Then he joined the Bris-
bane “Courier,” and stayed there until he
came to Sydney as associate to Tom Heney.
So far as The Bulletin knows he is only
the second man who ever sat in the chair
without whiskers. But Hunter-street editors
have been moulting for years; Heney hung
on to merely a wisp of moustache, too.
Fletcher is 72.
Yic. Governor Somers returns to England
in June, when Irvine, who lias just com-
pleted 13 years as Vie. C.J., will be Acting-
Gov. again. It looks as if he will have
another long term as Cocked Hat; after the
departure of Stanley in 1919 he carried on
for 19 months, doing the honors while the
Prince of Wales was in Vic.
Bill Tredinnick, who has been district
superintendent at Bendigo for the past eight
years, is the man who centralised head-office
control of all Victorian country-train run-
ning. He drew the first train graph Clapp's
railways ever knew, was s.m. at Spencer-
street and Flinders-street, and for a time
controlled the big Morse batteries in the
central railway telegraph office. Tredinnick
has been one of the driving forces behind the
move to keep country boys and girls on the
land by the establishment of young farmers’
clubs.
Travellers on the Victorian end of the
Sydney express will miss conductor Dick
English, who retired the other day after
40 years in the service and 23 on the Mel-
bourne-Albury run. He must have ridden
well over a million miles on this particular
section, and few regular passengers, in-
cluding the politicians, ever boarded or left
the train without a kindly word in Dick's
gentle Irish brogue. Three of his four sons
are priests.
“Uramao”: The cable announcing the en-
rolment of W. B. Leeds as mooring master
among Hubert Wilkins's merry crew of the
Nautilus interests me. When making a tour
of the Islands in 1926 we found the million-
aire chafing at Samoa before the prospect of
a 60-mile sail in a launch to Pago-Pago. The
opportune arrival of the Tofua dispelled his
gloom, for he chartered the steamer with its
human freight of some 200 to take him, his
valet and an assortment of curios to Pago-
Pago. It cost him 1500 dahlers. Mr. Leeds
is husband of Princess Xenia, of Greece.
George Pearce got in early as Westralia’s
representative in the Senate, -and stayed
through his Vicar-of-Bray-like readiness to
accommodate himself to any leader and
adapt himself to any policy rather than
through any ability of his own. Pearce
had a record Ministerial innings of 15 years
under chiefs so different as Fisher, Hughes
and Bruce; at the next turn of the wheel
he will have to give way to some more
vigorous spokesman for the western' State.
Only a system of rigid machine politics
makes possible the survival of the Pearce
type of Parliamentarian.
J. J. Cusack, Labor M.H.R. for Eden-
Monaro, whom the Langites have singled out
for special attack, was formerly in the State
Assembly. He was member for Queanbeyan
before that seat was wiped out, and managed
to keep his job by winning a by-election at
Albury. Now a motor-trader, Cusack started
work as a blacksmith’s striker. He is a
native of Yass, and has been its mayor.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
[TTTI
w^.t
MAY’S
Fertilizer
Spreader
AND
Vitrioline
We can deliver from
stock.
Now is the time for
Top-dressing, a n d
here is the ideal
machine for the job.
Send for leaflets or
call and inspect.
AGENTS:
Guthridge Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown,
New South Wales.
’Phones: L 2715-16
r
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Off. Funds.
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136,051
1915. . 1,174,039 666,113 98,695 6,986 402,245
1920. 789,726 131,286 10,245 452,318
1921. . 1,440,577 863,018 142,092 435,467
1922. . 1,524,474 963,716 135,915 424.843
1923. . 1,537,907 962,022 136,227 646 439,012
1924. . 1,613,372 987,867 137,112 488,396
1925. . 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1926. . 1,777,280 1,143,303 137,169 1,255 495,552
1927. . 1,834,631 1,208,544 138,508 1,558 )
To General Reserve, £32,318 ) ’ 6
1928.. 1,941,408 1,187,815 146,746 3,321 ) - 9 „
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £50,000 j 0 ,J
1929. . 1,997,015 1,279,446 159,340 ]
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000; 5-498,229
to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO j
1930. . 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870 1
Transferred to General Reserve, £200,000 ; ]- 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
*lncludes dividends to shareholders.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including AVritten to
Dec,, Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£> £• £ £> £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
1921.. 488,369 150,210 213,639 2576 121,944
1922.. 528,760 168,502 216,804 3566 139,888
1923.. 571,676 177,315 255,621 2222 136,518
1924.. 606,121 199,890 248,667 3010 154,545
1925.. 647,779 210,802 260,596 3003 173,378
1926.. 702,441 220,950 266,648 3726 211,117
1927.. 748,088 266,027 284,818 2512 194,731
1928.. 774,993 270,683 283,702 2610 ) QR
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO ) ’
1929.. 786,542 324,782 290,392 4438 ]
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000; ) 115,930
to Income Tax Reserve, £lOOO J
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 ) 1r78 q 2
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16,000 ) 0 ’
Events sent most people’s incomes toppling
last year, and this co. —it is Australia’s most
successful co-operative life office—paid out
£313,190 on account of policies surrendered
as against £226,740 the year before. Never-
theless, it was able to show a record amount
of new Ordinary business (£4,965,612, an
increase of £662,971) and all-round healthy
development. No doubt the co.’s new family-
income policy, which is a worthy contribution
to insurance, assisted the achievement. And,
besides, a quarter of the income is gathered
in Maoriland, Canada and the U.K.
The spring in the year’s income from all
sources (£3,060,320) was £134,899, or
£52,778 more than the previous year’s
growth. Premiums (£2,045,725) accounted
for £93,942 of the increase, and interest, etc.
(£1.014,595), for the balance. After paying
all legitimate claims and exes, there was
£958,794 of the year’s takings left. Of this
£425,432 was added to the assurance funds
(raising them to £18,131,848), £33,354 to
the general branch reserve (£100,405),
£84,000 was set aside for taxation, £16,008
was struck off the book value of securities,
£200,000 was sent to general reserves (now
£550,000) and £200,000 was paid in divs.
In the Ordinary and Industrial depart-
ments profits available for distribution
amongst policy-holders and shareholders re-
present the difference between the assurance
fund and the net liability under policies.
The next table shows the amounts which
have thus become available: —
IQon -IQOQ 109 Q IQQn
Ordinary .. £388,556 £624,210 £692,946 £661,468
Industrial .. 66,267 78,256 76,730 77,438
The shrinkage in the Ordinary figures for 1930
is due mainly to the substantial provision
made for contingencies and taxation. Though
this can be expected to affect the fatness of
bonuses, it is designed to prevent wide fluc-
tuations in the rate - declared. Not less than
80 p.c. nor more than 85 p.c. of the profits
in both departments go to policy-holders,
and the balance to shareholders, who guar-
antee to run the business at a cost of not
more than 15 p.c. of the Ordinary and 45
p.c. of the Industrial income. Of last year’s
gross takings exes, made off with only 7.8
p.c. in the Ordinary and 26.9 p.c. in the
Industrial branch.
Policy-holders in the old Widows’ Fund
section are in clover. For years they have
got back in bonuses more than they have
annually paid in premiums.
Excepting non-profit policies in the Indus-
trial branch (valued on a 3f p.c. basis) the
office assumes that its funds will earn only
3 p.c. Actually they turned in 5i p.c. last
year, after deducting taxes.
Funds have been invested in this way:—
1929. p.c. 1930. p.c.
Public securities. £16,178,302 83.5 £16,709,964 83.2
Mortgages . . 922,901 4.8 875,257 4.3
Loans on policies 1,333,797 6.9 1,612,939 8.0
Cash, book debts,
etc 493,428 2.5 531,424 2.6
Property . . 90,773 .5 90,773 .5
Other assets .. 343,998 1.8 275,641 1.4
£19,363,199 £20,095,998
Liabilities* . . 907,101 892,687
Net assets ..£18,456,098 £19,203,311
*Other than under policies.
Obviously the co. has been no bond-slacker;
all last year’s spare cash went into Govern-
ment securities and loans on policies.
Of the year’s div. the Ordinary branch
contributed £103,640; Industrial, £76,360;
General, £20,000. Though the lot was 100
p.c. on capital, the proprietors have to earn
£4 or more for Ordinary policy-holders before
they can take £1 for themselves.
Perkins and Co.
Old Peter Perkins’s company, once the
most prosperous of Queensland brewers, has
in the last four years registered losses aggre-
gating £128,639 net. For the 12 months to
Feb. 28 rents, etc., turned in £15,392, and divs.
£6562. But the cost of conducting what is
left of the business (£22,797, including
£7992 for depreciation of freeholds) made off
with the lot and £843 besides. Also many
old customers’ balances, which the co. had
leant heavily upon outsiders to finance,
turned out to be bad debts, and £84,932 was
struck off on that account. Thus a loss of
£85,775 showed up, and £82,752 of the
£374,708 of paid capital was unrepresented
by tangible value in the books at Feb. 28.
Over the five years to the close of accounts
in 1920 £222,222 of bonus scrip was scat-
tered, and for the next seven years divs.
averaged a shade over 7 p.c., though, accord-
ing to the figures, they were far from earned.
Thereafter the business became unprofitable,
and, having gone substantially into debt to
finance trade extensions, the board, after
much consideration, sold the brewery plant
and the trade of the co.’s hotels to Castle-
maine and Quinlan, Grey and Go., which
thereupon changed its name to Castlemaine
Perkins, Ltd. That was in July, 1928.
The price was 160,000 shares of 12s. 6d.,
valued at 15s. each; later Perkins took an-
other 40,000 at par. Freeholds were writ-
ten up £111,560 to cover the loss on plant
and something written off book debts. The
following table shows what has happened
since:—•
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Stocks .. £97,545 -
Debtors .. 223,390 £139.448 £129,135 £54,487
Cash, etc . . 4,490 4,447 656 654
£325,425 £143,895 £129,791 £55,141
Liabilities . . 390,198 337,945 113,145 114,609
Liquid surplus £16,646
Excess
liabilities .. £64,773 £194,050 £59,468
During the 12 months to the close of
accounts in 1930, the co. sold half its hold-
ing in Castlemaine Perkins for 18s. a share,
together wfith half a dozen freeholds and
some leases, and, on paper, things began
to look better. But after carving the dead-
wood out of the accounts, liquids, excluding
shares, were £59,468 short of liabilities when
books were last ruled off. Secured creditors,
largely the Briggses, figure at £91,356.
Freeholds (£288,720) were £9661 lighter
than at the previous balance, due mainly
to the allowance for depreciation; shares
were unchanged at £62,704, which was less
than their market value at Feb. 28. The
properties include the old brewery premises
in Mary-street, which apparently are not
bringing in much, while they keep the tax
bill high. Until this property is sold the
investment value of the scrip remains un-
certain. Prospects of a div. are not encour-
aging.
On paper the fully-paid pound shares are
backed by 15s. 7d.* in net tangibles, mainly
freeholds and leaseholds ; the market prices
the scrip at 4s. 9d.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd.
In the following table goodwill (£10,000),
preliminary exes. (£Bl2 to commence) and
patents are not included as assets: —
, Dividends To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928. .21,324 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 20,000 1,324 2,276
Added Intangibles £32 .. .. 2,308
Dec., Reserves.
1928* 21,469 10 p.c. 10 p.c. - 10,000 11,469 9,161
Added Intangibles, £47 . . . . 9,114
1929.. 39,590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 10,050 29,540 38,654
Added Intangibles, £59 .. .. 38,595
1930.. 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576
*Six months.
After early technical difficulties had been
overcome this Sydney co., which was formed
in 1921, gave a lot of attention to mar-
keting. Circumstances being favorable sales
flew along from £15,180 for the first
10 months to £340,625 for the 12 months lo
Dec. 31, 1928. The figures have not been
sent out since, but substantial additions
have been made to the factory and plant,
new lines have been added to the list of
manufactures, and costs have benefited.
Then, just as the new equipment got into
production, the outlook changed. The spring
and summer sales in 1929 failed, and stocks
accumulated. Still, enough profit was
claimed that year to cover the pref. require-
ments and show 21.4 p.c. on average ord.
capital. But it was all on the shelves when
the books closed, the co. had gone substan-
tially into debt, and more money was wanted
to complete the new plant; so shareholders
had to be confent with an interim 5 p.c.—
they had received an all-round 10 p.c. for the
preceding years.
In the general scramble for ready cash
some of the co.’s lines had to be marketed
at cut rates during the last term. Also
prices generally eased, and the new primage
and sales taxes swelled outgoings; thus,
after taking stocks into account at £45,232
below the 1929 figure, there was a contrac-
tion of £56,393 in gross earnings (£112,387).
The shrinkage in the net result, however, was
£30,609, the final figure being £648 in excess
of the year’s pref. requirements. But the
outlook is not yet good enough to warrant
payment of a div., the board says.
The reduction in stocks, together with the
year’s surplus' earnings and an extra £5BBl
from the bank, enabled the board to wipe
£87,857 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors and add £15,913 to the book value
of plant:—
Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1928. 1929. 1930
Ord. capital ..£133,334 ) voro 7£ n 1 £166,667
Prof. „ .. 66,666 ) 83,333
Overdraft .. .. 35,386 43,171 49,052
Creditors . . . . 67,434 94,940 57,083
Freeholds . . . . 27,615 40,472 41,600
Plant . . . . 87,015 135,934 151,847
Stocks .. . . 123,115 180,527 135,295
Debtors ~ . . 95*556 85,239 85,181
Cash, etc 1,179 1,352 1,489
The more or less liquid surplus (£115,830,
including stocks) was thus £13,177 lighter
than at the previous balance. Obviously
much depends upon the figures atwhich
.stocks fire written.
The immediate outlook in N. S. Wales is
overshadowed by the trend of industrial
legislation and the drift in the public
accounts. Also competition from Victorian
factories, which work on a lower award
rate, is very keen. Still, the co. is getting
its full share of the business available. Sales
since the books closed are better than for the
corresponding period of 1930, production is
on a mass basis, and all lines are said to be
profitable, though, of course, margins are
narrow.
There are 83,333 10 p.c. cum. prefs., which
have priority as to capital. They are priced
around 10s. on the market, and carry 3s.
accrued div. The backing amounts to
£3 11s. sd. in net tangibles. The ords.,
which fetched 17s. 6d. a year ago, now
bring ss. They are covered by 255. 9d. in
net tangibles, mainly plant, etc., worth what
it can earn.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Jan., ’23 .. 12,941 12 p.c. = 8250 4,691 114,754
July, ’23 .. 15,904 12 „ „ 8250 7,654 122,408
Written off Gold’s Debentures.. £5OOO 117,408
Jan., ’24 .. 13,073 134 P-c.= 9281 3,792 121,200
Internal reserves disclosed.. £20,000 141,200
July, ’24 .. 17,028 15 p.c. = 10,312 6,716 147,916
Jan.,' ’25 . . 16,476 164 „ „ 11,344 5,132 153,048
July, ’25 . . 18,242 19 „ „ 13,063 5,179 158,227
Jan., ’26 . . 14,945 20 „ „ 13,750 1,195 159,422
July, ’26 . . 15,227 20 „ „ 13,750 1,477 160,899
Jan., ’27 . . 15,710 20 „ „ 13,750 1,960 162,859
July, ’27 . . 17,785 20 „ „ 13,750 4,035 166,894
Jan., ’2B . . 17,799 20 „ „ 13,750 3,049 170,943
July, ’2B . . 15,085 20 „ „ 13,750 1,335 172,278
Jan., ’29 . . 15,375 20 „ „ 13,750 1,625 173,903
July, ’29 . . 15,527 20 „ „ 13,750 1,777 175,680
Jan., ’3O . . 15,074 20 „ „ 13,750 1,324 177,004
July, ’3O . . 17,448 20 „ „ 13,750 3,698 180,702
Jan., ’3l . . 3,281 14 „ „ 9,625 174,358
The earnings of this prosperous carrying
and supply co. were not visibly affected by
the shrinkage in pastoral and agricultural
incomes until the latter half of 1930; that
•was because a dry spell in the N.S.W. back
country increased the demand for stock food.
Meanwhile the management decided to shorten
sail owing to the perplexing nature of the
debts question. Hence gross earings for the six
months to Jan. 31 were figured at £52,932,
or £17,073 lighter than for the previous half.
But a cut of £9906 in exes. (£49,651) left
the profit claimed at £10,281, of which £7OOO
was earmarked to protect the book value of
debtors’ balances, reducing the final figure
to the £3281 shown in the table. So the last
quarterly div. was cut in halves, leaving it
at Is. per share (8 p.c. p.a. = £11,000), and
the 6d. bonus was dropped.
The management, however, has always
shown a remarkable capacity for adapting
itself to the many changes that have taken
place in country life, and at intervals has
owned up that earnings have been better
than the published accounts claimed. Over
the last 20 years, divs., which climbed from
10 p.c. to 20 p.c., have been sweetened with
£45,000 of gift scrip; a cash bonus of
£25,000 was paid; £55,195 was brought from
hiding and put in the window, and another
£20,000 of inner reserves was used to write
down the book value of premises. Also,
visible accumulations were heaped ±3b,808
higher than paid capital at Jan. 31.
The growth of the business and the. com-
fortable state of the finances are seen in the
next comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1919. 1926. 1930. 1931-
Paid capital. . £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Liabilities . . 70,930 105,830 131,331 86,314
Premises, plant, „ ,
etc. . . 21,152 54,574 51,236 50,479
Stocks .. 57,728 81,724 129,410 101,008
Book debts . . 125,170 141,182 217,913 183,272
McCulloch Co. 44,766 95,828 68,022 59,943
Cash & invest- „„
ments . . 46,330 49,225 7,943 23,163
Last year stocks were worked down, and
as shearing and harvesting progressed book
debts were reduced. The board was thus
able to wipe £45,017 off the amount coming
to creditors, and strengthen the cash hold-
ing by £15,220. The co. holds £25,000 of
scrip in McCulloch’s, the Vic. subsidiary:
the difference between that figure and the
entry in the table represents advances. In-
cluding these, the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£256,072) was £10,885 lighter than
at Jan. 31, 1930.
There are 55,000 shares fully-paid to 50s.
On the market they fetch 70s. as against
1455. a year ago. The return at the. lower
figure is 5.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis; the
backing i s £5 13s. 3d. in net tangibles, mainly
liquids and semi-liquids. The latter include
book debts; and book debts are not the pro-
perty they were three years ago.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
f Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Loss. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 1,080 720 3 p.c. = 5,436 1,060
Profit.
1923.. 9,428 720 5 „ „ 9,060 1,412
Loss.
1924.. 2,211 720 Nil 4,343
Profit. Reserves.
1925.. 17,277 720 6 p.c. = 11,015 5,542 1,199
Deficit.
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 1,551
Reserves.
1926.. 20,381 720 7 p.c. = 12,851 6,810 5,259
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 2,509
1927.. 14,195 720 7 p.c. = 13,015 460 2,969
Added goodwill, £2750 .. . • 219
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 7,989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. = 11,162 3,294 10,341
1930.. 10,746 720 3 „ „ 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. 970 720 Nil 14,026
When this co. took over the then 19-year-
old business of McDonnell and East in 1920
it looked like a steady 8 p.c. proposition.
But cuts had to be made in the book value
of stocks in 1921, and again a litttle later.
Next drought and tight money made trading
difficult; then competition sharpened, as it
usually does in such circumstances, and has
remained keen. Nevertheless the business
continued to expand, and extensions had to
be made to the premises. But the co. got
no benefit out of the bigger trading; thus
it has come about that the ords. have aver-
aged only 3.7 p.c. over the last decade.
For the difficult 12 months covered by
the last accounts gross earnings (£73,217)
slipped £22,637. Exes. (£74,187) were got
back £10,921; but it was not enough, and a
loss of £970 showed up. Exactly how the
co. will come through the period of readjust-
ment upon which we have now entered is
difficult to say. Appearances are that it
will have a hard struggle to pay a reason-
able div. Uncertainty as to the future has
aggravated the curtailment of spending due
to the general shrinkage in incomes ; exchange
and tariff adjustments have added to
the landed cost of imports, and increased
taxation, from which there is little prospect
of relief for some time, has made overhead
difficult to hold back.
Moreover, to finance the additions to pre-
mises, etc., the co. went substantially into
debt, as this next comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows :
1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £170,338 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. .. 16,200 53,000 52,500
Overdraft . . . . 28,862 77,343 66,878
Sundry creditors . . 32,045 38,336 19,349
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 64,107 131,730 130,135
Stocks 111,617 120,079 102,025
Book debts, cash, etc. 94,825 117,216 103,697
Last year’s reduction of £18,054 in the book
value of stocks and of £14,702 in debtors
balances enabled the board to clip £10,465
off the overdraft, £5OO off the mortgage and
reduce the amount coming to trade credi-
tors by £18,987. Nevertheless, the more or
less liquid surplus (£66,995, including stocks)
slipped £1621 during the 12 months.
The pound ords. are priced at ss. on the
market as against 12s. 9d. a year ago. At
the lower figure the return would be 8 p.c.
on a 2 p.c. div. basis. The cover amounts
to 21s. 7d. in net tangibles. There are 9000
8 p.c. cum. .prefs., but they rarely appear
on ’Change.
(Wild Cat continued on page 16.)


■ f"
m
M
mp
It is quite true
that
De Reszke Virginias
cost
Only Sixpence
for nine.
‘Cork* and ‘lvory'-tipped
ORIGINAL IMPORTED QUALITY GUARANTEED BY GODFREY PHILLIPS
(AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY, LTD.


If Inflation
Conies
What stocks or property would
stand up best in the event of
inflation?
What can be done with money
to make it reasonably safe?
What would become of investors
in life-assurance policies?
Are there any signs of a world
recovery?
These and many other problems
of most vital interest are dis-
cussed in “The ‘Wild Cat
Monthly.”
APRIL NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * # *
The fact that Pioneer AVood Pipe is absolutely non-
corrosive is one very good reason for its universal
acceptance by engineers as a conduit for practically
any type of fluid conveyance. Being easily handled
and laid, Pioneer Wood Pipe incurs very little
expense for installation, whilst its small first cost is
considerably less than metal pipes. Write for illus-
trated data-book giving interesting and instructive
information. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (near Figtree
Bridge) ; and at Footscray, A'ictoria.— Advt.
:!: * * *
Hydraulie Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Patents.
'T'HE Proprietors of Commonwealth Patents
No. 17898/24, entitled “Improvements
in the refining of oils and fats,” and
23050/25, entitled “Improvements in and
relating to plants for distillation and other
purposes,” are prepared to negotiate for
the sale of their rights in the above, or
for the granting of licenses to make, use
and vend the inventions within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York
Street, Sydney.
The great Australian metropolitan
newspapers can defy comparison with
the world’s best. Their information
is so thoroughly reliable. Ask any of
the managers whether “The Barrier
Miner” is the advertising medium for
Broken Hill and the Far West. They
know.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 ho Standard ot Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fusa
Detonators
Cartridges
m
EVERY CAR...EVERY LORRY
Should be lubricated every 500 miles
with
ALEMITE
Lubricating Systems
and Lubricants
MONEY-SAVING FAMILY
COUGH MIXTURE RECIPE.
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe
for a family cough mixture that is equally
good for children and adults, and is far
better than any made-up cough mixtui-e you
could buy. Order from your chemist or
store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
Heenzo. Add the Heenzo to sweetened water,
according to the easy directions on the
bottle, and you will have a supply equal to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual
ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost
up to £l. Heenzo does NOT contain any
poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can
be given with perfect safety to the youngest
baby. You will be delighted with the speedy
way HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the
chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup,
influenza, bronchitis and whooping cough.
Always have Heenzo ready in the home for
the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton
of cure.*
A. & E. Ellis, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves serves.
£ £ £ £
1920 . . 10,995 10 p.c.= 8750 2245 14,960
1921 . . 5,065 7i „ ~ 7500 12,525
1922 . . 4,528 6 „ ~ 6000 11,058
1923 . . 7,239 6 „ „ 6000 1239 12,292
Loss.
1924 .. 10,841 Nil 1,451
Deficit.
1925 .. 15,133 Nil 13,682
Profits.
1926 . . 1,335 Nil 1335 12,347
1927 . . 3,795 Nil 3795 8,552
1928 .. 2,024 Nil 2024 6,528
1929 . . 1,344 Nil 1344 5,184
Assets written down, £32,316 .. 37,500
Written off capital, £37,500 ..
Loss.
1930 .. 17,334 Nil 17,334
This is another timber trader which is
fighting hard for its existence. Before the
war it was a considerable exporter of
hardwoods, and paid satisfactory divs. on
£20,000 of capital. The war-time shortage
of shipping killed the export business, but
protected the local market, where the
co.’s timber and shipping interests con-
tinued to expand; and for the decade to
the close of accounts in 1921 divs. averaged
8.3 p.c.
Then, to ensure supplies of softwoods, more
timber interests were bought on the N. S.
Wales South .Coast, in Queensland and
Noumea, and the works at Rhodes and Pyr-
mont were enlarged. Meantime paid capital
grew to £lOO,OOO by cash issues. Next came
the post-war slump, followed by fierce com-
petition, and losses aggregating £25,974
showed up for the two years to the close
of accounts in 1925.
Since then the timber trade has been re-
adjusting itself to altered conditions follow-
ing the more general use of reinforced con-
crete. Thus, during the past decade the
co.’s trading losses exceeded the profits by
£17,978 and shareholders have gone hungry
since 1923. Moreover, early in the last
term assets were revalued and written down
£32,316, raising the deficit on shareholders’
account to £37,500. That was wiped out by
lopping 7s. 6d. off each pound share. Never-
theless, the year’s trading resulted in a loss
of £7334, a special provision of £6OOO was
made for bad debts, and £4OOO was written
off the book value of stocks, making the total
loss £17,334. Thus there was a further
3s. sd. per 12s. 6d. share unrepresented by
tangible assets when the books last closed.
The drift shows up clearly in balance-
sheet figures:—
1918 1928 1929 1930
Paid capital .. £75,000 £loo,ooo £62,500
Liabilities . . 8,684 54,402 51,434 46,419
Fixed assets .. 44,340 73,174 73,099 47,282
Stocks ~ . . 32,229 30,668 33,997 24,263
Book debts . . 12,834 39,863 35,150 18,195
Investments .. ( » efls j 3,864 3,871 1,788
Cash, deposits, etc. j '1 305 133 58
Over the past decade a liquid surplus of
£53,318 has been transformed into an excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids amount-
ing to £3903. The slip last year was £21,749.
Fixed assets include the Rhodes freehold
and plant (£24,631), mills and branches on
the Bellinger and Nambucca and at Manly
(together £21,451), and punts (£1200) ; the
lot combined show a reduction of £25,817
last year, due mainly to the writing-off out
of capital. Stocks were £9734 lower, and
debtors show a heavy drop of £16,95*5. In-
vestments represent interests in Swadling
and Ellis (a cartage co.), insurance cos. and
the Queensland and Noumea timber proposi-
tions (written down from £10,500 in 1921
to £5OO at last balance).
It is obvious that the drift in the co.’s
affairs cannot continue much longer. A
few months ago sellers asked Is. 9d. for the
scrip.
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (In Liq.)
This is the original Daily Telegraph News-
paper Co., formed in Sydney in 1884. In
December, 1927, it sold its newspaper asset
to the Daily Telegraph Pictorial, Ltd., for
£222,225 in shares. These were in turn
transferred to the Daily Telegraph Holding
Co. for an equal number of shares in that
co.; this scrip the old co. scattered amongst
its shareholders as a part return of capital,
it having gone into voluntary liquidation on
January 12, 1928. The old co. took up an
additional iO,OOO shares in the Holding co.
payable in cash; of these it still retains
8886. In 1929 it sold its freehold in King-
street for £305,000 (£20,000 in cash and
£285,000 in 7 p.c. debentures) to a co. which
later became the Hotel Savoy, Ltd., and
which went into voluntary liquidation on
August 15, 1930.
Meantime the Daily Telegraph Pictorial,
Ltd., mainly under control of Sun News-
papers, was doing no good for itself. In
December, 1929, the Sun people bought out
the Holding co.’s interest of 222,225 shares
for £106,668—156,668 cash and 50,000 prefs.
in Associated Newspapers. The Holding co.
shortly afterwards went into liquidation, and
has returned ss. per £1 share in cash, and
handed out 21 Associated prefs. to
every 100 of its own shareholders. There is
another cash distribution of about 6d. a
share to come. The first cash and share dis-
tribution was made in May, when the Asso-
ciated prefs. were around 17s. on the market.
The old Telegraph co. unloaded its whack,
the estimated loss on shares in the Holding
co. being £4514. Including this charge, out-
goings exceeded incomings by £6508 for the
year to Dec. last, and the credit in realisation
account was reduced to' £86,384. There are
355,560 shares, and (on paper) £239,719 of
surplus assets. But as debenture-holder over
the King-street property, the co. will be lucky
if it recovers the full £281,648 now owing.
Negotiations for selling the property have
not been successful. Apart from £354 of
cash, etc., this is the only asset. Steps
have been taken to enforce the co.’s right
against certain guarantors of the hotel
scheme. The Telegraph co. owes the bank
and others £42,282.
Rural Reliefs, Ltd.
This co., which was registered in Sydney
last week with a capital of £lO,OOO, is the
outcome of negotiations for raising a private
emergency loan to assist necessitous farmers
to put in the next crop, and perhaps a few
more, and so enable them to carry on until
they can liquidate their debts from the pro-
ceeds of the harvests. The proposal was
initiated by the Primary Producers’ Advisory
Council, of which Adrian Knox is chairman ;
and H. Iv. Nock, of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association, and A. C. Davidson, general
manager of the Bank of N. S. Wales, helped
greatly in developing the scheme.
Broadly, it i§ a co-operative move by the
banking and trading organisations to supple-
ment the assistance given by the Govern-
ment to wheatgrowers and other farmers who
are bordering on financial collapse. Advances,
on the basis of prospective crop values, will
bo made for the purchase of stores, super-
phosphate, fuel, oil, fodder, seed and part
payments on machinery. The interest charge
will be 6 p.c. p.a. A sustenance allowance
of about £1 per week may also be granted.
A preferential first-crop lien will be required
as security. An undertaking from creditors
outside the scheme —mortgagees, for instance
—not to press their claims until the crop has
been dealt with will also be required, as is
done in connection with advances from the
Rural Industries branch.
Two classes of farmers are excluded from
the co.’s operations—those able to obtain
assistance through ordinary channels, and
those whose position is hopeless.
The scheme will be financed mainly by
the issue of debentures to be taken up by
co-operators. The latter are divided into
two classes: (1) Financial institutions and
(2) trading concerns. The debentures are
of three types; the “A” and “B” class, both
of which carry 6 p.c. p.a. and rank in the
order stated, will be taken up by financial
institutions for cash. For goods supplied
trading co-operators will receive one-half
cash and the other half in “C” 5 p.c. deben-
tures. The “B” and “C” debentures rank
equally, except for the first 1 p.c. of interest
on the “B’s.”
No dividends or bonuses are payable on
the share capital, and any losses incurred are
to be shared rateably among co-operators in
the interests of the State, the farmer and
themselves. The public can assist in such
a national undertaking as this by subscrib-
ing for “B” debentures.
The Gold Search Association of N. S.
Wales, Ltd., is being incubated in Sydney
with a nominal capital of £50,000 in ss.
shares. The co. will go to registration and
allotment when 20,000 shares have been sub-
scribed. It is a patriotic effort, hacked by
a number of prominent city business men,
to encourage the search for gold. The co.
does not intend to prospect on its own
account; the idea is to assist others, mainly
by investigation and report and business
advice. This is to be undertaken on the
basis of expenses plus an interest in any
co. directly formed to work a property re-
ported upon; also members of the associa-
tion are tq enjoy priority in application for
one-third of the shares to be issued.
Total gold production of N. S. Wales for
1930 was 12,4930 z. fine, valued at £53,066,
or 49970 z. and £21,224 respectively more
than for the previous year. No large finds
were recorded, but encouraging results were
achieved in many localities.
* * t- %
A Launceston crowd has a £30,000 co. on
the stocks, which is to take over and work
a sluicing proposition on the Whyte River,
Tas. nor’-west coast. A couple of miles
above the big river loop a prospector, by
wing-damming the stream, recently boxed
about lOOoz. of high-grade gold from ground
averaging Sjdwt. per cubic yard, but was
driven out of his workings when the river
rose above the dam. Another fossicker is
said to have got 12oz. gold from less than
30 cubic yards in the upper river wash, but
rain drove him out before he could clean in
all the colors showing. It was not far from
there, in a tributary of the Whyte, that Tas-
mania’s two largest nuggets of gold, 2430 z.
and 1430 z., were found. The idea is to
deviate the river and work the property by
hydraulic methods.
The Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, Harriet-
ville (Vic.), cleaned up 1508 oz. gold for a
net profit of £1566 for the six months to
Jan. 31. With £3214 brought into the
accounts £4780 was available, of which two
6d. divs. took £2OOO. Since the hooks closed
310 tons of stone has been crushed for 3750 z.
gold, another 70oz. was scaled from the
plates, and a 9d. div. has been paid. The
1180 ft. level has been driven 66ft. in good
value ore.
$ * * *
Developments at Tanami indicate that
the big ore body infilling the fissure is
veined by lenticular quartz bodies. The mill
is now working on the formations from
which Bill Laurie got his best values, and
high-grade ore is being broken by the tribu-
tors. E. O. Watt, who is overlooking, is
pleased with the prospects.
* * * *
Not much was done to develop the ore
bodies on the old Kimberley field, Nor’-West-
ralia, because of remoteness and cost of
transport. A number of reefs worth an
ounce and capable of providing big tonnages
were located, tinkered with and abandoned.
They are now being carefully looked over
again by capable prospectors. As a fos-
sickers’ field, Hall’s Creek and the Brock-
mans have kept itinerant ’weight-chasers in
tucker ever since the ’eighties of last cen-
tury, when Hall, Slattery, Phil Saunders
and Adam Johns were on the field.
* * * *
Jack Scaddan, W.A. Minister for Mines,
has been granting six and twelve months’
reservations, free from labor conditions, over
areas up to 400 acres. Generally the ground
contains low-grade deposits that have been
long abandoned. These may pay if worked
on a big scale; hopes are that London will
put up the money. Meanwhile, the policy of
keeping speculative peggers off the ground
has raised a crop of protests.
* * * *
Kramat, a lusty youngster of the Alluvial
group, was registered in the F.M.S. in Oct.,
1926. It took over 470 acres on the west
bank of the Ivinta, opposite Tanjong Tua-
long’s property. Malcolm Newman figured
the dredgable area at 50,000,000 cubic yards
of fib. dirt, and by Dec., 1929, the electri-
cally driven bucket-dredge, with a monthly
capacity of 180,000 c.y. and capable of dig-
ging to 75ft. below water level, had set in.
At the end of January last it had turned
over 1,955,000 c.y. at an average cost of
3d. a yard for a net profit of £23,996. This
enabled the board to wipe out the develop-
ment account (£10,476) and a small p. and 1.
debit (£2261), pay a 6d. div. (£4125) and
carry forward 6d. sterling per
share will be sent out on April 24.
It has been a very creditable performance,
and provided nothing untoward happens to
the price of tin it is anticipated that small
divs. will be paid regularly on the £165,000
of capital. The market expresses its con-
fidence in the management by paying 275.
for the pound shares.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
There is great uncertainty here ( S.A .)
about N.S.W. investments. Of my holdings,
Electric Light and Power Supply is particu-
larly mistrusted. Why? —2B22.
This co. operates largely in the industrial
section of the suburbs of Sydney, mostly
under contract with councils, and has under-
taken not to charge more than the City Coun-
cli’s L. and P. department charges for similar
services. The councils have purchase options :
subject to that, the franchises cover long
periods or are perpetual. The demand on
the co. for pow’er for industrial purposes has
shrunk greatly; all other demands are less.
There is no other visible reason, apart from
general mistrust, why this co. should be in
disfavor. It at least cannot well lose its
business to some rival when times improve;
and, unlike many other concerns, it is un-
likely to show heavy losses through inability
to pull overhead down. One good thing in
its favor is that its liabilities are very
moderate: of all sorts they amounted to only
£126,096 at the last balance. The co. is not
unpopular in its territory. Of the ords.
83,333 are paid only to 10s. and the 166,667
7 p.c. profs, are paid only to 15s.
(1) Tlow many shares are held by the
Commonwealth Government in Amal. Wire-
less (Aust.) ? Paid or contrib.f (2) Does
the Government receive only the same div. as
other shareholders? (3) Are all listening-in
and other fees distributed equally between all
shareholders in the co.? (4) Prospects as an
investment ? —2830.
(1) Paid capital is £744,283 in 181,400
f.p. shares and 804,118 shares paid to 145.;
Government owns 500,001 of the shares. (2)
Yes. (3) Divs. from all sources are paid
on shares, by whomsoever held, in propor-
tion to the amount paid upon them. (4)
The co. derives most of its revenue from a
public utility, and divs. much in excess of
the present 8 p.c. would probably therefore
meet with opposition.
In view of the depreciated value of Aus-
tralian stocks overseas, is there any pro-
bability of a foreign nation, such as Japan,
i buying heavily, but unobtrusively, with a
view to becoming possessed of the means of
obtaining advantages that they would not
otherwise get? —2os4.
None whatever. Approximately we owe
600 millions overseas. A purchase of half
a million at the moment would attract atten-
tion. Most nations, Japan included, are
themselves hard up; Japan has had to
export gold heavily to keep square.
(1) Gross value per ton of ore at South
African Rand mines? (2) Gross treatment
charges per ton? (3) Net profit per ton?
(4) Ditto any other big low-grade gold
deposit? (5) Present value _ of sdwt. of
gold with bounty and premium added? —
2338.
(1 to 4) Average for 33 Rand mines
(1929), 6.489dwt. per ton; gross working
costs (mining and treatment), 19s. 7d. per
ton, working profit Bs. 2d. per ton. The
Hollinger Consolidated, Canada, which in
1927 treated 5295 tons per day, got milling
charges down to 3s. sd. per ton. (5) Present
value of sdwt. gold with premium added
about 275. 6d. Premium depends on current
rate of exchange. Bounty depends on any
increase in gold production in 1931 over the
average production for the previous three
years. The amount of bounty for 1931
production, or whether any will be payable,
will not be known until the end of the year.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.M.: Depends. If you can afford a
gamble with your capital, bring it here. If not,
leave it there for the present... .N.8.W.: No, people
owe it too much money; and bad debts are a terrible
burden these times. .. .Yunta: Quite sound... .J.M.:
No reason at all for surrendering. .. .J.F.: (1) and
(3) Can’t say without knowing age at entry. (2)
Yes; but the contract would not participate in future
profits, nor would there be accident and sickness
benefits... .Worrygil: (1) Liable up to the full 205.;
issue of scrip is immaterial. Scrip isn’t title —only
certificate of title. (2) Informed Australian Alloy
Steel is still engaged with preliminaries... .M.N.Q.:
Counsel’s opinion is that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has the power to collect taxes from N. S. Wales
to reimburse the other States... .H.H.C.: (1) and
(2) Bank of N.Z., £6,858,113 capital; £4,173,157
reserves. National of N.Z., £2,000,000 capital
£2,174,171 reserves. B.N.Z. £1 shares, present
price £2 9s. ; National £2 10s. shares, present
price £4 12s. Shareholders are well protected in
both. (3) No. (4) B.N.Z. has only one branch in
N.S.W., which does little except commercial business.
.... Mary: Future too uncertain.


3HA ATiOMOnOMHA
" -**xmravn9
v//
oiao^
SlB@®s
a
\
SSS
ft
&
.
A
>y,
?A
/
r
r
X
oV
SK
7
/
C
%
7*
C*
6
K
r.
(S
€
YA
T
x
n
Ni
//
/ 'W//*
m
<**%\
A?' a"CO*’"
THE LARGEST SALES IN THE WORLD
The Reason is in every bottle.
WHISKY
Born 1820-
Still going Strong


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Dearest Enemy”
Criterion ................ “The First Mrs. Fraser”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Gondoliers”
Comedy “On the Spot”
State Movies and Talkies
-O
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes: —
Well, I went to the indignation meeting
of the Awakened Women of Victoria at the
Town Hall. My girl friend made me. It
seems she’d met a friend of the Dramatic
Critic who said he'd said if we looked on it
purely as an entertainment it would be no
worse than the talkies at any rate. Well,
“Still 49 women who hadn’t yet saved the
country.”
that made her wild. She said it was abso-
lutely necessary for every thinking girl to
know what her sex was doing to meet the
greatest Crysis in Australian history, what
steps it was prepared to take to balance
the Budget, and crush the hydra-headed
spectre of Disaffection that had taken in its
palsied hand the helm of the Ship of State
and was dragging it up the cul de sack that
led only to the brink of the yawning abscess
of Repudiation.
Well, the first Thing we met was the
Dramatic Critic. He was sitting gloomily
alongside the young man who was in charge
of the broadcasting. He said he had come
because there was nothing else doing in the
theatrical line. Well, that annoyed the other
girl more. She said, do you think all the
brains are on your side? He said, no, but
there are enough men making a mess of
things as it is. She said, but the women are
going to do things differently. And he said,
well, their symbols are the same at any
rate. And she said, whadder you mean,
symbols? Well, he said, I’ve been to meet-
ings of the Back to Posterity party, and
the Save Australia party, and the Who’s for
Honesty party, and goodness knows what
party, and it seems that the absolute bare
minimum and indispensable adjunct for sav-
ing the country is a glass tumbler and a
water-bottle. And he supposed if you went
to Russia you’d find that the symbol wasn’t
the sickle and hammer but the same old
bottle and tumbler.
Well, they had to stop quarrelling then
because Dr. Georgina Sweet was moving a
resolution. That the Restoration of National
credit by sound national Finance and Ad-
ministration is Vital to the interests of Aus-
tralia. There was some applause from the
back stalls and the Dramatic Critic said,
Well, that’s fair enough, let’s see how she's
going to set about doing it.
Well, Dr. Sweet said that never before had
the women of Victoria taken such a deep
interest in their country’s welfare. They were
embued with the Desire to work for the
highest and most lasting Interests of the
country. What wq.s needed was a spirit of
harmony and a determination to work and to
Suffer, if need be, for the good of the coun-
try. Australia was in danger of losing her
national sole as well as her national credit.
Australia needed a Man, a Big Leader. The
unintelligent or unintelligible mouther of
words or glib phrases was not wanted.
Well, that seemed all splendid to us and
every Awakened Woman in the building
applauded Dr. Sweet to the echo, but the
Dramatic Critic got gloomier and gloomier.
He said, up to date he didn’t see any chance
of history repeating itself, and the other
“The same old bottle and tumbler.”
girl said, whadder you mean, and he said,
well, in 1791, but then Mrs. Archbishop
Head started speaking.
Well, Mrs. Head explained that she spoke
on behalf of the Empire. What was needed
more than anything was hard and sound
thinking. And then, of course, there was
the matter of the interest on loans from
England. That was needed also. It should
be remembered how many of those things
which made it a joy to live in this country
had come about through the money that had
been borrowed; our beautiful gardens for
instance—the ones the unemployed sleep in,
1 suppose she was referring to.
• Well, after a few more had dene their
turns, there were still 49 women on the
stage who hadn’t yet saved the country and
the broadcasting young man was getting
anxious. So he rang up the studio and asked
if they thought listeners had had enough and
I don’t know what the studio said but the
young man hastily took off the earphones as
if they had scorched him and cut off a
speaker in the full flow of her eloquence.
Well, even the other girl admitted by now
that she was sufficiently Awakened so we all
went out together and sought some coffee.
■ Well, I could see the Dramatic Critic had
something on his mind and after the third
cup he could restrain it no longer.
Well, it seems he hadn’t gone to the meet-
ing for frivolous reasons at all. It seems
that he has been studying the French Revolu-
tion and lie has got a bee in his bonnet that
the present situation in Australia is an exact
parallel, in fact, it’s the same thing all over
again. It seems that Mr. Scullin is a rein-
carnation of Louis XVI., who was a weak
but well-meaning monarch in that play. Mr.
Beasley was the character who couldn’t make
up his mind whether he ought to support the
effete forces of the old regime or become the
leader of the new movement and so he missed
the charabang coming and going. And it
seems the Trades Hall represents the old
feudal aristocracy flying in the face of econo-
mic facts and fighting to the last ditch for
its rights and privileges. And it seems Mr.
Theodore is the Marie Antoinette of the play,
because it was she who said if the people
haven’t any bread, why don’t they eat cake;
and there arc quite a lot of other characters
he gave us, all just as striking.
Well, it seems in that play—l am not sure
that it was a play, it might have been a
movie—there was a beautiful woman who
in a later act became Madame -Roland. And
it seems she was invited to an aristocrat’s
house and when she got there they told her
to eat her meals in the kitchen and so she
became convinced that the destruction of the
feudal system was in the best interests of
France. Well, it seems in those days women
had no more chance of getting into politics
than they have to-day so she married Mon-
sieur Roland and used him to push on the
performance.
Well, it seemed that what the Dramatic
Critic was looking for was a Mrs. Roland,
to help him on with a real Australian Revo-
lution instead of merely a play about one,
because he feels that never did Melbourne
need a Reign of Terror more than it does
at present, with all these amateur actors
trying to fill the vacuum left by the legiti-
mate theatre.
Well, he took one look at some of the hats
at the meeting and it seems despair over-
came him. I mean, you can ask too much
even of the most determined revolutionary.
What happened to the beautiful Madame
Roland in the last act? asked the other girl.
Her death was as noble as her life, said the
Dramatic Critic. Still with the proud smile
on its lips, the loveliest head in France
dropped into the basket of the guillotine.
And a tear dropped into the Dramatic
Critic’s coffee.
You do expect a lot of a woman, said the
other girl.
* ¥ *
Tenors are scarce; good tenors are very,
very scarce, so Joseph Hislop was sure of a
warm welcome when he made a reappearance
on Saturday night after four years’ absence.
Sydney Town Hall was comfortably filled,
and as the singer has the knack of getting on
good terms with his audience as soon as he
steps on the platform both he and his hearers
enjoyed themselves. Hislop is not a Caruso,
to which one would be inclined to add, were
it not unkindly to the dead, “thank the
Lord.” Not for the Englishman are the
beefy exuberance, the transports of senti-
ment, the forge-furnace blast effects of the
great Italian. Hislop plays on an instrument
of smaller volume, but controls its stops so
cleverly that the strength of the fortissimos
doesn’t seem to matter much. He enunciates
very clearly, makes judicious use of facial
expression and pantomime, and never wearies
the listener by harping twice on the same
string.
He has the dramatic sense essential to
opera, and on Saturday night declaimed
Lohengrin’s account of the Grail and his
search for it in interesting fashion. Better
still was “Ah, Fuyex!” from “Manon.” This
is Massenet at his best, and Massenet
and Hislop both at the top of their form
make an irresistible combination. Ernest
Truman, on the organ, and Isidore Goodman,
at the piano', represented the orchestra for
this occasion. There was a generous leaven
of the little comedy pieces that so delight the
tenor’s audiences —his representation of a
one-eyed cat is one of those things that stick
in the memory—and in addition to these Mr.
Hislop won the hearts of the not-so-very-
musical with a most excellent song from
Lehar’s latest comic opera. An ideal accom-
panist had an even share of the honors when
Mr. Goodman and his piano (it was an
upright, by the way) put the antics of a little
bird into Paladilile’s “Comme un Petit
Oiseau.”
* * *
Dame Butt had no difficulty in filling the
Town Hall, Melbourne, with both voice and
audience for her farewell party on Thurs-
day afternoon. The biggest matinee crowd
the chamber has held for years sat entranced
while the great contralto proceeded, accord-
ing to plan, to lower her artistic standards
from “The Spirit’s Song” of Haydn to “Abide
wfith Me,” “The Keys of Heaven” and “Land
of Hope and Glory.”
The National Anthem, sung first by Ken-
nerley Rumford, then by the majestic Clara,
and finally by the pair, assisted by the audi-
ence, concluded a concert that had all the
atmosphere of a Welsh revivalist meeting.
When the anthem had subsided into silence
the audience stared hypnotised at the Dame,
while she stared with a rapt, devotional ex-
pression into infinity. After giving her artis-
tic qualities full credit, present critic’s
opinion is that Dame Butt’s greatest contri-
bution to the art of platform singing is the
knack of completely muddling the emotions
of her hearers. By the time she has finished
with them, romantic love, love of country,
love of God, of Clara, of Rumford, of each
other, of everybody, of everything and any-
thing, are as mixed in them as the ingredients
of an Indian curry. When the audience
woke up the sibyl had vanished from the
platform, but half an hour afterwards hun-
dreds were still cluttering the pavement in
Swanston-street, waiting for a last glimpse
of the goddess entering her limousine.
“Almost a Honeymoon,” in which Frank
Neil is reviving himself at Melb. Bijou, is
the sort of show that fills the average Neil-
sian devotee with a feeling of unutterable
content. The trousers of the eminent actor-
producer come off at the beginning of
the second act and stay off for the
remainder of the scene. Added piquancy
is given to the situation when a lady who
is not his wife picks them up and inadver-
tently puts them in her bag. The atmo-
sphere is further charged with emotional
electricity when the leading gentleman goes
to sleep in the same room, though not in
the same bed, with the purloiner of his
breeks. The curtain falls for 15 seconds
to convey the passing of the night. Dawn
wakes the pair and, after the first shock, the
sight of Neil in an appalling suit of feminine
pyjamas wakes love in the breast of the lady
with whom he has spent an innocent night.
A note of doom is threatened when Cutlibert
de Grey, the moronic fiance to the trouser-
pinching lady, arrives at the bedroom door,
but in the best traditions of nonsense he
finds nothing to cavil at in a situation which
W’ould imply pistols for two and coffee for
one anywhere but in a Frank Neil show.
As the male Alice in Wonderland, Neil
is at the top of his form. He is the most
amazing actor w’ho has ever appeared on
the Australian boards. Nothing he does is
ever done as stage convention suggests it
should be done. That appears to be the
secret of his appeal. His behavior in any
given situation is as inconsequential and un-
expected as a limerick by Edward Lear. On
the other hand, Arundel J. Nixon, as the
wronged fiance, is of convention all compact.
As a funny man he is not even a comedian’s
laborer. He botches a part wherein can
dimly be detected considerable overtones of
humor. Louise Lovely makes the most of
Rosalie Quilter, the damsel who is com-
promised, and Feild Fisher’s gentleman’s
gentleman is first-rate comedy. The play is
by Walter Ellis. It is in its second year
at the London Garrick and its mental age
is eight.
* * *
An outburst of legit, is hitting Melbourne
in the pocket, though the offensive is not
as fierce as heretofore, owing to the unpre-
cedently low prices asked. Part of the rush
to the Princess last week was possibly due
to rumors that the censorship was to be
applied to “Topsy Turvy,” the new Ernest
“A weak but well-meaning monarch.”
Rolls show, in which Mabel Gibson, Stan
Foley, Jennie Benson, May Craven and
others supply a musical extravaganza, which
is as extravagant as you like and as musical
as need be. Present writer is unable to say
whether the performance he saw was before
or after the visit of Dr. Bowdler, but if it
was after, the reverend purist’s job was
badly done. An item one would have gladly
seen excised was Jennie Benson’s singing of
“Don’t Tell H'im What Happened to Me”
in a cafe in Montmartre; but one’s objection
to that is the falsity of the sentiment, and
false sentiment never bothered any censor
that ever lived. A logical censor —if
a censor could be logical—-would make a
start on the Famous Eight Australian
Beauties, who are said to have been branded
by no less an authority than Norman Lind-
say as the loveliest examples of femininity
in this blest Commonwealth. The real
attraction of these ladies lies in the fact
that the bare minimum of clothing they wear
is just enough to suggest, without revealing,
their charms. If they wore no clothes at
all, obviously the suggestiveness would be
gone. Probably a censor would be satis-
fied if they donned a few extra ropes of
artificial pearls. Stan Foley is all over the
piece. As a washerwoman he reveals himself
as the best impersonator of a female charac-
ter present writer has seen. He has what
nine comedians out of ten lack —a sense for
the life he knows. It is a melancholy reflec-
tion on the Australian stage that there is
more sharp observation of the contemporary
scene in one issue of a certain weekly journal
which modesty forbids us to name than in a
whole year’s production of legitimate plays.
This is not meant in disparagement of
“Topsy Turvy.” As a matter of fact it
stands on its own amongst current shows in
having two or three local sketches which
possess the required quality. Their recep-
tion by the Melbourne audience ought to
encourage other revue writers to explore the
same field.
* # *
The Bulletin hands to Prof. Bernard
Heinze the merit order for having staged the
first In Memoriam service to Dame Nellie
which was entirely artistic. The programme
of his orchestral concert on Saturday at the
Town Hall, Melbourne, included the winged
“Prometheus” overture of Beethoven ; Han-
del’s concerto in B flat major ; Bach’s Toc-
cata and Fugue in D minor, played by new
city organist McKie; “Ocean, Thou Mighty
Monster,” with which Madame Orff-Solscher
lifted the roof off without losing musical grip
of her subject; and Tschaikowsky’s fourth
Symphony—the one in which the composer
forgets in the jolly second and third move-
ments that he started to say something im-
portapt about Fate in the first movement
and remembers it in the last movement too
late to come to any conclusions on the sub-
ject. The audience was also treated to a first
performance in Australia of Percy Grainger’s
“Spoon River,” a clever orchestral treatment
of an American folk tale, whose rhythmic
thumpings are likely to become as popular
as the composer’s Irish dances. The absence
of badly-sung hymns made the evening truly
reverential and the University orchestrions
played so well that appreciative “Bravas in
a well-known voice could be distinctly heard
by the spiritual ear of the present critic.
* # *
Adelaide Repertory, which says that the
depression has affected its big membership
hardly at all, opened its new season with a
Hale lecturette and three short plays. The
“If the people haven’t any bread, why don’t
they eat cake?”
gem of them was a Devonshire cottage idyl?
of middle-aged courtship, in which Beames,
a newcomer, played up finely to those Adel-
aide favorites Ethelwyn Robin and Muriel
Craigie.
* * *
A really brilliant G. and S. season at
Adelaide Royal ended with “The Pirates.”
Menzies gave his gentlemanly humor full
play, Manning made the Pirate King unusu-
ally prominent and Ralston was a very
funny Policeman —but consciously funny, _ as
against the stolid and unconscious tradition
coming down from Barrington. Darnton
singing and acting, was good as ever; and a
finer Ruth than the newcomer, Dorothy Gill,
has not been seen here. Maisie Ramsay
remains a problem. Her glorious voice made
light of the big test, “Poor Wandering One.”
She is ready for grand opera; and her early
maturity may find in it more scope than in
humorous work.
* * *
Sydney continues more theatrically indus-
trious than in the days Before Depresh. The
Nat Phillips crowd, turning on a new revue
a week, have been in occupation oh the Opera
House front for 25 weeks and still shows no
sign of sending up an SOS for relief. Their
current bill is “Bubble and Squeak,” but
the name doesn’t matter. All their shows are
free-and-easy lauglimakers which seem to
attract a permanent audience.
# * *
Being at the Royal, Melbourne, for the
opening night of “The Gondoliers’’ on Satur-
day was like being at Napier during the
earthquake. The initial chorus, magnifi-
cently sung, brought the house down, lhe
edifice had no sooner been restored to equili-
brium when it was reduced to ruins once
more by Ivan Meiizies, a small imported
mime with witty feet and face like a Gilbert
epigram, who was the Duke of Plaza-Toro.
Gregory Stroud, another importation who
brought the blessings of crisp enunciation
and beautiful vocalisation to the part of
Giuseppe, again knocked the building end-
ways by singing of the Troubles of a King,
and it was further demolished by Leo Darn-
ton (Marco), whose rendering of “A Pair
of Sparkling Eyes” was demanded three
times.
After the interval the edifice stood up
again for punishment, and was successively
razed by John Ralston (the Grand Inquisi-
tor), Dorothy Gill (the Duchess of Plaza-
Toro), Maisie Ramsay (Casilda), Marie
Bremner and Mary Hotham (Gianetta and
Tessa) and Alban Whitehead as Luiz. The
last-named can claim the knockout. A timid
actor but a tenor singer of much sweetness,
he married his vocal charms, as well as his
stilted acting, to those of Maisie Ram-
say. The engaging but monotonous Marie
“The wireless operator was getting anxious.”
Bremner and the proud-voiced Mary Hotham
also did their bit to wreck the theatre. From
the opening chorus to the final-curtain curs-
ings of the talkies the revival went with a
swing. Smooth running was as much to
be attributed t 0 general competency as to
the presence of great individual talent. In
truth there were no particular highlights
in an even performance. The fact that every
number in a G. and S. opera gets encores,
sometimes triple ones, doesn’t necessarily
indicate anything except that it is the con-
vention to applaud everything Gilbert wrote
and Sullivan scored, regardless of merit, but
the enthusiasm on Saturday, as far as pre-
sent critic is a judge, was a genuine display
of artistic appreciation as well as of civic
pride in the fact that most of the cast that
wasn’t Melbourne was Footscray.


“SMILE, PLEASE!”
“Mr. Lang is billed to speak in Melbourne on the financial plan known as the Lang Plan on Monday, and the following day will leave for Adelaide, where he will also
address meetings on the same subject.” —Daily Paper.
THE PHOTOGRAPHER: “Now, I want happy, smiling faces, dearies; so just take a look at the beautiful picture I made of the folks at home, and remember
that’s what I can do for you!”
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The World Crisis
At the last meeting of the council of the
International Chamber of Commerce, held in
Paris in December, 1930, representatives from
nearly every country in Europe and from the
IJ.S.A. discussed the causes and possible
remedies of the present economic crisis.
The general opinion of the Chamber was
that the more important causes and symp-
toms of the crisis were:—
(1) Overproduction in maufacture.
(2) Following a long and gradual decline, a sharp
and excessive fall in commodity prices (especially
raw materials) too rapid and too extensive to
allow costs of production to be adjusted.
(3) The world-wide agricultural crisis, following
several prolific seasons.
(4) Growth of unemployment (both a cause and
an effect).
(5) The prolonged malaise caused by political
unrest.
(6) The partial or complete closing of some of
the world’s most important markets {e.g., the
East, owing to the collapse in purchasing.power
of silver currency, and Russia).
(7) The slow readjustment of national and inter-
national economic situations owing to the varied
bases chosen for monetary stabilisation.
(8) The heavy fall in the price of silver, further
reducing the purchasing-power of one-third of the
world’s population.
(9) The dumping on the world’s markets of
large quantities of grain, raw materials and semi-
finished products by Soviet Russia (under its Five-
year Plan) at prices below cost of production.
(10) The levying in many countries of heavy
taxation to meet national and international indebted-
ness.
(11) The incursions of the State into private
enterprise, which “create in the business and finan-
cial world a state of fear and uncertainty that is
prejudicial to any immediate return to normal con-
ditions.”
The unequal distribution of gold, the in-
stability of the gold standard, the abnormal
monetary movements resulting from war
debts, and the incoherent distribution of
goods are in turn blamed. All, however,
appear to agree that the present crisis is
allied to the cyclic crises of the past.
After every great war an economic crisis
has followed. The present one differs from
its predecessors in its world-wide nature.
After all previous calamities business has
improved and the welfare of the people has
advanced; this has followed upon hard work
and economy.
Whether the depression had yet touched
bottom was doubted. As regards agricul-
ture, stocks of wheat and sugar were higher
at the end of 1930 than in 1929, thus dis-
missing any hope of early recovery unless
there is a run of bad harvests in the chief
producing countries, or unless low prices
force out the weaker producers. As for
metals, in the past low prices have usually
closed low-grade mines and increased con-
sumption ; and already some metal stocks
are decreasing.
For manufactured products the outlook
was not regarded as very cheerful. Though
bankruptcies of manufacturers throughout
the world have been frequent, the decrease in
production has not been commensurate with
the falling off in consumption. The very
fact of the closing down of some factories
meant more unemployment and a lowering
of the purchasing powder of the public. It
seems certain, too, that while Russia is
allowed to play havoc with the world’s
markets by organised dumping, recovery will
be slow'. Regulation of output and the
declaring of Russian goods “black” were
viewed as the most obvious remedies.
The Wealth of N. S. Wales
The 16-column advertisements of the
N.S.W. State Savings Bank, which made an
earnest appeal for deposits at Raster-time,
included the sonorous and drum-banging
statement that the wealth of the Ma State
is £2,000,000,000 at a conservative estimate.
This is responsible for the Savings Bank’s
liabilities—if it can be found, of course. By
“wealth” is meant the value of all tangible
private belongings within the Commonwealth,
whether mortgaged or not, and whether
owned by residents or absentees.
If the big loans didn’t make the paper
bubble bigger each time while the big loans
lasted, what were the big loans for? Hence
this is how Australia’s “wealth” grew dur-
ing recent times:—
Alleged Wealth per Inhabitant,
Total Wealth, including the ffaby.
1890 .. £1,019,242,000 £328 0 0
1903 .. 981,979,000 252 4 5
1915 1,619,517,000 327 3 3
1921 .. 2,165,861,000 396 16 11
1925 . . 2,836,902,000 478 6 0
There was a big slump in the old boom-
burst time; in the 12 years 1903-15 there
was a paper expansion of about £60,000,000
per annum; after that came 10 years of mad
and riotous loans (1916-25), when the
alleged value of bits of land and sundries
went to fabulous heights, and the wealth of
the nation grew in the inflamed popular
fancy at the rate of £121,700,000 per annum,
and a slum family of parents and three
children was nominally endowed with £2392.
No official wealth estimate appears in the
Federal “Year-Book” for a later year than
1925, but it is propounded on behalf of
Lang’s bank that the one State of N.S.W. is
now worth £2,000,000,000, or nearly as much
as the whole Commonwealth was worth ten
years ago!
The Docile Victim
Dear Bulletin, —We are a quaint people,
we Australians. A century of irresponsible
prosperity enjoyed in safe isolation from the
crooked currents of old-world fraud and
violence has left us so gullible, so careless
of our safety and our interests, that we do
not recognise a war against Australia whilst
it is actually being waged in our midst. It
is not a war of uniforms and guns—at least,
not. yet, although that phase may come quite
shortly in its most malevolent form, civil
war—but a relentless attack on our liberty
and on our savings.
Already Australian Government securi-
ties are quoted in London and New York
amongst the second-class bonds, classed with
those of the shakier of the South American
republics. It is perfectly reasonable that
they should be in this position. Would any
sane Australian invest his hard-earned money
in a foreign country whose Federal Trea-
surer is under a charge of so sinister an
import in respect of public funds entrusted
to his charge as that involved in the pro-
ceedings initiated by the Queensland Govern-
ment against Mr. Theodore on the findings
of a Judge of the Supreme Court of N. S.
Wales sitting as a Royal Commission?
Would he invest it in a country the Premier
of whose senior State openly advocates the
repudiation of public debts? Would he in-
vest it in a country where currency-inflation
is the admitted policy of its Prime Minister
and Treasurer? Yet he does it liberally in
his own country where such things, and
more, are being done in his clear view, and
where simultaneously a steady assault is
being made on the legal protection which has
in the past been afforded to his interests by
the Courts.
With the power to enforce every Caucus
whim as the law of the land, the obvious out-
come will be that resistance to such whims will
be overcome by punitive action for the pro-
per support of the “law.” In other words,
by violence. And violence, under these cir-
cumstances, is merely civil war.
Do Australians never read of what has
happened in other countries? Do they
imagine that they are a special creation of
mankind, set apart for ever from internecine
conflict? —Yours etc., Mister Greenhide.
Wasted Fuel
Dear Bulletin, —While waiting round
for someone to discover oil or find a sub-
stitute, why not try to get more out of the
fuel we use? There is a definite mixture of
air and gas which gives the best result,
and a wide variation exists between
too rich and too lean a mixture. Over-rich
means fuel wasted ; over-lean tends towards
power loss.
Variation in moisture content and tem-
perature of the air, temperature of the engine
and composition of the fuel all affect effi-
ciency quite apart from bad adjustment of
the carburetter. Most American carburet-
ters are automatic —so-called. They are
made to work under an average of the re-
quired conditions, and this arrangement is
right enough where petrol is very cheap.
My own experience, however, gives some
idea of the waste that takes place. The
makers of my Continental car said it should
do 30 miles to the gallon, but it rarely did.
I was quite satisfied with anywhere round
about 25 m.p.g. until petrol went up 3d.
Then I set out to' economise, and by making
full use of the adjustments provided I have
got up to 50 m.p.g.
It is a safe bet that there is not one car
in the land that could not be made to give
another ten or a dozen miles p.g. if fitted
with the right kind of carburetter. We can
make carburetters in Australia—that is, if
someone kicks us in the seat of the pants
and wakes us up.—Yours truly, Tomb.
The Falkiner Cane Harvester
More comes from London about the Fal-
kiner cane harvester, an Australian inven-
tion. After watching a field test on 25,000
acres., a Cuban firm placed an order for 20
machines. Tests were first carried out with
the machines on Queensland plantations two
or three years ago, and the Queensland Cane
Harvester Co. was formed in Brisbane to
market them. The inventor then took his
designs to America, and as the result of
experiment and expert assistance has elimi-
nated minor defects,' and has produced a
much lighter and less expensive model.
Tax Contraceptives!
Dear Bulletin, —It’s no good blinking the
facts, so why not a heavier, not prohibitive,
sales tax on contraceptives, mechanical and
medicinal? The revenue could be used to
offset the baby-bonus expenditure which,
according to the 1930 “Commonwealth Year
Book,” amounted to £661,520 in 1929, or
£2 10s. 3d. per taxpaying head, for 329,480
joungsters, which was about 3000 less than
in 1928. Such an impost would yield no
inconsiderable income, and, aboi r e all, it
would not be a class tax. Finally, it’s the
one tax about which there would be no
influential squeal when it was applied, for
obvious reasons; and, as the sales tax
collecting machinery is in full operation, the
cost of collecting it would be negligible.—
Yours, S.
“Bodkins”: I wanted tinned meat. The
man turned to a shelf flamboyant with Yankee
signs. I demanded good Australian beef.
He didn’t stock Australian. The superior
American beef was worth the little more
asked in price, owing to its greater delicacy
and better quality. I took three tins. The
labels alone were worth a portion of the
price. There was the name of the manufac-
turer big for all to see, and his home address,
Chicago, writ in large letters. There was an
American eagle, and there were guarantees
as to weight, instructions how to serve, and
commendations of the delicacy of the product.
But for the fact that it was a foreign pro-
duct I’d have enjoyed that beef. Then I put
in the key which opens the tin. I slipped
it over the lug and twisted that back. Under
there, hidden away from the vulgar sight, was
a bit of microscopic writing which attracted
me. In twisting the lug I had destroyed that
notice. But I folded it out again and this
is what I read: “Packed by the So-and-
So Company, Ltd., Australia.” There was
a bit more writing above that which inter-
ested me also. I felt I was exploring. I
put the glass on that to read “Packed under
Commonwealth Government supervision.”
This thing is displayed, handled and sold as
a Yank product. Isn’t it nearly time our
legislators did something to protect the coun-
try which employs them?
* * * *
“Elgar”: I have just got the cheque for
the last of this season’s crop of fruit. It
was a good crop, yet after deducting produc-
ing costs —ploughing, harrowing, cultivating,
pruning, manuring, spraying, picking and
carting—and not counting odd times spent
thinning out, etc., I am £44 out of pocket. And
I must do the same next year or let a good
garden go to ruin. On top of this I have
to pay the municipal rates and a land tax.
Don’t imagine I’m whining. I’m only one
of thousands: very few men on the land
have made a net income this year. Union-
ists, public servants and politicians sniffle
over a measly 10 per cent, reduction. Ten
per cent.! I’d smile if I was reduced no
more than 50 per cent.!


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122.T32 SPENCER BT,, MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
It
n o
in
FBI
Melbourne's Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. W«*1l
Sinaia Room and Urals t. »• 25/- 158/-
Dmible Room and Mini* .. .. 4ft/- 800/-
filmjle Room and Breakfast .. 16/* 100/-
Rouble Room and Breakfast -. 27/B 182/fl
Telephone: F4141.
DONT FLIRT! STICKTO
SSS
mr I*®
US
»r*
Si
CR.AIC &AITK.EN
654 GEORGE
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLtB REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
ŗ
ABORIGINALITIES
“Dry Shave”; Let me rush to the rescue
of the flea victims. I thought I’d rented a
seaside cottage for my own family last
Christmas, but I found a family of fleas
already in possession. A bag of four to
fourteen was the nightly kill till our nurse-
girl, a local lass, well versed in Pulex Irri-
tansiana, suggested placing sprigs of fresh
mint between sheets and mattress and
beneath pillows. As the garden was full of
mint —maybe grown for the purpose—we
were no further troubled.
* * * *
“Hoey” : “Hullo there, Dave ! How goes
it, Dad? You’re down then for the Show?
They tell me things are looking bright up
round your way. I hope that’s right?”
Dave answered soft and slow. Said he:
“Well, strike a flamin’ light, I don’t know
what you coves call bright, so help me if
I do. This year our wool cheque was a blob;
our wheat ain’t worth a flaanin’ bob.” Dad
muttered _ deep, “Too true!” Said Dave:
“Our fruit crop was a dud; we never sold
one blasted spud—they got the blanky blight.
And all the cows fer miles around got in the
flood, and all was drowned. Yairs, matey,
things is bright.” Said Dad: “Yer can’t
give milk away these days. The flamin’ game
don’t pay a feller fer his toil, and all the
cockies round our way are getting scarcer
every day—they’re walkin’ off the soil. The
pigs we’ve got we cannot sell; now that the
price of bacon’s fell we fairly live on pork.
We have a lot of chooks that lay, but eggs
is things that never pay. You fellers oughter
tork!” Said Dave: “The coot what runs
the store won’t give us credit any more. He
says he’s darned well through. And where
we’re goin’ to get the seed and fertiliser
that we need, I dunno more than you. That
ram we gave two ’undred for got ate be the
wild dogs before we got one flamin’ lamb.”
Said Dad: “We need another plough, but
HE ONLY GOT THE TEXT.
VOICE FROM INSIDE: “‘In my Faather’s house are many mansions.’"
THE OUTSIDER: “Didst ever ’ear tell the like o’ that, boay? Why, ’s faather’s ’ouse
is little old pug ’ut.”
BUSH LITERATURE.
FIRST SWAGGIE: “Do much readin’?”
SECOND DITTO: “Yes, good deal.”
FIRST DITTO: “What d’ you read?”
SECOND DITTO: “Notices to trespassers, mostly.”
where it’s goin’ to come from now has got
me in a jamb. That pommy feller that we
had got tangled in the stripper bad, and lost
his blasted hand; and now the grasshoppers
has come and ate us out er house and home.
Be cripes, it beats the band!” Said Dave:
“It’s rained that much this year the
ploughin’ won’t be done till near about the
end of June.” Said Dad: “Our swags
we’ll have ter roll and go and get this
bloomin’ dole, if things don’t alter soon!”
And when they’d thus soliloquised, said I:
“That so? Well, I’m surprised to meet you
both down here.” “Aw, well,” said Dad,
and drained his rum; “I promised both the
girls and Mum a new sedan this year.”
# % * *
“C.A.8.”: A battered-looking ancient
comes weekly with rabbits. Putting down
his. basket he growled: “Some people’s
tongues run away with ’em. There’s a
poor widow woman I’ve been giving a nice
young rabbit to every week; she was real
grateful and sometimes she’d ask me in for
a _ cup of tea. But the. nasty neighbors’
tongues have begun to wag, so I can’t go
there any more.” ■ 4 He sighed as he picked
up his basket. “Oh, well,- .they’ve done it
now. They’ve gone' and killed the fatted
calf that laid the' golden - eggs.”
* t- * *
“Wang”: Dad,was showing the city man
over the farm, and was: expatiating on the
fertility of the soil.;, The visitor listened
politely enough, but was manifestly unim-
pressed, for Dad had not produced evidence
in support of his claims. They made their
way down to where the river widened out
into a lagoon. Tied to a tree on,the bank
was an example of young Bill’s handicraft,
a canoe made out of sheets of • stringy-bark.
“Who made that boat?” asked the visitor,
pointing to the canoe. “What boat?” asked
Dad, pretending to look all over the lagoon.
The visitor again pointed to the bark canoe..
“Oh, that ain’t a boat!” Dad remarked airily.
“Not a boat!” cried the other. “Then what
on earth is it?” i “It’s a pod of pne of those
beans I was tellin’ yer about,” replied Dad
as he hurried the visitor away.
* * # *
“Elderly Infant”: We live in a mechanised
age surroundtid by such elaborate contraptions
as the radio, the motor-car, the aeroplane, the
player-piano, the Wurlitzer and the talkies,
and if the rising generation isn’t getting
mechanically-minded it ought to be. Their
forebears had a grounding with the bicycle,
a simple thing, but productive of much in-
genuity in the matter of roadside repairs. In
the days when, outside locomotives and trac-
tion engines, the two-wheeler was the only
mechanical means of land transport, to mend
a puncture with a postage-stamp was so
common a procedure that it attracted no
attention. Real resourcefulness was called
for w r hen the frame of the grid came unstuck,
got fractured in a collision, or just broke
through crystallisation. There was, among
lcng-distance riders, a regular technique for
such occasions. If the front fork stem broke
just above the crown, as it had a way of
doing, and if the rider survived, he sought
around for a stout sapling (in Maoriland a
stout stick of. gorse, available in almost every
farm fence, was used). This was whittled to
fit with a pocket-knife, pounded into the
broken tube with a boulder —and the job
was finished. A compound fracture of top
and bottom tubes needed more detailed atten-
tion. A wooden splice was used in each
tube, and then the nearest fence was raided
for a few yards of wire, with which a tourni-
quet was fashioned to hold the frame
together. That was one reason why cyclists
weren’t popular in agrarian circles. In hilly
country, even though a rider had no brake on
his machine—brakes were reckoned, as were
mudguards, to be effeminate things—he could
safely tackle a steep down-grade by attach-
ing a young tree by its roots to his saddle —
the steeper the grade the bigger the tree.
Once when I had appropriated a very nice
young pine-tree for this purpose, a bucolic
person fired at me with a shotgun. He didn’t
hit me, but for the next two miles I wished
my downward course were not controlled by
the purloined chunk of silviculture. Such
incidents, however, added-to the spice of life.
* * * *
“Honi Pikau” : Old Wiri te Waikato, with
the assistance of Mrs. Wiri and a couple of
young Wiris, milks a herd of 50 cows by
hand. “Why don’t you put in machines,
Wiri?” I asked him. “Oh. no, choa,” he
answered. “I ton’t know anyting apout
machinery—tat te one reason why I never
puy te pike (bike).”
“Yexam”: The kookaburra wasn’t chris-
tened “jackass” by any bushman. The name
was provided by a member of the French
expedition led by D’Entrecasteaux and Huon
de Ivermadec 130 years ago. A party was
rambling ashore in Tasmania, near what is
now Franklin (Huon River), when they
heard for the first time the mirthless cackle
of the kookaburra. Said one of them:
“Ecoutez la jacassc.” “ .Tacasse” is a provin-
cial colloquialism for a “chattering girl.”
BULL-ANT MAC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I’ve known a lot of paper blokes, an’ some
was bad and some was good,
An’ some could write a bit,” said Joe, “an’
others only thought they could.
But spare me days! I’ll never see another
chap to gore and toss
His enemies like Bull-ant Mac, who ran the
‘Meataxe’ at the Cross.
“He never wrapped his meaning up in milk-
and-water wrnrds,” said Joe ;
“If chaps were what he reckoned crooks or
lying hounds lie told them so.
The bigger the antagonist, the more ferocious
the attack.
An’ all the coves that he disliked were curs
or crooks to Bull-ant Mac.
“He never walked with kings—perhaps that’s
why he kept the common touch —
But he was always wading into those who
counted themselves such.
A Premier was no more to him than any
jumped-up union boss,
And many a Warden’s name was mud who
narked the ‘Meataxe’ at the Cross.
“Each Saturday his adjectives fell on the
field like bursting shell;
He loved to give officious mine inspectors
undiluted hell.
Labor and Capital in turn to leg with vicious-
ness he’d smack,
And erring mayors had need of prayers to
dodge the wrath of Bull-ant Mac.
“At each successive Government he’d lurid
objurgations fling
For giving sturdy miners nix and whining
cockies everything.
None wrote the gold into the ground or put
a glamor and a gloss
Upon a boom like Bull-ant Mac, who ran
the ‘Meataxe’ at the Cross.
“Another chap would have been cast in
thumping damages,” said Joe,
“For saying half the things that from his
vitriolic pen would flow.
But somehow no one threatened law, and
round the pubs and on the track
They brightened up the dull week-ends, those
weekly strafes from Bull-ant Mac.
“No milk of human kindness there,” said
Joe, “you’re liable to think.
You’re wrong. I never saw the bloke for
whom he wouldn’t shout a drink.
And when he’d penned his final par., few
didn’t feel a sense of loss
For fulminating Bull-ant Mac, who ran the
‘Meataxe’ at the Cross.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
■ Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
THIS YEAR
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to con-
serve carefully and to spend wisely, it is now. In most cases
incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and conse-
quently reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money—-it is just as
much a matter of careful, useful spending; but obviously the
saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully.
It costs nothing, but will help you to help yourself.
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
o
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 . double.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 65/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyons’
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised, tariff card.
“Giant Sloth”: “The Dormouse’s” levita-
tion dream (B. l/4/’3l) may be as common
as he says, but one that I’ll back as being
a lot better known among civilised folk is
the dream where one strolls around in public
places in a shocking state of undress. This,
of course, is not a favorite with “Dor-
mouse’s” Lulus, and it isn’t mentioned in
the diaries of good Queen Vic. (perhaps she
was too much of a lady to commit such
things to paper), but has occasioned most
other folk a lot of mental distress at a time
when they were supposed to be having a
rest. The state of undressedness varies. Some-
times it is a case of stark nudity—it’s won-
derful how assiduously the crowds in dreams
mind their own business and pretend to be
quite unconscious of our nakedness —and in
others it is merely a case of sitting in the
grandstand at Randwick in pyjamas or pad-
ding down George-street at midday in bare
feet. An acute consciousness that these
things simply are not done is a painful fea-
ture of such excursions. In my own case I
generally say to myself, “This is a dream.
It will be all right when I wake up.” Where-
upon I do wake. Like “Dormouse’s” floating
visions the unclothed dream is outside wak-
ing experience—at least it’s outside my wak-
ing experience. If I were a millionaire I
should ascribe it to the fear of poverty, which
is traditionally the hag: that rides the rich,
and I could understand it were it my foible
to be a glass of fashion. These explanations
hot bhing available; I can only conclude that
I. have inherited a sub-personality, released
only in slumber, belonging to an era when
the fortunes of my family were higher a.nd
its' attention to . personal adornment more
intensive than is the case in the present day.
Either that, or there were ancestors who
begged . their bread in scant attire, or who
belonged to an age and clime where clothing
didn’t' matter. It may even have something
to do with Adam.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Unemployment has caused a
big revival in prospecting in South Aus., as
well as other States. The S.A. prospector
lias vvery. little to encourage him, for
since the few rich patches of alluvial, like
those at Barossa, were cleaned' out 60 years
ago, few men have made more than tucker,
and only one mine —the Deloraine, at Kers-
brook- —has returned more than capital for
many a long day. Yet colors can be washed
over a big area of country, and —I mention
this in the hope of heartening some of the
lads now on the job—an old German cocky
I know owns two pickle-bottles of coarse gold,
specked over his paddocks after rains during
the last 20 years. One of his daughters has
II ounces, gleaned in the same way. Several
of the older hands are knocking out some-
thing very near the basic wage, though
naturally they aren’t getting SCL to broad-
cast the fact. In any case, as the boys will
tell you; “It’s better-than drawing rations and
loafing in the unemployed camp.”
* * * *
“Pot Jostler”: I .was connected with a
north-west W.A. • asbestos show where pay-
days were always in doubt. A time came
when the men were paid to the 17th of the
month and told to take a fortnight off at
their own expense. Four of us decided
to go to the nearest seaside town,
Port ITedland, and on our return we pulled
up at a wayside pub some miles from the
mine. Here we learnt that the hands left
behind had got the mine truck, spent
their holiday at the pub, and nearly exhausted
its stock of liquor. At the mine we found
a dozen or so of the men were suffering a
recovery, They asked permission to go back
to the pub for an eye-opener. This was
refused, as we had to get out a shipment of
asbestos for the next boat calling at the
port; but we didn’t ship that fibre. The dry-
mouthed miners found six bottles of methy-
lated spirits, poured the stuff into a camp-
oven, added milk, water, ginger, sugar and
cream of tartar, boiled the lot and flavored
it with essence of lemon. Not a man went
to work for four days. Some were out of
action for a week. The mine closed down.
THE ONLY THING SHE COULD SUGGEST .
“Look, do you know anything of my wife’s whereabouts?”
“Her wear-abouts, sir? I ain’t seen them; but they may be in the laundry."
“Jenny Lintott”; North Westralia has
seen the decline of many a gentleman in his
own right. Sometimes it was beer, some-
times just a weariness of the world of many
standards. Onslow used to be known as
the “port of missing-
men.” One who was a
boy at Marble Bar
remembers nights in
camp, along ci’eeks
that sparkled xvith
quip and quotation,
from Horace down
to Bret Harte. The
outstanding character
in that little legion of
the lost was Edward
Home. Home came to
Nullagine at the close
of liis youth, and lived
there, apparently on a
monthly mail from Eng-
land, till his death a
few years ago' in the
Marble Bar hospital,
long past 80. He was
temperate, studious and
well respected. Look-
ing up to one of the
brightest patches of
night sky in the wo'rld, he
discovered a star which
now bears his name, if
it was his name. He
left a few old classics,
the title-pages carefully
torn out, and many
volumes of a diary in
Greek and a code which
has never been claimed
nor deciphered. Cap-
tain Douglas Manners,
soldier,. scholar and
gentleman, said to be
first cousin to the Eng-
lish Duff-Cooper beauty,
died at Broome a few
years ago, and Colonel
Graves, brother of Clo-
tilde Graves (Richard
Dehan), went from
thei-e to finish his days
in the Old Men’s Home
at Fremantle. He sent
the authoress the color
for all her novels, from
“The Dop Doctor” to
“Droone,” which latter
is a distorted picture of
the Australian pearl-
poi’t. To-day in Kim-
berley they will point
you out a belted lord
who works a little vegetable garden on
the south bank of the Lower Fitzroy, and
a bax-onet who, wandering the long trails
with his pack donkey, traces his descent
back to the Bruce.
* * * *
“Wailani”: Women of the Mejeele tribes,
on the East Alligator River (N.A.), have
a quaint custom. From the. moment one of
them knows that she is to have her “first-
time piccaninny,”
she carries every-
where with her what
is meant for a doll
or effigy of the small
expected. It is a
dillybag of fine ban-
yan string packed
with corroboree wool,
human hair, bits of
ochred bark and any
soft bright trifles
that take her fancy,
with a string to
carry it by. The
crude arrangement is
cuddled and sung to,
nursed by the camp
sisters, laid in the
shade, tenderly
watched and never
left for a moment.
You will occasion-
ally see one, when
the tribes are in, at
the picture show in
Darwin. It is called
“namur,” the East
Alligator name for
baby, and is cher-
ished until the real
baby arrives, when
it is promptly
thrown away. Per-
haps the idea was
first thought of, in
the wild man’s pri-
mitive wisdom, as a
lesson in ante-natal
care, but if so it has
failed, for the little
stranger itself is
seldom so lov-
ingly treated. “Where true-fella picca-
ninny?” I asked a young mother who had
zealously guarded her banyan-bag baby for
months. “Bin losem that one,” she said
cheerfully. “Him tchilleep too much close-
up longa fire, bin dead-fella.”
“Yeriyitti”: Up in Kimberley they grade
them cooks, cuckoos and wilful murderers,
and they say that when a man gets too old
to live there’s always cooking. A good few
of the old hands are still at it along the
HE COULD DO HIS PART.
LEAN: “Say, you’re a bit of a naturalist. Could you tell a pure-
bred Japanese goldfish?”
SHORT: “Oh, I suppose I could. But, mind you, I don’t say
it’ll understand me.”
Ord and Fitzroy—men wlio came up in the
’B6 rush or pioneered in the days “before
the yeast bread.” Their nicknames, _in a
region where nicknames show a twist of
• genius, describe them better than I could.
Among them are Seapie .Tack, who kept a
boardinghouse at Hall’s Creek when it was
known to the world; Five-day Jack (it
takes just about five days to wake up to
him) ; Short-stop Turner; Dook Me Steve
Butler; Pistol Bill, who wears a gun and
practises out of the kitchen window while
the potatoes are boiling; the South African
brothers, Inspan and Outspan; Singin’
Scotty, inseparable pals xvith his horse
Sandy; Jim Burness, who fIeAV to Wynd-
ham with the "first aeroplane, and solemnly
answered to his name in court, “James
Burness, y’r Honor, the Flyin’ Cook”; and
Bon Ton Burns, \A r hose racehorse won him
£3o,ooo—he still has its name left. Hot
or Cold is gone—corned beef was his speci-
alty. Left us also have the July Bun,
Cully-a-lie, Doughboy Tom, Mickey the
Priest, Shirtless Jack, Taylor the Rager,
the Torn Pocket, Ripsy 800, No Good Billy
and Bony Bream —“white tablecloth cooks”
all. Auvergne, out on the rim of the nigger
hills, saw the last of Fred Matthews, once
one of Australia’s most noted circus clowns,
the “hidol of the public” ; and it. has just
got over the ravages of the “Fantastical
Cook.” He guaranteed “ding-dong tucker,
but nothing fantastical.” Two days later,
when, with no eggs on the station, they
asked him for lemon sago, he wiped his
hands and sighed. “Never ’eard of it,
Missus. Never ’eard of anybody as ’as
’eard of it,” he said sternly. “This lot’s
too fantastical for me.” Ten minutes later,
with his billy-pot and his pack pony, he was
a small dust on the plain.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil” : Touching Mrs. Black Swan and
her nest (B. 25/3/’3l), I spoke too soon. I
forgot tKb ingenuity of the Adelaide City
Council. A few years ago they pulled do'wn
a good weir and built another “that would
control the level of the water more effec-
tively.” The improvement was not notice-
able until this year’s breeding season for
water-fowl was well advanced; then the
coun'cil raised the water level in the “Lake”
about 18 inches and kept it there. Poor
Mrs. B. Swan’s eggs (and those of most of
the other nesting swans) were drowned. I
saw her and her mate standing by the site
of the nest to-day making mournful sounds.
OLD MATES O’ MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder oft where they are to-day,
Old mates o’ mine, •
Who roamed with me out to Faraway,
When the hills were green or the plains were
grey, ,
On the cattle trails with the old jackshay,
In rain and shine.
Some come to me in the afterglow,
Old mates o’ mine ; ' • ‘
Or seem to look from the. long ago,
Big Tom and Harry and Jack and Joe,
Amid the smoke when the fire is low
And nights are fine. t ' .
The far ways held them that bronzed their
backs, ■ ~
Old mates o’ mine;
And ever they turned with their saddle-packs,
When droving took them down eastern
tracks, /
Back to the joys of their western shacks
Among the pine.
They rode and roughed in the sunset blocks,
Old mates o’ mine, ;
By sun and stars with the herds and flocks;
And though life’s way was bestrewn with
rocks,
With a grim resolve they would take their
knocks,
And never whine.
The years that scattered them far and wide,
Old mates o’ mine,
Passed some, no doubt, o’er the Great Divide;
But still they camp on the western side,
Above, beneath, where they used to ride
’Mong the porcupine.
N.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


The Lang Government has brought down a bill to reduce interest
rates. What is the legal position of bondholders?
The effect of the Theodore proposals will depend largely upon
whether the banks can prevent inflation of prices. Can they?
What are the points to watch in valuing shares?
When will the drift stop?
Why does gold flow to the U.S.A. and France?
What cos. are standing up best to the strain?
These and many other problems of vital interest are discussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT MONTHLY.”
APRIL
NUMBER
NOW
ON SALE
Single copy, 2/-;
per annum, 22/6.
From newsagents
or “Bulletin’
offices Sydney,
Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide,
Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
Investors can’t be expected to go on lend-
ing if they’re robbed of their interest in
Australia.
* ¥
“He gave up art when, after painting a score of
pictures, he failed to sell a single one.— “ Sun.”
It was certainly enough to break anyone's
art.
¥ *
“It was an old house, full of draughts, and was
seldom tenanted.” — “World’s News.”
Even the tenants blew in and out.
THE INNO-CENT MAIDEN AND THE WICKED
COCKTAIL.
“Holy smoke! — what’s the matter?”
“That last cocktail’s taken advantage of me.”
xt c.¥ r- an ° once boasted that he knew where his
•N.S.W. Government could get £24,000,000.”
Time has unfortunately brought that to
nought.
* #
ETIQUETTE.
When to drink his good health your friend
asks you in,
Behave in a manner discreet;
Don t lean on the sideboard and chuck his
wife’s chin,
Or feel for the rail with your feet
P. O. M. C.
“Dearer Hats.”— “Sun" heading. .
We fancy this new expense will be felt.
“In England recently the police arrested a man
against whom 1100 complaints had been received
from all parts of the country.”— “Herald."
Mr. Scullin says the English simply don’t
know how to complain.
* *
IN REVERSE.
“Originally a sporting journalist himself, ever
since engaging in fight-promotion he has been at
war with the boxing writers.” — “Referee."
He used to write the fights up,
But now he’s changed his view;
,To-day he fights the writes-up
That other pressmen do.
*£■ *
IMPROBABLE COMMUNICATIONS.
Dear Jack, —I wonder if Mrs. Lang (to
whom all the best !) would spare you on
Thursday for dinner and bridge at the club?
Jimmy Onslow is coming (a rotten player,
but very anxious to meet you again after
that delightful week-end you gave us at your
palatial seat near Windsor), and also Herr
Schmidt, who is here on a financial mission.
Schmidt, who is one of Sir Otto’s relations,
has heard all sorts of flattering things about
your ability as a financier, and wants advice.
Sir Philip may be cutting in, but don’t wear
yo'ur orders —just a black tie and short coat.
Yours ever, Tom Bavin.
P.S. —We’ll be playing five bob, and, while
I remember it, that means five bob whether
you win or lose. Between ourselves, Jimmy
was rather annoyed when you sealed down
the stakes from ss. to 3d. the other night
on the gro'und that you couldn’t afford to
pay him the 7000 points you owed on the
pre-arranged basis. P.P.S. —And no fiduciary
cheques either, old sport!
The Archbishop of Sydney presents his
compliments to' Sir Samuel Hordern, and
desires to thank him for a most enjoyable
day at the Show
Ground on Friday.
If the Archbishop
may be permitted to
select a particular
item for praise,
where all were praise-
worthy, he would like
to make special men-
tion of the Fattest
Lady in the World.
She is, indubitably,
to borrow the color-
ful phrase of an ad-
miring cathedral offi-
cial, a bonzerina.
Dear Mr. Bilk, —
Hearty congratula-
tions on your suc-
cessful introduction
of the New Petrol!
I had a fill-up at
your garage on Sat-
urday, and the mix-
ture proved on analy-
sis to contain no less
than 50 p.c. pure
kerosene. Knocking
was entirely elimi-
nated. Acceleration
was brilliant—l can
use no other word.
Top-gear climbing
staggered friends and
self. Though, owing
to my remissness, the
radiator was empty
and the engine practi-
cally without lubri-
cating oil, while the
speedo more than
once showed 75
m.p.h., no undue heat
was generated. Can
you wonder that I
am recommending the
New Petrol to all
friends?—Yours for
efficiency, J. C. Wat-
son. Pres., N.R.M.A.
Dear Brigadier-
General Gordon Ben-
nett, —I find it dif-
ficult to express the
. „ joy with which I
and my colleagues of the National Club
the steady forward march
of the A.F.A. The day of the machine poli-
tician is ending, and the world, my dear
Brigadier-General, will be the better fo'r it
He will disappear into oblivion reviled and
execrated by all, lamented by none. No
more pre-selection ramps! No more iinder-
ground engineering in the interests of party
hacks ! Every Australian whose heart is in
the right place feels profoundly grateful to
you for your patriotic efforts.—Yours very
sincerely, Archdale Parkiiill.
P.S.—Would you be good enough to oblige
me with an introduction to your chief? I
fancy I could play Laurel to his Hardy, so
to speak, to our mutual advantage.
D.
We understand that the inscription on the
proposed £1 fiduciary notes will be: —
The Commonwealth Treasurer promises to pay
bearer £1 inside a fortnight.
* *
REHABILITATING DR. PAGE.
“Dr. Earle Page has lost prestige since the advent
of the A.F.A. — “Argus” correspondent.
However, he should recover it when the
ballyhoo merchant wild has been imported
OBVIOUSLY.
MRS. JINGLE: “ Next time we have visitors
you needn’t hold up the whole drawing-
room reciting your own poems.”
MR. JINGLE: “All the BEST poets do it,
m’dear.”
MRS. JINGLE: “Well, that’s very different!”
from _ the Levi-Cohenstein lot, Hollywood,
gets into his stride. Some samples to date:
A Yen, Realised.
When Earle Page became an alumni of
Sydney College (Melb., Aus.) he developed
a yen to' be described as Australia’s Most
Tragic Treasurer, He crashed the gate as
Senator from the tall sticks, and soon had
the press boys comparing him to the French
king who, built Versailles, Then along came
Congressman Gullett, and gave him his
Heart’s Desire. Earle is aged 24 years, 3
months ; weighs 1701 b,; stands 6ft. 2in. in
his socks, and is as handsome as a sun god.
(Coming! The Earl! And, oh, goilies,
you sure will love him!)
A Bona-fide British Peer.
Not generally known that Earle Page is
a dyed-in-the-wool British earl. The “e”
is camouflage—a pleasing proof of the idol-
ised star’s retiring nature. He gave away
the family estates to necessitous relatives,
and settled the title, with right to vote in
the Lords, on a college chum and frat. mem-
ber who had failed on the land. “There’s
pickings in the old place, brother,” lie’s re-
ported to have said. “You need the money
more than me. Go to’ it!”
The Pago title dates from 1224, when
William I, created Hotspur Page an earl in
recognition of his bravery at Waterloo.
(A reeling riot of cheers, hurrahs, votes
and shouts of bucolic approval! The Doctor
in his constituency.)
World-famous as a Medico.
Yes, fans, he’s a doctor (by exam!), too.
Born in Edinburgh (Eng.), a hotbed of
medical talent, he entered in one of his
home-town chiropractor tourneys, and was
successful first time. Next thing his wor-
shipping old mammy knew her boy was in
Fleet-street measuring scalpels with Dr.
Johnson himself —and winning. After that
they just naturally made him King’s Physi-
cian, Holder of Dr. Doggett’s Coat and
Badge, and Hon. D.C.L. of Eton University.
And so on and up till he rose eventually to
be an Australian politician.
“No, I wouldn’t say my fan mail was
anything much,” he said modestly. “Little
bigger, probably, than that of the Prince of
Wales. But there was a time” And the
modern Apollo smiled reminiscently, and
afterwards was silent for a space. Think-
ing ! Thinking!
D. J.
* *
PEACE.
Once "bandits used to try with zest
To pinch my hard-earned roll.
But now my mind is quite at rest.
They can’t well pinch my dole.
O. W. W.
¥ *
“Country organisations are pressing for a Govern-
ment guarantee for wheat.”
Merchants, however, feel it would go
against the grain.
THREE QUATRAINS.
I. —Faith.
A snifter day, an’ siveet the programme looks.
What price the fav’rites rompin’ home
to-day?
Ten quid down south to sting the bloomin’
books,
An’ winners stickin’ out like forks in hay.
11. — Hope.
’Three races gorn an’ I ain’t cracked it yet.
Ah, well, the next should get a feller
square.
Now is the time to fly a man-sized bet,
I’ll eat me hat if this cert, don’t get
there!
111. — Charity.
Well, things are crook, me heart is reel down-
cast.
Six morals beat an’ me without a brown.
Ah, there’s Bill Smith, collectin’ on the
“last.”
I’ll touch him for me tram fare back to
town.
P.O.M.C.
THE CONSISTENT ADMIRER.
“Please let me see you home!” This phrase
I often used when first
We met. Anticipation sweet
Was mine, as down the moonlit street
We strolled, in love immersed.
Now on her own to costly shows
And dances does she roam.
She treads a very distant heat
From mine. Though wed, I still repeat
I’d like to see her home!
P.
DEPRESSION STORY.
1-Ie rose in the morning, hungry but penni-
less, and walked past a church so that he
might refresh himself on the roll
of the organ whilst leaning
against a door so as to get the
benefit of the jamb. Feeling
hungry again at lunchtime, he
went into the Gardens, and from
one of the flower-beds he secured
a stake. Later there was a bit
of a riot in the city and he got
in for his chop.
Still all this was not very
satisfying, and the fact that he
was in the soup did not relieve
his hunger. Despair made him
inclined to drink ; and lie wan-
dered from spot to spot in tiic
city.
The magistrate said curtly
next day “Fined 55.,” and he
frankly owned that he couldn’t.
He sparred for time, and a box-
ing-instructor who happened to
be in court was so struck by the
way he did it that he gave him
a chance as a puncliing-bag for
pupils.
Before, he had not been thank-
ful for his job, taking it as a
matter of course; now lie accepts every job
lie receives in a thankful spirit and collects
Ins three quid a week (less unemployment
tax) with a joyful heart.
He is boxing on.
H. M.
SOLIDARITY.
“The A.L.P. State Conference in Sydney decided
that all workers must boycott wearers of A.F A.
badges.”
“Hold up your head, my poor man.”
Mrs. Subbubs succeeded in forcing brandy
between the derelict’s lips.
She turned to her husband. “H'e’s half-
starved. I’ll get him some food.”
“What brought you to this?” asked the
husband.
“It’s a mystery to me, boss. First Ted
Theodore said there’d be no more unemploy-
ment if I voted for his lot. I did, and lost
me job. Then Jack Lang said I’d get the
job back if I voted for his lot. Instead of
which the wife lost hers. Now Jock Garden
says we’ll both get back our jobs if we
vote for the Three Year Plan”
“Have something to eat,” interrupted Mr.
Subbubs.
The visitor’s eyes were suddenly riveted
on iiis host’s buttonhole. He struggled to his
feet. “Keep away!” he cried weakly. “Don't
SILK AND SATAN.
“What a beautiful scarf!”
“Yes, my hubby gave me the cash for it
yesterday morning.”
“Not your birthday, was it?”
“No—his conscience, I’m afraid.”
you dare to offer me a job! Don’t give me
food ! The A.L.P. says I’m to boycott you.’'
So saying, he toppled down the verandah
steps, and expired amongst Mrs. Subbubs'
dahlias, boneheaded to the last.
10-2-4.


!•? •'.. . i * s gf ’ s Cig§& :
T«S
• : ' <«
I ''.'.l'
' r ■ “" *
'j.' ,</
■ij. ■>
. ■ -
i
S *>s{C'. •;? <> t -r
<S>.
<3
«$
■ &vBS
HARDYS
WINES
eA
TINTARA
t j
m
mm
mm
ms
m
• A-. 1 .\jw» i a • w?®**
, ■'’ .4 „ ' 1 iCfjMlfl
\>i >4 % 5 ' ": ~ *
* >- ,v v v
wiIPPPf
;v ..
% -]
:
lilit#
r *;,\
- 'v '\ - »■, :
.V"' --<_ j
CAMPION RESERVE)
PORT
OWN bo rrLI HO
O»*AS HARDY C SONS l- - *®
La I Di . MEI BOURN C t SYONt
IS
©
H ••■■■:••:/:
•v -"“"i r-v'
501
4 ts. » <i <d 4? «. a
Buy
<3ig (Sen
*the clock that lasts for years
T>IG BEN is an accurate, long-lived
timepiece. Within his sturdily
built case is a precision built move-
ment with rustproof hairspring that
will keep good time for years.
Big Ben and Baby Ben head the
Westclox family. There are many
other models ... alarms in nickel and
colors, pocket watches, auto clocks.
No matter which you
buy, your Westclox will
outlast several clocks
less carefully made.
WESTERN CLOCK CO.
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Distributors for Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth
Brisbane
2
10
o
8
5
li
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors — James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. t
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydnqy, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geenral banking buisness.
WITH
HARROW the PASTURES
“Sunblade” Pasture
Renovating' Harrows
And Increase the Productive Capacity of Your Herd
HARROWED PASTURES carry more stock
and provide richer feed; stock droppings are
pulverised and spread; the soil is loosened and
aerated; space is created for available seed
and a denser sole is promoted in the pasture.
Moss is eradicated. Matted root growth is
broken up and fresh growth is stimulated.
PRIOR TO TOP DRESSING
HARROWING IS A NECESSITY.
o
“SUNBLADE” PASTURE RENOVATING HARROWS
The lines of cultivation are approximately 1 inch apart.
The Tripod, u:ith sharpened blades
securely pinned in the slots.
THE TRIPODS are coupled together with hinged fasteners of
crucible steel. These are easily detached from the tripods by
removing a cotter pin.
THE BLADES are made of hardened special tyne steel, and are
sharpened. They are pinned securely in the tripod, as illustrated,
projecting 4 inches on one side and 2 inches on the other. Thus
the harrows can be used for 4-inch cut on the one side or turned
over for 2-inch cut.
SPREADER BARS and DRAG WEIGHTS are attached at the rear.
This arrangement keeps the harrows well down to their work.
THE PULLING BAR is of hard seasoned timber, with pull rods and
link.
c^b
THIS SLED is useful for transporting the harrows
about the farm and for general farm haulage work.
The skids are shod with steel, and the body is of sheet
steel, with tubular iron bearers. Length, 7ft. 1 Oin.
Width, 3ft. Weight, 1 cwt. 2qrs. 141 b.
Sunshine Farm Implements, Reduced Prices
Farmers needing an implement or machine are requested to ask for a copy of our REDUCED PRICE LIST.
Prices of duplicate parts also reduced.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKay Massey Harris Pty., Ltd. s™u» hJZS? vffi,
Sunshine.


HOTEL
METRO POLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
m
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
fl A BRITISH
//MANY LABOUR ò
THE'
RENRUT
M
PUMP
wiTH\\
SAVING FEATURES^
QUADRUPLE
One of the “super” productions
of Britain’s leading pneumatic
engineers, the “RENRUT” Quad-
ruple is the finest liand-pump made
for motor tyres. This pump works
on a patented quadruple-compres-
sion principle which delivers a
larger quantity of air with very
little effort. It has a push-on
connector, instantly adjustable to
any valve-size, and an accurate
pressure gauge can be supplied
fitted on the pump to order.
There is no other hand-pump that
will last as long and give such con-
tinuous efficient service as the
“RENRUT” Quadruple.
Price, 60/- (with gauge 5/. extra).
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENG.
If unable to obtain, write to our
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
Queensland Is Calling!
KEEN BUSINESS
MEN KNOW
that Queensland is most favorably
situated of all the States, and are
planning accordingly. They also
know from long experience that
the circulation claims of
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
are dependable claims which have
always been supported by un-
deniable proof. They know, too,
that this great newspaper is cer-
tainly unsurpassed as a business
getter by any Queensland publi-
cation.
Rate cards, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.
N.S.W. Branch, 12 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITY'S LINSEED MEAL
TO REVIVE THE MEAT TRADE.
“Aragun”: In the days to which “H.H.C.”
refers (B. 11/3/’3l) Australian meat cos.
were owned by Australians. To-day they
are owned by people who also own works
in the Argentine. These people can always
place two tenders in Britain, one from Aus-
tralia and one from Argentina. The Argen-
tine tender invariably gets the business. We
are told that cheaper labor and ocean freights
favor the Argentine; cattle prices are never
mentioned. There are many more unpros-
perous cattlemen in Australia than in S.
America, and there are vast tracts of Aus-
tralian land lying idle because of the poor
outlet for beef. The Argentine tender can-
not be so low that it would not show suffi-
cient profit for Australian ownership to
re-establish this vast industry. Not many
years ago a representative visited Australian
meat cos. and asked them to close until cattle
were forced down to a certain price. Since
those days, as “H.11.C.” will probably re-
member, most of the Australian works have
been sold to foreign interests, and the good
work done by C. G. Tindal and others has
been lost to Australia.
Ninety per cent, of the beef imported into
Britain comes from the Argentine. Five
foreign cos. control the British meat market.
One of them owns 5000 retail butcheries
scattered throughout Britain; every one of
these shops may be said to be a local centre
of propaganda against Australian meat. In
1929 these five firms made profits totalling
£7,000,000, which escaped taxation in any
part of the Empire. In 1924-25 France pur-
chased, roughly, £45,000 worth of beef and
Italy £725,510 worth from Australia. Five
yeai’s later France did not buy a shin of
beef from us, and Italian purchases dropped
to £44,495.
Notwithstanding these handicaps there
are men in Australia to-day who can win
back and re-establish our meat trade. There
are tremendous resources behind them, but
they must get together in one or half a
dozen companies independent of any Govern-
ment-controlled concern, and break down the
foreign _ monopoly. As “H.H.C.” states,
Ramornie turned out men, and he might add
to those enumerated P. H. O’Keeffe, the in-
ventor of the liot-piekle process, which revolu-
tionised meat-canning. Ramornie also
turned out meat. It killed good-quality
station cattle and fed to the pigs the class
of stuff that is nowadays considered good
enough for canning.
SHEARING-SHED IMPROVEMENTS.
“Murrawong”; I heartily commend
“Kripple’s” suggested improvements to
shearing-sheds (B. 11/3/’3l). His remarks
were confined to machinery, but there is also
an urgent need for alterations in wool-rooms.
Last season I was in a new shed that was
beautifully built and finished, but judging
by the lay-out the architect had never seen
a sheep shorn. We went there from an old
shed, recently altered by the station handy-
man and a mate on wet days at a cost of
£5 for new timber. That station worked with
one shedliand less than the previous year,
and the others had more time to put in on
the wool. In the new shed, with similar
sheep, the individual tallies dropped 10 to
40 sheep a day, and the get-up of the wool
suffered from the cramped, badly-designed
woolroom.
The shorter the distances between the
various processes through which the wool
must pass in the shed, the smaller the ex-
penditure on labor and the better the appear-
ance of the wool. The boy who has to
run 20 yards with his fleece cannot look
after as many shearers as if they were five
yards from the table. By the end of a hot.
hard day he is so weary that the fleece suf-
fers from careless picking-up and throwing-
out. A badly-thrown fleece takes twice the
time to skirt, and when the fleeces pile up
at the wool-table the rollers run amok. You
get fleece wool in the pieces and skirtings
left on the fleece —all for want of a few
alterations.
The board should be wide enough to accom-
modate belly and lock baskets and still leave
ample passage for the boys picking up. Wool-
tables should be handy and equidistant to
all stands —the ideal position is at right
angles to the centre of the board, though this
is, of course, impossible in the old “L” or
“U” sheds. Piece-picking tables should be
handy to wool-rolling tables. Piece bins
should be accessible from rear without neces-
sitating a stoppage of work and shifting of
tables every time a bale has to be pressed.
Wool-classer’s table, immediately beyond
wool-rollers. Bins, just behind classer —not
draped all round the wool-room —and acces-
sible to presser from rear. They should be
large enough to hold at least two bales of
wool; small bins mean butts or mixed bales.
Press, behind bins and if possible on a
lower level; if your press is next the board
or among the tables you will always get
locks in your fleece bales. Scales, handy to
press, with a sloping step or ramp from
floor to platform.
Finally, every shed should have a wire-
netting rack outside in the sun where stained
pieces could be spread to dry before pressing.
FAT LAMBS.
. “Golightly” : “6Q.J.’s” advice (B. 11/3/’3l)
is excellent for the novice, but it should be
emphasised that a high-class Corriedale owe
can be au ideal mother for the production
of fat lambs, provided a ram of an English
breed is joined with her. Thus the mother
goes through the shed, is shorn and the clip
counts most there. The lambs are marketed
at from 12 to 15 weeks and should never
see a shearing shed. The only thing that
counts in their case is their early maturity
to prime sucker lambs, which always fetch
top prices. A farmer cannot have full
success in the production of fat suckers if
he thinks in terms of wool in relation to the
lamb. If he is thinking of his lambs
as wool-producers _ let him get a foun-
dation of the besf wool-producing merino
strain available to him and stick to it, and
leave fat lambs to others.
The successful fat-lamb producer knows
from experience that he must, by preparation
years ahead, have his pastures, fodder crops
or lucerne in such shape that fattening his
lambs is beyond doubt. But to achieve full
success he must have a pure-bred ram of an
English breed to mate with a first crossbred
comeback or Corriedale ewe. No dual-pur-
pose for him; such a lamb is neither one
thing nor the other.
Six years ago I decided to try fat-lamb
production. My pastures were right and I
had 1200 comeback ewes. Being undecided
about the ram, I bought eight Corriedales
from a choice flock, eight good Border-
Leicester and eight Dorset Horn rams (the
Dorsets were difficult to buy and not well
bred), joined the lot together with the ewes
—I saw that they were kept evenly divided
amongst the paddocks—and gave them a two
years’ trial. In both seasons the Dorset
Horn lambs were first to market, the Border-
Leicester next, the Corriedale last, with a
considerable percentage of the Corriedale lot
unsuitable for market. After the two years
the Corriedale and Border-Leicester rams
were discarded in favor of pure-bred Dorset
Horn rams, a step which further results
have fully justified.
MOWING AND HARROWING
PASTURES.
“Booraby”: Many kinds of grass grow’
away from stock; that is, they reach a height
and condition wdien they are not relished, and
are only eaten w’hen nothing else is avail-
able. For one thing there' is too much
stem, wdiile the grass generally is coarse
and hard, whereas cattle desire the soft and
succulent leaf. On most big runs the grass is
burnt off, which occurs when it is fairly dry,
and it has then matured and seeded. While
burning is a good sweetener, the regular
seeding tends to exhaust the root stock and
impoverish the soil.
Attention is being given in some small
areas to mowflng, when the grass has grown
beyond the useful stage for grazing, and
before it hardens and seeds. The mown grass
can then be burnt where it is cut, -which
serves to sweeten the soil and destroy diseases,
and at the same time save the roots from
exhaustion. Another benefit is that a pad-
dock. where the forage is not cropped down,
can be burnt off in sections, providing the
cattle at intervals -with a bit of succulent
young feed. Cattle always concentrate on
burnt ground as soon as it becomes green
with new growth. When that stage is
reached is the time to cut and burn another
patch.
Where this method is practised there is
never any danger of disastrous bush-fires —
which, besides destroying fences, and perhaps
buildings, leave no feed at all. It is best
to begin about the home and the gullies, and
work outward, clearing away dead timber at
the same time. Rank growth is usually
found about watercourses and swamps, and
along fences. Mowing and burning will turn
many waste places into good grazing ground,
besides safeguarding fences and destroying
harbors for vermin.
With some grasses light harrowing is bene-
ficial, but that depends on the nature and
common condition of the soil. Loose or
sandy surfaces don’t require it, but clayey
soils sometimes become hard and caked,
especially when trampled in wet weather. In
other places, where there is no surplus to
cut and burn, there is usually a quantity of
decayed herbage that forms a mat on' the
surface, even in closely-grazed paddocks. The
harrowing breaks that up, and induces fresh
growth from the roots.
HOW TO KEEP ORANGES.
The Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research has issued some notes on the pick-
ing, packing, storing, etc., of citrus fruit for
export. The remarks on the picking and
packing follow familiar lines; but there are
these interesting observations on pre-cooling
for export, and the principles are the same
whether *he fruit is for foreign or home con-
sumption :
Broadly speaking, all fruit consists of living
matter and materials which have been stored up in
the fruit during the period of growth on the tree.
After the removal of the fruit from the tree, the
living matter is dependent for its maintenance
upon the materials stored up, and when these are
used up the fruit dies.
The life of the orange, therefore, is limited,
depending upon the quality of stored material and
on the rate at which this material is used up.
The vital activity of the fruit depends upon its
temperature, increasing with rise of temperature at
an accelerated rate, and the object of storage at a
low temperature is to reduce its rate of living and
so prolong the life of the fruit.
This using up of stored material is accompanied
by actual production of a proportional quantity of
heat, and so if the fruit be loaded hot into the
ship’s hold the refrigeration machinery has to remove
not only the heat already in the fruit, but also
heat which is constantly being produced. It may,
therefore, be some time after loading before the
temperature at which it is desired to carry the
fruit is attained throughout the stack. This means
that the life of much of this fruit is shortened.
All fruit should therefore be pre-cooled to 40
deg P. before being loaded into the ship, since
pre-cooling lowers the rate of living and therebj-
lengthens its life.
The life of the fruit from the time it leaves the
tree being strictly limited, any unnecessary delay
between the time of harvesting and the' time of Sale
means a shorter time during which it will be in
good marketable condition.
It is, of course, manifestly impossible to make
arrangements for a shipment of any size without
at least some of the fruit having been harvested
earlier than the rest. As, however, the process of
decay is very much slower when once the fruit is
in cool storage, it is essential that the actual pro-
cesses of harvesting, washing, packing and transport
to the cool stores must be managed as expeditiously
as possible. If the fruit must be held for some
time before shipment it should be held in cool
store and not in the packing-shed.
POTASH FOR POTATOES.
“Bags”: Results of the field trials which
he so much appreciates would seem to sup-
port “Wilt” (B. 18/3/’3l) in his views about
potash for potatoes. Average results of
three trials conducted by potato-expert
Ramsay, of the Vic. Agricultural Depart-
ment, during 1927-30 at three centres in the
Ballarat district show that without manure
the yield was 48cwt. per acre; with 3cwt. of
super, plus lewt. of sulphate of ammonia,
89.3 cwt. p.a.; with 3cwt of super, plus lewt.
of sulphate of ammonia and lewt. of sul-
phate of potash, 83.5ewt. p.a. So the addi-
tion of lewt. of potash to the super, and
sulphate of ammonia depressed the yield by
s.Bcwt. per acre.
As is now the custom in Vic., these
manurial treatments were submitted to a
further test at Milbrook in 1930, under the
more accurate replication trial method. No
manure gave 56.4 cwt. per acre; 3 and 1
super, and ammonia, 107 cwt. p.a.; 3, 1 and
1 super, ammonia and potash, 98.4 cwt. p.a.
In their report on this trial the depart-
mental statisticians emphasise that “defi-
nite significant decrease of B.6cwt,”
PRODUCING HIGH-QUALITY EGGS.
“.Tack Point”: Production of eggs that are
uniform in size, shape and texture, as well as
being A 1 inside, is simply a matter of
attention to detail. The first essential, of
course, is that the birds be properly fed
with a balanced ration, which varies accord-
ing to the seasons. The mash you give is
for producing eggs; the grain is for bodily
maintenance. The correct proportion of
grain to mash is 141 b. to 1001 b. during
autumn and early winter. More grain will
be called for during spring and summer
when egg-produetion is heavier, with a con-
sequent greater strain on the system.
The first eggs will seldom be found to
reach the standard of 20z., but, provided
everything is right with breeding and feed-
ing, they should do so within two months.
If they don’t, either the pullets are bred
from small-egg strains and should not be
bred from again or the feeding is wrong.
Our soil being deficient in lime, of which an
egg-shell almost wholly consists, lime must
be supplied; a convenient way is to have a
hopper of oyster shell-grit always before the
birds. Ordinary grit won’t do , it doesn’t
contain enough lime. Thin shells are a
result either of lime deficiency or failure on
the birds’ part to make use of the available
lime. In such cases the addition of cod-
liver oil or a good mineral mixture to the
ration will act as a tonic.
Good, clean nests are essential, and should
be provided at the rate of one to every six
birds. Finally, an egg isn’t of first quality
unless it’s infertile, therefore bar the males
when you’re after quality. A fertile egg
starts to deteriorate almost immediately. A
clean infertile egg will last weeks.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Is it advisable occasionally to plough in
the straw left after harvesting, instead of
burning it ? —2687.
The ploughing in of stubble, in addition
to encouraging fungus disease, has a most
objectionable effect on the physical condition
of the soil, rendering it extremely difficult
to bring about a good consolidation of the
sub-surface soil. The moisture-holding capa-
city of the soil is also affected temporarily.
Experiments in most wheat districts in
N.S.W. indicate that wheat yields are re-
duced when the straw is ploughed in.
Correct sowing depths for oatsf —2712.
Depends on the class of soil. Two inches
is correct in a moist seed-bed and 3in. in
a dry seed-bed, provided the soil is moist at
that depth. If the soil is dry to a depth
of Sin. or 4in. plant 2in. deep and depend
on rain for moisture.
Is strawberry clover (Trifolium frags-
ferum) suitable for marshy land? What
are its habits? —272l.
(1) Yes. It thrives best in low, wet,
swampy land subject to floods or inunda-
tions through the backing up of tide water.
(2) It has a trailing habit, and thrives where
no other clovers and very few grasses will
grow. Some experts are of the opinion that
it should be associated with water couch.
If lib. per acre is sown in suitable situa-
tions it will very soon spread. It is very
largely grown in portions of Gippsland
where the land i.s swampy, and is found to
be very fattening. Cattle do particularly
well on it.
Is Hexham Scent a noxious weed and how
can it be controlled? —27os.
This plant is not a pest save when grow-
ing thickly in pastures used for dairying or
amongst the wheat crop. It imparts an
objectionable odor to dairy produce when
cows are grazed upon it, and to wheat har-
vested from paddocks in which it is growing.
Where difficulties are being experienced
because of the taint cows should be taken
off the pasture for a few hours before milk-
ing. When wheat paddocks are infested
fallowing should be practised.
(1) What class of soil suits sweet-corn
and docs it require much manuring? (2)
When and how to plant out near Sydney? —
2716.
(1) It should be grown on soil well sup-
plied with organic matter and humus. The
application of stable manure is the best way
of increasing the humus content, and this
should be, supplemented by lewt. to 2cwt. of
superphosphate per acre. A top-dressing of
lewt. to Jcwt. of nitrate of soda about six
weeks after planting will hasten growth. (2)
Commence planting towards the end of Sep-
tember, with further plantings at intervals of
about three weeks till February. Three rows
should be sown at a time, in hills 3ft. to
3ft. 6in. apart each way. Sow six grains
per hill, and thin out to two or three plants
per hill when they have attained a height of
six or eight inches.
Is there any danger of stock being
poisoned'■ through grazing on areas where
green timber has been killed with sodium
arson ite ? —2680.
Very little danger, on account of the com-
paratively small quantity of solution used,
but it is prudent to keep all stock off such
areas for three or four weeks after treatment.
I ami a Queensland farmer who combines
dairying with cotton-growing, and can’t spend
as much time as I would like looking after
my cotton plants. How late can I leave it
before thinning the plants?— 2726.
The best time to thin in the average crop
is when the plants are 6in. to Sin. in height.
The longer the thinning is delayed the more
likely are the plants to become of an elon-
gated appearance with practically no bottom
crop. Under good growing conditions a grower
may not be able to cope with the situation if
he waits until the average of the plants is 6in.
to Bin. in height before commencing to thin.
In such circumstances it is better to com-
mence operations when the plants are from
4in. to 6in. tall. If operations cannot be
completed before the last of the unthinned
portion of the field is over 12in. in height,
extra labor should be employed.
(Continued on page 26.)


ik®k ®
o
Ck
kiwi
msm
mm
is
-
SH
si
Send for
1931 Commonwealth
Catalogue.
CLOTHES FOR MEN
o
AND THEIR SONS.
The
“WOOLELLA”
AN ENGLISH Flannel Work Shirt that has been specially designed by “ALBA-
TROSS” shirtmakers for men on the land and all those who follow outdoor
occupations. Cut on generous proportions, with two pockets and flaps to button. Of
good weight and ideal for winter weather. The flannel is unshrinkable and launders
extremely well; will stand hard and rough usage. The price is very reasonable, and
represents the best shirt value in Australia to-day. Ideal for farmers, orchardists,
workers and graziers. Send size of collar when ordering.
Price
12'6
THREE FOR
30/-
ř
MEDIUM-WEIGHT ALL WOOL stylishly cut
flannel Trousers. A good serviceable quality and
manufactured in Australia. Tailored to the usual
Pike Brothers standard, with side and hip pockets,
belt loops, hip straps and cuff bottoms. State
height, waist and inside leg measurement when
ordering. Remarkable ready-to-wear value.
Price 17'6 Pair
Send your order to Desk S.B,
PIKE BROTHERS LTD
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
AND AT TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH AND TOWNSVILLE.
BUY IN THE BEST
MARKET
—'FPover Kerosene
tM'.TEST
Horsepower
Multiplied
Money saved is money gained—
We supply anyone direct—no sales
tax. We therefore invite comparison.
Look at the following!
BARB WIRE— I7/6. per coil. Write for price
list of all sizes.
WIRE NETTING—36in. x 2in. x 19g, at 9/-
roll 50 yards. All other sizes
equally low.
VENUS SUPER POWER KEROSENE— in 44-gallon drums, at 1/2 per gallon.
VENUS SUPER MOTOR SPIRIT —in 44-gallon drums, at 1/11 per gallon.
PIG NETTING
INCUBATORS
SEPARATORS
HIBISCUS CREAM
CANS
PEAT MOSS
—K. Pig Wire from 18in., at 22/6 roll 50 yards.
Or Hinge Joint Pig Feneing 32in., 45/- roll 110 yards 5 chains.
If interested, get detailed catalogue.
—Just landed, another shipment of
Dependable 100-egg ,'{,(s
Nature’s Hen—all sizes from 100-egg tii/z/o
.—As sole agents for the factory, we can offer you the New Era,
which embodies all the latest improvements as follows
15 gal £4/10/- 40 gal £ *!/ 10/ ‘
22 gal £7 60 gal £l6
30 gal £9 90 gal £2O
Less 10 per cent, for cash, or terms arranged.
2gal. 3gal. 4gal. sgal. 6gal. Bgal. l Ogal.
16/6 17/6 18/6 21/- 23/- 25/6 28/6
Less 10 per cent, for cash.
—lt is a rich, light brown vegetable aquatic moss for use as a
litter for Poultry Farm, Stables and Dairies, Garden Cultivation,
Packing Fruit, Sewerage Purification, etc. Price 20/- bale of 1601 b.
Every man on the land should get particulars of this.
Write for sample.
LUCERNE SEED ■—The Genuine Hunter River Broad Leaf 1/6 per pound
SECOND-HAND WOOLPACKS FOR COTTON CROP-3/ each.
TENTS AND TARPAULINS —We manufacture and can give you special prices.
Write for full list. Also Sisalkraft Waterproof paper.
HORSE AND COW RUGS -Shipment just arrived, quality excellent. Prices from 16/6
. each.
PROSPECTING PANS —For Gold, etc. Q.P.S. price, 5/- each.
Lowest also for
Galvanised-iron, all Tanks and Troughing, Fencing Posts, Licks, Furniture,
Tools, Stoves and Ranges, etc. Our 176-page catalogue gives full details.
Write to-day.
WE ARE DIRECT CASH BUYERS—ALL WOOL-
HIDES—SKINS, ETC. WRITE FOR DETAILS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
SEAL or GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVEnY BOTTII
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vu
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FfIANCE
CCLCSTINS is thi
NAME OF THE SPRoING o
The Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ticiry and the punty of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
£
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE FRENCH
GOVERNMENT
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
t&he following statement defies contradiction {
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumai-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the .corld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Gxamme the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


Q
Ls_. J
l
m
A
X
F '
A boot that’s supple,
light and smart
Complete foot-ease is guaran-
teed with this handsome Abbey-
Boot, soled with the hardest-
wearing leather available. It
is cut down slightly at back of
ankle and so doesn’t bulge, but
fits more comfortably. The
upper follows the natural curve
of the instep arch. It is shaped
to avoid any tightness when
laced.
Prices have been reduced—
now is the time to buy!
Order by post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and half
sizes. Specify width when order-
ing, and ask, also, for the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF 43/6
BLACK CALF . . . . 43/6
PATENT LEATHER . . 52/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 224.
TQ
*
if
A pictorial
guide to
America
FASCINATINC tills new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write
your copy.
Write to Dept. M 47,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FARMERS...
RuralTop.cs, Dairying.
H™ Stockbreeding. Poultry
Horticulture. Veterinary
■» Notes Etc ....All in „
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES G°-
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A.
P. McLEAN.
General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
1
iHHii
The service which a battery gives
is limited by its internal con-
struction. Instances can be given
where Exide Batteries have given
10 years’ continuous service with-
out being recharged from outside
sources.
Ilxii>c
The Longlife Battery
FOR CARS, RADIO and HOME LIGHTING
Obtainable from your Local Garage, Car Dealer or Exide Service Station.
N.S.W. —Exide Battery Service (Gib-
son, Battle & Co., Ltd.), Hunt
and Commonwealth Sts., Sydney.
Vic. and Riverina.—A. P. Sutherland,
Queen’s Bridge, South Melbourne.
Queensland. —Exide Battery Service
(Q.), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Bris-
bane ; Sturt Street, Townsville.
South Australia and Broken Hill.—
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd.,
97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Westralia. —M. J. Bateman, Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street,
Perth.
Tasmania. —Medhurst & Sons, Collins
Street, Hobart.
(1) How is bonedust prepared for fer-
tilising purposes? (2) Have the green bones
to be dried before grinding? (3) Where can
a grinding-machine be obtained? —2494.
(1) By grinding. (2) Not necessary.
(3) Van Gelder and Co., 66 Bay-street,
Sydney.
(1) How to eradicate the bean fly? (2)
Are any varieties of bean immune from this
pest? (3) Would dipping seeds in kerosene
be of any help? —24s3.
(1) Useless infected plants should be
pulled up and burned. Hill up the remain-
ing plants so that they may have a chance
of producing adventitious roots above the
injured portions at the base of the stem.
(2) Don’t know of any, (3) No use what-
ever.
How to prevent black rot of cabbage and
cauXi flower ? —2643.
Seed should be steeped in a solution made
by dissolving |oz. of corrosive sublimate in a
little warm water and then adding sufficient
cold water to make 12J pints of solution. A
wooden, earthenware or glass vessel should be
used to hold the solution. The seed is placed
in a piece of loosely-woven material, such
as cheesecloth, allowing sufficient room for
thorough agitation to remove air bubbles.
Soak the seed for 30 minutes and follow by
repeated rinsings in clean water. Spread
the seed out in a thin layer to dry in a
warm, shady place. (Corrosive sublimate
is a deadly poison, and the solution should
be kept out of the reach of children and
farm animals.) Use only clean soil for the
seed-bed. Crop rotation is a safeguard
against the disease. Cabbages, cauliflowers
and allied plants should not be grown on
infested land for at least two years. As far
as practicable collect and burn all diseased
material.
How to get rid of pod spot in beans? —
2696.
Select seed from a clean crop or from un-
spotted pods. As far as practicable, burn
all diseased material and grow varieties
which show the greatest amount of resist-
ance to the disease in your district. Select
•for seed any plants in a diseased crop which
show immunity. Do not cultivate or pick
beans during damp weather or when the
plants are wet with dew. Rotation of crops
is recommended.
How to eradicate the brown vegetable
weevil which attacks young plants in the
tobacco seed-beds? —2667.
Dust the infested plants with calcium
arsenate powder. Where the area is large
the powder may be diluted with ten times
its weight of hydrated lime. Lead arsenate
may also be used, at the rate of lib. of
powder to 30 gallons of water, and will give
effective control, as will also dusting the
plants _ with lead arsenate mixed with five
times its weight of hydrated lime. A useful
method when the plants attacked are small
or are in the seed-beds is to dip the tops
of Capeweed, potato or other food plants
that can be easily obtained in a lead arsen-
ate or calcium arsenate solution, or dust
them with the diluted powder after dipping
them in water, and place them between the
rows of infested plants. This is best' done
towards evening, as the treated tops remain
fresh and attractive overnight when the
beetles are feeding. Clean cultivation is
also a factor in control of this pest.
In what manner do Hnglish and Ameri-
can potato-digging machines differ? —2693.
The principle in tne English machines is
that a share passes under the row of potatoes,
the earth and tubers being thrown to one
side by revolving arms at the back, so that
the potatoes are left exposed, ready for pick-
ing up. The machines are light in draught,
but the large spread given the tubers is their
principal drawback. In American machines
a share passes under the rows, the potatoes,
together with the earth, then being carried on
to an apron of crossbars, arranged up and
down alternately. This revolves rapidly,
being given a sifting action by elliptical
sprockets. The earth passes through the
bars and falls back into the furrow already
dug, the potatoes passing over the back and
being deposited in a row on the loose earth
recently dug.
In what districts will kale grow best and
what soil suits it? How should it be planted
and when should it be fed to stock? Best
varieties to plant? —27oB.
Kale belongs to the same family as the
cabbage. The open leaves and tender stalks
possess considerable feeding value for cattle,
sheep, pigs and poultry. It thrives well in dis-
tricts which are sufficiently cool and moist,
■but its cultivation is not recommended in the
hotter and drier parts of N. S. Wales. A well-
drained soil should be selected for the crop,
and the land brought to a fine tilth. Seed
should be sown in drills as soon as the frosts
have ceased; or plants may be raised in a
seed-bed and transplanted. Green fodder
will be obtained from April to October of
the following year. To avoid tainting milk,
it should be fed to dairy cattle just after
milking. The best-known variety is Thou-
sand-headed. Jersey Tree is a tall-growing
sort, and fairly well liked. Both these are
preferable to Marrow Kale ( Chou moellier ),
which has too large a proportion of stem to
the leaf growth.
(1) Should chickens hatched in August
commence to lay in March? (2) What
months are considered winter-laying months?
(2) Average price for Sydney suburban
fresh eggs, and average price for country
eggs during that period for last year? (4)
Bid the depression affect these markets last
year? (5) If so, are there better prospects
this year? —2464.
(1) Yes, but only if the birds are reared,
housed and fed properly. (2) In a general
sense the period of lowest production—April
to June. (3) The average price of new-
laid eggs during this period in 1930 was
2s. 3d. per dozen. If by country eggs is
meant case eggs, or eggs of inferior quality,
these realised about 3d. per dozen lower than
first grade. Country farmers who market
twice weekly and .grade carefully should
receive first-grade prices, provided they are
not more than two days in transit. (4)
Yes. (5) The cost of feeding is consider-
ably lower, and the industry offers good
prospects and is in a sound position. Suffi-
cient capital and experience are required,
however, to achieve success.
Is the use of explosives in posthole-sinking
recommended ? —2672.
Though gelignite renders the ground soft
and workable the subsequent firming and
ramming is a very troublesome task, and
after a good fall of rain posts so fixed are
apt to be drawn crooked by the strain on
the wires.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dimon”: The maize-grower regards the
white cockatoo as an unmitigated curse. It
is certainly his worst feathered enemy, but
it does good work for him, too. Part of its
natural food is the eggs of grasshoppers. If
the birds were not persistently hunted and
shot, less would be heard of ravaged crops
and pastures by plagues of ’hoppers.
“Kooragai”: To catch crows a Bathurst
(N.S.W.) man made a trap like a box, 7ft.
square, topped with wire-netting, in which
a gap 2ft. long was cut, and the sides of the
cut turned in. This was set over a dead
sheep. Mr. Crow hopped in for the feast,
but couldn’t hop out again. Fifty crows
were caught in a day in this simple trap.
“Bullswool”: Autumn is the time for
special jobs. Spouts and tanks on build-
ings need attention. Any low yards or gate-
ways will be all the better for a load of
gravel or stone. Get as much of the
noxious-weed growth out, and put all the
organic manure on the cultivation. Over-
haul your nigs and winter equipment, and
make adequate provision for winter feed-
ing. Give the fences a once-over, and don’t
forget the wood supply.
“Hornby” : If you have a badly-worn axle
wind horsehair round the affected part till
evenness is secured. First wind the hair
round a stick and release by twining in the
fingers as you wind, thus securing tight-
ness. Be sure to wind perfectly close, and
towards the shafts —the way the wheel
turns. Then grease well. The rotation of
the wheel will work the grease in and give
a surface like steel. One dressing of hair
will last two years if the axle is not
allowed to run dry.
“M.W.8.”: Handy water-troughs for
spare stock can be made by removing the
flat side of a petrol case, leaving the rest
intact, and one side each of two petrol
tins, fitting into the box. Attach four of
these together and you have a 32gal. trough.
“Plumber”: To put a little lime in the
trough the cows drink from (B. 18/3/’3l)
is sound advice as concerns the cow, but
be sure the tank is of wood, or cement. I have
known men who put lime in corrugated-
iron tanks to harden the water; result, in
six months, thousands of pinholes wherever
the atoms of lime rested, round the corru-
gations and all over the bottom.
“Curlew”: To get the butter “to break”
put a handful of salt in the churn after
turning for some time. Draw off the
buttermilk before adding any water, and
after well washing give a final wash with
strong brine. This will ensure the removal of
all traces of unchurned cream. The addition of
loz. of castor sugar to each 41b. of salt
improves the flavor and keeping quality.
“Disc Harrow”: If the Fordson is hard
to start on cold mornings an expenditure
on an ordinary Ford battery is well worth
while. It’s gruelling work winding a heavy
engine when the oil has thickened, to say
nothing of the time wasted. The battery
shpuld be kept in the shed; with wires
attached handily. Positive goes to the
magneto contact point, negative being
grounded anywhere on the frame. The best
way is to connect the wire from the bottom
of the coilbox to the positive of the battery,
start up, then put wire straight back to
magneto contact point. The change-over is
effected without interruption. As the bat-
tery is only in use for a couple of seconds
each morning it will last for months.
“.Tack Point”: Dubbing roosters ( i.e
cutting off comb and wattles) should be
practised with' breeds such as leghorns- it
will enable the breeding male bird to reed
more comfortably and give him a chance of
getting his fill. It can also be done to
cockerels being fattened for market —pro-
vided you are not caponising. Large scis-
sors are used, and the first cut is made
from the front of the comb, leaving about
fin. on, and cutting off to a point between
the last serration and the blade, or rear
part of the comb. A cut from the back
then remoA r es the greater part of the blade,
and the wattles should next be tackled,
leaving about fin. only. It is necessary to
apply something to stop bleeding of the
comb. For youngsters, a feather laid along
the cut will frequently suffice ; in the case
of older birds I have seen the fine powder
taken from a dried puffball prove efficient.
“Curlew” : It would be hard to find any-
one who disputes the value of topdressing;
but whether it is a payable proposition with
wool at recent prices is debatable. Outside
of this, results are frequently unnecessarily
confused by bringing in other than results
obtained by topdressing alone. In the re-
port (B. iB/3/’3l) dealing with results at
Warrangong station we are informed that
half the 7000 acres has been topdressed
with lewt. super, per acre each year for
the past 10 years. In that time the wool
clip has increased from 90 to 300 bales;
in other words, 77 acres produced a bale
of wool 10 years ago while 23 acres does
so now. But there is the other fact—4oo
acres are under lucerne. That vitiates all
the results.
“Queen B.”: “Jog” (B. 25/3/’3l) is at
fault in liis correction of “B. Sting” (B.
4/3/’3l), who says that a queenless hive
of bees will rear a new queen if there are
any queen cells present, fresh eggs in the
other cells, or if an egg-filled broodcomb .is
transferred from another hive. Instead of
having “made a discovery that has eluded
the rest of the world,” “B. Sting” has a
method (one of several) known and practised
by every experienced apiarist in the Com-
monwealth. “Jog” is also at sea when he says
that the queen .seldom lays a female egg later
than October or November. Probably he
meant drone eggs. On certain parts of the
North Coast o'f N.S.W. the honey flow may
be said to start in December and end some-
where about March or April, according to
the season, during which months the queen
is certainly kept busy laying female, to the
almost total exclusion of drone, eggs.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the .inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Owner of sailing-vessel will take one or two
persons weekly on sailing cruises north or south of
Sydney.—2629.
Station manager, 35, married, seeks re-engagement.
Eight years last employer, lately managing merino
stud ; exp. two States. Refs. —2624.
Young married man, Sydney, locomotive and
motor-truck driving exp., wants work. —2628.
Young lady, Sydney, costume designer and interior
decorator, will accept engagement city or suburbs.
—2626.
Young lady, Sydney, just left business college,
wants position as typist.—2662.
Young man, Sydney, educated, wants any kind of
work. —2661.
Middle-aged laborer, Sydney, married, knowledge
of rough carpentry, plumbing, roof-repairing, etc.,
seeks j0b.—2711.' •
Handy man, Sydney, exp. carpentry, gardening,
bricklaying and concrete work, wants position.—26B3.
Young process-engraver, served time in large Sydney
office, seeks position city or country.- —2682.
Young man -(27), Sydney, advertising exp., wants
commercial position.—274o.
Houseman-cook (Melb.) seeks situation anywhere.
All duties. Refs.—26B6.
Male subsidised schoolteacher (N.S.W.), 30 years’
exp., all subjects, including music, disengaged end
May. Refs.—27l3.
Business man (27) seeks city position.—2666.
Hardware salesman, Brisbane, 20 years’ exp. all
branches, wants job at anything, anywhere,—26sB.
Married man (30), Sydney, exp. wheat-farming
and market-gardening, wants work on shares or
wages.—266s.
Lady wants position country, Q’land, as house-
keeper. Fond of' children. Refs, exchanged.-—2690.
To buy Hasluek’s “Motor-bicycle Building.”-—2717.
To purchase “The Belton Estate,” by Trollope,
3 vols., 1866, and Barrie’s “Auld Licht Idylls,”
1888, and “Little Minister,” 3 vols., 1891.—2706.
To buy second-hand cricket bat. —2645.
To buy old English or Scottish “Peerage” and
McKnight’s “History of Scotland.” —2648.
To buy copy of Edmond’s “Journalist and Two
Bears.”—2627.
Information Sought.
(1) Would a biplane of 24 ft, wing spread,
wings Aft. wide, weight fully loaded 700 1 b.,
powered by a 12 -h.p. engine, fly? (2)
What would be the most suitable angle of
incidence of the wings? (3) What would
be its approximate maximum and minimum
speeds? —22B3.
(1) No. (2) The most suitable angle of
incidence for the wings is determined from
the _ maximum lift-drag ratio of the wing
section. (3) The minimum speed for hori-
zontal flight for this machine with a R.A.F.
wing section would be 64.7 m.p.h., when the
lift would be equal to the weight of the
machine at normal flying incidence. The
total estimated drag of a machine the size
mentioned at 65 m.p.h. would be approxi-
mately 1501 b., which would require approxi-
mately 26 h.p. to fly level. Extra power
would be needed for climbing. The maximum
.speed attainable with 12 h.p. would be when
the total drag of the machine reached
approximately 601 b 42 m.p.h.
(1) What is the greatest speed known to
have been attained by the soaring type of
glider? (2) Why are gliders built without
any sign of the dihedral angle, which is a
feature of motor-driven aeroplanes? (3)
Name and address of agents for G. N.
Wikner’s co. in Brisbane?— 24s7.
(1) The only records available in respect
of gliders are duration and distance records.
Speed is not aimed at. (2) The design of
a glider is such that the centre of gravity
is low in relation to the wing structure, re-
sulting in what is termed pendulum stabil-
ity ; thus no dihedral angle is necessary. (3)
Aircrafts of Australia, Ltd., Parbury-lane,
off Eagle-street.
(1) Is there an Institute of Actuaries in
Australia which holds entrance examina-
tions? (2) Standard? (3) Name and
address of coaches? —2585.
(1) Examinations are conducted in Aus-
tralia under the auspices of the Institute
of Actuaries (London) and the Faculty of
Actuaries (Scotland). (2) Commonwealth
Statistician supplies on application parti-
cnlai’s of the examination. (3) A. C. Brad-
bury, T. and G. Society, Melbourne, is agent
for a correspondence course.
A widow with three children, all over the
age of 21, marries a widower with three
sons, also all over the age of 21. In what
legal position would the wife stand on the
death of the husband in regard to house
propei'ty and personal belongings, the home
and contents being owned by the husband.
—2614.
If the husband died without making a will
one-third of his estate would go to his widow
and two-thirds would be divisible among his
children. Her children by the first marriage
would have no claim.
My sister in England gave me £lOOO by
cheque. Before I cashed it she died, making
no mentioti of the gift to me in her will.
Have I a valid claim for the amount of the
gift, and in what form should I apply? —
2547.
Write to the executors enclosing a copy
of your sister’s letter, giving date of receipt
and explaining the cause of any delay in
presenting the cheque. You have a sporting
chance.
What is a “wialda”? —2663.
There was a wyulda. The stuffed skin
and the skeleton of the only specimen found
are in Perth Museum, Caught alive in the
Kimbei'ley district (W.A.), it was taken to
Perth Zoo, but soon died. A marsupial, it
appears intermediate between cuscus and
’possum, but with hair and ears differing
from either; it may be related to the
scaly-tailed muskrat-kangaroo of the Her*
bert River district (Q.). Body with head
measures about 164 in : ; the hair is grizzled
above with yellowish underparts. For nearly
2in. the 12in. prehensile tail is sparsely
haired, the remainder being covered with
small, thibk scales, which do not overlap,
in color dark brownj shading to yellow at
the tip.
Thirty years ago A, when registering the
birth of a child, falsely declared that he
was married to the mother. He subsequently
married the mother, and now desires to legi-
timise the child. If he made application to
the Registrar-General to do so would he be
liable to prosecution? —2s36.
Yes, but it is improbable that punitive
action would be taken after such a lapse of
years.
In abo. rock-paintings, what were the
colors? How obtained, mixed, applied? Sig-
nificance of the painted hands, and how arc
they done? —2635.
Beside charcoal, with which he rendered
very lively impressions of native and animal
life and habits, Binghi used red and yellow
ochre and white pipeclay. If his tribal
ground contained none, he bartered or sent
expeditions to often distant deposits for
them. The ochre was ground under a stone
to a powder, then worked on a piece of
bark to a thick paste with water. With
his fingers he painted any large surfaces,
using sticks dipped in color for finer lines
and details. The hand recorded his identity
—relatives, though miles away when it was
done, have been able to tell whose hand had
been stencilled. The artist chewed up a
handful of pipeclay and added water to
make the piilp more sloppy. When it was
thoroughly mixed he blew it all about the
hand, placed with fingers outstretched against
a flat surface. When the hand wfis with-
drawn the stencil was complete. Sometimes
it was filled in with a different color.
(1) llow to grow boronia? (2) Is there a
yellotc boronia, and if so where can seeds be
obtained? (3) How to raise boronia seed-
lings? (4) Is there a living selling cut
flowers in Sydney? (5) What flowers to
grow? (6) How to sell them? —2328.
(1) and (3) Sow the seed in sandy loam
in well-drained boxes between August and
October, and cover lightly with sieved earth.
Place tea-tree or similar bushes over the
boxes to keep the soil cool, and water regu-
larly. When the seedlings come up trans-
plant to the open garden. Many nurseries
can supply established seedlings in Septem-
ber. (2) Boronia Lutea is the yellow
variety, but seed is unprocurable in N.S.W.
(4) and (6) Yes —for the right person in
the right place. Get in touch with florists
who buy from small growers. (5) Carna-
tions, snapdragons, asters, sliasta daisies, del-
phiniums, dahlias, roses, calliopsis, chrysan-
themums, sweet-peas, treesias, daffodils,
lupins, gaillardias, pansies, mignonette, pop-
pies, zinnias, stocks and violets are all sale-
able.
(1) Do divers fear the groper or the shark
the most? (2) Is it possible for a diver to
stab and kill a shark or groper while under
water? —2418.
(1) The groper. (2) Extremely unlikely
that a diver could kill either a shark or a
groper outright, though a wound might be
inflicted which would subsequently lead to
death. The groper is probably the more
vulnerable, the layer of shagreen covering
the skin of the shark rendering it very tough.
(1) What are the prospects of developing
trade in boots and shoes in the Orient, par-
ticularly in China? (2) How does the
present rate of exchange affect the prospect?
(3) Name of some firm in China or Aus-
tralia that could give further information? —
2384.
(1) Czechoslovakian manufacturers under-
cut all others. in Asia except where a
tariff affects them. In China and Japan
local manufacturers supply the demand at
prices below Australian. (2) The present
exchange rate is to our advantage, but the
fact that no boots and shoes have been ex-
ported to China in the last two years indi-
cates that the benefit is not sufficient. (3)
Apply to Chinese Consul-General and to
W. Perrott, of China Indent Co., 46 William-
street, Melbourne.
(1) My husband brought myself and five
children to N. S. Wales nine years ago. He
left us in less than a year without means of
support. I have just heard that he has
returned to Ireland. Can I make him sup-
port me and the children? (2) Can I
claim arrears of maintenance for the last
eight years? (3) How should I proceed and
how much will it cost? —2436.
(1) If he has the means to support you
and your children you can make him do so.
(2) No. (3) Proceed under the Mainten-
ance Orders (Facilities for Enforcement)
Act, 1923, which makes provision for the
enforcement of orders made in N. S. Wales
against any person proved to be resident
in England or Ireland. You must furnish
proof that your husband is in Ireland and
give his address. A solicitor would be needed.
(1) What were the chief events in the
career of Les Darcy, the boxer? (2) Was he
poisoned in the U.8.A.? (3) What are the
facts regarding his war-time visit to the
U.8.A.? (4) Where could I obtain a full
account of his life? —2442.
(1) He defeated every man he met. Bob
Whitelaw, Fritz Holland and Jeff Smith
gained decisions over him, but each was
badly beaten in return contests. Two knock-
out wins over Eddie McGoorty, two points
victories over Jimmy Clabby, and a> nine-
rounds knockout of George Chip were his
chief successes. (2) No. The cause of death
was diagnosed as pneumonia. (3) He went to
Chile, from Newcastle, on an oil-boat, the
Hattie Luttenbaeh, and transhnmed to New
York, where he was guaranteed 10,000 dollars
to fight Jack Dillon. It was said that Jack
Kearns got this contest stopped because
Darcy would not work under a contract he
had signed with Kearns when Kearns was in
Australia!. (4) Darcy’s full record is set out
in “Read’s Australian Boxing Annual,”
Is. 6d. post free.
Docs the N. S. Wales Moratorium Act give
relief to a person who in June, 1930, entered
into an agreement to purchase a printing
plant on which a balance is, payable every
six months with 6 per cent, interest? Would
a payment of interest only on the next
instalment be sufficient to avoid seizure ?• —
2455.
The vendor of the plant cannot, during
the continuance of the moratorium, demand
payment of the whole sum advanced, and the
Court may readjust the amount of the instal-
ments to be paid and postpone their pay-
ment. Interest, if not paid, can be sued for.
The plant cannot be seized whilst the mora-
torium operates, unless by leave of the
Court.
(1) Gan a son (29) who has worked on
his father’s farm since he was 13, without
wages, claim wages in the event of the father
selling the farm? (2) Can he claim wages in
the event of the farm passing into the hands
of creditors? (3) Can he claim wages in
cither case for the period since he teas 21?
—2431.
(1) and (3) Not unless there was an
agreement to pay wages. (2) Yes, if em-
ployed by the creditors, but only from the
date of engagement.
I reside in Victoria. If I engage a man
to cut, cart and stack firewood in N.S.W.
by contract of 100 tons, do I have to insure
him? If so, what mil it cost, and where
should I make payment? —l429.
You are not obliged to insure the man.
Whom did Captain Cook marry, and can
you tell me anything about his descendants?
—2310.
On December 21, 1762, he married a Miss
Batts, of Barking, in Essex. By her he had
six children; three died in infancy, the others
before the end of the century. James, the
eldest, became a naval officer and was
drowned in 1794; Nathaniel, the second, born
in 1780, also joined the navy and went
down with H.M.S. Thunderer at the age of
16; Hugh, the youngest, died in 1793, when
only 17. Mrs. Cook, to whom George 111.
granted a pension, lived to be 93, and died
at Clapham on May 13, 1835.
According to a recent cable, Federal
income-tax receipts in the D.S.A. for the
current year are expected to be 400,000,000
dollars less than the previous year. (1)
What percentage is this reduction of last
year’s total Federal revenue? (2) What
extent of reduction of national earning power
does it indicate? —2s62.
(1) Total Federal revenue for the year
ended June 30 last was 3,627,146,000 dollars.
On this the expected reduction represents
11 p.c. (2) The total reduction in Federal
revenue, including income tax, is estimated at
about 800,000,000 dollars. Assuming that
there is a constant ratio between the national
income and taxation receipts, this represents
a 22 p.c. falling off in earning power.
(1) What is the known extent of the solar
system? (2) Did the planet discovered last
year extend the known boundaries? (3)
Where does the new planet’s orbit fit in as
compared with the others? (4) How big is
it? (5) When was it first seen? (6) Was
its existence known before it was seen? (7)
How long is its year? (8) How long would
it take a wireless message to pass across
from one edge of the solar system to the
other? (9) Is there any life on the new
planet? —2ss7.
(1) Approximately it covers a space
9,200,000,000 miles across at its broadest
part. (2) Yes, by about one-third. (3)
Pluto’s orbit lies along a much narrower
ellipse than that of any planet. When
nearest the sun it is well inside of Neptune]s
track; when at the ends of its ellipse it is
far outside Neptune. (4) Approximately
4000 miles in diameter —about half the
diameter of the earth. It is believed, how-
ever, to be made of much heavier stuff. (5)
It was first identified on March 13, 1930,
but it appears on photographs taken at the
Lowell Observatory in 1915, and at Mt.
Wilson in 1919. (6) Yes. Prof. Lowell
asserted its existence and oommeniced a
search for it in 1905, interrupted by his
death in 1916. (7) It revolves around the
sun in 251.8 years. (8) Assuming it passed
with the speed of light, about 11 hours.
(9) Not possible. The temperature is esti-
mated at 380 deg. below zero, F.
I am told that I am not allowed to send
or take whisky to Darwin, and that residents
must buy it through the Administrator. What
is the laic on the matter? —2569.
Importation of intoxicating liquor into
North Australia, Darwin included, is gov-
erned by section 8 of the Licensing Ordinance
providing that no person shall, without a
permit so to do from the Government Resi-
dent, import or introduce liquor into any
part of North Australia north of the fifteenth
parallel of south latitude. Save in very excep-
tional circumstances, permits to import are
granted only to persons licensed to sell in-
toxicating liquors.
I wish to be registered as an electrical
contractor in N. 8. Wales. (1) Is an exami-
nation held for the purpose? (2) Is it of a
practical or a theoretical nature, or both?
(3) Must a candidate have served his
apprenticeship, or done a certain period of
practical work? (4) From whom can full
particulars be obtained? —2l3B.
(1) and (2) Written examinations are
held twice a year throughout the State,
and candidates are tested on their know-
ledge of the electrical wiring rules of the
Institution of Engineers, Australia. Con-
sideration will be given by the board to appli-
cations for provisional licenses pending exam-
ination ; exam, fee, 2s. 6d. (3) If an appli-
cant can produce an indenture showing five
years’ apprenticeship to the electrical trade
and proof of attendance at a technical col-
lege, he will be eligible for a license without
examination. (4) From the secretary. Elec-
trical Contractors and Electricians’ Licens-
ing Board, Mint Building, Macquarie-street,
Sydney.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of the word “Boalla” ?—2733.
Brief Answers.
J.F.M.: Write Bennett and Wood, Ltd.,
Pitt and Bathurst streets, Sydney... .V.R.: Inject a
mixture of 1 part of creosote to 8 of kerosene into
some of the powder-post borer holes with a pump
or syringe having a sharp-pointed nozzle. This will
not stain J.D.E.: The flight of Lady Bailey from
England to South Africa and return in 1929 was
accomplished 5010.... J.H.: During 1929 the West
Maitland-Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) line earned
£682,991. Working expenses were £617,825. After
providing for £375,794 interest there was a loss of
£310,628.'.. .G.M.T.: The price of good-quality Java
kapok is 6d. per pound c.i.f., or Bd. per pound
c.i.f. and e. Bruton and Wheeler, 307 . Sussex-
street, Sydney, will give you an opinion as regards
quality and price if you send a sample... .C.J.R.:
Two pounds of seed would be ample. Cost 6s. (post-
age 2s. extra), Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Syd-
ney. Seed should be sown now... .H.L.P.: (1) There
are no vacancies for bandsmen in the Australian navy.
(2) Apply leading steamship companies. (3) In-
formation regarding pay may be obtained from the
District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Edgecliff,
Sydney... .E.V.: You cannot vary the terms of the
agreement without the consent of the other party
to it... .E.N.F.: Of no commercial value M.J.R.:
Make direct application to the shipping cos
Interested: (1) 59,342 killed, 254,994 sick and
wounded. (2) Figures not available yet. (3)
During 1928-29 England imported 20,564,650 bushels
of wheat from Australia. (4) For year ending
June 30, 1929, it was 94,468 A.A.W.: At June
30, 1930, 466,930 motor-cars, 104,487 commercial
vehicles and 84,897 motor-cycles were registered in
Australia... .J.H. W.: The recent reduction in the
basic wage of 3s. per week applied only in respect
of awards of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court
and did not affect State awards. No applications
have been made under the State Act for variation
of the awards for butchers, bakers and breadcarters.
. ...J.E.T.: Write American Trade Commissioner,
Yorkshire House, Pitt and Spring streets, Sydney....
F.A.S.: Nothing at Public Library, Melbourne, on
ethnology of Mentawai and Nias except in Dutch.
Unable to trace any book on subject by Taylor....
1.H.M.: In view of the written agreement, and as
the loss involved is only a few days’ rent, you
would be ill-advised to go to law about it....
R.W.W.: Not acquainted with machine. Merchants
dealing in this class of machinery are Guthridge, Ltd.,
10-12 Parramatta-road, Camperdown; Noyes Bros.,
115 Clarence-street; Leplastrier and Co., Macquarie-
place—Sydney... .R. 8.: Bowlette Amusement Co., 5
Bond-street, Sydney... .J.R.C.: B. D. Colvin, lecturer
and examiner in accountancy, died March 14, 1924,
at Adelaide... .A.K.L.: The nominal value of the
German mark in British currency is 11.7483 d. or
20.43 marks to the pound Wat: The charge is
unfair, but you have no redress... .A.L.P.:
In the first place you would have to be
able to speak Spanish pretty fluently; in the second
you haven’t sufficient capital... .J.F.8.: Wi’ite
Secretary, Workers’ Education Association, Edward-
street, Brisbane... .M.G.H.: Get in touch with
the steamship cos R.K.: (1) Very poor
in N.T.; North Queensland, especially the sugar
country, promises better. (2) Not likely; it is
only a side-line for fishermen, etc. AH depends,
whether you intend to live in bush or town; in
both cases much the same as elsewhere in Australia.
. ...M.D.S.: Get in touch with Paper Products, Ltd.,
45 Reservoir-street, Sydney... .A.E.M.: You say “it
appears that he was accusing me.” You need more
than that on which to ground an action for defama-
tion... .W.F.S.: Write Monteath and Sons, Grant-
street, South Melbourne J.L.R.: Sorry, but N.S.W.
law won’t allow us to tell y0u....G.11.: Write to
the Austral Rodk Milling Go., Gladstone-street,
Newtown, Sydney... .T.N.T.: Association football was
first played in Australia in 1880, when the game
was introduced to Sydney and the N.S.W. Association
was formed J. J.D.: The pilot-bird has earned the
nickname “guinea-a-week” because one of its calls
resembles the words... .E.R.K.: Guillemard’s “Cruise
of the Marchesa” is worth about £2 5s M.P.A.:
“Laundry Record” (monthly, 7s. 6d. p.a.), Drury
House, Russell-street, Drury-lane, London, W.C.2
M. J.C.: The lines are from Edward Dyson’s “The Old
Whim Horse” T.E.S.: From the Director, Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew, L0nd0n..... J.G.: The president
must be 35 years of age and a native citizen of the
United States. He receives a salary of 75,000
dollars - p.a., with a travelling allowance of 25,000
dollars p.a C.0.C.: As the agreement was signed
by neither party, you have no action on it. The
deposit would be forfeited. .. .L.M.W.: The profit
will not be liable to income tax or unemployment-
relief tax unless the land was purchased with a
view to resale... .J.W.G.: Unless you have good
reason to believe that the property has now con-
siderable value, it would be wise not to risk
embroiling yourself in a legal issue. A relative or
friend might make judicious inquiry... .A.E.V.:
Cannot suggest any method of destroying foxes
outside shooting or poisoning... .M.H.: (1) Yes.
Similar to what we print. (2) Can’t say. (3) See
“Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year-book”
(2s. 6d.)... .M.D.N.: Dividends are assessable in
the hands of shareholders, but a rebate in respect
of the portion taxed in the co.’s assessments is
allowed. A super-tax of 71 per cent, of a tax-
payer’s taxable property income is chargeable in
addition to the ordinary tax F. J.C.: Can be
drawn up by any solicitor. It gives the person
appointed power to act as agent either generally or
specially for his principal. ‘He may sign deeds
and so on as if he were such... .E.8.C.: If you are
not in urgent need of the money, you might delay
selling your wheat till the end of May, unless in
the meantime a price is offerad with which you
would be satisfied... .8.N.: Bangalla, a low hill;
Binowee, a green place; Hobada, place on a hill;
Moola, a shady place; Yuruga, extensive view ....
C.E.F.: Write N.S.W. Agriculture Department, Syd-
ney, for pamphlet... .T.J.M.: Published about 12
years ago; now out of print. Try the second-hand
dealers... .A.R.: There are several excellent books
on the subject already. We know of no Australian
publisher who would undertake publication, and
doubt if it could be made to pay.... J.R.Ii.: The
words can be obtained from Chappell’s, Ltd., 250
Pitt-street, Sydney... .W.F.M.: Wine-making without
a license is illegal... .J.D.11.: We know of no
scientific proof of the statement... .M.W.G.: Warts
on the hands are removed by touching them for a
few seconds with carbonic-acid snow. This should
be done by a doctor J.K.: Consult a Melbourne
specialist. Till you can make the trip, do every-
thing you can to improve your general health. Sniff
salt and water up the nose twice daily. Don’t
smoke... .C. 8.: A similar device was introduced
some time ago but did not prove very satisfactory.
If you have a working model, take the matter up
with one of the accessory distributors in Sydney. ...
T.H.R.: “Our Miss Gibbs” was first produced in
Australia at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Sept. 10,
1910. In December it was transferred to the Royal.
The run totalled 230 performances R. 8.: “Breath-
less Moment,” Muriel Hine; “Twenty-three and One-
half Hours’ Leave,” Mary Roberts Rinehart
C.H.A: You’re wrong. Australia lost 60.456 men in the
Great War; Belgium 38,172 (Many others mailed.)


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
A Meal & Room
for every,
taste /
é
ê
Whether your first demand
be for comfort or for economy,
the Grosvenor meets it. 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all doors. Fire-
proof. Meals a la carte
from 1/6. £3/10/- weekly.
Bed and breakfast from 6/6.
%ROSVENOR
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FRFE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Tried
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition aad preventing thin or grey
hair. , , , ,
In bottles, of
C h e m i sts,
Stores and
Hair dressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS,
112 Guilford Street, London,
ENGLAND.
LTD.,
W.C.1.,
c.t.p.67.
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. S.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a prac-
tice. He is troubled by the fret-
fulness of his wife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against his
wish, but who now, he feels, is malting
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. Allegations touching upon
his professional 'performance and other
misunderstandings make him deter-
mined to leave, but imperceptible influ-
ences work to keep him there. He has
made a friend of John Cartwright,
Banton’s leading citizen, and is slowly
winning the respect and friendship of
others. But Mrs. Gherardi becomes
more and more intent upon returning
to Italy, and at last, when their house
is burnt down, wins Dr. Gherardi’s
agreement that they should go. Going
to the bank after the fire, Dr. Gherardi
is made to see Banton’s people in a
new light—they have anonymously sub-
scribed £3OO as a token of appreciation
of his work and sympathy in his loss.
He feels that he cannot go now, and
rejects Mrs. Gherardi’s suggestion that
he should return the gift; since he
regards it as a tie. Mrs. Gherardi
becomes more and more fretful, and,
completely losing her control, she
takes strychnine. Dr. Gherardi leaves
for Sydney with his son, but re-
turns —to make atonement. Later
he meets there Mrs. Ferrars, whose
tragedy and personality had im-
pressed him when he attended her
wastrel husband, who had since died.
Walking with her one day he is
attracted by her youth and freshness.
Chapter VIII ( Continued ).
:< ]\ 7IARRIAGE in most places, not only
IVI : ‘ n Banton, is still considered the
most profitable occupation for the
woman,” Leo said. “When there is not
economic pressure, to fit her for that posi-
tion is the only thing of importance.”
“But not all women have the chance of
undertaking marriage,” Mrs. Ferrars replied
after a slight pause. “And often it fails
them. Then they starve or are dependent
on relatives. Or they become lady-helps.
I think there are plenty of things women
could do and would prefer to do besides
running a house.”
“There will always be some women who
will reject the thing Nature ordains for
them. These are already seen—doctors,
lawyers and in business. But it is not
general. They are freaks. What you sug-
gest, that girls gently born and economi-
cally secure, will be trained in money-pro-
ducing occupations as a matter of course I
do not know. The woman is opening the
gates of freedom. They will open yet
wider. But if the wilderness in which they
will find themselves gives a more precious
thing than the safety behind the shut gate,
I don’t know. I am a man and I cannot
tell what the heart of a woman desires.
But certainly, as men, we would desire for
her the safety behind the gate. For your-
self—what?” he queried suddenly.
The swift return to the personal caught
her off guard, and she answered without
premeditation: “Safety, security. I’m like
a person who has had the planks of exist-
ence torn away by a flood. I don’t know
if I can swim, and it seems so much easier
to . sink, anyhow!” She spoke tempestu-
ously. A faint color had come into her
cheeks. “I would have been satisfied with
marriage. I’m not one of those new women.
I’m driven to it. If I had some profession
or some business training, it would be
taking second best, but second best is
better than nothing at all. Women can’t
go on being the victims of chance. Every-
body is to a certain extent, men and women,
but women far more. It won’t always be
like this. I don’t know how long it will
take, but some day, when a woman finds
herself left, like I am, she won’t be at the
mercy of chance benevolence. She’ll be
able to turn round and help herself. I feel
sure of that.”
Without conscious volition they had
halted. Suddenly Olwen flung out her arm.
“Look at me! A failure! I’ve nothing. I
didn’t want much. Probably that’s why it’s
all so dreadful. If I’d wanted a little more
I would be utterly robbed when the one
thing was taken from me. But I can’t
think of anything to do with myself. I
can’t reconstruct; I’m lost, finished.”
Her words seemed to echo. The cry rang
in their ears. Lost. Finished. Leo felt
his spirits sink beneath the weight of the
words.
“Most of us get lost in this world. The
more brave we adventure the more likely
we are to lose our way,” he said. Then,
after a moment’s silence, “Come, it is getting
late. I must go back.”
Without premeditation he took her hand
in his. To both the contact brought com-
fort. He wondered why she inspired him
to comfort her, when his own heart ached
intolerably, and he could not find comfort
from his own words.
She had left her hand in his, was walking
beside him trustingly, like a child. When
they came to the end of the road she drew
away from him.
“Thank you. You have been very good
to me. I—l think I’ll go down this track.
Don’t come with me.” Her eyes shone
mistily, her lips were a little tremulous.
She put out her hand, then drew it back.
“I will see you again,” Leo said
sombrely.
“Yes.” She turned and walked away.
She walked with nervous, crooked steps,
as one who does not see well.
Leo stared after her until she was hidden
in a declivity, then he, too, went slowly
homewards.
“I can help myself through her. She
must be helped,” he said.
(2)
Mrs. Brelling heard her come in, and
emerged from the kitchen, wiping her hands
on a cloth.
“Oh, you’re back! Did you have a nice
walk? It must be lovely out. Standing
over the stove is terrible. Just like a fur-
nace.”
“Aunt, I wish you’d let me help you. It’s
too much for you this weather. I’m quite
good at making jam, you know I am.”
Olwen was faltering, miserable. The bubble
of her excitement over the meeting was dis-
solved.
“What nonsense! As if I’d let you! Run
and get changed. The Cartwrights will be
here any minute. Did you meet anyone
while you were out?”
Olwen felt suddenly frightened of those
beady black eyes. She couldn’t tell her.
Even if she said, “Yes, I met Doctor Gher-
ardi,” what could her aunt do with that?
Anything. And the town would begin to
watch. You had to be on guard all the
time.
“No, nobody. I walked over the mines.”
“Well, run and change. I must help
Emmy. That girl’s as stupid as they’re
born. Really, I think I shall get rid of her.
I’d rather do it myself.”
“I wish you would,” Olwen said eagerly
—“get rid of Emmy and let me help you.
I want to, Aunt. I want to do something.
You’re so kind.”
“As if I would! You poor child! I didn’t
ask you to come here to be a servant.”
“It wouldn’t be that. You know I never
thought of it that way. Just to help a bit.”
The woman shook her head slowly.
“You’d like the town to be able to say
I took in my poor brother’s daughter and
sacked the servant, wouldn’t you?” It
came out like that—when she was being
kindest, a sudden darting little fang! When
you made up your mind that you had mis-
judged her, that she wasn’t doing things
to hurt you and to make life impossible for
you, she said this kind of thing.
Olwen told herself that she couldn’t go
on. But where could she go? What could
she do?
The sky framed in the open window was
clear, shining blue. The rain-clouds were
passing, driven by a south wind. Far to the
north was a white, fleecy ridge. The sun
went down in sulky turbulence, still fighting
with the clouds, a war of flame and sulphur.
The tops of the dark blue hills were deli-
cately shrouded in mist, and the wet
emerald of a paddock, rich with summer
grasses, sloped, glistening, down to the
railway cutting. She leaned far over the
window-sill.
Her eyes had been trained to a perception
of nature; to find beauty in a peeling white
gum, in its mottled pearl and silver, and
its sappy, red-crusted trunk-slashes. The
heavy-topped yellow wheat edged and slit
by the hay-cutting delighted her with its
colorful precision. Her feet were happy,
churning the red dust of a road which
wound through grey-green forest and led her
back to the little town. Yes, the town was
mean and petty. Most of the women were
stupid and most of the men dull and
niggling. But she knew them. She was one
of them. And they had sudden unexpected
nobilities. She could be happier here than
anywhere else. A head of the mouse, or
a hair in the lion’s tail. Besides, if she
could build herself a place here she could
influence these women!
Leo. Leo? Lion. But caught in a net.
What was the fable? The mouse gnawed
through the net, didn’t it? She was a
fool. Such a weary fool. She knew nothing
about him—not a thing. Why had his
wife killed herself? Was there something
terrible in him? Some fatal, dark thing?
She went across to the glass and stared
at herself. “I used to be good-looking once.
I look like death! Oh, God, give me some-
thing to do with myself! Something with-
out him in it. Because that’s all impossible.
He doesn’t he never would besides,
he won’t stay here he doesn’t belong
here. He doesn’t seem to care where he is
at the moment, but one day he’ll wake up
and—be gone. I don’t want to depend on
anyone for my life. Show me a way I can
take by myself, without anyone’s help.
I’ve only seen him twice.... and I’m hang-
ing to him as if he were my salvation!”
(3)
The committee meeting was over and Reb
Mullins was walking down the hill with
Alan Macpherson.
“We’ll make a hospital out of that yet,”
Mullins said. “It isn’t so bad now —for a
town like this.”
“No. We*re doing pretty well. We’ve
got the people interested in it. When they
give something to the hospital now they
give something we want instead of some-
thing they don’t want. I say, have you
noticed Gherardi’s bucking up a bit?”
“Yes. He seemed to go to pieces after
his wife’s death. You know, I often won-
dered why he came back to Eanton at all.
He’s got it in him to do better than this
town.”
“He’s got the brains all right. But brains
aren’t everything. A man’s got to have
something else besides brains. You want a
restless kind 6f disposition. Most of us
stop being restless after we’re twenty-five or
so. I did myself. If anyone had told me
I’d be stuck in this town when I was forty-
five I’d have laughed at him. Yet here I
am, and not doing too badly either. I’m
quite satisfied. That’s the trouble.
“It’s an easy life.”
“ ’Course it’s an easy life! That’s the
whole thing. It’s too easy. You make a
comfortable living, know everybody. Every-
one’s your friend. Take a bit of interest in
pushing the town along, like going on com-
mittees the way we do, and people respect
you. Where would chaps like you and I
be in the city? NowLere. Stuck in a
suburb comping out a living. It would take
us a lifetime to build up a circle of friends
you call by their Christian names and can
count on any time. Here it’f easy. Get-
ting the golf club going, agitating for a
better railway service, making a hospital
out of a rubbish-heap—you feel you’re
doing something. And if you get knocked,
you can count on people to stick to you.
That’s more than you can do in business in
the city.”
“It’s not a bad life.”
“ ’Course it’s not: though it mightn’t seem
much good to people who pass through
the town. It’s a good, easy life, and hard
to pull out of. So easy, you keep on until
you suddenly find it’s too late to get out
and you don’t want to get out. Except now
and again you have a bad half-hour when
you think you might have donp better for
yourself. But everyone has those half-hours,
I reckon, no matter where he is.”
“It gets chaps like us that way. I wouldn’t
have thought when I first met Gherardi
that he’d be caught so easy, though. He
seemed a bit of a firebrand. Got into
trouble in his own country, didn’t he?”
“Something of the sort. Some political
row. Cartwright told me he got into a
mess, and can’t go back home.”
“Still, there’s plenty places besides Banton
where he could make a practice. Sickness
is the same in all lingoes.”
“That’s so. But I’ve been telling you it
isn’t so easy to get away, even for them
spirits of revolt. He wanted to make a pot
and clear out. But he didn’t clear out
quick enough. He stuck here all last year
when he seemed to hate the place enough
to get away from it. That was his time.
Say, what about a game of pool?”
“No. I got to get home.”
They paused at the end of the dark road.
“We ought to get together and try to fix up
some way of lighting this town. Hoppy
Doolan capsized into the culvert near the
mill the night before last—did you hear?”
(4)
“So now you know almost as much as I
know myself,” Leo said.
They were sitting in Mona Cartwright’s
drawing-room. The blinds were drawn, and
the cool shadowed room gave no hint of
the shimmering haze which lay over the
drowsing garden and the empty streets.
It was Sunday afternoon, silent, lazy.
Mona had apologised: “I can’t keep
awake. It would be more polite to leave
you than to fall asleep under your very
noses. I’ll follow John’s example. Olwen,
call me at tea-time if I haven’t appeared.
And try to amuse him.” She had smiled
and left them.
On the way to her room she had entered
John’s den and flipped the handkerchief
from his face. “John, those two like each
other.” He had yawned.
Olwen sat scarce moving, listening while
Leo unrolled, with frequent hitches and
sudden jerks, the fabric of his early years.
His story was so foreign from her own ex-
periences, or those of the people she had
known, that it seemed unreal. The pages
were like flashes from a romantic novel;
they seemed fantastic viewed in the grey
light of Banton’s reality.
He stopped abruptly, as though tired of
the subject, and for a few minutes both
were silent and thoughtful. Then she said
something banal about the strength of cir-
cumstance.
“Lately I’ve been thinking that the
trouble is in myself. If I had been strong
enough I could have beaten circumstance.
And wise enough, of course. That chapter
of my youth—when I look back I see
clearly where a little wisdom, a little re-
straint would have avoided everything. I
was not master of myself. Impulsive, un-
disciplined; so the promise of my youth
ends in this.”
“But you had no chance! You were
beaten before you started, as a tiny boy!
There was no one to train you, to care what
you made of your life.”
“The men who conquer life have never
been told how to do it. It is in themselves
—in themselves. You can see in the infant,
if you are clever enough, the course his
life will run. Believe me, I speak truth.”
“Well, I’m sorry for you. But I’m glad
you’re here, and that you’ve become my
friend. That’s something that the strong
people miss. The interweaving with other
lives. The conquest you speak of demands
a ruthless solitariness. If you would fly
far you must fly alone.” She stopped with
nervous haste. She was never sure of her-
self with him. “I always think you’re


3^4*
<r
0.
/
O'
\o
X©
K/fl
/ v£/ vi 0 '
i' o/tx y\ «* *
W
oP >qO
*S<y*
e
<£
\
*>
*
X'o
\o
*
>°
v>.
its
BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Safe Marriage, by Ettie A. Rout, 5/5; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/5; Wise Parenthood,
by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Contraception, by Marie C. Stopes, 22/7; Sex at Choice by
Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/8; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 8/2; Enduring
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 8/1; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 8/1; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/8; Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; The New Toxology
—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; Parenthood —A Manual of Birth Control, 3/4 ; The
Sex Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/6; Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene, by Howard,
7/-; Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 3/2; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/1; Aust. Nuts and
Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/3; The Letter Writers’
Handbook, 5/10; Cocktails, 3/-; Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for Boys and Girls, 3/4; Ten
Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A.,
3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/3; Popular Card Games and How
to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best
Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4 ; The Handyman, Home
Jobs and Repairs, 1/-; Billiards, 1/-; Table Rapping, 2/6; Practical Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-
Germain’s, 3/3 ; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand Reading Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/3 ; Chess
and Draughts and How to Play, by A. Belasco, 1/6; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A.
Belasco, 1/6.; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/4; How Shall I Word
It? 2/8; The New Ford, by E. T. Brown, 4/7; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion
Letter Writer, 2/8; Hands and How to Read Them, 2/9 ; How to Read the Hand, by Karma,
4/-; The Correct Guide to Letter Writing, 5/8; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/9;
Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/9; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/9;
DIESEL ENGINES.
By David Louis Jones.
A practical Treatise on the principles, construction,, operation and
maintenance of the Diesel oil-engine, both marine and stationary types,
with a descriptive chapter on the latest developments in Diesel locomotive
and Diesel electric-drive for ship propulsion.
565 Pages, Illustrated with 241 Engravings.
Special Price, 15/- Post Free.
One of the best books on the Diesel Engine yet written.
Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/9 ; Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings,
1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/5; Pruning, 3/10; Boot Mending for the Amateur,
by S. H. Lane, 1/6; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; More About
How to Draw in Pen and Ink, by H. Furniss, 7/5; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Woman’s Enquire
Within, 1/7; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 8/8; What to Draw and How to Draw It, 4/8;
Poultry Farming in N.S.W., by Janies Hadlington, 4/10 - Owner Drivers’ Handbook, by Edward
T. Brown, 5/11; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/5; Polishes and Stains for Woods, 2/7;
Aust. Book! of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; How to Drive a Car, 4/4; Aust. Enquire
Within, 3/2 ; Manners and Rules of Good Society, 5/8; Boys’ Book of Carpentry and Electricity,
3/5; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/11;
Amusing Stories for Speakers, by Austin, 3/5; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/3; Zadkeil’s Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/3; Gypsy Queen Dream Book, 4/5;
The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; The Winston Simplified Dictionary (Encyclopaedic
edition). Thumb index, with 3000 illustrations in color, and an Atlas of the World. Usual
price, 45/-; offered at 30/- post free. The Wonder Book of Knowledge, reveals the marvels of
the world. Should be in every home where there are children. Usual price 15/-; offered at 10/-
post free. Bell’s Acrostic Dictionary for crossword puzzle, 5/6; Nuttall’s Standard Dictionary,
12/6; Dictionary of Quotations (Wood), 15/-; Games of Patience —series 1 to 5, 2/9; Profit
and Discount Tables (Od.v Rooks), 9/8; Fruitgrowing Under Irrigation —Australian practice—
(Arndt), 11/-; Universal Trade Reckoner, 4/3; Dagonet Reciter, 3/6; Bulletin Book of Humorous
Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Sex and Disease (Storer) —every young man should have
this book, 8/-; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/6; Houseoaintina. Decorating
and Paperhanging, the best book on color mixing and painting methods published, 13/9.
Try the Bookstall Go. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
feeling I’m a fool when I try to talk gener-
alities,” she said impulsively.
“No, I don’t think you are a fool. Even
if you were I would probably talk with
you as much—but about different things.”
He got up restlessly and went across to
the window, Raising a corner of the blind
he looked out on the garden. But he did
not see the colorful riot inflamed by the sun.
His thoughts had wandered to Teresa, pro-
pelled there by Olwen’s word “enweaved.”
Teresa had become enweaved in his life
and what had it brought her? Death, anni-
hilation. It was not two years since Teresa’s
death, and even to him her memory was
becoming dimmed. She might have been
alive and great but for those threads which
had.choked her. Teresa triumphant at La
Scala Teresa in the little Banton grave-
yard. He let fall the window-blind.
When Olwen saw his face she knew that
his mood had changed. He had withdrawn
himself and forgotten her.
Two hours had sped by since Mona had
left them alone. He was capable of com-
plete detachment even now after two hours
of utter self-revelation. Two hours which
had held queer, breath-taking, moments of
crisis, when their eyes had been drawn to
each other’s, and they had stared, voiceless,
shaken, forgetful of the words which
trembled on their lips, conscious of other
strange things which gathered in their
minds and demanded violent expression,
but were not unleashed.
“But what I can’t understand is why you
came back to Banton. Why did you?”
She wanted to know, but she wanted more
to see if she could not drag him back and
make him admit her presence again.
“To explain is difficult. And you would
not understand.” She noticed his face.
Forbidding. It seemed to brush her aside.
She left the room and went to call Mona.
Leo thought: “It is difficult to explain.
Even to myself now the explanation lacks
conviction and the return seems a foolish
action when I consider how I feel now about
poor Teresa. How transient is emotion,
even the most powerful, which can give
direction to a man’s way of living!”
(5)
It was dusk and they were preparing to
leave, when Cartwright, who had been
absent from the room for a few minutes,
called Leo, saying:
“There’s a fellow outside that Miss Mc-
Codd sent down. You’d better see what he
wants.”
When Leo had dismissed the messenger
he returned to take hasty leave of his host-
ess. “There has been an accident to a
child. People name of Grant, about ten
miles along the Waragunyah-road. Do you
know them at all, John?”
“Yes, I’ve met him. They’re not long
settled here. He seems a decent chap. I
don’t think they have much—he’s just
starting out on his own. But you’ll have to
go, anyhow. That’s one thing about being
the only doctor in the town. You can’t
shove the deadheads on to a colleague, can
you?”
Leo didn’t want to go. He felt tired and
out of sorts. Raking over the past this
afternoon had hurt.
“Olwen, will you be all right? Or would
you like John to walk up with you? You’ll
have to go immediately, won’t you,
Doctor?” Mona said.
“What nonsense! It’s barely dusk. I
don’t want anyone to walk home with me.”
Olwen was quite vehement in her protests.
“The age of chivalry is past,” John said.
“Thanks for sparing my aged bones, Olwen.
Leo, you can see she isn’t abducted before
you get to the corner of the street, anyhow.”
But when they reached the corner Olwen
said: “I’ll walk up. Do you mind?”
“Do whatever you like. But we must
hurry. I cannot take you home.” She felt
a sudden delicious sense of intimacy. His
rudeness thrilled her. He was so polite to
women. He had a courtly, foreign way with
them. But he flung at her: “Do whatever
you like!” They knew each other so well.
Six months—or had she known him all her
life? No good trying to disguise the fact
that she loved him. Desperately. But he
didn’t love her. Or if he did he wouldn’t
admit it to himself. And he wasn’t going
to let himself love her. You could see
that peeping evilly through everything he
said. Well, it didn’t matter. This was
something. Hang on to this.
“What a funeral is Sunday in this town!”
Leo said abruptly. He had not spoken since
they had turned into the street. “On Satur-
day the week dies. And on Sunday we all
sit decently solemn, looking down the nose
at the corpse.”
“Why, I don’t feel like that. I think it’s
rather nice. Just to laze about and do noth-
ing. That is, I would if I had anything to
do through the week.”
“I have been thinking,” he said after a
time. “You might, if you are so uncomfort-
able, get a position somewhere as governess
with a nice family. Why don’t you try, if
you are so discontent with your aunt?”
His tone was quite cold, unfeeling. Like
a little pellet of ice dropped plump into
the warmth of her happiness. This was a
taste of what he could give you. Was it
better to surrender now before the battle
was really on?
“It will come to something like that, I
suppose,” she said.
“It will not be for long. You are young,
attractive woman. You will marry again.”
Not a tremor in his voice. He was brutal.
Or didn’t he know that he was hurting her
intolerably? He knew well enough! Some-
times noticing his eyes on her, while she
was talking, she realised that he was follow-
ing the unwinding of her thought processes,
that he was a jump ahead of her and she
would falter and break short a sentence.
He would finish it for her. (“I am very
transparent.” “You are, to me.”)
Well, she would try now to gather up a
few, tattered remnants of her pride. They
might cover her.
“I am thinking of it seriously.”
“Well, it wouldn’t do harm. As I said,
it would not be for long. It would be better
than Mrs. Brelling.”
Brutal. She realised that she would never
know him. He was strange, dark, not of her
race. Should she cleave to his side for a
hundred years she would never know him.
But she loved him.
They had reached his house, quiet, stag-
nant as the other houses in the street; dark,
save for a single lamp.
“Leo, let me come with you!” (Oh, she
shouldn’t have said that! How had the
words escaped from her?)
He was shocked. “What nonsense! I
couldn’t bring you. It would be most un-
seemly. These people where I go, they are
in trouble. It would offend if I arrive
making pleasure trip out of the call.”
“I’ll sit outside. They needn’t know I’m
there.” She hated herself for this persist-
ence.
“Why do you want to come?”
“It’s such a hot night! I can’t bear the
thought of going back to the house and
sitting talking to Aunt Margaret, while
Ralph swats mosquitoes and says the insects
are worse this summer than he ever remem-
bered.” Her words tumbled out, with slight
incoherence.
Leo felt riven by unwelcome, undefined
emotion. He wanted to crush her to the
ground; to push her pale, vague face from
his sight, to find himself alone, untormented.
“Well, you can come. But I do not like.”
Instantly he felt calmer. He had lost in
the struggle, but the struggle was over.
That terrible sense of strain had gone.
But after to-night he would give up seeing
this woman. No more entangling threads.
He wanted to reconstruct and he must be
clear-headed this time, guided by reason,
not emotion.
She waited for him at the corner of the
street. It was dark now. A few stars
peeped pallidly from the heat-hazed sky.
The even clop-clop of the horse’s hooves on
the hard roadway was curiously soothing.
A little breeze sprang up. It was fresh and
cool on her hot cheeks. She did not want
to talk, she was content beside him, and
they spoke desultorily, with long intervals
of silence. She was conscious of his body
pressing against hers. It was the first physi-
cal contact since that day when he had
taken her hand and held it while they
walked down the road. When her conscious-
ness of the pressure of his shoulder became
so exquisitely acute that she felt she must
drag his arms about her, she moved. He did
not move; his face was not once turned to
her. Once she felt him lean more heavily
against her, and she caught her breath.
Then the buggy swerved and he righted
himself. She was dreary and forlorn.
A light moved jerkily towards them. It
swayed from side to side, and as they
approached nearer they saw the outline of
a hooded buggy. They were about five
miles from town. A woman’s voice hailed
them urgently as they passed: “Is that the
Doctor?”
Leo pulled his horse to a standstill, and
a man dismounted from the other vehicle,
now abreast of them, and came round to
him. His face was pale in the lamps’ glow,
his voice was steady, but one caught a hint
of fear in his careful, subdued utterance.
“Doctor, we got the little chap in the
buggy. My wife said it would be best if
we came to meet you. She couldn’t wait.
I’ve come slowly, and I tried not to jolt
him.”
Leo got out. Neither men glanced at
Olwen, who sat quite shocked and worried
at the turn things had taken. But no one
paid her any attention. She might have
been a sack huddled on the seat.
Leo bent over the still little form sagging
in the woman’s arms. He felt the boy’s
pulse, made a swift cursory examination.
“We must get him in to the hospital,”
he said curtly.
“Doctor, he’s not —he’s not dead, is he?”
the mother said. “He’s been so still. I
tried to wake him. I gave him brandy.”
Her voice was controlled, yet it was
apparent that she was trying to keep from
screaming the words.
“No. We will see what we can do. Bring
him to the hospital.”
“Doctor, can you bring hipn? I’ve left
a baby six months’ old at home alone in
the house. I must go back to him.” She
was dragged in two. She was almost bereft
of her reason by fear. But instinct thrust
the facts before her. The baby was home
alone and the youngest must not be left.
She must return, though her body seemed
to hurl itself after that still, precious
burden which Leo took from her arms.
“I have with me a nurse who will assist,”
he lied perfunctorily. Neither the man nor
the woman noted what he said.
The husband said, lowering his voice,
“He’s dead, isn’t he. Doctor?”
“I’m afraid he will die, old man.” The
man gave a little gasp and for an instant
his body drooped. Then he drew him-
self up.
(To be continued next week.)


VISITORS WELCOMED TO
LONDON’S FOUR MOST
UP-TO-DATE RESIDENTIAL
HOTELS.
Close to Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens;
Within 3 minutes of Tube; Open to Non-
Residents and Daily Terms as required; No noise
though Central; Garage; Night Porters; All bed-
rooms have hot and cold water, gas fires;
Exchange Telephones; Central Heating.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE. HYDE PARK, W. 2.
Accommodation 120 guests. Special Terms for
Winter Residence.
Winter Garden; Palm Court; Louis Seize
Drawing-room and Lounge; Tudor Smoke and
Billiard Rooms; Special Dinner Dances.
Wedding Receptions and At-homes a Specialty.
Single Rooms from 4 Guineas. Double from
74 Guineas. Bed and Breakfast from 9s. 6d.
Telephone, Park 9901.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL.
66-69 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
Established over 20 years. New extensions of
50 rooms now ready. This hotel has been artis-
tically decorated throughout and offers unusually
spacious and attractive reception rooms.
Terms from 4 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 9121.
PARK ROYAL HOTEL.
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
This charming hotel offers terms from 3 Guineas
per week. First-class reception-rooms and cuisine.
Inspection invited. Accommodation for 90 guests.
Delightful home for residents.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 9712.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL.
29-31 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK. W. 2.
Recently acquired, newly decorated and refui-
nished; delightful reception-rooms. Refinement
guaranteed, with young and cheerful society.
Terms from 3 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 8Q22.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. did not regret the absence of
Pbar Lap from the Easter meetings, for
with the champion away the w.f.a. races
were wonderfully interesting. There was
brisk betting on them also; and there
wouldn’t have been had Pliar Lap been in
the fields. In the All-aged Stakes on the
Wednesday Sir Chrystopher proved himself
every bit as good as his sire Chrysolaus, who
won the race at the same age (five years)
in 1920. Mollison tried to get away from
him, but never could, and a most exciting
tussle ended in favor of the grey—the most
improved horse in Sydney—by half a head,
the time being lmin. 37isec. Parkwood was
four lengths away.
• • • • • •
The Dimmer was saddled up on each of
the four days and wound up with the
Autumn Stakes, the Sydney Cup, the Cum-
berland Stakes and the A.J.C. Plate to his
credit —an achievement unequalled for many
years. Tindall, who .now trains Mollison,
had to sell The Dimmer, along with the rest
of his string (Tregilla was one of them),
when lie fell under the displeasure of the
stipendiary stewards, and the Westralian
Morris was a lucky man to get so sterling
a stayer for 525 guineas. The jockey on
Carry On tried to steal the A.J.C. Plate,
and it was a treat to see The Dimmer gather
her up and come home at his ease, three
lengths ahead of Chide (for whom Traut-
wein gave more than 10 times the price at
which The Dimmer was knocked down to
Morris), in 3min. 56|sec. for the 2| miles.
The farther they go the better The Dimmer
likes it. Morris’s cheque for the meeting
amounted to £7045; Barden —his son-in-law
as well as trainer —doubtless got a liberal
share.
• • • • • •
Veilmond was only half a neck behind
The Dimmer in the Cumberland Stakes, and
on that run he should have done better in
the Sydney Cup, though with 51b. the worse
of the weights (he had 101 b. in his favor
Bert:"I think, well have agooo
SEASON ”
Sert : "Wwy, HAVE VOU GOT SOME
NEW PLAVERS ? ”
BERT:"NO j , BUT .'NEVE SOT A. NEW
COACH ”
GEIST \ "oh, HOY< IKTEReSTIKG)/
WfHAT IS »T ? "
in the Cumberland Stakes) lie could not
have beaten the horse from the West. With
Bst. 121 b. in the Dangar Handicap Veil-
mond went out a 9-to-4 favorite and won
well, though a slow pace may have helped
him. Second to Moss’s colt, and finishing
fast, was Salvador (10 to 1) .Eurytlimic’s half-
brother, who may yet turn out a racehorse.
Tregilla—obviously not yet recovered from
the gruelling he got in the spring—was a
failure at the meeting, but his half-brother
Burwood, also a chestnut and a good-looking
fellow, increased the reputation of Maltgilla
as a stud matron. He won the Easter
Stakes and the Champagne Stakes (in which
Ammon Ra, carrying a 101 b. penalty, was
beaten into third place) like a good one. It
seemed too much to ask him to essay a third
victory with 9st. 81b. in the first division
of the Fernhill Handicap, and Burwood
failed. However, Johnnie Jason won the
second division with 9st. 51b., and it was his
third race at the meeting—he had been
second to Ammon Ra in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes and to Burwood in the Easter Stakes.
Johnnie Jason is a rather impressive-looking
brown gelding by Tregilla’s sire Treclare
out of Sweet Rosaleen, a useful mare in her
day.
• •••••
Roley, who is little more than a pony,
made a one-horse race of the Coogee Handi-
cap on the Wednesday, and Nagrada, runner-
up in that race, went one better in the
Final Handicap, defeating the handsome
Comanche and Temoin. And Sun Eagle (12
to 1) bore out this Page’s good opinion of
him by taking a division of the Rous Handi-
cap in dashing style. If this three-year-old
goes on improving, an Epsom may not be
beyond him. Indeed Sun Eagle and Salvador
are worth remembering for the Epsom and
Metrop. double.
• •••••
The A.J.C. was prepared for a 20 per cent,
drop in tote figures as compared with the
1930 Easter round, but thanks to the bril-
liant success of the win-and-place innova-
tion the fall was only from £202,964 to
£393,322, and if it hadn’t rained most of
Sydney Cup morning there would probably have
been no decrease at all. Wednesday receipts
actually increased from £29,029 to £31,039
and Saturday receipts from £41,895 to
£51,368. In 20 out of 27 races the straight-
out-tote punter got a better return than if
he had backed his fancy s.p. with the book-
makers; £1 on every winner would have
yielded £248 14s. on the machine as against
£199 os. 6d. in the ring. Now let the A.J.C.
instal a doubles tote and the nefarious s,-p.
shop trade will steadily shrink. The one
blot on the meeting was the steeplechasing.
In the second of these barbarous spectacles,
five horses out of seven came down, four of
the jockeys were hurt and one (Troy) died.
=l= * * *
For the City Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick:
Novice Handicap: Wedding Feast; next,
Century Tire.
Denman Stakes: Greensea; next, Yertoy.
City Tatt.’s Cup: New Sweet; next, Roley.
Club Welter; Sun Eagle; next, Loch
Garry.
* * * *
The Sandown Park (Vic.) club on Saturday
held what will be its last meeting but one
unless the Hogan Government comes to the
rescue. Under a recent Act of Parliament,
racing dates in Melbourne are to be reduced,
and two courses —Sandown and Aspendale—
will be closed. Next to Flemington and Caul-
field, Sandown is the longest and best racing
track in the metropolitan area. No one seems
to understand why it is doomed to extinction
while Epsom and Mentone, difficult of access,
are to continue in existence.
“Tich” Wilson, who piloted two successive
Melbourne Cup winners for James Scobie,
was the outstanding jockey at Sandown. He
took the Trial Handicap on Neangar, finished
second in the juvenile event on Maniple, and
squeezed Golden Lullaby home in the San-
down Plate. Bookmakers gave punters a good
tip by making Neangar opening favorite for
his race. However, the black gelding was
supplanted by Spinopus, owned and trained
by ITorrie Leek whose deceased father cap-
tured the Caulfield Cup more than 30 years
ago with Ingliston. Neangar belongs to H.
Cantwell, who received the gelding as a gift
from a Footscray friend. As a juvenile
Neangar promised much, but got cast in
his box and was out of training for nearly
two years. Not Infallible and Anniswood
made the running up to a furlong from home,
where Wilson sent Neangar to the front, and
he scored, running away, by five lengths.
Golden Lullaby, a three-year-old filly by
Blankney 11., was regarded as unbeatable in
the Sandown Plate. She got home all right,
but Wilson had to ride her very hard to
overtake the 12-to-l chance Antonello and
vanquish him by a neck. Golden Lullaby
belongs to W. Foulsham, who, in 1916,
annexed the A.J.C. St. Leger on Kandos and
the Doncaster Handicap on Eurobin. Billy
Foulsham is a cousin of Fred of that ilk,
who captured so many juvenile races for
E. M. Pearce with Mollison, now trained by
W. Tindall. There have been few finer
riders on the flat than W. Foulsham; but,
like Norman Godby, he had to retire from
the saddle in the prime of manhood owing
to difficulty in keeping down weight.
Because of her second to Ibrani at Wil-
liamstown on Easter Monday, Piping Lady,
a daughter of Magpie, was made first choice
for the Two-year-old Handicap. She never
looked dangerous and finished behind the
place-getters, Goldbag, Maniple and Ireson’s
Ride. In the Williamstown contest referred
to, Goldbag was left at the post. He is a
Windbag, and one would not expect frac-
tiousness from the progeny of such a sober-
dispositioned stallion. It was merely a ques-
tion of Goldbag leaving the peg on Saturday
to win. PI. Knevitt got him away well, and
the race was a cakewalk thereafter. Gwen-
aldo, by Beau Fils, was supported for a hand-
some sum at long odds. She began too slowly
to have any real chance, but was galloping
brilliantly towards the end.
Broken Doll, by Rivoli or Seremond from
the 1917 A.J.O. St. Leger winner, Thana,
involved E. A. Connolly in grave trouble as
a juvenile. The mare, now five years old,
touched 6 to 4 as a candidate for the Sandown
Welter; but, money being piled on Frank
Dempsey’s mount, Larrabee, she drifted to
4 to 1 and Larrabee firmed from 7 to 1 to
2 to 1. Broken Doll, always well placed,
could not gain a situation. Theo Lewis
scored on a 10-to-l pop, Chalaki, by half a
length from Larrabee. The Tasmanian horse,
King Rak, was jumping superbly in the
Brush Steeplechase until he dislocated a
fetlock. The shinbone went clean through
the flesh, and he had to be destroyed. Mel-
ton Star, from Wangaratta, romped home.
Selections for Caulfield on Saturday:—
Katandra Two-year-old: Ibrani; next,
Heroic Prince.
Glenliuntly Handicap: Ormolu; next,
Mondiago.
H: * * *
“Morphettville”: Lucknow has been turned
into the Elysian pastures. A son of King
Ned’s Minoru, winner of the 1909 Derby,
Lucknow was imported in 1917 by Robinson
and Clark and won some good races before
going to Richmond Park stud (S.A.) ; they
included the Caulfield Cup of 1919 and the
V.A.T.C. Futurity Stakes in the same year.
His first lot of yearlings brought good prices
but his stock did little good. Eventually
he was transferred as a station sire to
Corona, near Broken Hill, where he died.
Frank McAlister, dead at 59, was one of
the best-known racing men in the Riverina.
His father, Peter McAlister, owned and
trained Jesse, a mare of high renown 50
years ago; and Frank owned and trained
numerous horses in his time, a notable one
being Quickberry, with which he won the
Wagga Gold Cup in 1914. Another he had
was Eunony, for a long time one of the best
welter horses in the N.S.W. country districts.
* * * sS
“Thormanby”: The English classics begin
with the Two Thousand Guineas at New-
market on April 29, and the mile race
promises to be more than usually interesting
by reason of the meeting of the two crack
two-year-olds of last season, Portlaw and
Jacopo. Both have already been backed
for the Derby, though there is some doubt
as to whether Portlaw can stay the distance.
He is by Beresford from Portree and is
owned by Afrikander Abe Bailey. Jacopo
belongs to Marshall Field, one of the famous
Chicago family.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Beyond question the con-
version of the tote at Randwick was
“highly ingenious” on the mechanical side.
The original machine (taking that in
the paddock as an illustration) pro-
vided for 42 starters. This has been cut
in half, allowing a field of 21 to be dealt
with both for straightout and place bets.
If there are more than 21 starters (there
have not been so far) the two highest-
numbered horses are bracketed together, and
numbered, say, 21 and 21a and so on, the
“A” numbers being shown in red, not only on
the machine but in the racebooks and on the
saddle-cloths. Tickets for either win or place
can be bought at any window, the “win”
pool showing on the indicator in red and the
place in black. On a win, the pool, less
charges, etc., is divided among holders of
winning tickets. The net place pool is divided
into three parts if more than eight horses
start, and into two if there are more than
four and less than eight, the amounts being
split among backers of the placed horses.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Russ Critcher (lOst. 71b.) did not display
his usual dash against Walter Lee (lOst.
71b.) at Leichhardt, but he was too shifty
for the colored chap, all the same. Lee
attacked furiously in the first round, and
fought faster than the Aussie in the fifth.
Gritcher beat him to the punch in nearly
every other encounter, and finished a mile
ahead on points, though hoots greeted the
referee’s ruling.
* * * *
Young Bob Thornton has been winning
consistently of late, and his supporters say
he is certain to be the next middleweight
champion. Weighing in at list. lib. he
knew too much for Buxton Oliver (list.
121 b.), a newcomer from Newcastle, and a
nicely-timed right to the chin knocked Oliver
cold in the fourth round. The two other 10-
rounders, which formed one of Sydney
Stadium popular programmes, saw Jerry
Hostler (lOst. 81b.) outpoint Wally McKen-
zie (lOst. 101 b.) and A 1 Singleton (Bst. 71b.)
stop Ern Evans (Bst. 61b.) in five rounds.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: It is alleged that Ben
Egan, the former King’s School and Wara-
tah three-quarter, intends to box as a pro-
fessional. Egan is one of the many good
pupils turned out by Jim Barron, who has
been coaching at King’s for years, and is
rated by that rare judge as one of the best
amateurs he has seen. A meeting with
Palmer, also an ex-amateur, is talked of, but
probably Egan will be asked to stage some
public showings against lesser lights first.
What the young man wants in the game the
deuce only knows. He belongs to a wealthy
family, so the little money there is in boxing
in this country can hardly appeal. As for
the fame and the glory—well, those are of a
very qualified nature.
The Ins and Outs
“Broad Ha’penny”: Cricket for stakes has
long been banished from Australia, but Syd-
ney has seen a revival this season. Two keen
junior teams met the other day for £5O a
side to decide whether the team which had
won on their first meeting was the better.
In the very early days of cricket in this
country, matches of the kind were common
enough, but the practice gradually died out
except for an occasional challenge match
at single wicket, now as dead as wagering.
In England games for very big wagers were
the usual thing in the late Georgian days,
moneyed men, usually big landholders, put-
ting up stakes of thousands for their private
teams, which they kept together by giving
the players regular employment on their
estates.
* * * *
“Popping Crease”: The Board of Cricket
Control will hold its final meeting in Sydney
on April 17, prior to entering on its annual
hibernation. Some interest is taken in the
inquiry which is to be held into the publi-
cation of Grimmett’s book on cricket, for
which the bowler was not penalised, while
Bradman was fined £5O by the panjandrums
for a similar infraction of their rules. The
board earned enough derision over the Brad-
man incident, and would have been well
advised to let the matter of the. precious
“39 articles” drop. Even more painful wiil
be the matter of making up the deficit on
the West Indies tour, which, including the
“blsinm’ n® P f»dnde° Z
Sftaation ,S n?Sgomente for “the !o«h
r j can v i S it next season, and so to bed.
* * *
S. M. J. Woods, reported seriously ill, was
the idol of English crowds for many a year,
Born in Ashfield, Sydney, he went from
Brighton College to Jesus, Cambridge, where
his fast bowling made him a dominant and
devastating figure in four inter-’Varsity
matches. He was still a freshman when the
Australian team of ’BB requisitioned him on
his birth qualification to aid them in the
Tests. Hence he had the unique distinction
ot: having played for Australia at cricket
and for England at tootball; he was one of
the best Rugger forwards of Ins day and
captained England m 1893. Sammy con-
tinued to play cricket for Somerset until he
was well into, his forties, and long after his
bowling had lost its sting remained a dan-
gerous and hard-hitting bat. No player
ever threw himself into a game like Woods,
whose tireless energy was a stimulus to
any side.
.
(iC ,, ~, , ,
Straight Draw : Australian bowlers have
been roused to revolution point by
another officml pin-prick. Law 18, which
? n P° ll } s that all bowls must be marked with
imtiais or a symbol denoting ownership is
k , e r f ldly f ®°^ rced v- J
LnSr, JLnfnf a-Lt°«?/?!/
T,, 1 .™,Tl? U if *; l™ /'"
led 'TherehSve be?n past
bow i er aaked to explain why Phis
woods were “crook” has blandly denied all
knowledge of them. That sort of thing will
]? e n ° “ cleanskins ” aro
0 p , a '
* * * *
Queensland pilot Charles Scott’s London-
Darwin flight in 94 days, which lops nearly
a day off Kingsford-Smith’s time, gives the
De Havilland Gypsy Moth valuable assist-
ance in its contest with the Avro Avian for
light-’plane supremacy. So far as England-
Australia solo flights are concerned honors
are now a little more than even. Hinkler
flew an Avian which embodied various in-
ventions of his own to facilitate ground
handling, and Kingsford-Smitli’s machine
was of the same type, but with a 120-h.p.
Gypsy engine. Amy Johnson flew a 100-h.p.
Gipsy Moth, and Scott’s ’plane had the same
type of engine as Smith’s, with 120 h.p.
Scott had no more luck than favored the
other three soloists, and his record is mainly
a tribute to his ability as a pilot and his
powers of endurance. He has clinched the
proof that a 10-days’ passenger service be-
tween England and Australia is well within
the bounds of possibility.


Mr. LIONEL
H. BIBBY
è
Arms and Ammunition
Expert and Australia*
Finest Revolver a n
Sporting Rifle Shot, is at
the service of Sports-
men at Mick Simmons!
o-
r
Harrington &.
Richardsons
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12 Gaug'e.
PRICE
5 2/6
( Postage,
N.S.W., 2/9.)
&
SSBB
The “H & R”
5.8.8. L. Gun
has top action,
automatic self-
ejecting, steel
barrel, solid
case - hardened,
pistol - grip,
walnut stock;
weight about
6*lb.
Low-priced,
Dependable
D.B, SHOT GUNS
No. 19—CERT D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
steel barrels, left choke, extension
rib, bar locks, pistol grip, crossbolt,
plain finish; weight, about 71b.
Price £4/12/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 20.—CERT D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN, 12 or 20G., 32in. steel
barrels, choke, Greener crossbolt
(Anson and Deeley action).
Price . . . . ••••£7/7/-
Carriage Paid.
The Outdoor smart’s
Knife !
The “Bowie”
English Hunting Knife, made of
finest-quality steel, stag handle,
double metal guard. With sheath.
sin. Blade, 0/6 6in. Blade, 7/0
Postage on Knife, 6d.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Hay-
market, Sydney.
MICK
SIMMONS
LIMITED
T 2 0 HAY MARKET, SYDNEY
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home
Entertainment.”
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: The Melbourne League clubs
have been busy putting recruits through their
paces, 1200 new players having come forward
this year. In spite of a promising season,
the League is all for establishing financial
equilibrium. The annual fixture in the
Apple Isle is to be cut out, and so are the
equally traditional games between Metro-
politan sides and teams from Bendigo and
Ballarat. Last season money was lost on
all these matches, and £825 went west in
connection with the Victorians’ visit to
Sydney.
* # * !K
“Rover” : Though the V.F.L. makes much
of its desire to encourage the Australian
code in Rugby-playing States, it is con-
tinually undermining the game in these.
Whenever a good player crops up in Sydney
or Brisbane he is wangled away by one of
the Melbourne League clubs, though a dozen
times undertakings have been given that
this would not be permitted. The lid has
been put on as far as N.S.W. is concerned
by the intimation that Victoria will not send
a . team to Sydney this coming season. The
visit of the Victorians has always been one
ot the bright spots-on the Australian-rules
programme in the Harbor City, and its aban-
donment is felt by the N.S.W. enthusiasts
trying to keep the national game going in
a hostile land to be a pretty mean attitude
tor a wealthy body to take.
* * * *
“Ca’ Canny”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
lias asked the Queensland body to fill in a
questionnaire before it will agree to an
interchange of visits this season. It is pro-
bable that Queenslanders will play at Syd-
ney on June 6 and 8, thus obviating the
expense of a full week’s stay in the Bridge
City Queensland to play one match on its
way back at Lismore, which has been threat-
ening to whitewash itself and join the Rugby
Union, nor matches in Brisbane the locals
will be asked to guarantee against all pos-
sible loss arising from train fares, housing
and the payment of £6 7s. 6d. a week to the
Welshmen. _ The ultimatum is hardly justi-
ned. Coilsidering the financial positions of
tiie two States it is the Langlanders who
siiould be required to put up guarantees.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Rugby League
authorities have it in mind to invite a North
ot England combination next year. The Eng-
lishmen, who derive the chief part of their
income from their Australian visits, are only
too eager to come along, but being all Lan-
cashire and Yorkshire folk they are nervy
about t’ depression an’ t’ raate o’ exchaange.
However, they will probably take the risk,
and if they don’t get away with as big a
swag as on previous occasions they should
come out well ahead of it. Australian
Leaguers talk of returning the visit the fol-
lowing year.
* * * *
Dr. John Morgan, whose unexpected death
in Sydney, at 35, lias deprived the N.S.W.
Rugby Union of one of its most valued mem-
bers, was a Fort-street boy before going up
to Sydney Uni. In 1916 he interrupted his
medical course to serve with the field gun-
ners m France; he took his degree in 1923.
A scrum-half of first-class quality, he cap-
tained University and twice led Uni. teams
on tour in Maoriland. Unfortunately for
him, A. S. B. Walker was then in his prime
and barred the doctor’s way to inter-State
and international honors, though he figured
for metropolitan sides against the All Blacks.
A keen worker for the game, Dr. Morgan
had much to do with its post-war revival.
A short time before his death he had been
elected one of the N. S. Wales R.U. selectors.
( ** * *
Birkenhead Park”: When the news came
through that the International Rugby Board
had expelled the French R. U. for not dealing
adequately with rough play, most Australians
following the European series expected the
laris match between France and England to
be cancelled. It was played, however, and
the French won by 14-13; they kicked two
goals from the field and got two tries
England scoring three tries, of which two
were converted. The victory put France
second on the international championship
list, with Wales first. England this year
has earned the wooden spoon.
Racquet and Bawl
. Hotliam” ; The Australian tennis authori-
ties are not pleased with the state of the
financial locker. Final figures for the Davis
~ U P £our show that the loss has been cut
to £450, but £375 was dropped on the Aus-
tralian championships in Sydney. Unless
matters improve or an overseas team can be
obtained as a drawcard, the championships
may not be held next year. If they are, it is
certain that travelling expenses will be heavily
reduced. The L.T.A. hasn’t forgotten that
entrant whose travelling expenses had to be
paid all the way from North Queensland to
Sydney and back.
* ❖ :Js
Drayton”: Moon, who played so dis-
appointingly in Sydney recently, had a good
run in the Darling Downs championships at
Toowoomba. He won the singles from Cum-
mings, and the men’s doubles with Doctor.
With liis sister he beat a strong pair in
Cummings and Mrs. Molesworth in the mixed
doubles.
:i: * *
• . Swan’; A strong Victorian contingent
visited I erth for the Westralian champion-
ships at King’s Park. Harry H'opman, now
a Cabbage Gardener, carried off the singles
from Schlesinger, after he had beaten Ford,
the title-holder, in the semi-finals.
* * * *
T m R A ev - knucklebone”: It transpires that the
L.T.A. offered Tilden £3500, or 40 p.c. of
the gate less taxation, whichever was the
greater. William countered with a request for
£oooo cold for himself and three others On
the L.T.A.’s own rating the £5OOO should
work out at about 60 p.c. of the takings, all
being well. As Tilden would bring a team of
stars, and as matches would be played with
and against our amateur cracks, the L.T.A.
should get its money back and a bit over
given reasonable luck. The visit would do
Australian tennis a tremendous amount of
good, as that of the Frenchmen undoubtedly
did.
The Nineteenth Hole
Admiral Blowmetight”: Sydney writers
nave been making a fuss because a golfer
liad Ins ball shoved on the green by the
tt lve i ki s opponent, who had followed him
oft the tee. The incident is wliat is called
a rub o’ the green, and however much the
unfortunate who has practically played a
stroke for the enemy may object, he has to
suiter it. I recall a classic incident when
playing with my old friend Colonel Damur-
lze, when we were respectivelv winning the
war as naval officer and o.c. details at
Bayonne. The Colonel played out of a
bunker on the seaside course there and
lofted his ball splendidly. Just as he was
congratulating himself, an albatross or some
seafowl of the kind swooped down upon it
in the air and swallowed it. He, of course,
claimed the right to drop a ball under rule
22, which provides for cases where a ball
is unplayable. I pointed out that this could
only be done if the player took his next
stroke as nearly as possible from the spot
where the ball became unplayable. As the
spot in question was' some 100 ft. up in the
air and the R.A.F. refused to lend us a
’plane, we had to refer the matter to St.
Andrews, which is still considering it.
'l'
“D.J.”: Sydney’s Lakes Club has gone
ahead amazingly in its 12 months of exist-
ence. The greens are practically perfect,
and the fairways, which were frightful when
play began, are yielding to treatment. Artists
say that this club has the most architectu-
rally satisfying clubhouse in the State, if
not in Australia. A perfectly balanced and
proportioned building, it sits down on its
hill overlooking the first and eighteenth holes
with the stability of a mediaeval cathedral.
Inspired by this asset, and urged on by an
enthusiastic secretary and president, the
members are subscribing generously to a
beautification fund. The idea is to surround
the clubhouse with grounds and a garden
tnat will be worthy of it.
* * * *
“Wormcast”: The greenkeeper rarely gets
the consideration he deserves from those
who benefit by his skill and assiduity. There
is. a tendency of late, however, to recognise
his value; most of the leading clubs are
staging tournaments for the officials who tend
the greens and fairways. One of these came
off at the Riversdale Club’s course in Vic-
toria the other day, and some of the players,
notably the winner, G. Mullens, showed
form up to that of the best of the amateurs
and professionals ; Mullens’s card of 76 for the
morning 18 holes was well ahead of bogey.
A Scot, he hails from Prestwick, where the
babies cut their teeth on one or other of the
iron clubs.
* * * - *
“Carnoustie”: The decision to cut out the
interminable qualifying rounds of stroke
play for the State championships brings the
Ma State into line with Queensland and
South Aus., which adopted the idea some
time ago. Now matches over 18 holes will
be played up to the semi-finals, stroke play
being eliminated. The new system will be
welcomed by the scratch and small-handicap
men, for it will give them a chance of show-
ing their best, and will prevent the ever-
present possibility of their being outed in the
qualifying rounds’ by some mug who has
managed to strike his lucky day and return
a winning stroke card. Match play calls
for much more care and concentration than
stroke. Here again the scratch, plus and
low-mark men are benefited, since most of
them have attained their high eminence
because of a certain flair for concentration
without which golf is but a candle in the
wind.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The decision to form a club in
connection with the new municipal golf links
in Brisbane has been defended on the ground
that it will enable players who cannot afford
to join the exclusive clubs to get their
game at low cost. The annual subscription
is £2 2s. for men, and £1 Is. for associates,
with a green fee of Is. 6d. a round in each
case. Taking a minimum of three rounds a
week, green fees would amount to about £l2
per annum. In the case of the associate
members this works out at a dearer
rate than they would be asked to
pay at most of the clubs, where the
annual cost to them, including green
fees, is under £5. It is the regular player,
too, to whom the club must look for profit-
able support as compared with the casual,
who will suffer most. A suggestion has been
made that the fees for members be reduced
to 9d. for men and 6d. for women, which is
as reasonable as any green fee can be. In
Britain, home of the game, the green-fee
extortion is unheard of.
Car and Cycle
“San Pedro”: Stung by British successes
at Daytona, a Yank syndicate is having a
super-car built at Los Angeles, designed for
a minimum speed of 300 m.p.h., and has
retained Peter de Paola and Herman Fengler
to drive it in an attempt to beat Malcolm
Campbell’s 245.73 m.p.h. The two engines
are triplet eights with three banks of eight
cylinders in arrowhead formation. One
drives the front wheels and the other the
back, the front engine being directly coupled
to the front wheels without clutch or gear-
box. A clutch and gear-case with three
speeds and a reverse are interposed between
the rear motor and the wheels. The forward
motor is not switched on until after the car
is in motion. The driver is placed midway
between front and rear engine.
* * * -Is
“Chev.”: The Australian Grand Prix on
Phillip Island (B. l/4/’3l) looks like becom-
ing the major fixture in Australian road
racing. There are four corners on the course
one appropriately named Hell’s, where it is
necessary to drop down to second gear, and
the operation has to be done at 45 m.p.’b or
so. A minor record was that of Jimmy
Long, the Austin mechanic, who stopped
filled the tank and was off again in 28
seconds and his original dust. Throughout the
recent race a native-bear surveyed the pro-
ceedings from a convenient tree, selecting
Hell’s Corner as the spot most likely to keep' a
racing enthusiast’s attention at full pressure
* * * Lj.
“Tewantin”: A sidecar tour with some un-
usual aspects has been accomplished bv a
Queensland rider, Jack Iliddle, who took
a run to Adelaide and back with his mother
as a passenger. Tli'ere was no attempt made
to set new records, and the expedition, Wiiich
, Bnsbane 011 January 27, reached
Adelaide 12 days later. The return journey,
after some weeks in the South Aus. capital,
was also done in 12 days, an average of 120
miles a day for 3500 miles.
jJ» ;Js »}5
“Deemster”: Stuart Williams and Dave
Brewster, the two Australians nominated for
the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy race in June,
are now on the high seas. Williams has had
a couple of goes at this event, but his mate
will be making his first appearance in it.
Maoriland is to be represented by Bray, of
Auckland, and Tolley, of Palmerston North.
Both have had a lot of experience on grass
and cinders in the Shivery Isles, but will
have a stiff job ahead of them in the tricky
Manx road race.
* * * %
“Sprocket”: Lamb and Opperman finished
thirteenth in the six-day race at Paris, the
first of their more serious engagements. They
scored 116 points, and were 12 laps behind
the winners, Linare and Dumale, Italians.
Considering that 21 teams started, and that
m the earlier stages the Australians were
well down on the list, the performance was
creditable. If they can strike the form they
have shown in Australia and elsewhere —
Lamb rode with distinction in America a
couple of years ago and Opperman’s feats in
France are familiar to all followers of cycling
—they should shake things up on the Con-
tinent this season.
Miscellaneous
“Adamstown”: There was nearly a. riot
at a cricket match betweeen teams of women
near Newcastle (N.S.W.). When the Donna
Bradman of the batting side' came in, some
cat' on the benches behind the wicket flashed
a vanity-bag mirror on her face, with the
result that the lady was bowled neck and
crop, if the expression may be permitted.
In the subsequent fuss it was difficult to get
at the facts, but there are two versions.
One is that the damsel was bowled because
the mirror dazzled her; the other is that
she saw herself in it—it was a small ground
—and stopped to powder her nose.
* ' * * *
“Whizz”: Many question the usefulness
or speed records by land, air and water.
Commenting on the fact that Britain holds
the 10t—357.7 m.p.h. in the air, 245.736
m.p.h. on land and 103.49 m.p.h. in the
water—London “Daily Telegraph” points
out that three trades in England, motor-
cars, aeroplanes and motor-boats, are flourish-
ing exceedingly in spite of the bad times, and
there can be no doubt this is due to the
prestige gained from the British victories.
* * * *
“Third Base”: N.S.W. baseballers are
more than satisfied with the progress of the
game in the State. New clubs are popping
up everywhere, especially in the country.
The Australian body proposes to alter the
method of playing inter-State contests. In
the past the championship has been settled
at a tournament held annually in Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide, and attended by
all the State teams; in the future the inter-
state clashes will follow the line taken by the
cricketers in the Sheffield Shield series, each
State playing the other twice, with home and
home visits.
* # * *
“The Gaffer”: Jim Carlton’s decision to
take up an Arts course at Sydney Uni.
promises a good deal for University sport.
The. Australasian sprinter is an inter-State
wing three-quarter and an Australian reserve,
but it is probable that he will cut out foot-
ball this year in view of the Los Angeles
Olympiad. He will face a formidable rival
over the sprint distances in Reg Ashberry,
of Sydney High School, who is also going
into residence. Last season Ashberry came
close to rivalling Carlton as a G.P.S. sprinter.
* * * *
“Kelly”: The wood-chopping at Sydney
Show drew bigger crowds than ever, provid-
ing as it does an entertainment not seen
outside Australasia. The two big events, the
15in. standing and underhand chops, were
won by the same man, a rare happening;' he
is Charlie Winkle, a Queenslander. The
tree-felling contest, which provides the addi-
tional. attraction of the axemen standing
high in the air on apparently most in-
adequate perches, saw the downfall in a
preliminary heat of the mighty Leo Appo,
from the N.S.W. North Coast. The title
went to W. Johnston, a Victorian.
“Blackbutt”; Charlie Winkle was born at
Caboolture (Q.) and is 26. He first learned
to swing Douglas in the big-timber country
around Ravenshoe on the Atherton Table-
lands. A raw-boned six-footer, he tips the
scales at 14st., and is a teetotaller and a
non-smoker.
* * * if.
“Blue Chalk”: Sydney will be the venue
of the next Empire amateur billiards cham-
pionship, which is set down for June.
Steeples, holder of the English title, will
represent England; he is a Yorkshireman
and a player of the dour and solid type. He
will leave England by the same boat as
Lmdrum and Newman, and is due in Sydney
on May 28. The championship tourney will
be staged in the Y.M.C.A. Hall, and the
holder of the title, L. W. Hayes will
defend it.
* * * *
“Kadir”: England saw an ancient sport
revived when a race for £25 a side was
run between two pigs at Edmonton, famous
in connection with John Gilpin’s ride. The
method employed was, however, new, a
track of corn being laid from start to finish,
which suggests that the contest resolved itself
into an endurance one. The accepted method
popular in the past at North Country
wakes” or fairs, was to drive the pig, which
had a string attached to its hind leg. in
front of one. The drivers in these races were
usually young women, and the prize was
invariably a “shift.” This, I am credibly
informed, was an article of female attire
much in vogue when Good Queen Victoria
reigned.


Unde?
/Royal
é
Tom
Kin 6
GeorgeV
* (
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsieck
wrara
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY. i
CWAMPAGit*
OiarlcsHeidsiedt
Heims
"MERCURY* BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
A MUSICAL INNOVATION FOR SYDNEY
EVERY SUNDAY AT 8.30 P.M.
PROMENADE ORCHESTRAL CONCERTS
AT
me WENTWORTH
Starring Engagement:
LEON HAL£ AND HIS HUNGARIAN BAND
(20 Artists in one Brilliant Ensemble)
Hear the stirring Slavonic Dances, Gipsy Airs, Rhapsodies, etc., played in their
incomparable style by these artists. Hear the Classics interpreted by this famous
combination.
Supper at 2/1 is the only charge for these delightful evenings.
For reservations, 'phone 8W1361.
AFTERNOON TEA, 3/-
3.30 to 5.30.
DINNER AND SUPPER DANCES,
from 7/6, EVERY SATURDAY.
Dance to the strains of Lionel Hart’s
8 to 1.
THE IDEAL RIBBON FOR LINGERIE
You’ll be wise to use Cash’s Washing
Ribbons for Shoulder Straps, as they
never break or fray, and you need not
bother to remove Cash’s Ribbons from
the garment, as they’re fadeless and
“iron up like new.” They’re obtain-
able in the daintiest Pastel Shades,
Plain or Brocaded. Ask your Draper.
T^SII
am es
a
TO MARK ALL LINEN/ |
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.”
ê
Actual Size,
Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
‘ : Wrlte for Name Style Circular to
JO I PACII AUSTRALIAN
*l. tAOH, WEAVING CO PTY.LTO
85 CUB(Tt ST., RICHMOND f^ELB
12 d
7/6
6 d
J/.
3 dot
3/6
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
In spite of the socialisation schemes every-
thing was very social at Easter. The shops
did brisk business and the hotels were more
crowded than they had been for months. The
Ambassadors reopened on Easter Saturday
and was well patronised, and Romano’s floor
was kept busy all the week. Sydney was
also garnished with three Governors, one of
whom, at least, is a dancing man —his
Excellency Alexander Hore-Ruthven, from
Adelaide. He gave a party at Romano’s
that was peopled with aides and others fleet
of foot.
The new Governor-General’s lady knows
how to dress. Black was the color to which
she stuck during the race meetings, and mostly
her smartness was illustrated in tailored
marocains. Her furs alternated between
white Arctic fox and pony-skin, and her hats
were slightly drooped shapes of velour and
velvet. Daughter Mrs. David Cohen, who
helped her vice-regal parents with their
entertaining, fell, however, to the lure of
the flecked tweeds. The procession of these
became monotonous before the end of the
round, every second woman in the stands
Avearing them, tailored in frock or costume.
Most of the peltry, except the Persian lamb,
looked to this Letter like old friends just
out of cold storage; for the befurred sex is
quite sensibly doing with the mink, the sable
and the lone Monaro bunny of former years.
Talking of sables reminds that one of the
most prideful of these necklets was wound
about Mrs. Reg Stafford’s throat. Mrs.
Oscar Ireland’s stone-martens were the right
complement for her green and pale gold
patterned crepe de Chines, and Mary Hor-
dern re-introduced the girlish fashion of the
squirrel stole; Susan Spencer, too, warmed
her powder blue and white suit with the
same soft fur. Pamela Watt was with Mrs.
Ernest, looking like a peach above her tawny
furs. Dr. Herbert Kendall’s wife had got
dahlia-red and gold into her cloth costume
with its golden caracul collar. An honor-
able mention goes to Elizabeth Macarthur
Onslow’s red coat. Mrs. Colin Stephen,
Mrs. Laidley Dowling and Mrs. George Mac-
arthur Onslow added the good frocking of
maturity to the vice-regal Games’ luncheon
on Ladies’ Day. Barbara Knox was recorded
with a worth-while-stealing stole, and Mrs.
W. H. Mackay, of Scone, aired a broadtail
coat over cigar-brown chiffons.
Something slipped at the Victoria
Leaguers’ party to their president, Lady
Game, and the afternoon was as dull as
plum-pudding without the brandy-sauce. One
of the big side-rooms of David Jones
housed the hosts who rallied to do the
vice-regal lady honor, but excepting for
tongues the afternoon was one of suspended
animation, each woman on arrival seating
herself in one of the many rows of chairs,
which soon became so crowded that the
colorful movement of frocks and jewels was
completely lost. Lady Game’s flecked green
tweed suit and droopy hat looked very
English; Bethia Anderson, who bore her
company, wore a demure black and white
outfit. Secretary Beulah Bolton and the
music were two of the bright spots. Dame
Mary Cook handed over a bunch of red roses
that made the job of vice-reine seem worth
while after all, and Mrs. Walter Swinson
and the Hugh Denison lady, Eadith Walker,
Mrs. Jimmy Ashton and Mrs. Arthur Eedy
were among the ardent Leaguers present.
Mischa Levitzki has returned to Sydney
after 10 years. The decade has had one
chastening effect on him; he no longer plays
jazz at all his parties. Levitzki has cultivated
side-levers like a toreador, but he swears
there’s no Carmen in his life. He wants to
open his concerts with “God Save the King ’
because the chords in it are magnificent. But
of all national anthems he thinks the Mar-
seillaise is the winner, with the new Fascist
march-like anthem a close second. Our own
“Advance Australia Fair” he remembered as
“quite good.”
When Levitzki attacks his concert-grand you
•will notice that his shoulders are unusually
developed. This is because a pianist’s power
must come from the shoulder. The muscles
of his forearm must not be strong as iron
bands, but as flexible as a bit of elastic.
The same applies to the wrist control. This
means that games are out of the question.
Golf, cricket, baseball can be little more than
names to the artist. Mischa keeps toned up
by swimming, riding and long walks. He
prefers philosophy to novels, novels to drama.
He thinks Sinclair Lewis the greatest Ameri-
can novelist, but then adds Dreiser, Her-
gesheimer, Edna Ferber and others to his
litany. He doesn’t seem to read the poets;
at least he didn’t mention them the other
morning. Perhaps he thinks poets aren’t
introduced into respectable company. He
has a merry hazel eye. And it is told of
him that to one flapper who burbled: “And
what do you do, Mr. Levitzki, when you are
not playing the piano?” he replied gently,
“I practise.”
In days of old. it was customary to deco-
rate London Bridge with a design of human
heads, and at the Race Tea on Saturday
the fastidious shuddered for a moment on
entering the Wentworth, for below, midway
between the palm court and the ballroom,
arose a small bridge, each of its four posts
flaunting a liat. However, closer inspection
proved there was not even the beginning of
a head under the lids, though a good deal
of brains had gone into them. This Race
Tea, with its accompanying mannequin
parade, Avas quite the hit of the week.
Nearly _ 1000 people crowded into the Went-
worth in race clothes and a determined let-
us-be-gay look. There was a brightness in
the atmosphere not all due to the real dia-
monds and their paste sisters that flashed
on every side. The Country Women’s Asso-
ciation benefits. Dress-designer “Midge”
Chisholm arranged the parade, and wives and
daughters of our most highly-taxed citizens
acted as mannequins.
The dress demonstrators came in through
the palm court where the vice-regals were
seated, crossed the little bridge and stepped
around the ballroom in the time-honored
manner of mannequins, which is reminiscent
of a Russian ballet. How fascinating or
complex (according to one’s anatomy) would
life become if women really walked about
showing figures and clothes in the manne-
quin manner! Take the nice-looking Mrs.
Wallace Arnott, who wore the orange-and-
black suit labelled “Honolulu.” This suit
was a deep mustard, and maybe it was the
heat of the day or the color that caused the lady
to hold the coat wide open ever and anon
to let the cool breeze play about its smart
black cire top. She looked so pictorial doing
it that every woman wanted to rush out and
buy a yellow suit just to do likewise. But
the cold voice of reason asked: “Could it be
dene in George-street?” Mrs. John Gun-
ning displayed a long black velvet frock,
made with a slightly slit skirt on a stunning
figure. This creation was named “Adam’s
Fall,” and it certainly was a pippin. All
spring was in the pale pink and green
iridescent bridge coat over the green frock
worn by Helen Stephen and named “Apple
Blossom.”
The figures and charm of the ladies in the
procession were freely discussed over the
cocktail or the pekoe, but every one of them
could stand up to the spotlight, though Mrs.
Gunning, Morna MacCormick, Mrs. Oscar
Paul and Jessie Tait seemed to get the most
prolonged “Aah” of admiration.
Tall Therese Desmond, of the red-gold
hair, is back again with her stage godfather,
little Duncan Macdougall, of the Playbox
Theatre. Eight years ago Duncan discovered
that Therese,
then one of
the city’s most
promising con-
cert singers,
was an actress
of great possi-
bilities. She
found her stage
feet at Dun-
can’s old
Rowe - street
playhouse in
“The Adding
Machine” and
“Masses and
Man,” where
also she scored
her first big
hit as the
courtesan in
Thomas’s
“M o r ality.”
Next Gregan
McMahon gave
her a part in his production of “A Man of
His Time.” Subsequently she toured the
Speck with Brandon Cremer’s company; she
has also been associated with Muriel Starr
and Frank Neil. At present she is playing
with her husband and Duncan Macdougall in
Schnitzler’s “Viennese Nights.” Beginning
on Tuesday, May 5, Therese will appear in a
season of Ibsen’s “Hedda Gabler.” Her hus-
band will produce the play. During the past
two years her mezzo contralto voice has
become well known to radio fans. On the
air she is known as Molly Long; on the
stage she is Therese Desmond, and at home
she is Mrs. Edward Howell. Photo from
W alker.
Long Bay had the unprecedented experi-
ence lately of being the most rushed part of
N. S. Wales. As an attraction it knocked
the Show endways. For on the rocks, at
the northern end of this little indentation,
which isn’t much of a bay and is far from
long, groaned the unhappy Malabar. There
w : as something sadly human about her death
struggle with the implacable sea; something
ghoulish about the interest with which the
crowd looked on. Tramway officials say
they bore over 100,000 to the obsequies, and
Heaven alone knows how many attended in
cars. When this Letter joined,the throng,
cars were pouring along the drab road from
Kensington, past scrub, sandhills, tramlines
and workers’ cottages, in the direction of
the State’s most celebrated gaol. After
Matraville they stopped pouring and pro-
ceeded in jerks, for the traffic jamb was
such as no Sydney racecourse has ever seen.
On the miniature beach and along the
rocks souveniring proceeded briskly. Bags
of sodden flour, chunks of meat, pieces of
shattered wood, blankets, pillows and so on
were being piled on to lorries on which fami-
lies that had come for the day were cheerily
feeding. One man strode proudly by with
what must have been the worst marine paint-
ing on earth —an oil-painting of the Malabar.
Another had two straw brooms and a mop,
another a ruined fowl. And there was glow-
ing talk of beer in barrels. Meanwhile the
slaughter of the lovely ship went on. Huge
combers tore in from the south-east and hit
the bow, from which a small Union Jack
fluttered, poured over, and shot high in the
air from a blowhole in the deck. The bow
had been torn away from the bridge and
quarter-deck, and the stern was gone alto-
gether. A grisly sight, with nothing inspir-
ing about it but the dour stubbornness with
which the wreck stood up to the blows it
was receiving.
The girl in this Rene Pardon picture is
Gretel Bullmore, who was one of Sydney’s
briglitest but-
terflies before
she decided to
capitalise her
flair for
clothes, and so
joined one of
Sydney’s best-
known dress
designers.
Gretel with
her principal,
“Midge,” was
largely respon-
sible for the
success of the
dress parade
at the race
tea in aid of
the Country
Women’s Asso-
ciation holi-
day homes.
She is the
second daugh-
ter of Dr. IT. H. Bullmore, of Woollahra.
Parties at Easter were of the small
and intimate variety. Gone are the nights
when gold flowed and burbled about the
city’s cafes and restaurants; the awn-
ing of rejoicing is now spread over home
portals. Chief Justice Street’s abode in
Onslow-avenue, Elizabeth Bay, blossomed out
into one of the few dances of any size that
last week held. The affair was in honor of
the Street lady’s niece, Audrey Poolman, a
visitor from Melbourne. Ethereal blue chif-
fons enwrapped the guest of honor, while the
little hostess was pictorial in black satin.
Very young matrons and lots of young girls,
with "a few of slightly older Vintage, all suit-
ably squired, disported on the green.
Ex-Justice Gordon and his lady shook the
cocktail of entertainment one day after the
races for half of Elizabeth Bay and Darling
Point. This was quite one of the largest-
sized get-togethers of last week, and, short of
community singing, the guests made all the
known signs and sounds of merriment and
complete enjoyment.
Mary, the youngest daughter of the late
Octavius Beale, the good Australian founder
of the piano firm, was married last week
at St. Paul’s in her own suburb of
Burwood. Mary’s young man, Alistair Hen-
derson, came all the way from Aber-
deen to claim his bride, and Padre G. M.
Searcy gave the two the benefit of clergy. Ti-
tree blossom and native heath formed the
bride’s bouquet, and Arctic-blue flat crgpe and
blonde lace were amiably wedded in her frock.
Brother Itonald gave her away, and Helen
Osborn was the only ’maid.
When Melba was lying sick unto death in
St. Vincent’s there were whispers that
she was a comparatively poor woman, owing
to the many shocks to the financial fabric of
the world. But the diva’s will revealed a
fortune of £200,000, the bulk of which —
there are many legacies and bequests—goes
to her son and daug;hter-in-law, the George
Armstrongs, and their child or children. A
little brooch of pearls and rubies bestowed on
Melba by Queen Victoria, a blue bag given
to her by the late Alfred Rothschild, and the
kettle which accompanied the great singer
on all her travels are specially bequeathed
to the adored grandchild Pamela. Old friend
John Lemmone is remembered with a legacy
of £250 a year.
But the really important thing to Aus-
tralian singers is the bequest of £BOOO to be
set aside for the Albert-street Conserva-
torium in Melbourne. Probably the memory
of her own early struggles was behind the
soprano’s words when founding this scholar-
ship—“in the hope that another Melba may
Arise.”
The Remembrance Ball on the Nieuw Hol-
land promises to be one of the month’s suc-
cesses. The Royal Packet Navigation Com-
pany is having the vessel berthed at Circular
Quay for the flutter, which is adding courtesy
to generosity, as the company is lending t le
boat for the night —Friday.
OVERHEARD.
First Shop-girl : “Lily will soon be married now.
Second Shop-girl : “Is she engaged ?
First Shop-girl: “No; but she’s been moved to
the mail-order department.”
Brisbane’s bunch of pars.:—
The Allan Wilkies had an excellent opening night
for “Hay Fever.” Among the audience were the Blair
couple, the Premier and Mrs. A. E. Moore Airs.
E. B. Moore, Professor and Mrs. J. J- Stable, Dr.
and Mrs. J. Menzies, Mrs. Stanley Chapman, Nell
Douglas-Graham, the Cadell Garricks, Shirley Lawson,
Kitty Ilillcoat and Herbert Coulter.
The weather was unsettled for the first day
at Ascot, and the clothes varied from wintry garb
to chiffons. Magpie was a common choice, Mrs. W. J.
Hooper being one of those in black and white. Mrs.
W. H. Brodie was in ash rose; the Glasgow lady in
burgundy; Mrs. A. H. Whittingham in bronze ; Mrs.
Stanley Chapman wore black satin; Mrs. Harry
Carter (from the West) chose navy blue, with a touch
of red in her hat; Alice Carter was in black and
white; Mrs. Jack Chandler in brown and amber;
Mrs. John Egan (Warwick) in navy blue suit with a
rose-beige blouse; Wilma Horstinann wore ocean-
blue ; Mrs. E. T. Real jade-green ; and Cecily Walsh
added touches of pink to her black.
On the second day the Governor and Lady Good-
win were present, she in rose cendrfie, with vieux-
rose straw hat. Mrs. Tully was in black, with
touches of beige. Elfrida Walsh, also in the
vice-regal box, wore green and white, with an almond-
green hat. The Blair lady was in blue ; Mrs. J. J.
Power wore sea-green; Mrs. R. Brownhill (Sydney)
black and white pinspot; Mrs. George Mocatta chose
wine-colored crepe suede; Dorothy Webster was in
flecked-blue tweed; Audrey Coldham in black and
ivory; Mrs. Ken Reid in amber and brown; and
Barbara Allom in a saxe-and-brown patterned black.
Southport, quite a seaside city now, had a festive
Easter. There was a large dance at the Pacific,
and another at the Grande. On the same night the
Southport tennis club had its annual dance in the
School of Arts.
Nuptial mass was celebrated at Corpus Christi
Church, Nundah, for the marriage of William Henry
Carter and Renee Crowe. White flowers adorned
the high altar, arranged by the Sisters of St.
Joseph’s. The bride, who. was given away by her
father, was in ivory bridal satin, the train edged
with Mechlin lace, with a broidered tulle veil; her
bouquet was of eucharist lilies and white dahlias.
Viva and Trixie Crowe .’maided in pink and butter-
cup georgette respectively, with lace straw hats
and autumn-tinted bouquets. Joan Walton, in
Madonna-blue, was flower-girl.
St. Stephen’s, Coorparoo, saw the wedding of Harry
Cameron and Joan Hoare. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in deep cream satin and
broidered tulle veil. Gold and cream blooms were
carried. Peggy and Mollie Hoare ’maided in pink
and blue. Pink tulle decked the gold room at the
Carlton for the party.
The H. S. MacPhersons’ home, Wahroonga, East
Brisbane, where the green lawns slope riverwards,
was lent to assist in raising the money for a hall for
the Kangaroo Point Girl Guides. The Rev. J. T.
and Mrs. Perry received Lady Goodwin, who wore
black and white pinspot crepe de Chine. On the
balconies and in the reception-rooms bridge tables
were set, and the party continued to the evening,
when there was dancing.
The Premier’s mother, Mrs. E. B. Moore, is about
to return to England. She will break the journey
at Singapore.
A letter from Hobart: —
The visit of H.M.A.S. Anzac to Launceston livened
up the social atmosphere in the northern capital,
and many and various tennis parties, dances and
dinners kept the younger set on the go. The F. 0.
Hobkinks, Miss Peggy Williamson and Dr. and Mrs.
Hogg were among those who helped to entertain
the sailor-men.
The forecast “fine in the north’’ sent everyone
who hadn’t to consider the petrol bill in that direc-
tion for Easter. For those who stayed behind there
were races at Elwick, with its trim lawns and late
autumn flowers. Dressing was wintry, but some very
smart tailored suits were seen.
A new bride comes to Launceston in the person
of Mrs. Herbert Gray, formerly Helen Taylor, of
Brighton. Mr. Gray is one of Launceston’s brightest
hopes in the “Players” company.
Mrs. McPhee, wife of our Premier, is impressed
with the growing membership and the steady activities
of the Women’s National League, whose meetings are
invariably well attended. Mrs. Mary Parker, 0.8. E.,
has been re-elected divisional president. The Rev.
A. C. Nelson has been holding classes for women
speakers for some time past.
St. John’s C. of E. Hospital, formerly the old
Homoeopathic, was formally dedicated by Bishop Snow-
don Hay. Mayor Soundy made the opening speech,
and afternoon tea was served on the lawn.
To give the Free Kindergarten’s Anglesea branch
a boost, Molly Eady, Brenda Piggott and Margaret
Peacock got up a tennis tournament. There were
numerous entries, and the girls were able to hand
over a welcome cheque.
J. C. Williamson opened a season at the Theatre
Royal with “The New Moon,” to be followed by our
old friend “The Belle of New York.” Lilian Crisp
and Don Nicol have made many admirers in the
Speck.


xm
SBS
ili
pi®
&&
m.
0
&&
WHAT’S HE DRINKING ?
It’s a glass of golden goodness...
rich malt and ripe hops in the
making...it’s pure ...it’s appetising
...it’s Resch’s Pilsener!
THINK BEFORE YOU DRINK—
AND YOU'LL INSIST ON
RESCH S
PILSENER


Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: DEAREST ENEMY.
CRITERION:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE GONDOLIERS
COMEDY THEATRE: ON THE SPOT,
With Frank Harvey and brilliant company.
Legal Notice,
WILLIAM EDWARD SAMUEL MILLS SHARPE
late of 19 Barnard Street North Adelaide in the
State of South Australia out of business deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia has
pursuant to “The Trustee Act 1893” directed that
WILLIAM JAMES SHARPE otherwise JACK
DAWSON or DAWSETT or his representatives or
descendants if claiming to be entitled under the
will of the abovenamed deceased to share in the estate
of the deceased who died on the 25th day of January
1931 and probate of whose will was granted to George
Mills Hugh Sharpe formerly of Parkside but now of
Rosefield in the said State are to send FULL PAR-
TICULARS of such claim to ERNEST WILFRED
HARRIS ESQUIRE of Australasia Chambers King
William Street Adelaide in the said State Solicitor on
or before the 20th day of July 1931 otherwise they
will be excluded from distribution of the estate.
N.B. —The abovenamed William James Sharpe
known as Jack Dawson or Dawsett in the Australian
Imperial Force was last heard of at Ascot Vale,
Victoria in 1918.
Dated this 9th day of April, 1931.
NEWMAN & HARRIS, Australasia Chambers, King
William Street, Adelaide, Solicitors for the said
George Mills Hugh Sharpe.
Missing Friends.
TF JOHN WARD, engineer, son of the late
William Ward, foreman riveter, retired,
of Homestead, Knoxland Square, Dumbarton,
Scotland, will communicate with the. sub-
scribers he will hear of something to his
advantage. Will any person knowing the
present, address of the said John Ward
kindly furnish same to the subscribers.
WILLIAMSON & BELL,
Writers, 193 St. Vincent Street,
Glasgow, C. 2, Scotland.
w HAIR
HERE'S
•umy -
ë
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
Medians Cmcx/can)
VhMwjtSicdri
♦-REMOVES THE ORE*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (-S/6), 6d. being postage.
ē
M elbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabetlran
Ten Rooms
P[?] C[?] [?]for [?]
Bu[?] [?]Nu[?]
Bo[?]
Lord and Lady Baden-Powell’s tour is
evidently not intended as a mere pleasure
trip. Their interest in the Boy Scout and
Girl Guide organisations is placed always in
the forefront. The Chief Scout took a few
days off in the country, but only, so it was
said, to keep fit for the programme he had
set out to accomplish in Melbourne —a fairly
heavy one for a man of his age. His lady
attended no tea-drinkings that were not asso-
ciated with the Guides. She visited a
holiday camp and spent some hours at
the Austin Hospital, where several Guides
and Rangers are patients. They wore
their uniforms for the occasion. While
Lord Baden-Powell was addressing a dinner
muster of 1200 Scouts, his wife dined at
the Lyceum Clubrooms with 80 members of
her organisation. Lady Somers was official
hostess; Dr. Gwynneth Buchanan, the presi-
dent of the Lyceum Club, was the only out-
sider invited. Pink and golden-tinted dahlias
and feathery daisies titivated the tables.
From this gathering the Chief Guide went
on to an informal reception at St. Kilda
Town Hall. Lord 8.-P. found time to in-
spect the Scouts’ training centre, Gilwell
Park, at Gembrook, among the hills.
Young Victorians nearly 18,000 strong,
made up of Girl Guides, Brownies, Boy
Scouts, Sea Scouts and Wolf Cubs, marched
on to the oval of the Melbourne Cricket
Ground on Saturday afternoon to honor the
Baden-Powells. The weather was warm and
sunny, and the turnout made a kaleidoscopic
showing backgrounded by green sward. First
came Girl Guides, whose navy blue uniforms
made an effective contrast with Union Jacks
and Australian flags. Then came the Sea
Scouts and more flags, followed by Wolf
Cubs in their dark green caps and jackets;
a perfect riot of banners and pennants, in
which green and yellow predominated, accom-
panied the khaki-clad Scouts with their
staves. Further variety was furnished by a
pageant of boys and girls impersonating in
national dress, with correct flags, the 50 or
so nations in which Scouting and Guiding
have taken root. When all, including
Brownies, were assembled, the National
Anthem was played by the Air Force band,
which shared with the Kilties’ band the music-
making of the occasion. Numerous other
bands, mostly from schools, had participated
in the march through the city.
Flags were waved and caps and hats
tossed on high when the Chief Guide spoke
a few words of appreciation, and decorated
Lady Somers with the Order of the Silver
Fish for her services to Guiding. Lady
Baden-Powell handed over a gift from the
British Government —a Union Jack that had
been displayed on the cenotaph at Whitehall
—and delivered a message from Princess
Mary. Much admired was the lovely, almost
all blue, flag which the Chief Guide can call
her own. This was carried before her by
three girls.
Lord Baden-Powell was listened to in per-
fect silence, but the youngsters showed what
they could do in cheers when he conferred
on Lord Somers and C. A. Hoadley, Chief
Commissioner for Victoria, the Order of the
Silver Wolf. The Chief Scout delivered a
message from Edward P. which concluded
with a wish of good luck and good camping.
Brownies and Wolf Cubs contributed
games and folk-dances to the programme.
The Girl Guides, who marched splendidly,
black-stockinged legs moving in perfect
rhythm, presented tableaux representing the
colonisation of Australia, in the course of
which thousands of Guides outlined a map
of the Commonwealth. The Scouts put on a
pageant in an aboriginal setting, with war-
dances and tribal fights, the slaughtering of
white explorers and the appearance of the
Bunyip, who looked very like a Chinese
dragon, to terrify the wrongdoers.
On Sunday afternoon Scouts and Guides
assembled for a religious service at the
Cricket Ground, which was again bathed
with sunshine. Proud parents rolled up in
their tens of thousands each day.
This Letter attended the combined Rotary
and Legacy Club luncheon to Baden-Powell
at the Masonic Hall. The Legacy is a
club of Diggers, who look after the depen-
dants of ex-soldiers. There seems to be
friendly rivalry between the organisations
as to the size of the buttons proclaiming their
names and occupations. IJp to date, the
Rotarians have it all over the Legatees.
Whereas the Legacy button is no .larger than
a bread and butter plate, the Rotary badge
approaches the dimensions of a dinner-tray,
and legends like “John Bsmith, Tailoring,
Womens,” can be read clean across the
room. Both clubs have a solemn ritual, and
as the ceremonies of each had to be observed
or the Empire would fall, the proceedings
partook more of a church service than a
festivity. Rotary’s final item is the facing
towards the wall at the back of the presi-
dent and the singing of the National Anthem
while a machine which has a voice like the
Town Hall ventilating system sets the Union
Jack and the Australian flag streaming before
an artificial gale. The chief guest seemed
familiar with the rites—he had probably
attended such functions before —but he was
apparently unused to the familiar ways of
our press photographers. While he was
talking about the ideals of scouting, a bat-
tery of cameras was brought within a few
feet of his face and a young man stood
threatening his eyesight with a million c.p.
lamp in a reflector. The light duly went
off and the photographers simultaneously
got a photograph of and a blast from the
speaker. The Chief Scout is a witty orator,
and for aptness of repartee recalls the late
George Reid at his brightest.
It was miserably dull and damp for the
V.R.C. meeting at Moonee Valley, and most
of the feminine patrons went prepared for
rain and fortified against Antarctic blasts.
Leather coats and fur wraps covered most
frocks; and berets and felt hats were the
only millinery on view. Green in varying
shades is much favored in leather coats for
driving, flying or walking when the weather
is unkindly. Mrs. A. V. H'iskens was fur-
clad, a musquash coat covering her black
gown, while her daughter Mrs. R. Irving chose
a wrap of squirrel. Mrs. W. J. Wearne's
black cloth suit was finished with collar and
cuffs of astrachan. Dr. and Mrs. Barry
Thomson, Mrs. J. H. Moss and Mrs. Ben
Chaffey were among the inveterate racegoers
present.
The festal red carpet was spread at the
entrance to the home of Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton at South Yarra when her daughter, Mrs.
Norman Brookes, who is a member of the
executive of the Girl Guides, dispensed tea
in honor of Lady Baden-Powell. As is
usual at parties at Raveloe, the floral deco-
rations were gorgeous. In the ballroom
white Michaelmas daisies and pink blooms
were used in masses, even forming a frame
for the huge fireplace with its blazing logs.
Autumn foliage and gladioli decked the
supper-room, and the tea table was adorned
with hydrangeas of every shade mixed with
maple leaves that ran from pale gold to the
brightest crimson. Though State Commis-
sioner of the V.G.G.A. Lady Somers, who
escorted the guest of honor, did not wear
uniform, choosing an ensemble of check
woollen georgette in fawn and brown tones
with a matching tweed hat and furs. Mrs.
Brookes had the aid of the Chauvel lady,
whose uniform displayed the silver and gold
cords with cockade of the Deputy State Com-
missioner. Mrs. Brookes and the divisional
commissioners sported silver trappings, and
the district commissioners wore saxe blue
additions to their navy uniforms and turned-
up hats. Among those in Guide regalia
were Mrs. Alex. Russell, Mrs. J. O. Fair-
bairn, Mrs. George Landale, Mrs. Clive
Fairbairn. Mrs. Thorold Fink and Kathleen
Ahern. Sybil Irving, the State secretary,
was distinguished by a bit of red in her mil-
linery. A touch of gold enlivened Lady
Baden-Powell’s uniform and hat.
Mrs. Emmerton’s gown was white satin
with a tracery of black chenille. Mary
Emmerton hovered round in figured brown
and black velvet. Cynthia Brookes was a
study in geranium red, her sister Elaine
wearing coat and skirt of Wedgwood blue
with grey fur. Hersey completed the trio
of the Norman Brookes daughters, her silken
suit being of jacaranda tone spotted in white
and navy. Mrs. Gordon Chirnside looked
handsome in a black ensemble with sable
collar and cuffs, her black velvet hat having
a dash of white. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme was
all in bottle green from her floppy felt hat
to her suede court shoes. The Clarke, Mas-
son and Miller ladies were there. Soprano
Florence Erikson and pianist Vassili lister
made music.
Dame Clara Butt and her husband sang in
“Elijah,” the contralto swathing her form in
black velvet with a lining of royal purple.
The lady has a memory of the oratorio that
is in a way connected with Australia. She
was billed as a soloist in a matinee perform-
ance in London conducted by Sir Arthur
Sullivan, but did not turn up, being under
the impression it was an evening affair.
Sullivan noticed the late Ada Crossley in the
audience and publicly asked her to come up
on the platform and fill the vacancy. Those
were the days when ladies wore high lace
collars, stiffly boned, and Ada, who was then
on the brink of her first big opportunity, used
to tell in after years how, as she made her
way to the front, she vainly attempted with
nervous fingers to undo the barricade that
constricted her throat.
Playing a leading role in the Girl Guide
round-up was Lieut.-General Chauvel’s lady,
who is Deputy State Commissioner for Vic.
She served as locum for Lady Somers during
the latter’s
absence in
England. The
Chauvel lady,
who was Sybil
Jopp, of Bris-
bane, mar-
ried when just
out of the
s c h o olroom,
and now has
an almost-
grown-up fam-
ily of two sons
and two daugh-
ters. She is
president of
the Friendly
Union of Sol-
di e r s’ Wives
and Mothers
and of the
South Yarra
branch of the
Child ren’s
Hospital, as well as assisting the G.G. move-
ment. The picture came from the Dickinson-
Monteith studio.
At her final recital—a matinee —Dame
Clara Butt took the stage in primula mauve
lame with coral-pink tints shining through.
Many jewels set up blinding radiance about
corsage and coiffure.
At St. George’s kirk, Geelong, a knot was
tied between Dorothy, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. C. Stuart Ross, of Rosslyn, Wilgul. and
Lieut. Henry Lyle Moulds, of the Staff Corps,
who is stationed at Sydney. Georgette of
ivory tint with a gleam of pink beneath and
softness of tulle and lace above formed the
bridal array, and the chiffon frocks of the
two ’maids matched the shade of the sheaves
of delphiniums they carried. Their velvet
hats were also blue. The bridegroom is a
son of the 11. J. Moulds, of Adelaide.
Hector, younger son of the Stanley
Argyles, took unto himself a wife on
Thursday at the Collins-street kirk, the
chosen lady being Margaret, younger daugh-
ter of the John Armstrongs, of Aratong,
Deniliquin. The bride wore her travelling
dress of fancy tweed in brown tints with
a felt hat, and some orange buds were pinned
on her muff, which matched her fur stole.
There were rejoicings at Menzies’.
Kathleen, younger daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. Fred McCubbin, was married
on the 9th to John Sinclair Mangan, of this
city. The very youthful bride, who wore
her going-away tweed suit with a beret, was
handed over by her brother Louis.
There was no more delighted person in
Melbourne on Saturday night than Gustave
Slapoffski, who waved the baton for the
umpteenth time in Australia at the premiere
of a Gilbert and Sullivan season. The
Theatre Royal was crammed for the opening-
production, “The Gondoliers,” and Slap,
received an ovation when he came forth, and
another at the end of the performance. The
dressing was as charming as ever, and the
nurseries of the city must have been denuded
to supply the horticulture handed to the
principals. Stalls and d.c. presented a good
display of evening dress, with a fair percen-
tage of black velvet coats with white fox
collars. Here and there a glitter of burnished
sequins in wrap or corsage hinted a return
to the sparkles of some years ago. Mr. and
Mrs. Russell Gabb, Mrs. Hewlett, the Merson
Coopers, Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt, Mrs. H.
Emmerton, Gladys Collins and Mrs. P. Lucini
and her daughter were first : nigliters.
The dressing in the revue “Topsy Turvy”
at the Princess reveals a lot more than it
conceals. Eight shapely girls caper round
in small bandages of white satin with
jewelled decorations, gossamery cloaks and
huge head-dresses of white ostrich plumes.
The most striking ballets are a bird ensemble,
a picturesque grand-opera scene and a dance
in which white tulle skirts are topped by
bodices consisting of smiling masks giving
a double-headed appearance to the pirouet-
ters.
The annual conference of the Country
Women’s Association, which opens to-day, will
be launched by
Eady Somers.
From out this
Broothorn pic-
ture looks
Mrs. J. M.
Pittendrigh, of
Toorak, who
formed this
State’s branch
of the associa-
tion and is
regarded as
the godmother
of the junior
members, who
are organising
a “Hard Times
Sale.” Her
home is always
their general
meeting place,
and she is
ever ready to
advise and
help them. Mrs. Pittendrigh also interests
herself in the Church of England Babies’
Homes at Brighton and East Malvern.
The production of “On the Spot” is chiefly
notable from a feminine point of view for the
gorgeousness of the dressing. Tischa Guille, as
a Chinese girl, wears first an Oriental cos-
tume of black tunic and skirt with wonder-
ful embroideries of gold; and later an even-
ing gown of silvery-white lame cut on
princess lines with a long train; a glistening
halo head-dress and much jewellery add to
the effect. White georgette with a little satin
coat traced in a gold and a blue thread
border is another fascinating outfit. Rowena
Ronald’s Titian locks are set off in the first
act by a reseda-green satin frock, and in
the last by an ensemble of pale blue satin
with ornamentation of black. Parchment-
toned crSpe romaine, clinging and long, forms
her evening frock; and she also sports a
neglig'S of faintest green chiffon.
The Red Cross Society has sent out its
usual winter SOS for pullovers for invalid
soldiers. Contributions of this nature have
not yet reached the required 650, so knitters
are invited to get busy. Directions will be
furnished from the R.C.S. headquarters at
44 Lonsdale-street, or from the R. C. Handi-
crafts Shop, Regent Arcade.
There were enough people left over from
talkies and theatres to about fill the Town
Hall for the Uni. Symphony Orchestra’s
concert on Saturday night. Madame Alice
Orff-Solscher, who was a soloist, wore apple-
green.
Joan and Betty Rayner, of the Theatre
of Youth, entertained a large audience at
Scots’ Hall on Thursday night with a pro-
gramme entitled “Cottages and Castles.”
Coffee was passed round during the interval.
On a visit to friends in Melbourne is Miss
Barr-Smith, of Adelaide, who is improving
the showery hours by gleaning all she can
regarding the work and management here of
the junior members of the Country Women's
Association. Though the S.A. capital is head-
quarters of a State branch, there has been
no attempt to organise the girls and the
younger matrons on Melbourne lines. On her
return Miss Barr-Smith will take the matter
in hand.
Some pars, from Westralia: —
On the first day of the W.A.T.C. races
a steamy blanket of heat hung about the
course, but the grass was green as ever, and
the flower-beds were a potpourri of reds and purples.
Summer transparencies were still to the fore—among
them Mrs. John Stodart’s souffle of pinks and pale
greens was noticeable. Beige laces set off Mrs.
Walker’s peach-bloom complexion. Mrs. Ted Lukin
and Mrs. Brum White chose flecked materials of
green and biscuit; Mrs. Boas’s lace confection had
black insertions upon shell pink; Jean Robinson
wore a tweed beret with a black frock; Mrs. Victor
Harwood’s pink medley had blue trappings; Mrs.
C. Milne wore black satin; Mrs. Kiernan’s black
was relieved with blush-pink accessories; reds and
cedar-brown were mixed upon Mrs. Vetter’s geor-
gettes ; Mrs. J. Charles, in navy, received felicita-
tions on her recovery from a serious illness; Betty
Rosenstamm, in bougainvillaea figurings, paced the
lawns with Peggy Wood, in green ; Mrs. Hearman was
tall and striking in royal blue.
Black and navy were first favorites for frocking
at the second Easter meeting. Mrs. Wilfrid Cam-
pion’s navy foulard was spotted with purplish flowers;
Kathleen Castieau chose a navy rig; Mrs. Sandy
McLean was smart in black satin; Rose Connolly
favored the same material; Mrs. Claude Morlet was
all in pervenche blues; red was Mrs. Dowling’s
choice, figured marocain Mrs. J. B. Durack’s, and
a beret worn with navy and white flecks Betty
Goff’s. Miss Lonergan’s chiffons had an indigo
background ; beige georgettes and lace fashioned Mrs.
Marillier’s gown, and Mrs. Cross had a hair-line of
jade upon her cafe-au-luit turn-out.
Prof. Whitfeld, the Uni.’s conscientious and popular
vice-chancellor, left this week with his wife for a
six months’ health and pleasure trip abroad.
Dr. Rosalie Gollan is another traveller with six
months up her sleeve for foreign jaunting. She
sailed recently after packing her medical books and
saying a farewell to the little inmates of the
Children’s Hospital.
Sister Palmer, of Adelaide, and Sister Wilson, of
Sydney, after two years at Hall’s Creek, paused
here on their way home for well-earned holidays.
Both speak enthusiastically of life and hospital work
in the hot, sparsely-populated North.
Freda Treadgold and Seddon Vincent launched
their matrimonial skiff and set sail one evening from
St. Mary’s Cathedral. The bridal satin was cut
with long sleeves, a moulded corsage with a glitter
of diamente about the neck and a long, full skirt
which descended in a train. A glint of pink in
the shower bouquet showed faintly through the souffle
of tulle veil. Sister Ethel ’maided in Madonna-
blue moire with peaked flares falling from the long
corsage. Her hat was of blue felt and her flowers
matched her pink satin slippers.
And two or three from Adelaide: —
Eastertide brought the usual welter of weddings.
The same week saw Valda Ziegler wearing parch-
ment satin, and a trio of bridesmaids in tones of
yellow; Gwen Verco frocked in ivory georgette and
her attendants wearing delphinium blue ; while Vanda
Sewell, in her bridal robe of shell-pink lace and silk
net, with ’maids in silk net shading from pale pink
to deep rose, supplied, on the authority of the offici-
ating clergyman, “the prettiest wedding party that
had been seen in St. John’s Church.” The Verco
marriage was celebrated in the picturesque St. Peter’s
Chapel, the bridegroom’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. E-
J. Horwood, of Toorak, Victoria, coming over for
the wedding. The newly-made benedict, K. Mcßryde
Horwood, has taken up land at Ashburne.
Debutantes are being launched early this season;
the joint dance being arranged by Mesdames W. T. G.
Goodman and Bronte Smeaton will bring out
several. A dance to be given by Mrs. Sydney
Reid for her daughter will afford an opportunity
for other young things to try their wings, and there
will be yet more fledglings at the large ball at the
Maison, Glenelg, on May 1.
The Gilbert and Sullivan Co. had an excellent
three weeks’ season, with crowded houses every night.


South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius 10,000 tons, May 8
fEuripides 15,000 „ Sept. 9
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Oct. 5
*First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents .
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
„ Joint Passenger Agents.
m , watt & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 6 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., 7
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
After Outdoor Exercise
Wash Out Your Pores
with
Cuticura Soap
and hot water
Anoint any redness or roughness
with Cuticura Ointment.
Nothing better for keeping the
skin in good condition.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population,
$
In Greater Brisbane
SThe Brisbane (ttonrier,
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 %'
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary,
* * *
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from :
®he Brisbane Contier*
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth,
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
LOVELY
RAROTONGA
PEARL OF THE PACIFIC
To meet 'present conditions a
short, inexpensive holiday ex-
cursion to Rarotonga has been
arranged by the Union S.S. Co.
Leaving Sydney on June 11 by
the “Makura,” those availing
themselves of this opportunity
will make the return voyage
by the “Maunganui,” reaching
Sydney July 4.
First Class return, £45
Second Class return, £34
(No exchange.)
Full particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
247 George Street, Sydney.
54 William Street, Melbourne.
* Jl*)
UlulUbH
4
I
1
rf'r.'v
a n
w
H.
m
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE WHICH IS
A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular Monthly Sailings.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liabiilty
ĕ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
ė
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
i should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London!
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,’
meet their friends, use the telephone and*
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Paramount’s “The Right to Love,” at Syd-
ney Prince Edward, is a disappointment. The
theme is old and lugubrious—the mother
whose life has been blasted by too much holi-
ness and too little emotion battling to give
her daughter a thrilling time. Ruth Cliat-
terton is her usual polished self as the dismal
mother and selfish child —parts which she
duplicates. She is perfect as the mother,
c< e doesn’t resemble the delicious maiden
of Susan Glaspell’s novel, and it destroys
illusion. The time is apparently ripe for this
tine artist to join the ranks of the Pauline
Fredericks, and such-like charmers of other
days, who have taken exclusively to middle-
aged parts. Paul Lukas—as good in his line
as she is in hers—is the hero, but he is
unsatisfactory, too. The eating years don’t
matter so much in his case. He just hasn’t
the temperament for the part.
* * #
“Let Us Be Gay,” at Sydney Plaza, is
one of those pictures that send the critic
home with a baffled feeling. It is so intel-
ligent and sophisticated. The dialogue is
bright without being self-conscious (there is
hardly an epigram in it), and the appoint-
ments of Mrs. Boucicault’s luxurious house
are expensive without being preposterous.
! No one gets a guffaw by throwing things at
the butler, or by putting his hat on a statue
in the hall. In short, a sober, rational light
is thrown on an existence which is probably
that of most rich Americans. Yet on the
first night the laughter and applause were
as loud as at any of those talkies which de-
pended on clowning for their effects, and
there was no apparent difference between
this, audience and the others. Evidently
talkie houses are like the lunatic in “The
Belle of New York” ; they climb both sorts
of trees. Marie Dressier is the only member
of the brilliant cast who over-plays. But
such. oddities as she represents in Mrs.
Boucicault, the domestic despot who brings
Norma Shearer and Rod La Rocque together
after their - row, usually over-play in life.
Melba was an example. Anyhow, Miss
Dressler’s personality is so dynamic and her
talents are so great that she is bound to
I get away with almost any scene in which
she figures. It is a pity in ways. Norma
Shearer, who dominates the proceedings as
the plain little wife, becomes relatively in-
significant when she returns from Paris
triumphant in her beauty; and Miss Dress-
ier is to blame. Still, they provide a first-
class entertainment, full of stimulating
worldly wit and wisdom, between them. Other
stars in the show are Hcdda Hopper, Gil-
bert Emery and Raymond Hackett.
Laurel and Hardy appear in the Plaza
first part in “The Chisellers.” Like Charlie
Chaplin, they have a few stunts which they
exploit over and over again, and their
humor, like his, never grows stale. They
must be two of the most accomplished pan-
tomimists in the world at the present time.
* * *
Charles Farrell is “The Man Who Came
Back” (Fox) at Sydney State, and William
Holden, who played so' brilliantly in “Holi-
day,” is his millionaire father. During a
wild alcoholic night Charles gets married, a
fact of which he first becomes aware when
he opens his morning newspaper. This
exhausts the parent’s patience, and he hands
the prodigal 5000 dollars and a ticket to
San Francisco with an intimation that he
won’t get any more till he reforms. To
clear the decks the bride is disposed of, for
Charles is to meet and love Janet Gaynor
while doing in the remains of his cash on
the night life of the western city. Shortly
after encountering Janet —an ingenue who is
grotesquely out of place in her sordid sur-
roundings—Charles is shoved aboard one of
the family ships and dumped in Shanghai.
In that mighty city he discovers Miss Gay-
nor in the first and only opium-den he
enters, and decides in his grief to break
her neck. However, he doesn’t, and the pair
are next seen living luxuriously in Honolulu.
A relative arrives to say that the old man
is on his death-bed and lives but to bid
adieu to his son, so Charles hurries home
only to find that his father is hale and
hearty, and has implicit confidence in the
moral probity of Miss Gaynor. The seem-
ing villain of the piece is a private ’tec who
has been reporting to New York ever since the
young woman made Mr. Farrell’s acquaint-
ance. Janet is now ushered in and handed
over to Charles, who is assumed to have
“staged his come-back.” The show, which
is neither more nor less idiotic than this
summary implies, is a sort of oil a podrida
of stock effects. One of the few articles
worth picking out of the mess is Holden’s
acting.
“Cimarron” (meaning “a wild place”), a
Radio Picture’s version of Edna Ferber’s
novel, was pre-.shown at Sydney Prince
Edward. Richard Dix, a super-lie-man, sets
out with Irene Dunn to found a nation. The
period covered is 1889-1930, and in the
intervening years the city of Osage is
brought into being. The picture, which is
of the class known as “a big one in Movie-
dom,” contains, inter alia, 1050 vehicles, 3500
horses and mules and 5000 actors. It be-
longs to the Exodus family of films, but
whereas in “The Ten Commandments”
Moses had things well in hand, in “Cimar-
ron” the staff work is poor, and the march
resolves itself into an anarchic scramble on
the “first-comc-first-served” principle. The
flying start for the pick of the lots is excit-
ing. On the pistol shot every type of con-
veyance known to those times gets going,
including a high-wheeled bicycle. The pic-
ture is less stark than it might be because
the producer hasn’t been able to keep his
eye off the menacing figure of the censor.
Thus, in the book the white woman taken
orim. con. with Isaiah the negro is sewn in
the green hide of a beast, and her paramour
is tortured to death by the use of a rattle-
snake. In the film the negro is shot while
playing a hero’s part in his master’s service.
Gradually we follow the evolution of Osage
from its embryo stage as a village of tents
to its fulfilment as a city of skyscrapers,
and very convincingly the camera-man has
shown it. It is easy t 0 credit the ballyhoo-
, writer’s claim that this film cost £425,000.


FOR
m
i!
Bnton, Maker of Men
500 Startling NEW BOOKS
on Strength—FßEE!
THIS is the greatest book of strength and
development ever published—yet you can
get your copy FREE if you act now. It is
absolutely crammed full of pictures and vital
information that will amaze you —nothing
ever like it has appeared in print before.
For a short while this book is offered Free
to all readers of this paper. Get this coupon
in the post to-day. N n,v !
AMAZING NEW Discovery
Makes It Possible for Every-
body to Acquire Great
Strength and Development!
MEVER before has such a chance been
offered to readers of this paper, never
again will it occur—that is why YOU
must act NOW!
The Biggest Surprise of Your Life!
'"THAT is what awaits you when you get
this, great Free Offer. If you have
dreamed for abounding health, if you have
been sick and want to be well, if you desire
muscles, strength, development —then NOW
is your chance. The opportunity that you
have waited for is here. The Coupon below
is printed for your especial benefit; it’s yours
to post to-day, and by return you will get
the pleasantest surprise of your life !
This Is What I Shall Do For You!
TN the first few days you will notice large
lumps of solid muscle appearing all oyer
your body, you will see those arms getting
thick and powerful, your legs will develop and
grow shapely, your neck will round out and
become massive! No longer will you appear
skinny and misshapen. Your chest will
broaden and deepen, and you will be able to
take deep breaths and fill your massive chest.
You will feel so full of life you’ll shout to
the world that you’re a man —and you can
prove it! Come on, then. Don’t miss it. Take
it now. It’s yours. I’m waiting for you NOW!
ŕ
ALFRED J.
BRITON,
Dept. L.,
107 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IT
IS
F
R
E
E
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L..
107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me,
absolutely FREE and without any
obligation on my part whatsoever,
a copy of your latest book, “The
Secret of Muscular Strength —and
How to Acquire It.” I enclose
4d. in stamps for postage.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
L., 15/4/’3l.
ě
e
èi'
é
ê
ë
ēARD WORK ON THE LAND
ėeans hard wear' on the clothes!
ęURDOCH’S
ě
eLOTHES STAND THE STRAIN.
èhe shirts that won’t wear out! Murdoch s strong Khaki
érill Work Shirts for Mon, attached collars, two military
pockets. Specially stitched and strengthened
throughout.
Wonderful Mill to Wearer Value
ê
Men’s “Toughite” Cotton Tweed Trousers—the best wearing
trousers made. Specially woven fabric and strongly rein-
forced.
bottoms
Dark grey shade, block stripes.
Plain
ii/e>
ëToughite" Riding Breeches 19/6
‘’Toughite’* Blue Drill Overalls (Bib and Brace) 9/11
ēe pay freight.
ĕf writing, kindly address your letter to Desk “R,” Box 3875 1 I,
ė.P.0., Sydney.
ęurdochs IfeA)
ě_ SI
eTbe World's Largest Men’s and Boys' Wear Stoic.”
AS WE SAID BEFORE-
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Coals can be landed in Sydney from Eng-
land within Is. 6d. of the price at which they
can be got from Newcastle. [lB/8/’BB.]
Sarah Bernhardt has an antique girdle of
medallions on which are signs of the zodiac
in superb chasing. The zone was a gift from
Napoleon 111. She is never without it—
sometimes it is worn about her dress, and
sometimes around her neck. [23/6/’BB.]
He started talking to a Bulletin man in
the train. He said he kept a pub “this side
of St. Arnaud,” and that he had come down
to Melbourne for the Show. No, he was not
“much took up” with the exhibits; the thing
that had interested him most was a howling
toff with ginger hair, and a big dude crutch,
and a polished belltopper, and other fixings
en suite, who was strolling around with a lot
of swell people and looking “as if he owned
a di’mond-mine.” The publican from this
side St. Arnaud explained: “I thought I
reckernised him, an’ after follerin’ him up a
bit I was dead certain he’s the chap what
drifted into my pub. seven months ago, a
reg’lar beat, carryin’ a eighteen-penny bluey
an’ lookin’ dead done up. He slapped a letter
down on my bar, an’ arst was that good
enough fer a plain drink. I went over it.
It said he’d come in for 30 tliousan’ quid.
Thinkin’ it ai fake I sent him travellin’, dry
as grit, although he promised to square for
all he could hold as soon as he reached Beali-
bar.” The publican sighed. “Seems it was
a straight nffair,” he continued ruefully, “an’
he might a-bin restin’ at my pub yet. No,
damn it! I didn’t enjoy the Show.”
The handsomest and most original of lamp-
shades | writes Sappho Smith] is a tripod
of emu legs (from the knee down and includ-
ing the toes; which have been thrown into
a tanpit just as they were cut from the
birds, and left to tan for a year or so. So
far, the only part of an emu which has
been made into a drawing-room ornament is
the large, green egg, which is extremely
monotonous as an object of virtu, is never
useful, and is almost as common as wool-
work flowers under glass. The legs, so long
overlooked, are rarer, and naturally more
fashionable and expensive, for, while the
emu’s laying capacities are infinite, given a
fair field, there are seldom more than two
legs to each bird.
LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT.
Love at first sight is a thing that poets
have cracked up for several thousand years,
and the mildewed humbug is still going. It
was founded originally before the days of
pens or paper and when the earth was very
young. Some youthful, gushing savage, who
ought to have been warned by his mother
with a fishing-line, cast his eye on a maiden
with her ear slit and a ring stuck through
it, and then, finding she was about to be
the bride of another, he wept, and blew Ins
nose on a leaf, and proceeded to cut poetry
about her on a rock by means of an axe. He
afterwards faded away and died.
People who fall in love at first sight are
divided into two classes: those who fade
away and die, and
those who reveal
their passion and
.are struck in the
eye by the girl’s
brother’s umbrella.
Down at Mary-
borough (Vic.) a
railway fireman
was taken this way
recently, and when-
ever his train stop-
ped at the station
he wou 1 d blow
long, love - sick
wails with the
engine-whistle and
hang on to the
footboard and
throw kisses at a
“slavey” in a cer-
tain back yard.
She did not reci-
procate his passion,
being already en-
gaged to the but-
cher-boy, but one
day she came trot-
ting along with a
beaming smile in
her dark eyes and
a bowl of some-
thing hot in her
hand. He thought
it was soup and
struck a paralysing
attitude, but when
she threw the boil-
ing-hot mess over
his manly chest
and washed all the
attitude out of him,
he called her a
little cat and stated
he would “go for
her.” But he
hadn’t time to do
it, for the but-
cher’s boy came
through the hedge
and said he would
put a ’ead on ’im,
and then lifting up
his basket he
, . . , , , brought it down on
him with a whack. There was a wild rough-
and-tumble for five minutes, and then the fire-
man lay down and said feebly, “Yah ! ’Tain’t
fair to hit a man that can’t get up.” The audi-
ence laughed, the little slavey did a can-can
round his prostrate form, and the butcher’s
boy remarked with lordly disdain, “Take it
away!” When he got home that night the
fireman explained that there had been an
accident on the line, but somehow the story
leaked out, and his wife went home to her
mother in tears, partly of sorrow at his
perfidy and partly of self-reproach because
she missed him with the saucepan.
Thus ends a painful tale of love at first
sight. It is an emotion that never yet paid
any dividends.
Some picturesque stories are told about the
recent great frost in Maoriland. At Kurow,
all the mineral-water bottles in the pub.
blew their corks out with the expansion of
the contents. Then a column of the water
would fly upwards, and, freezing in the air,
would remain fixed like a candle, with the
cork on top of it. Most of the other liquors
exploded, and hardly a drink was left in
Kurow or its vicinity. The meat froze hard,
and so did the whiskers of the residents, and
the rivers were blocked with ice, and the
thermometer at South Wairarapa fell to 10
degrees below zero. At Benmore, according
to a picturesque local liar, the sheep became
so famished that they assailed anybody who
approached them and ate great pieces of
his clothes off him, thereby compelling him to
run for his life across the snow in a state of
partial nakedness. Everywhere the very
oldest inhabitant has risen up and stated
without reservation that he never knew any-
thing like it, and he is cordially backed up
by those other two unreliable authorities
the very old settler and the respected fellow-
townsman. All three, however, are dying off
rapidly from rheumatism, and, unless the
weather moderates, there will hardly be an
oldest inhabitant left.
EVOLUTION.
A day is coming on us when we won’t know
wliat it’s like
To walk, or run, or do a thing, except to ride
the bike;
When, our evolution ended, we shall find our
legs have gone,
Except so much as will suffice to push the
pedals on.
For we all of us are riders —burglar, burgled
man, police,
Lawyer, client, surgeon, patient, Premier,
Justice of the Peace,
Man and woman. Judge and jury, priest and
penitent alike,
Have given up all other things and taken to
the bike.
And if Heaven is a country where we’re
given what we love,
The bicycle must follow to those realms of
bliss above;
And when we’ve travelled upwards, it will
hardly make us smile
To see Abraham or Isaac breaking records
for the mile.
A pair of stars will help to make a heavenly
machine,
Held close in glittering splendor by a comet
fixed between;
And the angels and the patriarchs, and saints
and all the rest,
Will ride about for ever in the mansions of
the blest.
BUCOLIC THEOLOGY.
LADY TEACHER (who has just—to explain what a miracle is—
related the story of Aaron’s rod which was turned into a
serpent): “Now, Billy, what is that which I have just told
you?”
BILLY (promptly): “A snake yarn, Miss.” [28/9/'89.]
And the souls that pass away from Earth
will see, .on getting there,
St, Peter first among the twelve with half
a length to spare,
And will gaze with silent wonder at the
reconstructed figure
Of a cherub sitting strad-lcgs on a bright
and shining jigger.
[l6/11/’95.]
WYVIS.


Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
446 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3, 6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739.012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
r
m
&
X
9*
ar
rs
i^—
flfl'Jtlfcr
<5
v
««es
■»§s
V/
*M»»
».
we:
W-?**
tS
wrgH
•J«<.
*3*S&ter
MSSti
tatfHn '
JCa
Did You Ever Take
A Rusty Bath?
r I ’HE water runs red. . . .the tub feels
gritty. . . .you get out teeling less
clean than when you got in.
Ideal ’ hot-water boilers are rust-
proof. They are simple to operate—
deliver hot water day and night and
are cheaper than other systems. If
you are wasting money on slow and
extravagant methods inquire further.
Call or write to DANKS*
JOHN DANKS S SON Pty., Ltd.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Talgai Mares.
STEELE RUDD
GOES MUSTERING.
IWAS late to supper that evening at the
station. When I finished I left old Fred,
the loquacious cook, admonishing a
cattle-dog for following his movements with
greedy, haunting eyes, and mooched out into
the cool.
A still, peaceful evening, with the moon
coming up hig and round over the home
mountain. Stretched out on the broad of
their backs on the short couch grass that
grew round the huts were the dim forms
of three men. There was just light enough
to make them out; so, choosing a space near
by, I dropped beside them. Burton, Fit/,
and a visitor to the station.
“That you, young fellow?” Burton said.
The question didn’t seem to call for an
answer, so I settled myself in silence and
watched the twinkling and blinking of the
stars through dreamy, half-closed eyes.
“You’d a rough time following the Range
to-day?” Fitz, lying next to me, mumbled.
“We waited a while at the foot of Shay’s
mountain to pick up any you might turn
down, but there’s never any cattle there this
time of the year.”
Knowing he spoke only out of sympathy,
I said nothing.
“Who have you there?” the visitor asked
quietly.
“Young Arthur Rudd,” Burton answered.
The visitor raised himself on his elbow,
and for a moment I could feel him peering
at me through the dimness, estimating my
age and importance, I thought, by my length.
“Not Dick Rudd?” he said, lying back
again.
“A lot younger than Dick,” the others
replied.
“This chap was only a baby when you
knew Dick, McHugh—weren’t you?” And
Fitz stretched out a hand and squeezed my
arm in a kindly way. He was a stockman
with a heart, and I had taken a liking to
him.
Though the personal reference started the
blood tingling in my veins, still I said
nothing.
“He was a good man on a horse,” the
visitor said presently, as though the con-
versation had not been broken. “Very cool,
and sat neat and square in the saddle, too,
how a horse bucked.”
“Not the man his young brother here is
going to be.” And again I felt the kindly
touch of Fitz’s hand on me. “He’ll be taking
my place when I leave in a month or so.”
“A bit on the young side yet, isn’t he?”
the visitor, who I now guessed was Brian
McHugh, the Western cattle-buyer, sug-
gested.
“A bit too reckless,” Burton drawled;
“and he’ll come to grief, I’m afraid, on some
of those mounts of yours, Fitz. if he’s given
y°ur job. Black Hippy especially.”
k?* the old horse is the easiest of the
lot,” Fitz answered. “All Arthur will have
to do is sit on him and hold the reins. Re’ll
do the rest.”
Burton left it at that, and they mumbled
on, in turn mentioning the names of horse-
uien known far and wide and lauding them
tor feats of horsemanship. But beyond listen-
ing to what was said when McHugh spoke
of Harry Redmond as having been seen
about again—this made Burton “wonder
what he could be up to” —I heard little more.
My mind, dwelling on the hint Fitz had
dropped, became filled with ambition and
dream.s of achievement. I lay thinking of
the day when the overseer would tell me that
I was promoted—that I was to ride Fitz’s
stock horses, five of the best, anywhere, and
to have his saddle, which had been “made
to order,” and to take charge of the lot as
my very own so long as I remained in the
station service. What images of those horses
rose up before me! Black Hippy, Greygo,
Cricket, Bluebelle and Beeswing raced in
on the heels of one another like scenes in a
moving picture. I saw myself entering the
horseyard, walking proudly to Black Hippy,
bridling and saddling him while he stood
f 'rect and alert; then mounting and riding
him off down the run to join in the muster-
ing, feeling the springy motion of him under
me—stepping along as though he were re-
sponding to the applause of the whole uni-
verse.
Thus I dreamed till Fitz and Burton had
risen and gone off to their bunks, and a
voice asked: “Aren’t you going off to bed,
too, young fellow?” Opening my eyes then
I saw' McHugh standing over me in the
moonlight. Scrambling to my feet, and
shedding my moleskins without lighting the
lamp, I crept under the blanket and was
fast asleep in a second or two.
* * * *
Instead of “a month or so” the day came
within a week when Fitz left the station
employ and I w'as given his job.
“And now% young Arthur,” the overseer
said, after mentioning a rise of five shil-
lings a week in my wages, “w'e are going
to yard the Talgai mares to-day and send
them back home to-morrow. There’s sure to
be a lot of galloping, so you better ride Blue-
belle—she’s very fast on the plain.”
How my heart thumped! And there,
staring through the rails at us as though
she heard and understood what was said—
and w'ho is to say she did not? —stood Blue-
belle herself. Her white face, her sleek and
dappled skin, her rounded barrel and clean
u !a- mat^e her a picture. Nodding
obedience to the overseer—we boys never
"Yessirred” or “Nosirred” the boss in those
way-back station days—l slipped into the
yard and caught and saddled her. How' she
eyed me and sniffed me over as I went about
her before tossing the reins over her head
and hopping on !
Don t take her too cheap,” Burton, who
was first to mount, advised; “she lias moods,
that one, and would try to buck you over
her head soon as look at you.”
But the confidence the touch of that per-
fect saddle imparted to me made mo feel
that it wouldn’t matter much if she tried
to buck me over the moon.
As we left the station homestead, breath-
ing the clear crisp air of that glorious morn-
ing on our way to the farthest end of the
run, one couldn’t but feel how grand it w r as
to be alive. Heavy rains had come and
gone some weeks before, and the burnt-off
grasses bursting into green shoot made the
broad acres on either side of the bridle-track
appear like endless wheat fields among the
lorest trees.
Here and there shy curlews crouched to
earth at sound of our approach, while hate-
ful snakes, brown, black and copper, glided
to cover. Wild duck rose from the glistening
waters in the creek bends, perfumes came
from gum and wattle boughs, and the wild
fig-trees flourished with fruit. In the glad-
ness of his heart Burton rendered imita-
tions of the warbling magpies along the
way, and the overseer and Jerry, letting
loose their reins, lit their pipes aud blew
tobacco clouds through the air.
So on we rode.
At the old wood gate that led to the
enclosed country where ran the brood mares
with the stallion Beezer, “Old William,” as
the overseer was sometimes called, made a
Many a time had he mustered mobs
otf those plains and ridges, and, though
now at an age when stockmen grow careful
of life and limb, his was the brain that
knew what tactics to adopt to outwit and
outlast the wildest of them.
-They If be in the timber way beyond
there, he said, pointing his whip-handle far
over the plain. “Burton, you'll come witn
|° start them; Jerry, we’ll leave you
at the Red Rock; and you, young Arthur,
tms is going to prove what you’re made of.
lou wait at the grass-trees out there”—
pointing the whip-handle again. “They’re a
little over a mile from here. . The stallion
is sure to lead the mob that way—he always
does and we’ll leave the gate open; so
when you see they’re about level with you
come at them fast, closing in on them at an
angle, and heading here for the gate. You
understand?”
Gad, how my heart seemed to rise into
when I tried to answer!
But if the stallion won’t swerve off to
the gate for you and keeps going right ahead,
don t lose sight of the Talgai mares, what-
ever you do, till Jerry picks you up at tile
Ked Rock. You know the Talgai mares, of
course ?”
Though I had had only a bird’s-eye view
of those mares while hunting for fat bullocks
one day with Fitz. I deemed it w T ise to say
decisively that I did.
“Three chestnuts, and all of them with
white faces,” Jerry prompted.
I saw them here about a week ago.”
Burton remarked as he remounted, after
fastening the gate so that it would not close
in our absence. “And, by the Lord Harry.
I was surprised to see how wild they had
got! You couldn’t get near them ! ‘ They
were more like brumbies than thoroughbred
brood mares worth a stack o’ money!”
E^ y ™?J heir out here, I suppose,”
ana Ola William smiled as he rode away to
the left in the lead of the others.
I turned to the right and made for the
grass trees to take up my allotted position.
There were about a dozen of them growing
m a clump, and on that undulating, flowed
decked, sweeping plain they stood out as a
landmark. As I reined in to dismount in
the shelter of them, the songs and lonely
melodies of the winds in the bowery tops 1
remember to this day.
While waiting I took out my pocket-knife,
a friend no station-hand was ever without
and, lifting Bluebelle’s fore-feet, freed them
in turn of the dirt and gravel that had col-
lected in her hoofs. In the hard galloping
that I knew was before her I was bent on
giving her every chance. Her hind feet I
left alone. About them Bluebelle was very
touchy, and I knew that a stock-horse, except
in case of “quartering,” was not so very liable
to go lame in the hind ones. Then I looked
to my leathers and girths, and in the ecstasy
of the moment talked endearingly to her;
wooed her as man might a maiden ; pressed
my cheek to hers, telling her the “other
horses” would soon be galloping upon us,
and imploring her to measure her speed with
theirs and beat them. “Don’t let them do
you, Bluebelle,!’ I crooned in her ear like
the kid I really was; “put them all through
tne gate, and show them what you can do”;
and, as though assuring me slie would, the
little wonder rubbed her head against my
shoulder and nickered affectionately.
Far over the plain to the timber belt I
gazed at intervals for signs of the mob, but
no animal life was there to catch the eye—
nothing but the waving plain, broken here
and there by short billabong banks and
glimmering lagoons.
“Old William might be out of his reckon-
ing for once,” I thought, as the time grew
long and I became impatient; “perhaps
they’ll come some other way, or”-
At that moment a stir on the timber’s
edge made my heart jump. “There they
are!” I gasped.
Next moment I was in the saddle, watch-
ing and toying the reins. Sure enough it
was they—galloping into the open, heading
westward just as the overseer had antici-
pated.
In a second they had passed behind the
Pinnacle and were out of sight. In the
brief glimpse I got of them I was unable to
distinguish if a rider were in pursuit; but
I knew that until they appeared again or
the thunder of their hoofs was heard I could
only imagine their course or their order. I
was in the position that crowds watchim-
a race on a course are often in; they see
the horses leave the barrier and know noth
ing more of the race till the shouting breaks
on their ears and the field is battling it
out in the straight. But the excitement I
felt was more intense, for I had the sense
of responsibility and the fear of failure.
And how quickly the panic rising within
me spread to Bluebelle herself! She wms
restless now, pawing the ground, tossing her
head about and champing the bit. Thou°h
keeping a firm rein, I patted her and scolded
(Continued on next page.)


RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE, SCIATICA
If you are a victim of Rheumatism,
dreadful Backache, if you are feeling
worn-out, hating work and with no
zest for pleasure, your strength just
“ giving out,” if you are having bad
nights, it is practically certain that
Kidney Trouble is the cause of your
serious condition.
o
This illustration shows the excess of
uric acicl crystals formed in the blood.
These lodge in joints and muscles and
set up the inflammation that causes
the dreadful pain you refer to as
rheumatism, lumbago, backache, joint
pains, etc.
RATIONAL TREATMENT
As explained above, DeWitt’s Pills
constitute the ideal treatment for
uric acid ailments because they go to
the root of the trouole —the kidneys.
De Witt’s Pills have no effect on any
organs of the body except on the
kidneys. The ingredients have been
specially compounded for this purpose.
Try De Witt’s Pills now.
The kidneys, in health, act as the
great cleansing and purifying centre
for every drop of the body’s blood
supply. They should filter and
pass out from the system any excess
of uric acid and other pain-giving
poisons. When they fail in their
duty, your health fails and pain
and suffering result.
As long as those harmful bacteria,
uric acid or poison (toxins) are in
the blood you will suffer. Oint-
ments used from outside will not
help you. There is only one thing
to do and that is to prompt the
kidneys to clear out from the body
the pain-giving impurities, and this
we tell you clearly De Witt’s Pills
will do.
It is no use doping the system
with heart-exciting drugs, pick-me-
ups or purgatives, when the trouble
lies in your kidneys. Get a bottle
of De Witt’s Pills to-day and start
to end yonr suffering and build
strength, vigour and vitality. De
Witt’s Pills, because of their pop-
ularity, have been imitated. Other
kidney pills there may be, but
for your own health’s sake, and
your pocket’s sake, refuse all im-
itations. Ask for and see you get
“ De Witt’s.”
Remember, every bottle of De
Witt’s Pills sold bears a guarantee,
and is backed by recommendations
of tens of thousands of cured suffer-
ers, many who have come through
years of untold agony to per-
fect health. The price of the
usual size box is 3/6 only.
Surely the expenditure of so
small a sum is well repaid by
the end of chronic suffering
and the return of splendid
vigour and vitality.
The following are jvst two of the letters constantly received
WEEKS OF PAIN—QUICK RELIEF
Writing' from 117 Warren Rd.. Marrick-
ville, New South. Wales, Miss Beryl
Wallace says “ I suffered so badly with
pains in my joints that I was compelled
to give up my work and for nine weeks I
remained at home, in terrible pain all the
time. Finally, I got a box of De Witt's
Pills from the chemist, and by the time I
had taken six of the pills my pain had
KI can honestly recommend De
’s Pills to anyone.”
NEVER IN BETTER HEALTH
Mrs. Dorothy M. Rentel, “Riverlea,”
Glen Forbes, Gippsland, Victoria, says
“For six years I suffered very badly
from headaches, dizziness, and kidney
trouble. I tried many prescriptions but
could get no relief. I saw an advertise-
ment about DeWitt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills and decided to try them. I have
been taking them for some little while,
and I have never been in better health in
all my married life.”
\A v \ 1 1 1 1 11 /1j
DeWITTS
i
m
Invaluable in cases of
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA
LUMBAGO, BACKACHE
PAINS IN JOINTS, and all
Kidney and Bladder Troubles
her alternately; her excitement grew. I
gave her an inch or two of rein at last, and
let her take “walking exercise” round the
trees. She walked as if she were in a
show-ring.
Suddenly she stopped, raised her head and
stared westward. Instantly the rumbling
noise of galloping hoofs far off came clearly
on the air.
Which way were they coming? I fixed my
eyes on the rim of a sudden dip in the plain,
the direction in which Bluebclie was star-
ing. For several, moments she never shifted
her head. Beyond a tremor that passed over
her whole frame and communicated itself to
me, she was motionless.
The pounding hoofs sounded nearer; then
all at once over the dip came the heads of
three horses with blazed faces; then a single
head, and then a long line of heads.
Taking comjjlete shape, they came gallop-
ing and hustling into full view. I saw that
the three in the lead were all chestnuts—the
Talgai mares, and the one next was the heavy-
maned stallion leading the station mares,
about fifty in a bunch! What a moment!
Like the field in a big race they came thun-
dering on, steering a set course midway
between the fence and the grass trees, as the
overseer had anticipated, leaving ample space
in which to turn them for the open gate m
a mile run.
Now clouds of dust rose in the wake of
them; and as they drew nearer, nearer, I
saw that the three blazed-faced chestnuts
were right out in the lead, lengths in advance
of the stallion, and setting a furious pace.
Instinctively Bluebellc swung round into line
with them. Still I patted her and held and
spoke to her. She quivered all over again,
lifted herself lightly in front, then crouched
to her quarters—Gad, how they were com-
ing !
Nearly level, and the moment was come
for me to act. I slipped her the reins, gave
her my heels. Gee! Right off her haunches
she sprang and away! Sim was at her top
in a few strides, her head out to it, and
galloping strong as a lion. Getting my
breath I headed her in line with the gate,
aiming at slewing them when about half-
way.
But it’s easier to make plans than to cariy
them out. Our sudden appearance gave those
Talgai mares a surprise. Casting quick side-
glances at us, they doubled their efforts and
made the pace faster. As I closed in they
were going stronger, with no idea of diverg-
ing an inch from their course. Now the
stallion, as though glad of a chance to take
his place in the lead, swung away from
them, and led all the, rest towards the gate.
But with him and his brood I was not
concerned; and, remembering the overseer’s
injunction to stick close to the Talgai mares
until Jerry joined up, I sat down on Blue-
belle and rode for my life to outpace them.
Stride after stride she gained on them, got
level, then drew ahead. But slacken their
speed or alter their course 'they wouldn’t.
Why they wouldn’t when they were fairly
beaten was beyond my boyish understanding.
I waved a loose hand desperately at them
and tried to shout them down, but the wind
took the breath out of me. Then in a
temper I threw my hat back in their faces,
and blubbered—blubbered and heeled and rode
blindly! So determined were those mares
they would have galloped over me to achieve
their object, whatever it was. Losing heart
and strength for the moment, I let Bluebclie
fall back, and kept at their heels while they
took short gullies and wide gullies all in
their stride. Down a long slope, then round
the Red Rock, and—joy !—Jerry came in
full tilt on their flanks.
Shouting to me to “take it easy, young-
ster,” he went with them into the black
wattles, and out of them on to the plain.
I pulled in. Pulling for breath, and feeling
disheartened and beaten, I rode steadily and
thoughtfully back to the gate. Hard and
exciting as the gallop had been, there was
something I saw that now troubled my mind.
Either my eyes had deceived me or the over-
seer and the others were barmy.
When I reached the gate the overseer was
there, sitting on his horse, his cabbage-tree
hat hanging at the back of his head, watch-
ing in every direction like a bushranger look-
ing out for passing loot. He had followed the
trail of the mob, while Burton had gone back
to join Jerry. When I told him how I was
beaten he smiled, but was surprised that the
Talgai mares had kept in the lead all the
time and wondered at their behavior. “I
hope none of them gets crippled,” he said.
I was itching to tell him what I had
noticed while galloping with them, but the
fear of being laughed at for a bonehead pre-
vented me. Still, when he suggested that
we dismount and take it _ easy until the
others turned up, I asked timidly: “Are all
of them mares?”
“All of them mares?” he repeated with
a laugh. “Heavens, don’t you know they
are?”
I didn’t answer.
“They’ve had three or four foals each,
and Show Lady, the biggest of the three,
is the dam of Yabba Yabba.”
I was sorry I spoke.
Presently as we sat on the grass, waiting,
our horses started. We sprang to our feet,
tossed the reins over them, and on to their
backs again.
There right on us came Burton and Jerry
driving one of the mares before them.
“Dang! They’ve only got otic!” the over-
seer said disappointedly. Then, seeing they
were hustling and flicking her with a whip
while she, so done in, couldn’t raise a canter,
he galloped forward, shouting: “Stop! 111-use
a valuable blood mare, would you?”
“Valuable blood mare!” Burton answered
disgustedly. “She’s a ——- horse!”
The overseer stared at the “mare,” and
my heart gave a jump, for that was w’hat
I had wanted to tell him.
“They’re not the Talgai mares at all!”
Burton declared, “though they’re darn like
them.”
“They’re Lalor brumbies,” said Jerry, who
had been grinning hard, “and have the LA
brand on.”
A deep, far-away look was on the face of
the overseer.
“What sort of work is this?” he asked
of no one in particular.
“The smartest that’s been done for many
a year,” Jerry said.
“So that’s what Redmond was up to!”
flashed from Burton.
Sea Story.
Across my sunlit coastland, this early autumn
day,
A pleasant wind is piping from Mallacoota
Bay;
The joyous waves are dancing, are dancing
to its rhyme,
As danced Hellenic maidens in Homer’s
honeyed time.
It bears my ship of Fancy on sails of silk
and gold
O’er seas of Song and Story to fabled ports
of old.
Again the fleets of Pharaoh go down by
Nubian shores
Beaked like the sacred ibis, with banks of
sweeping oars,
For gold to distant Ophir, that kings of
Memphis may
In temple, tomb and palace their workmen’s
skill display;
A spoil some future robber will homeward
bear in pride
To win a woman’s favor or woo a desert
bride.
Again Levantine traders the coasts of Corn-
wall win
To freight for Tyre or Sidon their yearly
meed of tin;
From monsters weird delivered that haunt
the troubled deep,
Their vows to kind Astarte the Punic
crews will keep,
And pour their glad libations of promised
Attic wines
Before their shining goddess in fair Phoeni-
cian shrines.
From verdant islands laden with freight of
fruit or grain
The nimble Grecian sailors their home-ports
fondly gain ;
Or sailing with Nearchus, at Alexander’s
call,
Drive slowly towards Euphrates the triremes
deep and tall,
To share perchance in conquest his soldier’s
joys anon
Of wine and gold and woman in captured
Babylon.
Behold the ships of Carthage in ordered
line afar,
And, on his high deck standing, the son of
Hamilcar,
In hard discomfort bearing across the windy
seas
His dark colonial cohorts, his cut-throat
mercen’ries,
To lead a captured consul in gyves of bond-
age home,
And yoke the neck for ever of young unfet-
tered Rome!
Behold the prows of Caesar slow rounding
through the haze
The dreaded rock that Tarik be-named in
later days,
Who burned his boats behind him and gave
his Moorish band
The stern command to conquer, w r ith Dealii
on either hand—
The stately ships of Csosar, that once at
Joppa lay
When restless Saul of Tarsus came trudging
on his way!
As swift sea-eagles wheeling a sighted prey
to seize,
The Vikings’ hordes come screaming adown
the narrow seas •
In long, lean vessels builded by chilly Noi-
land streams
And launched in noisy wassail, with woif-
hair in their seams;
The Viking men come shouting, with drips
of mead and brine
Their fierce beards foully matting; their
shields and oars aline.
Now Sons of Allah redden the classic seas
again,
And Knights of Malta cumber their waves
with Paynim slain.
Go out the gay Crusaders to seek their Holy
Grail;
Como home the gaunt Crusaders, amort and
worn and pale.
Fares forth a gilded Argo from harbors
Florentine;
Fare back the fleets of Venice, rich freights
their decks between.
Go now o’er wider waters the roving Por-
tuguese,
Strange sprites and ghostly dangers to give
their souls unease.
Sails on the scornful Spaniard, enriched by
wealth untold
Of plunder Caribbean and blood-stained Inca
gold.
Comes now the stubborn Dutchman contend-
ing for his share.
Comes now the fighting Frenchman, per-
fumed and debonair.
And last, nor least, the Briton, whose fear-
less, freeborn sons
Have raised their island banner where’er
the salt sea runs;
Have bound the Seven Oceans, and with a
slender thread
(A strand of crimson kinship reived from
that flag of red)
Have tied a knot of Empire, that till the
days be done
May stand in free alliance for aye beneath
the sun.
Their fleets of wood and iron a wondrous
tale have scrolled
Upon eternal parchment, in letters oft of
g01d....
The happy wind that bloweth, this early
autumn day,
Unto a pleasant coastland from Mallacoota
Bay,
That brings across the ages the feeble song
I've sung,
Its halting lines are worded in this tin
English tongue!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


4
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd..
CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES
Ouctnsland Agents—-JSVAiNS, DKAKIN & CO., CTI)., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Vietorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourlce Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Tf you 'wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the ..womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO. (
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN GRUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISRA'ND SHEER DOG
TRIAR ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNER CRUB
N.Z. GORF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PORO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with ft
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Reading
Advertising Agee alee.
CIK mercury
by virtue of having the largest
circulation anld the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (jits circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the .State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home birt it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence, of
its readers by Treason of its sanity,
completeness ail d service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L, Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “A'gus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Cl>« Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER ” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative ip Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
- And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m, and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern i»
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THE SAVING HABIT
r I "'HOUGH your progress in saving may at
first seem slow —persevere! Make every
effort to continue your regular deposits.
As your Bank balance grows, you will be en-
couraged to greater efforts —your saving habit
will be strengthened.
The money you save will free your mind from
and become a stepping stone to
opportunity.
Open a Savings Account and save regularly.
Government Savings Bank
of N.S.W.
192 Branches. 648 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Weekly is the
e
Published
Every
Wednesday
Thousands subscribe to Australia’s Great
Weekly Newspaper
fafeaCleUn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered
“The Bulletin” to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, C.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The BULLETIN for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £. . . •
NAME
ADLSR£SS ......
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
y
r"
s e
* V O C s®
s'
0°
*<•
••’’* •**’* •''*■*s*s&*
.•** .•*’ (A^ e6 O^ 6,
..■••„ i+2&*
■ ' c »> .*•s» * "'


100,000
forty
•JO. OOO
Co.ooo
50.000 i-
-40.000
30.000
20.000
to, 000
The fight
for mm life
is partly won
the figtht
is hardest
/
• I
Zk-r
rf-fi t
&
e average Life
ends at
fifty-five
Steeper
and Steeper
»tants the .Line
w- Ji- le.
msm 3 W 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 00 05 To 15 80 $5 go 95 wo 105
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point” or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may be ex-
tended ; 5, 1 o—or more —years
of life being gained by timely
attention to the symptoms of
disorder.
Why Age 40
is often the turning point in health
Start at 20 to guard Yourself against these insidious “After-40”
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women ..
CCORDING to averages, you and I will
die at fifty-five—or very near to that
*■ age. Had we been bora in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five : —again,
according to the Law of Averages, So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy—maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble—begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 1 00— though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75 % of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
HARRISON'S
K!C:.cV i BLADOcB ■*“
0 PILLS
-HARR:] SON’S
r*.«/NEY and DUi/DUI
PI LLS
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison’s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should— if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrison’s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISONS PUS
Make You QUICKLY Young & Well Again !
