

mm
mmm.
mmm ■
HHi
a
■■■>*
1111 l
wm
mm
'■ sttra
r-;.
ill
mm
n
■
wßf
• ..-I
v:
MBI
■
Hhl
m
I:.:.
UMf
■SI
BKWf>s*&
*/ . ■
Wfw r- A -
Capsta
time for
n
a
ppliif
MHI
.
**
mmmmm
' ' -1: "
Ml
WM
i@«n
IlpiM!
W:Mmm
sifssi
m m a
wßmm.
v’ * 7$
■
:
■
■ ■
%Wy;
. :
"" \
Wfw.
. w.
mm
r:
mm
/:
•ItaJH
mm
(git
mlsmm
ww
M
Wmm
H
-
m
MUmm
' V :
v"
'■:. Y;
■■MM
mm
, ~m
«; > gg&ggHfs
The Bulletin
yOkeiJcd, && dtA/WySLAA&oC P
. 1 I
Vol. 52.—N0. 2699.
Wednesday, November 4, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a ISiewspaper.


01JR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terras and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMGCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
lull
an*
This Book FREE to YOU!
- SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement . System, of Writing ns
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331 '
iJYSAGHT?
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
s FOR
%
r/ A/
Is Found in
Ciitteura
Preparation s
Use the Soap regularly every
day—it not only cleanses but
also protects the skin.
The (Hutment, pure and
soothing, is a household neces-
sity. It brings relief and healing
to all skin troubles.
The Talcum gives the perfect
finishing touch to the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns£: Co.,Sydney, N. S.W.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business."
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Che Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
“THE AGE”
Established 1851^.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward —pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T9 WOMEN
READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. H!NCHCLIKI-'K,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane "Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The "Brisbane "Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows thaj; advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: P. L. Wilson, Banking blouse
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
f jScZiAX!A2/Z7clC&s6 ,
\s6cz£StcUc4, SOike,
& S&t&&n TieteJ, rtuzea fix
■t/ve ttrC&J. %
TheAUSTRALASIAN
.ON SALE ALL STATES
/V LI, AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the.“ British Australian and
New Zealander,” Gd. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at. home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
- The Waughs.
One Man’s Road, by Arthur Waugh
(Chapman and Hall; 18s.), is, the auto-
biography of the man who was managing
director of one of London’s greatest pub-
lishing houses for over 30 years. In that
capacity he foregathered with every modern
British and American writer of note. He
met some before going to Chapman and
Hall. After coming doyvn from Oxford he
yvas employed at £1 a week by Wolcott
Balestier, a young American who had come
to London to corner the market in English
fiction; and he met Kipling:—
it was towards the end of 18S9 that he arrived
in' London bringing with him a volume of satirical
poems and a series of something like a hundred
short stories,... He brought the secret East, home
to Western firesides.,.. He was - a revelation, a
portent, a shock.
Kipling was the first prominent writer since
Dickens to attack the piratical ways of
nineteenth-century American publishers.
Walter Besant, William Black and Thomas
Hardy resented his presumption, and testi-
fied in the “Athenaeum” that they had
ahvays been treated in a “just and liberal
fashion.”
This was clearly intended as a weighty snub
to the impetuosity of youth; but it drew a retort
more devastating than the first complaint. This
took the form of a copy of verses, “The Rhyme of
the Three Captains,” with its hidden play upon
the names—“the bezant was hard, ay, and black”—
and its vehement protests against the record of
“How a man may be robbed in Christian port while
Three Great Captains there
Shall dip their flag to a slaver’s' rag—to show that
his trade is fair!’’
The incident led to a friendship between
Kipling and Balestier, and to the publi-
cation of authorised editions of Kipling’s
works by Balestier’s principals in the
U.S.A. Then Balestier died, the firm failed,
and young Waugh was thrown jobless on
the world just as he was meditating mar-
riage. The book is absorbing as a record
of literary society in the ’nineties and
afterwards, and even more so for its inti-
mate picture of a delightful family. Mr.
and Mrs. Waugh were true Victorians. They
belonged to the same class—the class that
sends its sons to public schools and uni-
versities and supplies ‘ the best of Britain’s
soldiers, sailors and black-coated workers
—were brought up in the same town, and
held the same beliefs and principles. They
married young, and contented poverty was
followed by moderate affluence. The elder
Waugh was able to send his son Alec to his
old school. Sherborne. “The Loom of Youth”
caused such fury at Sherborne that Evelyn
had to be sent- to Lancing. And no doubt the
Lancing Old Boys’ Society boils with anger
every time it thinks of “Vile Bodies.”
Mr. Waugh has some of the characteristics
of an Old Boy himself, but intolerance is
not, one of them. He understands his
astonishing sons, and makes the reader
understand and like them, though their
achievements get no more publicity than
his own. A simple, modest and human
book that does a lot to explain why the
English get on in the world, and keep its
respect.
A Plea for Science.
'The Spirit of Research, by T. Brailsford
Robertson (F. W. Preece and Sons, Adel-
aide; ss. 6d.), is a compilation of articles
that have appeared in educational and
scientific journals here and abroad. The
author was born in Edinburgh, and came
to Australia when he was eight. He was
appointed Professor of Physiology and Bio-
chemistry at Adelaide University in 1918,
and died of pneumonia last year. It is
no use urging the average layman to read
a scientific book. The turgid style of most
of the learned ones acts as a deterrent.
Robertson is different. He was a born
writer with an immense vocabulary from
which he picked the right word to express
every shade of meaning with uncanny skill.
Nearly all these essays have a general as
well as a technical appeal. He demonstrates
in one what ancient Rome lost by its in-
tellectual Philistinism. The Romans never
understood how near the geometrician
Archimedes came to saving Carthage.
this day, in a popular moving- picture, Archi-
medes, who figures as an eccentric pantaloon appa-
rently far advanced ' in His second childhood, is
represented in the act of evolving, in one flash of
inventive _ eccentricity (one could not apply the
word genius to the figure depicted on the screen),
the engines which proved so nearly fatal to Roman'
supremacy.
The Romans were always being spiritually
defeated, and in the end they were materi-
ally defeated because they consistently
under-rated the part, played by the investi-
gator in conflict. Ancient history might
have been revolu-
tionised if they
had followed up
the clues left by
c on temporary
Greek scientists.
Similarly our
Empire might have fallen if the British
hadn’t transformed the Langley aeroplane
of 1903 into a battleplane, ordered laboratory
workers to find cures for gas-gangrene,
relied on civilian doctors to frame rules
for military hygiene, and so on. Robertson
was a passionate advocate of a more in-
telligent attitude towards science by poli-
ticians
The large sums which we now spend on higher
education are expended for the purpose of acquaint-
ing- new generations with the results of past re-
search. If we only admit, and this is the crux
of the matter, that immeasurably more remains
still to be found out in nature .than our ancestors
have been able to ascertain, surely it is not un-
reasonable to hope that at least as much may be
spent in acquiring new knowledge as in distributing
knowledge which has already been acquired.
The main theme of the book—the price-
less national value of scientific research—is
approached from every angle, a.nd the
arguments are never dull and often excit-
ing. An interesting essay 'on the personal
side deals with the life of Jacques Loeb
the mechanistic philosopher with whom
Robertson worked in California.
Out of the Past.
It is unfortunate that Ernest Betts should
have written Heraclitus, or the Future o)
Films (Kegan Paul; 2s. 6d.), in 1928. To
him the film “is . still a boy making up his
mind what he is going, to do with eagerness
and delight.” It has no future as an art-
form “until somebody believes in it.’
American pictures are “rootless, rotten”;
and German pictures- were better when
they were less American. France is
“slowly evolving a rather heavy film
'aesthetic which dissolves into something
newer, deepens into something more potent
as fresh technical discoveries are made.’
England has “only one or two film directors
who really know anything about film direc-
tion, and the necessity of an artist to be
himself, and to believe that something it
true.” Some of these criticisms-were valid
three years ago; hardly any are now. Every
modern paper with any pretensions to cul
Jure is taking the film seriously as an art-
form. Of course Hollywood is turning-out
plenty of “rootless, rotten” films. It always
lias, and no doubt it always will. There i
money in “singing ’em muck.” But Holly-
wood is also turning out most, of the good
films; and it was doing the same in 1928.
Naturally. As soon as a Lubitsch or a
Vidor appears in Europe, he is bought for
Hollywood with American money. It is
highfalutin’ nonsense, such as one hears
from members of local Better Films
societies, to talk of France’s “film esthetic.”
It has never had one. Its silents only-
excelled those of Hollywood in nakedness
and its talkies are futile. Rene Clair, the
one front-rank director France has produced,
has done his best work in other countries!
The film in the hands of the Germans.
Lubitsch, Dupont. Pabst and Eisenstein, of
the. Englishmen Hitchcock and Asquith,
and the Russian propagandists, is an art-
form that knows very well where it is
going. It, is being used to provide intensi-
fied pictures of life on lines that are ex-
clusively its own. Mr. Betts knows nothing
of recent advances in mechanisation. 11
has been claimed that the Spicer system,,
for example—a three-color process which
giy-es space yy-here technicolor gives - flat-
ness—will produce changes as revolutionary
as sound. He is no more interested in
sound than he is in color systems, and only
refers to it in a footnote as “the most
spectacular act of self-destruction that has
come out of Hollyyvood.” One or two of
his prophecies have come true since they
were made.
The medical student will have his work lightened
at least a degree by moving pictures of surgical
operations which can he repeated over and over
again for his (and we hope our) benefit. Illnesses
will be scrupulously cinematographed and “demon-
strated.” yVe will be able to see mumps in slow
motion! What would not the great surgeons of
the past, have given in their student davs for such
opportunities!
A good deal of thought has gone to the
making of this book, and, like the rest
of the To-day and To-morrow series, it is
brightly written, but. take it for all in “all,
it is chiefly valuable as a lesson in the
danger of pontificating on out-of-date in-
formation.
RED PAGE.
The Grey Ones
Australia seems to have left behind its
gay youth and entered the twilight of an
atrophy that lies over practically the whole
face of the globe now, blighting the values
of everything worth while and putting into
the hands of the greatest numbe.r the power
'Perl Pan? continued on pane 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING,” always at Anthony Horderns’
“THE SENIOR STORE”
A little while
A little while, only a matter of a few weeks now, and once more around the
earth shall ring the old, old greetings. A little while, and far-flung homes in
the most remote spots of our own bushland shall echo with the tidings of
gracious goodwill.
We are now at the end' of the most trying financially-pinched year of our
lives, yet a merry Christmas will write itself across our diaries in every color
of the rainbow. Anthony Horderns’ have been preparing for the Christmas
tide for the past three months. Thousands of gift selections are available
at truly moderate prices.
Buy Christmas
Gifts on our
“D.P.S.”
First select the goods you require.
Then leave a deposit on them, pay
off the balance in instalments, and
the- purchase is yours.
You pay no interest.
Anthony Horderns
make these gift suggestions
for the approaching Yule-tide season
d
Lavender Perfume by
Potter and Moore.
Handbag size .... 37-
Medium size 5/6
Large size 7/^
A Mitcham Lavender Coffret by Potter and Moore,
containing 1 jar Lavender Vanishing Cream, 1 box
Lavender Face Powder, 1 bottle Bath Perfume, 1
bottle of Lavender Water. ■ .
Anthony Horderns’ Price 14/-
Tft : ■ flair,
Real Madras Goat with the new
Zipper opening. Outside pocket and
inside purse gnd mirror.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 21/-
I
%
■
k
m
fil
t#
Vi V.V.J/.X Xy.'y >. '»<
?S
White Opal Cloth Handker-
chiefs with pastel-colored
embroidery.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
box .... 6/11
Long Art. Siik Gloves.
Popular and dressy for
summer wear. In Fawn,
also White and Black.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
pair . 6/11
A
White Opal Cloth or Lawn with
White embroidery.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, box,
3/6
FOR MEN ! ..Real surprises for Christmas morning
Eh
' Wm
i »
Broadway Ties, 2/6
Choice silken weaves in bright striped
designs. In a varied range of dressy color
combinations.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... 2/6
Justus Van Maurik Cigars
Justus Van Maurik Cigars. The Six Crown
Cigar is packed in boxes of
10 25 50
Anthony Horderns’ Price, box—
5/- 12/- 24/-
Cigarette
Lighter
Cigarette
Lighter. Elec-
tro-plated.
Anthony Hor-
derns’ Price
each .... 7/6
Men’s Slippers, 7/11
Men’s Black and Tan Nevis Kid Slippers.
Neat shapes. Pump leather soles.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 7/11
Lawn Handkerchiefs, 3/6
Men’s White Irish Lawn Handkerchiefs.
Hemstitched borders. Size 19in. x 19Jin.
Half-dozen in box. Price 3/6
For the Little Ones!
Dolls’ Prams from 6/9
Dolls’ Cane and Seagrass Prams, movable
hood, iron wheels
Prices 6/9, 10/6, 12/6
With rubber-tyred wheels
Prices, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/9, 27/-
Without hood, iron wheels, 12/6, 14/6
I
—35
Rail Darts from 2/-
Rail Carts, strongly made and well finished,
wood wheels
Prices . 2/-, 3/6, 5/-
©
Motor Garage, 5/-
Motor Garage, with two Cars. Price, 5/-
Motor Garage, with one Car. Price, 2/6
W" -• .
Bushie Tent at 13/6
Bushie Tent, 4ft. x sft., complete with
poles, etc. Colored design on each side
of roof.
Price 13/6
Price, without poles 11/6
Carriage Paid on Tent, but not on Poles.
ď
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
đ


m
mfl#
7&
ct
SlO'' > . iM -,-;\V^
cW vce A
ojfvO
\X\Xxi<
sss '° at '
,d^ v
OO
3m
The Australian and distinctive
Fish Paste in dainty glass jars.
Ask your grocer for a REX
Savoury Booklet or write to us
for one.
Foggitt Jones Pty. Limited
—Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon
REX-PYE ROLLS.
Take -|lb. can of REX-PYE, mash to paste and mix
with one-third the quantity of hot mashed potatoes.
Add a little chopped parsley and salt to taste. Roll
out some short pastry until quite thin, cut into neat
squares, place a spoonful of the REX-PYE mixture
on one side, moisten opposite side with milk or egg
and fold over neatly to form a roll. Brush over with
egg or milk, cook in hot oven 10 to 20 minutes
according to size of the rolls.
REX TOMATO AND KIDNEY PIE.
Butter a pie-dish and sprinkle with soft white bread-
crumbs, cover with sliced tomato which has been
sprinkled with salt, pepper and sugar. Take can
of REX K-be-B, chop finely and put a layer on top
of tomatoes. Repeat in same way until material
is used, laying breadcrumbs on top. Add a few small
pieces of butter and bake in fairly hot oven about
20 minutes.
REX STUFFED EGGS.
Cut 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs in two, lengthwise, remove
yolks carefully and put into basin with two teaspoons
chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon butter, 2 teaspoons
Worcestershire sauce, 2oz. REX-PYE and salt and
pepper to taste. Mix all to smooth paste, wash whites
of eggs and fill with the mixture, then put together
to resemble a whole egg. Dish in a nest of pulled
lettuce on a whole lettuce leaf. Garnish with parsley,
tomato or beetroot and serve with mayonnaise
dressing.
REX KIDNEYS, BEANS AND BACON SAVORY.
Take Jib. can of REX K-be-B, chop finely, add a little
chopped parsley, and, if liked, a pinch of herbs.
Make very hot in saucepan, stirring to keep from
burning. Cut two tomatoes into slices, sprinkle with
salt, pepper, sugar and a little curry-powder, then
fry in butter or dripping, taking care to keep the
slices whole. Dish each slice of tomato on a round
of toast, and pile the kidney mixture on top. Serve
very hot, garnished with parsley and cooked carrot.
Still more new
Excellent
Recipes
The following savouries and other recipes
are by Isa M. Wylie, well-known Cookery
Instructress. They have been tested at
public demonstrations and found delicious.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE BISCUITS.
Four ounces REX Luncheon Cheese, 4oz. flour,
good pinch salt, cayenne pepper to taste, 2oz.
butter and 1 yolk of egg. Sift dry ingredients
into a basin, add Luncheon Cheese and butter,
working in with tips of fingers, then add yolk
of egg and work into soft dough. Turn out on
to floured board, roll carefully until about sin.
thick, cut into small round biscuits or into
straws, and bake in moderate oven until very
delicately browned, say 20 minutes.
REX SALMONELLE MARGUERITES.
One hard-boiled egg, some buttered cheese
crackers (round), pinch curry-powder and
pinch salt. Spread biscuits with REX Salmonelle,
rub yolk of egg through strainer and add curry
and salt. Cut white of egg in thin strips and
place on biscuit to resemble marguerite petals.
Drop a little of the egg-yolk in centre. Garnish
with parsley or lettuce leaves.
REX SALMONELLE AND CUCUMBER
SANDWICHES.
Spread slices of bread with butter and coat one
side with a fairly thick layer of REX Salmonelle.
Place thin slices of cucumber on top, sprinkle
with a little pepper and salt and finely-chopped
mint. Cover with another slice of buttered
bread and cut into dainty sandwiches. Dish on
crisp lettuce leaves and garnish with parsley.
REX HAM PATE AND PINEAPPLE
SANDWICHES.
Spread thin slices of buttered bread with REX
Ham Pate, sprinkle with finely-chopped mint,
then place thinly-cut pineapple on top (with-
out core), cover with another slice of buttered
bread and cut into fancy sandwiches. Garnish
with sprigs of mint.
REX SANDWICHES IN BATTER.
Take thin slices of buttered bread, on first
slice spread REX Ham Pate, cover with slice
of buttered bread and on top spread generously
with REX Veal and Tongue Pate; cover again
with slice of buttered bread, spread with REX
Ham and Tongue Paste. On top of next slice
of buttered bread spread REX Veal and Bacon
Paste. Cut into strips and dip each into
pancake batter and fry in smoking fat until
golden brown. Garnish with parsley and serve
hot.
MAYONNAISE OF REX LUNCH TONGUES.
One tin REX Lunch Tongues, 1 crisp lettuce, 2
or 3 tomatoes, 1 small cucumber, 1 hard-boiled
egg, little grated cheese, cress or parsley.
Remove skins from tongues and cut lengthwise
in two. Wash and dry lettuce, pull into small
pieces with the fingers, reserving the small
heart leaves for garnishing. Place the pulled
lettuce in a salad-bowl, cover with a layer of
tomato, which has been sliced and sprinkled
with a little salt, pepper and sugar; next put
a layer of sliced cucumber. Pile tongues in
centre, coat with thick mayonnaise dressing,
then in centre, cover with tomato slices and
sprinkle with a little grated cheese. Round the
sides of bowl place the small lettuce leaves with
alternate slices of egg and cucumber and a little
parsley or watercress. Serve cold as possible.


7 Weeks to Xmas
Your
Christmas
Suit
£/0 WIMMA/W
L
t
i
JC
(Usually Sold at
£4/19/6)
A CHRISTMAS BOX for Mur-
doch clients! Save pounds
on your new Suit for Christmas.
Many exclusive tones and weaves
are featured in Tweeds, pure
wool Worsteds or pure Indigo
Dye Serges. Murdoch’s “Better”
tailoring to your measures.
£4/19/6 Suits
for
£3/10/
Other 3 Specials
£5/10/- Suits
to Measure . .
pmlal
£4/4?/"
ZtJS,
£4/19/6
£7/7/- & £B/8/-
Suits for
pr If t/a
X3/l
Patterns FREE
Write to Desk “R” for a full range
of Suiting -patterns—no obligation.
We pay freight
Address letters to Desk “R'
dd
to smash what they cannot understand.
Here in England the process is complete.
In France it was complete long ago. I have
just come back from Germany. I found it
far advanced there, too. In Russia it
takes a slightly different form, fundament-
ally as virulent and destructive.
the organisation of society has reached
a stage when it resembles nothing so much
as an immense Maffia, where every indivi-
dual member watches every other member
and, observing the slightest deviation from
type that might suggest a backsliding from
the general aims and objects, stabs him.
Thus, perforce, poets wear bowler hats and
cut their hair and try to pass themselves
off as stockbrokers, bootleggers anxiously
endow universities, clergymen are often seen
in open-necked shirts, and everybody is
occupied not in being what they are, but
in becoming what the greatest mass of
their fellows think they ought to be. For
a man to be, seem, think and act as God
made him is difficult enough in England,
a hundred times more difficult in America,
more difficult still in Italy, and impossible
in Russia unless he is content to go and
live by himself up a tree on top of the
highest mountain in Siberia. And Russia
undoubtedly prophesies the future of the
world; a world in which society will have
no place for the man who does not profess,
with a fair show of conviction, the minutest
of the current shibboleths shared by the
greatest number of his fellows. Indeed,
what place of any consequence in any coun-
try in the world could a man occupy even
now who did not make a fairly strenuous
effort, if not to recite aloud at frequent
intervals the creed of inspired, democratic
ideals, then at least to say nothing about
them at all? So the most intelligent shams
with which, under social compulsion, he
daubs himself even the intelligent man, in
sheer self-defence, comes after a while to
believe and defend, convincing himself that
somehow they are the ultimate revealed
truth and put him a little further away from
brother ape. Thus he gives in to the
incessant tug of social coercion and joins in
exerting it upon the rapscallions and obvi-
ously aimless fellows outside.
In every corner of life the same sort of
sacrifice of private intelligence to general,
blank, maniac ignorance is daily made. The
intelligent man tries to justify it by saying
that only as a social unit can man move
forward to his great destiny and that he
must sacrifice private opinions to social
ideals. Bosh and worse. What are we to
say (that can be printed in Australia) of
the great bulk of tawdry idealism for
which men are to-day induced to sacrifice
their magnificent individuality and the
diversity of a life where idiosyncratic effort
Still has a place, in return for the cheap
satisfaction of being indistinguishable in a
crowd? True, there have always been herds
with antipathies and affections equally re-
pugnant to man in his thinking moments,
but to-day the herds are closer knit, bigger,
and equipped with inescapable instruments
of surveillance. By their evaluating the
standards of everything come down, even of
humbug. Words like honesty, honor, fidelity,
faith, hope, charity, religion, god,' virtue,
morality, liberty, and so on have taken on
such a tinny sheen in the armory of the
modem humbug that even the sheep he
charges in Quixotean fury are compelled .to
let out a forlorn cackle of amusement.
There have been periods when man has
given to these and similar abstractions a
splendor so entrancing that only a single
realist came forward in a century who could
resist the lure of them. It was something
to dress oneself out in such glittering pan-
oply then. But what are we to think of
those who thus array themselves to-day,
waving aloft a cardboard carving-knife and
believing it to be the Sword of Righteous-
ness? And the rest of us'are constrained to
lock on and applaud, or at least to appear
solemn and impartial. For there is no
escape. The scope of society is so vast and
every day becoming vaster, its agents pry-
ing by divine right of the voice of the
greatest number through every keyhole,
seeking control of our most private and
personal emotions, that anything short of
monasticism is impossible unless one accepts
the tomfoolery that is the price of living at
peace with one’s fellows. And the tom-
foolery is so degraded (vide the suppression
of “Venus and Adonis” as an indecent publi-
cation in Sydney) that to live with it with-
out believing in it would be as painful as
living in a tannery without losing the sense
of smell. So, by force majeure, we all be-
come humbugs of a very low order indeed.
This is the process which has almost
crusted the last drop of vital blood in
Europe. And now it is beginning in Aus-
tralia. It is encouraging to know that
courageous spirits still survive there. One
hears their voices raised in protest from
time to time. But what can they do?
Nothing. The things they value and fight
for, the graceful, amusing, agreeable things,
are doomed. All must become comprehen-
sible to the lowest wit in the land. All
must become grey, ordinary, expected. It
is the day of the grey ones, as Lawrence
called them, the ignorant, the botched, the de-
flated. You others waste your paper and ink.
London. September.
BRIAN PENTON.
Shadows in the Air
This morning, at breakfast-time, I visited
my neighbor. He was sitting with his
wife in a glassed-in verandah; and, sud-
denly, while we talked, the air became
flocculent with gold, so that we saw each
other through a kind of smoke or fume:
a beautiful effect, made almost supernatural
through our shadows seeming to rise up off
the walls and to stand tiptoe in the atmo-
sphere, each beside its solid original.
This phenomenon discovered its source
by a burst of sunlight coming through a
heavily-flowered wattle, almost at the door
of the house.
Previously, I had only once seen shadows
in the air.... It happened between five and
six o’clock one evening on the Cobbitty
polo ground, N.S.W The horizontal
sun lay behind the players, and a white
screen of dust went racing ahead of the
horses towards the goal; upon this screen,
silhouetted riders galloped shoulder to
shoulder with actual living players, until,
through an abrupt turn in the game, they
became inextricably mixed.
Shirts, white breeches and flashing sticks
were emphasised by animated chiaroscuro.
HUGH MCCRAE.
A Satchel of Books
In a Fair Ground (Ward Lock; 3s. 6d.)
is L. G. Moberly’s 39tlx romance about ami-
able people who achieve happiness after a
certain amount of sorrow. The sorrow is
engendered this time through the unexpected
inheritance of an earldom by an elderly
London clerk. The clouds are swept away
by one whom the family began by having
every reason to dislike. The ex-clerk’s sister
tolls the story in the voice of a kindly old
maid.
When the stranger struck Hatcher’s she-
bang in Cache Basin he shore hogged a
peck of trouble. It had been a road-agent’s
hang-out, an’ fust thing the stranger knew
his horses was gone. The gal, which her
name was Floss, was the goods, but her
dad was plumb bad. In short this is a
Wild West blend of sentiment, robbery and
homicide in the Frank C- Robertson manner.
Its name is The Range Defender (Collins;
7s. (Id.).
The Man in No. 3 (Collins; 7s. 6d.) is
the title of a collection of short stories by
J. S. Fletcher. The ones about crime are
very good indeed (Edgar Wallace is the only
living writer who is Mr. Fletcher’s master
as a delineator of the humbler sort of Brit-
ish malefactor) ; the other eight or nine
are rather feeble love stories. The crime
stories that have London for a background
appealed to this critic most. “The Outside
Chance,” for example, is a deft bit of work
which is as unexpected as a motor accident.
Sado, by William Plomer (Hogarth Press;
7s. 6d.). Vincent Lucas, a young English
painter, visits Japan. Sado becomes his
friend. Iris the English wife of a Japanese,
falls in love with him, and then he goes
home, leaving them puzzled and frustrated.
Sado, clever, affectionate, proud, humble—
an Asiatic with an agonising inferiority com-
plex—-is. the most interesting person in the
book. But only because the author has
taken more trouble with him than the others;
all the portraits are admirable. An example
of the style :
The day promised to get hot, one of those brilliant
Japanese days of early summer when one seems to
be moving in a clear-cut, almost metallic atmosphere,
either a little unreal or a little too real, one is not
quite sure; the sort of day when, at breakfast-time,
the blood has already mounted to one’s cheeks, mak-
ing one feel flushed, a little drunk with the anti-
cipation of fulfilling one’s health in exercise, laughter
and pleasure. It had been raining in the night, and
the last few woolly clouds now thinned out into
whitish vapors as dazzling as platinum, and finally
dispersed, leaving the sky as lucid as jasper.
A distinguished novel done with the loving
care of an artist.
And a Little Verse
BOHEMIAM DAYS.
The north wind blows: a wizard wind
That works strange magic in the mind
Till, dreaming by a Gippsland shore,
I swing the thyrsus gay once more
With comrades gone or far away,
Who turned Bohemia’s night to day—
A careless band of brush and pen
Who pawned a picture now and then;
Or, when good fortune chanced along,
Might sell a story or a song,
To share-amid their joyous peers
The inspiration and the beers.
Their oysters held infrequent pearls,
But art is art, as girls are girls;
The world was then both green and wide.
And in old haunts by Sydneyside
We preened our callow wings to soar
Its peaks of high achievement o’er;
And grouped for gossip, or to pass
A pleasant hour with pipe and glass ;
While Daley told a merry tale
Of bailiffs, or, with Blanchlys pale,
Rode finely through some woodland dim
With faithful squires to follow him.
When Time its burden on me lays
I turn to those Augustan days,
And thank the gods who gave to me
Such fellowship in minstrelsy ;
I find again a favorjed inn
With Lawson and young Roddy Quinn,
Where, three poetic musketeers,
We fence with Fancy, shake the spears
Of art triumphant in the face
Of that dull knight Sir Commonplace;
Or draw a fearless sword to smite
Tim enemies of Mistress Right.
The screens of Recollection show
A close-up of that long-ago—
A Porthos, blonde, with tuneful drawl,
I-Iis chair atilt against the wall,
Who drones in modulated zest
Of camps immortal in the West;
An Athos lean with drooped moustache,
E’er rich in humor, poor in cash,
Who views the world with spaniel eyes
Wherein a great compassion lies.
A statue tells by Sydneyside
The world he saw was true —and wide!
My Shrine of Youth! Its temple bells
Are wreathed with golden immortelles ;
And when the north winds bravely blow,
I hear them ringing, and I know
Of all things great, of all things blest.
Love. Youth and Song are ever best.
victoria.
E. J. BRADY.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) vAll be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. home
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
A. 5.11.: Your Pegasus threw you heavily
in the second verse... .8.8. A.: The toast is all
right; but the fire of inspiration burns very low.
....Searchlight: Hopeless at that length... .P.U.K.:
Ditto at any length. .. .R.N. : Not yet in book form.
....Finny: You’ve made a rough job of it....
Phoebe I.: Thus far only a groping for expression ;
but there’s a suspicion that some day you may
have something to express... .P.J.1.: An idea; but
five times we barked our shins on the clumsy
lines you left lying around. .. .Eileen P.: Over-
drawn ; some of the lines too much like the mottoes
in a cracker... .Nance W.: Don’t care for the
“leopard soul’’ padding round and round; but it’s
so neatly expressed we’d like to pat it on the
head if this is its vegetarian day. .. . J.S.W.: The
balance was wavering; and the last line tipped it
0ut.... Evan G.: Afraid that won’t stir a laggard
lover... .E.E.W.: The pastoral is one of those un-
eventful things full of feathered denizens and
pendent fronds and mossy boughs. The others are
drowsy. .. .L.J.T. : After Masefield. Too soon after.
.... Currajong: As soon as we read that “King
Mirth he sits upon his throne,” we knew it was
going to be one of those glad-to-order songs with
the rousing refrain, “The more bilious we are —
ha-ha! The gayer we’ll be—tra-la!” “Resurgam”
holds too many echoes. .. .Felice: Idea not new, but
nicely treated. Very promising... .Don R.: “The
Timber” is dead... .D.A.S.: Both have the it of
poetry, though “Emily Jane” is a bit too naive....
H. : Thought it would never end....M.8.: The
bush dance has been overdone. .. .G. 8.8.: Smartly
told; pity the plot was so poor. .. .H. J.: A par.
would cover it F.P.M.: Idea worth a neater dress.
. ...J.G.R.: Kind of Australian story one would
expect from a melodramatic Cockney who has never
been here... .F.W.: A sentimental trifle... .D.G.S.:
Doubt whether the intellectual crook cracks up as
soon as he sights a copper... .G.W.M.: Yes, they
arrive by the lorry-load this time of year....
A.R.M.M.: Having got that off your chest, set to
work on something true to life. .. .C.E.: Give it
another go with a p10t... .H.S.: It would take a
James Edmond to do it... .T.C.H.: The week’s
crudest.... C.K.: Found the duck-stealing episode
dull. .. .M.D.J.: Has the faults customary at your
age....8.C.: Incident not important enough....
R.C.W.: It won’t help to pay your fare to Sydney.
. ...P.S.: He is an American news editor, not an
Australian J.H.W.: Slipshod style and far-fetched
plot. .. .C.D.: We get hundreds of depression yarns
like that... .R.W.: Conventional Dad Wayback stuff.
. ...8.W.: Another writer got in months ahead of
you... .F.0.E.: Wishy-washy... .N.A.P.: Tolerably
well written, but the plot won’t hold water. .. .
M.G.H.: You can sling words about but your ideas
are sloppy. .. .S.W.C.: Not half a story in it:....
D.P.: Very crude; and if we have to read any
moire of your copy we’ll need new glasses....
J. : Not even for the sake of a rhyme may you
stand all the laws of grammar on their old bald
heads. .. .Douglas G. B.: “Swell,” “swelling,”
“swells,” “swell” in eleven lines —three too many.
Bob P.: Rotten poetry, Robert; but the spirit
of “Stick to it, lad,” is fine... .Lalage: Incompre-
hensible. .. .D.G.: Drowned in the flood of pretty-
goods. In most cases (yours for one) the trouble
is that, while the work is passable, there’s no new
thought. .. .S.A.: Very uneven. If you could keep
up to the first two lines of verse two, we’d call
you Christmas... .J.L.W.: Keep going, John. You
have a sense of the dramatic... .W.L.S.: As poetry
it doesn’t waltz home, but as a party it sounds
like one of the best: —
With a thrill of joy
The drover boy
Clasps his smiling weaner:
And they spin around
On the moonlight ground
To the tunes of the old concertina.
.... Paula G.: Wobbles, especially towards the end.
Revised, would make a good February item
Kama C.: Sweet, sweet!.... Poolana: You’ve got
’em boxed... .Bellerive: Yes, and there are girls,
too; but even without them this ought to be worth
a pound or two to the tourist people:—
MOONLIGHT ON THE DERWENT.
A scene of splendor
On a tranquil night
Is the Derwent river
’Neath the pale moonlight.
The beams of the vast
Planet streaming down
O’er the rippling waters
And sleeping town
Is a glorious spectacle
To the human eye
Of the magical beauty
Of the starry sky.
. ...T.W.N.: Nice album verse; no force. .. .A.A.S.:
A poor echo. .. . J.R.R.: Put them aside and try a
new idea... .A.R.J.: Rich in rhymes, poor in im-
agination. .. .Jean M.: Good subject, commonplace
treatment.... Valentine: It isn’t poetry.... L.8.R.:
“Censorship” fades to an ineffective conclusion....
X.L.P.0.: No need for any covering letter with
paragraphs. Yours would need a lot of boiling
down S.D.P.: “Enclosed please find my first
attempt at poetry.” Well,, you missed the target.
....P.J.1.: Rough, and overloaded with common-
places.. ..W.J.M.: “Going Back” exactly hits off
its fate F.H.W.: “Spring Song” sprang basket-
wards A.8.K.: Nothing in it....H.C.: Very
small beer.... M.C.: Dirge on slaughtered opossums
loses itself in an unmetrical tangle of words
K. : Nonsuited ,T.S.: True enough, but you
don’t make a readable rhyme of it....E.M.: Don’t
copy the other man; try something of your own.
....H.S.: Not a good yarn, and the abundance of
Latin quotations doesn’t help. ... 8.T.: Content to
leave that sort of stuff to arty-tarty magazines.
S.D.: A string of incredible episodes. .. .L.H.:
Turned with a shudder from “Autobiography of a
Cactoblastus” J.Y.: Climax falls flat D.J.M.:
If you want to interest us you’ll have to give
your characters a long voyage T.A.W.: Left the
dawg to his fleas C.K.: Nicely put, but nothing
new....H.N.: Only about a ’weight to the t0n....
I. : The accidental meeting has been overworked.
11.R.G.: Would suit a Jingo daily N.F.:
Too slight. .. .H.S.W.: None of them hits the mark.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.R.: We’ll struggle on without them... .R.P.J.:
Spend more time over your drawings C.V.J.:
Not keen on it J. 8.: Work harder and with more
care... .H.P.: Can’t you draw bodies?... .P.A.8.:
Suggest you direct your energies into other channels.
J.H.: Might do for a children’s comic supple-
ment.... P.W.: Promising; and time is on your
side... .W.M.8.: Weak. .. .C.L.: Joke doesn’t fit
the drawing J.C.: All right in theory, but in
practice all wrong... .A.W.D.: Very du11... .0.J.:
You mustn’t hack them out in that fashion....
N.P.: Among other things, it is too faint for repro-
duction ... .H.E.8.: Not what your covering letter
led us to expect... .S.H.M.: Flops badly.


7
A
H
SV
II
■
I
HMi
..
ra gs
m
i
■n
II
a
: :
■
n
■
P-
nisi
■
hHH
I
.
I
'• i-
m
H
HH
■
■
■ ■
%
IMS
f / / /<
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2699.
November 4, 1931.
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES.
RED: "Why haven’t you the pluck to defy the boss like brave Comrade Hans does?”
AUSTRALIAN WORKER: “There’s a fat living in it for skites like him, but it means ruin to workers like me.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21.'/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 879 H.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘‘All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for l,oz. 'To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
COMMUNISM AND FREEDOM
OF SPEECH.
One of the things most of us are proud
of is British freedom of speech and British
liberty of the press. Every Sunday after-
noon from a thousand soap-boxes men and
women mount their hobby horses and ride
them to their hearts’ content. They may
advocate Freetrade or Protection, single
tax or socialism, a gold standard or a goods
standard, Christianity or Buddhism, prohibi-
tion or open bars the 24 hours round—
whatever it is lawful for us to practise, it
is lawful for us to preach. Indeed, we may
go further than that: we may advocate
the repeal of a law which makes something
unlawful, and may thus preach what it is
not 3 r et lawful to practise. But here we
get on dangerous ground. We may urge
that the unlawful thing should be made law-
ful. We may show that the law as it stands
is quite unworthy of respect. But we dare
not counsel anyone to break it.
Thus our freedom of speech (and the
liberty of the press is the same freedom of
the pen) has strict bounds. It is part and
parcel of our democratic system of govern-
ment: that system not only makes freedom
of speech possible, but requires it. We may
advocate anything we like'or denounce any-
thing we dislike; we must stop short at
counselling or suggesting action without the
approval of the majority expressed in the
constitutional way. This is the whole basis
of our freedom of speech. We permit it
and can afford to permit it so long as demo-
cratic institutions —including the constitu-
tional rule of the majority—are well estab-
lished. There is a man talking the most
outrageous nonsense about the banks, or
the Leg. Council, or the Governor, or the
King or the Empire, or marriage or birth-
control, and we take no notice—the man is
well within his rights. He has opinions; he
is entitled to try to convert others to them.
Onfy when he proposes to impose his ideas
upon the community before he has won the
approval of the majority are we entitled
to silence him. He then becomes, not a
part of the democratic machine, but an
enemy of the democracy, a revolutionary.
The broad line between what it is lawful
and w'hat it is unlawful to advocate is
quite clear; but in these later days Govern-
ments persistently refuse to recognise it.
They plead always the great democratic
principle of freedom of speech, wilfully
shutting their eyes to the fact that, through
their inaction, the great democratic prin-
ciple is in the utmost danger, since it
depends absolutely on the maintenance of
the right of the majority to rule.
This is the complete answer to the ques-
tion: “Why should the Communist be
treated differently from everybody else?”
No other political body of any consequence
proposes to do anything without winning
over a majority to its side. Mr. Hardy
wants his New States; and he knows he
must get a majority of the people to
approve of them. Mr. Frank Anstey wants
national banking; and he knows he must
win a vote in Parliament before he can get
it. The Communists, on the other hand,
are an avowedly revolutionary oartv. When
they can seize the Government they will.
Meantime they will seize what they can.
This last point is of great importance.
“Revolution,” says the French Communist
leader Pouget, “is a work of all moments, of
to-day as well as of to-morrow; it is a con-
tinuous action, an everyday fight without
truce or delay, against the powers of aggres-
sion and extortion.” This is the whole
doctrine of “direct action,” which includes
“job control.” When our German friend
Schelley lays up half the shipping of Aus-
tralia we say that we shall be having Com-
munism presently if we are not careful. The
fact is we are having the Communist Revo-
lution at this very moment. It is “a con-
tinuous action, an everyday fight, without
truce or delay.”
What we shall have to realise quickly if
w r e are to save ourselves is that the Com-
munist has a profound contempt for our
democratic institutions, with their slow,
orderly movements. “Direct action,”
L n nardelle, another Internationalist, wrote —
“direct action nresupposes an active inter-
ference by a daring minority. The mass,
unwieldy and clumsy, is not required to
start the struggle, as happens in a demo-
cracy. Figures do not make lawp and
numbers do not rule.” In a democracy the
mass is “amorphous,” “unintelligent,”
“lazy”; “they always follow when a single
man or a small group shows the way. Such
is the law of collective psychology.” Com-
munism is government by minority—the
active, daring minority outwitting and out-
manceuvring the dull, lazy, unimaginative
majority, well knowing that the “single man
or a small group” that will do as Schelley
did last" month will be followed by the
obedient mob. “Such,” they say truly, “is
the law of collective psychology.”
The programme to be followed by the
“to-day and to-morrow” Communists—the
men whose job it is to carry on the revolu-
tion under the guise of industrial disputes—
has been clearly enough laid down by every
head-centre of the movement. Thus the
I.W.W. puts before its members:—
The tactics used are determined solely by the
power of the organisation to make good in their
use. The question of right and wrong does not
concern us. No terms made with an employer are
final. Failing to force concession from the em-
ployers by the strike, work is resumed and sabotage
is used.
And in the end. according to a manifesto
of the American Union of Russian Workers:
We must convert small strikes into general ones,
and the latter into an armed revolt of the laboring
masses against Capital and the State. At the time
of this revolt we must at the first favorable oppor-
tunity proceed to the immediate seizure of all means
of production and all articles of consumption, and
name the working classes masters in fact of all
general wealth.
Of course the “working classes” will not
be “masters in fact of all general wealth”;
when matters reach that point the “daring
minority” will have the same contempt for
the “amorphous,” “lazy,” “unintelligent”
mass that it has to-day—a contempt which
offers a complete explanation of the abso-
lute disregard for the majority in Russia.
But for the moment The Bulletin is not
concerned with that aspect of the matter.
It is only concerned, with the failure of
authority in Australia to grasp the funda-
mental difference between advocacy of
Communism under any of its disguises—
“direct action,” “job control,” “minority
movement”—and advocacy of every other
change whatever. Advocacy of constitu-
tional change is a right inherent in a
democracy: hence our British freedom
of speech. But advocacy of Communism
under any of its disguises, including
“direct action” and “job control,” is a
direct attack upon our democratic govern-
ment and therefore upon freedom of speech.
Those who claim freedom of speech to
advocate Communism in any of its forms
claim it merely to destroy it. And the
Government which suppresses this advocacy
of Communism is not suppressing freedom
of speech but championing and defending
it against its most insidious and inveterate
enemy.
EIGHT BOB A DAY!
Tliat Bulletin observer who has been on
the track in Queensland, living with those
who are living on the dole and thinking
their thoughts, explains elsewhere why any
average two men on the dole, though
known in the past as willing country
workers, would probably turn down the
offer of a light job at Bs. a day. There
would be, in general, three reasons for re-
fusal : one, that there would be so little
after a man had paid for his tucker that it
wasn’t worth while; another, that it looked
like a temporary job, and they would have
to go back to the dole presently; the third,
that “on general principles” eight bob a
day wasn’t enough, and the farmer could
pay more if he liked.
The “explanation” shows with what
good cause we curse the late borrowing
boom; for it is to that period of madness
we can trace our capacity for despising
eight bob a day. Even when the first
basic wage was declared by Justice Higgins
in 1907, it was fixed at no more than 7s.
a day, or £2 2s. a week, an amount “con-
sidered reasonable for a family of about
five.” That determination, which became
known as the Harvester award, was received
with cheers all around Australia. The
great body of workers had got something
which they had, up to that time, scarcely
dared to even hope for.
Then, after a few comparatively unevent-
ful years, the Great War occurred. Men
who had only spoken in whispers of
thousands now roared of millions. There
was trouble in the coal trade: the miners
wanted more money—everybody was want-
ing more money. Billy Hughes was appealed
to. More money? Why, certainly! A
“tribunal” was appointed to give both
owners and men a lot more money. In
1915 the average price of coal in the North-
ern (Newcastle-Maitland) District was
7s. 7d. per ton; by 1917 it was 11s. 5d.; by
1920 it had climbed to 15s. 3d. But the
public was not much concerned. If it paid,
it could also collect. By 1920 wheat was
worth nearly 9s. a bushel; and in 1927 the
average value of Australian .greasy wool was
Is. Bid. per lb. Our customers took our
metals, too, at prices which to-day sound
fabulous. So a few shillings on the Aus-
tralian basic wage were neither here nor
there. Our (Commonwealth) exports in
1901 amounted to £35,348,396. By 1924-25
they had reached £161,071,949. Yet if the
Prices of 1901 had continued, the
£161,071.949 would have been no more than
£57,464,127. That is to say, 104 millions of
our total exports of 161 millions in 1923-24
were due to the overseas rise in prices, and
not to any efforts of our own.
The Australian response should have been
to seize the opportunity to pay off all our
foreign debt. It had become possible for
us to discharge £2B of our overseas liabili-
ties with as much wool and wheat and
copper as would have paid off only £lO in
the first days of Federation. But, because
our system of government is designed to
produce the worst possible results in such
circumstances, we did not pay off a far-
thing; on the contrary we plunged into an
orgy of borrowing, and for years added over
40 millions per annum to our debt. The
public debt of Australia (Commonwealth
and States) as at June, 1918, within a few
months of the end of the war, was 653
millions; only 11 years later—June 30, 1929
—it was 1104 millions. In all the years
before the war, and in all the war years
down to June 30, 1918, we had borrowed
653 millions; in the 11 years that followed
—years in which we were getting boom
prices for all we could offer overseas and
when we should have been repaying what
we owed—we borrowed 451 millions more.
In the circumstances it is not surprising
that we got into the habit of looking upon
eight bob a day with contempt.
But it is all over now; and nothing that
Australia can do can stop it from being all
over. We can get for our products no more
than the overseas markets will offer; many
of the overseas markets, instead of being
280 per cent, above the 1901 figure, as they
were in 1924, are actually below the 1901
figure. The London wholesale prices index
number, compiled by the Board of Trade,
was 102 in July this year, compared with
152 as late as November, 1926. The average
for 1913 is taken as the base—loo. This
means that London wholesale prices, as an
average, are now back to within a point or
two of the pre-war average, after, as we
have seen, more than doubling in the mad
years between.
It is very distressing to have to go back
to the old dull life after living through the
post-war delirium; but there is no escape.
We are not the masters of the world’s prices.
Just as it was merely our good fortune that
exports which would have brought us 57
millions in 1901 actually brought us 161
millions in 1923-24, so it is our bad fortune,
in which the whole world joins, that London
prices are back where they stood before the
war. It is not a bit of use arguing whether
that is a good or a bkd thing: it may be
better to be 30 years old than 60, but, if a
man is 60, whether it is better to be 30 or
60 won’t alter the fact that he is 60. He
may stain his hair; in the last resort, he
may even be re-glanded. But all he may
do will not take one day from his years.
So we may practise all the tricks known
to the inflationist: we may maintain a high
rate of exchange for the benefit of our ex-
porters; we may give bonuses to this and
rebates to that; but these things will not.
make one atom of difference to what we
get in the markets of the world. And in
fixing real wages nothing else matters.
THE CASE FOR WESTRALIA.
Dear Bulletin —Replying to Mr. James
Edmond’s letter (B. 7/10/’3l) under the
above heading, W.A. entered the Federation
under conditions set out in the Constitution.
In the opinion of secessionists this Con-
stitution has been torn to shreds by the
stronger States, and, I regret to say, in a
few instances with the assistance of West-
ralians themselves. Thus the authorisation
which the Federal Government received in
connection with the proposed Statute of
Westminster is, I claim, an infringement of
Section 51 Subsection XXXVIII of the
Constitution.
Mr. Edmond continues: “So it is appa-
rently proposed that Westralia should get
out by a process of secession and leave its
unpaid accounts behind it—in other words,
be an absconding debtor.” Though I know
nearly every leading secessionist, I do
not know one who entertains any ideas in
the nature of repudiation. On the con-
trary, I say emphatically that Westralians
do not seek “to rob their creditors or their
fellow-Australians.” I shall, I trust, be par-
doned for suggesting that charges of such a
nature do not come well from N. S. Wales.
Upon separation Westralians are prepared to
carry to the full their liabilities, as before
the creation of the Loan Council.
It has been estimated by the recently
resigned Chief Secretary, Norbert Keenan,
K.C., the Dominion League, the “Sunday
Times” and the Premier that separation
will benefit this State to the extent of
£1,600,000 and upwards per annum. Mr.
Keenan’s estimate of £1,600,000 is the lowest.
He is an avowed Federalist, but one who
would prefer separation to unification.
Secessionists see no reason why Westralia
should be legally and illegally robbed of
this amount, nor do they believe the people
of this State are able to stand the loss.
Mr. Edmond deplores the bursting up of
the nation “for nothing more than a sketchy
grievance about the tariff.” Sketchy griev-
ance! Well, over here we call it “legalised
robbery.” We regard the extension of the
Sugar Agreement without Parliamentary
sanction, for example, as straight-out rob-
bery.
I would refer Mr. Edmond to the report
of the committee appointed by the Bruce-
Page Government to inquire into the tariff.
Whatever it was before, since 1920-21 the
tariff has been preposterous and most unfair
to primary industries, and to those States
whose prosperity is more dependent on those
industries. Westralia, being relatively the
greatest primary producing State, has suf-
fered most. I cannot agree with the
majority or minority decision of the High
Court with respect to Section 114 of the
Constitution. Whether its decision is cor-
rect or not, it w r as, to give one instance,
outrageous that this State should, in 1924,
have been forced to pay £33,000 in customs
duties on 10 locomotives and 32 boilers
when these could not be supplied in Aus-
tralia under from 16 to 24 months, and our
own workshops were working at full
pressure.
I enclose a statement, in connection with
farming costs, which appeared in the last
“Primary Producer.” According to the
figures it cost, in 1930, 55 per cent, more
to equip a thousand-acre farm than in 1913.
The 1930-31 value of wheat was roughly 50
per cent, below that of 1913. This year’s
wheat yield (this State), owing to decreased
acreage and not quite such a good season, is
estimated at 36,000,000 bushels as against
53,000,000 last year.
Though it is of the greatest importance
it is not generally recognised that the effect
of the tariff is cumulative. To this must
be attributed a great deal of the lop-sided
and unwise development of the Common-
wealth, and the 50 per cent, increased repre-
sentation of Sydney and Melbourne in the
House of Representatives, since the estab-
lishment of the Federation. At this rate
of progress Sydney and Melbourne will
have 36 out of 75 seats in another 30 years.
Mr. Edmond concludes his letter by say-
ing: “There is something rather old-
fashioned and out-of-date about this enthu-
siasm for an English political doctrine
which England itself begins to regard as a
dud, and there is every reason to doubt
if the majority of Westralians don’t feel
the same way.” A house-to-house canvass
in an industrial portion of the suburb of
Subiaco disclosed that 651 out of 680 were
in favor of holding a referendum on seces-
sion. And the country is regarded as more
in favor of secession than the city.
Your correspondent’s objection to W.A.
withdrawing from the Federation must be
based on sentimental (including defence)
and financial grounds. As to the former, I
believe that Westralians will be more kindly
disposed to other Australians if they receive
their freedom. So far as defence is con-
cerned, there seems no reason to suppose
that, separated, W.A. would be any less
prepared to assist the rest of Australia in
the case of war, or vice versa. Nor do I
see any reason for thinking that it would
result in a non-uniform system of training
or any difference in armament or equipment.
The Australian system of training and
equipment are the same as the Mother-
land’s. If your correspondent wishes to
keep W.A. in the Federation for financial
reasons, then one can understand his allu-
sion to the tariff as “a sketchy grievance.”
In conclusion I would draw attention to
your subleader “Unification Means Waste”
(also B. 7/10/’3l). To a very great extent
we now have financial unification, and I
quite agree with you when you say “the
further the spending authority is from the
job the greater the waste.” Smaller States
would, however, in my opinion, lead to
unification. Reference to a speech made by
Dr. Earle Page, one of the leaders of the
Smaller States movement, made in 1917, will
show that he favored, if he does not still
favor, unification. The present financial
system is only less wasteful than that which
would operate under complete unification.
In truth we cannot afford Federation. And
the majority of the Royal Commission on
the Constitution advised us that unification
would not be less expensive and might be
more expensive.—Yours, etc., J. R. L.
Brinkley.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
We and the British Election.
When a financial crash was imminent,
Britain had the good fortune to have
in office a few statesmen who were willing
to face the facts—the very same facts
which Niemeyer put before Australia over
a year ago. And it had the further
good fortune to have a wise old king who
saw that since the mess was of no one
party’s making, it was no one party’s
special business to clean up; who saw, too,
that, since the process must be very pain-
ful and unpopular, it was not fair that any
one party should attempt it and not very
likely that any one party would. So the
National Government was formed, and last
week the nation was invited to say whether
the work of cleaning up should proceed, or
the drift continue.
The answer w T as the most important thing
the world has heard or seen for 12 years
at least. How far the poison of Commu-
nism had entered into the British system
nobody knew. There is doubt no longer.
Britain from the Communists’ point of view
is hopeless.
There is not the smallest reason to believe
that Australia feels otherwise about it,
either. Unfortunately in the senior State,
where the drift has been greatest and the
mess is worst, we had not a wise old king but
a weak and inexperienced Governor, who
apparently decided that it was safest to do
nothing, even though the unfortunate State
might be ruined in the process. So we had
the painful spectacle of his Excellency re-
fraining from asking his Prime Minister to
get the people’s authority when he deliber-
ately refused to provide interest on the debt
to Britain, while providing it on a debt to
America—deliberately defaulting on the
debt to Britain, though he had won his
majority in the House by promising the
people that his party would have nothing
to do with repudiation.
The Federal Government will go to the
people in May or thereabouts; but N. S.
Wales may have to endure J. T. Lang and


his Government for another two years if no
way is found of dispossessing them of a
power which they gained by the most
flagrant of false pretences. To challenge
them to appeal to the country is, of course,
futile- the massacre of the corresponding
party in Britain will make them more reso-
lute''than ever to avoid the people. But
that same massacre may suggest to bir
Philip Game the desirableness of ascertain-
ing whether a similar change of opinion has
not occurred in N. S. Wales.
- -
How Manufacturing Saved Australia.
The statement isn’t strictly accurate, for
meticulous accuracy requires more words
than can be crowded into the space of a
headline. Australia isn’t saved, for it has
still a long way to go before it recovers
the ground it has lost, but for the first time
in 10 years it is less lost than it wa.s
12 months before. It is still bankrupt with
a shocking deficit, but the deficit is less
shocking than it was. In 1924-2 o the Com-
monwealth reached its highest level of pro-
duction measured by total value, the entire
output, as shown on page 111 of the newest
“Australian Production Statistics, being
£454,106,000. In 1929-30 the figure was down
to £389,570,000. How much further it has
fallen since June, 1930, will be known later
on. Under the different heads of industry
the movement in five years was as follows:
Pastoral Fall £42,210,000
Agricultural *>ll 80,064,000
Mining .. •• . • •• F all 0,701,000
Forestry and fisheries . . .. Fall 996,000
Cows, fowls and bees . . .. Rise 4,208,000
Manufactures . . . • • ■ Rise 1L,207,000
The net result was that the return from
primary industry declined by £75,743,000
while that from secondary industry im-
proved by £11,207,000, the net slump being
£64,536,000. The return from each indus-
try per head of population is given as fol-
lows for 1929-30: —
Manufactures .. .. •• • • £23 ® *
Pastoral . . . . • • • • -’*B3B
Agricultural .. •• -• J - ! n
Cows, fowls and bees .. .. .. 7 14 2
Mining . . • • • • • • • • 2 15 11
Forestry and fisheries .. . • • • 1 15 o
£6O 14 8
The total output of Australia was valued
at £77 6s. 3d. per inhabitant in the peak
year of 1924-25, and manufactures are the
only division which has made a really
good showing in the gloomy years that
followed. Yet factories are not credited
by the Statistician,' as are farms and mines,
with the value of their gross output, but
only with the value added, by skill and
industry, to the price of raw materials.
And the manufacturer hasn’t been coddled
with borrowed money as the farmer is sup-
posed to be by the immense “land settle-
ment” loans, though it begins to appear that
land-jobbers got an immense amount of the
loan money and the farmer served as a
stalking horse.
*
“Were She.... a Fallen State.”
Events of immense significance to Australia
are happening thousands of miles from Aus-
tralian shores. Towards the end of last
month there was a rising in Cyprus, and
British residents were driven to seek refuge
in ships, while Government House was
burned. The Cypriotes, like the Bengalees,
one of whose leaders has been threatening
another Mutiny, have never been reckoned
a warlike people, but the situation was
such that British warships hurried to the
Scene from Malta and Air Force planes
from Egypt. It is related that seven
of the latest troop-carriers, setting out from
Alexandria, landed 150 “fully-armed and
equipped” soldiers at Nicosia, Cyprus, in
7\ hours—the distance is 550 miles, about
the same as from Timor to Wyndham.
Simultaneously there was a renewal of fight-
ing in Manchuria, although the Council of
the League of Nations, summoning the
U.S.A. to its assistance, had commanded the
combatants to shake hands.
Meantime the French Prime Minister
arrived at Washington to confer with Presi-
dent Hoover on “the restoration of pros-
perity and financial equilibrium.” Formerly
(in 1893, for instance) a conference of this
sort without Britain in it would have been
unthinkable; but “our two great demo-
cracies,” as M. Laval called them, have
acquired most of the world’s gold, and one
of them boasts its mightiest army, the other
its mightiest navy. When the Frank and
the Yankee were about to meet, a British
Minister (Thomas) suggested that the
pound would “drop to four or five shillings”
if his Government were defeated at the
polls, and a British journalist (Garvin)
wrote that the naval ratings’ strike at In-
vergordon had “convinced the Japanese
militarists that the British Navy could be
discounted, and that the time had come for
action in Manchuria in defiance of the
League of Nations and the Kellogg Pact.”
In short, before the thunderclap of the
general election the world had begun to
regard Britain as a fallen State. A fallen
State it was not, but the belief that it was,
shattered as it has been—on the Con-
tinent and in the U.S.A. at least—by
the tremendous awakening of the Lion, was
a very natural consequence of years of
mushy pacifism and insensate squandering
of the national wealth. These policies
(with rank dishonesty added in N. S.
Wales) have been followed by our own
foolish politicians. Even now the Scullin
Government is preparing to send a Labor
windbag to Geneva, at a cost of £2OOO, to
say that Australia has pretty well dis-
armed, and will be obliged if the other
countries (especially the crowded ones
with great armies and navies and air forces)
will disarm, too.
*
Savings Banks.
The day after the Diggers’ capture of Mont
St. Quentin a party of Australians had to
meet General Rawlinson. He had never
believed success possible; but, as he later
confessed, he had not felt justified in stop-
ping Monash. “But I don’t understand it
—I can’t understand it!” said the old
general, almost overcome by emotion. “My
wonderful boys! My wonderful boys! I
don’t know how they did it!” An Aus-
tralian staff-officer whispered: “But I know.
It was just our cheek!” We “bring off”
quite a lot of things by that quality which
is sometimes “sublime confidence,” at others
“ cheek.”
Take the case of the Government Savings
Bank of N. S. Wales as at June 30, 1930
that was long before there was any talk
of difficulties. At that date in the Savings
Bank department the depositors’ balances
amounted to 701- millions—practically all
money which could be called for the next
day. To meet that possible call for 70®-
millions it had in actual cash If millions,
divided among head offices and 192 branches.
Representing the balance of 69 millions the
bank had deposits and investments; but 53
millions of the money which the bank was
liable to be called on to pay the next day
was locked up in Government bonds and
other securities which it would certainly
take years to liquidate.
That was the position, looked at in cold
blood—a ridiculous position. If private per-
sons put themselves into it, and then,
through some little mishap, failed to meet
their obligations, the Bankruptcy Court
would most surely rake them fore and aft.
They would be charged with reckless trad-
ing; and it is not at all certain that gaol
would not be mentioned.
Yet the G. S. B. of N. S. Wales did
exactly what it was established to do, no
more and no less; and the men in charge
of it are not due for a single brick. No
doubt it would be possible to carry on a
savings bank with rather less risk of a
smash than these Commissioners took; but
it would not be possible to do it and allow
the rate of interest which depositors, as a
rule, demand. It is not the old Commis-
sioners who were to blame; and it is not
the present Commissioners who will be _ to
blame either if precisely the same thing
happens to the new bank. The weakness
lies in the system, not in its executives.
When the State savings banks were estab-
lished the States had the right to issue
notes; and when George Dibbs, then N. S.
Wales Premier and Treasurer, faced the
people who wanted to withdraw their de-
posits from the old “Barrack-street bank”
—the forerunner of the G.S.B. —and with
his own hand stuck up a notice that the
Government would pay, the crowd knew
what it meant; the bank would be sup-
plied with notes to satisfy every depositor,
and the run ended instantly. Then Federa-
tion arrived, and with it the transfer of
the right to issue currency. To-day, there-
fore, only the Commonwealth Savings Bank
is in the position that every State savings
bank was in prior to Federation; and it
ought to be most seriously considered
whether any other should be permitted to
function.
But this throws a heavy moral obligation
upon the Commonwealth Bank. If that
bank has taken from the State banks a
power upon which they could depend as a
complete safeguard against runs, then surely
the Commonwealth Bank must go very far
out of its way to absorb the other savings
banks if they desire it. It is not a case
for haggling over terms. It is a case for
complete absorption—with the guarantee, of
course, of the Government of N. S. Wales
against uncovered losses in realising securi-
ties.
Private ’Buses and Public Services.
By imposing a license fee of Id. per pas-
senger per section, the N.S.W. Transport
Commission, anew creation of the Lang
Government, has pushed most of the motor-
’buses off their Sydney and suburban routes.
Private competition with the State’s trams
and trains should never have been per-
mitted; the system, however, grew up dur-
ing the years when a deficit of a million or
so was neither here nor there, being easily
made up out of loans. The question now
is whether, having been thus permitted to
grow up, under Government license and
under State supervision, it is a fair thing
to suddenly end it.
No doubt in a vague sort of way it was
implied at the outset that no competition
with the State enterprises, in which so many
millions of State-borrowed money had been
sunk, would be permitted; it was implied
in the fact that routes had to be officially
approved. But approval was given so
freely that the early implication was for
all practical purposes wiped out. We can-
not now fairly tighten up our practice with-
out allowing something in the way of com-
pensation.
The matter is not one that can.be rightly
dealt with in the summary fashion of the
Transport Commission. It ought to be laid
down first as a cardinal principle that trans-
port in areas served by State trams and
trains is a State monopoly—whether the
system is right or wrong it is too late to
argue. As feeders, ’buses should still be
welcomed; but it should be made clear
that they have no vested rights in their
routes. Where such a right has been per-
mitted to grow up, time should be allowed
in which to write down the value of plant,
—just as the Sydney Ferries have been
doing while the Harbor Bridge has been
under construction.
Had any other Government but that oi
J. T. Lang tackled this question, the
chances are that there would have been
very little trouble over the assertion of
a State monopoly. But every act of Lang’s
is suspect. There is always the uncomfort-
able feeling that he is handing this country
to the Soviet. And even if there can be
no definite proof of it in this case, it is
just as certain as anything can be that the
Government has “squibbed” a contest witn
Private Enterprise because Ministers have
not the pluck to reform the public services
and run them on business principles.
As the Unemployed See It.
“Gad,” writing from the track in Queens-
land. still helps us to see what’s in the other
man’s mind:—
“Small Holder” (B. 14/10/’31) offered two men,
“formerly known as good workers,” eight bob a day
for light work, and they promptly turned it down.
And, of course, he is greatly disgusted, and asks
what we are coming to when men will rather live
on the dole than take an honest job. Now, this
demands an explanation; so I interpret here the
mind of the unemployed worker as I understand
it—and I have been on the track for six months
studying it.
The objections of the men are briefly: (1) Eight
bob a day is not a fair wage. Out of 44s. for a
54-day week, they would not have enough over, after
tuckering themselves, to make it worth while. (2)
The job is only temporary, so a man would have
to go back on the dole a few weeks after the job
cut out. (3) On general principles eight bob is
inadequate, according to past Australian standards,
and it looks as if this cocky might be trying to
“put one over” on the worker.
I do not defend this viewpoint, but I understand
it. The worker, who bears 75 per cent, of the
brunt of all depressions, sees around him people
whom this depression has not yet apparently touched.
These people are still seemingly living in plenty.
They are certainly not suffering anything approach-
ing hunger. Here is one offering eight bob a day,
and saying it is all he can afford. But is it really
all he can afford? Would this man not offer one
bob, or 6d. a day, if he thought he could “get
away with it” ? There are many people offering
work now for tucker.
Of course, if we were all standard patriots, it
would be the business of the individual unemployed
to spurn the dole. But the average worker must
not be expected to measure up to such a standard.
After all, he is largely ignorant of economic law:
his free “education’’ has not gone that far. More-
over, the tradition of his class is that he is being
ruthlessly exploited, even robbed, by the employing
class. Therefore he feels it is the business of the
Government to keep him until such time as he
can find work at the sort of wage that has become
a national tradition.
This much, at least, should be said in behalf
of the doleful workless; and what I write next *s
the opinion of the whole w r orkless population, so
far as I can gather it. The loud and continuous
moan which comes from the man on the land
about the dole comes badly from a class whose
members are the most consistent dole-cadgers them,
selves. (In tho shape of tariff concessions, embargoes,
subsidies, etc.) And this carping, from the same
source, about the economic ineptitude of politicians
is unconvincing when we realise that no body of
men in business manage their own affairs quite so
badly as the average cocky or squatter. For years,
during the war and after, he waxed fat in enjoy-
ment of returns out of all proportion to the actual
services, or labor, that he rendered. Did those
men regulate their budget expenditure on lines of
prudence in those days ? Had they not a vested
interest in the encouragement of the boom and
borrow policy? Was it not up to them to anticipate
that crash for which they blame the politicians now ?
And who but themselves is to blame if all they
can offer for labor now be eight bob a day?
We have all believed in a political Santa Claus,
but are now waking up to find “it’s only father,
after all”! And when all is said and done we
come face to face with this fact —the dole is the
logical outcome of paternalism in government, a
policy which begins by subsidising various forms
of capital endeavor in industry of various sorts
and ends by subsidising the out-of-work employee.
It is inevitable, of course, that in the interim
(while both are finding their feet) they must be
standing on someone else’s-—<ind both are equally
demoralised in the process. But if it is logical
to subsidise an industry on the off-chance that it
may prove productive, it is also logical to subsidise
the out-of-work employee on the same off-chance.
*
Better Trade Unions Needed.
One of the disservices which a century and a
half of machine-development has done to
humanity is that it has lowered the status
of the crafts, and destroyed to a very great
degree that affection for them which gave so
much interest to life in less bustling times.
There are two products of this disaffection
which ought to be corrected. The first is
the alignment of trade unions as purely
economic associations, with no other ideal
than obtaining as much money for as little
work as possible; the second, particularly
marked in Australia, is the overcrowding of
what are called the “learned professions”—
doctors, lawyers, dentists, civil engineers,
mining engineers, electrical engineers, analy-
tical chemists, assayers, surveyors. Those
who are most able or luckiest get a footing.
The others have to find some other occupa-
tion, and the money spent on training them
—largely provided by the community—is
wasted. On the other hand, the demand for
skilled craftsmen in a variety of trades is
said by employers to be in excess of the
supply in normal times.
There was a time when trade unions took
some sort of interest in the crafts they re-
presented; when they were insistent that
apprentices should be properly trained as
well as fairly paid. Now the attitude to-
wards the apprentice in all save a very few
of the unions seems to be that the more
they are discouraged the better, so that the
trade may be kept a close preserve for
those that are in it, Side by side with this
feeling there is the factor that the numeri-
cally strong and very turbulent unions which
cater for unskilled laborers have forced up
the remuneration of their members to such
a degree that an able-bodied lad on leav-
ing school finds he can earn much more
immediately, and very little less in later
life, if he dispenses with a trade apprentice-
ship. The result, socially and economically,
i ? bad. It makes for an undisciplined,
because untrained, community. It is bad,
too, from almost any sort of labor stand-
point, for it makes it easier for the machine
to oust the craftsman, and, once such arti-
ficial aids as national borrowing are removed,
inevitably depresses the earning capacity of
the community. _ „
The most effective remedy calls for anew
and farther-seeing outlook on the part of
the unions of the skilled trades. Not only
should they encourage recruits and assist
in their training by every reasonable means,
but they should regard themselves as
responsible for the competency of then-
members —to be a member at all should
prove qualification. And further, as fore-
shadowed by one of the more thoughtful
Maoriland trade-unionist officials the other
day, the new sort of union ought, in one
direction at least, to trench further on the
privileges of employers than any industrial
organisation would dream of doing to-day
—it should set its face against Shoddy and
Jerrv.
*
Australia’s Three Chief Needs.
As that far-sighted old publicist James
Edmond sees them:—
Australia requires a Protectionist tariff unless it
can produce a race of artisans as cheap and capable
as any other in the world, in which case it may do
without Protection.
It requires to get rid of its oversea debt, and to
do so as soon as possible, and having got rid of it
to swear off new oversea debt except in case of
necessity. If the Commonwealth has again to fight
for its existence and its civilisation, that might make
oversea borrowing a necessity while the trouble
lasted- but public works and jobs and jobbery
should’ be paid for out of revenue with the possible
assistance of local loans. It isn’t proposed that we
should swindle the oversea creditor, but that we
should pay him off.
It requires to cut up its monstrous and unwieldy
States into manageable areas, and cease being the
world’s freak and' curiosity in this respect.
John Thomas Lang Looks Back.
“John Thomas Lang was sworn in as Premier of
N. S. Wales on November 4, 1930.’’
Comrades, I greet you with a blithe “What
ho!”
The chap you placed in power a year a go.
Convinced"that all the miracles would follow
Which I could outline or which you could
swallow.
Some cravens there may be who in. my place
Would hardly dare to look you in the face.
I stand before you, smothering a grin
Over the dope wherewith I took you in,
And in my heart a sneaking thankfulness
A mug is born a minute —more or less.
I told you Labor’s face was sternly set
Against repudiation, eh? And yet
Myself defaulted, with unholy glee,
Upon the earliest opportunity?
Well, what of that? It surely but denotes
The things a fellow says to snavel votes
Afford no faintest shadow of a clue
To what, when they’re behind him, he will
do.
There was a bank that made a brave display,
Where millions of the people’s savings lay.
I smashed it with my basher-gang finance.
What odds, since ev’rybody has a chance
To win a fortune now for five and three,
Another blessing that you owe to me?
Forget awhile the wan depositors
And note the seething crowds around the
doors,
Whose brisk decision and whose eager eyes
Attest the soundness of my enterprise.
J’y snis, j’y rente. What boots it to recall
My pledge that there’d be work for one and
all
Were I returned? Plenty in every street
And soven-an’-sixpenee for the cocky’s wheat?
Why harp upon it that I heaped profound
Curses on Bavin’s threepence-in-tho-pound?
Why dig it up that when I did arrive
I made it a bob (and tried to make it five) ?
Of course I had you gudgeons on a string;
Mob politics demand that sort of thing.
If I had jibbed at such transparent flam
D’you think you would have put me where
I am?
You civil servants, greedily you took
The bait, and swallowed sinker, line and
hook.
I was to give you back the cut you’d lost;
You featured summer and you found —a
frost!
Black Thursday came, with never ghost to
walk;
You learned the value of election talk.
Keep up your tails! Endure with con-
stancy !
You’ll get scant comfort out of cursing me.
Better you gave me my undoubted due
And turned a thought to what I did for you:
Renounced the Plan my heelers deemed so
grand
And waited upon Scullin, hat in hand;
CrawPd to the struggling sistcr-States for
what
I found at last, could nowhere else be
got....
Still grizzling, are you? Well, that’s your
affair.
I’m Premier, you know. You put me there.
What though I scorn to keep the spoken
word
And hold the written bond no less absurd ;
What though a State that bore an honored
name
Becomes, through me, a thing of mock and
shame;
What though they’ve had, of all the suffer-
ing host.
The rawest deal from me who trusted most;
What though I’ve let them down the worst,
the class
I stand for, brought them to the direst pass;
I stand before you still as bold as brass.
I won’t desert you—trust me to the full—
While there’s an axe to grind, a leg to pull!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


d
“Pve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota!”
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
John Bull went to' the poll to decide two
questions. The Nationalists (Conservatives,
Nat. Labor, Nat. Liberals and Nat. Inde-
pendents, but mostly Conservatives) laid it
down that the disastrous Budget must be
balanced even if the dole had to be reduced,
and that imports must not exceed exports
even if Freetrade should go to wreck. The
other crowd said that the preservation of
the dole and of Freetrade ranked first; if
things went wrong there were such devices
as foreign loans, unsecured paper money
and confiscation. The British workman
decided that he wants more work, and that
the obvious way to get it is to shut out a mass
of imports and make the goods himself. The
promise of a bigger dole was clouded over
by the fear lest a party with a deficit of
£150,000,000 might not be able to pay
except in valueless paper. So the Free-
trade Laborites went down heavily, and
Lloyd George’s pure Freetraders practically
disappeared off the face of the earth.
Lang lias a farm on the Hawkesbury, to
which he retires when the cares of State
get too pressing. They got too pressing the
other day, so Lang went up to commune
with the prize bull, and left the State to Mr.
THE BIG STICK MEETS A BIGGER.
Schelley. Mr. Schelley soon got busy, and
when Lang returned to an empty Treasury
it was to meet a demand from Mr. Schelley’s
seamen that the dole shall be increased by
100 per cent, and open orders given on all
shops. Then Lang began to realise that the
dole is a greedy monster which gets hun-
grier the more it eats; and he reckons it
about time that fellow Scullin did something.
After much argument it has been decided,
subject to possible alteration and hesita-
tion and fluctuation, that a bounty of
a bushel shall be paid to the wheatgrower
as regards the 1931-32 crop. The promise to
pay 4s. a bushel for the 1930-31 crop
is forgotten, and people even disremember
how the disappointment was explained away.
Three million pounds are to be borrowed,
because the Government hasn’t a penny to
spare; and the banks earnestly hope that the
Government won’t roost indefinitely on their
doorstep crying out for loans and threaten-
ing to “nationalise” them should they fail to
find the money.
Four hundred Sydney ’buses went out of
action at the week-end as a result of the
tax of a penny a mile per passenger, and
4000 ’busmen joined the unemployed, and
400,000 people or thereabouts with the price
of a ride in their pockets had to walk be-
cause Lang’s board, with the fatheadedness
of the boss —he seems to impart that quality
to his agents—had provided no substitute
services. “Mr. Lang promised the ’busmen,”
so it was printed during the week, “that not
one man will lose his' job.” But they ought
to have known from that that they all would.
The conference between the Vic. Houses
on rates of pay prescribed in the Unemploy-
ment Relief Bill failed to reach an agree-
ment, and at the week-end the Hogans were
talking about submitting a fresh bill. Mean-
time the operation of the stamp duty on
wages (which is part of the scheme) has
been extended until December 5. Govern-
ment defeats on minor issues are becoming
almost daily occurrences in the Assembly,
in which Glowrey, Gray and McLachlan
hold the balance of power.
Complete bank figures for the Common-
wealth to the end of September show that
fixed deposits totalled 179 millions in Sep-
tember, 1930, and were still 179 millions
a year later. But the fixed deposits in N. S.
Wales dwindled from 69 millions to 61
millions, while those in Victoria rose steadily
from 62 millions to 68 millions. Before
Lang began to talk repudiation and turn
N.S.W. into a little Soviet, his State had
seven millions more fixed deposits than Vic-
toria ; now it has six millions less.
On June 30 the Commonwealth had spent
£9,540,367 and the States £5,718,125 on
Bruce-Page’s Federal-aid roads; the total
of £15,258,492 included a bit of sinking-fund
money. For this stupendous sum the com-
munity got 14,000 miles of finished roads
and 500 miles unfinished, the expenditure
(less sinking-fund payments and supervision
costs) being divided into £5,152,421 “main
developmental,” £2,860,315 “trunk” and
£6,709,113 “arterial.” Nearly £llOO a mile
for all sorts of roads, the best of which take
traffic from the insolvent State railways and
the worst are just furbished-up bush tracks;
and a lot of the money borrowed! No
wonder we are in difficulties.
Westralians in Sydney grinned when the
“Herald” credited Newton Moore, who was
re-elected for Richmond, Surrey, with “hav-
ing converted a minority for his party into
a majority of more than 28,000” and had “a
distinguished military career.” They remem-
ber Moore as a lucky politician who was
made Premier because the party did not
like the immeasurably abler Frank Wilson,
and who when disaster smote his followers
(largely because he had been a very poor
imitation of Forrest) was safe in the Lon-
don agency. His good fortune followed him
abroad. As “a leader of our gallant Anzacs”
he has been given a succession of Conserva-
tive seats which a coolie could win if the
coolie bore the party label; and he came
out of the Great War with a major-general-
ship, though lie has never smelt powder.
Hogan told Vic. Assembly the other night
that he proposed to go on with the bill for
the appointment of a public-service classi-
fication board, but the service is not so
keen on the measure now. It thinks, indeed,
that no worse time could be chosen for a
tribunal to fix pay and conditions. When
the service was eager for the measure Hogan
was lukewarm; now the position seems to
be reversed.
Great efforts are being made to secure
immunity from opposition for Lyons and the
other ex-Laborites in the U.A.P., also for
Hughes, Marks and JJ uncan of the stillborn
“Australian” party; and in one case they
have apparently been successful. Duncan
Hughes, the former M.H.R. for Boothby
(S.A.), who was beaten by Jack Price, says
he won’t now try to regain the seat; he will
stand for the Senate instead. But there was
a devil of a row in Launceston when it was
proposed to reserve the party nomination for
Lyons (Wilmot) and Guy (Bass), and
Lyons may decide to oppose his former col-
league Culley (Denison), who would not be
hard to shift. Uddly enough, it is the
A.F.A.L. that wants candidates other than
Lyons and Guy interdicted ; Tas. National-
ists have always stood for an open go. In
N. S. Wales it. is tbe other way about.
“The Federal Labor Government now talks of
postponing the House of Reps, election till Novem-
ber, 1932.”
DR. Page: “Well, if you won’t take the
advice I give you in large quantities,
consult this man.”
TROUBLED TED : “H’m, I don’t like the name.
It’s too English.
W. J. McCann, one of the half-dozen
Cockies in Vic. Uppish House, has thrown
up his North-Western Province iseat to
stand for the Wimmera, which lost its
Federal member when Stewart died. The
last Agrarian who quitted Vic. Parliament
to try to capture a Federal electorate (Indi)
was Walter. He was better knotvn than
McCann, and he failed. McCann will try
to regain North-Western, if he crashes in
Wimmera; consequently there will be delay
in the issue of the N.-W. writ.
After the British election one of the
roosters had scarcely a feather left and had
lost an eye and a half and three claws. Still
even in these circumstances Labor had its
consolers. The quaint Bernard Pshaw
observed that what had happened misrht lv>
much better than a mere victory, because if
their fowl had had a victory this time it
“I’ve brought home your rooster, Mrs.
Labor. It’s got hardly a feather left,
has lost an eye and a half and three
claws; but you just wait till it recovers,
and it’ll give the other cock a devil
of a thrashing.”
would probably have got a hiding next time,
whereas if it had a hiding this time it might
get a win next tme. This was very comfort-
ing and all that, only it didn’t explain why
the rooster which has had an argument with
a road-roller rarely takes on another argu-
ment of the same sort within a day or two.
Lang extracts 5 p.c. from the weekly pay
envelope for the dole and tells his trade-
unionist dupes that it isn’t a reduction of
wages. But to his civil-service supporters
he said it was a reduction of wages, where-
fore instead of the 20 p.c. cut to which he
subscribed at the Premiers’ conference there
would be a 15 p.c. cut —and he has contrived
to make it less. The Federal service organ-
isations were Lang’s most ardent adherents
at the State election. Their officials have
nevertheless put it to Scullin that it would
be monstrous if their members had to pay
Lang’s Is. in the £, and Scullin’s reply is
that it would be monstrous indeed; so, by
an exercise of Federal power, restricted to
Federal employees and politicians, Lang’s
tax has been limited to 3d. in the £ on £250,
4|d. on £250 to £5OO, and 6d. on £5OO to
£lOOO. Now, the Federal basic wage having
been reduced in proportion to a fall in the
cost of living certified to by the Common-
wealth Statistician, the Government, follow-
ing Lang, announces that the reduction must
not be applied to “Commonwealth employees
working under awards.” Government em-
ployees and politicians have become privi-
leged castes, like the aristocracies of old.
S.A. Labor politics are in a delightful
muddle. The late by-election was contested
by (among others) a Lang-planner, a Trades
Haller (each claiming to be the only genuine
Labor candidate) and an Independent. The
State Labor Ministers supported the Inde-
pendent, who got in. One of the State Labor
members helped the Lang-planner; others
spoke for the Trades Hall man. So did Harry
Kneebone, who was appointed to the Senate
by the State Labor Ministers and requited
them by decreeing their expulsion, as chair-
man of the party organisation, for having
supported the Premiers’ plan. Harry banged
his patrons severely during the by-election,
and so did Federal Labor members Makin
(Speaker of the House of Reps.) and Yates.
Makin and Yates are Opposed to the Pre-
miers’ plan, yet they arc devoted adherents of
the Government which was chiefly responsible
for it; and Kneebone votes in the Senate
with Daly, a member of that Government,
although as head of the party organisation
he declared Daly and O’H'alloran (another
supporter of the Government and the Pre-
miers’ plan) expelled. Friends of Kneebone
fear that he will have a fit of contrition
and expel himself.
In reply to Percy Pease, Labor M.L.A. for
Herbert, who had been pestering him for
the information, Queensland Attorney-
General McGroarty admitted that he had
drawn £584 in fees while appearing for the
Crown between May, 1929, and October,
1931 —practically the “Mungana period.”
Pease was beginning to emit hoarse cries
of triumph when Mc-Groarty proceeded to
say that he had a long way to go before
he could catch up to Pease’s former leader,
the late T. J. Ryan, who was Attorney-
General for four years and a half, and whose
Crown briefs brought him £14,543. Then
a fearful silence fell on Pease.
In 1929 Britain’s exports and its income
from foreign investments of all sorts paid
for its imports and left a surplus of
£135,000,000. This was eagerly borrowed by
Australians and others, who said that the
Old Man in London was a fine old cove. In
1930 John’s surplus went down to
£39,000,000. Il'e had nothing to lend in
the second half of the year and Australian
Labor-Communists called him a Shylock. and
said that our war debt to him should be
repudiated and that we should not pay the
interest on our peace debt. Even Brazil
has intimated that it will meet its interest
with promissory notes instead of cash for
a year or two, after which the position may
be better or it may be worse. For 1931
it is estimated that there will be a deficit
of about 70 millions, and that imports must
be cut down perhaps 100 millions more to
make the position fairly safe. Plenty of
people are still prepared to tell Bull, as
he used to tell himself, that Freetrade will
see him through, but he regards himself as
the party concerned and proposes to act
accordingly.
The Westralian Freetraders who run the
secession movement seek to raise a popular
froth for referendum purposes by disserta-
tions about the vast savings to be effected
by “throwing off the Federal yoke.” There
is no sign of any possible saving unless
Westralia repudiates its share of the public
debt, which is unthinkable. And if it carries
its case to London after a successful referen-
dum the British Government will probably
say that: (1) The affair is a purely Aus-
tralian one; (2) a tariff is no adequate
cause for disruption; (3) unless British sub-
jects are being maltreated its only interest in
the matter is to make sure that seceded
Westralia doesn’t turn dog on the British
bondholders.
Ex-president James MacDougall, of the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures, has
discovered that in 20 years Australia’s
national debt has increased by 323 p.c., inter-
est on it by 501 p.c., taxation by 401 p.c., and
production by a poor little 72 p.c. He might
have gone on to show that, as the result
of the taxation, the unemployed have in-
creased by 600 p.c. and the dole by 1000 p.c.
And he might have added that the tax-
gatherer is now so hard pushed for somebody
to rook that the manufacturer who pays
income tax in, say, Victoria or N. S. Wales,
MacDOUGALL TOTS THE SCORE.
is charged income tax on precisely the same
income in Queensland if he happens to send
his goods there for sale. Whether he makes
his profit by making the goods or by selling
the goods nobody knows; so one State says
he makes it by making the goods and charges
him accordingly, while the other says he
makes it by selling the goods and also
charges him accordingly. It is plain robbery;
but nobody is expected to notice robbery
when it is camouflaged as taxation. All the
same, it helps to explain why unemployment
has increased 600 p.c.
Sydney is now honeycombed with “agen-
cies” which buy and deliver tickets in
Lang’s lottery for ss. 6d., 3d. on the adver-
tised price. One ingenious gentleman was dis-
covered to be circularising the inhabitants of
the U.S.A. and charging two dollars American
—los. 3d. Australian —for a ticket. He is
taking a risk, and if any defeated Labor
candidate or dole inspector has visions of
drumming for Lang’s sweeps in the U.S.A.
he had better think twice. The constitutions
of some States—California, for instance —
forbid lotteries, and Uncle’s law machine, is
apt to work with surprising speed and effect
in the case of a stranger.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“R. Volt”: A taxi-cab driver in Perth who
was fined for claiming to be capable of
giving medical service asserted that he was
a “human X-ray.” In my brief existence
I have seen every scientific discovery ex-
ploited in the same manner. There is a lady
in Melbourne who claims to be a human
galvanic battery. She strokes your arm
and immediately you feel as full of electri-
city as a 20-microfarad condenser. The
secret is cayenne, pepper. Rutherford’s in-
vestigations not only advanced our know-
ledge of the atom but produced the Abrams
box, which still has its practitioners in Aus-
tralia. The late I)r. Abram discovered
a means whereby he could neutralise the
harmful atomic emanations of disease with
health-giving emanations in the opposite
direction. The instrument which I saw was
electrical, not radio-active, in its effects, and
looked as if it had been designed and wired
by a maniac. Wireless telegraphy and
broadcasting have produced a whole crop of
human radio stations. One gentleman who
operates in Sydney broadcasts nightly to
patients in all parts of the Commonwealth
and some of the surrounding islands, all on
the same wave length. Unfortunately he is
only able to transmit health through the
ether. When it comes to inquiring as to
the progress of his clients and sending a
bill he is obliged to use the ordinary medium.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The conviction of a woman
72 years of age at Hamilton (M.L.) on
a charge of false pretences recalls one of
the most amazing impostures ever perpe-
trated in the Shivery Isles. The accused
was Amy Bock, who (disguised in male
clothing) was married to a young woman
at Nuggets, in the Clutha district, about
22 years ago. Nuggets is a small place, and
the Anglican and Presbytetian parsons
joined hands in benediction over the happy
pair, while the local rag gave a column to
the wedding and the subsequent festivities.
The Voice that Breathed o’er Nuggets was
interrupted by the police, who collected Amy.
* * * *
“Titus” : When a member of the once-big
Sydney estate-agency firm of Marshall and
Dempster came up for sentence on the usual
shortage charge lie spoke this little piece to
the Judge:—
I have not done one immoral or dishonorable act
in all my life. I have been a total abstainer and
a non-gambler. I have not lived in luxury, or extra-
vagance. I am esteemed and respected by hundreds
of thousands of men and women. If the record of
my life, character and reputation stands for naught
arid the only reward I get is to be sent to prison
and treated as a criminal, God help any other
outside this dock.
Having listened to the recital of all these
middle-class virtues his Honor asked why
(lie non-drinking and non-smoking defendant
didn’t go into the witness-box and tell the
jury about them, whereupon his legal adviser,
reputed to be a worldly man and neither
a Pecksniff nor an ass, mentioned that he
had advised his client to keep out of the box.
* * '-S' *
“Levant”: Cyprus, the latest scrap of the
British Empire to see a revolt against autho-
rity, is reputedly a fertile island with a
THE HINT.
BELLA (who has had a row with her husband ): “I wonder if there’s anything I can do
to please him?”
STELLA (fed up with much groaning) : “Oh, give us a rest! Of course, there is; but you
haven’t got the nerve to do it.”
flourishing wine industry, but it must be a
mighty difficult one to govern to the satis-
faction of its mixed population. Both in
electoral and judicial matters religion has to
be allowed for. There are three electoral dis-
tricts, each returning one Mohammedan and
three Christian members, and an English
Judge sits in every court of law assisted by
two native Judges, one from each of the rival
creeds. The British Government at the outset
of the war offered Cyprus as a free gift or
a plain bribe to Greece to bring her in on
the side of the Allies. Unfortunately there
was King ’Tino to be reckoned with as well
as Venizelos, and nothing came of it.
* * *
“Sol M.”: A Venezuelan soldier of for-
tune has published a belated book about how
he commanded a Turkish division during
the Great War. One of his tales concerns
a rooster which saved the Allies from losing
the whole affair. The Turks were creeping
unseen or unsuspected on the Suez Canal,
and would have taken it with ease only a
stolen, rooster that a Turk had in his pocket
or under his arm crowed in Arabic and
gave away the show. To a primitive kind
of soldier who knows nothing of searchlights,
aeroplanes or wireless apparatus the domes-
tic fowl of one sort or another is a frequent
implement of warfare. The Romans used
it 390 years b.c., but it was a goose in that
case.
“Centurion” : The discovery of the Turkish
invaders in the Canal zone did not depend on
any feathered fowl. Intelligence brought in the
news that an army corps was being concen-
trated on the Palestine frontier. Aeroplane
observation, poor as it was in those days,
confirmed this. The Turks were kidded
to come to the Canal. That they got away
with a loss of only 3000 in killed, wounded
and prisoners was due not so much to their
leadership as to the lack of pursuit troops
on the British side. As to that rooster, I
ask anyone acquainted with Sinai, even
before the Light Horse entered therein,
whether he ever saw one on the Egyptian
side of El Arisli.
❖ ❖ ❖ A-
“X.S.”: Daring robberies are daily hap-
penings in Melbourne. At Caulfield recently
two men with peaked caps drove up to a
villa, knocked, and when the mistress
answered the door said they had brought
THE ANTI-CLIMAX.
MAUDIE (to newly-engaged friend ): “Well, Archie, I suppose you are satisfied now
that Dolly has consented?”
ARCHIE (accepted after many refusals): “M’yes, I suppose it’s all right. But her
family’s talking of weddings and things already.
the furniture ordered, and without further
parley carried an object inside and deposited
it in the hall. Then they locked the door,
picked up the housewife, carried her into
the lounge and bound her with her own
apron to an armchair. After battering the
maid into submission they bound and gagged
her and locked her in the kitchen. Then
they mot a large Alsatian, which promptly
contradicted all the libels uttered against bis
race by meekly permitting the intruders to
lock him in the bathroom. They then loaded
their vehicle with £2OO worth of goods and
chattels. When the prisoners were released
and the piece of “furniture” examined. it
was found to be a kerosene tin filled with
bricks and wrapped in hessian. Two old
chair-legs protruding from the top of the
bundle gave artistic verisimilitude to the
deception.
* *
“Mako”: One more Maorilander is con-
vinced that the law is a donkey. He re-
ceived a summons for permitting the prac-
tically ineffaceable blackberry to riot on his
farm, and rode 15 miles to the nearest court-
house to face the music. It had been an
off-season for courts, and the farmer had
to wait at the gate with half a dozen other
blackberry-growers, likewise sundry court
authorities, including the S.M., while a man
with a scythe mowed a path through a flour-
ishing blackberry patch to permit them to
reach the courthouse. Fined £2 all round.
:•{ 'A'
“Kourbash”: It was in a bit of a tent
theatre at a South Aus. agricultural show.
The spruiker, a fluent young man in even-
ing clothes and ready-made white tie, pro-
mised that for
one and six we
should see the
most beautiful
girl in the
world disrobe
as she danced.
After a few
preliminaries
the Great Act
(“direct from
the Moulin
Rouge”) came
on. The lady
was masked,
and to the
a ccompaniment
of two squeaky
violins she be-
gan to dance
and throw off
he r garments
one by one.
Wh e n she
reached what
might be called
the crucial
stage the show-
ma n adroitly
appealed to the
audience to call
out when they
thought she’d
gone far
enough. No
gentleman re-
sponded, but a
woman stand-
ing near me
said “Shameless
hussy!” and
left the tent,
while her lius-
band got up on
a kerosene-case to secure a better view.
“Very well,” said the showman, “there’s only
one thing left.” Then, turning to the girl,
he ukased, “Take ’em off.” The crowd
surged forward, necks craned, and the dancer
obediently discarded —her shoes !
* * * *
“Imbaga” : In Queensland the other day,
a confidence man who flattered himself he
was moving with the times told the usual
guileless stranger that the wealth he pro-
posed to introduce him to had come from a
rich uncle in New Guinea. Years ago, when
people visiting London were suspected or
having made fortunes in Australia, the ricii
uncle invariably came from this country.
In Australia, Fiji, where there was then
money in sugar or copra, always used to
be fixed on as the abiding place of the afflu-
ent relative. What the next shift will be
Heaven only knows. There aren’t many places
left on earth from which the vision ot a
generous and confiding kinsman can be
called up.
* * * *
“Gad” (on the track) : Here in Bowen
(N.Q.) the , mob are camped on the
abandoned airplane ground in a commo-
dious hangar. Electric light and water are
laid on —and both are cut off. Last night
there was a flavor about this joint strongly
reminiscent of war days. When darkness
came in there were only occasional lights m
the hangar —odd matches and bits, ot wick
stuck in oil. The mob lay in various atti-
tudes of fed-upness on their blankets. Then
about 11 o’clock (p.m.) there was a stirring.
Some were getting ready to move out. They
stood about for a little while with their
swags and nosebags up, yarning. Tlieir zero
hour was about midnight, when the ‘ goods
would pull out for Proserpine. And they
talked of home, the homes that they knew
—Melbourne, Sydney, Bendigo—quite senti-
mental-like. As they stood there they looked
for all the world like a party going out for
a raid. Indeed, the similarity of the situa-
tion was heightened by the words of encour-
agement they received at the end, and more
than all by' the final advice. Some of the
mob called out: “Keep your heads
THE NEW CALENDAR.
“Had the Fitzbriggses to dinner lately?”
“Not for a month or two. The cook before last, I think it was."
down.” One waited for the rat-tat-tat of
machine-gun fire. This day being Monday,
and Bowen being an uncommonly “tough”
town, there has not been much visible eat-
ing in the camp. But the ’hoes fall to their
attenuated “meals” with a fine spirit. One
had no breakfast, so another passed him an
onion and eased the situation with the re-
mark- “An onion a day keeps the insects
away.” A third rose up from a very frugal
repast, mostly tea, and said: Well, if that s
breakfast, I’ve had it”.... But to-morrow
is pay-day. .
THIRTY-FIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night above the windy clouds I watched
the sunset die,
And in the silence overhead I heard the
swans go by.
The distant hills grew faint and dim, and
faded from my view.
And darkness fell upon the land, and on my
spirit too. .
A vague regret for something missed, no
matter how I strive—
I cannot shake that feeling off. To-day I’m
thirty-five.
Just half of life’s allotted span—what
solemn thoughts it brings!
It’s time a fellow looked around and took
a stock of things.
As one who climbs a mountain peak turns
backward to survey
The toilsome path that he has trod upon Ins,
upward way,
So I have reached a vantage point from
which I may derive
A clear perspective of the road that led to
thirty-five.
Ah, me, it is a winding track, the one
whereon I’ve strayed !
I see the false turns that I took, the blunders
that I made,
The easy road that lured me on, until I woke
to find
The path that led to happiness was one I’d
left behind.
But taking matters all in all I’m lucky to
arrive
Safe at the half-way house of life, the age
of thirty-five.
I might have married years ago ; I should
have done, in fact.
I loved the girl and she loved me, ’twas
courage that I lacked.
I cannot quite forget the face I knew, the
lips I kissed;
■And there are times it saddens me to think
of all I missed.
But years have rolled away since then. Tis
useless to revive
The tender dreams of twenty-one when you
are thirty-five.
The war cut out a slice of life, and yet I’m
bound to say
I would re-live it all again had I the chance
to-day.
The bonds of comradeship were strong that
bound us each to each;
In war’s grim school are lessons learned
that nothing else can teach.
The darker scenes are fading fast; the
brighter ones survive.
It’s pleasant to recall them now when I
am thirty-five.
’Twould seem the progress man has made
the last two thousand years
Has done but little to reduce his sum of
.doubts and fears.
The powers of air and earth and sea are
harnessed to his will,
And yet the goal of his desires eludes and
mocks him still.
We cannot compass all our dreams no matter
how we strive;
You learn to take things as they come when
you are thirty-five.
Ah, well, a truce to bitter thoughts; the
moon is rising now,
The evening winds begin to lay soft fingers
on my brow.
The bird of time, as Omar says, is always
on the wing:
You never know what happiness to-morrow’s
dawn may bring.
And, after all is said and done, it’s good to
be alive.
There’s much to live and hope for yet though
you are thirty-five.
victoria.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


“Trumpet Major”: The War Office has
been circularising those who are left
of ' the old Imperial regiments asking
them to supply names and music of the
quicksteps traditional to each in the cere-
mony of the march-past. It might go on
and ask for the verbal accompaniments to
bugle and trumpet calls devised in the long
ago by Thomas Atkins and enthusiastically
adopted by his overseas cobbers in South
Africa and in the Great War The words
for the old infantry reveille, commencing
“Get up, you lousy blankards, and pull
your trousers on,” would be relished out-
side Sunday-school circles. Passing over
“Stables” as a bit too thick for the civilian
ear, we can turn to more innocent renderings
like “Officers’ Wives” and “Cookhouse
Door,” though there are two versions of
each, one not necessarily for publication.
There is the “Warning Call,” too, which
tells any particular unit that it alone has
to listen to what follows. That of the First
JUST A BUSINESS CALL.
SUSPICIOUS WIFE: “What’s this woman doing here? Is there anything between you?”
TIRED HUSBAND: “No, nothing serious. She was merely asking me if I’d mind acting
as co-respondent for her divorce.”
Australian Light H'orse was a typical one
in the A.I.F. Few who have heard the
couplet beginning “Now, you boys,” are
likely to forget it.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Time was when a genera]
election in Britain was a long-drawn-out
business: even in my youth the polling in
different constituencies was spread oyer
three or four weeks. Nowadays, except in
six or seven remote electorates, every vote
is cast and recorded in 12 hours, the reform
having been borrowed from Australia, where
insistence on quick results first began to .be
manifested. The present method doubtless
saves a lot of time and money, and cuts down
a period of hectic excitement to a minimum.
Another argument that operated to make
“one-day elections” the law of the land in
Britain was that in districts where the poll-
ing was delayed the party that was in the
ascendant on published l’esults had an unfair
advantage, owing to the average voter’s in-
eradicable inclination towards the winning
side. This certainly argues a lack of chivalry
in the average voter, but there is little doubt
that it was true.
❖ % * £
“Runa” : When some weeks ago the crew
of the Maoriland launch Wairuna were
reported to have come upon scwt. of
ambergris there was renewed enthusiasm for
the careful patrolling of likely Dominion
beaches. At the ruling price the find
was assessed at about £9OOO. But while
the finders were shaking hands with
themselves came the information that amber-
gris is not the tremendous source of sudden
wealth it used to be. London reports large
supplies on hand with diminished prices, and,
more disturbing to the army of constant
searchers, the discovery of a substitute that
is both cheap and satisfactory.
* # * *
“Ulaka”: The freighter City of Kimber-
ley, which has left Fremantle for London
with a cargo of wool and copper, figured in
a new-made record for the Southern Hemi-
sphere for a long tow\ On the voyage from
New York sire was left helpless in nrid-Pacific
by the disappearance of her propeller.
A distress rocket and an SOS brought the
little M.L. motor-ship Opawa from 218 miles
away, and a towline, sent across by rocket,
connected the two for a 1335-mile pull to
Auckland, at an average speed of 6.3 knots
through continued heavy swells. In Auck-
land the City of Kimberley waited 81 days
for the 28-ton gear of a new propeller from
England, and then continued her work as a
round-the-world freighter.
>'? =s= * *
“F.S.”: In reaction from the mechanical
domination of King Jazz a boom in “classi-
cal” dancing has set in. The other even-
ing I attended a seance of the sort in
which several charming-
young ladies divested
themselves of their ordi-
nary clothing, donned a
few yards of diaphanous
material and postured in
a darkened drawing-room
to the music of Beetho-
ven and Mozart, pur-
veyed by a somewhat
asthmatic gramophone.
The music was the most
severely intellectual of
those composers’ works,
but the dancers interpre-
ted it in quite a different-
fashion ; the finale to a
particularly philosophic
Beethoven concerto was
depicted with all the
realism of a bacchanalian
orgy, ending in a spec-
tacle of writhing limbs
that beggared descrip-
tion. I was reminded
of Rodin and his one
encounter with Isidora
Duncan. That voluptu-
ous damsel did not un-
derstand his sculpture,
but was so enchanted by
the mighty Frenchman
that she invited him to a
private exposition in her
studio of her art. Right-
ly interpreting it as a
direct appeal to the
senses, the G.O.M. of sculpture promptly
made advances to the dancer, .which so
shocked her that she dismissed him from her
presence and refused ever to meet him again.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: The silly season
(summer schedule) having arrived in Mel-
bourne, the dailies are beginning to revive the
ancient topic of John Citizen’s absurd con-
servatism in the matter of clothing. It is
pointed out that a white or fuji-silk suit
and a helmet are eminently designed for the
four hot days Melbourne gets every summer.
Despite the influence exerted by such
organs as the “Herald,” I confidently look
forward to seeing J.C. emerging in his thick
serge suit, stiff collar and unventilated
bunny-skin hat when the thermometer is at
105 in the shade. One reason is that the
clothing advocated by the papers is already
being worn by tramdrivers, policemen, fish-
shop vendors and iceinen, while sun helmets
have been issued to the city council atten-
dants. A very sensible evening-dress for a
hot night in the theatre would be a white
mess-jacket, with Cummerbund; but it is
regarded more as the uniform of a hotel-
waiter. The no-hat movement makes no
progress, largely because weak adherents,
when they go to buy something, are so
frequently mistaken for shop-assistants.
Clothing is principally a mark of caste dis-
tinction, as was fully recognised when
it was sought to check the appalling
mortality amongst soldiers and officials of
the East India Company, due to the amaz-
ing costumes they wore in tropical India. It
was generations before any change was made
in a custom from the tyranny of which
Tommy Atkins sometimes escaped by resting
his forehead on the muzzle of his musket and
pulling the trigger.
* * * *
. “Demos”: Sydney is the only city out-
side the U.S.A. that affords scandal sheets
a permanent home. Paris has seen the death
of half a dozen in the past half-century, and
the only survivor (mentioned recently in
a Red Page notice of Bonfires’ book on the
white slave trade) is in a bad way. London,
which never had less than two in the days
of the lampooners, has none at all now.
unless yon count Lord Riddell’s “News of
the World.” It shocked Dublin, where it
was called “Smut of the World” and pub-
licly burned a few years ago; but then
the Irish in Ireland have a strong wow T ser
complex. All these publications come into
LIFE’S PROBLEMS.
MAISIE: “The dance finished up at twelve o’clock Saturdee night, and I couldn’t make up
my mind which to go home with—Bill or Charlie.”
DAISY: “Gee, I wonder if that’s why they call it the whiching hour!”
existence and pass out on similar lines.
They begin with big circulations. Every-
body talks about them. Advts. of a sort
come along, and they earn good dividends.
The righteous begin to snuffle fretfully in
the offing. However, the editors out-snuffle
the snufflebusters —a dodge that was first
exploited by the immortal' Wilkes—and the
holy relapse into baffled silence. Suddenly,
for no apparent reason, the public gets fed
up. The doomed journal’s former admirers
begin to call it a rag, and worse. No one
has ever explained why. London “Modern
Society” began to go down hill when it was
in the hands of a genius (the late Frank
Harris, sometime editor of the “Fort-
nightly”), and shortly after it had pub-
lished the juiciest sensation of its lacerat-
ing career. The circulation slumped, boomed,
slumped again ; and then, with ghastly swift-
ness, came the end. It always comes like
this in time—outside Sydney.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: It is being suggested that Mel-
bourne’s memorial to John Monas 1 ’ should
take the form of
renaming that part
of St. Kilda-road
between the city and
the Shrine of Re-
membrance Monash-
avenue and erecting
a statue at the
entrance to the
avenue. It is to be
hoped that the com-
mission for the
statue will not be
given to any sculp-
tor of the school
which has decorated
Melbourne with the
effigies of eminent
citizens of the past.
One of these aca-
demicians recently
remarked that mod-
ern clothing was un-
suitable for depic-
tion in sculpture,
which was why he
always carved his
figures first in the
nude and then mere-
ly indicated the sac
suits or frock-coats
of the prevailing-
fashion. The notion
is that the Greeks
did that, whereas
what the Greeks did
was to depict their
subjects in the
actual costumes of
their period, which
clung to the body.
Nothing could be
less Grecian than
the aspect of the
Melbourne statues.
They all look as if
they had fallen into
the Yarra -with their
clothes on. A sculp-
tor with the Greek
outlook would de-
pict Monash in his
ill-fitting uniform or
civilian dress exact-
ly as he looked —a
short, dumpy figure with bent shoulders and
eagle head thrust forward, the embodiment
of concentrated and governed energy.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus” : The Victorian Mallee has
had a sort of dress rehearsal for the revolu-
tion. It was the occasion when mysterious
rumors spread that Cemmunists in Mel-
bourne had fixed a definite date for a
rising. Melbourne took the threat with
comparative calmness, but the New Guard
in the Mallee was up early. Twelve thou-
sand rounds of ammunition were laid in at
Chinkapook (a small bank, five houses and
a railway station with a caretaker). An
elderly patriot spent an uneasy night sleep-
ing on the munitions dump on his own front
verandah. At Ouyen the firebell was rung,
and at Wedderburn the telephone switch-
boy at the post office was dreaming over a
Deadwood Dick when he was surprised by
the entrance of two men armed with service
revolvers. He put up his hands with a
promptitude learnt from close attention to
the movies, but the raiders were only mem-
bers of the New Guard sent to protect him.
At another town an ex-Digger engaged in
unloading sheep was crossing the railway
yard when he was hailed by a youth trembling
like a leaf and grasping a gun bigger than
himself. “Gawd, Joe,” said the youth, “it was
a good thing for you I didn’t shoot yer fer a
Communist.” “It was a dashed good thing for
you you didn’t,” said the sheep-tender
grimly. But it was at a small town beyond
Manangatang that the citizens rose to their
responsibilities with the greatest energy.
Trenches were dug on the Melbourne < side,
and, as it was by no means sure that the
attack might not come from the Sydney side,
trenches were dug to the northward also.
* # * *
“C.Q.”: The statement (B. 21/10/’3l)
that John Monash was “perhaps the most
distinguished soldier of his race since
THE COMFORTER.
MEDICO: "U m, yes, you’re pretty bad, and had better get into bed
at once, and I’ll send on a prescription. But you mustn’t
expect too much—you see, you’re getting on in years.”
PATIENT: “Thanks, awfully. And perhaps you wouldn’t mind
calling at the undertaker’s in the next street, as you are
going back. I’m five feet eight. Elm, with nickel mount-
ings. And Thursday would be a convenient day — don’t
make it Saturday.”
Joshua" probably has much to recommend
it. Still, what about Massena, who gave
Wellington more trouble than any other ol
Napoleon’s marshals in the Peninsula? Mas-
sena’s birth-name was Manasseh, and he
exchanged the career of a wine-mercliant for
that of a Revolutionary soldier. Napoleon
had the highest opinion of his talents and
made him Prince of Essling.
THE VANISHED HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I go, now and then, to the talkies;
And I find them sufficiently bad
To sigh for the days of the old movie plays
That thrilled me when I was a lad.
What 1 liked was the tearful-eved maiden
With a soft, tangled halo of hair ;
Then a flick of the screen, and the words
could be seen:
“Love’s Lure Leads Alone to Despair !”
I was fond of the heartbroken hero
Whose beautiful wife left him flat;
One could manage a brief sensation of grief
For a chap as despondent as that.
But chiefly I fell for the title,
Some query, arresting and tart,
Which you couldn’t dismiss when they framed
it like this:
“What Is Love to an Adamant Heart?”
And the baby, the dear little baby,
That I saw in a sob-stricken play,
And whose heart was so stirred when its
mother averred
She was going to Reno next day.
It glanced at its quarrelsome parents,
As sweet little infants should do,
And remarked with a smile, soft with
innocent guile:
“Oo Ought to Be Lovers, Oo Two.”
When the film has a mission to broadcast,
As is claimed, and a lesson to teach :
Just a swift passing- hint in clear luminous
print
Hits harder than Hollywood speech.
Yes, 1 go, now and then, to the talkies,
But for me, as I smother a yawn,
The screen’s flash and flick has lost half of
its kick
With that beautiful line: “Comes the
Dawn !”
N.s.w.
J. J. M.


The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR NOVEMBER
ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY 21-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
''' ’■ \
mm
m
Members of the BRITISH MEDICAL
ASSOCIATION are granted a special
discount of 20 per cent, under our
Medical Practitioners’ Policy
which covers ALL SICKNESSES and
ALL Personal Accidents.
IMPORTANT FEATURES.
This Policy contains greater benefits, at a lower premium, than those issued by other Companies.
Blood-poisoning contracted through a wound is treated BY US as an accident, and in the event o
Death within 90 days the full capital sum is payable.
Hernia if not post-operative is construed BY US as disablement by accident, provided such Hernia
is contracted and surgically treated during the currency of the Policy.
Write for further particulars to
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association, Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in the principal cities of the Commonwealth and Dominion of New Zealand.
Assets exceed £3,000,000. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Full board from
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling
■
iH
:
1111
■
teams ” sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Paddy Glynn’s passing leaves seven sur-
vivors of the 50 Federal Conventiomsts,
who framed the Commonwealth Constitution
in 1897-98, viz.: Josiali Symon Iv.C. (bb),
Joseph Carrutliers (74), Gov.-Gen. Isaacs
(76). Vic. Speaker Alec Peacock (70), John
Quick (79), Elliott Lewis (73) and Walter
James, Iv.C. (68).
Paddy Glynn was the first man to be
elected to an Australian Parliament by
adult women voting with adult men. mat
was for North Adelaide in 1895.
George Ross Fenner, only survivor of the
original V.R.C. (formed in 1864) has seen
69 Melbourne Cups—or possibly 70 by this
time He was present among the cabbage-
tree-hatted brigade when Archer won in
IS6I and has missed only one year since.
At 87 lie is the doyen of Melbourne clubmen,
and the “father” of the exclusive Athenaeum.
Newton Moore, now revisiting the land of
his birth, will find a few of liis old Minis-
terial colleagues still in Parliamentary har-
ness. When Moore formed his Westralian
Government a trifle over a quarter of a cen-
tury ago, he took over Jimmy Mitchell (the
present Premier) as an honorary Minister,
and later on advanced him to the Lands port-
folio. (In those days Jimmy was sometimes
known as “Broadacres,” owing to his insist-
ence on dragging joyous references to “the
broad acres of this great State” into every
speech he made.) Norbert Keenan was like-
wise Moore’s Attorney-General for three
years, but threw up the job in a huff in
1909, just as he did again a few weeks ago
through similar dissatisfaction with his
present chief. A third colleague of Moores
in the old days was Harry Gregory, then
Minister for Mines, and M.H.R. on the C.l.
ticket for the last 18 years.
As president of the Vic. Trades Hall Coun-
cil, F. J. Riley succeeds to the most uneasy
perch in Melbourne. Labor’s chickens have
been coming home to roost at the stately fane
in Latrobe-street in the shape of Com-
munists prepared to break up the weekly
meetings, or alternatively the _ furniture.
Riley has a big body and a pair of fists
that have been frequently used in the course
F. J. RILEY,
President Vic. Trades Hall Council.
of his campaigning. He is a militant pacifist
who believes that the lion can be taught to
lie down with the lamb in international
affairs, even if it can’t at the Trades Hall
without the occasional assistance of a police-
man.
Died suddenly, at Mundubbera (Q.), aged
76, W. R. Thomas, who knew more than
anybody else about the early days of Broken
H'ill. “Dicky,” born in Port Adelaide and
taught surveying at Ballarat, was sent up
to Purnamoota, in the Barrier Ranges, and
while there heard of a new show called the
Broken Hill. A few weeks later (1884) he
was commissioned by the syndicate to mark
out a tunnel which the prospectors thought
of putting into their big ironstone blow.
Thomas didn’t think much of the tunnel
idea and recommended a shaft; and a shaft
—Rasp’s—was sunk. It was this work which
proved the property. For many years after
that Mr. Thomas was on the B. H. Prop.’s
mine survey staff; later he surveyed the
country along the East-West “Trans” for
water supplies, and then retired with his
family to a Queensland farm.
Fred Stewart, principal owner of motor-
’buses in Sydney and the biggest loser by
the closing-down of the best-known services,
used to be a clerk in the N.S.W. railways.
He took a keen interest in his job ; and
that and good business imagination enabled
him to visualise what was going to happen
at Chullora or thereabouts. From the begin-
F. H. STEWART, Sydney ’bus-proprietor.
ning of things the main railway workshops
and yards had been at Redfern, right up
against the city; as soon as the Commis-
sioners made a move at Chullora, Stewart
decided that that was where the workshops
and yards would go. He started a ’bus ser-
vice between there and Burwood and Strath-
field ; and that was the beginning of his
fortune. In those days Stewart was one
of the promising young men of the Method-
ist chapel at Burwood; he has redeemed
the promise very handsomely since his
pockets have been well lined.
John Monash’s estate, the gross value of
which is £27,000, goes mainly to his daugh-
ter. Mrs. Gershon Bennett. Annuities are
provided for three relatives and a friend.
The continent-wide outlook of the Associ-
ated Chambers of Manufactures was empha-
sised at its conference, held in Sydney last
week, and finds expression also in its lead-
ing figures. James MacDougall, the retiring
president, is a little Scot who, after 50
years in Australia, still speaks with a strong
Caledonian accent, and, if Freetraders pro-
voke him, can be stern and even wild. He
founded the Australian branch of Rylands at
Newcastle, of which his son is now manager.
H. B. Sevier, who succeeds MacDougall as
president, is American by birth and Aus-
tralian, as he says, by deliberate choice.
He is head of Lewis Bergers, wlm make
the paints. A man with a modern mind, he
is likely to go far, and he brings to his new
post experience gained as president of the
N S.W. Chamber. F. R. Lee, the secretary,
is a Victorian who spent years in Westralia,
where he ran a newspaper. Lee is a useful
man to the manufacturers: persuasive witn
tongue and pen, and with a stock of informa-
tion gathered in many countries. He has a
knack of making friends and disarming
enemies.
The passing of John Lishman Potter at
Timaru (M.L.) removes another “last of the
Eureka-stockaders.” He fought shoulder to
shoulder with Lalor (the Irishman), Rat-
faello (the Italian), Vern (the Hano-
verian) and Joseph (the Boston negro), who
were the lieutenants of the rebels, and sur-
vived them all. Potter came from England
and went right through the Vic. gold rushes;
at 97 he was the oldest gold-digger m Aus-
tralasia. His photo, hangs in Ballarat s
Eureka Stockade memorial hall.
A link with the theatre of past days was
severed with the death in Sydney of Mrs.
Clarice Holloway, widow of Charles and
sister-in-law of Edmund, of the booming
voice. The Holloways were big figures on
the stage in their time; and they added to
their own successes by the “discovery” or
Essie Jenyns. Charles Holloway secured
the guardianship of the potential star, and
when Romance threatened to interfere with
the big career he had planned for her, he acted
the heavy father. The descent of the Hollo-
ways upon St. Mary’s Cathedral to forbid
the marriage of Essie to brewer Woods was
a great sensation of the time. The marriage
took place in spite of the demonstration;
but Woods paid compensation to the actor-
manager for the breaking of the bride s con-
Known all over Australia as a bird-lover
was J W. Mellor, lately dead m Adelaide,
at 64 He was president at the Ornitho-
logical Congress of 1912 at Launceston, and
was one of the best rifleshots m S.A., too,
up to 10 years back.
Jimmy Thomas, Britain’s Colonial Secre-
tary, whose personal triumph over the Labor
machine at Derby was one of the features
of the elections, descended from his pedestal
to cut rather a sorry figure when he used
his wife and family (in person) m an un-
successful attempt to melt the flinty heaits
of railwayman bent on depriving hl «| °f ®
pension as a union secretary.
past services to his union are undeniable,
but since then he has held much higher posts
in the service of the State and looks like
continuing to do so. And there is a special
provision in England for needy ex-Ministeis
an annual grant which men with wealthy
connections have not infrequently .been
awarded—Gerald Balfour was one notable
C George Lansbury, one of the three sur-
vivors of the cataclysm which has overtaken
Ramsay MacDonald’s former coileagues, is
likely to lead “what remains of the Laboi
party” in the House of Commons George,
who is best known as a former editor of the
Labor “Daily Herald,” is 72. In his younger
days he had a glimpse of Australia—that was
in 1884-85—worked at road-makine and m
slaughter-yards, and generally, from bis own
account, had such a hard time of it that he
was glad to get home again Whos WAo
mentions among his minor distinctions that
he is a lifelong teetotaller and non-smoker.
E R. Pitt, who succeeds Boys as head or
Melbourne Public Library, is a brother ot
Victoria’s Under-Treasurer. I reviouslyho
was assistant chief librarian In the civil
service he is best known for the earnest and
convincing arguments he put forward as a
member of the committee which got the
State superannuation system adopted.
Vic Railway Commissioner Clapp has a
useful' lieutenant in his outdoor stores
superintendent, H'arry Sergeant. Sent to
America in 1921 to learn the newest methods
Sergeant has swept a new broom through an
the crowded, ill-lighted and poorly arranger
storehouses in the State, so simplifying stock-
taking that the big annual job can now be
completed in two days instead of six months.
He also established the railway reclama-
tion depdt at Spotswood, where all con-
demned railway junk, from obsolete locomo-
tives to empty gum-bottles, is now collected,
broken up, salvaged or auctioned. Last
year this depot earned nearly i106,66U
from discarded odds and ends.
PADDY GLYNN.
Paddy Glynn’s
death last week
made another
gap in the thin
ranks of those
who drew up
our Constitu-
tion; only
Symon is left
in S. Australia.
And poor Paddy
had been a very
pathetic relic
for a good many
years, quite in-
capable of any
long mental
effort. He wasn’t
a great states-
man, but he
was a tremen-
dously voluble
speaker (he had
won prizes for
oratory in his
Dublin Univer-
sity days), he
was picturesque,
he was generous,
and he was
energetic. He
wasn’t a great
lawyer either;
in his early
days in S. Aus.
he mixed law and
journalism, edit-
ing the “Herald”
at Kapunda, his
country town.
Probably the
best writing he
ever did was a
series of reports
of the meets of
t h e Adelaide
IT unt CTI üb.
Paddy was a
dashing rider in
his day. And
everybody called
him Paddy. He
was that sort
of man.
Michael McDonnell, dead at Temora
(NSW.), at 74, had been a skin- and wool-
merchant there for the past 45 years. Be-
fore that he was a noted shearer; in the
season of 1888 lie shore 26,000 sheep. His
best score for a single day was 244, and he
had accounted for 1126 in one week. Despite
his age he retained his ability with the
blades, and 12 months ago won a shearing
match for a wager against Tofh Kite, another
veteran of the craft.
Councillor ANDERSON, who beat the
Lang Plan candidate for the S. Aus.
Leg. Council seat.
One of the Sound Films concern’s reels
is a picture of Melbourne taken by
Boy Driver, its principal cameraman,
while F. W. Haig, the Vacuum Oil Co.’s
chief aviation officer, looped the loop, broad-
sided and put his ’plane through all the
stunts a daredevil airman is capable of.
Driver was lashed to his seat and the
camera was lashed to him. When Haig landed
he complimented his passenger on his en-
durance. “You must have had considerable
experience of flying,” lie commented As
a matter of fact, it was the first time Driver
had left terra firma in anything more terri-
fying than the T. and G. elevator.
Death lias been busy amongst Brisbane,
journalists; Fred Deady has been followed
into Shadowland by his close friend Mick
O’Dwyer. O’Dwyer saw service in Gallipoli,
Palestine and France. His early newspaper
life was spent in Broken Hill and Bendigo ;
since the war he was a valued member of the
Brisbane “Telegraph” staff. Mick was a
gifted elocutionist and raconteur, and over
20 years ago he played football for the
State. He was only 47 at the close.
Probably the last U.S. Civil War veteran
in South Aus. was R. C. A. Miethke, dead in
Adelaide within a month of his century.
Going from a South Aus. farm, he was in the
Bendigo gold rush of 1854; and lie was oO
when as a traveller in California, ho enlisted
for the North. After three years’ war ser-
vice, he returned to become headmaster ot
various S.A. schools.
Walter James Turner, whose play “The
Man Who Ate the Popomaek” has been staged
by the Sydney Playbox people, is an Aus-
tralian. His father was organist at St.
Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, and the son
went to Scotch College. He has travelled
widely since and saw war-service with the
Royal Garrison Artillery. A most versatile
young man, Turner has been the New
Statesman’s” musical critic, the London
dramatic critic and literary
editor of the “Daily Herald” ; he has also
written nearly a score of books, mostly verse,
plays and works on music. His study ot
Beethoven is regarded as a standard work.
Last year he set the other critics twittering
with a long satirical poem entitled “Miss
America.”
James Broadfoot, who died at Lindfield
(Sydney) at 75, had sailed and steamed over
most parts of the seven seas. in over half a
century of mercantile service. A Glas-
wegian, he went to sea at 10 and was a
master mariner at 25. His later experiences
were mostly in Australian waters ; he joined
Howard Smiths, commanded several of their
vessels, and finally became the owner of some
small steamers —one of them built at Bal-
main—which traded along the Queensland
coast. He retired 10 years ago.
Major Rupert Fanning, of Victoria Bar-
racks, has been named secretary of Melbourne
Hospital in succession to A. 11. Toece, re-
tired. Fanning was a Melbourne Grammar
School hoy; he won the D.S.O. in the war.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Cos. of Australasia, Ltd.
Written
June, Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
£ £ £
1921.. 5,068
Charged to Development account, £45,777 303,400
Debenture Flotation Costs ..£29,860 333,260
Profit.
1922.. 105,593 29,000 256,667
Charged to Development .. £8,343 ) no .
Debenture Costs .. £ll | 2fa0,021
Pref. Shares.
1923.. 398,073 8 p.c. = £149,115* 92,304 108,367
Vote to Risdon Co-op. Council, £7,500 115,867
All Shares.
1924.. 461,953 9 p.c. = 169,131 212,020 f 35.065
Reserves.
1925.. 542,109 10 „ „ 216,269 148,536 142,240
Charged to Development, £7172 .. 135,068
1926.. 557,029 12 p.c. = 311,845 133,205 247,047
1927.. 544,607 12 „ „ 312,000 150,145 329,509
Charged to Development, £1369 .. 328,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,452 384,420
1929.. 513,660 12 „ „ 312,000 138,828 447,252
Charged to Development, £lß4l .. 445,411
1930.. 428,156 12 p.c. = 312,000 137,532 424,035
1931.. 158,239 4 „ „ 104,000 142,768 335,507
•Including arrears.
tlncluding special amortisation reserve, £IOO,OOO.
The latest accounts claim a profit of
£5678 as against £283,015 for the previous
term. This is reconciled with the figure in
the table as follows:
Profit and loss balance.. .. .. £5,678
Unexplained addition to sinking fund. . 21,040
Net addition depreciation, etc., reserve 143,621*
Total £170,339
Less; Reduction in general reserves . . 12,100
Net profit as per table.. .. £158,239
•Including £853 written off Development Account.
Net additions to the reserve for depreciation,
etc., are then shown as written off. This
reserve (£1,390,656) was equal to 40.9 p.c. of
the book value of mines and plant at June
30; it is not included with the lay-by above.
The div. was paid early in the term, when
spelter was fetching around £l6 a ton.
The collapse of metal prices, a sluggish
market and lagging costs caused the trouble.
Consider this comparison of London spot
prices for metals :
t Average Price
5 12 12
Years. Months. Months.
30/6/’29. 30/6/’3O. 30/6/’3l. 29/10/’3l.
Spelter .. £3O/17/1 £2O/15/5 £l3/13/2 £l3/8/9
Silver . . 2/6.9 1/10.9 1/3.8 1/5.2
Lead . . 28/ 8/- 20/19/6 14/16/1 13/10/-
Spclter sank to £9 13s. 9d. in .Tunc, the
lowest yet recorded, and the loss on metals,
concentrates and ore on hand at balancing
date was £109,000. Also the margin between
the average price realised for zinc, including
exchange, and direct production costs was
reduced by £1.77 per ton last year, equal
to over £97,000 on the 12 months’ output.
Further, the silver and lead in the residues
shipped to Port Pirie fetched £64,000 less
than in the previous term. These items
alone represent a slip of over £270,000 in
the profit on working account.
Metal recoveries improved, due to the
squeezing of an extra week’s work into the
term:—•
Cad-
Zinc Silver Lead inium Copper
T-caas. Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1923.. 31,283 691,062 4344
1925.. 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1927.. 48,605 1,134,000 7620 150 243
1928.. 49,117 994,000 7340 162 229
1929.. 50,001 806,000 6889 176 212
1930.. 54,150 669,800 5466 218 179
1931.. 55,282 708,000 5091 235 127
Better recoveries by the Barrier cos. are
responsible for the drop in the lead figures.
The extra cadmium came from precipitates
shipped from the smelters at Port Pirie.
Acid production (55,928 tons) and super,
sales (19,987 tons) were lighter by 10,040
and 4176 tons respectively.
The extensions to the Risdon plant, to
enable it to give 30 p.c. more output, and
operations on the West Coast, where the
mines and the mill at Rosebery are ready for
production, ceased early in the year, and
the board set about reducing the short-term
deposits got in to finance the new work: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Debentures and interest £404,033 £404,033 £404,033
Sundry creditors . . 114,085 144,348 274,082
Deposits and interest. . 203,294 530,756 240,835
Overdraft .. . . 68,523 33,204 ■ 37,563
Mt. Read-Rosebery mines 442,205 446,677 449,783
Properties, plant, etc... 3,298,540 3,557,333 3,654,539
Book debts . . . . 310,277 270,294 238,804
Shares 68,311 215,379 226,179
Stocks 459,335 546,632 444,088
Cash, etc 405,887 382,934 281,694
Thus, by leaning upon sundry creditors for
an extra £.129,734 and drawing upon cash,
etc., for £101,240, the co. was able to return
£289,921 of deposits. The net reduction in
the floating debt, which is well covered, was
£155,828. The slip in the more or less liquid
surplus (£234,252, including metal stocks,
etc., and shares) was £68,646.
Thus far the co. has had no return from
its large expenditure on the West Coast, and
before operations there can begin anew
staff will have to be recruited. At the
moment the co. is netting enough to meet
all charges plus pref. divs. Ord.~ prospects,
therefore, depend chiefly upon the course of
metal prices and costs. Developments in
Britain are expected to improve the out-
look ; still, production is in excess of demand,
and stocks are accumulating. All the most
important producers outside the U.S.A. have
agreed to restrict the output of spelter; but
the history of stabilisation schemes is not
inspiring. Much will depend upon what
happens in connection with the exchanges.
There are 1/500,000 prefs. in a. paid capital
of £2.600,000; they carry a cumulative 8 p.c.,
follow the ords. in any distribution beyond
that, and have priority as to capital. On
the market they are priced at 19s. 10d., in-
cluding 9d. accrued div., and the ords. fetch
15s.
United Insurance Cos.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
-£ £/ £ £
1922.. 58,862 10 p.c. = 30,000 28,862 386,984
Transferred to capital, £26,000 .. 361,984
1923.. 74,839 10 p.c. = 32,500 42,339 404,323
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 379,323
1924.. 74,711 10 p.c. = 35,000 39,711 419,034
Transferred to capital, £26,000 .. 394,034
1925.. 91,546 10 p.c. = 37,500 144 046 438,080
To Pension Reserve, £IO,OOO )
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 413,080
1926.. 66,321 10 p.c.-- 40,000 26,321 439,401
Transferred to capital. £25,000 . . 414,401
1927.. 66,748 10 p.c. = 42,500 24,248 438,649
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 413,649
1928.. 67,403 10 p.c. = 45,000 22,403 436,052
1929.. 66,862 10 „ „ 45,000 21,862 457,914
1930.. 68,231 10 „ „ 45,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,639 10 „,, 45,000 478,784
Tlie underwriting surpluses! for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1929 aggre-
gated £127,000-odd as against £212,084 for
the preceding quinquennium. The co. had long
had the financial strength, organisation and
goodwill necessary to write a much larger
business, so the management decided to_ put
more ginger into the hunt. But premiums
fell as values shrunk, and lighter pay-rolls
affected workers’ compensation receipts.
Also, the wider policy-writing and other
things have brought a heavier crop of claims,
while exes, have been difficult to curb.
The slip in last year’s total income
(£872,383) was £40.333. But reinsurances
(£362,402) were £52,264 lighter, so net
premiums, interest, etc., sprang £11,931 :
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0 „
1920.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1926.. 296,273 131,016 143,572 44.2 ~ 48.4 „
1927.. 303,470 127,573 155,778 42.0 „ 51.3 „
1928.. 346,391 162,914 164,724 47.0 „ 47.6 „
1929. .*413,015 185,236 160,916
1930. .*498,060 261,695 168,124
1931. .*509,981 290,748 167,101
*lncludes interest, etc.
Claims were £29.052 heavier; exes, were
got back only £1023. Thus the surplus from
all sources (£52,132) was £16,099 lighter
than the previous year’s. That is disregard-
ing an unexplained reduction of £9493 in
reserves, which left the net surplus at
the £42,639 shown in the table. It was
£2361 short of the amount the usual 10 p.c.
div. called for.
Premium and other income have not been
separated in the sheet for the last three
years. However, the co.’s own funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) need turn in
only 4.8 p.c. not to cover a 10 p.c. div.;
they probably showed a little better than
4.8 p.c. last year, so the underwriting sur-
plus, if any, must have been narrow. The
reduction in interest on Government securi-
ties, mortgages, etc., will affect the return
from investments; maintenance of the 10
p.c. div. will depend upon underwriting per-
formances. In the past the policy has been
to keep the div. steady and distribute bonus
.scrip. Thus, £325,000 of the £450,000 of
paid capital has been provided out of sur-
plus earnings since 1912; but these gifts
have worked their own cure.
Policy-holders have never had any cause
for anxiety. Of recent years net tangibles
have been about 14 times the amount usu-
ally looked for. The funds are invested in
this way :—•
1920. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Government
securities. . £276,175 £487,432 £503,313 £503,363
Cash, book
debts, etc. 206,778 274,372 323,796 298,204
Debentures . . 60,831 40,688 40,688 40,688
Mortgages . . 53,988 117,695 131,729 128,193
Premises . . 104,281 103,691 118,759 118,759
To meet the year’s extra losses and pay
the div., cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£25,592. No hint is given as to the basis
on which Government securities have been
taken into account.
The £lO shares paid to £5 fetch £7 17s.
6d. on the market. At that price the return
is 6.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The back-
ing is £lO 6s. sd. in net tangibles.
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
, Dividends-
Pref. To
Sept., Profits. (6£ p.c.) Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
Cos. reconstructed. Pref. rate lifted £
to 6£ p.c. ; three new ords. issued for
two old, absorbing £125,000 .. 103,546
Additions to reserves, £29,937 . . 73,609
64 p.c. To Reserves.
1925.. 80,872 8125 13§ p.c.= 51,250 21,497 52,112
Premium on shares, £12,500 .. 39,612
Reserves.
1926.. 191.858.8125 16 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,496
1927. .201,194 8125 23 „ ~126,500 66,569 127,065
1928. .219,245 8125 25£ „ ~140,250 70,870 197,935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 „ ~154,000 103,712 301,647
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275,000 26,647
1930. .223,578 8125 22 p.c.=156,367 59,086 85,733
1931. .147,934 8125 9„ „ 98,316 41,493 127,226
Over the last seven years £815,594, includ-
ing £400,000 of gift scrip, has been added
to paid capital, raising it to £1,225,000 In
125,000 prefs. and 1,100,000 ords. at June
30. Further, the pref. div. has been lifted
half a point, making it 6| p.c., the ords.
have averaged 19.5 p.c., and in place of a
deficit of £103,546 in 1924 there are now
reserves of £127,226. The last gift (one-
for-two) was made in February, 1930. before
conditions changed.
That raises a question as to whether the
co. will be able to pay satisfactory divs. on
capital as it now stands. Last year’s per-
formance suggests that it will. There was a
slip of £165,212 in gross earnings (£238,484,
including divs., etc.), due mainly to the drop
in advertising revenue. Exes. (£125,550)
were got back £97,568, despite the spring
in exchange and growth in taxation, thus
reducing the contraction in the profit claimed
(£112,934) to £70,644. But £35,000 dropped
from somewhere into the depreciation
reserve, raising it to £255,000. This
the “Wild Cat” believes to be provision in
excess of current requirements for deprecia-
tion, and treats it accordingly. So, allow-
ing for the pref. div.. there was enough to
show 12.7 p.c. on ord. capital. An interim
4 p.c. and final 5 p.c. were paid, making
9 p.c. for the year as against 22 p.c. in
the previous term. Still, the last gift makes
9 p.c. worth p.c. on three-quarters of
the capital.
The co.’s publications and its broad-
casting station (3DB) contributed to the
pool. The “Herald,” which has been the
chief money-spinner, continues undisturbed
in its monopoly of the evening field, and
Advertiser Newspapers (Adelaide), in which
the Herald Cos. bought a “substantial in-
terest” a couple of years ago, paid 8 p.c. for
the 12 months to Dec. 31 last as against 12
p.c. in the previous term.
It was to help finance the deal with the
Adelaide co., and lighten the debt, that
£275.000 of scrip was issued for cash early
in 3930. The purchase was followed by a
spring of £249,362 in the book value of
shares in other cos., to which a further
£26,603 was added last year:—
1920. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Stock .. £108,087 £155,391 £138,854 £104,679
Debtors, etc. 56,890 320,847 87,752 89,116
War Loans 70,389
Shares in
other cos. 100 151,037 451,712 478,315
Cash .. 27,621 115 79,914 92,172
Liquids.. £263,087 £627,390 £758,232 £764,282
Liabilities 91,782 285,239 135,361 103,657
Surplus £171,305 £342,151 £622,871 £660,625
Freeholds,
etc. . . 73,645 192,765 328,373 331,711
Machinery,
and plant 45,796 278,143 435,513 445,513
Net assets £290,746 £813,059 £1,386,757 £1,437,849
Thus, after taking stockis into account at
£34,175 below the 1930 figure, strengthening
the cash holding by £12,258 and reducing
the amount coming to sundry creditors by
£31.704, the more or less liquid surplus was
£37,754 stronger than at the previous
balance. The growth in fixed assets over the
last five years is due to the remodelling of
the co.’s Flinders-street premises and the
installation of practically new plant through-
out. This has reduced overhead, and other-
wise strengthened the co.’s position.
The ords., which were priced at 31s. 6d. a
year ago, now fetch 365. 6d. in the market.
Allowing for the final div., the return at the
current price is 5.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 225. 3d, in net tan-
gibles, subject to any goouwill, etc., there
may be in shares in other cos. At 235. 6d.
the well protected prefs. return 5.5 p.c.
Cumberland Paper Board Mills, Ltd.
( Dividends N
, Pref. —
Profit. Ist. 2nd. 3rd. Ord. Total. Deficit.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1921.. 41,301 10 10 10 10 = 30,180 624
Added intangibles, £l2B .. .. 752
Loss.
1922.. 14,521 Nil Nil Nil Nil,, 15,273
Profit.
1923.. 15,145 Nil Nil Nil Nil,, —l2 S
Reserves.
1924.. 15,398 Nil Nil Nil Nil,, 15,270
Added intangibles, £125 .. .. 15,145
1925.. 29,868 32 32 Nil Nil = 33,436 11,577
1926.. 22,193 8 8 40 Nil,, 32,359 1,411
Premiums on shares, £2655 . . 4,066
Undertaking sold to Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd. Reduction in
reserves, £2205 .. .. .. 1,861
Deficit.
1927.. 12,613 8 8 8 8 = 26,008 11,534
Added reserves, £lll9 . . . . 10,415
1928.. 27,071 8 8 8 4 = 22,000 5,344
Added reserves, £763 .. . . 4,581
Reserves.
1929.. 13,888 8 5 Nil Nil = 8,606 701
1930.. 20,479 8 11 10 Nil „ 21,092 88
Deficit.
1931.. 16,146 8 8 10 Nil,, 17,848 1,614
At the peak of the post-war boom, in 1921,
capital was doubled by the issue of bonus
scrip, assets being written up for the
purpose. Then there was a dry spell for share-
holders, due to the collapse of prices and
a trade war. Presently this co. and Aus-
tralasian Paper decided to go on the market
together; so they sold their surplus assets to
anew operating concern, Australian Paper
Manufacturers, for scrip. Cumberland got
314,489 paids; its holding has since grown
to £358,111 (cost) by cash subscriptions.
Its only other asset at Sept. 30 was book
debts, etc., £8824. There was £lO3 coming
to sundry creditors, and paid capital was
£358,111 in 40,000 first, 108,111 second and
60,000 third prefs., all 8 p.c. cumulative, and
150,000 ords.
Since the merger it has been a struggle to
keep up payments to the prefs. Last year’s
receipts (£20,434) were £1162 lighter; exes.
(£4197) were £3171 heavier, due to taxation,
leaving £16,146 net, not quite enough to
cover bare pref. requirements. Still, 10
p.c. was handed to tbe thirds, reducing their
arrears to 4 p.c. and raising the book
deficit to £1614.
But it is how the operating co. is getting
along that matters most. It has produced
the following results over the last four
years:—•
Net Profit
Year, Net p.c. Average
June 30, Profit. Capital. Dividends.
1928.. £96,147 G. 2 5J p.c. = £90,826
1929.. 45,797 2.8 24 „ „ 40,000
1930.. 102,720 8.1 74 „ „ 96>000
1931.. 99,372 7.8 7 „ „ 89,600
The business appears to have held well con-
sidering the difficulties. The fire which de-
stroyed the Cumberland mill affected the
1929 figures, but it did not do the co. much
harm. A smaller mill was put up at
Botany (Sydney), additions were made to
the plant at Fairfield (Yic.) and produc-
tion on the old scale was soon restored, with
savings in overhead.
Also, when the insurance claim was settled
a substantial amount was wiped off the debt.
At the same time 4s. per share (£320,000)
was lopped off capital, reducing it to
£1,280,000 in 16s. shares, thus enabling the
board to rub out the goodwill figure
(£104,708) and make other book adjust-
ments totalling £215,292, chiefly in respect
of fixed assets. These and other changes in
the accounts are reflected in this compari-
son of the operating co.’s balance-sheet
figures:—•
1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £1,600,000 £1,280,000 £1,280,000
Loans, etc. .. 447,704 114,233 104,887
Sundry creditors.. 52,991 33,905 26,235
Freehold and plant 1,406,202 1,162,043 1,176,807
Shares other cos.,
etc 25,668 26,656 36,626
Stock .. .. 475,116 326,190 327,597
Book debts .. 151,593 177,322 193,390
Cash .. .. 17,311 1,358 32,604
Thus last year’s surplus earnings, together
with £35,000 set aside for taxation and the
allowance for depreciation, etc., enabled the
board to strengthen the more or less liquid
surplus (£422,469) by £65,737, as well as
add £14.764 to the book value of fixed assets
and £9970 to shareholdings.
To enable Cumberland to make an all-
round 8 p.c. distribution, the operating, co.
would need to pay 10 p.c. on its capital.
On the market the firsts are priced at 195.;
seconds, 17s. Gd.; thirds, 16s. 6d. Allowing
for the statutory 22 i p.c. cut and 10 p.c.
deducted by the co. on account of Federal
super tax, returns at these prices are 6
p.c., 6.5 p.c. and 6.9 p.c. respectively. The
oi'ds. fetch Bs.; at that figure the return
would be 6.2 p.c. on a 21 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible backing is approximately
£9 55., firsts; £3, seconds: £3 145., thirds ;
21s. 10d., ords.
Castlemaine Brewery (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 11,033 14 p.c. = 13,125 78,513
Additions to reserves . . £22,679 101,192
Reserves capitalised ..£13,791 87,401
1922.. 17,933 10 p.c. = 12,656 5277 92,678
Reserves capitalised ..£53,796 38,882
1923.. 21,971 121p.e.= 17,031 4940 43,822
1924.. 23,326 10 „ „ 17,500 5826 49,648
1925.. 24,552 12.8„ ~ 22,500 2052 51,700
1926.. 29,508 28.5„ ~ 50,000 31,208
1927.. 24,609 14.3„ ~ 25,000 30,817
1928.. 24,365 14.3„ „ 25,000 30,182
1929.. 25,109 14.3„ ~25,000 109 30,291
1930. . 22,514 12.6,, ~ 22,500 14 30,305
1931.. 14,771 8.6„ „ 15,000 30,076
That distribution looks over-generous; yet
too much notice need not be taken of this.
The co. is one of the original half-dozen in
the C.U.B. merger of 1907. For a long
time it limped along under a heavy load of
debt, paying modest divs. on its written
down capital. But the position changed as
the old properties were sold and the debt
was worked down. Over the last decade divs.
have averaged 13.9 p.c., and £67,587 of the
old capital was restored, raising the total
now on the register to £175.000.
The holding in the C.U.B. comprises
102.500 ords. and 14.914 7 p.c. prefs., which
advance with the ords. beyond that rate.
What this and the co.’s other investments
turn in the next table shows: —
C.U.B. Interest, C.U.B. Interest,
Div. etc. Div. etc.
1921. . £11,894 £8,778 | 1927. . £21,809 £5,605
1923.. 17,355 7,635 | 1928.. 21,788 5,210
1924.. 17,402 8,354 I 1929.. 21,975 4,981
1925.. 18,895 8,081- 1930.. 18,648 5,818
1926.. 20,388 7,013 [ 1931.. 14,128 5,521
Thus divs. from the operating co. were
£4520 lighter last year at 12 p.c. on the
face value of the holding. Interest, etc.,
dropped £297, and exes. (£48781 were £3(La>
heavier, due to taxation, leaving the net
result £229 shy of the 8.6 p.c. div. —the
final was at the rate of 7.1 p.c. p.a. Castle-
maine’s proportion of C-U.B.’s undistributed
profit for 1930 was £2402.
C.U.B. figures for the 12 months to June
30 last are not yet available. In the pre-
ceding term it netted 17 p.c. on its £1,950,000
of capital, compared with 21.6, 22.8, 22.5
and 21 p.c. back to 1926. and the div.
dropped from 17| p.c. to 15 p.c. Visible
accumulations were £498,492 in excess of
the £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill,
and the more or less liquid surplus amounted
to no less than £1,269,362. Still, lighter
turnover and stinging increases in excise and
other levies, including the super tax on
income from property, will keep net earn-
ings at a much lower level than of recent
years.
At Sept. 30 Castlemaine owed outsiders
only £339. Shares in the combine figured
at £119,861; properties, £21,174; advances,
£17.692: cash, etc.. £54,437. On the market
255. was recently asked for the co.’s 17s.
6d. shares. The return at that price is 5.6
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The backing exhibited
in the sheet is 3s. sd. per share; there was
another 7s. lOd. in the co.’s proportion of
C.U.B.’s visible lay-by at June 30, 1930.
Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd.
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profits. (8 p.c.) Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 12,705 3402 74 p.c. = 9193 110 129,317
Added to reserves, £11,964 . . 141,281
1929.. 13,289 4000 7* p.c. = 9193 96 141,377
Reduction in reserves, £6500 .. 134,877
1930.. 13,574 4305 71 p.c. = 9193 72 134,953
(6 p.c.)
1931.. 1,219 4479 lj p.c. = 1532 130,161
William Dymock opened his first bookshop
in Pitt-street, Sydney, in 1883. In 1900 he
died, and the business became a family
partnership. It was registered as a limited
co. in 1913, to allow outside capital to come
in ; later still, in 1920, the present co. was
formed and pref. scrip was issued. Mean-
while Dymock’s book arcade had changed
its address several times, and the co. began
to invest in city properties—the Sydney
Arcade and old Royal Hotel premises in
George-street were bought. Then, encouraged
by the rise in property values and rents,
the co. decided to put up a fine new 11-
storeyed building, “The Block,’’ on its
George-street freehold. This was expected to
add £12,000 p.a. to net profits, which had
averaged £12,367 for the five years to the
close of accounts in 1926. But the job was
scarcely out of the contractor’s hands (in
1929) when the boom burst, and shop and
office space became a drug in the market.
Earnings from the book-selling section of
the business kept on expanding until last
year, when gross trading profits (£30,801)
slipped £Bsll. Divs., etc. (£2071), brought
in an extra £560. Exes. (£25,681) were
got back £5941. But properties, which
turned in £4373 in the previous term, showed
a loss of £5972, of which £2694 was struck
off from reserves —a couple of years ago
reserves benefited by £11,964 net on account
of a resumption by the City Council. Alto-
gether reserves were dipped into for £4792
to give the prefs. three-quarters of a meal
and the ords. lj- p.c.. reducing the book
value of the lay-by to £130.161 at June 30.
The co. has gone heavily into debt to
finance its property purchases:—
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £159,993 £72,568 £193,568 £197,568
Mortgages . . 116,467 199,750 263,821 262,814
Other liabilities 24,579 84,864 46,431 53,800
Freeholds . . 327,962 537,665 568,806 568,113
Leasehold . . 7,236 -
Plant, etc. . . 950 2,888 2,756 2,527
Shares, etc. . . 26,068 28,460 28,460 28,455
Stocks . . 23,873 24,843 30,559 34,084
Debtors .. 8,804 8,272 10,055 9.747
Cash, etc. . . 37,614 1,728 1,730 1,417
At the close of last accounts “The Block”
stood in the books at £444,184. The excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids in-
creased by £3463. reaching £242,911. The
book value of freeholds and investments
cannot be taken as present market values,
(Continued on page 16.)


e
a
<r><T
When you drink
Pilsener see that
it comes from the
long bottle.
Resch’s Pilsener—
the Aristocrat of
the Dinner Table.
3
VP
' \
I
''h
//
y
REsars'4
s»s8&
BBS
:>f
y2£Xy.*XAo<x<x ft
;. v *'y««(v« >V:
1
=SF
PILSENER.
cm


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth ana Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The all round excellence of Pioneer Wood Pipe
as a conduit for any type of liquid conveyance is
illustrated in most convincing form in the many
important schemes for water supply where Pioneer
Wood Pipe has been used. These installations have
shown that Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely reliable,
possesses great strength, is unaffected by heat, frost
or electrolysis—is definitely non-corrosive and ex-
tremely durable. Remember, too, that the initial
cost, and the cost of handling, transporting and
laying, are considerably less with Pioneer Wood
Pipe than with any other type. A request will
bring you full particulars. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray,
Y ictoria. — Advt .
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.— Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons.
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
amp;
Paying off the mortgage —
and a trip round the world
[liuum
m
A
?///
52Z
IS
if#
A far-seeing wife puts
a plan to her husband
WIFE: All this new legislation about mortgages and interest has set me think-
ing. Now that you have less interest to pay on the mortgage on the
cottage, couldn’t you spare a few pounds. . . .
HUSBAND: But 1 am paying it off now at the rate of £25 a year.
WIFE: Yes, John, but we owe £750. It will take you thirty years to pay it off
at that rate, and what would happen to the youngsters and me if you
were to die before you paid it off?
HUSBAND: My dear, don’t you worry your head about that. I’m not going to
die I’m as fit as a fiddle I’m going. .. .
WIFE: Don’t boast, dear! We don’t know what will happen, and it is better
for us to play safe. Besides, John, we don’t want to work all our lives!
Wouldn’t you like a trip round the world before you die?
HUSBAND: Don’t be silly what’s the big idea?
WIFE: Well, if you took out an extra policy in the A.M.P. for £750, and any-
thing should happen to you, the money would be available to make the
cottage free of debt. That would ensure Joan and me having a roof over
our heads. But if you live to 60, John, and pay off the mortgage as you
are doing now, we can have the money for a trip round the world! Here’s
something to dream of, my dear man!
HUSBAND: Why that’s insuring to live instead of insuring against death that’s
a fine idea!
Of course it’s a fine idea, and the wonder is that more wives don’t think of
Life Assurance in that cheerful way. Let us send you our booklet, ‘‘Life
Assurance as a Family Asset.” Better still, ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send
an experienced officer to talk the question over with you.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES IN THE PRINCIPAL CITIES OF
THE COMMONWEALTH AND NEW ZEALAND.
Field Representatives in all Districts.
A. C. HOLL.INGWORTH. A.1.A.. General Manager.
Established
1849.
CaVmjD
Assets,
£83,200,000.
the chairman says. With such a large pro-
portion of its funds in premises, etc., the
co.’s prospects depend largely on the future
of the letting market, which is lifeless at
at the moment. Also there is the interest-
bearing debt calling for reduction.
On ’Change dealings are restricted to the
75,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which are priced
at IBs. The return at that figure is 12.1
p.c. On paper the net tangible "cover was
£4 7s. 4d. at June 30.
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (in liquidation), the
ship-chandler and hardware-merchant co.
which put up the shutters in February last
has paid two divs. aggregating 10s. in the £
on all.proved claims of unsecured creditors.
Further payments will be made as moneys
become available from realisations. The
assets, valued at £254,153, are estimated to
realise £IBO.OOO. If this estimate proves
correct all outside liabilities will be dis-
charged in full, and a surplus of £115,645
( = 6s. 7d. per 12s. 6d. share), less costs
of liquidation, will remain for shareholders.
The co. had been floundering in deep water
ever since an ill-judged bonus issue in 1920.
$
The Primary Producers’ Tobacco Cos., Ltd.,
is a Brisbane float with a nominal capital of
£75,000 in £1 shares, of which 50,000 are
offered. Brokerage is expected to make off
with £BOO0 —£3000 paids, £SOOO cash —and
preliminary exes, with £SOO, leaving £44,500
for the erection of plant (£5000) and to
finance growers, etc. The idea is to advance
up to 40 p.c. of approved valuation of
crops, and to manufacture and market
tobacco. On an annual output of 125 tons
of tobacco the prospectus figures on a gross
profit of £21,000, or Is. 6d. a pound. Exes,
are put at £10,950, including depreciation
(£500) and taxation (£4,300), leaving
£10,050 net, equal to approximately 19 p.c.
on a capital of £53,000. The co.’s success
or otherwise will depend mainly upon
whether it can win a ready market for its
output; and that in turn will depend upon
whether the product appeals to smokers’
tastes. The board may go to allotment when no
more than 8000 shares have been subscribed.
* * * *
With gold fetching £6 14s. 7d. per fine
ounce at the Mint- —and there is a Govern-
ment bonus as well —more ginger is being
put into the hunt for the metal than at any
time since the closing decade of the last
century. Amongst the newcomers in Vic.
is the Rising Sun G. M. Go., Ltd., a Mel-
bourne float in 132,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each.
The vendor takes 30,000 paids, but no cash:
60,000 are offered and the balance is in
cold store. The co. is sinking, a shaft some
200 ft. west of the old Rising Star workings
at Daylesford, which yielded over 40,0000 z.
of gold from the zone of enrichment. It is
expected to cut anew line of reef in this
zone at 160 ft. Here the late H. S. White-
law, State field geologist, said the auriferous
shoots should prove as rich as those in the
Rising Star. With this view W. Barag-
wanath and R. A. Keble both agree.
* * * :[:
New Guinea and Papuan gold floats have
been at a discount in Sydney for some time,
so preparations are being made to launch
New r Guinea Gold Development (N.Z.), Ltd.,
in Maoriland. Nominal is to be £50,000 in
ss. shares, of which the vendors will take
40,000, and 80,000 will be offered, leaving
another 80,000 in pickle. The window is
dressed by the vendors taking the right to
a further 20,000 shares within 12 months
at a premium of not more than 2s. 6d. each.
The co. is to acquire a property prospected
and pegged by J. A. Miller, who was con-
nected with the Mt. Lawson and other ven-
tures. This property, said to be about 26
miles from the with a good graded
road leading to it, is figured to contain over
19,000,000 tons of ore, sampled to go £3 Bs. 9d.
per ton. The exact location is a dark
secret. The co. is also to investigate other
properties; but why it wants to do this with
such a Golconda at hand is one of those
things no fella can understand.
* * # *
J. C. Coldham, of Mt. Coolon (Q.), was
recently at Broken Hill in search of per-
sonnel and machinery, and now Messrs.
Morgan and Blown, two bright young Adel-
aide ’Varsity graduates, are on their way
north. The machines selected include boilers
and a winding engine from the South, an air-
compressor from the Junction and an electric
generator from the Zinc Corporation ; B. H.
Prop, supplied a steel head-frame from
Dickenson’s shaft.
* =s= * *
The bullion railed to the coast from Isa
(Q.) during September contained 2246 tons
of lead, valued at £26,793, and 130,3020 z.
of silver, worth £7601. The seven glory
holes on the Black Star lode were worked
continuously, and 27,056 tons of ore were
put through the mill for 5353 tons of con-
centrates.
* * * *
Queensland Gold Exploration, of which
Captain G. A. Richards, of the old Mt.
Morgan Cos., is chairman, is investigating the
Oaks field in the East Etheridge (N.Q.)
country. This field was located in 1907, and
for a while kept up to 2000 men employed.
Most of the gold won was alluvial, but a
certain amount was got from small reefs
and leaders. The co. proposes to work the
properties on a large scale as low-grade
propositions; but nothing definite will be
decided until it _is seen how deep values
go, and this will probably mean boring.
The intrusion of water and refractory ores
killed Etheridge, but modern methods are
expected to overcome these difficulties.
* * * *
Another Queensland find is some 12
miles from Brisbane, on the Dayboro line,
where a quartz leader in conglomerate
showed 2oz. 2dwt. of gold to the ton. The
parcel, taken from a n Bft. shaft, was assayed
by the Mines Department. Following the
leader the shaft has been, sunk on an under-
lay, and further samples went as much as
soz. 6dwt. to the ton. Continued sinking
disclosed the sulphides at 40ft., and at 50ft.
the footwall of these was found to contain
from 13dwt. to loz. Bdwt. from four separate
lots. Capital is to be raised in Brisbane to
equip the mine.
❖ # *
A Clermont (Q.) syndicate, which is
working the Mt. White proposition, some 20
miles from Mt. Coolon, claims to have got
3oz. values nearly all the way in a 100 ft.
shaft. Development will be pushed ahead
when rain makes this possible. Meanwhile
the battery from Barclay’s at Coolon ha.s
been purchased, and is to be transferred to
the new field.
* * * *
The Mafeking field (Vic.), which sup-
ported a population of over 15,000 people
early in this century, is receiving atten-
tion again. The old dredge dam, which
contains large deposits from the sluicing
claims above, has been tested, and is said
to contain at least 5 grains of gold to the
yard. One problem will be where to store
the tailings; all below the dam is private
property. Where the fine gold on the field
was shed from has never yet been discovered.
A Bendigo syndicate, however, is talking
about cutting a hole into Mt. William to
see what is there.
* * :!: *
The Mutooroo Copper Corp. has taken a
12-month free working option over the
Knight Commander leases, four miles north
of old Siberia (W.A.). Recent crushings
of 1300 tons of stone from this property
are reported to have averaged 40s. per ton.
The vendor gets £2500 cash and £SOOO in
paids if the option is exercised.
* * * *
Wiluna has got itself into a tangle by
installing a big treatment plant before con-
tinuity of shoots at depth and a promised
percentage of extraction were absolutely
assured, and because new-fangled methods
of stoping were introduced in opposition to
the opinions of experienced Westralian
underground experts, thus causing the dilu-
tion of good stuff with poor stuff. Hence
average extractable values and probable
profits were over-estimated.
* * * *
The option season is open in the West.
Representatives of Adelaide cos. are motor-
ing here and there on the fields in search of
something attractive. Empire Extended is
said to be enamored with its prospects at
Mulwarrie, near Davyhurst; Telfef North
claims to have a promising show at Nannine,
and King of Creation talks in similar
strain about another at Meekatharra.
•I* $ <!• H»
Paringa (W.A.) seeks another resurrec-
tion. This time it is relying on the sale of
a big wad of unissuetTscrip. If it succeeds,
operations are to be re-started on portion of
the co.’s old holding adjoining the North
Kalgurli, at Kalgoorlie. In the past a good
deal of gold has been taken from the show
by tributors; but shareholders have never re-
ceived anything. They have, however, been
stirred up from time to time to find addi-
tional capital for various purposes, includ-
ing the exploitation of gold ventures in
Rhodesia and asbestos and coal deposits else-
where.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s £300,000 new plant
and development scheme is nearing comple-
tion. Within three months the flotation
plant is expected to be dealing with ore
at the rate of 360,000 tons yearly. The
value of the stone is put at £2 per ton. At
£1 per ounce the gold premium alone would
wipe out the cost of plant within two years.
With the new plant, mining and treatment
costs are not expected to exceed £1 per ton.
❖ 'I- ❖
Great Boulder Prop, reports that the east
crosscut at ISOOft. has proved the lode Oft.
wide, value 7dwt. The market anticipated
something of the kind; scrip had moved from
Is. 7d. to 2s. Id.
* * =i= *
The tin restriction .scheme is beginning
to make itself felt. World supplies for
September were 10,269 tons, compared with
11,788 in August and 12,294 in July. The
rise in the price above the £l2O mark has
been maintained, thus easing the strain on
the producing cos. Among the leading
Australian concerns, Austral Malay kept
two dredges working on restricted time dur-
ing _ October. Asam Kumbang’s output
realised £3175, of which, working costs (3.6 and.
per yard) absorbed £I6OO. Pungah, which
is in Siam, earned £9400 at a cost of £SBOO.
Pungah’s ore is sold in terms of Straits
dollars, with a resultant exchange loss on
remittances to Siam.
Alluvial Tin had eight mines working
during the month. Of these Changkat shut
down on October 16, having completed its
quota for the three months ending Novem-
ber 30. Kundang hung up on October 28;
Kramat started digging again in the middle
of the month. Changkat earned a profit of
£1190; exes, for the month were £793.
Kramat’s output brought £2333 ; exes, took
£1721, leaving a credit of £612. Kundang
was only £23 ahead of it; Rawang Con-
cessions netted £2158 on sales of £3441.
Kampong Lanjut cleared £2042 from an
income of £4375; costs were down to the
very creditable figure of 2d. a yard.' 1 Kuala
Kampar was close up with 2.3 and. a yard;
realisations were £3150; working costs
£1925. Malim Nawar’s earnings of £2187
were docked £1721 for exes., leaving a bal-
ance of £466. This is now a sluicing show,
which explains the comparatively high work-
ing cost of 4.1 and. per yard. Rawang Tin
Fields cashed in for £3150, and showed a
working profit of £1167.
* * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What methods are generally used in
mining for platinum? (2) In what form
does it mostly occur? (3) Is it widely dis-
tributed and chief source of supplyf (4)
Does S'Africa produce any platinum; what
is its mode of occurrence there and how is
it worked? (5) Where and how does it
occur in M.L. ? —5902.
(1) Until a few years ago the world’s
supply was obtained from alluvial or by
dredging. (2) The metal mostly occurs in
small grains, though nuggets of a few ounces
have been found. When pure it is soft and
malleable, but in nature is nearly always
alloyed with other metals, and hard. (3)
It is widely distributed. The Ural district
of Russia has been the chief source of
supply for many years. (4) A few years ago
it was found in the Transvaal in notable
amount, and in 1928 was discovered in Sierra
Leone. In the Transvaal it is found in pipes
and layers of basic igneous rock, from which
the grain's of metal are' obtained by crush-
ing. It also occurs in quartz veins asso-
ciated with basic rocks (serpentine, dunitc,
gabbro, etc.). All the alluvial platinum is
believed to have been derived from the
wcatliciing and disintegration of such rocks,
(5) In M.L., platinum occurs most in the
wash of Orepuki. It is found in grains in
the gravels in Nelson and TVcstland, but
very rarely. Also in quartz veins in the
T?° r ? e f« and “ 1 r/ l i a J lcy Creek near
Rocky Point. (See N.Z.G.S. Bulletin No. 1,
1906, p. 50.)
Prospects of profits from arsenic deposit
140 o f rom Sydney):
depth 35ft., fair supply, comparatively high
average content? 6000.
Many factors, such as the nature, size and
location of the deposit, the nature of the
country rock, the class of ore and the aver-
age arsenic content, would have to be taken
into consideration before an opinion could
be offered Samnles should he submitted tn
iiL.nli!,'™ +; , V he submitted to
ie undeimentioned firms, with a view to
obtaining the market prices for the ore :
Camellia Chemical Cos., Camellia, Gran-
ville (N.S.W.) ; Roberts Chemicals, Ltd.,
Mole River, Tenterfield (N.S.W.) • Valla
Gold Mines, Valla, via Urunga (N.S.W) -
A Victor Legeo and Cos Bendum (Vic 1
a. Motor laeggo ana go., (Me.).
BKILJ: ANSWERS.
A.W.: (1) A gamble, at long odds. (2)
Afraid' you must pay. No doubt the paper you
signed said it was a limited co.; and you would
hivo oTmt , ...
, dlffi f culty ln C 0 Vl,K;ms 1 a Ben T ch that
w u , Xt WaS sameth ’ nff else investor:
Well, the best answer Tile Bulletin can give is
that the people who own and run it lately bougnt
a Sydney city property. But, then, they could use
it... .Winnyilka: No better than fair. Have rio
tremendous opinion of those in charge.


Mining Machinery of Modern Design and Construction
9
n
r
B ■
2
One of a number of “RUWOLT” Straight-line Ball Mills recently supplied to the Lake and Star
Itd Kalsoorlie W.A.- size 6ft. dia. x sft. long; capacity 250 tons per 24 hours. These Ball Mills
in conjunction with the Tube Mills, Fahrenwald Flotation Machines, Wilfley Pumps, etc., are no
operation and are giving remarkably good results.
PATENTED
EQUIPMENT
We are the Sole Licensees
in Australia for the Manu-
facture of
“WILFLEY”
SAND AND GRAVEL
PUMPS
“FAHRENWALD”
FLOTATION UNITS
Either of these Units are
indispensable for Modern
Mining Plants.
“RUWOLT”
PORTABLE
MILLING PLANTS
to handle crude ore for
Small Mines,
Pilot Plants
and Prospectors.
Made in three sizes.
Capacity: Half Ton to
Three Tons per hour
respectively.
The Mill, illustrated, is a good example of the class of high-grade work;
nrndnr.ina Our experience in, and resources for, the design and manufact y yp
machinery required for the Crushing, Milling, Dressing and Treatment of Ore * re an
we will be glad to submit designs and quotations for suitable Plant on receipt of enqui .
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
rrrrrr rrrrrrr
Judge these Cars on more than
Their Sparkling Performance alone
Almost every Graham-Paige owner
will earnestly and enthusiastically
emphasise the fact, when discussing
motor-cars, that Graham-Paige trans-
mission of power shows its silent, easy,
effortless superiority in any sort of
test.
These cars are beautifully lithe and
nimble, and the manufacturers are
entirely willing to have you judge
them on this sparkling performance,
but they hope you will be just as
critical —and appreciative —of every
other essential in the new Graham-
Paige Sixes and Eights—their luxur-
ious beauty and comfort, added
factors of safety, economy in operation
and upkeep and durability.
Graham-Paige cars are literally very
good cars at low prices, and they
literally represent a masterly combina-
tion of automobile values and virtues.
GRAHAM-PAIGE offers a variety of body types, including
Roadsters, Cabriolets, Coupes and Sport Phaetons on five
chassis, in sixes and eights at a wide range of prices. All
are equipped with four-speed gears, except Model 612.
I . 3*
i ms
AAAAAM
mgaaaiHiflugffljq
At
AA
Graham-Paige Dis-
tributors for Aus-
tralia. and Neu)
Zealand:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
W. H. Lober and Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA:
Walter WHitbourn Pty.,
Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Maughan Thiem Motor
Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.
QUEENSLAND:
Moxon Motors, Ltd.
TASMANIA:
Twin-top Motors Pty., Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wright, Stephenson and
Co., Ltd.
CrA A A AM-P Al&£


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion “As Husbands Go”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Merry Widow”
State Movies and Talkies
4
Wong Goes to the Cup
Wong Ngai-chan, graduate in Com-
parative Religion, to the Senate of the Uni-
versity of Fu-Ning-hsien, province of
Sczechuan, China.
Revered Seniors, —Unto 1 thee, greeting.
May the wooden pillow of tranquillity be
as soft as the produce of the silkworm
beneath the head of sagacity. The manners
and customs of these barbarians of a land
of amazement will ever remain largely inex-
plicable to thy servant. Nevertheless, I
have been able to deduce therefrom sundry
elements of order out of my state of mental
chaos.
I beg to report that, in pursuance of my
studies in the science of Comparative Relig-
“These, I imagine, are your ministers of
religion.”
ion, I landed in the tenth month of the
Christian calendar in the great city of
Sydney. It was not long before I discovered
that the barbarians are curiously sensitive
about their faiths, creeds and methods of
worship. On being asked what they believed,
the persons I accosted invariably replied
with the tongue of evasion or even of vitu-
peration ; so was I compelled to prosecute
my investigations by a process of deduction.
Seeing vast processions of motor-cars proceed-
ing at great speed out of the metropolis on
their weekly day of worship, I followed in
the hopes of finding the cause of the pil-
grimage and the object of their adoration,
but discovered nothing more than that they
worship the forces of Nature by hymns upon
an instrument known as a gramophone, by
pouring libations to their gods of an intoxi-
cating liquor known as Resch’s, and, as
was the custom amongst the ancient Greeks,
by retiring in couples composed of the two
sexes into dense thickets, whither I learnt
by personal experience it was dangerous to
follow them. Nevertheless, by overhearing
conversations in trams, trains, hotel lounges
and on the pavements, I was able to ascer-
tain that they worshipped a variety of
deities, among whom were mentioned Ammon
Ra (this was also a god of the ancient
Egyptians), Veilmond, Concentrate and Phar
Lap. Of these Phar Lap appeared to be
the greatest, although he was spoken of as
much in sorrow as in adoration by some I
listened to, known as bookmakers, whom I
judged to be his high-priests. I found that
the eyes of the entire nation were turned
towards Melbourne, a city in the south
which appeared to be their Mecca. I cannot
express my delight on discovering that I
had been fortunate in arriving in the country
on the eve of the greatest .religious festival
of the year—in fact, their Holy Week.
Thy servant immediately set about pro-
ceeding to the city, no obstacles being placed
in liis way such as the great Sir Richard
Burton encountered when he penetrated the
mysteries of the faith of the Mohammedans.
Melbourne is a large city of 1,741,390 per-
sons, all of whom are in Swanston-street at
5.30 p.m. daily, as I learnt from a traffic-
policeman. During Holy Week the popu-
lation is approximately doubled, the Gov-
ernor-General, the leading members of the
Government, the heads of every important
business and even the Navy proceeding
there. In fact, it is regarded as a grear
stigma not to be in Melbourne during Holy
Week, such is the pious enthusiasm of the
barbarians. The ceremonies last four days,
culminating in Cup Day, regarded in this
country and, indeed, throughout the barbarian
world, as the greatest religious festival of
Christendom.
As every inquiry I made as to the nature
and the locality of the contemplated rites
was invariably greeted with stares of in-
credulity and even of suspicion, I was indeed
fortunate in encountering a gentleman who
not only understood my difficulties immedi-
ately, but showed himself entirely sympa-
thetic with I was standing outside
the Commonwealth Bank, one “of their lead-
ing institutions, counting the roll of notes
I had just exchanged for my letter of credit,
when this gentleman, who, judging by his
costume and his unshaven appearance, had
undertaken a vow of humility, accosted me.
When ho explained that he had always taken
a deep interest in. the welfare of our people
and was actually familiar with some of the'
sublimest works of our greatest philosophers,
I hastened to explain my difficult position.
He promptly slapped me on the back, which
is not a usual custom of the barbarians, and
said in the racy vernacular of the country:
“Blime, it’s lucky you met me.” He there-
upon volunteered to initiate me into the
most intimate rites and mysteries of his
faith, demanding no fee or recompense there-
for whatever.
The muscles of the ear of attention grow
weary beneath the blows of the tongue of
loquacity, and, to cut a long story short,
this gentleman accompanied me to the chief
temple of their faith, called Fle-Ming-ton.
Revered seniors, even the monastery of Per-
petual Felicity in the Wu-ning hills of my
native province cannot compare with this
amazing place of worship. Imagine a Holy
of Holies consisting of a vast green sward
(as level as the waters of the Lake of Pleas-
antness without your august city) ringed by
fences like unto our own Temple of Heaven,
roofed by the sky and surrounded by mighty
shrines whose fronts open on the tioly of
Holies. Imagine lesser shrines, known as
the Saddling Paddock, the Ring, the Hill,
the Members’, the Vice-regal Box, the Lawn,
the Press Box, and the Totalisator (or Tote,
as my friend called it). Imagine all these
shrines packed with worshippers, of every
rank of society, some in their ordinary
clothes and some in clothes never worn else-
where but in this temple and consisting of
a long black coat, a high hat of black, shiny
or of grey material, and trousers, the suit
having white collars at either extremity;
the women in gay clothing of many colors,
each aiming, I understand, to look unlike her
neighbor. Imagine this vast concourse rush-
ing to and fro in the frenzy of religious
adulation—first to the Saddling Paddock
temple, then to the Ring temple, then to the
Tote temple, perhaps, and then back to the
Lawn temple and to the boxes.
I had hardly had time to drink in this
astonishing spectacle, so unlike the scenes
of indifference in our own Buddhist temples,
when my friend said, “Shake a leg and
you’ll see Phar Lap arriving.” I have seen
the car of Juggernaut driven over the bodies
of worshippers in India, but I was not
prepared for this spectacle. We repaired to
a portion of the ground through various
enclosures, to which my friend appeared to
have the password, and, after fighting our
way through an immense and excited con-
course, came upon a large closed vehicle
which had just arrived and was surrounded
by mounted policemen and men, who, my
informant stated, were private detectives
armed with revolvers. After beating back
the crowd, whose fanaticism was steadily
rising, the escort placed a sloping stage
against the back entrance to the vehicle and
opened the great doors; whereupon a horse
{Equus ungulata) emerged.
It is true that the worship of the horse
has a respectable antiquity. The Greeks
speak of the corn spirit as Horse-headed
Demeter. A horse was annually sacrificed
to Mars, the war god of the ancient Romans,
and its tail was cut off and taken with all
haste to the king’s house so that its blood
could drip on his doorstep. Mongols sewed
living people into horses’ hides and burnt
them at the funerals of their great men. But
in view of the fact that the missionaries of
Fu-Ning-hsien always used to speak of us
people of the Middle Kingdom as idolaters
and themselves as worshippers of the
Hebrew anthropomorphic god Jehovah, I
must admit that I was quite unprepared for
this revelation.
Still repeating his password, my friend
then took me to a private enclosure whither
the god Phar Lap had been transported:
and there his vestments were removed from
him and he was submitted to inspection by
a temple officer known as a Vet. While
this was proceeding I ventured to ask my
friend what the functions, attributes and
powers of the god were. He looked puzzled,
but then brightened, and with the rapt air
of a devotee pointed to various parts of
Phar Lap’s anatomy, saying, “Plain head,
perfectly developed shoulders, perfect stay-
ing heart and adequate nervous system, good
forelegs, hind leg of a stayer, bonzer muscu-
lar development of the hindquarters.”
The remainder of my investigations I am
reserving for the thesis I am writing for
fhe degree of B.A. of the Fu-Ning Univer-
sity. Suffice it to say that we then proceeded
to, the Ring, where stood innumerable men
under white umbrellas, with other men
standing by them armed with what I pre-
sumed to be breviaries or hymn-books, from
which they chanted continuously in a lan-
guage which was quite unlike the English
I learnt during my student days in far and
beloved Fu-Ning-hsien. Gazing on these men
and remembering our proverb, “An honest
magistrate has lean clerks, a powerful god
has fat priests,” I was moved to say to my
companion, “These, I imagine, are your
ministers of religion and their acolytes.”
“They’re cows,” said my informant briefly.
“Come and see what the Tote’s giving.”
The Tote, respected seniors, is an entirely
new addition to the facilities for worship of
the horse at Fle-Ming-ton. It is much
resorted to by a class of believers known as
“small punters,” but it is hated and reviled
by the caste of high-priests known as cows,
for some reason connected with “the odds”
“Blime, it’s lucky you met me.”
or “the divvy,” which are sometimes higher
than those given by the cows; but this is
one of the mysteries your degenerate corre-
spondent has not yet fully fathomed. All
I could gather was that the Tote is a
mechanical method of collecting the offerings
of worshippers, which amount to a figure
that would leave a priest of the monastery
of Perpetual Felicity breathless with aston-
ishment. “Truly, the Australians are the
most religious people in the universe,” I
murmured to my friend. “Too right, they
are,” he answered prayerfully.
Remembering the dictum of Confucius that
there is no harm in sacrificing to the gods;
“It was dangerous to follow them.”
they may not be, but on the other hand, they
may be, I was suddenly seized with a desire
to make an offering to the god Pliar Lap,
especially as my friend said there was an
even chance of getting my offering back with
something added to it—such is the curious
custom of the barbarians. “Would he be
offended,” I asked, “if I made him an offer-
ing of a mere one-pound note of your cur-
rency?” “My oath, he wouldn’t,” said my
friend fervently. “Make it a fiver. I can
get you better odds round at the back of the
building.” I gladly gave my helpful friend
the fiver and he went off to offer it to
Pliar Lap. To my sorrow and mortification
I subsequently missed him in the crowd, and,
having never seen him since, have been
unable to convey to him my thanks for his
assistance in my investigations into the Aus-
tralian religion.
How the horse-gods, of whom there are
many, have to fight for supremacy by run-
ning as swiftly as possibly over a distance
of many furlongs, with acolytes called jockeys
on their backs who urge them on with
prayers, incantations and sometimes with
electric batteries; how the chief god of last
year is. spat on and flung into oblivion; how
the chief god of this year is treated with
more honor than the Prime Minister of the
Commonwealth, and spoken of more often
than the greatest works of art or the latest
discoveries of science, and, when he dies, is
"The horse-gods.”
stuffed and put in the national museum, I
leave for a later communication to your
Excellencies.
In order to make my description clearer,
I have illustrated my account after the
manner of the artists of this truly remarkable
country.
“Cox and Box,” the curtain-raiser to
“Pinafore” at Sydney Her Majesty’s, is an
example of the economy with which the
stage extracts the last teaspoonful of juice
from a bright idea. One of the Reforma-
tion playwrights pinched from the Italian
of some forerunner of Boccaccio the notion
of letting one room to two lodgers, and in the
fifties of last century the industrious Maddi-
son Morton made it into the one-act farce
“Box and Cox.” This retained popularity
for at least 40 years. In the ’sixties Bur-
nand of “Punch” re-wrote it as an operetta,
and with some misgivings entrusted the score
to Arthur Sullivan, whose music for Shaks-
peare’s “Tempest” had brought him in touch
with the stage after 15 years of writing
anthems and cantatas. The result was the
discovery of Sullivan as a composer of light
opera. Burnand in his way was as clever
at burlesque as Gilbert, and that sort of
cleverness never failed to inspire Sullivan.
The piece on Saturday night went as
well as ever. The music, if anything, is a
bit above the “Pinafore” standard, though
the libel on the Navy was perpetrated a
dozen years later.
“Pinafore” suffered on the opening night
owing to the absence from the cast of Ivan
Menzies and John Ralston, whose nlaces
were taken by Phil Smith and Clifford
Cowley. Maisie Ramsay, who starts each
evening’s toil nowadays by singing grand
opera arias at the Cri. as a prelude to “As
Husbands Go,” manages the part of Jose-
phine very pleasingly, but the purport of
most of her lays is obscure. Geoffry Stroud
is in a congenial role as Captain Corcoran,
and Evelyn Gardiner gets a lot of fun out
of Little Buttercup. Andrew MacCunn and
his band, who by now must be able to play
the Savoy operas in their sleep, rive the co.
a firm foundation for its vocal efforts. Stag-
ing is good and ensemble scenes are parti-
cularly well managed.
“The Man Who Ate the Popomack,” at
the Pldybox,. deals with a strange fruit
that frees those who eat it from the shackles
of modern civilisation but makes them
smell. Lord Belvoir (William Gates) eats
it, and loses his fiancee. He gets
another _ popomack and tricks her family
and friends into eating it, hoping by
this means to become less invidious. But
she still refuses him. Finally he wakes up
in a Loudon art exhibition —he has been in
a hallucination, probably brought about
by too long a contemplation of a vorticist
view of the soul of a brickbat. Enter his
Muriel (Laura West). Her father has
just ’phoned that he has received a po_po-
mack from China and she must bring
Belvoir home to eat it with them! There
is some good character-acting by iO. L.
Cunnington as Raub, Muriel’s Jewish
papa, and James Hancock enjoys himself as
Sir Philo Phaoron, the other man w T ho ate
the popomack; Phaoron addressed the
Royal Geographical Society in a diving
suit. Duncan Macdougall, the producer,
played Second Chinese Philosopher. Doubt-
less he has other troubles, but he really
should see that the curtain-manipulator does
his duty promptly after each black-out.
* * *
Pianist Sadie Irwin and singer Heather
Bell, who have been acquiring polish abroad,
exhibited the gloss at Sydney Arts Club.
Miss Irwin, who played Chopin, Debussy and
Ravel, has well-balanced fingers and a good
deal of individuality. Miss Bell, who de-
claimed “Senta’s Ballad,” has dramatic
instinct and a pleasing voice.
* * ¥
“Bright Side Up” is Ernest C. Itolls’s best
boon to Melbourne up to the present. It is
also a domestic triumph for the Bluett
family. Young Gus pervades the whole piece
and is genuinely amusing in his individual
manner. He is a master of gesture and ex-
pression, and his restless method is reminis-
cent of Seymour Hicks without being in any
way derivative. He has the same loose style,
which looks haphazard but is full of cun-
ning continuity. Sister Belle performs the
feat of remaining perfectly still for 20
minutes in a difficult position and a pair of
corsets. The Old Man is a testimonial to
an ancient, but sound tradition of character-
acting and to the preservative qualities of
the Australian climate. The sketches are for
the most part the usual libels on matrimonial
fidelity, with black-out, but are frequently
threatened with intelligence. A political
burlesque on “The Mikado” hasn’t much
point except for the remarkable personal cari-
cature of Priminister Scullin drawn after
the manner of Frith by the indestructible
and invaluable Bertie Wright. Jennie Benson
acts well, and provides one of her heart-
breaking ballads about the Girl Who Took
the Wrong Turning. Arthur Clarke, Thelma
Trott and Charles Stevens give a vigorous
rendering of one of those operatic trios that
recall a cats’ concert. Clarke’s voice has a
remarkably rich tex-
ture. The music is
catchy, the scenery
is sufficient, Renee
Esler is brisk, the
girls are gay and
numerous, and
generally the show
is worth the money.
* * *
Noel Coward’s
latest, “I’ll Leave It
to You,” put on by
Lucy Ahon’s Student
Theatre Society at
the Nicholas Build-
ing, Melbourne, con-
cerns an English
family of idle young
people who are
spurred to earn their
own living when an
uncle from South
America, who is
threatened w i t h
death in three years,
promises to leave his
fortune to who-
ever makes good in
the meantime. The
family becomes prosperous by its own efforts,
so, though the fortune proves bogus and the
death doesn’t eventuate, uncle turns out to
be the fairy godmother. The piece is thin
but amusing and full of the Coward per-
siflage, which looks like wit even if it isn’t.
It got a mixed reception from the company.
Sylvia Green presented an upper-class Eng-
lish girl in the manner of the giggling moron
of Australian bush drama. Guida Hewison
gave an unsophisticated but effective portrait
of a mutton-headed matron. Desmond Robin-
son played uncle with a force and determina-
tion which nearly wrecked the stage, but
saved the situation.
Most authors refrain for excellent reasons
from publishing the works of their nonage,
but Betty M. Davies has nothing to reproach
herself with over her children’s play “The
Gate of Bronze,” produced by Carrie Haase
at Scots’ Hall, Melbourne, last week. The
Gate of Bronze is the entrance to life, and
the thesis of the play is that if you don’t go
through you will be pushed through. The
Princess goes through and on the other
side meets various symbols representing the
experiences common to humanity. There is
a touch of mature irony about some of
them —Fame blowing liis own trumpet,
banging a ridiculous drum and being followed
about by adoring flappers; and Sorrow,
who everybody hopes will pass liim by in
favor of some other fellow. The play was
elegantly mounted but could have been
better acted, for there is in it the incipient
sense of good theatre that distinguishes the
work of Mrs. Davies. The author of “The
Touch of Silk” wrote it when she was 15.
but she must have been mentally older at
the time than J. M. Barrie and other play-
wrights with a Peter Pan complex, judging
by the hard knocks she gives the ancient
doctrine that where ignorance is bliss ’tis
folly to be otherwise.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory has the first Austra-
lian showing of “Death Takes a Holiday,”
from the Italian. Cassella has none of
Pirandello’s vagueness ; he mixes melodrama
with fantasy. On a night of shadows across
the moon, Death lays aside his powers and
comes to try what mortal existence is like,
and why everyone has been afraid of him. To
his host, sworn to secrecy, he is a grim
shape, but to all others a fascinating prince,
and, when his three-day holiday is' over, one
girl is resolute to go with him whatever
his shape may be. To this gripping part
Don Downey brings unexpected power and
charm. He is in fact curiously reminiscent
of Julius Knight. Patricia Hackett, fragile,
obstinate, other-worldly, helps him up to the
Marcus-and-Mercia finish.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Depression and Insurance
In 1925-26 the total fire, marine and acci-
dent insurance premiums (less rebates and
re-insurances) in N. S. Wales were
£4,795,938. In 1925-29 they reached the
peak, £6,559,068 ; they fell £165,787 the next
year and no less than £1,249,842 last year
(to June 30, 1931). Hitherto it had been
generally expected that a heavy fall in values
would be followed by a large increase in the
loss ratio. Actually last year’s loss ratio,
55.14 p.c. of premium income, was a shade
less than the previous year’s. It may be
that the policy-holder, in plain English, is
more honest than he once was. It is also
possible that the energy of the cos. in over-
hauling their risks and reducing the cover
wherever it was thought to be at all exces-
sive may have had something to do with it.
The figures given above include “other
revenue.” Last year this was £355.055. Pre-
miums alone were £4,789,032; total expendi-
ture, £4,591,431. The underwriting profit
was therefore moderate —only a little over
4 p.c.
Fire premiums nowadays represent less
than half the business of these cos. Some of
the principal lines are as follows :
Fire £2,186,459
Employers’ liability and workers’ com-
pensation .. .. .. .. .. 1,014,104
Motor-ear and -cycle .. .. . . 779,158
Marine . . .. .. . . . . 295,887
Personal accident . . .. . . . . 132,501
Hailstone . . .. . . .. . . 69,332
Plateglass .. .. .. . . . . 61,354
Burglary . . .. .. . . . . 56,350
Loss of profits . . . . . . . . 44,157
Public risk (third party) . . . . . . 43,778
Livestock premiums were only £8464.
Comparing premiums and total expendi-
ture, employers’ liability and workmen’s
compensation business showed an actual loss ;
only the comparatively insignificant “Plu-
vius” risks were in the same category. There
was a margin of 3 p.c. in fire premiums, 4
p.c. in those on motor-cars and -cycles and
7 p.c. in marine; hailstone showed a much
better margin (37 p.c.) than in some years,
and plate-glass was also in the top class with
a 34 p.c. margin. Burglary showed 17 p.c.,
and the increasingly popular “householders’
comprehensive,” with £38,007 of premiums,
no less than 63 p.c.
N.S.W. Rural Bank
“Valerin” : What’s to become of the thou-
sands of settlers -who are tied up with the
Rural Bank? O’Malley Wood, the presi-
dent of the G. 5.8., must know no returns
can be expected unless these men are helped
with seed-wheat, fertilisers, chaff and living
expenses. It may be throwing good money
after bad, but the alternative of disposses-
sing them and allowing the farms to remain
idle and the improvements to fall into decay
is worse. A large majority of these farm-
ers are honest workers and hard triers who
have got caught in the backwash of low
prices. It’s no use saying they paid too
much for their land. At the time the values
of wheat and wool justified them; the G.S.B.
valuators thought so too.
N. S. Wales uses about 250,000 tons of
flour yearly; a £l-per-ton flour tax would
yield £250,000, and it would not affect the
price of the loaf one iota. This sum paid
into a special bank trust account and ear-
marked for interest and redemption purposes
would enable the G.S.B. board to borrow
up to £3,000,000, which would be more than
sufficient to rehabilitate indigent farmers and
prevent a general rural smash.
The Government Savings Bank
It has been suggested that the absorption
of the N. S. Wales G. S. Bank might be
simplified if the present Commissioners were
given representation on the Commonwealth
Bank Board. The Commissioners ought to
have promptly announced that no such sug-
gestion came from them or with their autho-
rity. Behind the suggestion is the very
sinister and of course wholly unwarranted
one that the Commissioners’ opposition
could be removed and their support secured
by the promise of a seat or two on the board.
And there is no reason at all why the
Commissioners should be represented on the
board. If any change were called for in
that body it would be in the direction of
appointing one or more representatives of
the old depositors. They have over 50 mil-
lions at stake; the new depositors—the only
ones who might fairly be represented by the
new Commissioners —have half a million.
The P. P. Bank
It doesn’t look as though any of the bigger
trading banks was going to make an offer
for the Primary Producers, lock, stock and
barrel; and an independent liquidation, with
its heavy expense and waste, is the only
alternative. Meantime, all but a few mem-
bers of the staff have been put on the road,
in most cases with very little in their
pockets—the few pounds they had are, as
a rule, safely locked up in the bank. An
interesting point has been raised in that
connection. Many of these officers were sent
from the eastern States to S. Aus. or the
West; is the liquidator under any obligation
to put them back at either head office or
their home town? Apparently there is no-
thing to guide him—the matter is left to
his discretion. But it seems a fair thing
that they should be delivered at their start-
ing-point.
A Brighter Wool Outlook
After a somewhat disastrous opening, the
current wool season has taken on an increas-
ingly firmer tone. At present rates there
is every reason to suppose the average
price will at least equal that of last year,
when figures worked out at £ll 3s. 9d. per
bale; and .taking into consideration the in-
creased production, the total returns should
be about millions more. The suspen-
sion of the gold standard in Britain had
something to do with improving the demand,
since it gave the foreign buyer an increased
margin to work on. All the same, it was the
coming in of the English mill men about the
same time that began the improvement.
Japan has been buying heavily. In the
first 10 months of 1930-31 she took 411,372
bales, and, though closing figures are not
available, for the whole period 541,176 bales,
averaging over £ll apiece, left this country
for Asian manufacturers. Only England,
with 775,966 bales, topped Japan’s record,
though France was a good third with 527,554
bales.
Australian Goods in India
From Lieut.-Colonel G. D. Beresford, of
H.E.H. the Nizam’s Regular Forces, Hydera-
bad (India) :
In the “Times of India’’ just delivered there is
the large advt. of a Bombay fruit-merchant which
runs this way: “Just received Fresh Fruit, compris-
ing American Apples, Rhodesian Oranges and African
Grapefruit.” And another devoted to ham, meat
and cheese —ox tongue, 3 rupees (ss. 3d.) per lb.!
One can get very good apples in baskets by post
from the Hills districts, but they cost at least 4s.
per dozen. Surely Australia can do better than
that (I am thinking especially of our handy
neighbor Westralia) and make good money out of
it! Here in Hyderabad not , long ago I bought
French apples that had been sent out chilled. They
were very expensive, and no more than two in every
dozen eatable.
For all I know, one may be able to get Australian
products from the freezers in Calcutta, Madras and
Bombay. I know one can at Colombo; but there
is absolutely no enterprise in pushing our goods.
I' asked for IXL (Australian) jam in a shop here
with an English name over the door and was told
they did not sell “boiled turnips.” The nice
Imperial-minded person who made this pretty speech
was told the Australians were too idle to stoop
down to dig turnips; they only used fruit for jam
that fell off the trees into wheelbarrows, and that,
apart from that, they had a Pure Foods Act.
Australia has chances in other lines, too. For
example, officers here in the Nizam’s army have just
asked me to cable to a saddler in Melbourne foi;
30 polo saddles, having seen some I got from him
when last on leave. Do see if you can stir up our
people to push our goods. I am sick of going
into shops and finding nothing British —except the
man selling foreign goods.
A Whale-meat Industry Now!
Private letters from the world’s biggest
whaling centre, the Falklands (where former
Tas. Governor O’Grady is now chief ruler),
refer to some of the methods by which the
leading blubber-hunting cos. are endeavoring
to keep afloat on the receding tide of oil
prices. It appears that some of the huge
factory-ships are now operating as meat-
canning plants, with no use for blubber. The
whale-meat is being
put up in handy con-
tainers, plus tomato
pulp, for shipment to
Chinese and other
Asiatic markets. Of
course there is noth-
ing wrong with whale-
flesh as human pro-
vender. Whale-steak is
considered first-rate
fare by the Norwegian
whaler crews, and
writer has heard
several Australians,
who made the trip to
Antarctica with the
Norwegians last
summer, declare that
the whale-meat fed to
them was “not too
bad.” But the cap-
ture of whales for
their flesh does not
look like an economic-
ally-sound proposition,
as the blubber so
hugely predominates
over the beef in a
whale’s make-up. Few
Moby Dick carcases
produce a= much edible
meat as a Mr. and
Mrs. Bullamacow.
S.-P. Shops in
Queensland
“Marsh”: Until the
majority of Premier
Moore’s party said an
emphatic No, there
was a movement in
the Cabinet to bring
forward a bill for legal-
ising S.P. “joints.”
An estimate of the
number of these shops
was in the vicinity of
5000; seeing that at
nearly every second
tobacconist’s shop and
at a majority of
suburban pubs a
punter can get Jiis
dollar “set” on State
or inter-State events,
the estimate is pro-
bab 1 y conservative.
Raids are occasionally
made as a matter of
form, but “Business
as usual” next day
shows how farcical
the procedure is, and
the State gains but
little revenue from
such raids. These
“dens of harpies and
tax-dodgers,” as The
Bulletin recently
called them, cannot
be wiped out; so why
not register them ?
Sock the fees on, say
£5O a year. Taking
the 5000 as near the
mark, here is £250.000
a year towards balanc-
ing the budget. The
punting fraternity who
will bet with these
people will then be
protected; at present
the S.P. shop punter
has no standing—can
be wiped off at any
old time and has no
redress.
Pinnacles, one of
the earliest mining
camps on the Barrier,
and one of the first
to erect smelters, now holds another record,
All its mines are closed owing to the slump
in metals, and only five families are left.
They are all on the dole.
* * * *
“Trinitv Bay”: Touching on the recent
recommendation of a Queensland Royal
Commission that private enterprise be en-
couraged to develop and settle the rich
unoccupied areas of north-eastern Queens-
land IB 28/10/’3l) one private expen-
ment kuccissfSl. This is a settle-
ment bv the Almason Co., Ltd., of a group
of settlers on private property in the rich
Daintree River country between Cairns and
Cooktown. The group, which numbers .75,
has made steady progress since its inception,
and is clear evidence of the possibilities of
this sort of undertaking when unhampered
by red tape.
* * *
Fish-canning, hitherto attempted in Aus-
tralia with discouraging results, has been
undertaken again, this time in Sydney. Some
of the products marketed in the past, mostly
by Queensland companies, have been good in
quality and moderate in price, but somehow
the public has not supported the experiments,
The real sardine—as distinguished from the
sprats from overseas which are sold in Aus-
tralia under that name—is found in vast
shoals off the Australian coast at certain
seasons • so is the pilchard, which, like the
sardine is canned in oil in great quantities
in other countries; and herrings are also
available. Many of the familiar Australian
sla and river fish should can splendidly,
notably the firm-fleshed snapper, flathead
and groper, and, among fresh-water fishes,
the Murray cod. Well placed and pushed—
’should P soon~find a“solid
market in its own country .
I, tke N S .w:'G r ™me„t decides to im-
pose a toll on the uscis of tne riaioo
Bridge, there is a brand-new precedent ready
Bridge” iTuSn £O%
Tf lty -u 0 P? e rn(4rntpd y orT a a to! 1-swstem P untii
the "cost some £12,000,000, has been wiped
« C rm’ tv,o lnrtrpst in the
wm-ld T will b mix£? traffic far in excess
of anything the Sydney Wdge fe likely to
accompany Shborhood°
special rate on property in the neighbor no
* /T>
“E.K.P.”: “Gad (B. 14/10/ 31) « right
in referring to Cardwell (N.Q.) as a decay
ing corpse”; but an effort is being
re-invest it with li e. sc iye be j t
consideration to e^Pj° lt: a dairv-
of timber in the ranges, to atoy
“\?,A indU J °?i been vrlntcd
1000 acres for this purpose has been grante
by the Government). to
accommodation in the haibor at
£50,000 (a lease for this ?F p t ° s ® s r d s
been granted) and to provide tourist roans
throughout the district.
**■ * , .
“Kariah”: N. S. Wales has the finest
oyster fisheries in the world. Yet few oyster
farmers have made more than a living. A
few years ago both wholesale and retail
trade were in the hands of Greeks; now
they only control the latter This makes
it worse for the grower The Da*o'kerns
the supplier waiting for his money for
months. Since there has been an over-
supply, the Dago can and does change from
one supplier to another when the first
demands his money and refuses to ship,
Default . summonses are Dot much goo ,
because it is usually found that the imported
pest has sent his money . home, and what
frozen assets he had are in his wife s name,
Another dodge of Ims is to sell out over
night, the newcomer protesting that he
doesn’t know where the previous owner is,
etc. If we had a constant demand and got
rid of the Dago, we would be able to supply
oysters to all N. S. W ales at sixpence a
dozen. # * *
“0.W.W.” : Despite much talk of closer
Sri/t
• ah t ke absorbed farms have
homesteads and outbuildings that are
to rack and ruin. .
“Cliloe” : Australian soldier settlers who
are finding it difficult toget rid of their
citrus crops would do well to note that in
Soviet Russia in 1929-30 lempns were un-
Sl^and
LOOKING AHEAD.
“Well, we’ve got his tail up, Ramsay!”
“Yes; and now for the serious job of keeping it up without this hot air."


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
TO-DAY— TO-MORROW
Yesterday does not matter any more, but what you do to-day may
make or mar to-morrow. It is of no use repining about what should
have been done—it is what lies to our hands now that really counts.
To an extent contemplation of yesterday may help, for everyone made
mistakes then, especially the errors of omission. Whatever of hardship
or disappointment they may have brought they have at least pointed a
lesson for us. To-day, now, is the time to do things, and this applies
especially to the thrifty accumulation of money. We cannot read our
needs for to-morrow but we can begin to provide for them.
There is no easier, better plan than the Commonwealth Savings Bank
provides.
<£binmonwealtl) savmos JBank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
TO MEET THE TIMES
*
ti
Oriental -
Melbourne 's Premier Hotel
Reduces tariff 30% witliout sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIE S
“Okli”: It is said that the Japanese treat
the Koreans very much as the Unspeakable
used to treat the Armenians. I once knew
a statesman who used to get terribly hot
and bothered about the Armenian atrocities,
but who suddenly dropped the subject. He
had seen an Armenian. Apparently the
Koreans are like that. Here’s a plain, un-
varnished tale about a member of that noble
race extracted from a recent report of an
inquest in the “Straits Times,” of Singa-
pore. Pak Meng Seng had endured 40 years
of life, and was sick of it, so he dived out
of a window and fell on his head. He
wasn’t dead, and a month in hospital re-
stored him to health. He was haled before
the beak on a charge of attempted suicide,
and next day, having been merely told not
to be so impetuous, he turned up at the hospi-
tal with a request that a three-inch nail
which he had belted into the top of his skull
with a billet of wood should be extracted,
as it was getting a bit painful. He explained
that he had driven in the nail on the night
before his appearance at court, “because he
didn’t know whether he would be sent to
gaol or not.” So surgeons and anaesthetists
rallied round Pak and quarried out the nail
after an hour’s struggle. Pak expired five
minutes later. Pak’s co-patriots at the in-
quest said there wasn’t any particular
reason why he should behave as he did, but
they didn’t seem a bit surprised. My own
theory is that Mr. Seng pined for persecu-
tion, and as there weren’t any friendly Japs
to supply it he did his own little best.
❖ -l' #
“Felix”: When Lorimer was manager of
the first aquarium at Coogee that versatile
showman, always on the lookout for means
of advertising himself, gave it out that he
would go into the lions’ cage at Fitzgeralds’
Sydney show unaccompanied. The news-
papers made much of the announcement, and
at the suggestion of the Fitzgeralds published
some blood-curdling stories of the ferocity
of their beasts. As the night approached
Lorimer showed anxiety, and it was guessed
that he would have accepted or invented any
excuse for not appearing. He was reassured
when Tom Fitzgerald told him that he
would put his own baby in the cage with
the big lion of the troupe before it was pulled
into the ring. The lion took no interest in
the kid, and Lorimer was satisfied. The
tamer went with him to the steps leading
into the cage, opened the door, and the
showman stepped in. He didn’t stay long.
At a meeting of newspaper men at the old
Angel Hotel a few days later the man from
Coogee was presented with a medal in com-
memoration of his adventure. It was of
leather.
THE HAUL.
BOUNDARY RIDER: “I hear plenty gambling going on down here last week, Jacky!”
JACKY: “My word! Boomi Bill ’im clean up all-a camp!”
BOUNDARY RIDER: “What did he get away with?”
JACKY: “Cripe! Bi-ig money! Plurry near five shillin’.”
A PROPER SORT OF GENT.
MAGISTRATE: “Did the motorist treat you humanely after he had knocked you down?”
VICTIM: “Like a toff, ’e did, yer Honor. We stopped at every pub on the way to the
horspital.”
“C. iCoral”: The ten-by-twelve smoke-
room on the little coastal steamer that runs
up the east coast and down the
Gulf of Carpentaria plays many
parts. It serves as a cabin when
there is an overflow of passen-
gers, and it lias been used as a
maternity hospital. A parson
recently employed it as a chapel,
and after he had vacated it a
poker-scliool took possession. In
between times its table is occu-
pied by as many letter-writers a®
can squeeze round it, and, of
course, it is also the fish-yarn
retailing chamber. The steward
utilises the lockers beneath the
seats to store his extra supplies
of liquid refreshment, and con-
cliologiSts and other kinds of
ologists seek its retreat when
classifying or preparing their
specimens as they trip along the
Barrier, The one thing for
which it does not seem to be used
is smoking most passengers
prefer chairs on deck.
* * * *
“Tyke”: The press story that
the police visiting the camp of a
dead prospector in Westralia
were compelled to shoot his dog
before they could approach the
body is not the only case of its
kind of late. In Queensland the
same callous and thick-headed
action was taken with the dog
of a dead boundary-rider only a
couple of weeks ago. The most
savage dog could easily be las-
.soed with a bit of cord and a six-
foot length of sapling; and in
any case, much as I admire the
police, I would cheerfully see a
dozen of them bitten rather than
that a faithful friend should be
ruthlessly destroyed for standing
to his master to the last. There
is one thing to be said in favor
of the official assassination, however. Dogs
of this kind have no use for anyone except
the man they love, and would desire nothing
better than that they should be given a
chance to pick up his tracks in the Beyond
before the scent grows cold.
“Turoar” : “The cleverest dorg I ever seen
was up at Bulokq,” said Bill. “’E belonged
to a cocky we called Watty. The cockies
round Buloke useter run sheep, an’ it was
marvellous ’ow their sheep useter git inter
Watty’s place. You’d find a mob in Watty’s
wot ’ad come five or six miles, an’
the neighbors ’d arsk Watty fer ex-
planations, which led ter argerments w’en
’e said ’e didn’t know ’ow it ’appened. They
took ter wat.chin’ at night, an’ (call me a
liar if yer like) you’d see a mob stop feedin’,
bunch up, an’ set off fer Watty’s like as if
they was magnetised. It ’appened nilly
every night fer a while, an’ everybody ’ad
ago at explainin’ the mystery. A perfesser
come up, an’ watched fer a week. ’E was
’ighly delighted, an’ wrote a Particle erbout
it fer one er the papers. ’E said it was
a clear case of tropism. It was good fer
Watty in some ways, until Tom Riley arsks
’im if tropism ain’t another name fer sheep-
stealin’. The beak says ‘Two pound fer the
assault an’ three pound fer resistin’ the
perlice.’ It was Watty ’imself wot settled
the matter. ’E’s cornin’ ’ome one showery
moonlight night, an’ catches up ter a mob
’oadin ’is way. ’E’s so used to it ’e’s takin’
no notice, until after a shower ’e sees a
dark objeck, streaked with white, be’ind the
mob wot ain’t been there before. So ’e
’ops orf the nag an’ grabs the objeck.
Blime, if it ain’t ’is dorg! ’E sees
in a moment wot ’appens. That there dorg
useter roll ’imself in whitewash, round up a
mob er sheep an’ run beside a ewe so as ter
look like ’er lamb.”
* * * *
“Delicious Trimmings”: “Bald K.” (B;
21/10/’3l) is correct about the fish in the
South Johnstone River in N.Q. refusing all
baits, but he has not given the right reason.
When the molasses from the mill mixes with
the river water it ferments and a very strong
intoxicant ensues. The unsophisticated fish
in the beginning did not die, as “8.K.” says,
but got hopelessly blotto. Later, when they
became used to the stuff, they drank so much
and kept at it so hard that the very sight
of any other food became distasteful to them.
Probably “Bald K.,” like myself, knows that
feeling well.
AT GODDARD’S SOAK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spread beneath a spacious moon,
Glows a trackless waste of sand,
Billowed like a red lagoon,
Girdlqd by a shadow strand.
In the east rich lustre spills
Over Lake Lefroy’s expanse,
Reaching back to Parker Hills,
Pallid ’neatli the moon’s advance.
Like a column in retreat,
From the bourne of long ago,
Haggard files on burning feet
To some haven journey slow.
Summoned from their vaults of sleep,
Ranged again with lost compeers,
Round the lake’s white margin creep
Phantom hosts of trodden years.
Some are in the bloom of life,
Some are wan with unshed tears.
Broken in the ruck of strife,
Some are borne on naked biers—
Spoil for wayside mound and rood.
All have heard the call of gold
Pulsing through the sandalwood,
In some fevered dream extoll’d.
Now the files of transport toil,
Moving past with muffled stroke,
Churning through a rootlpss soil,
Streaming back from tyre and spoke.
Weathered buckboards, moving slow,
Camels, padding with their bales,
Noiseless down the ridges low
Razor-edged by summer gales.
Mustered each with each at last,
Voiceless on their camping-ground,
Thus they gather from the past.
No reveille’s call to sound
Them, in close re-union drawn,
Freed from turmoil’s galling yoke,
While the pale moon meets the dawn
Stealing over Goddard’s Soak.
Then, while day with martial rage
Blares again the call of gold,
Stalwarts of another age,
Starting up their engines cold,
Speed on freighted truck and car
Through the aisles of morning glad,
Throbbing out a challenge far
Down the Widgiemooltha pad.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monotael
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
"QUALCAST” lawn mowers
Qualcast (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray, W. 12, Melbourne.
Model “H” MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUITABLE FOB ALL LAWNS
GUARANTEED FOB 3 YEARS
SPARE PARTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prices in Capital Cities and principal
'Seaport Towns.
12in. Win.
Each. Each.
Bronze bearings 50/- 537-
Ball bearings 57/6 59/6
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING
HARDWARE STORES.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ityan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Head Office
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children's Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and tor cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company's offices.
FKEDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
“Wandi”: The common goanna, or lace
lizfird has some good tricks. When chased to
a tree it darts to the opposite side before
x x v u n
starting to climb, sv x«,ing round sharp y
and at the same time lashing with its hard
whip-like tail—a rearguard action that checks
a pursuing dog. Then it goes up spirally,
keeping out of view until well aloft. When
traversing a forest the hunter mightn’t
See a goanna anywhere, though there might
be a dozen slyly watching him. Tlie wily
lizard, on discovering the enemy, sidles round
the tree or lies flat off a horizontal limb—
in that case it doesn’t allow its caudal
appendage to hang over the balcony. An old
fat goanna, especially just after a feed, is
less wary, or not active enough to escape
observation, and goes up a tree slowly. It
is often surprised when stalking its prey
on the ground, for Kojurric gives his whole
attention to tlie job in creeping along like a
cat, taking advantage of any cover available,
and now and again carefully raising his head
to take observations. I saw Binghi one day
SPEAKING PROFESSIONALLY.
VISTOR: “I don’t see much alteration in the place since my last visit.”
WAITER: “No, and I don’t find much change either, sir.”
trick a nimble specimen in a simple manner.
He approached a tree with a waddy in his
ld glit hand ; in the other he had a long
stick with his hat on the end of it. The
go., as often happens, had stopped a few
feet f rom the ground on the opposite side.
Binghi thrust his hat round the trunk as
high as he could reach, the quarry sidled
quickly away—and met the waiting waddy.
* * * *
“C. Sandig”: “Clydesdale’s” par. (B.
21/10/’3l) recalls a spectacular horse-pull
which took place at Bernafay Wood during
December. 191 G. An A.S.C. waggon heavily
laden with forage was bogged axle-deep in
mud. Four additional horses were hitched
in, but the waggon remained unmoved. Along
came Cook, a driver from the Ist Battery,
who suggested taking out the six horses, as
his p a ( r 0 f greys could do the job. The
troops lining the hillsides gave hearty cheers
as the waggon was hauled out of the mud.
Cook was a rarity in the A.I.F. He was
never known to use a whip nor to swear.
* ... *
“Barangkali” : The Sakai, mentioned by
“ "The^'livfonly
in the wildest and most isolated parts of the
j U ng le , and although their traces may be
picked out along the jungle patns they are
never encountered. The Semangs do a brisk
trade with the Sakai, but not face to face.
The Semang have pre-arranged places in the
forest where they deposit the articles of barter.
Next day they return and find their goods
havc bcen replaced by various kinds of jungle
produce, notably the long thin stems of
reedg -winch are only found in the heart of
the jungle and are greatly in demand amongst
the Semang and the Malays for the manu-
facture 0 f blowpipes. The Sakai are nomads,
evacuating their camps* at ai moment s notice
and sleeping amongst the ashes or the camp-
„ wherever thev liannen to be
h ie, wherever they happen* to De. *
. _. ~ . .
“Hamba Gachlo” : That Nairobi lion me -
dent (B. 21/10/’3l) is mere lollypop stuff
beside an experience a mate and I struck
while trekking in a Cape cart from the
Limpopo to Jo’burg. We camped one night
at Coomissie Drift on Ohphant s River,
and were not long in finding out that a big
troop of lions were prowling round the out-
span. The mules got restive, and when a
thunderstorm put out the protecting fire
and made the night as black as the Earl
of Hell’s riding-boots, we resolved to inspan
and make a break along the Lydenburg-road.
Just as we were going over to the cart a
fearful row broke out among the mules,
which were tied to tlie disselboom. In despe-
ration we jumped in among them, and, slinging
on the harness as best we could—our boys”
DOGS I HAVE MET.—THE GAY BOY.
had disappeared—scrambled into the cart
and went hell-for-leather in the dark along
the level road. It w T as the fastest trip I
ever did. When daylight came we saw why.
My mate had attended to the leaders and
I had harnessed in the wheelers. These
proved to be two lions, and that explained
our speed. The lions were going in top
gear to catch the two mules in the lead, and
the mules, of course, did their best to keep
ahead. It was then I noticed my hand was
bleeding. One of the lions had fastened his
fangs into it when I was shoving the bit into
his mouth, and that’s why I carry a slightly
crippled right hand (it must have been the
offside lion) to this day.
* * * *
“Buna”: A waterhole on the Lachlan,
about seven miles above the junction of
the Fish River with the Abercrombie, has
a mysterious property that keeps local
bathers well away from it. Known as the
Dead Hole, this inviting stretch of still blue
water has never been known to harbor a
fish or any other living thing, except while
the creatures have to cross it in passing up
or down the stream. Residents of the dis-
trict never fish in the Dead Hole, but to the
uninitiated it looks a likely spot,, and fre-
quently visitors may be seen sitting patiently
on the bank waiting for bites. It v is only
when they become aware that anglers in the
less attractive holes on either side of them
are having’ good catches while they hook no-
thing that they begin to have doubts.
* =S * *
“Yarfi”: Dalby (Q.) has been “Wallaby
Town” since the beginning of the 187.0’5,
when the great marsupial-skins industry com-
menced there. There w 7 ere tens of thousands of
wallabies in the neighborhood. Some parties
built yards and rounded up mobs at a time;
others used snares or employed blacks. A
local storekeeper bought all skins at 6d. each
and sent them in bales to Sydney. Many
hunters followed the pursuit for decades, and
the marsupials were still so numerous that
a bonus for scalps was eventually added to
their reward. In recent times Dalby found
it necessary to set apart a special “scalp
day.” The reception was held in a paddock,
alongside a pile of firewood. Scalpers came
from all parts of the district with loads on
carts and packhorses; officials counted and
paid for the piles, and busy. stokers heaped
them on the fires. The day included picnics
and sports, and at night the hunters mus-
tered in town, where their cheques made busi-
ness hum till the small hours.
Hi * Hi Hi
“E.S.”: One evening Tarpot came to a
splitters’ camp and said, while he worked
his arms to and fro, “You lend me that
feller cut un tree down?” “Axe?” queried
one of the men. “Baal axe,” said Tarpot.
“You know, that feller he yan an’ come
back, yan an’ come back,” working his arms
more vigorously and making a sibilant noise
with his lips. “The crosscut saw 7 ?” said the
splitter. “That the feller,” said Tarpot.
“We want to catch flyin’-fox to-morrow.”
He and his mates had cut partly through
some trees on a flying-fox camp in readiness
for morning, when the pests would have re-
turned from their marauding, expedition and
be clustered thickly in the branches. With
the weighted tops, a few extra nicks would
bring the trees down, and the abo. waddies
would slaughter dozens of the sleepy crea-
tures before they could disentangle them-
selves. “But tomahawk make too much
noise an’ shake nm tree,” Tarpot explained.
“Crosscut tsaw finish ’em better.”
* * * *
“Leo” : The circus lion that escaped from
his cage under the canvas and w 7 as found
sleeping near a tree at Springvale (Vic.)
supplied yet another instance of the liarm-
lessness of the captive king of beasts. He
was awakened by his trainer and led back
quiet and grateful. Twenty years ago a
tiger escaped from Fitzgeralds’ circus in
Brisbane, and citizens armed themselves with
everything from shotguns to popguns. Next
day a small boy playing in the park saw
Stripes slouching along miserable and lonely.
The youngster made friends with him, slipped
liis belt round the tiger’s neck and led him
back to the circus. At the entry to the
familiar quarters it again escaped, this time
in its hurry to get to the door of its cage,
where it clawed and roared for admission.
The boy was presented by the Fitzs. with a
gold watch.
“HIKING.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Yes, we know the joys of hiking—
It’s the game we understand.
Where the ways are hard for biking,
And poor luck is easy striking
In the sand and sorrow land.
We go hiking: we’re the rover
When adversity’s about,
On the long tracks of the drover
This the joy we ponder over—
Our damn boots are wearing out!
We go hiking out, and ever
We are under summer skies....
But we don’t feel very clever
When the storms of Never-Never
Hurtle sand-dunes in our eyes.
Hiking ’long the Darling River
Where the whalers fish and laze,
While the tussocks seem to shiver
And the gum-leaves shake and quiver
Iu the dancing Darling haze;
Primed with damper, junk and skilly,
Sweating like a water-cart,
With the bundle and the billy-
Oh it’s merry where it’s hilly,
And the trees are far apart!
We are hiking, daily hiking,
. Out from Bourke and thereabout.
Though it isn’t to our liking
When the bindeis are spiking,
It’s our only passage out.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Plum Razor Guard
dfg
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
&f>e PLUM RAZOR
fin.
blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—•
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and fin.
Each
razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,P00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Hon.
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRBT.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
bederal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ol
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
SMOKE-OH!
“The Richmond Council is considering a recom-
mendation to accept a tender for 6s. 9d. a ton
for sand.”— “Argus.”
So far our grocer hasn’t protested on
the score of price-cutting.
WHIMS, SACRED AND SECULAR.
“I’ve told you about the caveman’s axe, and the executioner’s
axe and the battle axe. But there’s a better axe than any
of them. Now, who knows?”
“Please, sir, the Acts of the Apostles.”
“Public golf links are packed with inexpert
players who don’t know the danger of careless
driving.”— “Herald.”
And they forget that there’s a penalty
for driving whilst under the influence of
the nineteenth.
# *
The Reds want to see that a sailor has
strife in every pdrt.
* H-
After all, the North Shore Bridge is not
going to be an untolled blessing for motor-
ists.
* *
THE CAUSE CELEB RE.
Mr. Buzzer (for petitioner) : “Now,
madam, I want you to think very carefully
before you answer this question: Did you
on a certain occasion utter the word ‘Whoo-
hoo!’?”
Respondent (passionately) : “Never, Mr.
Buzzer.
Air. Buzzer: “I don’t want to be harsh.
The word may have been the milder ‘Hoo-
whoo!’ I put it to you that you used the
word ‘Hoo-whoo!’”
Mr. Belloivs (for respondent) : “I object,
your Honor. Let my friend come out in the
open instead of making injurious insinua-
tions.”
At this stage the respondent, who is a
famous society beauty and was wearing a
French marocain frock, with sleeves of pink
parchment rabbit, over velours skunk on
a foundation of mauve chiffon, a £lO,OOO
string of pearls and a purple feather-trimmed
bowler to harmonise, broke down.
Mr. Bagpipes (for the six co-res.) : “Per-
haps the word was ‘Boo-wlioo !' your Honor.”
(Laughter).
His Honor: “I have consulted Blithers on
‘Torts,’ Mr. Bellows, and will allow Mr.
Buzzer’s question.”
Mr. Buzzer: “I decline to put it. I ask
that all proceedings in connection with the
question in question be here and now ex-
punged from the evidence. I thank your
Honor. Recall the night porter.” (To
night porter) : “Where were you at 11.7
a.m. on January 8, 1924. Be very careful
how you answer.”
Porter: “No one ain’t going to assail my
character in this court, Mr. Buzzer, so don’t
you go for to forget it.”
Mr. Buzzer: “I press the question, your
Honor.”
Mr. Bellows: “I object.”
Porter (irritably) : “All my life I’ve been
an honest, God-fearing character. Never a
breath of suspicion
on mo. And now
I’m asked a question
that implies”
Mr. Bagpipes: “No-
body accused you of
telling lies.”
As the heartless
merriment of the
crowded gallery rang
out the still-beauti-
ful respondent (erst
a famous Sydney
society beauty), who
had changed during
the lunch hour and
was now the cyno-
sure of every femi-
nine eye in a crim-
son chiffon coatee,
patterned in tiny
embroidered leaves
and garnished with
silver-fox trimmings
dyed pink, the whole
being topped off with
white sandshoes and
bird - of - paradise
toque, emitted a
heart-searing moan
and fell to the floor
of the court in a
swoon.
Stony-faced the
romantically hand-
some petitioner sits
there, and stares, as
eternally stares the
Sphinx across the
burning sands of the
illimitable Libyan
desert. Of what is
Pri n c e Charming
thinking—this curled
darling of Fashion’s
most exclusive
saloons whose daily
cheques are bringing
happiness to so many
deserving lawyers?
And Echo (having
no more idea than
the writer what he
is thinking of) an-
swers non-committally. Of what?
And now, with tigerish zest, the great
K.C. again presses towards his appointed gaol.
Mr. Buzzer: “You say you were called
a ‘ —-’?”
Respondent: “I was, Mr. Buzzer.”
Mr. Buzzer: “And a ‘ .’ ”
Mr. Bellows: “I object. We admit the
‘ and will explain and justify the cir-
cumstances when the proper time comes if
we have to take evidence on commission in
Lapland for the purpose ; but as for ‘ ’.
No. We deny it.”
Mr. Trombone (re-examining) : “Tell the
Court in your own words what you were
called when you upset the gin.”
Respondent: “May I write it down, your
Honor ?”
His Honor: “No.”
And now, with the lithe, panther-like strides
that bespeak the aristocratic club-man, the
petitioner enters the box and claims his
share of the limelight—a privilege which,
in view of the fact that he is finding most
of the ready cash for a show that should
clear the legal profession the best nart of
£40,000 if it can only be strung out till
the Long Vacation, no fair-minded citizen
will begrudge him.
POLITICIAN’S DILEMMA.
“The deputation’s request cannot be acceded to,
owing to lack of funds.” — Vic. Minister.
In times like these he cannot do
The things he used to yesterday.
He’s proved the ancient saying true —
Where there’s a nil there is a nay.
Lang now lias “The World” against him.
“Accused, at Sydney Quarter Sessions, said he
had committed the burglary, but why he had was
a puzzle to him.”
The Judge gave him two years to work
it out.
# *
WAR ON THE FOOTPATHS FRONT.
Monday. —“ Civic Pride’s” letter (written
yesterday by the editor to himself), in which
he claimed that Gloopville’s footpaths were
ahead of those of
any other suburb,
has aroused a storm
of protest. Shoals
of letters have
reached the “Daily
Blob” from mem-
bers of the staff
challenging Gloop-
ville’s a r rogant
boast. Alderma n
Ivoridome, Mayor of
Rosehurst, is one of
those who has swal-
lowed the bait.
Interviewed by our
representative to-
day, Aid. Ivoridome
condemned Glo o p-
vTlc’s rash claim.
“Rosehurst,” he said,
“throws down the
gage. Our footpaths
are Australia’s best.
We give the Gloop-
ville braggarts the
lie, and are pre-
pared to meet them
under any condi-
tions.”
Tuesday. - The
Mayor of Gloopville,
Alderman Nitwit,
interviewed by the
“Daily Bio b,”
accepted Rosehurst’s
challenge. “We will
show them,” he said,
“what footpath
beauty really is. To make the competition
more interesting, I propose a lawn-mower
inspection and parade of gardeners. Our
gardeners wear the most disreputable and
hence workmanlike pants and singlets on
earth. We defy Rosehurst to match them.”
The “Daily Blob,” recognising the intense
interest being manifested in this novel com-
petition, and anxious to get at least a week's
“copy” out of it, has decided to present a
miniature shovel to the winner. (Above:
Photo of typical suburban footpath expert
at work. Top left: Alderman Nitwit in
his mayoral robes. Top right: A charac-
teristic suburban tree. Bottom: Alderman
Ivoridome, Mayor of Rosehurst.)
* *
“Then there is Victor Maxwell, K.C.—-a young
man whose strides have been remarkable.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
They still are, according to the “Tailor
and Cutter.”
# *
The N.S.W. Transport Act didn’t miss the
’bus, anyway.
MAKING SURE SHE GOT IT.
“When your wife divorced you, did you
give evidence, Binks?”
“No, sir. I just stood round looking guilty.”
Japan is said to be trying to import a
few Aussie domestics —the idea being to
send them to Manchuria to smash China.
MEANER AND MEANER.
“ ‘You made the same complaint about your first
wife, Grace, that she stinted the housekeeping,’
said counsel for petitioner, Wilhelmina Bates. ‘This
wife is worse,’ said respondent.’ ” — “Sun.”
His first wife was a saving Grace,
From thrift he could not wean herj
Then in his home Grace lost her place,
And he found Wilhelmina,
* *
THE GARFUNKLE-BUGGINS PLAN.
In offering the world my New Economic
Plan, I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness
to Col. Buggins, upon whose discovery that
there is no such thing as money—that it is a
mere book-entry, a myth—my Plan is based.
CATASTROPHE.
MOLLIE: “Miss Oldbird fell in love with him, so she pretended
she was wealthy.”
FLORRIE: “And what happened?”
MOLLIE : “Oh, he fell in, too.”
As Col. Buggins has demonstrated, it
costs a banker no more to extend credit for
£1,947,218 than for 4s. Now time is no
less mythical than money. It is as for
a clock to indicate the hour of 3.30 as 5.59.
Just as the banks control money, therefore,
so do the clocks control time, and this con-
trol must be exercised in the interests of
the community, and not for the benefit of
a privileged few. Think of the glorious oos-
sibilities! Production will be increased or
decreased simply by slowing down or speed-
ing up the clocks. Working days will be
shortened, holidays will be lengthened, and
in all probability the hour of 6 p.m. will
be entirely abolished.
What the clock is to the hour, so is the
calendar to the day, month and year. Hav-
ing escaped the tyranny of the banker and
the watchmaker, it would be illogical to
tolerate the domination of the printer. The
calendar must also be brought under control.
What vistas of bliss this unfolds! Budget-
balancing will become simply a matter of
closing 1 the financial year at the right
moment. Tax collections may thus be
speeded up and overseas interest payments
retarded at will. Can the Lang Plan promise
more?
The mathematical basis of my Plan, under
which the old-age pension may be drawn by
an infant in arms, is too abstruse to be
given here in detail; it is fully set out in my
illustrated treatise, “Grappling with Green-
wich,” which will be forwarded free to any
address on receipt of 18s. 7d. to cover pack-
ing charges.
J. Eustace Garfunkle.
P.S.—-Owing to the defective credit
system at present in vogue, all orders must
be accompanied by cash.
J.E. G.
* *
“It is proposed that the striking slaughtermen
should meet the exporters.”— “Herald.”
The object being to meat the overseas
importers.
¥• *
“Ah Song, vegetable hawker, was the subject
of a violent assault by two men who sprang upon
him suddenly at a street corner.” — “D. Telegraph.”
Burst into Song, .so to speak.
* *
MENU.
“Mr. Lang is the mast secretive of all public
men concerning his table tastes.” —“The World.”
Though I know not the dishes on which you
most thrive,
I am certain you'd like to eat Bavin alive.
And I picture you helping yourself to a lot
If someone served Theodore up piping hot.
And deep, very deep, in your innermost soul,
You’d hate to he having a feast a la dole!
McM.
BALLADE OF SPRING DISEASES.
(ACKNOWLEDGMENTS TO HENLEY.)
If I were a germ of pneumonia
And you were a germ, of the 'flu,
And we were together in some cove’s chest
What wonders we twain might do!
I can safely say that, between us, we
Would show him a thing or two:
If I were a germ of pneumonia
And you were a germ of the ’flu!
It wouldn’t matter what drugs he took,
•Good, bad, or many or few,
For you’d be hawing the time of your life
And I’d be assisting you.
We’d do as well if a heat-wave raged
Or an icy blizzard blew,
If I were a germ of pneumonia
And you were a germ of the ’flu!
K. C.


Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION: AS HUSBANDS GO.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE MERRY WIDOW
(Commencing November 7)
With DOROTHY BRUNTON and All Star Cast.
WHEAT
MEAT
BUTTER
WOOL
TIMBER
GOLD
AND NOW-
EGG EXPORT
Recently the biggest single shipment of eggs to
leave Western Australia was exported to Eng-
land and totalled over 3000 cases worth approxi-
mately £6OOO. The egg export industry of
this State has been steadily growing, and now
amounts to approximately 11,000 cases of 30
dozen each, in the season, worth in the vicinity
of £45,000.
The egg industry, which has attained to
enormous proportions in America and else-
where, promises to develop greatly in W.A.,
more particularly as this State’s early flush
period strikes the London market at the most
profitable season of the year.
WE ARE KEPT BUSY EXPORTING OUR
PRODUCTS.
W.A. IS A VALUABLE MARKET FOR EVERY
WISE ADVERTISER—REACH IT THROUGH
THE PERTH
ANOTHER GREAT WESTRALIAN PRODUCT.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One* third of Queensland’s
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
(Che (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °fo
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* * *
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
(Che IBrisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:»
L S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents - H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street,
#
vV
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is thcs only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania,
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Cowier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
ff. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Jillan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. AV. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
PROBAK
THE BETTER BLADE
FITS GILLETTE TYPE
RAZORS OLD OR NEW
Millions to-day are enjoying
grateful coolness of perfect
shaves PROBAK shaves !
PROBAK blades are made in
an entirely new way —from
long ribbons of steel, ground,
honed, finished in one con-
tinuous operation. They do
not they cannot vary.
Dealers everywhere sell
PROBAK blades. Prices: 2/3
the small packet; 4/6 the
large packet.
Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
’ Use
AUTOSTROP
SHAVING
CREAM
for
best results
m
tQx
o
0
Si
H©
mm
■-
mm
m
m
-
MMa>-
X
f
f>i
GRIT SAND « DIRT
Must be kept out of bearings and this can be done
easily by constant use of the ALEMITE System of
Lubrication. Fresh, clean ALEMITE (containing no
harmful acid), is forced into the bearing under a pressure
of 3000 lbs., forcing out at the same time all old, worn-
out grease, grit, sand and dirt.
When ploughing use the ALEMITE Gun constantly and
keep your bearings clean. Your tractor will last longer
and work better.
ALEMITE CORPORATION * Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address I ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager ,
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd.
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd.
E. A. MACHIN & CO (Pty),Ltd.
CORNELL LIMITED .
Brisbane
. . 894 Hay Street, Perth
535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-?
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
The censor seems to have done something
drnsHc to “The Maltese Falcon,” at Sydney
‘ “ . .. oc. inconsemientiallv as
Gapitol; it finishes as inconsequentm y as
an old-time serial. > » . '
official may be guiltless; talkies m which
nil the principals are criminals, usually end
in the air. The falcon is a priceless statu-
ette and the entire cast, barring the Dis-
tiict Attorney and a couple of ’tecs, is after
it. Ricardo Cortez is a debonair private
inquiry agent whose main objectives in life
are cash and girls, in that order. To him
comes Bcbe Daniels with a lying yarn about
a persecuted sister. Why she subsequently
murders Ricardo’s partner doesn’t appear.
Nor is there any adequate explanation of
her reasons for having a bogus falcon deliy-
ered at the inquiry office by a sea-captain
who falls dead on the mat. Ricardo is
visited at intervals by ineffectual gangsters
who offer him thousands for the falcon, pay
liberal instalments on account, and take the
money back at revolver-point when it turns
out that he knows no more of the bird’s
whereabouts than they do. The looney
business ends when Ricardo afgr hugging
Miss Daniels for a. tew passionate .moments,
o-ivno her in charge for shooting Ins partner,
Cortez is lifelike as the scoundrelly agent,
and Dudley Digges and Otto Matieson are
funny, intentionally and otherwise, as cul-
tured crooks. Miss Daniels is artificial in
her feeblest part to date.
Leo Carillo is the colorful ranclier-star of
“Lasea of the Rio Grande,” which precedes
the above. John Mack Brown, as a ranger,
arrests Dorothy Burgess, Leo’s girl, and
the rest of the proceedings consist of gal-
lopings to and fro, defiant finger-snappings,
revelrv in cabarets. love-making and
attempted murder. Slim Summerville sup-
plies the comedv in a tall hat. The spec-
tacular climax comes when Miss Burgess
finds that she loves Brown, and saves his
life at the cost of her own by throwing her-
self over him as a bolting mob of. cattle
surges down on them. The sound is poor
and the lighting' dim, but most of the sets
are picturesque and Carillo scores on con-
ventionally flamboyant lines.
* * *
Warner Brothers’ “Trilby,” which served
to re-open Melbourne Athenaeum last week,
is' interesting as showing what Hollywood
can do when it shoves three cigars in its
moutli, takes its coat off, spits on its hands
and really gets down to work. The psychology
of Svengali that Du Maurier put into his
book boils down to a pair of eyes which
gleam like motor headlamps and sink into
the shrinking soul of Trilby as she poses in
the altogether (head and legs, nothing
between) for the artists, stands on the con-
cert platform or lies exhausted on a bed
which no French king’s mistress ever
imagined was possible even in her wildest
dreams. From one European capital to
another the headlamps pursue Trilby and
Leetle Billee pursues the headlamps until
the spectator gets the impression that he
has been spending a couple of hours in a
Swanston-street traffic jamb. Finallv Sven-
gali’s batteries get short-circuited or sul-
digtiUed
i n them, or something of the sort, and the
headlamps dim, flicker and go out. But
Leetle Billee, being an artist unlike any
rea l artist that ever lived, has attended to
his batteries, and climbs on to the platform
0 f the low-down Cairo cabaret, .whore the
story ends, and receives the dying Trilby
j n his arms. The dazzle of his badlv-adjusted
filaments prevents Svengali Barrymore being
see n to full effect, but on the whole he acts
effectively in a conventional sort. of way.
Marion Trilby Marsh, a newcomer, is pretty,
hut is too unsophisticated, for the part she
plays. The artists are a libel on an ancient
and disreputable profession. They are all
plastered thick with mid-Victorian morality,
Du Maurier would be as staggered by
Warner’s “Trilby” as Beethoven would be
if he could hear George Gershwin’s latest
song-hit founded on one of his own melodies,
* # ¥
Even Lionel Barrymore’s thin whining
j ea nnot spoil his performance as the
. . lt Wond«” TM-G-M ) at
attorney m Guilty Lianas Uyx. »
Sydney Regent. To save Ins daughter
from an unhappy marriage, he murders
Rich (Allan Mowbray), his dissolute client,
Rich’s mistress (Kay Johnson) alone sus-
pects that Rich did not commit suicide, as
Barrymore says, and a series of accidents
discovers to her the attorneys secret.
silences her by pointing out tnat as she
alone benefited by Rich s death she would
fall under the strongest suspiciojiif muidei
were suggested. Then the corpse shoots the
murderer. Rigor mortis pulls the trigger ot
the pistol in the dead hand just when Barry-
more happens to be m the line of hre. I lie
principals by clever acting build up an
illusion of probability in the earlier scenes,
* * *
Like Lilian Gish of pre-talkie days,
Q ons t ance Bennett is now expected to
have at least one illegitimate child per
t T h e fat her of the one in R.K.0.-
p at M’s “Born to Love” (Sydney State)
is an American buddy reported killed
j ust before the Armistice. Constance, an
American nurse i n a London war-hospital,
confesses all to Sir Wilfred Drake (Paul
Cavanagh), who. gallantly marries her, giv-
ing the child his name. Then the buddy
(Joel McCrea) re-appears; she goea to him,
and stupidly refuses to explain why to her
long-suffering husband. . Divorced, hubby is
given custody of the infant. Two years
pass before she sees it again—and then it is
dead. Reviling S’Wilfred, she goes back to
her broken-down London lodgings, to find
her American waiting to supply, wedding
bells, ring and cake. The Armistice scenes
are the only ones within coo-ee of reality.


SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTERS
Reduce Harvesting Costs because
They Get the Maximum Yield of Grain from Difficult Crops.
No matter how badly a crop is down, or how much it is choked with thistles, the Sunshine
Header Harvester will rescue from it the highest possible percentage of grain.
IMWE
was*
Hn
mm
a
f MM
mm
m
m
m $
m
m
■
.'■JELm
i
=
i
■
SH
W
: ■
H ■
: M* * I
From the storm-lashed wreck of a crop here
illustrated, Messrs. Cole Bros., of Duri,
N.S.W., took off eight bags of wheat to the
acre with their “Sunshine."
Moreover, without being treated or graded,
but just as it came from the Header, the
sample won Four First Prizes and Champion-
ships, including the 1931 Championship of
Australia at the Royal Easter Show.
The Sunshine Header Harvester
6ft., Bft. and 10ft. Cut.
The machine that harvests the great bulk
of Australia’s annual grain crop.
For work on sandy or very hilly country, or for
rice-harvesting, it can be supplied with a 4-cylinder
petrol engine incorporated to drive the mechanism.
A small team suffices for haulage. The Sunshine
Header Harvester also harvests field-peas, and for
this purpose a special pea-reaping front is attached
to the 6ft. or Bft. machine.
Write for Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue and particulars of Reduced Prices, also particulars of Extended Terms.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(Sunshine Section)
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street, West, Sydney; 9S-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS: H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (QLD.), LTD., Stanley Street, South Brisbane
IvWumatism
Tired-out with constant pain, limbs like pieces
of lead, back aching, swollen joints, sharp, shooting
pains—thousands know these symptoms too well.
The remedy, we confidently assert, is De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
There is no need to describe to sufferers the
pain and crippling agony caused by rheumatism.
Those with swollen joints, twitching muscles, con-
stant aching back, know these symptoms only too
well. What they do not know is that to neglect
rheumatism may quickly lead to serious heart-
weakness. Do you know that the majority of
cases of heart-failure, especially in elderly people,
is due to rheumatic trouble?
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE OF YOUR
PAIN.
You will never end rheumatism until you
prompt the kidneys to cleanse from the system the
pain-giving, heart-affecting poisons—and this, on
the evidence of thousands, yes, many thousands, of
one-time sufferers restored to health, we say De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will do for you.
To every intelligent man or woman we say:
“Do you think that for 40 years De Witt’s Pills
could have been sold the world over for the one
purpose of ending kidney trouble unless this
remedy was successful?”
THIS REMEDY BEARS A
DEFINITE GUARANTEE.
Do you know that every bottle
of De Witt’s Pills sold carries a
definite money-back guarantee?
If, within 24 hours from starting
to take these pills regularly, you
do not see that they are acting
directly through the kidneys, re-
turn partly-used bottle and your
money will be refunded in full, by return.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are not
a “cure-all.” They are made from a prescription
(clearly printed on each box) solely for the pur-
pose of remedying kidney trouble—the cause of
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, bladder weakness,
chronic backache and the weakness and loss of
vitality caused by impoverished blood.
De Witt’s Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed. Men and women
in dreadful pain for years say “De Witt’s” ended
that pain and brought them health, strength and
vigor in a marvellously short time. They have
proved an “untold blessing” to thousands. Start
to-day, secure a 3/6 box and let it end your weak-
ness, your fear of hidden health dangers.
\\^ WWW \A\\i\ J l ljiiJ i// ////// //// ,
DcWITTS
IDNEY AND BLADDER
PILLS
Kl
m
m
illllll
wmm
.. .
liii
m
mm
WMwM.
mm
m
mm
mm
mm
ACUTE RHEUMATISM ENDED.
Mr. ALBERT HAY,SOM,
of Heath Hill, South Gipps-
land, Vic., says: “Whilst I
was on active service I
suffered great pain from
Rheumatism. I was treated
in many hospital's, but it was
not till I tried He Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills
that I had any relief. I have
had no sign of the Rheu-
matism since and am indeed
grateful that my friend
advised me to try De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.”


d
ď
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauiiieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
-
t.
Dependable[
Cigai's
Craig &Aitken
Wholesale Distributor*
Sydney N.S.W.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
đ
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to ■
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during; periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
9S PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. &O. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. .
liilltin
QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
Why not exploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better
vehicle open to you than the press—
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
first choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane that lias
issued a certificate of its Net Daily
circulation, and the paper that is a
proved result-getter. Rate cards, etc.,
from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON: Daily Mail Office,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE WOOLOLASSER’S JOB.
“R. E. Combing” : To my mind, tlie wool-
classer’s worst disability is that he has to
set the distinction between his different
lines before he has seen more than a frac-
tion of the material, and according to the
notions of an owner who can give him little
practical guidance on what to go. Growers
are good judges of sheep but rotten judges
of wool. Nevertheless, with the experience
of a woolbroker’s expert, going back 20
years, I believe in the biggest reasonable
lines for the biggest possible average per
pound, which means the best average per
head, or, what is more important, the highest
yield per acre. I deny that big lots are
conducive to splitting. Repeatedly I have
seen five-bale lots split among three buyers,
and hundred-bale lots ordered out by the one
buyer to the one destination, and possibly
at a premium price because it had all been
grown under a comparatively uniform condi-
tiori.
Where possible, the best line of a clip
should be the biggest, some little variation
of color, condition and even of quality being
allowable, but uniformity being demanded
as to length. Scouring will reduce the lot
to ultimate evenness of condition, and not
much sorting is required to remove a few
outsortings of quality; but no scouring in
the world can make long wool short or short
wool long. And sorting becomes a bigger
process in the case of mixed lengths. If the
style of the flock does not permit of the top
line being made the biggest, the biggest
should then represent the average of the clip,
out-sortings being made up or down, as
required.
I’ll admit that if I were the owner of an
ordinary and rather mixed lot of sheep*l’d
class my wool with a broad-bladed shovel;
that is, I’d put it straight from the shearing-
board into the bale. That is not as it should
be, of course, birt with ordinary wools buy-
ers don’t make the allowances for classing
which they should do. With better wools
the case is different.
“Gee-Bee”: Why do owners demand the
speed common to most sheds? It may look
a little cheaper, but something is being
slummed, usually the wool-handling. Shear-
ing, the most important work on the station,
is rushed through at a speed which does not
allow for the careful get-up of wool. Boys
are given the work of rolling and piece-
picking. Most owners I know consider piece-
picking unskilled work; it is not, and thou-
sands of pounds are lost because it is
botched. Certainly it is the classer’s job
to see that it is done properly, but in many
cases it would mean doing it himself, and
a classer is only human.
LOPPING KURRAJONG.
“E.M.” : The kurrajong is the best of all
our fodder trees. During the 1918 drought
we lopped our 2500 trees twice over, and
started on the third growth of some. This
drasfci'e treatment killed odd ones, but it is
surprising- how much a kurrajong will stand.
Mostly they are killed hy the deep steps
which inexperienced loppers (B. 7/10/’3l)
cut in the trunks. A mere toehold is suffi-
cient, as the men wear sandshoes. It is
best, however, to carry a light ladder, as
cutting the tree lets the grubs in.
Some loppers use an axe, which is un-
wieldy and dangerous. A tomahawk is
better, but is inclined to slip and endanger
the legs. Best of all is a weapon cut from
an old chaffcutter-blade; it should be Tin.
long and 4in. wide and fastened to a wooden
handle, 18iia. long, by two loops of hoop
iron. The loops are riveted to both blade
and handle. A piece of leather tacked
round the end of the handle makes a good
grip. The. completed tool is so sharp that
two strokes will cleave a two-inch limb.
But it is suitable only for the soft kurrajong
wood, being too light for other woods.
The inexperienced lopper starts cutting
on the lowest branch, and works up to
the top. ‘ The result is that when descend-
ing he has to climb out on lower branches
to release caught limbs. A more sen-
sible method is to climb straight to the
top and commence there. Ants swarm on
kurrajongs for the sap. Mistaking the lopper
for a branch, they usually climb him, and
.how they bite when they realise their mis-
take ! |! Fhe wise lopper buttons his collar
round his neck and tucks his trouser legs
into his socks before starting the ascent.
The fallen branches should be well spread
out for the convenience of stock. Horses
are inclined to eat the wood, which is fatal,
but sheep and cattle thrive on the juicy
leaves. In autumn hundreds of little “jongs”
spring up around the parent tree. These
should be preserved, and, at two years of
age, planted inside guards in the paddocks.
They grow very slowly, however. One of
12 years in my garden is only 14 feet, high
and the thickest part of the bole in
diameter.
THE OVERSEAS HORSE TRADE.
“Centurion”: The vogue of the horse is
certainly increasing in Australia (B.
21/10/’3l), and nowhere more than in
Queensland, where the big cattle stations
have kept man’s first servant to the forefront
longer than has been the case in other
States, if we except the north of Westralia.
A Horse-breeders’ Association has been
formed, and branches are being established
all over the State. There can be no doubt
that the demand for horses will steadily im-
prove. This applies not only to draughts
but to the saddle-horse, with which may. be
included the gunner types. The mechanisa-
tion of sections of the British Army has led
enthusiasts for motor traction to visualise
a war in which the horse and his rider will
have no part. That may be all very well for
the exceptional road conditions of Britain
and sections of the Continent. There are
many other parts of the world where wars
are being fought, and will be fought, which
do not enjoy advantages of the kind. Japan,
for instance, has given little attention yet
to mechanisation in the British sense •
indeed, no other army of standing in the
world has done so to anything like the same
extent.
India, for many years Australia’s best
customer for the saddle-horse and the
gunner, still takes the Waler by the thou-
sand annually, and would take many more.
In fact, the market has at times been, so
pinched that the Indian remount buyers
have had to get thousands of horses from
the Argentine and America. They have found
them far below the Australian standard.
Years ago, when the trade was at. its
height, India and other buying countries
sent representatives to the big auction
sales held regularly in various Queensland
centres. These men also bought special
sorts they fancied privately, and what.'with
the open competition and the special lines
prices averaged high for the good types.
To-day the whole of the overseas trade is
carried on by private dealers. As a result one
notes that at a recent sale in Toowoomba,
practically the only Queensland town still
persisting with the old auction sales,
draughts, the prices of which dealers could
not control, brought as much as £2B, gunners
fetched no more than £l4, and cavalry
remounts and bounders (native-cavalry re-
mounts') went for as little as £6. Met,. accord-
ing to the Minister for Stock and Agriculture,
buyers from the Netherlands East Indies
alone are willing to pay up to £32 for good
cavalry sorts and to £2B for gunners ; there
seems a fine margin here for profit as far
as the jobbing buyer is concerned. It is a
matter of common knowledge that horses
bought by this system in Australia easily
bring anything from twice to half a dozen
times their Australian value in.lndia.
The obvious remedy for the present run
of low prices is for the Horsebreeders’ Asso-
ciation to attempt a revival of the auctions.
The Government should then invite the
Indian authorities to send out a party of
buyers to deal direct with those who have
horses to offer, publishing the prices
they are prepared to give and visiting vari-
ous centres at fixed dates to take delivery.
The poor prices obtained under the hap-
hazard system of recent years have been
largely responsible for the neglect of horse-
breeding among farmers —the men who of
all others would probably find it a most
profitable side-line, as farmers in Britain
and Ireland have done for many years.
A system of stallions subsidised and
approved by the State, as is the case in
Britain, would help a lot to this end.
IS SUPER. TOO DEAR?
Mr. T. V. Williams, of Duranillin (W.A.),
is sure it is. Writing in the “Primary Pro-
ducer” he affirms that “a liberal and cheap
supply of artificial fertiliser is essential to
farming in Westralia, more so than in the
eastern States, owing to our large acreage
of inferior land and its deficiency in phos-
phoric acid” ; and nobody familiar with his
State can deny it. But, he adds, top-dress-
ing with super, at £5 a ton through the drill
is out of the question for most farmers. He
thinks the price could be lowered to £2 a
ton, fo.r. Fremantle; if it were, his btate
alone would require half a million tons p.a.
within ten years, and double the quantity
in twenty years.
Mr. Williams, who has had extensive min-
ing experience, does not blame the manu-
facturer, except that he considers that the
erection of two big capacity works at
Picton” was “a great mistake. The trouble
begins at Nauru and Ocean Island, and is
partly due to divided control. Because of
this the phosphatic rock is mined and
shipped in a primitive fashion. The laborers
are nearly all Chinese, and costs of super-
vision are high; so are ocean-freight and
insurance rates. Thus while Welsh coal
can be landed in Melbourne, c.i.t., tor
47s Gd. a ton, phosphatic rock from the man-
dated islands is 435. 9d. a ton. landed cost.
“The present price of phosphatic rock, t.o.b.
islands, is 235. Gd. a ton ; that of the best
British coal, f.o.b. Wales, is 15s. Insurance
and freight on the rock are £1 Os. 3d. for
5000 miles; on the coal, 325. Gd. for 13,000
miles.” Yet phosphatic rock is got by open-
face mining, the cheapest method in exist-
ence • Welsh coal by deep underground
mining, involving expensive machinery and
payment of white men’s wages and profits.
\nd insurance premiums on the combustible
material are naturally much higher.
As for loading and unloading, at New-
castle (N S.W.) 5000 tons of coal can be
loaded in 24 hours. The average time taken
for 5000 tons of phosphatic rock is from
two to four weeks.” Powdering of the rock
would admit of its being handled both at
Nauru and Fremantle by mechanical means;
but powdering is not even considered We
import annually 250,000 tons of rock. At
Fremantle, Geraldton and Bunbury the stult
is manhandled twice. I have a photograph
showing lumpers unloading 2500 tons of rock
with shovels and a big bucket, ike rock is
then placed into low-sided box trucks and
taken to the works, some miles from the
ship and then manhandled again. Reckon-
ing in the delay to ships by slow discharg-
ing, I consider that the farmer is paying
20s' a ton, directly and indirectly, owing to
bad’ handling methods and heavy costs ot
lumping at Fremantle and other ports.”
Mr. Williams has certainly made out a
case which will have to be considered.
SOWING IN THE RAIN.
“Western District”: In southern Victoria
this year thousands of acres of arable land
have not been sown. The soil has been too
wet, and it is recognised that any attempt to
sow' seed in waterlogged soil is waste _of
time and money. In addition, the placing
of teams on heavy soil in a sodden or
sticky condition will result in puddling it,
thereby destroving the physical condition,
with all the adherent ill-effects to be over-
come later. . .
Last autumn, and again tlnd spring, when
pools of water were to be seen on the surface
of most grazing paddocks, my neighbors
and myself had a keen debate as to the
advisability of top-dressing with super. The
general opinion was that it would be a bad
plan, an opinion hastily formed from
experience gained on arable land together
with the knowledge that the fertiliser is
soluble. Personally, I would much ration-
broadcast super, in the wet. Then. the
manure does not blow, and the fertilising
action commences forthwith, because of
super.’s solubility. However, where pools
lie on the surface of badly-drained or crab-
holey country, it is advisable to wait until
the water gets away before sowing the super.
The reasons are that the subsequent evapora-
tion of water containing soluble fertiliser
will result in concentration, and this means
uneven distribution of the phosphoric acid
and “burning” as the pools become dry.
PURE SEED WITHOUT CASH.
An interesting departure is announced by
the Westralian Agricultural Department.
Desiring to popularise the use of pedigreed
seed in the wheat belt, and recognising that
cash for the purchase of the commodity is
regrettably scarce, it lias offered to send a
bag of graded seed wheat for every bag and
a half of f.a.q. commercial wheat, or a bag
of seed oats for every bag of f.a.q. wheat,
delivered by a farmer to the representative
of the voluntary wheat pool or to any recog-
nised wheat merchant at any siding. The
seed will come from a State experimental
farm, and the department will pay freight
rates from farm to siding.
The varieties to be supplied are: —Wheat:
Baroota Wonder Early, Bencubbin. Corra-
bin, Geeralying, Gluyas Early, Merredin,
Nabawa, Noongaar, S.H.J., Sutton and Yan-
dilla King. Oats: Algerian, Burt’s Early,
Guyra and Mulga. Deliveries will be
made after the seed has been graded and
the merchants’ dockets received by the de-
partment. and applications will be dealt with
in the order in which they are received.
PROVIDING AGAINST BLUE MOULD.
This is the time of year when tobacco-
growers have got to look out for blue mould.
Plant-pathologist Adam devotes an article
to the subject in the Vic. “Journal of Agri-
culture” for October; and the advice he
gives is of value, not only to Victorians, but
to growers in other States, though seasonal
differences must be allowed for.
The blue-mould fungus, Mr. Adam points
out, may reach the seed-bed in one of three
ways. (1) It may be in the soil before seed
is planted. This is possible only if diseased
plants have previously occupied the beds or
diseased material has in some way been intro
duced; and there are obvious preventive
methods. (2) It may be introduced with the
seed. Hence the desirableness of using seed
which has been harvested from crops known
to be free from infection. (3) It may be
carried by the air or by water to the bed
some time after the seed has been sown.
Says Mr. Adam : “The parts of the fungus
likely to be introduced are the minute conidia,
which function like seeds and are very light.
One can picture seed-beds in a tobacco-grow-
ing district after the first week in November
being subject to a sustained bombardment, of
blue-mould bullets coming from all direc-
tions.” Destruction of old plants that may
be infedted is important, but it is not
enough; “neighbors may be less diligent in
the destruction of old plants, and there may
be other outside sources of infection.
Growers, therefore, should take measures to
protect the plants themselves. This protec-
tion can bo afforded by spraying” ; and one
per cent. Bordeaux mixture (4.4.40) is re-
commended.
This mixture can, of course, bo prepared
by the grower; in fact, Mr. Adam considers
the home-made mixture the best. The for-
mula is 41b. of Milestone, 41b. of quicklime
and 40 gallons of water. A stock solution
is first prepared by dissolving Milestone, at
the rate of a pound to a gallon of water, in
a wooden vessel or an enamelled container,
tying the crystals in muslin or bagging and
letting the improvised bag just dip into
the surface of the water. Four gallons of
this stock solution are added to 16 gallons
of water, carefully measured out into a
wooden vessel. Four pounds of fresh {i.c.,
lumpy) quicklime, slaked in a gallon of
water (using a little first, adding to it, and
stirring with a stick to make a milk-like
paste), are added to 19 gallons of water
placed in a second barrel. The barrels are
then poured together into a third barrel, or
the tank of the spray-pump, and, after stir-
ring, the Bordeaux mixture i.s ready for
use.
Mr. Adam considers that spraying should
have begun in places like Wangaratta about
the middle of October, and perhaps earlier
in warmer parts. .“In north-eastern (Vic.)
districts,” lie says, “spraying at fortnightly
to ten-day intervals during October and from
weekly to five-day periods during November,
until seedlings are set out generally, provides
sufficient cover. The period between spray-
ings should be shortened progressively as the
seedlings increase in their rate of growth."
LEMONS THAT WILL KEEP.
“B. K. Deea” : In other walks of intense
culture I have found that the keeping
quality of any given fruit or vegetable will
largely depend upon treatment during and
after harvest, although in some cases it may
be influenced by variety, soil and manure
(I have not come to a decision yet as to
whether irrigation is a factor). Lemons
should be harvested in the green silver
stage, and carefully handled to the packing
shed, there to be graded and packed in paper-
lined cases, boxes or trays. At the expira-
tion of three days or more, the sweated
lemons are placed in the cool store. Any
lemon with a blemish —no matter how slight
—is placed aside for the immediate local
trade. Each and every tree has lemons
which show injury from being blown on to
adjacent limbs, whilst now and again, in
the case of the Lisbon variety, a lemon is
harvested which shows a puncture or series
of punctures on the skin —the result of being
spiked (and possibly inoculated) by an
adjoining thorn. These are the lemons
which produce the mould. Wax them over
with paraffin, and the same applies.
The haphazard citrus-grower leaves the
harvesting too late. Finding his trees in
the bud stage, he rushes the picking, and
keeps on rushing until the fruit (picked over-
ripe) is in the store. In this instance the
fruit does not. keep, but it is not the fault
of the lemon—it is the fault of the man.
“Pip” (B. 30/9/’3l) cannot be serious
in suggesting that wo should cut the lemons
“with an inch or an inch and a half of the
stem.” Why, many lemons don’t possess
half an inch of stem, and it is on the stem
immediately behind the cut that the buds
form to provide the next crop. By cutting
an inch or so of the fruiting wood bi-
annually we are going to lose, after a few
years, a lot of lemons annually (and a
iump of the tree). “Pip’s” suggestion is
not a good one, apart from the question of
cost. Further, his remark re grading “accord-
ing to degree of color” leads to the belief
that he starts off with the wrong leg in not
picking the lemons in the silver stage,
thereby guaranteeing sound keeping fruit
which color evenly as they keep.
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


V
A?)
mm.
m
Two thicknesses of the
toughest leather
These make up the double sole
of this good-looking, easy-fitting
Abbey Boot. It is ideally flex-
ible for hard, active wear. It
accommodates the foot better
.... see how the upper is curved
to fit over the instep arch with-
out tending to strain on it at the
centre. The ankle, too, is cut
in the distinctive Abbey style. . .
setting neatly and closely.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete)
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 253
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
d
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
OU Wl
...enjoy the voyage
on a fast Matson
liner from Sydney
to ...
NEW ZEALAND
The three and a half
day run to Auckland
is made enjoyable
with music...dancing
...varied deck sports
...movies. Meals are
justly famous...state-
rooms commodious
and immaculate.
Fares are moderate.
Early Sailing Dates
Nov. 17, Dec. 8, Dec. 29
Ask for
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON
LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Tel. 87981-3
10-4 A
Listen-in to Mick Simmons’ “Snapshots of
Sports” Session, Station 2VW, every
Thursday, 7.15 p.m.
t.
wm
Perfect Swinging;
Rhythm of the Corry
Steel Shaft!
The slow scientific swing comes
into its own. With the advent
of the Steel Shaft, undoubtedly
Golf is played to-day with far
less physical effort. One might
go further and say that no
longer is length the prerogative
of the young. Older players
using steel shafts are put on a
par with the most vigorous
hitters.
WILL CORRY
Steel-shafted
De Luxe
Golf Clubs
NOTE. —Every purchaser of a set of
“Corry” clubs is entitled to a free lesson
from Will Corry.
"Corry” Clubs unquestionably stand out
as the most distinctive series sold in .Aus-
tralia to-day. Every model embraces the
most advanced scientific developments in
golf-club construction and finish.
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted, Gun-
metal Finish, Matched Woods, Nos. 1
to 3 30/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted, Gun-
metal Finish, Graded Irons, Nos. 1
to 9 30/.
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted, Hickory
Sheath, Matched Woods, Nos. 1 to
3 37/6
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted, Hickory
Sheath, Graded Irons, Nos 1 to 9. .3 51"
“Corry” Super De Luxe Graded Woods,
with Tru-Temper, Chromium-plated
(Step-down), Steel Shafts, inlaid
Faces 45/-
© i
O uP
THE GOLFER’S PAL
A compact Wristlet Score Calculator,
registers 1 to 100. Automatically reverts
to zero ■ 3/6
(Carriage paid on Golf Material.)
PROFESSIONAL
GOLF TUITION
By Will Corry and Assistants on the Roof
Sports Ground. Moderate Fees.
All Letters to Box 108, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
A BEAN-DISEASE PUZZDE.
“Noah Fraid”: Three years ago I pur-
chased my requirements of Canadian Wonder
bean-seed for the season from the usual
source, but the first sowing was so disastrous
that I did not sow the remainder of the
parcel. Instead I bought fresh seed from
another firm, with no better luck. The seed
germinated in a poor and sickly manner;
the plants turned yellow, struggled on for
a while, and without yielding died. Lodging
a complaint with the seedsmen, I was told
that a bean disease was prevalent, and
that it was impossible to get unaffected
seed.
Last year two parcels of the forgotten
seed were moved, amongst other accumu-
lated odds and ends, to another holding.
As beans were required for household use,
some of this seed was sown hurriedly in
mistake. The result was remarkable, for
the seed germinated without a miss. Every
plant grew to perfection, and yielded in a
most prolific manner. Trials with the re-
mainder of the seed were just as successful.
The firms from whom it had been purchased
were notified; their reply was that the
result was not unusual, other instances
having come under their notice. Now seed
harvested from last year’s surprising crop
and sown on September 18 has shown a very
high percentage of germination, and to all
appearances the crop bids fair to produce a
bumper yield.
Can anyone tell me the reason for this?
Is the disease in question short-lived? Does
it disappear through stewing in its own
juice, as it were, thereby producing an im-
mune or clean seed?
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is there such a thing as footrot in horses?
If so, what arc the symptoms? —644l.
Footrot is a disease appearing in the inter-
digital space of cloven-hoofed animals, such
as sheep and cattle. There is no such
disease in horses.
(1) Is it usual or necessary to remove
the flowers from potato plants? (2) Does
their removal make any difference to the
crop? (3) Arc potatoes with a, pronounced
green tinge under the slcin likely to he unfit
for food? (/ was ill after a meal of such
spuds. ) —6324.
(1) and (2) No. (3) The green tinge
under the skin of the potato is due to the
formation of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is
formed when the tubers are exposed to the
sunlight, but hilling will correct this defect.
The green coloring matter is slightly poison-
ous.
My potato plants were attacked hy a
small green, hairy, wingless insect, which
ate the leaves and left only a withered skele-
ton. I destroyed the plants, hut the insects
are now attacking and destroying water-
melon leaves. (1) What are these insects?
(2) Any cure? (3) Best time to pick
water-melons? —6380.
(1) Probably leaf-eating ladybirds. (2)
Dust or spray the attacked foliage with
arsenate of lead. (3) The average grower
determines the maturity stage of water-
melons by tapping the fruit with the
knuckles. A little practice is necessary to
gauge the correct stage. A reliable guide
is the condition of the tendril on the main
stem immediately behind the fruit stem. This
commences to change color towards the
picking stage. When brown throughout it
can safely be assumed that the fruit is
mature.
(1) llow to make a trap to capture wild
hces when leaving their hives? (2) What
is the duration of a bee’s life? —6240.
(1) A double Porter bee-escape, obtain-
able from Pender Bros., W. Maitland
(N.S.W.), fitted over the entrance to the
bee tree will allow the bees to leave their
home but will prevent them returning. To
collect the flying bees, place a weak colony
alongside the trap. The queen bee will not
leave the. tree. (2) Worker bees live
seven to eight weeks during the heavy field
work, but during the restful winter period
they may survive through seven months.
The average life of the queen is about three
years.
At what age do ducks usually lay, and are
ducks generally good layers? I have some
noio nine months old which have produced
no eggs yet, and once had a dozen which
were all fruitless. —6323.
Ducks commence to lay at from five to
seven , months old, but much depends upon
the time of the year they are hatched.
Indian runners and Khaki Campbells are
the only breeds that could be termed good
layers. Conditions and feeding have an im-
portant bearing on production. The birds
are heavy eaters, and must have as much
food as they require.
(1) What are the prospects for poultry-
farming near Sydney? (2) Could land, he
bought at a reasonable price? (3) Is £7OO
sufficient capital to buy and start a farm?
needed for a flock of 2000 hens?
(I) A fair living can be made from it in
normal times, but there may be a lean time
ahead for the next couple of years. (2)
Suitable land is available at from £2O to
£lOO per acre, according to locality,
water supply, etc. (3) A start could be
made with £7OO, but before laying out the
capital it. should be realised that the farmer
must be in a position to support himself for
two years while breeding up the flocks. (4)
Bix acres.
How to make a household soap not con-
taining caustic soda? —s9o3.
Clarify fat by boiling it with a liberal
amount of water, and setting aside to cool:
then remove the fat cake, and scrape impuri-
ties from the bottom. Take 71b. clean fat,
free from salt, 5 tablespoons borax, 3 table-
spoons kerosene and lib. resin, and set
aside. Mix together half kerosene-tin of
clean wood ashes, 21b. lime and 61b. washing-
soda, and boil in a kerosene-tin of rain
Yf. tGr for 0,10 hour, using a large container.
Allow to stand all night, covered with bags
to keep the heat in. Next morning strain
it, and return the strained liquor to a clean
boiler; then add the fat and other ingredi-
ents, and boil together for three hours, Stir-
ling constantly. Pour into a wetted mould,
and when cold cut into bars and stack in
an airy place for a month before using.
I understand that the Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture employs water diviners
to find, water. (1) Is there any scientific
truth in the practice? (2) Did the Queens-
land _ Government make any test before
appointing these officials? (3) Isn’t the
practice unadulterated chicanery? —GsSo.
(1) The practice of water-finding has not
been reduced to a scientific formula. (2)
The Government water-finder (there is only
one) was appointed after he had proved his
ability to find serviceable supplies of under-
ground water in various parts of Queens-
land. (3) No. Tests carried out before
qualified observers have led them to acknow-
ledge that the presence of subterranean
water seems to produce (by what means
they cannot say) an effect on susceptible
persons of which they are entirely uncon-
scious, causing involuntary movements of
the Y-shaped twig or of other indicator used
by the water-finder.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Golightly”: The Dorset Horn ram is so
prepotent that a three-quarter-bred will pass
inspection by all but experts, and some speci-
mens will puzzle them. The Dorset Horn
should be bought pure-bred by fat-lamb raisers
or not at all. Pure-bred, it will put fat on
other breeds and take wool off; a mongrel
ram will reduce the wool and not increase
the fat. Ten years’ experience with grade
and pure-bred Dorset Horn rams in com-
petition with other English breeds for fat-
lamb production have convinced me that
farmers can go baldheaded for the pedigree
Dorset ram, but must not touch the grade
with a 40-foot pole.
“J.K.J.”: I don’t believe in throwing
calves in order to put the firebrand on them;
a blistered brand is likely to be the result.
My method is to hold the calf firmly against
a fence, one man at its head .and another
holding the hindquarters. For added secu-
rity the near hind-leg may be roped back,
and if the tail is held round a rail of the
yard it can’t move. The firebrand can now
be firmly and easily placed, but first clip
the hair away from the position the brand
will occupy, or smear with fat. The male
calf can easily be castrated whilst in this
position. The earmark should be left till
last.
“Obs.” : Try cornsacks for conveying your
calves to market; the back of the car will
carry four comfortably. Slip hind-legs in
first, secure the opening of bag with a few
inches of wire in front of shoulders; and
the calf rides in comfort. The sack is just
as handy for ration sheep.
“Dimon”: Grass grows green and tall
round a heap of droppings of horses or cows,
but underneath the ground becomes bare.
Some Gippsland farmers use a simple home-
made contrivance, called a rumbler, to break
the lumps and distribute them over the pad-
dock. It is made with three pieces of 4in.
by 4in. hardwood, 6ft. long and placed 6in.
apart, so that one edge of each rests on
the ground. Three bolts, 2ft. 2in. long, go
through them, the two outside ones having
an eye on which to hook the swinglcbars.
The bolts between the pieces of hardwmod
are encased in 6in. lengths of piping, to keep
them an even distance apart, with a washer
at each end, sunk in the wood. The rumbler
ddes the work quickly without tearing the
grass.
“Mulgo”: After a shower of rain has
fallen on a newly-excavated tank, put a mob
of sheep into it, and stir them about now
and again, so that they will wet and trample
the batters. Then, when heavy rain comes,
the tank will hold better and not suffer
erosion.
“Yarri” : I don’t like wire for horses, as
they are always liable to get hooked on it
when sawing and kicking, but a fence recom-
mended by an Agricultural Bureau man in
South Aus. looks suitable for parts not well
supplied with suitable timber. The posts are
bored with an inch auger, the holes about
10in. apart. One piece of No. 8 galvanised-
wire is run through four times, leaving
enough slack at the end posts to insert —
inside the bends or loops—a 2in. piece of
piping. Then, with an iron rod through the
piping, the four wires are twisted together
until they are tight. Posts may be capped
with a wooden rail, or with a plain wire
stapled to the top.
“,T. Mack” : If you have a silted-up creek
which carries water, or a sandy creek in
which water can be scooped, you can create
permanent holes in either by this method.
Choose a narrow part. Cut a couple of logs
long enough to reach across and into the
banks on either side a foot or two. Set one
above the other so as to make a wall about
three feet high. Cut poles 10ft. or 12ft.
long, 4in. to 6in. thick. Lay one end on
the top log and let the other into the bed
of the creek on the upstream side; there
must be poles enough to extend from bank
to bank. Bed the upstream end about a
foot deep. You thus have an overshot dam.
The first fresh will excavate either soil or
sand and provide you with a decent water-
hole. The poles (planks are better if you
have them) wall carry the water over the
logs and prevent erosion underneath, and you
need have no fear of the structure being
washed away. I have tried it and I know.
“Greenacres”: “Tallama” (B. 14/10/’3l)
in effect supports my idea that lime is gen-
erally the limiting factor in securing good
results from super.—as it is also with sul-
phate of ammonia. “Tallama” does not
explain what he means by “using a third of
lime for all super, used.” Also' lie omits
to mention that in M.L. large quantities of
Nauru and Ocean Island phosphates, finely
ground, are used where conditions favor such
insoluble phosphates as these and the Afri-
can article; with this difference, that Nauru
and Ocean Island phosphates contain higher
percentages of phosphoric acid. “Tallama”
avoids further reference to super, being
“broken down with sulphuric acid” —a state-
ment absolutely incorrect. If and when
Comboyne farmers do the job thoroughly—
i.e., renovate and apply lime before applying
super, and/or sulphate of ammonia—the
same good results as are obtained generally
where topdressing is practised on the North
Coast (N.S.W.) will be seen on the Plateau.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Man, Sydney, small capital, seeks partner in gold
prospecting. —6444.
Plasterer (28), married, exp. in building concrete
dips, silos, etc., wants employment anywhere. Refs.
—6514.
Licensed plumber and ironworker wants employ-
ment anywhere in Vic.—6sll.
To buy “When the Cave Woman Calls,” by Hector
Macdonald; and the biography of Jack London,
written by his wife.- —6567.
To buy books on toedancing, step- and tap-dancing,
and the hornpipe.—6so2.
To buy “Star Dust in Hollywood,” by Jan and
Cora Gordon. —6545.
To hear from descendants of Permien, the ex-
plorer. (To Eric Radcliffe, The Summit, near Stan-
thorpe, Q’land.)
Whereabouts of Mrs. Eliza Cressard, who went
from Urana (N.S.W.) to Q’land some time ago.—
6437.
Words of some of the best-known of the old sea
chanties. —6339.
Information Sought.
(1) What units of the A.I.F. took part m
the victory march of the Allied armies
through London on July IJ, IJIJ • '
Were any of these units brought from the
Rhine Army of Occupation? If so, which
ones? (3) Did any complete unit of original
Anzacs take part in the march? If so where
were they stationed before going to London?
—6561. . .
(1) No Australian unit marched as a
unit, but each division was represented, lne
contingent was composed of officers and men
who at the time were on the strength of the
A.I.F. depots in the United Kingdom, and
consisted of 100 officers and men (2) to.
(3) The records disclose no orders provia-
ing for a section of original Anzacs to take
part. The method of selection of the con-
tingent was on the following lines: (®)
decorations, (b) length of and distinguished
service in the field, (c) height and physique.
A Queensland shire council has advertised
that land upon which rates are owing will
be sold if rates are not paid within three
months. (1) Can the council fix a reserve
on each lot amounting to the amount of
rates owing? (2) If the land is not sold
and no bid or offer is made, to whom does
it belong? (3) Must the council sell the
land to the highest bidder irrespective of a
reserve price? —6l7s.
(1) Yes. (2) Neither. In respect of any
land on which rates have been owing for
two years, the local authority may, without
offering the land for sale, lease it for any
period not exceeding 21 years. In such case
the owner may within 25 years demand pos-
session of the land, and is entitled thereto
on payment of arrears of rates and acciuea
interest. If, however, any land is ottered
for sale for arrears of rates and is not sold,
the land remains the property of the owner
subject to the existing encumbrances, includ-
ing the payment of arrears of rates and in-
terest and the expenses incurred in connec-
tion with the sale. (3) The local authority
may place a reserve price on the land and,
if such sum is not realised at the sale, may
buy in the land at that price. The council
is not bound to buy the land in.
(1) How can a patent be secured in the
TJ.S.A.? (2) How long does a provisional
patent there protect an invention? (3) Cost
of full patent? (4 ) Does the fact that one
is not an American citizen preclude one from
securing a patent there? _ (5) Could one
enter America without going on the quota
in order to exploit the patent? —646o.
(1) By lodging petition, oath, specifica-
tion and drawings in U.S.A. Patent Office.
Documents must be signed before U.S.A.
Consul in Australia, and an attorney must
be appointed in U.S.A. (2) No provisional
patents in. U.S.A. (3) About £35, including
attorney’s costs and Government fees. (4)
No. (5) U.S.A. Consul, Brook House, 17
O’Connell-street, Sydney, can advise as to
conditions in such a case.
What was the cause of the recent revolu-
tion in Chile and how did it result?— 64BB.
The revolution was the outcome of dis-
satisfaction with the actions of the Presi-
dent, General Carlos Ibanez, who was
blamed by the revolutionaries for the pre-
vailing economic depression in Chile. Fol-
lowing widespread disorders throughout the
country and the threat of the opposition to
call a general strike, Ibanez resigned and
fled the country. The Vice-President, Don
Juan Esteban Montero, succeeded him.
How does the fox-terrier get his name?
Is there anything of the fox in him? What
are his distinguishing attributes? —6474.
The fox-terrier is so called because of
the use to which he was originally put—
the bolting of the fox from his earth nest.
There is no fox blood whatever in him. He
was originally black-and-tan, but by judi-
cious crossing, probably with a small fox-
hound. the beagle and white fox-terrier came
into being. His principal attributes are
his gameness on all kinds of vermin, and
as a useful watchdog where space is limited
and a large dog would be out of place.
I wish to appeal against the Valuator-
General’s valuation of my property. What
are the costs of an appeal on a property
under £5OO and ivhat steps must I take? —
6096.
An objection may be lodged within 30
days of the issue of the notice of valuation.
The prescribed form can be obtained at
the department’s offices. The lodging of an
objection does not involve expense unless
the owner engages a solicitor or agent.
Should the case eventually be referred to the
Land and Valuation Court for determina-
tion, the discretion of awarding costs is
vested in the Judge, but it is unusual tor
costs to be awarded to cither side.
What was the maximum speed of the
fastest fighting ’planes operating m the
Great War? —6324. Q
5.E.5, 120 m.p.h.; Sopwith Dolphin, 119
m.p.h.; Sopwith Snipe, 114 m.p.h.
A limited-liability co. pays Federal tax on
its profits, Is. M. in the £. A shareholder
then draws his dividends and is taxed Is. bd.
in the £. Is that correct? —6382.
The official reply is: Dividends which
have been paid out of income subject to the
special tax of 74 p.c., which the co. has not
paid, are subject to the special tax m the
hands of the recipient. This tax has been
imposed in addition to the ordinary company
tax of Is. 4d. in the £.
Is it possible to separate _ a mixture of
fuel oil and lubricating oil, leaving the
lubricating oil ready to be used again.
6528. ' . .
There is a process but it is very expen-
sive, and would only pay where large quan-
tities are involved. Even under such treat-
ment, certain heavy constituents of the fuel
are likely to remain with the lubricating oil.
If sufficient heat were applied to the mix-
ture to eliminate all the fuel oil, damage
would be done to the lubricating value ot
the other oil. Therefore there is no prac-
ticable process that will make a complete
separation.
(1) How long does it take to learn monu-
mental masonry? (2) JJo monumental
masons accept youths as apprentices, ana
on what terms? (H) Wages of a journeyman
monumental mason in Sydney? (A) Any
schools in Sydney which teach the subject .
—6463. „ ,
(1) Five years. (2) See Stonemasons
(State) Award, obtainable from N.S.YV.
Government Printer, Sydney, 6d., about it.
Intending apprentices must be examined by
the Silicosis Committee No. 1 before per-
mission can be granted to enter the indus-
try. (3) £6 10s. per week of 40 hours. (4)
There is a class at Sydney Technical Col-
lege for general masonry only.
(1) If Japan had refused to have the
Manchurian affair investigated by a, thud
party, what would have been the obligation
of the League of Nations in regard to China s
demand? (2) What power has the League
to force O' member nation to submit a dis-
pute for inquiry? (3) How is it possible
for international disputes to be determined
without the intervention of a third party?
(4) Arc any penalties provided for m a case
where a nation refuses to submit to arbitra-
tion —6372. ~, r ,
(lj To carry out the terms of the Cov-
enant, which obliges it to regard any war or
threat of war to be the common concern ot
all members of the League. All members ot
the League have agreed to submit to arbi-
tration, judicial settlement or inquiry by
the League any breach of the Covenant. (2)
and (4) If disputing countries cannot settle
the dispute themselves, the Council is bound
to take cognisance of it. If a country re-
fuses to submit, the Council may recommend
whatever steps it considers will be effective.
It has power to instruct its members to
sever trade and financial relations with the
dissenting country, and to use whatever
military forces it considers are required. (3)
There is no judicial international authority
outside the League which can settle a dis-
pute if the two parties are unable to agree.
In the last 12 years the Council has had
submitted to it and has settled 24 disputes,
in eight of which the parties had already
resorted to war.
(1) Amounts of following Federal boun-
ties paid during 1930-31: (a) Sulphur, (b)
wine export, (c) cotton, (d) iron and steel
products? (2) Amount paid same period
for (a) old-age and invalid pensions, (bl
war pensions, (c) other Federal pensions?
—6386.
(1) (a) £48,520; (b) £165,009; (c)
seed, £100,848; yarn, £57,085; (d) fenc-
ing wire, £39,913 ; galvanised sheets, £79,429 ;
wire-netting, £22,696; traction engines,
£1974. (2) (a) Old-age and invalid pen-
sions, £11,710,953; (b) war pensions,
£7,987,038; (c) other pensions, pensions
and retiring allowances under Sec. 84
of the Constitution, £36,333; Government
contributions under Superannuation Act,
£86,113.
(1) How to top-dress a bowling-green?
(2) Most suitable soil? (3) Should animal
manure be used; if so, should it be pul-
verised or used untreated? (4) Should top-
dressing be applied wet or dry? —62s6.
(1) Apply new soil to about lin. even
thickness and add sulphate of ammonia at
rate of loz. to sq. yd. of surface. Water
well. (2) Sandy loam, free from weed
seeds and extraneous matter. (3) Animal
manure is satisfactory if thoroughly rotted
and composted with soil. (4) As dry as
possible.
(1) Of what materials are candles used
in domestic pressure-filters made? (2)
Where are candles obtainable? —6359.
(1) Pasteur filters are made of fine un-
glazed porcelain, Berkefeld’s of compressed
silicious earth. (2) Dauks, Ltd., 324-30
Pitt-street. Sydney.
(1) What are the names of scented
timbers growing in Australia? (2) Locali-
ties in ivliich they grow? (3) Any of them
suitable for cabinet-making and inlaying? —
6530.
(1) and (2) Acacias, such as yarrau,
myall, brigalow and the gidya of inland
N.S.W., the raspberry-jam acacia of W.A.,
sassafras and musk (coastal N.S.W.), red
cedar and rosewood (N.S.W. and Q-).
native white cypress and the sandalwoods
of W.A. and N.Q. The native cherry might
be included. (3) All are suitable if well
seasoned, though the acacias are generally
of comparatively small size.
(1) What precisely is the European Con-
stabulary in New Guinea? (2) Are there
any ranks below warrant officer, second
class; if so , how many? (3) Nature of the
duties an officer is required to perform; is
he stationed in the interior with a detach-
ment of natives? (4) What are the climatic
conditions generally? (5) Are some poi-
sons more susceptible to malaria than others.
—6293. .
(1) The police force of the Territory con-
sists of the European Constabulary com-
prising such European commissioned and
warrant officers as are appointed by the
Administrator; the Auxiliary European
Constabulary, comprising the Commissioner
of Native Affairs, district acting
district officers, assistant district inspec-
tors, assistant district officers, acting assis-
tant district officers and patrol officers;
and, thirdly, the Native Constabulary,
which embraces all non-commissioned officers
and constables in the force. (2) lbe only
ranks below warrant officer, second class, are
held by natives. (3) Warrant officers would
be required to perform police duty in Eabaul
and other centres, including the goldfields
area. (4) The climate of the Territory is
tropical. (2) All residents are liable to
malaria.
Haw to poison rats? —6516.
Take Boz. barium carbonate; 16oz. oat-
meal ; Boz. beef dripping or tallow and
salt. Mix into dough, roll out on a board,
and cut. into half-inch cubes. Place in
likely spots, and renew frequently, as it is
most relished by the rats when fresh.
Recipe for a home-made furniture and
floor polish? —6slB.
Take 4oz. beeswax and slired it up finely
with a sharp knife into a tin. Stand the
tin in a basin of boiling water, and cover
the beeswax with turpentine. Stir occa-
sionally till dissolved. Use more or less
turpentine to regulate the thickness of the
polish. Apply sparingly with a flannel,
and polish with a woollen cloth.
How to identify genuine early stamp
issues of the and Ellice Islands.
6546. • , T IQII
The first stamps, issued January, lull.
were made from Fiji plates and overprinted
“Gilbert and Ellice Protectorate.” Print-
ing was done on paper watermarked multiple
Crown C. A. Seven values were issued
ranging from 4d. to Is. In March, 1911,
four low values depicting the pandanus pine
were issued, these being printed on the same
paper as the first.
How to tell a forgery from a genuine
postage stamp? —6522.
Forgeries can sometimes be detected by
a careful examination of the paper on which
they are printed, with especial attention to
the water-mark, if any. The design mav
also differ in some minor detail from the
original, and so may the shade of color or
the perforation. A study of the postmark
in the case of used copies may also assist
in tracing a forgery. In surcharged and
over-printed specimens the surcharge may
differ from the original as regards size auu
shape of the characters.
Can the patentee of an invention enter
into an arrangement for its manufacture on
a royalty basis, and how are such agree-
ments drawn up? —64lB.
A patentee may grant a license to another
party to make use and sell the patented
article on any terms and conditions mutu-
ally agreed upon, payment to the patentee
being on a royalty basis or otherwise. A
license may be exclusive to one party or
may be non-exclusive, so that other licenses
may be granted and the patentee himself
may manufacture and sell. It is usually
agreed that the licensee undertakes to render
periodical statements of the quantity made
and sold and to pay a specified royalty on
that quantity within a definite time after
rendering the statement. The license
should be registered at the Commonwealth
Patent Office.
(1) My wife and her sister are about to
establish a small haberdashery shop in a
Sydney suburb and intend to trade under
a French name. Must they register the
name? (2) Fees? (3) Must it be re-regis-
tered annually? (4) Where can registra-
tion be effected? —6438.
(1) Yes. (2) 7s. 6d. if registratmn is
effected before commencement of business,
otherwise 15s. (3) No, but any change m
the constitution of the firm or its name or
in the address at which business is carried
on, or in the addresses of the persons con-
cerned, must be registered. (4) Registrar-
General’s Department, Queen’s bquare,
Sydney.
Formula for sepia toning photographs?
645°. . _ . .
Bleach the print m a solution of terro-
cyanide potas., loz.; bromide potas., ioz.;
water, 15oz. Wash in three _ changes of
water Then immerse in sulphide of soda,
loz.; water, 15oz. Wash thoroughly.
How to remove paint from golf balls? —
6424.
Mix one part turpentine and two parts
ammonia. Place in a bottle, and shake well
till the liquid looks like milk. Apply with a
rag. In a few minutes the paint can be
wiped off.
(1) Have the claims of palmists as to
reading the future by the lines of the hand
ever been put to a test? If so, with what
results? (2) What are the main features
they foretell? (3) Books on the subject
and where obtainable? (4) How long has
the cult been practised and names of the
leading palmists in history? —6s66.
The matter has had the attention ot
scientists and philosophers from Aristotle
down. All are agreed that the claims of
palmists are fantastic and irrational. (2)
Primarily the so-called science of palmistry
purports" to judge character; divinations of
future events are a matter for the imagina-
tion of the practitioner and his assessment
of the credulity of the subject. (3) Any
big bookseller can produce an assortment.
(41 Earliest written references come from
China, 3000 b.c. The principal European
theorists in recent times have been K. G.
Carus.', Landsberg, Desbarolles, Gessmann,
Beamish and Cotton.
Brief Answers,
C.L.: Hughes Massie and Co., 347 Fifth-
avenue, New York; and Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-
street, London, W7C.2. . . . J.L.S.: Dr. W. G. Woolnough
is Geological Adviser to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. Address, care of Dept, of Home Affairs, Can-
berra, F.C.T E.K.: (1) Racial Hygiene Assoc.,
VVingello House, Angel-place, Sydney. (2) Rotary
Club of Sydney, Hotel Australia, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney F.A.K.: N.S.W. alpine or mountain ash
from the Batlow district can be obtained from W.
Kopsen and Co., 68-70 Clarence-street, Sydney....
Anon: Question about centrifugal pump too technical
to answer here. Send us your name and address
and we will reply by post. . . .A.J.F.: Address too
vague. Send full 0ne....L.0.: (1) and (2) N 0....
E. : Wash the face twice a day in hot water and
scrub mildly with soap and a soft brush. Keep
as much in the open air and sunlight as you can.
Don’t use powder. When a pimple comes, put a
little iodine or methylated spirits on it and gently
squeeze out the contents, taking care that the hands
are very clean. The blood has very little to do with
it, but eat plenty of fresh fruits and salads....
F. : (1) Write to Department of Local Govt.,
Sydney, giving the council’s name, and inquiry will
be made. (2) and (3) Not equitably, but a Judge
might hold that there was statutory power to do so.
(4) The council may recover the amount in court
as if it were a rate, and rate and costs then become
a charge on the land. Rates unpaid at the
expiration of three months are charged in N.S.W.
with interest at 7 per cent. p.a. For court proceed-
ings this interest is deemed to be part of the rates.
F.C.W.: You must register. Get N.S.W. Dairy In-
dustry Act and regulations from the Department of
Agriculture, 2s. 2d L.A.N.: (1) and (2) Write
to the Chief Industrial Magistrate, Queen’s-square,
Sydney, stating circumstances and asking if in
view of the lapse of time it would be necessary to
have his order revived. (3) Not if the contractor has
been paid in full. It might be as well to inquire
L. : Can’t say from information furnished. Best way
to find out is to apply for pension. .. AV.P.R.: It is
one of the hundreds of different sorts of Joan of Arc
medals. The dates are those of Joan’s birth
and death. Value about Is F.A.K.: Hipsleys,
27 Palmer-street, Sydney... .P.M.: Will Andrade,
52 Swanston-street, Melbourne. .. .C.K.Iv. : Rice
flour, l4d. per pound, British; same general
tariff. Linseed cake and oil cake, Is. per
cental, British ; Is. 3d. per cental general, plus
primage duty, 10 per cent., and sales tax, 6 per cent.
J.D.: Such positions are only open to first-class'
artists who have established a connection with the
journal. No use inexperienced persons applying....
M. : You, as executor, are entitled to all the new
coupons substituted for the old ones purchased by
your father. They will bear interest at 4 per cent,
and you cannot demand a higher rate of interest
on them. You have no claim against the holder of
the bonds. Your brother bought the coupons at his
own risk.... D.L.: Any right you, as executor, may
have would depend on whether the claim could
be regarded as a debt in the personal estate of the
deceased. Even so after the lapse of time you might
have difficulty in proving it. . . .C.E.: Wellback Bros.,
Pemmell-lane, Newtown; Willoughby and Co., Carda-
gan-street, Willoughby; J. Blaik, Johnston-lane,
Annandale—all Sydney... .J.S.: Tobacco-growing is
not practicable as an amateur hobby. To manufacture
tobacco for your own use you would have to
register with the Customs Department as a manu-
facturer, and your “factory” would be subject to
inspection by the Customs authorities. Also you
would have to pay excise duty on any leaf that you
grew and cured C.P.8.: See Dr. Murphy, Lecturer-
in-Charge of Chemistry at Sydney Tech. College,
Ultimo, who will advise. .. .11.J.8.: No Federal or
State income tax is payable. .. .8.E.H.: You haven’t
stated the original amount of interest W.L.:
21s. 7d. per. week; interest computed quarterly...
E.J.H.: Doubtful if it could be grown successfully
in W.A., and as it is poisonous to stock the autho-
rities do not desire it to be introduced. .. .A.A. . (1)
Australian Cement, Ltd., Temple Court, Collins-
street, Melbourne. (2) All Portland cement is manu-
factured to one standard. High Early Strength
cement is also manufactured to a definite standard.
A.J.P.: Get in touch with the Public Estates
Improvement Section of the Land Administration
Board, Brisbane. .. .H.L.P.: Not an efficient know-
ledge unless there is some knowledge of the chemical
side of the process. Books on the subject are
“Cyaniding Gold and Silver Ores” by Forbes, Julian
and Smart; and “The Cyanide Process of Gold
Extraction,” by Prof. James Park. . . .F.M.M.G..
Write to the Assistant Paymaster-General, Supreme
Court Pay Office, London, giving information. Should
the estate have been lodged in- Chancery ask to be
instructed in the steps required to establish your
title W.S.: It has no commercial value N.L.:
Write Agriculture Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet
“Hides, Skins and Sundries,” 9d W.F.M.: Study
the textbooks on the subject by Van Slyke and by
Farrington and Wall T.D.: (1) Boys who cannot
pass the scholarship examination are allowed to
attend technical colleges in Q’land on payment of a
fee of £2 2s. per term. (2) “Dyke’s Motor En-
cyclopiedia” ; “A Textbook of Steam and Steam
Engines, including Turbines and Boilers,” by A.
Jamieson; and “Internal Combustion Engines, by
W. H. Hogle H.G.S.M.: This line is now off the
market... .E.L.D.: Equally between son and daughter.
P.J.M.: Apparently an ordinary debt, not sub-
ject" to the N.S.W. Moratorium Act, and recoverable
in court M.A.M. : Yes, but you would have to give
some guarantee that the book would not be issued
in Australia before serial publication began. .. .
T.M.W.: A mortgagor under the N.S.W. Moratorium
Act includes “any person who has guaranteed the
payment of any money the payment of which is
secured by a mortgage.” This does not appear to
be your case and the bank is apparently acting within
its rights W.P.: Write C. Weaver, hon. sec.,
Australian Numismatists’ Assoc., 11 Carlisle-street,
Leichhardt. .. .Rent Purchase: As at end of October
you have paid off £l3B 7s. and the transaction has
18 quarters to run- • - .D.S.M.G.: Federal Products,
Ltd., Box 1038 J, G.P.0., Adelaide,- S.A A.S.:
The specimen is a leaf of Notothixos subauveusy a
common parasite on the swamp she-0ak.... J.L. •
There are several species of sea-pike in Australian
waters, mostly of small size. Some foreign varieties
(including the barracuda, of the West Indies)
attain a length of over six feet, and are so voracious
as to be dangerous to man. ...C.C.: Messageries
Maritimes in 1881 built the s.s. Natal for the tiade
between Marseilles and Sydney; since 1882 a con-
tinuous service has been maintained, with a bianch
line to New Caledonia D.G.: (1) Exchange sup-
plement is calculated on the amount of pension due
during the period covered by the supplement. The
rate of exchange used is the mean average daily
rate of the period. (2) Your supplement has been
correctly calculated. A pensioner receiving £6O as
supplement would be in receipt of a very much
larger pension than you are. . . .W.J.T.: The estate
cannot libel, but the person into whose hands such
a document came might make himself liable oy
publishing the contents. It would be no defence to
say that a dead woman was its origin. It is unwise
to seek to perpetuate grievances of that kind....
L.H.P.: Best try to arrange a compromise. Having
given a receipt, you can’t prove that the filly was
exchanged. There is no fixed charge for agistment.
.... (Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G.M. Turnbull
Synopsis : Daring- the absence of Jim
Huntley, Resident Magistrate of
Aikoroa, Papua, on sick leave, the
natives get oat of hand. Huntley,
returns, and, accompanied by Sergeant
Gibara, warns them that in “twelve
sleeps'’ he will come to collect their
tax-money. Going on to 'Nataroa
Plantation Huntley delivers a letter
to the dipsomaniacal owner, Charlie
Durrant, on whom Huntley suspects
Roger Calvert, trader, is battening. It
is from Marian, Durrant’s young
daughter, whom Huntley met on ship-
board and has fallen in love with. It
tells hen- father that, as he had always
put her off when she wrote of return-
ing from “down south,” where she had
been brought up, she is paying him a
surprise visit. This news plunges
Durrant, who had “gone native,” into
despairing remorse. Bringing him to
the residency, Huntley grimly fights to
reclaim him for Marian’s sake.
Marian arrives in the Maipua from
Baramata, where she was delayed;
but Huntley has Durrant sober, and
she does not suspect his terrible weak-
ness. The dilapidated house at
Nataroa is burnt doion — accidentally,
Marian believes, but really by Freddie
Chisholm, Huntley’s young assistant
and her friend. She too is invited to
live at the residency. A conversation
with Captain Fuller, of the Maipua,
strengthens Huntley’s suspicions that
Calvert, for his own profit, with the
sorcerer Maragi, is causing the native
unrest.
CHAPTER XII.
WITH the coming of the Maipua—and
Marian—Freddie Chisholm found
himself banished to the station rest-
house. And Chisholm was well content. It
was a sparsely-furnished native structure —
roomy, cool, comfortable—and, although the
split-palm floor sagged alarmingly under his
thirteen stone of bone and muscle, and the
nipa-thatched roof harbored all manner of
noisome things that crawled, and venomous
things that crept, he had a sense of freedom,
of emancipation from a position that had
become an unrelieved embarrassment to
him.
He leaned back in the decrepit wicker
chair on the verandah that faced the parade-
ground, stretched out his legs and puffed a
ring of cigarette smoke towards the ceiling.
It, was good to be released from the strain
of making the best of a beastly situation;
of constantly summoning to his aid every
refinement of tact in his relations with
Charlie Durrant; of being eternally on the
alert lest by careless word or thoughtless
inference he should add one straw to the
old man’s burden of woe.
For Charlie Durrant was stretched upon
a rack, and the tale of his torment was
written in his face. He was strangely docile
these days—obedient, passive; only his
cavernous eyes and strained mouth told of
the jangling touch of invisible fingers on
raw and quivering nerves.
Freddie Chisholm’s open, ingenuous face
clouded. He was frightfully sorry for the
poor old beggar; horribly afraid of the
shadow that overhung Marian. Still, he
was grateful for the freedom of the rest-
house. Here he could imbibe a “spot” when
the sun went down without feeling that he
was participating in some shameful pagan
rite. Here he could breathe in comfort, col-
lect his thoughts and reflect upon all that
was rotten in the state of Aikoroa.
Chisholm had had a strenuous, not to
say exciting, afternoon. He had exuded
sweat and many oaths, as, aided by Sergeant
Gibara and a detachment of police, he
kindled the beacon that had welcomed
Marian home. A foul hovel, the Nataroa
bungalow! The sight, the smell of the
place had affected him with a sort of fierce
disgust. Huntley had been right when he
decided to destroy it. One simply couldn’t
begin to explain the filthy place to a girl of
Marian Durrant’s dainty, sensitive fastidi-
ousness.
There was an ugly red blotch on the
back of Chisholm’s hand where the sparks
from a falling rafter had scorched the skin;
a missing eyebrow gave to his face a pecu-
liarly sinister expression, and he was glad
that he had worn his oldest duds. It was
strange how the police had communicated
their excitement to him. It was with diffi-
culty that he had restrained himself from
venting a schoolboy’s exuberance as he had
lighted the kerosene-soaked firesticks and
distributed them amongst the thoroughly
puzzled police. And they had fallen to with
yells of glee when he had made known his
wishes. He could see them now, rushing
hither and thither, stripped to the buff,
brandishing flaring torches—demon sil-
houettes, sweating, howling, in an inferno
of smoke and fire. And he, too, had re-
acted to the madness that possessed them;
he had abandoned the role of passive on-
looker and had stamped and shouted as the
flames, fanned by freshening puffs of wind,
had swept devastatingly towards the sky.
The whole procedure had been bizarre,
really, he reflected—fantastic, incredible.
To march out in broad daylight to a man’s
house and solemnly burn it! It was the
sort of thing that could happen only in
New Guinea.
A uniformed native who temporarily filled
the offices of orderly, valet and general
factotum, announced his presence by a self-
effacing cough.
“Bat’, sah,” he said, “I bin makem bat’,
sah.”
“Good, Ahagi. Bring hot water for shav-
ing too.”
It would be a dry party at the residency
to-night, he mused, as he splashed under the
tin shower-bath. Huntley would serve the
juice of native limes—“siporas,” they called
them—sprayed with sodawater and sweet-
ened with sugar; healthful enough, and
entirely innocuous, but damnably uninspir-
ing. He made a wry face. He would send
a “chit” to Huntley and invite him to
step along and start the evening with a jolt
of the real stuff. The old lad couldn’t pos-
sibly approach his social obligations forti-
fied only by “sipora.” It was not to be
thought of.
He was shaved and in clean drill, stretched
out in the wicker chair, gazing upon the
enchantment of the horizon, where clouds
like iridescent feathers from the breast of
a bird of paradise announced the imminent
setting of the sun.
“Mis’ Huntley say all right, sah; bymeby
he come,” Ahagi politely told him.
He could hear the voices of the station
kiddies shrieking, crowing with delight as
they splashed at the water’s-edge. A few
poultry collected about the sergeant’s quar-
ters raised a vociferous outcry as Loa, the
placid, loose-fleshed wife of Gibara, scat-
tered rice and ground cocoanut amongst
them. To the perfume-laden air the set-
ting sun lent a golden radiance.
He was bending over a packing-case, with-
drawing a black bottle from its straw sheath
when he heard the crunch of feet upon the
coral path.
“Step inside, R.M.,” he called out with
huge cheerfulness; “I shan’t be a sec.”
He looked up. The welcoming grin was
wiped from his face and hastily he thrust
the bottle back into the deepest recesses
of the box. His visitor was Charlie Dur-
rant.
Chisholm’s hands were busy amongst the
tins and bottles and packets that repre-
sented his month’s stores. It was an
awkward situation, a situation that called
for the perfection of tact —finesse, artful-
ness; he did not like to call it deceit. He
rummaged desperately in the packing-case;
his eye lighted on a label and he straight-
ened himself.
“Sit down, sir,” he invited; “I wonder if
you’d help me drink some of this?”
Durrant’s face made Chisholm uneasy. It
was strained, unnaturally grey, revealing a
tension too hideous.
Chisholm felt horribly abashed. He was
hating the situation intensely. Durrant was
shaking as though an unseen lash were
driving him, but his twisted smile held a
poignant revelation.
“Your obviousness, my dear Chisholm —
really, what is that you’re threatening me
with? Dear me—ah—lemon-squash, is it
not? , An affliction, my dear boy, of an
otherwise kindly and beneficent Providence.
Don’t you agree?” He sat down limply and
laughed with a strange, harsh strangled
noise. “God, I’m being turned inside out,”
he rasped out the words with a jerky effort.
A low cry came from him. “I’m down to
bedrock, Chisholm. I’m cracking. There
are hot wires in my brain—red-hot—twist-
ing, turning. Give me a drink, for the
love of God!” ,
“Steady, sir,” Chisholm gently cautioned.
There was a worried look on his pleasant
face. “I’m desperately sorry, but” he
shrugged his shoulders helplessly.
Another sound like a whimper came from
Durrant. Chisholm turned away. He could
not bear to face the old man’s terrible eyes.
“You’re having a frightfully rough spin,
sir. And you’re doing splendidly.” Chis-
holm’s cheerfulness sat uneasily upon him.
“You’re looking tip-top. You’ll be as fit
as a fiddle in. a day or two. Stick it, sir.
A little resolution, a little determina-
tion”—
“To hell with your damned platitudes!”
Durrant’s voice rose and quavered wfith a
febrile excitement; his eyes glittered; he
shook as if with palsy. “I know what you’re
hiding there—in that case. I saw it. You
can’t refuse me, my boy. My God, you
can’t do that, Chisholm. You can’t—can’t—
haven’t you any bowels—any?”
There was a firm tread on the steps. Chis-
holm was conscious of a great relief as
Huntley appeared. His eye travelled from
Durrant to Chisholm. He took in the
situation instantly, but affected a bland un-
consciousness.
“I’ve been searching the station for you,
Charlie,” he remarked evenly. “Marian
sent me to look for you. She wants you
to herself for a while before our guests
arrive.”
Durrant’s voice had trailed off. With an
effort he mastered his face and controlled
his limbs.
“I promised to hunt you up and chase
jmu • back to her,” Huntley ended.
Durrant looked at Huntley with a cer-
tain furtiveness. He wet his lips, then
jerked himself up and walked unsteadily
down the steps.
“You are not playing the game, eh,
Charlie?” Huntley said gently as they
moved away from the resthouse. “Not
quite, old friend, eh?”
Marian in her sheath of a dinner frock
waiting, eager-eyed, on the verandah was
very visible to Huntley then.
“Stand up to this, Charlie. Bite on your
bullet. You can beat it, old man. You are
very precious to that little daughter of
yours.”
And Charlie Durrant reached out a grop-
ing hand and clung to Huntley’s arm.
In silence they passed through the palm-
grove that hemmed the residency in. The
sound of the surf came to them, crooning
softly as it broke; the song of the dying
trade wind soughing through the trees.
Huntley looked up, lifting his eyes to the
luminous sky. “The Lotus is lying along-
side the Maipua,” he announced with blunt
abruptness. He felt Durrant’s arm tauten
within his. “She has a big swag of copra
aboard, by the look of her.”
“Yes?”
Huntley eyed him doubtfully. “Roger
Calvert has been ashore for the last half-
hour. He was at the office, asking for you.”
“Yes?” This time there was no hint of
curiosity in Durrant’s voice.
“I may be misjudging Calvert, I don’t
know,” Huntley went on doggedly. “I don’t
like the fellow —never did—but I may have
been storing up things against him unfairly.-
There’s trouble brewing at the village. At
first I put it down to ordinary nigger in-
tractability and swank. I was wrong. Dead
wrong. Somebody is deliberately teaching
the villagers new tricks. Some unseen in-
fluence is at work amongst them.”
Durrant’s face remained blank. It was
obvious that the recalcitrant Aikoroans
were not within the orbit of his mental
vision.
“Are you mixed up in it, Charlie?” Hunt-
ley demanded with sharp directness.
“I, Jim?” Durrant’s expression as well
as his voice was startled. “Good God, no!”
“Calvert is,” Huntley gently declared.
There was a moment’s pause.
“Is he?” Durrant replied wearily at last.
“I suppose you know your own business
best. Do you mind if—er—that is, I do not
feel at liberty to discuss Calvert.”
Huntley laughed. “I have nothing more
to say, Charlie,-except that I’m dashed glad
you’re not a party to the joke Calvert put
over young Boardman.”
Swiftly the tropic night descended upon
Aikoroa Bay. Riding-lights glimmered like
pinpoints upon the masts of the two ves-
sels at the anchorage; above, the soft
Papuan sky was dusted with innumerable,
pulsating stars.
There came to them the quick clicking
of high heels on the bare verandah boards,
the sound of a fresh young voice trilling a
joyous little song. For a moment they
stood still. Huntley glanced at Durrant
from beneath wrinkled brows. It seemed
to him that the lines of bitterness graved
on the old man’s face had been miraculously
smoothed out; that the look of pain had
vanished from his eyes, leaving the soft
light of a great joy.
He touched Durrant’s elbow and together
they mounted the steps.
At the rest-house, Freddie Chisholm,
frowning fiercely, was nailing down the top
of a lately-opened packing-case. And with
each blow of the hammer he uttered irrele-
vant words.
The native teakwood table had been
newly-polished. There were brass candle-
sticks, with black and gold lacquered shades
diffusing a soft light that glimmered on
glass and silver. There was snowy linen,
there were sheaves of tropic blooms in vases,
and scented frangipanni petals floating in
shallow bowls.
Chisholm lifted his sound eyebrow.
“My hat, R.M.!” he exclaimed. “Where
did we get all the fal-lals and fakerloos?”
Huntley smiled. “They are Marian’s pro-
perty. She thinks it’s about time somebody
started to civilise us.”
“Splendid idea!” Chisholm enthused. He
touched the smooth mirror of the table
with a cautious finger. “And the old oak
has been manicured and massaged! Great!”
He gave Marian an ironic bow. “Little
homemaker!” he gently jeered.
Marian flushed. It quickened Huntley’s
pulses to see her at the head of his table, a
tantalising, vivid-eyed, white-shouldered
vision in an inadequate silver frock.
The houseboys, their bushy hair teased
out, their brown faces inscrutably immobile,
moved swiftly and silently under the watch-
ful eye of Gaduari, the cook.
“This is a very wonderful party you’re
giving us, Jim,” Marian declared. “I hope
I’m not being rude, but surely this soup
never came out of a tin.”
“It was a green turtle yesterday,” Hunt-
ley admitted. “Gaduari writhes with shame
when fortuitous circumstance compels him
to put me on a tinned-dog ration.”
Marian became thoughtful. “When I
start housekeeping I shall need well-trained
boys. I hope daddy can discover them for
me.”
“ ’Ware the sinabada, Chisholm
breezily interposed. “She’ll be giving
Gaduari a come-hither-and-sign-on-to-me
look—and what’ll we do for a cook then?”
Captain Fuller was expertly discussing
cocoanuts with Charlie Durrant. He was
eloquent about palms to the acre, clean
weeding, cover crops, smoke-drying versus
sun-drying and the outlook for the copra
market. Marian and Freddie Chisholm
tossed a conversational ball back and forth.
Huntley tried to keep pace with them, but
did not succeed verjr well. They looked
very merry and very young. There were
subtle allusions that passed Huntley by,
quips that had no meaning for him, jests
with elusive points. He drummed his fin-
gers absently on the table edge, conscious
that he was hundreds of miles away from
them. It was the age-old call of like to like,
youth to youth, he told himself. He was
ashamed of the wave of irritation that
swept over him.
He affected a good-humored amusement
as he put in a word now and then, but he
felt absurd and ineffectual and a century
old.
Meanwhile Gaduari and his satellites set
before them giant prawns from the reef,
palate-tickling salads made from the cab-
bage of the young cocoanut-palm and—a
miracle of bush cookery, over which Marian
exclaimed in wonder—a dish exotically com-
pounded from the breast of scrub-hen gar-
nished with native herbs.
Durrant and the skipper had drifted from
the major problems of high freights and
low prices to the evergreen topic of native
labor. Marian and Chisholm were discuss-
ing cookboys. They laughed at each other
a great deal in an intimate, casual way, and
again Huntley had a chilling sense of ex-
clusion, of loneliness.
Chisholm reached negligently for an olive,
and the candle-light played on his scarred
hand. Marian stared wrinkling her fore-
head under its wavelets of dark hair. A
swift look passed between Chisholm and
Huntley. Charlie Duromt’s face was hid-
den in shadow. Huntley found himself
breathing deeply. It struck him suddenly
that, save for his own brief announcement
when he had boarded the Maipua, Marian
had been told nothing concerning the “acci-
dent” that had deprived her of a home.
“A memento of my adventure of this
afternoon,” Chisholm lightly explained. He
stared reminiscently at nothing. “The
blinkin’ roof fell on me.” he added.
Marian leaned forward. Chisholm held
out his hand for inspection.
“Slightly grilled,” he remarked indiffer-
ently. “Nothing to worry about—l assure
you.”
Marian’s mobile face expressed solici-
tude. “Poor boy!” she breathed. Huntley
was conscious of a certain tension as a
momentary doubt hovered in her eyes.
“What caused the fire, Freddie?” she
asked. “Were you at Nataroa when it broke
out? How in the world did it start?”
“Search me,” Chisholm shook his head.
“Everything was over bar the shouting,
when I and the police arrived on the scene.
Same old story, I fancy. Some careless,
good-for-nothing coon wandering about with
a firestick. We saved what we could—noth-
ing of much account, I’m afraid.”
The troubled frown vanished from
Marian’s forehead. Huntley’s apprehensions
died away. It seemed to him that a
hurdle had been successfully surmounted,
that a moment of menace had passed.
“You’ll like this fruit-salad, Marian,” he
suavely interposed. “If you speak Gaduari
fair and don’t talk to him ‘too much sina-
bada fashion,’ he may give you the recipe.”
Marian laughed softly. Huntley warmed
to the quick smile she gave him.
“How you humiliate me, Jim!” she said.
“Here I’ve been wasting an enormous
amount of sympathy on you for a poor
old bachelor living at the mercy of a dis-
gusting native cook. Between you, you’re
killing all my illusions.”
“This has been truly a Feast of Lucullus,”
her father gravely assented.
Marian gave a cooing little chuckle.
Presently Chisholm pi’oduced a cigarette-
case. Marian nodded lightly to Huntley.
“Don’t be too long,” she commanded,
pushing back her chair. Charlie Durrant
caressed his jaw with a hand that shook a
little, but his eyes followed her softly,
fondly, as she tripped on to the verandah.
Captain Fuller grunted. He regarded
Chisholm contemplatively. “You are an
astoundingly resourceful liar, young feller,”
he said.
CHAPTER XIII.
The morning sun threw quivering shafts
of gold into Huntley’s office. A flamboyant
butterfly danced on fairy wings about his
head. From without came a chorus of
varied bird notes, an echo of voices and
the thud of mattocks into soft earth.
Huntley, in khaki shirt and shorts, was
critically examining the bore of a wicked-
looking automatic pistol.
“If I thought for a moment, R.M.,” Chis-
holm remarked, “that you were going to
need that on this stunt, I’d—well —I’d”
“What would you do, Chisholm?”
Chisholm made a grimace. “Man to
man, R.M., is there anything in your morn-
ing’s work that calls for the assistance of
that young cannon you’re titivating up?”
Huntley smiled briefly.
“Man to man, old chap, I don’t think
there is. In fact,” he added, “the chances
are about a million to one that I shan’t
touch the holster.”


m.
JUST AS WELL IT’S
A “ FAYREFIEUD ”
Good job indeed Just a push into shape again and
it will be as smart and snappy as ever.
That’s the best of buying a good hat in the first place; it will
stand up to wear and tear that would quickly mean the finish
of an inferior article.
“FAYREFIELD” Hats are made in Australia from selected
rabbit fur and cannot be surpassed for comfort, appearance
and wear.
Nu-felt 25 Super-felt 30/-
Sole manufacturers of
the “MANSARD” Hat ,
the new registered
design.
Your Hat,#
shy
r -
U y
ft
iv:
1
VA
mm
1:1
The Trade-mark and Quality are stamped in every genuine
“FAYREFIELD”
3 * Always Ahead ”
SYDNEY:
United Felt Hats Pty., Ltd.
Nichols Street, Surry Hills.
MELBOURNE:
United Felt Hats Pty., Ltd.,
48 Nicholson Street, Abbotsford.
BRISBANE:
John Bell & Co.,
133 Elizabeth Street.
F 2-31.
ADELAIDE:
C. G. Wark,
Bower B’ldings, Charles Street.
PERTH:
A. H. Mills,
Central Hay Street.
He deftly inserted a clip of cartridges
and thumbed the safety catch.
“Then why take these —er —elaborate pre-
cautions?- ’ , . „ ...
“Officially,” Huntley informed him, one
can wander from one end of New Guinea to
the other, and across and between, armed
with nothing more deadly than a camera
and a caddy of trade tobacco. Personally,
I make a point of doing nothing of the
kind—on principle.”
Chisholm considered this. “Have you-
ever had occasion—on patrol, I mean, to
use —er— firearms?” he asked.
“Oh no, Chisholm,” Huntley assured him
with heavy sarcasm, “never. The police
rifles are issued solely for the purpose of
replenishing the larder.”
He swung the holstered pistol snugly
under his left armpit beneath his shirt,
and patted it into position. Then he tapped
the bell that stood on the table. A
muscular young recruit in a jumper much
too tight for him came to the door and
saluted in embarrassed wonder.
“Pass the word to the sergeant,” Huntley
said in Motuan; “tell him to come —
quickly.”
He sat on the table and swung a leg.
“When you passed through Aikoroa
yesterday, did you notice anything unusual,
anything peculiar?”
“If you mean any unusual, peculiar and
powerful stinks,” Chisholm grinned, “I did.”
Huntley ignored his ribaldry. “See any
women about?”
Chisholm thought a while. “Yes,” he
answered, “we passed them as we entered
the village. They were at work in the
gardens.”
“Kids?”
Chisholm nodded. “Oodles of ’em. Laid
on.”
“M’m!” Huntley mused. “And the men,
especially the young bucks—how did they
impress you?”
“They struck me as being on the watch,
you know, wary, suspicious, ’n’ all that.
One ugly-looking brute, with a hornbill’s
beak sticking out of his forehead, put out
his tongue at me. I didn’t see it, but the
sergeant told me. The old fellow was almost
spitting blood.”
Huntley became thoughtful. “The beak
of the hombill, worn on the forehead, is
the old-time insignia of the successful homi-
cide,” he remarked. His eyebrows drew
together. “Some poor devil in an outlying
village has wakened up one night to find a
black-palm spear jabbing at his gizzard.
Poisonous brutes!”
Sergeant Gibara stalked in, carrying him-
self like the old soldier he was.
“To-day is the twelfth day, Sergeant,”
Huntley observed.
An unholy gleam flickered into Gibara’s
eyes and his lean jaw set.
“You heard my words to the men of
Aikoroa, Sergeant?” Huntley went on.
“I heard, sah.”
“And you will go with me to Aikoroa,
Sergeant, this being the morning of the
twelfth day?”
“Surely, sah,” Gibara returned simply.
“Good man!” Huntley breathed. Then
aloud: “Carry on, Sergeant. We start in
half an hour.”
Then Chisholm exploded. “Look here,
R.M.,” he protested hotly, “why the blazes
can’t I come with you? Why go in blind,
taking all sorts of unnecessary risks? Sup-
pose those blackguards take to you, what
is my position then?” His indignation rose.
“Skulking on the station with twenty armed
men! Looks fine, doesn’t it? I hope I’m
mindful of my subordinate position; but you
give me a pain.”
‘That’s all right, son,” Huntley rejoined
imperturbably. “You may now hold your
tongue and pay attention to my instruc-
tions.” He softened his censure with a
friendly grin. “Give us an hour’s start;
then follow slowly with the detachment.
Bring the tax-register, receipt book, cash-
box and—er—lunch. If nothing untoward
happens we’ll collect the tax from a dozen
or so of the ringleaders. The rest of the
‘strikers’ can dam’ well come to the station.
Everything clear, Chisholm? Any other
objections?”
“None for the moment, R.M.,” Chisholm
grumbled. He was still uneasy, still uncon-
vinced. “It’s all perfectly clear —clear as
mud!”
Huntley stood up and proceeded to fill a
pipe. “It is all a little matter of prestige,
son,” he declared, “of keeping face, you
know. Any fool could march into Aikoroa,
backed by twenty mqn with rifles and
bayonets and collect the tax arrears to the
uttermost farthing. The ‘strikers’ would
protest vehemently, pay up reluctantly and
laugh at us as soon as we turned our backs.
Moreover, they’d score a win—and they’d
know it. That would mean twenty years’
hard work tossed into the discard.”
“Why? Damned if I see it.”
“Force majeure, Chisholm,” Huntley ex-
plained. “Even Fritz had to yield to it.”
He regarded Chisholm thoughtfully. “Have
you ever seen a policeman down south con-
trolling the traffic with his baton in one
hand and a revolver in the other? Of
course you haven’t! The thing would be
absurd. He merely lifts a white-gloved
hand, and it doesn’t occur to even the
wildest red-ragger to disobey him. Why?
Because the John Hop is the outward,
visible symbol of the Law, and everything
that the Law stands for is ranged solidly
behind him. And that’s civilisation.”
Here Chisholm shook his head im-
patiently.
“But your police and your magistrates
and your courts of justices are useless with-
out the spirit that produces them,” Huntley
went on. “And the essence of that spirit
is, of course, discipline. The trouble-
makers at Aikoroa don’t possess it. The
evolutionary process stood still with them.
They are only a generation removed from
the Stone Age. They were bom and have
grown to manhood in an atmosphere of tur-
bulence, of violence, of revolt against the
incomprehensible inhibitions we white men
have imposed upon them. Thirty odd years
ago they cut out the schooner Lachlan Lass
and did horrible things to the crew. To
this day, out in the bush, you may still pick
up an unexploded shell from the ineffectual
guns of her Majesty’s ship Pelican sent to
avenge the murders. You can still find, by
searching for them, the butts of the cocoa-
nut-palms the boat’s crews cut down; and
the old men still tell of the huts that were
burned down. The first job that confronted
Marchmont when he opened the station was
to demand the surrender of the carved and
painted skulls of Loretti, the Italian
naturalist, and his mates, who were sur-
prised and butchered not a mile from
where we are standing. There were great
doings in Aikoroa Bay that day. March-
mont will carry to the end of the chapter
the scar of an Aikoroa spear that took him
in the chest: but there were ten new graves
in the village when the sun went down.”
A grim smile played about the corners
of Huntley’s mouth.
“It was the old story of Martini-Enfield
carbine versus black-palm spears and stone
clubs —unanswerable logic, of course. The
fellows we succeeded had to be ruthless to
be kind; to tear down before they could
build up, that the land might be made safe
for company promoters. But I’m becoming
prosy. I’ll give it a breeze.”
Sergeant Gibara was swaggering towards
the office. He had donned a new uniform,
the sun sparkled on his bayonet hilt, on the
polished brass studs of his cartridge-belt
and the dark leather of his accoutrements.
Much sweat and elbow-grease had been put
into Sergeant Gibara’s toilet.
“Even so,” Chisholm protested; “you’ve
only confirmed my belief that you’re going
deliberately to stick your head into a
hornets’ nest. You haven’t begun to explain
why.”
“Nigger psychology, old chap,” Huntley
laughed. “Thinking Black and all that sort
of bilge. I’m out to shame the swine, to
wipe my boots on ’em, rub their noses in
the mud, make ’em believe that it is only
by the grace of God and the goodwill of the
‘Gavamani’ that they’re permitted to en-
cumber the earth. Also,” he added quietly,
“I wish to discover something that I’d cer-
tainly miss if I went in .force. I wish to
confirm a suspicion that has been slowly
forming in my mind. There is something
behind this ‘strike’ business, Chisholm. I
see the hand of a white man”
“White man!” Chisholm jerked himself
up. “D’you seriously mean to suggest that
—good God!”
“You might call him a white man,” Hunt-
ley stated dispassionately. “I have a half-
formed idea that Calvert —the fellow who
annoyed you so intensely at Baramata
could explain a deuce of a lot of things
if he chose. Are you ready, Sergeant?”
“Ready, sah,” Gibara answered, clicking
his heels together.
“You might tell Marian that we shall not
be home for lunch,” Huntley said as he
left the office. “Cheerio, old chap. Get
moving not earlier than an hour from now.
Chisholm regarded Huntley’s retreating
form with a baffled expression on his face.
“Well!” he ejaculated. “I’ll be jiggered!”
The sun rose high. The unshaded parade-
ground was a suffocating inferno of heat.
The very air seemed to quiver. Even the
birds and the droning insects had sought
sanctuary in the coolest recesses of the
forest. On the shady side of the barracks
the police, armed and in marching kit, were
drawn up. A low mutter ran through them
as Huntley and the sergeant passed by. A
Kiwai constable grounded his carbine.
“Taubada,” he growled with intense bit-
terness, “are the police become women that
they should be left behind when, perchance,
there is fighting to be done?”
Sergeant Gibara scratched the bald patch
on the side of his head and uttered a short,
mirthless laugh.
“O fool and son of a fool!” he grunted.
“Do not the words of the magistrate to the
men of Aikoroa give promise of much fight-
ing—after the passing of an hour.”
“Hereva lasi! [shut up!]” Huntley
snapped.
Gibara grinned. He beamed on the sullen
police most benevolently and marched after
Huntley into the jungle.
(To be continued next week.)
Pitiful Truth.
When others mingled truth with less than
truth,
And I believed so much as pleasured me,
You rated me with the disdain of youth,
And boasted in your own security.
You said the fault was mine, because I
doubted,
With no good reason save my own caprice,
That you were proud to own the truth I
flouted —
And that day I was shamed and held my
peace.
You have not .spoken aught but truth to me,
Though I had understood if you had
hidden
A grief with lying laughter. Have not IV
Yet I can never trust you heartily,
Though less than truth is by your boast
forbidden.
I suffered when your silence was a li -
WESTKALIA.
ETHEL DAVIES.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life,
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
480 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
m
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
£89,228,378
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
After carrying everything before him in
Sydney and making his Caulfield Guineas
rivals look cheap, Ammon Ra finished out
of a place in the Victoria Derby, for which he
was favorite at 7 to 2. The only satis-
factory explanation is that the gelding had
gone a bit stale. Beyond a little inter-
terence when trying for an opening in the
straight, Ammon Ra had every chance.
McCarten reported that he came home a
very tired horse. Phar Lap was in some-
what similar shape when he landed the Vic-
toria Derby two years ago, only there did
not happen to be a thoroughbred in the
field fit to extend him. Ammon, Ra encoun-
tered gallopers of good calibre. He is no
Phar Lap, and his owner is fortunate that
the A.J.C. Derby preparation of Johnnie
Jason was interrupted and Chatham had to
be withdrawn.
Jim Pike’s riding had a lot to do with the
triumph of Johnnie Jason (15 to 1). If he
had been on Chatham (12 to 1) that colt
would have reversed positions with the winner.
Chatham, after beginning well, was allowed
to drop back until lie had only one or two
rivals behind him five furlongs from home.
Pike, kept Johnnie Jason in reserve for a
decisive effort at the distance. It seemed that
he would romp in, but Chatham came with
a long-sustained run and reduced the gap
to a length and a quarter as they flashed
past the judge. Viol d’Amour injured him-
self slightly in the Caulfield Guineas, and
Ned O’Dwyer felt doubtful about landing
him at the post on Saturday; but he put up
a really good race and was only a neck
Gert‘,' 9, 1 had a ereat arsument
yesterday
Bert: "Oh, what about *"
MODERN Gilßt-S MAKE
POOR MOTHERS ? NN
BERT: # I DUNMO e>UT THEY MAKE
POOR PATHSRS ! *
behind Chatham If things had gone right
with the son of A\ mdbag he might have been
a dual Derby hero, to say nothing of having
a great chance in the Cup. Ike Foul-
S'nfhitrfo 11 ™ t °A be w h( T> l ? e?t tbree ; year :
old of the season. A. E. Blair, trustee of
the George Adams estate, owns Chatham,
who piobably will be reserved for the Bat-
man Stakes next Saturday, sacrificing an
in the Linlithgow Stakes two
days earlier. _
Campbell Jones, sometime of Associated
Newspapers, Sydney, did not have the satis-
faction of seeing his colors carried to vie-
tory in the Manbyrnong Plate His news-
paper training began in Melbourne, and
Jones would have loved to appear there m
the role of winning racehorse-owner. Hugh
Denison his former chief in the Sydney
KrS'kT nnT represented in the
I late by Daik ChieL who finished along-
side Caramba, just behind the placed horses,
They say Caramba is developing an apple-
luiee, and an ailment of that kind may pre-
vent the colt from adding to the fame w-hicn
he achieved by landing the A.J.C. Breeders’
Plate. Victorian juveniles monopolised the
prize money in the Plate,
Vauntry (8 to 1), who is trained by Dave
Price wimng from Powerscourt (33 to 1),
with the favorite Sanballat, third. Sanballat
began slowly and destroyed his chance by
haying to shift his ground several times,
Price was proud of Vauntry having run the
five furlongs m lmin. lsec. against a head
wind; record for the race (lmin.) is shared
by Heroic (1923) and La Justice (1930).
Heroic sired Vauntry, who cost F. W. Kit-
chen, the soap manufacturer, 400 guineas as
a yearling. #
, r , , . TT r» T- • , ,
Maoriland trainer H. B. Longan broke
the ice in Melbourne by appropriating the
Maiden Plate with Oratorian, half-brother
to Concentrate. Local backers declared
strongly for Frank Dempsey’s mount, Pica-
tus, and even accorded Bold Bid (Heroic—
Nod) preference over Oratorian. It cost
C. B. Kellow 1200 guineas to acquire Bold
Bid as a yearling, but R. J. Murphy paid
twice that amount for Oratorian. The style
in which the Maorilander came home was
very impressive, but Picatus, who finished
only a neck away, looked a good thing
beaten, as he gave Oratorian a long start
over the last furlong. Dempsey has what
backers regard as an exasperating habit of
giving his mounts in many races a terrific
lot of ground to make up at the finish.
He ought to realise by now that every
thoroughbred is not in the same class as
Eurythmic.
• • • • • •
As he went to the Caulfield racecourse for
his final track gallop .on Victoria Derby
Day, Ammon Ra was escorted by an armed
guard, who had acted as night watchman at
the gelding’s stable. Precautions for the
safety of Phar Lap at Flemington were even
more thorough. Three plain-clothes men
from Russell-street police station kept inces-
sant vigil over the wonder horse, escorting
him into the mounting-yard and thence to
the . running-track entrance, where they
awaited his triumphant return and resumed
the watch. The Melbourne Stakes victory of
Phar Lap was gained by only half a length
from Concentrate, whose brilliant finish
brought the horse that was so unlucky in
the Me’trop. into increased Cup demand;
but Phar Lap won in leisurely style, which
is evident from the fact that he took 2.64
to cover the mile and a quarter, or 4sec.
longer than his Craven Plate time.
Sydney horses had the finish of the Can-
tala Stakes to themselves, Dermid (12 to 1)
scoring by a neck from Denis Boy (7 to 1),
who was only a. head in advance of Pentheus
(7 to 2), with Homedale fourth. Denis Boy
had been penalised 51b. for winning the Caul-
field Cup, and Homedale went up 101 b. for
her Moonee Valley Gold Gup success. Knox
wanted to ride Denis Boy again, but Jim
Donohoe refused to release him from the
contract to ride Dermid, who was success-
ful, at the A.J.C. meeting. In his career as
trainer Donohoe has handled some decent
horses, including Garlin (Doncaster Handi-
cap) and Figure (Oakleigh Plate). Garlin
was the property of John Wren, but Figure,
like Dermid, belongs to Donohoe
••*•••
For the remaining days at Flemington:—
Linlithgow Stakes: Pliar Lap; next, Veil-
mond
Oaks Stakes: Rondalina; next, Cupidity,
IBatman Stakes: Chatham; next, Viol
d’Amour
c. B.’ Fisher Plate: Phar Lap; next,
Concentrate.
Cimbrian antbeap \ Second Wind; next,
* * * *
There are few shrewder judges of horse-
flesh than A. D. Webster, the Maoriland
trainer. A far-sighted buyer of yearlings
he lias the knack of getting them into
condition and “placing” them. And,
although he is no reckless gambler lie
wagers spiritedly when he considers ’that
one of his useful string—old First Acre is
the pride of the stable, and deservedly so—
is worth backing. At Moorefield on Satur-
day Webster landed a double with Movie
Star and Hunt the Slipper in divisions of
the Three-year-old Handicap. They were
both topweights and favorites, and were
ridden by Webster’s son-an accomplished
jockey, though, like his fellow-Maorilander
McCarten, he has his off days. Father and
son will go back to Maoriland with pleasant
memories Q f their latest visit to Australia
and no Sydneysider will begrudge them their
good for they always S t
public a fair deal ‘
• -
D. U. Seaton’s colors, seldom seen to the
fore nowadays, were carried to victory by
Snow Sun (2 to 1) in the Kogarah Stakes
A temperamental customer, he had refused
to leave the barrier at the last Randwick
meeting, but Darby Munro got him away
well at Moorefield, and he made an exhibi
tion of the third- and fourth-raters opposed
to him. Tomato, a son of Tomatin who
raced without success in Sydney a few years
ago, was a bad second. y
J. E. Brien, owner in other days of Bera-
gom, Malt King and Rampion, had a win in
the Flying Handicap with Remora (4 to 1),
a mare of his own breeding by Rossendale—
Demeter. Remora was favorite for the
A.J.C. Chester Handicap at Randwick, but
found the company too select; at Moorefield
she had too much pace for the opposition,
although Calendo, most consistent of
sprinters, made a race of it. Remora is a
fine-looking mare, and with her aristocratic
breeding should make a name for herself as
a stud matron. As a racehorse she is only
second-rate.
Horses for courses ! Boorcello has a liking
for Moorefield, and has been a disappoint-
ment on other tracks. This chestnut mare
was one of three at 6 to 1 for the Moore-
field Handicap. After Ring Boy had
shown a bold front, she was brought along
with a .fine run by Bartle, and Flinders’s
fast finish was of no avail, though it car-
ried him into 1 second place, ahead of Tren-
ette, who got into a pocket. Ring Boy does
not hang on as w r ell as he did a while back,
and perhaps he is getting too old for the
game.
* * * *
For Rosehill to-day :
Granville Stakes: Port Said; next, Gallant
Top.
Flying Handicap: Remora; next, Ten-
terden.
Club Handicap: Bosmina; next, Nash.
Parramatta Mile: Rosendo or Panola;
next, Sunder Lee.
It is a two-day meeting at Rosehill. Re-
mora, Rosendo and Panola are in the Clyde
Handicap, and Rosendo and Panola in the
Rydalmere Mile. Brien’s horses may be
worth following at the Parramatta course,
and Chide looks like having a chance in
the November Handicap.
$
“Thormanby”: The ring got its usual
skinner to carry it over the winter when the
Cambridgeshire, run at Newmarket over a
mile and a furlong, was won by H. F. Clay-
ton’s Disarmament, which went out at 18
to 1. With the other big autumn handicap,
the pcsarewitch, the Cambridgeshire is the
special medium of English punters who con-
centrate on double-betting, and some unholy
coups have been brought off or blown out in
the past in connection with them. There are
still men game to bet in England, apparently,
for Clayton, the 75-year-old owner of the Cam-
bridgeshire winner, earlier in season took
a double of £lOO,OOO to £lOO about Six
Wheeler and Disarmament. Six Wheeler was
beaten into second place in the Cesarewitch,
and it must have been something of a bitter
pill for his owner to see his second leg come
home in the Cambridgeshire. By the way,
how many “Leviathans” are there in Aus-
tralia who would care to lay a double of
1000 to 1 to a century?
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Australian flyweight champion Vie
White is a consistent performer at Sydney
Stadium; when he stopped Walker the little
warrior scored his third consecutive week-
end win. Walker (7.13 f) worried White
(8.0) for a round or two, but body blows
floored him twice, and as he was unable
to come up for the fifth White won on a
technical knockout.
* * * *
Plenty of slatherumwhack was seen at
the Leichhardt Stadium on Friday night,
when middleweights Jim Meighan (11.2)
and Tommy Gibbs (11.0) met. Meighan
landed many powerful punches early, but
both his eyebrows were opened in the fifth
round and . bled so badly that Gibbs was
declared winner. Welterweight champion
Russ Critcher (10.6) could not strike any-
recent form against Jack Heeney
(10.6) on the Saturday, and was held to a
draw.
“Mitt Shover”: American boxing got the
shock of its life when Max Schmelling, the
Herman pug, fairly outfought Stribling in
their battle for the world's championship. It
galled that the so-called title should have
been allowed to slip through American fingers,
and Schmelling’s habit of returning after
every battle to Germany, bearing good Ameri-
can dollars with him, and announcing that
he will return any time he is wanted, has
put the lid on. The New York Boxing Com-
mission has tried to take matters into its
own hands by announcing that the recent
Snarkey-Carnera go was for the champion-
slnp, they having deposed Schmelling in his
absence. The deal was too raw and Schmel-
IS still regarded as champion in the
iT i’’ as is everywhere else, by people
who have no particular opinion of, or respect
f?L that self-constituted authority the
IVY., Commission. Championships go by
fighting and not by the say-so of a local
junta.
The Ins and Outs
Clarrie Grimmett gave the South Afri-
cans a bad time in their opening innings
against South Australia at Adelaide, taking
o wickets for 50 on an easy wicket in a
of 175. His feat is the more remark-
able since this is the first match bowling he
has done this season, while he has had little
net practice. The only batsman to do any-
thipg with him was the tall Transvaaler
Christy, who batted with supreme confi-
dence for 63 before stopping a straight break
with his pad. Wall was off color, and none
of the other local bowlers looked dangerous.
South Australia could do no better than 170,
Waite (45), Lon organ (33) and Vic Rich-
ardson (33) getting most of the runs. Fast-
bowler Bell was very effective, bagging 4 for
37, and left-handers Quinn and Vincent, with
slow-bowler McMillan, each took 2 wickets
in good style. On Monday afternoon the
Afrikanders had lost 6 wickets for 162.
* * * *
“White Horse”: The South African
cricketers have been priding themselves on
the alleged fact that their ’keeper, H. B.
Cameron, who is 25, is the youngest Test-
match skipper on record. Since they came to
Australia about 10,000 oldest inhabitants
have overwhelmed the visitors with the in-
formation that Lord Darn ley (then Ivo
Bligh) skippered England against Australia
in this country in 1882-83, being only 23 at
the time. Bligh’s side was a formidable one.
including A. G. Steel, the greatest all-round
amateur England has produced, W. W. Read,
two of the Studds and such top-notcli pro-
fessional bowlers as Bates and Barlow,
Morley and Barnes. Of the four matches
played each side won two. Steel headed
batting and bowling averages with a total
of 551 runs and an average of 30.61, while
lie took 152 wickets for 6.57 runs apiece.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: One of the most ridiculous
bits of guff lately pushed on the public was
a statement that a South African umpire
accompanying the Springbok cricketers had
averred that the visitors would probably
object to play against the Queensland abo.
bowler Gilbert. A. G. Laver, the interviewed
person, explained that he had been talking
about cricket in South Africa, and said that
over there it would be impossible for Gilbert
or any other colored man to figure in cricket
with white players—which, of course, is no
news to any acquainted with Afrikander
conditions. The Africans, when outside their
own boundaries, have played against many
cricketers of color without protest. They
could hardly do otherwise, since for a visitor
to attempt to dictate to his host the terms
on which he will accept his hospitality is
unpardonable impertinence. No one who
knows what fine gentlemen and sportsmen
the Afrikanders are would impute that atti-
tude to them for a moment —the Australian
blither press is, however, in another category.
* * * *
“Mat”: C. S. Dempster, who headed the
M.L. averages in England, will be one'of
five cricketers of the year in this year’s
“Wisden’s Almanac.” He has also been
awarded the Redpath Cup for the best aver-
age for the year in M.L. cricket. The M.L.
Cricket Council added the Plunket Shield
averages to those of the English tour in
coming to a decision.


AND GIVE
PLEASURE
i
r -pvT[
'z nf
IHvns
JyJOW as never before, “Swan”
Pens provide a wealth of inspira-
tion for really practical gift-making.
Whether you choose a black,mottled
or coloured design, in simple or
ornate pattern, remember that it is
a “Swan” Pen —made, as only a
“Swan’’can be—for lifetime service.
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLACK OR MOTTLED “SWANS” from 207-
COLOURED “ SWANS ” from 22/6
“Fvne-Poynt” Pencils to match from 8/6. “Blackbird” Pens from 10/-
Of Stationers and Jewellers. Illustrated list, post free. Mabie Todd &
Co., Ltd., Swan House, London, W.l. Factories: London & Liverpoo^
Managing Agents
and Repair
Service Depot:
Phipson & Co.,
Ltd.,
181, Clarence St.,
Sydney.
top?.
pm
Mv.
FILL
WM
The Ins and Outs
“Cash Amateur”: South Africa has
«I wavs been deadly keen on amateurism m
fZvt-Sev can recall the short-lived
boom which Rufe Naylor engineered in pro-
f ; nlia l running there, and the final endin»
f it 1 The Afrikander cricketers on this
now keep up the tradition. Their tour
wfil bring them nothing but pocket money
when all is said and done The Australians
nt flie last Eleven got £6OO each. The Bok*
will get £3oo—£lso to be dealt out to them
during the tour and the balance banked to
their credit at home. They are not bound
down either, by an agreement of 440 articles
as were their Australian cobbers, though there
■ire one or two verbotens in connection with
writing for the press, etc. None of them
Intends to write a book and all design
to earn their living when this tour is finished
bv going back to the. good old hard work
job they left in South Africa.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian selectors,
warned by the happenings in the first match
of the South Africans m Perth and by the
South Australian game at Adelaide have
determined to try some new blood. Stork
Hendry, once of N.S.W., lias been dropped,
though the ancients Blackie and Iron-
monger are still persisted with. Alexander,
the fast, bowler from Essendon, who
once hailed as a possible successor to Ernie
Jones has also hit the slippery slide. In
his place goes in McCormick, of Richmond,
who is being acclaimed as the fast bowler we
have been looking for lie mukes about tlic
five-hundredth since Jack Gregory petered
out. As a’Beckett has dropped out because
of University exams, it looks as if
the Cabbage Gardeners’ bowling will have
to depend on Ironmonger and Blackie, in
addition to the Richmond man, supplemented
by Jack Ryder, whose selection is one of the,
surprises of the season. Bar accidents, the
visitors should get among the runs m this
match.
* * * *
“Box”: Australia has welcomed back the
king of scorers, W. Ferguson, who blew
in again with the South Africans, with whom
he will tour Australia as penciller. For
years Ferguson has toured the world as a
scoring expert, and has invented a system
which will even tell you the outgoing
man’s telephone number and his wife’s Chris-
tian name at a glance. He has been in
England with six Australian teams, and m
air ha's been seven times' to England, three
to M.L. and six times round Australia with
overseas visitors. Leaving the last Australian
team in England he went to South Africa
with the English side and then went back
to record the cricket doings of the All
Blacks.
* * * *
When the N.S.W.C.A. decided, on the score
of economy, to cease publication of its
“Coaching Magazine,” the official coach,
G. L. Garnsey, who edited the maga.,
refused to abandon his bantling, which
he will now carry on as a private
concern under the name of the “Cricket
Coaching Magazine.” Like its predecessor,
the “C.C.M.” is excellently produced and is
full of instructive action-photographs and
articles and hints on the game by past and
present players of renown. The editor-pro-
prietor does not look for profit. If the
magazine can earn enough to keep itself
alive he will count his labors well rewarded.
* t'fi * *
“Torrens” : It may bo that the dashing and
effective Bromley, of Westralia (B.
28/10/’3l, will find his way into an Aus-
tralian Eleven—but what is wanted by the
selectors is a solid opening mollyliander of
the type which has done Australia such
good service in the past, and in this respect
there is no need to go beyond the South
Australian Nitsclike, who opened with such
success for liis State last season. His scores
in Sheffield cricket were 4, 54 and 142 against
Queensland; 31, 141, 69 and 102 v. N.S.W.;
43, 22, 13 and 25 against Victoria. Good
enough for anything.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
tennis authorities are determined to make the
Japanese earn their oats. Ilarada and Nunoi,
who are coming by way of the cast coast, land
in Brisbane on January 12 and get to work
against Queensland the following day. They
have to reach Sydney and show there on
January 16 and 18 against N.S.W. Scurry-
ing to Melbourne, the visitors, will face Aus-
tralia in a three-day battle beginning January
21. Then they are asked to take the long
hop across the Continent to Perth and put
in another three days’ play against Aus-
tralia. Then back to Adelaide for the Aus-
tralian championships from February 6 to
13, these being followed by another match
against Australia at Sydney and a final go
with Queensland at Brisbane, both three-
day events, the tour ending on February 27.
Certainly the much-tried trippers will have
Satoh, who will meet them at Perth, for the
latter part of the tour, but the strain may
have serious effects on their play.
:]c %
“Let”: Jiroh Satoh won 12 English cham-
pionships during the summer, as well as impor-
tant events on the Continent. Just before
leaving for Australia, he was runner-up in
the singles and doubles covered-courts cham-
pionships of England, a remarkable perform-
ance, since he had no previous experience
of the hard-board floors of covered courts.
In the final singles, he was against that
past-master of covered-court play Borotra,
and with his compatriot Miki faced the
English champions Austin and Oliffe in
the deciding round of the doubles.
=!= * * *
“Top Spin”: Jean Borotra, most pictur-
esque of tennis champions, has announced
his retirement from Davis Cup contests. The
Basque made his first bow in the series as
long ago as 1922 against Denmark, and
with Cochet, also making his debut, won
both doubles and singles, though he missed
the match against Australia in the third
round. He was with the French team in
America in 1924 and was beaten there oy
Gerald Patterson and Pat O’Hara Wood,
but next year turned the tables on Patter-
son, helping France to reach the challenge
round for the first time. One distinction he
prizes above all others. He was the first
Frenchman to win the All England singles
at Wimbledon- —that was in 1924. cm
departure will leave a gap in French tennis
difficult to fill.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Though they are a long way
off, Adelaide is looking forward to the Aus-
tralian tennis championships in February,
for the entry will be unusually attractive.
In addition to the Japanese, Alan Stedman,
the young Maoriland champion, will be seen.
Only a junior, he is a tremendously hard
hitter, and very accurate with it. If he
does well, M.L. may challenge for the Davis
Cup, since both Andrews and Mallory are
available in England. Another entrant is
Mrs. Robertson, who, as Esna Boyd, was
Victoria’s crack woman-player for some
years and winner of many championships,
including the Australian women’s singles in
1926.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie” : A man after my own heart
and that of every ither Scot has recently been
giving tbc Woollahra (N.S.W.) Council
heartburn. This body runs a nine-hole
municipal golf course, charging rather extor-
tionate fees for the use thereof, though as
membership is confined to ratepayers and
local residents the annual subscription is
uegative. The person under discussion is in
the habit of starting on a round with half
a dozen balls. These he plays off from
the tee in succession, following the same
procedure right through the green and on
the putting green. The council says lie is
getting six rounds of golf for the price of
one round. He says he is quite within his
rights, and that far from delaying those
behind him he invariably “waves them
through.” The dithered council has dodged
the question rather meanly by referring the
matter to the golf committee, which is
seriously thinking of putting a telephone
message through to St. Andrews.
* * * *,
“Woogaroo”: Correspondents have been
tilting at the custom of charging golf-club
members green fees in addition to the usual
subscription and entrance money. There is
at least one exception—the Goodna club,
which in .some mysterious way has affiliations
with the great mental hospital close to which
its course lies. Goodna doesn’t pay land tax
for its course, and since all the work in con-
nection with construction and maintenance
is carried out by patients at the hospital,
there js a lot of other overhead cut out. Thus
the annual sub. is only £3 35., with a guinea
for the associates, while there is no. entrance
fee and no green fee. So Goodna is a very
popular club even if you, as a Brisbane
dweller, have to pay train fare for 15 miles
to play there.
* * * *
“Hermit Park” : There is a certain fitness
in the fact that the North Queensland golf
championships were recently decided at
Townsville, which fostered the first golf
club the Bananalanders ever saw. Charters
Towers disputes Townsville’s claim to the
distinction, but my own experience is that
Townsville was in first, the game having
been introduced there in the early ’nineties
and in a surreptitious way by a young
Scottish barrister named Macnaughton, who
later became a Supreme Court Judge. I
say surreptitiously, because in those he-man
days of cricket and football games like tennis
were looked on with contempt and golf with
openly and often rudely expressed derision.
To show how times have changed it
is only necessary to say that players
in the late competition came from centres
so far apart as Mt. Isa, Ingham and
Mackay. J. K. Stewart, last season’s
champion, retained his title with a score of
311 for 72 holes —say. an average per hole of
four and a half strokes, which is mighty
good when one reflects that the N.Q. fair-
ways are not all violets, so to speak.
“Shirley”: The Maoriland amateur golf
championship has gone this year to R. Wagg,
a member of the Hutt Club, near Wellington,
who has been for some time a prominent
performer in minor events. This is Wagg’s
first championship, but the fact that he
beat that wonderful veteran A. D. S. Dun-
can 2 and 1 says a lot for his golfing
ability. Duncan, so well known on this
side the creek which separates Maoriland
and Australia, is close on 60, but is little
if anything behind the game which has
brought him 10 amateur championships of
M.L. and three open titles since he took
the first Shivery Isles amateur event just 32
years ago. Those who saw him on his visit
to Australia with the All Black Kirk-
Windeyer Cup sides in 1927 and the follow-
ing year will recall his wonderful command
of the ball, especially in his short approaches.
* * * *
“Carnoustie” : The hard times have accen-
tuated the tendency to thrift so character-
istic of my countrymen, and a recent report
in a Scottish journal emphasises the fact.
The plaintiff, an Aberdonian golfer, sum-
moned the local professional and seller of
golf material for assault and abusive
language. The defendant pleaded justifica-
tion in view of the fact that plaintiff had
brought a broken wooden tee-pin into his
shop and inquired his charges for re-shaft-
ing it. The Bench, however, found unani-
mously for the plaintiff, and warned the
defendant, a newcomer from somewhere in
the south, to watch his step.
Car and Cycle
“Pore du Chemin” : Nowadays if a repre -
sentative car-driver boasted of having sped
from Melbourne to Sydney at the rate of
about 27 miles per hour, the nearest alienist
would be called in to certify him off his
rocker. Yet the other day writer was reading
a breathless newspaper account of a dash
at that rate which set up a new Austra-
lian record between the two capitals. The
terrific speed moved the chronicler to go
raging through the dictionary to gather words
to express his feelings. Tne whirlwind cov-
ered the 572 miles in a trifle over 21 hours,
and it was doubted if the like would ever be
seen in the world again. That was in 1905,
and to-day the record for the same run is
10 hours *5 minutes —say 57 m.p.li.
* * * *
“Whizz”: They are not satisfied with abol-
ishing the speed limit in America; some of
the States have passed legislation making
slow driving illegal. A new law in West
Virginia lays down that anyone driving un-
necessarily at-such slow speed as to block
the normal and reasonable movement ot
traffic, except in certain specified circum-
stances, will get it in the neck with fine or
imprisonment. This is a bit removed from
the days when power-driven vehicles had to
he preceded by a man on foot carrying a red
fj a g_ an d that was less than 40 years ago.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Details to hand of the
Irish Grand Prix for motor-cycles, held m
Ulster over a road circuit totalling 240 miles,
show that the winner, Stanley Woods, went
round in 2hr. 50min. 45 4-ssec., an average
of 80.43 m.p.h., in spite of the fact that for
the last 100 miles his clutch was out of order.
Il'is fastest lap was 80.07 m.p.li., but in view
of the fact that stops had to be made for fuel
replenishment it is evident that speeds <>t
at least 100 m.p.h. must have been main-
tained on the straight stretches. The fastest
speed previously recorded over a distance on
the roads was 82 m.p.h. in the Dutch louiist
Trophy race earlier in the season. 1 Ins
was put up by P. Hunt, who in this lace was
third, though lie averaged over S 4 m.p.h.
. Miscellaneous
"Toowong” : That fine Queensland rowing
club the G.P.S. Old Boys added another
to their long list of wins recently by taking
the State champion fours on the Burnett
River at Bundaberg. Three crack country
clubs were encountered, Rockhampton,
Wide Bay (Maryborough) and Bundaberg
finishing behind the metropolitans m that
order. How is it. by the way, that in
N.S.W. and Victoria so little is heard in
after-school rowing of the G.P.S. oarsmen,
who are elevated annually to the status ot
national idols for a brief period?
“Fitzcray”: Entries for Henley-on-Yarra
close in Melbourne on November 13, tlie big
gala coming off on November 28. So far
there has been no sign of entries from the
other States, though there are hopes that
either Mosman, twice holder of the Grand
Challenge Cup, or Sydney will represent the
Harbor City. Prizes are on the usual liberal
scale, and' allowances for the travelling
expenses of visiting crews do not err on the
side of niggardliness, either.
* *
“Shell'’: As anticipated, Bobby Pearce
has notified the Australian Olympic Com-
mittee that he is available for the Games at
Los Angeles. He states that his employers in
Canada are giving him the fullest latitude in
matter of leave and are paying all expenses
—a sporting lot they must be. Pearce, who
has beaten everyone who has tried to tackle
him in Canada and the U.S.A., says he is
racing at 13.10. His selection is a foregone
conclusion, since it practically makes one
score in the Games a certainty for this
country, and will entail no charge on the
funds.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
ended the season with the tidiest credit bal-
ance it has owned since, the war, the surplus
standing at £551 11s. sd. The best part of
it is that the profit came from the grade
matches and the inter-State games with
Queensland. The Sydney Cricket Ground,
freely tipped as likely to be a white elephant
in the Union’s hands, showed a profit of
£407. The biggest earner was Manly, with
£625, North Sydney notching £4OB. With
the All Blacks playing on this side the
Tasman next season in a programme of 10
matches instead of the usual 8, the outlook
is bright.


'JQw>
m
t'4>Sk*
t*
m .
XCv
1
Select Your Wallpapers
Like Your Dress
Convention prevails, but within it your own taste can stand out in color
design and individuality. In wallpapers, tapestries, as well as plain plastic
effects, are the vogue. They translate your own tastes into tangible wall
harmonies. Rich friezes add color, and sprays of foliage at corners rob
large rooms of monotony. Women designers have a hand in these British
and American papers.
We invite your inspection of these new wallpapers in our naturally lighted
showrooms, and we will help you to a decision at money-saving prices.
Samples posted free. Please mention the rooms you require papers for.
Always use “STIX” paste for hanging wallpaper.
John Danks & Son PM#
324-3 3 0 PITT ST. SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
ď
đ
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
His Ex. Sir Philip Game travelled out to
Chippendale last week to open Hammond’s
Hotel No. 3. This hostel will provide 100
men daily with beds and two meals. Here,
too, the men will get free haircuts and a
chance to mend their boots. During his tour
of inspection the Governor tried one of the
straw mattresses and declared it very com-
fortable. Was it a bit of chaff?
Large cards bediglit with anchor, crown
and star have been sent out by Lud Mayor
Jackson and liis lady, inviting hundreds of
representative citizens to a reception at the
Town Hall on Thursday, November 12, in
honor of the G.-G. and Lady Isaacs.
The ex-Westralian Agent-General Newton
Moore, who arrived back in Australia just
before the British elections, had no diffi-
culty, in spite of his absence, in holding
Richmond, the very safe Conservative seat
into which he had the amazing good luck
to fall seven years ago: it is a safer seat
even than St. George’s, Hanover-square, in
which he followed George Reid in the days
when the mana of the Digger was great in
London. Two of the daughters the Moores
took away with them married overseas; and
the youngest, now returned, feels a stranger
in her own land. One of the first things
the family did after digging-in at the Aus-
tralia was to take a car and drive to Cen-
tennial Park, and “Oh, mother,” said the
daughter, “why didn’t you tell me how beau-
tiful it is?” But mother was almost as
much surprised herself; Centennial Park,
like the rest of Sydney, has changed almost
beyond recognition.
At the Victoria League’s garden party in
their honor Lady Moore and her daughter
walked in sweeping lace frocks topped by
felt bowlers with curling ostrich plumes.
The lawns of the R.S.Y.C. at Ivirribilli sup-
plied the setting for this welcome-home,
and the Joe Cooks and former N.S.W. Agent-
General Wade’s lady and Mrs. Royston
Davey, notable in black and white, had much
to say to the newcomers.
There is much trouble and a little heart-
burning among the women who have been
looking after the boys who were shipped this
way in quite surprising numbers down to
18 months ago. There was an Empire Ser-
vice Club, a motherly body which had
wrapped itself around the boys for six years,
and no doubt had done fine national service.
But it was quite unlike the sort of body
that Red Tape would construct; so, probably
for that reason, the British Commissioner
in Australia decided to form an official
British Settlers’ Welfare Committee. Now
there is trouble, partly because the older
body will find some of its small sources of
income dried up. And that’s a great pity,
because it is fairly certain that the new
body, however well it may do some of its
job, will never be quite the same to the
boys as the old one. Where one was
a devoted old mother, the other will be a sort
of efficient young stepmother.
Barrie’s “Quality Street” will live again
for two nights early in December at the
King’s Hall, when it will be Doone’s Christ-
mas offering to the women-on-the-land
scheme sponsored by the United Associations.
Commander Gifford has been cast as the Ser-
geant of Police, and Reggie North for the
gallant officer who returns in time to save
romance. Margaret Honey will be Phoebe,
and Rosemary Game will make one of the
group in the school-room scene.
Good-looking Mrs. Hubert Gordon, who
gave up a large slice of wealth when as the
Clive Dangar widow she married a New
England padre, is back in Sydney with
daughters Noreen and Patsy Dangar. Noreen,
still in her teens, has shot up to nearly six
feet of slenderness topped by a pretty face.
The good looks but not the inches are
reproduced in younger sister Patsy. Mrs.
Rodney Dangar gave an afternoon party at
Arlington, her Edgccliff home, to welcome
them and Miss Muriel Dangar. About 70
of our best names resounded through the
rooms, including Dame Eadith Walker,
several. Fairfaxes, Mrs. McDonald (the
hostess’s mother), Jean Cheriton (whose
school trained the girls before England
claimed them), Anne Gordon, Margaret
Fairfax and Bea McDonald.
Mrs. Helen Dalziel, who was Helen Harvey,
daughter and associate of Sydney’s Chief
Judge in Equity, had another change of
name last week, when she became Mrs. John
Mant. Bridegroom, who is also in the law,
met his bride at St. Mark’s, Darling Point,
where _ Canon Lea settled the terms of the
leash in perpetuity. Mary Harvey (bride’s
sister) ’maided,, and Dick Mant best-manned
for his brother. Then members of the small
wedding party had a festive snack at Hill-
ingdon, the Harvey home at Darling Point.
Seeing Norma Shearer in the chalk-white
satin that positively seems to fit her immor-
tal soul set this Letter talking to its favorite
dress-designer. Evening frocks really are
as fitting as that, and, of course, they’ll be
cut on the cross and worn above corsets;
and a one-piece garment cut on the cross,
too. Fat or bloat—the latter the newer
and more derisive name for bulk—is simply
not recognised by the dress-builder. Figures
made of grape-fruit, oranges and lemons
seem to be the only ones that can claim to
be belles of St. Clement’s or anywhere else.
These chalk-white satin frocks are the choice
of the slim fair; so are frocks of ice satin,
which is a bewildering Hans Andersen sort
of fabric that shimmers between water-blue
and water-green. Lace for evening wear is
a steady favorite, but it must be of square
mesh carrying a heavy design.
For these petulant days of early summer,
suits—the short coats on the jersey line,
fitting the hips—are made of crepella, wool
georgette or frisca. For a sports wrap
the double-breasted middy coat is at its
smartest in royal blue with white revers and
brass buttons. Pyjamas are worn, by those
who know, only for the cocktail hour; and
for the beach the smart girl is ordering her
trousers in grey or dark blue flannel tailored
like a man’s. With these will be worn
blouses, like tennis-shirts.
A short coat of its own material is a
part of every self-respecting evening frock.
One dinner-frock of black chiffon met last
week had a white yoke, lightly sifted with
silver beads coming to petal points. It was
ankle-length, and had its black chiffon hip-
coat made with sleeves fitting to the elbow,
whence they fell open in a graceful but
tiresome-during-the-soup drape. Some of the
taffeta and moire frocks inspired by the
Restoration and other periods are much
gathered around the waist, and have funny
little puffy epaulettes. One was frilled half-
way up the skirt, and then at the waist were
three more frills; it gave the effect of a
bustle. But such are only for the woman
of countless frocks.
The lady with the Henry of Navarre
feather in her hat is Vinia de Loitte, whose
book on the Gilbert and Sullivan operas is
just out. In her girlhood she was trained
in the G. and
S. tradition by
that past-
master How-
ard Vernon,
whom she
a f t e rwards
married. The
photographs in
the book alone
area joy,
bringing to an
older genera-
tion memories
of the favo-
rites of their
youth, and to
youth the
glamor of
thos e first
nights of long
ago. The book
contains the
stories of all
the operas,
and the original casts of each. For all the
knowledge Yinia has poured out she asks
only two shillings per draught. Besides
being at all the bookshops, the volume is on
sale at Her Majesty’s. Picture from Monte
Luke.
Life is full-of disappointment. The post-
men get nice wide khaki hats to keep off the
sun and it rains on them. Justice Long-
lunes disappoints the women of Sydney by
giving four-fifths of the much-debated string
of pearls to George Vivers and only one-
fifth to his former wife, Irene Marks before
their marriage. A woman judge wonld have
known at once that the pearls would look
much nicer on the lady’s throat than around
George’s shirt collar; and, anyway, up Glen
Innes way they’re as likely as not to get
caught on the cows’ horns. Seriously, Mrs.
Vivers is the one woman this Letter knows
who can have fairy-princess-like possessions
without arousing envy in the bosoms of her
friends. Perhaps that is because she her-
self is the least possession-proud woman in
Sydney, and never calls attention to her
riches. Vital things like poetry, art and
the drama are the things she likes to talk
about. She is a Heaven-sent treasure to the
hostess whose party is going flat, and she is
a very loyal friend.
Joan Mackaness, daughter of anthologist
Mackaness, is organising a concert for
November 19 for the benefit of hard-up Aus-
tralian writers. Joan, who is studying sing-
ing at the Conservatorium, has netted seven
stars for the programme, and the enter-
tainment is being launched by the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers.
Louise Lightfoot and Misha Burlakov will
on Wednesday at the Savoy present the first
ballet ever wholly produced in Australia. It
is “Coppelia,” introduced to Sydney by the
twinkling-toed Gene. The dancers on the
present occasion are drawn from business
girls and boys who have worked night after
night for two years at their classes.
This Letter ran into the Alan Mickles
after the new Playbox show on Saturday
night, when everybody was in the annexe
drinking black coffee and talking over “The
Man Who Ate the Popomack” and Alan’s
new book of poems, “The Poor Poet and
the Beautiful Lady.” The present Playbox
play of the exotic fruit that makes the
eater different from his fellows is by an.
Australian, W. J. Turner, and when the
Mickles met him in London he was music
critic for the “New Statesman.” “The
Man Who Ate the Popomack” was on in
London when the Mickles left, and was
attracting a good deal of attention at one
of those subscriber-run theatres where the
play of ideas usually makes its first appear-
ance. Music is the young man’s passion,
as can be gathered from occasional flashes in
his dialogue. His mother is on the staff of
the “British Australasian.”
A woman of enterprise as well as talent,
Mrs. M. Shirlaw presented during the week
her own play,
“A Limitless
Risk,” at the
Savoy; and
the author’s
friends filled
the Blig fa-
street house.
Mrs. Shirlaw
not only wrote
and produced
the thing, but
acted in it.
She was
already known
to Sydney as
a producer;
some of her
finest work
was shown in
Lilian Shand’s
“iC o m pensa-
t i o n,” a n d
in her own
one - act e r,
“Grass.” This is a Rene Pardon picture.
Miss Fotheringliame was the guest of
honor of the Women Writers last week.
One of her most interesting stories was
of being bidden to Edinburgh to meet
the editor-owner of “Chambers’ Journal.” At
that time Miss Fotheringliame was a young
girl living in the Orkneys, and she had written
some old buccaneer Orkney stories which
“Chambers’ ” had seized upon. The “Journal”
in those days had one of Edinburgh’s
old historic htmses for its headquarters. Up
a handsome staircase into a high-panelled
room the girl writer was shown, and there
she met, she declares, the handsomest editor
of all the ages—over six foot five, topped
by a fine head and penetrating eyes. Miss
Fotheringliame was young with Rose Scott,
She knew Sydney when Votes for Women
was a heated question, and she lias written
scholarly articles for nearly every important
paper in Australia.
Mel Ward, one-time-showman Hugh’s
youngest, was among the week’s benedicts.
The girl in the case was IJ'al Foster, from
the Eurragorang Valley, and the two met
on an expedition to the Barrier Reef. The
wedding was in the Hugh Ward home.
Mrs. Freer’s husband is a buffalo-hunter,
and Mrs. Freer has joined him on many of
his hunting expeditions. They go by lugger
from Darwin; sometimes if they have head
winds or dead calms the journey takes five
days, but otherwise they reach their hunting-
ground in two and a half or three days. With
them go about 20 blacks and their lubras.
Mostly Mrs. Freer stays back with the
lubras while the men are out shooting, and
the ladies, she says, never stop chattering
except in their sleep. Once in a while Mrs.
Freer still goes out with the men to sight
the herd, but as there is generally a mile or
so of very hard riding between sighting the
buffalo and getting into their midst, and as
after the kill the hides have to be skinned,
which means a long wait in the sun, she
doesn’t nowadays do it very often. When
the men come back to camp, buffalo meat,
fried, grilled or roast, is the dinner menu;
the meat is nourishing, rich in flavor and
makes good beef extract. In the evening
the lubras salt the sides, the only part of
the animals that are of market value.
Mr. Freer has been a buffalo-hunter for
20 years, and he has just gone back to
Darwin after a holiday in Sydney, leaving
Mrs. Freer behind him. To help the days
to pass she has busied herself with her
favorite craft —lacquered woodwork. I-ler
designs include the wonderful blue water-
lilies of the Northern Territory, and an
exhibition of the colorful work will be held
towards the end of November.
The concert for the Bush Nursing Asso-
ciation last week filled the Savoy with
society and fine song. The programme,
beautifully balanced, included soprano Maisie
Ramsay, Virginia Bassetti and Freda
r ranks; it was served to the vice-regals, the
Bud Mayor and the Mayoress and a theatre
tull of well-knowns, to whom Diana Herring,
in primrose chiffons, and Nancy Bavin, in
pink laces, sold programmes and sweets.
Other nice girls who ushered with zeal were
Adrienne Grossardi, Elise and Sadie Budge
and the artistic Ramsay sisters. Former
Mayoress Hilda Marks, in black velvets, and
the Gordon lady and Billy Hughes’s dame
were also in the company. Lady Game,
wdio wrapped her petunia . georgettes in
black velvet, was presented with a bunch of
scarlet bottle-brush.
OVERHEARD.
Politician’s Wife: “My husband has the utmost
confidence in the Savings Bank.”
Visitor ( sourly ) : “All yes, but here’s the differ-
ence. I had my money in it.”
Queensland’s quota:—
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to the
Pair, held for the benefit of the Playgrounds Associa-
tion, in the Exhibition grounds. Mrs. J. T.
Bell was with the vice-regal party, which was
received by the Premier and Mrs. Moore, the Mayoress
and others. Her Ex. was wearing maroon marocain
and black hat. A company of Girl Guides formed
the guard of honor.
Cecil Roberts Foote, of Ipswich, was married in
St. Mark’s, Clayfield, to Beryl Tanner, daughter of
Mrs. F. M. Tanner, Clayfield, and the late 11. Tanner,
Papua. The bride, who was given away by Mr.
R. B. Shears, was in white satin with veil of
’broidered Brussels net, worn with a silver Juliet
cap. Ethel Tanner and Betty Ferguson ’maided in
pale-green georgette patterned in maize pink and
blue. The Criterion saw the • feasting; the ’moon
is being spent at Sydney and the Caves.
St. Stephen’s, Toowoomba, saw the wedding of
S. J. Cordwell and Madge Wagner. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in ivory 6atin
with Brussels-net veil. Florence Brose and Elsie
Platz ’maided in daffodil mariette. The Cafe
Alexandra saw the reception and the ’moon is a
motoring trip on the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.).
Personal friends and women who had been with
her in charitable work during her stay in Brisbane
were invited by the Mayoress to a farewell to Mrs.
N. A. H. Campbell. Pink and sunset-gold roses
decorated, with maiden-hair in beaten copper bowls.
The Mayoress wore black mariette, with a white
ostrich feather on her black hat; Mrs. Campbell
chose black with a green hat.
Mrs. Eric Alining lent her home, Reedy, for a
benefit to the Incapacitated Soldiers’ Association.
Lady Goodwin was there in brown and white
spotted ci'Ppe de Chine, and a hat of amber baku.
Mrs. Anning was in mastic. The Tivoli band played,
Pat Mead’s pupils danced, and there was bridge
on the flag-enclosed verandahs, besides various com-
petitions.
At Christ Church, Milton, Leslie Kent married
Kitty, widow of Arthur Clark, who was
killed in the Great War a month after the marriage.
She is daughter of the late Sydney Jones, Rock-
hampton, and of Mrs. J. T. Bell, New Farm. The
bride was given away by James Clark; she wore
ivory mousseline, with a design in pink roses and
green foliage, and a cap of ivory crin. The ’groom
is a, son of the late William Kent, of Jondaryan.
A dinner was given at Mrs. Bell’s home for the
family party.
There were enthusiastic cries for “Author” at the
close of Colin Bingham’s play “The Opportunists,”
given under the guardian wing of the W. E. A.
Dramatic Society in the Societa Danta rooms. George
Eaton played Cash Trehearne with his usual artistry
and restraint, and all the parts were well filled.
Tassie lias a Show :
The 68th Royal Hobart Show' was calculated to
raise the country’s depressed spirits. The weather
was glorious, the attendance was above last year’s,
and the events and exhibits were up to standard,
wood-chopping and tree-felling competitions being
attractive features and the women’s industries section
showing a record in entries.
Newnham Racing Club, Launceston, opened its
1931-32 racing season in fine spring weather. Bowler
hats were much in evidence, but tailored suits held
their own, though they were lighter in color and
texture. Plenty of country folk from the surround-
ing district were in the throng.
Two veterans of Hobart society and civic life,
Mrs. Sorell and Mrs. Henry Dobson, have been cele-
brating birthdays the 92nd and the 89th respec-
tively. The Lyceum Club is giving them a joint
shivoo.
Margot, youngest chief of the H. R. Hutchisons,
leaves by the Moldavia for the Cold Country, where
she will enter a life-partnership with Dr. Phil
Bowden. The young couple will spend a snowy
honeymoon in Switzerland.
Barbara, youngest daughter of the H. H. Hirsts,
Launceston, and Gordon, youngest son of Mrs. and
the late Dr, Gibson, Sandy Bay, are among the
latest of our affianced ones.
Leslie Lauder provided a pleasant alternative
to the talkies by staging, during Show week, “Tea
for Three,” with Lorna Forbes, John Cairns and
himself as the eternal triangle. The Lieut.-Gov.
and party patronised the show.
Charles Benson’s baritone was a draw to musical
folk on Show night. Myra Gillon, J. Scott Power,
Joan Scott Power and Mrs. L. C. Benson were a
strong support. The Town Hall was crowded, and
the duet from “II Trovatore,” sung by Miss Gillon
and Mr. Benson was the gem in a first-rate pro-
gramme.


Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil every day.
0 f Chemists,
Stores and
Hairdressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
Or grey hair.
d
Maud's
Macassar OH
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
m
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIR
(GERMANY)
fh
Concessions to Australian Buyers
As a special inducement to Australian Buyers deciding to visit this world-
famed centre of 10,000 exhibitors, the Trade Fair Authorities are offering
a substantial rebate on all travelling expenses to Leipzig. It is worth
your investigation.
SAMPLES FAIR, embracing Ceramics, China, Glass and Toys, and
ENGINEERING and BUILDING FAIRS. Commence March 6, 1932.
Visitors will not experience the slightest difficulty with the language, matters of freight,
duties and banking. The Authorities of the Fair are always at hand to help courteously
and efficiently in business negotiations.
Full details gladly given by
LABS Cr. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phones: B4OOG, MW2201.
For Economical Buying—go to Leipzig!
Missing Friends.
YY/ILL JACK COLWILL, of Devon, Eng-
W i an( j ( communicate with his sister Ada,
or Elsie. Home address.
AHOLD DAGLEY GIBBS or D. SNOW-
DEN, of W.A., lately in Sydney, write
W. M. Nairn, M.H.R., Canberra, for money
held.
ROOKFIELD, MAGGIE, aged 17 years.
Any person knowing the whereabouts of
Margaret Brookfield, who is missing from her
home since the Ist September, please com-
municate with Thos. Brookfield, corner of
Bray and Brown Streets, Long Gully, Ben-
digo, Victoria. Anxious.
ANDREW ZANKISH.
INFORMATION is sought concerning the
* whereabouts of Andrew’ Zankish, sometimes
known as Andrija Zankich, Andrew Zankich,
Zanish or Zankey, son of the late Vinka
Zankish (also known as Vincenza or Vinccnca
Zankich), of Leichhardt, near Sydney, New-
South Wales, Australia. Andrew Zankich is
believed to have been born in May, 1890, in
Vis (or Lissa), Dalmatia.
Any person knowing his whereabouts
should communicate with
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO. (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney,
New South Wales, Australia.
I AST Saturday’s issue of “The Barrier Miner”
contained a leading article which may
throw some light on the present strange' con-
dition of the Exchange between Australia and
London, New York, etc. Read it and think
it over. , , , ...
This remarkable newspaper, published daily at
Broken Hill since 1888, is eagerly read by all
the people in the Far West, whether city men
and women in Broken Hill (“the booming
town”) or the men and women of the great
pastoral hinterland. Never leave your adver-
tisement out of this newspaper if you want
the Far West people to know your goods.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn [?]
[?]
Derby Day, of late years the dress day of
the Cup meeting, was prevented by the un-
certainty of the weather from living up to
its reputation. On Saturday it was only
those women prepared to take a very sport-
in"' chance who wore their smartest spring
outfits. The day was on the cold side and
fur coats were worn by some, but the scene
was a gay one. Though the thnps had
played havoc with the roses, there had been
many good saves, and beds of violas and
pansies gleamed with yellow, pink and red.
The double row of boxes fronting the stand
formed glowing masses of color —a blaze ot
old-fashioned flowers, purple, yellow, red and
pink, with miniature trees at intervals. Aft
about the corridors, in vice-regal suites and
at tops of the stairs, were groupings of
schizanthus, calceolarias and gloxinias. Oak-
aiid flame-trees added the glory of fresh foli-
age to the beauty of trim lawns.
The Governor-General and his lady came
early and stayed late. Her. Ex. showed
beneath her black coat with its white fur
collar a frock of crgpe de Chine patterned in
black and white, and her hat was of shiny
straw. State Lieut.-Governor Irvine and his
lady, who was in navy-blue georgette with
matching straw millinery, were accompanied
by their daughters, Mrs. ,T. Morrison, who
also was all in navy, and Mrs. lan Hay-
ward, of Adelaide, who sported brown-and-
beige-flecked tweed and a close-fitting hat of
the same material. Ursula Barr Smith, from
S.A., in pale green ensemble suit and hat,
was with the Irvines. Derby Day is usually
a parasol occasion, but, though many tiny
hats were worn, this Chatterer saw only one
brolly unfurled —and it was an ordinary
black one. Lace gowns were in favor, topped
with coats of contrasting color. Mollie
Moore, who was with her parents knight
Newton Moore and his lady, was one so
attired. Her frock was of filmy brown with
a coat of black velvet, and a pink feather
curled about her brown hat. Mrs. J. Mcr-
rillees had a basqued coat of floral-patterned
black silk above her black lace flounces; and
Mrs. P. Nunn, also in black lace, had a
coat of geranium-pink velvet. The Moore
lady chose a brown velvet jacket and hat
with a beige-colored ostrich plume that
blended with her gown of figured chiffon in
autumn tints. Magpie blends in which the
changes were rung in no end of ways led
the field in popularity. There were black
toilettes relieved only by white gloves ; short
white satin or cloth coats, companioning
sombre skirts, and tailored suits of the sable
hue with white facings or white vests. In
some case a spray of lilies of the valley
sufficed to give the touch of white. Fresh
flowers served to brighten many a turnout,
and one maiden went so far as to wear a
wristlet of lilies of the valley. Lime-green
was favored by Mrs. Charlie Lyon, just back
from Europe.’ Her ensemble suit, small
knitted fanciful hat and bag were of a
matching shade of this yellowy-green. Her
daughter Barbara was a symphony .in
caramel-brown and fawn, cut on similar
lines. Mrs. Alan Currie exhibited beige and
brown tones in her gown and. crinoline mil-
linery. Blues were to be seen in every shade
and cross tint, from skim milk to Reckitt’s.
Vera de Bavay’s royal blue was topped by
a white hat. The bowler and small hats
of the sort that can be perched at any angle
were much worn by the younger folk.
Among the Sydneysiders down for the Cup
who attended on Derby Day were the Spencer
Bruntons and the Walter Bruntons, the
ladies in each case featuring black and white
in their attire. Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones was
fascinatingly gowned and hatted in Patou
pink. Mrs. J. Chambers’s black hat was
wreathed with white roses, and her gown
was likewise black. The Taylor, lady, .Mrs.
Herbert Carter and Mrs. Warwick Fairfax
favored the magpie contrast. Flora Dan-
ciger’s navy blue and grey-patterned, silk
frock was worn with navy straw millinery.
Other visitors from the Harbor City were
Mrs. John Woods and her nieces, the Misses
Gilmore: Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Sheath, Mrs
Otway Falkiner and her daughter Laure,
and Roslyn Welch. The Moulden lady, Dr.
and Mrs. J. Lynch and Dr. A. V. Benson
represented Adelaide, and Miss Main was
among those who came over from Perth.
A bride of the week wore a beautiful old-
lace veil that was lent by a friend in Sydney.
This wedding accessory, which has graced
many brides, is handed over for the cere-
mony on certain conditions. With it goes
a book in which each of the brides must
paste her photograph in bridal raiment, along
with a press cutting descriptive of the knot-
tying; also the newly-weds must add their
signatures. The book now contains about
30 entries.
The George Hotel at St. Kilda on Derby
night sheltered a bridge and dance gather-
ing organised to help the Ladies’ Benevo-
lent Society. Irma Ferrero directed the
affair, with Jean Harris, Myra Marsh and
Bernadette ,Cockerill as hon. secs. Cora
O’Farrell and May Daley sang during lulls
in the dancing, Vi Matear providing piano
accompaniment.
About 40 guests accepted Mrs. Percy
Blackbourn’s invitation for a game of bridge
at the Quamby Club. The hostess wore
black crepe Romaine, finished about the
vest-line with crystal and jet bead embroid-
ery and topped by a black hat with white
wings.
Rhododendrons from their country resi-
dence at Macedon were used to decorate
Major and Mrs. George Landale’s Toorak
home for a dance on Derby eve. About a
hundred, including some of the Englisfi
schoolboys, were at the party, at which a
guest of honor was Mrs. Landale’s niece,
Margaret Clarke, due to wed John Oldham
on Cup eve. The hostess wore satin of
ombre nature shaded in rosy tints. Janet
Landale, her elder daughter, was all fluffy
pink tulle, and Diana, still in the school-
room, wore a frock of pale-green chiffon
with a design traced in golden-brown leaves.
The bride-elect, a daughter of knight Frank
Clarke, was in draperies of chiffon of the
shade of yellow broom. Among those who
danced were Anne Gordon, Mary Hordern
and Mona MacCormick, of Sydney. Mrs.
Robert Knox was there in black tulle with
a coatee of black velvet.
A colorful affair was the ball of the
officers of the Third Military District Aus-
tralian Artillery on Friday night at St.
Kilda Town Hall, for which the decorations
were scarlet and deep blue. The Governor-
General and his lady attended, and were
greeted with fanfare and tucket, as the Bard
puts it. Major-General Johnston, Col. Derhain,
Col. Caddy, president of the ball committee,
and the hon. sec., Major Scrivenor, formed
an advance guard to welcome the v.-r. party.
Her Ex. was in graceful flowing raiment
of silvery-grey satin. Rear-Admiral G. F.
Hyde was accompanied by his wife, who
wore a robe of white satin.
Pictured here is Irene Appleton, whose ser-
vices as pro-
ducer are in
demand by
many of the
amateur the-
atrical socie-
ties of this
city. The
lady, like her
sister Edith,
who was the
Italian flower-
seller in “The
Love Step,”
inherits her
love of the
stage. Her
father, the
late F. C.
Appleton, was
a notable Re-
pertory player,
and Mrs.
Appleton,
known profes-
sionally as Jeannie Bryce, appeared in pan-
tomime, in soubrette. roles, and with the
original Brough-Boucicault co.
Lots of young people had a jolly time
at the coming-of-age dance of Mary Sharp
which was staged by her parents, at their
Toorak home. Cobwebby-white lace was
worn by the important maiden.
To help the Lud Mayor’s fund the Alli-
ance Frangaise had a bridge party and
dance at Scott’s. A committee headed by
the president, M. Rene Vanderkelen, directed
the affair. Parchment-hued satin fashioned
on long, plain lines was worn by Mrs. Van-
derkelen.
Yellow, evidently the bride’s favorite
color, was prominent in the dressing and
decorations at the wedding of Dorothy May
Muir and Donald, youngest son of T. J.
Macintosh, of Malvern. The Malvern kirk
was radiant with golden broom, and bows
of ribbon of the same shade were tied on
the guests’ pews. The bride was in white
satin and tulle, her trio of ’maids affording
a contrast in deep yellow georgette frocks
with blending pansies as wreaths and posies.
Mr. and Mrs. T. Grieve Muir gave a recep-
tion at Loclifoyne, Toorak. The bridegroom
is a B.Sc. and 8.E.E., and is on the staff
of the Electricity Commission.
At Melbourne Grammar School chapel
Stella Patricia Allan, known to her friends
as Pat, took for keeps Douglas, son of A. E.
Keep, of Toorak. A daughter 0 f Mrs. E. F.
Allan, of the “Argus,” the bride was also
on the literary staff of the paper, and there
was a full complement of fellow-scribes. to
witness the knot-tying. White crepe romaine
with a gleam of sunset pink beneath, topped
with yards of exquisite old Brussels lace
anchored to a wreath of orange buds, graced
the leading lady, and her attendant maid,
sister Betty, sported a frock of tourmaline-
pink georgette with a shiny matching straw
hat.
White and gold was the setting for the
wedding at St. Mary’s, Caulfield of Dorothy,
daughter of J. O. Smith, and h rank, only
child of the A. M. Lonies of Toorak. Both
young people participate in amateur theatre-
cals, and their romance bloomed when they
were together in the cast of a charity pro-
duction. Vellum-toned velvet and a tulle
veil were chosen by the bride, who carried
a muff of lilies of the valley. Her sister,
Mrs. L. V. Pellew. of Adelaide, and three
’maids blended with their lime-green ninon
gowns yellow tulips that formed wreaths
and decorated their muffs. There was a
supper at Menzics’ afterwards.
Lud Mayor Luxton on Monday will hand
over his gold halter and rabbit-skin cloak
to Dr. Gengoult Smith, here pictured by
Spencer Shier.
Like his pre-
decessor in the
civic office, Dr.
Smith saw
service in the
Great War.
Being in Eng-
land at the
lou'tbreak of
hostilities, he
joined the
Drag o o n
Guards. His
brother Louis,
who was in
the A.1.F., was
killed. T h e
new Lud
Mayor is a
bachelor, and
it is probable
that his sister,
Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer, now in
Paris' with her husband, will return to act
as Mayoress. If that happens there is a
prospect that something will be done to
establish a permanent municipal orchestra,
an object towards which Mr. Dyer gave
£lO,OOO a few years ago.
Lilian, only daughter of the late Mr. and
Mrs. E. H. Bawden, of Upper Macedon, and
Neville, youngest son of Dr. and Mrs. F.
Hobill Cole, of Mornington, were linked at
St. John’s, Toorak, and there were after-
rejoicings at the home of knight Thomas
Lyle and his lady. White lace with a white
tulle veil and train clothed the bride.
Elisabeth Hobill Cole was attendant maid,
in pale green ninon with a wreath of mar-
guerite daisies. Molly and Judy, daughters
of Mr. and Mrs. E. F. Herring, wearing
organdie frocks, also green, had charge of
the flowing bridal draperies.
Mrs. Rupert Greene, just returned from a
two-years’ sojourn abroad, was given a wel-
come-home luncheon at the Victoria League
Club, at which Mrs. George Blanch pre-
sided.
Balokovic and his wife took afternoon
tea with the W. Mortills at Tay Creggan,
Hawthorn. Tea, in a setting of crimson
roses, was spread in the dining-room, and
afterwards the Melbourne string quartette
played music by Frank Bridge and Borodin,
and Allan McCristal added pianoforte pieces.
Balokovic gave the appreciation of a fellow-
artist to Mrs. Mortill’s pet magpie, which
went through its repertoire of imitations. The
hostess wore floral-patterned white chiffon
and a currant-red hat. Madame Balokovic
was in black with a dash of white and a
black hat. The Best lady, Mrs. Harry
Emmerton, Mrs. H. Spry and Thomas
Brentnall were among the guests.
Tea was poured at E.S.U. headquarters
as welcome to the new Consul for the U.S.A.,
John W. Dye, and his wife. Greetings
were spoken by Donald Mackinnon, and the
duties of hostess fell to Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, who wore with her green and white-
spotted crepe-de-Chine frock a long coat and
straw hat of bottle-green hue. Mrs. Dye’s
burgundy-colored suit, fur-trimmed, was
topped with a brown hat. Other guests of
honor were J. C. Hudson, Vice-Consul for
the U.S.A., and Mrs. Hudson, and Mrs. Keith
Ransom Kehler, of New York.
Westralia’s mail:—
Margaret, younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C.
E. Blackett, exchanged marriage vows with E. E. T.
Layton on a summery eve in St. George’s Cathedral.
But for a few pale-pink roses in her bouquet the
bride was an all-white symphony. Her draped
gown was of brocaded crepe de Chine; her veil cf
Brussels net had been embroidered by great-grand-
mother for her wedding. Bride’s sister Alice ’maided
in shell pink. * Her tiered frock had wee tulle
sleeves, her hat was of silk net and she carried
pink roses and maidenhair fern. A handful of
intimate friends drank a toast at the Esplanade.
The floor of the new pavilion at the W.A.C.A. was
christened by dancing feet at a shivoo in honor
of the South African cricketers. In appearance and
social virtues the team came up to expectations and
gladdened the hearts of the lasses of this village.
Mrs. Harry Rowe chose a magpie outfit; Mrs.
Edmondson, in buttercup, brought a daughter sn
black; Helen Woodhouse’s ruby taffetas were worn
with a little lace coat; Loyda and Betty Hayward
favored different shades of blue; Jean Lang came
in water green; sister Pat clad herself in pale-pink
satin; silver roses adorned Betty Simpson’s pink
georgettes; an osprey bobbed from the shoulder of
Delia Mackenzie’s black gown; Joan Drummond’s
taffetas were amber-tinted; a little bertha was
attached to Mrs. Guy’s white taffetas ; her daughter
wore red; shades of old rose predominated in Doreen
Ranford’s flowered georgettes.
Guests at the ltarrakatta Club for the evening
given by the Music Teachers’ Association had an
eye-opener in ultra-modern music. Bernard Ileinze
and Henri Penn introduced Honegger, a French con-
temporary who takes amazing liberties with his
compositions. The more conservative made nothing
but a brainstorm of his sonata; others admired or
pretended to admire the novelty. Prof. Heinze spoke
a few words before the performance upon the
development of the moderns and the divers opinions
which greet their discords. The players, whose
execution was admirable, won great applause. Ihe
Anderson Tyrers, Muriel Day (S. Aus.), E. de
Cairos Rego and Harold Wylde were in the assem-
blage.
The Anderson Tyrer couple —he is Trinity College’s
music examiner—and Mr., de Cairos Rego gave an
at-home in the Savoy ballroom. Mrs. Anderson
Tyrer (Nanette Evans) is a fiddler of talent. She
and her husband entertained the guests with some
choice offerings of piano and violin. Over her tea-
cup the hostess confided that patience and double-
dummy bridge were the secret vices of her husband
and herself. A few days after their party the
couple sailed for India, where they will give
recitals.
South Aus. dances in:—
Adelaide society spent a strenuous week with the
R.A.N. The Flying Corps entertained the flying
officers of the H.M.A.S. Albatross at the Maison de
Danse, Glenelg, the money raised going to the A.F.C.
Emergency Fund. At the Palais Royal there was an
excellent attendance at the Naval Ball; military
uniforms came to light and it was quite a gay
scene. His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven arrived after
the Repertory Theatre performance and were received
by Commander and Mrs. Loudoun-Shand. Lady Hore-
Ruthven wore her favorite floral chiffon; the Com-
mander’s wife was gowned in black lace.
Mrs. Frank Harcus organised a day in the hills
for the officers. It was a picnic affair, every car
carrying luncheon and tea for its party, and the
trip to Mylor was followed by afternoon-tea in Mr.
Walter Hawker’s garden at Mount Lofty. Dr. and
Mrs. A. M. Cudmore, who brought the Commodore
as their guest, and Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Brooks
were the only married folk present besides Mrs.
Hartley L. Darby has executed an excellent
portrait in bronze of the Governor as Grand Master
of the Freemasons.
The Children’s Hospital ball was held at the
Freemasons’ Hall, North-terrace; it was a gold
braid and button bait that brought maidens by the
shoal. Except at a flower show no one has ever
seen such a wealth of bloom, vestibule and stage
being both massed with every flower that blows.
The supper tables were decorated entirely with roses.
The Commodore and his officers were well to the
fore. His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven gave a
dinner party for a number of them and brought
them to the ball, where the Herbert Rymills’
daughter Katherine made her debut in white satin
and tulle skirt, with a bouquet of lilies of the
valley. Alison Murray struck an original note by
wearing a necklace of real flowers, threaded like a
daisy chain, with her white frock and black sash.
Silk lace frocks were an absolute riot, the parch-
ment tone being the popular shade; moulded to the
figure they make the plump look slender. Lady
Hore-Ruthven and Mrs. Loudoun-Shand both featured
floral chiffons, the Premier’s wife chose powder-blue
satin, and the Mayoress black and gold.
The Mayor and Mayoress have gone to Sydney to
meet their son Jack, who is returning after an
extended stay in England. They expect to be away
a few weeks.
The Commodore and officers entertained at an
afternoon dance on board the Canberra at the Outer
Harbor. The deck was enclosed with bunting, and
the ship’s orchestra provided the music. In the
evening the ship’s company entertained their friends
at a dance on deck.


II
ARE you ALERT FOR
SOMETHING DIFFERENT?
m
m
m
m
m
im i **
Imm *
:>f
!:
mmsm
m
m m if
■,m
m
m
See
America Z
America, pulsing with the
life of her great cities...lav-
ish with scenic wonders...in-
vites you to a fascinating
visit. From the great Mojave
desert, rivaling the Sahara
...the majestic Rocky moun-
tains... the mighty Missis-
sippi "father of waters”...
Niagara Falls, among the
seven wonders of the world,
to the Catskill Mountains of
RipVanWinkle in New York
State, a constant procession
of new, different sights
await you.
All may be visited in com-
fort and ease over America’s
great railways.
Above Broadway, Los
Angeles, brilliantly met-
ropolitan with its great
playhouses and stores.
Pullman sleeping cars, ob-
servation cars,”diners” that
serve excellent meals... a
co-ordination of facilities
that makes travel a delight
at exceedingly modest cost.
On your way to England, you
will find the route via New
Zealand, Fiji, Somoa and
Hawaii on Matson ships to
San Francisco, and Ameri-
can railway service from
there to your Atlantic liner
in New York, the richest in
dramatic interest.
Let us send you without
obligation, an illustrated
booklet, and assist you in
making all arrangements.
• Mm,
§
:•sss
Above —Mormon Temple,
Salt Lake City...a sightseeing
mecca on a fascinating route
across the United. States.
AMERIC'AM RAILWAYS
XRAWEIIW
IIFORN4HOIV BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Telephone B 7981-3
RO-5A
FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN, £35,
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI”. . . . 12th November and 7th January
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” ....... 10th December
i ... .
EXCURSIONS
To Honolulu, Rarotonga and Tahiti.
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
The Tragic Episode of the
Small Pink-nosed Gentleman
AS CHRONICLED BY ED. T. COLLES.
IN this strange, demented cosmos the unex-
pected usually happens, and man’s
noblest plans fall flat.
On this lamentable occasion it was right
at the outset that the Unexpected happened
—in the person of the small Pink-Nosed
Gentleman with the Bashed-in Hat. And
the ample Fierce-Faced Female in the
Pansy-patterned Apron who sailed on to
the scene at the climax was tragically un-
expected too. Yet, now I come to ponder
the matter, perhaps the most unexpected cir-
cumstance of all was the scandalously un-
professional conduct of young P.-C. O’Fug-
gan, in temporary charge of the local police-
station that day.
It was a blazing sunlit afternoon when
the small Pink-Nosed Gentleman accosted
me five and a half yards distant from the
door of the constabulary headquarters. Be-
sides his deplorable hat he wore, in his
big, sad, watery, grey reddish-rimmed eyes,
a look of dire and doleful appeal; and, on
his emaciated person, a long, drab-hued over-
coat that trailed down to the ground.
“I warra give meself in charge,” he whis-
pered hoarsely. “Where’s a feller gorra go
L’ give ’mself in charge?”
I regarded him sternly for a moment. In
spite of his lamentable headgear he looked
dolefully and suspiciously respectable.
“But why give yourself in charge?” I
demanded. “What have you done? Merely
murdered your landlord? Slain your rna-in-
law? Or something truly dastardly—like
dropping a tram ticket in the gutter?”
The abject creature regarded me almost
despairingly; then impatiently he shook his
head. “No, nothin’ like that, Mister; no-
thin’ like that.... But I’m gonna tell yeh
what,” he suddenly added with dreadful
earnestness —“I’m disligrashfully an’ filtli-
iully drunk, I am! So ’elp me Gawd I am!”
With commendable promptitude I re-
gained my composure. Then I addressed
him with scorn and contumely, and watched
him wither under my righteous tirade.
"You’re nothing more than a pretender,
sir,” I declared. “A shameless impostor, a
whited sepulchre, and a perambulating false
pretence. Why, if I couldn’t get drunker
than that I’d resign the Poets and Press-
men’s Club and spend the rest of my days
sucking bull’s-eyes and collecting matchbox
tops! Now go home at once, sir—go home !”
My closing remark sent a shudder right
through the small Pink-Nosed Gentleman’s
wretched frame. “But I tell yeh I’m drunk!”
lie suddenly wailed. “Disligrashfully an’
filthfully drunk! An’ I warra give meself
in charge! Tell me where a feller’s gorra
go t’ give ’mself in charge.”
There was little left to do. My efforts
at dissuasion had proved futile. So I
selected the handiest and most entertaining-
way of getting rid of him. ‘‘Come this way,
friend, come this way,” I murmured as I
walked into the police station; and, labori-
ously removing his gigantic overcoat as he
went, the small Pink-Nosed Gentleman
trailed hopefully after me.
With all due decorum and respect I intro-
duced my friend O’Fuggan, who had been
left in command while the sergeant was out
helping his wdfe bring home the meat and
grocery from the cash-and-carry store.
“This gentleman is a friend of mine,” I
brightly explained. “He is desirous of giv-
ing himself in charge. Anything you can do
in the matter, Mr. O’Fuggan, will be re-
garded as a very great favor and a personal
compliment to myself.”
But O’Fuggan, I regret, merely scowled
balefully down on the small Pink-Nosed
Gentleman from the other side of the coun-
ter. “Ar-r-r-r-rrli! An’ y’d be givin’ y’self
in charrrrge, wud ye?” he intoned in an
unpleasantly sardonic and familiar manner.
“Now, tell me phwat ye mane by it, sorrr,”
he suddenly boomed. “Answer me at
wance!”
The small pink-nosed person shuddered
again, and looked up at him in a wistful,
heartrending appeal. “Because—because—
because I’m drunk, sir,” he faltered, almost
tearfully. “I’m disligrashfully an’ filthfully
drunk, I am.”
The frozen-faced O’Fuggan eyed him re-
lentlessly. “Oh, indade, ye arrre!” he
crooned tormentingly. “An’ pray phwat’ve
ye been drinkin’? Answer me that now!”
The small Pink-Nosed Gentleman pon-
dered heavily a moment. “Er —jush ani-
seed. Aniseed syrup an’ port wine an’ more
port wine, y’rr ’Onnor,” he recited almost
hopefully.
The limb of the law suddenly stretched
his huge frame over the counter and sniffed
most noisily and ostentatiously at the top
of _ my gentleman-friend’s battered hat.
"Huh! Th’ divil ye have, ye durrrrty littul
shtinkpot!” he suddenly roared. “Git out
av this, Oi say! I-nter th’ shtreet! Or
Oi’ll lock yez up !”
The small Pink-Nosed Gentleman’s face
immediately registered anguish and dire mis-
giving. “But I warra give meself in
charge!” he wailed. “I’m disligrashfully
and filthfully drunk, I am !”
“Ye’ll do nothin’ av th’ soort!” boomed
O’Fuggan. “Your place is in th’ shtreet!
Git out at wance! Or Oi’ll lock yez up!”
“Bat I warra give meself in charge!”
howled the little gentleman.
In a flash O’Fuggan came gallumphing
round the counter like an infuriated hippo-
potamus. “Ye’ll do nothin’ av th’ soort!”
he bellowed; “out! ye durrty littul shtink-
pot! Out! or Oi’ll lock yez oop!”
“But I warra” —.
That settled it. Next instant the small
pink-nosed person was violently seized by
the back of his pathetically thin neck and
the seat of his large capacious trousers, and
hurled through the doorway on to the pave-
ment outside. Two seconds later his over-
coat went soaring after him. The station
door closed with a bang. And a vast depress-
ing silence fell like a pall upon the universe.
Out there in the joyless sunshine, where
I had followed him, the small Pink-Nosed
Gentleman dragged his dusty person up to
an erect and more dignified, posture, and,
draping his huge drab trailing overcoat over
his arm, stood gazing up at me with tears
ot mute heartrending appeal welling from
his big, sad, watery grey eyes.
Presently the silence became unendurable.
"My friend,” I murmured, as I gazed idly
up the street with pretended interest in
other things, “I am heartbroken, and deso-
late with disappointment. Now, what you
should have done inside there was to lie on
the floor on your back, kick your legs in
the air like a capsized beetle, and challenge
all the police in the universe to lock you
up! In two seconds an avalanche of rein-
forcements from all over the State would
have fallen upon you with great gusto and
the full weight of their number nines, and
then tucked you away in a cell nice and
comfy for the night.”
At this belated but brilliant suggestion a
gleam of hope beamed forth from the small
man’s large, sad, saucer-like eyes. With a
bland child-like grin of expectancy lie
turned and gazed back longingly at the
station door.
As we talked a taxi drew up silentlv
alongside the kerb behind us. The door
swung open and there poured forth a vast
fat billowing fiery-faced female in a rustling
black dress and a small white apron decked
with gigantic pansies and butterflies.
She was Nemesis.
“O-o-o-oli yew beauty!” she howled as
she reached towards him. “Yew contempt-
ible ’ound! Desert me agen, woodja? But
I’ll teach yell!”
She took him by the back of his neck
and the seat of his capacious pants, and
hurled him into the car with a soul-shat-
tering crash that set that vehicle dancing
and joggling madly on its springs.
“But Arabelle! Arabelle! I warra be
locked up!” arose his thin piteous wail
above, the roar of the starting engine-
“ You’ll be locked up all right!” howled
the. ample Fierce-Faced Female as* the car
whirred away down the street. “I’ll see t’
that; yeh filthy, pie-faced littul wart!”
As the taxi whirled around a corner in a
cloud of dust, there came the harsh awe-
stricken voice of P.-C. ■« O’Fuggan from tne
half-opened police-station door behind me:
“’Tis th’ tinth toime' th’ poor littul divil’s
troid thut on this week ! But Oi cudn’t lock
him up. We’d have t’ take her in, too. An’
that’s somethin’ th’ sarjint ’ud nivir stand,
begob!”
Rainbows.
When we were children they used to tell us
God .set His bow in the sky'
As a sign to His wildering waste of waters,
Lest the world should be drowned thereby;
And our hearts were glad when we saw His
rainbow
Breaking the clouds on high.
And was it a ghost of the wee-folk whispered,
Or a story a t twilight told.
That a leprechaun hid at the foot of the
rainbow
With a crock full of fairy gold—
In the wistful, wonderful days of childhood
Ere hope and the heart grew cold?
So we chased the rainbows of days departed
Through fields of a fadeless May,
Light as thistledown, fleet as swallows,
Wild as the wind at play;
And the fairy gold at the foot of the rainbow
Was ever a field away.
Ah, ever since then in the changing seasons
We’ve followed our rainbow, still
Just a field away, and its bow above us,
Its foot on the flinty hill—
Song at the heart and a flame before us,
Leading us, mind and will.
Through tangled tracks of beliefs and doubl-
ings,
Through thicket and thorn and scathe,
We ve followed the gleam as it fled before us,
. A baffling, beautiful wraith.
We’ve been chasing rainbows, mystical rain-
bows.
For the gold of abiding faith.
Through briar and brake, through the lone
waste places, ,
Heart-fain as a homing dove,
With the lights of dream on our lifted faces
A-yearn to the skies above,
We’ve been chasing rainbows, magical rain-
bows.
For the gold of enduring love.
Through storm and stress of our blind Spring
sowing, ,
Through dreams of insurgent youth,
Down strange, strong winds from her high
hills blowing
Discord unkind, uncouth,
We’ve been chasing rainbows, glorious rain-
bows.
For the gold of eternal truth.
And alas ! in the years by the locust eaten,
Where the lambent lotus gleams
In the dusk, and the panthers of life are
hidden
By the sinister border streams.
We’ve been chasing rainbows, pitiful rain-
bows.
In the jungles of broken, dreams!
O Laughter and Love, and O ears that
hearken
Their music, come well or ill.
All dreams must die and all davs must
darken
Till dusk creeps over the hill.
Yet perhaps the rainbows were God’s own
rainbows?
Perhaps there are fairies still?
victoria. .
MARIE E.J. PITT.


.
Jg&,
»■ W 4
w
SiiMlMrtaaMMMi
ifIMHMiMIMI
• .:••; x : : ;
- -
m
I
V
«
: xA:';
k:x
sw*
ii ™ a
■ TO &* -7 • gs
35*
■ ♦
: .
tm
kiSi
1
. .
>.•:■. :•>
:
m
.
Mil
wmmmm
■
goJI
%
* :
9
CRANKY
CHILDREN
Are often the
Victims of Worms
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper. An-
other point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its
repose being in the way of a disturbed
nature.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress.
The symptoms of this disease are somewhat
variable, but generally they are so charac-
teristic that no mother need have any
doubt. The best proof of worms is worms,
and if the general conduct of the child is
such, as to give the slightest suspicion a
careful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents of
the bowels, generally occasion pain or un-
easiness in the abdomen, sometimes spas-
modic, sometimes gnawing and .biting, and
not infrequently of a vague, indescribable
character, and yet very distressing. Sym-
pathetic with this is a sensation of itching
at the nostrils, producing a disposition to
pick the nose, which is characteristic of
the affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in dysentery.
The appetite is exceedingly variable; in
some cases natural, in others deficient,
craving or depraved, one condition not in-
frequently alternating with another. The
abdomen is often hard, swollen and tym-
panetic; the breath heavy or foetid; the
tongue furred, with disagreeable taste, and
a copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip; bleeding of the nostrils; and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms. The
effects, however, often extend beyond the
alimentary canal, and various derangements
of health are experienced in consequence,
either of the direct irritation of the worms
or of the disordered digestion which they
occasion. Among the most common of
these are nervous affections, such as fret-
fulness, irritation of temper, wakeful-
ness, or disposition to excessive sleep,
disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of
sleep as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic
movements of the eyelids, temporary'
blindness and deafness. General convul-
sions are not infrequent in children, and
symptoms strongly resembling “Water on
the Brain” have been ascribed to worms,
and have ceased on their expulsion.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
compounded on a scientific principle for
the eradication of worms, which infest the
intestines. They contain Specific properties
which destroy the worms, but cause no
injury to the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are pre-
pared in the worm of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on
the contrary, inspire children to take them
as thejr would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all Chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney.
Price 4/- per packet (six packets 23/-),
post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, 8 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME 1
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ď
0°
\0 6 „l>
*>o (S e<
0^
’ * S^t*
.•• \VV o»


'''
a
1
■
■
m
i
l
M
as
m
mmi
4
a
«
\
I
*
m
y
a
.
•-
i
&
By the Mossy Banks of Spey
DEWAR'S
SCOTCH WHISKY
