

)) <%
'•ST ,
ru..
Jill
I
s?
<• V
w// y
a
In summer time, the thoughtful hostess
keeps at least a dozen bottles of Resch’s
Pilsener in the house to refresh her guests.
Home delivery is a convenient service—
just ’phone the nearest hotel to execute
your order.
Delivered to your door in Sydney
and Suburbs
Bottles .... 14/6 doz.
Half Bottles - - - 10/9 doz.
If you telephone the Brewery (M 6501)
they will arrange for delivery from the
hotel nearest you.
THE
thoughtful
HOSTESS
:sch's
/SPECIAL EXPOI
PILSEN)
BREWBO A BOTTI.RO ® y r
Tooth a co. liniite
VVa vei*i.£y b«bv/** v
A SYDNEY I
■xO-
A*
RESCHS
P. 2 X
The Bulletin
Jl Ud!iday J/umfleru
Vol. 52.—N0. 2707.
Wednesday, December 30, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


O IK Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
•Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
— SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
8,8. 231
O-YSAGHT?
o
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries*
All users df Galvanized Irott should specify
Lysaght*s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Free
from
Pim-
ples!
What a relief it is to know that
your skin can be free of blemishes.
Anoint gently with Cuticura
Ointment, then wash off in a
few minutes with Cuticura
Soap and warm water. A very
simple but satisfying treatment
of pimples!
The Cuticura Treatment has
been used for years in thousands
of homes throughout the world.
CUTICURA
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2*. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Clk Hew Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the "N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT’
tbIRECTMEDIUM TgWOMENI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Bydney Rep.: H. O. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men!
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland*s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
©he Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approxima tely
68 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* * *
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
©he Brisbane ©ourier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREBT.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3908.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Special Announcement
io National Advertisers
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily'Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
A.LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
ftrwJ -Australia House, Strand, London,
™ where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Monodrama
Virginia Woolf s new novel, The Waves
(Hogarth Press; 7s. 6d.), bears no resem-
blance in form to the novel of convention.
It is without action, almost without move-
ment; the six characters aren’t described or
differentiated except as regards their names,
sex and origins; all employ the same voice
J? ram voice and brain of Mrs.
remain aloof from one
another, pre-occupied w T ith their reactions
to the eternal puzzle, Life, from childhood
to old age. The changing sun and sea form
a leitmotiv. The sun rises, reaches its
zenith, declines.
• sun * ia d su nk. Sky and sea were indis-
ungmshaMe. The waves breaking spread their
white fan* far out over the shore, sent white shadows
into the recesses of sonorous caves and then, rolled
back sighing over the shingle. The tree) shook its
branches and a scattering 0 f leaves fell to the ground.
There they settled with perfect composure on the
precise spot where they would await dissolution.
And Bernard, who was a child with the
other five and a teller of stories when the
sun was rising, is elderly and alone and still
brooding over his lugubrious problem.
. ho ' v . unutterably disgusting life is!
What dirty tricks it plays u.s: one moment, free;
the next, this.... Always it begins again; always
there is the enemy; eyes meeting ours; fingers
twitching ours ; the effort waiting. Call the waiter,
raj the bill. W e must pull ourselves up out of
qiir chairs. We must find our coats. We must go.
Mast, must, must detestable word. Once more I
who had thought myself immune, who had said,’
Now I am rid of all that I find that the wave has
tumbled me over, head over heels, scattering my
possessions, leaving me to collect, to assemble, to
heap together, summon my forces, rise and confront
the enemy.”
He is tired of everything, and particularly
of stories; and of phrases that “come down
beautifully with all their feet on the
ground.”
How I distrust neat designs of life that are drawn
upon half-sheets of notepaper! I begin to long for
some little language such as lovers use, broken words
inarticulate words, like the shuffling of feet on the
pavement. 1 begin to seek some design more in
accordance with those moments of humiliation and
triumph that come now and again undeniably.
And he finds it—or rather Mrs. Woolf, who
speaks through his lips, does—in the form
of a new novel-writing technique. The
Waves is not a story; it is father a collec-
tion of what the Greeks called monodramas;
and it is hard to read, as most of the mono-
dramas were, a one-character play being
essentially adramat-ic. There tire passages
of astonishing beauty; scores of them.
There is also some astonishing bathos; for
Mrs. Woolf, like many another poet, is
devoid of humor.
A Good Joke
H. \ ivian Hamilton lets himself go in a
manner that will scandalise the moderns in
The Perfume of Amber (Blackwood; 7s.
6d.). He is Victorian in his exuberance.
He imagines an ancient university in Kent
which is governed by a moronish principal
but in<\n<igc;.s to attract eminent professors
The plot, which has the brio of a goo<
movie, concerns the adventures of member
of the staff and their relations and friends
One can guess a number of interesting
things about Mr. Hamilton from this bril-
liant first novel. He is a wit. a gourmet
a musician, a student of women, a cosmo-
politan, a profound scholar in certain
directions, an unabashed snob and a senti-
mentalist; he is probably old or elderly and
a professor (again he may be young and an
undergrad.); and he is certainly steeped in
the prejudices and hatreds that the best
of men and women acquire after living
tor a while in a small university. Consider
his handling of Mrs. Ditchwater, the princi-
pal’s wife:—
She was a little bit of a thing, lean, inflexible
?« d Ghastly to look at. ghastly to listen
ih’p gh n S l 3 t ? • toll^ h - Her bones protruded almost
through her skin all over her. She had tiny, pryin-
piercing eyes, no hips or breasts to speak of ami
Hke List’s hnt COVered with warts!
r« ’a her , Angers had none of his facility
She suffered piteously froni boils on her neck which
was creased and puckered like the folds ’of ™
accordeon-pleated skirt, and she always kept it tier!
up with a broad hand of red velvet from
which could often be seen the frayed edge of i
piece of lint.... Because she was herself as nhvsi
cally incapable of continuing the species as of chgest-
ing a city banquet, perhaps, she never ceased urlinl
her rabid theories, schemes and methods in favor nf
birth control, in long speeches interspersed with
French and Latin terms too indecent to be expressed
aloud m plain English. expressed
This revolting being is foiled in an attempt
to get good Professor Kindness dismissed
for immorality. It is her nephew who turns
out to be immoral, and her husband who is
dismissed; and she ends up in gaol on a
charge of murder. But there are characters
as delightful as she is abominable. Lady
Minerva, whose good heart, social influence
and quick wit were
responsible for
Mrs. Ditchwater’s
defeat; lovely
Tullia Sissereau,
the heroine, whose
father got Ditch-
waters job; and young Lord Xeuchia, a
dulve in b P am as well as an earl in England,
wlio had made up his mind to marry Tullia
when he was 10 and she was 4. The
lovers have moving experiences in England
and Spam, and in his Lordship’s luxury
plane between the two countries, before the
double marriage ceremony which makes
Professor Kindness and the lady he had
loved for years as happy as they are. This
is a delightful, rollicking book, in an en-
tirely new tone of voice, that glitters with
w /j e , a ? d Wl fty sayings, and is modern and
old-fashioned, amiable and malicious,
t-enous and ribald according as the mood
strikes the author. There are over 400
pages and not one of them is dull.
Cnpek in Spain
Karel Capek is probably the world’s best
descriptive journalist. His style is so simple
and racy that anyone who can read at all
can read him with ease; he has a friendly
international eye that sees below the sur-
face of things social, political and religious.
kna ? k ° f electing the material
object in a landscape amounts to genius,
hose were the qualities which made his
Letters from England” a best-seller, and
/plff aPPe B r , a Sam in Letters from Spain
(Geoffrey Bles; 55.). How supremely right
his i comment on Seville’s chief landmark
, ,T hc Ga;alda is a Moorish minaret with Christian
ArahS 14 1 % >ogh ' t with 11,1 the beautiful c
on the top of it there is
of Roman and VilgotV ashla'rl
pomp Tad 3 f ° Undations >
mfron^ an th ther shl T d - bit of observation.
rSdoxicarcuto” 1° ,mPrin ‘ ° n Spafa ’ 8
a "» •«“
drelm of if Y ely day st,l] Ratifies the desert
fh ' 1 cocd s P Im f? s >' the garden represented bv
the contents of the flower-pots, is a ’porfable gavdS
ull-fights gave him “a queer feeling of
hntTd He W u anted to ,eave h is first corrida
but had no chance of getting through the
AndyeG— S ° m * h his eyes covere( h
s 'M fr s - sl-As
* the Triton, except in the case
of foxes, hares, stags and one or two more
°/ ! ° Cal , custom - The draw-
Soir u nter ’ Wlth which book is
embellished, have, many of the qualities of
his perceptive, humorous writing.
* Red Page.
Young Australia and His Pen
A few months ago the P. and O Cn
united ihe children of Australian primary
Se T C ° fl ndary Sch r °°' s to write essays on
AostmH n u Uen p e - ° f St6am Navigation on
Australia. Prizes were offered in five
gi.u cs in each State; and the winning essays
in these State competitions went forward
to a small independent committee in
Sydney for the allotment of Federal prizes
the essays were to be written wholly under
supervision and without notes, and an hour
and a half was allowed for the exercise
Fveiy possible precaution was taken to
ensure strict fairness.
In numbers there was a remarkable re-
that nS th!° th r/ nvitatiol L : bu( d is Possible
that the quality was affected by the time
hld’tnV i fhe l' ro P aration for the test
Pad to be made. This may to some extent
submitt i° r a aCt , that ’ whereas essays
submitted in the “under 12” and “12 to 14”
thnf ° nS I f v C,ud ® man y of surprising quality,
]I ?. the old er divisions were, on the
whole, disappointing.
u had the competition
tJ“° Jt by tbe P endin g arrival of
' btrathnaver, assisted the competitors
and their teachers to this extent—it -.n-
nounced that marks would be given for
Ipttlp 01 t int ° thc i uifiuences of steam on
sen/fn ° n . '" dustry ’ on defence and on
th? ff an T d for onginal Presentation of
f an enorm °us subject,
vith scope for the imagination and, indeed
be 7 Gry ° ther quality which can
be developed in the writing art.
w S ! rl was sefc .to the assistance in study
which a teacher might give to a competitor,
ihe essay might thus have been set as
miS h m K Sch ° ol - tests; s P ecial attention
gll t have been given to various branches
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING."—Business Integrity.
20,000 VOCALION RECORDS!
Abbreviated List of Titles
Jazz
691 —Why Have You Forgotten
Waikiki?
I Don’t Mind Walkin’
in the Rain
693 —Dixiana
My One Ambition Is You
715 —I Remember You from
Somewhere
Singing a Song to the
Stars
561 —Love Me
I’m a Dreamer, Aren’t
We All?
686—.1f I Had a Girl Like
You
Swingin’ in a Hammock
745—1 Miss a Little Miss
Mississippi, I Miss You
807 —Would You Like to
Take a Walk?
He’s Not Worth Your
Tears
704 —A Girl Friend of a
Boy Friend of Mine
My Baby Just Cares for
Me
585 —Cooking Breakfast for
the One I Love
Under a Texas Moon
Vocal
G 31 —The Pipes of Pan
Soprano Solo
Down in the Forest
Soprano Solo
632 —Softly Awakes My Heart
Contralto Solo
Habanera (“Carmen”)
Contralto Solo
623 — Excelsior
Tenor & Bass Duet
The Battle Eve
Tenor & Bass Duet
624 — Misere (“11 Trovatore”)
Soprano & Tenor Duet
Barcarolle (“Tales of
Hoffmann”)
Soprano & Tenor Duet
626 — Serenade, Soprano Solo
Angels Guard Thee
Tenor Solo
627 — 0 Lovely Night (Duet)
Mezzo-Soprano & Tenor Duet
Homing
Mezzo-Soprano & Tenor Duet
530 —A Perfect Day
Contralto Solo
In the Gloaming
Contralto Solo
Instrumental
796 —A Children’s Overture,
Symphony Orchestra
852 —The Electric Girl
Xylophone Solo
Blue Danube Waltz
Xylophone Solo
775, —Minuet (Paderewski)
Symphony Orchestra
Rondo Capriccioso
, (Mendelssohn)
Symphony Orchestra
777—Rienzi Overture—
Parts 1 and' 2
Band of H.M. Life Guards
638—Oberon Overture-
Parts 1 and 2
Band of H.M. Life Guards
642 — 1812 Overture,
Parts 1 and 2
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards
643 Florodora Selection,
Parts 1 and 2
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards
634 —“Faust” Ballet Music
Selection, Parts 1 and 2
Band of H.M. Life Guards
Selling at
Anthony
Horderns'
Vocal gems.... martial strains from military
bands. . . .haunting blue notes and happy
jazz numbers —no matter what your taste
you will find dozens of pieces that you will
enthuse over in this vast selection of 20,000
records. It’s your big opportunity to add to
your range of records —and it only costs you
d
]/- for each record you select! Of course, jr AC H
we can’t keep them for long at this price—
if you would avoid disappointment, hurry! They were 2/6,
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price 1/-, or 3 for 2/6
(Postage on 3 records 1/6; 6, 2/-; 12, 2/6)
COMPLETE LIST OF TITLES ON APPLICATION
( Department, Second Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
MEN’S SHOES
At Prices that Will Save Shillings
for YOU!
Men’s comfort-
able-fitting Shoes
of Tan Calf and
Black Box Calf.
Genuine r oiled
welted soles and
heels. Available
in full and half
sizes.
At Anthony Hor-
derns’, pr., 15/11
riTc^”"'
ďf
Men’s high-
grade Tan
Willow and
Black Box Calf
Shoes. Gen-
uine welted
soles. Avail-
able in full and
half sizes. At
Anthony
Horderns’,
pair .... 27/6
Men’s Box Derby
Lace Boots. In Black
and Tan, stout sewn
soles. All sizes.
The ideal boot for
hard wear. In Black.
At Anthony Hor-
derns’, per pr., 14/11
In Tan. At Anthony
Horderns', per
d
Men’s Shoes, in Tan Calf and Black Box Calf.
Genuine rolled welted soles. Full and half sizes.
Good fitting shapes. All solid leather.
At Anthony Horderns’, per pair 17/11
( Men’s Shoes, Ground Floor, George Street. We
Pay Carriage.)
Consider Quality
Once in every while the whole world experiences
a period when sensible economy is a rigid neces-
sity—when careful buying is imperative. Then it
is that people begin to question values and measure
worth.... They compare values, compare prices,
and, comparing, they realise the sterling worth of
Anthony Horderns’ century-old pledge to the
buying public—the pledge that brings genuine
value! Only the finest merchandise is sold at
Anthony Horderns’—and comparison will show you
that only the lowest prices are charged. It is
easy to prove—come in to-morrow, and let us show
you how to save shillings in every pound. “Con-
sider Quality” in every purchase you make.
Rotherham Lever Pocket
Watches
World famous are
the Rotherham
Lever Watches
£2/10/
everywhere they are renowned for their
accuracy. . .and behind each and every
one is the recommendation and guaran-
tee of Anthony Horderns’. Solid silver
or gold-filled cases. At Anthony
Horderns’, 7 jewels £2/10/-
15 jewels £3
We also stock the celebrated YFaltham
Watches —from .... £4 to £23/10/-
WE ARE QUALIFIED OPTICIANS—
LET US TEST YOUR E.YES.
( Jewellery, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
We Pan Carriage.)
Save on your cookery bills
with a “Sydney” Waterless
Cooker
No kitchen is complete
without a Waterless
Cooker discerning
ďf
housewives every-
where have discovered that. All
classes of cooking can be done with a
“Sydney” Waterless Cooker, and any
type of heat may be used. Full equip-
ment and instructions with every
cooker.
No. 1, for 6 persons. Price .... 78/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, 39/3
No. 2, for 8 persons. Price .... 98/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, 49/3
(Household Ironmongery, Ground, Floor,
Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.)
Now. ..buy Shirts for
your vacation —and Save
on these famous qualities!
MEN’S TENNIS SHIRTS
Men’s Tennis Shirts, with collar and
5/3
pocket attached. In White Mercerised "
Twill. At Anthony Horderns’ .... 5/3, 6/6, 8/6
White Poplin de Luxe. At Anthony Horderns’, 8/6
Natural Fuji Silk, double double Kanebo.
At Anthony Horderns’ 16/6
Cream Twill Flannel. At Anthony Horderns’, 21/-
MEN’S SPORT SHIRTS
Men’s Sports Shirts, made with smart
shape sports collar.- In Mercerised
Twill. At Anthony Horderns’
7/6
7/6
White Poplin de Luxe. At Anthony Horderns’, 8/6
White Poplin de Luxe, with Blue edging.
At Anthony Horderns* 8/6
Natural Fuji Silk.
At Anthony Horderns’ 14/6 and 16/6
Also in Cream, Blue or White Crepona.
At Anthony Hordefnis’ '.,••• 13/6
ALL-WOOL SPORTS PULLOVERS
Men’s Cream All-wool Sports Pull-
overs, with V neck, ribbed cuffs and
welt. Sizes, 34in. to 40in. chest.
At Anthony Horderns’ 8/6
8/6
Cream Sports Pullovers, of all-wool ribbed knit.
Best finish with club stripes around V neck. Sizes,
S.M.,'Men’s. At Anthony Horderns’ 13/6
O.S. Men’s. At Anthony Horderns’ ...... 14/6
MEN’S CREAM HALF-HOSE AT
Men’s Cream Half-Hose. All-wool
ribbed. At Anthony Horderns’, 2/6
Plain. At Anthony Horderns’ . . 2/11
2/6
( Mercery,
Ground Floor , George Street.
We Pay Carriage.)
COMPARE QUALITY FOR QUALITY AND PRICE FOR PRICE.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
»r%:


THE SUNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc
LOUGH
10-DISC
SIZE
CUTS sft.
14-DISC
SIZE
CUTS 7ft.
Supplied
with
levers for
either
team or
tractor
use.
i
■
wk
The
Summer
fallowing
implement
supreme.
Deals
effectively
with
Paddy-
melon
and other
heavy
weed
growths.
The “Sundercut” has a greater sale in Australia than any other disc implement. It works successfully in any type of country, amongst stumps
and stones, in hard set fallow, in virgin Mallee soils, and in fallow rank with weeds. The alternate 18- and 20-inch discs set with undercut,
cut a level bottom and leave a lumpy tilth ideal for moisture conservation. Differential Cog Jump allows high jump without increase or draug t.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H.V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY..LTD.
(Sunshine Section),
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South
Brisbane.
Descriptive Folder, Price and Terms posted jree on request.
FARM ACCOUNTS
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM ijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilllliiliiiilillilllillllliiiiiiw
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to,
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he mig t
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“ r Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.


Buy Direct —Save Money
MPftIMP FENCING wife
I\| If* FENCE STANDARDS
STRAJHERS
Autoscrew Droppers
H
f
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES LIMITED’-.
Money saved is money gained.
You get direct factory prices
from our own factories on
BARB WlRE.—Prices from I 6/6 per
coil of 440 yards. No one can
equal our prices, and we don t
charge Sales Tax. Sole distribu-
tors of Hibiscus Barb and Hibis-
cus Fencing Wire. No other
firm can supply Hibiscus Fence.
Protect yourself by ordering
direct from us.
TANKS, TROUGHING, SKYLIGHTS, ETC. —We manufacture from best Tank
J ron —you get direct factory prices, and No Sales Tax. Material
complete for i 000-gal. Tank, 75/-. sin. Spouting, 26g., 1/2 per
6ft. length, and 15in. Ridge-capping, 26g., 1/7 per 6ft. length.
Our Catalogue gives full details.
ALSO—
Wrought-iron Work, Hook-and-eye Hinges, Crowbars, Wheel-
barrows, Boiler Stands, etc. You will be surprised at our direct
factory prices. See Catalogue.
WE ALSO MANUFACTURE —
Hibiscus Fencing Posts, all steel, sft. 6in., 1/6 each.
Auto Screw Droppers, for 4-wire fence, from 20/- per 100.
Agents for—
VENUS SUPER MOTOR SPIRIT. —Guaranteed first-grade—now 1/10 per
gallon.
Largest Distributors in Queensland of—
WIRE AND NETTING AND GALV. IRON . —On K. Wire we give 20 p.c.
discount, and No Sales Tax.
GALV. PIPING. —New shipment of £in., 5 |d.; |-in., 6£d.; 1 in., 9£d. ;
I /|; l/4£. All piping less 25 p.c. AND NO SALES
TAX.
STERILISED BONE MEAL. —£II/15/- ton, or 12/6 bag of 1001 b. COARSE
SALT, £5/10/- ton, or 10/- bag. CRUDE COARSE SALT, £5/5/-
ton, 9/6 bag. STURDYOID ROOFING—in rolls 72ft. x 3ft., I-ply,
26/9, 2-ply, 33/-, 3-ply, 39/6 —all less 10 p.c.
PLASTIC CEMENT, for leaky tanks and roofs, 2/6 per pound tin.
Lowest also for—
Oregon Doors, 17/6, New Era Separators, Cream Cans, Linseed
Oil, Whitelead, Paints, Tyres and Chains, Furniture, Cutlery, E.P.
Ware, Saddlery, Tents, Tarpaulins, Tools, Axes, Anvils, Spray
Pumps, Arzeen, Cold Safes, Hose, Ploughs, etc.
Write for Seventh Edition of large Copyrighted Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street (off Ann Street, between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
of the subject—to the arrival, for example,
of the little Chusan in Australian waters
in 1852; to the part steamships played
then in populating the goldfields; to the
early handicap of distance on Australian
production of perishables for export, and
the later development ol refrigeration; to
the part played by shipping in the service
which Australia rendered to the Empire m
the Great War. The State prize essays and
many others showed that there had been
something better than study: there had
been assimilation. With very few excep-
tions these children knew what they were
writing about.
Listen to this:—
Now it is as ii the 12,000 miles of uninviting sea
between England and Australia no longer exists.
Dangers hitherto existent for travellers have been
eliminated. Constant communication by wireless
can be kept up with the dear ones at home. Luxuries
surround the traveller on all sides. Consequently
constant interchange of visits takes place between
Australians and Britishers. At short notice our
prominent statesman may rush to England to confer
with brother statesman on Imperial matters. Edu-
cationists and politicians from Australia meet regu-
larly in Britain to confer regarding the development
of the Empire.
That is the voice of a young man of
“under 12”—of 11, to be exact— Brian
Millet!, of St. Mary’s School at Sunbury
(Vic.). And it is not a “purple patch”
either. He is talking now of the days
before the little 700-ton Chusan took up the
running between Singapore and Australia:
Between India and Suez the enterprising P. and O.
Company had already established a service. From
Suez, passengers and mails were taken by camel
across the .desert to the Nile, from thence to
Alexandria, where they completed their journey to
England by steamer In 1851, and almost coinci-
dent with the first mail communications, the discovery
of gold in our land enticed hither many adventurers ;
ahd, to Cope with the traffic, newer and faster
clipper ships were built, but these were soon ousted
by the superior steamships. Soon, new companies
sprang into existence and new routes were developed
and a route from Australia to England via America
was opened. In 1869 the east-west railway from
New York to San Francisco was completed and a
now company formed. In 1898, the Canadian trans-
continental railway being completed, the Canadian
Australian Steamship Company was formed and a
mail contract by this route was subsidised by the
Australian and Imperial Governments proportionately.
You get a slip here and there, of course —
but very rarely in fact; generally in some
deduction, because of insufficient knowledge.
But what an amazing performance it is,
even if it be largely one of the memory.
And it does not stand alone. Here is
another young man of the “primary school
12 to 14” group: Gordon Denning, of St.
Augustine’s, Yarraville (Vic.). Two years
older, he has begun to think more of work
and wages. It used to be argued, he tells
us, that Australia must always be a primary-
producing country. But the steamship
changed all that: —
Slowly but surely Australia has entered into the
business of making all the goods she consumes until
the stage has been reached when iron and steel,
cottons and woollen goods, foodstuffs, all the funda-
mentals of life are now manufactured in our qwn
country. It used to be a maxim that it must always
be cheaper to manufacture or treat a raw material
and treat it at the place of consumption, but steam
transport has developed to such an extent that we
now actually import such raw materials as silk,
crude petroleum and paper pulp with the view to
converting them into the finished product in our
own country, thus finding employment for many. Au-
stralian workmen. And, of course, the stage has now
been reached when we can handle from every stage
right through to the finished product all the
materials which we ourselves produce.
That young man of 13 had grown up along-
side the chemical and other works of busy
Yarraville: you can hear the talk of the
home fireside in his essay.
J. F. Archibald used to say everybody
had one story to tell: there is something
everybody knows better than everybody
else. The amount of what we might call
ingrained knowledge that most people
possess is, in fact, astonishing; and the
art of the essayist is to incorporate as much
of it as he can in his work. It is this that
gives the intimate touch. “Ah,” you say,
“here’s a man who knows what he is writing
about. See how observant he is; such little
things as these haven’t escaped his eye! ”
Ronald Harper (“over 16”), of the Renmark
(S.A.) High School, lives among the
orchards. Says he: —
It is only by the cheap and swift facilities for
export which the advent of steam communication
has given us that we are enabled to sell our products.
In many steam-vessels a large amount of space has
been allotted to refrigerators.... In late years the
quantity of exported perishable produce has reached
an enormous figure. Included under this heading
are dried-fruits, fresh fruits, eggs, bacon, butter,
cheese, mutton, beef and rabbits. If there were no
steam communication with other parts of the world
it would not be profitable to produce these in large
quantities because Australia would not be able to
consume them herself. The dried fruit industry,
for instance, is dependent on overseas markets; -last
year the London market absorbed 50,000 tons of
Australian dried fruit, but Australia consumed under
10,000 tons. One wonders what would happen to
the River Murray settlers if steam communication
was cut off. Australia has exported much fresh
fruit in late years, especially oranges, apples and
pears. This fruit goes mainly to London, but a
fair orange trade is carried on with New Zealand.
The introduction of refrigeration has facilitated the
export of butter and eggs. The wine industry has
grown apace....
Each of the three mentioned won the prize
in his section. There were two other
winners—Shirley Alger, Albany High School
(W.A.), and D. M. Fienberg, Christian
Brothers’ College, Perth—nothing very re-
markable about the work of either, but
good, honest, well-constructed efforts. And
they were not all well-constructed. For
the most part the essays were rather dis-
orderly; and that is not a good quality—
not a good national quality. Perhaps we
are not giving enough attention in our
schools to mathematics; mathematics ought
to produce an orderly mind if anything will.
S. H. P.
A Satchel of Books
Mud Puppetsiowh, by M. J. Farrell, will
enrapture lovers of Ireland—-the pre-war
Ireland that was the English hunting-
man’s favorite tourist-resort—and horses. It
i.s a charming book full of sporting people,
who are mostly little too nice to be true,
and of alluring pictures of the English
and Irish countryside.
Dinner with James, by Rose Henniker
Heaton (Elkin Mathews ; 6s. net). Whether
intentional or not, this amounts to a biting
satire on aristocratic futility. A series of
dinners and subjects to be talked about are
, arranged, but nothing worth saying about the
subject selected is ever said. Still, one reads
on to the end, while one’s gastric juices work
overtime, like those of a half-starved dramatic
critic compelled to watch the actors and
actresses eat their way through a Frederick
Lonsdale comedy.
The Soul of Malaya, by Henri Fauconnier
(Elkin Mathews; 9s. net). This book, which
makes excellent reading, won the French
G.aumont Prize for 1981. The writer, a
Frenchman, spent two years rubber-planting
in the F.M.S. He paints a brilliant picture,
his personal observation is keen, and he can
conjure up a scene in a crystalline phrase
of typically Gallic clarity. The British
planter is wittily and ruthlessly presented,
but the two Frenchmen, who talk meta-
physics by the hour, are too beautifully
heroic to be true. Their attempt to rescue
their native servant, who has run amok, from
the police, reads like melodrama. It is diffi-
cult to believe, in fact, that Fauconnier
knows as much about the Malay as he affects.
Much of the “soul” is obviously a clever
fictionising of that standard work “Malay
Magic” by the Englishman Skeat. As such,
it is extremely well done.
Caligula, by Hans Sachs, translated by
Hedvig Singer (Elkin Mathews; 7s. 6d.
net). According to Sachs, Caligula was
not mad, though he was getting that way
just before liis premature and providential
assassination. He was an adult infant who
was so capable of receiving impressions
that in the right environment he might
have been turned into a respectable if
undistinguished citizen. His grief over
and attempt to model himself on his pre-
decessor Tiberius were quite, sincere, but
as soon as he became entirely isolated
on the throne he was thrown on his own
resources, and they were those of an ill-
bred, sadistic child. Instead of pulling heads
off blowflies he could pull heads off philo-
sophers, and there was nobody to say
him nay. He built a bridge of boats across
the Bay of Baie, and when the people
crowded on to it he had them pushed into
the water, and laughed with childish glee
while they drowned. He used to have the
doors of the amphitheatre locked and the
awnings removed so that he could watch the
audience agonise with thirst. He believed
himself to be the god Jupiter, yet crept
under the bed when the god lie was supposed
to be sent a thunderstorm. He lived in
turn with each of his three sisters, though
that was not considered a crime in an
emperor at that time. His apparently dirty
mind was simply the natural mind of a child
subject to no restraints. In his misery and
loneliness he longed for the peace of death,
and the incredible blindness which ignored
all the plans for his removal was the work
of his unconscious mind. The student of
contemporary politics may find food for
thought in the fact that in the full tide of
his bloodiness he had the affection of the
people, who called him “Baby Boy.” Modern
democracies are capable of something of the
same sort of thing.
And a Little Verse
SONNETS OF MY YEARS.
I.
Have I passed now the midmost of my years,
So frittered time away with prodigal
And idle hand that lets its jewels fall
Unheeded now, remembered late with tears?
Such wealth had I; I had no thought or
fears
That days could waste or sudden grief
appal
A beggared wastrel in a darkening ball —
Alone, at last the remorseless tread he hears.
Hence I, who was so spendthrift of my time,
Thinking it infinite, shall hoard and nurse
Each precious token of the passing prime ;
Yet every minute I must ope my purse,
To every moment must I yield a breath.
And make a final reckoning with Death.
II.
And I have kept my days with idle things,
Poor fripperies and tinsel and vain toys,
And mixed what gold I had with such
alloys
As taint the talent; and no merchant brings
His trade to me who might have dealt with
kings.
I have kept my days with riot and with
noise.
And sulked in silken tents before my
Troys,
And left my triumphs to the underlings.
Was the day fair, I had no heart to hunt.
Were the nights brave, I had no head for
wine.
Where there was peace I looked for an
affront,
And envied other gifts, nor cared for mine.
Yet this I knew, and whispered ere I slept:
Miserere meij I have loved and wept.
III.
My years are like a company I knew
Upon a pilgrimage : some wear dark gowns
And walk with sober merchants of the
towns;
And some are gay and some are sprigged
with yew,
And some are false and fair and some are
true ;
A knave is here, and there a troupe of
clowns;
One is a beggar, one a kingdom owns ;
And some are happy, but they are too few.
I see them go, and now they all are past.
What new wayfarers come I cannot tell,
Only their passage will be equal fast.
The pilgrims press towards the Holy Well,
And are grown lame and grey and scant of
breath.
Upon the Pilgrims’ Way from birth to
death.
LONDON,
D. P. McGUIRE.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Tame
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
T.1.M.: “Most Wise’s” theme’s as old as
the first lover... .Rumpus: You haven’t made a
poem out of an attractive prospect... .W.C.T.: The
moralising last stanza killed the good chances
which the excellent second stanza had made....
D.L.M.M.: It bumps the teeth out in places... .Sigs:
Those first lines are a terrible mouthful to start a
set of verses with.. . .L.H.G.: Specifications of that
bushman’s camp have been coming in steadily for
50 years M.A.W.: Doleful without pathos.
(Honestly, do you like this picture of a heroine:
“Her shadowy form in its misty shroud dancing
along” ?)... .F.O’G.: You’ve made hard work of it.
. ...R.K.: Sorry, over-supplied with stories of that
period.... Reddil: Neither plot nor purpose so far
as we can see.... W.M.A.: Much obliged; but pretty
well covered last week. . .-1. J.: It has had all the
space we can spare for a while. .. .D.L.M.: Charm
in the idea of “Firetail,” but not in the technique.
M.F.J.: But they show promise. Only way is
to observe, read and keep on practising.... Eril:
Well, all we can say is he was very rude to the lady.
. ...J.C.G.: Odes beginning “O fragrant weed” are a
weariness. .. . J.E.S.: Hopeless. . . .Scissors: They need
grinding before they’ll cut .... E.A.8.: Mighty hard to
struggle through. .. .R.N.Q.: “Office Ghosts” is
flittermouse stuff M.M.M.: Consider yourself
cautioned for trying to rhyme “banjo” with “can
g 0”.... Hesperian : Your effusion has gone west, too.
.... .E.D.P.: Feeble jokes in poor rhyme. .. .G.M.C.:
A drover’s camp at dawn, eh ?: —
And the cattle on the camp mutely rise to ease
their cramp, .
Eager for the route again.
Then they are not the cows we know H.W.: “I
have got a hanker to be a poet bold.” Indications
are that you’ll never get past tenth-rate doggerel. .. .
F. : Dreadful L. 8.: Heaveff only knows why you
call them “topical” verses. If you said “rubbishy” it
would be nearer the mark....Wal A. Bie: Basketed,
as you surmise... .B.B.: You can’t even rhyme....
A.S. : Nothing of Burns in it except the metre....
G. : If you want rejected verses returned you
must send stamps with them... .M.M.N.: A promis-
ing attempt. .. .W.C.K.: Not enough narrative
interest. .. .S.L.: A vegetarian paper might print
it in the silly season.... K.M.W.: About as fresh as
last Good Friday’s fish....C.P.: Stilted... .F.H.C.:
Incident not worth all the trouble you t00k... .
F.C.: Even the thought of it makes us ;yawn....
R.D.L.: Less like a sub. yarn than an exam, paper set
for naval cadets. .. .A.P.: You were too late for
the Christmas number; anyway, we don’t care for
ghost yarns. .. 8.5.: Scrap three-fourths of the adjec-
tives, and don’t be mushy... .8.M.: As we prefer
to spend 1932 out of gaol we’re not printing it
J.W.W.: Murder will out, but not in that manner.
. ...M.J.: An oft-told tale T.K.: Not even the
dog fight tempted us G.M.R.: The lady’s ward-
robe is immaterial; it’s what she thinks and does
that matters... .Eric L., J.E.8., E.M.E., 1.W.: Re-
turned with regret and in the hope that some day
there’ll be paper enough to print them a 11....
J.A.11.: Doesn’t make us believe it. .. .Marshall K.:
Well done; but the less of the sordid the better
just now... .W.E.W.: Not up to the standard you’ve
set. . . .Asabat: Forced humor... .Warren F.r Stilted
yarn; unreal dialogue. ..-M.P.D. : Too stiff in the
joints... .Blackboy : Nice jingle, no more Francis
J. B.: Can’t see much point in having the barriers
down-broken if they’re to be up-put next day....
L. : An idea, not well developed. But u s
promising... .Charles C.: “Smother out the lamp
—that doesn’t seem like Australia, 1931. .. .R.V.K.:
“The lazy smoke the sky up-crawls”—the lazy bloke
he thus down-scrawls. .. .E.M.G.: Both have indi-
viduality, and with a little better handling “Horses”
would prance in....5.E.F.J.: Old girls in old frocks.
J.A.A.: Every beginner in verse has to tackle
life’s enigma. Be thankful you have got it off your
chest. Now pass on to the next inevitable
S.L.R.: Slight, sweet thing. Keep going Hcsp :
Avoid the mists. Obscurity isn’t poetry....
P.F.E.: Can’t And a trace of the real thing in
them R.W.A.: You’re on the border line, and
one may pass over it. .. .Bellerive: Ah! We (veie
just beginning to enjoy it when the door swung-to:
THEN KNIGHTS CROSSED SWORDS.
In the ancient years of troubled times
And intrigues among political Lords;
When homesteads were wrecked by riotous mobs
And knights in combat crossed swords';
When r iding whips, cloaks and Masks
Were in readiness for horsemen’s flight;
When tragedies ensued in alley and street
In the darkness of the night ;
When messengers did risk their lives
For King and political Lords —
When rivals planned diabolical deeds,
Then knights in combat crossed swords.
Alison McD. : Only lack of space keeps your
devil’s elbow out Bob P.: Poor stuff, Robert
E. : What, “let the veil of perfect morning
enshroud you and I!”... .E.W.L.: No, but there s
merit in them. .. . J.Y.W.: Appeal hardly wide
enough... .E.V.8.: Good idea, but it needs much
better handling..W.P.: Can’t make head or tail
of it.
TO ARTISTTC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.D.: Cock-eyed art F.K.K.: An eleventh-hour
entry for the year’s booby prize—and you win.
S.H.: Frightful D.C.: Try working in ink
R.W.R.: Political cartooning is not for y0u....
M. : Neither strong enough. .. .J.J.W.: Still in
the dark as to the meaning of the joke H.W.T.:
Both missed K.D.: Slapstick C.N. : No
F. : Two balloons on stilts exchanging abuse.
N.R.: Bumpy J.G.: You need a few years’
hard study at a life class 8.C.8.: You burned the
midnight oil to no purpose.... S.W.: Lad hasn’t
grasped the rudiments yet....E.C.: A flop. .. . V.S.:
Lady returned, for reasons too numerous to men-
tion F.J.R.: Goat now browsing in w.p.b
W.J.: Shorten Dave’s legs by a yard or 50....
M.E.D.: Our nautical man jibbed at the officer’s
uniform C.J.H.: Infantile K.S.: Why copy
another man’s style... .H. 8.: Only for the letter-
press we would never have suspected the object of
being a horse S.D.: Mostly scratchy lines and
blots N.M.G.: “All’s AVell Aboard the Ship of
State.” Not with the sails set that way R.W.:
Jest made us laugh—about 30 years ago G.P.:
You’re just fumbling along. .. .R.M.T.: Do we See
plenty worse? No, few... .J.A.A.: Refuse to believe
that curates stagger home with lobsters W.K.N.:
Gag went the round of the London coffee-shops a
couple of centuries ag0....T.E.: Quite promising, if
the artist is still in the kindergarten F.N.: By
no means first-class, but keep on' L. 8.: You’re
more at home with the pen than the brush. ...
P.W.: Nine—ten —out!


fjpjg
■ ■
W '
mm*
- i
wm ■. • imam
! ' ■■■s '
K ’4» 3 F
if
t ,
:
sCSK-'V
*■»
/
. vv
*
<C:
■
(
:
*3
a
fe# 9


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2707.
December 30, 1931.
A HOLIDAY SYMPHONY.
“And I Would that my tongue could utter
The thoughts that arise in me."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoiiia: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 125., 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
Umted Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for ioz. To all other
places: Id. fon- 2oz.
CAN DEMOCRACY BE SAVED?
What can be done to improve the quality
of men offering for Parliament? Looking
over the candidates in the recent election,
weighing them as one would weigh appli-
cants for highly important executive jobs
in a business —well, in business one would
simply advertise that most of the jobs were
still open.
Doubtless democracy is to blame; we
have put upon many people responsibilities
which they are not yet fitted for, if they
ever will be. Not so long ago only a limited
proportion of the people had votes for
Parliament. The possession of property was
the deciding factor. Of course that was
wrong; a man was not necessarily qualified
for the public service of voting because
he had been a successful money-maker in
his own interests. Then, as it always does,
the pendulum swung too far in the other
direction. Because the rough-and-ready
plan of testing intelligence and business
capacity by the ownership of property was
set aside as illogical, it was assumed that
no test of intelligence and business capa-
city was called for at all. Had the ownership
of property been the only test, what was
done would have been the proper thing.
But there are other tests: there is the
simple intelligence test, which has nothing
directly to do with politics at all; and there
is the test of good citizenship. It is not
too much to say that one-third of the
males entitled to vote on December 19 were
entirely unqualified to do the job; the
proportion of females was probably rather
greater. The women may, as a rule, have
made some attempt to get a smattering
of knowledge before election day; the un-
qualified men, with very few exceptions,
either gave their votes away or sold them
—in most cases to the person who offered
a price in the plainest terms.
No country can hope to get its most com-
petent men to offer their services to such
an electorate as that. The qualifications
demanded of the successful campaigner there
would disqualify a man for success in most
of the ordinary walks of life. Where is the
leader in the finance or commerce and
industry of the country, the man accustomed
to profound thought in his office or his
study, who could face such a howling,
screeching campaign, with its soap-box
meetings at street corners,. with its lightly-
given promises, with its heckling and
its other stupidities? Here and there a
lawyer of some prominence may do it; but
even one of Latham’s calibre is liable to be
pushed aside to make room for a man with
not half of Latham’s intellectual qualities,
but who could make a better show in an
appeal to the half-educated and the entirely
uneducated.
The improvement of the electorate, by
restricting the franchise to those who could
show themselves worthy of it, would pro-
duce a great change in the character of the
candidates offering. But something still
more might be called for. Attendance
upon Parliament, combined with the struggle
for office, has been turned into a whole-
time job; naturally it appeals, therefore,
only to those who have been unsuccessful
and have no large business or professional
interests to look after, or to those who
never have directed but always have been,
under direction. This is one reason why
the Country party everywhere has had a
larger proportion of intelligent and well-
informed men than any other section in
recent years: there is no goodvmll in a
farm or station to be lost even if the man
left in charge does not cany on quite as
well as the boss might if he were constantly
in attendance. The whole-time job and its
whole-time pay have filled almost every
popular House in Australia with political
barnacles —hangers-on of this party or of
that, and very hard to shift because always
nearest the party machine, and its most
devoted servants. From this close touch
with the machine and their devotion to it
comes also the fact that in nine cases out
of ten the safest seats are fastened on to
bv these political barnacles. Handy to
almost every city in Australia are one or
more electorates which are sure seats, these
for Labor, those for its opponents. What are
done with such seats on the anti-Labor
side? Are they reserved for a few out-
standing men in finance or commerce or
industry—some of those men who, though
great in counsel, could not face the rough-
and-tumble of an election? Never! They
are carefully appropriated by good party
heelers, usually of no outstanding capacity
beyond the capacity for political wire-pull-
ing and intrigue.
There were hopes a few months ago that
we were on the eve of a great awakening.
In Sydney the All for Australia League
sprang up almost in a night; to its cry for
a higher ethical standard in our public life
—a cry which presently resounded all over
Australia—there was such a response that it
looked as though regeneration was at hand.
But somehow or other the A.F.A. lost grip;
and presently it was swallowed up in party.
There is room still for it in the public life
of this country in its original form and with
its original aspirations; more than room
—there is an urgent call.
WE MUST FIGHT FREE!
There are very few who are Communists
in Australia, but there are thousands who
are ready to help the Communists make a
mess of things. They know little or noth-
ing about what the Comrades aim at. But
they do know that in this young country
with so much work to be done they cannot
find work to do. They see idle lands, idle
factories, idle shops, idle money. They
know that these agencies ought to be busy
growing things and making things for the
people who are workless and often foodless.
They know that something is terribly
wrong; and they shout applause to any
loud voice that cries for a change. It
would be unnatural if they didn’t.
Why is Australia in this shameful con-
dition?—for it is a shameful condition.
Them is no need to go back over the
old ground and talk about the hundreds
of millions we borrowed. Actually the
hundreds of millions, if rightly used, might
have done us good. You can make money—
and progress, too—by borrowing. Our
trouble, and the trouble of most of the
world, is that we not only wasted most of
the money, but did ourselves great harm
in the process. We had already been slipping
to the bad for years. In the North of
England it is four generations “from clogs
to clogs.” The founder of the family makes
a start on a fortune; the second, brought
up in dad’s hard school, builds the fortune
higher; the third, who mixes spending with
making, starts the descent; the fourth, who
knows only about spending, gets back in
the end to the clogs. Australia, its great
growth of population dating from the early
’fifties, has very many people of the third
and some of the fourth generation. Brought
up to the easy life, when there was money
to spend they grabbed it with both hands.
So we had the spending orgy of the K)
riotous years that followed the war. Dur-
ing this period entirely false values were
set up. Most of the old domestic virtues
either had no attention at all or were
laughed at. The “pictures” came along to
add their evil influence—the pictures which
might have been the greatest influence for
enlightenment the world had known for
300 years, but which had the very serious
misfortune to be seized by the wrong hands
everywhere. ,
Among other things that fell into disfavor
was hard, grimy work. Wherever the oppor-
tunity offered to ride on somebody else’s
back it was rushed. During this period—
from, say, 1905 to 1930—the growth of the
public services of Australia was prodigious.
It is not too much to say that inspectors
of various kinds were multiplied a hundred-
fold. They all have to justify themselves,
mostly by deciding that what somebody
else proposed to do was not quite right,
and that this or that change or addition
ought to be made. Not only do they thus
justify themselves, but they establish them-
selves more firmly; for every man who owes
a job to their good offices is expected to
swear to the tremendous value of their
services to the State. Step by step with
this growth of Government and municipal
establishments, and the spending due to
them, there has also been a vast addition
to private parasitic services.
In these years of profound economic and
social disturbance we have almost lost sight
of the fact that a community cannot long
consume more than it produces, and that
if we pile up the number of consumers
without adding to the number of producers
somebody must go short. It is doubtful
whether there is an important economic
fact so lost sight of as this utter dependence
of the world upon production. To-day we
are hearing again in Australia the cry “Give
employment!” The intention could not
be better; yet, nationally, mere work
means nothing at all; the most industrious
community could live on the verge of
hunger and might topple over into starva-
tion and death. Only production counts for
anything.
It might have been expected that after
what has happened in the past two years
there would have been an awakening to the
fact that one of the things that a.re wrong
with the world is the prodigious over-
supply of non-producers, coupled with their
extravagances. But no such consideration
is welcomed even now. From one end of
N. S. Wales to another there was lately a
cry to keep open the Government Savings
Bank: the fact that it would do precisely
the same work and cover exactly the same
field as the Commonwealth Savings Bank
was not permitted to weigh. ' Give work!
The State Lottery was hailed as another
great institution for “absorbing labor.’’
When it was proposed to make some change
in the production of “dole bread,” it was
laid against it as an unpardonable sin that
it would put thousands of carters and others
out of a job; the “fin hares” have been
acclaimed as a fine thing for Sydney be-
cause they will give a few score of men a
job; and when it is pointed out that 4000
men have lost their jobs through the
putting off of the motor-’buses in and
around Sydney, there are many who believe
that the last word oil the subject has been
said.
There is no hope for us, there is no hope,
perhaps, for the world, until we realise
how far we have got from the old rational
methods, and what an impossible burden we
have laid upon the shoulders of the pro-
ducers—how impossible it is we are con-
tinually confessing by making them all kinds
of concessions. It will not be easy to cut
free from the awful tangle, but at least we
ought to keep in front of us one guiding
principle: that when expenditure is pro-
posed the first question about it should
always be: Is this parasitic or for produc-
tion? If it is parasitic, then for many a
year to come it ought to have great diffi-
culty in justifying itself. If it is parasitic
and there is a parasite doing the job reason-
ably well already, then a second should
not be tolerated. We are over-burdened.
We must fight free.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Reformation of 1932.
James Edmond’s message:—-
A Reformation has been defined as the mental
uprising of an intelligent minority against the rule
of an arrogant and antiquated majority. Most pro-
fessed Reformations are of the false-alarm description,
inasmuch as the minority doesn’t grow into a
majority but rather diminishes, and its intelligence,
which had a sort of brilliance at the first, fends
to become dim. But at long intervals there is a
Reformation which marks a real change in human
thought, and an extensive abandonment of previous
idols and delusions and superstitions. Australia is
due for a re-birth of this kind. It won’t be as
extensive as one or two in the past, but it will be
a very definite awaking, all the same.
Politics in Australia are as bitter as the average,
and politicians as contradictory and as ready to
call each other liars at short notice, but about the
startling wealth of this continent their unanimity
is marvellous. Nobody has a right to blame the
other fellow for this misrepresentation. S. M.
Bruce and Jock Garden are equally in it. Yet,
according to its size, Australia is a very .poor
place, and even judged by its scanty population
it is nothing to boast about. A total mineral out-
put of 2-id. per acre per annum is only moderate, and
the agricultural output is moderate likewise. The
legend of stupendous natural riches comes in handy
to justify demands for short working hours, high
wages, and lavish industrial conditions. It is an
aid to the revolutionary movement. With all these
legendary billions lying around it is claimed that
the worker must have been robbed by somebody—
the banks for preference—or his share would be
forthcoming. And there is always the plea that big
interest bills, the result of big foreign loans, don’t
signify to a land with raw materials and natural
resources outcropping all over the landscape.
Another widespread illusion is that the Big
Importing policy of Australia and the Freetrade
policy of England are identical, and that the Big
Importing policy here is justified by the success of
the Freetrade policy over there. Even if the success
was still in evidence; over there the inference is
bunkum. The British fondness for buying goods
abroad was never connected with the rotten and
corrupt Australian habit of raising loans abroad
to pay for the goods. If J. Bull imported overmuch
he paid with exports or with the profits from
oversea investments —investments which Australia
doesn’t possess and can’t hope to possess except as
the result of many years’ economy and enterprise.
J.B. never descended to the slimy depths of selling
his children and posterity generally into foreign
slavery for the sake of transient personal luxury.
Should Australia feel inclined for a Reformation,
which embodies a change in the national habit of
thought, 1932 is the best year for the experiment,
because it is the nearest one.
♦
A Year of Changes.
The other night, after a great meeting in
Sydney, close on 200 young enthusiasts went
out, armed with paste-pots, to plaster the
city and suburbs with anti-Communist
posters; and they did their work so thor-
oughly that 66 of them were arrested or
had to answer to a court summons. Earl-
ier in the year other young enthusiasts had
got together and formed the All for Aus-
tralia League; and there was a similar out-
burst of enthusiasm throughout many
country districts of N. S. Wales, crystallis-
ing in the Riverina and other movements.
Side by side with these was a vigorous
growth of societies to study and propagate
social credit and other plans for economic
salvation. The young men of Australia had
been guilty of a profound indifference
towards the political and economic; prob-
lems of their country. In the pa&t year
they threw off their lethargy, and it is the
finest thing that has occurred in Australia
for a decade.
But the changes that have been taking
place have not all been so admirable. When
those young men of the New Guard went
out with their paste-pots they had not
much thought for either public or private
rights: all they could plead was that, as
the Communist and his protectors had been
permitted to make their appeal, it was a
duty to put the anti-Communist case in the
same way. The unpleasant truth, however, is
that on the plea of duty to the community,
or morp often to a class, there has' been a
steady encroachment upon personal rights;
we had a shameful illustration of that in
the basher gangs which operated first during
the timbermen’s strike in Sydney. Even
when the encroachment has not been so
marked it has been possible to discern a
truculence in the bearing of many, due no
doubt to the rapid growth of the power
of the unions. Probably, as the years go by
and men become accustomed to their new-
won rights, there will be less insistence upon
them, and less disposition to challenge the
rights of others.
Meantime this assertion of rights has de-
veloped, among other qualities, an impatience
of authority—outside, perhaps, the union.
Because authority asks them to be tidy, for
example, there are many who are deliber-
ately untidy: it is as obvious in the streets
as on the job. And with it goes often a
rebellion against thoroughness. Australian
workmen are superior in intelligence to
almost any others in the world; overseas
managers who have come to Australian jobs
have given them this certificate again and
again. But many of them will not give
that finish to their work of which they are
capable, because of a queer idea that to go
“all out” is in some way or other kow-
towing to the boss. Nationally it is a
bad development, and we shall be handi-
capped until we root it out.
The war was responsible for more than
the troubles generally charged against it.
During those awful years we cultivated
habits which, though they may have helped
us to win a war, are no good for winning
prosperity and happiness in peace. Money
was poured out like water. Public extrava-
gance begot private extravagance; we lost
all our old standards. There are those who
believe that we never need recover them.
These people know that hundreds of mil-
lions were raised on credit for war purposes;
they demand that more millions shall and
can be raised on credit for peace purposes.
They overlook two things—that credit ex-
hausted cannot be used a second time, and
that the world is in its present state of dis-
tress because of the credit that was estab-
lished and exhausted then. A year ago the
world did not realise the appalling results
of that enormous waste of credit. There is
not a universal realisation of it even now.
But there is a far wider realisation of it,
and with it a more general recognition of
two things: that we ought to do more than
ever was done before to make war impos-
sible, if only because of the prodigious cost
of it now in money; and that there is no
way out of our present distress but by rigid
economy and hard work. We might have
been doubtful whether the latter truth was
very widely accepted in Australia a month
ago; there is no doubt about it now. And
because of it we can face 1932 with a hope
amounting almost to a confidence which
there was nothing to justify a year ago.
The Case for a Family Partnership.
The historian’s epigram that the Holy
Roman Empire was neither holy, Roman
nor an empire suggests itself whenever the
British Empire is mentioned. British it un-
doubtedly is, but it isn’t an empire. All the
dictionaries are agreed that empire involves
the exercise of supreme power, authority,
jurisdiction, dominion and control. As a
plain matter of fact, the Anglo-Saxon is
not amenable to imperial domination of any
sort, as was very pointedly suggested when
attempts were made to coerce the American
colonists after the recipe of Julius Caesar.
The British family of nations, offspring of
enterprising merchants and daredevil sea-
captains, has grown up Topsy-like with very
little parental control, and its units are
proud of their independence of their mother
and of one another. In their business deal-
ings among themselves the members of the
family have not had much use for affection
or sentiment. Even the idea of a business
has never had much sway,
because a partnership is inconsistent with
utter independence. Yet a family partner-
ship is an ideal business organisation, as the
Rothschilds and others could testify.
Paradoxically enough, though we have
never had anything like a partnership, there
is no subject on earth on which there is,
and always has been, since Britain planted
the first colony, such complete unanimity
as the need for family co-operation. But
no statesman has ever made a definite
proposal for concerted action without dis-
covering that the job of getting the parties
to agree on anything concrete has been well-
nigh hopeless. Hence the safe thing to do, it
has been tacitly agreed, is to stick to generali-
ties, as S. M. Bruce does in an article on
“Planned Empire Development” in a recent
“Times” supplement. Nevertheless, Mr.
Bruce does make two points that are very
pertinent. One, that the time is ripe; the
other, that there ought to be a plan. The
time is ripe. Britain’s notion that she could
indefinitely make a living freetrading with
all the world, secure in financial supremacy
and assured of respect and a fair deal from
foreign nations, has been rudely disturbed.
A corner in gold has upset her currency
standard, tariff walls everywhere hamstring
her trade, and French and Yankee plenipo-
tentiaries discuss world finance as if she did
not exist. Other members of the family
are as hard bit as mother—don’t we know
it!
It should not be beyond the bounds of
possibility to evolve a commonsense, reason-
able plan that will enable the family to
function as a partnership and restore its
damaged trade, finances and prestige. To
begin with, playing with the other fellow’s
counters is a mug’s game; we ought to have
a British currency and a central British
reserve bank to control it. J. F. Darling’s
bimetallic scheme is a good practical start-
ing-point for discussion, being firmly


anchored on British gold and silver produc-
tion. As to trade, as Mr. Bruce points out,
the members of the family all want to manu-
facture. That is right and natural; but.
can’t we agree to apportion very many of
the items, each member taking the jobs it
can do most efficiently and conveniently?
Agricultural development and distribution
of population are problems that cannot be
rushed at, but it should be possible to agree
that no country can live healthily and natu-
rally without agriculture, and that huge
cities should not be encouraged to go on
bloating. Finally, since foreign investments
are proving more trouble than they are
worth, we might well strive to put the
family’s profits back into the family’s busi-
ness, with a view to ensuring that every
little Englishman, Scot, Irishman, Canadian,
Australian, South African and Maorilander
who comes into the world will find some use-
ful work waiting for him to do and fair
pay for doing it. A family partnership
not half as well organised as that of the
Rothschild brothers could dispel the bogey
of unemployment not only for itself but for
all the rest of the world. It is time the
family pulled its weight.
It Is Now Up to Sir P. Game.
“The Governor may summon, prorogue or dissolve
any Parliament. His instructions provide that in
tile exercise of these functions he is to act by the
advice of the Executive Council, but he may dis-
regard the advice ; in such circumstances, however,
he must make a full report for the information of
the Secretary of State. The Imperial rule as to
thej circumstances under which a Government is bound
to resign has been virtually adopted in N. S. Wales ;
and the undoubted right of the Governor, as the
depositary of the Royal prerogative, to refuse to
grant a dissolution of Parliament if he think fit
has been exercised more than once.”
—“Official Year Pool: of N. S. Wales.”
For several months past, ever since the
Premier of N. S. Wales declared that his
policy was one of repudiation, and'more
especially since he defaulted on interest-
payments to Britain while keeping up pay-
ments to the U.S.A., there have been
doubts whether the Government truly repre-
sented the people. Mr. Lang had been
returned to power in 1930 on a platform
which declared that repudiation would not
be tolerated by his party. In view of the
grave doubt whether the Government was
not pursuing a policy entirely opposed to
the policy which the people authorised,
the question arose whether the Governor,
as a constitutional guardian of the people’s
self-governing rights, ought not to dis-
solve Parliament, thus sending Ministers
to their masters. His Excellency was not,
however, prepared to adopt this course;
he seems to have taken the ground that
there was no evidence before him that the
people disapproved of what his advisers
were doing. In Britain there could be no
entirely convincing evidence. Here, how-
ever, it is possible for the Federal elections
to give it to us.
Mr. Lang himself chose this ground for
an appeal to the people—the same people as
those to whom he appealed last election,
to whom he must appeal at the next elec-
tion. There was no compulsion upon Mr.
Lang to join in the Federal election; hs
a. rule, State Ministers stand aloof from
such contests. But Mr. Lang declared
that his Federal and State policies were
inseparable; he had but one for all times
and places. He therefore put. up 23 candi-
dates for the 28 seats in his own State; he
fought for them with all his energy. It was
as much his campaign as if* he had himself
been a candidate; the law allowed him to
be everything else but that, and he was
everything else. If ever a man made an
appeal to the country to approve or to
reject his. policy, Mr. Lang made it on
December 19. And no man could have got
a reply in more unequivocal terms. He was
able to win five seats at the most, and two
of those had been held in the last Parlia-
ment by men who had ranged themselves
behind his leadership. These two had
greatly reduced majorities; and the one
man who had been returned to the last
Parliament as a follower of the Lang Plan
—at a by-election of course—was thrown out
of the seat.
But his Excellency may say that it is
not his duty to protect the public no
matter how overwhelming the evidence that
his Ministers are misrepresenting the people
and carrying into effect policies to which
they are bitterly opposed. In that case
there would of course be no sense in having
a Governor at all. But, in fact, the
Governor, representing the Crown, is a
safety grip, designed to be of no conse-
quence whatever so long as things go right,
but springing to the defence and salvation
of the people the moment things go wrong.
It is for this reason he has been given
great discretionary powers. In the exercise
of his functions he is to act by the advice
of the Executive Council, but he may dis-
regard the advice. In that authority to
disregard the Executive Council’s advice
lies his whole power as the ultimate
guardian of the people’s self-governing
rights. He may “refuse to grant a disso-
lution of Parliament if he thinks fit”; and
in the exercise of the same discretion he is
bound to insist upon a dissolution if the
evidence calls for one. No evidence could
possibfy call for one more loudly and more
convincingly than the recent election in
N. S. Wales.
The Story that Nobody Knows.
“Professor Anderson dealt with the teaching of
Communism in schools. He thought it desirable that
a teacher who knew something about Communism
should enable the pupils to know something about
it also.”-; —John Anderson, Professor of Philosophy.
It may be added that a teacher who really
knows something about Heaven should
enable the pupils to know something about
it also. The great trouble is that no one
really knows until he arrives, and he can’t
arrive if the place doesn’t exist. This mat-
ters little in the case of the theological
heaven, for if the deceased passes into
Nothingness he hasn’t the least idea that
he is disappointed. But the Communist
promises. Heaven before the deceased is
dead, and is apt to be quite cross if the
victim disparages the thing he gets.
An early sample of what he gets is de-
picted in the Book of Acts. The com-
munity was very small, and that should
have made it manageable. Yet it was
apparently very short-lived, for its narra-
tive is compressed into 17 verses. In that
brief space it devised a new capital offence,
that of retaining a little private capital—
the same offence for which a wholesale
slaughter of small farmers has taken place
in Russia. Though these primitive Com-
munists “had all things in common” they
soon discovered that one thing wasn’t in
common—the power of life and death was
apparently in the hands of one man. The
story ends with the statement that a reign
of terror set in—which, in the circumstances,
seems quite probable.
Later experiments at Communism have
been plentiful. Australia had one in South
America. It showed signs of early disrup-
tion over a suggestion that women should
be common property. It disrupted con-
siderably over the question of who should
boss the liberated community. Previously
France had had a Communistic experiment
in 1871, and found it to consist mostly of
murder and arson and imported criminals.
It was confined to Paris, and lasted about
two months. Hungary suffered a blood-
sodden Communist Government, supplied
from Russia, during five months of 1919.
But Russia itself is the example to which
all Australian cranks turn. Society there is
divided into layers. Communists are the
upper crust or stratum; not the common herd
which throws bricks, but a caste which is
stiff with pride, though its manners may
leave much to be desired. It has taken
the place of the old aristocracy in the
general inversion of things. Next comes the
much thicker stratum of the common herd
—very thick and very common. It has a
certain right to exist, provided it is obedi-
ent. Below is the professional class-people
who were born into the castes of doctors,
professors, schoolmasters and the intelli-
gentsia in general. It hasn’t the right to
exist, but it may do so when no one is
looking, always with a species of under-
standing that it may be wiped out when a
sufficient number of the more thick-headed
category are qualified to take its place.
Down in the very basement is the old use-
less aristocracy which is supposed to be
dead.
How Communist professors expect to fit
into this scheme it is hard to say. Pre-
sumably they intend that a different sort
of scheme shall be made for their con-
venience. In fact, all the leaders of Com-
munism picture things so arranged that they
shall be of the ruling caste, because they
will be of the true faith. They don’t want
equality. What they want is inequality,
and plenty of it —with themselves, of course,
on the few high pinnacles.
What real Communism would be like
nobody therefore knows. If it has ever
been practised it hasn’t lasted long enough
to be noticed.
♦—
The Proposed Wheat Quota.
The wheat-marketing arrangement with
Britain develops slowly and cautiously. It
is made clear that if Britain undertakes to
supply a certain percentage of its wheat
deficiency by purchase from the Dominions,
of which Australia is one, it will expect
its pound of flesh in return; and if there
happens to be a scrap over for the cat, so
much the better. The matter is purely one
of business. As recently as 1929 the Old
Man in London didn’t mind much if his
imports exceeded his visible exports by
£500,000,000 in a year, for he was receiving
that much as revenue from money lent
and invested abroad, and from money
earned abroad by his shipping and other
enterprises. Since 1929 so much of this
revenue has vanished that the Old Man
has had to get a new policy. He wants
to export more and to import, less, and if
he buys more wheat from Australia he
wants Australia to buy more manufactured
goods from him.
In 1930-31 Great Britain and Northern
Ireland bought about 20 per cent, (by
value) of the wheat and flour which the
Commonwealth had for sale abroad. The
percentage varies considerably, but no
arrangement this country can make with
Britain will affect more than a very mod-
erate part of our export. The idea enter-
tained in Britain, faced by new conditions
which have apparently come to stay, is to
cultivate more wheat; the British Isles are
to meet 10 per cent, more of the demand
than at present. To encourage the
Dominions there is talk of letting them
supply 65 per cent, of the British demand
instead of the present 55 per cent.; and
there is a rough-and-ready proposition that
the foreigners should have 10 per cent, of
the market instead of the present 30 per
cent, of it. Nothing definite is said about
improved prices; and though there may be
improvements in the ordinary way, no pur-
poseful and serious advance in the cost
of the loaf is contemplated.
Australia’s exports of principal raw pro-
ducts to Great Britain and Northern Ire-
land were as follows for 1930-31:
Out of a
To Britain. Total Export of
Wool ' .. .. £10,349,594 £31,992,181
Butter . . . . 7,189,717 8,120,105
Frozen meat . . 3,414,218 4,331,223
Wheat and flour.. 3,210,059 18,307,989
The Old Man in London is a very poor
customer for the Commonwealth’s wheat
and flour; and even if he increases his
demand for Dominion products by two-
elevenths, as suggested, and even if Aus-
tralia gets its full share of the increase, the
change wouldn’t amount to much. It cer-
tainly isn’t worth while risking a single
Australian factory industry of the slightest
importance for the sake of it. On the other
hand, if we can offer concessions to the
British manufacturer at the cost of the
Yankee or Russian manufacturer, and not
at the cost of our own manufacturer, it
should be done with enthusiasm.
When the Freetrader whoops about the
advantages which Australia is to derive
from the proposed wheat quota, it is prob-
able that he is thinking most about the
possible damage to Australian manufacturers
and the room which may thereby be made
for his own traffic in foreign goods, and
only sees the wheatgrower in the far dis-
tance. But the problem for the Common-
wealth’s consideration is that it must keep
its imports some £40,000,000 a year below
its exports if it is to get out of the bog
into which it has wandered—to get out
without being a bankrupt swindler.
It was remarked the other day by the
London “Morning Post” that “vague
schemes and high ideals may be excellent
in themselves, but they are not good bar-
gaining counters.” In other words, the
Old Man is out to make a hard bargain in
hard times. And this country, being poorer
than it has ever admitted to him or (by
reason of its vanity) to itself, needs to
keep a. suspicious eye on any sort of pro-
position.
♦
Serious Charge Against a Knight.
“In the second year of his reign James the First
created 300 knights. He became so humiliated by
his own doings that when a new knight showed
embarrassment James exclaimed, ‘Hold up your
head, man, and spare your blushes; I have more
cause to be ashamed than you have.’ ”
A press telegram from Perth impels The
Bulletin to depart from its custom of
ignoring titles conferred on Australians for
eminence in pony-racing, land speculation,
showmanship and other things. This is
what effected the change:—
In the Police Court to-day, Sir Thomas Coonlbe
was fined £SO on each of two charges of income-tax
evasion.
The Crown Prosecutor said it was the gravest case
of the kind that had occurred in the State. In 14
years defendant had evaded State and Federal income
tax totalling £78,290, but he could be prosecuted
only in regard to returns for the three years before
proceedings were begun. For the years ended
June 30, 1929, and June 30, 1930, omissions from
returns totalled £24,610 and £14,676 respectively.
For the year to .June 30, 1930, the defendant sub-
mitted returns accounting for income of £9600,
but his income was £34,410 ; returns for the.
following year showed an income of £15,478, in-
stead of £30,154.
State tax evaded in 1929 was £3281, and in 1930,
£1943 ; Federal tax evaded was £5475 and £4727.
Investigations over a long period showed that the
omissions had been systematic.
Counsel for the defendant said that Sir Thomas
Coombe had had large financial dealings over the
past 14 years with Union Theatres, Ltd., and in
the theatre business generally. He woidd appeal
against the Commissioner’s assessments regarding a
very considerable amount of the alleged deficiency.
Returns were prepared by his advisers, and defendant,
believing them true, signed them.
The alleged victim of circumstances is a
pillar of “the motion-picture industry,” as
it calls itself. Somewhat dejected at pre-
sent, this “industry” had a great idea of its
own importance during the loan-drunk
years, and found politicians on both sides
ready to encourage it in the belief (paraded
with astounding arrogance at the Common-
wealth election two years ago) that it was
running Australia. Plain Thomas was made
Sir Thomas in 1924. If the income-tax
“evasions” go back 14 years, he must have
been “evading” that year. Unless the depart-
ment has wronged the gentleman, before
and when and after the King was delighted
to honor him, he cheated the King of money
due for the services of the Crown. No
grosser charge could be brought against,
a knight, even a knight bachelor, and at
the very least it called for instant denial
on oath. But Sir Thomas chose to keep
out of the box.
The spectacle of Sir Philip Game shield-
ing Lang, the defaulter, from an outraged
people, and appointing Communists to the
Leg. Council on Lang’s advice, has moved
thousands of Australians to say “No more
imported State Governors!” The affair of
Sir Thomas Coombe will move thousands
of others to say “No more knights!”
Lang’s Christmas Gifts.
Of course Lang and his mob could not let
Christmas go by without slugging someone.
This time it was the members of the
N.S.W. friendly societies, roughly a quarter
of a million. Since 1908 these friendly
societies have received an annual subven-
tion from the State. A “Tory” Government
introduced it, and “Tory” Governments
have paid it ungrudgingly, arguing that they
were thereby helping working men and
women (about one-twelfth of the members
are women) to help themselves. And cer-
tainly this way of encouraging toilers to
make provision for sickness and death is
immeasurably better in every respect than
the giving of pensions and allowances for
which no return is made, and the very
expectation of which tends to make people
idle and thriftless.
It was reserved for a “Labor” Govern-
ment to reduce the subvention from £77,433,
the amount paid in 1929-30, to £50,000.
And in callous disregard of the fact that
the friendly societies framed their budgets
for the last two years (during which many
unemployed members have been unable to
pay their fees) in the belief that the sub-
vention would be forthcoming as usual, and
without their even dreaming of the statu-
tory 221 p.c. reduction in interest, which
has been applied to their investments, the
decrease is to date from July 1, 1930.
There would have been a case for a cut
of 20 p.c. as from July 1, 1931, provided
notice had been given to the societies to
make their arrangements accordingly.
Lang, in common with the other Premiers,
undertook to effect a 20 p.c. reduction in
Government expenditure for the current
year. But the lodge-subvention cut works
out at 35.4 p.c. for two years; and, anyhow,
Lang broke his Melbourne undertaking in
the matter of public-service pay. He said
that his relief tax was a reduction of
wages as far as Government employees were
concerned, though he never tells private
employees that. The Premiers’ plan was
repudiated again when the Government
miners at Lithgow threatened to strike if it
were applied to them; and again when the
enginedrivers and firemen on the Broken
Hill waterworks quitted their jobs. This
strike was settled by Davidson, the Minis-
ter of No-Works, who agreed to give the
strikers a “climatic allowance,” covering
everything they asked for; these unfaithful
servants, who exposed Broken. Hill to the
danger of having its water supnly cut off
in the heart of summer, were even paid
for the four days during which they deserted
their posts!
The repudiation idea seems to have taken
possession of this mob-Govemment’s mind,
if it has a mind. Along with the repudi-
ation idea goes an insensate hatred of
thrift in all its forms. And it is most
odious to the mob-Government when it is
practised by working men.
The Public-Service Voter.
Queensland's Public Service Commissioner
in his annual report, after referring to the
resentment in the service over the salary
cuts and other Government economies, noted
that, though “depressed and disheartened,”
the great majority were facing the situation
so cheerfully and well that “the small but
blatant majority” may be disregarded. But
there are grave reasons for doubting
whether this group in Queensland is so
small, and graver reason still for doubting
whether it can be safely disregarded.
The public service’s position is entirely
illogical, in any case. The duty of its
Ministerial employer is to keep taxes as low
as possible consistent with a good job; he
must therefore reduce the public service
to the lowest possible point at which he
can get the job well done. But so long
as the politician can look to the public
service for votes, so long will the politician
be urged to draft his friends into that ser-
vice. Thus pressure is upon him all the
time, not merely to neglect his job, but to
do the very opposite to that which his
job calls for.
Now, public servants occupy a position of
great personal influence in the community.
In the country . districts especially, they
are but little lower than the angels. They
have, if not quite the power of life and
death in their hands, at any rate the power
to make a man’s life very wretched and
to affect his business greatly. From this it
follows that their word goes a long way;
they are supposed to have sources of in-
formation not available to other men. So
we get results like that at the last general
election in N. S. Wales. And those
results were procured because the public
servants active in this matter believed, not
that a Lang Government would be a good
thing for the country, but that it would be
a very good thing for the public servant^.
The present system is thus bad for the
politicians, because they are apt to be driven
from the narrow path by the public-service
vote; it is bad for the taxpayer, because
it leads to a service overcrowded with men
appointed not because they have any capa-
city for their work, but because they have
more or less dependable votes; it is bad for
the country, because it prejudices the fail-
election of Parliamentary representatives
and a fair deal after an election. It may
be bad even for the public service itself.
Certainly that body, once held in the highest
esteem, now occupies a much lower posi-
tion in the public regard. And it is cer-
tain, too, that just as men got a start in
the service because of their political
opinions, sooner or later they will get,
preferment for the same reason. Already,
indeed, we see disturbing evidences of this.
These men and women are citizens and
they cannot be denied citizenship rights.
Yet they cannot be permitted to enjoy their
present anomalous position—cannot be per-
mitted to be both master and servant. It
is demoralising to themselves and is one
of the larger causes of our present financial
distress. The practical way out is to give
them, in each State, members of Parliament
of their own, in proportion to their num-
bers, with full rights of speech bn every
subject, but with no vote on any subject
connected with the pay or privileges of the
public service.


Ilk.
m
asm.
iln
iitts
; m
Wm
“Fve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota!”
CRAVEN 'AT
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
Scullin took his beating like a sportsman,
and so did Theodore, shattering as the blow
was in case; but Lang’s newspaper,
doubtless expressing the feelings of the Boss,
showed temper. While clinging to the hope
that there would be ten Langsters in the
House of- Reps., it suggested that “very
many people suffering from arrested mental
development,” “the morons, the feeble-
minded ones and the narrow-minded ones,”
had voted for the U.A.P. and the Country
party. When Ward went down in East
Sydney, and Eldridge in Barton, and
Stewart in South Sydney, it was beside itself
with rage at the “treachery” and “unparal-
leled perfidy” of the Federal Labor sup-
porters who had refused to give the Lang-
sters their second votes. Perhaps these
furious observations are really an expression
of fear —fear that the mob is finding the
Boss out and will turn on him in the end,
as is the way of mobs.
A post in the new 7 Ministry would have
been offered to Donald Cameron if Brisbane
had not rejected him, as it did by a small
majority. It looks as if Glasgow, who was
Bruce’s Minister of Defence, is gone also.
But Hunter, one of the most thoughtful
members of the Country party, will be avail-
“Mr. Theodore has gone fishing—perhaps up the
Hawkesbury.”
LONE FISHERMAN: “I’ll catch that gentle-
man farmer yet!”
able as a Minister for Queensland —the out-
back returns put him in the lead, as was the
case in five previous contests for Maranoa.
Some of the city newspapers are trying to
persuade Lyons and Latham to leave
Cockies out of the new Ministry. They
played this silly game in 1925, without suc-
cess.
Littleton Groom got all the Labor votes in
Darling Downs, and that’s how he unseated
Arthur Morgan. His personal following was
just about what it was last time, when he
went out on the first count. His victory
is certain to be reversed just as soon as
Labor plucks up enough courage to run a
candidate of its own again.
Obviously as a result of the Federal elec-
tions, the Lang Government was thrice
defeated in the Leg. Council before the
adjournment to Feb. 23. One of the set-
backs concerned the Arbitration Bill, under
which a union secretary could order the
general manager of the Bank of N. S. Wales
to sack all his female employees and sub-
stitute Trades Hall men. And two JLang-
sters —one a director of the “Labor Daily,
like Lang —were absent from the fateful
division.
The railway from Tempe to East Hills
(N.S.W.) has been opened with the neces-
sary frill. It is mentioned in the Commis-
sioners’ report as far back as June, 1928, as
being under construction, so there has been
no dangerous hurry. The length is set down
as a little over 10 miles, and the cost panned
out at about £70,000 per mile. This is three
or four times the average, but the Langs are
a casual lot, as the Bavins and Buttenshaws
were before them.
A 14-mile section of the rail extension
from Tara to Surat, south-west Queens-
land, has Been completed at a cpst of
£27,000. The job was carried out under
the relief-work system and it represents the
cheapest stretch of 3ft. 6in. line in the State.
Lyons proposes to take up his residence
in Canberra’s Lodge, which Scullin aban-
doned for the principal hotel. For a man
with a family of 10, all aged under 17, the
Lodge and its four acres of breathing space
should be ideal. Lyons hangs out at Devon-
port just as naturally as Ramsay MacDonald
does at Lossiemouth, and he will probably
be the only politician who doesn’t aim to
get away from Canberra as often and as
long as possible. Given a water frontage
Canberra might look almost like Devonport,
save for its starch and dignity and its
attempts to look something similar to the
stately ruins of Baalbek.
Queensland has a land tax ranging from
Id. to 6d. in the £, unimproved value, and
the Labor Government added a super-tax
of Id. to 2d. in the £ where the taxable
value was £2500 or more. This super-tax
has been dropped. The Government con-
siders that the pastoral and farming indus-
tries are carrying enough taxation without
it; and so they are.
There are two tin-hare “associations” in
Sydney, but. quite contrary to expectations,
only one of them had been licensed up to
the end of last week. One explanation is
that somebody or other only takes tin hare
with mint sauce, and that the mint sauce
hasn’t been forthcoming.
John Bull recently fixed up a law whereby
his Government may, at the shortest notice,
levy duties up to 100 per cent, on almost
everything. He calls this the Abnormal
Importations Act, and if people complain
that it is “prohibitive” he says frankly that
that is what he intended. He has just
issued his third list of duties, and it levies a
50 per cent, import tax on this class of
goods:—
Complete or incomplete garments other than under-
wear, but including stockings and hose for men,
women and children, and shaped material for making
into such garments or hosiery.
There are 18 more classes, with possibilities
of plenty more to follow, and some of the
duties are higher than 50 per cent.
There are still people in Britain who
assure the Old Man that imported duds
would be cheaper if he didn’t tax them, and
the plea of “cheapness before everything”
is still reckoned good enough for “colonial”
consumption. In fact, the Old Man used it
freely as a reason why the Australian
shouldn’t tax British duds, and is ready to
do so again. But when he is up against
the question himself the keeping of the
trade balance square comes first, and cheap
imported stuff follows 25 miles behind. J.
Bull’s honest income from investments and
shipping services overseas came to monu-
mental grief just before Australia’s dis-
honest income from overseas loans did. In
fact one helped to wreck the other. As he
doesn’t intend to follow the Australian habit
of begging for loans in New York to pay
for imports, the Old Man prefers to put
a prohibitive duty on duds and things and
reduce imports.
As the N.S.W. Parliament was about to
adjourn for Christmas, Mick Bruxner, deputy
leader of the Cockies, referred to Premier
Lang as a liar. There is an Arab proverb
which says “Tell the truth and make thy-
self scarce.” Bruxner, who served in Sinai
and Palestine with the Light Horse, had
left the Chamber when the word was ob-
jected to by indignant Laborites. Brought
back, he withdrew it, and all hands trooped
into the refreshment-room.
The report of the committee charged with
the rearrangement of Queensland State elec-
torates, which are to be reduced from 72 to
“There are so many candidates with claims that
Mr. Lyons is finding Cabinet-making a difficult job.
There is also the High Commissionership to be
filled.”
CHORUS: “Hold on a minute, Joe! I’m
in this.”
62, has been received with mixed feelings.
Some of the Brisbane areas, already strongly
industrial in tone, have been strengthened
in this respect, especially Brisbane itself and
Fortitude Valley. Normanby, a country con-
stituency held by Home-Secretary Peterson,
has received a strong Labor reinforcement.
The Burnett, a safe Government seat, is
among those abolished, as is Mt. Morgan, a
Labor stronghold. The Opposition is openly
pleased with the scheme, and some of the
Government members are as evidently ruffled.
In commending Mr. Mooney to the sitting
of the two Houses held to choose a N.S.W.
Senator vice Duncan, resigned, Premier Lang-
referred to his nominee as a tramdriver and
a suburban alderman and a vice-president of
his union, but there was not a word about
“Hail Senator Patrick Mooney! In one bound in
the Upper House he leapt into the Senatorial boots
of ex-Senator Duncan.”— -“Labor Daily.”
“Whirroo! Here’s me!”
his politics. And that was very sensible of
Mr. Lang. After Saturday’s elections he
knew that a man might be sent to the
Senate for being a chimney-sweep, or having
cross-eyes, or being the father of triplets,
but not for having the brand of politics of
which Mr. Lang approves.
One Communist candidate, at any rate —
the gentleman who ran against Blakeley at
Broken Hill —put the matter quite plainly:
When elected to Parliament, Communist members
will in no sense endeavor to uphold the laws, but
will utilise such positions to expose and ridicule
such laws. Instead of speaking to the servile lackeys
of Capitalism represented by the Nationalists,
Country party, and A.L.P., inside Parliament, we will
speak over their heads to the masses outside in
order to discredit Parliament and mobilise the
workers for its destruction. In this campaign, as
in all others, the Communist party fights as the
implacable foe of Capitalism and all its agents.
We raise the banner of revolution.
In other words, thank you for letting us
stay here, you damn fools. In return we
propose to break every rule of your estab-
lishment, and when we can make the chance
we propose to burn it down.
The U.S. House of Reps., while agreeing
to the President’s proposal for a brief mora-
torium in the matter of foreign debts, added
an amendment explaining that this conces-
sion didn’t mean that Uncle would cancel
or reduce any of them. It is just possible,
however, to carry this splosh-hunger too far.
Uncle has £1,000,000,000 accumulated in his
banks and treasuries. Nineteen nations owe
him war debts amounting to about
£2,300,000,000. With no overseas interest
bills to meet, he has cultivated a huge sur-
plus of exports over imports. Now even
the patient J. Bull has devised an Abnormal
Imports Act to put prohibitive duties on
foreign goods which he considers he can
struggle along without. There isn’t much
in inventing a new currency, for so long as
J. Bull buys from Uncle to the extent of
£153,610,000 a year and sells to him at the
rate of £40,000.000 a year (figures for 1930)
his gorged relative would absorb the new
currency also.
Vic. State Labor members felt un-
comfortable after reading the results of the
subdivisional polling for the Reps. Among
those who have reason to feel perturbed
are Wallace (Albert Park), McAdam (Bal-
larat), Pollard (Bulla-Dalhousie), Satchell
(Castlemaine-Kyneton), Cremean (Dande-
nong). Slater (Dundas), Bond (Glenelg),
Drakeford (Essendon), Brownbill (Gee-
long), Hjorth (Grant), Webber (Heidel-
berg), Gain (Northc-ote) and Reid (Oak-
leigh). And McGrath, of Ballarat, scored
in the supposed stronghold of Hogan, not-
withstanding the Premier’s long-range shots
at McGrath trom a sick bed. Hogan’s seat
is. however, safer than his Premiership.
In the words of the “Morning Post” “the
Socialist Administrations in Britain and Aus-
tralia lived happily until money and credit
ran out.” But did they live happily? They
looked rather as if they were the fathers of
the horseleech’s daughters, who had gained
office by promising to give everything In
everybody and were constantly being asked
why they were so dashed mean that they
didn’t throw in a little extra to make good
measure. They seemed to be suffering from
chronic ingratitude, after the manner of
King Lear, who tried to earn the apprecia-
tion of his three girls and lost by a two-to-
one majority. The Ramsay MacScullin
Ministry was haunted by people who
demanded more doles and more loans and
more wages and shorter working hours. Now
State Premier Lang is trying to wear the
mantle of the MacScullin, and he also
appears to be happy with difficulty.
Papua recently had a taste of what we
in Australia are accustomed to regard as
Lang conditions. The imposition of a
primage duty had so reduced imports that
there wasn’t enough customs revenue
(which provides most of the Possession’s
ready cash) to pay civil-service salaries. Just
as everyone was tightening his belt, there
arrived the welcome news that a stamp
issue put on the market by the Govern-
ment some months previously had sent the
world’s stamp fiends off their rockers. Soon
there was cash enough to pay all hands and
leave some over for emergencies.
A sop for Bung was provided during an
all-night sitting of Vic. Assembly; Tunne-
cliffe put through a bill reducing license
fees —6 per cent, on liquor purchases—by
one-third. The State’s loss will be £74.000
p.a. Tunnecliffe told the House that while
the price of liquor had gone up because of
Customs and excise levies, consumption had
fallen, and that relief was essential if pub-
licans were to meet their obligations.
Queensland, like other States, finds that
'bus and lorry transport is seriously affect-
ing rail receipts, and has evolved a Trans-
port Act to relieve the situation. Naturally,
it is a saner piece of legislation than the
Lang monstrosity, its objective being rather
the co-ordination of the services than the
wiping out of one of them. The board to
administer the Act is to study all interests,
and will have power to decide whether a
district will be best served by road or rail
transport. This done it will recommend to
the Government construction or discontinu-
ance of railway lines or the building of
roads.
The Vic. Hogans have limped into recess
for three months, after compromising on
supply, as they did on unemployment relief.
With the exception of the financial emer-
“Opposition-leader Argyle said that the Hogan
Government had been defeated in the House at least
50 times, and had often had to rely on the casting
vote of the Speaker.”
REF ,: “Get up, Hogan! One — two. Get up,
I say! Three — jour. Are you going
to lie there all night? Five. Get up!”
[He gets up.]
gency legislation there is not much to show
for the session. Hogan was a sick man most
of the time ; Tunnecliffe proved a better sub-
stitute than some people expected.
“Solomon M.” : It is known upon good but
concealed authority that the Lang Govern-
ment will shortly furnish N. S. Wales with
fresh birth laws made by regulation—not by
Act of Parliament. Every baby that tran-
spires after January 1 must, within three
days of arrival, be entered and paid for as
a member of a union, and its mother must be
a financial member of a union before she
is allowed to labor at giving the new arrival
the customary sustenance. It is strictly
logical. The mother can’t give sustenance
unless she has it herself. Being unable to
earn money in her delicate state of health
she has to get it from her husband. He has
to work for it. He isn’t allowed to work
unless he is a unionist, and he can’t be one
if he has been disqualified for not joining in
an illegal strike. Also he must be “finan-
cial,” and if he has been out of work he has
as much chance of being financial as the
baby has. Lang and co. recognise the basis
of the evil as the non-union baby conspiring
with a non-union and non-financial mother.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Rufus Baggs”: The landlord who hadn’t
had any rent for his Cessnoek. cottage for
two years, and who then, making personal
investigations on the spot, found that the
tenant had let it to a third party and had
been collecting (and pocketing) good rent
for five months, didn’t get the shock that
a landlord friend of mine did. He owned
a cottage, let to very decent people who had
paid rent for some years, and then, falling
on lean times, had left off handing any in.
Ho was a big-hearted chap, this landlord,
and he and his wife decided to give the
family the cottage—they were such estimable
people they deserved a lift. So, feeling very
philanthropic and all that, he saw the tenant
and unfolded liis plan. He half expected a
flood of grateful tears, and was preparing a
few self-depreciatory words in reply, when
a period of stony silence was broken D.v
the tenant asking, “Would that mean .
would have to pay rates and keep it in
repair and all that?” Half-apologetica y
our friend replied yes; all that was, tlu
privilege of the owner. ‘ Ah, well, then, the
tenant cut in very decisively, I m afraid I
couldn’t take it off you.” And he didnt ;
and our friend is still paying the rates and
all that out of the rent he doesn’t get.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The contention that old sol-
diers never die is not borne out by recently
published statistics. Of the six million
British subjects who took part in the war
and were alive at the Armistice, a million
and a half have since died. The rate
progresses so steadily that by 1990 there
will be only 30,000 left, these being people
born in 1900. From then onwards the
decrease will be rapid until the survivors
10 years later will be reduced to 2000. It is
possible that the last survivor may be one of
the British drummer-boys who served at
Mons. and it is just possible that he will
have lived in three centuries and (since he
may have seen Lord Roberts) be a link with
the Indian Mutiny.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: A young man in Wellington
(M.L.) has provided another reason why the
fundamentals of electrical science should be
a compulsory school subject. Desiring the
acme of radio comfort he plugged the aerial
of his home-made crystal set into a power
piece, put the head-’phones on, tuned in to
a wrestling match and got into a bath of
warm water. The police tried artificial
respiration for 60 minutes.
* * *
“Pawang” : I noticed that a shop window,
previously vacant, had blossomed forth with
large texts and crudely printed posters in
which guinea-pigs were represented half dis-
embowelled, dogs stood in the grip of steel
fingers while surgeons stripped them of their
skins and horses pleaded with melancholy
eyes for protection from ruffians intent on
injecting diphtheric germs into their veins. I
went inside, and a tall lady descended on me
and asked if I was interested in the anti-
vivisectionist cause. I said I was interested
in almost everything in this strange world,
and she proceeded to reel off an impressive
array of figures to show the utter failure of
the serum treatment of disease. I said I was
a medical student, and reeled off another
array of figures in rebuttal. She glared
at me. It appeared to be stalemate. Then
she brightened again and shifted her attack
to the moral issue. Suppose the serum
treatment did give results, had I any right
to accept benefits derived from a fellow-
creature’s agony ? I replied that as far as I
knew I never had, but that I had once been
placed in the position where I had either
to grant or withhold the benefits from a
child suffering from diphtheria. What, I
inquired, would she have done in a similai
case? She weakened a little at this, afid
said she was only a new member of the
society, but if I would wait the secre-
tary, who was far better posted up in argu-
ments than she, would be along any minute
now. I said I wouldn’t wait. I was afraid
the secretary might ask me whether I would
put my grandmother in an oven if science
might be benefited thereby; and what would
I be able to answer to that? As I drifted
out with my arms fulls of the society’s litera-
ture, my eyes happened to fall on my inter-
locutor’s hat. In it was stuck the wing of a
dead bird.
* * * *
“N.S.” : A unique method of appealing to
the jury was resorted to by an elderly man
who came up before Judge Wasley in Mel-
bourne to answer a charge of having stolen
a cheque, forged the signature of the
owner and then uttered the document. The
accused protested that he had an exact
double and that it was a case of mistaken
identity. He then turned to the jury and
recited Bracken’s “Not Understood.” Half-
way through he stopped and said he had
forgotten the rest. ’Sonah gave him time
to recollect it and he went on to the finish ;
but the jury proved immune from the appeal
of poetry.
* :!= * *
“Jeames”: France, says a cable, “is dis-
tressed at the loss of her toui’ist trade.”
It is one of the penalties a country pays for
dear money. Paris, which absorbed most of
the £200,000,000 p.a. that Americans used to
spend abroad, is no gayer than London. It
never has been. It lias no big hotel as
good as Claridge’s, no small restaurant as
good as Chez Quaglino, no night clubs to
touch London’s best; and its celebrities
don’t show themselves in public after tin;
obliging fashion of the Prince and his
brothers, Augustus John, Noel Coward and
dozens more. There is no golf around Paris
for. strangers; the clubs near London at
which anyone can play are numbered by
the score. France has no racecourses to
touch England’s best. And so on. The high
status of the £ was what kept tourists away
from England in the past, the best proof
being that Americans to whom money was
no object have always rented houses in Lon-
don and hunting-boxes and shoots in the
country. Now that the £ has slumped by
20 per cent., middle-class U.S.A. tourists
are pouring in with the money France used
to get. There is a catch in it, of course.
PROOF AT LAST.
HUSRAND (to his often-complaining wife ): “Now don’t tell me again that you go
without more things than any other woman.”
Britain has to spend over £500,000,000 on
foodstuffs and over £250,000,000 on raw
materials overseas every year; and it takes
a lot of foreign tourist money to make up
20 per cent, on that amount.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.” : A writer in the “Age”, has
been pointing out that in Elizabethan times
kings, ladies and gentlemen, priests, peas-
ants and proletarians all regarded it as a
disgrace not to be able to perform on some
instrument, if it were only their vocal
organs. An evening in a private house was
not complete without the singing of choruses
or even oratorios. Teachers went about
with their students singing in the fields,
and public-house songs were of the canon
form, written, for three parts. The “Age”
man asks whether we are becoming less
musical. Of course we are. For picnickers
returning in a char-a-banc or a railway com-
partment to attempt to sing well would be
regarded as affectation or effeminacy. Nowa-
days, in the stately homes of Toorak
or Potts Point, individual talent is re-
garded with the same hostile eye. . The
other evening I went to a party in a friend’s
house. There was a glittering new instru-
ment in the place of honor in the sitting-
room which my host described as a com-
bination of piano, pianola, gramophone and
radio-receiving set. He played some Liszt
on the pianola and some Chopin on the
gramophone. Then he tuned in on the radio.
We got a bit of Beethoven from BBuzz. a
piece of a policy speech from 2Bang. and a
jazz wail from station 4Phut. With all
these aids to a musical education my friend
confessed that he was unable to remember
and hum the simplest melody.
* * *
“Light Horse”: According to the cables,
a company is being formed in Palestine
to recover a vast treasure which was dumped
into the Jordan near Beisan
by Turks bolting from Allen-
by’s cavalry. After all these
years a Turkish officer has
offered to come forward and
reveal the hiding-place, and
the Jordan is to be dammed
and diverted. The tale
may be true, but it is worth
remembering that at Jenin,
a few miles west of Beisan,
the Third Light Horse
Brigade under Lachlan Wil-
son captured a waggon con-
taining a very large sum in
gold and silver. This was
handed over untouched to
li.q. authorities, and was
more than likely the stuff
which is now alleged to be
lying at the bottom of the
Jordan.
* *
“TJramoa”: Henare’s poli-
tical convictions are not
particularly rigid. At the
recent election of Maori
members a party of natives
were on their way to vote.
On the journey they met a
party supporting the rival
faction, well stocked with
provender to celebrate the
day out. The laws of hospi-
tality transcended political
differences, and the second
lot invited the first to par-
take of the good things. The
cars were parked and all sat
down in the fresh air. Under
the influence of dried shark,
oysters and eels, the first
party discovered hitherto un-
suspected defects in their candidate and
decided to vote for the other man. He got
in easily.
$ * =l=
“M. de Paris’': It is interesting to the en-
thusiast to note that a woman has been
hanged in Turkey, the first of her sex to he
so honored in that country. Not that the
Turkish female of the species was immune
from capital punishment in the old Turkey,
but she was usually strangled with a bow-
string or drowned in a sack, sentence being
carried out privately. The lady in this
case was hanged coram publico . a return
to the practice popular in England less
than a hundred years ago. One of these
public executions always stands in my mind
as an example of the undefeatable natural
modesty of the early Victorian female. One
Miss Smith, who had poisoned her father,
was turned off at —I think —Oxford before
a large and appreciative audience. Before
the lady would ascend the ladder, which was
part of the apparatus employed in those
days, slie insisted on the executioner tying
her skirts round the hem, lest the public
should see her ankles.
* * =!= *
“Pigri Campi”: Several Asia-crossing air-
men have commented on the resemblance
(from aloft) of large sections of the Indian
landscape to the Australian one; to those
whose notions of India are deriyed largely
from Kipling’s stories the parallel is rather
surprising. But apparently it is our least
attractive regions that have their counter-
part in Hindustan. Butler, one of the latest
aviators to put a girdle round half the earth,
told a Perth audience that parts of Northern
India struck him as “not unlike the Nullar-
bor Plain, except that they had a great deal
more population.” The addendum seems
hardly necessary, considering that the Trans,
line supplies Nullarbor with the few souls
that have their being there.
* * * *
“C.C.”: The obscene film, mentioned in
a recent Bulletin as having been privately
shown in a Melbourne suburban theatre, was
brought into the country packed in the bottom
of a trunk. It runs to 900 feet, and would
not go into a pocket, as suggested; and it
was made in Paris, not in a Red Sea port.
It depicts a dinner party in the nude. These
parties were a commonplace in Berlin and
Paris, even in pre-war days, and they laid
the foundation of the nude cult, which in
the last few years has gained courage and
taken to the woods, the woods being first
enclosed in high fences.
* * * *
“Regent’s Park”: London Zoo possesses
what must be the most unusual autograph-
book in the world. This is the big rhino-
ceros which has been for many years in the
collection. Rhino is so tame that if he is kept
close to the bars with cabbage-leaves and
THE CONFIDENCE TRICK.
MRS. BIFF: “’Arf these articles is frauds I read one the
other day called ‘Fourteen ways with a fryin’-pan ,'
and it was all about cookin’!”
other titbits he will allow the visitor to
cut a name Or initials on his incredibly-
tough hide. His sides and back are covered
with these, scratched or cut in with knives,
and they are apparently permanent fixtures,
for those cut 10 years ago are as fresh as
yesterday’s. Many celebrities, from .Tack
Dempsey to a royal prince, have handed their
names down to posterity in this way, and
one scion of a famous house has actually
carved his family crest on the complacent
pachyderm. It seems a pity that the rhinoceros
is getting scarce, for as a political advertis-
ing medium there would have been infinite
possibilities about him. “Vote for Blank;
his hide is thicker than mine,” would have
had an appeal of its own.
THIRTY-TWO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder if ajar the door they’re setting,
As in my youth, when midnight chimes
begin—-
The old-established recipe for letting
The Old Year and the New one out and in.
Dim shadow-y figures on the threshold
meeting
We sensed, one blithe and bold, one worn
and bent,
And there would mingle with the hail of
greeting
A kindly vale for the one that went.
But, ’Thirty-one, there won’t be many a
mourner,
Now that your alley’s in, your reign is
done.
In short, the sooner that you’re round the
corner,
The better, ’Thirty-one.
Your predecessors with the prefix Twenty
Were quite a pleasant and endearing ten,
Years on the whole of jollity and plenty,
How good wm scarce appreciated—then.
The run of heads alas! was broke with
’Thirty,
That set us groaning ’neath Depression’s
curse ;
The clear blue sky grew overcast and dirty,
And your arrival served to make it worse.
You found a world distracted and disjointed,
We looked for you to set it right. And
none
That trusted in you but’s been disappointed.
Off with you, ’Thirty-one !
THE LONG AND THE SHORT
OF IT.
“D’you hear McAbe’s wife’s getting a divorce ?
She says she can’t live with him any longer.”
“Well, I’ll swear he couldn’t make a woman live with him any shorter.”
Step in, young Four Times Eight! ISay,
’tis in keeping
With your divisibility to ask
That you should come appropriately leaping
In the free fashion of the bounding
Basque.
You give a maid a chance to pop the
question,
To say “May I he yours, dear?” straight
and stark,
’Stead of relying on demure suggestion
To make a laggard lover toe the mark.
The atmosphere should be a trifle cheerier
On that account alone, with your debut.
You shoulder out a singularly dreary year.
Leap in, young ’Thirty-Two!
Ring out the old! If all who’ve made a
mull in
Their various administrative spheres
Should go therewith, sharing the fate of
Scullin,
There’d be exceeding little cause for tears.
Ring out the bitter days of gone-a-million,
The devastating blight of sturm und
drang —
And one may hope some extra-strong carillon
Will soon be pealing out the dirge of
Lang! „ ,
Off-stage, old ’Thirty-one! Save toil and
trouble
There’s little we’ve experienced from you.
Here’s your successor coming at the double.
Step in, young ’Thirty-Two!
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Darlinghearsed” : A lady in our district
with a flair for originality decided that a
divorcees’ party would be ‘the best kind of
goodwill entertainment for Christmas-time,
and invited all the ex-wives and ex-husbands of
her acquaintance to meet in a friendly and
sociable spirit. She did her own pa. c by intro-
ducing two ex-husbands of her own to the
previous wife of her present partner, and
by reciting in a pleading voice “Not Under-
stood” as a means of establishing the right
atmosphere. There was a plentiful supply
THE LATEST IMPROVEMENT.
“That’s a good idea, Josiah. They weigh yer while yer waiting.”
of liquor to further promote harmony; but
the results were disappointing. From the
accounts that reached me, it seems to have
been the hostess herself who struck the first
jarring note; she told her husband that
there was no need to carry the reconciliation
with his first wife too far, and thumped him
with a decanter. The wife of the hostess’s
first husband swung into the argument with
a glass of wine and some acid remarks about
the way she (the hostess) had been carrying
on with the gent, she had long ago discarded ;
and shortly the melee became general. “That’s
the last of them; we wouldn’t have them
people a week longer, even if they had paid
their rent,” said the caretaker of the flats, as
he swept out the broken glass and shattered
ornaments the next morning.
* * >:< #
“Eura”: These car thieves! A medico
went to a party at Darling Point. He
left his new and expensive motor in front
of the block of flats and occasionally
strolled on to the balcony of the fifth
storey, occupied by his host, and glanced down
to assure himself that it was safe. It was
very quiet in the street, the only person hi
sight being a man who strolled up and down
opposite the flats, smoking and apparently
enjoying the music of tin' professional trio
engaged to brighten up the party. When the
doctor descended about 2 a.m. he was
astounded to find his vehicle resting abso-
lutely on its uppers, the four new tyres hav-
ing been neatly removed, though the spare
still adhered to the back of the car. Evi-
dently the gent, with the cigarette was a
confederate, who kept watch on the revellers
and gave warning when the balcony was
occupied to his friends working on the car.
who had avoided touching the spare as too
risky.
* * * *
“Cave Canem”: The much-wrangled-over
Alsatian dog bounded into the N.S.W. Full
Court the other day in connection with a
biting case, and their Honors upheld an
appeal by the animal’s owner against a £5O
verdict for damages on the ground that a
man who puts his hand on the top of a
fence is technically trespassing, just as much
as if he put liis foot inside it. Another
incident of the case was a not particularly
profound remark from the Bench that
“because an Alsatian dog is large and power-
ful it does not necessarily follow that it
is unnaturally savage.” Of course, it doesn’t;
canine fierceness is a matter of heredity,
mere size having ver,y little to do with it.
The huge St. Bernard, trained to life-sav-
ing for centuries, is one of the gentlest of
dogs. But the Alsatian, whose natural job
has been the guardianship of flocks against
marauders, whether wolves or humans, has
had fierceness ingrained in him, and it is
going to take a long time to transform him
into a well-conducted house-dog or a peace-
ful ornament of show' benches.
❖ ❖ s|:
“Turl”: It was deemed worth a cable the
other day that the undergraduates of Merton
College, Oxford, by determined agitation and
as a concession to prevailing economic condi-
tions, had managed to get the cost of their
dinners reduced to Is. 9d. If this represents
much of a saving, the upward tendency must
have been marked in the pre-depression de-
cades, for 40 years ago. at one of the best-
known of Oxford colleges, we were
charged Is. lOd. for the evening meal, with
beer thrown in. And the caterers did remark-
ably well out of that. In fact, the head
cooks of some of these ancient foundations
of learning were frequently spoken of as
being on a better wicket than erudite pro-
fessors ; one of them obtained some celebrity
by driving about in his own carriage when
he wasn’t professionally engaged.
“D o b u a n” :
The news that
there has been
some lively
fighting among
the natives of
F e r gusson
Island, one of
the large group
off the s.-e.
coast of Papua,
will be of in-
terest to old
hands who can
recall it in
the early stages
of civilisation.
Like its sisters,
Goodenough and
Normanby, the
island is pre-
cipitously moun-
tainous, a n d
though the in-
habitants are of
small physique
they have been
mighty scrap-
pers in their
day. More than
once, especially
on Goodenough,
they gave the
Govern ment
c o n s i d e rable
trouble. As
warriors they
differed fro m
their mates of
the mainland in
the use of the
s 1 i n g. With
this weapon
they could
throw a stone
as large as a
duck’s egg as-
tonishing dis-
tances with
great force and
accuracy. The
drawback to the
weapon was
that the throw-
er had to stand
upright and in
good view of the
enemy. There
are still a few
ex-Britisli New
Guinea men
walk i n g the
earth who can
truthfully say
they have been
stacked up against four long obsolete
weapons the use of which goes back to the
dawn of history—the sling, the bow, the
spear and the battle-axe.
* * * *
“D.” : “An artist’s fame is extraordinarily
limited,” says “Cosmos” (B. 16/12/’3l).
but so is the fame of every other kind of
celebrity. According to the “Sun”:—
A policeman stopped Cochet, who was on his way
to a tennis game in Paris, and demanded hi's papers.
These had been forgotten, so M. Cochet gave the
constable his name. But that conveyed nothing to
the policeman. The Police Commissioner proved no
more alive to current events and personalities. “The
Davis Cup? M. Cochet? Never heard of him,”
he said.
And tennis is France’s national game! It
would be hard to find a policeman in Aus-
tralia who hadn’t heard of Bradman, but
comparatively easy to find one in Britain;
and Bradman is, of course, quite unknown
outside cricketing countries. Generals and
admirals enjoy world-fame while they are
fighting, but immediately afterwards, with a
few picturesque exceptions (Napoleon: Nel-
son), are forgotten. Not one modern
American in a hundred, not one Frenchman
in a thousand, knows a thing about, say,
Wolseley. Public entertainers, aye, even
movie-stars, are the same. I struck a 1(1-
year old Norma Shearer fan the other day
THE TRAGEDY.
“Poor Lucretia, I hadn’t seen her for years! A tragedy, my dear. Gone off without
getting off.”
who hadn’t heard of Valentino. Take them
for all in all, murderers stand the best
chance of the kind of fame which Barnum
had in mind when he made his celebrated
plea: “Say anything you like about me, but
for God’s sake say something.” Crippen’s
memory is still fragrant in scores of coun-
tries. People will still be talking of Charlie
Peace long • after Charlie Chaplin is utterly
forgotten.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: As the secretary of the
Portland (Vic.) Historical Society, may I
correct “G.D.M.’s” statement that the town-
ship is holding its centenary celebration
next year (B. 25/11/’3l) ? The event occurs
in November, 1934, and is the centenary
not only of Portland but of Victoria. Also
the “Portland Guardian” is not the oldest
newspaper in the State; it dates from
August, 1842, whereas the “Geelong Adver-
tiser” was published two years earlier.
Actually the “Herald” predates both, but it
has changed its name.
it * * *
“Kariah”: I'm interested in “Gad” and
his wandering's. I have to get on the main
North Coast-road above Newcastle occasion-
ally, and I come in close contact with
“Gad’s” kind —and others. The other night
I came up against two who put it on the
driver to break the transport regulations
and give them a lift to Raymond Terrace.
The driver wasn’t sympathetic—in fact, he
was so darned unsympathetic that I collected
as much as my various pockets would yield
in order to take the sting out of the knock-
back that I expected them to get. Then he
yielded and told them bluntly to sit in a
corner where we could keep an eye on them.
Well, we got moving with them aboard, and
I asked the driver why he didn’t want to
help them. “Better to hurt a decent cove’s
feelings than to risk picking a crook ’un,”
he said. “Last week the opposition lorry
picked up two bagmen, who filled in the
time chucking two cases of fruit and .some
mixed groceries off and slipping back for
them as soon as it slowed down at a hill.”
“Taltingan”: The orang-
outang in the Sydney Zoo
died the other day, after less
than a week’s illness, and
bang went about £3OO. Still
they ought to have written
the asset down to almost
nothing in the books, because
lie has been at Taronga Park
for eight years, and a “man
of the woods” rarely lasts
longer in captivity; a chimp,
hangs out much better. From
one point of view the most
interesting part of the orang’s
life was his last five days. In
sickness this cousin of ours
was just like one of our own
abos. might be expected to be.
The pneumonia he had was
never very serious, really—
not nearly enough to kill a
man, let alone a tremendously
powerful orang. It was con-
fined altogether to one lung.
But when lie felt himself sick
with a sickness he couldn’t
understand, he simply threw
in his marble, and. making up
liis mind that he was going to
die, refused all medicine and
every kind of relief. A
shockingly bad patient alto-
gether, as irritable as he was
stubborn, seeming to regard
every effort to help him and
cheat death as a personal
grievance.
* * *■
“R. Volt”: Corowa now
possesses station 2CO of the
Australian broadcasting sys-
tem. The new station lies
close to the Murray, about
three miles out of the town-
ship ; the studio connected
with it is located at Albury,
30 mil e s awa y. From
Albury matter of local
interest will be broadcast; for the rest
the programmes will be relays of Melbourne’s
or Sydney’s, so the Riverina can have the
best of both. The station is the most power-
ful iji the Commonwealth. Its effective
radius is 80 miles and its wave length 58S
metres. It will probably do more for decen-
tralisation than all the political manoeuvring, s
of 20 years' past.
“Cheviot”: The famous herd of wild white
cattle which have been domiciled in the
great park of C-hillingham Castle, in North-
umberland, for more than a thousand -years
is likely to disappear, since taxation and
the hard times have forced the Earl of
Tankerville to close the castle and to seek
a purchaser for the estate. The white-coated
and black-horned beasts are a remarkable
refutation of the theory that inbreeding
stands for deterioration, for little, if any, new
blood has been introduced into the herd since
it was first preserved. There are only 44
animals left, and their upkeep costs about
£lO per head annually. They are absolutely
wild in the great wooded park, and would
probably soon cease to exist in any other
environment. They are the last remnants
of the great wild animals that once roamed
Britain. When they go, the badger, the
otter, the weasel and such small fowl will be
the only link with the Fet'ce naturae of the
old England.
* * * *
“Pewit”: There are well-supported move-
ments nowadays to discourage the slaughter
of beautiful birds to furnish women with hat
adornments, and it seems to me that the
robbing of birds’ nests to provide gourmets
with tasty morsels is just as indefensible.
A recent paragraph mentioned that an Aus-
tralian Premier and his wife, while lunching
with royalty at Windsor Castle, were offered
plovers’ eggs, which they regarded with no
particular enthusiasm ; also that some men-
tion was made (though surely no host would
tell his guests that) of the do luxe price
asked for such dainties by the poulterers
when they first come on the market. Plovers’
eggs are sold for threepence apiece in the
spring. There are no more glorious 'and
harmless birds upon the English countryside,
and, though you can’t stop boys from col-
lecting birds’ eggs, it isn’t pleasant to think
that, a special price should be put on these
to gratify the palates of epicures. The plover
itself, of course, is in no sense a game
bird or an importation, like the pheasant,
PART OF THE JOB.
OLD FAMILY FRIEND: “I wouldn’t advise litigation.
In my opinion a suit for recovery would not lie.”
ANOTHER WNHAPPY LAFY: “No, but — er — couldn’t the
lawyers do that for me?”
and its nosts are easily found on the bare
downs ; who it was that first discovered the
edible value of the eggs remains a mystery.
Rut, knowing what one docs of the whole-
some lead the King often gives his subjects
in little matters like these, it is a little
.surprising to read that plovers’ eggs still
figure on the menu in the last place where
one would expect to find them.
YO-HO-HO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We have in the Upper House 110 members, 73
of whom were appointed by Labor Governments, but
a lot of them have changed to the proper side
since.” — Mr. Boyce, M.L.C.
Seventy-three of a hundred and ten,
Yo-ho-ho and a ticket of gold!
All of ’em sturdy Labor men,
Picks of the basket, prides of the fold
(And that’s including a distaff pair),
When they were given floor space there.
Where are they now? Chirps echo, where?
Yo-ho-ho and a ticket of gold.
Say there are fifty who’ve stood the test,
Yo-ho-ho and the prefix Il'on.!
What in the devil’s become of the rest?
Why have they weakened and whither
gone ?
Seventy-three in their day so deft
The sword to rattle, the axe to heft,
And hardly the half of a hundred left.
Yo-ho-ho and the prefix Hon.!
Seventy-three, quite a goodly band.
Yo-ho-ho and it’s surely rum!
All of ’em bearing the Labor brand
Of yore and banging the Labor drum,
And fully a third of ’em, sad to say,
Reneged or crawfished or gone astray.
Evil communications, eh?
Yo-ho-ho but it’s surely rum.
Seventy-three who whooped for the Cause,
Yo-ho-ho and a ticket of gold!
All of 'em chosen to deal with law's
Wholly and solely as they were told.
Ah! had they only constant stayed,
How diffei'ent. had been history made.
Where are the boys of the old brigade?
Yo-ho-ho and a ticket of gold!
N.S.W.
IFORD


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,P00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Direct or it:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts oi
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Established 1869.
EXTRACTS FROM THE 62nd ANNUAL REPORT.
15,849 New Policies assuring £6,113,517
New Annual Premiums £246,542
Income for Year £4,755,449
Payments to Policyholders . . £3,317,599
Added to Assurance Fund • £1,037,046
Assurance Fund at 30th September, 1931 £34,558,433
New South Wales Board:
Sir JOHN VICARS. W. D. STEWART, Esq.
OSWALD ST. CLAIR, Manager.
OFFICE BUILDING: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some January birthdays :
Prof. Gilbert Murray, of Oxford, 66, on 2nd;
Frank G. Menzies (Vic. Crown Solicitor), 40, and
Colonel T. E. V. Hurley, M.D., 44, on 3rd; R. H.
Croll (Vic. Education Dept.)', 63, on 4th; Bishop
Newton (New Guinea), 66, on sth; pastoralist
Edmund Jowett (Melb.), 74, and Prof. H. Tasman
Lovell (Syd.), 54, on 6th; pastoralist-knight
Graham Waddell, 55, and bird-artist Neville Cayley,
46, on 7th; Alexander Hay (Coolangatta, N.S.W.),
67, on Bth; artist Sydney Ure Smith, 45, on ,9th;
Bishop Batty (Newcastle) , 53, on 10th; Q’land
ex-Speaker W. Bertram, 57, on 11th; Prof. Walter
Howchin (Adel.), 87, on 12th; Archbishop Spence
(Adel.), 72, Prof. D. Orme Masson (Melb.), 74, and
Prof. H. G. Chapman (Syd.), 53, on 13th; W.A.
Senator Geo. Pearce, 62, on 14th; shipowner W. A.
Mackay, 49, on 15th; violinist Daisy Kennedy
(b. in S. Aus.), on 16th; merchant-knight Clifton
Love, 64, on 18th; platypus-authority Harry Burrell,
59, and Brig.-Gen. J. Campbell Stewart, 48, on 19tli;
K. R. Cramp (N.S.W. Education Dept.), 54, on
21st; former N.S.W. Premier G. W. Fuller, 71, and
Colonel J. M. Arnott, 63, on 22nd; Vie. Police
Commissioner Brig.-Gen. Blarney, 48, pastoralist R.
H. Dangar (Turee), 64, Q’land ex-Agent-Geii. Macart-
ney, 69, and Ethel Turner on 24th; Q’land former
Premier Denham, 73, on 25th; painter Julian Ashton,
81, on 27th; Justice Kenneth Street (N.S.W.), 42, on
28th ; Bishop Norton (Bathurst), 41, pastoralist Arthur
B. Triggs (Yass), 64, and Eric L. Frazer (Vic.
Parliamentary Library), 40, on 30th; ex-Gov.-Gen.
Forster, 66, Australian baritone Peter Dawson,
50, A. S. le Souef (Director of Taronga Park), 55,
and Guy Innes (Melb. “Herald,” Lond.), 50, on 31st.
Australia has four ex-Prime Ministers:
Cook (1913-14), Hughes (1915-23), Bruce
(1923-29) and Scullin (1929-32). Britain
can show but two, Lloyd George and Bald-
win.
Patrick Frederick Mooney, the Redfern
tramdrivbr whom the State Parliament has
made a Senator for six months, was born at
Eurobodalla, on the N.S.W. South Coast,
a bit over 50 years ago. As a young man
he managed pubs for his father at Bega,
I’ambula and Tomerong, and he became a
Sydney trammie in 190 S. Known as “Bluey,
he was vice-president of the union during the
1917 industrial upheaval and moved the
motion calling the trammies out on strike.
In 1919 he was elected a Redfern alderman,
and six years ago he occupied the mayoral
chair; under his regime Redfern was the
first municipal body to establish the 44-hour
week. Mooney was forced to take on pick-
and-shovel work while out of _ the tramway
service—a price he paid for liis strike acti-
vities in 1917 —but a Babor Government
reinstated him.
Eric Campbell, D. 5.0., organiser and
leader of the New Guard, was an A.F.A.
subaltern when the war began. He was
seconded from his brigade in France by the
War Office to write a treatise on gunnery ;
and the product of his labors is now incor-
ERIC CAMPBELL , of the New Guard.
porated in F.A.T., the gunner’s bible. He is
a solicitor by profession, and began, after
the Armistice, with Minter, Simpson and
Co. He now works with and for Campbell,
Campbell and Campbell, who make wills and
the like in the “S. M. Herald” building. He
is a first-class speaker of the iceberg school,
and his gifts as an organiser are indicated
bv the sudden growth of the New Guard, lie
is said to have 100,000 followers young and
old, and it may be so. Anyhow he managed
to fill the Town Hall the other night with
enthusiastic members, most of whom were
in their prime, as he is.
Ron Philp, the young Brisbane barrister
who appeared for E. G. Theodore in the
Mungana case, recently bought the late Dr.
Brissenden’s law library. The long arm
of coincidence pushes into this matter, as
Philp’s father, 55 years ago, twice tied with
Brissenden for a Batin prize at Auckland
Grammar School, and the fact stands on
the school record as a quite unusual circum-
stance.
John Solomon Rosevear, the Lang-nlan
nominee who cooked Theodore’s goose m
Dailey, is a grim-faced, harsh-voiced battler
of the type that often commends itself to
the workers. Rosevear was a warm sup-
porter of Theodore till the N.S.W. Babor
executive fired the Queenslander out.’ He is
a wood-working machinist. Unemployed for
some time pre-
Col. HARRISON , new
M.H.R. for Bendigo.
vious to his
election he dug
himself in well
with the local
out-of-works by
his efforts on
their behalf.
Colonel Har-
rison, who beat
the heavyweight
Keane in the
uncertain Ben-
digo ring, won’t
have to ask his
way to Can-
berra ; until a
few months ago
lie was com-
mandant of
Duntroon Mili-
tary College —
right up to the
time the Scul-
lin Government
closed it down
as part of its
economy cam-
paign. He was
at Cambridge
at the same
time as Bruce,
though he was
a year or two
ahead of Stan-
ley, and on
coming back to
Australia joined
U p with the permanent forces, just
then being organised. He was Director of
Military Training when the Big Scrap
started, and before -it was through literally
thousands of officers had passed through his
capable hands.
Young N, C. L. Nelson, who put up a
very good performance in North Sydney on
the Labor side, polling over 12,000 votes is
a ’Varsity debater who lias degrees in law
and literature. His father is a solicitor, a
partner in a very old and conservative firm,
and the young man is on its staff. He has
been talking most of the time since he was
three, and the trouble with these talkative
lads is that they commit themselves to
policies Iqng before they have done any
thinking, when policies are really only things
to spout about, and they spend the rest of
their days trying to justify thefiiselves.
Debating societies ought either to put politics
out of bounds for all youngsters under 21 or
to require all hands to laugh at one another
for 10 minutes after every serious debating
performance.
Among the Parliamentary staff at Can-
berra there is genuine regret at the defeat
of Theodore. The late Treasurer, though
more reserved than most members, always
showed the staff a consideration that
is not as general as it might be. The
same trait was noticeable in the Chamber
itself, where lie eschewed personalities and
never hit belovv the belt, though at times he
must have been tried almost beyond endur-
ance, Theodore’s pleasant manner of answer-
ing questions appealed to members and the
gallery, and was in marked contrast to that
of some of his colleagues.
One of the surprises of the M.L. general
election three years ago was the ousting of
Rolleston, Minister of Justice, by the Rev.
Clyde Carr for the Timaru seat. But the
parson has so far made good that the re-
cent election saw him again at the top of
the poll. He has the look of a poet, and
before he took to the Church had some years’
banking and commercial experience.
W. .T. Hutchinson, who defeated Faul
Jones, the most amiable of chaps with
piratical names, for Indi., will be the
infant of the new House; he will be
28 on January 7. He is a Scotch College
product. His father owns 5000 acres of
sheep country at Mansfield; the son worked
in a motor garage and as a rouseabout and
a woolclasser. He now farms 1000 acres
near his father.
R. .T. (“Barney”) Kerin, one of the best-
known identities in the Mandated Terri-
tory, died in the Namanula hospital at
Rabaul last month. He first went to New
Guinea in 1922 as one of the staff of the
Expropriation Board. When the German
properties were disposed of, he turned to
private enterprise, and at the time of his
death was in the service of Guinea Airways
at Morobe. In the war he served on Galli-
poli and in France with the 13th Battalion.
It. G. Casey, the new U.A.P. member for
Corio (Vic.), will bring special knowledge
of foreign affairs- into the new Parliament.
He was liaison officer, between the Australian
and British Governments for years in
Londofi, arid on his return to Geelong
recently tried to enlighten his fellow-
countrymen as to their position in the dis-
concert of nations by means of pamphlets
and wireless addresses. He served on Galli-
poli and in France, and won the D.S.O. and
M.C.
A. It. Macdonald, whose long career ended
in Brisbane recently (he was 86), was one
of Queensland’s outstanding authorities on
mining law. Born in Inverness and a
graduate of Aberdeen University, he entered
the State service in 1877 as immigration
agent at Mackay. An appointment as police
magistrate at Aramac on the Lower Barcoo
was the preliminary to a long term of
service as P.M. and gold warden; his ter-
ritories included Charters Towers, in his day
the leading goldfield of Bananaland. From
the Towers Macdonald went to Brisbane to
fill the place of Victor Selllieim as Under-
secretary for Mines. His work in Ihis
department is the best monument to his
memory.
Had an 80th birthday, C. M. R. Dumas,
of Mount Barker (S.A.). He founded the
local “Courier” in 1880, and has always
been both proprietor and editor; also he
has been for 17 years president of the Pro-
vincial Press Association of S.A. The
editor of the “Advertiser,” Adelaide’s only
morning daily, is his son.
Gould MacDougall, whose sudden death at
Bowral (N.S.W.) at the early age of 44
came as a shock to his many friends, was
one of the outstanding personalities of the
Sydney Stock Exchange, wherein his firm of
MacDougall and Miller ranked high. He
graduated in law at Sydney University, but
turned to the stock market, specialising in
Malayan tin-dredging ventures. He was a
director of many Australian-Malayan com-
panies, including Burma Malay, Katu and
Renong, while he was also connected with
the well-known Pratten group in connection
with Alluvial Tin (Malaya) activities some
years ago.
W. G. Pickering, who has twice
opposed “Texas” Green for the Kalgoorlie
division on the C.P. ticket, is the forlorn-
hope type of candidate, of which Westralia
can generally supply one or two on demand.
Pickering sat in the Assembly for a term
as member for a south-west constituency.
He is a mighty talker, and in his maiden
speech in the House he rippled on and on to
gradually emptying benches until Tommy
Walker, jealous at the intrusion, into his own
preserves, rather
smartly asked, eye-
ing the new mem-
ber interestedly,
“Is this the Pick-
ering Br o o k?” —
the .same being a
small stream in
the Darling hills
that has never
been known to run
dry. This is the
only interjection
that has ever been
known to discom-
pose Pickering.
Colonel Donald
Cameron, after
holding the near-
Labor seat of Bris-
bane since 1919,
has been narrowly
defeated. He will
have few regrets,
for ill-health has
troubled him
greatly of recent
years. Born in
Queens land 52
years ago of squat-
ting stock. Cam-
eron served in
South Africa as a
Colonel CAMERON,
of Brisbane.
lieutenant with the 16th Q.1.8. V and went
to the European war as . a captain in the
sth Eight Horse, rising to the command of
the regiment, after being twice wounded on
Gallipoli. His war honors include, the
C.M.G., D.S.O. and the Order of the Nile.
Outside politics he follows the family pas-
toral tradition. Character and personality
are his outstanding attributes, and he was
genuinely liked by both sides in Parliament.
The Scullinites will lose a fluent and prac-
tised debater in Jack Curtin, the defeated
M.JI.R. for Fremantle, who was for years
editor of the “Westraliam Worker.” Curtin
was imported to the West from Melbourne,
where he already had some reputation as an
able Labor propagandist, over a dozen years
ago. Although he disclaimed Parliamentary
ambitions when he took the helm of the
Labor paper it was not long before he was
carrying the party banner, and after one or
two unsuccessful shots he looked like having
acquired a pretty safe seat at Fremantle.
But the seaport division was always inclined
to be wobblcsome. It was a question whether
“Texas” Green or Gurtin would represent
Westralia in the Scullin Cabinet; only
seniority carried the goldfielder in.
Lit. Groom, or whoever else they appoint
Mr. Speaker, will find himself, called “Mr
Mayor” pretty often for a while. Among
the half-dozen confirmed aldermen and coun-
cillors in the new House is F. H’. Stacey,
who drove “Gunner” Yates out of Adelaide.
Stacev’s service has been in the suburban
St. Peters council (they call them corpora-
tions in South Aus.), where he finished up
F. H. STACEY, M.H.R., of Adelaide.
as Mayor; but before that he was most
things at Urailda. Born on the land 52
years ago, he grew up to cockying arid timber-
cutting, and has for some time past owned
the Lenswood timber mills and case factory.
He will be another good fisherman at Can-
berra. And he plays bowls. All respectable
ex-countrymen in Adelaide play bowls.
Young Eric Warlow Davies, the new
Rhodes scholar from Tasmania, breaks new
ground. When he goes to Oxford it will be
to continue his studies in aircraft designing.
Eric is a B.Sc. (he graduated at the same
time as his father) in his third year of
engineering. Grandfather was the very
learned Warlow Davies, of the Congrega-
tional Church in N. S. Wales.
F. P. Parkinson, passed out at 80, came to
Bananaland from Lancashire at the age. of
19, and, like many others in those days,
crashed on sugaivfarming. Later he entered
the civil service as a P.M. and warden, and
during his long service of 30 years held
the reins on most of the North Queens-
land goldfields.
Gloom descended on Melbourne printing
chapels when the news arrived that Boh
Elliott, secretary and treasurer of the Vic.
bmnch of the Printing Industry Employees’
Union, had passed out. A trusted officer of
. the union he was also highly regarded by
employers, and he had no use for limelight.
George Coles, a director of the half-a-
crown-and-under chain stores, and dad of the
quartette of live-wires who run the shops
for the company, passed out at Kew (Vic.)
last week. He began as a storekeeper in the
Speck.
'Some of Coolgardie’s early-day citizens
have travelled far since they left the Old
Camp. One of them is Dr. Ellis, now prac-
tising in Harley-street, London. Ellis was
sometimes known as “the political doctor,’
for he flung himself into all party battles
with a zest as keen as that with which he
tackled medical cases and problems—and he
was a warm-hearted as well as a hard-work-
ing practitioner. He stood unsuccessfully
for the Senate in. the first Federal Par-
liament, and in 1904 he won the State seat
for Labor and sat next to the diminutive
Wallace Nelson in the Assembly, where the
pair presented a quaint physical contrast.
Later, Ellis fell out with the machine, and
though he fought two or three elections as
an unattached Laborite and could always
rely on a substantial personal vote (some of
it from grateful patients), lie, never secured
a second term. He came originally from the
north of England.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Ex- Writ- Added to
Sept., Income. Claims. penses. ten Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 140,678
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1912.. 1,284,364 520,249 174,664 2016 587,435
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173 165,655 692,440
1917.. 1,770,371 846,497 182,271 741,603
1920.. 2,352,957 832,177 275,846 1,244,934
1922.. 2.722,513 969,145 267,064 1.486,301
Equitable of U.S.A. business taken over.
1923.. 3.940.177 1,343.406 286.188 206 2,310,377
1924.. 3,260,737 1,460,483 303,336 1,496,913
New York Life business taken over.
1925.. 4,278,979 1,704,680 332,209 6899 2,235,191
Added to Investment Reserve, £8779.
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1.975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4.983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973.792
1931.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1,037,047
The National, founded by Colonel Temple-
ton in 1869, is one of Australia’s five big
purely mutual offices. Nearly half its annual
income is gathered outside the country—
from Maoriland, S. Africa, Great Britain,
Ireland, India and the Straits Settlements.
With the help of some nice blocks of ready-
made business taken over from the Equitable
and the New York Life, and owing to the
popularity of the probate policy and the
attention given to group insurance, this in-
come nearly doubled during the decade to
the close of accounts in 1930.
Last year there was a sharp contraction
in the figures. New business written
(£6,113,517) was £8.087,506 lighter. Net
premiums (£3,125,616) shrank £118,860;
the return from investments (£1,629,834)
slipped £109,567, due to extra Government
bleeding; claims sprang £758,488, of which
£391,753 represented the growth in surren-
ders—these surrenders took £1.131,707 as
against £351,811 in 1929. Thus, despite a
cut of £50,170 in exes., the net addition to
the assurance fund (now £34,558,434) was
£936,745 lighter than the previous year’s.
It is all pretty certain to mean a reduction
in the rate of bonus, though to what extent
will not be known until the actuary com-
pletes his triennial overhaul, now in pro-
gress.
Nevertheless, the National exhibits highly
satisfactory results wherever crucial tests
can be applied. Consider these figures;—
1929. 1930. 1931.
Policies .. . . 20,078 21,052 15,849
Amount . . . . £9,868,350 £9,201,023 £6,113,517
First premiums . . 356,253 336,488 227.682
Renewals . . . . 2,660,690 2,831,247 2,912,370
Single premiums.. 338,637 106,947 14,359
Annuities . . . . 54,014 49,616 36,760
Interest, etc. . . 1,608,616 1,739,401 1,629,834
Av. per policy . . 479 437 386
Thus, despite a further sharp drop in single
premiums (payments made for policies in
one amount instead of by annual premiums),
exes, took only 13 p.c. of the year’s total
net premiums as against 13.9 p.c. and 13.4
p.c. in 1930 and 1929 respectively, whereas
at last valuation the office allowed 15.2 p.c.
They are low figures and provide a satis-
factory margin for bonuses from that source.
The adverse conditions are again reflected
in a spring of 15.2 p.c. in new business
costs: —■
Exes. N ew
New Chargeable Business
Business to New Expense
Sept., Premiums. Business. Rate
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 .. 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1920 .. 250,796 176,694 70.5 „
1925 .. 255,402 184,547 72.2 ~
1926 .. 276,814 187,326 67.6 „
1927 .. 297,301 199,806 67.2 „
1928 .. 340,930 223,424 65.5 „
1929 . . 356,253 250,677 70.4 „
1930 ... 336,488 249,578 74.2 „
1931 . . 227,682 203,508 89.4 ~
The calculations are based on the assump-
tion that renewals cost only 7 p.c. and single
premiums 3 p.c., the balance of the year’s
exes, being charged against new business.
A growth of £127,206 in the tax bill re-
sulted in a drop of 11s. 2d. in the net rate
of interest earned :
Net Interest Earned on Average Fund.
1900.. £4 13 2 p.c. 1928.. £5 11 0 p.c.
1910.. 4 12 3 „ J 929.. 5 6 0 „
1920.. 5 3 8 „ 1930.. 5 6 11 „
1925. . 5 11 3 ~ 1931. . 4 15 9 „
Still, there is a comfortable margin over
the 3 p.c. which the office assumes that its
funds will earn. This assumed rate was
lowered from 31 p.c. three years ago to
provide for maintenance of satisfactory
bonuses. What the Government has to bo
made to realise is that a tax on the gross
return from investments of life offices is a
tax on gross and not net profits. It is an
unfair discrimination which the various Gov-
ernments would do well to remedy.
The association’s funds are invested as
follows:
, 1930 f— 1931 N
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds . . 1,561,828 4.6 1,579,751 4.5
Public securities.. 13,391,415 39.2 14,202,365 40.4
Mortgages .. 9,165,519 26.8 8,945,447 25.5
Foreclosures . . 273,367 0.8 290,211 0.8
Loans on policies . . 5,694,444 16.7 5,729,368 16.3
Other assets . . 4,055,352 11.9 4,421,542 12.5
Thus the year’s surplus went mainly into
Government securities (up £366.190) and
“other assets” (up £810,950), which consist
chiefly of cash, accrued interest and loans
on collateral. The holding in Fourth Vic-
toria Permanent Building (£354,567) turned
in 12 p.c. last year.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
( Dividends Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c.=12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 7,040 56,502
, New share costs written off, £3856 -.. 52,646
Sept.,’24. .33,851 4000 8 p.c. =16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 18,229 110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ ~ 16,000 19,261 130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 ~ ~ 20,000 15,422 145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,580 155,223
Sept.,’27. .42.142 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 19,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 13,085 200,619
Mar.,’29. .50,771 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 16,771 217,390
Sept.,’29. .52,151 4000 12 „ ~ 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,775 4000 10 „ ~ 25,000 13,775 248,316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 9,020 257,336
Mar.,’3l. .28,109 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 4,109 261,445
Sept.,’3l. .23,968 4000 8,, ~ 20,000 261,413
During the dozen years since this co. took
over the scattered Gordon and Gotch busi-
nesses the management has done much to stop
up the outlets and improve the organisation.
A lot of attention has been given to stocks
in relation to turnover, resulting in the
weeding out of dead lines and the livening
of others. Additions to premises, etc., pro-
vided improved facilities, and the Maorilaild
business has been put on a better footing.
Thus the div., which advanced from 8 p.c. to
10 p.c. in March, ’27, was sweetened with
a 2 p.c. bonus 18 months later, and com-
fortable margins remained. Reserves, how-
ever, are not all that the word usually
means; they are subject to £118,074 of good-
will, and therefore labelled nominal in the
table.
But conditions have changed. Turnover
has dropped, exchange and primage and
other taxes have grown, and debts have be-
beome a worry. Hence the div. is back to
8 p.c. again, and it is uncertain whether
that rate will be maintained. During the
last half gross profits (£47,377) slipped
£5681; exes. (£23,626) were £1540 lighter.
Thus, allowing for minor adjustments and
the pref. div., enough remained to show
7.9 p.c. on the half-million of ord capital.
For the twelvemonth the figure was 8.8 p.c.
compared with 13.3, 18.9, 17.4 and 14.5 p.c.
back to 1927.
The year’s lighter trading is again reflected
in a reduction of £61,556 in stocks and of
£67,464 in debtors’ balances:—
Sept.,’27. Sept.,’3o. Sept.,’3l.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . 66,357 6,429 4,286
Sundry creditors.. 147,941 119,703 106,258
Bank overdraft . . 108,389 123,020 24,633
Liabilities .. £322,687 £249,152 £135,177
Freeholds .. £208,015 £207,612 £207,318
Leaseholds . . 25,333 23,720 23,448
Plant, fixtures, etc. 52,655 46,898 41,351
Stock . . . . 326,247 275,666 214,110
Book debts . . 390,158 355,438 287,974
Other assets . . 23,658 129,064 146,777
Tangible assets. . £1,026,066 £1,038,398 £920,978
Thus the board was able to knock £98,387
off the overdraft, £13,445 off the amount
coming to sundry creditors and strengthen
investments, cash, etc., by £17,713. During
the last four years stocks and book debts
have been worked down, the outside debt
reduced and investments', etc., strengthened.
Also, the more or less liquid surplus
(£513,684 at Sept. 30, including stocks)
improved £96,308 over the same period.
All shares rank equally for capital. They
were covered by 245. 9d. in net tangibles
at the close of accounts. The prefs., which
are entitled to a cumulative 8 p.c., fetch
225. Od. in the market; the return at that
price is 7.1 p.c. The ords. at 265. show
6.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Strand and Pitt Street Properties, Ltd.
This Sydney co., which was registered as
recently as 1929, has got into such deep
water that it is very doubtful whether
it can be saved. Just prior to the col-
lapse of property, values and rentals it bought
the eastern side of the Strand Arcade as a
letting proposition. The price was £770,000
—£150,000 cash and 1 the balance on mort-
gage at 61 p.c. for 25 years. The public
was asked to put up £175,000 in £1 shares,
which were underwritten by Australian In-
vestment Trust. At .June 30 last £156,154
had been gathered. The underwriters were
allotted 16,000 shares not taken by the
public; but they have disputed their liability,
and have appealed to the Privy Council
against the decision of the Equity Court.
When the property was taken over the
rent roll totted up to £76,076, and another
£11,950 was counted upon. But a fire had
partly destroyed the most costly portion of
the premises inside six months. The civic
authorities agreed to reinstatement on the
co. entering into a bond to rebuild “within a
specified time.” Meanwhile, tenants began
to clamor for reduction of rent. Thus, after
capitalising £14,240 of preliminary exes., the
co. finished up its first 15 months to the end
of June, 1930, £7673 on the wrong side of
the ledger.
During the 12 months to June 30 last
rents were further reduced, space could not
be kept fully occupied, the weight of the
mortgage made itself felt and the co. wound
up the year with a loss of. £20,873; thus
raising the deficit on shareholders’ account
to £42,780. Moreover, the co. was unable
to make regular payments of interest on
the mortgage, the principal sum of which
now amounts to £645,000, including £25,000
of the cash consideration overdue, and the
mortgagee cos. threatened to enter into pos-
session. But action was staved off, and since
the books closed the Moratorium Act has
brought the co. a little relief; and the reduc-
tion in the interest payments will more than
offset the cut in rent receipts, it is claimed.
Besides the mortgage, there was £36,495
coming to sundry creditors at June 30
last. Debtors’ balances and cash totalled
£8352 ; prepayments amounted to £3631, and
property figured at £782,880. Thus the book
value of the net tangible backing per pound
of paid capital was 15s. 4d.
Though the property is situated in one of
the most valuable blocks in Sydney, its worth
to the co. is what it can be made to earn,
and the fact that it is not modern is a dis-
tinct handicap in this respect. The mort-
gage, of course, overshadows the whole
position.
Aeolian Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends ~
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1925.. 34,553 7892 8 p.c. =16,000 10,661 46,492
1926.. 32,013 8000 8 ~,,16,000 8,013 54,505
.1927.. 24,441 8000 6 „ ~12,000 4,441 58,946
Profit on sale of freehold, £20,259. . 79,205
Stocks written down, £9500 .. 69,705
Loss.
1928.. 7,242 8000 Nil 54,463
Struck off property reserve, £8020.. 46,443
Stocks written down, £3941 .. 42,502
1929.. 6,158 8000 Nil 28,344
Stocks written down, £3417 .. 24,927
4 p.c. Deficit.
1930.. 37,925 4000 Nil 16,998
Loss on closing branches, £16.500.. 33,498
1931.. 25,894 Nil Nil ' 59,392
High feeling between preference and ord-
inary shareholders began in August, 1930,
when the Aeolian Weber Piano and Pianola
Co. (U.S.A.), which owns all the ords., made
a claim on the co. for £10,271. This was
alleged to be due under contract, and dated
back to 1927. The parent’s representatives
on the board acknowledged the debit, but the
two pref. directors refused to admit its
validity. They declared that the Aeolian
Weber Co. had itself broken the contract
when it sold its Vocalion interests to the
Brunswick Co., thereby depriving this Aus-
tralian co. of “a very lucrative business.”
Nevertheless the £10,271 was included as a
definite liability in the 1930 accounts.
Including this debit, the loss for 1930 was
£37,925, and an extra £3417 was written off
stocks. It has been a struggling business
for some years, and an ill-timed entry into
radio-manufacturing didn’t improve things.
Last year the Sydney, Newcastle and Bris-
bane branches were closed at a capital loss of
£16,500. After taking stock at £19,738
lower, a further £25,894 was dropped on
ordinary trading, making the accumulated
deficit £59,392 at June 30. Including the
arrears on the prefs., the amount of ord.
capital unrepresented by tangible value was
then £71,392.
During the year manufacture, was sus-
pended, and the co.’.s holding of £40,0.00
in the Aeolian Manufacturing ,Co. Pty.
disappeared from the sheet. Exactly what
happened is not clear, but the scrip was
apparently turned into cash. This, together
with the sale of the co.’s Sydney and Mel-
bourne freeholds before values slumped, and
a steady liquidation of book debts, enabled
a surplus of cash over liabilities amounting to
£60,270 to be accumulated at the close of
last accounts:—
1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Mortgages . . .. 83,000 -
Overdraft . . .. 52,859 • -
Sundry creditors .. 36,133 28,808 6,514
Freeholds . . .. 66,000 13,969
Leasehold . . ~ 500 -
Plant, etc. . . . . 14,625 4,886 1,553
Shares in other cos... 40,000 43,870 3,870
Stock .. .. ~ 66,126 53,608 33,870
Book debts . . . . 340,722* 203,404 136,076
Cash 669 7,311 66,784
*lncludes £105,000 due on property sale.
If book debts continue to be worked down at
last year’s rate, the end of the current term
should see more than enough cash in hand to
repay the £lOO,OOO of pref. capital. But thus
far the two factions have been unable to
agree on this point. Previously attempts had
been made by certain interests to buy up the
prefs. at a low figure, but the pref. directors
warned shareholders that acceptance of the
price offered might prejudice the efforts being
made to safeguard all pref. interests.
The backing for the 8-10 p.c. cum. prefs.
amounts to £2 4s. per share on book figures.
The scrip, which is at 12s. on the market,
carries 3s. 2d. arrears of divs.
Geelong R. S. & S. Woollen Co-op.
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
30 592
1928.. 15,106 7 p>c. = 5361 9745 40,’637
1929.. 10,543 7 „ ~ 6210 4333 44,970
1930.. 9,988 7 „ „ 6646 3342 48,312
1931.. 7,333 7 ~ „ 6726 607 48,919
Its co-operative nature —the shares were
issued only to returned soldiers and sailors —
has helped to push this little textile co.
steadily along. Shareholders can buy from
it at cost; other Diggers get a. special cut.
The 14-acre freehold at Geelong cost only
£lB5O, the shares sold quickly, and the co.
had no difficulty in fully equipping its woollen
and worsted mill. The late Brigadier-General
Robert Smith founded the co. in 1920, during
the boom; but the plant was bought late in
1921. when prices had eased somewhat.
A loan of £50,000 at 6 p.c. was granted by
the Commonwealth (it was later increased to
£60,000), and the co. quickly went ahead
with manufacture and marketing. By 1926
reserves began to accumulate, and in the
generally-difficult three years to 1930, during
which period the co. was caught a couple of
times by falling wool prices, the div. was
maintained at 7 p.c., and £17,420 was visibly
added to the,lay-by, raising it, to £48,312.
, During the last term business was diffi-
cult, of course; but with the assistance of an
increased tariff and with exchange at 30 p.c.
for five months of the year, gross profit
(£23,756) was only £8155 lighter. Notwith-
standing the greedier demands of the tax-
gatherer, exes. (£16,424) were cut back
£5500; thus the net result was £2655 short
of the 1930 figure. Still, it was £607 more
than the 7 p.c. div. called for.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:—
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . £76,591 £88,710 £94,947 £96,082
Loan .. .. 50,500 47,488 25,283 20,250
Other liabilities. . 7,558 22,945 8,069 5,271
Freeholds, etc. . . 26,633 30,129 31,167 32,882
Plant and fittings 65,127 71,604 67,256 66,797
Stocks . . . . 63,941 82,843 56,088 55,889
Debtors . . . . 20,870 26,778 16,197 15,759
Cash, etc 6,325 168 15,349 7,921
Last year new lines called for additions and
alterations to plant, and extensions were made
to the warehouse. Still, after writing off an
unspecified amount for depreciation, the in-
crease in the book value of fixed assets was
only £1256. A further £5OOO was paid off
the Government loan, and other liabilities
were reduced by £2798. The more or less
liquid surplus (£54,048, including stocks)
slipped £234.
Unless trade brightens the board foresees
difficulty in maintaining profit-margins, but
it claims that the co. is well prepared.
Much depends upon the condition of the
plant, whether allowances for depreciation
prove to be adequate, and upon the stock
figures.
The net tangible backing for each £1 of
capital is £1 10s. 2d. The scrip is not listed.
Peters’ American Delicacy (Vic.)
The success of the Sydney co. and the
quick development of the Brisbane business
sent Melbourne rushing for the scrip of this
concern, which was launched in 1929 to
manufacture and distribute “Peters’ ’’ ice-
cream in Victoria. Over £2,290,000 was
offered for the 200,000 pound shares
which were put on the market, and the
paper on which 3s. had been paid fetched a
premium of ss. shortly after allotment. The
parent took £30,000 fin scrip) for rights,
and to ensure a ready trade connection two
small businesses, Myers IXL Ice-cream
and Fresh Food Products, were bought for
£43,000 in shares, of which 20,000 were for
goodwill. Altogether 371,572 shares were
issued, of which 94,500 are fully-paid and
the balance have been called to Bs. Paid
capita] thus became £204,643 at June 30
last; there was £866 of calls unpaid.
But before erection of the new factory was
complete the boom conditions which had
been so largely responsible for those results
on which the market had based its anticipa-
tions vanished; also competition became
aggressive, the weather was unkind and
losses instead of profits have showed up.
After striking £2309 off preliminary exes,
and setting aside £11,187 for depreciation,
etc., the balance was £9947 on the wrong
side at the close of the first year’s trading.
During the 12 months to the end of June
last, the public became still more careful of
the fewer pence in its pocket (a care which
is likely to continue) ; so, after sending a
further £9477 to the depreciation reserve,
etc. (£20.664), and cutting formation exes,
(now £2309) in halves, a loss of £18,785 was
registered. Together with £53,960 of good-
will, etc., that lifted intangibles to £82,691.
equal to Bs. Id. per pound of paid capital
at June 30.
How the venture is likely to pan out in
the long run it is difficult to say. On com-
pletion of the new factory it was intended
to sell the plant and freehold of the two busi-
nesses that were bought. But this has not
been possible. Hence the co. finds itself
with a lot more equipment than it needs.
Bast year £32,639 net was added to (he
plant, item -
1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. . . £174,189 £204,463
Overdraft 13,297 13,494
Other liabilities . . . . . . 2,135 7,810
Freeholds . . . . . . .. 34,723 34,723
Plant 87,418 120,057
Stock 7,979 6,101
Debtors . . . . . . . . 4,446 2,667
Cash 27 193
To finance the outlay £30,274 of fresh capi-
tal was got in and £5572 was added to the
debt, raising it to £21,304, which was
£12,343 in excess of the more or less liquids
when the books were ruled off.
The market notes the uncalled liability of
12s. per share on the contribs.; nevertheless
it prices them at 2s. KM. as against Is. 4d.
in September.
West Australian Finance, Ltd.
Towards
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Sept., Preliminary exes., £13,413 . . . . 13,413
1927.. 2,152 74 p.c. = 1947 205 13,208
Added preliminary exes., £1736 . . 14,944
1928.. 5,018 74 p.c. = 5081 15,007
1929.. 8,704 8f „ „ 6546 2158 12,849
1930.. 7,674 6J „ „ 4687 2987 9,802
Loss.
1931.. 13,523 Nil 23,385
These finance cos., whose principal assets
consist of mortgages on future incomes,
prospered while easy money—chiefly loan
funds from an indulgent mother country—
was being scattered. This one, which set
up in Perth in 1926 to discount paper in
the motor trade, put out 150,000 £1 shares
called to 10s., at a cost of £15,149 (broker-
age, etc., is always heavy where shares are
not called up in full). Available capital was
not enough ; so, tempted by the possibilities
of marginal gains on the use of borrowed
funds, the board went to its bankers; and
shareholders received an average of 7.7 p.c.
in hastily-distributed divs. for the four years
to the close of accounts in 1930. There was
then £9862 of the capital still unrepresented
by tangibles in the books.
Presently creditors began to ask for their
money back, as they always do in hard
times. The banks, to meet the shrinkage in
their deposits and support the sorely-tried
primary and secondary industries, called up
advances to these finance houses. Owing to
shrunken payrolls and the spread of unem-
ployment, many of their clients were unable
to meet their t.-p. commitments. Thus much
of what was previously thought to be
profit has turned out to be bad debts, and
the state of the second-hand car market made
the sale of repossessed vehicles very difficult.
Wherefore, after striking off £lO,OOO for
doubtful debts, a loss of £13,523 showed up
for the 12 months to Sept. 30, raising the
deficit on shareholders’ account to £23,385.
To knock £37,312 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, and add £3583 to other
asests, chiefly repossessed cars, the book
value of advances was reduced by £57,605
last year
1 928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . £74,756 £74,928 £75,000 £75,000
Liabilities . . 15,018 49,659 39,939 2,627
Advances, book
debts, etc. . . 78,194 116,504 108,007 50,402
Sundry assets . . 50 267 263 3,846
Thus shareholders, who may be called upon
for a further 10s. per share, can now sleep
better. But when divs. are likely to flow
again it is difficult to say. Even if further
losses can be avoided, there are the in-
tangibles calling for reduction, and earnings
promise to be moderate.
Goliath Portland Cement
Towards
Net t Dividends Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ ’£ £ £
1929.. 4,423 Nil Nil 4423 17,774
8 p.c.
1930.. 15,261 5292 Nil 9969 7,805
1931.. 12,800 9383 Nil 3423 4,382
This is the co. which took over Tasmanian
Cement Pty.’s business, Railton (Tas.), at
(Continued on page 16.)


WELCOME, LITTLE STRANGER'


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patentsi— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Storage of any type of liquid is accomplished in
its most efficient and economical manner with Pioneer
Wood Tanks. These modern storage tanks, in addition
to being cheaper than metal tanks, are definitely
non-corrosive, maintain absolute purity of their
contents, and possess great strength and durability.
For the storage of water, there is no more efficient
or economical proposition than Pioneer Wood Tanks.
Easily erected, and cheaper to freight, transport
and handle. Full particulars gladly forwarded on
request. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove (near Figtree Bridge), N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
:1s * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons.
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
£617 to spend on a trip to Europe
The A.M.P. puts
Travel
'HOUSANDS of men and women
J- take a view of Life Assurance that
others fail to take. They see in it the
opportunity of assuring to themselves a
full life, and they are richly rewarded.
In 1906 a young man of 25 laid his plans
for a trip round the world when he was
50. He was determined that, when he
reached that age, he would have £4OO
with which to visit London, to see the
glories of Scotland, to taste the charms of
Devonshire, to tour Europe. For that
purpose he took out an A.M.P. Table J
policy for £4OO payable at 50. The
premium was £ 1 5 a year and he did not
miss the small amount.
m
waj
sm
m
mm
m
m
"Hi
SJi
i
wm
3«5
When he was 2 7 he married and, for a while, his
plans for a year’s holiday in his mature years gave
way to other plans. His wife, however, had a long
vision, also, and she saw to it that that little policy
was kept in force. Other policies were taken out
from time to time, for the protection of herself and
family, but the Holiday Policy grew in value, year
by year, and provided many a thrill of anticipation.
Early this year the policy matured, and a few weeks
ago this happy couple, in the prime of their lives,
went off with £617 to spend on a voyage of well-
earned delight
Such a trip is possible for you.
Send this coupon to nearest AJVLP. Office
Australian Mutual Provident Society,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
This idea of Assurance to Live is a bright notion. I am years of age.
What will be the cost of a policy for £5OO plus bonuses, payable when I am 50 years old?
NAME
ADDRESS
the end of 1928 for £165,845 in scrip. To
finance the erection of a new’ 60,000-ton
plant, and provide for extension of the old
one (20,000 tons), a further 117,500 prefs,
and a like number of ords. were issued. Thus
paid capital became £367,668 in 143,091. S
n.c. cum. prefs. and 255,857 ords. at Sept.
30 last; there was £31,281 to come. Dorman
Long were appointed managers, and the
Kandos Co., which has linked up with Aus-
tralian Cement, became interested.
The new plant began production m May,
1930; it is reported to have run smoothly
since’ and the quality of the product is right.
Meanwhile, Cement Distributors Pty. was
formed to look after the selling side. °t fb e
business, and contracts were secured in Mel-
bourne with the ITarbor Trust, City Council
and Metropolitan Board of Works. But
before the co. could get into its stride public
loan funds gave out and construction work
of all kinds has been severely curtailed.
Allowing for an unexplained reduction ot
£1569 in reserves, enough was netted last
year to cover pref. requirement, and show’
but 1.3 p.c. on ord. capital as against 4.5 p.c.
in the previous term. Though the outlook
has brightened a little, local demand is still
less than half the total capacity of exist-
ing Australian plants; it may be some time,
therefore, before the ords. get into the
picture.
The financial position improved:—
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £314,2'42 £367,918 £367,668
Overdraft .. .. 32,794 58,090 50,980
Sundry creditors . . 17,928 14,266 11,302
Freehold, leases, plant,
pte . . 331,855 414,665 404,869
Stocks •• 9,686 17,611 20,033
Book debts .. •• 5,059 5,969 10,764
Cash, etc 710 516 28a
During the year £10,074 was knocked off
the debt, which exceeded more or less liquids,
including stocks, bv £31,200 at Sept. 30;
that was £17,060 less than the excess at the
previous balance.
The co.’s shale deposits are to be taken
over by a new concern in which Mineral
Oils Extraction and others are also inter-
ested It is in the development of this side
of the business that the possibilities of the
scrip lie. , ,
The net tangible cover, mainly plant, etc.,
worth what it can earn, is £2 10s. 9d. prefs.,
17s. 2d. ords. The scrip has not yet been
listed.
North Broken Hill is remodelling and re-
equipping its mill. All the jigs, concen-
trators and small tube-mills have been
scrapped and four large conical mills are
being mad« by Ruwolts, Melbourne, who
jfre also building the primary crushing plant.
* *
Charters Towers Gold Recoveries is a
Svdney float to take over the cyanide sands
of eight of the field’s ex-giants. There
are over three million tons of tailings, said
to be worth Bs. 6d. per ton with gold at 84s.
per ounce. The crushing methods in vogue
in the old days did not allow the encased
gold in the coarse sands to respond to the
cyanide solution; also, with the deep vats
then in use, percolation of the solution was
imperfect. There are many vats and dams
in good condition on the various sites, and
the dumps themselves are friable and sandy.
It is proposed to regrind the sands to a
powder in ball mills and treat them by the
vacuum-filter process, which extracts prac-
tically all the metal. Tailings are being
treated at a profit by this method in Vic-
toria and Westralia. Assays show an aver-
age extraction of ldwt. 15gr. Nominal is
£30,000 in ss. shares, of which the vendors
take 30,000 paids, and 90,000 are offered.
Vendors’ shares are not negotiable until the
co. has been registered for 12 months.
* * * *
Bendoc Gold Mines is the new concern
which is to wmrk the old Victoria reef at
Bendoc, some 60 miles south-west from
Eden. There is a five-head battery and other
plant on the ground. This will be over-
hauled, and the shaft, now down to 140 ft„
deepened to 240 ft., and the reef opened up
by driving north and south. The cost of the
work is put at £2OOO. Nominal is £25,000
in 10s. shares, of which the vendor takes
25,000 paid to 2s. 6d.; the other 25,000 are
offered. -The co. inherits liabilities of £2360
—sundry creditors, £600; Mines Depart-
ment loan and interest, £260; Rankin Syn-
dicate, which originally owned the property,
£l5OO, payable at the rate of 10 p.c. of gold
won.
* =;-• *
Bulolo Gold Dredging will probably start
its number-one plant digging in New Guinea
about the middle of March. Thus far the
cost of transporting and erecting the dredge
has been under estimate. Some 42,000,000
cubic yards of 16d. dirt has been proved,
and it is expected that a further 18,000,000
cubic yards of like value will be developed
in the Bulowat area. All this is in addi-
tion to the original area of over 40,000,000
cubic yards, bored to average 2s. Id. The
prospectus put all-in costs at 71d., leaving a
profit of and Is. per yard respec-
tively.
3ji ❖ ❖ ❖
“Cuzinjan”: New Guinea sulphur might
have more than a limited market in Aus-
tralia (B. 2/12/’3l), provided supplies were
regular and quality and price right. Aus-
tralia imports about 113.000 tons annually,
practically all from the United States. The
principal mines there are at . Matagorda.
Texas, and yield over 2i million tons of
high-grade material per annum. The sul-
phur is recovered by passing superheated
steam down deep-drilled wells and pumping
up the molten sulphur. Pyrites is not used
in Australia as a source of sulphur supply.
It is interesting to note, however, that a large
plant, capable of recovering 50,000 tons of
elemental sulphur annually, is being erected
in Norway. Many Australian metallurgists,
notably Hartwell Condor, have hoped for
something of the kind locally. The gypsum
deposits of S. Aus. alone are said to contain
more than 25 million tons of sulphur.
* * =l= *
Rutile deposits at Normanville (S. Aus.)
are again attracting attention. The stuff
occurs, as usual, in association with pegma-
tite dykes, in the dykes themselves and in
the adjoining mica schist. In the schist
the rutile takes the form of lenses, some
of them Sin. thick and several feet long.
The lode in the schist has been traced for
several hundred feet, and the deposit is
extensive. Rutile is used in the manu-
facture of titanium white pigment, which is
considered superior to white lead. To be
marketable a concentrate must contain 94
p.c. titanium oxide.
* * * Hi
About 90 men are finding employment at
Cooper Pedy opalfield, Stuart’s Range (S.
Aus.), though the market for the gem is
much depressed. A new find was lately made
within a mile of the main diggings. In
search for better-class stone, sinking is being
carried to greater depths than hitherto, one
shaft reaching 70ft. About 130 miles west
of Oodnadatta, near Mt. Johns, an entirely
new showing of opal has been located. The
stone is of fine quality and has been traced
for six miles. Opal is formed in fissures by
the deposition of silica from underground
waters. The slightly differing physical
characteristics of the layers of silica give
rise to the beautiful play of colors, upon
which the value of the gem depends.
* ij: ij: :j:
After a further raking the Lefroy gold-
field (Tas.) is once more being deserted, no
finds of any consequence having been made.
It was once the best producer in the Speck,
but the metal almost invariably petered out
around 400 ft. On the other side of the
Tamar, at Beaeonsfield, expectations have
not been realised. With the extension of the
hydro-electric there is again talk of reopen-
ing the old Tasmania mine, from which over
£3,000,000 worth of gold has been won ; water
beat it.
=:= * * !]:
Ivalgoorlie mine managements are again
being discussed along the Golden Mile and
in London. The latest proposal is to put
Great Boulder, Boulder Perseverance, Enter-
prise and North Kalgurli under one control;
the idea being greater economy and effi-
ciency. But such a fusion, desirable as it
may be, is more easily broadcast than
arranged. The controllers of more than one
of the mines mentioned would probably jib
at joining the rest, except on terms un-
acceptable to everybody but themselves.
* £ *
London and Perth investors, mostly those
associated with Great Boulder, are finding
a little capital to diamond drill the old
Lancefield at depth. A twice reconstructed
English co., originally floated by Herbert
Hoover, tried and failed to work this pro-
perty at a profit. Then a syndicate of
Golden Mile mine managers and officials
took a hand, and did well for a time, but
high costs forced it to give up. Recently
Sons of Gwalia did some boring on the
property, but it may have drilled in the
wrong place.
* * * *
Chairman Hamilton told Golden Horse-
shoe shareholders on Dec. 16 that in 12
months’ time the co.’s isued capital would
be approximately represented by liquid
assets, and that divs. would then be dis-
tributed. Westralian shareholders hope so,
but are afraid of the co., which has already
lent some of its cash, risking more and
weighing in light.
Freney Oil (W.A.) has resumed its
search. It is now ten years since the co.
first started; “traces and signs” have been
reported many times, but nothing to blow
about has been found. Funds are limited
and the chances of raising more are remote ;
so the present attempt may be the last throw
of the dice.
*■* * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Under what authority will Indooroo-
pilly Toll Bridge, Ltd., operate? (2) Has
any time limit been imposed in respect of
construction, etc.? (3) What are the pro-
visions of the franchise, especially in respect
of compensation, etc.? —7595.
(1) Co. is to be registered with limited
liability under the Queensland Companies
Act. It has been authorised to build a
bridge across the Brisbane River at Indoo-
roopilly, and to charge tolls not exceeding
specified rates, by an Order in Council dated
Nov. 12, 1931. Its activities will be sub-
ject to the provisions of this Order and to
the provisions of the Tolls on Privately
Constructed Road Traffic Facilities Act of
1931. (2) Yes. Construction is to begin
not later than November 14, 1932, and the
work is to be completed by May 14, 1934.
The penalty for failure to commence con-
struction by date .specified is forfeiture of a
guarantee deposit of £2OO and loss of rights.
(3) The franchise is for such time, as will
allow the co. to recoup the fair original cost
of the work plus divs. averaging 10 p.c. p.a.,
but shall not exceed 35 years. The Govern-
ment, however, has the right to take over
the bridge 10 years after it is first opened
for traffic, or thereafter at the end of any
even period of five years. Compensation
payable is the fair original cost, less sink-
ing fund, and subject to minor adjustments;
but the total amount shall not exceed 1 j
times the fair original cost. In the event
of the Government not exercising the right
just referred to, the bridge passes to it
without compensation at the end of 35 years.
Fair original cost, to be determined by the
Commissioner of Main Roads, is defined as
the sum of: (1) a reasonable amount for
construction of the class of work contem-
plated, executed by modern and efficient
methods; (2) an allowance of 12J p.c. of
(1) to cover flotation and preliminary exes.,
etc.; (3) interest on (1) and (2) at the
rate charged by the associated banks on over-
draft during the period of construction.
From this interest the co. hopes to pay 5 p.c.
on calls in advance without capital wastage.
In bank balance-sheets I have noticed an
item on Cr. side “Cash, etc., at Bankers.”
In the last of Bank of N.B.W. it is for over
£12.000.000. What do such amounts repre-
sent? When currency is reputed to be short,
might not this amount be put into circula-
tion, earning 7 p.c. to 8 p.c., instead of
only 3 p.c. “at bankers” —if it is in the Com-
monwealth Bank, where I presume it is?—
7600.
The £12.705,235 which the B.N.S.W. held
at Sept. 30 in “coin, bullion. Government
legal tender notes and cash at bankers” is
held instantly at command to meet notes m
circulation and deposits, together £69,869,549.
Of this 70 millions, approximately 30 p.c.
is money at call. Instead of a bank keeping
the 40 p.c. or thereabouts of deposits liquid
or semi-liquid in its own hands, as it used
to, it now keeps varying amounts at the
Commonwealth Bank, through w'hich it
makes payments to other banks. It could
not venture to keep less than the present
amount liquid somewhere.
/ hold bonds in an afforestation venture.
The bond-prospectus says that the company
may act as agent for the bondholders. Does
this mean that the co. can incur expenses
on behalf of the bondholders, who may thus
find themselves jointly and severally liable for
debts quite beyond the value of the land and
timber belonging to them ? —7599.
Much will depend on the terms of the
trust deed, which should clearly define the
extent of the agent’s authority. Most bond
issues provide that the bond co. pays, all
expenses until the crop reaches maturity;
that should be sufficient notice to all hav-
ing dealings with the co. that it is solely
liable for the expenditure. After maturity,
however, control usually passes to the bond-
holders, who would be well advised to form
into a limited co. immediately.
(1) Have holders of current accounts
preference over fixed deposits and other
creditors in P. P. Bank (in liq.) ? (2)
When is a dividend likely to be paid? —
7287.
(1) No. (2) Liquidators expect to make
a statement in a few weeks.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.C.S.: (1) Pretty good. (2), One of the
best —the prefs., of course... .J.0’8.: When you buy
a £1 share in a limited liability co. you are liable
for £l. You can’t escape liability by forfeiting.
. ...Tido: Sorry, quite valueless.... S.C.R.: Write
to the office which holds your policy, frankly and
fully explain your circumstances and ask for its
advice.


BRIDGE PROSPECTUS
INDOOROOPILLY TOLL BRIDGE LIMITED
Registered under the Companies Act 1863 to 1913 in the State of Queensland
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
Nominal Capital, £75,000
Divided into 7500 shares of £lO each, of which
6000 Ordinary shares of £lO each are offered for public subscription payable as follows: £1 pershare on
application, £3 per share on allotment and the balance in calls of £3 each at MX and 1 WtLVt
MONTHS from the date of allotment, with an option of paying such calls in advance. Calls so paid
in advance will be credited with interest at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum from the date of
payment to due date of call. , , ~ „.. , .
450 Ordinary Shares of £lO (Ten Pounds) each which will be credited as fully paid up, allotted to
Walter Taylor, Esq., for the consideration more particularly mentioned in an Agreement dated
twenty-fourth day of November* 1931, between him and Horace Burgess White, as Trustee on behalf
of the Company, to be seen at the Solicitor’s Office.
1050 Ordinary shares of £lO each which will be held in reserve and offered for public subscription from
time to time as and when the Directors shall think fit.
Directors:
W. H. GREEN, Esq. (Chairman),
Dickson Terrace, Hamilton, Brisbane.
WALTER TAYLOR, Esq.,
Bank Road, Graceville, Brisbane.
HAROLD JOSEPH FOOTE, Esq..
The Terrace, Sherwood.
Auditors:
MESSRS. CAMPBELL & FIELDING,
139 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Bankers:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN
BANK, LIMITED,
Corner Queen and Creek Streets, Brisbane.
Solicitors:
MESSRS. MORRIS, FLETCHER & CROSS,
B. and F. Chambers, 142 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Secretary:
MR. H. B. WHITE,
Central Buildings, Graceville, Brisbane.
Telephone: U 7243.
THE ORDER IN COUNCIL DATED NOV. 19, 1931, MAKES THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONS
(1) The reasonable cost of construction by efficient and modern methods, including
the cost of acquisition of land;
An allowance of 12 i% of (1) to cover flotation, preliminary and incidental
(2)
(3)
expenses;
Interest on (1 ) and (2) at the rate charged by the Associated Banks on over-
drafts during the period of construction.
This allowance of interest on progress construction costs is expected to permit
the Company to pay interest on calls paid in advance without capital wastage.
Taxation Charges have been specially classed as working expenses. They are
not therefore a deduction from the dividend.
The Franchise Period shall extend to such time as will enable the Company
to recoup the whole of the fair original cost of the road traffic facility, together with
an average annual dividend on the fair original cost of the road traffic facility of
10% from the amounts of toll collected.
The total franchise period shall not exceed 35 years.
It was a great boon to the residents of Sydney and its suburbs when the SPIT
BRIDGE was finished. Tolls were collected so rapidly that the Manly Council
were able to repay their loan of £60,000 much quicker than they anticipated.
Figures prepared by the Sutherland Shire Council of the George s River
toll bridge show that the sum of £58,661 was collected in TWO years—as reported
in the "Sydney Morning Herald.”
When the toll rights for twelve months for the Logan River Bridge were put
up to auction quite recently the first bid was £3OOO the next £4OOO, then it rose
to £5000—£5500, and thereafter mainly by £lOO rises to £lO,OOO, after which Mr.
Stern (who ultimately was successful) and Mr. T. J. Doyle, of Ashgrove, were the
only bidders.
At £1 1,000 Mr. Doyle dropped out, and Mr. Stern placed a £5O note on the
table as his required deposit. .
Although the tolls are being collected by the Main Roads Commission, the
above offers give a good indication of the anticipated results.
We are informed that there is every likelihood of a toll being placed on the
Sydney Harbor Bridge, which it is expected will bring in £1 10,000 a year.
One of the greatest recommendations from an investing point of view the toll
bridge has over many others is the fact that IT CREATES ITS OWN GOODWILL.
IT IS IN EVERY SENSE A CASH-AND-CARRY BUSINESSS. The Company cannot
make any bad debts.
Estimated Receipts for the first five years compiled from B.C.C. Ferry Returns
and the main Brisbane-Toowoomba Road Traffic:—
Rents for five years . .
Pedestrians at Id. each
Motor Cars at 6d. each
Passengers (average 2 per car) at Id. each
Motor-’buses, 1/- each, Id. per passenger . .
Motor-trucks at 6d., 1/-, 1/6
Animal-drawn Vehicles, 2- and 4-wheel, .6.d. and 1/-
Bicycles and Motor-cycles, 2d., 3d. and 4d. . ■
Horsemen, 3d.; Stock and Cattle, 2d.
Estimated Grand Total for the first five years
Estimated Total Expenditure for the first five years:
Directors’ Fees . .
Office Expenses . .
Main Roads Commission
Electric Light and Water
Auditor
Collection of Tolls . .
Maintenance Fund . .
Estimated Taxation . .
Estimated Receipts over Expenditure for dividends
Total due, with interest, to Shareholders when over 10% Dividend
available .. •• •• • • •• •. £8,064 0
ALLOTMENT.
The Directors may proceed to allotment when 400 shares have been applied
for and the application moneys paid thereon.
CONTRACTS.
The following contracts exist: —
(1) An agreement between VFalter Taylor and Horace Burgess on behalf of
the Company dated the twenty-fourth day of November, 1931, whereby the said
Taylor assigns to the Company all his estate right title and interest in
and to the franchise granted by Order in Council dated the nineteenth day
of November, 1931, the plans specifications and quantities prepared by him
in connection with the construction of the Indooroopilly Toll Bridge, and his
work connected with the establishment of the Company, the consideration being
the allotment to the said Walter Taylor of 450 fully-paid shares of £ 1 0 each
in the capital of the Company.
(2) An Agreement dated the twenty-fourth day of November, 1931, between the
said Horace Burgess White on behalf of the Company and the said Walter
Taylor for the construction by him of the said bridge for the sum of £58,500
Part of the contract price, namely, £3500, will be accepted by Mr. Taylor
by way of the allotment to him of 350 fully-paid shares of £lO each in the
capital of the Company.
(3) Draft Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
The above documents set out the benefits to be derived by or being derived
from the Company from and by the persons respectively mentioned therein, and
may be inspected at the offices of Messrs. Morris, Fletcher and Cross, Solicitors,
B. and F. Chambers, 142 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO INVESTORS.
The following points are specially commended to the attention of investors
for the mutual protection of themselves and of the Company.
Payments may be made in Cash, Postal Notes, Money Orders or Cheques.
All cheques to be marked “Not Negotiable” and made payable to> Indooroopilly Toll
Bridge Limited, and the words “Or Bearer” struck out. The Company will not be
responsible for the loss, misapplication or misappropriation of any cheque which
is not so drawn. EXCHANGE MUST BE ADDED TO COUNTRY CHEQUES.
Calls paid in advance will be credited with interest at the rate of 5 per cent,
from the date of payment to due date of call.
PRELIMINARY APPLICATION FOR SHARES, UPON RECEIPT OF
WHICH FULL PROSPECTUS WILL BE POSTED.
To the Directors,
Indooroopilly Toll Bridge Limited,
Central Buildings, Graceville, Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,
I ' hereby apply for the allotment to me of (state in words)
shares of £lO each in the capital of the abovenamed
Company, in terms of the Company’s prospectus dated the 24th day of
November, 1931, and the Memorandum and Articles of Association
of the Company.
And I agree to accept the same or smaller number of shares as may
be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register me as the holder of such
shares.
I enclose herewith £ being £ 1 per share on applica-
tion, and I agree to pay £3 per share on allotment, and to pay the balance
in-calls -of £3 each at Six and Twelve months from the date of allotment,
and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
Company.
Dated this day of 193
NAME IN FULL
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS (in full)
PROFESSION OR OCCUPATION
SIGNATURE


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's “Florodora”
Criterion “The House that Jack Built” Pantomime
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sinbad the Sailor” Pantomime
King’s “As Husbands Go”
State Movies and Talkies
♦— '
A Letter to Emu Creek
Wherein Dave Rudd rekites, to "his family a year's
adventuring- among: the .amateur, playprs'.,of Sydney.
Dear Dad and Mum, —You will remember
me telling you, when 1 wrote to you last
Christmas, about bumping into a bloke who
called himself The Bulletin's Sundry Show-
man. Well, I did not take to him much at
first on account of his habit of letting me
pay for the drinks. But he turned out to
be a decent sort of cove, and if I had not
struck hint I would have spent a. pretty dull
year down here in Sydney. Last year if you
remember I used to complain about how the
nights was long and lonely. Well this year
it has been different, for I have been going
with this Sundry Showman bloke to the
theatres. Not to Her Majesty’s, the Cri-
terion, St. James and flash places like them,
because the Sundry Showman said only tired
business men and charladies go to the com-
mercial theatres. He said I wanted to be
instructed and not entertained. All those
leg shows, he said, only put wrong ideas
into a young chap’s head. So I’ve been
following what they call the repeatery move-
ment.
I liked going to the Playbox, which
was a joint run by a little Scotch bloke
“The undesirable atmospear.”
named Macdougall. My oath, they gave
you bosker coffee after the show. Mac-
dougall used to hang, out up Oxford-street
way in a big basement underneath an auc-
tioneer’s shop. I thought the first shows I
saw there were pretty crook, and as the
seats were awful hard I never had a decent
slcexi all the time I went there. . Someone
said lie had the wrong atmospear and that
lie could not hold the mirror up to nature
in a place with a concrete floor. Also a
lot of flash-looking sheilas used to sit on
doorsteps round about the neighborhood and
wink at a man. So what with one thing
and another Macdougall shifted down to
near Circular Quay, where he got a smaller
place but less concrete and more respectable
atmospear. About the first time I went
there I saw a play called “Green Pas-
tures.” It had nothing to do with paspalum
or Wimmera rye or kikuyu grass, but was
about the nigger’s idea of Heaven. Mac-
dougall dolled himself up with white whis-
kers and a frock coat and smoked a big cigar
—just like you, Dad, when you stood for
Parliament—and was supposed to be God.
All the newspapers said it was blaspommy
(I think that’s how they spelt it), and
he did look funny, being pulled about in
a billy-cart. Then there was a piece about
a Chink fruit called the popomae. It would
not be any use you trying to grow it at
Emu Creek, because it makes you hum some-
thing awful when you eat it, and no ojie
would buy it.
Another mob that lived underground called
themselves the Community Playhouse. They
had a little dug-out under a church hall in
the ’Loo. The curtain was made of chaff-
bags sewn together, and the walls was all
covered with colored posters, stuck on. They
used to go in for plays by a bloke named
Jeeby Shaw and other Dutchmen and Rus-
sians which used to give me a headache.
They also put on a lot of Australian
“Tripping over dead bodies in the laneway.”
plays which was pretty dismal. The Com-
munity Playhouse had to move too. It was
not concrete atmospear that made them shift.
It w r as the gunmen. A terrible lot of shoot-
ing used to take place where they were
and the audience was always tripping over
dead bodies in the laneway outside. The
Sundry Showman used to get the wind up
every time we went there. You should send
your audience home in a thoughtful mood,
he used to say, not in a ambulance. Miss
Tenant, who is the head of the Community
“A bit of bull-fighting.”
Playhouse, has .now got a possy next door
to the Criterion Theatre in Pift-stfeet. - She
is going to put on a play called “The Devil
in the CheeSe.” I would like some, of the
fellows at the butter factory to' see it.
I never missed going where a chap Warned
Scott Alexander advertised-a show. This
Alexander bloke had a crush on what they
call Grand Gigglers. Sometimes you would
see a bloke screaming , his nut off in a
haunted house or a bonzer tart having
her lamps put out in an asylum;- Other
times you would see a cove who was
jilted chase the dame around with an axe, or
a potty doctor operate on a nipper. I
always said to the Sundry Showman that
a visit to a Scott Alexander show was better
than a pick-me-up when a fellow was on
the sherbet. He used to say a rigmarole
about primitive man -and high ; art. He
likes long words because it. only takes a
few to fill up a column. Once Scott Alex-
ander gave a play where all the players
were skirts. I believe there was a spicy bit
in it when all the tabbies began undressing,
but we missed that through going out to
have a spot at the Press Club. Just my
luck. Scotty also did Shakspeare in modern
clobber. The Sundry Showman said I snored
awful that night.
The smartest bunch is the Independents.
They are mustered together by a Miss Doris
Fitton, and they give you a lot for your
money. The Independents in a thing called
“Street Scene” put over 50 people on the
stage, and it was just like taking a walk
through Pyrmont on a hot Saturday night.
The people were .sitting in their shirt sleeves
on the doorsteps, eating ice-creams, chiacking
the drunks and having a box-on now and
again. In this play a bad-tempered, jealous
chap shoots his missus for carrying on
with the milkman. The Sundry Showman
said to me that it would have been more
reelistic, a word he is very fond of, if the
diseased had been an iceman. The milkmen
have reformed since Dr. Arthur, started the
Milk Board.
“Chase the dame round with an axe.”
Another crowd that I liked to drop in
and see was a mob called the Players’ Club.
They are a very serious crew and keep a
lot to themselves, but you always got your
money’s worth from them. One play they
put on, called “Adam the Creator,” showed a
Communist bloke making people out of mud-
pies on the stage. He turned out some
sorny blokes and a, few snifter girls. The
men- he - made always, wanted to have a
crack at him, amL.the girls' used to turn up
their noses at him, so I don’t see what he
got out of it. The Players’ Club also gave
a , Spanish play . about an -old * josser who
lived to ; be a hundred years old. 4 It being a
Spanish play I expected to see a bit of bull-
fighting, but. there -was-not a - single - bull. I
was sorry, because if there had been I could
have given the • Sundry Showman a few
pointers. He knows nothing .about bulls,
except -Mr. Lang’s. Everybody in Sydney
knows about Mr. Lang’s bull.' They say if he
paid as much attention td New South as. he
does to his bull, New South would be a more
heavenlier place to live in.- Mr. Lang’s bull
is politics and not the theatre, which sub-
ject I am confining myself to.
All in all I have had a very happy year,
but I am hoping that in 1932 the Sundry
Showman’s best girl will jilt him so that
he can take me to the commercial theatres,
too. —Your afft. son, Dave Runu.
With what must bd regarded, in the cir-
cumstances, as superhuman restraint, the
Firm has refrained for a period of more
years than this Showman cares to count
from reviving “Florodora.” The strain grew
too great on Saturday, and Leslie Stuart’s
greatest box-office triumph overflowed on to
the stage of Sydney’s Her Majesty’s thinly
disguised in a coating of 1931 gilt and
lacquer. Why it was such a tremendous
success in the long ago it is difficult to dis-
cover. Most of the music isn’t nearly up to
Stuart’s top-notch standard of catchiness,
and the wrnltz song “Oh, My Dolores!” is,
to-day, >as it was at the first hearing, the
only thing likely to stick in anyone’s memory.
The double sextette “Tell Me, Pretty Maiden,”
has been forgotten so long that it comes
quite as a novelty, though not a 'very
striking novelty.
Dot Brunton, of course, is in the cast.
She is Lady Holyrood—-with emphasis on the
“rude” in the new edition. Romola Ilansen
is a .Garmenitish Dolores, the big- song is
sung by. S.vd Burcliall, and the comic business
is in the hands of Leo 4 Franklyn c as Cyrus
Gilfain and Cecil Kellaway as the phreno-
logist. The mercury stood high in the glass
on Saturday night and Mr. Frank! yn’s
intense activity was manifested in the correct
tropical temperature. The audience bought
largely of ice-creams after watching him for
an hour. Among the throng of subsidiary
pretty girls with nice voices, Nellie Barnes,
who was Angela Gilfain, stood out. She
dances prettily and sings in English. Scenery
and dressing, the Firm’s strong suit, were
up to the usual satisfactory standard. It
seems inevitable that “The Geisha,” “Our
Miss Gibbs” and “The Chocolate Soldier”
should, figure in the galaxy of novelties
served to the Australian public in 1932.
¥ ¥ ¥
The New Repertory Society’s production of
Hart and Braddell’s. “On the Doorstep” at
St. James’s Hall, Sydney, on Boxing Day,
was an example, not of skating on thin ice, but
of frequently crashing into the turgid waters
beneath.' This society’s players are divided
“creaming his nut off in a haunted house.”
into five producing units, each having its
distinguishing color. The whites present
Shakspeare; the reds produce Grand Guig-
nols, and so on. The pinks did the Boxing
Day show. On the doorstep of the very
respectable Hamilton household is planted one
summer’s evening a baby in a clothes-
basket. A note is attached intimating that
the sender desires the infant to be sheltered
by its father. There are half a dozen men in
tire place. Grandfather and the butler are
ruled out as impossible. Suspicion therefore
rests on Bronson, a middle-aged banker and
churchwarden, and his three sons, James, a
married man, Charles, engaged to be married,
and Derek, a carefree young author. Sarah,
an okl-maid aunt, suspects the worst of the
lot of them and retains the butler to spy on
them all. Clues there are a-plenty, but as
they point to each suspect in turn the
mystery remains unsolved. Everyone runs
around in circles accusing everyone else. The
butler even falls under a shadow, but is able
to clear himself, much to the disgust of
the family. A nurse in love with Derek, a
female play agent and others help to add to
the tangle; Jim’s wife, Helen, swears that
the child is Jim’s and begins to pack her
trunks; a clergyman called in is as helpless
as the rest. Towards the end it appears as if
Derek will have to accept the responsibility,
when in walks a damsel and declares that
the culprit is the grandfather. It is a
machine-made play, full of dropped letters
and cavesdroppings. Only a very broad-
minded audience could stomach 50 per cent,
of the conversation. Kenneth Fowles was
excellent as Derek, Crofton Hallam gave a
good account of himself as Bronson, William
Rees shone as the butler and Ron Roberts
and Hugh Piggott were passable. Annie
Hughes, Dorothea Vautlcr, Barbara Smith
and Elaine Deakins were the pick of the girls.
* * *
The kiddies ought to enjoy “Cinderella,”
the Frank Neil panto, at Sydney Roxy. It
contains sufficient spoofing, warbling, danc-
ing, colorful costumes and excitement to
satisfy the most exacting child. Hector St.
Clair, in the blue uniform of a page boy, sets
the house roaring every time he appears. Byrl
Walklcy is well cast as principal boy. .Tosie
Melville, of “Sally” fame, looks the part as
Cinderella and Fifi Adoree, a boyish-looking
blonde, makes a hit as a valet. Bert Ray is
the better of the two ugly sisters, but that’s
not saying much. • Joe Morris meows and
capers realistically as the cat, and the two
obscure citizens who comprise the . dancing
horse are* genuinely funny. The vaudeville
turns which serve as curtain-raisers are fairly
acceptable.
* * *
Christmas performances • of " “The' Mes-
siah” have continued in Sydney with unabated
zeal. Every choral organisation seems to be
deeply convinced that the oratorio is the
only one suited to the season, and the con-
viction is of many years’ standing. Admit-
tedly Bach presents many difficulties, but
to persistently boycott his' “St Matthew’s
Passion” looks like an unwarranted confes-
sion of ineptitude. Also, in planning a
Christmas effort the dust might bo shaken
from the oratorios of Keiser and Graun,
Beethoven’s “Mount, of Olives,” Salieri’s
Passion” and Spohr’s “Crucifixion.” Even.
Stainer’s cantata should be welcome as a
change to the choirs, if not to the audiences.
However, Handel has held the field this
year. The Philharmonic was steered through
“The Messiah” at the Con. Hall by Howard
Carr, who took some of the choruses at a
slower tempo than did Dr. Jenkins, thereby
adhering closer to tradition, but reduced the
triumphant “Behold the Lamb of God” to
a mezzo-piano. It must be confessed that it
sounded very effective, and present critic
would be the last to discountenance such ex-
periments. We have had “The Messiah” for
more than 200 years, and it is just possible
we can improve on Handel’s notion of it.
Certainly such modern pianoforte technicians
as Backhaus, using methods and effects not
developed in Beethoven’s time, have given
anti-traditional readings off .the great Lud-
wig’s sonatas that commend themselves on
the highest aesthetic grounds.
* * *
A strong cast from Sydney’s Dante Ali-
ghieri Society vigorously rattled off several
miles of Gabriele D’Annunzio’s beautiful but
involved Italian at the Savoy. The play,
“La Gioconda,” is one of the variations on
D’Annunzio’s pet theme of an artist at odds
with a practical world. Signora Yomra was
convincing in the role of Silvia, and Dr.
Baccafini, as Lucio, had a part that fitted
him well.
¥ * *
“As Husbands Go,” at Melb. King’s, is so
short that Kathleen Goodall, who has the
too-ingratiating manner of an Uncle Joe
at. the children’s wireless hour, had to be
thrown in with songs at the piano; never-
theless, it is not short enough. The excite-
ment is all over at the end of the second
act, when Harvey Adams, as an incredibly
noble American husband, and Campbell Cope-
lin, as an English author who has beep
philandering with Adams’s wife in Paris,
get drunk together, and Adams explains to
Copelin that all he desires is his wife’s
happiness, - and if she will be happier with
another man and that man meets with his
approval he will say, “Bless you, my children,”
and no strings to it. This is only another
proof that fiction is stranger than truth.
If the third act had been used to demon-
strate that, when sober, the husband becomes
the normal possessive, jealous human being,
with the average allowance of sexual vanity,
or that he was tired of his wife or had his eye
on another inamorata, it would have had some
justification. But it wasn’t. The husband
remains truly noble, his nobility is so infec-
tious that everybody catches it from him, con-
vention is respected and a play that started
out by being an engaging commentary on life
ends on lines satisfactory, to the vast
majority of playgoers. Within its limits the
piece is written with vivacity and is full of
entertainment. Ethel Morrison, Leslie Victor,
Iris Darby shire and Sadie Bedford areexcel-
lently, and Rene Jopo and Agnes Doyle not
so excellently, cast, and Master Leo Fowler
is the, usual juvenile infliction. .Why■ is the
stage child as painfully self-conscious as
the screen infant is natural? The boozing
bout between Copelin and Adams .is a great
piece of realism.
* * *
Listening for the umpteenth time to the
Philharmonic Society’s umpteenth perform-
ance of Handel’s “Messiah” at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Christmas night, a
critic might be forgiven for wondering, not
without wistfulness, what they sing in
Moscow nowadays in place of the famous
oratorio. Probably something about Lenin,
and the composer filled it with faith, fervor
and conviction. And it being something fresh
the singers sing it with fire, understanding
and intelligence. The trouble with a piece
like “The Messiah” is that it has been
sung so often that it is all cluttered up with
tradition and stiff with convention. There is
a correct way of singing every bit of it, and
it is supposed to be an artistic crime to sing
it any other way. It is like Gilbert and
Sullivan, only more so. Singers don’t bring
it into relationship with anything in their
lives Which are mainly concerned with bend-
ing over ledgers, going to American talkies,
surf-bathing and taking girls out for joy-
rides in sporting models. Consequently they
sing it not in the way they would sing it
if they meant it but in the way a director
who has studied in some musical academy
thinks it ought to be sung. The performance
of the M.P.S. was more than usually flaccid.
There was nothing wrong with the voices of
Mr. Newstead Rush or of the accomplished
Adele McKay, and the conducting of Pro-
fessor Heinzc was correct in all particulars;
but somehow the evening left no deep impres-
sion. An exception was Mr. Percy Code,
whose flute obligato to “The Trumpet Shall
Sound” was an arresting piece of virtuosity.
If he had been playing “Come to the Cook-
house Door” in a military encampment he
couldn’t have done it better.
The Palette.
Betty Paterson’s show of drawings and
paintings at the Newman Galleries, Melbourne,
is a first effort. The clever lady who in-
vented' the sophisticated modern infant uses
color lightly to enhance the charms of
sundry drawings of babies and children, some
of which are blood relations of her Bulletin
family and some more directly derived from
Nature. “Misery,” a study of an infant
endeavoring to bring down the nursery ceil-
ing by the unaided agency of its vocal
organs, is a vigorous essay in realism. In
“Port Said” and “Gill.v Gilley,” the artist's
muse takes a trip to the Orient and finds
the Asiatic baby much like its - Australian
cousin, with an addition of sun tan.
Mrs. Glover Fleay’s exhibition of Australian
marsupials at Whitelaw’s Gallery, Melbourne,
has a foreword by a scientific authority, Prof.
Wood Jones. “Although Australia,” says the
prof., “lias been singularly blessed in that
its wild animals are for the most part
gentle and beautiful creatures, it cannot be
said that Australians have shown great
appreciation of their beauty.” As apprecia-
tion of the beauty of wild animals generally
leads to their extinction in the interests of
fashion, this is perhaps just as well for the
Australian fauna. Mrs. Pleay has made an
interesting record of the more unusual
species, such as flying phalangers and rare
varieties of ’possums and tiger-cats.
At the Meldrum Gallery, Melbourne, Mel-
drum and some of his associates, including
Justus Jorgensen, Clarice Beckett, Colin
Colahan, Percy Pea son, John Farmer and
Olive Fricke, are on view in a show which
one critic complained gave him a feeling of
mental exhaustion, which may be regarded
by the artists concerned as a first-class tri-
bute. Most art shows induce no more mental
labor than eating a box of chocolates.


THE PICTURE OF THE YEAR.
“Take it, Sonny, take it and see if you can make some sense of it”


IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
taifloitwealtt) Saving lank of Australia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
MUCH TO SEE- v
iMUCH TO DO ii v
BAN
IN a fairyland of snow peaks, jade
forests and singing waterfalls, is
this premier resort of the Canad-
ian Rockies. Here you will have
crowded days of sightseeing—new
outdoor pleasures and joyous even-
ings at the finest mountain hotel in
the world. Arrange to stay awhile
at Banff on the way to England.
Only reached via Canadian Pacific.
Write for literature and details to
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
10/31-2
Banff!
The Social
Capital of the
Canadian Rockies.
Jhe World's Greatest GJrovel System ,
ABORIGINALITIES
“Dr. Nil”: We have two black she-cats,
and in spite of the fact that one is the
grandmother of the other both were due to
reproduce their species at about the same
time. Grandma beat the younger one by
several short heads, and one of these w T as
kept. Three or four weeks later, while the
grand-daughter was still in the expectant
stage, an aeronautic pageant took place near
our city. Both cats had been well accns-
ABSORBING THE UNEMPLOYED.
OLD LADY: “Why do you keep so many dogs?”
MARY: “Billy say, ‘Plenty flea no dog. Plenty dog no flea.’”
tomed to local ’planes flying low, backwards
and forwards over our cottage, and were not
alarmed by them. On the day of the show’
three bombing ’planes from another State
came roaring across, only about 200 feet up.
The kitten took no notice. But Keetsie,
his half-second-niece, several times removed,
raced frantically about in a state of maternal
terror until she found him. and seized him
by the scruff of his back and staggered away
with him to the first place of safety she
cofild think of (a jury cupboard in the bath-
room) ;,and there I found them, a quarter of
an hour latei - , along with four other little
Keetsies. The grand-daughter kept the
lot of them, and treated them impartially
until the newcomers were done to death in
a bucket of water.
* * * *
“Lilliput”: Though “Gulliver’s” story (B.
9./12/’3l) is of interest I cannot understand
why he uses 1 the word “astonishing.” Extrac-
tion of teeth by explosives goes on every
day in our district, and has been applied
to other ailments with signal success.
Recently a shearer fell ill, developing high
temperature and internal pain, and the
boss of the board obtained a diagnosis
(by telephone) from the doctor in the
nearest township, 250 miles distant —
undoubtedly a case of appendicitis. Time re-
quired for digestion was obtained from the
station’s “Hints to Health,” and the suf-
ferer was induced to devour a large Cornish
pasty, in which half a plug of Nobel’s frac-
ture had been placed. After drinking a cup
of liquid plaster of Paris to act as tamping
the patient rested until the necessary time
had elapsed for the mixture to arrive at the
right place. Two wax matches and a piece
of sandpaper were then swallowed, after
which the boss administered “twilight sleep”
with a bough from the woodpile. The re-
sultant internal disturbance neatly split the
umbilicus, propelling the appendix some dis-
tance. A dab of tar completed the operation
and the patient was left for a while. After
the effects of the anaesthetic had worn off
the high temperature persisted, and the
patient was lowered to the neck in a 240 ft.
well, until midnight, when the shed ther-
mometer, under his tongue, read normal.
The following morning that shearer was
first on the board, neatly clipping 247 sandy-
backed ewes for the day without calling for
tar. At “knock off - ’ he said that he was not
feeling quite himself, but thought he would
be able to get nearer to his average tally
next day.
* * =H *
“Callan Park” : Students of the effect of
environment on the rising generation will be
interested to hear of a striking example
recently observed in Sydney. A suburban
chook-raiser added a wallaby to the popula-
tion of a pen of Leghorn cockerels, and the
mixed community soon settled down in
amity. About a week after he was amazed
when going to feed the chooks to find that
some of the larger and more intelligent birds
had given up progression by their usual
method of running and had taken to hopping
in exact imitation of their wallahy cobber.
llow far the infection will go cannot be
estimated yet, but it has been suggested that
the hen-rancher should put a lady wallaby in
with the hens on the off chance of inducing
the latter to develop pouches wherein to
carry and hatch their eggs, as does the
echidna. The saving in nesting-boxes and
china nest-eggs, and the loss of time involved
in collecting eggs under present methods, are
two points about the suggestion which
should appeal strongly to the cocky.
HOW TO MAKE FISH GROW.
“How big is he?”
“Two pound if I get him, and ten pound if I lose him.”
“Malolo”: A wave of righteousness is
Sweeping over New Guinea. Every day in
every village religious meetings are held, and
the planting of food, cleaning of gardens and
even the cooking of kai-kai on hand are held
up. The inspirational exercises take the
form of seances. Every person in the vil-
lage squats round the communal house, and a
Mary, usually the most hardened
harlot in the outfit, proceeds to
go into a trance. After a few
warming-up. screeches accom-
panied by a rolling of eyes, vol-
leys of grunts and much clicking
of tongues from the awe-stricken
congregation, she divulges (“Turn
out ’im,” as the Kanakas say)
the names of her lovers. Between
each name the hearers are
assured by the medium that the
“Big Fella Master on top” is
making her do this. The village
tul-tul or mission boy takes up
his position at the medium’s side
and announces the names at the
top of his voice, drowning the din
the medium is making, and, in-
cidentally, adding names of boys
he doesn’t like. Soon the
medium’s hands open and shut
convulsively and she screams,
“Give ’im, give ’im,” and the err-
ing bucks, with an anxious eye on
their own Marys, shuffle forward
amid the horrified wails of the
immaculate ones not called and
throw coins at the clutching
hand. The cash is gathered by
the announcer and devoted to the
purchase of black or white lava-
lavas (gay colors now being con-
sidered immoral) which are given
to the faithful. A Mary who
lived with a Chinese trader is
the big gun medium. Being now
married to the local black mis-
sionary she is considered to have
inside information. Other Marys,
jealous of her success, are going
into trances all along the coast.
A grinning old luluai, who’s en-
joyed many a feed of “long pig,”
asked me to tell the white people
in Itabaul how the Kanakas had reformed.
He thought such a wholesale wave of “seeing
of the light” should even reach Sydney.
t- * * H=
“Cooramin”: An old cattleman whom I
used to hustle scrubbers with on the Rich-
mond River was Martin Murphy, a good
rider whose mentor and model was an out-
law. As a youth he worked on Yulgilbar,
the estate on the Clarence River with the
famous castle, till he had saved a bit of
money, then entered into a droving partner-
ship with Fred Ward, at that time stock-
riding on Barney Downs, near Tenterfield.
Ward was a fine horseman, the best in that
rough country, according to Murphy. On
one of their trips he was galloping after
a runaway bullock, which swerved sharply
on the edge of a narrow gorge, and Ward's
horse propped. The jerk broke both girths,
and catapulted the rider, still sitting in the
saddle, right across the gorge. The place
is known to-day as Thunderbolt’s Leap, for
Murphy’s partner developed into Thunder-
bolt, the.bushranger.
❖ * H:
“Verri”: “Eminent scientists in Calcutta”
(B. 16/12/’3l) w r ere not more astounded
than a N.S.W. poisoner who essayed to
kill 20 of his neighbor’s truant fowls with
arsenic. He meant to do the thing thor-
oughly, and mixed a tempting bait for each
hen, and then sat down to watch their whole-
sale demise. But they continued to scratch
up his seedlings unperturbed, and next day
were all in place scratching harder than
ever. Those same hens later drank with
relish drain-water in which a bottle of
arsenate of lead had been accidentally
broken, with, as far as one could judge, no
ill effect whatever.
❖ ❖ * *
“Teacher”: The statement (B. 9/12/’3l)
that the last of the Tasmanian abos. were
deported to Chappell Island is incorrect.
They were first placed on Vansittart Island,
but this proved unsuitable, so they were
taken to Flinders Island. The remains of
thp old settlement, which lies between White-
mark and Emita, are still to be seen.
Flinders was not much better than Vansit-
tart, and when death had reduced the blacks
to 44 the survivors were removed to
Oyster Cove in southern Tas. There is thus
no link with the half-caste reservation at
Cape Barren Island, to the south of Flinders,
and tins island does not comprise descendants
of the Tas. abos. The community at the
reservation are descendants of Vic. abos. and
South Sea Islanders.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale” : It isn’t only the small
boy that is a potential danger-fount where
loaded firearms are concerned. The other
day I took my two fox-terriers with me on
a rabbiting expedition. Game being scarce
and the weather hot, I spread myself under
the gums of the creek for a spell, and was
just dropping into a doze when an explosion
smithereened the weird expectancy of the
bush. Investigation showed one foxie bleed-
ing profusely from where his head used to
be and the other running round with a fore-
paw fast in the trigger-guard of my blunder-
buss. I was annoyed about the loss of the
„dog, but I was also interested later to find
a few pellet holes in the crown of my Akubra,
which had been lying a foot from my head.
I think I’ll unload the gun when, resting in
future.
THE BLOKE FROM WYALONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Broken Hill to lone Paroo
Per foot, where fortune frowns,
The whitest men are battlers who
Were bred in mining towns:
And best is he, where duds areffe r ,
In battle, bar or song,
The squarest mate I ever knew—
The bloke from Wyalong.
His ways are rough, his manners crude,
His pants are bottle-green,
His speech is slow and worse than rude,
To church he’s never been;
But when v T e tramped a thirsty space,
And luck was breaking wrong,
The grace of God was in his face —
The bloke from Wyalong.
On lonely tracks the tale wrns told,
And passed from lip to lip,
Of how, when he was flush of geld,
He took a Sydney trip,
And waking with a shilling flat
Where crooks and cadgers throng,
He dropped it in a blind man’s hat—
The bloke from Wyalong.
Good stranger, when you’ve cash to spare,
And bright the shanty gleams,
If you should crave a mate to share
The nectar of your dreams,
May fortune turn her face to you
(For faith in men is strong),
And smiling introduce you to
The bloke from Wyalong.
N.s.w.
TAL ORDELL.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve f und .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remittid. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and tin.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
?she PLUM RAZOR
blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle . 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —•
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—jin. and jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., 654 George Street, Sydney.
MONEY IN TOBACCO
if you use
SKY IRRIGATION TUBING.
Light to handle and sturdy;
can be moved from place to
place faster than any other
tubing made.
CONVENIENT—QUICK-
SECURE.
Write for pamphlet.
Sole patentees and manufacturers,
SKY WINDMILL COY.,
56 Day Street, Sydney.
“W.G.8.”: Let me tell “Yarri” that
Degilbo in Queensland isn't “obliged” spelt
backward. It is a corruption of the abo.
word “da-gil-bo” (the “da” pronounced “dar”)
and means “wet rock.” Amongst other names
a hit north of Degilbo that are not spelt
as Binghi says them are Towran, which
should be Dowran, Eurimbula for Eurim-
bulum, Targinnie for Darginnie and Boro-
ren (a railway station) for Burrorin, the
abo. name of the mountain near there. I
suggested the proper name, but some rail-
way official who had never saw an abo.
changed the spelling. I suspect the same
chap of converting Barmundoo into Bar-
mundu and Doolooloo into Dululu. The abo.
tongue is soft and liquid—not harsh.
“Lucerne Flea” : There is a world of dif-
ference between the bagman of to-day and
the old-time swaggy. The latter usually did
not want work unless it was shearing or
harvest jobs, but he was nearly always a
pretty good bushman who knew how to find
water or obtain a feed. He nearly always
had a dog with him, too; for preference a
trained sheep-dog, which would help get a
job. I live in a spot where scores of bag-
men pass, and I have not yet seen one with
a dog. They nearly all really want a job,
but the great majority are almost totally
ignorant of how to set about the simplest
farm tasks. And their lack of general bush
knowledge is astounding. Two lads came to
my place thoroughly knocked up. having set
out to walk from Wood’s Well to Keith
(S.A,) with only food enough for two meals.
They should have found out before they
started that there is not a single inhabited
house along the whole of that G 6 miles of
semi-desert, and water is scarce, too. They
had tried to dig out rabbits, but had chosen
the worst possible spots of all —sandhills,
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
“New tonic-medicine doing dotter Mary Jane any good, ’Siah?”
“Old 'ooman reckons must be. Anyway, new booay do see her home ’bout every night.”
where the burrows have many
exits but no ends. They were sur-
prised when I demonstrated that
the burrows around rock out-
crops are shallow, and that bunny-
can be easily hauled out by pok-
ing down a piece of fencing-wire
with a bent tip and twisting it
up in the rabbit’s fur. They had
been perishing for a drink, but
had not known that the wild
pigeons will always lead you to
water at sunset after a hot day.
Previous to this they had tramped
alongside the Coorong, but had
gone without a feed of fish be-
cause fhey had no hooks with
them. You never saw one of the
old-timers without a line and a
few hooks. Back in the winter
the lads had slept in wet clothes
and blanket because either their
matches were damp or everything
was too wet to burn. They din
not know that spinifex or yacka
will start a fire for you (even
when green) on the coldest and
wettest night, and they had not
thought of carrying a few matches
corked up in a little bottle, nor
had they known that a damp
match can be dried enough to
strike if you rub it very gently
through your hair where your hat
has kept it dry. They had made
themselves ill by trying to eat
wheat taken from a stack at a
siding and fried in a frying-pan
with fat, not knowing that wheat
soaked in water overnight and
boiled next morning makes a first-
rate porridge. I now begin to see
why some of the poor beggars on
the track in North Queensland,
whom “Gad” has been writing
about, have made a breakfast off
a raw onion.
* * *
“Herpes”: The latest snake
story comes from Tafee (N.S.W.)
and has unusual features. A
local sportsman out shooting
wounded a rabbit, which reached
some bush whore it was heard to
squeal. Following bunny up to
put it out of its misery, the
sportsman found it dead in the
coils of a 10ft. python, which de-
clined to surrender its capture,
having to be killed before the
rabbit could be released. Two in-
teresting aspects of the case are
the infernal bad luck of the rabbit
in striking two such stiff spins
running, and the short-sightedness of the
man with the gun who killed a harmless
creature which is one of the best natural
enemies of the pestiferous bunny.
TRYING THE CHRISTMAS BOX.
MUM : “Now then you. Bill, knock off shearing that ole cat, and ’and me your Auntie
Janie’s mew seccaters.”
“E.S.S.": Many blacks at various times
have had to live in exile far from their
native towris. One was Georgie Sands, a
member of the Manning River (N.S.W.)
tribe, who had been condemned to death for
breaking some tribal law. While prepara-
tions were being made for the execution he
was guarded in a gunyah, his hands tied with
pieces of hide. A semi-circle, measuring 40
yards, was marked with pegs. Midway
between the two points were three more
pegs and a stack of fighting implements.
In front of these, 25 yards distant, were
another peg and some boomerangs. All the
camp blacks gathered round the marked lialf-
circle, the points being occupied by armed
fighting men. The prisoner was led out to
the single peg and his hands were freed. He
stretched his arms awhile, and then took up
a heilamon to defend himself. At a signal
five painted warriors emerged from a gun-
yah and placed themselves at the three
pegs. They were the executioners. Georgie
stood naked, his sinewy figure glistening in
the sun like black bronze, with only the
small, half-rounded piece of wood, held in
his left hand, between him and death. But
he was as active as a cat, as alert as an
eagle. A patriarch of the tribe gave the
order to throw, and five spears, shot at the
culprit, one after another. With deft
twists of his wrist Sands turned them aside.
Spears followed quickly, sometimes several
together, but with marvellous agility Georgie
escaped them, stepping aside, leaping over
them, lifting a leg, or deflecting them with
the heilamon. No matter how high the
flight of a spear was, he never ducked, but
twice he sprang toward spears that were
coming straight at his head. The attack
continued rapidly, till a spear dived viciously
at his ankles. Instead of jumping up,
Georgie stooped for the first time and turned
it with the heilamon. But there was a pur-
pose. in that stoop that showed the quick
working of his mind. Simultaneously, with
his right hand, he snatched up a boomerang
which he threw with lightning swiftness. It
left his hand close to the ground, travelled
so for 20 yards, then rose and struck one of
the five in the side. The victim bounded
into the air and dropped dead, his heart cut
in two. The sudden turn demoralised the
group. Seeing his advantage, Georgie coli-
tinued throwing with great rapidity. A
boomerang, deflected by one of the group,
cut through another blackfellow's heel
between the hig sinews and bones. At this
the remaining three fled from the demon
thrower, who immediately bolted for the
scrub, and thence crept away to the northern
towri.
* * * *
“Mulgo” : Thirst is generally regarded as
a maddening torture when it gets a deadly
grip on a man, and yet it is common to
find victims not only comfortably pillowed
but with evidence of having had a death-
bed smoke. I saw one on Merrivale run,
near the Maranoa (Q.), whose name was
unknown. He was lying on his back, his
head resting on his swag, his quartpot,
beside him, and his pipe in his mouth. He
was discovered by some blacks who were
wallaby hunting, and he lay there another
week before the police came from Mitchell,
a hundred miles away, and buried him.
Their verdict was thirst. Another case was
that of a young man named Corbett, who
had been making for a spot on the Robert-
son River (Q.), where his father was mur-
dered by blacks many years before. His
body was found two miles from the grave.
He had taken off his trousers and folded
them for a pillow. His billycan, with six
£1 notes in it, stood near his head, and his
pipe, half-smoked, was in his hand. A
third case was that of a man named Jim
Clark, who perished on Brenda run, north-
west N.S.W., in 1902. He, too, had made
himself comfortable, and was lying by the
roadside with the pipe in his mouth.
❖ sfc
“Dai R.”: Does anyone know how long
the spider we Australians call a triantelope
lives? By bushmcn they are reputed to out-
distance man in the matter of longevity. I
knew an old fossicker on the Iterberton tin-
fields (Q.). who kept one as a pet, and ho
told me that he had had it for 27 years.
Charles Murray, of the Milrea station
Murrays, Walgett (N.S.W.). declares that a
tarantula which has made its home behind
a picture hanging in the kitchen of the
station homestead has been there for well
over 40 years. He avers that it is invariably
restless before heavy rain, rambling about
the walls, and that it is better than any
barometer in that respect, always giving
at least three days’ warning.
SOWING-TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rustle and scent of lucerne hay,
Rattle of chains and the break of day,
Twitter of birds and a rooster’s crow
Are signs and sounds that the farmhands
know.
The coulter cleaves through the melon-vine;
The share-blades flash and the mould-boards
shine;
Strong shoulders pressed to the collar’s face,
Each link is taut in the iron trace.
The tines of the harrow break and churn
The sod that the ploughshares lift and turn.
The land is ready on flat and hill.
Waiting the teeth of the seeding drill.
The night will fall ere the boys come home,
Their horses weary and streaked with foam.
The clank of spreader and clink of chain
Are sounds that tell they are home again.
N.S.W.
V. G. WILLIAMS.


ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq,; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.lf.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 99
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Kronobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. . . . . .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SMOKE-OH!
Scullout.
* *
Lang’s Labor lost.
“She broke the 10 Commandments of Love.
Continuous from 10 a.m.” —Sydney Capitol advt.
The Capitol people don’t claim it as a
record; they merely state it as a fact.
PREMIERE.
“Many years have passed since the release of the
first talkie.” —Movie magazine.
Ten million years, a mighty span,
Historians believe.
Have sped since Adam, earth's first fan,
Prc-vicwed the talkie, Eve.
DON’T BE SILLY!
“Is it true you’re thinking of leaving
Kirribilli, Mr. Theodore, and buying a man-
sion in Balmain?”
“I hear you have a very weak spot in your
heart for lawyers, Mr. Field.”
“Well, Mr. Hughes. I suppose they have
you down to propose ‘Our Guest’ at the wel-
NOT GUILTY.
SPOT: “I told you not to tell your mistress what time I came in.”
MAID: “I didn’t, sir. She asked me, and I told her I was too busy getting breakfast
to notice.”
come-liome banquet to your old friend Stan
Bruce. No wonder you’re proud of having
given him his first chance.” .
“Are you honestly anxious to have Jock
Garden for a friend, your Excellency?”
“That was the ‘Red Flag’ you were sing-
ing, wasn’t it, Colonel Campbell?”
(At Khancoban.) “Wished Jack Lang a
happy New Year vet, Torn?”
> * *
“It has taken a vast army of poll-clerks and
scrutineers to take the count.” I
A mass of politicians 'has taken it too.
“What was the great event in the year 1815 ?”
— ••Argus.”
Mr. Scullin feels that, at a time like this,
such a question is extremely tactless.
“Auburn Council considered a letter from Mr. D.
Hart, who complained of the barking of the local
dogs.”— “World.”
Is this the Hart bow-wowed down that
the song refers to?
* *
FELL O W-FEE LING.
From realms of high finance I catch
Such oft-repeated phrases cold
As "frozen assets,” and their match.—
Impiobiliscd or “frozen gold.”
That I can well appreciate
These chilly terms it’s all too true,
Because my own financial state
Not long ago reached zero too!
* *
THE NEW M.P. PREPARES FOR
CANBERRA.
“Mother, Henry, Gladys, little Horace
and Lady Help—it is hardly necessary for
me to stress, at this stage, my oft-repeated
and inalterable convictions with regard to a
question which one and ail are agreed is
among the most- —er —burning topics of the
—er —-hour. Need I say that I refer to the
matter of—er —our front lawn ? Let
enemies criticise ! Let neighbors sneer ! Let
rivals deride! I heed them not, nor ever
will, but stand four-square to the world
with the —er —definite promise that before
the first month of the New Year shall have
run its course the grass of yonder 20 x 30
plot shall be thicker, greener, freer of weeds
and in all respects superior to that of the
opposition over the way....
“What’s that? I am asked by an inter-
jector on my right if I meditate the use of
bonedust? The answer, and I make it
frankly, willingly, is in the affirmative. I
scorn to temporise or equivocate. The use
of bonedust in moderate quantities is, always
has been, and always will be an essential
feature of my Plan—the Henry Johnson
Plan, as it is known from end to end of
the great and glorious suburb which it is
my, and your, privilege to inhabit. The
Henry Johnson Plan provides for the expen-
diture of not less than Is. 6d. on a com-
modity, which, while being locally made, gives
healthy and remunerative employment to
Aussie workers at Aussie wage-rates. Well
may you cheer!
“According to statistics, one handful of
dust will suffice at a conservative estimate to
transform, I will go so far a.s to say meta-
morphosise, no less than one square yard of
territory. In other words, the expenditure
in Australia on an all-Australian product of
o.9th of Id. will cause upwards of 1,645,326
blades of grass to grow where none grew
before. By such methods has our splendid
Empire bourgeoned and spread—( Stop 'bang-
ing your spoon, Horace, or I’ll have you
ejected. Ejected, / said., you little pent
PUT outside. Do, for heaven's sake, keep
him quiet, Miss Bliggers.) To resume. I
turn now, with a heavy sense of responsi-
bility, to another matter which forms an
integral part of my Plan—the removal of
the garbage. How, I ask, is our garbage
disposed of? Who removes it, and how?
‘The garbage men in tins,’ I hear an inter-
jector say. True. But what I want to now
ask is this: Why, when garbage burnt in
a suitable container provides ashes of the
POOR FISH!
BILLY BREAM: “I might have known there was a string to it!”
utmost value as top-dressing, why, when the
lawn is a-hunger for the sustenance, the
support, the encouragement, the (to employ
a vulgarism) the —er — manure with which
human energy and a box of matches are in
a position to supply it, why, I repeat”
(Left orating.)
* *
Jack Lang is trying to make the Upper
House lower.
* *
“The receiver of stolen goods is a paradox. He
walks the fence.” — Mclb. “Herald.”
Also, he is the “fence.”
* *
MYSTERY.
A creature of infinite beauty,
She stood on the slope of a hill,
Surveying in dreamy-eyed wonder
The landscape so mistily still.
Ah! what did she make of the riddle
That causes so many to sigh?
Ah! did she discover the reason
Why beauty is fated to die?
Not deigning to ask her opinion
{lf any opinion she had),
The chauffeur, wlio’d mended her puncture,
First cranked her, then drove off like mad.
* *
The expense of a turkey was too great
this Christmas. We had to duck it.
* *
The chief obstacle to harmony in the
Federal 'Labor camp was a tendency to issue
false notes.
* *
“Air flights were among the Christinas Day
amusements.”
And thousands who didn’t go up at all
spent part of the festive day on the wing.
XON-lIEREIIITARY.
What hair! What a complexion ! And those
ruby lips ! Her limpid loveliness is certainly
a delight to the eye, and some say she
inherits it from her mother, who was con-
sidered a belle in her day. But I happen
to know that her father is solely respons-
ible —he’s a chemist!
* *
“Shouting in bars should be forbidden.”
-— Rev. Hammond.
He seems to believe ■in the. axiom:
“Every man has his price.”
SAFE PROPHECIES FOR 1932.
Mr. W. M. Hughes will not be offered a
portfolio in the Lyons Ministry. Mr. W. M.
Hughes will start a new party.
Don Bradman will make a double century.
The “Sun” will refer to him as “the Wonder
Boy from Bowral/’ An English League club
will offer him more money than he is earning
at present, but he will patriotically decline to
leave the land of his birth on being offered
more money still to remain in it. Ihe kun
will commend the Australian outlook ot
“the Wonder Boy from Bowral.
Premier Lang will evolve a new Plan, and
ask the Governor for more Ms.L.G. with
which to implement it. The S. M. Herald
will refer to “the
writing on the wall.
The Governor will
give the Premier the
new M’s.L.C'., some
of whom will
promptly vote
against the Govern-
ment, thereby neces-
sitating a new Lang
Plan and a demand
for further appoint-
ments, which will
cause the “S. M.
Herald” to refer to
“the beginning of
the end.”
A member of the
Devine family will
get shot, and be in-
terrogated in St.
Vincent’s Hospital
by the police.
“Truth” will give a
special report of the
interview, and will
deplore the “grim
secrecy of the under-
world” (with photo,
of the Devine
home), and the
readiness of the
Sydney papers to
give publicity to
“the sordid doings
of notoriety-seeking
gangsters” (with
exclusive photo, of
the Devine family).
Mr. John Smith
Garden will replace
his car with a newer
model, and begin
(when not in the
society of .Commu-
nists) to talk of his
investments. A bank
manager will be
heard to say: “I
like Mr. Garden. He lias been one of my
most respected clients for some time now.
* *
PURELY TEMPORARY.
The quacks of well-fed ducks are heard;
the protests of the back-yard geese strike
strangely on the atmosphere of what has
been suburban peace. There is contentment
in these sounds. It seems as though each
goose and duck revels in food grown plenti-
ful, and fancies that it is in. luck. The
strident shouts of children rise proclaiming
happy holidays, and there’s a new and
joyous note in all the cries Iheir elders raise.
In short, the festive season’s here again; and
at the New Year's call, we bellow wishes
of good cheer, and hope for better times for
all. But wo are like the silly geese that
shortly will our table deck: like them we
think ourselves in luck —like them, we’ll
get it in the neck.
SORRY NOW SHE SPOKE.
MISS I. GLOATT: “You’ll be interested to
know that George has put his heart in
my keeping.”
MISS D. WILDE: “Yes, poor boy, I suppose
he’ll want somebody to look after it
he told me last week that I’d
broken it.”
BALLAD OF OPTIMISM.
“There is a note of optimism, natural to the
season, to be observed.” — “S. M. Herald.”
It’s been a pretty rugged year;
Thousands ate thin tv ho once were stout;
We’ve had to drink less lager beer,
And let the landlord go without.
And yet an optimistic note
Sounds like a trumpet in the dawn;
And there’s a song in every throat:
We still have something left to pawn!
We’ll have the feast! The beer shall flow,
And still the bankrupt and the doled
Shall have the duck they used to know,
The pudding and the brandy old.
The kids shall revel in their toys,
Each homing drunk shall hare his prawn.
The girls shall frolic with the boys—
There still is'something left to pawn.
Envoy.
Perish dark thoughts this gladsome .Yule!
’Tis true a Nude Year soon< may dawn,
But meantime happiness shall rule:
There still is something left to pawn!
HAMER.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Eight Bob a Day
Dear Bulletin, —“Gad” defends the man
who refused eight bob a day from a pros-
perous (?) farmer, and refers to the dan-
gerous spirit rising among the unemployed.
There is a more dangerous spirit rising
among the poor unfortunates who are sup-
porting those unemployed. I refer to the
primary producers, of whom I am one. 1 lie
time is coming, and coming fast, when Gad
and his ilk will take that eight bob a day
and take it lively or get off the dole. —lours,
etc., Taxpayer.
Building Up the Home Market
Dear B„ —It’s good to read “Woorinon”
(B. 9/12/’3l) advocating the building up of
secondary industries, and consequently the
home market for his produce, instead ot
telling us to drag it half-way across the world
to an uncertain market; but it s rather a
pity he didn’t mention, for the benefit of his
fellow-cockies, that the only way for them
to retain and develop this excellent home
market is to reciprocate by purchasing only
the products of those factory-workers. It s
strange how many farmers see the first part
clearly and miss the second, and nothing
short of scandalous that the Country party
political leaders don’t tell their followers the
obvious truth. In the course of my busi-
ness of supplying a large range of goods to
the man on the land, I have learnt that ihe
feeling in favor of local manufactures is
making great progress ; but the chap who
demands the local article and refuses any
other is still rare.
Whilst the cultivation of the Australian-
made” spirit is desirable, the real results
will , come when the Country party cuts the
twaddle about a “scientific tariff” out of its
policy and makes its first consideration the
building up of the home market by the
development of secondary industries. _ It s
for “Woorinon” and his fellow-cockies to
put this to their leaders. —Yours, Jacka-
BURRA.
Let Us Be of Good Heart
Dear Bulletin, —Duties are imposed to
restrict or prohibit trade; and since every
natidir has become addicted, it follows that,
natural (and therefore, inexpensive) trade
is at present impossible. I am not whacking
the Freetrade drum, but subject to a reason-
able measure of Protection, expertly applied
for national purposes, I subscribe to Lord
Avebury’s dictum: “It is the very basis ot
commerce to give what you can produce
cheaply in exchange for what you want
most.”' I also subscribe to the doctrine that
surplus primary production should bo dis-
posed of to the highest bidder in the yeai
of production. The world’s history of pool
operations is that psychological reactions
cost more than any profits made.
With all the nations casting about tor
escape from their troubles, it is wrong for
ns to worry over a possible saturation point.
“NUZZHER OF ZHOSE SHURFING GIRLS , I SHPOSE”
That bridge may never be crossed. Aus-
tralia is only one of the continents, and
there are teeming millions abroad who must
eventually be fed and clothed. Notwithstand-
ing the war. the world’s population grows
apace and virgin areas shrink. _
Let us be of good heart. He is indeed a
prophet who can foretell the future of the
nations, and. no matter what view we take,
there is no better programme possible than
to keep on producing primaries, whatever
our fears —we dare not Stop.—Yours, etc.,
Bemacatjdit.
Unemployment-relief Tax
Dear Bulletin, —I have just been assessed
at £0 10s. 4d. for the above tax in Victoria.
Would it not be better to allow landowners
the option of paying the tax in cash or
giving employment to the same amount! 1 I
could have made some necessary and pro-
ductive improvements to my farm with the
£6 16s. 4d. Now the Government, has got
tin' money, which will probably be wasted.
Yours truly, W. W. Johnstone.
Unemployment and Necessity
Dear Bulletin, —No one will deny your
proposition that a self-supporting community
could lie established, starting from absolute
bedrock, on an island possessing suitable
natural resources. Yet here in Australia,
with all our advantages, we have about
300.000 unemployed, and all they do is to
increase in numbers. Why do _ they not
become a self-supporting community ? Not
because of the lack of opportunity; they
have much better opportunities here than a
Pacific island could afford. It is because
the island, would supply the very thing that
Australia (the loafers’ paradise) has not
supplied to the majority of the present un-
employed for many a long year. That thing
is necessity—grim necessity. “Work or
starve” has been the hard motto that pro-
duced at least TO per cent, of our sturdy
battling primary producers. Self-denial, grit
and perseverance—such stern qualities have
been tbc foundation of nearly every for-
tune. Yet those who have lived up to their
rigid standards are now compelled to sup-
port those who have been, and continue to
be, too chicken-hearted to face life at bed-
rock. Let Labor come off its high horse,
shake off its spurious “superiority complex
and face economic facts as , they are. "hen
The Bulletin’s appeal to employ 100,000
men will soon be answered. —Yours faith-
fully, Yam AC.
The Ethics of the Track
Dear 8.,—1n our (Gippsland) town the
unemployed assumed use of a shed at the
Show Grounds, a substantial structure and
scrupulously clean. The floor was covered
with fresh sawdust, but, the building being
on a slope, water was inclined to seep
through and make it damp. There was no
need, however, to camp on the floor, as
exhibit benches extended practically right
round the building. A road carrying plenty
of dry fallen timber lies only about five
chains from the shed. - I have many times
longed for such a camp when in the A.1.1L
The shed is now in such a state that only
the lowest class of men will camp in it.
It is crawling with vermin. Instead of get-
ting firewood, the men burnt up a big stack
of valuable sawn timber, because they had
to carry this only two chains instead of
five. No steps were taken at any time to
cut off the surface waters seeping into the
shed; they would rather live, it seems, in
mud than' do a few minutes’ work.
Can “Gad” wonder that he gets a frosty
reception at some of the towns he visits ?-
Yours, Attunga.
A Use for Macquarie Island
Dear Bulletin, —They have promised to
deport foreign Communists. But what, shall
we do with our own? Do not condemn
these without a trial by mental experts. A
dyed-in-the-wool Communist is lazy, dis-
honest, immoral and suffers from an in-
feriority complex. He cannot help it. He
may not belong to any political organisa-
tion, but let him once hear a comrade and
he succumbs. It is a mental complaint,
nearly always inherited.
What then shall we do with them?
Seven hundred miles south from Hobart lies
Macquarie Island. It has a healthy and
salubrious climate. It belongs to us. There
is nothing to prevent the Government from
forming a colony of Communists there. The
Communists could establish their own little
republic and govern themselves according
to their own inclinations. Millions of seals
and sea-lions, worth many thousands, inhabit
the island, the blubber from which could be
manufactured into soap, which couldbe ex-
changed for Russian
wheat, butter, coal,
etc. Soap is always
badly wanted in
Russia. Millions of
penguins at commer-
cial value are also
present; rabbit- and
fox-farming could be
added. In fact, the
island possesses un-
told possibilities. It
would be necessary
to import Soviet
timber for building
purposes, also an up-
to-date printing out-
fit capable of pro-
duc i n g fiduciary
banknotes of all de-
nominations based
on a goods standard
of soap, stuffed pen-
gui n s, etc. Mr.
Theodore might be
loaned for a time
until he could launch
a National Bank,
with its first issue of
IS millions, under
the sole control of
Mr. Beasley. Second-
ary industries would
spring up rapidly
under ideal condi-
tions as to wages: a
20-liour week of four days, then one day off
for rest and two-up. Bombs and basher
instruments could be produced without fear
of police intervention.
Governor Game and dear Mr. Lang
might bo spared for the opening ceremony
and transported to the island, with due
regard to their exalted positions, by H.M.A.S.
Canberra. A brief dedication ceremony
would follow, after which Mr. Lang would
explain his Plan. Finally, liis Excellency
would shake hands with everybody and wish
them luck, and another stone would be added
to the proletariat edifice. —Yours, Nemesis.
The Right to the Franchise
Dear' B., —Adult suffrage assumes that
every male and female 21 or over has a
right to equal power in selecting our law-
makers. The conclusion intended to be
drawn is that at 21 and afterwards every
man and woman has sense enough to do
the right thing as a voter. This is setting up
age alone as a standard and turning a blind
eye to any other qualification or disqualifica-
tion. But it is an admission that some
kind of a standard is essential. Yet the
flabbiness of the assumption that age is a
complete standard must be apparent to all.
Age does not eliminate ignorance.
Should not the suffrage be governed by
examination instead of age? If this were
done, the matter of age could be disregarded
and the highest form of politics would at.
least be lifted from the domain of ignorance,
if not from that of prejudice. The ignorant
and unqualified do not sit on our law
benches. Why should they select our law-
makers? As it is at present the ignorant,
the criminal, the loafer, the intellectually
subnormal are co-equal with the best in the
land in this matter. —Yours, Oronov.
New Industries and the Dole
Dear Bulletin, —At a recent inquiry by
the Tariff Board into the duty on imported
tobacco-leaf, Mr. Bentley, on behalf of the
8.A.T., said consumption has suffered a very
serious decline, which can only be met by
a reduction in duty. My memory goes back
to the time the B.A.T. had it all its own
way and tobacco-growing was barely a liv-
ing. With the present duties there is_ a
chance of encouraging an industry which
will eventually mean much to the Common-
wealth. I had'been for years in the Vic. saw-
milling trade, but when timber slumped I
had to throw 60 men and lads out of a job.
Two years ago I started tobacco-growing
arid proved it a possibility, so that this year
in a new district work
has been found _ for
45 men all the time,
and at picking and
grading there will be
work for close on 100
extra for about five
months. In addition
there is the work
for woodcutters, tin-
smiths, car penters,
etc., and this is only
one district. Would
Mr. Bentley like to set
it all knocked on the
head V
This town has,
until recently, made a
fortnightly issue of
the dole. This has now
ceased, as there are no
men out of am
it is wholly because of
the new industry of
tobacco-growing, with
all the side-lines it
brings.—Yours faith-
fully, S. Reid.
Subdivision of Westralia
Dear Bulletin, —This unwieldy State
urgently requires subdivision. For Perth to
be governed from Canberra is no more ridi-
culous than for the Kimberleys to be gov-
erned by the South-West. Even the southerly
portion needs cutting up. Esperance is the
natural port for Kalgoorlie, and the natural
seat of government for all that country from
the Yilgarn to the South Aus. border and
from the southern coast to north ot W Puna.
To-day Esperance and kindred towns moulder
while the produce of their hinterlands finds
its way by expensive road and rail to
Perth We arc left marvelling at the
appalling, transport and Government costs.
Carnarvon, too, should be the adminis-
trative centre for a State whose coastline
could stretch from south of Geraldton to
the North-West Cape. This fetate would
have three flourishing coastal towns Broome,
Derby and Wyndham, and directed by men
whose interest is in the North, should
jevelop marvellously.
The population of these States, compared
with Yukon’s 4157, would not be so small,
and once free from the drag of the selfish
Sou’-West, their advancement should be
rapid. A division per capita of public debt
would be acceptable, despite the boom-time
expenditure in the most highly populated
portion.—Yours, Curkag ii .
Education Needed
Dear , Bulletin, —The average citizen
views unemployment with bewilderment. It
does not seem right to him that in a large
fertile country, sparsely populated, there
should be any want of the necessi-
ties of life. He forgets that toi U>
years the Australian has had a stand-
ard of living unknown before in history.
This state of affairs was only made possible
by almost unliriiited credit due to the war
and post-war boom in primary products.
With the slump in prices, and consequent
withdrawal of credit, Australia is faced
with the task of . paying for the debts. so
easily contracted ;in the boom years, lliere
is no easy road to prosperity again, and edu-
cation in history would do much to teach
that there can be no dodging the issue.—
Yours etc., Pegon.
Unemployment and the Land
Dear B., —The proposition of one of
Queensland’s leading clergymen to settle
hundreds of unemployed on the land appeals
on paper, but the adventure is doomed to
failure. Settle a picked unemployed worker on
one hundred acres capable of carrying, say,
ten milking cows and give him tools anti
enough tucker for a month. The cows would
average perhaps £1 per head per month tor
at least nine months of the year, and from
these returns the settler would get more than
enough to feed his stomach. There are hun-
dreds of unemployed who would make a suc-
cess of the undertaking. But take one hun-
dred men at random off the city streets and
try them at the business —Strawberry would
be lucky if she saw the bails once a week,
let alone once a day. The capital expendi-
ture and supervision expenses, coupled witn
the inability of the majority of the workless,
make the proposition of settling unselected
hordes on the land futile.—Yours etc.,
Beef-O.
Labor and Land
Dear Bulletin,—The wage-earner, being
deprived of the natural alternative to wage
labor ( i.e ., self-employment on land), is
forced to offer his services on the labor
market in competition with other would-be
workers w r ho have been similarly treated.
In natural circumstances his choice would
lie between wage-labor and self-employment
in “Nature’s workshop.” but that workshop
being now closed to him, , there remains no
choice between wage labor and idleness.
The price of land grows artificially until
it reaches the point where industry is unable
to pay the toll demanded, and a check sets
in. causing bad times. As the check to busi-
ness becomes more intense, demand for land
slackens, and the bottom is knocked out ot
the land boom. Land is then thrown on the
market at prices nearer its true economic
level, and the, fall continues till industry is
offered sufficient inducement to take it up
and set agoing once more. ■ Good times then
reappear, but only to bo followed in due
course by the same dreary round of depres-
sion. This recurring rise and fall in bar-
riers against use of land lie at the bottom
oi trade depressions and booms.
The cure is to se»e that the supply of land,
such as industry needs, is uninterruptedly
av its disposal at its true economic value.
The supply of land must remain constant
as provided by nature for the use of man-
kind. This can be readily done by reform-
ing taxation so that it falls on land accord-
ing to value whether used or unused, bpecu-
lation in land values will then cease, and
the chief obstacle to steady industry be
removed.
Land values must be brought down quickly
to the true economic value, and until this
is done it is useless to talk about employ-
LOST HIS SEAT, TOO.
mg anybody. An artificial scarcity of land
lias the same economic incidence as it tne
land did not exist. —Yours etc., L.
Supply and Demand
Dear Bulletin, —Is there really a law of
supply and demand? There is supply and
there is demand, but not thereby is a law
constituted. Sometimes supply and demand
exhaust themselves by mutual attrition, and
sometimes one overwhelms the other, but
other times they never even make contact.
Neither factor is half a law, and applied
to what might be termed necessary commodi-
ties and conveniences are subject to so many
influences that he who can trace their opera-
tions as a law should rank for fame with
Newton and Einstein. Desire, greed,
monotony, fashions, creeds, the imitative
instinct and a thousand other factors can
cause demand. Demand might cause supply
and vice versa. There is plenty of desire foi
many things at present —’bus transport, tor
instance—but it cannot always function as
demand whilst we are crushed with “humane ■
legislation, obliterated by taxation, and
damned by our Jack in the star role of the
Old Man of the Sea. We may as well say
there is the law of Supply and Destruction
(vide bumper crops and mouse plague a
few years ago) or the law of Supply and
Decay (vide some farmers’ treatment ot
crops owing to present transport restric-
tions). —Yours, MacD.
The Unemployed and the Land
Dear 8.,—1 heard Mr. Scullin’s appeal
to people to do their bit to absorb
the unemployed. Heedful of the warn-
ings of The Bulletin for as long as I
could read intelligently, I put every pound
I could save into a farm in a good dairying
district, so that when the crash came 1
might be sure of a crust for myself and my
boys By self-denial I paid for the farm,
but have' no capital with which to quickly
make it productive. In its present state the
property is worth £l5OO. My bank manager
.says he would lend me something if he could,
but he can’t because Governments have
taken all the banks’ money. I tried private
financiers. Upon learning that the security
was broad acres they wouldn’t entertain it.
My security should provide a safe margin
WILLING TO TRY.
“It's such an excellent cause; and do you
know, Mr. McTaggart, I dreamt you
gave me £5 towards it!"
“Ah, weel, A’ll try and dream it too; but
A’m a puir hand at dreamin."
for a £lOOO loan. With this I could take
six men off the dole for 12 months and pay
them the basic wage or more if they earned
it, and, incidentally, increase production for
export. And it. would not cost the com-
munity one penny. Without financial assist-
ance X can do nothing. If there is no
money available, then why not let 1 hoodore
have hie fiduciary issue for the purpose? If
applied solely to this object, surely there
could be no harm done. —Yours, etc.,
BIITTERFAT.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Station Manager : “This is our new
country, you see; nearly all plains.”
New Chum : “Bai Jove, Ai thought it
looked new! The trees have not begun to
grow yet.”
Melba has a fault (a Paris correspondent
writes) quite common with artists —that of
singing to someone she knows in the hall,
and she warms up only on condition she
lias friends .listening to her. Strange faces
freeze her, and then she becomes indifferent.
Melba made a great mistake to go to America
in a crowd. She ought to have gone alone, in
better times, with a good company, as Patti
and Nilsson did, and then she would have
been appreciated at her true worth. It was
not possible to see a more plain, insignificant
type of an Englishwoman than Melba when
sue first came to Paris to take lessons of
Marchesi. H’er plain woollen dress, too short
in the skirt, looked like the last year’s cut
of an obscure provincial town; the combina-
tion of colors showed that she had not the
least notion of what taste was in dress, and
her hat looked as if it had been made for
anyone else’s head but hers. To-day she is
not only the best-dressed woman in Paris,
but she wears her clothes as if she were
born with one of Doucet’s last creations.
Mme. Marchesi told me that, of the three
stars now occupying the music-loving public
in America, Melba is the greatest musical
artist. [2l/4/’94.]
The local member had died of drink and
pimples and a rush of blood to the head,
and there was a vacancy in his dusty,
poverty-stricken electorate in the lonely
North-West. The district consisted chiefly
of gullies and old stumps, but public feeling
ran high all the same, and when, a short,
flabby, and desperately fat man came up
from Brisbane and wanted the suffrages of
the electors it was felt to be a gratuitous
insult, lie was shaped like a peg-top and he
evidently hadn’t seen his own feet since he
was a child, and his skin hung about him in
great flaps so as to accommodate more fat
when he could get it. He was filled with
child-like innocence, too, and he had an
alarmed baby-stare in his eyes, and an apolo-
getic expression all over his face, and he ate
like a hungry pestilence; and he had only
one speech ready, which he discharged monot-
onously at one meeting after another with
a maddening iteration which no living man
could endure. The speech was tangled up
beyond human comprehension at the start,
and it grew worse every time it was de-
livered. The candidate had vague ideas that
Queensland ought to own at least one large
ironclad, and was of opinion that it ought to
A GUILTY CONSCIENCE.
PARSON : “Now, dear brethren, I will take
my text from the book of ‘Revela-
tions.’ ”
ALARMED CITY MAN: “Great Heavens!
Have you got hold of my ledger?”
[G. R. Ashton. — 10/8/’92.]
be raised from the seed and grown in a dry
spot, and he thought that the standard of
education was not sufficiently high and that
a carpenter should be sent for to raise it
immediately ; but by-and-bye even these scraps
of knowledge deserted him, and when he met
the electors he merely mumbled and per-
spired. Then the big, prize rowdy of the
district began to haunt his meetings, and he
would sit in the front seat and ask the
harmless candidate why he didn't work off
his superfluous fat, or else he would inquire
if lie put on his boots over the back of his
head seeing that he couldn’t possibly reach
them from the front, and the candidate
would glare at him like an irritated con-
signment of butter, and say. nothing. And
so things went on till the night before the
election, when the unhappy politician held
a final meeting, and, after urging his sup-
porters to vote straight, he rashly en-
deavored to quote a few lines of appropriate
verse. Unhappily the verse deserted him,
and as he stood with his immense month
open, wondering where the lost poem had
gone to, his enemy deliberately fired a potato
into it. There was a shriek of fiendish
laughter from the audience and a howl of
malevolent derision, and the politician
waddled to the front of the platform and
asked the hpge individual .below if he did
that on purpose. He said that he did. Then
with an unexpected jump the bland, fat man
quitted his elevated position, and performing
a hurried flight through the air he arrived
with both feet on his opponent’s chest, and,
the chair beneath him giving way, they
landed together with a fearful crash on the
floor, and breaking through it they vanished
O BLESSED INTERPRETER.
SCENE: Suburban Police Court
WITNESS: “Prisoner said he’d plug me if I blew the gaff, yer Wusshup.”
STIPENDIARY: “What does that meant?”
WITNESS: “Why, put ’im away.”
STIPENDIARY : “Put him where? I don’t understand you at all.”
WITNESS: “Well, rounded on 'im, yer Wusshup.”
STTPENDLARY: “I am still ignorant of your meaning.”
WITNESS: he meant he’d biff me if I squealed, or turned dorg on him.”
CONSTABLE DE FLAHERTI (coming to the rescue): “He means to say, yer Wusshup,
that th prisoner wud belt th’ head av the witness if he gave condam-natury
ividence agin him.”
(Stipendiary groans, and wonders if he could swap the Court Bible for a Slang
Dictionary.)
[“Hop.”— 2/8/’90.]
amid a cataclysm of broken boards and dust
and exploded furniture into the foundations
of the hall. It took about twenty minutes
to extricate them by means of
ropes and a ladder, and when
they were dragged out the
public man re-ascended the
platform and stated that he
would pay the cost of repairing
his antagonist and make good
the damage to the building, in
addition to which he had re-
solved to withdraw from poli-
tics and shout for the crowd.
And then he seized his carpet-
bag and sped down the road to
the railway-station with his
hair full of splinters and pieces
of broken chair, and the tur-
bulent constituents of the wild,
rowdy West saw him no more.
[2O/9/’9o.]
One time on the Palmer (QA,
Jack Hamilton (now M.P., then
known as '‘the doctor”) was
stricken with an apparently
mortal illness, and lost 421 b. in
nine days. Jack’s assistant,
Marshall, wanted him to
make his will. Whereupon
Jack got wroth and bet
Marshall £1 to 10s. that he
wouldn’t die that week, and a
level pound that he wouldn’t
die of that sickness. Having
won both events, Hamilton, still
“off color,” went south for a
change. One day in Melbourne,
he called up at (the late) Dr.
Beaney’s house in Collins-
street to keep a lunch appoint-
ment. Said the assistant there:
"Oh, Dr. Beaney has gone to
the club to look for you and
tell you that you’re dead.”
Then the man handed Hamilton
a Cooktown (N.Q.) “Herald” containing'an
account of how he had died in Sydney and
how he had lived “a real white man.” conclud-
ing with the announcement that the Palmer
miners were subscribing to erect a monument
over his remains in Sydney. Jack went to a
telegraph office and wired—“ Failed to die in
Sydney, partly because I didn’t call there
Will take monument in cash, please.” H'e
never got it. And he never had the horse-
sense to lie low, secretly supervise the gilt
lettering of his own epitaph, collar the monu-
ment and carry it always around with him
on his' electioneering tours. The chance lie
missed! A man who could lug around a
graven tombstone-lie, paid for by loving-
public subscription, could never be politically
downed. [2B/10/’93.]
HANGMAN’S CREEK.
Hangman’s Creek is a little tomcat and
billygoat township which is situated very
much to the left of the great hereafter and
within the kick of a brown cow of the dis-
tant future. This description may appear
vague, but it is quite as definite as the libel
law of N.S.W. will allow. Anyhow, Hang-
man’s Creek is somewhere, if it isn’t some-
where else, or there or thereabouts —parti-
cularly thereabouts. Its inhabitants spend
their time in turning over stones and peer-
ing into hollow logs in search of gold which
they never find, and in rearing milch goats
for someone else to steal. Consequently
they are morose and reticent in their man-
ners and stare at all strangers with vague,
fishy-eyed suspicion. Goats are the only
public joy at Hangman’s Creek; they are
the pride and consolation of the inhabitants,
and form their sole luxury, their one object
of veneration, their comfort in the hour of
sickness, and the basis and corner-stone
of their hopes of a hereafter.
The happiness of the denizen of Hang-
man’s Creek is bound up and cemented in
his goat, and that animal is a light to his
path and a rudder to steer him over the
stormy seas of life. Goats form the root
of all quarrels and all friendships, and the
species of relationship which only some
underhand conduct in after-dealings with
goats is sufficient to break. Questions relat-
ing to the ownership of goats are fought
out by tooth-and-nail contests, and the citizen
who goes under in the struggle is regarded
by the public eye as a crushed victim who
doesn’t possess any goat. Goats form the
chief topic of conversation at Hangman’s
Creek, and consequently the man who doesn’t
own one of these animal-encumbrances is
looked upon with a strange mixture of super-
cilious contempt and imbecile wonderment,
and is shunned as a dangerous character
who may at any moment rise in homicidal
frenzy for want of a goat.
The young men of the district suffer from
few prominent characteristics except that
they have an avowed aversion to socks, which
they regard as effeminate luxuries and things
to be despised; and it is probable that the
young women would* entirely escape obser-
vation were it not that the earth shakes
and the dogs run out of the house and the
cats utter shrieks of alarm and canter for
the chimneys when they begin to sneeze.
The girls of Hangman’s Creek sneeze more
than any other girls known to history, and
their other peculiarity is that they wear
their brothers’ Wellington boots when they
go out shopping in the adjacent township.
Occasionally the young men in Hangman’s
Creek give what they call a “Bachelors’
Ball,’ but what, in reality, is a sort of
cross between a railway accident and a
Chinese funeral; but these gatherings always
come to an abrupt and untimely end, for
during the night the girls get bad and sneeze
the candles out, and then they get worse
and sneeze the roof off the ballroom and
then they sneeze all at once and promiscu-
ously and in various directions, and there
IS . an earthquake and a general blow-up.
After this, they start for home and sneeze
down several chains of dog-leg fence, and
finally they sneeze a whirlwind and a
cyclone, and the old people light out for the
neighboring lulls.
Just now, however, Hangman's Creek is
under the influence of a new sensation for
the local pedagogue has bought a telescope,
Ar-n ttt inhabitants discourse about the
Milky May and the Dog Star and the
Southern Cross and other constellations,
and plod about looking more idiotic on their
naked feet than usual. Also the small boys
are on the verge of revolution, for hardly
a morning passes 'Without little Johnny Wig-
gins being soundly caned for having made
insulting gestures at little Tommy Jackson
two miles away, or some other youngster
being pounded for fighting in the next parish
and a great cry of juvenile ferocity goes up
for that telescope. And on top of this Bill
Hopkins is waving two leg-o’-mutton fists in
tfie air, and prophesying murder and gore
because lie was seen through that infernal
glass to kiss old Ferguson’s daughter on a
hill three miles off, and he swears that
though every goat in the township should
be offered up in one awful holocaust he will
have revenge. Teace and holy calm have
bien inverted and a brick put on top of them
and a deed of blood will shortly be perpe-
trated at Hangman’s Creek. [6/4/’B9.J
Dear Bulletin,—Well do I mind the
time O’Mulligan was appointed J.P. When
he started from home to be sworn at Bungle-
town Quarter Sessions his hair and beard
were long and straggled, and lie wore a
frowsy grey slop-suit that might have been
new ten years before. While he was iu
THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT
LITERARY STYLE.
DE BROWN: “Now there goes a man noted
for his finished sentences.”
DE JONES : “Indeed? A novelist?”
DE BROWN: “No; an ex-convict.”
[Alf Vincent.— l0/9/’92.]
Bungletown he visited a tailor and a barber,
with results that will explain themselves
hereafter. To commemorate the event, dur-
ing his absence Mrs. Mulligan killed a suck-
ing-pig and two “turkey-roosters,” and in-
vited half the neighborhood to a free-and-
easy. She also scrubbed and dressed all her
children —there were 12 of them —and made
them feel straightlaced and clean and miser-
able ; and on top of this she ordered them,
under pains and penalties, to fall into line
on the approach of their father and all in
one voice exclaim, “Welcome home again,
your Worship!” At four o’clock on the
fourth day—the day of the expected return
of O’Mulligan-—all the dogs rushed out of
the house and started barking. All the
guests rushed out also, though they didn’t
bark. Amid the uproar the voice of Mrs.
O’Mulligan could be heard commanding her
terrified offspring to “Sthand in loine, child-
ther,” and a strange, clean-shaven man,
dressed in a black swallow-tailed coat and
tall black “billy,” could be seen riding up
to the house on a grey rriare, which some-
how seemed familiar. “Mebbe it’s the new
praist,” said Mrs. O'Mulligan. Nearer came
the “stranger,” and more intense grew
the excitement. Suddenly Mrs. O’Mulligan
seemed to lose her head, and, turning to the
“kids,” exclaimed in an awe-inspiring voice,
“Give the salute, eliildther, for it’s none
else than his Majesty!” Patrick O’Mulligan,
J.P., had returned from Bungletown.—
Yours, H. J. Mac. [9/6/’94.]
Dear Bulletin, —The obituary notice of
the late William Stanhridge recalls an inci-
dent of many years ago. He had a nice
place near Daylesford, with the best fruit
garden within 20 miles. One afternoon I
threshed the few hundred bushels of oats
he had grown for his own horses, and
next morning, after breakfast, the machine
was standing packed for shifting, but there
was some delay with the team. Stanbridge
had come out to the stockyard, and I was
explaining to him the construction of the
machine: “This is where the grain is deliv-
ered, Mr. Stanbridge”—l raised the little
portcullis, and out rolled about a bushel of
excellent fruit. We were both too polite
to pass any remark. “And this,” he in-
quired, “is this the drum?” “Oh, no, that’s
the rotary screen; I’ll just show you”—
I opened the end door as I spoke, and in-
advertently showed him a sort of cylindrical
wire crate packed with fruit. “If you’ll
look in here, Mr. Stanbridge,” said I, decoy-
ing him to the back of the machine, “you’ll
see the whole system of riddles in their
places” ; and we both looked in—to note a
further supply of the perishable commodity.
“And here’s where we raise the wind,” I
continued, with sickly jocularity—“this is
the main blast.” Tie looked in and saw
the fan-blades buried in another bushel
of the infernal product. I had to stop. It
was like fooling with a dynamite bomb.
Just then the old gentleman’s eye was
attracted by the cores of apples and pears
and the stones of various other fruits, strewn
profusely over the cleanly-swept yard. He
glanced at the dozen or so fellows standing
here and there, but all with their backs
towards him, and each man’s shirt was
bulged with a supply for immediate con-
sumption. A look of deep vexation grew
on his face. “Dome here, men —all of you.
I’ve got something to say to you. I’m very
sorry to see this on my place. I feel very
much annoyed to think of you spending your
trifle of money in fruit while I’ve abund-
ance of it in the garden. I should have
thought about this before. Now, men, go
to the gardener, tell him I sent you and
just help yourselves to any fruit you like.
Don’t be afraid of taking a supply for to-
morrow. Hurry along, now, hurry along.”
Which they frankly did. —Tom Collins.
[l9/5/’94.]
sweeter by far.
Than dawning day far clearer,
Than evening’s glow far dearer.
Or light the pale moon sends,
Or Sunshine strong and glaring,
Is Sydney gaslight flaring—
For it pays dividends.
Zepii.
THE LAWMAKER.
(As [?] see him day by day.)
An ounce of brains in a ton of brass,
A grain of wit in a world of gas,
Two long ears and a coat of gray,
A loud hee-haw and a tuneful bray;
A throat athirst and a palate dry,
A ruddy nose and a fishy eye ;
A ribald jest and a ribald jeer,
With a quaint supply of a language queer;
A balmy breath exhaling gin,
A triple paunch and a double chin ;
A front of steel and an iron jaw,
A hide of proof and a hungry maw;
An itching palm and a grasping paw—
And this is the man that makes the law.
[IS/11/’93.j
P. LUFTIG.


SJI
■5
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate then!
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner EFzabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
t N.S.W. Agents: Farmers k Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
& Agency Co., Ltd. £
TAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
° for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
tenable at either
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
providing all tuition fees (if chargeable) and £7O per annum
towards the cost of residence at St. Johns College.
OK
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
providing £4O per annum towards fees, residence, etc.
Aovlications are invited for the above Bursaries made
available under the mil of the late James Murphy,, of Como.
Applicants must bo .bo ™ •< Catboll.=
SSA Agi'icltu.nl College, » the ease nt.y bo.
Forms of Application (which must ho ’p C '''rio.l .luis- '.'“g footer than
o? syd ” y) -
particulars may be obtained from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
CHARCOAL GAS FOR TRACTORS.
J. I. Slattery, a Jamestown (S.A.) far-
mer, has invented a charcoal-gas producer,
and recently a test under working com 1-
tions was carried out on a catcrpiua
tractor, hauling a 16-hoe combine working
as a cultivator. It occupied two hours and
three-quarters; in that time 12 acres or
fallow was cultivated at an estimated cost
of Is. —lid. for charcoal and Id. for ben-
zine, or, say, 4d. per hour running time.
Mr. R. S. Longstaff, a Government
neering inspector, pronounced the test very
satisfactory.”
Members of the producer-gas committee
appointed by the State Government were
interested witnesses. In a report to tne
Minister, this body says that the gas-pro-
ducer is carried on the fore part of the
frame of a combined cultivator and seed-
drill, and the gas is conveyed to the tractoi
by a flexible pipe. While greatly impressed
with its efficiency, the committee recom-
mends the use of slightly heavier materials
for construction, and makes other sugges-
tions designed to admit of maintenance
and repairs being effected by the owner.
The charcoal costs Mr. Slattery lOd. per
bag of 401 b., approximately £2 7s. a ton.
The Government contract price is £2 10s. a
ton. It takes about 41b. of wood to produce
lib. of charcoal.
The committee leaves it an open question
whether charcoal gas will prove cheaper or
more efficient than wood gas for faiin
tractors; “each,” it says, “has its definite
sphere of usefulness. Where wood is plentiful
it may, with an efficient producer, prove
cheaper than charcoal, but where fuel lias to
be transported any distance charcoal has
a marked advantage, as ton for ton its gas
value is approximately twice that of wood,
while its cost should not be more than oU
per cent, more than that of small wood as
used in the producer. Another point for
consideration is that this charcoal producer
uses approximately 16 gallons of water per
eight hours, a factor of some importance m
dry districts.”
There are 4000 farm-tractors in South
Aus. Within 12 miles of Jamestown there
are 131. The committee notes that if all
these were using charcoal, instead of kero-
sene or petrol, £6500 would he circulated
annually in the district for labor instead
of £15,000 being sent out of the State tor
oil fuel. It wound up by recommending the
Government to have a Slattery charcoal-gas
producer fitted to a Forest Department
tractor and provide the wherewithal tor
experimental work with charcoal retorts.
SAVED FROM VERMIN.
“Panicum”: Five years ago my farm in
the Cassilis district (N.S.W.) was so rabbit-
stricken that it could not be stocked. For
i..e last year it has carried upwards of three
sheep per acre; and cattle are necessary to
keep roughage down. The locality lias an
average rainfall of 23Jin. p.a. ; 25iu. fell in
the last twelvemonth.
The methods I employed to produce this
carrying capacity started with the netting or
100-acre paddocks. All hollow logs and
hollow trees were burned off: rabbits were
trapped out and burrows filled in; and
until the country recovered, stocking was
carefully done. Lucerne and grass seed was
broadcast when the soil was bare, dry and
blowing about; this was followed up . m
parts by harrowing, and in parts by driving
sheep to and fro.
The costs per acre (labor being at its
dearest) were : Wire-netting, plain wire, posts
and labor, £1 2s. 6d.: burning off, Is. 9d.;
destroying rabbits and filling in burrows,
3s. • lucerne and grass seed. 55.; harrowing,
6d. ; the total being £1 12s. 9d. In arriving
at the fencing cost, adjoining paddocks are
charged half the cost of their boundaries.
Super, was not used.
PIT SILOS.
“Azac” : The conservation of fodder in the
form of silage offers greater possibilities
than any other factor for considerably in-
creasing dairy production on N.S.W.’s
North Coast. There six winter and spring
periods out of ten are droughty, and yet it is
unusual to see any kind of a silo. On the
far South Coast, where the land is not so
good, one and sometimes several are to be
seen on almost every farm. The result is
that while South Coast farmers keep their
cows m condition during the winter and
have them ready to respond to the early
spring pasture growth, North Coast dairy-
men allow their cows to get so low m condi-
tion during dry winters (which are as a rule
followed by dry springs) that it Jswellinto
the summer before the cows return to ima
production. Even if the springs turn out
good, the pastures do no more than help
cows to regain condition lost during the try-
ing winter period, whereas if cows were ted
during the winter production would jump
ahead immediately the spring or earlj
summer pastures appeared. Grasses at these
times contain more nourishment and mi
producing properties than at any other
season. ,
AH the fodders necessary to form a bai-
anced ration can be grown on any North
Coast farm, and it therefore only remains to
decide upon an efficient means of conserving
them. While maize grain can be stored m
a barn and lucerne in the form of hay, most
of the other crops are best ensiled. In
feeding value of silage is unquestioned, but
its main advantage from a Nortli Coast
farmer's point of view is that it can be ma .
in almost any kind of weather.
There are three types of silos to choose
from —the overhead (or tub) silo, the stack,
and the pit silo. The making of stack
silage is really only suitable for conserving
grass that is cut in the flush season, as the
wastage due to weathering is enormous,
amounting to about 30 per cent, of the
material in the stack. The overhead silo,
usually constructed of concrete, is certainly
the best, not because it turns out better
silage than the pit, but because there is no
wastage at all, and, moreover, the feeding of
the silage is facilitated. However, the cost
of erecting an overhead silo is heavy, and
the material lias to be chaffed prior to en-
siling. There is also the expense of provid-
ing some kind of elevator with which to till
the silo. The pit silo costs very little to
excavate, it turns out excellent silage, there
is very little wastage, and the material can
be put in whole without chaffing. As a
matter of fact the best way is to cut the
crop with a binder and put the tied sheaves
in the pit, placed so as to lie all the one way.
Onlv recently has the suitability of the
nit silo for coastal districts been acknow-
ledged It is quite satisfactory provided a
well-drained, elevated location is chosen. It
the soil is sandy or gravelly so much the
better The pit should not be more than
five feet deep, and on the basis of 2 c. yards
to the ton of silage it is an easy matter to
calculate the length and breadth of a pit to
hold a given quantity of material. lor
instance, a pit 20ft. by soft. by ott. deep
should hold about 100 tons. However as
the pit should have batters of about 3 to 1
at the two ends to enable the loads to
be driven into it when filling the length
and breadth would have to be a little
greater to make up for the sloping ends.
The material should be put into the pit
green and the filling should be done slowly.
As shrinkage is great, the material should be
stacked at least 15 feet above the ground
level When settling is complete it will only
be a few feet above the ground, just sufficient
to form a mound to throw off the rain.
Finally, cover the material with about is
inches of earth. Once put down properly,
pit silage will keep for years.
FEEDING THE PODDY.
“C. E. Real”: Hand-feeding the poddy
may be likened to keeping a fire going.
Should the food fed early be too coarse and
indigestible (or unburnable), the energy pro-
duced is insufficient to keep the fire alight,
and the beast does not thrive —indeed it will
probably die. Even if the food used m the
initial stages is of the best, and the fire
gets a proper start, any departure from the
sound principles of correct stoking (as, tor
example, too early and too heavy feeding ot
rich concentrates) will be harmful. When
feeding the poddy (or any other young
beast) take good care that the rough stuff
is not fed prematurely.
Wet wood is a heat-waster. For the
same reason, let us conserve as much energy
as possible for the dairy cow. One way
of doing it is to rug her during the cold
months of the year.
Just as the fire requires kindling so does
the young beast require an easily burnable
fuel an easily digested food. Nature s
kindling, in the case of the calf, is milk;
when this is not available, a suitable sub-
stitute must be fed so that the framework
of the beast remains uninjured a#d at the
same time the requisite energy in the form
of heat is produced in quantity sufficient to
supply the, little extra required for growth.
Our fire leaves a char, and the fuel fed to the
beast is never wholly consumed. The more
indigestible the food the greater the pro-
portion of indigestible matter passing out
as excreta.
The amount of heat (energy) generated
by any given food (fuel) will depend to a
certain extent upon the composition ot
the food, or fuel. Wood, coal and coke vary
in the amount of energy produced per poum.
of fuel. Similarly, a pound of hay, chaff,
bran or linseed meal, when consumed by
the animal, will provide it with varying
amounts of energy, all depending on the
amounts of pure protein, pure carbohydrate
and pure fat (oil) contained in the fodder.
Tim study of the burning fire applied to the
feeding Qf stock is not only interesting but
of great value to the practical stock-feeder,
particularly when accompanied by a sound
knowledge of foods and their composition.
THE BUFFALO FLY.
“FY7”: B. J. Tillyard, the Common-
wealth’s chief entomologist, has a world-wide
reputation in his own sphere. Australian
owners of beef and dairy cattle herds must
therefore pay attention to his report on the
south-eastern exodus of the buffalo ay from
the Northern Territory; it is published
in the November number of the “Journal or
the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research.
According to the Tillyard report the ny
attacks cattle, horses, mules and (on
occasions) human beings; it is not keen
on sheep, goats, dogs or marsupials. No
poisoner, as are the tick and the malarial
mosquito, it is a bloodsucker and a persistent
one, doing harm by reason of constant irrita-
tion, loss of blood and of condition. Cattle
are kept on the move when they should be
feeding. Rubbing against trees, etc. due
to irritation, sets up septic sores, with the
result that in a short time the affected beast
is worthless for any purpose.
The fly, travelling always with its host,
lays its eggs in the freshly dropped dung
and immediately returns to its bloodsucking.
It prefers a hot, humid climate, and, save
in exceptionally wet weather, increases most
abundantly in low-lying moist areas Dr.
Tillyard gives an annual 20-inch rainfall as
the minimum desideratum for its well-being.
As the whole eastern coast of Australia has
an average rainfall well in excess of 20 inches
“it is clear that, once the fly reaches the
Queensland coast, it will travel steadily
southwards, probably as far as the HuntCi
River.”
Only severe frost is likely to stay the
progress of Australia’s latest imported
nuisance. It is not likely to prove dan-
gerous at elevations of 2000 ft. and over;
but within the coastal area indicated the
fly may be expected to become a serious
pest '“lt is a most significant point that
the probable area of infestation includes
the best beef-raising and some of the best
dairying country in Australia.” This serious
menace to two of Australia s _ leading
primary industries has been dinned into the
cars of Federal and State Governments for
several years past. The only result so tar
is that perfunctory inquiries have been set
on foot.
BETTER SURFACE DRAINAGE.
“Agrarian”: According to “A. Gistaker”
(B 9/12/’3l) “soil-moisture evaporates at
the surface.” The fact is that air penetrates
some soils quite a considerable depth; as
Rastall said in “Agricultural Geology :
“Soluble materials come upwards, and, meet-
ing atmospheric air in the soil, are ■precipi-
tated and form a solid layer, usually at a
depth of 15in. to 20in. ’ And llilgard
records in “Soils” that the cementing solu-
tions that infiltrated a stratum and formed
the hard-pan usually came from above, ••more
rarely from below.” I referred to hard-
pan on areas where percolation downwards
was not evident and escape of water was
by evaporation.
As for the “Biscay” land, “A.G.’s” remark
about my limited knowledge is what one could
expect from such an ill-informed person.
The word “fermentation,” which moved him
to ridicule, was used by Rev. Julian G 00( D
in his “Geological Observations m South
Australia” to describe the result of chemi-
cal action that liberated gas and caused the.
rising of the mounds. As Woods noted, the
mounds are never seen except, where a great
deal of surface water lies about in winter-
time. This fact, and the presence of nodules
of dolomite on and throughout the loose
soil in the centre of the mounds, and the
froth mentioned by the reverend scientist
all go to justify the conclusion that the
cause is purely chemical.
“Magnesia and lime are alkaline, but it
might bother “A.G.” to be told that they
m ; s ht be in suspension and make the water
look milky. I question the bacterial theory
of the forming of the mounds, nor is there
anv evidence that the theory is gener-
ally accepted.” It is all in keeping with the
tragic neglect of soil study. I emphasised
the urgency of land-moulding and open
drains on certain large areas. There may
be other valuable methods, but to secure
large and immediate improvement, at the
minimum cost better surface drainage is
demanded.
EXCELLENT SELF-SOWN CROPS.
“Woorinen” : Mr. H. Ward, a Vic. Malice
farmer of over 115 years’ experience
place is near Swan Hill —has stripped too
bags of oats, all of good quality, oft 9<J
acres of self-sown. Last year the .same
piece gave 585 bags from the first solving.
Mr F Brown, of Woorinen, cut about oU
tons of hay from a self-sown crop of 45
acres; last year the original sowing gave
10 tons of liay. Neither crop was irrigated.
These cases, two out of many, show that
occasionally in Australia we get a lush yeai
when growth runs mad. It is a wise man
who can forecast such a year. To me this
past season always looked a good gamble ; tar
better than a few pounds on Phar Lap.
DRIED-FRUIT PRICES RISE.
“Kilkivan”: One result of the deprecia-
tion of the pound in American dollars is a
rise in prices of Australian dried fruits. Ol
late years the severest competition in
British markets was from Californian
raisins ; the area under vines in California
had been doubted in the hope that, with
prohibition, people would buy grapes to
make their own wine. This proved a dud,
so the grapes had to be dried. Tonnage nas
bevond U.S. home requirements and the sur-
plus was dumped in England. The preferen-
tial tariff of £7 per ton saved the Australian
raisin industry.
The Yanks for the last two years
have had a campaign for crop reduction.
One year they left a big percentage on
the vines, growers being compelled by law
to do so, and this was to be followed by
elimination of all “marginal” or low-produc-
ing ai;eas. The present position will give them
a bigger headache than ever; as long as the
pound is of its present value it is as good
as a preferential tariff of 25 to .30 per cent.
Indications are that Victoria and S.A.
will produce heavy crops of good-quality
fruit. Growers are alive to the situation..
Several vine districts have formed research
and inquiry committees, and are employing
experts to study the vines and to supervise
harvest methods and give demonstrations of
dipping and drying. “Harvest only quality
fruit” is a slogan which promises to be
loyally obeyed.
‘in our district (Woorinen, Vic.) and two
others associated with us, we have a volun-
tary inquiry committee with 500 members,
which issues monthly bulletins. They are
printed as news in the local paper, reprints
being posted to each grower. Requests tor
copies have come from several other districts,
and even from implement manufacturers in
Melbourne. The bulletins deal with such sub-
jects as spraying, manuring and the best
methods of improving harvest equipment.
And any recent discovery is communicated;
for instance, it has been found, during in-
vestigation of root-feeding of the vine, that
ploughing can be done up to mid-September
without danger, though it is better to plough
in August. The funds are raised by a local
levy of 6d. per ton on all fruit produced.
Rural Australia is not asleep; we know we
need to improve our methods, and we are
going to do it.
BETTER PRICES FOR LEMONS.
A while ago contributors to these columns
were complaining that they could not gel
a payable price for lemons. The N.S.V •
Department of Agriculture is advised by
the special officer who gives instruction to
citrus-growers that “there is a considerable
shortage of summer-ripening lemons this
season,” and that “growers who have fruit
maturing during the next few months_ may
anticipate good prices, provided it is of
desirable size and quality.”
The instructor recommends that the fruit
should be harvested before it attains a
greater size than 2iin., irrespective of color:
color will quickly develop after picking.
Lemons should be carefully handled during
harvesting and packing. Clipping is recom-
mended, preferably shortening back the
lateral rather severely to force out a new
growth as early as possible; pulling fre-
quently damages the lateral. Double clipping
is advised; it enables the stalk to bo cut
more closely to the fruit. “Careless chp-
ping, leaving a stub, is worse than pulling
the fruit as far as keeping quality is con-
cerned, as the stub is apt to puncture the
neighboring fruit,” the instructor concludes.
QUEENSLAND’S EGG BOARD.
“Friar Tuck” : Queensland poultry-farmers
are a house divided concerning the Gov-
ernment Egg Board. Some want if
abolished; others support it, and the Minis-
ter has promised to have its operations over-
hauled by a departmental officer. I am one
(Continued on page 26.)


I
£
:
I
ft
wm
M I
For comfort and safety
in the stirrups
Light, resilient, softly leather-lined. . .
with nothing to catch in the stirrups
. . . .the Abbey is the ideal Riding
Boot. It fits like a glove, yielding
comfortably with every movement.
Its sole is made of the toughest Aus-
tralian leather. The upper, curved
for perfect ease of fit over the instep
arch, has ankle insets of stout elastic.
There’s no strain anywhere. . . .and
the Abbey Riding Boot is unsurpassed
for neat appearance.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 261
•tf
ďf
d
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C °id.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
ALEMITE
GOOD LUBRICANT
As Necessary as Good Petrol
Because bearings must be properly lubricated to avoid friction.
Good lubricants contain no injurious acids. ALEMITE is the best
lubricant known to modern science. The use of the ALEMITE System
of Lubrication assures every vital part being properly lubricated.
ALEMITE is forced in under 3000 lbs. pressure. Dirt, sand, grit
are forced out at the same time ..... Result perfectly clean,
lubricated bearings.
ALEMITE every 500 miles—insure your car against friction troubles.
ALEMITE CORPORATION « Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chlcago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives :
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pin Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN &CO (Pty), Ltd. . . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST* lO
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
of those who are convinced that the Queens-
land hen fruit-farmer has reason to complain.
Brisbane prices are always 2d. or so below
Sydney prices, yet feed is always dearer in
Queensland than it is down south Then
so many deductions are made by the board
that for some months past it has swallowed
30 p.c. of gross returns.
An egg-farmer in a small way, I sent to
the board in November 200 dozen eggs, which
realised £7 19s. 3d. Railage was 4s. 9d.,
cartage 25., returned empties 2s. 3d., export
levy Bs. 4d., “equalisation” 16s. Bd., working
expenses 10s. Id., stamp duty 2d.—a total
deduction of £2 4s. 3d. That left me £o 15s.
to pay for feed, rearing* of young chicks and
working expenses. These deductions arj
made all the year round on all eggs mark-
eted and even if a man finds a market out-
side the Egg Board area he still lias to
pay the board’s charges, though it does
nothing for them. Of course, if a profit is
shown on the export of eggs, the grower
will get something back, but. our hopes of
getting much are slender. It is to be hoped
that the overhaul referred to will show us
some result by reducing levies; at present
we are not getting the cost of fowl feed.
The egg-export industry may have good
prospects down south, but the trade in
Queensland is in the doldrums, in spite of
an enormous decrease in the number of eggs
marketed through farmers being forced out
of business. In England eggs are fetching
good prices, to which exchange must be
added, yet guaranteed special eggs have only
just crawled up Is. per dozen in Brisbane,
after being lOd. for months. From this
price must be deducted all the levies and
charges complained of.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Has subterranean clover been proved
to be a good feed? (2) Will it thrive at
the expense of all other grasses and eventu-
ally kill them? (3) Will it die during a dry
spell or a drought? (4) For how long has
this clover been known? (5) What per-
centage of protein does it contain? —7297.
(1) Yes, in districts with regular winter
and spring rainfall. (2) Once established
it crowds everything else out for a few
years, but eventually the grasses again
thrive. Its smothering habit may be coun-
teracted to some extent by reducing or omit-
ting altogether the use of superphosphate.
(3) This depends on the district and other
climatic conditions. It will stand the dry
spells and droughts of the eastern Riverina
and tablelands, but would not thrive in
your district (Warren). (4) It has been
known in Europe for hundreds of years and
in N.S.W. since 1896. (5) The hay con-
tains 12.7 p.c. crude protein, as against
16.3 p.c. in lucerne.
' Has brown paper ever been tried as a
lining for woolpacks? —7387.
Wool bales lined with brown paper and
also a heavy blue paper were used some two
years ago. The chief drawbacks were the
trouble experienced at the time of pressing
and also in the sampling at the store. A
pack made wholly of twisted paper was also
tried about the same time, but the sampling
and wool hooks enlarged the mesh and tore
the pack, with the result that the condition
of the wool was adversely affected. Both
types of covering were discarded as unsatis-
factory.
(1) Best locality in N.S.W. for pig-rais-
ing? (2) Is it absolutely necessary to use
milk for fattening? —7187.
(1) Practically the whole of the State is
suitable for pigs, but they are mostly found
on the coastal areas, where they are kept
in conjunction with dairy cows. (2) Not
absolutely necessary, but very beneficial.
How to clear an underground tank of
green slime? —7255.
Bleaching powder at the rate of 2oz. or
2ioz. per 1000 gallons of water should be
mixed with 4 or 5 gallons of water, and this
mixture added in small quantities to the
bulk of the water to be treated, stirring after
each addition so as to ensure even and uni-
form distribution.
(1) Do bees work during the hot weather?
(2) Do they need water put for them? (3)
How can unts be kept away from a hive? —
7476.
(1) Yes. (2) A convenient water supply
should be available. If no natural perma-
nent supply is within reasonable distance
(say, a quarter of a mile), a vessel contain-
ing floats (to prevent the bees drowning)
should be provided. (3) Set the hive up on
four solid pegs and wind tarred rag around
the pegs. The tar will need renewing occa-
sionally. The little black ants may be
banished by feeding them on a mixture con-
sisting of a dessertspoonful of borax and
half a cup of honey. Place the mixture
about the tracks of the ants, and in con-
tainers which exclude bees but allow the
entry of the ants. Gravel- or meat-ants
(those building a large gravel nest) may be
destroyed by pouring powdered sheep-dip
down a good number of the nest entrances.
When four months old 16 out of 20 of my
turkeys developed a lameness in the right
shoulder, with a swelling at the knee joint.
They are kept in a dry place, and arc fed
plenty of greens. with a ration of pollard,
bran, wheat and small corn. 1 give also ipe-
cacuanha wine four times a week. Cause and
cure of ailment? —7464.
Many turkeys have developed this com-
plaint. It is probable that they are infected
with a pus producing an organism causing
a form of arthritis. Paint the affected parts
with strong iodine. All the infected birds
should be isolated, and the others allowed
ample free range. Five per cent, bonemeal
included in the ration would be beneficial.
Ipecacuanha wine should be given at the rate
of one dessertspoon to each quart of drink-
ing water one day weekly, as a preventive of
blackhead.
Cure for itch on horse’s legs? —7346.
Clip the long hair off the affected parts.
Wash with a lukewarm watery soap solution
to which has been added 5 p.c. of 1 some coal-
tar antiseptic such as cyllin or lysol. When
dry rub into the affected parts a little cotton-
seed oil. Repeat the treatment twice a week
until relief is forthcoming.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dave” : A season like the present, when
rain is fairly plentiful, is the time to keep
the waterways leading to the paddock tanks
(and especially the larger ones) in good
order. In nearly all such artificial drains
washaways occur and breaks are made by
crossing stock. These should be mended, .and
herbage and the timber flotsam of previous
rains removed. It is a spare-time job that
will return dividends when the dry times
come again, as they will.
“Yarri”: A good plan on dairy farms and
small grazing areas is to have a cultivated
plot for good grasses. These may be sown
in narrow strips, and the seed harvested
and scattered where required at suitable
times. In this way pastures that are con-
stantly fed down and never get a chance to
seed may be kept from deteriorating or dying
out through root exhaustion, poor feed re-
placed with good, and poor land, after treat-
ment, planted with the best and most suit-
able grasses.
“Rastus”: We had a troublesome wash-
out from our Tas. rivei*, and tried to dam it
with earth and stone, but the first flood took
the lot. Then we put a netting fence across
it with the posts about willow limbs, and
banked it on the top side with stable manure.
The thing has stood several floods and
looks like a permanent mend.
“Hornby”: A few seeding plants of mus-
tard grass on a breezy day will infest a
many-acred paddock. Hoeing out by the
roots before .seeding time is a sure, if slow,
cure; even without that, early and very
thick sowing of sturdy varieties of wheat
and oats will, in the course of three or four
sowings, wipe out the nuisance. No arti-
ficial manure should be used in mustard
country till the land has been quite freed.
“Dai R.”: Pigs, especially half-grown
ones, are very apt to get colic and diarrhoea.
Castor oil is the best remedy. Three ounces
should be given—reasonably hot, a.s it acts
more quickly that way and often saves an
animal that would otherwise be lost. Have
the pig well secured on its back (or you
may get a nasty bite) and pout down the
throat, gagging the animal to keep the mouth
open if necessary. Keep it warm and feed
lightly for at least three days.
“Cass”: In my district barley grass-seed
is the worst trouble for rams when mating.
A ram getting a seed in his eye is punched
by his mates until he leaves the mob. If
he is found and the seed is taken out and
treated with iodine and potassium iodide in
water, pink-eye will not supervene; other-
wise it invariably develops and the ram is
valueless for the season.
“D.H.R.” : Fencers have trouble in avoid-
ing “bogginess” through dneven tightening
when running wire-netting Over hilly coun-
try. This can be avoided by straining only
the top of the netting on the rises, and only
the bottom in the hollows. Ordinary strain-
ing must be done on the slopes and well
done, not sparing the staples. Strain at
every post, using a crowbar through netting
and post as a pull-block.
“Floodmark” : To cure beef on the farm,
get a 30-gallon beer- or wine-cask, fill it
with light shavings and set them alight;
when the inside wood is well charred, it will
be sweet for the meat. Have an ordinary
kitchen table near the cask with the meat
on it, leaving a space for the salting; rub
each piece thoroughly with salt and pack
tightly into cask. Do the toiigue and neck
pieces last, salt them extra well and
place them on top of cask. Leave a spigot
hole open in the bottom of cask, with a
container under it to catch the liquor; cover
with a chaff-bag hooped on, and for first
week remove each night. After the first
three days of salting unpack, lightly resalt,
replace : and the job is complete.
“Awani”: To give Dobbin some peace
from the flies make him a veil from an old
tyre-tube. Cut a piece of tube the required
length, then into narrow strips. Snip a few
ventilation holes into the forehead piece and
you have an effective fly-veil.
“Disc Harrow”: For an excellent home-
made chimney-sweeping appliance, twist
three yards of old barbed-wire into the form
of a spiral, 4in. to Sin. diameter. Make a
complete circle top and bottom. This
barbed-wire cylinder is fastened by baling
wire or stout string to the end of a thin
stick. 4ft. long. Other sections, which may
be made in any number required, consist of
sticks of the same length, all intermediate
sections being tipped at the ends with short
lengths of old metal tubing. Push the top
section up the chimney, then fit the end of
one of the intermediate sections over it and
push up, cleaning as you go, and continue
until the “brush” reaches the top. The
barbs of the wire will be found excellent
for scraping the sides of the chimney.
“Jack Toint” : In addition to cleansing and
disinfecting brooders, hoppers, etc., you
must give attention to the ground itself if
next year’s chicks are to have a fair spin.
Fork over the pens (not too deeply), give
a top-dressing of lime and leave for a while.
Then plant rape, silver beet or kale —rape
for preference, as it is a gross feeder and
will sweeten the soil as well as coming in
handy for green feed. If chick-houses and
fences can be shifted each season, so that
last season’s ground will not be needed for
two or three seasons, so much the better.
“The Breaker”: Results achieved at Wil-
landra station (N.S.W.) at the shearing
emphasise the importance of careful breed-
ing and culling. From 96,000-odd sheep
3243 bales of wool were obtained; and in-
cluded in the number shorn were 30,000
April-May lambs. Some two-year-old
wethers averaged 18|lb. wool per head ; hog-
gets averaged up to 151 b. Willandra wool
is full of character and quality.
“Karaway”: In reply to my par. on red
and white cobs of maize, “Nomel” (B.
9/12/’3l) says that it is just a matter of
heredity, and adds that by the selection of
all reds the whites will drop to 20 per cent,
the first year, to 17 the second, then 15 and
so on. By this process of elimination the
white should ultimately disappear, which is
rather against his theory of heredity. I was
on a farm on the Richmond River when
the seed maize was selected from red cores
for five years in succession, and there were
just as many whites in the fifth crop as in
the first. The next farm was two miles
away, with scrub and forest between, so
there could have been no cross-fertilisation.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier (N.S.W.) wishes to capitalise
12 years’ commercial exp. in China, Malaya and
Java.—7s27.
Lady, exp. in tracing, mechanical and structural
drawings, desires employment in Q’land or W.A.
Previously employed by mining co. Can type. —7521.
To buy old Australian belt buckles, army and
navy ; also bit bosses. —7501.
To buy “The History of Botany Bay,” published
by The Bulletin.— 7499.
To buy book giving instructions for making
hammocks and fishing nets. —7433.
To buy photograph of Sydney Deane, baritone
Royal Comic Opera Co. 1890-96, or of co.’s cricket
team captained by Deane. —7474.
Words of poem “The Vampire.”—74BB.
Words of poem “Flying Kate.” —7487.
Grandson of T. H. Permiens, the explorer, formerly
of Gladstone and Rockhampton, would like to hear
from relatives in India or Europe.—7so2.
Information Sought.
(1) Will Efftee Film Productions con-
sider scenarios? (2) What is their address?
(3) How should scenarios be submitted? —
7421.
(.1) Yes. They state that they are eager
to secure Australian-written scenarios for
the purpose of making Australian pictures.”
(2) His Majesty’s Theatre, Melbourne. (3)
First submit a synopsis embodying the
theme.
(1) Whom to send sovereigns to in order
to obtain the best price? (2) Are they bought
by weight? (3) What, is the correct weight
of a sovereign just out of the Mint? (4)
The Commonwealth Bank offers me 255. each ;
why should outside firms be able to offer
305.? (5) Is the gold bounty paid on sov-
ereigns ? —7314.
(1), (2) and (4) The Commonwealth
Bank will pay 30s. for e.ach full-weight
sovereign. For sovereigns lighter than full
weight 255. is paid. These prices are sub-
ject to alteration from day to day. (3)
7.322382 grammes fine gold. (5) No.
(1) Best type of hand-pump to lift water
15ft. or 20ft., 2in. pipe? _ (2) During winter
when water is not required, should pipes be
kept full or empty? —73so.
(1) A low-down lift and force pump. (2)
Depends on the nature of the water. If
fairly soft it won’t hurt pipes; if hard and
mineralised it will be better to keep them
empty.
What are shovel-nailed rays? —7442.
They are members of the family Rhino-
batidee, and are also known as guitar-fishes.
The .snout is a broad, triangular, flattened
projection. They are plentiful both in tem-
perate and tropical waters.
(1) What was the fate of the whip High-
flier, Hobson’s Bay to England, 1877? (2)
What was the end of the ship Tudor, which
called at Hobson’s Bay in 1864? —6871.
(1) She was put into the tea trade but was
not fast enough, so she was sold to 11.
Ramen, of Elsfleth, in the late ’seventies.
She was abandoned at sea about 1898. (2)
Can’t say. Can find no mention in avail-
able records.
Many dogs in this district are dying from
a kind of distemper. The disease takes them
off in about three days. The first symptom
is a cough. Any cure? —7410.
Symptoms indicate catarrhal and pneu-
monic form of distemper. Sick dogs should
be isolated, and the kennels and yards thor-
oughly cleansed and disinfected. Healthy
dogs should be washed in a 1 p.c. warm
solution of cyllin or other disinfectant before
being placed in clean kennels. Preventive
vaccine treatment is now being used for dis-
temper ; it is advisable to get a vet. to inject
the vaccine. In the early stages keep nos-
trils and eyes clean by using a warm solu-
tion of Epsom’s salts and water (a tea-
spoon to 1 pint). Give from five to ten
grains of chlorate of potash on tongue three
times daily. Feed on milk and nourishing
broths. If pneumonia supervenes rub sides
of chest with a stimulating liniment, and
give a dessertspoon of port wine twice or
three times daily. Nursing is of great
importance. There is no specific cure for
distemper.
How did the “La Blanche” punch in box-
ing originate? —744B.
In a contest between. “Nonpariel” Demp-
sey and a French-Canadian named La
Blanche, the latter, when on the point _of
being knocked out, in sheer desperation
swung his right hand in back-hand fashion,
thus bringing the bone of his forearm into
contact with Dempsey’s jaw, knocking him
nut. Many a boxer was knocked out by
this blow before the authorities debarred
its use.
(1) Composition of Babbitt metal? (2)
Suitable flux? (3) Where procurable? —
7372.
(1) Tin, 83.3 p.c.; antimony, 11.1 p.c.;
copper, 5.6 p.c. The bearing to be lined is
first tinned with the Babbitt metal mixed
with twice its weight of tin. (2) Resin.
(3) Any large hardware store.
What musical education is provided by
the N.S.W. State Conservatorlum of Music
and what diplomas does it award? —7457.
Tuition is provided from elementary to
advanced stages. The studies are divided
into two sections. The music-school section
consists of three courses —elementary, inter-
mediate and advanced. A certificate is
granted on the satisfactory conclusion of
each course. The advanced-grade certificate
entitles the holder to admission to the
diploma section, in which a professional
diploma is awarded. A preparatory course
is available for juveniles who have not
previously received tuition.
(1) One of the smoothing condensers m
my “,B” eliminator has broken down; can
it be replaced by any type of correct
capacity? (2) Where procurable? (o)
What are the usual capacities of these three
condensers? (4) My Ratheon rectifier
valve gets very hot. Is this normal.
~ The correct capacity is essential, and
in addition they must be able to withstand
the full high-tension voltage for long periods
with safety. A 1000-volt type condenser
should be used. (2) Any large radio-store.
(3) The input condenser is usually 2 or
4 M.F.; the centre condenser, 2M.I.; and
the output, SM.F. or over. (4) Yes, this
valve is usually too hot to touch with com-
fort.
(1) Who designed the centenary stamps
of N. S. Wales, issued in 1888? (2) Are
these stamps of any value? (3) What does
the penny value illustrate? —7460.
(1) One penny and 6d., by M. Tannen-
berg; 2d. and 8d. by Miss Devine; 4d. by
II Barraclougli; 5s. by C. Turner; and
20s. by Mrs. Stoddard. The Is. taken
from a picture of a kangaroo in the Sydney
Museum. (2) The lower values are not of
great value, but some of the rarer perfora-
tions are worth a few shillings. The os.
and 20s. are catalogued at from a few shil-
lings to £2 10s., used. They are more
valuable in an unused condition. (3) A
view of Sydney Harbor from Mosman Bay.
My two-year-old fox-terrier is shedding
hair profusely. How can I stop it? —7371.
May be quite normal, but if there are
any bare patches the dog may be affected
with eczema. Get a chemist to mix car-
bonate of potash 4oz., almond oil 4oz.,
kerosene 4oz., oil of Bergam 3 and
distilled water to make up to lOoz. Shake
well before use, and brush the coat once
daily with a hairbrush.
(1) Basic wage in every State of the
Commonwealth? (2) Humber of unemployed
in each State approximately? —7324.
(1) Weekly basic wage of Common-
wealth Arbitration Court at November 1
was: Sydney, 78s. 6d.; Melbourne, 70s. 6d.;
Brisbane, 65s.; Adelaide, 64s, 6d.; Perth,
69s.; Hobart, 71s. 6d., subject to 10 per
cent, deduction. The weekly basic wage fixed
by State industrial tribunals is: N. S.
Wales, 82s. 6d., plus child allowances;
Q’land, 74s.; South Aus., 63s.; Westralia,
73s. 6d. No rates are declared in Vic. and
Tas., but these States follow Federal rates
to a large extent. (2) Percentage of trade
unionists unemployed for third quarter,
1931: N. S. Wales, 31.6; Vic., 26.S; Q’land,
16.9; South Aus., 33.3; Westralia, 27.9;
Tas., 27.3; Australia, 28.3.
(1) What action can a N.S.W. municipal
council take to recover rates? (2) Would
council be likely to sell land to defray rates
if requested by owner? (3) If not, alter-
native method of disposing of land?— 7420.
(1) It may take legal proceedings for
the recovery of any rate at any time within
20 years from the date Avhen the rate became
due. If rates are overdue for more than
seven years the council may have the land
sold by the Public Trustee. (2) The coun-
cil would decide that for itself. It has power
to do so if rates are owing for more than
seven years. (3) Place it in the hands of
an agent for sale.
(1) What chance has a young man of
securing a job as a steward on an overseas
ship? (2) I am over 21; would that rule
me out? (3) Would I need to have refer-
ences when applying? —7419.
(1) No openings at present. (2) Yes, if
you haven’t had previous sea experience.
(3) Previous sea-going discharges necessary;
shore references useless.
What deductions are allowed to resident
taxpayers, apart from the general exemption
of £250, under the N.S.W. Income Tax Act?
—7422.
Payments up to £50 for life assurance
and fidelity guarantee; £50 for each child
under the age of 16 years; £50 for wife; up
to £50 contributed by unmarried taxpayer
to dependants; up to £100 for friendly-
society benefits or superannuation, if tax-
payer is a w r age- or salary-earner or if his
taxable income is not over £800. Medical
and dental expenses or funeral expenses of
a taxpayer, his wife, family or dependants,
if taxable income is not over £400. Up to
£50 for education of each child under 18
years where suitable facilities are not pro-
vided by the State, if taxable income does
not exceed £800.
Value of typewriters imported into Aus-
tralia in last two years for which figures
are available, and countries of origin? —7423.
United Kingdom: 1928-29, £29,782; 1929-
30, £23,147; other British countries: 1928-
29. £80; 1929-30, £263; Germany: 1928-29,
£2161; 1929-30, £3132; U.S.A.: 1928-29,
£166.196; 1929-30. £158,638; other foreign
countries: 1928-29. £379; 1929-30. £177.
Total, 1928-29, £198,598; 1929-30, £185,357.
IIow to take copies of old armorial bear-
ings in relief without damage to or dis-
coloration of the originals? —7425.
Take 41b. lard, one gill linseed oil and 41b.
beeswax. Melt over slow heat and sprinkle
in lib. flour while stirring. , Pour the whole
on to a slab of slate or marble and knead.
If the wax is too sticky add more flour or
a little fine whiting. Press a thick mass of
this over the piece to be reproduced, pushing
it carefully into all the crevices. Lift off
gently, and make casts from the impression
with plaster of Paris or other suitable mould-
ing preparation.
(1 ) What black cockatoos live in Aus-
tralia? (2) What arc their habits? (3)
Why at:” they seen so rarely in cages? —7424.
(1) The largest is the palm cockatoo, found
iii northern Queensland; the most widespread
is the Bauksian or red-tailed cockatoo, found
throughout the continent, especially tar
inland. The most familiar —to most Aus-
tralians —is the funeral cockatoo of the
south-east and Tasmania. (2) They con-
stitute a separate section of the family
Cacaiiiidas and are more arboreal than their
white relatives. They have very stout bills,
with the aid of which they split open the
woody capsules of eucalypts and the hard
wooden fruits of proteaceous trees. I hey
also tear off bark, and feed on the large
wood-boring insect-larva}. (3) They arc shy
birds and are difficult to feed in captivity.
(1) Best method of connecting an extra
spotlight to a Harley-Davidson motor-cycle.
(2) How often should the valves he ground .
—7388.
(1) One lead is taken from the spot-
light to the horn terminal to which the horn
wire from, the switch-box is connected. Lhe
remaining lead from the spotlight should be
earthed to the motor-cycle frame. With the
lamp so connected, the current will be drawn
through the fuse and the battery will be pro-
tected in case of short-circuit. (2) Every
1000 or 1500 miles, or when the motor
indicates by knocking and loss of power that
this attention is necessary.
I am a N.S.W. grazier. Can I kill my
own heef and sell it to a butcher in a
near-by town? If so, what regulations will
I have to comply with? —7375.
It is necessary to obtain a license
under the Cattle Slaughtering and Diseased
Animals and Meat Act and to comply with
this Act and regulations. Full particulars
can be obtained from the local authority
concerned.
What commercial advantages have been
gained and are to be gained from polat
explorations? —7l37.
• Douglas Mawson, at The Bulletin s
invitation, states the case for the polar
explorer: The exploration and charting of
any part of the earth’s surface is necessary
before its resources can be commercially
exploited. The polar regions, both north
and south, are rich in mineral wealth on
the land and fisheries in the sea. The Arctic
region, being much longer known than the
Antarctic, lias its fisheries now well organ-
ised and widely exploited. About two-
fifths of all the fish that are eaten in United
Kingdom are caught by trawlers in high
latitudes in the Arctic., For 300 years
whaling in the Arctic seas was one of the
world’s great industries, but has now almost
ceased on account of the virtual extermina-
tion of whales in those seas. In recent
years, as the direct outcome of the few ex-
peditions, a wonderful whaling industry has
been developed in the Antarctic. Hundreds
of vessels are annually employed and the
oil catch is worth £8,000,000 to £9,000,000
each year.
(1) Can gold be made from other
minerals? (2) What is the cost? (3) Can
diamonds be made artificially? —726s.
(11 and (2) There is no authentic record
of gold having been made synthetically. (3)
Yes, but of only microscopic size.
How many persons were killed in Aus-
tralia during 1930 as a result of motor-car,
motor-bicycle and aeroplane accidents? —
7208.
Persons killed in motor accidents (all
motor vehicles), 873; killed in aircraft acci-
dents, 19.
(1) How is dandelion coffee made? (2)
Has it any medicinal value? —6752.
(1) The roots of dandelion are used. They
are washed well, and dried in a moderately
hot oven, then pounded to powder or ground
in a coffee milL The flavor is best during
the winter months. (2) An infusion made
from boiling water and freshly shaven up
roots has some slight value in relieving
constipation caused by defective liver action.
How to give plaster casts an ivory or old-
ivory finish? —7336.
To every pound of plaster add -Joz. of
yellow ochre. Mix the ochre in the water
with which the plaster is mixed. When
the cast is dry dip into spermaceti and
hang up to drip. When the spermaceti is
nearly dry but still sticky, tie some fine
yellow ochre into a muslin bag and dust
on to the cast. The highlights or prominent
parts are then wiped with soft clean linen
rags or cotton-wool. The grain or spots in
old ivory are suggested by dabbing or stip-
pling with small .brushes on which the hair
has been cut short and wide apart. If the
cast is very large and cannot be dipped in
the spermaceti, warm both and brush sper-
maceti Quickly and evenly over the cast; be
careful that it does not cake. For a new ivory-
effect, the plaster is made with clean cold
water to which a little glue water has been
added. The cast is first dried in the open
air and then heated in an oven, and when
quite warm is soaked for a quarter of an
hour in a bath of equal parts of white wax,
spermaceti and stearine, heated a little
beyond melting-point. Hang up to allow
.superfluous wax mixture to drain off, and
before it is quite cool brush the wax from
the crevices with a small stiff brush. When
quite cold, finish by polishing with cotton-
Did the Commonwealth Bank Board agree
to finance the Commonwealth Government
in its proposal to guarantee a price of 4s.
per bushel for wheat of the 1930-31 season
before the Wheat Marketing Bill was re-
jected by the Senate? What were the terms
of the propose l 7376.
The Commonwealth Bank, three months
before the rejection of the Wheat Marketing
Bill by the Senate, offered to advance 4s.
per bushel for f.a.'q. wheat of the 1930-31
season, delivered at station or siding.
It was stipulated that the trading banks
should join in, and that if they did not
the Government should issue Treasury bills
and be responsible for half of any loss
accruing through the operation of the pool—
the other half of the loss was to be borne by
the State or States concerned.
How to make a light canvas coat water-
proof?—73l7.
Shave ilb. yellow bar soap into a little
hot water, and heat it till it forms a jelly.
Mix this into a quart of boiled linseed oil.
warming the oil if necessary to get a good
mixture. Wet the coat thoroughly, hang it
up to drain: while it is still wet lay it.
out on a table, and paint on a coat of the
oil mixture. Allow to dry, and when quite
drv give another painting with the mixture
and then a third after the second drying.
Brief Answers.
A.L.Y.: (1) Numbering is done by means
of ear tags, obtainable from any firm supplying
station requisites. (2) Get circular describing
position and order of branding from Agriculture
Dept., Sydney... .E.W.: A 4 p.c. solution of carbolic
acid in fish oil can be used in blowfly treatment.
Fish oil can be obtained from Neptune Oil Co., Ivent-
street, Sydney... .R.D.C. : Your present rental should
be 20s. 2d A.L.: If a tenant was paying £2
p.w. for the flat on June 30, 1930, the present
rental should be 31s. If it was not actually let
at that date, but £2 was only “being asked,”
you are entitled to a reduction from 30s. to 235. 3d.
W.H.M.: The figures of area given are official.
.... J.M.: For practical purposes the hardwood is more
suitable than metal. It would, however, be possible
to fabricate a girder of aluminium of the same
dimensions of greater rigidity, weighing under jib-
Esdaile and Co., scientific instrument makers, Sydney,
could make you one, but it would be an expensive
j0b.... W'.C.: Can’t advise you without a full know-
ledge of the geological features of the country and
an analysis of the water.... Gumleaf: Thera is a
market in London for B.P. eucalyptus oil. Prices
are about 9d. or lOd. per lb., f.0.b., Sydney, packed
in either 40-gallon drums or 4-gallon petrol tins,
varying according to the species and the cineol
content E.L.E.: (1) It is not a departmental
matter. (2) No fixed town of residence. (3) The
usual and proper course is by deed poll and adver-
tisement. (4) It is certainly desirable, but not
compulsory. (5) Not over about £3. (6) When
the deed has been executed, inform the Registrar of
Births of the change of name. . . .A.A.: The Swedish
equivalent of the three names mentioned is Isabella,
which is pronounced “Easabella” with the stress on
the “bell.” Isabel would be pronounced “Easabel” ... -
Canno: In 1930, Q’land produced 31,924 bushels of
mangoes from 155 acres; 1,000,508 doz. pineapples
from 3983 acres; 3,068,143 bunches of bananas from
12,565 acres; 113,771 doz. pawpaws from 520 acres;
and 38,152 bushels of custard apples from 251 acres.
. ...J.E.: In 1930 there were 5,463,724 head of
cattle in Q’land, split up among 44,602 owners; 46 ran
herds that tallied over 10,000... .W.S.: Essie Jenyns
was married to J. R- Wood, of Newcastle, at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, on December 8, 1888.
. ...G.M.C.: (1) and (2) The selection of the six
greatest writers of English prose and the six greatest
poets in order of merit is beyond us. It is like
asking for the order of merit of onions, guinea-
pigs and safety-matches, or whether sausages are
held in higher esteem than cordite... .W.J.8.: B is
wrong; “home by the seventeenth” means any time
before the eighteenth.... H.S.: Rent should be 345.
104 d E.A.: Yours, 15s. 6d A.H.M.: Yes, the
Act applies. .. .L.G.: If the house was let at 30s. on
June 30, 1930, your present rent should be 235. 3d.
J.S.P.: (1) The ballot being secret, it is im-
possible to ascertain the occupations of voters for
any particular party. The number of electors in
urban electorates at the recent M.L. election was
438,805 (33 members), and in rural electorates
435,376 (43 members) ; the rural quota to elect a
member is smaller than in urban electorates. (2)
“Good lamb-raising land” is a matter of opinion
and of a farmer’s choice of the use to which he
puts its holding; it doesn’t enter into the statis-
tical analyses. The average size of holdings in
Canterbury in 1930 was 619.72 acres R.F.M.:
Only safe way we know of getting bulrushes out
of a dam is to dig them out. . . .M.J.: It is highly
improbable that it is genuine, as Stradivarius died
in 1737. A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney,
will be able to give you further information....
G.S.: Cannot trace an agent for this line....
W.J.D.: Mr. Vasck, c/o Carr, James and Vautin,
661 George-street Sydney W.F.S.: Cannot trace
an agent for the pump. .. . J.D.: The co. is well
known in connection with the manufacture of a
vaccine for contagious mammitis in cattle. It has
large interests both in Australia and M.L
D.J.F.: Possibly the trouble with your vines is over-
luxuriant development. If possible the soil-moisture
supply should be reduced... .C.E.R.: If the trees
were moved in showery weather with a good ball of
earth, success might be achieved. If very young
seedlings could be found, -better success might be
obtained by potting these in pots or tins and
afterwards transplanting into permanent positions.
....H.S.: (1) There are no Government bonuses
on butter in Australia. (2) Hard Federation is not
recognised as a hard wheat, but has been classified
as medium-strong. There have been instances where
millers have paid a small premium for this variety.
. ...L.0.: If you can’t succeed with lucerne, no
other fodder crop is likely to give satisfactory
results without irrigation... .Wilga: Money orders
issued in New Zealand on and from December 1,
1931, are paid in Australia at a premium of 3s.
7d. in the £. If you received the money as a
trustee you are not liable to pay income tax on it.
. ...E.E.R.: Try Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne.
. ...H.D.: It is questionable whether any variety of
duck would select a tidal lagoon from choice. Breeds
used for commercial purposes would not thrive if
forced to live under such conditions... .L.J.R.: (1)
to (4) Try the Mint or a bank. (5) and (6) No bonus
at present payable. It will depend on current
year’s gold production, but that is certain to warrant
payment. To be entitled, producers must be registered
at Customs.... T.F.C.: There are numerous forms
of share agreements. The Agriculture Dept, might
suggest a suitable one. .. . J.C.T.: No, a receipt re-
quiring to be stamped now covers any note or
writing whereby any bill of exchange amounting
to two pounds •or upwards is “acknowledged or ex-
pressed to have been received or deposited or paid.”
A cheque is a bill of exchange. .. .M. 8.: The mort-
gagee cannot enter into possession until the interest
is owed for two years ; but non-payment of interest
may be made the subject of an application to the
. Court. If a summons should be served on you, you
had better place the matter in the hands of a
solicitor, as the Moratorium Act is full of pitfalls
for the layman. .. .R.F.M.: Write to the solicitor and
ascertain exactly how matters stand. .. .E.W.: (1)
You are liable for the fees you contracted to pay and
could be sued for the debt. (2) Only where circum-
stances indicate convincingly that they are unable to
contribute anything. (3) Only to the extent of any
assets he may have acquired from you. by the
marriage, in your case presumably none. (4) You
must settle that with the hospital J.N.M.: (1)
Call at the nearest police station on arrival and
produce your license to the sergeant. (2) Yes....
W.E.: The N.S.W. Reduction of Rents Act does not
apply to a lease of agricultural land to which the
Agricultural Lessees Relief Act applies.:. .T.G.:
The French “75” is a field-gun, firing 20 161 b.
shells per minute. It fires bullets only in the form
of shrapnel, 290 to a shell B.B.: Making marking
ink is a complicated business. Unless you want
huge quantities, it is cheaper to buy it ready-made.
.... C.C.: Apply to the Registrar of Titles,
George-street, Brisbane. .. .H.W.Y.; (1) Most of them
are trades union officials, and they presumably have
given satisfactory service in that capacity. (2)
Qualification is attainment of the age of 21 and
being either a natural-born or naturalised subject
of the King. (3) Can’t say. (4) During member-
ship only. (5) The privilege is accorded to members
of Parliament. (6) None (Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
Synopsis : Returning from sick leave,
Jim Huntley, Resident Magistrate of
Aikoroa, Papua, delivers a letter to
the dipsomaniacal owner of Nataroa
Plantation, Charlie Durrant, on ■whom
Huntley suspects Roger Calvert,
trader, is battening. It is from
Marian, Durrant's young dauyht&r,
whom Huntley met on shipboard
and has fallen in love with. It
tells her father that, as he had always
put her off when she wrote of return-
ing from “down south,” where she had
been brought up , she is paying him a
surprise visit. This news plunges
Durrant, who had ‘ gone native,” into
despairing remorse. Bringing him to
the residency, Huntley has him sober
when Marian arrives, and she
docs not suspect his terrible iceak-
ness. She too, stays at the residency,
the dilapidated house at Nataroa
having been burnt down, secretly, by
Huntley's young assistant, Freddie
Chisholm. Calvert boasts that every-
thing Marian, who dislikes him, and
her father supposedly own is his.
Durrant, rehabilitated, takes Marian
to the new house at Nataroa. Hunt-
ley tries to reconcile himself when
she calmly accepts Freddie's devotion.
To Freddie's disgust' Calvert con-
stantly visits Nataroa. Learning the
truth about her father, Marian intends
to marry Calvert —to the dismay of
Saroni, Calvert's cast-off mistress.
Going to the mountains on patrol,
Huntley, thinking Freddie has more
right, leaves him to prevent Marian's
self-sacrifice. By revealing his inti-
mate knowledge of Calvert's career of
crime in Malaya, Freddie farces him
to send a note to Marian giving her
her freedom, and another to Durrant
stating terms by which he may pay
back six thousand pounds owing.
CHAPTER XXIV ( Continued ).
HUNTLEY was returning from the hills.
Gaunt, haggard, tight-lipped, fever-
racked, he strode at the head of the
column. The footsore police followed, herd-
ing a mob of sullen-eyed manacled mount-
ain men. The carriers, but lightly loaded
now, were sulkily mutinous under the
watchful eye of Sergeant Gibara. Only the
knowledge that to-night they would sleep
at Aikoroa, and Gibara’s jeering insults,
kept them to the appointed path.
“Two hours more, maybe three,” the
sergeant gibed, “and you may eat and chew'
betel-nut and fondle your women, oh, men
with the hearts of grasshoppers.”
Huntley smiled drily. Eighteen times
the sun had set since he had marched out
of the Government station—eighteen filthy
days of heart-breaking, blood-sw 7 eating
climbing; of perilous scrambling and slid-
ing down almost perpendicular precipices;
of hacking thorny alleyways through other-
wise impenetrable forest; of intolerable
jungle heat and mountain chill; of mosqui-
toes, leeches, scrub-ticks; eighteen days of
Hell.
But twenty chastened warriors, manacled
to the marching chain, proclaimed a job
well done.
The homeward path was a tortuous track
that twisted on a stiffly descending grade
through the gloom of forest trees hung with
mottled creepers and interlaced lawyerh
vines. The virgin jungle crowded in on
both sides. Overhead a canopy of living
green shut out the rays of the sun. The
air w T as damp, sticky, oppressive, hard to
breathe; tinged with the sickly, drugging
perfume of nameless flowers and sour with
the reek of vegetation decaying and vege-
tation decayed.
A distant view of the sea, glittering like
molten metal in the sun, sent a little mur-
mur down the line.
“I lied,” Sergeant Gibara recanted hand-
somely. “One hour, and no more, .my
friends. Shakerup!”
The drooping spirits of the carriers re-
vived. An access of energy stimulated the
laggards. There was the pulsing note of a
drum, a cadenced chant, and the column
pressed fonvard with eagerness.
And true to Gibara’s promise, footsore,
weary and dripping sweat, the patrol
marched into Aikoroa. The drums were
pounding with a rolling rhythm. The
carriers were intoning a full-throated hymn
of triumph. A pig, staked out against their
return, died in a crescendo of horrible
shrieks.
A devil of restlessness invaded Huntley’s
mind. Questions he had thrust sternly into
the deeper levels of his consciousness, ques-
tions he had debated only when alone
under the throbbing stars, came ci’owding
in on him, clamoring for an answer.
Thoughtfully he fingered the two days’
growth of stubble on his chin.
“Sergeant,” he said, “let the stores be
put under lock and key in the rest-house.
See to it that the prisoners are guarded
well. I go to Mis’ Durrant’s place.”
He swung off in the direction'of Nataroa.
A low moaning sound came to him. A
knot of idlers, gathered in front of a hut
on the outskirts of the village, moved
respectfully aside as he came abreast. He
drew up. A woman lay face downwards in
the dust, a young woman who in normal
circumstances would also have been comely.
Now her half-nude body was smeared with
ashes and cocoanut oil and filth; her head
was hideously shaven, blood streamed from
self-inflicted gashes on her' cheeks, and, as
she writhed in her dirt, a low, piteous wail-
ing came from her contorted lips.
“Piccaninny b’long her bin die, sah,” a
familiar voice said.
Huntley turned round. “I bin bring your
swag, sah,” Sergeant Gibara explained with
a disarming grin. He was carrying Hunt-
ley’s canvas swag-bag in addition to his
own heavy pack.
“A carrier’s job, Sergeant,” Huntley said.
But Gibara merely grinned.
The writhing, filth-bedaubed caricature
of womanhood was frenziedly bruising her
eyes with round, water-washed stones, and
her screams were infinitely pitiful. The
pathos of it all moved Huntley strangely.
Of course they meant nothing, these twist-
ings and turnings, these heartrending cries,
these barbarous manifestations of sorrow.
Here was no genuine outpouring of grief,
no true revelation of feeling. There were
no words in any Papuan language for love
or grief. This poor half-demented wretch
was merely rendering blind obedience to
the dictates of an iron-bound tribal custom
—or so the anthropologists maintained.
Huntley wondered.
He saw Marian long before she was
aware of his approach. She was standing
at the gate, curiously still, gazing at the sea.
The slanting rays of the declining sun made
a golden glow on the lagoon waters; the
blue arch of sky was deepening into indigo;
white scarves of drifting cloud were exqui-
sitely edged with rose. Huntley was
vividly conscious of her, of the trim, sweet
lines of her body, the delicate curve of her
tautened throat as, wistfully, she gazed on
some far, invisible horizon.
She turned her head and discovered him
standing there. Vaguely he was aware of
something new, of something oddly but
beautifully matured; but her cool glance
told him nothing. He took off his battered
helmet. The look of abstracted tranquillity
faded from Marian’s face. It lit up, be-
came animated with a sort of repressed
eagerness, and she gave him a crooked,
rueful little smile.
“Hello, precious old lamb!” she said.
Huntley breathed deep. It was good to
hear again the note of sophisticated flip-
pancy in her voice. Some instinct told
him that his questions had been answered.
“ ‘The hunter home from the hill.’ ”
Gravely she scanned his face, grey with the
pallor of intense bodily fatigue, the fever-
cracks on his lips, his bloodshot slits of
eyes.
“You’ve been knocking yourself to bits
again, Jim.” she chided gently. “What a
dog’s life you have, my dear!”
And long afterwards he remembered the
pitying, mothering sound she made as she
tucked his arm in hers and led him into the
house.
CHAPTER XXV.
Huntley was stiff, aching from head to
foot. His very brain seemed drugged with
fatigue. He fumbled in his mind for words
wherewith to frame compliments and con-
gratulations, until he remembered that
Marian had told him nothing. But he knew.
He knew what lay behind her enchanted,
unseen horizon; he knew what her grave,
clear but unguarded eyes had been en-
visaging out there at the garden gate. He
need not have distrusted the serene self-
assurance of the younger generation. Chis-
holm had dislodged Calvert from Nataroa,
and Marian’s crazy scheme of self-immola-
tion had become to her but the memory of
an ugly dream. Huntley felt as if a burden
of anxiety had been lifted from him. And
if he wondered why his relief was slowly
being succeeded by a wistful melancholy,
he attributed it to his state of tiredness,
to be assuaged only by a shave, a bath, a
change of raiment and food; white man’s
food, cooked and served white man’s
fashion.
She had given him a verandah room with
windows opening on to the garden. He
stropped his razor, eyeing his haggard,
scrubby reflection in the mirror with a sense
of shock.
“ ‘The hunter home from the hill,’ ” he
grinned wrilv. “You look more like some-
thing dragged in by the cat, laddie!”
He wondered how Freddie Chisholm had
wrought the miracle that had transformed
the desperately frightened child into the
delightfully composed young woman.
Money talks with a loud insistent voice. It
had bought safety, happiness for Marian;
it had provided a protecting shield against
the bitter winds of the world. The Chis-
holm wealth! He pulled himself up,
ashamed of the unworthy thought he had
been harboring. He was disgusted with
himself. He felt incredibly mean.
Sounds came from outdoors—a medley
of sounds. The knock-off bell clanged and
the laborers gave themselves three hearty
cheers. Somewhere in the forest a “shooting
boy” discharged his piece and the report
echoed, surged and died away in a rolling
mutter. There was a rattling of pans in
the kitchen, the nasal twang of the cook-
boy’s jew’s-harp, and the grateful gurgle
of running water as a bath was being drawn.
Huntley’s blunt-edged razor made a
rasping sound as of sandpaper against
wood. He could detect a whiff of smoulder-
ing wood fires and pungent earth smells
commingled with delectable culinary odors.
And, inevitably, he contrasted this well-
ordered home with the squalid, sagging
shanty that had been the Nataroa home-
stead. What Marian had made of her
father’s house she had made of the man
himself. “Once a waster, always a waster”
—not often did New Guinea confound the
prophets. Not often did a white man touch
bottom and come up whole. Not often
did the black-fanged reef of desolation and
despair give up those who had lost their
moorings.
A bath took the ache out of Huntley’s
bones. Shaved and changed, he wandered
out into the garden. He found Durra.nt
leaning over the fence, his eyes fixed on
the radiating lines of tufted, heavily-
fruiting palms, clearly defined and beautiful
in the warm and sensuous light of the
afterglow. The shadow-darkened aisles
between the trees held a glamor of mystery;
the forest trees beyond the clearing seemed
to merge into the hills.
“It’s worth fighting for. Jim,” Durrani;
exclaimed in a suppressed voice. “A beauti-
ful land, Jim; a fierce land. Once I thought
it a romantic land. Me!” He choked on
the words. “Good God!” His extended
arms swept the richness of the plantation
clearing. “It’s ours,” he said. “Mine and
Marian’s! Worth all the hell I’ve been
through to hold it and keep it—for Marian,
Jim!”
The old man’s eyes shone. There was
something new and rare in the look that
transfigured his face. For a moment Hunt-
ley measured him. Durrant’s eyes met his
steadily; then his face ckmded.
“I know what you’re thinking, Jim—
that I’ve done nothing to deserve it; that
1 have no right to hold a square yard of
Nataroa.”
“Nothing of the kind, Charlie. Nonsense,
old friend.”
“That I never tried to hold my end up”
—he stared at Huntley appealingly—“that
I was willing to barter Marian.”
“That,” cut in Huntley quietly, “is some-
thing I can never believe.”
Durrant choked. “Thanks, Jim,” he mut-
tered; “thanks a lot. I told her it was all
wrong. I told her the facts—the raw facts
about Calvert; that there was no safety for
her there. I told her things she had no
business to know, Jim—and she looked at
me out of her mother’s eyes.”
“I know. It did not so much as occur
to me to doubt you, Charlie.”
Abruptly the shrill chorus of myriads of
insects shattered the stillness of the tropic
dusk. The two men turned toward the
house.
“At the same time, a fellow must be
fair,” Durrant said. “I’d be an utter swine
if I didn’t admit, freely and frankly, that
Calvert has been extraordinary decent over
the whole business.”
“Has he?” Huntley gently queried.
“Somehow, Freddie conveyed to me the
impression that perhaps he might be—
decent.”
“Freddie?” Durrant seemed puzzled. “To
be sure —young Chisholm, of course. A
likeable lad. Quite.”
“Quite,” Huntley agreed.
His eyes flicked to Durrant’s face. It
was odd, he mused, deuced odd. Vaguely
he resented Durrant’s casual dismissal of
Freddie. He was something more than a
“likeable lad,” surely! “Likeable lad”
seemed damnably inadequate.
Marian made a winsome picture on a
softly-cushioned lounge, her slim, pretty
legs tucked under her, her skimpy skirt
pulled over her knees. A wise little smile
flitted alluringly round the corners of her
mouth as she wriggled her body forward and
made room for Huntley beside her. She
placed a cigarette between his lips and
lighted it. There was about her a sort of
repressed eagerness, an excitement she was
hard- put to to keep in hand.
Huntley rehearsed his congratulations.
“You are so placid and impersonal, you
precious old thing,” she whispered. “Won’t
you tell me all about the maneaters you
have been chasing—or who have been chas-
ing you? The bare outline of your adven-
tures will do, so that I can connect them
up with the sergeant’s lurid details. I do
wish I could speak good Motuan. Jim.
Gibara’s English is so deplorably literal—
full of good old eighteenth-century words,
you know, that make my hair stand on
end.”
“I’d much rather you told me what has
been going on here,” Huntley countered.
“It’s perfectly clear that something rather
tremendous has happened; something that
has put a steel spring into your father’s
back and—er—d’you know that I observe
a most startling phenomenon in you, my
dear?”
Impulsively she stretched out a hand and
touched his arm. She colored faintly, caught
her breath, and her eyes fell away from
his. He tilted her chin upward, and her
face flushed red.
“By Jove, Maid Marian!” he laughed,
“you’re shy, my dear! Really and truly
shy! I’m amazed.”
She turned her face towards him. Her
eyes were steady, her lips were steady and,
oddly, it came‘to him that Freddie Chis-
holm should have been here hours ago.
“A natural embarrassment, old thing,”
Marian rejoined. “You see, my engage-
ment has been broken off. Mr. Roger
Calvert —vex - y nicely and very courteously
—ditched me.”
Huntley leaned back and laughed with
great good humor, but Marian’s small face
twisted up as if, soundlessly, she was cry-
ing. And Huntley knew that, despite her
light words, her soul had been scarred.
“I’m trying to forget the chill horror
of it all, Jim,” she whispered. “It was
as though the world had just crashed in
bits about me. Daddy a maimed wreck,
drifting, aimless, helpless, all these years;
the prey of every wind, every current.”
She lifted a hand as he would have checked
her. “Please let me ramble on, Jim. I
must talk, and you have a rare gift of
sympathy, my dear.” Her lips quivered in
a little crooked smile. “I’ve suffered an
appalling disillusionment, Jim. I’ve learned
dreadful things, incredible, abominable
things.”
“I understand!!, Marian. I understand
entirely.”
“But you don’t, Jim. You think—you
all think—that I acted on impulse. If I
did, it was the impulse of a profoundly
solemn conviction. Even you urged me
to go away—to run away. If I had
deserted daddy, don’t you understand that
I should have condemned him to a long-
drawn living Hell? Inevitably he would
have sunk into a state worse—much worse
—than that from which your fine loyalty
rescued him. He was in desperate need,
Jim. He was old and battered and
b—beaten. Nataroa was his sheet-anchor,
and he had bartered it away for me, Jim,
so that I might be spoiled and pampered
and—and—and when I told him,” she
gulped, “when I told him that I loved
Roger Calvert”
“M arian!”
“How could I have made daddy’s life
bearable, satisfying—happy perhaps—ex-
cept by lying to him? Assuring him that
Roger Calvert was thrilling me, not pester-
ing me with attentions that sickened me?
There was a perfectly dreadful scene, Jim.
Daddy was revealed to me in. all his weak-
ness and his strength. He swore that he
would shoot my—my lover. He poured
out his remorse and self-reproach. He
raved about his unforgivable sins. He
cursed himself for being a swine—atid I
lied and lied and lied. I swore that Roger
Calvert had become the whole meaning
of life to me; that—that—Oh Jim, it was
simply hellish!”
She stopped, breathless with her emotion.
Her interlaced hands were white across
the knuckles, her slim shoulders shook.
Suddenly she jumped up, dabbed her eyes,
and laughed. Then instantly she was grave
again.
“It all sounds like cheap melodrama,
Jim, now,” she said earnestly; “but I would
have gone through with it.”
“You’ve had a foul time, Marian. Over
and done with now, thank the Lord!”
“I would have gone through with it,”
she repeated steadily. “Don’t turn awaj’.
Look at me.”
Huntley took up the challenge in her
eyes.
“I believe you would,” he agreed, “you
plucky little idiot!”
Smiling a little with her lips, but in
her eyes a memory of dreadful things, she
bent down and kissed him lightly on the
ear.
“You are a perfect duck, Jim,” she
murmured.
And Huntley felt old and stale and out
of .touch with everything that is young and
vital and eager in the world. He found
himself asking himself why he had not
uttered the congratulations he had been
rehearsing; why Freddie had not turned up;
why there was a spot of color in Marian’s
cheeks and why she had not mentioned her
sweetheart’s name.
A while later, over singularly innocuous
cocktails of Marian’s compounding, Charlie
Durrant said to his daughter:
“I have some news that will upset you,
my dear. It came this afternoon—late.
Saroni has lost her youngster.”
Marian turned a startled face to him.
“Daddy!” she exclaimed. “Why—how
dreadful!”
Durrant addressed his next words to
but did not look at him.
“Marian has been nursing Saroni’s kiddy
through a rather sharp attack of fever.
Nothing very serious, but”
“He was such a fat, jolly little chap.”
Marian broke in with a catch in her voice.
“I took him away from Saroni, Jim; —she
has been so sulky and bad-tempered lately
—and nursed him myself. He was improv-
ing wonderfully, when Saroni, the poor
ignorant thing, took him away to the
village. She seemed to resent my having
him at all. She told me, quite nidely, that,
she had more faith in a hot stone rubbed
over her baby’s tummy by her unspeakable


“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
father than in any of my medicines. S e
took him away one day last week, and
haven’t seen her since. What happened,
Daddy?” . ,
Durrant shrugged. “She took him foi a
swim in the lagoon, by all accounts —native
fashion, you know. He was running a
temperature. And the usual thing hap-
pened. The kiddy caught a chi 11.... .pneu-
monia.... and finish!” And to himself he
said: “Poor brat!”
Huntley remembered the stricken mother
he had seen pouring out her grief in the
village that afternoon. Saroni! That
straight-backed, lithe young beauty writh-
ing on the ground, bleeding, blackened,
filth-bedaubed, like any bereaved village
harridan! It Was amazing, really, how
natives, even the most sophisticated,
reverted to type under the stress of emo-
tion.
“Oh dear!” Marian was tearfully lament-
ing. “To think that that jolly little pet
would have been alive and well to-day if
his wretched mother hadn’t—oh, they
exasperate me, these native women!”
Durrant said something about dinner,
and, as they rose, conveyed some whispered
information to Huntley, something that
Huntley had already surmised. It was
decent of the old man, he reflected, to con-
ceal Saroni’s story from Marian. He won-
dered—but what was the use of wondering
now? Saroni and Calvert and their sordid
tragedy belonged to a closed chapter in
Marian’s life.
He heard Marian’s voice. She was still
tearful, still a little upset. “I must go to
her, immediately after dinner. Poor girl,
she must be suffering dreadfully.”
Huntley took her gently by the elbow
and led her to the verandah rail.
Over towards Aikoroa a dull glow, as of
many fires, seemed to emphasise the inky-
blackness of the night, and, straining their
ears, they heard faintly the dull pulsations
of drums.
“A Papuan funeral, Marian,” Huntley
said. “It is no sight for a white girl’s eyes,
my dear.”
Huntley awakened the following morning
to the persistent screeching of cockatoos
in the tree-tops and the tolling of the
“turn-to” bell, marking the beginning of a
new day.
The clean white linen under him spread
a glow of well-being through his body. The
sea-scented, earth-scented air brushed
his cheek; the sweet “hominess” of his sur-
roundings, after the dreariness of bush
camps, was sheer delight to him. Through
his mosquito-net he glimpsed the sea, blue
as a convolvulus petal under the stainless
cobalt of the sky, save where white-flecked
by the line of the reef. In the other direc-
tion, behind the slim, feather-topped palms,
climbed the hills, piled tier on tier, terrace
on terrace, diaphanous mist in the valleys,
violet shadows on the jungle-clad spurs.
He rose, yawned and stretched himself.
A soft-footed houseboy brought tea to his
bedside and told him that his bath was
drawn. An odor of frizzling bacon was
wafted to him. He grinned. The break-
fast to which he would soon be summoned
would be something vastly different, he
dare swear, from the sickening routine of
tinned-dog and hard tack of the last three
weeks.
A mood of freshness and energy possessed
him when, bathed and dressed, he sauntered
forth and joined Marian on the front
verandah. She hailed him with a cheery,
slangy greeting.
“It’s going to be another beastly hot
day, Jim,” she remarked, tapping the gong.
“Hence the early breakfast, if you really
must go. Can’t you rest here for a day
or two, precious?”
“You’re too good to me, my dear. I’d
love it; but the country must be governed,
you know,” he laughed. He flashed her
a teasing glance. “How is Freddie?”
“He is just too lovely for words,” Marian
returned. Huntley looked sharply at her.
He thought he detected a touch of mockery
in her voice.
“Everything—er—all right, Marian?”
“Everything, precious,” she assured him
solemnly, “is just splendid.”
Queer how derisive her voice sounded!
There was no predicting how these modem
kids would react to a given set of circum-
stances. He had expected that she would
simply burble about Freddie.
“Dinkum?” he snapped at her.
She ruffled his hair, laughing. “Of
course, silly,” she said. “Don’t get fussy
in your old age!”
Charlie Durrant had been up betimes and
was still with his laborers in the plantation
clearing. Huntley breakfasted alone.
Marian sat opposite to him, her chin
cupped in her hands, watching him with
lively satisfaction. It warmed her house-
wifely heart, she told him, to watch a
healthy male animal with a healthy, pri-
mitive appetite.
He was cutting into a pawpaw when,
quite suddenly, pandemonium broke loose
in the garden. There was a woman’s voice,
shrill, furious; the yapping of dogs, frenzied
yells from the houseboys punctuated with
the deep, gruff voice of Sergeant Gibara
uttering soothing words.
Marian turned a bewildered face on Hunt-
ley.
“Some unfortunate wife getting a belting,
by the sound of it,” he said.
He put down his knife, rose, and in
leisurely fashion strolled to the back ver-
andah. Marian followed him, a little
breathlessly. A strange scene met their
eyes. Sergeant Gibara held a wildly
struggling native woman in his arms. She
writhed and kicked, scratched and bit,
screeching like one demented; while the
sergeant, an expression of solicitude on his
hard-bitten face, strove vainly to calm her.
At the sight of the white girl the woman’s
struggles ceased. She looked directly at
Marian and her black eyes flashed deadly
hate. Marian stared, a slowly dawning
recognition animating her features.
“Surely it is not you, Saroni?” she ex-
claimed uncertainly. “What have you been
doing to yourself? Your face, you?”
Her voice fell away. Again Saroni’s eyes
flashed that venomous edge of hatred.
Huntley met Marian’s bewildered look
with a straight one, while, forcefully, he
signalled to Sergeant Gibara. Gibara
signalled understanding, and his arms
tightened round Saroni.
Saroni began to speak in a mixture of
Motuan and English. Her voice was low
at first, calm, dispassionate; but, as her
emotions worked upon her, it rose to an
anguished scream. White of face, horror-
stricken, Marian fell back, pressing her
hands over her ears while Saroni tossed her
arms wildly in the air, contorted her body
and shrieked curses upon the murderous
white woman who had first stolen her man
and then slain her child. She called upon
every malignant spirit in the Papuan demon-
ology to blast the foul man-thief and
killer of infants; to annihilate her, her
house, her goods and everything that was
hers. A grey foam that was like the froth
of death dribbled from her lips; her rolling
eyes flashed red flame; sweat stood out in
globules upon her scarred breasts and
shaven head. She was fearful to behold.
Numb with a nameless horror, Marian
stared at her. Her lips, white es the frock
she wore, formed the triple syllables of
Saroni’s name, but no sound came. And
the half-demented native, oblivious of
everything save the urgency of her passion,
raved and screamed, awakening hideous
echoes among the trees.
Angrily, peremptorily, Huntley ordered
her to be silent, but he might have saved
his breath. He barked a blasphemous com-
mand to Gibara. The sergeant, who had
released the girl, laid a compassionate hand
upon her shoulder. She made a convulsive
movement forward as though to spring on
the cowering white girl looking down upon
her from the verandah.
“Take her away!” Huntley rapped out.
“Take her away, Sergeant! By God, this
is intolerable!”
And foaming, screaming, hoarse from the
violence of her rage, her once comely face
distorted with fury, her limbs twitching
and jerking, Saroni suffered the' sergeant
to lead her to her friends who waited in
terrified silence beyond the fence. And as
reluctantly she went, Marian met a look
so malevolent, so absolutely terrible in its
revelation of bitter hatred, that she covered
her bloodless face with her hands and
tottered to a chair, choking with hard,
dry sobs.
“Dear God!” she moaned. “What have
I done to the girl that she should—•
should” She shivered. “She actually
believes that my nursing and medicines
killed her baby! And th —there was some-
thing about—about a man. What man,
Jim? What does it mean?”
Sickened and a little dazed, Huntley had
an eerie sense of the very air thickening
as though some unclean thing had defiled
it. He turned to Marian.
“Please do not allow the poor girl’s
ravings to distress you,” he said gently.
“She is just an ignorant, superstitious, grief-
stricken native, my dear—a subject for our
compassion, really.”
Marian Durrant shuddered again and
again. “It was horrible!” she wailed. “For
a moment I could almost—almost feel a
contagion of evil in the air; foul things,
obscene things seemed to—to take tangible
shape and—and”
“Nonsense, Marian!” Huntley brusquely
interrupted her. “You’re talking tommy-
rot. You are overwrought, my dear, run
down,” he went on in a kinder voice.
“Take ten grains of quinine and spend the
day in bed. I’ll look up Saroni the first
chance I get and give her a jolly good
talking to.”
Dazed, shaken, white-faced, Marian
cowered in her chair.
“There’s something hateful; something
—oh, unspeakably beastly about New
Guinea,” she quavered. “Don’t you feel it
Jim—ever? A—a sense of harmful, unseen
influences”
“I’ll shake you!” Huntle|y threatened,
smiling. “You’re talking the most appall-,
ing drivel, Marian.”
“New Guinea is—is”
“A wonderful country, taking it by and
large. Splendid place. Pull yourself to-
gether, my dear, or I shall certainly shake
you.”
He put out his hands and drew her to her
feet. She smiled at him wanly through her
tears.
“You’re frightfully practical and matter
of fact, Jim,” she said. “Oh dear!” She
looked around her in a frightened, haunted
way. “Why was Saroni so horrible to me?
I’ve tried to be good to her. She has
wanted for nothing since she has been
with me.”
“Fashion b’long New Guinea,” Huntley
assured her. “You’ll be very silly indeed if
you allow that unhappy girl to worry you.
Leave her to me, Marian.”
(To be continued next week.)
SHADOW SHOWS.
Fox’s “Sob Sister,” at Sydney Regent, has
been confected largely with an eye to James
Dunn, who registered winsomeness so
strongly in “Bad Girl.” He has nearly all
the best lines. He is a nice, cheery boy once
more (a reporter this time), who was not
there or thereabouts when brains were being
handed out. He gets out-sqooped every time
by Linda Watkins. Linda is a bad girl till
a consuming Lurv (for Mr. Dunn, of course)
surges into her life, burns away the dross,
and impels her to resign her noisome job. The
activities of Linda and her editor, who is
like a gangster only noisier, should makd
Sydneyites feel a lot better about the “S. M.
Herald’s” Near and Far column. Their
system is to push into homes where crimes
of passion have occurred; worm the inside
story out of the bereaved by lying claims to
friendship; steal or photograph any addi-
tional evidence that may be available, and
publish the result. After several coups, in
which Linda leaves James and the herds of
moronisli news-hounds who trail after him
speechless with envy of her genius, she gets
caught by bootleggers, and put on the spot.
This is the best part of the picture, though
even more incredible than the rest. The
mobilisation of the police cars; the rush
through the wood by night with the sirens
wailing eerily; the hut containing the kid-
napped child into which Miss Watkins is
flung preparatory to being bumped off; the
gangsters and their sinister leader, who
draws on his white gloves as he strides for-
ward to the deed of blood —all these pro-
vide excellent melodrama, and they arc
splendidly acted and photographed. When
the heroine is not demonstrating that she
has a heart of flint in the presence of agon-
ised parents, and a nerve of iron in the
presence of homicidal criminals, she is prov-
ing herself to be just a sloppy, lachrymose
flapper in the presence of James (“Smiler”)
Dunn. Absurd? Of course it is; yet the
big Regent audience fairly ate it.
The writer is tired of Hollywood’s
wonder-children, seen in the mass; and there
are indications that others feel the same
way. The juveniles foregather again in
Paramount’s “Huckleberry Finn,” which is
the Regent’s principal attraction this week.
There is nothing wrong with their technique.
Mitzi Green is just about perfect as Becky,
and Jackie Coogan (Tom), looking with his
long, lank hair and heavy jowl like an
undersized William Jennings Bryan, depicts
the emotions of a small boy with rare art.
But the emotions of children are so limited
in scope that a little of them goes a very
long way. The story is a classic —richer in
incident and humor perhaps than “Tom
Sawyer” itself —but Taurog, the director, has
failed to transfer its glamor to the screen.
The interest begins in the book when the
boys start down the river; and it is at
this stage that the film definitely becomes
dull. The King and his confederate, as drawn
by Mark Twain, are among the funniest
characters in modern fiction ; they don’t get
a laugh as screen figures. There is some
clever character-actingby the grown-ups, who
are feeders to the children, and the photo-
graphs of the Mississippi and its townships
are good.
* * *
The State Thcatrette, Sydney, the first
news-reel filmhouse in Australia, was for-
mally blessed by Mark Gosling, the Chief
Secretary, on Wednesday. It is tucked away
in a downstairs corner of the building, but
despite its smallness one can stretch one’s
legs with ease and the seats are comfortable.
From ten in the morning till eleven at night
it will show overseas and Australian news
titbits. A session lasts about 90 minutes
and the tariff is a bob for grown-ups and
sixpence for children. The opening pro-
gramme comprised Australian Cinesound
News, British Pathe Sound News', Universal
News-reel, Melbourne “Herald” News-reel,
M.-G.-M. Hearst Metrotone News and the
series known as “Strange As It Seems.”
Ramsay MacDonald, Baldwin and Lloyd
George were to the fore in the English
gazette, and Pershing, Lindbergh and Edison
in the American. There were snaps of a
tiglit-rope walking goat, of A 1 Capone, Kave
Don and his speed-boat, the winning of the
Cesarewitcli, floods in China, German black-
shirts, the Brooklyn suspension bridge, the
British Navy and a gent who hasn’t slept
for 80 years. Australian items included pet
cockatoos, surf girls, mountain climbers.
Christmas shoppers, tennis-players, deep-sea
divers, aboriginal cricketer Gilbert and the
Queensland lung-fish. Stop-press items were
also on the bill.
* * *
In “Politics” (M.-G.-M.), at Sydney St.
James, Hattie Burns (Marie Dressier)
is a candidate for mayor in a small Ameri-
can town. Her nomination follows the shoot-
ing in a gang affray of her daughter’s girl
friend. The daughter, Myrtle, was engaged
to Benny, a young gangster, and the shooting
took place after Benny had announced to the
gang that he was getting back on the narrow
path. The sitting mayor id in league with
the gangsters, and Hattie calls upon the
women of the town to help her clean up
the place. The ladies rally to her cause with
gusto, much to-the annoyance of their hus-
bands. The men, led by the town barber,
a comic person with a stutter, threaten to
go on the liquor while the campaign lasts,
but the women get their own back by down-
ing tin-openers and vacuum-cleaners. Aided
by a female brass band, a torchlight pro-
cession, a great deal of ballyhoo and a raid
on the gangsters, Hattie tops the poll.
The gangsters try to get Benny charged with
the murder, but the real culprit is found at
the eleventh hour, and everybody except the
crooks is happy. Marie Dressier gives a
hearty swashbuckling performance, ably
seconded by Polly Moran as campaign
director.
There are laughs enough in “The New
Adventures of Get-Rich-Quick Walling-
ford” (M.-G.-M), at Sydney State, but there
isn’t much that is new about the adventures.
William Haines portrays J. Rufus Walling-
ford, in his bumptious manner, Ernest Tor-
rence is Blackie Daw, and there is a, new
partner, “Schnozzle,” played by Jimmie
Durante. The plot is the same, in essentials,
as the stage production, and owes nothing
to George Randolph Chester. Leila H'yams
is a passable heroine, and the rest are good.
"The Blue Angel” (Ufa), at Sydney Ilay-
market, an English version of a German
picture, is concerned with the infatuation
of Immanuel Rath, an elderly professor
(Emil Jannings), for Lola Frolilich, a
cabaret singer (Marlene Dietrich). Immanuel
visits “The Blue Angel,” Lola’s headquarters,
with the intention of rescuing certain of
his pupils, but falls under its sinful influence
himself. He neglects his duties as a teacher,
his passion earns him the ridicule of the
students and he is forced to resign. He pro-
poses marriage to Lola and she surprisedly
accepts him. Lola will not desert her calling
and the old man is compelled to go with her
on tour. The life leaves him a useless hanger-
on fit only to sell photographs of his wife in
beer gardens. Worn ' out physically and
mentally, he returns with the company to
his home town; there Lola meets a pre-
sentable young rotter, and carries on with
him openly. Immanuel tries to kill her, is
overpowered and totters out into the night to
his old school. There, at his one-time desk,
he collapses and dies. Jannings makes him a
tragic figure, and Miss Dietrich gives another
of her polished impersonations.
* * *
“Little Caesar” (First National; Sydney
Capitol) is a gangster film made interesting
by the acting of Edward G. Robinson. He is
Rico, whose hunger for power and fame
carries him to the leadership of a gang. His
mate Joe (Fairbanks, jun.) is yarning a living
dancing. Rico intends to make Joe his lieu-
tenant. To keep Joe straight Olga (Glenda
Farrell, the slight feminine interest) betrays
Rico. The gang is broken up. Rico, down and
out, driven by conceit, reveals himself to
the police when taunted by the newspapers
and is shot down behind a hoarding adver-
tising Joe and Olga—now star-dancers. An
effective climax.
¥ ¥ *
Janet Gaynor having scored a box-office suc-
cess in “Daddy Long Legs,” Fox hurriedly
poured her talents into Zangwill’s “Mebely
Mary Ann,” an essay on the theme of Dick
Swiveller and the “Marchioness.” So Janet
is back at Sydney Plaza, suitably pathetic as
Mrs. Leadbatter’s slavey, and Charles Farrell,
witli a crop of long hair, does Lis best as a
composer of opera. Beryl Mercer’s Mrs.
Leadbatter, real flesh-and-blood, is a welcome
island in a sea of languishing sentiment.
“Shoot, Durn Yuli”: When the State
Theatre, Melbourne, stepped coyly and
blushingly out of its scaffolding, opinions
varied somewhat as to its merits as a work
of architecture. Now that the depression
has hit it its complexion is beginning to
show signs of strain. I asked a friend
what it recalled to him. He looked at it
briefly and remarked, “Wedding cake not
called for.”
“Say Bo”: The woes of the Australian
picture-producers are as nothing to those
of the Irish Free State. In that enlight-
ened land last year the censor cast forth
185 out of 1321 films submitted to him, and
took some pains to tone down the titles of
some which he let past him. He turned
“The Call of the Flesh” into “The Singer of
Seville,” “Divorce Between Friends” into
“Between Friends,” “Kept Husbands” to
“Rich Wives” and “A Madonna of the
Streets” into “The Slum Angel.” For poli-
tical reasons, no doubt, “Tell England”
became “Gallipoli.” Indecision and uncer-
tainty are not troubles with the Irish censor.
As one official put it, the rules governing his
moral activities are the oldest in the world —•
they are known as the Ten Commandments.
Consequently promiscuous love-making, hug-
ging and kissing and suchlike infringements of
the instructions received by Moses from the
Great Censor are out before they are in
at a Dublin theatre. A campaign has also
been undertaken against posters, the method
employed being to obliterate objectionable
features. Consequently life in Dublin is
brightened by the spectacle of John Boles,
billed as the lover of Lupe Velez, passion-
ately clasping a rectangle of blank paper.
Leslie Rees: Cinema orchestras are
coming back to London. About 3000 musici-
ans were engaged in the larger cinemas
during the “silent” days. A little later, with
talkies doing their worst, there was only
one house in the West End —the Plaza —with
a permanent orchestra. Something like 500
musicians are now more or less regularly
employed in cinemas, and the figure is bound
to increase.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Oil his form in the Villiers Stakes, and in
the Chisholm Handicap at Randwick on
Saturday, High Disdain must be accounted
the best sprinter of the moment in Sydney.
Better than Greenline, now rising eight and
no longer the Greenline of 1929-30. Green-
line had to give Kingsley’s meal-ticket 101 b.
in the Chisholm Handicap, but was beaten
by more than that. High Disdain conceded
lumps of weight to most of the others—there
was a field of 19. He was second-last when
they had galloped two furlongs of the six at
the rate —maintained throughout—of 12 to the
furlong, and there were eight or nine horses
ahead of him as he reached the straight. But
he threaded his way through in fine style,
favored by a run on the rails, which Darby
Munro snatched cleverly, and Tom Pinch’s
backers, who had thought the race safe for
their horse when he cut down Old Ming,
the favorite, saw him caught and passed by
High Disdain, who was a head in front
at the close of his brilliant run. Casque
d’Or was a close third and Old Ming—a
disappointment so far, but very likely to
reward his owner before the season is out —
fourth: Royal Park (from Newcastle) and
Venetian Lady ran creditably.
The tote beat the books badly on this race.
Ring prices were 12 to 1 High Disdain,
10 Tom Pinch and 14 Casque d’Or; divs.,
for 10s., were £8 19s. 6d. (s.o) and £3 6s. 6d.
High Disdain, £2 Is. the second horse and
£2 15s. the third. Tote receipts for the day
were £40,924 10s., as compared with £36,245
at the corresponding meeting last year, when
there were also six races.
A large section of the crowd hooted when
Vertigern came in after winning the Summer
Cup, and no wonder. Raced repeatedly
since his arrival in Australia nearly three
months ago the brother to Panola had shown
indifferent form. He had run poorly in the
Bert •. “ No Jt 1 cant lend you another
Bean
gert; “a.H, .be A SPORT ! JUST
ANOTHER POUND*
Bert '/Vouve got me about
SWMHEO ALREADY,''''
<sert; Dont be Haro Bert-, remember
Isa Just a little goru after
ALL?
Holiday Handicap on the previous Saturday,
and was meeting Spearman, Gemliglit and
others who beat him in that handicap on
worse terms. Horses are not machines, and
the Vertigern party may have been ready
with a satisfactory explanation; but they
were not asked to furnish it. The book-
makers were prepared for an improvement,
for they had Vertigern at sixes when betting
opened. The price drifted to twelves, but
came back to tens —eights in places. On the
tote there was good money for the nag, as
witness the divs. for 10s. —£4 18s. and £1 7s.
In the last furlong of the 13 Vertigern, who
was ridden by McCarten, outstayed Induce-
ment (5 to 1) and Spearman (9 to 2), who
fought out the finish with him, beating the
former by a length and Spearman by two or
three lengths; Salvador was shaded for
third place. An outsider, Chase March, set
so smart a pace that the 13 furlongs were
traversed in 2min. 45isec., and Loquacious,
the favorite, carried off her feet in the first
part, never looked a possibility. A mile and
five at a fast clip is just a little too far for
Spearman.
It is a long time since Dick Wootton had
a good horse racing in his colors, but he
has reason to be very hopeful of Birthday
Present, a black gelding by Vencedor —Sold
Again, and a birthday present indeed, for
he was brought to Sydney as a gift to the
veteran by son Stanley. Stanley is, of
course, as shrewd a judge of a horse as is
to bo found anywhere, and, although they
all make mistakes with young stuff, he picked
a galloper in Birthday Present. Trained at
Randwick by another veteran, Paddy Nolan,
Birthday Present was produced in a Novice
Handicap at Menangle in November and,
though bad at the barrier, won handily. He
followed this up with a success at Gosford,
and his third victory in three starts was
achieved in the Christmas Trial on Saturday.
Webster, who rode him, got a nice run on
the rails, and the others —Reserved and
Agineourt proved the best of them —were in-
capable of extending his mount, who. by
English time, is only a three-year-old. Four
to one in the ring, Birthday Present cut out
the mile in lmin. 38sec. The div. for 10s.
on the third horse was £l2 9s. 6d.
Obviously Arnurna is not in the same class
as her half-brother, Chatham. She had every
chance in the Summer Nursery, but faded
out of a place, the race going to Turbine,
one of Tippler’s progeny, bred by Hunter
White and leased by him to trainer .Tack King.
Turbine had finished third to Treasury and
Arnurna on the first day of the meeting. On
this occasion she gave Cook a comfortable
ride and made fast time for the five furlongs
—lmin. 7sec:
* * * *
Rosehill supplied first and second in the
December Stakes. Tingalba was preferred to
N.E.F. (8 to 1) in the betting, but. was no
match for him when it came to serious busi-
ness, and N.E.F. left the five furlongs behind
in 60see.; Kuvera (33 to 1) was a close
third. Treasury, the favorite, stopped to
nothing after making most of the early run-
ning. N.E.F. is trained by T. J. Haylen,
who leased him from Hunter White, and
was ridden by Webster, who has quite lived
down early unfavorable impressions of his
horsemanship. The colt is closely related
to Turbine, being by Tippler out of Coble,
whose dam was The Dhow. Turbine is by
Tippler—The Dhow.
The liandicappcr must have been pleased
at the result of the A.J.C. Handicap, in
which Abbot’s Lad (16 to 1) and King’s
Arms (12 to 1) dead-heated for first, with
the favorite, Cathmar, half a length away,
third. Cathmar 1 is an uncertain little beggar
nowadays, and even Pike was unable to
induce him to do his best until it was too
late. Panola, Vertigern’s sister, was gal-
loped on and had to be pulled up.
❖ ❖ :J:
For Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick: —
Carrington Stakes: High Disdain; next,
Holdfast.
Pace Welter: King’s Arms; next, Satmoth.
Denman Handicap: Roley; next, Attar.
Tatt.’s Cup: Spearman ; next, Salvador.
=!= * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Sefton Handicap: Beckwith; next,
Gloriole.
January Handicap: Warneton; next, Sun-
lover.
Berala Iladicap: Loch Garry ; next, Mag-
netic.
* if n *
Holt has got another good race out of
Highland—the Christmas Handicap at Caul-
field on Saturday. The old Queensland-bred
gelding is not quite as good as he was in his
Toorak Handicap and Can-tala' days, but, up
to a mile, he can still beat more than' can
beat him. He had Duncan in the saddle on
Saturday, and punters came at the combina-
tion so wholeheartedly that Highland went
out favorite at 7 to 2, a point shorter than
Green Moth’s price. Green Moth failed
badly; it was reserved for Binna (8 to 1)
and Haraga (7 to 1) to make a race of it
with Highland, but he responded victoriously
to Duncan’s vigorous urgings, running the
six in 1.125.
Earlier in the day there had been a
plunge on Duncan’s mount, Gold and Green,
in the first division of the Juvenile Stakes.
There was a wonderfully exciting finish in
this race, and no one would have been sur-
prised if the judge had declared himself
unable to separate Gold and Green, Com-
poser (4 to 1) and High Shot (15 to 1).
He placed Gold and Green and Composer
first and High Shot third, half a head behind
them.
Most of the races went to well-hacked
horses; but the places in the principal event,
the Hopetoun Handicap, were filled by out-
siders. Here again there was a close finish,
heads being the margin between Loquacity
(15 to 1), Glare (20 to 1) and St. Frederick
(10 to lj. Tote divs. (for 55.) were £ll 7s.
and £2 15s. Loquacity, £3 Is. 6d. Glare and
16s. 6d. St. Frederick. No wonder the
machines are getting most of the small money
that used to go to McShortodds. Mira
Donna made a poor showing for a short-
priced favorite. Glare has been a great
disappointment in Australia, but perhaps he
is going to repay the patient Truskett at
last.
* * * *
For Flemington on Friday:—
Standish Handicap: Highland; next,
Green Moth.
Bagot Handicap: Glare : next. Sir Roy.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Ibn el Issar”: India’s big racing. event,
the Viceroy’s Cup, which was run too late
for this issue of The Bulletin to chronicle
the result, used to be an easy tiding for
Australian horses, and Indian owners of all
kinds came to this country when in search
of something good for the famous race.
Nowadays the custom all goes to England.
Australian owners started the rot by open-
ing their mouths too wide, especially to
the wealthy native buyers who were con-
sidered good marks for a skinning. They
turned to the English market, and it is now
years since a Waler has figured prominently
in any of the big races in Hind.
* * ' t- *
“Retired Leg” : Grafton, a pleasant ham-
let in N.S.W., about which I understood a
guileless peasantry engages in agricultural
pursuits, has just put up a record which
could not have, been excelled at the old-
time ponies. The TJlmarra racing club—let
its name be embalmed for posterity—held a
meeting which included a Flying Handicap,
There were four acceptors. The judge left
the box before the only two to attempt to
finish approached the post in an “after you,
dear Alphonse” manner. All bets were called
off. After that the stipes put horses, owners,
trainers and jockeys on the ice for a month,
with the result that the meeting had to be
abandoned, there being insufficient jockeys
to go round.
. , _ ~
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
When glove contests were in greater
demand than at present, Sydney Stadium
staged the battle Of the year every Boxing
Day, generally to a “capacity” house. But
the stadium is closed, temporarily at least,
and the most important match put 011 in the
metropolitan area last Saturday night was
one between Young Gildo (Bst. 91b.) and
Togo Robinson (9st. lib.) at Leichhardt,
Robinson was an eleventh-hour substitute for
McAlister, and proved a dashed good one,
far better able to “take it” than that young
gentleman. Favored by superior condition,
the Filipino got the verdict at the end of the
twelfth round, and justly; but the lad from
Newcastle is richly entitled to a return bout,
The Ins and Outs
There was a plethord of big cricket at the
week-end, with two Sheffield Shield matches
and the South Africans also engaged. The
latter tackled a Victorian country side at
Geelong, and, after getting rid of the locals
for 88—Christy, in his first Australian
appearance a s a bowler, taking 3 for 19—
knocked up 297 for 7 wickets by stumps on
Saturday, the consistent Curnow top-scoring
with 120 11.0., his first century of the tour,
Van der Merwe kept in great style for the
tourists, and so far has proved himself a
better wicket-getter than skipper Cameron,
❖ * * *
111 Adelaide Queensland had a long day’s
fielding against South Australia, the home
side making 421 in fast time. Victor Rich-
ardson again shone with 75, and was fol-
lowed by Lonergan, who played a dashing
shot for 127. Whitfield (82) and Waite
(44) helped the tally along, but the last five
wickets went cheaply. Oxenham get
three of them for seven, his average for the
'innings being 3 for 73. Gilbert bowled un-
challenged by either umpire to take 3 for
117. Bananaland’s reply was 267, Lee, with
4 for 39. being the most .successful trundler.
The feature of the innings was the left-hand
batting of 18-year-old Sides, a Townsville
player. He laid the wood on to everyone,
including Grimmett, and ended with 74, of
which 50 came from boundary strokes, in-
cluding a six off Grimmett. Oxenbam
backed him with another good shot for 84,
Grimmett presenting no terrors to him
either. Queensland, which persevered with
Sides, in spite of several early failures, lias
had its faith justified. South Australia,
going in again, had 2 down for 174 ; Richard-
son, a brilliant 103 n.o.
Melbourne cricket followers were flabber-
gasted when Woodfull sent N.S.W. in after
winning the toss. The Welshmen showed
their appreciation by running up 276, Bill
topping the list with a good 86. Leaheater
batted w*ell for 37, and Betting ton /got 38;
Ironmonger’s 4 for 75 was the home side’s
best bowling tally. Thanks to the bowling of
O’Reilly, who had been dropped for the
coming match against Queensland in Syd-
ney—lie took 5 for 22 —Victoria collapsed
for 103, Darling, with 51, offering the only
serious opposition. Ponsford had the bad
taste to dispute the decision when caught
behind for 6 and Woodfull could only
manage two runs. In its second attempt,
N.S.W. made 260, O’Reilly, who- bats left-
hand and bowls right—the selectors have
now put him in the side for the Sydney
match —hitting in fine fashion for 43. Lea-
beater again came to light with 56, other
useful scores being 40 and 41 by Hird and
Salmon respectively. Smith, the Victorian
slow bowler, took 5 for 86. Ponsford (5)
again failed in Vic.’s second innings, but
Woodfull came off. With one down for
77 (67 off the bat) lie had scored 51.
“Marion Park”: Though cricket is more
widely, played in the United States than
many imagine, the Yankee press manages to
maintain a naive ignorance of it. ’Frisco “Ex-
aminer” recently commented on a game in
that city, and remarked that San Francisco
West Indians and San Mateo were going to
“swing their sticks, clubs, mallets, rackets.
o,r whatever it is that cricket stars swing.”
That is excellent, but writer can recall an-
other Amurrican newspaper report which
excelled it. It was a write-up by a Yankee
of a Test match at Lords, nod it referred to
the bats as “a sort of paddle.”
* * * *
“Aigburjth” : If signs and portents go for
owt, Jardine will captain the next English
Eleven to invade this country. Jardine is a
gopd skipper, with plenty of. experience. But he
lacks the knack of keeping the common touch
while walking with kings that is so necessary
with a touring team. It is said that his
capacity for exercising discipline over the
professional element of the team is one of
his chief recommendations for the post.
Chapman, as might have been expected from
a brewery manager, was apt to be too much
of a jolly good fellow with these plebeians,
and that, of course, simply isn’t done.
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland’s cricket heads
have just established a precedent which is
worth the attention of their Australian oppo-
site numbers. Merritt, after the tour of
Britain, signed up as a professional with tli ■
Rushton Club in the Lancashire League. He
had given the usual undertaking not to do
anything of the kind, with the rupture of
which Australians are only too familiar.
The M.L. rangitiras have countered by put-
ting a tabu upon the young man for ever and
a day. Never again is he to be permitted
to represent Maoriland at cricket, and not
all his tears will wash out a word of the
sentence.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : The vagaries of the Australian
selectors are this cricket season more
peculiar than usual, which is saying some-
thing. Ron Oxenham, who was hardly used
at all in the match in Brisbane by skipper
Woodfull, was dropped for the second Test
in favor of Lee, whose record in big cricket
is, to say the least, undistinguished. Lee.
in his turn, has been superseded for the
third Test, to be played in Melbourne. It
might have been supposed that Oxenham,
who took 9 wickets against Victoria for an
average of 11.22 each, would have been
given another chance, especially as he. has
done some big things on the Melbourne
wicket. Not so, for Lee’s place has been
filled by the Victorian a’Beckett, who was
one of the also-rans with the last Aus-
tralian team in England, and did nothing
out of the very ordinary with hat or ball
in the recent match with Queensland.
Nitsclike, from South Australia, ..has also
been omitted in favor of Kippax. In view of
the latter’s absence from the game through
injury, this step also is of doubtful wisdom.
:|: * *
“Sturt”: Victor Richardson’s return to
form with the bat has delighted the South
Australian cricket world, and he is being
freely tipped as a choice for the fourth Test
match, which will begin in Adelaide on Janu-
ary 29. The South Africans and South Aus-
tralia will meet immediately prior to the
big event, and this should give Victor a capi-
tal chance to size up the opposition bowling.
His 122 against N.S.W. is his sixth century
against the Ma State, for whose alleged
bowling he has always shown a partiality.
One of the world’s outstanding fieldsmen, it
will be surprising if he does not catch the
eye of the selectors for at least one of the
five big games.
(Continued on page 31.)
“Splash”: Queensland and N.S.W. swim-
ming authorities have not been playing
chaneys with each other for some time,
trouble having arisen through the northern
State questioning the accuracy of certain
N.S.W. records, and also alleging that the
swimming style of a noted Ma State per-
former was illegal. To add to all that,
the Bananalanders have not only hung on to
trophies won by them some time ago, in-
stead of returning them to N.S.W. when
the swimmers from that State won them back,
but have ignored the correspondence demand-
ing their immediate return. Ma has threat-
ened to report the matter to the Australian
authorities, but so far Queensland continues
to maintain its attitude of scornful detach-
ment.
* * # *
“Outboard”: Lecturing in England re-
cently, Lord Wakefield, who has financed
the building of the boats with which
England has won the world’s speed record
on the water, announced the construction
of a third Miss England, which will embody
several modifications giving the pilot greater
control and safety. When Miss England 11.
was going at high speed her draught was
only sin., in spite of the great engine weight
carried and that of the pilot and mechanic.
Consequently the rudder had only the same
grip of the water, and this made the risk of
driving in ruffled water a serious one. Impact
on alighting after an out-of-water leap at
high speed was equivalent to a motor-car
bumping a brick wall, with disastrous effects
to the frail hull and probably those inside it.
❖ * * *
“Centre Court”: Wimbledon officials are
notoriously long-suffering people—some of
them have been trained in the Lenglen
school, for instance —but the lid went on
for them at the last championships when
they had to handle Mdlle. Jedzrejowska, a
Polish tennisette, whose knowledge of Eng-
lish was minus nix. and whose own tongue
sounded like a packet of Chinese crackers
exploded in an empty kerosene-tin. When
it came to telling her what court she had
to play on, she was led there by the ear
in a manner of speaking. Her opponent
was pointed out to her and she was asked
to trust all the rest to the British umpire.


The Ins and Outs
South Africa made a dismal job of the
second Test in Sydney; Australia the winner
by an innings and 155 runs. Once again the
team seemed helpless against Grimmett, with
the sole exception of Christy, who playea
a really beautiful innings before being snapped
up by Woodfull off Ironmonger at 41. Vin-
cent again contributed a valuable tail-end
innings of 35, but the less said about the
others the better, though tlieir form is too
bad to be true. Grimmett (4-44) and Iron-
monger (3-22) caused most of the trouble,
but the batsmen got themselves out for the
most part. Wall also sent down some good
fast stuff for Australia and is just now a
better bowler than he has ever been.
The Afrikanders, after getting over the
third Test match in Melbourne, will have
a comparatively easy spin in Tasmania,
where two games will be played against the
Apple Islanders, one at Hobart and t other
at Launceston. The Maoriland tour will
commence after the fifth Test in Melbourne,
which is timed to start on February 12. All
expenses will be paid by the Shivery Isles,
and the tourists will pouch half the profits.
Back in Australia, the ’Boks will trek to
Perth, and after a final smack at Westralia,
will catch the ferry for Durban on March 24.
“Der Jong”: The South African averages
up to the end of the second Test in Syd-
ney are headed, as far as the batting is
concerned, by Curnow, whose omission from
the second Test team occasioned a good
deal of surprise. He has played 11 shots
at an average of 46, with a highest score
of 81 n.0.- —consistent going. Christy is
second on the list with an average of 38.14
and the highest aggregate —548. His best
score to date is 119. Bell, with 8 not-outs
in 9 innings and a highest score of 2 n.o.
has a place of his own with, an average of
6 whole runs. He takes pride of place m
the bowling, however, with 31 wickets at
a cost of 20.87 runs apiece, mighty good
going for a fast bowler who has been
stacked up against some of the world’s best
batsmen. Slow-bowler McMillan has taken
29 wickets for 24.51 each, but has not main-
tained the form shown in the earlier
matches of the tour.
* * * *
With their shock bowler, abo. Gilbert,
“umpired” out of action, and with two more
trundlers, Thurlow and Benstead, crocked
during the closing stages of the game,
Queensland did well to beat Victoria in
Melbourne by 22 runs. The Bananalanders
scored 251 in their second innings, giving
Victoria 296 to get for a win. The side
failed badly, until wicketkeeper Barnett
and bowler Smith made a tail-end stand
which hoisted the score from 163 to 262.
though Barnett was twice missed by Cook
off Oxenham in one over. Oxenham, who
took 5 for 37 in the first Victorian innings,
this time bagged 4 for 64 —in all, 9 for 101
in the match, a feat which should have
lifted him into the Test match. Hurwood,
who went to England with the last Aus-
tralian Eleven but was rarely given a
chance to show his paces, also got three
wickets in good style.
* * * *
N.S.W. was fortunate to win the Sheffield
match with South Australia at Adelaide by
118 runs, bad fielding by the locals letting
the bowlers down in the N.S.W. second
innings which totalled only 205, the veteran
H. S. Love top-scoring with 69. Tobin again
bowled well, taking 4 for 63 and was well
backed by Jamieson (4-83). Left 278 to
win, South Australia could only manage
160 in their second try. Vic Richardson
went to Hunt for 22 after a promising
start, and after that the Wheatfielders’ col-
lective tail went down, though Waite (38)
and Starr (33) put up some sort of show-
ing. Lefthander Hunt, with 4 for 33, again
urged his claims as a Test-match bowler,
Theak (3-40) also coming off.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: The Australian Lawn Tennis
Association has at last done something defi-
nite with regard to the Davis Cup. A com-
mittee consisting of Brookes, Baker, Clem-
enger and Pitt has been appointed to watch
the form of candidates during the Japanese
visit. If they consider the standard of play
is good enough, Australia will challenge for
the cup. There is a well justified impres-
sion that our players in the front rank,
while capable of showing brilliance, are apt
to go to pieces at a pinch and succumb to
second-raters. If they can stand up to the
Nipponese, confidence may be restored. The
challenge must be lodged by January 31.
As the Japanese do not show in the big
stuff until January 21, there won’t be much
time for the committee to make up its mind.
* * * *
“Top Spin” : If Australia decides to chal-
lenge for the Davis Cup, picking the team
should present some problems. Not less
than four should be sent. Hopman and
Crawford, in spite of past failures, pick
themselves. Willard may be considered out
of the running, and so may Moon and Cum-
mings, of Queensland. There are, however,
three most promising young players: IlasseL
of Victoria, and Turnbull and Quist, of
South Australia. Some N.S.W. enthusiasts
are advocating the claims of the schoolboy
McGrath, but, good as he is, McGrath is
yet in the teething stage as a tennis-player,
and the stress and strain of international
matches would try him sorely. Turnbull and
Quist are good doubles men, who know
each other’s play to perfection, and as things
look at present they are the obvious choice.
* * * *
“Iconoclast” : It is pleasing to hear that
someone has invented what he considers an
improvement in tennis —something _ of the
sort was badly needed. The addition con-
sists of a large hoop set at the centre of
the net, with the lower edge resting on top ot
it. All strokes must pass through this hoop,
but otherwise the rules are unaltered. Ihe
scheme should certainly add a pleasing
variety to the game, and even afford a new
outlet for “temperament.” _ Instead of glar-
ing at the umpire or biting pieces out of
the turf, irritated players of both sexes
could relieve their outraged feelings by tak-
ing headers through the hoop, or inviting
offending officials, under the style of
“Towser” or “Good Doggie, to do likewise.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Samurai”: There are many Japanese
golfers in the Bridge city. Most of them affect
the Moore Park club. Recently a party of
them took part in the competition for the
.Christmas Cup, a trophy subscribed for by
the Japanese community in Sydney, the pot
being taken by G. Yangagiya. The Pennant
Hills club, on whose course the trophy was
played for, has issued a defiance to the
Nipponese, and an Australia v. Japan tour-
ney has been arranged. Pennant Hills mem-
bers will represent Australia, and two
matches will be played at Moore Park and
two at Pennant Hills. If the issue is still
in doubt, a deciding match will be played
on a neutral course.
* * * *
“Hamilton” : Queensland Golf Council has
got in early in fixing the dates for its
jamboree for the coming year, which Will
include the amateur and open championships.
The Royal Queensland course has been
selected as the stamping ground, and the
meeting will last from May 18 to 28. Harry
Sinclair, once of N.S.W. and ex-Australian
amateur champion but now a professional
at Warwick, is the holder of the Queensland
open title. Ivo Whitton is the possessor of
the amateur honor, and will probably defend
it, for he has a notable liking for the Banana-
land meeting.
❖ * * *
“Carnoustie”: Bobby Jones, nowadays
ranked as a professional by reason of taking
pay for demonstrating golf strokes for the
movies, recently figured in a queer golf com-
petition in America. Robert is a lawyer
when he isn’t playing golf, and on a New
York course he played against a field of 65
Horace Lindrum
no doubt cut
his teeth on
a billiard
cue —
And, egged on
by Uncle Wally —
If ad his ambition
fired by a portrait
of champion
Frank
Smith —
With the result
here depicted.
EVOLUTION OF A SNOOKER PLAYER.
Nineteen-year-old Horace Lindrum defeats veteran Australian champion Frank Smith
for the title.
other members of the Devil’s Own. Jones
had to play each hole against a different set
of his opponents, and prizes were given to
those beating his score at each hole. The
standard of play must have been above the
ordinary, for five beat him and nine tied,
though the champion returned a 71-card for
the 18 holes.
* $ * *
“Oh Yeah”: The latest golf fad —Yank-
designed of course —is a score-card on which
is shown a photographic map of the course
taken from an aeroplane. Individual holes
are shown in detail, and the distance is
marked on each fairway. As each stroke
is made, direction and distance are plotted
on the map with a pencil, a dotted line
showing the shot of one player, while that
of his opponent is indicated by a solid line.
The idea is that the card will be a stroke
record for the players, and thus enable them
to correct faults of style. In some in-
stances it may do all this. Many players
will follow the usual convention and return
cards which have no earthly relation to the
actual game played, and the map will thus
simply resolve itself into yet another agency
for promoting perjury.
:[! * * #
“Hoylake”: England saw an interesting
golf match at Moor Park last month between
teams of amateurs and professionals, 20
playing on each side. The professionals
were too good both in singles and four-
somes. winning by 17 games to 8, 5 being
halved. The result was not surprising, for
included in the winning team were veterans
of the calibre of Harry Vardon, E. Ray,
Alec Herd and A. Havers —all open-cham-
pionship winners. Vardon, indeed, won the
title six times, once after a tie with the
French player Massey. Conspicuous among
the amateurs was the Oxford golf blue
H'ardik Singh Malik, a Sikh. He squared
his singles match and with Major
Bennett beat Vardon and Brown in the
foursomes.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: The removal of the speed
limit for motor-cars in Britain has led to
some hectic performances on the Old Coun-
try roads. The latest is a run by one J. E.
Scott, who drove his car from Glasgow to
London in 7hr. 42min., averaging 53 m.p.h.
and reaching 71 m.p.h. The magnificent
English roads no doubt helped the perform-
ance, but in any case the time beat that of
the Flying Scotsman, one of the fastest
trains in the world, by 33 minutes.
* * * *
“Van”: The air-screw, which has been
utilised for some time on sleighs and small
boats as a means of propulsion, has been
adapted to drive a car by a German inventor.
The screw lies horizontally on the back oi
the chassis. Above it are several parallel
plane surfaces forming a lattice, the angles
of which can be altered. The air stream
from the propeller impinges on these surfaces
providing the driving power. When the sur-
faces are perpendicular the car stops, and
when they are tilted backward moves forward.
To reverse, the planes are pushed forward.
# * * *
“Cut Off” : Ten years ago the people con-
ducting the famous Isle of Man Tourist
Trophy races considered the question ot
transferring the convincing ground to Bpa
in Belgium, they being of the opinion that
the cycles were getting too fast for the
rough and cramped course. That year the
winner of the senior race reached the blood-
curdling speed of 54 m.p.h. However, it
was decided to take a chance and stay on,
with the result that this season’s race was
held without undue mishap, though the
winner’s speed was 78 m.p.h.
“Kick Starter”: A new motor-bike record
for the Brisbane-Sydney run was hoisted by
Hilary Buchanan, of Bananaland, who did
700 miles in 21 hours 4 minutes. The
record was established on the new road from
Newcastle to Sydney, which is some 70
miles shorter than the old route. The young
man was delayed in a most extrafirdinary
fashion, a hare becoming jambed between
the mudguard and the front wheel. Buchanan
says he rode over at least a dozen other
hares when passing through the Woodenbong
country at dawn. The beasts were all over
the place and seemed to be completely rattled
by the speed and noise of the cycle, a single-
cylinder 41-h.p. Triumph. Nine gallons of
petrol were used and. including lost time,
speed worked out at 33 m.p.h.
* * * $
“Davis Park”: Queensland, which has
always been prominent in amateur track
cycling, seems to have struck a hot proposi-
tion for the Australian championships in
Tom Briggs, of the Hamilton club, who has
won every State title this season, the half-,
one-, five- and ten-mile races. In addition
he put up a new Australian amateur record
the other night by covering the 220 yards in
12 seconds, which equals the professional
record held by Jack Fitzgerald, Willie Falck,
Hansen and Mat Engel.
* * * *
“Crank”: H. Pethybridge, the young Mar-
rickville (N.S.W.) push-bike rider who
caused a surprise by winning the State
mile title from Olympian Duncan Gray the
other day, added the half-mile championship
to his score on the second day of the meet-
ing, his time for the last furlong being 14sec.
The ten-mile event was something of a fiasco,
most of the best men falling, including
Pethybridge, just as they were settling for
the sprint home. The race went to A.
Betteridge, of Enfield, who won easily in
20min. 28sec.
Miscellaneous
“Stand Off”: N. Iv. Lamport, ( the N.S.W.
and Sydney Uni. Rugby player, who made
such a splash for Oxford in the annual
match with Cambridge, has been elected
captain of the Oxford team for next season.
This is an unusual honor for a “Colonial”
—though Johnny Wallace, another N.S.W.
player, also received it —especially for a
second-year man. Lamport is a very useful
cricketer, too, and it is quite possible that,
like one or two of his fellow-countrymen
before him, he may capture the coveted
double Blue.
•I* ¥ $
“Birkenhead Park”: The South African
Rugby players are doing a lot better in
Britain than the ’Bok cricketers in Aus-
tralia. So far they have lost only one
match, and last week took their second
international by downing Ireland at Dublin
by 8 to 3. Their next big game will be
against England, at Twickenham, early in
January. Their chances seem bright on
last season’s English form, especially as the
home selectors are in a quandary as a con-
sequence of their No. 1 team having been
soundly trounced by “The Rest” in the
trial match, 16 to 6. "
JjC iji ;js
“Hotham”: A. A. Menzie, who has held
the important job of secretary of the Mel-
bourne football club for 19 years, has
resigned. Before joining up with Melbourne,
he was secretary of Richmond, and he has
been for some years the Victorian delegate
to the Australian Football Council. His
successor, C. Streeter, played for the Mel-
bourne club after the war, in which h'e
served with the Bth Light Horse, and after
retiring from active play was coach of the
second Melbourne team. He has acted as
assistant secretary for the past two
years.
* * * *
“Inside Right”: The first invasion of
Britain by Spain since the Spanish landed
at Smerwiek, in Elizabeth’s day, attracted
a crowd of 100,000 to the ground of the
Arsenal club in London ; there England played
a Spanish team at Soccer. Four years ago
Spain beat a touring English side at Bar-
celona, and since then there has been no
holding the Dons. Their self-confidence was
shattered, however, when England won this
match by 7 goals to I—a1 —a solid licking. The
much-boomed goalkeeper Zamorra, who is
the highest-paid footballer in the world,
drawing, as he does, £3O per week, was a
black frost, letting two shots in in the first
five minutes. What Spain thought of it may
be judged by the fact that its Legislature ad-
journed to follow the game on the wireless.
Fancy even Gosling asking Parliament to
mark time until the tin-hare meeting was
over!
*!• $
The 19th annual inter-club contest for
the Dunn Shield saw Randwick-Kensington
retain the trophy with 101 points, Western
Suburbs running second with 77. The star
turn of the meeting was the performance of
Jim Carlton in the 220. He looked like being
beaten by T. E. Hampson, of Western
Suburbs, but got up with a great finishing
dash to breast the worsted in 22sec. dead,
equalling his own record. His time for
the 100 was not his best, being a tenth of a
second over evens. With G. A. Goulding,
the quarter-mile runner and hurdler, Carlton
has been selected (as far as N. S. Wales
can manage it) for the Australian Olympic
team. Others recommended are the girl
hurdler Clarice Kennedy and a relay team
as yet undetermined.
* * * *
D. P. Merritt, manager of the Queens-
land athletic team taking part in the Aus-
tralian championships in Sydney on January
19, was one of Bananaland’.s most noted
athletes in his day. He has held many official
positions in the northern athletic world, and
has for years been sprint handicapper and a
selector of Queensland teams, while he has
also been an Australian selector on several
occasions.
##■ * *
“Fitzcray”: Victorian rowing men worked
off a couple of State championships on the
lower Yarra the other day, and there was a
good entry, though country clubs were con-
spicuous by their absence. The champion
fours went to Richmond, stroked by J.
Barton, a former Australian sculling cham-
pion arid stroke of the Victorian crew that
won the King’s Cup in Adelaide last year.
The time for the two and a half miles was
lomin. 33sec,, the best since 1923- * The
other big event, the 2000-metre sculls, was
taken by the Albert Park sculler G. Ander-
son, who won by half a length from H. E.
Ricketts in 7min. 28sec.
* * =l= *
“Mannum” : The railwaymen’s rowing club
in Adelaide is rejoicing in the possession of
the first cup ever rowed for on the Torrens,
which has been presented by a veteran mem-
ber, David Wald. The donor, then a work-
shops hand, won the cup off scratch 50 years
ago. In future it will be allotted to the
member of the club with the highest aggre-
gate points for the season, and will be known
as the David Wald Cup.
* * * *
“Bermuda”: Victoria is preparing to have
another shy at the Sayonara Cup, which has
been so long in the possession of Sydney
yachtsmen that they are beginning to- regard
it as their own property. The challenger,
Vanessa, left Port Phillip last week-
end to sail to Sydney, as the rules demand.
There is a touch of irony in the fact that
Vanessa is a Sydney-built yacht and has
won the cup for N.S.W. for the past three
years. Bought last year by J. A. Linacre, of
the Royal Brighton Y. C., she will sail as
a Victorian on January 19. It seems about
time the rules were amended to make it
compulsory that the competing yachts in
this event should not only be built but
designed in the State they represent. Van-
essa, for instance, was designed by a British
firm! though put. together in Australia. It
isn’t as if we had no good designers here.
Many of the smaller craft turned out in
Australia are among the best in the world,
and there would be no trouble with the
bigger stuff if our men were given a chance.


Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil every day.
0 f Chemists,
Stores and
II a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
T grey hair.
m
It:
. Rowland's
Macassar OH
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY — Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Missing Friends.
[SaVIDSON, RUPERT HARTNELL
The daughters of the above, formerly of
Erroll Street, Prahran, Victoria, or their
children, are requested to communicate with
CAPRON & CO., Solicitors. Savile Place,
Conduit Street, London, England.
Amusements. _____
CYDN E Y ’ S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : FLORODORA.
CRITERION:
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT
PANTOMIME.
I. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME.
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
KING’S THEATRE: AS HUSBANDS GO.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Tennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslanda
Distinguished Social life
The weather behaved handsomely over
Christmas. Starting well, it went on in the
true Coue spirit, every day and in every way
getting better and better. The beaches were
one gay rapture; blue sea, blue sky and
golden sands swung into view at every curve
along the Pacific. And, wherever you rode
or drove, Christmas bush stood with the sun's
kisses still sparkling in its flaming locks.
Three days spilling with sunshine and gaiety.
And in the evenings there were the Christ-
mas pantomimes, or parties where discern-
ing couples, strolling about gardens, dis-
covered mistletoe high on trees so deep in
the shadows that not even the moonlight fil-
tered through. It was a gay Christmas, a
happy Christmas, because Sydney believes
things are on the turn.
Sydney and suburban shops last week
put Robert on the roll of saints and added
another John and another Joseph. The
knights Robert Gibson and John Butters
skewered the G.S.B. and the Commonwealth
Savings Bank together just in time to allow
of a payment of 10 per cent, of the locked-up
deposits before Christmas; and this, with
the relief brought by Mr. Lyons’s win at
the elections, led to such a burst of shop-
ping that some stores must have had a
record four days’ trading. Never, certainly,
had there been so large a sale of home-
made goods, at any rate. At one store, at
this Letter’s request, a check was made of
100 sales just put through, and 81 of the
purchases were wholly or partly Australian-
made —toys, calendars, bags (the kooka-
burra chortling on most of them), chocolates
and bonbons, pottery, cigarettes, silk and
woollen goods, kitchenware. The home-
made toy was on every counter. And we
won’t grudge the last Government and Mr.
Forde some of the credit for that.
Most of the child’s toys showed no. origin-
ality at all; but ‘‘Cocky Bennett” was an
outstanding exception. The “model” for it
lived for something near a century at Tom
Ugly's, where in his later years he was
reduced to a single feather, and his name —
“Cocky Bcnnett’W-was his one remaining
scrap of conversation. Now, sawn out with
a fret-saw and supplied with a handle and
a pair of logs suspended by wire, he marched
bravely to and fro in the hand of those who
had acquired the trick of it.
Somebody will be disappointed if many
million dollars don’t cross the Pacific to
Australia during the next year or two.
Sam’s big shipping cos. saw the huge tourist
traffic swinging away from Europe, which
to hundreds of thousands lias become too
commonplace to talk about; and that ex-
plains why the Matson people jumped in
with their new Mariposa, to be followed by
the Monterey and the Lurliue. The traffic
which the Matson people believe is waiting
to he captured is so vast that the co. lately
bought six pages in the “Saturday Evening
Post” and commissioned Peter B. Kyne to
fill them with a story of the wonders of
the trip across the Pacific and the fascina-
tions awaiting them here.
Ninety-nine women and one man turned up
to the Westralians’ party at the Lyceum Club
the other night, and the man, George Julius,
didn’t appear to think there was one too
many. Even as the male bird pipes his
woodnotes wild to the silent, listening lady-
bird. George tuned his voice to dulcet tones
and told the 99 of adventures in the West.
The society’s president, Mrs. Walter Kings-
mill, secretary Mrs. Foster Mattei and
treasurer Mrs. Goodisson looked after the
guests and distributed the tracts for the
community singing. Miss Amy Brown, who
has directed the musical programmes
throughout the year, was a guest of honor
along with knight Julius and his lady—
a daughter of the late O. Y. O’Connor, the
great engineer who planned the goldfields
water scheme and the Fremantle harbor
works.
Concert-manager. E. J. Gravestock has
lost* his tall good-looking wife, whose un-
timely passing occurred a few days before
Christmas. Though born in Victoria. Mrs.
Gravestock lived for many years in Enzed.
She was a gifted musician, and . the. artists
who toured under her husband’s direction
enjoyed nothing better than the evenings
they spent in the Gravestock home, though
Mrs. Gravestock was far too good a hostess
to treat them to a ’busman’s holiday—she
mostly saw 1 that the Backliuuses and the
Heifetzes got an evening’s good bridge or
poker.
One well-known woman, at any rate, is
chuckling over the reply she got to her curt
note asking to have her name removed from
the Government House visiting list. “His
Excellency,” the communication ran, “will
be very glad to accede to your request.”
On Boxing Day Padre and Mrs. Drummond
left the Far West for Sydney, bringing
with them 100 youngsters for the annual
camp, in Manly public school. Although
this is a holiday camp, troublesome eyes,
tonsils, teeth and appendices get an over-
haul. The work is never-ceasing—the pro-
blem of finance likewise. But the proud
boast of the workers is that they never ask
help—it is always proffered. Now Lady
Game has offered to do all she can, and
the Australian Historical Ball is being
arranged to help the scheme. This will be
one of the gaieties of the Bridge. opening.
Time was when Victoria Barracks’s Santa
Clans arrived in a laden chariot to distribute
his cargoes, but this year he came by aero-
plane and descended by parachute, to the
delight (but not the amazement, for aren’t
wonders their everyday fare?) of 500 tiny
tots. However, a tractor bedecked with
flags transported the ever-young old gentle-
man from his landing place to the entrance
of the main building. Like all great and
valuable stars he had been “doubled” in the
parachute descent, his understudy being a
dummy figure, though his admirers knew it
not. Rain made an outdoor party impos-
sible, so the verandahs and the drill-hall
were turned into scenes of revelry. No
fewer than 4000 ice-cream cones and 70
gallons of soft drinks were consumed at this
binge—and one hates to think how many
bottles of castor oil next day.
Kipling might have written “Hats, H’ats,
Hats!” as well as “Boots, Boots, Boots!”
if he had looked into the Wentworth the
other afternoon and seen dozens and dozens
of little ones indulging in a Mad Platters’
party. But perhaps Barrie, who under-
stands children so, might have been more at
home with the youngsters. Here came
Alice in Wonderland, and no doubt the
dormouse was somewhere among the ices,
but so much attention was riveted on find-
ing little Leslie Downer’s still littler hat that
this Letter missed him. In contrast Norma
Stedwell wore a sort of young tent of jade
green. Both carried off prizes, and so did
Beverley Duncan and Maisic Leake. The
party is a sturdy annual and goes to benefit
the Deaf and Dumb and the Blind children.
Gordon Brady and Mrs. Denis Garvan. the
principals in the wedding of this week, have
known each other all their lives. His sister
Bertha, who now lives in England, is one of
her friends and their mothers were friends.
Yet they never foregathered much till
recently. Gordon Brady joined up with an
Irish regiment at the beginning of the war
—his throat-specialist father was an Irish-
man-performed prodigies of valor, got his
majority, an M.C., a D.S.O. and a couple of
severe wounds. Sinee then he has spent
most of his time on the land, and she has
been abroad a good deal. They are going to
live in France —at any rate till the Garvan
children are “finished.”
The girl with the Merry Christmas smile
is Mary O’Neill, elder daughter of solicitor
Morgan O’Neill, of Neutral Bay. Mary,
who is one of
Sydney’s prom-
ising young
artists, ha s
just won the
prize for her
painting o f
Newport,
entered in the
water - color
section of the
Austral ian
Forest
League’s com-
petition. This,
as you may
guess, is a
society to pro-
mote love of
the beauty
that lies along
busliland ways,
and the win-
ning canvas
was a vivid
bit of Newport into which the artist put
not only her talent but all the feeling of an
Australian of the third generation. Falk
made the picture.
The tip in U.A.P. circles is that Billy
Hughes will be given the High Oommissioner-
sliip for which liis soul yearns, thereby solv-
ing a lot of awkward problems. “Bull”
Ryrie’s wife has been a great success in
London, and old Mrs. Pat Osborne, who
leads the Australian colony there, is devoted
to her, quite apart from the fact that they
share the same set of grandchildren. (The
Harry Osborne and Ryrie youngsters inter-
married.) But it would be carrying civility
too far to say that the Old Brig, has been
taken seriously as PI.C.
Also ambitious young Norman Cowper, of
Allen, Allen and Hemsley, wants Hughes's
seat. He would have won North Sydney if
Billy hadn’t been there, and lie is a protege
of Mr. Hemsley, M.L.G., who is a tall tower
of strength in Bligh-street.
Dick Parry, who was such a success as the
horrible composer-chap in “The Constant
Nymph,” is back in Sydney after touring
Queensland with a real professional company,
lie turned up at the cocktail party given by
Dora Jarrett and Alison Relifisch in their new
studio. Other Independents streamed in to
such an extent that the time-limit of six
o’clock stretched on till nearly eight. Inci-
dentally, still another to take up the trade
of miming is Paul Spitzer. He opens in a
“mystery” at the Opera House in January.
Once upon a time a library was a place
where books were changed. Now a library
is liable to be a club where the members
drink tea and play bridge and sometimes
in the even-
ing foregather
for lectures —
not so literary,
perhaps, but
quite modern.
The Pickwick
Book Glu b,
run by Dorise
Hill, the girl
in this Rene
Pardon pi c-
ture, is one of
the new kind.
Now Dorise
has added the
Pickwick
Theatre group
to her enter-
prise, and
under the
guidance of
Philip Lewis
they are re-
hearsing their
first play, Novello’s “The Truth Game.”
Mary Wells and Althea Siddons are in the
cast, and Anne Gordon has promised to
appear in a later production.
How much of the £40,000-odd that made the
temperature of the tote run up till the mer-
cury threatened to burst was paid into it
by the flowery-f rocked pretty creatures who
gambolled about Randwick on Boxing Day?
Probably more than husbands and brothers
think; anyway, some of them had the luck to
get on Agincourt and tucked £l2 9s. 6d. into
their glossy new handbags in exchange for
the 10 bobs they had drawn from them.
The stands were gay as the flower beds,
every woman was dressed for summer, and
multi-colored voiles, linens and ninons like
miniature horticultural shows stirred and
rippled, clashing and merging as the groups
moved and changed. Amid this blaze of
color the black muslins were as distinctive
as rocks in a summer sea. The Governor,
down from Sutton Forest, saw the show,
and Tina Clift proclaimed in her workmanlike
fro,eking that, racing is real, racing earnest.
Helen and Philippa Stephen and Barbara
Knox, the last in forceful red and black,
were seen in conference ; Mrs. Malcolm Mac-
kellar’s blue-and-white outfit w*as one of the
day’s specials; Margaret Hagon looked a
peach in pink; and Mrs. Bolin’s grey georg-
ettes were shaded with a wide hat of the
pictorial family.
Sydney will have plenty of chances to dance
the Old Year out and the New Year in, for
the organisers of Prince Alfred’s, the Dal-
wood Home and the. Institution at Darling-
ton for the Deaf and Dumb and the Blind
children have arranged revels for New
Year’s eve. Down at the Stadium in Rush-
cutter Bay the Palmy Days fiesta will raise
the wind for Dahvood, the Town Hall will
rock on a seventh wave of gaiety in aid of
Prince Alfred's, and David Jones will house
the Black Opal Ball for Darlington.
The Society of Women Writers is losing
its president, Mrs. Liddell, who goes to
Melbourne in January. At the before-
Christmas lunch the women writers broke a
bottle to wish her luck. There was a still-
born attempt to sing “She’s a Jolly
Good Fellow,” too; but under the million or
so inquiring eyes focussed on the group
from every corner of David Jones’s restau-
rant even the women journalists quailed.
Mrs. Baverstock will be acting-president.
One woman of this Letter’s acquaintance
went up to the street corner at Bondi the
other night to listen to the U.A.P. spruikers.
Her neighbor presently confided to her:
“Well, all the same, lady, I’m going to give
my vote to Labor.” But ,the lady, who is a
U.A.P, enthusiast, thought “Not if I can
help it,” and forthwith started in to prosely-
tise her subject. He listened with flattering
attention ; then, “You put it well, lady,” lie
agreed ; “I guess I’d better give this U.A.P.
chap a vote.” Then, in rapid succession, lie
offered her supper, a theatre and marriage;
and such was his unfailing good nature,
when she had to decline all three on the
grounds of having a husband already, that
lie said handsomely: “Well, there’s my hand
on it —I’ll give your pick my vote if it’s only
in memory of the good luck I’ve missed.”
And here’s the story of how the cul-
tured Senator Walter Kingsmill wired Mrs.
Walter on Monday : “Wliat-oh the elections? ’
To which his wife just as economically and
enthusiastically replied: “Good-oh the
elections !”
Barrister John Gould did a programme-
synopsis of D’Annunzio’s “La Giaeonda” for
the Dante Alighieri excursion into the drama
last week. The play, in blank verse, was
presented in the Italian, and only for John's
help would have remained unintelligible to
at least -one listener. The story presents
the old triangle—two women and one man.
The women are wife and mistress; the
man a sculptor. The big scene in the play
is the meeting in the studio between wife
and inspiration, in which each sets forth her
claim to the man. The inspiration points out
that as she feeds the man's brain and emo-
tions she has the prior right, and in support
of her claim points to the masterpiece, which
under her stimulation the artist lias
modelled. The wife lias only one beauty ; her
hands are truly exquisite. Maddened by her
rival’s loveliness and power, the wife rushes
upon the statue, which crashes forward on
to her upturned hands, crushing them to
pulp.
This was the first time the play had been
produced in Australia, and the Savoy was
crowded to hear the mellifluous lines that
filled the theatre with wine and honey, while
Dr. Baccarini, who had had much to do with
the production, smiled with just pride. _
All the men are crowding into the Prince
Edward to see Tallulah Bankhead, who as
the beauteous heroine of “My Sin” wears
lovely clothes in, if not exactly a sinful, yet
certainly not a suburban manner. Her eye-
lashes, too, send out long quivering rays to
the susceptible; but a case-hardened youth
who is a kingpin in amateur theatricals
declares that they are the take-on, take-off
variety. Hollywood has made to come true
the extravagant claim of old-time novelists
that their heroines had lashes long enough
to sweep their cheeks. Tallulah is one of
those rare beings who can wear pyjamas and
still look dangerous and mysterious. On
most of us they are too revealing.
What will happen to musical comedy when
the 50-and-over brigade go to their reward?
The speculation was inspired by the appear-
ance of Her Majesty’s when the lights went
up for the first interval on Saturday night.
Bald, grey and snowy heads everywhere.
Hardly a boy or girl in sight, and those
one did discover wore the slightly pained
expression of a modern eight-year-old in the
presence of Dad made up as Father Christ-
mas. Yet Leslie Stuart’s lilting music
silenced even them after a while. The Young
and Secret, as this Letter’s one-time colleague
Alice Grant Bosman calls them, have been
listening to Mighty Wurlitzers and canned
jazz for so long that most of them are quite
taken aback when they hear melody.
Queensland’s chorus: —
The Queensland Press Institute entertained the
Governor and Lady Goodwin to a farew'ell tea in
Howe’s banquetting hall. Mrs. Young, the president,
was in black mariette and black swathed hat; Lady
Goodwin chose brown and white spotted crepe de
Chine and brown baku hat. Eulogistic references
were made to the good work done by their Exes,
and sincere regrets were voiced at their impending
departure.
Eric Lane Black took to wife Jessie Marshall,
youngest daughter of the late Robert Robertson,
once Under-Sec. for Public Works, at Pitmundie,
Soutli Brisbane, the residence of the bride’s mother.
The bride wore apricot and yellow floral georgette
over gold satin, with . a Chinese champagne-hued
baku hat, and lace spray trimming.
At St. Matthew’s, Sherwood, John Brew' married
Ethel Clunn, daughter of Colin Clunn, Rabaul. and
Mrs. Clunn, Giaceville. The bride, who was given
away by her cousin, was in ivory bridal satin, and
hand-’broidered Brussels net veil. Doris Clunn and
Abigail Brew, in blue and apricot floral georgette,
’maided. The palm court at the Canberra saw' the
feasting.
The Union Jack, roses and zinnias decorated the
Mayoress’s reception-room in. the City Hall for the
Christmas party of the Victoria League. Lady
Goodwin, who is president, wore sombre ninon in
amber shades. Mesdames J. P. Peterson and C. S.
ITawkes and Mr. William Graham received the guests,
and Florence Micheli looked after the musical pro-
gramme, to which Jean Rigby, Edith Harwell and
Ted England contributed.
At the City Congregational Church, Matthew R.
Walker and Ethel Raymond were made one. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was in
ivory bridal satin with Brussels-net veil.- Apple-
green broderie Anglaise was worn by the bridesmaids,
Misses M. Stewart and E. Walker ; green straw hats
with ostrich feathers completed the turnout. Piuk
roses decked Atcherley for the feast. The Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.) saw the ’moon rise.
The Royal Society of St. George had its) Christ-
mas shivoo in Empire Chambers. Old-fashioned
games and dances, a giant plum pudding surrounded
with flames, and the singing of carols filled a jolly
evening. A. C. Elphinstone, the president, and Mrs.
Elphinstone received the guests.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to the
Toe H Christmas tree, where some 500 children,
invited by the Social Service League, enjoyed them-
selves on the ground floor of the new building of
the C.T.A. J. H. Holliday played Father Christmas.
Ex-Judge Jameson spoke to the kiddies, and there
was community singing.


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN STORAGE-
BATTERY SEPARATORS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13813/19 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, 67 York Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO ELECTRIC SWITCHES.
■THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 15851/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, 67 York Street, Sydney.
CLIVEDEN MANSIONS
EAST MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
RESIDENTIAL FLATS.
Furnished and Unfurnished.
Telephone: JllB4.
Notice,
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN-
DREDGING CO., N.L.
J\|OTICE is hereby given that a General Meeting
of Shareholders in the abovenamed Company
will be held at the Office of the Company, A.M.P.
Chambers, Hobart, on THURSDAY, JANUARY 14,
1932, at 12 noon, for the purposes following, namely:
1— To receive the Directors’ Twenty-fifth Annual
Report and Balance Sheet, which will be pre-
sented for adoption.
2 To elect two Directors. Messrs. Malcolm
Kennedy and H. G. Gray retire, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
3 To appoint Auditors.
4 To transact any other ordinary business of the
Company.
By Order of the Directors,.
H. J. WISE,
Hobart, 21st December, 1931. Manager.
M
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
_ HOUSEHOLD PACES
> SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.
LAOYS LONDON LETTER!.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
Etc. Etc. Etc. i>
THE AUSTRALASIAN,
ON SALE ALL STATES t>-
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to tlie Manager, who will
quote you price for the original. i
Melbourne
Chatter
The weather being fine there was a fair
attendance at Moonee Valley at the mid-
week when there was a meeting for the
benefit of St. Vincent de Paul’s and St.
Augustine’s orphanages. The roses for
which the course is famous were at their
best. The committee of women interested in
the institutions, hcadpd by Mrs. Merson
Cooper and Mrs. Esmond Downey, sold a
good many tickets before the date. Of
those in the members’ enclosure who helped
to make the afternoon a success were Mrs.
James Alston, in snuff-brown ensemble;
Mrs. D. P. Mackey, Mrs. J. C. Westhoven
and Mrs. W. Crosbie. Mrs. A. G. Hunter,
rejoicing in a win for her geegee Opera Bag,
was there in black with a dash of green.
Others who patrolled the lawn were Dr.
J. G. Sheahan and Mrs., Shcahan, Dr. and
Mrs. Frank Donovan, she in powder blue
with a honey-colored straw hat wreathed
with flowers; Mrs. C- D. Gavan Duffy, Mrs.
Ben Chaffey, Mrs. T. J. Ryan, with her
daughter Jill and son Jack, Mrs. W. Rogers
Thomson and Mrs. W. J. Wearne, in a
smart turnout of hunters green with a
matching felt bowler hat.
Beach pyjamas had a great outing on the
shnds on Boxing Day. Strange to say, at
Portsea, which by tradition leads the way m
seaside fashions, the trousered suit was not
displayed to the same extent as nearer town.
However, flappers swaggered around in (what
used to be) sleeping garments of figured stuff
or colored silken jersey on every sea-strand
from St. Kilda to Frankston, and even
promenaded the shopping centres in gaudy
flapping pants and long coats, or in one-piece
garments, topped by huge hats or tiny berets.
At Portsea the first favorite with the girls
is the Spanish style of pants, very wide
about the ankles, or so full as to constitute
twin skirts. A white linen suit had narrow
braces, yellow, green and orange, to match
pieces let in at the trouser hems. Another
smart style featured cream flannel trousers
with colored coat. A Melbourne woman
lately returned from abroad was so attired,
her coat being scarlet. Her three schoolgirl
daughters wore with their coats and hats of
Reckitt’s blue pantaloons of grey flannel. At
Portsea are Mrs. Harold Luxton and her son
and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Albion Walkley,
Mrs. A. Robb, the Kimptons, Mr. and Mrs.
Shackle and their daughters, and the Robert
Wilkins. The 3f)th Battalion is encamped at
the barracks and the military band has
brightened several nights upon the pier.
The Christmas spirit was abroad in Mel-
bourne on Thursday. One of the many
mothers with several young children in tow
was toiling along Collins-street late in the
afternoon after a shopping expedition. A
purchase for a small girl was a doll, which
she proudly held. Suddenly it slipped from
the child’s grasp and fell to the pavement
a complete wreck. Copious tears watered
the headless toy. Two men sauntering along
spotted the tragedy. Simultaneously they
plunged hands into their pockets and, with a
hasty “Go and buy her another,” passed
over a handful of uncounted silver. Before
the woman had time to thank them they had
passed on, continuing their conversation as
if buying dolls for unknown weeping infants
came to them automatically.
Mrs. Barry Thomson, president of the
entertainments auxiliary of the Alfred Hos-
pital, with Mrs. Maurice Patkin, gave a
Christmas party for child patients. Balloons
and twinkling lights made gay the Michaelis
ward, where the little folk contemplated a
mammoth Christmas tree whose branches
dipped with the weight of toys and good
cheer. Wallace Mitchell put on the mantle
and beard of Santa Claus and distributed
the gifts, each young person being per-
mitted to make a choice of playthings and
books. Mrs. P. H. Dock provided high tea.
A permanent gift to the ward was an O.S.
in Noah’s Arks, sent by the Wallace Mit-
chells as a gift from their infant son Lauch-
lan. A doll from Mrs. A. Paterson and
a monster Mickey Mouse from Mrs. R.
Thomas were other community presents.
Bagpipes heralded the arrival of Santa
Claus at the Orthopaedic hospital for
crippled children at Frankston. The Wal-
lace Mitchells staged the party. Not
only did Santa arrive all dressed up with
a full pack of toys and things, but there was
a Christmas tree with more toys dangling
from its branches. Mrs. Mitchell is a sort
of godmother to these sufferers, and every
week they look forward to her coming, tor
there is generally a surprise in _ store tor
them Her own children make friends with
the invalids, and one small boy, whose name
is Malcolm, is a bosom pal ot Malcolm Mit-
chell. Mrs. Lauchlan Mackinnon, president
of the hospital, said her thanks to the Mit-
chells ; sentiments which were echoed by
the resident medico, Dr. Colquhoun.
H L Fern, and fellow-members of the
Artists’’ Society, engineered a dances at
St Peter’s Hall to help the Children s Hospi-
tal. The futurist decorative scheme used at
the Christmas party of the V.A.S. came in
handy, and the hop was successful in every
way.
The Queen Victoria Hospital was bright-
ened with gorgeous flowers from the gardens
of the Norman Brookeses and the A. ' •
Grimwades, at Frankston, for its Christ-
mas celebration. A Christmas tree m the
children’s ward had a floral setting ot b u
and pink. Archbishop Head was a sort ot
episcopal Father Christmas, passing out a
bottle of perfume, to each patient as he
made a tour of the hospital with the pr
dent, Mrs. Norman Brookes.
Auxiliaries that work for the Austin Hos-
pital for chronic diseases joined m giving
a party to the patients. The decorations
of the wards were striking, each being done
differently. The children’s portion was
transformed into a charming garden, where
Peter Pan and Wendy roamed, with fauy
sprites attendant. A Christmas tree and a
Father Christmas came into the picture, too,
and many sick kiddies forgot tlieir ailments
for a few hours. An innovation was a
separate Santa Claus for each ware. , •
choristers of St. Paul’s Cathedral called in
one evening to sing carols to the patien .
At Christ Church, St. Hilda, Jean daugh-
ter of Mrs. C. Tucker, of St. Hilda, ex-
changed vows with Haughton Somerville
Innes, of Canberra, a son of Mis .Oedii-
Rceves, of Hobart, and the late R. R- 111 nos.
The bride wore summery attire ot blue
chiffon traced with a floral design m grey
and a shady leghorn hat, her posy
water-lilies. Her attendant maid woie a
figured silk frock in tones of brown < and
a brown feather dangled from her Ivors
straw hat. . ..
At St. Pat.’s Cathedral Monsignor Collins
tied the knot that united Frances, daughter
o <: the J B. Bullens, of Caulfield, to
Edward, son of Mrs. T. B. Ryan of Haw-
thorn, and the late Dr. Ryan. The bruk
sported pink satm and a veil of the same
tint that descended from a pearl-beaded
Juliet cap. Her bouquet was hf water-
lilies. Her sister Ruth and Lorna Bureau
attended her in pink chiffon with hats to
match, and carried armfuls of gladioli ot a
deeper hue. Judith, daughter of the Norma
Chisholms, of Ki Downs, N.S.W., was train-
bearer. The wedding supper was at tnc
Grosvenor. .
This is a recent picture of Mrs. J. W
Lyon s, the
very able wife
of the new
Prime Minis-
ter. She has
shown that it
is possible to
look after a
somewhat
delicate hus-
band who is a
politician, a
home and ten
children,
mostly young,
and steer clear
of grey hairs
and nerves.
Mrs. Lyons is
well acquaint-
ed with poli-
tics, and once
upon a time
both .she and
h e r mother
were Parliamentary candidates.
A color scheme that blended tints of
sweet-peas was used for the wedding of Isa
Baker and Geoffrey Winsall Hall at Christ
Church, South Yarra. The flowers that
decked the church matched the pink, blue
and mauve chiffon frocks of the trio of
attendant maids, whose caps and posies were
of matching shades. A veil of old Brussels
lace cascaded over the parchment-satin gown
of the bride and her bouquet of lilies.
Three maids in tourmaline pink chiffon,
carrying feather fans, attended Alfreda,
daughter of the A. E. Pizzeys, of Eaglemont,
and John Windsor Bond, who hails from
Worcestershire, England. The bride, whose
array was white satin and filmy old Brussels
lace, held a white plumed fan in lieu of a
bouquet.
Unusual and attractive bridal attire seen
the other day was a deep vellum-colored
tulle showered with gold beads. A bouquet
of water-lilies was carried. The ’maids
were gowned in pale pink with shady straw
hats.
Phyllis, daughter of the W. E. Druces, of
Talbot Crescent, Kooyoug, who has been in
England for the past year, has announced
her intention of wedding Wyndham Header,
of Launceston, Cornwall. She means to look
in on her parents again about June, and
later will return to change her name.
. The Macedon branch of the C.W.A.,
headed by its president, Mrs. Stephens,
spread an assortment of wares beneath the
trees in the grounds of the Hodges lady s
home, Dreamtliorpe. The Mitchell lady,
general president of the C.W.A., launched
the fair, and was handed a posy. Among the
sales-ladies were the chatelaine of Dream-
thorpe, Mrs. Oswald Syme and her daughters,
Mrs. Chris Cowper and Elsa Grice.
In “As Husbands Go,” which opened at
the King’s Theatre on Saturday, Kathleen
Goodall, who does a curtain-raiser turn,
looked most attractive in a filmy lace gown,
lime-green, allied to an immense pink feather
fan. In the play Ethel Morrison wears some
striking gowns. There is an evening dress
of the palest of green satin, worn with a
short coat a tone deeper. A vivid green coat
suit trimmed with black fur and a matching
bowler hat is worn by Iris Darbyshire.
Among the first-nighters were Mr. and Mrs.
Thring, the Robinson lady, the Percy Black-
bourns, Mr.' and Mrs. C. Marriott, Mrs.
Alan Robertson and Mrs. Leslie Macdonald.
Mrs. Henry Gullett, wife of the re-elected
M.H'.R. for Ilenty, is here depicted. Com-
fortably set>
tied in Can-
berra until
the dissolution
came, Mr s.
Gullett rushed
to the metro-
polis a month
ago, took a
flat and
plunged into
electioneering.
I-I e r mother
was the late
Hedley lady,
known in the
literary world
as Ba rb ara
Baynton. Mrs.
Gullett is a
Sydneyite, but
received much
of her educa-
cation abroad.
The Gulletts
have a growing-up son and daughter.
A dress rehearsal of the “Sinbad the Sailor”
panto, at the Royal enabled the Firm to give
a treat to hundreds of the children of re-
turned soldiers and sailors. Only at a Charlie
Chaplin film has this Chatterer heard young
Australians laugh as this audience did. Their
appreciation could be heard a furlong away.
Lilian Crisp, as principal boy, wears doublet
and hose of sparkling silver, white or royal
blue with much grace. Thelma BurnesS is
all blue taffeta frills and pink rosebuds, lhe
settings are artistic and colorful, and there is
an admirable Australian wild-flowers ballet
as a grand finale.
Major Leroy Burnham, of London, for-
merly A.D.C. to Lord Denman, is visiting
Melbourne with his wife, a daughter of
J. M. Niall.
Ex-actor Gerald Kirby and his English
wife have set up a little toy factory at South
Yarra. They make soft, cuddly things, so
attractively fashioned that the Christmas
demand lias exceeded production capacity.
Latest news of singer Dorothy Penfold,
of Bendigo, who has been residing in
London for some time, is that she has had
a couple of engagements. She is expecting
to return to Australia about August or
September.
The two London functions that still
arouse Oswald Cheeke to enthusiasm were
the opening night of Noel Coward’s “Caval-
cade,” in which Australia’s Strella Wilson
sings like a lark, and the party given by
Gordon Selfridge on the night of England’s
last election. At this Sheila Milbanke
(Sheila Chisholm who was) and the
Countess Bective (who was Rupert Clarke's
lady) were two outstanding beauties. The
two top floors of Selfridges were turned into
entertaining rooms, and the horde of guests
numbered 3000. Supper was in three relays
at twelve, one and two o’clock, a thousand
guests being served at a time. Everybody
in London’s limelight except Gandhi came
to the party. The Dolly sisters, hung with
pearls, were there ; so was Elinor Glyn, cop-
pery of hair, white of skin and dressed in
bright fuchsia. Somerset Maugham. Charlie
Chaplin. Noel Coward and the Neilsen-
Terrys made up Oswald Cheeke’s group.
Sc-utli Australia’s tattle :
The Young Australia League anticipates a good
time in Westralia. There will be 19 girls in the
contingent, and the railway authorities have placed
a saloon car at their disposal with a piano. Mrs.
E. Angas Johnson invited the 19 to morning tea
at the Wentworth Cafe, North-terrace, to meet Mr.
J. J. Simons, who will be in charge of the expedi-
tion. He advised them not to disparage anything
they see. When W.A. boys first visited Adelaide
they compared the Torrens, then experiencing one
of its waterless moments, with the Swan River, and
Mr. Simons said Adelaide felt hurt.
Christmas dinners and teas under the auspices of
the Red Cross kept the V.A.D.’s busy. There was
a midday dinner at the Lady Galway Hut, the guests
numbering 65. Matron Davidson brought a number
over to Henley Beach from the Keswick Hospital.
If those who have forgotten the war could have
seen that pathetic gathering of men, blind, lame,
and suffering, but all bearing up bravely, they
would realise that war’s aftermath is its worst
feature. Lady Hore-Ruthven was unable to be pre-
sent, but Miss Murray took her place. Dr. F.
Burden, the local president of the R.C. Society,
made a speech and his wife presented a huge
Christmas cake that was duly appreciated. Mr.
Morry Tremaine, a blind Digger, sang several songa
that delighted the men.
At the Keswick Military Hospital on Thursday
there was a Christmas tea arranged by members of
the Soldiers’ Comfort Guild, which linked up with
the Red Cross Society.
Tassie sails in:—
Launceston bad a brilliant day of sunshine foi
the Tamar Regatta, and summer frocks and sun-
shades made the foreshore blossom like a garden.
Captain C. W. B. Martin, like a cherub aloft, did
all sorts of stunts in his Moth ’plane during the
afternoon.
The Leslie Puddicombes (he was chief auditor
at Australia House) are back from the Cold Country.
Mrs. C. E. Masterman is another who has returned
after a short trip, bringing her son Leslie with her,
and leaving daughter Nan behind for the present.
The Hobart Repertory Society staged four one-act
plays at the Memorial Hall. One of them, “Mirage,’’
was by a local member, Mrs. Mary Dechaineux. The
scene was laid on a N.S.W. up-country station,
and the three characters were played by Mrs. Brough,
Alison Page and Donald Purvis.
Dorothy Fleming, daughter of the council clerk
of Deloraine, has won the Orient S. S. Co.’s prize
for academical distinction, and has started on her
world trip. She is on the staff of the Launceston
High School.
The exhibition of water-colors by John Eldershaw
and Joseph Connor, in F. 0. M.’s Arcade, has attracted
a lot of attention. About 60 subjects are shown,
all typically Tasmanian. Eldershaw’s “Richmond
Bridge” (lately bought by the S. Aus. Art Gallery)
and Connor’s “Giant Gum” and “The Biaik Mill
are outstanding pieces.
In Alan Walker the Speck has lost another valued
citizen. He leaves many a memorial ini the shape
of public buildings of his architecture; his last
effort, the mountain garden on Mount. Wellington,
he was laying out when Death took him.
Knight William Cullen and his daughter Ailsa are
summering in the Speck, staying for the most part
with Mrs. Thos. Hungerford, Hathaway House,
Davy-street.
Westralia’s greetings: —
Nancy, daughter of Mrs. B. McCulloch, of W est
Perth, has accepted the heart and hand of Athole,
second son of Dr. and Mrs. Fergusson Stewart, of
Carnarvon.
Miss Lily Kavanagh’s junior pupils demonstrated
their talents at a concert in the Assembly Hall.
Ainslie Thompson and Eileen Anderson were pianists.
The story of willow-pattern china was unfolded in
“The Broken Cup,” with Doris Thompson and Valma
Gleeson playing the lovers who were transfoimed
into doves. “The Knave of Hearts” was a triumph of
clever acting and attractive costumes, with Jean
Mendelson and A. Craig as king and chancellor.
Patsy McManus as Violetta, and G. Wills as the
knave. The finale was an action song, “The Ti-tree,”
which won’a first prize at the 1931 musical festival.
Connie Mofflt is back again after three years’
study of social welfare in the U.S. Connie and
Norma Parker specialised in psychology while taking
their degrees at Perth Uni. Their industry and
success in America enabled them to get extensions
of the time allowed them under the quota.
Alice Mallon of the flute-like notes is shortly to
marry Dr. Muir and start housekeeping within coo-ee
of the blue bay and white beach at Esperance. In
her honor Mrs. W. H. Vincent gave a farewell party
at Minnawarra. Among music-makers were the guest
of honor in duck-egg green; Mrs. Altson, whose
black gown was ’broidered by French fingers in
metal thread; Helen Vincent in rust-red marocam;
Nora Coalstad and Flora Bunning.
The Newton Moore family sailed off by the
Maloja In addition to the usual farewells and
presentations, Lady Moore has a token not so
pleasant. While she was strolling in the Zoo,
chaperoned by the Le Souef family, an old man
boomer took a violent dislike to his visitor and
snapped his fangs in her forearm. The wounds were
deep and painful.
Mrs.' W. Croiiimelin and Mrs. Silveston joined
hands for an afternoon party at the Esplanade.
Guests played auction and contract in the drawing-
room. Mrs. Crommelin’s black toilette was broidered
with white, and Mrs. Silveston chose henna and
white patterning for her crepe de Chine gown.
At the Kylie Club’s December afternoon Norbert
Coomber, a young violinist of great promise, dis-
played his talents. Mrs. Chambers contributed a
long and difficult piano solo; Alice Randell sang in
sweet voice, and some brilliant work was offered by
the Kalminkoff Trio consisting of ’cellist Zlata Kal-
mikoff, pianist Nova Coalstad and violinist Leo Chase.
Evelyn Willis and Veronica Kenniwell were accom-
panists. Mrs. Vincent did the honors in black
with beige trimmings. Daughter Helen, in Robin
Hood-green, Mrs. Archie Burt and Miss Hamilton
were other busy people.


ď
fd
The Future of the
Market.
This is one of the subjects dis-
cussed in the December “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly.”
“The Monthly” puts the work
of a staff of accountants and
investment specialists at your
disposal.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY' 1
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
m
:mr\
in
■ a
f m
Si 9
mu
=cs=
* f>.A
Soon - the calm
of the lagoon
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
T 3 AROTONGA and Papeete, with their languid tropical appeal,
never fail to charm their visitors. Within easy reach of Sydney
by modern trans-Pacific liners, their fresh, unspoiled loveliness makes
them ideally suitable for those seeking to escape the crowded
thoroughfares.
HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS AT REDUCED RATES!
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. • o 9 William Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: 87671. Telephone: Central 8393.
UNION
.. i ; : LINE. . , >. . -
THE MAGIC
OF
GOLD!
Western Australia’s Record.
Largest monthly output for 11 years.
The fact that November’s gold yield for
'Western, Australia is-the .best for 11 years,,
makes bright' reading. The output—s3,B69oz.,
valued nominally at ' £228,823, but in reality
substantially more—was 20,1G10z. in excess of
the yield for November of last year, and
brought the 11 months’ production to 461,356az.,
worth with exchange premium, approximately
£2,500,000. With another month to go the
yield is an improvement of 44,9870 z. on the
whole of last year. November yield was the
best since December, 1920, when 53,9160 z.
were produced, although the value of the latter
was a long way short of that of the gold just
produced.
DON'T EXPERIMENT IN DOUBTFUL
TERRITORY WITH YOUR ADVERTISING.
CHOOSE A PROSPEROUS MARKET
AND USE THE PERTH
untag. ®tHCS
for your 1932 advertising campaign.
BIG IN SIZE, CIRCULATION AND OUT-
LOOK—IN FACT, THE IDEAL PAPER FOR
THE ADVERTISERS.
Missing Friends.
JOHN CHARLES McKNIGHT, formerly
J of Dunedin, New Zealand, is requested
to communicate with IRWIN & IRWIN.
Solicitors, Moray Place, , Dunedin, New
'Zealand?- ~
The Song' of Solomons.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD
DISCUSSES WOMEN AND THE TV AY TO
MARRIED HAPPINESS.
W HALEY at an early sitting in the
Hotel Caravanserai met Frank
Porter, who told him of the trouble
of Porter’s friend, one of . Porter’s thousand
friends, George Maynard, sharebroker’s man-
ager and bookman. Porter had told him
of Maynard’s trouble—a wife who had
suddenly discovered, after ten years of mar-
ried life that had been happy enough, that
he did not suit, and that she was mentally
liis superior, and that if she had not been
a fool she could have married nearer. the
top of the social scale. “And Maynard’s
one of the best,” said Frank Porter.
“Another stag in the forest?”
“I don't, think so. Simply tliis discovery
of immense superiority. A tremendous
egotism that was kept in check by affection
—while it lasted.”
“No children?”
“No.”
“Ah! Children bind —and separate. .Tust
enough separation and enough differentia-
tion of interest to make home right. The
value of children to marriage is that they
keep the woman’s mind on her legitimate
business, and that is wiping Willie’s nose
when he falls down, and kissing the part
to make it well, and playing the little drama
of the day all over again when Daddy comes
home.”
“And Maynard’s wife had money of her
own.”
“Another reason for unhappiness. But
you can’t tell me that Maynard’s wife is
fancy free, or, if she is, that she’ll be so
for long. A woman’s heart without a
tenant is To Let.”
“Sorry for Maynard ; one of the best, he is.”
“That’s why he’s got to get it in the neck.
Life trying for equilibrium; every unselfish
man making half a dozen selfish -people, be -
cause he weakens them with spoon-feeding.
Noise marrying silence; Clydesdale man —
pony woman. Ability too busy working to
get. a swollen head, and sub-mediocrity dis-
guising its stupidity by vanity and talking
of its alleged “temperament.” The fat
woman marrying a mannikin about thirteen
hands high; a roaring bully marrying a
woman like a mouse. Life and law, my boy.”
"Noise marrying silence —that's the worst
of these.”
“Old Solomon knew —‘As the going up of
a sandy way to the feet of the aged, so is
a woman full of words to a quiet man.’ ”
“Fifty-fifty it is for the sexes.”
“Of course; otherwise pygmies and giants,
angels and devils —and chaos. Come, have
a drink.”
“There’s Charters. I’ll tell the waiter to
ask him over. He’s another.”
“Thought he was well placed for every-
thing.”
“There’s hope for him. He’s reasonable
enough to be happy if he’d get some firm-
ness ; but he’s too much in love for that. I
know his girl. Fine girl, too; only she’s
got too many half-rich friends —climbers all
of them, aiding and abetting the criminals who
exhibit silk pyjamas at ten guineas a time.”
Charters joined them—a good-looking,
honest fellow, unnaturally -morose ; for the
native condition of the man was laughter.
He knew them both, but would not drink,
accepting instead a cigar, which lie lighted
from the butt of the one that had gone in
smoke before.
“Lightning chain now, Charters?”
“Smoking all the time lately. Helps me
think —or brood.”
“What’s the use, old man?”
“I’ve got something to think about, Frank.
It’s —it’s a pal of mine.”
With the very old attempted disguise of
the very young, he began to tell them his
own trouble as of a third person, and, with-
out knowing he was doing it, gave himself
away by liis self-consciousness.
“Who is it?”
“Oh, never mind his name. It’s a deli-
cate matter to talk about. This chap and
his —his wife, y’know. Too fond of each
other, that s it;. And she gets unreasonable
about his time away from her. Thinks all
his excuses of business are lies; and they’re
really true, because he’s going through a
bad time, as . everybody else is, and he must
stand by.”
“And he didn’t go home last night?”
"Why, how do you know?”
"Because he’s not as well groomed as he
usually is.”
colored' and then laughed ner-
vously. ‘Oh well, if you’ve got oil to it’,
feherlock Holmes, I’m the goat. I had im-
portant work this morning, and I had to
be ht. tor it; and rows and tears make' me
a putty man. And the worse of it is it’s
all over nothing.”
Then it can end in nothing. We were
talking of a mate of Frank's before you
came along, and lie’s at; Dead- Finish because
Ins wife thinks lie’s mot % good-, enough for
her. There’s no rift in that lute; all the
strings are kicked right out r and the frame
is tinctured ip four places. But you—you're
only up against a passing situation that cells
merely for steering.” "
Easy to talk steering to a man when
hennas neither chart nor compass.”
‘We’JJ drop the navigation terms then,”
said v\ haley. ‘‘There’s only one way to
tiain animals, human or other. Two incen-
tives to good behavior, fear or reward. The
bully would use a whip and win (at least,
masterially), and the man who can’t do
that will use kindness and more kindness
and then—fail.”
“No use. to talk that way to me. I’d hate
to make anything I love afraid,” he said
moodily, tracing the pattern on the carpet
v ith the supple little cane he carried
right,” said Frank Porter.
'You ve got the whip there, but you couldn’t
l i s . e it- You’d rather separate for a bit, I
think.”
‘‘That’s what I thought of doing,” said
■Charters, angling for the advice of the, older
nien, and knowing that lie would not act on
it unless it was exactly the advice he had
already given himself. “It’s- why I stayed
auay last night—-partly the reason, any-
how.' I’d fix half my income on her and go
away for a few months. I’ve got business
west. Who s a good solicitor?”
this game? There’s nothing better
than Soli minus. Big practice, big success—
.simply because he’s a human being. Won’t
let his clients go to the Divorce Court if
he can help it.”
“Solomons?” said Charters. “I’ve heard
of him. I’ll try him next time. ) I’ll have
to go—so long.”
W haley and Porter. Charters being'gone,
also separated, meeting again for • dinner.
After it they entered the.lounge of the Cara-
vanserai, and found Charters still stacking
his endless chain.
Before they were: .settled' a ibig, florid,
portly man joined them and; was greeted by
them cordially. The new man .quietly, un?
obtrusively but decisively proclaimed 'the
fact that he had dined wisely and well • his
expansiveness they could see was the sort
that established the fact that he was natu-
rally reticent.
- “Been hitting the high spots, old man?”
asked Porter. ,
“Yes, iny lad. I hate self-pity. I found
myself pitying myself, and that’s bad and
dangerous. So I escaped from myself: exor-
cised the demon with a big bottle of Bur-
gundy, and now I regard my troubles with
that spirit of Christian resignation that fills
good men when they see another man hurt.
In point of fact, I’m not that man I was,
but another. I git here and look at the
man who was myself two hours ago. and I
judge him impartially.”
"But what troubles can you'. have?”,
“Not I —the other man who urns' myself
two hours ago. He has troubles, poor chap,
and he brought them on himself.”
“Well, if they’re his own fault’%—“
The florid man waved liis hand, in depre-
ciation and said : “His own fault? Yes, but
does it do tiny good to tell him that? I.s it
kindly, even useful, to tell the man who's
leg is broken that he shouldn’t have slipped
on the banana skin? We must not make
ourselves hateful, and the nearest way to
hatefulness is the habit of saying 'I told
you so.’. It is only the coroner who quotes
safety first at. the inquest, and nobody loves
a coroner!”
"Well,” said Frank Porter, “blessed be
the red wine that gives a tang to the tongue.
I won’t say T told you so’ it' you’ll make
confession.”
"Oli, it isn’t confession, because ■ it’s the
statement; of the other man—-the man I was
before I had the sweet corn and the'oil in
the. salad and the wine that maketh the heart
glad. And on.condition tliaCnobody says T
told'you so,” because I’ve been fed up with
that at home for five-and-twenty years, I’ll
tell you' the trouble —the trouble of’ the
other man. •
■ "Thirty years; ago the man married —love
match. , Honeymoon eternal in the. soul, until
children came along and tliis man woke up
to the real business, of life—aud that’s happi-
ness. Money isn’t life; only one of the'cups
we drink'life out of; all the best- things in
life we get for nothing—or for very little.
That's why very rich people often can't get
happiness—after youth is gone, at least.
Happiness is only a matter of contrast with
misery, and the man who isn’t hungry doesn’t
know what real eating is. Still, thank God,
that doesn’t, apply to thirst. Let’s have a
drink. .. . Give your orders. . . . Now, this
man at twenty-five settled down to money-
making, position-making, the getting of
power. Made good in his profession; went
out after quick money; was caught in a
land boom and two mining booms, and four
times he started off scratch. That may have
frightened his people a bit —and there’s no
such dehumanising fear as the fear of
poverty. The really poor get used to poverty
and stay human most times*, but the de-
humanised poor will eat up anything; when
nothing else is left they eat up love in fear
of starvation, and that’s the end of every-
thing. The man never got that fear—couldn't
get it—temperamentally incapable of. it; but
the. man’s family, to whom appearances were
everything, found it in the ups and downs of
his successes and his failures and were mor-
tally afraid of another failure Here are
the drinks —good luck, boys !. .. . The man
devoted, himself more and more to. business.
Couldn’t do enough in the day. Took work
home. Saw liis children at night—sometimes
in the'morning. Excused himself from going
out en famille, until by-and-bye they didn’t
ask him any more —that was when‘he was
in the stirrup, and was giving them all they
asked for as long as lie was not disturbed—
buying quietness with gifts. But when he
fell out of the saddle —well, the family had to
cut down expenses. He battled harder to pia-
cate them-r-a big family it is, nearly all
'grown; up now; all of the dependants are
girls, but grown away from the father,
because - they are hockey- and tennis-players.
All aiders and abetters of the mother against
the-common enemy, the, alleged Head of the
House.' When he made his latest rise they
took charge' again. He had become a coward
for peace ; doing the wrong thing—the thing
lie knew in his heart to be wrong because
it was weak—to buy immunity from criticism
and wrangling. Not their fault. His. He
let the business bug get him, and he allowed
the society bug to. get them. He’d been
badgered into putting all his money into
house property; bricks and mortar that
couldn't run away, although some of the
suburban ; rent-makers he had were -old
enough to fall down. And when it was all
invested in rent-producers they gave him
another year of nagging, bullying him into
making it safe.”
“That was natural and prudent, although
I half hate it for the prudence of it,” said
Whaley.
“All! Make it. safe! But for whom? For
me? No —for them. Nagged at the man
for a year to transfer it to the mother, and
then to the daughters at her death.”
“That seems all right.”
"Seems, yes. Under it was a distrust of
'he man who had made it for them —lack of
faith in him—no care for his feelings. Give,
Mve. give| The daughters of the horse-leech.
At last the man began to listen. Thought
of probate—no death duties on deeds of gift.
Finally lie transferred. He could depend
for all his life on his profession while health
remained to him; and if he were laid aside
before death, was there not. his property held
m trust by his devoted family? Was there?
Or was the family cupboard like that of the
famous Mother Hubbard —so that the poor
deg couldn’t get a bone? It was. Not a
bone for old dog Tray, who hides the skele-
ton that’s there, the skeleton of ingratitude,
until he drinks a bottle of good wine, when
it must. out. It was all right or looked all
right in the beginning. No hint of
change •in ownership or divided owner-
ship-belongings gradually taken away so
pleasantly that it seemed good. And then
I —the man, I mean—mustn’t work in old
clothes in the garden on Sundays because he
looked like a -laborer, and' liis study was
wanted for" a morning-room,- and there was
a better room that he could- have upstairs,
and then neglect—until at fifty-five I am a
gdy man’ about Town,' and-1 oh-ly take off my
coat and collar and boots in my office, and
it is my study—the man’s, I mean. And it’s
all liis fault. 1 say again, women are neither
toys nor fools—they are themselves, and if
they approximate anything but themselves it
is the child of either sex; give an inch and
they take an ell. Fpr they are creatures of
instinct, not of reason. Woman’s work is the
creation and the administration of beloved
beings, and if by circumstance or foolish
softness her job is taken from her of even
modified, all her instincts are warped into
aberrations. Make| her reasonable and you
destroy her emotionalism, and then she isn't
a woman any morel Her mission is to coddle
a man and a babyl; and if man weakens her
from her duty, she’ll get back on him.”
“It’s rough on the man.”
“The man’s philosophy finds the balm for
the wound, Frank —his philosophy and the
Caravanserai’s Burgundy. ‘The Caravan-
serai’s,’ said I —sae-my humility? I’ve paid
for the wine, and yet I still talk of it as
belonging to the {shareholders of this hard-
hearted hotel that is urbanity itself —while
we have money. But I don’t pity the man.
He did it all liimself, and he has his work,
although it is a work full of impudence.
Imagine that man advising people how to
order their lives when he can only disorder
his own? But that’s the way of it. The
cobbler’s children shoeless, and the music-
shop’s family tone-deaf, and the engine-
driver’s children get train-sick.”
“But the draper’s children are well
dressed.” >
“That’s t only because he overcharges
enough to be able to give silk pyjamas to his
mother-in-law. No, not another drink. The
wine strengthens my philosophy, ' apother
whisky might make me regret. something,
and it’s the worst crime to be sorry for any-
thing we can’t help. Good night,. Frank;
good night, gentlemen.”
He left them, but was back again imme-
diately, his hand on Porter’s shoulder.
“I might have known, Frank. It was
there in the wisdom of Solomon. But we
read most things without application to our-
selves, believing that tragedy may be for
others, but that it couldn’t possibly happen
to us.”
“And what did Solomon say?”
“‘Give not-thy substance to thy children
during the life-time, lest after that they
bring thee to- heaviness'. ... I may misquote
a. little—but that’s the material of it. Good-
bye,‘Frank. Good night, lads.”
' “Who’s that' great old chap?” asked
Charters. '
“Sorry, old ‘man, we forgot to introduce
you. That’s Solomons.”
“The big man in matrimonial causes?
Well! Well! It’s a case of physician heal
thyself.”
“He saves others: himself,he cannot save”
—that was from Whaley.
“And he says it was his own fault;” saul
Charters. “Waiter, take, the drink orders; —
the last—and give me the biggest box of
chocolates in the place. Think I' can get
some roses anywhere?”
“What for? Going to the’theatre.?” .
“No fear! T’m going home. Fve .got the
stick here, but I’ll try kindness, too.”
* * *
The young executioner made his exit, with
the knout and the sugar, on the warpath of
his new resolve, but smiling, too.


iiil
■
mm
■
m
■i :
■
SJK
• '
i
m
■■
S-1
'
1
mm
m
■
I
*
I
2
¥
* *
D r MORSE'S
Pills
IVSirpil
Skin Balm
An Antiseptic, Cooling,
Soothing and Healing
Lotion
MIRPIL is scientifically prepared >to correct red
hands, chapped and chafed skin, siunburn, wind-
burn. sore and tired feet. Will keep the skin soft,
smooth and white, and does not stimulate the
growth of hair. Dries in a few minutes without
leaving any greasy after-effect.
Hands Always Wet. —There is probably noth-
ing more irritating to the woman who does her
own housework than the soreness and redness
caused by constantly hating her hands in water.
Sometimes it may only be an embarrassment, but
more often it is a painful experience, especially
in cold weather. This can all be avoided by
keeping a bottle of MIRPIL handy in the kitchen,
and a few times daily, especially after washing
up, pouring a small quantity into the palm and
rubbing well into the hands.
ď
Rough Hands. —Besides frequently having them
in water, there are certain other classes of work
in the home, factory, garden and elsewhere, which,
roughen the hands of both women and men. The-
amount of discomfort thus caused it is unnecessary
to describe. Those who are affected know it only
too well. When such a condition arises a few
applications of MIRPIL .will be found to restore
the natural softness.
To Mothers.— Baby has to be bathed once or
more each day, and between times there is con-
stant washing of clothes, which , tends to chapped
hands. There is no reason why a mother should
not take care of herself as well as the baby.
Remember that broken skin provides easy acces'
for germs, and it is of the greatest importance
that the hands be kept healthy and free from an;
eruptions that might infect the baby, either
through contact or per medium of its food. Hu
MIRPIL on the hands frequently, and results will
be found to more than compensate for this pvt
caution.
Chafed Skin. —In cases of chafed skin, MIRPII
will prove an efficacious emollient.
Sore and Tired Feet.— Apply MIRPIL to tb
soles of your feet when sore and tired. The relit
is wonderful.
Windburn and Sunburn. —When the skin i
burned by either wind or sun, or both, one o
more liberal applications of MIRPIL will brin .
relief. If the skin is too tender to bear being
touched by hand, lay a clean linen or cotton cloth,
saturated with the Balm, over the affected part.
The ravages of the sun will be modified if MIRPIL
is applied generously before exposing oneself to
its rays.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—MlßPlL smeared
on" face and hands at night will keep mosquitoes
away. It also soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
After Shaving.—A small quantity of MIRPIL
rubbed on the face after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always rub MIRPIL
into the skin until dry. The cleansing and cool-
ing actions of this preparation will enhance the
comfort which powder provides.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
MIRPIL SAMPLE
A sample Tube of Mirpil will be sent upon receipt of
a letter mentioning the name of this paper, and 3d.
in stamps to cover Postage and Packing, by
The W. H. COMSTOCK CO., LTD.,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Box H 1085 G.P.O.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GE.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from ..
for which 1 enclose £..
NAME
address ...
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas— 12 months, 30/-; 6 months. 15/6; 3 months, 8/.
(K
1a 0
=6
0°
„ s «v./
*;<' (&® e
.• * * , 4 0,S ‘V
’1 *s>l>
s @»*


iwiiwppig
111
m
.
iimmtMb . * ,r" *• , \ :
■pHMpWB«
■ :
SsMtßfeifc®
■ ..4>
44 v
4m&*t.'sL, 4S&-
IP
\
!y-W '
- \
\
\
; , : "' •
Slfiftlv
4:,?
11 ■
■*' ■;■■
%T':
.
Y 4 ■- •
■■,. ,r 4
■
■HI
Hi
Mil*
in * *>
:
£ >1
4,
■
t I
.
........ .*
,
■ 4
$
-•f
I mm
" , .
;
m
m
m
:
■I
mm
mm
i
& <
mm
msmrm
W;m : B
444
■4444
44\
~.
>4
IMHmMHI
& £
■ 45
4Y:
••- '4-:
Hi
«§*
1 S Mi
1
■
m
mts
ÜBft
1
■>,
■
ills
.V-4:
dU P > *
■—
4 4 :
■
I
H
:
1 ,
mm
n
wmsaam
- 'W A
" >
;.;. : yv
.
.
■■
■•av
i
JU
: 118
mm
:';■■■
im
»iill
, v ,///
41&'- .
«’ > ■
wPmm
■
3111
■ »'
:
: V .'• '
“M Quid cNew fyear tae ane an’a’!”
DEWAR
SCOTCH WHISKY
