

Mi;
-
&
. vN
VO
i
&8
f
1
MR
yi
m.
m
Wt 7.
c
$
Orifi***
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD
Established 1742 and still in its prime .
Real old Scotch Whisky with a rare distinctive flavour.
A man’s drink—anytime, anywhere.
fg
Scotch
Whisky
Screw- cap Bottles.
No Corkscrew Required.
The Bulletin
f&LCLeUviCj .
VoL 52.—N0, 2668.
Wednesday, April 1, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\V/RITE for Dymock’s Library Catalogue,
W an( j ii s t s ou all subjects, which will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This
Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit,
advertised in the Sydney .Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 231 ...
sdfg
WORCESTERSHIRE
1 „
§y m
THE YACHTING
PARTY
Host Holbrook Says:
“Yo ho and a bottle
of sauce! Aye, the sea
air makes the appetite
keen and my Wor-
cestershire Sauce adds
a zest to the snack
partaken on board.
Always keep a bottle
in the locker.”
'~>f
0?*
- r .
U
:::
rf&SSSe.
m
V?
»Si
THE SAVING HABIT
r | a HOUGH your progress in saving may at
A first seem slow —persevere! Make every
effort to continue your regular deposits.
As your Bank balance grows, you will be en-
couraged to greater efforts —your saving habit
will be strengthened.
The money you save will free your mind from
money-worries and become a stepping stone to
opportunity.
Open a Savings Account and save regularly.
Government Savings Bank
of N.S.W.
192 branches. 648 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
' '
There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
ask for it!
(DTallums
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF MeOALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
McFARLANE BROS., Hobart.
The Red Page
Dead Men’s Tales
War Letters of Fallen Englishmen, edited
by Laurence Housman (Gollancz; Roycroft;
6s. 6d.), might correct some impressions left
by many of the books hurried into the eager
market of the last few years. A drawback is
that few of these letter-writers are natural
or even trained observers. E«ut at least they
are human. The “Englishmen” of the title
embraces Australians, Maorilanders, Canadi-
ans, Americans, Scots and others. The
Australian examples are not by any means
of the best, judged strictly .as letters, though
one of tire writers, Lieutenant Adrian Con-
sett Stephen, was a writer in the profes-
sional sense. His letters are unsurpassed
in literary quality by anything in the col-
lection, but they are a shade too conscious
of themselves to be the most successful
letters. The successful letter must have
the gift of expression behind it, with con-
sciousness absent. Of this kind there are
dozens here. One (writing to his mother): —
You probably don’t know what a village looks
like when it has caught it in the neck. It is a
wonderful sight. Each house has chosen its own
way of sitting down.
Another :
I don’t remember ever visualising what trench-
life was like, except that generally speaking it
could not be called pleasant. I now know it to be
an unimaginable mixture of horror, strain, discomfort
and fineness.
Another:—
I have not washed for a week, or had my boots
off for a fortnight.... It is all the best fun. 1
have never felt so well, or so happy, or enjoyed
anything so much. It just suits my stolid health,
and stolid nerves, and stolid disposition. The
fighting-excitement vitalises everything, every sight
and word and action. One loves one’s fellow-man
so much more when one is bent on killing him. And
picnicking in the open day and night (we never
see a roof now) is the real method of existence.
And one more (a boy fresh from an Eng-
lish public, school): —
The more I see of men, the more I love them....
A common song (even now and then a, dirty song)
can make one glad and sad beyond words, because
one has heard men singing it times out of number.
.... I believe with all my heart that man is, in
the main, a lovable, and, at bottom, a good creature.
(Curse the word good! but you know what I
mean—worthy, sterling, right, true, real.) He sings
dirty songs and swears, and is altogether a sensual
drunken brute at times; but get to know him,
start by loving him, believe in him through thick
and thin, and you will not go Unrewarded.
These extracts are not typical—there is
bitterness, horror, revulsion—but they are
representative of far the greatest number
of the writers. And I, for one, believe that
as they saw war, most of those who were
and are with them saw it.
Harlem To-day
The Harlem to to-day, that great negro
metropolis in the heart of New York, might
easily be overlooked by anyone brave
enough to venture a book on direct visible
results of the war. Yet, as James Weldon
Johnson says in his Black Manhattan
(Knopf; Rovcroft; 155.), it is a war growth.
In America’s early war fever of supplying
munitions to the fighting countries agents
went down to recruit black labor in the
South, and the negroes went north in tens
of thousands. They settled in Harlem,
earned wages they had never dreamed of,
and, “contrary to all the burlesque notions
of what negroes do when they get hold of
money,” they bought property, forced the
whites bloodlessly out, and established their
metropolis. To-day it is the negro Mecca
—not a slum nor a backwash, but a city
within a city. Black Manhattan is the story
of its growth, from the days of slavedom to
the day of “Green Pastures,” the negro play
—one of the greatest of modern plays—
produced in New York last year with an
entire negro cast. Harlem to-day is seem-
ingly immune., from the racial riots from
which embittered America suffers.
Not even in the memorable summer of 1919
that summer when the stoutest-hearted negroes felt
terror and dismay; when the race got the worst
backwash of the war, and the Ku Iviux Klan was
in the ascendant; when almost simultaneously there
were riots in Chicago and in Longview, Texas; in
Omaha and ‘in Phillips County, Arkansas; and
hundreds of negroes, chased through the streets or
hunted down through the swamps, were beaten and
killed; when in the national capital an anti-negro
mob held sway for three days, in which time six
persons were killed and scores severely beaten —not
even during this period of massacre did New York,
with more than a hundred thousand negroes grouped
together in Harlem, lose its equanimity.
Bitter enough; but remarkably restrained
compared with how most nationals would
react to such wrongs. Fairness is one of
the writer’s trump cards. He admits that
the negro boxer would not be in his present
excluded position if Jack Johnson’s per-
sonal habits had been different. His is an
embracing book: the theatre (largely), the
racecourse, literature, the prize ring, the
Church, politics,
are among its
topics. It seems
a most important
addition to the
rapidly growing
library of negro
literature.
A Nice Old Man
The; war comes indirectly into the picture
again in the recent Hogarth Press publica-
n ’ Svevo’s The Nice Old Man and
the Pretty Girl, translated by L. Collison-
Morley. Svevo, who died in 1928, enjoyed
a European reputation, but “The Hoax,”
published by Hogarth a year ago, was the
first work of his to be done into English.
His touch of war comes in when his nice
old man is troubled by sleeplessness in the
midst of his fatal attachment for the pretty
girl.
The rumbling-, of the guns reached him, and the
nice old man asked: “Why have they not managed
to discover a way of killing each other without
making so much noise about it ?” It. was not very-
long since the day when the sound of the fighting
had awakened generous impulses in him. Rut illness
had taken from, him the remnants of a feeling for
his fellows which old age had failed to destroy
in him.
The volume is a trifle scrappy, but that
major story is a striking bit of reality, and
the brevity “Generous Wine” is even better.
Each is an acute and convincing study of
senility, or its borderline. Queerly, nearly
all the stories have the same theme of
old age, old men. It is, as the translator
points out, a subject rare in literature;
and this is rare treatment df it.
A Poet’s Wife
In that suggested book of war results
most of the alleged war-books would be
entered on the debit side; but the
balance would be somewhat evened by the
entry on the other side of such things as
World Without End, by Helen Thomas
(Heinemann; 6s. net). Having read it and
gathered that it was a sequel to a book
called .As It Was, published anonymously or
pseudonymously in 1926, I hunted in all the
Sydney bookshops for the forerunner. All
I gathered was the handsome furphy that
some bookselling intellectual had started a
crusade against the earlier work on the
ground that it was obscene. So perhaps all
the other booksellers took it piously out
into their back yards and burnt it; or, more
likely, those whom that sort of thing encour-
ages in their furtive search for the taboo
bought it up avidly, and, I should think,
got the shock of their lives. The idea of
this woman writing anything that anyone
but a stupid prude from Prudellia could find
offensive seems on the present evidence
ridiculous. True, the “Field,” in its review,
had to say of that earlier work: “In these
pages, unfortunately, we can say no more
of a very frank, a very delicately artistic,
a very moving little book”; but that is
merely a superfluous proof that newspapers,
for all their pluming of themselves on being
abreast of their times and what not, were
long ago left behind by the book-writers,
by the stage, by the painter, by the poet,
and by every other vehicle of human expres-
sion. In Australia there is but one thing
which they lead—our infantile broadcasting.
But enough of that. World Without End,
and the forerunner, are the life love-story
of Edward Thomas, one of the best of the
young poets the war took. Read alone
even it is a beautiful and satisfying book,
fresh with the English countryside, brooding
black with storm, shot through with sun-
shine. The ending is as poignant as the
farewell of Lawson’s “Sliprail and Spur”—
a comparison possibly suggested by the fact
that this young English poet and his wife
bid their farewell in coo-ees.
Ralph Stock and: Others
Two fine books, hitherto published in
more expensive editions, have just been
added to Heinemann’s ss. Crown Library—
Ralph Stock’s The Cruise of the Dream Ship
(through the south seas) and Tomlinson’s
brilliant mapping of the near-past, All Our
Yesterdays. Hutchinson has just revived in
a 3s. 6d. net edition G. B. Stern’s Panto-
mime, which in one quality at least—fresh-
ness —has one or two up on Mosaic.
RED PAGE.
The Literary Art Critic
Professor Wood-Jones, one of the world’s
leading anatomists, has just been appointed
a trustee of the Public Library, Museum and
Art Gallery in Melbourne. The professor
should be of much service to the institution.
Not only is he a brilliant writer in his own
branch of science, but he is also a delight-
ful essayist. So he should be useful to the
library. In the museum, where he will
meet his old friend the Spectral Tarsius,
lie should be even more valuable.
In addition to these functions, however,
he will be one of the final adjudicators on
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


THE BEST QDILT VALDE WE HAVE EVER OFFERED
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the foundation-stone of honest trading, paved by Anthony Horderns \
m
<1
%
t i
k
m
■
D
■
11
m
m
U
mm
“The Senior Store.’’
Anthony
Hordern s'
provide the most amazing Down Quilt value in their history
just when coming cold nights will stimulate demand. Only 1000
are available. So, do not hesitate to buy. Secure yours now; for
the response will be prompt and the selling swift.
THESE superior-quality
Down Quilts are cov-
ered with pleasingly
designed and artistically
colored floral sateen; satin
border and goffered satin
panel. They are well filled
with pure feather down of
good quality. They are well
ventilated and hygienic.
Besides being full of cosy
warmth, they introduce a
charming finish to any room.
Colorings are Saxe, Rose,
Mauve and Black panels.
Double-bed size, 6ft. x sft.
Price 70/-
70!
59/6
Also Single-bed and Threequarter-bed size. Price . .
(Down Quilts, First Floor. We pay carriage.)
YOU MAY BUY THESE DOWN QUILTS ON ANTHONY HORDERNS’ D.P.S. AT THE SAME PRICE.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, GP.O.


HARD Y'S
Sparkling
WINES
%
'ilk Hi sir Special
Cold Label Still Wipes
resu lief
n 72,
Years afuiirie grounrig
arid njabiria
( ey
%
Sc
s
SPA
nap,
■J
—*
SSSs
ITOfR
jurornr
•27
Mfhh
tip
* *k* *
Intensive specialisation
over forty years must
eventuate in a superior
product. Behind all
DAGENITE Batteries
which,are now made in
Australia is the accu-
mulcted knowledge, ex-
perience and resources
of two famous Accumu-
lator firms Peto & Radford
and The Hart Accumu-
lator Co. Ltd.
Decide now that your next
battery will be a DAGENITE.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE:
JOHN ARNOLD,
Box 71, G. P. O. Melbourne
my.
$- mm m
2
Ml
*2&>;
ppn
SWF
BATTERIES
BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Safe Marriage, by Ettie A. Rout, 5/5 ; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/5; Wise Parenthood,
by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Nervous Breakdowns, 4/7; Contraception, by Marie C. Stopes,
22/7; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/8; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan,
8/2; Enduring Passion, by Marie Stopes, 8/1; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 8/1; Sex
and the Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/8 ; Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; The New
Tokology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; Parenthood—A Manual of Birtli Control, 3/4 ,
The Sex Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/6 ; Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene, by Howard,
7/-; Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 3/2 ; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/1; Aust. Nuts and
Nut Growing- in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/3 ; The Letter Writers
Handbook, 5/10; Cocktails, 3/-; Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for Boys and Girls, 3/4; Ten
Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A.,
3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/3; Popular Card Games and How
to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by 11. G. Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best
Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; The Handyman, Home
Jobs and Repairs, 1/-; Billiards, 1/-; Table Rapping, 2/6; Practical Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-
Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand Reading- Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/3 ; Chess
and Draughts and How to Play, by A. Belasco, 1/6; 12 Best Indoor Games for. Two, by A.
Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/4; How Shall I Word
It? 2/8; The New Ford, by E. T. Brown, 4/7; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion
Letter Writer, 2/8; Hands and How to Read Them, 2/9; How to Read the Hand, by Karma,
4/-; The Correct Guide to Letter Writing, 5/8; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/9;
Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/9 ; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/9 ;
WISDEN’S CRICKETERS* ALMANAC, 1931.
Full scores and bowling analysis of all important matches
played in 1930. Special portraits of D. G. Bradman, C. V.
Grimmett, I. A. R. Peebles, B. H. Lyon and M. J. Turnbull.
The Australians’ Tour featured.
Price 9/7 post free.
Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/9 ; Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings,
1/5 ; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/5; Pruning, 3/10; Boot Mending for the Amateur,
by S. H. Lane, 1/6; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; More About
How to Draw in Pen and Ink, by H. Furniss, 7/5; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Woman’s Enquire
Within, 1/7; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 8/8; What to Draw and How to Draw It, 4/8 :
Poultry Farming in N.S.W., by James Hadlington, 4/10 ;\ Owner Drivers’ Handbook, by Edward
T. Brown, 5/11; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/5; Polishes and Stains for Woods, 2/7 ;
Aust. Book/ of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; How to Drive a Car, 4/4 ; Aust. Enquire
Within, 3/2; Manners and Rules of Good Society, 5/8; Boys’ Book of Carpentry and Electricity,
3/5; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/11;
Amusing Stories for Speakers, by Austin, 3/5; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/3 ; Zadkeil’s Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/3; Gypsy Queen Dream Book, 4/5;
The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3 ; The Wonder Book of Knowledge, 10/-.
New Technical Books.
Mechanical World Year Book, 1931, 2/10; Mechanical World Electrical Pocket Book, 1931, 2/9;
Fowler’s Mechanics and Machinists’ Pocket Book, 1931, 3/6; Fowler’s Mechanical Engineers’
Pocket Book, 1931, 5/-; Fowler’s Electrical Engineers’ Pocket Book, 1931, 5/-; Prospecting for
Gold (Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/6 posted; Housepainting, Decorating and Paper-hanging,
the best book on color mixing and painting methods published, 13/9.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
S>6e
“HUSH" Silent Flusher
( Improved, Pattern)
dfg
Approved by the various
Water and Sewerage
Boards.
Constructed for Fitting
on Either Hand.
r


“Success is possible
for any person with
an instinct for
drawing who sub-
mits himself to
proper discipline
and training. That
mental equipment
known as the Artis-
tic Temperament
has to be utilised.
It usually indicates
itself early, fre-
quently to the
annoyance of school-
masters, who find
unflattering carica-
tures of themselves
chalked on blaek-
boards or else-
where.
“There are big
rewards ahead of
the honest endea-
vorer.”
Tlie above is writ-
ten by Mr. Ted
Scorfield, head
arti s t of The
Bulletin, who has
made a valuable
contribution to the
section of the
Course which deals
with humorous
sketching.
;v
1*
W|§^
Asa
Profession
SEND FOR OUR FREE BOOK—
“The New Era of Commercial Art”
which includes numerous examples of Art work by Mr. Scorfield and twelve
other leading artists in every branch of Commercial Illustrating.
Our Director of Studies (Mr. Tom Alban) is the most highly-qualified Art
instructor in Australia, having been awarded 12 medals in Wembley and other
great National Competitions.
“Australia’s Foremost School of
Commercial Art.”
Established nyie years, and every graduate
has been placed in a first-class position.
80 SWANSTON STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Please mention The Bulletin, and include 1/- in
stamps for registered postage.
paintings. I know the professor as a fierce
critic of humbug a.nd false pretensions. He
is caustic on the subject of anthropologists
who affect to pass judgment on special
problems of anatomy. He has himself told
me that he Would not dream of holding an
opinion except one of personal predilection
on a work of art. Yet, such is the muddled
state of the public’s ideas on the function
of the artist, that all three positions are
handed to him simultaneously as if there
w r as no need for discrimination. The Gal-
lery and painters are lucky in getting at
least one trustee w 7 ho knows his limitations.
If a board of artists were appointed to
administer a hospital there would be an
uproar, but a board of medicoes can admin-
ister an art gallery without arousing com-
ment. I lay the responsibility for this
state of affairs at the door of the literary
art critic. Painting is unlike any other art
in that practically all judgments passed on
it, except the final one of posterity, are
made by writers. And it is a demonstrable
fact that literary men tend inevitably to
value the non-artistic elements in a pic-
ture above the artistic ones. When a paint-
ing is a pure work of art there is nothing
to be said about it. It is its own explana-
tion. But an inferior work of art provides
endless opportunity for comment. There
is the subject to be discussed, the philosophy
of the painter, his moral message, the parti-
cular school he is following, the rules and
regulations (formulated by other literary
men) which he is supposed to have observed
in his composition.
The result can be seen in current artis-
tic reputations in Australia, all made by the
literary art critic. Margaret Preston, unable
to master the finer subtleties of tone and
color, paints her flowers in flat color and
puts a hard black line round them in accord-
ance with a well-known European prescrip-
tion. She is immediately acclaimed as a
great artist. Thea Proctor, baffled by the
complexities of the human figure in action,
presents her subjects in rigor mortis, and
is promptly placed amongst the anointed.
Mclnnes, a promising painter, infuses a
journalistic quality into his portraits, and it
is the journalistic, not the artistic, elements
which are pointed to as his passport to
immortality. Lambert, unable to overcome
the_ defects of his newspaper training, ex-
ploits those defects; whereupon the literary
art critics elevate him to a level with the
great masters whose works only survive be-
cause of the absence of those defects.
The supremacy of the literary man in
the field of art criticism has another conse-
quence. The power of the press is so
great that few artists dare ignore him. If
they presume to assert their self-respect
they are disciplined by the literary trades
union or are expelled from the movement,
as was Max Meldrum. The result is that
most artists paint as the literary man tells
them to. Some even turn literary man into
the bargain, as did Blamire Young, who pre-
sents the remarkable spectacle of a painter
°f framed posters telling serious painters
that they have not even begun to be artists
ooffi they start painting posters. It is as
if Edgar Wallace were to set the standards
for Arnold Bennett, or Ethel M. Dell for
Dostoieffsky.
The final stage in the subjugation of the
brushman to the penman is seen in the allo-
cation of the influential positions in the art
The literary men see to it that all
the good jobs go to non-artists or to artists
who, like Bernard Hall, are first of all sound
academicians and formalists. The Felton
Bequest is administered by doctors, dentists
and politicians, who, from the business
aspect, are probably well chosen. But when
they come to appoint an art adviser they
select an English solicitor, mainly remark-
able for having written a shelf of unimport-
ant art books.
“ , is as k e d Madame de Gramont,
that the most knowing connoisseurs of
bygone art always come to grief over that
ot their own day? Why Diaz, Meissonnier,
Gerome, when you might have Manet,
Renoir and Monet?” I offer the title to
this article as the correct answer to the
brilliant Frenchwoman’s question.
M. G. SKIPPER.
In Defence
“Both were cranks/’ says “Jeames,” in
speaking of the late Earl Russell and his
brother Bertrand (B. 11/3/’3l). Thus
always speaks the valet-mind when con-
nonted with the spectacle of uncompromis-
ing intellectual courage. Bertrand Russell
went to prison in war-time. He was hounded
out of China and had London lodging-
house doors shut in his face because he
happens to have one of the clearest minds
of his generation and is not afraid to
use it.
Russell is commonly described as a revo-
lutionary , and if to describe the current
scene in terms of reality is to be revolu-
tionary he stands convicted. On the other
hand, to deny the existence of a truth
because it is unpalatable may be to bring
involution nearer. In “The Problem of
j ma. written several years ago, Russell
described the reality of the forces behind
Asiatic nationalism, stoutly denied by all
good Imperialists. The reality is now
accepted and taken quite calmly by the
P6 a?i 6 +n °t once re P u diated its existence.
, j J eame ses of America set up a
horrified clamor over Russell’s sexual moral-
au’ -n 3 „ ne , d “Marriage and Morals.”
All Russell did there was to describe the
actual condition of society, known even to
bishops. But Russell nowhere shows his
amazing mental clarity so much as when
he deals with art. With the exception of
Aldous Huxley, he is the only literary man
I know who understands the function of the
artist. Scattered amongst his philosophical
and polemical writings you will find a more
practical understanding of the artistic aim
than in all the Katzenjammer castles erected
by sestheticians like Roger Fry, Clive Bell
and John Ruskin. This is the more aston-
ishing because good democrats almost in-
evitably gravitate to the view of G. B.
Shaw, H. G. Wells and Tolstoy, that the
function of the artist is to serve the need
of the proletariat to occasionally forget the
struggle for existence. Russell has always
gone about his task of social amelioration
as a thing apart, leaving the artist to his
own individual job of discovering reality
without regard to the political or popular
consequences. In short, he is a realist and
allows the artist the same latitude.
F.S.
A Satchel of Books
In Fine Frenzy, by J. A. J. Stevens (Argo-
naut Press, Melbourne; 7s. 6d.). Slight
newspaper verse, though with a vein of irre-
sponsible humor running through it. It
has some skilful decorations by Fred Aldridge.
The publishers have turned out a neat job.
Poetry and the Ordinary Reader, by M.
R. Ridley (Bell; Bs. 6d. net). A helpful
handbook, especially for the young reader
who hopes there is more in poetry than the
usual dum-te-dum, line-by-line school method
of "reading permits it to give out. A col-
lection of 8.8. C. talks.
•The World.—Our Neighbor, by Vernon
Bartlett (Elkin Mathews; 6s. net). The
writer is described as “one of the most popu-
lar microphone personalities in Britain.”
Despite this forbidding introduction he turns
out to have written an interesting book. It
is a plea to the citizen to consider events
outside his own parish, and as a survey of
this crapulous planet’s ramble home after
the booze-up of the war it has the merit of
being neither dogmatic nor unduly cynical.
Mrs. Belloc Lowndes, author of Lelty
Lynton (Heinemann; 7s. Gd.), is probably
the most effective living writer of murder
novels. Her method, which is all her own
and inimitable, enables her to create sus-
pense to a remarkable degree. She writes
her horrifying stories as a clever, worldly-
wise woman might tell them, fastidiously
avoiding vulgar sensationalism and cheap
sentiment, and giving her characters their
meed of praise or blame with, placid detach-
ment. This book, like “The Lodger,” is
founded on a nineteenth-century mystery
that baffled millions. The characterisation,
as in all her works, is very carefully done
and some of the young people are eerily life-
like —notably Letty herself, and her detest-
able Swedish lover, Axel. Apart from its
merits as a thriller, Letty Lynton gives a
delightfully sympathetic picture of life in
a newly-enriched English family.
Rudyard Kipling: The Story of a Genius,
by R. Thurston Hopkins (Cecil Palmer; ss.
net). In spite of his having wasted more
space on obvious apocrypha than even his
commendable attempt to be engaging war-
rants, the writer has fully enough outlined
Kipling’s career and gone sufficiently into
his work to provide the average reader with
all he is likely to want to know, and there
are points of interest for the more exacting
as well. Outside biography, the range goes
from such things as the rejection by Harpers
of the work that Kipling submitted to them
to speculation on why women dislike Kipling
(“a woman is only a woman, but a good
cigar is a smoke”), and the general verdict
on his achievement:—
Is Kipling a genius ? Yes, a tremendous genius;
there can be no .doubt of that. He is a great artist
who has risen in style without recourse to the
imitation of the great writers of the past, by the
single virtue of impetuous talent and innate gift.
Kipling is a happy genius, too. He has succeeded
in escaping the peril of intellectualism. He forms
a counterbalance necessary for the equilibrium of
contemporary highbrow writers. It was well that
opposite a certain morbid literary group of the
eighteen-nineties arose the young Kipling, whose
fertile, vigorous, generous work retained the accent
of youth, enthusiasm and unsoiled genius. •
Concerning this latter aspect, Mr. Hopkins
gives the following verses “from a Kipling
poem hitherto not printed in England”:—
But I consort with long-haired things,
In velvet collar-rolls,
Who talk about the Aims of Art,
And “theories” and “goals,”
And moo and coo with womenfolk
About their blessed souls.
But that they call “psychology”
Is lack of liver pill,
And all that blights their tender souls
Is eating till they’re ill,
And their chief way of winning goals
Consists in sitting still.
The breed is not extinct.
The characters in I Lived This Story, by
Betty White (John Long, 7s. 6d. net), meet
at a Yankee co-ed. university. The action
mostly proceeds like this: —
“How’s the new Jane, Don?” Four Delta Kappas
were sprawled about the leather furniture.
“0.K.,”- said Don briefly. “How was your date?”
“Wet smack! I’ll paddle the rear end of that
lousy Bert. He got me the date. How does it
feel to take out a K.K.0., Bill?”
“Hot stuff. Had ’er out on the pier.”
Towards the middle of the work the
heroine takes an overdose of gin:—
“People who can’t hold their liquor!” said Myrne
scornfully Suddenly Dorinda was leaning over
the bathtub.
“Give her warm water.”
“Rub her stomach.”
“Get a towel.”
“Good gin gone to waste,” snapped Myrne.
A history professor would have seduced
Dorinda in the last few pages but for the
arrival of two boy friends:—
Wedged between James and Lewis, driving home
she forgot everything except that there was cool air
to soothe hot skin.
“My dears,” she burst out suddenly, “think of
it!” Her laugh trembled. “After all this I’m
still a virgin!”
So she marries James and a tedious yarn
ends. It is advertised as “a 3000-dollar
prize novel.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.G.A.E.: See “Gold and Credit,” p. S,
this issue... .Platman: Those figures don’t prove
that “the Australian manufacturer has taken full
advantage of our foolish patriotism.” All they prove
is that Australian costs (manufacturing and distri-
bution, including profits) are too high A.T.W.:
Afraid there’s no market for it in Australia....
Ferdie: Quite right (see p. 608, “Year-book of
Australia, 1930”) ... .F.G.: Your “Singing River”
d —ed....Ellae: You’ll have to learn, to say it in
fewer words for that page... .L.M.W.: Only restricted
space kept it out G.L.: Hear, hear! V.A.8.:
Danger and food in the Great Outback:—
Then, just to show that things weren’t as bad as
could be,
A snake bit poor Chas. while he slept ’neath a
tree.
Well, the tucker was awful I to you am tellin’—
Poor meat, weevily flour and rotten pie-melon.
. ...D.L.: Your heroine sheds gallons of tears....
H.R.: When we last met that warrior he was in
Vienna and had been a Tommy... ,L.S.: Obviously
lifted from the movies; local Chinese don’t behave
like that.... J.A.: “Consider the tout-ensemble!”
We did, and passed on toot sweet S.P.: Plot,
mouldy; characters, ' stereotyped ; dialogue, stilted.
... .M. 0.: Tolerable, ! but that’s not enough... .C.K.:
Well, who did steal the jewellery? Butler, daughter
or gentleman friend? K.L.: Jogs along to an
untidy finish... .H.0.D.: Sentiment too syrupy....
J.A.A.: It took a fourth reading and the second
stanza to out it W.L.G.: Have a man on that
job in Melbourne... .E.L.: Nothing worth knowing
in “Secrets”... .A.R.: Calling a kookaburra “a wild
wayward hen” seems tough on a good bird, even
though you were pressed hard for a rhyme. .. .1.5.:
Nothing arresting in that view of the bridge G.F.:
“A Barrowful of Fruit” gave the Religious Editor his
first real tummyache for 47 years... .C.McD.: But
isn’t it time Australian literature was taken for
granted? Why it is or isn’t great ceased to be
interesting years ago Bellerive: Extra good, even
for you:—
RHYME OF A ROLLICKING SAILOR.
Shiver my timbers and
Good luck to rum.
A quid of tobacco and
Blimey true chum.
A day ashore for
Fun with the girls.
Sausey barmaids and
Clinahs with curls.
Shiver my timbers—
And ship a-hoy,
Black eye in a brawl
And other joy.
Around the town—
Blurting what cheer.
Jostling, carousing and
Pots of beer.
( Next : “The Wreck of the Titanic”)
. ...R.D.: You don’t get out what you’re trying to
say in either... .Bush Poet: “Figure”—“quiver.”
Still, one chap this week tried to rhyme “Lang”
with “noble”... .A.B.J. (Malta): Only the fact
that the echo comes so long after the greeting
keeps it 0ut.... J.P.: Both narrowly miss....
W.M.W.: With the right music it might make a
good popular ballad. Try Palings... .Osmond: Come
in, Osmond: —
with perdant belly
in the wind
swaying,
pink,
globular,
he lurches along
the highway,
serpentinely,
fulminating
borborygmic protests
’gainst dietetic indiscretions.
. ...W.W.: Don’t know why you should be “pained”
at the use of the word “liable” before a verb.
Webster gives “liable to slip,” “liable to be in-
jured” as correct usages... .Minnie H.: Heaven for-
bid that we should discourage you, but the samples
you send are quite useless. For instance, Birdwood
isn’t “Master of Peterhouse Coll., Cambridge,” and
the term “old boy” only applies at public schools.
. ...Nooroo: Reads as if the butcher’s wife did say
it, but we can’t... .W.E.8.: Second attempt is
little better than first.. . .A.S.R.: Let’s have some-
thing Australian... .F.F.: You could have made it
a lot stronger... .K.M.: Conversation not worth
recording. .. .C.L.: Don’t count us among Teerny’s
admirers... .E.L.P.: Foolish sentimentality....
L.A.R.: Not bad, but no sparkle in them....
G.F.G.: Miles too long. .. . S.M.: The runaway cow
has had its day... .F.W.W.: It doesn’t appeal to
this paper; it might to some other... .K.R.: Highly
improbable. .. .E.A.S.F.: Just an incident... .J.H.F.:
It’s not a story. . . .A.J.L.: You nearly did it....
W.E.R.: Could be condensed into a par A.L.S.:
The horrible ending spoilt it....R.C.: Sonnet far
from “perfect.” For instance, “Oft have I seen
by winter’s night enshrined within the fire the fall
of many a king” is clumsy. Commas after “seen,”
“night.” and “fire” might make sense of it. “And
from their ashes mouldering in the dust” raises a
doubt whether ashes would do anything of the kind.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.L.E.: Lady looks as if she had been sat on by
a dinosaur... .P. 8.: Some sprightliness about the
but the jokes arc lifeless... .M.J.S.: One
look at the apparition on the left was enough....
T.E.: Antiquated gag settled it. ...N.P.: Ghastly.
. ...S.F.: You’re early with that one about the
urchin who prayed for his football team. As a
rule it doesn’t arrive till May....C.P.: You dress
your mounted trooper like a talkie soldier of the
Legion... .T.J.: All your figures are the same....
A.K.L.: But why clothe them in corrugated-iron ?
G.A.E.: Jagged linework mars them... .F.M.:
It made us laugh—3o years ago H.M.D.: You work
on too small a scale... .R.S.; Impossible to foretell
from copies. .. .8.8. J.: A stiff 10t....5.W.C.: What
colossal heads you stick on your people!... .M.L.:
Don’t want drawings without jokes... .C.N.T.: Went
all over that sea of sepia but couldn’t find the two
Macs... .D.8.H.: Nothing funny about any of them.
. ...A.P.: Artistically astray in a dozen places....
A.L.: No.


f
FAMOUS
WINES
m
3 '
' 4 mM
■HH
m
SraigK :
■&:
■
:
.
■
■
■
*
■
*
■I
■ I i
■
■ I
wm
\
a
•'<
:
■
•-•
■i
mm
m
■
m
m
§
i
■
wm
m
V*
ISP
■
: HR
\
■ t |,» >
1 . ■
m
X
/
S'
.: Hn
1111
m
m H
: I
■ - #
.
& Acwe ttMied Setter


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2668.
April 1, 1931.
A JEST IN SEASON.
“Mr. Lang has advised Mr. Seullin that N.A.W. does not intend to meet the interest (£729,251) payable to English bondholders on April 1.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21b George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone BTJU.
Victoria: IJJ/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Wisstralia: SS Barrack Street, Perth.
London : S 6 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 57 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 bs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
■1 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.;
t! months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage oh this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: Sd. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Sd. Elsewhere: sd.
GOLD AND CREDIT.
Mr. Lang wants us to throw gold overboard
and set up a “goods standard,” and Mr.
Theodore wants us to accept a “fiduciary”
note issue not backed by any gold whatever.
In pushing these plans gold is derided. Of
course it is very absurd that a thing of
so little real use should be valued so highly,
and it is especially absurd that its scarcity
or abundance should be one of the factors in
determining the price of everything else in
the world. But is it of such tremendous
importance as we sometimes think? Has it,
in fact, all that power which those who
attack the gold standard assert?
Until quite lately nineteen-twentieths of
all the people who accepted Commonwealth
notes neither knew nor cared whether they
had any gold backing; and when “Brad-
burys” were being issued in England no-
body in ordinary circumstances cared
whether they could be changed for gold.
It was not gold backing that made them
valuable. It was credit. They were accepted
because it was believed that those who
issued them would see that every £-note
was good for a £ sterling.
It is said, however, that there is one
thing gold can do which nothing else can,
and that is settle international debts. Yet
even this claim is not strictly true, for
settlements can be made by credit—we have
used our own credit to pay bills for hundreds
of millions. Certainly we have incurred a
second lot of debts in paying off the first
lot; but it has at least given us an oppor-
tunity of paying the second lot in goods,
so that gold need not come directly into the
matter at all.
So long as a country has credit, it looks,
then, as if it can get on quite comfortably
without aqy gold at all: the substance is
then unnecessary for either currency pur-
poses or international settlements. But
without gold credit is not only the most
important thing in the world of inter-
national business; it is also the hardest
to get and the easiest to lose. It cannot
be “created” overnight; it has to grow
slowly. Its foundation is confidence—confi-
dence that the country trusted will repay
what is advanced and will not attempt to
“scale down” the interest agreed upon.
With the country, as with the individual,
the greater the confidence one inspires the
better the terms one can make. As a land-
and house-agent, Mr. Lang, for example, has
doubtless many times reduced the rent to
a man who has met all his. obligations in
the past and shows a desire and an ability
to do it in the future. On the other hand,
if he has done business at all with a known
“scaler” it has been on the basis of higher
charges to cover the extra risks.
During every such period of high prices
as we have passed through, credit expands.
It may be a bad thing that it should be so,
but that is the fact. The banks can com-
mand credit and their deposits increase;
and as deposits increase advances are
encouraged. The maintenance of those
advances depends upon the maintenance of
the deposits: if by reason of falling prices
and a dull outlook banks lose their deposits,
they must call in their advances. Yet it
goes without saying that this is the very
time when it is most necessary that ad-
vances should be liberal in order to stim-
ulate production and increase employment.
It is from this point of view that Mr.
Lang’s proposals for the reduction of inter-
est are so mischievous and calculated to do
cruel harm to the very people he pre-
sumably aims at benefiting.
That far too much interest is paid
in this country is true. That the money-
lender is gaining by the reduction in the
cost of living is true. That there is a strong
case for the reduction of rates of interest
is true. But the destruction of confidence
is the worst possible way of proceeding to
get relief. If a Government were in a
position to say that money must be lent,
then confidence might not matter. But
so long as the lender is in a position to
lend or not to lend as he pleases, the
only way to get better terms from him is
to make the security attractive.
The influence which variations in the pro-
duction of gold and the movements of the
metal have on prices is much more doubtful
than it seemed to be a few years ago. No
doubt an enormous increase in gold output
would cheapen the metal and tend to raise
prices; but the trade cycles from which the
world suffers so much, the recurring booms
and depressions, are clearly not governed by
gold production. No doubt the transfer
of vast quantities of the metal to the
U.S.A. and France has had its effects. But
that movement was, after all, a secondary
cause: the movement itself was due largely
to the loss of confidence and credit in other
countries. So far as the U.S.A. are con-
cerned the accumulation of gold and the
expansion of credit produced the greatest
boom of all times, and it is largely the
backwash of that from which the whole
world is suffering to-day. During the pro-
gress of that boom prices rose rapidly, not
because gold was scarce, but because plenti-
ful gold and other circumstances produced
an over-abundant supply of credit. Credit
and not gold ruled the situation.
The position is still not clear; but evi-
dence accumulates, then, that gold is not of
anything like the consequence that it was
once supposed to be, and that its only im-
portant function now is to make prompt
international settlements. Even there Credit
has taken its place very largely; and in the
future we shall probably look to the better
management of credit to at least reduce the
violence of the world’s trade-waves. There
is the nucleus of a world organisation in the
central reserve banks, and there is already
an international meeting-place for them at
Basle. Meantime the obvious thing for any
country, and especially any depressed country,
to do is to realise the enormous and already
overwhelming importance of credit, and to
proceed by every means in its power to cul-
tivate the delicate plant. As far as we
have gone our Governments seem to be
more bent upon grubbing it out by the
roots. Most of them want to make the re-
storation of credit dependent upon the main-
tenance of wages. And that cannot be done.
The maintenance of wages is dependent
upon the restoration of credit.
OUR SISTERS IN THE SOUP.
Except perhaps Venezuela there is no white
or near-white man’s country dependent
chiefly on raw products which is not feeling
this world-depression keenly; and Venezuela
is only escaping because thus far the petrol-
sellers of the world have been able to hold
up prices. Canada, though it has developed
considerable secondary industries, has by
reason of the fall in wheat been driven to
send out nearly 40 millions’ worth of gold in
the past three years, and its Yukon and
other fields have replaced only about 15
millions of it. Certain South American
countries, however, more nearly parallel
Australian conditions. In nearly every
case the Latin-American republics have
found themselves unable to make the re-
duced value of their exports meet their
overseas commitments, and there have been
heavy shipments of gold. Everywhere there
is considerable unemployment, and the
conditions in that respect are worst where
there has been much spending of borrowed
money. Almost everywhere, too, Govern-
ments, while clinging to office, have fought
against economies, or neglected to make
them, with the result that in no less than
five of these Latin-American republics
Ministerial changes have been won only by
revolution.
The Argentine reproduced Australian con-
ditions most closely of all. Following heavy
falls in wheat and wool, with a poor ’29
wheat crop, there were large shipments of
gold to pay foreign bills for interest and
goods; and when 36 millions had been
drained away, payment in gold was stopped.
But Argentina knows much more about the
curse of an inflated currency than Australia
does, and for years past it has been accumu-
lating gold against its notes. At the end
of 1928 it held 126 millions; at the end
of 1930 it still held 85 millions. That its
currency was nevertheless 30 per cent, below
par proves once more that the mere holding
of even a very large reserve of gold against
the currency is not sufficient to maintain
exchange. When Australia thought that by
keeping its note issue below four times the
amount of gold stocks it, too, would keep
its currency at par, it overlooked the enor-
mous influence of foreign loans. A country
can inflate through foreign borrowing just
as surely as it can through the currency.
Argentina found itself facing one problem
rather larger than Australia’s corresponding
difficulty. Parliamentary government seems
to have everywhere degenerated in much
the same way under the influence of good
times and easy money: the cost of gov-
ernment in this South American republic
was enormously increased, public offices
were multiplied beyond all reason and bor-
rowings were relied upon to make good the
deficiency in the public accounts. There
was a large floating debt when disaster
struck the country; by the time the revo-
lution arrived it amounted to over 100 mil-
lions sterling. Partly because of this the
outlook is still gloomy; the revolutionary
Government brought in to reorganise the
over-officered Public Service has been an
indifferent success, and it may be that the
Argentine will have to suffer another of its
many revolutions before the situation is
under control.
Brazil comes very close to Australia in
one respect at any rate: its Government
invited Sir Otto Niemeyer to help it
through its monetary troubles. The causes of
those troubles were the common ones: it had
borrowed heavily and its depreciated ex-
ports were no longer able to pay all its
foreign bills, interest included. In a vain
struggle to fill up the gap it depleted its
stocks of gold; and it then found its cur-
rency down 35 per cent. It responded with
an embargo on all transactions suspected of
being an export of capital, and with a short-
dated moratorium; and it proceeded to
balance its budget. In this case, also, a
revolution enforced the economy from
which the politicians in office recoiled.
Peru, facing similar difficulties, called in
the distinguished economist Professor Kem-
merer, a world authority on the Central
Reserve banking system; meantime the
interest on its foreign debt is being paid with
the assistance of the local trading banks,
as in Australia, and, it is also admitted,
at the expense of local industries. The cur-
rency is down 25 per cent., and drafts on
available credits abroad are being rationed.
In this republic, as in its neighbor, Colom-
bia, there has been much distress. In
Colombia the absorption of the unemployed
—many had been engaged upon a new
development programme —presented such
great difficulties that the Liberal majority
invited the most experienced of the Conser-
vative leaders to join the Cabinet. The
result has been that policies which neither
party would venture to father on its own
account have been put into operation. In-
stead, however, of adding to the distress
of the country, they immediately improved
its credit, financial assistance was forth-
coming at New Yoik, and exchange was
restored to pai*.
Of all the affected countries, apparently
only one, Bolivia, has defaulted. Probably
in every one of them, certainly in many of
them, there has been talk of interest-
reduction; but those countries have made
most progress out of their troubles where
there has been least talk and most courage.
No feature of the whole business is more
conspicuous than the failure of Parliamen-
tary government, and especially of party gov-
ernment, to deal with a crisis of this character.
We are apt to think it is only in Australia
that politics have become a matter of buying
and selling—that only in Australia have
electorates been corrupted and members
become the mere slaves of party machines.
It might be a good thing for democracy
if it were true: in that case in only one
country would democracy have come badly
through the testing-time of prosperity.
Actually it appears to have failed in all
places at the same point: it has not been
able, first, to resist the temptations of good
times, and, after that, to do the unpleasant
things which bad times demand from those
who have been foolish in good times. Yet
it would be absurd to argue from this that
democracy has failed. It has come fresh
and largely uneducated to problems entirely
new to it, and it has realised its own
incompetence to deal with them; but it has
not equally realised the incompetence of
the glib quacks who have angled for its
votes. Thus far the ready tongue has been
the curse of democracy. When the great
mass of the people learn to make a better
choice of leaders—when they no longer
judge a man’s brain by the fluency of his,
speech—and when they have a higher con-
ception of their own duty as voters and
citizens, democracy will come through a
testing-time far better than it has come
through these last dozen years.
AT LAKE TYERS.
Lake Tyers is an aboriginal reserva-
tion in the south-east of Victoria. The
story told by Mr. Skipper is, he
assures us, given in almost the exact
words of one of the full-blooded resi-
dents.
“Good-day, Jacky. You wantit ’bacca,
you wantit tchillun?”
“No, sir! I am not in need of the weed.
The Government stores supply my small
requirements. Nor do I ask for money.
It is true I could accumulate wealth even
in a reservation for aborigines, but that
would only earn me the envy of my fellow
residents; and I value their friendship too
highly. Nevertheless, I shall be glad to
show you round the station and explain it
to you. I am, of course, presuming that
you understand the English language,
though your opening remark might easily
lead one to an opposite conclusion.
“Now, what would you like to see first?
The honor roll in our chapel, perhaps. You
will see there are eight names on it, four
with stars. H. Thorpe was in the 7th
Battalion and was killed in France. He
received the Military Medal. H. Murray
was killed at Arvenieres just before the
Armistice, and his brother William gave
his life for the Allied cause at Passchen-
daele. Booth died of wounds at Poperinghe,
and Stephens died from the effects of gas
at Caulfield Hospital. You see that gentle-
man over there. That is Macready. I
think he was on Gallipoli, but I am not
quite certain. There is a story current
that he was up in an aeroplane in France
when the pilot was shot, and that Macready
brought the machine down though har-
assed by six of the enemy.
“So you see we aboriginals have not
altogether lost our martial virtues. But
naturally, as a white Australian, you will be
more interested in our athletic achievements,
so let me introduce you to Mr. Charley
Green. For 20 years Mr. Green has been
one of the leading runners in Victoria and
has won cups and medals innumerable
And, oh, here is the interesting ceremony of
fire-making. Of course, the old gentleman
squatting and twirling the rod in that piece
of dogwood uses Bryant and May’s for
ordinary purposes; but—well, we must
flatter visitors.
“This is the schoolhouse. Yes, those
designs were done by pupils. The designs
are not native, you say, but European?
That is quite true, unfortunately; but it
is scarcely logical for you to suggest that we
have thereby degraded our native taste,
unless, of course, you believe your Western
culture to be inferior.
“Please don’t be indignant! I had no
wish to be offensive. But I could not help
being reminded of a recent visitor from
Melbourne. He was an artist, a very charm-
ing gentleman if a trifle neglectful of his
dress, and he was kind enough to show me
some of his works. I could not help
pointing out the remarkable resemblance
they showed to the rock drawings my great
grandfather executed at Mootwingie, near
Broken Hill, though I feared the com-
parison might offend him deeply. To my
surprise he said it was a compliment. He
said that European art was dead, that
Rubens was a back number, and that all
the best painters nowadays tried to paint
like the aboriginals.
“You wish to hear our native music?
Here is the gumleaf band. What they are
playing sounds suspiciously like jazz, you
say? It is jazz. Written music is difficult
to come by, so our bandsmen listen on the
wireless and thus become acquainted with
the latest masterpieces.
“Ah, here is the storeroom. You see we
are well provided for. The ration is liberal
if the food is plain, and the clothes that
are issued to us are serviceable, if not par-
ticularly ornamental.
“From the top of this hill you get a
pleasant panorama. The view of the lake,
studded with islands and one time full of
fish, the deeply wooded hills sloping to the
water, and the glimpses of blue ocean make
a glorious prospect. Of this far-flung page-
ant of natural beauty no less than 4000
acres has been reserved bjr a benevolent
Government to the kangaroo, the native
bear, the emu and the aborigine; and it is
gratifying to know that the numbers of
at least the first three are increasing.
“You say that all this fills you with
indignation that we good-for-nothing abo-
riginals should be loafing our lives away in
ease and plenty when tens of thousands
of your fellow white men are unemployed
and on the breadline in the slums of your
great cities. The emotion, sir, does your
heart credit. Might I point out that before
Mr. Batman landed at Port Phillip un-
employment was non-existent in Victoria?
The population was admittedly not large,
but it was entirely self-supporting. We
raised no foreign loans to conceal the fact
that we were not earning our keep.
Seventy-five per cent, of the community was
not living on the thrift and industry of the
other 25 per cent. We had a short way
with wastrels. Our only non-producers were
dead ones.
“If we had been more unfriendly we
might have cost you a couple of expensive
wars and several millions in rents annually,
like the Maoris. It is true we are good
for nothing, though the ‘good’ is, don’t
you think, rather a question of relativity?
Your explorers were good for nothing but
to die of thirst and starvation in places
where my forefathers were able to bring
up families in comparative comfort! How-
ever, unlike some of your unemployables,
we are doing our best, with the help of
syphilis and consumption, to ease the bur-
den from your shoulders. According to the
last census there were 55 full-blooded abo-
riginals in Victoria. I have more fingers
on my two hands than there are full-
blooded friends of mine at present at Lake
Tyers. Nevertheless, we are grateful to
your European medical science, even if it
fails to cure us of your European diseases.
“It is, you say, a case of the survival of
the fittest. In that regard, allow me to
quote one of your own writers, who has
pointed out that army tests during the war
showed that 60 p.c. of the white populations
have intellects not superior to that of a
12-year-old child, and only 10 per cent,
are really intelligent, I do not know
whether the proportions at Lake Tyers are
similar, but since the Government kindly
supplied us with a radio listening set I am
inclined to think so.
“You must be going? You are tired of
me? lam a damned old gasbag? No? Ah,
well, when one is aware that one is going to
be both individually and racially extinct in
the space of one short generation, it does
tend to turn one into a philosopher.”
M. G. SKIPPER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Governor and His Job.
The Governor of N. S. Wales was asked
last week to call more members to .the Leg.
Council on the ground that the Soviet Bill
had been sent by that Chamber to a select
committee for report, and that therefore the
Chamber was not doing what the Govern-
ment wanted it to do. The Governor
refused the request, whereupon it was
announced that steps would be taken to
have him recalled.
In the last Parliament an Act was passed
declaring that the Leg. Council might not
be abolished without a referendum. Instead
of taking a referendum the Lang Govern-
ment invited the present Parliament to
repeal the previous Act. Steps were taken


to ascertain whether Parliament could do
that. The State Full Court decided that it
could not; the High Court upheld the Full
Court.
Three courses were then open to the
Lang Government. (1) It could appeal to
the people by referendum, and find out
what they really want. (2) It could go
to the Privy Council. This may upset the
decision of the High Court; if it refuses
to disturb it, then the Government will still
have to put up with a Leg. Council or
appeal to the people. (3) It could ask the
Governor to appoint such additions to. the
Leg. Council that for. all practical purposes
it would be abolished .without a referendum
and in contempt of the law requiring a
referendum. It was characteristic of this
undemocratic Government that while play-
ing with the second course it adopted the
third.
The Governor, it is claimed, must accept
the advice of his Ministers. There is.no
“must” about it. His duty is l to the people;
he accepts his Ministers’ advice because he
believes it represents the wish of the people.
Prima facie it does represent the wish of
the people. But if his duty was to accept
the advice of his Ministers on every occa-
sion, there would, be no sense in having a
Governor, just as if the Leg. Council must
agree with the Government on all occasions
there would be no sense in having a Council.
It is true that the position of Governor
is very different from that of the Council.
The latter may have a political opinion
of its own; the Governor may not have
one. His sole purpose in opposing the
wish of his Ministers must be to safeguard
either Imperial interests or the people’s
interests; and to justify him in taking action
in the latter case he must have what seems
to him proof that his Government no
longer represents the people. In short,
so long as Ministers are his Ministers and
he intends that they shall remain his Min-
isters, he ought to accept their advice. But
he is not by any means bound to accept
the advice of Ministers that they shall
remain his Ministers. When he is in doubt
on that point he can and should consult
the people. That is what he is there for.
♦
Default.
Last week Mr. Lang frankly gave up the
pretence of being able to work miracles.
“No,” he said, “I can’t pay you all, so I’m
going to pay the people who can vote for me.”
Ordinary bankrupts who do this sort of
thing, favoring friendly creditors at the
expense of those who are not friends, are
liable to be sent to gaol for being rogues.
But the Treasurer is no ordinary bankrupt.
He is a politician, and ordinary laws have
not applied to politicians for a long time
now.
Worse, there is good reason to suspect
that he is a Communist politician, if not
taking his instructions from Moscow, at least
following a policy of which Moscow
approves. The probabilities are, therefore,
that, far from thinking of this default as
something disgraceful, he regards it with
satisfaction. What the Communists aim at
is “the dictatorship of the proletariat.” This
will involve the destruction of the State as
we now understand the term: they “fight
the State for the same reason as they
fight the employers.” So every attack on the
State is something gained; every spoliation
of the capitalist class is a victory won.
“The question of right and wrong does not
concern us,” they have been definitely in-
structed.
And we have no right to assume that
Mr. : Lang will stop at this default. Default
is but one part of the plan, which includes
the appropriation of private wealth wher-
ever it is seen and its transfer to “the pro-
letariat.” In working to those specifications
he has alreadj' done fairly well. To the
taxes previously levied by Commonwealth
and State he has added the shilling-in-the-
pound unemployment tax, carrying the total
exactions in certain cases beyond 14s. in
the £, and his submissive Assembly has
sanctioned further additions to other pro-
perty 'taxes, including succession duties,
which already reach 35 p.c.
"Bhere is no reason, then, to be surprised
at what has happened, and there will be no
reason to be surprised as further details of
the Soviet policy are worked out. How
far the Government will be permitted to go
The Bulletin does not know: having been
permitted to go this far, there is no very
good reason why it should not be permitted
to go a great deal farther. The only
authority who can send Ministers to the
country is the Governor; and thus far he
has been persuaded that it is his duty to do
as his Ministers bid him. But there surely
must be a point this side the butchery of
political opponents at which his Excellency,
will feel himself called upon to ask his
Ministers to get the people’s endorsement;
and it may still be hoped that his Excel-
lency will find ample justification for doing
so in this studied and deliberate discrimina-
tion between creditors abroad and sup-
porters at home.
Gold and the Political Tricksters.
The board of the Commonwealth Bank
has stood in Mr. Theodore’s way resolutely;
it has resisted the pressure put upon it to
inflate the currency and otherwise imperil
its own solvency and the solvency of every
trading bank in Australia. Some time ago
Mr. Theodore proceeded to make a direct
attack upon the institution; he proposed to
cut it in halves and keep control of 'the
more important half. That scheme failing
—and it was put forward with all Mr. Theo-
dore’s capacity for painting the Devil as a
fit president for the Y.M.C.A.—he turned
to other devices. He proposes now to take
away the poor little millions of gold
which is all we have left against our cur-
rency, and ship it to London.
Now it is quite true . that a country
ought to be able to get along without gold;
and if its credit were good it probably
could. But if its credit is low (and ours
could riot be much lower) the shipping away
of what little gold it has. left, is almost
certain to be a disaster. Of all things in
the world we most need confidence and
credit; and the mere'announcement of Mr.
llieodore’s plan sent Australian stocks reel-
ing further down to the abyss. Common-
wealth 6’s plunged from £B9 ss. to £BO,
N. S. Wales 6’s from £79 to £75, Queens-
land 6’s from £B4 to £7B and S. Aus.
from £BB2 to £84 —all this in London.
In its attack upon the banks the Govern-
ment is, no doubt, merely setting the stage
for an appeal to the country. Nobody in
Australia knows more about electioneering
than Mr. Theodore. And what is this
electioneering? No longer, unfortunately,
the discovery of the people’s real inten-
tions; no longer the production of the last
possible supporter at the polling booth.
Electioneering now is the art of winning
public support by trick or artifice; it is
the a,rt of making and magnifying enmities
and embittering; class against class. Is
Australia going to put up with that sort of
nonsense any longer? Is it going to tol-
erate the manoeuvring of politicians to gain
party advantages, while the country totters
on the very brink of disaster?
The politicians who are guilty of it should
be marked down for ruthless slaughter. In
our circumstances it is the unforgivable sin.
♦
Aspects of Revolution.
There has lately been a marked tendency
among Labor’s extreme left wing to advo-
cate actual revolution. The success of
Russia is openly acknowledged as the in-
spiration, and a triumphal repetition of that
upheaval in Australia is regarded as certain.
But the Russian revolution is a false
foundation for the Australian malcontent
' to build on. Apart from the utterly diff-
erent mentalities of the peoples, the Musco-
vite debacle was brought about by factors
which are non-existent in Australia.
Centuries of misgovernment and oppres-
sion had forced much of the population of
Russia to a state of semi-primitive savagery.
The ruling classes were de.cadent and un-
scrupulous, and officialdom was as corrupt
as it was incapable. When to this was
added the despair and misery following on
the wholesale butchery of ill-equipped and
untrained Russian troops in campaigns
which invariably ended in the enemy’s
favor, the ground was all ready for the
seed whose harvest is the Russia of to-day.
The immediate success of the Communist
element, following on the short-lived Keren-
sky regime, was due to the fact that it
gained complete control of the mutinous
troops, with all their were
at once available to back the campaign of
violence and destruction which seated the
Soviet firmly on the throne.
The Australian, on the other hand, has
had to suffer none of the circumstances
which have for centuries gone to crush
the soul of the Russian. He is remarkably
capable in his affairs, and is very largely
of that British stock which, when it has in
the past occasionally rearranged the parts
of the body politic, has done so in an
orderly manner and without disturbing the
national machine in any important par-
ticular.
It would thus seem to be difficult for our
Australian revolutionary to find the neces-
sary material ready to his hand. There is
here no mutinous army to enforce the will
of the proletariat with cartridge and
bayonet. The heralds of the Red Dawn
will have to raise and train their own
troops and arm them as best they can.
This they will have to do in the midst of a
virile people for the most part hostile to
their fanatical ideals, and numbering thou-
sands of experienced and highly-trained
soldiers of all grades, against whom their
amateur movement could have little hope
of more than a fleeting and sporadic suc-
cess or two in the beginning. As to the
armament available, it may.be confidently
said that Australia’s military equipment is
quite beyond the reach of any revolutionary
movement .that is/ not nation-wide and
backed by the Federal Government.
It might not be a wholly bad thing if an
attempt of the kind were made. It would
give Australia a sound excuse for ridding
itself of the pestiferous imported alien who
is so prominent in > Labor councils and the
renegade British who, safe under the protec-
tion of their nationality, are the worst
enemies of the Empire in general and of
the Australia on which they batten in par-
ticular.
. . *
The Loss of the Southern Cloud.
While in one sense air travel is making the
world smaller, in another it is bringing
home a realisation that the globe is a very
large place indeed. That a ’plane should be
lost for over a week in the unexplored fast-
nesses of north-western Australia, as
happened to Kingsford Smith’s Southern
Gross) was not remarkable, but that a
passenger machine flying over the
closely-populated States of the^continent
should vanish suddenly from human ken is
a disturbing reminder that this Australia of
ours is a vast and as yet a very sparsely-
settled territory, over whose edge a ’plane
may slip with no one any the wiser.
Beyond the duty of proceeding with every
available measure to solve the mystery
which envelops this tragedy lies the neces-
sity for devising further safeguards against
the dangers of aircraft travel. It is very
problematical whether the provision of
means of wireless communication would
have helped in the present case; but it
would be reassuring to know that passenger
machines were so equipped, and that they
carried such supplementary means of making
their location known as rockets or flares.
It would seem to be wise also that emer-
gency rations should be carried.
But when we realise that it is only 23
years since Farman astonished the world by
making a flight of one . mile in Paris, and
that as late as 1909 a Wright machine was
exhibited in Australia but was too perilous
a novelty to be flown, the amazing thing
is not that there should be a rare accident
like this, but that for month after month,
year after year, these mail services should
be run without any mishap at all. It is
a tribute to the foresight and ability of
those in charge which even this deplorable
accident cannot tarnish.
Yet more heartening even than this is the
response that has been made to the unvoiced
call for help. As ever on such occasions,
the bush Australian especially has put aside
his private tasks and thrown himself into
the job of searching and succoring with a
zeal and a simple feeling of mateship which
is surely one of the finest things in the
world.
♦
Robbery through the Taxgatherer.
Writing in the “Daily Telegraph” the other
morning N. B. Rydge, a Sydney accountant,
pointed out that N.S.W. property income
in excess of £6500 is being taxed 14s. 4d.
in the £. The ordinary Federal tax, twice
increased by the Scullidores, reaches 7s.
in the £; the special Federal tax in-
troduced by Mr. Lyons (he said he was
ashamed of it, and well he might be) is
another Is. 6d.; ordinary State tax goes
up to 4s. 9cL, and unemployment-relief tax
adds 7^d. —which makes 14s. 4d. On smaller
property incomes the taxes are not quite
so staggering; nevertheless, £lO4 is payable
on £6OO, £213 on £lOOO, £599 on £2OOO and
£2437 on £5OOO.
So far as The Bulletin can ascertain,
there is nothing like this in any other part
of the world; even the British tax on in-
comes lower than £6500 pales in comparison.
And yet something remains to be told. The
unemployment-relief tax is being levied on
income from other States as well as N. S.
Wales income. An Albury man, for in-
stance, who drew £lOOO from N.S.W. invest-
ments and £lOOO from Victorian is taxed
74d. in the £ on £2OOO, though he has
already paid or is liable for Hogan’s ordi-
nary tax and unemployment-relief tax on
the Victorian £lOOO and Federal ordinary
and special taxes on the £2OOO. Lang is
not to blame for the law under which this
double-tax is being exacted; it was a clumsy
Bavinshaw measure. The thing is sheer
robbery, and doubtfully constitutional, but
if a sufferer challenged it the Government
might take him to the Full Court, and then
perhaps to the High Court and the Privy
Council, and ruin him.
Again, though this unemployment tax is
falling heavily on salaried and wages men,
they at least pay on actual earnings in a
time of slump; farmers, pastoralists and
others pay on their income for the twelve
months to June 30, 1950, when the price
of wheat had not tumbled, for one thing.
Out of Is. 7d. a bushel, net wheatgrowers
are expected to find in the £ on in-
come resulting from a price in the neigh-
borhood of 4s. a bushel!
And pastoralists who are selling their
wool at less than cost, city property-owners
who have half their premises empty, are
faced with demands for more Federal land
tax and (in the case of the city men) for
higher municipal rates. Every child of the
school-going age knows that land values
have collapsed, but the assessors—the van-
guard of the army of taxgatherers—report
that they have increased. It is explained
that last sales in the neighborhood of the
reassessed properties—sales made before the
slump, of course—showed an upward ten-
dency, and that valuations must be based
on last sales, according to the Act. The
rank injustice of this smells to Heaven; but
because the victims are landowners nobody
cares.
We can expect no material improvement
in the general situation until taxation ceases
to be an instrument of robbery on a vast
scale.
♦
Sheep to the Rescue!
It is some comfort to know that we are not
carrying all the bad luck of the world. In
one very important particular fortune has
stood to us wonderfully. While the average
of commodity prices has been making a
new “low” record, there has been an almost
spectacular recovery in the market for oUr
wool. There is, moreover, good reason to
believe that prices will go higher still during
the closing sales of the season, and in that
case there will be very little carry-over.
Further, European advices are that ware-
house and -mill stocks a.re exceptionally
low. On present appearances, then, the cur-
rent season’s wool will reach a bare market;
and, since there have been good rains in
almost every part of Australia, including
that large section of pastoral Queensland
which the late summer falls had missed, the
prospects for the industry are infinitely
brighter than had seemed possible even so
late as 10 weeks ago. The average fleece has
risen in value about 2s.—from ss. to 7s.—
within that period. If it is still far from the
11s. of a couple of years ago, it is doing
its climbing in the face of adverse trade
statistics; and nothing could more clearly
indicate strength than that.
#
“The Bulletin’s” Lenten Pastoral.
Moke than trade moves in waves ' and
cycles. The exaltation of money has its
similar periods of ferocity and quiescence.
With every period of easy credit and high
prices, the golden calf is raised; then “times
get bad” and the world must look elsewhere
for its consolations and its joys.
During periods of boom, when the golden
calf is lifted high, we fall into the deplor-
able error of thinking that money can buy
everything, wherefore money is the only
thing to be pursued. But a man with a
million can be utterly unhappy; and there
can be happiness where money can buy
nothing and the circumstances seem only a
setting for misery. In the trenches in France
all the discomforts of the world seemed to
have gathered; yet men will tell you that
the happiest moments of their lives were
spent there, and their happiest moments
now are spent in retrospect. Many years
ago a distinguished cleric. wrote even of
“the happiness in Hell.”
Our workers are still being bidden by the
shrillest-voiced of their leaders to keep
their eyes on the golden calf: they are
assured that nothing else matters. The time
has come to realise that this worship . has
left hundreds of thousands of the men and
women of Australia unhappy, some of them
holding out their hands for the dole, many
others of them unfed. We have neglected
things that should have mattered; we have
left ourselves untrained to find beauty and
comfort and pleasure where it could be had
for nothing. We have deluded ourselves
and allowed others to delude us into be-
lieving that the more we could spend the
happier we should be, and the higher we
should stand in the world’s esteem. So we
have three cars in a family garage in
one suburb, all now idle for lack of petrol;
and three gramophones in one cottage in
another suburb, all now silent for lack of
needles.
This is not a plea for doing without
unions or Trades Hall councils or A.L.P.’s
or Nationalist associations or any of that
paraphernalia. But it is a plea for adding
to those things a concern or a greater con-
cern for the innumerable agencies from
which pleasure and contentment have been
got in other times—for the bed of carrots
in the back yard and the flower-plot in
the front; for the treasured book on the
home shelf and the public library; for the
art gallery and the public gardens; for the
literary society and the band concert and
community singing; for the Church,, if you
like, and social service.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures of “Ponipey”
Elliott, A. C. Willis—Lang’s ambassador to
London—and others) . . . . . . . . 13
‘•WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
GENERAL INDUSTRIES 14
CALEDONIAN COLLIERIES 14
PELACO 14
BOND’S INDUSTRIES 14
EMPIRE TOBACCO CORP.—A CASE FOR
INQUIRY 14
THE SOAP-BOX .17
RECOVERY FROM INFLATION . . . . 17
INFLATION AND TAXES 17
WHY BRITAIN MIGHT REMIT OUR WAR-
DEBT 17
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..18
A Melbourne Art Outbreak —as seen by
M. G. Skipper . . .. .. . . 18
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-011 (with drawings) .. .. .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
HOW MUCH SUPER.? .. 24
DRESSINGS FOR’FLY-STRUCK SHEEP .. 24
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. ..27
SAID BEFORE—(Drawings by Phil May and
“Hop” and verse by Dowell O’Reilly and
Neville Forder) . . . . . . .. . . 28
SHADOW SHOWS 29
POVERTY POINT 29
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. .. 31, 32
A.J.C. (WARWICK FARM) 31
EPSOM RACES 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 34
CHATTER ‘FROM MELBOURNE . . . . . 36
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . .. 34, 36
SERIAL—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole .. 38, 39
COMPLETE STORY—
“WHILE SHEPHERDS WATCH”—
By J. H. M. Abbott . . .. .. 41, 42
Gerardy, M. Forrest, Hugh McCrae,
Roderic Quinn . . . . . . 39, 42


THIS YEAR
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to con-
serve carefully and to spend wisely, it is now. In most cases
incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and conse-
quently reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money—it is just as
much a matter of careful, useful spending; but obviously the
saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully.
It costs nothing, but will help you to help yourself.
Cbmmoitwcaltb Savmos JBank of Rustralia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
ƒ
f
Always Order
SCHWEPPES
DRY
GINGER
ALE
The Standard o f
Comparison through-
out the World.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N. S. Wales has interest bills falling due
in London and New York, and on Repudia-
tion Day (March 26) Premier Lang inti-
mated that the British creditor won’t be
paid. The British rate of interest is, in this
case, a shade over 4-i per cent., while the
Yankee charges 5 per cent., so it looks like
a case of giving preference to the more
rapacious creditor as well as to the alien.
Further, it is a matter of robbing the poor
for preference.
A prime cause of Australia’s success in
raising money in London is that its loans
were promoted, over 30 years ago, to be
trustee securities. This gave our bonds an
immense popularity among executors and
guardians, who could invest the widow’s mite,
and the mites of the orphan and lunatic,
and be held guiltless in case of loss; and it
spread them far and wide also among the
elderly, the retired, incurable spinsters and
the like. In the IJ.S.A. Australian loans are
not the investments of the poor or the liearly-
p«oor. They are rather the speculations of
dollar barons, who might raise Cain if they
fell in through the machinations of a mere
State politician and start to twist the tail
of the British Lion with demands for inter-
ference. So the British investor, though he
(and she) has more at stake, may be the
safer mark, being individually both smaller
and older.
GENERAL BEASLEY: “Any funny business
from the likes of you and I’ll put me
Labor army on yer.”
“We have not got control of the Parlia-
mentary machine,” Scullin told a Melbourne
Labor audience, “nor have we control of the
finances. But,” the great democrat added,
“it is our determination to go on until w T e
get control of Parliament and until we can
govern.” “Meantime,” he might have con-
tinued. “we will eat dirt, like any other
worm.”
Lang must have lived before. Robert
Pollok, the eighteenth-century poet, wrote of
his unemployment tax and what became of
the money:—
With one hand he put
A penny in the urn of poverty
And with the other took a shilling out.
Premier Hogan is regarded as a possible can-
didate for the Ballarat* Federal seat in opposi-
tion to McGrath, who has joined the Lyons
group. It depends upon how things go in
State politics. Hogan will stick to Labor,
but he is a moderate who thinks Australia
should pay its way. Talking at Yarrawonga
the other day, he said the present position
should be a lesson to the people never to
indulge in private and public extravagance
again.
The customs union between Austria and
Germany is the first open defiance of the
Versailles Treaty. Austria’s plea for break-
ing the prohibition against uniting with Ger-
many is that all the new States formed out
of the former Hapsburg Empire have shut
her out with tariffs and restrictions so that
the shrunken homeland has been leading a
hand-to-mouth existence on Allied benevo-
lence. Vienna is four sizes too big for its
present purposes and the peasants resent
being taxed >o keep it going. Another Aus-
trian argument is that the League of Nations
talks a lot about the right of self-determina-
tion and shouldn’t have any objection to
seeing the principle put in operation. France
will have something to say on that point.
The Federal A.L.P. Conference has ex-
pelled the N. S. Wales A.L.P. executive,
and the N. S. Wales A.L.P. Conference is
about to expel the Federal A.L.P. executive.
This means, as Mr. Lang’s paper puts it,
that “two Labor parties, one tied to the
Scullin-Tlieodore policies and the other
advocating the Lang Flan, will contest the
Federal election, now looming.” There is
also Lyons’s party, which is to be sup-
ported by the Victorian branch of the
All for Australia League; the parent N. S.
Wales organisation, while not definitely
committed to Lyons, has decided upon poli-
tical action. Lyons himself says he is for
no party, but for the whole pom-
monwealth. His stocks are rising,
and he has an obvious chance of
becoming the next Prime Minister.
Who on earth selected the
“Morning Post,” the most uncom-
promisingly Conservative paper in
the Empire, as the medium for
polysyllabic articles booming Lang
and his repudiation policy? And
what does the haughty old organ
charge for opening its columns to
stuff that most of its readers would
merely shudder over, if they could
be induced to read it at all? There
might be some point in spreading
butter on Lang in the Labor
“Herald,” or possibly even in the
“Manchester Guardian,” but in the
“Morning Post” it is public money
thrown away.
The majority report of the Sugar
Inquiry Committee recommends
continuance of the embargo for five
years, and maintenance of present
prices for three years, the indus-
try to furnish £315,000 p.a. during
the three years to assist fruit-
growers and manufacturers. The
annual payment is to supplant the
special price to manufacturers
and the rebate on the sugar content of ex-
ported products of the kind. The minority,
headed by John Gunn, Director of Develop-
ment and sometime Premier of S. Aus.,
advocates a reduction of £2 6s. Bd. a ton
to the consumer. With everything else
down the consumer is entitled to this con-
cession, and the best friends of the indus-
try trust tliat it will be offered.
The Lang “plan” as regards interest is
to pay 3 p.c. to Australians, 5 p.c. to
Americans and nothing at all to the Eng-
lish. In other words:—
Good Uncle Sam will get his dues in full.
He needn’t fear that we shall let him in.
It’s quite another pair of sleeves with Bull;
We hold it fair enough to welsh our kin.
Dire though our need, we’re not the sort of mol)
To jib at paying Wall-street dividends.
We wouldn’t scale the stranger of a bob.
We only swindle friends.
The State agricultural-implement works
at North Fremantle are for sale. They were
started by a Labor Government 18 years
ago in pursuit of a general plan for abolish-
ing the capitalist, and biting his ear to begin
with, and they have been a chronic absorber
o£ tax-money ever since. The losses for the
three years to June 30, 1930, amounted to
£37,200. Sales of implements and parts real-
ised £38,200 in ’2B-’29 and £35,900 in ’29-’3O,
the taxpayer being sold to the extent of
£13,900 and £12,600 respectively. Purchas-
ers are notified that they will have to line
up in a queue.
THE TRANSFERRED GIFT.
“Mr. Bruce has definitely decided to return to
politics. He will stand tor his old constituency,
Flinders.”
BILLY: “It was the dear boy’s gift to me.
Would you like to give it back to him?”
Australia has a Federal Government Bank,
with 90 offices scattered all over the Com-
monwealth, to look after the note issue and
public business generally. It is now pro-
posed to start a Central Reserve Bank, so
that there will be a watchdog and a super-
dog to keep a lookout on the same little bit
of money and the same collection of em-
barrassments. There is nothing for the
proposed institution to do which the exist-
ing one isn’t doing, or isn't capable of
doing, with its premises, and staff, and sta-
tionery, and doorplates. The present bank
is fully qualified to maintain “stability and
DRESSED FOR THE PART.
“The N.S.W. Government’s interest default is
fixed for April 1.”
security in the monetary and credit system
of the Commonwealth,” as Scullin puts it, if
there is some security to be maintained and
the funds to do the job with. Why the Scul-
lidores want another publicly-owned bank,
except for pomp and show and to provide
billets, the Lord only knows.
Senator Dunn’s warning that the spanner
which somebody had thrown into the wheels
would light a torch that members of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation would not
take lying down recalls a comment of Martin
Hannah in Vic. Assembly on the disappoint-
ments of closer settlement. Said Martin:
“We have listened to rosy pictures, and now
the chickens have come home to roost.”
Slang’s financial “policy” was not long in
taking root on congenial soil. With David-
son Works Minister, Broken Hill sees a
chance of getting the mouldy old plan of a
water supply from the Darling listed as a
relief job. When the thing was discussed
a speaker suggested that interest on the
Government grant would be hard to meet.
Another said: “If Lang can repudiate the
State’s interest, we can repudiate Lang s.
Let’s get the money and start the work.”
A story that went the rounds in Germany
when inflation was at its height concerned
three brothers. One had put all his money
into Government stock; another bought
wine; the third went mad. The first brother
found himself penniless owing to deprecia-
tion of his securities; the second sold his
empty bottles and kept himself in compara-
tive iuxury; the third, released as sane, and
his personal property being restored, found
himself the possessor of a twenty-mark gold
piece. Knowing nothing about the inflation,
he went to a bank to change it. He was
offered so many notes that he decided he
must still be mad, and returned to the
asylum.
President Frank Clarke, Chairman-of-
Committees Edgar, and Beckett, the Health
Minister, are not likely to be opposed at
the Vic. Upper House elections. Hitch-
cock, whose health is unsatisfactory, will
not re-nominate for the South-Western
Province, and Bell’s death will give some
Ballarat man a chance to win a Wellington
seat. E. J. White, who has . never taken
politics very seriously, will again be opposed
in the West by W. J. Williamson, of Port-
land, who failed to displace him in 1925,
and the Cockies are trying to bring out
somebody against Chandler for the S.-E.
Province. Of the 84 in the Chambah 22
are Nationalists, six Cockies and six Labor-
ites. The retirements are exactly _in that
proportion—ll Nats., three Cockies and
three Laborites.
The Federal Treasurer at Washington
anticipates a big deficit, like his pal at Can-
berra. but there are differences. The U.S.A.
fears that extra taxes may be required to
meet the shortage, but Australia has already
put on a heap of extra taxes, and its short-
age isn’t met. The U.S. has about
£935,000,000 of gold coin in its banks, and
the Federal Government hasn’t conceived the
idea of commandeering this, or any part of
it, and giving “fiduciary” paper in exchange,
so that it may pacify the foreign creditor
with the coin. The question hasn’t arisen
because there is no external creditor to be
pacified. Australia has about £18,000,000
or £20,000,000 of gold, almost all of it in
the Government bank, and almost all com-
mandeered from the joint-stock banks. This
is what remains of a much larger amount, and
Scullin and Theodore talk openly of ship-
ping this away also, to cover interest and
pay for an absurd superfluity of imports,
thereby leaving an increased note issue to
degenerate towards waste-paper value. There
is a wide variety in deficits. Australia has
a species of its own.
The absurdity of the law relating to
the Federal Capital Territory was empha-
sised by the committal for trial of
the first person charged with a criminal
offence—indecent assault in this case —-in
that section of the Commonwealth. Under
the F.C.T. Court of Petty Sessions Ordi-
nance any such case sent for trial
must be heard by the High Court.
This means that the High Court will have
to come to Sydney or the defendant be taken
to Melbourne, when the case could be dealt
with by any N.S.W. Judge at adjacent
Queanbeyan.
Bavin is handicapped by his political past.
As a State Righter he joined with Lang in
asking N.S.W. to negative the Bruce-Page
referendum which aimed at bringing all
awards under the Federal Arbitration Court.
Now employers are blaming him for the new
Lang bill, a calamity that any fool could
have foreseen, according to them, once the
Sovietists got back. Bavin is in an equally
invidious position when he tries to convict
the Riverina insurgents of “disloyalty.” He
called it “independence” when he was up
against the Nationalists himself.
Hogan is at his wits’ end to raise re-
venue these days, and some of his methods
savor of Gilbert and Sullivan. Some grate-
ful ratepayers gave a spread to a suburban
mayor and were later told that the shivoo
came under the amusement tax. Amateur
actors who are trying to fill the cultural
blank left by the failure of the legitimate
theatres can only evade the taxgatherer by
calling their shows clubs, and enrolling the
audience as members. One of these days
a Treasurer will clap the amusement tax
on citizens who listen to Parliamentary de-
bates from the Strangers’ Gallery. They
are amusing enough for anything.
“Treasurer Theodore proposes to empower himself
to ‘take control’ of the gold reserve of the Com-
monwealth Bank to pay overseas debts.”
Prospective Victim: “Save me, Mr. Gibson,
save me! Don’t hand me over to
Fiduciary Ted!”
“Bildad”: The repudiation bombshell has
raised the old problem of the rogue and/or
the fool. There is no particular reason
imbedded in the land itself why N. S.
Wales should lead the way in public > bank-
ruptcy. It produces more value in minerals
than all the other States and Territories
combined. It has the biggest flocks of
sheep. Partly because of its luck m
possessing a fine coal supply in convenient
spots it has a larger and better-paid manu-
facturing population than any of its neigh-
bors, and at the same time its wheat yield
per acre is generally above the Common-
wealth average. One explanation offered
for the lonesome crash is that the boss
ruler, whoever he may be —the power be-
hind the throne —is a greater mental fail-
ure than his contemporaries and that
decent opportunities and resources are
wasted on him. Another suggestion is that
he has a cruel streak in his composition, and
finds pleasure in the thought that thousands
of moderately-circumstanced people who have
invested in Australian securities will be left
in the cold. They are nasty alternatives, b ut
a third one is difficult to find.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Chevroford”: When the Southern Cloud
was lost, Melbourne, which usually skirts
its mountain fastnesses on perfect roads in
motor-cars, woke up to the fact that one-
tliird of the State is almost trackless and
uninhabited wilderness. Twenty aeroplanes
and 1000 ground searchers quartered the
area for days without getting any nearer
solving the grim mystery of how an air-
liner could come down within 40 miles or so
of the capital and start nothing but contra-
dictory and mainly baseless rumors. At first
the search was conducted optimistically,
without any particular system. When the
magnitude of the job was realised it became a
case of an expert staff working out the plans
for a major offensive, Kingsford Smith, Ulm
and Colonel Brinsmead being H.Q. through
the night and front-line troops in the day-
time. Over 3000 gallons of petrol a jjjay was
expended in the search, which was hampered
by the usual exhibitionism of emotional
people, who had heard smashes and seen
lights at a dozen different spots hundreds
of miles apart from each other. Private
owners of Moths supplemented the work of
the big Fokkers and the heavy weather made
anonymous heroism a commonplace. Much
of the country searched is scored with deep
gullies, down which the ’planes travelled
under a roof of cloud and so close to the
sides that fern fronds were distinguishable.
“DEARIE ME, WHERE DID I PUT THAT SHILLING?”
“Toowong”: An amazingly queer “lan-
guage” case occupied a Brisbane police .court
the other day. The evidence disclosed that
a bobby perambulating a fashionable suburb
late at night was suddenly frozen in his
tracks by an outburst of lurid adjectives
and crackling participles from a verandah.
The quality of the objurgations, was indi-
cated by the fact that two flappers, just in
front of the John Hop, ran for their lives
with hands over their ears. John pushed
open the gate and going on to the verandah
arrested the curser—still eloquent—on a
charge of language “within hearing of
passers-by.” The explanation came in the
courts next day. The offender, a person of
good fame and reputation never known by
his acquaintance to indulge in profanity,
pointed out that the policeman had to
awaken him to arrest him, and that it was
a fair inference that he was talking in liis
sleep. The puzzled P.M. said he would like
time off to think it over, and at last advices
was still busy doing so.
* * * *
“Ignotus”: The most outstanding thing
about the War Cenotaph in Martin-place,
Sydney, is that it shouldn’t be where it is.
Two or three years ago one of a party of
roystering Uni. undergrads overturned a
tin of flowers at the base, and was duly
disciplined by a police-
court magistrate as
well as his college
authorities. Last week,
in the a.m. hours, one
of a mob of bright
young things engaged
in a fatuous “treasure
hunt” leapt on the
statuary and searched
underneath the
wreaths for a clue to
something - or - other,
while a dismayed cus-
todian tore up and
down in a vain quest
for a police constable.
In this case the offence
is regarded as having
been wiped out by a
full apology in the
dailies from a mem-
ber of the “Tiptop
Club,” the delinquent
submitting in extenua-
tion the amazing plea
that he didn’t approach
the Shrine of Remem-
brance \vith his hat
on, for the simple rea-
son that he never
wears a hat! It is a
scandal, of course,
that such things
should happen, but
there would be less
danger of their happening if the Ceno-
taph were removed to some other site tliau
the heart of the city.
* * * *
“Sixenate” : I heard it at Sydney Central
one day last week. The magistrate
was curious to know why a man who appa-
rently could not keep out of trouble while in
Sydney had come to town. “His uncle
died,” explained the witness, “so he came
down for the obscenities.”
* * * *
“R. Volt”: A new world’s record in long-
distance telephony was established when the
American Belgenland chatted with Aus-
tralia while off Colombo. If the waves had
taken the direct route there would have been
nothing remarkable in the achievement, but
they went from Colombo to Britain and were
then relayed back to a radio engineer in
Melbourne —distance, 17,200 miles.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Air-liners will have to carry
wireless. The perils of the Sydney-Melbourne
crossing in weather such as pilot Shortridge
had to face are far greater than those encoun-
tered by steamships. With the cloud pack
lying 1000 ft. up, the ranges between Wan-
garatta and Melbourne, which vary from
2000 ft. to 4000 ft. in height, present a formid-
able hurdle. My house lies 20 miles from Mel-
bourne, some miles to the nor’-cast of the
normal route between the two capitals, and
on a day like that on which the Southern
Cloud was lost I was startled by the roar
of propellers, but could see nothing. When
the noise was almost overhead the Sydney-
Melbourne mail ’plane dropped out of the
clouds about 500 feet above my chimneys.
She was flying almost at right angles to her
proper course, but immediately swung round
and pointed for Essendon, no doubt having
recognised her position. With wireless
stations at each end and at intervals along
the route an air-liner could keep her course
or at any rate learn where she was ; and if
trouble developed she could communicate her
position by directional wireless. That the
Southern Cloud affair should be the first
serious mishap to commercial aviation in
Australia speaks volumes for the quality of
the men and the engineers concerned.
* * * *
“Whitehall” : One of the few consolations
of the depresh is that it looks like making
outcasts of politicians. All my life I have
been watching these skiting, lying and often
corrupt third-raters (few go into politics
here who aren’t failures at tlicir trades or"
professions) pushing into every public move-
THE ELEPHANT’S ADVANTAGE.
JACK: “I wouldn’t like to be an animal in a zoo, would you? It’d be too lonely.”
JOAN: “No, but Daddy says it’s not so bad for the elephant, because he can put
through trunk calls whenever he wants to.”
ment or demonstration and degrading it. I
have listened to them bellowing abusive rub-
bish from platforms, and watched them dis-
figuring the city streets in vehicles part-paid
for by myself at every kind of limelit func-
tion, from the arrival of an Amy Johnson
to that of a royal prince. At long last the
crucified public seems to have dropped to
them. They are rigidly barred from the coun-
cils of the A.F.A. League. Not a single A.F.A.
meeting has so far been addressed by any-
one with M.ILR. or M.L.A. after his name.
In the old days the agitation against repu-
diation would have been rushed by the very
incompetents who have made it necessary.
There were no “elected persons” at last week’s
inaugural meeting, and the only M’s.L.C.
appointed to the committee were non-political
ones—business and professional men like
Braddon, Vicars and Ilemsley. They
don’t even seem to want the pariahs in the
“Labor Army.” The Grand General Staff,
under Field-Marshal J. M. Martin, doesn’t
contain an M.11.R. or M.L.A.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The observance of Anzac Day in
Victoria this year should be full of anoma-
lies. The date falls on a Saturday, when the
whole populace ordinarily goes holidaying,
and under the Act—the most stringent in
Australia —hotels are closed, race meetings,
picture-shows, concerts and theatrical per-
formances are forbidden, no service or petrol
may be supplied to motorists, organised sport
is prohibited and banks and businesses must
take a rest. For some reason or other, how-
ever, dance halls were forgotten in this
sweeping enactment. In previous years they
have voluntarily put up the shutters. Since
the Act was framed midgot-golf courses
were invented, and it is claimed that they are
outside the statute. It will be interesting
to see if they follow the example of the
dance halls.
* # * *
“Old Q.”: Something new in nature-study
stories comes from North Queensland. A
peaceful old nag was browsing by the road-
side, perhaps pondering on the difficulties of
earning a carrot in these days of motor
transport, when a motor-cycle with a pillion-
rider ran into him. The horse was knocked
down, but to the utter astonishment of the
cyclists, who had also taken a toss, he
deliberately rose, bared his teeth, and
waded into them and the machine. The
latter will never compete with horse
labor again; the cyclists, considerably
knocked about, had to find refuge behind
a stiff three-railed fence while the infuriated
animal —obviously a cavalry brigadier’s
charger at one period of his existence —told
them what he thought of them from the
other side.
**' * *
“Mells”: One hitherto unnoted result of
the financial depression is the increased acti-
vity of the kind of trader who doesn’t rely on
window-dressing to sell his goods, but takes
up a strategic position on the pavement and
regards every passer-by with an appraising
eye. If you linger for a moment to look
at something in the window he is on to you
like a ferret at a rabbit, ready to drag you
inside by main force if mere argument
doesn’t convince you of the excellence and
cheapness of his wares. Almost always he is
a Jewish clothier. Even in certain parts of
London I doubt if he is more in evidence
than in Sydney these times, exponent of a
theory of salesmanship that is as old as
Israel itself. It must be wearying work, for
he is on his feet and the hard pavement from
opening- to closing-time.
The story as the ad.-writer tells it (lie
was born in Fitzroy, but his ears have been
in Hollywood for 10 years now) :
We reckon you don’t have to sell folks on the
talkies—they’ll go, anyway. Our main job is to
sell the head man of the producing outfit we’re
working for, and he’s generally a guy that likes it
raw. “Give ’em sex,” he says, and we go to it.
Maybe you noticed that in a recent Sydney Sunday
paper there was a regular clean-up in the best
American style—l 4 talkies, each featured with a
cut of someone eating a dame or just ready to go.
What’s it matter if the audience always titters at
the love stuff and gives it the raspberry when it’s
turned on too long? Our big chiefs figure that’s
only to hide the public’s genuine emotions, and they’re
really sex crazy.
So we make a good break early —with the title,
Say a show like “The Best People” comes along.
“That title’s a rare' piece of satire. Suppose we
let it ride,” I say. “Nix on the satire —it’s too
highbrow,” says the chief. “Sex it!” So I come
across with “Fast and Loose,” and he reckons it’s
a wow, and there you are. Then there was the
story of Jenny Lind. It was labelled “A Lady’s
Morals,” probably because the noise was thinking
of a date he had that night. Sometimes, of course,
the author gums up the works, like when we wanted
to rechristen “Lightnin’ ” and call it “Seducing
Bill.” But we slipped one over on the poster.
Maybe you saw the picture of the sheriff hauling at
a chorus-girl’s leg with another chorus-girl hitched
on behind. The sheriff in the talkie sure had a
tug-of-war, but with honest-to-goodness everyday
folk. It gets a good laugh from decent people, but
our chief maybe doesn’t meet that kind and doesn’t
figure they exist.
That reminds me. One day a film company presi-
dent overheard a couple of janes discussing a
“Morocco” bill-board which displayed a high-powered
purple patch. “But that didn’t happen in it!” says
one. “No,” chips in the president, borrowing an
epigram from the late Jane McNeil Whistler, “but
don’t you wish it did?”
Some day we’ll do a piece of reql red-blooded
publicity and then write a talkie to fit it. Boy,
if that picture gets by!
sj*
“Padraic”: An applicant for the dole had
his claim questioned by our local police
sergeant on the ground that he was an
owner of houses—although he has received
no rent from them for months past. “Of
course I own two houses,” retorted the indig-
nant one, “but I can’t eat them —I ain’t a
white ant.”
% Sfc * . Sfc
“Magis”: I was at a League of Nations
Union function recently and was struck with
the pressing need of the organisation for an
Anthem Internationale —blue, green, _ pink
or whatever the color of respectable inter-
nationalism is. Lack of the ditty compelled
it to conclude an evening of pious profes-
sions of goodwill to all nations with the
British National Anthem. A moment’s
reflection shows that nothing could be more
incongruous. “God Save” is the hymn of
downright and aggressive nationalism. The
second verse is so contrary to the spirit of
the present wave of sentimental humani-
tarianism which is sweeping the globe that
it has lately been proposed in England to
provide new words for it. The fact that
Poles, Chinese, Japanese, Danes, French-
men, Germans and Australians all solemnly
joined in the song, with the hearty indiffer-
ence to sense, tune and metre peculiar to
community singers the world over, suggests
that internationalism is still very much skin-
deep with most people.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The annual invasion of
Phillip Island (Vic.) for the light-car races
provided an extraordinary accident. A road
bridge was impassable owing to floods, and
a long queue of cars collected. An impatient
driver conceived the idea of crossing on an
adjoining railway bridge. He got halfway
when one set of wheels slipped off the narrow-
gangway. Ho and his passengers were hung-
up in this ridiculous position when a shrill
whistle sounded a note of potential tragedy.
Luckily the train saw the party, and the
crew helped it on to the sleepers again. The
car was trundling along ahead of the train
looking for a chance to get back to its own
element, when the driver suddenly stopped.
Unused to the vagaries of road traffic, the
euginedriver was taken by surprise and
bumped the intruder into the jungle. The
driver was salvaged unconscious, but recov-
ered later.
WHEN ANDY LAUGHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“After parrying a question in the N.S.W. Assembly,
Attorney-General Lysaght laughed, for the first time
in his Parliamentary life. Even Mr. Lang was
startled.”
A bolt from out the blue it fell;
It fairly beat the shock
When frowning Lang arose to tell
The State would take the knock.
Affright was in the Speaker’s gaze ;
The galleries, fore and aft,
Gasped in incredulous amaze
When Andy Lysaght laughed!
Upon the listening car it smote
As from a hoary tree
An owl should trill a jocund note,
A raven chirp with glee.
The Ins and Outs forgot their strife,
The “Hansard” hands their craft;
It stabbed the silence like a knife
When Ironbark Andy laughed!
Here many a storied speech was made
A nation’s life that marks;
Here Wentworth’s vibrant tones inveighed,
And here there thundered Parkes.
Here golden eloquence would strike
And stinging satire’s shaft.
But through the years was nothing like
When Andy Lysaght laughed !
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Gladys Payday” : The seers who look into
teacups or peer into the heart of the crystal
globe have to grasp at pretty thin straws
sometimes. There is one quite well-known
member of the tribe who brightens up a cosy
Melbourne tearoom. The other day a friend
asked half a dozen other friends in there to
meet a girl who had driven over from Adel-
aide. As the seer was passing she overheard
one say to the guest, “And how did the baby
behave on the way over?” But before she
could reply that they got through without a
single mishap, and found the Coorong sand
as easy going as any of it, the seer was well
out of earshot. So the afternoon drew on,
and when things began to drag the seer was
called in to read the cups—she knows her
job all right. And all went quite well until
she reached the guest, who is a perfect model
of maidenly propriety. “Ah,” said the gifted
lady, slyly, “so you’ve had a visit from the
stork lately! Now let me see if the cup will
tell me whether it was a little son or a little
daughter.” But the cup never had a chance
to do anything so interesting.
* * * *
“L’Oro”: When the war-drums began to
beat in 1914, Herman Thiel, an employee at
Taronga Zoo, Sydney, withdrew all he had
from the Government Savings Bank, placed
the money—2ll sovereigns and 13 half-
sovereigns—in a bottle and planted it in
Sirius Cove. Ten years later he returned,
found his hoard intact, took out a hall-
sovereign and decided to leave the rest where
it was., A year later he thought to have
another look at his nest-egg. but alas! the
Mosman Council had been beautifying the
hillside, his landmarks had been removed,
NEARLY A CASE OF DROWNING.
"Well, how did you enjoy your afternoon at Mrs. Flimsy’s?”
“Oh, it was most trying! I had to drink five cups of tea before she got on to a single
spicy bit.”
and his precious bottle was lost. Four years
later still a boy scout engaged in a treasure
built stumbled on Thiel’s cache, and took
his find to the police. There was a coroner’s
inquest at which Thiel’s ownership was
established but the magistrate insisted that
the boy scout should receive £5O. The State
claimed another £3O for expenses, and the
final question that arose was whether the
German should get the balance back in notes
or gold. After some more legal argument
lie was paid in gold, which is worth at least
30 per cent, more (in Australia) than when
he buried it, but. if he had left his money
in the bank it would have earned about £l9O
in compound interest. Banks may be grind-
ers of the faces of the -poor, but substitutes
are apt to come expensive.
* * * *
“W.E.F.”: Some recent figures support
the statement that the soil of Ireland is
particularly favorable to the production of
centenarians (B. 25/3/’3l). Of 26 who
died in Australia in 1929—13 of either sex
—four men and seven women claimed Ireland
for tfieir birthplace. England ran next with
seven ; India, N.S.W. and the Pacific Islands
contributed a couple apiece, one came from
Scotland and one from Roumania. Most of
the men were either laborers or farmers; one
insurance manager reached three figures. A
South Sea Islander who claimed to be 112
was the oldest of the bunch.
* * $ c
“Aroona”: The late lamented Adelaide
’Register’s” capacity for "blundering over
simple and well-known things” (B. 18/3/’3l)
reminds me of a reminiscence evoked in the
kindly old sheet by the death of a relative of
mine, a S. Aus. pioneer pastoralist, in Eng-
land 20 years ago. The “Register” pro-
prietor recalled, in connection with the
obituary notice, that once when motoring in
the West of England he was struck by read-
ing a S. Aus. native name on the gates of
a wayside mansion, and decided to go in
and introduce himself. He was made wel-
come, of course, and what particularly grati-
fied him was an invitation to join his host
in a glass of wine whose father grape had
grown fat in Adelaide summers. It was
such a kindly, appreciative tribute that I
shouldn’t have had the heart to correct the
last sentence, even if I had ever had the
opportunity. That ran : “The next day was
October, and I was pressed, if I were remain-
ing in the neighborhood, to come and have a
day after the grouse.” The confusion over
game-law dates struck me less than the con-
sideration that there wasn’t a grouse within
hundreds of miles.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Melbourne gave a spectacular
demonstration of the workings of the herd
mind recently in connection with a murder
case. It is providing another in its
attitude towards rumors that certain firms
mix sectarianism with business in the engage-
ment and dismissal of employees. So firmly
fixed is the delusion that a newspaper con-
ducted an investigation. Large firms
which had been named in the most
circumstantial manner provided docu-
mentary evidence that they exercised
no discrimination whatever; most
managers were unaware what the reli-
gions of their employees were and
didn’t want to know. In the ease of
some huge concerns adult infantility
went the length of promoting two con-
tradictory stories, one that Protes-
tants were being sacked in favor of
Roman Catholics, the other that Roman
Catholics were being dismissed and replaced
by Protestants.
* * * *
“Chevroford” : Visitors to Yallourn gain a
better impression of public enterprise than
most callers on Canberra get. The preten-
tious endeavor to live up to the moral, intel-
lectual and aesthetic elevation of the nation’s
politicians gives Canberra an air of over-
dressed gentility absent from Yallourn, whose
narrow roads lined with beautiful fenceless
gardens and brightly-colored little homes
have a much more intimate and workmanlike
aspect. An army of gardeners doesn’t
remove the onus of keeping one’s own plot in
order at Yallourn, and there are few <3 well-
ings that are not admirably tended. Ihe
hotel, hospital, abattoir, butchery, freezing
works, technical and other schools and shop-
ping centre all look modest but adequate, m-
stead of blatantly pretentious. _ And wheieas
the population of Canberra is steadily de-
creasing, Yallourn’s is growing. It is built
on deposits of brown coal so immense that
nobody can estimate when they will be
exhausted. The depression hasn’t caused
any slackening in the enterprise, of which
John Monash is the generalissimo. The ser-
vice Yallourn gives is being systematically
extended, and the time is not far distant when
BOY (in audience) : “Dad, what does that mean—‘a deed without a name’?”
HIS LAWYER PA : “Oh, some fool layman drew it up, I expect.”
NULL AND VOID.
Scene: Performance of “Macbeth.”
MACBETH : “How now, you secret
black and midnight hags, what
is’t you do?”
WITCHES: “A deed without a name!”
all the electric power and light of the State
will be generated in its power-houses. It is
already penetrating the remote Western Dis-
trict, and has crossed the N. S. Wales border
at Albury. Additions arc being made to
the briquetting factory which will increase
the output from 450 to 1200 tons a day, and
the power line to Melbourne has been dupli-
cated. Yet all this development has made
no perceptible difference to the open cut since
last I saw it. Immense as that excavation
is, it is a mere nibble at the hundreds of
square miles of cake that surround it. Yal-
lourn is only a couple of miles off the Prince s
Highway, and is well worth a call for tra-
vellers motoring between Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
’* * * *
“Anon”; “Templar” is wrong when he says
that the relatives of Lord St. Leonards were
forced to the conclusion that he had never
made a will (B. 18/3/’3l). He had undoubt-
edly made one, and eight codicils as well; the
trouble arose when the codicils were found
but the will itself wasn’t. However, evidence
as to its contents was furnished by the tes-
tator’s daughter, who had for many years
been secretary to her father, and who had
repeatedly read the document to him when he
desired to alter its terms by a codicil. Hence
she was able to write out a precis of the will
from memory, the correctness of which was
borne out by the codicils themselves (which
she hadn’t read) and by statements made by
tlie testator during his lifetime, and the
High Court accepted it and granted probate.
This extraordinary suit occupies nearly 100
pages in the law reports. ... ...
~, " *
“Lramao”: Officialdom pursues the even
tenor of its way unperturbed by cataclysms.
A business man in the ruined town of Hast-
ings received this note from the Taxation
Department in Wellington a fortnight after
the earthquake : “Dear Sir,—Referring to
the arrears of land tax amounting.to Is. 9d.
owing by you, I have now to advise that a
charge will he registered against the title
....unless an immediate settlement is
made.”
* * * .*
“Oxmead”: One of the lengthiest and
costliest bits of mining litigation ever
recorded in Westralia arose through a man
having more than his quantum stiff, of
whisky one night. The man was Tom
Meehan (“Tom the Rager”), a hard-bitten
old digger who had battled round from
Queensland to Kimberley, and been with the
vanguard at Pilbarra and Ashburton, before
luck gave him a rich lease at Peak Hill,
Hither came, after thousands of ounces of
gold had been won, one Darlington Simpson,
an English company promoter, intent on
buying a dozen claimholders out and float-
lug “The Peak Hill Goldfield.” Every claim-
holder, including Tom, agreed to sign on the
dotted line next morning. A wet night fol-
lowed, and next day the “ould Rager,” as he
called himself, sore-headed and cantankerous,
demanded an extra £5OOO. Simpson refused
it, bought out all the others and floated his
company, £1 shares in which presently soared
up to £lO. Then his troubles began. Tom bad
a block in the middle of "The Goldfield” and
fie soon began to exploit and enjoy the situa-
tion, and to bless those few extra whiskies.
His actions against the company for alleged
driving into his ground were carried from
the Warden’s Court to the Supreme Court,
to the huge advantage of lawyers and the
immense gratification of Tom himself, who
never tired of expounding his unassailable
position in every pub where he could find a
circle of listeners. Of course the company
had to buy out Tom in the end, at his own
advanced figure, and by the irony of Fate
it got little more gold out of his claim
or any other —the whole enrichment proved
to be in a comparatively shallow basin.
si: * * *
“Wonderpoort”: A curious aeroplane
fatality is reported from Pretoria. Two
airmen collided, their ’planes being wrecked.
One got safely to land with his parachute;
the other cleared his parachute, but omitted
tc unfasten the strap holding him in the
’plane, and was killed. The story recalls
one which was told as happening on
the Flanders front. A birdman experiment-
ing with a parachute—then not a regular
part of a ’plane equipment—broke a wing
of his machine and jumped for it. His para-
chute refused to function, but fortunately
he happened to be passing over a line of
observation balloons. On to one of these he
fell, and by some miracle was hooked in the
netting instead of bouncing off for another
long drop. He was rescued, well satisfied
that his luck was in that day.
* * * *
Further misgivings of Mrs. (Lieut.-
Colonel) Gumboil, 0.C., White Feathers
Depot, N.S.W. Trades Hall Labor Army:—
I learn from Field-Marshal Martin that our splendid
army has now swollen to 25,000, foot, horse, bike
and car— plus a few prams and go-carts. Fully
50 per cent, are males. Not more than 30 per cent,
of the latter are over 60, or under 15 years of
age. The morale is high. One and all have expressed
a keen desire to wade through rivers of human
blood towards our Headers’ objective—world brother-
hood. But it would be idle to deny that there have
been disappointments. Paraphrasing Byron, my
nephew, Private “Slugger” Gumboil, asked his
company commander, “When is the looting to begin ?
“All in good time,” was the ambiguous and un-
satisfactory answer. A scrutiny of the nominal rolls
has revealed that 72.5 per cent, of our effectives
(i.e., males between 15 and 60) are norj-unionists.
Colonel Glubb (Wharf -lumpers), who complained of
this on parade, was hit on the head with a bottle
by his adjutant. (It has been estimated that 94
per cent, of the non-unionists carry bottles, on and
off parade.) They have been declared bogus—the
equivalent of being cashiered —but have refused
to send in their papers. Brigadier-General Jock
Garden, on being requested to expel them by force,
pointed out that he was a non-combatant. “Ah’ni
the equeevalent of a C.O. Troops on a transport,
ye ken,” he grinned, and pointed to his new
limousine. Colonels Grant, Schrieber, Johanson, etc.,
made similar replies in their different languages
and dialects, the general purport of their remarks
being that the soundest strategy for the present is
for them to make speeches while we soldiers applaud
and subscribe money for their support. This was
not what patriots like my nephew “Slugger” joined
up for, and I foresee that the troops will get out
of hand unless they are soon given some remunera-
tive front-line work.
THE ICE MAIDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She sits alone, aloof, aloft,
Like some frail figure on a frieze;
Her smile, if cold, is shyly soft,
I’ve seen it many a time and oft.
Yet never glimpsed her draperies;—
You can’t, unless you hit the times
When to or from her perch she climbs.
Trim youths in coats of white below
With luscious drinks the goblets flush,
Industriously to and fro,
Neat-handed Ganymedes, they go
With lemon freeze or orange crush,
With juice of currant or of pine,
And bear the takings to her shrine.
Ice-cream’s seductiveness is starred
In placards round her and above,
The delicacy chocolate-barred
Which wins a place in male regard
And flappers positively love.
“Take home a block,” they counsel you—
And I occasionally do.
She fits the scheme where sundaes witch
The eye and on the palate melt;
No buxom dame could ever switch
Her contour's into such a niche;
She must be sinuous and svelte,
The maid who registers the price
And takes the money for your ice.
Her tastes might verily be nice,
. With all that faerie fare in view.
Would modern milk of Paradise
Her needs corporeal suffice,
One speculates, or honeydew?
Or should you say that she’d prefer,
If you could make a date with her.
A lobster with a glass of stout?
A juicy chop? For after all
Ices and things, day in, day out,
With tinkling glasses roundabout
Might even on a Naiad pall.
And steak-and-kidney pie, you know,
Is solider than Eskimo.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


S 3
* *ii
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital. Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
11. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
• « •
AUTUMN AT ITS BEST
MARCH, April and May are three of the most delightful months of the
year - for holiday-making in Victoria. For autumn, south of the
Murray, is autumn at its best.
The tourist can choose from:—
MT. BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK: The most magnificent mountain
scenery in Australia, with a standard of comfort at The Chalet
unsurpassed by any other holiday-house anywhere.
THE VICTORIAN RIVIERA: Combined seaside-and-bush scenery at
Lome, Barwon Heads, Apollo Bay or Ocean Grove.
THE GIPPSLAND LAKES: Motor-boating and fishing in the lovely lake
country; or
THE MARYSVILLE DISTRICT: Invigorating walks through sweet-
scented fern gullies which experienced travellers have described as
“unexcelled by anything of the kind in the world.”
Travel experts at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU (Martin Place,
Sydney, or Queen’s Walk, Melbourne) will help the tourist to choose.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Two remarkable families were growing up
at the same time in N.S.W. State-school resi-
dences 50-odd years ago. One headmaster,
S. S. Smith, settled down in Grafton as
chief of the High School, and it was there
Professor Grafton Elliot Smith was born
—-in ’7l. His elder brother. S.H., lately
Director of Education in N. S. Wales, was
born also on the North Coast; so was S.A.,
one of Sydney’s best-known physicians. The
Dwyers were a few years older; father was
an inspector of schools in Maitland. His
boys turned to the Church : one, Patrick, the
first Australian-born R.C. bishop, died last
week at Maitland; the other, Joseph, became
first R.C. bishop of Wagga. Just-dead Pat-
rick, every bit as learned in his way as
Grafton Elliot Smith, was the high authority
in the Church in Australia on liturgy.
_ Kingsford Smith has been demonstrating
his superhuman powers of endurance in
the quest for the Southern Cloud. For more
than a week he was up every day soon
after dawn, and flares had to be lit on
the aerodrome to light him home at night.
On one day he flew from Essendon to Kos-
ciusko to authenticate a story that something
resembling a ’plane had been seen on the
slopes of the mountain. Next morning he
searched Port Phillip Bay and the coastline
east of Melbourne, and in the afternoon
visited the Dividing Range and covered most
of Gippsland.
“Jeames”: A. G. Gardiner, who had known
the late Arnold Bennett for a quarter of a
century, said there were two of him —Enoch,
the middle-class business man, and Arnold
the man of fashion. Latterly, the bourgeois
side was almost eliminated. He still looked
bourgeois, with his clumsy figure and heavy,
dull-eyed, unsmiling face, and he had a Mid-
land accent. But his tastes were wholly aris-
tocratic. When you saw a dinner-party filing
into Claridge’s you didn’t need the fawning
attitude of Charles, the famous head-waiter,
to tell you it was all right socially if Arnold
Bennett was amongst those present. He was
an authority on almost everything. On
French literature; he literally spoke French
like a Parisian. On the drama; some of his
plays were nearly as good as his novels.
Painters and musicians listened respectfully
ARNOLD BENNETT.
to his views on painting and music. He knew
all about running a house —his establishment
in Cadogan-square used to be pointed out
to Americans and other visitors as a perfect
specimen of English domestic comfort —and
be was a celebrated judge of cooking and
wine. The list of his accomplishments could
be extended for a page, and all of them
helped him in his job, which was to show life
plainly and show it whole. He was without
bigotries, rancors, jealousies or affectations ;
never said an unkind word of anybody, and
was always looking for writers and drama-
tists to help. He was handicapped as a
critic because he delighted to praise and
hated to blame; still, the page of book-criti-
cisms which he contributed weekly to the
“Evening Standard” under his own name
remained about the best-read thing in London
journalism. You heard a lovable human
creature as well as a literary master speak-
ing in it.
Herewith Harold Edward (“Pompey”)
Elliott, one of the idols of the A.I.F. They
buried him with full military honors in
Melbourne on Wed-
nesday, and no
Australian has de-
served the tribute
more. He had been
soldiering since he
was 22, when he'
left for S. Africa as
a private in the 4th
Vi c. Contingent,
and won a D.C.M.
and his commis-
sion. He went to
Gallipoli as C.O.
the 7th Battalion,
was wounded at the
Landing, and got
back for the Lone
Pine b a 111 e.
Wounded again at
Fromelles, lie event-
-11 a 1 1 y collected
a C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
C. de G. and many
other decorations.
They weren’t, of
Course, in any sense
a measure of his
vidor. Like Harry
Murray, Wark and
most of the other
Y.C.’s —and he was
as brave as any of
the m—h e was
highly strung, aind
became exhilarated
by danger, which he
literally loved. No
A.I.F. field officer
set his men a finer
example. He was
“POMPEY”
ELLIOTT.
also a good soldier on the theoretical side,
having been a student of the art of warfare
since boyhood and having plenty of brains to
study with. Yet he rose no higher than
brigadier-general. The very qualities that
endeared him to the other ranks were chiefly
to blame. Elliott was as courageous morally
as he was physically, and frequently came into
conflict with his superiors on what he consid-
ered points of principle. His explosive tem-
perament also helped to prevent him being a
political success, though he was returned at
the head of the Vic. Senate noil after the war,
and again six years later. Born at West
Charlton, he was a solicitor, a B.A. and
LL.M., and a winner of the Vic. Supreme
Court law prize. He leaves a widow, son and
daughter. He was only 53 when blood press-
ure, from which he had long, suffered, car-
ried him off.
T. W. Shortridge, who was in charge of
the ill-fated Southern Cloud, flew in France
with the Royal Air Force: afterwards he
became an instructor to the Australian A. F.
He was one of Australian National Airways’
first pilots, and holds the record for dual
instructional flights—lloo hours in one year.
He was within an ace of his half-million
miles of flying. Shortridge was one of the
most popular pilots on the inter-capital run,
and was specially liked by passengers for his
smooth flying. He had a very definite theory
of his own about pancake landings, and main-
tained that only extraordinary circumstances
need prevent an emergency landing being-
safe.
“Inner Temple” : I was in London in 1903
when the late Tim Ilealy took chambers in
Gray’s Inn and challenged the leaders of
the London Bar. He was then 50, hated by
all respectable British solicitors as Nation-
alist M.P. for N. Louth, and almost friend-
less. He settled in England because he
wanted the money; he had a large family
to educate. They said in the Temple Com-
mon-room that Healy was mad to leave the
Irish Bar. He certainly never became a Car-
son ; however, he went a long way, particu-
larly after taking silk. He was no lawyer,
but he had few superiors in jury cases call-
ing for a touch of pathos. He was a short-
ish, hump-backed, softly-fat, pasty-faced
man, with a shuffling gait, a caressing head-
voice that was almost a whine and a melo-
dious Dublin brogue. Towards opponents
he was as mild as a dove, and as ruthless
as a cobra. There were thousands of stories
about his deadly wit. A typical one con-
cerned the pulverising of Chamberlain after
he had ratted from the Liberal party. The
Irish were misbehaving in the Commons in
the absence of Gladstone. “When the cat’s
away the mice will play,” sneered Chamber-
lain. ‘‘And the r-rats,” crooned H'ealy,
gazing at the ceiling. I last saw him in
Dublin in 1927. He was G.-G. of the Ftee
State, and looked fatter, whiter and more
priestly—he was a fervent R.C. —than ever.
He had by then got over his youthful pre-
judice against the Saxon oppressor, and, with
President Cosgrave and the other Free State
Ministers, was propaganding hard in favor
of a truce of God with England.
Dr. T. Z. Koo (pronounced “Goo”) is a
Chinese Christian who has been surprising
Melbourne audiences by his broad tolerance
and versatility. At one meeting, attended by
the cream of t(ie local intelligentsia, he con-
cluded a brilliant exposition of his country’s
history and its relations to the rest of human-
ity by taking a piece of perforated bamboo
out of his pocket and playing several num-
bers of his own composition on it. He is
the author of a book of Chinese folk-songs,
some of which have got into the international
library of musical literature.
Flags were at half-mast on Parliament
House, Melbourne, at the week-end for Alec
Bell, who had been member for Wellington
Province since 1917. Bell was 68 when he
entered the Leg, Council; for 30 years before
that he had been a prominent public man in
Ballarat, having been thrice Mayor. He
helped to establish the Ballarat Woollen
and Wiofsted Co. In Parliament he served
nearly eight years on the Railway Standing
Committee, and was chairman for a while.
Arthur Lovekin, a prominent figure in
Westralian ncwspaperdom for 40 years and
an M.L.C. with strong views of his own on
most subjects, is off to Europe, where he
proposes to spy out Soviet Russia. This sort
of tireless energy is characteristic of Love-
kin, who had a 71st birthday last year. It
is 35 years since he started Perth’s second
morning paper, which went down after a
dozen years and two,or three changes in pro-
prietary, but before that Lovekin had
acquired the evening sheet and made it a
highly profitable venture. He was the sort
of newspaper proprietor who always liked to
call himself editor, though his activities
were almost entirely on the business side.
He has sat in Parliament for at dozen years.
Golf has always been a popular pastime
among legislators, and it has a big following
among Canberra Parliamentarians. The best
player in the Reps., since Stanley Bruce dis-
appeared, is reckoned to be J. 11. Prowse, the
60-year-old and sternly teetotal M.H.R. for
Swan (W.A.). Colonel Sampson who won
the Tasmanian A.I.F. Cup not long since, is
the Senate’s star performer. Hughes plays
doggedly, without developing much pro-
ficiency ; Latham and Gullett are both keen
golfers; Scullin prefers the roads to the
links for his walking exercise,
Tom Molomby, now approaching the end
of his seven-year appointment as third Com-
missioner of the Vic. railways, had a miracu-
lous stroke of luck in that he started rail-
roading, as a 16-year-old pen-pusher at Gee-
long in 1883, one day before the employees’
pension system was abolished. .If he had
been a day later he would have lost the
£BOO a year which will now come his way
on retirement. A gruff but kindly old soul,
he suggests an agricultural and benevolent
Lord Kitchener. He would rather go out
without his coat than without his pipe.
Mills and Boon, a well-known London
house, have published Arthur Groom’s
“Merry Christmas,” The Bulletin serial
with the scallywag Sandy Jackson in it.
Groom, like his story, is well set in Queens-
land, where he began life on one of his
father’s northern stations. His late father
was M.H.R. for Flinders in the first Com-
monwealth Parliament.
A. C. WILLIS, Lang’s Ambassador to
London.
Mrs. M. E. Donald, who has landed the
£5OO p.a. job of sec. of Vic. Teachers’ Union,
received a cor,dial welcome when she called on
Jack Lemmon, Minister for Education. Her
union*backers are confident that she will get
results.
Joe Lyons was born at Stanley (Tas.).
At the linking-up of the Circular Head
district with the hydro-eleetric scheme
there was a switching-on ceremony in the
Smithton Town Hall, and Joe, the man of
the hour, recalled that Smithton was the
J. A. LYONS, who looks like our next
Prime Minister.
place that first started him on his political
career. He was inveigled into a debating
society, started to occupy the long winter
evenings; later he taught in the Smithton
school.
John Burnett Box, who passed out at
Metung, Gippsland, the other day, was a
Vic. County Court Judge for a dozen years,
retiring on half pay in 1919. While at the
Bar, Box practised on the Common Law side
and was a crony of J. L. Purves.
Died at Sale (Vic.), Ted Mawley,
champion horseman, busliman and all-round
athlete in his day. A favorite of bluff
Colonel Tom Price, he served him in the '9l
V.M.R. team that went to England; at tent-
pegging, lemon-cutting and other branches
of military sport Mawley beat the pick of
the British Army. During the Boer War
his horse was shot under him, and he was a
prisoner of war until Lord Roberts entered
Pretoria. He returned home with Colonel
Tom, but before long he was at the front
again.
H. H. (“Dad”) Harbord, who recently
died in Papua at 81, was a striking example
of the enervating effects of a tropical climate
on the white man. Born in Durham, he
came to Australia at 17, and, after getting
some experience at Bendigo and Ballarat
and on some N.S.W. goldfields, tackled
Queensland, where he and Jim Mulligan dis-
covered the Palmer. His diary and notes in
this connection are now in the Mitchell
Library. Harbord was one of the early
Papua prospectors in the, ’eighties, and sent
more than one party across from Cooktown
when malaria compelled him to give up the
game himself for a time. He was one of the
backers of Alec Clunas, who was with the
first party on the Yodda. He returned to
Papua from N.Q. for the Lakekamu rush in
1910, and was there again in 1918. Then
he took up residence at Port Moresby, where
he. pulled up his pegs. A magnificent speci-
men of the Australian digger-miner in all
respects, he was one of the last of Papua's
real old-timers.
The Rev. Frank Harty, editor of the
“Church Standard,” Australia’s. leading
Anglican weekly, is a native of Jamaica. He
was a shipping-company accountant before
the war; then he saw service, first with the
R.A.M.C. and later with the 13th London
Regiment, in France, Serbia, Egypt, and
Palestine. After the war, still only 26, he
qualified for holy orders at the Theological
College, Cairo, and labored for nine years
in the M.L. vineyard. He was rector of
Longreach (Q.) when he was given the
church newspaper to run.
Adelaide has news of the death of Thomas
Hassell in Capetown. Only 52, he must have
been nearly the youngest of Boer War veter-
ans. He enlisted from Laura (S.A.), at 21,
when already experienced in the post and
telegraph department, and never came back,
joining the same service in S’Africa after
the war and rising high in it.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured-'is 12 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is • payable every month
during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
General Secretary.
ioneer
tIATHCK
V
* Pioneer Belting Will Solve
Your Transmission
Problems.
When you instal Pioneer Leather Belting you have
said good-bye to belting troubles, for Pioneer Belting
carries our guarantee of trouble-free service—no more
costly breakdowns and no more slipping.
It is worth many pounds to have your plant equipped
with belting which ensures maximum power trans-
mission at all times for many years. There is a
special Pioneer Leather Belt for every drive.
PIONEER Leather Belting
Manufactured by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD-,
117 York Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Benson Bros., Ltd.,
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne.
West Australia:
Mr. Horace Summers,
9-11 Howard Street, Perth.
AGENTS:
Queensland:
Hoey Fry, Ltd.,
170 Edward Street,
Brisbane.
Tasmania:
Chas. Davis, Ltd.,
60 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
South Australia:
J. McKell & Sons,
129 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
New Zealand:
G. W. Arnold, Ltd.,
A.M.P. Chambers, Wellington.
EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods. >
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
4 0-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries
r —-Dividends s
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> & £ £ £
1928* 42,186 12,906 6 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 f 308 2,194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,500 18,392 20,586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,261} Nil 73,958
*Eight months.
flncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords. }34 p.c.
This is the holding co. in which shareholders
in Metters and K.F.B. merged their interests
by an exchange of scrip on a net tangible
basis nearly four years ago. Another subsi-
diary, K.F.B. Pty., Ltd., was formed and put
up a factory at Footscray fVic.). There is
now £1,144,054 of capital in 293,102 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 860,802 ords. to feed. The
ords. include 294,539 deferreds issued in pay-
ment for reserves, hidden and disclosed, in
the Metters co.; the deferment expired on
Oct. 1 last.
For the first full year following the merger
(to Feb., 1929) the ords. got 10 p.c. and the
deferreds 5 p.c., though visibly there was
little to spare. By the close of next accounts
the outlook had become doubtful, so the
ord. div. was reduced to 8 p.c. and the
deferreds were passed over.
Last year the business suffered severely,
and the prefs. had to be content with 3) p.c.,
paid half-way through the term. After setting
aside £6223 for super tax, a loss of £695
appeared in the holding co.’s p. and 1.
account. The combined net result sub-
sidiaries’ operations was a loss of £< 7,381 as
against a profit of £89,059 for the previous
term; and since they paid £6300 in interiip
divs. the surplus of their aggregate assets
over their aggregate liabilities was reduced
by £53,681. The holding co. has taken its
proportion of this reduction into account by
writing £83",588 off the book value of its
share holdings, reducing the figure to
£1,110,339 at Feb. 28. Thus the deficiency
on account of its' •pwn share capital was
then £73,955, as shown in the table. That
is assuming that the subsidiaries’ assets are
worth at least £54,375 more than their net
book value" at Dec. 31 (£1,055,964) .
As usually happens, especially in the early
stages of a slump and where large plant is
involved, the management was unable to get
overhead back in adequate proportion to the
drop in turnover; hence the loss. The slack-
ness in the building trade and the acute
financial position generally throughout the
country were mainly responsible for the
heavy falling off in sales. The co., how-
ever, has a very able management, an up-to-
date plant and a well-protected market, and
the business is spread over all the Aus-
tralian States and Maoriland. It is reason-
able therefore to expect that sales will liven
w r hen business conditions become more settled.
Still, it may be some time before turnover
again reaches the level of recent years. The
drift in the Government accounts and the
trend of industrial legislation in N. S. Wales
make the future very uncertain.
Here is the position as aggregate balance-
sheet figures of the subsidiaries disclose it: —
1928 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £904,524 £904,531 £904,531
Liabilities .. .. 157,071 227,483 221,886
Freehold .. .. 396,481 400,665 394,832
Plant, etc 312,609 350,453 348,365
Stocks 378,715 420,039 393,255
Book debts .. .. 225,168 232,184 121,567
Shares other cos. .. 35,000 35,723 35,723
Cash 965 576 780
Notwithstanding extensions to the aluminium
and enamel hollow-ware sections, and the
installation of new equipment for the manu-
facture of electric- and oil-stoves, the book
value of plant was reduced £2OBB during the
year. The lighter trading shows up in a
contraction of £110,617 in debtors’ balances,
and a shrinkage of £26,785 in the book value
of stocks. Liabilities include £147,552 coming
to the bank, but not the superannuation fund
(£16,674). Altogether the more or less liquid
surplus (£293,716, including stocks) slipped
£131,600 during the year.
On the market 4s. is offered and 7s. is
asked for the ords. The prefs. can be had
for 16s. They have priority as to capital;
the book value of the backing being
£3 11s. 4d in net tangibles. Taking the
ords. at 65., the market thus prices the whole
undertaking at £489,812, or £555,932 less
than its net tangible book value at the close
of last accounts.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
Nominal
Net / Dividends ~ To Jte- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serve*
Dec., £ £ £ £
1920. .133,218 8 p.c. 10 p.c.=111,864 21,354 94,456
1921. .147,790 8 „ 12 „ ~ 146,250 1,540 95,996
1922. .130,266 8 „ 9 „„ 129,268 998 96,994
1923.. 79,540 6 „ 5 „ „ 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 „ 6 „ „ 89,274 4,568 102,064
1925.. 89,242 6 „ 6 „ „ 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 „ 4 „ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3 „ „ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 5 „ „ 79,038 67 109,737
Loss.
1929.. 54,193 Nil 55,544
Profit.
1930.. 675 Nil 56,219
The co. is Howard-Smith controlled, being
thus favored so far as markets are con-
cerned. It runs seven collieries —the four
Aberdares, which are on the Greta seam, the
least expensive to handle in the State, and
the Waratah (Burwood seam) and West
Wallsend and Killingworth (Borehole seam),
which are still good mines.
After 15 months’ stoppage work was re-
sumed on June 2, 1930. The cost of keeping
the mines and plant in working order for the
six months to that date took all but £675
of the profits won during the next six months:
So shareholders went hungry for the second
time since the co. took over from a Glasgow
crowd in 1914. A capitalisation at the be-
ginning yielded divs. for the parent, but
individual shareholders have had only
moderate returns. Under boom conditions
the ords. averaged 6 p.c. for the 10 years to
Dec. 31, 1928. .
Meantime the industry has lost practically
all its export and much of its local trade, and
is now grappling with the problems of recon-
struction. Amalgamations on the basis of
lower capitalisations have begun, thus per-
mitting the elimination of uneconomical pits;
also selling prices are on the down grade.
Since the exchange position has favored
export efforts have been made to regain
foreign orders, but only two overseas con-
signments have been shipped from Newcastle
during the last two months. Still when con-
ditions become much less disturbed better
sales locally can be expected, though the
growth in the use of oil as fuel, and the
spread of electrification, mean that much
former trade is no longer there to recover.
This and keen competition is pretty certain
to mean attenuated profits, for a while at any
rate Threatened political interference in
the control of the industry has made the
outlook still more uncertain.
The co. has persevered with the electrifi-
cation of its colliery plants, well over
£lOO,OOO having been spent on a central power
station at Cockle Creek of recent years.
A little help was probably got from profits
for this work, but the board went outside
for a great deal of the money, as the next
table shows: —
1923. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Preb capital. . £464,295 £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. capital. . 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors .. 188,930 323,531 219,972 252,722
Overdraft .. 16,671 19,920 98,365 98,911
Collieries, etc. 1,645,298 1,787,550 1,738,708 1,752,153
Stores .. 103,724 93,552 61,555 38,940
Coal stocks .. 6,306 13,074 758 25,665
Book debts .. 48,662 39,930 9,074 18,871
Shares . • 51,302 51,302 51,302 52,103
Cash, etc. .. 809 245 378 8,014
To add £13,445 to the book value of collieries,
etc., and carry more stocks and book debts,
the co. leant upon sundry creditors for
a further £32,750 last year. Thus the excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids
(£260,143, excluding shares) increased by
£13,571 during the twelvemonth.
On the market 14s. is asked for the ords.
The prefs., which seldom appear on ’Change,
carry a cumulative 6 p.c. and the right to
advance beyond that point with the ords.
to 8 p.c.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
,
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written
Dec. Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 15 p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1920.. 29,455 2082 3656 8,766 2165 12,283
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 14,473 2082 4500 Nil 8,772
Profit. 10 P,c.
1922.. 20,518 2082 4500 10,724 5,560
1923.. 24,723 2082 4500 14,908 2,327
Reserves.
1924.. 30,551 2082 4500 16,500 5,142
8 p.c.
1925.. 25,367 2082 4500 13,200 10,727
1926.. 21,692 2082 4500 13,200 12,637
4 p.c.
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 6,600 14,525
1928.. 6,966 2082 4500 . Nil 14,909
5 p.c.
1929.. 21,031 2082 4500 8,250 21,108
Loss.
1930.. 11,334 1041* 2250* Nil 6,483
*Half-year’s div.
This co., which manufactures shirts, collars,
etc., took over the Pearson-Law business
in 1911. After a few years’ struggle it made
extraordinary progress under the protection
which war conditions gave. It was hit
severely in the post-war slump of 1921; more
recently competition sharpened, and the
abolition of piecework by the Arbitration
Court affected the 1928 figures; but the
system was reintroduced, and things began
to look up again.
Last year, however, brought a fresh crop
of troubles. Falling prices made quick clear-
ances of stocks essential, and retailers
adopted a liand-to-moutli policy, leaving the
co., which does its own warehousing, to
shoulder most of the risk in this respect.
There was a sharp drop in turnover, and
the plant could not be kept fully employed.
While exchange and tariff adjustments added
to the difficulties, the co. having to import
some of its raw materials.
After taking stocks into the books at
£14,747 below the previous year’s figure, the
slip in.gross earnings (£70,887) was £46,918;
exes. (£82,221; including something for bad
debts) were £l4 553 lighter. Thus the year’s
trading resulted in a loss of £11,334, and
since the prefs. were given half a meal, re-
serves at Dec. 31 shrank to £6483 in excess
of the £lO,OOO at which goodwill figures.
About three years ago the co. went further
into debt to finance a sales offensive. Though
£90,494 has since been wiped off outside
liabilities they are still substantial. Here
are balance-sheet figures;—
1923. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 192,916 237,849 163,756 147,355
Premises .. 127,027 116,929 109,343 109,378
Plant, etc. .. 63,552 77,328 67,582 64,400
Book debts . . 87,290 124,692 103,537 75,090
Stock.. .. 167,129 182,202 165,125 150,378
Cash, etc. .. 1,868 3,250 2,253 720
The shrinkage in the stocks and book debts
figures reflects the year’s difficult trading.
With the assistance of an extra £29,547
raised on overdraft (£99,149), the board was
able to wipe £45,918 off the amount coming
to siindry creditors (£48,2061. Nevertheless
the contraction ill the more or less liquid
surplus (£78,533, including stocks) was
£28,326.
Much is expected from recent “affiliations
with overseas houses,” but results will de-
pend very largely upon the extent to which
the plant can be kept employed, and that
will be mainly governed by the state of
the market and of credit. Until conditions
warrant traders entering freely into con-
tracts again, business is likely to continue
difficult and uncertain.
There are 29,736 A and 50,000 B prefs.
carrying a cumulative 7 p.c. and 9 p.c.
respectively and ranking in the order stated
for capital and dividend. The net tangible
backing is £8 Ss. 7d. for the A shares,
£4 Bs. for the B’s and 10s. 4d. for the 10s.
ords. The A shares are. on offer at par.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 29,142 174 p.c.=15,250 491 13,401 62,636
1922.. 31,822 17f „ „ 17,500 494 13,828 76,464
Alterations account disappears.. 2,066 78,530
1923.. 48,104 274p.c.= 27,500 455 20,149 98,679
Dropped into reserves .. .. 5,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freehold . . 27,355 131,351
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 31,351
1924.. 50,327 15 p.c.= 30,000 447 19,880 51,231
1925.. 49,634 15 „ „ 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Ords.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78,306
1927.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 - 74,800
10 p.c.
1928.. 43,832 9000 20,000 633 14,199 88,999
124 p.c.
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,663 103,876
1931.. 3,406 9000 Nil 731 97,551
For many years this co. —it deals in men's
wear —had nothing invested in bricks and
mortar; it was therefore able to get along
with a small capital (£70,000) and pay
handsome divs. Then, about seven years
ago, it was decided to anchor the goodwill;
so a freehold was bought and a new 11-
storeyed building went up thereon. Share-
holders put up £lOO,OOO in 9 p.c. cum. prefs.,
and £129,000 was raised on mortgage. Mean-
while another property was sold at a profit
of £27,855; also £lOO.OOO of bonus scrip was
scattered, raising paid capital to £300,000.
For a while construction work interfered
with takings, but the figures responded as
space became available, and a 124 p.c. div.
was paid for the two years to Feb. 28, 1930.
Last year cuts had to be made in some lines
to clear the shelves, the demand being mainly
for cheaper priced goods. Competition was
keen, and tariff increases and other levies
swelled outgoings. Thus, after taking
stocks into the books at £19,651 less than
at the previous balance, _ there was a pre-
cipitous drop of £44,039 in the declared net
earnings; and, after allowing £731 depre-
ciation, reserves were raided for £6325 to
pay the pref. div.
' With the tariff and exchange as they are
more attention is being given to local manu-
facture, and since the public has to dig much
deeper into its pockets for its cash and its
lOU’s, retailers are making a closer study
of family budgets and price ranges. But it
may be a while before turnover again reaches
the level of the boom years; much there-
fore will depend upon restraint of over-
head, in which respect the interest on the
mortgage may prove to be a hindrance.
Stocks are the clanger spot amongst the
co.’s assets. Consider these figures:—
1920. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid . capital. . £70,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 36,100 135,730 138,715 139,391
Stock.. .. 98,819 141,043 122,819 103,168
Property, etc... 40,199 290,143 386,240 385,086
Book debts . . 5,054 4,850 9,904 6,075
Plant, etc. . . 4,714 4,803 5,757 5,306
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 76,697 33,872 35,040
Shares in other cos. 5,767
The co. ’ is a cash 'trader and has enough
money to buy to advantage. When the books
last closed the mortgage accounted for all
but £10,391 of the liabilities. The more oi-
less liquid surplus (£4892) was £22,988
lighter than at the previous balance, due
mainly to the shrinkage in stock figures.
For the ords., which fetched 295. 6d. a
year ago, buyers offer 10s. The profs., which
enjoy priority as to capital, are priced;
around 21s. They are covered by net tang-
ibles with a book value of £3 19s. Od.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd.
This Sydney co. is the outcome of an offer;
made by a group of creditors and sanctioned
by the Court to buy the G. A. Bond busi-.
ness and that of its cotton-spinning associate. •
The two old cos. came to grief through exces-
sive borrowing and extravagant manage-;
ment, and shareholders, except the prefs.:
in the cotton co., lost all their capital. The :
liquidators had transformed the business
from a losing into a profit-earning proposi-
tion, and, after allowing for debenture in-
terest, the prospectus figured net profit at
£51,000-odd p.a.
The new co. took over the liabilities of'
the two old ones —£833,378 at Jupe 30, 1929
—paid off the small debts in cash and issued
7 p.c. debentures redeemable at par in five
years to the larger creditors, including the
prefs. (£114,000, with accrued interest) in:
the .Cotton co. To make the cash payments
124,000 £1 shares were offered —100,000 were;
underwritten at 74 p.c. by the Australian
Investment Trust —also 150,000 were laid
aside for subscription by the G. A. Bond
co.’s pref. holders, who missed the ’bus with
their own scheme of reconstruction.
At Dec. 31 last 133,816 shares had been
taken up and paid to £83,883. Old debts
funded by the issue of debentures amounted
to £544,033. With the assistance of the
year’s surplus earnings, £2758 was clipped
off the mortgage and £105,820 off the floating
debt. This comparison of prospectus and
balance-sheet figures shows clearly what has
happened:—-
Balance-sheet
Prospectus. 31/12/’3O.
Paid capital .. .. .. £83,883
Debentures £509,641 544,033
Mortgage 126,677 123,919
Overdraft 76,712 57,021
Sundry creditors .. .. 120,348 34,219
Freehold 223,729 321,107
Plant 212,271 213,035
Stocks 383,487 338,322
Book debts 88,888 148,538
Cash, etc.- 18,400 8,263
The growth in book debts and reduction in
stocks, cash, etc., suggests that the business
held well, despite many difficulties. At Dec.
31 the more or less liquids, including stocks,
exceeded the floating debt and the mortgage
by £279,964.
According to the prospectus the co. kicked
off with a capital reserve of £93,397; this had
grown to £166,038 at Dec. 31, due probably
to the inclusion of freeholds at £97,378 above
valuation —some real additions may have
been made to the property item meanwhile.
Gross earnings for the eight months to the
close of accounts were £168,960. Exes.,
including the share underwriting commission
and provision for sales tax, etc., took
£123,420, and debenture interest £25,388;
thus the net profit was £20,152, equal to
£30,228 p.a., or 36 p.c. on paid capital as at
Dec. 31. A div. at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
(£2948) has been declared, leaving £17,204
of the net earnings in the business. Jsp
specific provision has been made for redemp-
tion of the debentures.
It is a creditable performance considering
the state of the trade. To what extent the
bounty on cotton yarn contributed is not
visible in the published accounts, but there
is no doubt that it helped. Stocks are claimed
to be conservatively valued. Incidentally,
the financial structure is such that the co.
may not suffer very severely in the event of
inflation.
The shares and the debentures are to be
listed presently. Including £44,151 of
uncalled capital the book value of the net
tangible backing amounts to 395. lid. for
the shares and £149-odd for each £lOO
debenture.
Empire Tobacco Corp.
When credit is good and money is plenti-
ful there is always a fine litter of wild cats;
and what to do about it nobody knows. In
Germany they tried to get over the difficulty
by making the issue of low-priced shares
an offence; but that wouldn’t be democratic-
enough for Australia, which would insist
(Continued on page 16.)


f
*
<s*'■
4 m. 2.
Q*o*
J t ' V \«LfO»V*
"
OI «s 1


If Inflation
Conies
What stocks or property would
stand up best in the event of
inflation?
What can be done with money
to make it reasonably safe?
What would become of investors
in life-assurance policies?
Are there any signs of a world
recovery?
These and many other problems
of most vital interest are dis-
cussed in “The ‘Wild Cat
Monthly.”
APRIL NUMBER READY
SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* # * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
i # 4: * *
The fact that Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely
non-corrosive is one very good reason for its uni-
versal acceptance by engineers as a conduit for
practically any type of fluid conveyance. Being
easily handled and laid, Pioneer Wood Pipe incurs
very little expense for installation, whilst its small
first cost is considerably less than metal pipes.
Write for illustrated data-book giving interesting
and instructive information. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
(near Figtree Bridge) ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
ŕ
Monotael '
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
m
POT
Head Office
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump 'sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
upon the right of the poor to be rooked of
their money the same as the rich.
There were two very bad features of our
last boom in new issues: one was the pro-
motion of life-insurance offices, most of them
quite hopeless; the other the popularity of
bond issues. The former was shocking, not
so much because of the money lost by share-
holders as because of the money wasted by
policy-holders. As for the bonds, it can
only be said that they were liable to be
pawns in a game played by very small bodies
of shareholders.
A typically bad case has just been the
subject of Bulletin inquiry. Early last
year the Empire Tobacco Corp., registered
in Maoriland with a “paid capital of
£140,000,” offered 3000 bonds of £35 each.
This was to acquire and cultivate 750 acres
near Auckland. Bonds were hawked in
Australia, Queensland getting particular
attention. In one case, at any rate, a bond
was sold there in July and a receipt issued
in August. On December 10 the co. went
into liquidation—before even the co. had
had time to issue bond certificates. “As far
as I can ascertain,” the liquidator reports,
“there will be very little available for bond-
holders outside, the trust fund of £5 per fully-
paid bond.” This £5 per bond was “to be
handed to the trustee as a contingency re-
serve” ; but for that “evidence of good faith,”
as it was ingenuously put, it is doubtful
whether bondholders would get a farthing.
Bondholder’s ought to insist upon being
satisfied about these few things: (1)
.Who got the money that was collected
in July, the co. going into liquidation in
Dec.? (2) Was the co. insolvent in July,
and did the vendors know it? (3) Who
were the vendors of the land, and what
price was paid for it? (4) How much of
the co.’s £146.000 of “fully-paid” share capi-
tal was paid in cash?
No law will ever protect the “mug” from
the trained go-getter; but at least the mug
ought to be given some sort of a run for
his money. In many cases he has no run
at all so long as there is no minimum limit
to the .number of shares or bonds sold on
which directors may proceed to allotment.
In this case it may be that the number of
bonds sold was insufficient to complete the
purchase of the land, involving forfeiture.
Even then it would be as w 7 ell to know who
the vendors were—who, in short, got the
money these bondholders paid, and how much
actual cash the shareholders in this £146,000
co. lost.
Australian Banner Knitting (Sydney)
Net f— —Dividends s To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
- £ £ £ £
1927.. 7,311 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 4459 2852 7,238
1928.. 10,578 10 „ 10 „ „ 4807 5771 13,009
1929.. 8,228 10 „ 10 „ ~4845 3381 16,390
Loss.
1930.. 12,499 Nil Nil 3,891
Like many other hosiery concerns, this little
Sydney co. was unable to keep pace with the
spring and summer demand two years ago.
So, during the 1929 term, the board built
up stocks. Suddenly the outlook changed
color. Reduced spending brought a sharp
contraction in turnovers generally, and the
trade, -whose lines are largely seasonal, found
itself heavily overstocked. -Those cos. which
had borrowed substantially to finance their
grmving activities, as this one had done, had
pressing commitments to meet. Thus came
about a scramble for ready cash, and stocks
were thrown on to the market at cut prices.
Also the bad-debts question became more
acute.
After taking stocks into account at
£14,293 less than at the previous balance,
the co.’s gross profit (£23,490) slipped
£32,183 last year. Exes. (£35,989) were got
back £8687, and a loss of £12,499 showed up
as against profits of 17, 22 and 16.4 p.c. on
average, capital back to 1927. Both lots of
shareholders went hungry, and the support
for capital shrunk to £3891 in excess of the
£2OOO at which goodwill figures.
During the year £4960 was clipped off
the sundry creditors item (£12,958), and
£1637 was added to the overdraft. The out-
side money at risk in the business was
18s. lOd. for every pound belonging to share-*
holders when the books closed. Here is tiie
position as balance-sheet figures show it: —•
1927. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £47,757 £47,757 £50,107 £50,107
Liabilities . . 55,089 48,925 54,091 50,768
Freehold . . . . 15,557 15,489 15,489 15,489
Plant, etc. . . 31,810 31,816 34,084 36,924
Stocks . . . . 42,666 39,394 52,436 38,143
Book debts . . 24,785 36,910 22,844 14,425
Cash, etc. . . 539 800 502 544
The more or less liquid surplus (£2344, in-
cluding stocks) was £19,347 lighter than at
the previous balance. Stocks are in at
cost or market price, whichever was the
lower. Plant is reported thoroughly up-to-
date and in good order.
The immediate outlook, which is over-
shadowed by political events, is one of
restricted trading and keen competition.
Results will depend largely upon the extent
to which overhead can be controlled. When
conditions become more settled, well-equipped
textile and hosiery concerns should be able
to give a good account of themselves.
There are 15,350 prefs. carrying 10 p.c.
cumulative with priority as to capital. Ihe
backing, chiefly plant, is £2 18s. lid. in net
tangibles. The scrip has not an active
market.
Mt. Isa reports a satisfactory trial run
of the machinery in the mill and smelter
sections. Crushing is to begin about the
end of April, provided nothing untoward
happens to the lead market. Only small
quantities will be put through at first, in-
creasing to 10,500 tons a week at the end
of six weeks. The carbonates and sulphides
will come from the Black Star, Black Ilock
and Rio Grand lodes; the sulphides, of
course, will be chosen for their low zinc
content. Every 3§ tons of ore is expected to
yield a ton of concentrates. The furnaces
are scheduled to be in operation four weeks
after crushing begins. The bullion will be
shipped to England.
# * * *
The Cairns hinterland is being well raked
by unemployed miners for gold, and several
new finds have been reported. The most
striking in richness are some veins in the
old Orient leases, near Peeramon. Skertch-
ley reported on these leases some time in the
nineties of last century, and reckoned there
was 1,200,000 tons of lSdwt. ore in the
main lode. If he was right it ought not
to be there to-day. Recently the Reid brothers
found some rich patches showing free gold
in leaders, and a Cairns syndicate has
bought in.
* * * *
The exchange premium enabled the Return
Creek Co., Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), to get the
dredge going again. There is enough water
to work three shifts, but wdiether share-
holders will get anything is doubtful.
* * * *
The terms of the offer, the experience of
the Whitworth Corp., and fear of other
things have stayed the hands of the English
crowd which was nibbling at the old water-
logged Palmer reefs, North Queensland.
H: * * *
It looks as if Mount Bischoff (Tas.) may
have a new lease of life. At the southern
end of the White Face drainage tunnel a
deposit 18in. wide has been driven on for
10ft., and assays i*ange from 2 p.c. to 2.9 p.c.
tin. A back of 24in. wide pyrite on the
footwall assayed 2.91 p.c. tin. There is a
good deal of alluvial ground to be treated.
« $ $ $
“Take All” (W.A.) : Getting the gold
bonus in one lump at the end of every year,
as provided in the new Bounty Act, may be
all right in the case of companies or indi-
vidual mineowners with ample means and a
fixed address, but it is not likely to suit the
small man, who in many instances can’t
afford to wait for his money. The method
of obtaining the present premium is sim-
plicity itself; it is based on the exchange
rate, and is handed over when the prospec-
tor is paid at. the bank or the Mint for his
gold. But it is feared that because of the
conditions under which the new bounty is
to be paid, producers will have to wait until
the full year’s gold output has been ascer-
tained before the amount of benefit (from
the bonus) to each individual can be cal-
culated. It is suggested that an approxi-
mate bi-monthly estimate would not be far
out, and would save the producer much worry
and delay.
$ * *
Westralia’s latest goldfield is in the Darling
Ranges, near Perth. Dryblowers are getting
a little of the metal, mostly shotty, in a
creek. Except in one or two cases, results
have not been encouraging. It is thought
that sluicing might tell a different tale.
* * ❖ *
Associated Northern is reported to be
nibbling at something new on the Ora Banda
field (W.A.). There is claimed to be a fairly
long shoot of gold on the property, which
may pay if worked on a large scale. Years
ago the co. acquired a mine on the same field,
but not on the same line. Profits were good
while mill supplies were obtained from near
the surface, but deeper development, lower-
grade ore and high costs made profitable
mining impossible and the shutters were put
up. The co. then turned its attention to
north-west Ontario and Mexico, but results
were disappointing.
* * * *
Claude de Bernales has evolved another
big scheme. This time he proposes to
form a £10,000,000 co in London. The idea is
to put the whole of the paid-up capital into
a special 10-year issue of Commonwealth
Gold Bonds, and use the exchange, about
£3,000,000, plus interest payable from time
to time on the bonds, for extensive prospect-
ing and mine development. Provision is
made in the scheme for reviving several old
mines and,, mining fields.
* * * *
Portion of Wiluna’s gold treatment plant
has commenced operations. Crude-oil power
engines, grinding mills and oil-flotation pro-
cess are all running smoothly; flotation
is producing a clean high-grade concentrate.
The real test will come when the roasting
and cyaniding plants are brought into action.
Victor Leggo’s big arsenic recovery plant
will be ready to deal with the product as
soon as roasting commences.
* * * *
Vic. Mathers has returned to Perth from
London after selling an option over the
Mararoa’s northern mine to A. H. Collier:
the option is for nine months, and if exer-
cised the purchase consideration is to be
£75,000. After Wiluna gets into proper-
running order, attention is to be given to
the option. The 10ft. lode at a depth of
500 ft. should be easy to develop. The ore
is said to respond to simple extraction pro-
cesses.
* ❖ ❖ #
Enterprise Gold Mines Co., Adelaide,
which must not be confounded with the syndi-
cate owner of the Enterprise mine, Kal-
goorlie, has got hold of something described
as promising near Drake, N. S. Wales. The
co. formerly had an option on the Kalgoorlie
Enterprise property, but, after spending
£20,000-odd in development and attempted
flotation, gave it up.
4 * * *
Edjudina (W.A.) reports the resurrection
of a number of small shows. It was the hard
ground and cost of mining below water
level that scared small parties in the past.
The Gt. Fingall Co. began there, but left
shortly after buying plant in London and
paying £7OOO cartage from Albany to the field.
Later the plant was sold and removed to
another field. A party of miners crushed the
dumps, and got 2oz. of gold per ton.
* * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) continues its
policy of proving big ore reserves prior to
treatment plant expenditure. At the No. 3
and No. 6 levels ore of average width of 15
feet, and worth 50s. per ton, is showing. To
50s. ore the present bonus and premium
would add about 17s. per ton.
Westralia’s big electric-power station at
Collie is to be opened on April 1. It is an
up-to-date concern with a paid capital of
£150,000; there was no promoters’ rake-off.
With boiler fuel in the form of Collie
coal on the spot, the co. promises to give
a good account of itself.
* * * #
An order has been made in the Malay
States for the compulsory liquidation of
Tujoh Tin, which was floated in Melbourne
four years ago to work a large area in the
Ivinta Valley. This affects the co.’s assets
in the F.M.S. only; still they are the earn-
ing assets. It was the forfeiture of 47,1)52
ordinary shares on which calls aggregating
£25,000 had been made that landed the co.
in difficulties.
sjs *l* 'l* 'l*
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Assuming the possibility of inflation,
please state the names of three industrial cos.
whose ordinary shares you consider safest. —
2527.
Afraid we can’t do it that way. Concerns
like 8.P., Kandos (Cement), General Indus-
tries, Farmers, Wool worths, Gartrell White
and perhaps Q.M.E., with the solidest ship-
ping and coal cos., are worth consideration
for different reasons. Cement “works are
overdone, but Kandos shares are heavily dis-
counted. So are General Industries. Yet
whether such cos. can pull through depends
upon how long this depression lasts. Farmer's
are to be considered because inflation would
probably relieve them of a heavy debt. The
material assets of shipping and coal cos.
would not suffer from inflation ; on the other
hand it should not be forgotten that the
N.S.W, Government is setting out to put
the coal industry in hobbles. Chain and
cheap stores (Woolworths, etc.) might not
suffer during inflation, and might be expected
to hold up better than most during the chaos
and depression that would probably follow'.
Suppose these £18,000,000 notes are issued
and that there is no further inflation, to
what extent, if any, would it affect a mort-
gagee who has a mortgage falling due, say, in
1934?—2194.
Now that is hard to say. A great deal
depends on the use that is made of the 18
millions. If production increased in propor-
tion to the increase of credit, there might
not be any inflation. On the other hand, if
the issue increased consumption and not
production, or affected production but very
little, there would be a rise in prices.
If 50 people in a village were handed
£2 each, they would ease the price of
milk if they clubbed together and bought
or bred cows; but if they sat down and used
the money merely to buy milk, the price of
milk would be increased because of the extra
money available for buying it, without an
increase in the quantity.
(1) Particulars of a dry-blower for alluvial
gold 9 (2) Where obtainable and probable
cost ?— 1925.
(1) The August, 1902, issue of the “Q’land
Government Mining Journal” (obtainable,
Mines Dept., Brisbane, Is. 2d.) contains full
descriptions and plans of various types of
dry-blowers. (2) Several men at Clermont
(Q.) used to make blowers for sale, but we
do not know of anyone doing so now. A
handy man should be able to construct one
from the plan and description.
Any market for chrome ores? Value and
prospects ? —2O9S.
Quoted in London at £3 17s. 6d. to £1
per ton for 48 p.c. basis. There has been
a steady demand for chrome ore for some
time, and there is reasonable expectation
that it will continue. Prices offering in
Australia are not usually quoted in the
open market.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
0.5. M.: There is an inter-Empire arrange-
ment for paying pensions in the currency of the country
where the pensioner resides.... X.Q.: A gamble at
very long odds, of course. . . .Alluvial: (1) Common-
wealth Bank. (2) Depends on its fineness; there is
much silver in some of that northern gold
T.A.H.: (1) Coorong Oil disappeared. (2) Allied
Motors last sales, 6d. and 9d. There is a heavy
debt. Whether anything will be saved is a pure
gamble ; chances gloomy... .C.M.T.: Bank of England
total note issue is 401 millions, of which 260
millions is the fiduciary issue. Gold coin and bullion
is thus 141 millions, or 35.1 p.c. of the total issue.
Without any further issue of notes or reduction
of gold, there is 33.1 p.c. of gold against the
Australian issue. The English position- is thus the
stronger by 2 p.c W.A.McC.: Yic. Mines Dept.
has no officer with that faculty of defining position,
width, etc., of a reef underground, and has no
belief in those who claim they can do it
S.J.: Compare the net cost; that is, premium less
bonuses. .. .D.T.: Auriferous sand worth Is. 6d. per
ton would pay to dredge if there was enough of
it; 800 cub. yards would not be enough... .A.M.:
Byers and Holterman’s claim, f mile s.w. from Hiil
End (N.S.W.), yielded 2G,4030z. gold ( £106,407)
up to the end of 1878 ; after that the claim was
amalgamated and the output not kept separate....
A.E.L.: (1) and (2) If safety is very important,
no. . . .M.R.L.: Of that group, Commercial of Sydney.
. ...P.A.C.: One of the least hopeless of them. But
returns are not expected before 1940. See B.
28/l/’3l. . . .R.T.8.: Several better at present; can’t
say what they will be 20 years hence. But the
past isn’t such a bad guide to the future, and
that’s one point in favor of looking to a concern
that’s got a past .. . . J.M.: Practically no demand
at present for barytes. Communicate with Frank
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney, in regard to
cobalt. .. .F.H.S.: A very bad time to sell. .. .P.E.M.:
Looks quite sound... .C.A.H.: Don’t be a fool. The
next time that go-getter calls, show him your
dog’s teeth.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer questions asked and propositions put by correspondents.
Plainly not all countries that inflate come
the same crash as Germany. How do the
others escapef Assuming we are inflated,
how could we get hack? —A. L., Wentworth
(N.S.W.).
You can work up or . work down. In other
words, you can bring your cui-rcncy back
to the old gold value, as Britain resolved to
do, or you can decide that for the future
your franc, for example, shall be worth only
124.21 to the £ sterling as against the old
25.225 to the f sterling. Our own inflation
has been caused by years and years of
borrowing without a corresponding increase
in production. Now we have to increase
production for export without any corres-
ponding increase in either borrowing or
note issue, A country pays its foreign debts
(including interest) with goods turned into
gold. If it doesn’t export and sell enough
goods, it can carry on for a time by borrow-
ing gold. When it can’t borrow gold, it must
either reduce its foreign bills (for interest
and imports) or increase its exports or do
some of both. When it has increased its
exports beyond the point necessary to pay
its bills, the surplus will come back in the
shape of gold (or foreign investments). As
these increase, the inflated currency will
right itself; in fact, it will probably get
very near par as soon as the exports are
sufficient to pay the foreign bills (for
interest and imports).
. Some information as to the effect of infla-
tion on income taxes would he of great
interest.. —J. G., Bundaberg (Q.).
Professor Moritz Bonn wrote of Germany
(“Effects of Currency Inflation”) : “The
legal rates of taxation have been very high.
But until August, 1923, there has always
been a considerable interval between the
date of assessment and the date of paying.
This being so, the gold value of the taxes
actually paid was but a small percentage of
the gold value of the taxes assessed.”
Further: “Though the State has been able
to get rid of its old obligations, its total
income from taxes was not sufficient to pro-
vide for its reduced expenditure. The general
investors as taxpayers have ceased to exist.
The cost of running the State and the muni-
cipalities must be borne by the producers.”
On the latter point he wrote: “A large class
of people (the owmers of private bonds must
be included) is incapacitated from contribut-
ing anything to the State; nay, many of
them have to be provided for by pensions.
The national income of the Commonwealth
is not increased through mere redistribution.
The accumulated capital of the investor has
been scattered to bits amongst the different
classes of producers, who may or may not
re-convert it into capital. The class living
from the savings of the past has lost its
income: it will have to be kept alive some-
how by the earnings of the classes who have
despoiled it.”
Is there any difference between fixing
wages by law and issuing more bank-
notesf Either way don't you make the
actual value of the £ more or less?—“Aus-
tral,” Manly (N.S.W.).
Yes, that is so. At any rate, Arbitration
Courts, etc., combined with something else
can produce inflation; on the other hand,
they might stop or prevent inflation, by fix-
ing the wages low enough. On this point
‘The Nation and Athenaeum” (London) of
Feb. 14 makes this interesting comment
(the sentences bearing upon the foregoing-
question are in italics at the end) :
A sympathetic comment on Australia last week
ended with these words: “The next step is a long-
term loan, if safeguards for the investor can be
given. The alternatives are inflation and default.”
The Conference of Premiers has made it clear that
safeguards will not be given. The only question is
whether inflation will precede or coincide with
default. Mr. Lang, Premier of New South Wales,
is in favor of both together; Mr. Theodore wants
inflation first. Let us assume that both will come
sooner or later. What, then, will be the position
of the holders of the 573 millions of external
Government debt? Inflation, raising internal prices,
would lower the exchange value of the Australian
£ still further. (It is already quoted at £l3O
per £lOO London.) This would increase the cost
(in Australian £’s) of the annual interest on the
overseas debt and in other directions upset the
national budget, but in so far as it would raise
the income and spending power (measured in Aus-
tralian £’s) of the export industries it might bene-
fit Australia. ( It depends, of course, upon how
skilfully the inflation is managed. To be successful,
wages and interest rates would have to be pegged
to allow the rise in prices to reduce the “real”
burden of wages and interest charges to the fullest
extent.)
The writer goes on to say that “if the
Commonwealth Government refused to make
good, the bondholders could take action in
the English courts. In other words, Aus-
tralia cannot default unless she breaks
entirely away from the British Empire.”
You say Britain should make a remission
of the war debt due to her by the Common-
wealth. Would you say why the Australian
worker, with his high wages, short hours and
good conditions, should expect the lowet'-paid
and heavier-taxed British worker to shoulder
a debt burden which is purely a responsi-
bility of the Commonwealth? —J. E. Q.,
Moonah (Tas.).
There are three reasons why Britain might.
(1) Owing to the fall in prices we must pay
Britain two bales of wool or three bushels
of wheat or ounces of silver for the value of
every one received. In other words, Britain
will be making a profit of about 100 per cent,
on her transaction. H'er position is different
from that of the private investor. He has
to take the lean with the fat. This was
an isolated transaction. Yet there is the
same reason for approaching the whole body
of British taxpayers; and there is hardly
any doubt that if confidence were restored
in Australia, a huge “consolidating” scheme
could be put through. (2) There is very little
doubt either that it would pay Britain finan-
cially. It has been accepted that “ability to
pay” should govern all international
demands. That was why German reparation
payments were so greatly modified. It was
realised that the chief sufferer otherwise
would be first Britain, then France. Tiie
Bulletin has already quoted wdiat old Bis-
marck growled after the Franco-Prussian
War payments had been made to Germany.
It is quite true that Australia is refusing
to make many economies that it should. The
remission of these few millions would remove
one excuse for not doing it. (3) It would
have an enormous sentimental value if it
were managed properly. ... Incidentally, the
British worker is not more heavily taxed
than the Australian; while the Australian
who is not a “worker” in the narrow sense
of the term is now probably the most heavily
taxed person in the world. On that point
something is said elsewhere in a “Plain
English” article this week.
The wealthy clique know very ivell that
nothing short of Australia sinking beneath ■
the ocean can prevent this country from
regaining an even keel. The powerful money
interests are not such fools as to let the
ship sink. They will corner all the small
holdings for less and less value as time
goes on. Then they will proceed to right
the ship by advancing loans to the country
they have crippled. These loans will speed
up industry once again, and the Australian
£ will soon recover its value, as planned by
the money combine, to the immense benefit
of the said combine. —J. D., Wondai (Q.).
The largest financial institutions in Aus-
tralia are the banks and the insurance offices.
The biggest bank in the Commonwealth is
owned wholly by the people, and is con-
trolled by a board consisting of an ex-stove-
manufacturer, a woo] and skin dealer, a
wheat-farmer, an ex-bank-manager, a tobacco
manufacturer, a Trades Hall secretary and
the general manager, who is, of course, a
banker. The biggest life assurance office, con-
trolling about 80 millions, has for chairman
a gentleman who has made a hobby of the
A.M.P., philanthropy and the Y.M.C.A.; its
other directors are Sam Hordern, an account-
ant (formerly on the staff), a doctor, and
one or two other people unconnected with
any other big institution. The National
Bank of Australasia, a fair sample of the
“powerful money interests,” some time ago
reported that it had 7142 shareholders, with
an average holding of £560; and that its
deposits (fixed deposits included) averaged
£279. The friendly societies of Australia
have funds of 13 millions, the savings banks
226 millions, building societies 13 millions,
life insurance offices 130 millions. The “pow-
erful money interests” of Australia thus
consist mainly of butchers and bakers and
miners and carpenters and blacksmiths.
Some recent balance-sheets may change
The Bulletin’s opinions about stock-water-
ing. For example, the inflation of shipping
cos. has undoubtedly led to high freights and
the absurdly high price of coal. And it must
always be so, and is one of the main factors
in keeping up a high cost of livitig. Capital
is riding for a fall and is sure to get it unless
things are altered. —E. McC., Lindfield
(N.S.W.).
The quarrel of some accountants with The
Bulletin is that it has always refused to
regard as stock-watering the capitalisation of'
profits actually made and put by. Those
profits could be paid away in divs.; they
could then be got back by way of a new
cash-paid issue of shares, and no protest at ail
would be made. Instead, however, of cos.
being encouraged to pay away their profits
they ought to be encouraged to hang on to
a large part of them and use the money in
extending their businessesj only thus indeed
can very small concerns hope to grow. The
issue of bonus shares against assets which
have no actual existence is a different
matter: to that The Bulletin always has
been opposed. And something might have
been done long ago to suppress this form of
inflation, which unquestionably leads to
absurd prices, if the attack had not been
also directed against the perfectly reputable
and often highly desirable capitalisation of
leal profits represented by material assets.
How would this work? If our loans were
hr ought hack to Australia the interest instead
of going out would circulate here. Mr. Theo-
dore could use his fiduciary notes to buy wool
and wheat or other exportable goods; then
ship overseas, and with the money so ob-
tained buy Australian bonds to be returned
to Australia and held as a backing for the
notes. The bonds would be obtained at the
market rate , and this discount and the
interest on the bonds would make up any
difference between the note issue and the
face value of the bonds.— R. B. K., Wilde’s
Meadow (N.S.W.).
Approximately we owe 600 millions abroad,
and our foreign charges are about 35 millions
a year. There would be no way of retiring
the notes; they would pile up side by side
with the purchased bonds. At the end of
four years we should therefore have 140
millions of notes. By that time, however,
they would probably be worth ss. each ; so
to buy wool that would sell for fl in London
we should have to pay four of our £1 notes.
Instead, therefore, of notes and bonds mount-
ing up in equal piles, we should have four
or five and presently, perhaps, 100 times
more notes than bonds. It is merely a new
scheme of inflation.
The analysis of the distribution of costs
of woollen mills output, from the raw
material to the finished article (B. 11/3/’3l),
are interesting. But the figures are not of
much comfort to the consumer. The figures
give the wholesale cost of production. What
we consumers want to know is icliere the
difference between this and the ultimate cost
to the consumer goes? —H. P., Coleraine
(Vic.).
The Bulletin answered that pretty well
in “Too Many Sacrifices Already” (B.
18/3/’3l) : “To what extent labor must
suffer depends almost wholly upon the
number of non-producers which production
has to support. Labor’s present main object
in life ought therefore to be to reduce this
burden.” But it is doing nothing of the
sort. It is the producer that is getting its
hardest blows; and it is piling up an army
of non-producers on its own account.
THE EASTER EGG.
“We have not got control of the Parliamentary machine, nor have we control of the finances. But it is our determination
to go on until we get control of Parliament, and until we can govern.” —Prime Minister Scullin to a meeting of supporters in
Melbourne.
AUSTRALIA: “Here, take it away, it smells horrible.”
HE AD-WAITER SCULLIN: "I'll admit the odor isn’t pleasant, sir; but if we keep on serving it, sir, we hope you’ll get used
to it in time.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Dearest Enemy”
Criterion “The Firgt Mrs _ Fraser »
otatk Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
® OTAI ‘ "Sons o’ Guns"
Comedy -‘On the Spot”
State Movies and Talkies
«
An Outbreak of Art
The winter art season burst on Melbourne
with startling unexpectedness. It had been
imagined that many of the leading artists
had succumbed to the economic depression;
most of the others had dropped the brush
and taken up the pen as the safest way of
confuting the claim made in a news-
paper that Meldrum is an artist. When,
therefore, Miss Annie Gates and Miss
“THE TYRANNY OF
FASHION.”
(This symbol is wonder-
ing what she will do next
bathing season if the
sculptors make thin legs
fashionable.)
M. liolgate ap-
peared with a
large collection
of flower studies
at the Ath-
enseum, and an
exhibition by
Mr. Streeton
was announced
at the Fine
Arts Gallery,
and Miss Ola
Cohn opened a
display of sculp-
ture at No. 9
Collins - street,
the critics were
completely taken
by surprise.
The present
writer, for his
part, confesses
to being so ill-
prepared to
tackle the pro-
blem of criticis-
ing these words
per medium of
words that he
has essayed in
all humility to
deal with them
pictorially.
Mr. Streeton’s show reminds me of the
Tas. leader-writer who commenced an edi-
torial with the words, “We warn the Kaiser”
.... Last year, under similar stress of
emotion, I ventured to warn Mr. Streeton.
I warned him that if he persisted in
putting glass in front of his pictures I
would refrain from giving him the benefit of
my critical assistance in overcoming the
problems he is faced with as a painter.
Being more prudent than Mr. Seullin, I did
not say that I would resign if he continued
to disobey me.' This was just as well, for
Mr. Streeton remains attached in his latest
show to this baleful habit, except in the
case of four pictures. The accompanying
drawings, illustrating the discomfort and
inconvenience Mr. Streeton puts his admirers
and critics to, are intended more as an appeal
for mercy than an act of censure.
As Mr. Streeton prefers to take the veil,
so to speak, as far as the bulk of his work
is concerned, the critic is reduced to basing
his remarks on the four pictures which re-
main uncovered. Of these it may be said
that they reveal no progress. They suggest
that Mr. Streeton is now an established in-
stitution and an established institution does
not readily change or improve its outlook.
Miss Cohn appears to me to be a natural
consequence of Mr. Streeton. When insti-
tutions outlive their purpose people get tired
of them, the more so when they are told
perpetually to go on admiring the said in-
stitutions. When the revolt comes, as it
must inevitably come, it arrives from two
sides—from people who want to construct
and from those who take a perverse or un-
thinking pleasure in destruction. Miss
Cohn’s sculpture not only sets out to destroy
everything that is bad in Mr. Streeton’s pic-
tures —authority, prettiness, sentiment, con-
ventionality—but all that is good also. More-
over, her attack is against everything that
is vital in the art of all time. The impres-
sion given, if I may say so, by this ex-
Bendigonian’s sculpture is that she found
the path leading to Rodin and the Greeks
too hard and the path to Epstein and the
Congo easier. Nevertheless, I very much
prefer her symbolism to Mr. Streeton’s
realism-ctm-sodawater, just as I prefer a
caricature by Frith of Mr. Lang to a pro-
fessional photograph of him.
My illustrations demonstrate that Miss
Cohn’s sculpture is more a stimulus to the
caricaturist than the artist. What Miss
Cohn is really doing is caricature. As such,
it has value, but no more value than has
“PLEASING EVERYBODY.”
CAVEMAN CONNOISSEUR: “Ah, a gem, a
masterpiece! What profound emotions
well up within one at the sight of it—
not to mention the pints of gastric
juice!”
caricature. Of course, whether it was worth
while chiselling and sawing these Madonnas
suffering from elephantiasis out. of such in-
tractable material as wood, stone and marble
is entirely Miss Cohn’s business. It must be
splendid exercise in cold weather —pleasanter
occupation than writing art notes, at any
rate.
The Misses Gates and Holgate be-
long to the school of photographic real-
ists,. a kind of painter which Aus-
tralia produces in great numbers. Their
annual output almost equals the woolclip,
and is not very much more interesting.
Nevertheless, Miss Holgate shows a grow-
ing ability to assess her impressions accord-
ing to their importance, instead of putting
them down higgledy-piggledy in the manner
of the camera.
An art event which should have been of
transcendent interest was the visit of Mr.
Randall Davies, the Felton Bequest’s new
London buyer. It was hoped that a gentle-
man who will have the spending of possibly
thousands of pounds on pictures—Frank
Rinder spent £280,000 during his ministry—
and with it the power to give new life to
Australian art, would tell us something we
didn’t know about the subject of which he
has made a lifetime’s study. I kept my ear
close to the ground, but all I heard from
Mr. Davies was after-dinner generalities and
amiable chatter about connoisseurship,
which, of course, has no more to do with
art than stamp-collecting. So I could not help
wondering, with all the goodwill in the world,
whether Mr. Davies has any real know-
ledge, any serious aim, any genuine under-
standing-at all, or whether he is merely an-
other of the literary gents, who make a
career out of art by scribbling about the
latest fashions in painting, and who are
always right about the pictures of 200 years
ago, and always wrong about those of the
present. . It will be a tragedy if he is, for
the National Gallery has already suffered
terribly from the activities of one of the
type.
However, he did make a statement at a
meeting of the English-Speaking Union of
what his policy was going to be, and here
it is :
Buying pictures is something like buying hats for
a girls’ school —one can scarcely please everybody
interested. If something comes along which you
do not like, wait a while and probably something
which you do like very much will arrive. There
are so many different kinds of pictures, and so
many different kinds of people, that much difference
of opinion is inevitable. I assure you, however,
that everything I send you will be well worth
while. (Applause.)
If that was Mr. Adolph Zukor telling the
cinema public what his programme for the
MFU iTR.E-E.To rt's
TftE PICTURES A\l. QMZ /V *^'V E WNtoE.l^
, *0
Aft&r
N G
THE.NI
Tty* WAY
d
At»fc TlwauuY
tKI)EAVftRIN^
TftCATC H
TKENV
<r^A&PlN£
TCie. CONSCiPM'TT'OyS CRITIC
I'Kl.&OOfcNfc vM? *\£G OSj-'^EO
Td Give X" 1 * wP as a Sad x#B
“CYCLE,”
or
“The Critic in Action.”
ensuing year is to be, I would have nothing
to say against it. But coming' from a man
charged with Mr. Davies’s important mis-
sion it is another matter. If Mr. Davies
thinks he can build up a great national col-
lection of paintings of permanent value by
the methods of the moving-picture entre-
preneurs, I fear he is going to find out his
mistake.
In “Pleasing Everybody” I have endeav-
ored to illustrate what must happen if Mr.
Davies carries his principles to- their logical
conclusion.
M. G. Skipper.
* * ¥
This Page’s first-night comment on “The
First Mrs. Fraser” at Sydney .Criterion con-
cluded with a threat to. let the Devil’s Advo-
cate have his say this week. The main
point at issue is the part of Elsie, the
second Mrs. Fraser, played by Mary Mac-
gregor. A pre-performance reading of the
comedy had given the impression that that
naughty young woman should have been —
well, a naughty young woman. There
seemed to be a good measure of the flighty
in her. She had stepped into an appa-
rently rock-tight married life, and so in-
fatuated a respectable, hard-bitten, well-
positioned Scot that he.’d broken from the
woman who had given him two sons, and had
shared his life and played up to his decent
egotism for 25 years. Five years later Elsie
had similarly infatuated a boy-lord, admit-
tedly an ass, but still a young .man with
a presumably wide range of choice. Also,
she was sufficiently attractive to a night-
club Valentino for him to want to taste
her charms to the full.
Now this young lady, as presented by Miss
Macgregor, turned out to be a harsh little
female, not only extremely but consistently
vicious; the last sort of person over whom
any of the male trio, except perhaps the
imbecile aristocrat, would be likely to burn
a broom-handle let alone a boat. Certainly
Elsie appears in situations not calculated to
bring out the most attractive side of her;
but the impression Miss Maegregor’s acting
left was that she was interpreting the part
of a woman who had no attractive side, not
even an assumable one. Not even fleetingly
did she suggest that Elsie could be any dif-
fercnt. Her Elsie came on to the stage sour,
remained sour and went off sour. That
either Fraser or the Valentino would have
fallen for such a woman didn’t seem feasible.
The present observer thought that Miss
Macgregor had interpreted the part badly
(her playing of the part as interpreted was
capital). Then, later, he looked up the play-
wright’s directions: “Enter Elsie Fraser,
aged about 24, very pretty, very smart, as
hard as nails.” So the fault would seem to be
not with Miss Macgregor but with St. John
Ervine. Miss Macgregor followed his direc-
tions to the “s.” She clearly shouldn’t have;
at least, she should not have read “as hard
as nails” so literally. She is not a light
actress, though a pretty one. A Taliaferro
might have been as hard as nails without
being as sour as a saw. Miss Macgregor
was not so much hard as harsh; and that
sort of young lady, whatever she may man-
age in the home-wrecking line in private,
doesn’t figure well in the same enterprise on
the stage.
Another defect, which may have been only
a first-night lapse, was the way Ethel Mor-
rison, the leading lady, smashed illusion at
curtain-falls. The play has capital “cur-
tains.” The rag comes down on rounded
and yet suspended action. It drops with
the audience gripped by the illusion of real-
ity created in the first place by the play-
wright and at the moment by the players.
The important illusion is the conflict between
the first and the second Mrs. Fraser —an
illusion made perfectly ridiculous when these
two women, just then engaged in mortal con-
flict, now come out hand-in-hand at the cur-
tain-falls to take the applause together.
Even the rawest of light-comedy amateurs
are rarely guilty of that sort of ambiguity.
Still, in the circumstances, it was not an
unmixed curse. Indeed, instead of being the
folly it looked, it might have been clever
stagecraft on Miss Morrison’s part: it wiped
out reality, but it counteracted the inhuman-
ness of Miss Macgregor’s version of the
second Mrs. Fraser.
But even the fact that Miss Morrison,
too, is not cast as well as she might be
doesn’t spoil the play. Her part asks Miss
Morrison to act by turn comedy and intense
and tender emotion. In the latter she is
not notably happy. She elocutes it, like
a feminine Wilkie. But in her comedy and
her moments of anger she
more than makes up for that.
The male cast is exceptionally
strong. J. B. Rowe, in capi-
tal make-up save for his
youthfulness breaking out near
his ears, gives perhaps his
finest performance to date as
Fraser. Roger Barry doesn’t
use much more than his eyes
in the part of one of the
Fraser sons, but they are suffi-
cient. John Wood is con-
vincingly at ease as the other
son, and Leslie Victor is
sound.
* ft- #
In Galsworthy’s “The Roof,”
handsomely staged and acted
by the Gregan McMahons at
Melbourne Comedy last week,
a shikkered young member of
the English ruling classes,
annoyed by the manifest
moral and intellectual superi-
ority of a French waiter,
lights a fire on the ground
floor. of a Parisian hotel at
midnight. The ground-floor
occupants, rushing upstairs to
warn the others, are trapped,
and as each bedroom belches
forth its denizens, an increas-
ing number of Galsworthian
character studies are driven
higher and higher up the
doomed building until they all
emerge on the roof. Here,
with. the roar of the flames
growing louder and their re-
flection more lurid, they await
the arrival of the French and
dilatory fire brigade.
This should be the play's
great moment, meet to squeeze
sad drops out of the audi-
ence’s heart. Present writer was only con-
scious of Galsworthy sitting in the wings
thinking desperately of ways and means to
make his characters behave naturally with-
out outraging the corollaries obviously to be
drawn from his original premises. But the
achievement is, as usual, beyond him. Just
as Barrie has never been able to free him-
self from his mother-complex, so Galsworthy
seems never to have quite grown out of the
English public-schoolboy code of ethics. The
hero of the play is a youth who is terribly
worried as to whe-
ther he would display
physical courage in
a time of danger. In
the public - school
code physical cour-
age is much more
important than
moral and intellec-
tual courage,
although the average
individual needs
them almost every
day, whereas nine
people in ten go
through life without
once having to dis-
play physical cour-
age unless a war
happens along, when
whole nations pro-
duce the virtue with-
out any public-school
training whatever.
The hero behaves
like a hero, and the
young man who
caused all the
trouble is also dis-
posed of according
to classroom notions
of rewards and pun-
ishments. Appalled
at the consequences
of his horseplay, he plunges back into the
maelstrom of fire, passes the waiter up
through a trapdoor, and is about to follow
when he collapses and is duly burnt to death,
Galsworthy’s idea of Divine justice irresist-
ibly suggested a schoolmaster giving a boy 50
lines large hand for cutting his name ou
the desk.
In this play Galsworthy’s craitsmansliip
is excellent. Except for the roof scene,
the action of the six scenes showing the
reactions of the various inmates of the hotel
is confined to the same short period after
midnight. As one bedroom is vacated by its
panic-stricken occupants the time goeg„. back
to midnight and another bedroom is revealed,
the effect being absorbingly dramatic. The
players are hereby accorded lavish commen-
dation. The infallible Howard Smith and
a new lady, Jan Moray, made rich comedy
of an elderly married couple; Charles Row,
as an author, died convincingly of heart
disease; Margaret Trengove and Irene
“MOTHER AND CHILD.”
(Symbolical of a Roumanian princess and
her Fiduciary issue.)
Weston were liis charming little daugh-
ters ; Gregan McMahon waitered to per-
fection ; Alan Goford provided an example
of fine elocution as the lover of the impres-
sive Coral Brown, who was a married woman
enjoying a week-end respite from the obliga-
tions of matrimony. As-the sozzled incen-
diarist, Harold Harwood overacted and gave
the part more years than the playwright
probably intended.
* ¥ *
“And So to Bed,” the Pepysian comedy at
Sydney Savoy, rather lacked vigor in
attack. The dialogue is sparkling and its
points were thrust home neatly most of
the time. The dressing was O.K. But on
Saturday night whole! patches of scenes
went so slowly that they did not seem part
of the play; they were made to look like
mere padding. Albert Collins was a
fairly sound Pepys, though neither he nor
any of the others appeared to be wholly at
ease in the language. ’ They gave the im-
pression that they were speaking in a
foreign tongue. Except perhaps Freda
McGhee. Her appearances were the most
welcome things of th'e night. She . did not
much look the part, but she acted with snap,
and the others responded remarkably when
they had to play up to her—even
Clarence Murphy, as Charles. 11. When
not in contact with Miss McGhee Mur-
phy was a king suffering conscious-
ness of inferiority. A pity, because
he has manner and appearance. If he Could
only get rid. of his complex and stand up
sure of himself he would be one of the
best of these amateurs. Doris Fitton has
cast herself better than as the Mistress
Knight whom playwright J. B. Fagan, making
a guess outside history, involves in an affair
with Pepyg. She played it well, but did
not look it. Taken all round, the produc-
tion is a happy show carefully; done within
its slow-motion limits. The enterprise
appears to be prospering, perhaps because
it is so clearly theatre, whereas most ama-
teur houses are just so much walled-in
space with a platform at one end.
* * %■
At Adelaide Boyal the old “Gondoliers”
does really big business with the first Aus-
tralian showing of a re-organised William-
sonian G. and S. co. The newcomers
from England are Dorothy Gill, with
fine voice and figure, as the large
woman whom Gilbertian satire rather
overworked, and Ivan Menzies, a small
comedian of deep voice and quietly effec-
tive humor; also Gregory Stroud, sound
actor and baritone, known here in “Chu-
chin-chow” days. Leo Darnton and John
Ralston help to build up a wealth of vocal
power. Of the younger people, Marie Brem-
“GROUP.”
(Symbolical of the incurable democracy of the Australian people.
A coup d’etat having been decided upon, the citizens
insist on the ordinary procedure being followed.
P.S.: Symbolical figures are usually naked, but it has been
thought advisable to partially clothe the above owing to the
approach of cold weather.
ner is backed by Mary Hotham, Maisie
Ramsay and Alban Whitehead, all favorites
of Melba ; their voices are fine, their acting
not bad, but, so far, without the personal
appeal that spells popularity. The chorus
is glorious, and Slapoffski, conductor, and
Minnie Everett, producer, get the last ounce
out of it.


THE PEOPLE’S WATCHDOG.
"The Lang Government is greatly perturbed because of the Governor’s resistance of its efforts to swamp the Leg. Council with its supporters, and has been inquiring
into a way of having Sir Philip Game recalled.”
“Here, your Majesty, if this dog gives us chaps much more trouble you’ll have to take him back. You get ready and pick out a nice poodle.”


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
m
y 3 s
ff s d
Jl" UUJIL
8 II
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 800/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone : F 4141.
V
Reduced Tariff.
Patrons of “The Australia” are most definitely sharing in
the reduced cost of living. The new “ Room Only ” rates
should be noted as well as the fact that a general revision
has been made of the tariff for the Dining Hall and Grill
Room. Guests are making the pleasant discovery that
distinct savings are theirs without the slightest sacrifice
of quality or service.
Single Room only, from 12/- per day.
Double Room only, from 22/ 6 per day.
Ask for
Illustrated
folder.
Breakfast —2/- and 3/6; and a la carte.
Telegraphic Address:
“AustraotelSydney.”
I he
Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Eli Saarlo”: Dave, an omnivorous reader,
had lighted on the family Bible and was
regaling his kin with excerpts from the his-
tory of Solomon. Dad listened unmoved to
the story of the temple, but at the mention
of the thousand wives he showed .signs of
interest. “Any kids?”, he queried. “Thou-
sands,” said Dave generously. Dad rumi-
nated. “Cripes, couldn’t he have run a
bonzer dairy-farm!” he remarked enviously.
* * * *
“Fiji” : The Feathercrab Oil Co. sent its
representative to negotiate with a foreign
Government for oil rights. No sooner was
the business begun than red tape began to
unwind and get tangled, with the result that
the rep. spent weeks at the club bending his
elbow and saying “Cheerio.” Having nothing
to report he sent no word to his head office.
Came a cable which read: “Still with us?”
Several hours, whiskies and writina-pads
later he dispatched what he considered an
appropriate reply: “I was. Am I?” The
co. was prompt: “You were. Are you?”
A week later the rep. sent the last word:
“Yes.” Fie had landed the concession.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad Gumbough had been a J.P.
for two years, but had never sat on the
Bench. The few cases that came before the
local Court were always fixed up before old
Josephs, the storekeeper, who lived on the
spot, whereas Dad lived ten miles out —this,
the local John explained, was the reason he
never bothered Dad. Then Josephs was
stricken down with lumbago, and Dad looked
forward eagerly to being called on as the
only other J.P. in the district. Three months
after Josephs took to' his bed Dad had a
case. Dave, his son, had been grabbed up
on a charge of being drunk and disorderly.
The little courthouse was crowded next
morning when Dave appeared before his
father. Dad raked his erring son fore and
aft for half an hour, and finally fined him
£2O or six months’ hard labor. The John,
who acted as court clerk, protested in agi-
tated whispers that Dad couldn’t impose such
a penalty for such an offence. “Shut up,
blast yer!” retorted Dad, getting him into a
corner out of earshot. “It’s me first case,
an’ I’m goin’ to’ make th’ most of it. It's
cost me a quid already.” “Cost you a quid
echoed the astonished policeman. “How?”
“I gave Dave that ter get drunk,” replied
Dad.
DEAD LUCKY.
NEW HAND: “I’ve been milking cows in my sleep all night, sir.”
DAD: “You’re dead lucky. I been dreamin’ they was all gone dry.”
THE GATE CRASHERS.
THE CLERK: “Brother, what made you so rough with that last pair?”
THE GATEKEEPER: “Why, they tried to get in on last season’s complimentary tickets!”
“Avon”: One of the most picturesque of
the. remittance men who made Maoriland
their home in an earlier day and generation
was “Old Blind Billy,” who lived in Petone,
the little township on the northern shore of
Wellington Harbor. With his Dundreary
whiskers, aristocratic hawked nose, cultured
Byronesque collar and flowing bow tie
he made an impressive figure. Arriving in
Maoriland as a young man he early; had the
misfortune to lose his eyesight in a gun
accident, and thereafter lived in an old tin
hut on the river hank, his only companion
a dog. He lived principally on fish, which
he caught himself; was a good axeman, and
wonderfully deft with needle and thread.
He died many years ago at an advanced age
in the Wellington Home of Compassion.
Just recently his identity has been estab-
lished. He was William Burton, scion of
an Irish Protestant family, a university man,
a linguist and a musician. Why he was
exiled to Maoriland and why he chose the
life of a recluse are matters still wrapped
in mystery.
* * * *
“Tiki”: A big earthquake is one of the
worst foes of law and order. After the first
big shake hit Hawkes Bay business folk and
civil servants rushed out of their offices with-
out waiting to shut safe or strongroom doors,
with the result that when fire swept Napier
and Hastings most of the valuable docu-
ments in both towns went up in smoke. In
many cases all documentary evidence of land-
ownership and share titles has been destroyed,
and in reconstruction work it is necessary to
go by recollection, aided by the location of
survey pegs. But even the pegs aren’t a reli-
able guide, because the whole terrain has
shifted, and shifted with bewildering irregu-
larity so that some sites which were exact
rectangles now display angles that are far
from right. General experience so far has
been that there have been no disputes over
ownership, but it’s early days yet, and the
lawyers are looking forward to the picking
of a lot of juicy bones.
:J: # jjc
“The Dormouse” ; It is a strange feature
of certain types of dreams that they
transcend human experience. Among these
is the dream that one is released from the
laws of gravity and dynamics, and is able
to flit about over the earth’s surface just a
little bit suspended. Stairs are ascended or
descended with the tips of the fingers just
touching the banisters. The direction of
flight is a matter of volition, no physical
effort whatever being required, and there
resides in the consciousness a knowledge that
any place in space can be reached by merely
desiring to be there. It is a dream that,
apparently, has no connection with the social
status or even the degree of civilisation of
the individual. It was common among Zulus
before the white men came; Queen Victoria
frequently dreamed it, and I and a score of
people of my acquaintance know it well.
Evolutionists have suggested doubtfully that
it is a relic of descent through birds, but it
isn’t flying. There are no wings. Can it be
not a throwing-back but a looking-forward
to some dim distant age when mind shall
have achieved complete mastery of matter?
As against that, the last time I went a-float-
ing ■in the air I drifted through a pantry
window and discovered a most beautiful
apple-pie, which I was about to devour when
I woke up. Surely a super-mind would be
above prigging a pie.
❖ ❖
“Erua”: One origin of the sea-serpent
story is the queue-forming habit of the por-
poise. We were travelling down the M.L.
coast in a small steamer when the cry arose
that there was a sea-serpent disporting
itself some miles to starboard. All hands
and the cook gazed at a long undulating line
that rose and fell in writhing coils, and ner-
vous passengers began to entreat the Old
Man not to go too near. Then the line
broke and the coils began to jump about in
a bunch. It was a. school of porpoises.
H* sfc ❖ *
“Up Top”: One of the identities of N.
Queensland in the days of long ago was
“Break-a-leg” Charlie. He’d blow into Cook-
town every Christmas. It took a barrel of
beer to mellow him, but when he was quite
full he was very happy. H'e stood only
four feet ten, but he was a mass of bone and
muscle, like a wild boar. He never wore
boots, his dress suit being pants with an
open-necked flannel out of which poked grey
hair, like the pelt of a goat. When drunk he
went from pub to pub seeking to “break a
leg.” He had been a wrestler in his day,
and must have plied that art in a very rough
school. His small size and surprising strength
made him an awkward foe. He would unex-
pectedly charge a man’s knees just like an
overgrown bulldog, and if he heard a bone
snap his cup of joy was full. He was always
all smiles, even when seeking to break a leg.
He said he lived “up th’ Peninsula where
th’ wild gins grow,” and that’s all the address
he ever had.
THE PROBLEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A. man’s a fool to live alone,” said Plugger
Bill, and sighed.
“I think I’ll sling this batchin’ game, an’
get meself a bride.
For, when you come to work it out, there’s
nuthin’ much in life
Unless you have a decent ’ome, which means
a dinkum wife.
I’ve thought of all the girls I know, an’ ’ad
a good look round,
An there’s one tart not far away who’d
suit me to the ground.
I'd put it to ’er pretty quick—but I should
like, you see,
To find out somehow, first of all, just what
she thinks of me.
“I get no ’elp from ’er old man ; ’e doesn’t
seem to care,
For when I saw ’im yesterday I asked him
fair and square.
As man to man I chats ’im if ’e thought I
’ad a show;
'E borrows ’alf a plug o’ weed, an’ answers
‘I dunno.’
‘Yer might ’ave, lad. Of things like that
I’ve never ’eard ’er speak;
But come an’ see them bonzer pigs I bought
last Tuesdee week.’
Pigs! Spare me days ! I slipped away when
I could get a chance:
To look at pigs don’t suit a bloke who’s
lookin’ for romance.
“I’ve plucked up courage once or twice, an’
called around at night.
'Er mother treats me pretty well: the
family’s polite;
But nuthin’ that I’ve seen or heard gives me
the slightest clue
To show jest ’ow me alley is. I only wish
I knew.
Although I’ve tried my level best I end
up just the same,
An’ someone else may sneak along an’ pinch
a feller’s claim.
It comes to this, unless I risk bein’ left upon
the shelf,
I s’pose I’ll have to chance me luck an’ ask
the girl ’erself.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENBVALE.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
■i
In the Centre of things!
d
Located on Adelaide’s
finest boulevard, the
Grosvenor is handy
to theatres, shopping
centres, and public
buildings. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all
rooms. Yale locks on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Crosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
Price 10/6
Correct
tyre
pressure
always.
c7his unique flat reading surface gives
greater accuracy
THE IMPROVED
Universal
tyre tester
Tyres inflated to the correct standard pressure
wear evenly, give more non-skid miles, and
save you time, trouble and money. Use an all-
British KISMET Tyre Tester regularly—its
unique FLAT reading surface gives dead aceu-
rate pressure at a glance. Balloon, Standard
or Giant. Balloon, calibrated in lib. units up to
431 b Standard up to 771 b., and Giant up to
13olb. respectively Patentees and Sole Manu-
facturers: WILLIAM TURNER AND BRO
LTD., EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND!
If unable to obtain , write to our Factory Repre-
sentative: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71.
Melbourne.
EMI
KEEN BUYERS
who, for economy’s sake, demand the
utmost value, and who, by experience,
know good windmill value when they
see it, will find the Sky meet every
requirement of high-grade windmill
construction and capacity to deliver
water in copious quantity, consistently
and with that absolute dependability,
possible only in machines of the
highest quality.
Catalog free —write for your copy now.
SKY WINDMILL CO.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
FREIGHT FREE INTERSTATE.
“C-etaeea": In the season just ended the
slaughter of whales in Antarctic waters ex-
ceeded all previous records. The whole out-
put of oil had been sold “forward"
at £25 per ton before the factory ships set
out, and there was a rush to take the fullest
advantage of the contract. Numbers of oil-
tankers were chartered to visit the factory
ships in various parts of the southern seas,
and these, arriving about the middle of the
season, transhipped nearly full cargoes of
oil, enabling the whalers to carry on at
high pressure. By all accounts the market
lias been glutted by this great activity, and
it is probable that next season a much lower
price will rule; so there is the familiar talk
of limiting output. The policy seems to
be to gut the field while the going is good,
so that by the time foreign interests have
to meet Australasian competition in Ant-
arctic waters there won’t be enough whales
left to make it worth while to compete for
them. The oil is taken to American
ports and refined in the U.S.A., and such
portion as. is exported to the Commonwealth
and M.L. is loaded with the cost of long sea
transport and the wages of refinery employees
abroad.
* =l= * *
“Bendee" : Two of my old pipes—one of
them 1914 issue—have been lying on the
mantelpiece for a year or two, my fond hope
being that the foul smell my wife ob-
jected to would some day leave them. This
year the family wasp, having plugged up all
our keyholes with her mud nests and their
caches of sterilised spiders, decided to build
in the “better ’ole,” and my pipes were
selected as the most suitable site. In both
cases the nest completely filled the bowl of
the pipe, and, strange to say, the young
hatched out in spite of the six months’ nico-
tine fumigation to which they had been
subjected.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil": Utter exhaustion brings
strange symptoms in its train. It was flood-
.time on the Biverina plains, and after a
long day duck-shooting in the lignum swamps
near Hillston, I was called to Cudgellico, 75
miles up the river, at 8 p.m. I rode all that
winter’s night, in a fog, with water often up
to my horse’s belly, and arrived at the case
about eight next morning. All that day I
was busy doing what I could for the patient,
and at 7 p.m. I saddled up and started the
return journey. It rained most of the night;
then fogged; then nearly froze. Certainly
I dozed at times, as we stumbled and
squelched through the billabongs and crab-
holes.; but that is not very refreshing. By
the time I got within 40 miles of-Hillston
it was light enough to tell a swamp-gum
from a gatepost; but there weren’t many
gateposts. As to the gates, I began to
notice that their white bars were moving
sideways and waving rapidly up and down—
optical illusion, of course, akin to that pro-
NO MISTAKE ABOUT THAT.
FORST COMMERICIAL TRAVELLER: “You can’t tell me you got an order for £[?]000—not in
these bad times.”
SECOND DITTO: “I tell you I did. I’ll show you the cancellation if you like.”
duced by miner’s nystagmus. When I could
stand that and the stiffening cold no
longer, I dismounted and lit a small gum-leaf
fire to get some movement into my fingers,
It was while holding my hands over this that
I noticed what I took to be small frogs, at
first in twos and threes, and then in dozens
and hundreds, jumping into the burning
MORE OF THIS DEFLATION.
COMBO (up tree) : “Not a plurry ’possum! One time always used to get two three
’possum in a tree like this.”
MIDNIGHT: “My word! This pfeller dunno what plurry country cornin’ t[?]!”
leaves and silently disappearing. It took me
a little while to realise that this was another
optical fraud, and then I thought it was time
to go home. When I got there I went to
bed, and didn’t wake up for 24 hours. I
had been two nights and nearly three days
without any real sleep.
$ # }J:
“Purple Brigadier”: If the late Conan
Doyle had met my one-time friend Quamba
Tooni, chief smeller-out of evildoers in
Galooni Territory, he might have evolved an
entirely different theory of criminal investi-
gation. Quamba’s mind intuitively rejected
the obvious and regarded facts with suspi-
cion. His great success in balancing every
crime with an execution made him famous
and respected, if not beloved. There
had been an epidemic of goat-stealing.
Billies and nannies vastly \ prized by their
owners vanished into the great unknown,
leaving in each case a few bloodstains, four
severed feet and one eye to testify that they
had been most foully slaughtered before re-
moval. The chief, Cheekabidi Chooek. men-
tioned the matter to me. I suggested that
a search should be made for an eccentric
individual with an overwhelming appetite
for goat’s flesh. Cheekabidi agreed that this
would be a good scheme, but said Quamba
must first be consulted. Quamba came.
Squatting in the market-place, he questioned
the owners of the goats at such length and
with such ferocity that they got flustered
and contradicted themselves. “These,” said
Quamba, “be evil folk. They tell lies.
Furthermore it, is established that their goats
were evil goats. Did not the goat of Nimbo
eat the tail of Nimbo’s grandfather’s shirt?
And is it not a fact that Wunki’s goat
spoiled his cabbage patch, and that Trublo’s
goat butted Trublo’s wife? Here we have
motive of vengeance. I wish to hear no
more. Let the grandfather of Nimbo, the
wife of Trublo and the man Wunki be taken
to the place of execution.” At this all the
people marvelled greatly, but it was done
as Quamba ordered. A little later a crazy
nigger was caught in the act of dissecting
Quamba’s own goat, and confessed to all
the other crimes. Quamba left the Terri-
tory, and I gather from what I read in the
newspapers that he has taken his talents
to Melbourne.
* * sic
“E.S.”: It’s surprising that native blooms
are not more widely grown in Australian
gardens. Dozens of them are far superior
to many of the highly cultivated plants.
These were all wild once. Very few of the
best of them, in their wild state, could com-
pare with the numerous beauties in the bush.
There is some cultivation of wattles, weeping
myalls, boronias, flannel flowers, Swan River
daisies, waratahs and Christmas bushes, and
I am told that an enthusiast has succeeded
in producing a double flannel flower. But
there’s a lot more scope than that. What
about the honey flowers, Christmas bells,
rock lilies, corea bells, Geraldton wax flowers,
native fuchsias, fringed violets and Darling
and Sturt peas?
* * * *
“Cooramin”: To see a stockhorse at his
best, watch the work on a drafting camp.
Every cattle-run has a few first-class camp-
horses which are used when drafting is
done in the open and far away from yards.
In parts of West Q’land and farther out half
the cattle on the runs never .see a yard. A
good camp-horse will work a beast without
a touch of the reins. A stockman one day
yarded three wild horses on the Upper Dia-
mantina, and while he was boiling his quart-
pot they broke out. His own mount, an old
camp-horse which he had tied up outside,
pulled away and raced after them. The
stockman thought the lot had “gone bush,”
but his horse, with ears laid back, turned hi.s
wflld brothers, and in a few minutes had
them back in the yard.
“Booraby”: A sagacious scamp
is the Australian raven, known in
the bush as the white-eyed crow,
and many a time I’ve been im-
pressed by his shrewd judgment of
the condition of animals. A fat
moke he will pass by without a
second glance, but a poor one that
appears to be drooping at once
becomes an object of,interest. I
let a horse go one afternoon on
the Hoganthulla (Q.), and almost
immediately noticed ravens stop in
the trees near by. I had crossed
a dry stage in very hot weather,
but thought the horse would be all
right by the creek. The ravens
knew better. Next day he was
dead, and the feathered under-
takers had possession. The same
wily fowl will follow a dingo for
miles, knowing there’ll be good
picking for him when Warrigal
kills.
* * sH
“Bill R.” ; Hard times and re-
newed hopes have populated once
again the long-deserted scrubs of
the Merraccle, the Boogongs and
the auriferous valleys of the
Eucumbene (N.S.W.). Many of
the fossickers are returned
ancients who raked there half
a century ago. Some of them, in
the decades that intervened, were
big guns among the Riverina
sheep and cattle men, but succes-
sive droughts and bank fore-
closures have put them back to
where they were as boys. The
oldtimers have learned, though,
that gold-fossicking among the
Boogongs is not the game it was
in the ’eighties. Then every
diggers’ camp had its provision
store and goldbuyer, and every
scrub had its wallaby. Not now.
So,. unable to dispose of his penny-
weights locally, the prospector, in
between sluicings, has to do much weary
travel to keep his tucker bin replenished.
* * $ *
“Avon”: Christchurch (M.L.) is the one
fair-sized town in the world where the bicycle
remains the favorite means of locomotion
of a very large percentage of the population.
There was a time, 30 years ago, when Buffalo
(N.Y.) was able to proudly boast that it had
more cyclists in proportion to population
than Christchurch, but that distinction was
not long retained. In the M.L. city, to an
extent greater than anywhere else in Austral-
asia, the bicycle is tamed and domesticated.
Riding it is not considered an athletic
feat (as. in Sydney, for instance, where the
few cyclists usually come forth in racing rig,
with tucker-bags on their backs), but is no
more noteworthy than the wearing of shoes.
Even in motoring households there are
usually bikes about the place, for there
are so many occasions on which it saves
time to hop on a pair of wheels in prefer-
ence to opening up the garage. Males and
females, young and old, have the cycling habit,
acquired in most cases in very early child-
hood. It need hardly be said that "Christ-
church is quite flat. It is, indeed, the flat-
test city in the world, and lies on the largest
level plain. A never-to-be-forgotten sight is
ifour-miles-long Colombo-street at, five past five
on a winter’s evening. As far as the eye can
see is a close peppering of little firefly .sparks—
the lamps of city workers flitting home to tea.
TWO OF A KIND.
THE IDEALIST: “I don’t know how you can
come into a pub and drink soft stuff
like that When you see the beer foam-
ing”—
THE REALIST: “My boy, you never saw the
wife foaming!”


D
o
the days have turned into weeks
and the weeks lengthened into months, it
is then you’re pleased you took the advice
of your Garage-man and bought an
£xi£>e
The Long Life Battery
ffOR CARS, RADIO *»J HOME LIGHTING
N.S.W. —Exide Battery Service (Gib-
son, Battle & Co., Ltd.), Hunt
and Commonwealth' Sts., Sydney.
Vie. and Riverina. —A. P. Sutherland,
Queen’s Bridge, South Melbourne.
Queensland. —Exide Battery Service
(Q.)i Ltd., Adelaide Street, Bris-
H) bane; Sturt Street, Toivnsville.
South Australia and Broken Hill.—
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd.,
97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Westralia. —M. J. Bateman, Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street,
Perth.
Tasmania. —Medhurst & Sons, Collins
Street, Hobart.
SMOKE-OH!
HER CHOICE.
“She chose to marry an estate-agent.”
— “Storyteller.”
Said she, “ Land-agents , non: and then,
Inhabit mansions roomy;
They seem to 'do a , lot of men,
So one of them will do me.
¥ *
“Swerving—How Grimmett does it.” — “Sun.”
However he does it, we fancy Scullin
could show him a point or two.
* *
“ ‘I congratulate the Guides on their smart turn-
out,’ said Lady Baden-Powell to one of their
number to whom she presented the silver fish of
the Guides.”— “Sun,”
If Lady Baden-Powell should happen to
run out of decorations we will have great
pleasure in offering her full trapping rights
in our chest of drawers.
“The McPherson Cabinet’s authority to build the
Hawthorn bridge has been revoked by the Hogan
Cabinet.” — “Argus.”
It’s evidently impossible to separate bridge
and the revoking habit.
* *
“Members of the A.F.A. are no more nor less
tliarf White Guards.” —Donald Grant.
And he’d be the first to protest if the
A.F.A. called members of the Labor Army
Blackguards..
OUT OF HER CLASS.
MISS MIGGS : “If your sheik spends fifteen bob a day on himself, and only earns ten
bob, where does the other five bob come from?”
MISS BIGGS : “Don’t ask me—l never was any good at politics.”
“Woollen-mill authorities say the blanket trade
has fallen off during the last 12 months.” — “Herald.”
Yet the country seems to be swarming
with wet blankets.
SOME TESTIMONIALS THAT WOULD
BE REALLY WORTH WHILE.
The Chief Scout. —“Do I use Creme
Delice, you ask? Why I shofild think I
jolly well do. You just ask the Chief Guide
what I think of it, that’s all. And ask her if
I didn’t say at that absolutely corking jam-
boree in the Town Hall that I thought every-
one who wanted to play the game should go
in for at least a 3s. Gd. jar. Obtainable at
all chemists.”
The Chief Guide.— -“I can’t say how
jolly glad I am to see you all here to-night,
and to think that I’ve come all this way
(33,000 miles — think of it) to tell you how
you’ll really be playing cricket and all that
if you do as the Chief Scout and I have
done, and that is to go in for this jolly
Creme Delicc, w'hich is of course obtainable
in 3s. Gd. and ss. jars at all chemists. And,
oh, I nearly forgot. It’s also jolly good for
grown-ups. You ask the Chief Scout if
it isn’t. All chemists stock it in both sizes,
remember.”
Chairman of Directors, “Sun” News-
papers.—“ln the course of a strenuous career
I have found Creme Delice invaluable, not
merely as a beautifier of the feminine coun-
tenance, not merely as an exquisite emol-
lient after shaving, not merely as a modish
ornament of the toilet table, but as a cer-
tain and almost painless newspaper-eradi-
cator. One 3s. Gd. jar is sufficient to pro-
cure the peaceful demise of a tabloid of
normal frailty, while a large-size jar at ss.
is guaranteed to account for the sturdiest
evening publication. I can think of no more
useful commodity for a would-be Aussie
Northcliffe to have about the premises.”
S. M. Bruce. —“Friends are asking ’What
brought you back to politics? You said
you were fed up, and didn’t want to do any-
thing in future but get your golf handicap
down.’ Well, I’ll tell you what I told them.
It isn’t, as some have implied, that Latham
and Gullett are messing things up. It isn’t
that Scullin and his lot who gave me the
push are about due for it themselves. No;
the thing goes deeper. I was having the
bally old countenance shaved last week
when the barber .shoved on some of that
wonderful Creme Delice (obtainable in 3s.
Gd. and ss. jars from all chemists), and I
can assure you the effect was magical. That
the skin was soothed goes without saying.
But in addition I felt an amazing clearing
of the brain, an inrush of zest and confi-
dence and enthusiasm, and so forth and so
on, that I can only compare to the effects of
Pelmanism on an unemployed journalist. Be
sure and get it. Equally useful for soften-
ing the skin and hardening the brain, for
removing blackheads and Labor Premiers,
for restoring tired business men and retired
politicians. A sensation. And sold liter-
ally everywhere.”
Bloggs.
* *
Mr. Horace Blinker intends seeking Par-
liamentary honors—his doctor having
recently advised a spell in a rest home.
* *
“Wentworth was the father of responsible
government in N.S.W.” Lang is expected to
go down to posterity as the State’s rich
uncle from Fiji.
* *
THE NEXT TEST.
England had left Australia 536 to win.
All day the Aussies had battled for runs
but the last wicket fell at 312.
The scorers compared their records. “Very
queer,” remarked the Englishman. “We
have the same individual scores, yet our
totals differ. What’s this 250 in your book?”
“That’s our fiduciary issue,” explained
the Australian. “You’ve lost by 26 runs.”
C.
* *
LAST STRAW.
“At Orange the pianist left and the leading lady
followed her. Then the property master, who was
also a useful utility actor, deserted and the company
broke up.”
The show could somehow struggle through,
Of all its stars bereft,
Though prospects were extremely blue;
But it, of course, was left
Without a leg to stand upon
When it found out its Props had gone.
* *
Bad though the times are parsons can
still produce surplices.
“Mr. S. M. Bruce, speaking at the opening of the
Somerville Show, said that in the near future they
would see more of him.” — “Herald.”
Can it be that he means to shed his spats?
MR. PRITCHARD’S ADVENTURE.
“Mr. Thatcher and his cattle-dog had an exciting
battle with a black snake on Bungay.-estate. Dodg-
ing a blow, the snake attacked Mr.' Fletcher.”
“8. M: Herald.”
To continue, Mr. Hedger's dog then,
tackled the snake, whilst Mr. Stretcher
secured a stouter stick and returned to the
attack. Mr. Petcherd found difficulty in
striking the reptile without hurting the, dog
and was eventually bitten. H'e was hurried
to hospital, and given immediate attention..
Yesterday Mr. Ritchie returned home, little
the worse for his adventure.
THE HEDGE.
“What color’s Marjorie’s new bathing costume?”
“I couldn’t see —she was reading a book."
“What would you say if you were asked to live
near a bonedust works?” —Divorce defendant.
We’d say “Phew!”
* *
“My opponent called one no trump and was left
with it, and I had four acres in my hand.”
—Bridge Notes, “West Australian.”
A couple of spades would have been a
suitable call.
* *
IN MEMORIAM.
“Acts of Parliament have failed, ahd must always
fail, to help us workers. Our only hope lies in
direct action.” — Ward, M.P. for E. Sydney, in
Domain.
Lang Plan. —In loving memory of my
darling, born in Auburn (N.S.W.), passed
out by me as useless shortly after I arrived
in Canberra.
I used to tliinh the world of you.
Hoiv loudly I would rave
About the way you’d beat the boss,
And the anguished workers save!
But now you’re fading from my thoughts,
And of you I rarely speak.
I have little to recall you
" But my twenty quid a week,
(Inserted by a recently-elected Federal
comrade.)
N. S. Wales Mines. —In sad memory of
an event that failed to eventuate.
Just sixteen months have passed, dear Mines,
Since I said you’d re-open again.
“Inside two weeks” was the time I fixed,
That I erred I admit with pain.
I think of you, Mines, with gratitude
When I think of the foes I beat.
If I hadn’t had you to skite about
I mightn’t have held my seat.
(Inserted by Treasurer Ted.)
Financial Honesty. —ln respectful
memory of a dear one lost.
You are not forgotten, Honesty,
By your former missus, Jim.
Though I’m seen about with another bloke
I don’t think much of him.
They say he intends to take me down,
Which if he contrives to do,
I shall welcome Oblivion’s silent tomb
Where I recently laid you.
(Inserted by Mrs. Jemima Scullina Kc-
pudiation—formerly Honesty.)
10-2-4.
HOW SYDNEY WILL SPEND NEXT
SATURDAY.
After many years’ study of the Sunday press
I venture to predict that the following events
of national importance will occur in Sydney
next Saturday. A small boy will climb a
church-steeple at Annandale and will have
to be yanked down by the fire brigade. A
baby aged 24 hours or less will be carried
across the Harbor Bridge, a new bridge record
being thus established. A player will do the
seventh hole at a minny golf-course in one
and thereby earn two theatre tickets. A
lady will lose her false teeth in the surf
at Manly. Constables will be assaulted by
mobs at Ultimo, Waterloo, Paddington and
Darlington. S.-p. shops will bei raided
at Waverley, Petersham and Ivogarah.
A leader of the underworld will be
wounded at Surry Hills, but will re-
fuse to disclose the identity of his
assailant. A traffic-coi) will be called away
from a busy city crossing and a newspaper
boy will regulate the A drunk will
find a pearl, which will turn out to be a
coat-button, in an oyster in a King-street
fishshop. Some one will set fire to the con-
tents of a City Council waste-paper recep-
tacle, and an overseas liner will leave two
hours late owing to the absence of an
intoxicated stoker.
W.E.F.
GARDENING HINTS.
By “Ironbark.”
Weeding is one of the most important,
though perhaps least interesting, of horti-
cultural duties. Put the wife and kids on
to this.
Don’t bother searching in the toolshed for
the shears which you intended to oil after
using last. You’ll find them rusting in one
of the beds.
Dahlias are very hardy. I have noticed
them in my own garden flowering profusely
whilst lying flat on the ground.
The chief gardening pests you have to
contend with are slugs, snails, aphis and the
fellow next door who grows better things
than yourself. They will all thrive despite
your efforts.
Go in for tomatoes. You will lose about
SO per cent, from diseases and neglect (call
it bad luck), but the rest should bear.
When your garden gets out of hand, as it
will, invite your friends along. While they
work you can then sit happily on the veran-
dah encouraging them, and opening the
bottles.
PROSPECTS FOR THE AUTUMN
CARNIVAL.
(By Our Canberra Racing Commissioner.)
The field for this year’s Gold Pass Handi-
cap will be of the poorest quality. “The
rottenest ever” was the terse comment of a
prominent punter.
Tassy Lion is a short-priced favorite, and
is expected to put it all over his late team-
mates. Maribyrnong Jim and Priceless,
from the same stable, may be fair place bets.
Last year’s winner, Yarra’s Pride, has
broken down since his spell, .and, consider-
ing his weak condition, withdrawal would
be advisable. Fiduciary Ted, his stable-mate
—a one-time star performer on northern
courses —appears unaffected by his recent
term of suspension. In certain quarters he
is still mentioned.
As a result of heavy support from rural
centres The Earl has advanced a few points
in the betting list. Kooyong Jack is still
the hope of the Nationalist stable. But
neither is regarded seriously by the cog-
noscenti.
N.S.W. trainer Jack Lang has a handful
of fractious youngsters engaged; but one and
all being inclined to run off, jib, kick and
bite, they are finding very little public sup-
port.
Once brilliant performer Blithering Blazes
(aged) will again face the barrier. His
form of late being erratic, he has been dis-
carded by most backers and by all his
numerous trainers.
Anty Frank is the dark horse. His pre-
paration has been private and mysterious.
Even his trainer’s name has not been
divulged. t .
Altogether they are an uncertain lot, and
backers would be well advised to keep their
money in their pockets.
S. ESQ.


K
7
w
Your ESSEX
deal
er holds the key to
the answers . .
all
[ESSEX
■ MOTDRI
MS
ŗ
ř
long will it last? Are reliable
dealer service facilities back of it?
Just ask your local Hudson-Essex
dealer for the key to an Essex
Challenger. Then take a demon-
stration ride and—well wager the
answers will all be in Essex favor.
r
DISTRIBUTORS
New South
Victoria ..
Wales DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
ď
ŕ


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Til* and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
mm
D
EACH
1
«
CHOIC
CIGAR
m
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. .Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome... .and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/G, bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 65/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyons’
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSSED MEAL
QUEENSLAND WHEAT.
“6Q.J.”: The results of tlie field wheat
competition recorded in the Queensland
“Agricultural Journal” are highly interesting.
Record entries came from Toowoomba (52),
and from Warwick (81). Several competi-
tors in both districts had to withdraw owing
to damage sustained from rust, frost and
windstorms. Taking only those who re-
mained in, average yields of 32.8 bushels
per acre were registered in Toowoomba and
34 bushels in Warwick.
The highest yielding crops were Clarendon,
46 bushels; Three Seas, 45 bushels; and
Pusa, 44 bushels. None of these crops was
fertilised. This may seem strange to any-
one not acquainted with the wonderfully fer-
tile plains of the Darling Downs. There are,
however, tracts of country on the Downs,
suitable for wheat-growing—round about
Oakey, Dalby and Chinchilla, for instance —in
which the addition of super, has proved of
distinct benefit.
The most popular varieties in Warwick
were, in order, Pisa, Clarendon, Duke
of York and Florence; in Toowoomba
Pusa, Florence, Clarendon and Duke of
York. The average yield of these varieties
works out: Clarendon, 36 bushels per acre;
Pusa, 35.6; Florence, 35.2; Duke of York,
29 bushels per acre; showing that the choice
of the first three varieties was universally
sound. The Warwick average for 11 crops
fertilised with 501 b. of super, per acre was
34 5-6 bushels.
Weather conditions were not ideal; an
even rainfall and a mild winter caused rank
growth, which necessitated heavy stocking to
keep it in check. Later, rust caused damage.
Varieties which showed susceptibility to both
rust and flying smut were Currawa, Nabawah,
Canberra and Waratah. Flying smut notice-
ably reduces the yield, and as the infection
is carried forward inside the seed from one
season to the next ordinary fungicides and
copper carbonate are ineffective. Standardised
hot-water treatment, however, will prevent
both flying smut and bunt. As the former
is on the increase, growers should take all
necessary precautions to establish clean seed.
Although some crops w r ere very creditably
true to type, the general quality in this
respect left much to be desired. A crop
which is not true to type will seldom be
uniform, and will consequently sell, at a lower
figure. Queensland farmers must realise the
importance of establishing their own sup-
plies of pure seed, strictly true to type. Thi-s
can best bo done by careful selection in the
field and the sowing of only pure and selected
seed. In this year’s competition, growers of
seed true to type, of the right quality and
free from disease and foreign seeds, were
entitled to the Wheat Board’s bonus of 2d.
per bushel.
HOW MUCH SUPER.?
“Lowan”: The Wimmera wheatgrowers
have generally adopted the advice of the
officers of the Vic. Agricultural Department,
especially with regard to the amount of
super, to be applied. Results for 1930-31
have convinced many that too much super,
has been used. Many of the best crops
around Warracknabeal were sown with very
little super.; some without any at all, as the
supply ran out. This unsupered area gave a
better yield than areas sown with super.
There is a definite feeling among the
growers that it was a mistake to use as much
as 2cwt. For several years in succession
yields have been light owing to unfavorable
rainfall, and the land, consequently, has had
less taken out of it. Some blame the heavy
dressings of super, even more than the un-
favorable rainfall for the shrivelled grain and
light yields.
[The department’s views were published on
this Page a fortnight ago; it recommends
reduction of super, dressings in some districts
and maintenance of the usual quantity in
others, the possibility of the price of wheat
remaining below 2s. a bushel net being taken
into account. Austi'alian wheatgrowers, in
the Wimmera particularly, owe much to the
work of the highly-trained men in the State
Agricultural Departments. Naturally they
don’t know everything that is to be known
about local conditions, but their advice
should never be ignored.]
DRESSINGS FOR FLY-STRUCK
SHEEP.
“Jamwood”: A large number of blowfly
dressings has been tested by C. R. Mulhearn.
Veterinary Research Officer to the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research at the
Nyngana (N.S.W.) experiment farm. He re-
commends, above all the rest, a 5 per cent,
aqueous solution of monsol. “This dress-
ing,” the investigator says, “penetrates into
and runs through the wool comparatively
well, and. besides being very efficacious in
removing the maggots from the struck area,
has an astringent action, though this is not
so pronounced as that with zinc sulphate.”
“The best oily dressing used,” Mr. Mulhearn
continues, “is 4 per cent, phenol crystals in
whale oil, with the addition of either 5 per-
cent. carbon tetrachloride or of 2 to 4 per-
cent. oil of chenopodium as a repellent. This
dressing has proved, when suitably applied
after proper cleaning-up of the struck area,
to be adequate as a routine dressing when
flies arc striking at anything but at their
worst. Re-strikes are uncommon, and one
dressing usually suffices. When slight to
moderate strikes have to be dealt with the
phenol and whale-oil dressing itself proves
adequate, but when the strikes become more
frequent it is necessary to add a repellent.
During times of bad strikes even these repel-
lents appear inadequate, as flies are so sui-
cidal in their habits, so vefy persistent in
their egg-laying under these circumstances,
that nothing seems to repel them.”
Reviewing other dressings, Mr. Mulhearn
praises a 5 per cent, aqueous solution of zinc
sulphate; this “has all the good points asso-
ciated with the use of bluestone, but does
not discolor the wool. As with most watery
dressings there is the disadvantage that it
does not penetrate , into nor run through the
wool nearly as well as an oily dressing. This
can be overcome to some extent by apply-
ing it with «a small hand spray-pump.
The drying action of the dressing on the
wounds is good, and should keep the sheep
free till the wool again becomes saturated
with urine and rendered attractive to the fly.
This dressing imparts a harshness to the
wool, but it is only temporary, and the harsh-
ness, whilst it lasts, renders the wool un-
favorable to re-strike.”
Of benzol he says: “As a rapid maggot-
killing agent it seems unequalled, but in
the strengths in which it has to be employed
it is irritating in its effect. It might' be
used with advantage for killing maggots in
obscure places, such as in deep wounds or
down behind the horns of rams; in such
cases, however, it should be followed by a
more soothing dressing.” Moreover, “benzol
does not act as a preventive of re-strike.”
OUR WOOL-MARKETING METHODS.
From Harold Sims, chairman of the Moree
(N.S.W.) Woolgrowers’ Defence Committee:
The Moree and district woolgrowers are no
longer alone in their determination to alter
the existing system of wool-marketing. Information
received makes it clear that the producer of wool
throughout the continent will not be content until
a businesslike stabilisation of his industry has defi-
nitely taken place. To continue the improvident prac-
tice of accepting whatever price is offered, irrespec-
tive of what the product is really worth at the
time, would not only be bad business, it would
also be unpatriotic to an extreme degree.
The marketing of our wool under a system that
affords no protection from the manipulation that for
years past has characterised it —a system that has
grown up in Australia almost haphazard and in which
the producer plays a very minor part, if any—
amounts, in my mind, to a betrayal of the trust
that responsible citizenship implies. The present
slipshod method makes no attempt to make the
market fit the circumstances of the industry, but
accepts what is offered, as a savage the word of his
medicine man. Under our very eyes, what happened
during the last slump of 1921 is happening to-day.
The profits-—already foreshadowed in the Sydney
daily press—that the speculator is about to make on
the resale of the wool purchased recently in Aus-
tralia should find their way into the pockets of the
man who produced the wool.
Investigation—unencouraged overseas —revealed the
basic fact that the statistical position of wool
throughout this season was sound and that stocks
were low. To the business management of any other
world commodity in existence, a similar market
condition would have represented a guarantee of
satisfactory prices. This natural advantage was
not taken, nor was it even considered to have a
bearing upon the market value of the product.
Ignorance of or contempt for conditions abroad can
alone explain the pliancy with which the controlling
bodies continued to dump wool on the market when
the market was turning up k its nose and pretending
that it didn’t care whether it bought it or not. To
have called this transparent bluff it was only neces-
sary to have encouraged the return of its appetite
bv a little wholesome abstinence.
When at last it was realised that a state of
utter helplessness had been reached by those in
control, the producer throughout Australia was
compelled to publicly protest, and so aroused has
he become that nothing short of drastic alteration
will content him.
FENCING FOR CROSSBREDS.
“Golightly”: Most farmers have trouble
with crossbred sheep getting through ordi-
nary six-wire fences; but there is a fence
that will hold the worst of crossbred sheep,
lambs or rams. Whatever the distance is
between the posts of yriur fence, place wooden
battens not less than 3ft. apart, evenly
spaced from post to post, and tie the three
bottom wires to them. The fence usually
favored is posts spaefed 15ft. apart, with
two wooden battens between. In such a
fence add two more battens per panel, and
tie the three bottom wires on all four bat-
tens. Then it will hold any sheep at a
small added cost per mile, and will prove
almost as secure for sheep as a netting
fence (netting costs about £5O per mile).
The wooden battens can usually be pro-
duced on the farm ; or they can be bought
at 255. per hundred. So the added cost ■to
the above type of fence per mile works out
at about £3 2s. 6d., plus labor for boring
and erecting.
PORK FOR BRITAIN.
“Bendee” : Reports that a trial shipment
of N.S.W. pork to London failed to realise
a satisfactory price are not surprising when
the facts are reviewed. One lot of pigs
sent weighed 1111 b. to 1431 b.; another ranged
from 1231 b. to 1531 b. These weights are
quite unsuitable for the English market,
where baconers should go from 1801 b. to
2001 b heavier than the weights
favored out here—and porkers from 601 b. to
1001 b.
It is the pork mai-ket on which we should
concentrate for export, for not only is the
first 1001 b. of pig cheaper to produce than
the second 1001 b., but the price realised will
be higher. Consider the prices recorded in
England in Aug.-Sept., 1930: 601 b. to
1001 b., 7d. to 9id. per poupd; 1011 b. to
1201 b., 6!d. to 9d. per pound; 1211 b. to
1801 b., 6id. to 6|d. per pound. Maoriland
pork on the Smithfield market in August
is reported to have brought, for weights from
601 b. to 1101 b., B]d. to Sid. In Dec. and
Jan. the same weights realised as high as
lid. per pound, and in April prices dropped
back to lOd. Most of the M.L. pork is the
Tam.-Berk. cross; it is all graded before
transhipment, and is of excellent quality.
When the next shipment goes from N. S.
Wales care should be taken to cater for
the requirements of the overseas buyer and
to land the shipment at the proper time to
catch the good prices. For pork, this should
be from August or September till March
or April.
REDUCING TRANSPORT CHARGES.
Portable gas-plants for transport might
help us over this period of low prices for
farm products. One system has been em-
ployed lately by the French Army, the idea
being to make the military machine inde-
pendent of imported fuels in war-time. The
Imbert type weighs between five and seven
hundredweight, and no drastic alteration is
required in the ordinary internal-combustion
engine. An explosive gas is generated by
the combustion of wood in a forced-air draft
in a small metal grate, the treosote being
broken up into useful gases. No petrol is
required in the starting of the engine, which
takes five minutes. The only difference _in
performance is a slight loss of speed on high
grades, and the cost would be negligible to
the farmer with' ordinary timber resources.
One fill-up gives 60 miles of running, and
if the supply gives out the driver merely has
to pick up a few twigs from the side of
the road and pop them in the container.
Local tests by Bert Cooper, a mechanical
engineer of Melbourne, suggested that Aus-
tralian hardwoods were even better for the
purpose than foreign timber. He went on
a long journey merely using the bark and
rubbish on the roadside —travelled on the
country, in fact.
South Aus. farmers are generally inter-
ested; and in N. S. Wales the well-known
Austral-Frenchman Paul Wenz, of Forbes,
who made one of his frequent visits to
France recently, is an enthusiastic believer
that the process will save the back-country-
man vast annual sums.
THE RAINWATER SUPPLY.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Next month is
tank-cleaning time. Let the last of the rain-
water run out, shovel out the two inches
or more of muck, scrub the bottom and
wash it clean. The stuff you shovel out
smells horribly—and yet you and your
family have been drinking the water which
lay above it. Why not fix it up so that
an hour’s work once a year attends to the
whole business and no rubbish can get in?
It isn’t difficult.
First of all, as soon as the tank is empty
and cleaned, solder in a flushing plug. This
is simply a two-inch galvanised pipe union,
with a screw plug to fit, soldered into the
side of the tank with its bottom edge level
with the tank bottom. Very few tanks are
perfectly level on their stands. The spot
where the last few pints of water lay when
you bailed it out will show you the lowest
point, and that’s where you fix the plug,
so that it drains the tank right out. Before
screwing the plug into the union coat the
threads with tar. This will enable you to
screw it out again with just a light twist
of the wrench. Wait until the first rain
sets in ; then take, out the plug, and as the
water runs out keep the sludge stirred up
by means of a swab on the end of a long
stick, used through the manhole. When
the water runs out clean, replace plug and
manhole cover—and that’s that.
Now to prevent all but a trifle of dirt
getting into the tank. Alongside it erect a
small stand, to carry a tank made out of an
empty 40-gallon petrol-drum with the top
cut out, and painted inside and out with
three coats of bitumen paint to stop rust-
ing. This tank’s top edge should be nine
inches above the top of the main tank. Over
the top of it fit two screens —first one of
fly-wire, sagging two inches in the centre,
the next of bird-cage netting placed over
it and stretched taut. The down-pipe from
the roof gutter is led to the centre of these
screens, and the water from this little tank
is passed into the main one by a piece of
Bin. water-pipe. A hole is cut to receive
the pipe four inches from the top of the
drum, and the joint is made water-tight by
means »of a lock nut inside and out, and
several washers on each side, cut from the
rubber of old motor-tubes. This pipe leads
into the tank alongside, and any gap round
it. should be packed up with rag. Then all
leaves and other rubbish remain on top of
the screens and can be removed in a few
minutes. Most of the dust washed off the
roof stops in the little tank, and no rats,
mice, bees, spoggies and other fauna can
spoil your water supply by committing suicide
in it.
EARLY AND LATE MOULTERS.
“Jack Point” : “Henpuncher” (B. 11/3/’3l)
thinks my condemnation of the early moulter
too sweeping, and gives a list of things
which may aljso contribute to an early
moult. Well, a man would hardly expose his
birds to such things as “change of quarters
or feeding methods” at such a time ; if he did,
lie surely wouldn’t, expect the moult to prove
a reliable guide. I repeat that the moult is
the best and easiest outward indication of a
lien’s stamina, egg-laying capabilities, and
value as a breeder. It isn’t such a trust-
worthy guide as trap-nesting, but, bearing in
mind that the notes I write are addressed
principally to farmers who run fowls as a
side-line, it is the best and easiest means of
securing a better flock average without
resorting to specialisation and consequent
increased labor and expense. R. E. Cray, an
admitted authority, says: “Hens that moult
early, under normal conditions, will not lay
so many winter eggs as hens that moult late;
neither will they begin egg production earlier
in the spring. The first hens to moult in
the flock should be sold and the last to
moult should be kept to breed from.”
“Henpuncher” needn’t fear that his late
moulters will be so exhausted by their efforts
that they won’t be laying in time to breed
from in spring. The latest moulters will'
resume laying in early spring at a time when
best possible hatching results are obtainable.
It’s simply a matter of breed characteristics
plus stamina —the late moulter hasi the
breeding to lay eggs plus the stamina to do
so whilst her less robust mates are taking
a spell. When she does moult she will do
so rapidly because of that extra stamina,
and come on to lay because it is bred in
her to do so.
I don’t “abjure trap-nesting.” _ I merely
suggested that it was a specialist’s job.
PINEAPPLE BRAN.
“Azac”: The prosperity of an industry
is often determined by the profit to which
it turns its by-products. The waste of by-
products from canneries and jam factories
in this country is a case in point. Evidence
is available in plenty to prove that this
waste could be converted into a palatable
and nutritious form of stock food.
Six years ago the Hawaiian pineapple can-
nery at Honolulu began converting the skins,
cores, trimmings and waste pieces of pine-
apple into what is known as pineapple bran,
and so successful has been the venture that
supply has not once in all the six years been
able to overtake demand.
An average analysis of pineapple bran
shows it to contain 3.62 per cent, protein.
1.01 per cent, fats, 18.23 per cent, fibre,
62.82 per cent, carbohydrates and 3.7 per-
cent ash. Compared with maize, it is much
lower in protein and fats, about the same in
carbohydrates, greater in fibre content; it
contains over twice the pei-centage of ash.
This last-mentioned point is very important,
and should make pineapple bran most valuable
(Continued on page 26 ,)


1
I
\m
u
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
:«
m
i
►a
mi
i
i
'"-i
m
m
m
m
•mil
m
m
K
the infallible
indication of Super Spirit
SEE and KNOW
WHAT YOU PAY FOR
STOP AT THE
UNION PUMP
Do you buy your spirit by name
only? Are you paying for a spirit
that has possibly been diluted with
inferior petrol or even kerosene?
Insure your engine and your
pocket against the dangers of sub-
stitution fill only with RED
UNION, a Super Spirit, branded
in every drop—protected from the
refinery tc your car.
UNION is quick to start. It burns
cleanly and smoothly—with never
a trace of a “knock.” You’ll revel
in its velvety smoothness and the
effortless flow of power, equal to
any demand.
RED UNION gives you more
genuine value than any other spirit
you have ever used. Try it! Stop
at the UNION PUMP, where
you SEE what you pay for.
rtJNI
non-ddomding
SUPER SPIRIT
2-48-31
THE RUNNING MATE OF ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL


a
• a
K
Vi
IPlii
■
Heavy-soled and made
in four fittings
Here’s a shoe that combines extra
strength. . . . its heavy sole is made
of the toughest obtainable leather
.. . .with perfect -ease in wear.
Each full or half size is available in
four widths. . . .narrow, medium,
wide and extra wide. And the upper
incorporates a special arch which
fits naturally over the instep.
ORDER RY POST.—State both width and
size, and ask, also, for a supply of Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . . . 33/6
TAN CALF . . . . 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 Years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St., Sydney
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
FPL 222
(onstipation
means the end
of Health
j**
r-S.V
CONSTIPATION is the beginning
of countless ills, many of them
very serious ones. You cannot
afford to ignore it.
There is a simple, safe and comfort-
able way to treat it. Make Figsen
your protector. This unusual laxative
works in the most natural manner.
Its action is gentle but thorough.
There is no purging or griping, no
troublesome after effect, no habit form-
ing worries. Figsen is an ideal laxa-
tive for all types of people. Small
children, aged persons, athletes and
average people all find it equally good
for combating disorders of the elimin-
ation system. Your chemist sells it.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment .....
Sold only by
Chemists
*
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price fcnr the original.
PUMPS
FOR ALL PURPOSE*
1
When a powerful easy-working Hand Pump is re-
quired, we recommend the “ACME” shown below.
It is double acting and has a capacity of nearly
2,000 gallons per hour. The cog-geared head
greatly reduces the effort of operation. Brass valve
seats, and not the usual iron seats, are fitted.
Price, fitted for 2 inch pipes, £4/17/6 F.O.R.
Melbourne.
The “AJAX,” a similar type, for 1\ inch pipes
700 gallons per hour, is priced at £4/12/6 F.O.R.
Melbourne.
Both are splendid pumps for general pumping
and spraying. Ask for particulars and Catalogue.
MsI>HERSONS>
PTY. LTD.
554 Collins St., Melbourne. 51 Bathurst St., Sydney.
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide. 532 Murray St., Perth.
< • Ji
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS SINCE I*6o j
for stock on mineral-deficient pastures.
Wheat contains only about 1.9 per cent, of
asli. Pineapple bran is certainly low in pro-
teins, but it is very palatable; moreover, it
has bulk and should suit dairy cows.
In making this bran the juice is expressed
from the skins, cores, etc.; and after run-
ning the material through shredders it is
blown into a revolving drier, to be thoroughly
dried by means of liot air. As the drum
slowly revolves, the bran is worked to the
discharge end by moans of baffles. The fin-
ished article is retailed in 1001 b. sacks.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to control smut in prairie-grass seed?
—2444.
. Before sowing immerse the seed in a solu-
tion of bluestone (111 b. to lOgal. of water)
for three minutes; drain, and then immerse
tor about three minutes in limewater made
by stirring lib. of freslily-burnt lime in
lOgal. of water. A quicker method is to
steep the seed in a solution of lib. of 40
per cent, formalin to 40gal. of water for
five to ten minutes. In each case dry before
sowing.
What artificial grasses are suitable for a
property in the Goondiwindi district, s.-w.
Queensland; annual rainfall about 20in.?
Are there any that withstand the winter as
well as natural grasses? —2lB4.
In your district the winter and early
spring months are generally too dry to
expect winter-growing grasses to thrive
under natural conditions. The only excep-
tion is during what may be termed a good
herbage season. As Goondiwindi is noted on
such occasions for the excellence of its fat
stock, it is questionable whether it would
pay to spend money on grass and clover
seeds to try to improve on the trefoil, crow-
foot and other indigenous herbage plants.
Best treatment for blood scours in young
calves ? —2199.
Segregate all sick calves and drench
them with two tablespoons of crude castor
oil. Place ample water beside them dur-
ing the next 24 hours, during which time
they should be fasted. Give a teaspoon
of tincture of opium in two quarts of fresh
milk, with one tablespoon of limewater and
two quarts of barley-water, for each feed;
but half this quantity for first feed after
fasting. If the calves are fly-blown, wash
them and clean them with phenyl and
water, one tablespoon to the gallon of
water. Keep this treatment going for three
days and gradually go on to a full milk
ration, and keep on this until the calves
improve in condition. If you have had any
abortion in the herd last year or the year
previous, keep only the very strong calves;
do not attempt to rear the weaklings.
When starting on skim-milk again use
limewater and raw linseed oil, one ounce
to the gallon, and do not increase until
the mothers are regular and normal.
Short description of annato? (2)
What commercial value have crimson seeds
in pod? (3) ,Treatment required before mar-
keting? (4) Is there a market in Aus-
tralia ? —1904.
(1) It is a dye obtained from a shrub,
Bixa orellana, with white or pinkish flowers
and echinate red capsules. (2) About 3d.
per pound, c.i.f., London. (3) The seeds
should be dried with as much pulp as pos-
sible adhering to them for export. This pulp
is separated from the seed by washing with
water, and is then concentrated to form a
paste. (4) Annato imported from Denmark
is used in Australia for the coloring of
cheese. There would no doubt be a market
if the article manufactured were suitable
for cheese coloring.
Quantity and value of greasy wool exported
to United Kingdom, the Netherlands and
U.S.A. for last year and the year before?
—2210.
1928-29: United Kingdom, 212,037,7621 b.,
valued at £16,953,408; Netherlands,
296,0511 b., £25,821; U.S.A., 19,154,2351 b.,
£1,761,304. 1929-30: United Kingdom,
202,438,3101 b., £10,399,850; Netherlands,
770,9401 b., £43,275; U.S.A., 19,346,5691 b.,
£1.101,962.
(1) When was rice-growing first
attempted in Australia on a commercial
basis? (2) What quantity is now produced
here? (3) Is sufficient grown here to meet
Australian needs? (4) How are imports and
exports affected by local production?. (5)
Any danger.of over-production? (6) To what
extent is the new industry protected? —23o2.
(1) During the 1924-25 season. (2) In
1928-29, the latest year for which details are
available, 14,058 acres yielded 1,307,641
bushels in N.S.W., averaging 93,02 busheis
per acre. A small quantity was also grown
in Q’land, W.A. and the Northern Territory.
(3) This production represented about
24,518 tons and is more than sufficient to
meet local requirements, which during the
past five years averaged approximately
17,000 tons per annum. (4) Imports of
rice during 1928-29 amounted to 89,062 cwt.,
as compared with 195,671 cwt. for the pre-
vious year, while exports, which commenced
with 108 cwt. in 1927-28, increased to
2719 cwt. (5) Yes, and on the Murrumbidgee
I. A. restriction is being placed on areas to
be planted. (6) By a Customs duty of
Ss. 4d. per cental on uncleaned rice and
12s. 6d. per cental on other than uncleaned.
(1) Commercial prospects of daffodil-
growing in N.S.W.? (2) Most suitable
locality? (3) Most suitable flowers to grow
alternately wth daffodils to ensure two
crops per year for marketing? (4) Area
necessary to return £4OO p.a.f (5) Amount
of capital required? (6) Are daffodils sub-
ject to diseases or pests? —2ls4.
(1) Not at all bright, (2) Any of the
highlands, such as Bowral or Blacklieath.
(3) Impossible to grow alternate crops,
as the daffodil bulbs planted in early
autumn, say, about March, will not flower
till September, they should then be left to
die down naturally, which does not happen
until about the end of the year. (4) Doubt
whether it would be possible to sell that
value, as they are only in season for a short
time. Three to four acres should be suffi-
cient. (5) Governed by the cost of land.
Bulbs would cost about £lOO. (6) They are
very subject to attack by eel-worms.
(1) Can a Vic. farmer whose liabilities are
{treater than his assets file his schedule in
bankruptcy, or is it in Ms creditors' power
to say that he must carry on and endeavor to
pay them? (2) If he had. a meeting of his
creditors and they decided that he must go
on, would it be possible for him to go insol-
vent and pay only a few shillings in the
pound? —2299.
(1) He may present a petition to the
Bankruptcy Court and his estate will then
be placed in the hands of an official assignee.
(2) If his creditors give him time, and he is
still unable to meet his debts, he may take
the above course and have his estate seques-
trated. How much he pays in the pound
will depend on what his assets realise.
I contracted to purchase a farm in N. S.
Wales, sale being made subject to my being
able to get an advance from the Rural Bank.
I was unable to get the services of the
bank’s valuer before the agreed-upon time
of taking possession, and the vendor would
not wait until he came to the district. 1
therefore arranged a private loan which
falls due in 1932. The Rural Bank has
now declined to make me an advance. (1)
Can I stand on the letter of the contract and
upset the sale? The vendor holds a second
mortgage, with eight years to run, paid by
annual instalments. / have paid to him the
short-term loan and £lOOO besides? (2) Is
the mortgagee forced to carry on until
1933 the mortgage ivliich falls due in 1932?
(3) Would payments of principal on an
eight-year term indebtedness, held up by the
moratorium, fall due in 1933?—2407.
(1) You do not appear to have any
ground upon which you could void the sale.
(2) Yes, till April, 1933. (3) Yes. unless
the Court has made an order extending the
date of repayment. .
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“L’.Fou”: A big factor in improving the
carrying capacity of pastures is subdivision
into small paddocks, each stocked in rota-
tion and spelled at short intervals. By this
means the growing season is lengthened and
grass kept sweet and even. But with inten-
sive stocking parts of the paddock become
fouled, and rank with manure, so that much
of the benefit is lost if a manure-spreader
or harrows is not used frequently. In pad-
dock ends near the homestead the most thor-
ough manure-spreader I have seen is a flock
of active scratching hens.
“0.W.W.”: If you are removing heavy
drums, bags of cement or the like from a
vehicle where there is no convenient staging
and no one to give you a lift, place two old
motor-car tyres together on the ground, and
let the stuff drop down on them. The tyres
prevent jarring that may cause contents to
leak out.
. “11.P.W.”: In cold or windy weather, on
light work, it is sometimes hard to get a
kerosene engine hot enough to do its job.
On some types a great improvement can
be made by wrapping a bit of asbestos sheet-
ing round the vaporiser or combustion cham-
ber. Driving a broom millet hackler (a
light job) with a G4-li.p. Australian-made
engine, I have by this simple dodge reduced
my fuel consumption from 4gal. to lgal. a
day, and got much better running. Of course,
•you mustn’t overdo it, or the engine may
get too hot and begin to knock from pre-
ignition, but short of that the hotter it is
the better it will run.
“Biro”: To help balance the farm budget,
give the car a rest and grease the old cart
or sulky; harness also. Short trips with
many stops are costly with a car; taking
out salt, for instance, is a job that is better
left for the cart, and so also is carrying feed
for stock. And be assured that turkeys, geese
and ducks are good side-lines, and don’t
forget that good butter-cows eat no more
than wasters, or that milk and cream are
still in great demand.
“Minthall” : Farmers who are whipping in
autumn crops should not forget subsidiary
lines that help balance the rations and spread
out the feeding. A late sowing of swedes,
is worth while. Mangolds are great milk pro-
ducers; drill them in —51b. per acre —and
thin them out for size. Sugar beets are just
as good; treat, the same way with 81b. per
acre. Field cabbage is a stock stand-by;
canary seed and linseed will repay the dairy-
farmer well; rye gives more green feed than
any other crop in the dead of winter; and
rape is a general stock feed and an excel-
lent soil renovator withal.
“M.W.8.”: Old 45-gallon oil or fuel drums
make excellent copper stands. Cut out end
to fit copper, also a hole to attached chim-
ney. With a couple of hinges a doorway
can be arranged on side, and some holes
around the bottom end to cause the draught.
“Comma” : A good cow-rug can be made
with three cornsacks. For the centre use oue
sack intact; this is where the cow needs
protection most. Split up the other two and
sew one to each side, leaving enough to
double back at the shoulder and rear. Shape
the shoulder edge and fasten with a buckle
and strap under the neck. Stitch down the
rear edges, and sew a strap about 15in. long
with a spring clip on the end to the inside
of the rug—just about where the cow’s stifle
will be when the rug is on. Then sew a
metal “D” to each rear edge, and bring
the straps round inside of each back leg
and clip to the “D.” This rug is quickly
put on and taken off; it also hangs straight
from the cow’s body and sheds the rain.
Don’t use a belly-band or surcingle.
“11.P.W.”: A handy thing in the fowl-yard
is a catching hook, on the model of the old
shepherd’s crook. Take a piece of fencing
wire 3ft. or 4ft. long, double one end for
about Gin. to make it easy to hold, and turn
back about 4in. of the other end into a V-
shaped hook a couple of inches wide at the
mouth, getting narrower till it just fits a
fowl’s leg. It saves a lot of violent exercise and
cackling and doesn’t knock the birds about.
“Valerin” : The methods recommended by
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture for
the control of the grasshopper pest are futile,
if not worse; to destroy the egg-beds over
vast areas of infested country is impractic-
able, and poisoning of the young broods will
lead to the extinction of insectivorous birds.
Efforts to check the increase of this menace
to the pasture lands must be the job of the
parasitologist. Many year§ ago a fungus
disease was introduced, but the work was not
followed up. Occasionally a disease is notice-
able amongst ’hoppers and it is going to be
worth while to investigate it.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (31) wants job on N. S. Wales or
Queensland station; some exp.—24ol.
Returned sister, Sydney, wants position as nurse
in large office, shop or factory.—2379.
Position sought as companion-help, governess or
subsidised teacher, N.S.W. Six years’ exp. to inter-
mediate standard ; music.—23B9.
Accountancy student, N.S.W., five years’ exp.,
wants position with country firm (Riverina pre-
ferred) witli view to partnership.—246B.
Single man (25), Sydney, requires situation as
houseman-waiter. Exp. groundsman; last position
with golf club. Refs. —2463.
Lady (Vic.) on farm, willing take sole charge of
children as boarders.—2427.
Black-and-white artist, Sydney, seeks artistic work
of any sort. —2380.
Freelance journalist, Brisbane, contributor various
weeklies, would like to get in touch with artist,
view supplying joke ideas, etc., for illustration.
—2398.
Words of song “When You’re Asked Out to Dine
with Your Mother-in-1aw.”—2387.
To buy Alsatian puppy. (To J. Wilde, P.O.
Cairns, N.Q.)
To buy the “Master Mind” memory system and
Shaftesbury’s . “Instantaneous Personal Magnetism.”
—2420.
To buy “History of Botany Bay,” published by
The Bulletin. —2413.
To buy used copy of “International Trade
Developer.”—249s.
To buy 1926 Dodge 800k.—2462.
Information Sought.
(1) What weight will one cubic foot of
coal gas (as supplied by gas cos.) lift? (2)
What docs one cubic foot of gas weigh and
how docs it compare in weight with air and
water? —2o6B.
(1) Approximately half an ounce. (2)
0.0421 b.; air, 0.0761 b.; water, 62.51 b.
Mill-white (water-mixed) paint applied to
interior walls is flaking off. Cause and
remedy ? —2244.
Evidently due to something that has been
used on the walls previously, or to the paint
being applied on a greasy surface. Only
remedy is to remove all paint and dirt and re-
paint.
(1) What are the salaries of members of
the N.S.W.' Hospital Commission? (2)
What does the commission cost? —2240.
(1) Chairman, £1375 p.a.; four other mem-
bers receive allowances at the rate of £lOO
p.a. (2) Approximately £5OOO p.a.
Is the amount of a promissory note given
by a father to his son exempt from Federal
and State probate duty —-(1) In a case
where the father dies before date of pay-
ment of p.n.f (2) Where the p.n. has
been made payable on demand and has not
been presented? (3) Should the executors
pay these amounts? • If so, when? (4)
What would 'be the total probate duty in
N.S.W.' on an estate of the net value of
approximately ' £2500? —-2248.
(1) and (2) Duty is levied on net value.
The holder could claim in the estate if it
had been given for valuable consideration.
If allowed, the amount would be deducted
from gross value. (3) After probate had
been granted. (4) State duty, 2 per cent.;
Federal, £1 12s. per cent.; rebates in cases
of widow and children.
(1) What is the market like for dried
ferns and palms? (2) How should they be
collected and how are they preserved? (3)
Any literature on the subject? —l69o.
(1) Very dull. Woolworths, Sydney,
might be interested in small quantities.
(2) The usual method of collection of ferns
(giant maiden-hair) is to tie them in bundles
of about 50, the fronds being placed on top
of each other. They are then left under
cover, still in bundles, until thoroughly dry,
when they are packed in crates, holding
50,000 ferns or so. Ferns and palms can be
dyed by using a solution of an aniline color
dissolved in methylated spirit to which
shellac is often added. (3) Don’t know of
any.
(1) What is the difference between mar-
riage in a registry office and in a church?
(2) What questions have to be answered,
and what documents produced? —2329.
(1) No difference in validity. (2) Each
of the parties must make a declaration as
to age, and that there is no impediment or
lawful objection to the marriage. After the
marriage the minister or registrar and the
parties and their witnesses sign a certificate
of the marriage, a copy of which is handed
to the married couple.
(1) Is buffalo-hunting still carried out in
N.T.? (2) When is the hunting season?
(3) Cost of outfit? (4) Value of hides? (5)
Probable annual profit? (6) What chance
has an experienced stockman of getting a
footing in the game? (7) Any books on the
subject? —24oo.
(1) Yes. (2) May to October. (3) Most.
hunters in the Territory are using plants
to the value of £3OO. (4) Approximately
4d. per lb. (5) At present, owing to ex-
tremely low prices realised by hides, those
buffalo-hunters still shooting are doing so
merely to keep the buffalo down on their
cattle territory. (6) Under the laws govern-
ing the shooting of buffalo in the N.T.
permits to' shoot are granted only to persons
who have selected land on which buffaloes
are. All : the buffalo country is at present
taken up, (7) Don’t know of any.
(1) Best route to New Guinea and
approximate -cost of travelling to the gold-
fields from Sydney? (2) When is the rainy
season, and'what is the average temperature
on the fields? (3) Chances of getting
work there? (4) Must camp and stores be
forwarded or can accommodation be secured
there? (5) Where can full information be
obtained?— 2393.
(1) It is compulsory to go via Rabaul.
Fares to the fields run to about £5O including
aeroplane from Salamaua. You must also
lodge £5O with the Administrator at Rabaul.
(2) All the year round; about 65 degrees
in the mountains. (3) Not hopeful at
present. (4) Advisable to take your own geax 1 ,
but accommodation is available. (5) For
transport information, etc., Burns, Philp ; for
employment prospects New Guinea Goldfields,
67 York-strect, and Bulolo Gold-dredging
Co., Wingello House —all Sydney.
How does the White Australia policy affect
colored citizens of the British Empire? —
2048.
Admission to the Commonwealth for per-
manent residence of persons of colored races,
irrespective of whether they are British sub-
jects or aliens, is prohibited. Exclusion is
effected by means of a dictation test in any
language.
(1) Is the N.S.W. Constitution controlled
by the Upper House? (2) If Mr. Lang is
successful in removing the Upper House could
he pass a law extending the term of the
present Parliament ? —1546.
(1) The State’s “Constitution” is a patch-
work affair, only partly comprised in the
Constitution Act 1902. Several Imperial
Statutes, the Commonwealth Constitution,
the Letters Patent and Instructions to the
Governor, an element of inherited English
law, some Federal Statutes, sundry State
Statutes and a number of legal decisions and
English precedents and conventions are all
bound up in it. The consent of the Leg.
Council, as a part of Parliament, is required
to amend such things in the Constitution as
Parliament can amend. (2) That’s a point
for lawyers to argue about. In Maoriland,
where the Triennial Parliaments Act is pub-
lished as part of the “Constitution,” it was
contended by the Government’s legal advisers
that as the M.L. Parliament had passed the
Act it had a right to suspend or amend it,
and in war-time there was no election for five
years.
(1) Can an amplifier or amplifiers be
arranged to catch sound from, three different
points in a large room and convey it to one
point in the same room? (2) If so, how
close would each speaker have to stand,
speaking conversationally, to get results?
(3) If the speaker at times partly turned his
head from the instrument, would much of
the sound be lost? (4) Would such a con-
trivance be very prominent? (5) Approxi-
mate cost {electricity is available)? —2200.
(1) Would depend upon the size of the
room, the amount of echo and the location of
the microphones and speakers. (2) and (3)
Depends upon the gain of the amplifier and
sensitivity of the microphone. A high-gain
amplifier would enable the lecturer to stand
further away from the microphone. In that
case turning the head would not seriously
reduce the volume. (4) Could be placed in
a cupboard or in an adjacent room. (5)
Depends upon sensitivity of the equipment;
might cost several hundred pounds.
(1) A brief description of the Trobriand
Islands? (2) What type and of what dis-
position are the natives there? (3) Chief
products of the islands? —2150.
Tlie group, comprising the islands of Kiri-
wina, Kitava, Vakuta, Ivaileuna and others,
lies off the New Guinea coast, about 30 miles
north of the D’Entrecasteaux group. It is
a collection of coral islands. Some of them
arise abruptly from the .shore to a height of
from 200 to 300 feet,, forming cliffs crowned
with large trees. Others are only just above
the. water. (2) They are more like Poly-
nesians than Melanesians in appearance and
disposition. They are friendly, hospitable
and industrious. (3) Yams, cocoanuts and
beche-de-mer.
(1) Hole long icas Coley, the botanist, in
Australia? (2) What was his scientific
status? (3) What were his chief exploratory
trips? (4) Did he marry Margaret Catch-
pole?-—2155.
(1) Ten years—April, 1800, to May, 1810.
(2) The results of his researches were never
published, but he was held in esteem by con-
temporary naturalists. (3) Besides several
journeys to the Blue Mountain foothills,
searching for plants for Sir Joseph Banks, in
March, 1801, he went with Barrallier and
Grant in the Lady Nelson to Western Port;
in Nov., 1804, crossing the Kurrajong ridge,
lie reached Grose Valley, opposite Govett’s
Leap. (4) There is a story that he proposed
to her and was refused.
(1) What is the Sane D-emocracy League?
(2) Who are its leaders? (3) Would you
advise a farmer to join the local branch—
-2029.
(1) An anti-Communist organisation. (2)
Chairman, J. McMahon; committee, H.
Greenaway, C. Ludowici, H. M. Macken, C.
McDowell, P. Moses, A. Mould, O. D. Oberg,
J. Symonds and L. N. Thomson ; - secretary’,
A. de R. Barclay. (3) That’s a matter you
must decide for yourself.
(1) Is there Rockefeller Foundation
money available to send students of anthro-
pology to America to continue their studies?
(2) From whom can I secure full informa-
tion? —2143.
(1) The Rockefeller Foundation made a
grant to the Australian National Research
Council for a period ending December, 1931,
to permit the council to send qualified stu-
dents in anthropology to continue their
studies in Europe and America. Four fellow-
ships have been allotted in this way. As
there is uncertainty about the continuation
of grants to the students by Australia*! Gov-
ernments, this work may have to come to an
end at the close of the year. (2) From the
Australian National Research Council, or
from the Department of Anthropology of
Sydney Uni.
What rates do we actually pay on our
national debt of 1140 millions? —2202.
See “Commonwealth Year Book” (193 Q),
pages 2(33 and 283. Commonwealth debt
(1929) ranged from 3 p.c. (£33,262), 51 (91
millions), 51 (67m.) and 6 p.c. (Som.), aver-
age, £5 3s. 9d. State debts (1929) ranged
from 3 p.c. (39 millions) to 5 p.c. (206 m.),
5-|- (115 m.), 51 (82m.) on to (5m.).
Average rate, £4 18s. lid.
How to destroy borers in furniture? —2406.
Mix 1 part creosote (not too dark in
color) to 8 parts kerosene, and inject into
some of the borer holes with a pump or
syringe having a sharp-pointed nozzle.
(1) Prospects of the engineering profes-
sion? (2) What are the conditions of the
engineering course and the fees charged at
Brisbane Uni.? (3) Any age limit? (4)
Positions open to qualified engineers? (5)
Salary? (6) What is the highest engineer-
ing degree attainable ?■ —1857.
(1) Not bright at present, owing to lack
of money for construction. (2) Matriculation
in five subjects in the senior examination and
four years’ university course. Composition
fee, books and instruction approximate £3O per
annum. (3) No, (4) Mostly with Public
Service or with departments such as railways,
water supply, roads, etc. Consulting prac-
tice is limited. (5) Salaries range from
£275 to £l5OO (Main Roads Commission).
Usually from £4OO to £650 for experienced
men. (6) Master of Engineering in Queens-
land. Sydney and Melbourne have D.E.
(Doctor of Engineering).
(1) If a man fell Jrom the top of the
Sydney Harbor Bridge, 450/t/ above the water,
how long would he take to reach the water
and at what speed would he be travelling
when he hit it? (2) How long would it
take for a man to fall a mile , and what speed
would be attained at the end of the journey?
—2257.
(1) The mathematical formula for such
computations takes no account of air-resis-
tance. On that formula the time occupied
by the fall would be 5 3-10 sec. and the
speed at the moment of impact would be
116 m.p.h. Probably the fall would take
6sec. and the speed at moment of impact
would be a shade over 100 m.p.h. (2)
Excluding the air-resistance factor, which
is not. accurately calculable, about 18 l-10sec.,
the speed attained being about 393 m.p.h.
(1) Original amount of war debts owing
to Britain? (2) Amount originally owed to
the U.S.A. by Britain? (3) Amount by
which the U.S.A. reduced the debt? —1885.
(1) The aggregate of war loans by Britain
was, in round figures, £150,000,000 to the
Dominions and £1,800.000,000 to the Allies.
(2 ) 4,604,128,085 dollars. (3) There was
no reduction of principal, but the original
interest rate of about 5 per cent, was re-
duced by a funding agreement, which calls
for the payment of 3 p.c. for 10 years, and
3$ p.c. for 52 years, plus in each case per
cent., which is applied to reduction of capi-
tal indebtedness.
(1) Is a translation of Von Sanders's
“Notes on the Palestine Campaign'” avail-
able in Australia? (2) Is there a British
official history of the campaign? (3) What
Australian units published histories? —1623.
(1) Yes. The translation is entitled “Five
Years in Turkey,” and is published by U.S.
Naval Institute, Annapolis. The Brisbane
Public Library may have a copy. (2) Yes,
“Military Operations; Egypt and Palestine”
(2 vols.), by Capt. Cyril Falls. (3) His-
tories of the 2nd, 6th, 7th, 9th and 10th
Light Horse Regiments have been published.
There is also vol. VII of the “Australian
Official History of the War,” by H. S.
Gullett. The work of the Flying Corps in
Sinai and Palestine is recorded in vol. VIII
of the same history, by F. M. Cutlack.
(1) When was the franchise granted to
women in Britain? (2) Who introduced the
bill? (3) Who were given the right to
vote? (4) What extensions have been made
to the franchise, and when? (5) What is
the present membership of the House of
Commons? (6) How many are women? (7)
Are any men excluded to-day from the
franchise ? —1457.
(1) February, 1918. (2) Mr. Asquith.
(3) Women 30 years of age who were
entitled to be registered as Local Govern-
ment electors for the occupation of land
or premises of £5 p.a. value, or of a
dwelling-house, or as the wives of hus-
bands who were entitled to be so
registered. Women of the required age
possessing a university degree or (in
universities where degrees were not con-
ferred on women) who had passed their
final exams, were also entitled to vote. (4)
Under the Equal Franchise Act (1928) the
franchise was extended to women over 21
years. (5) 615. (6) 15. (7) Those de-
barred by reason of legal incapacity (failure
to possess necessary residential qualifica-
tion) and, among others, peers, infants,
aliens, bankrupts, lunatics and idiots.
(1) What is the price of flour in Sydney?
(2) What duty has to be paid on Austra-
lian flour entering M.L.? (3) Duty on
wheat entering M.L.? (4) What is the price
of bread, in Sydney? —2ll2.
(1) £7 10s. per ton delivered at the bake-
house in the Sydney metropolitan district.
A bill is at present before the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment which provides for the acquisition by
the Crown of all flo'ur in the State and for
its sale at a higher price to provide a fund
for the relief of farmers. (2) Duty is im-
posed on a sliding scale governed by the cur-
rent domestic value at the port of export.
When such value is £l3 10s. per ton of
20001 b. the duty is £3 10s. per ton, falling
by Is. per ton for every Is. or fraction of a
shilling by which the current domestic value
exceeds £l3 10s., and rising by Is. for every
Is. or fraction of Is. by which the current
domestic value is less than £l3 10s. per ton.
(3) A sliding scale operates also in this case.
When the current domestic value of wheat
at the port of export to M.L. is ss. 6d. per.
bushel, the duty is Is. 3d. per bushel (of
601 b.), falling by for every |d. or frac-
tion of by which such value exceeds ss.
6d. per bushel and rising by Id. for every Id.
or fraction of |d. by which such value”is
less than ss. 6d. per bushel. (4) 3d. to 4d.’
(retail) per 21b. loaf, according to suburb,
for cash,over the counter. Extra is charged
for delivery and booking.
Brief Answers.
C.H.E.Y.: Principal uses of barytes are
in glass, ceramic, enamel, paint and paper indus-
tries, or where a heavy filler is required. Frank
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney, might be
interested. .. .R.G.M.D.: (1) A club which should
meet your requirements is the Dante Alighieri
(president, Dr. Antonio Baccarini, 250 Pitt-street,
Sydney). (2) “L’lllustrazione Italiana,” issued
weekly, in Milan, Italy... .A. 8.: Write to Naval
Board, Defence Department, Melbourne.... W.L. J;:
Lea and Perrin (Australia), Ltd., care Yarwood,
Vane and Co., 28 O’Connell-street, Sydney....
W.R.C.: (1) About 25 per cent, off selling price, with
discount if accounts are paid within a specified time.
In the case of an average agency commission, discounts
and surcharge average 32J per cent, off selling price.
(2) They exercise supervision over the amount of
money paid for goodwill and see that the various
papers are pushed to the utmost; also they approve
or disapprove of any applicant who wishes to buy an
agency. (3) From £BOO to £900... .W.S.: (1)
and (2) Yes. (3) Chief Justice, £3500 p.a. ; others,
£3OOO p.a R.S.: Ask the author for permission.
He is not likely to refuse... .J. 11.: Address your
inquiry to the Income Tax Office, Brisbane. ...
T.J.T.: The work is not covered by an award in
Tasmania,.. .R.K.S.: (1) The bidder and the partner
take the value of the call together. (2) A. and C.
go to 460 and must carry on. (3) “Hoyle’s Games
Modernised,’’ Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 4s
S.C.: Write Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney. .. .A.A.: The Commissioner may satisfy any
co. as regards the correctness of a Section 21a
assessment, provided all the shareholders give written
authority for their rates of tax being divulged
E. J.D.: (1) Write Deputy Registrar of Joint Stock
Companies, Rockhampton, Q’land. (2) Under the
scheme all employees are supposed to be shareholders.
....J.D.: (1) Write to Machining and Electrical
Co., 29-1- Oxford-street, Sydney. (2) About £10....
M. : Write to Country Lending Branch, Public
Library of N.S.W., Sydney T.K.: Ordinary cases
of catarrh generally yield to treatment. Use a
nasal douch twice daily with salt solution (half-
teaspoon to a cup of warm water). Don’t smoke....
V.F.P.: Under the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Commission the amount payable for the loss of two
joints of the little finger would amount to £lOl
ss. approximately. To have the injury assessed,
make application to the Workers’ Compensation
Commission for a medical examination. .. .J.D. E.:
Depends on the terms of the agreement, but, ordi-
narily, he would be entitled to claim "reasonable
interest over the period the payments were in arrear.
....W.S.: The incident you presumably have in
mind occurred at Deepwater (N.S.W.) on August 6,
1876, when Father Healey (not Halley) was shot
by troopers in mistake for a bushranger... .R.0.M.:
The O’ which is prefixed to so many Irish surnames
means son or a descendant of, and is equivalent to
the Gaelic “Mac” or the Norman “Fitz”....
J.M.8.: N.S.W. Agriculture Department issues a
pamphlet on the subject... .F.J.E.: Apply Secretary,
Air Board, Defence Department, Melbourne
J.H.D.: Apply Director, Technological Museum,
Sydney R.11.P.: (1) Parts unprocurable in
Sydney. Don’t know of another make which would
interchange. (2) From Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Sydney, 6s. 6d. per pound; creeping variety, Bs. 6d.
per pound, freight additional. .. .T.P. : A resident of
N. must pay unemployment relief tax on income
derived from all sources P.F.C.: No short course
of training at the Teachers’ College, Sydney, this
year. ... .D.W.N. and T.L.G.: Consult the “Common-
wealth Year-book,” obtainable at all public libraries.
.... C.C.H.: Most Sydney firms that handle that
class of business charge Id. booking fee for each
seat irrespective of price... .D.V.8.: (1)- You failed
to send the specimen. (2) See Lempriere’s “Classical
Dictionary”.... J.K.: Any motor engineering works
would do the job J.H.: See Bulletin, May 14,
1930, page 18....R.W.: Yes. He married Miss K.
M. Scott Anderson in 1908. .. .P.F.K. : Write K.
Phibil, Box 368655, G.P.0., Sydney... .J.D.E.: The
N. bar-closing referendum was held on June 10,
1916. The voting was: Six o’clock, 347,494 ;
seven o’clock, 4830 ; eight, .21,134; nine, 178,842 ;
ten, 1405 ; eleven, 3193. .. .R.S.P.: (1) and
(2) No agents here who handle that class
of work. You would have to forward
direct to London. (3) Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-
street, London, W.C.2. (4) and (5) See article
on marketing plays in “The Writers’ and Artists’
Year-book” (Black, London) G. 0.: Get in touch
with Vic. Master Carriers’ Ass’n., 324 Flinders-
street. Melbourne C.M.L.: At latest advices unem-
ployment among whites in Singapore is worse' than ever.
Strongly advise against going unless under contract.
....J.11.: There is no reliable control of these
alleged records. They are not acknowledged by
any accepted athletic organisation, and the makers
of them usually make their own rules and keep
their own count.... G.E.: Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, will furnish a list... .R.R.L.: Music can
be printed from line blocks, by offset, or by litho
from plates. All three methods are fairly expensive.
Get advice from a publisher concerning copyright,
etc., before proceeding... .R.M.C.8.: Each notch on
the .rear sight represents 50 yards... .W.E.G.: Income
tax is payable on it F.F.: (1) 20 to 27 years.
(2) sft. 9in. ; chest expiration 35Jin., inspiration,
38in. (3) Fourth-grade school standard. (4) No,
if weight normal for height. .. .R.M.: (1) Most
newspapers publishing political cartoons will pur-
chase ideas. Payment varies from 7s. 6d. to £1
per idea. (2) Submit poster designs to the adver-
tising manager of the . fnm interested G.H.8.:
No; see Law 27....J.W.,: (1) No, but typewritten
copy is preferred. (2) Yes.. Send to one paper at
a time... .G.G.C.: Impossible to secure such a posi-
tion without experience... .P.L.G.: Get in touch
with Chisholm and Co., 117 Pitt-street, Sydney
C.W.8.: Dixon and Byrn, Reiby-place; A. W. Dye,
219 Elizabeth-street; Orr and Welch, 80 Hunter-
street —all Sydney... .L.V.W.: The employees would
not be exempt from Wages Board determinations.
... .R.K.0.: Write to any of the Sydney blood-
stock salesmen or- to British India S. N. Co., 5
Bridge-street, Sydney... .T.E.L.: Send them to us
for inspection. .. .W.L.T.: All’ abo. words. Burraga
means “bitter swamp”; Goolara, “moonlight”;
ICobada, “place of a hill” ; and Murawa, “red kan-
garoo”.. ..A.S.: Prof. W. L., Bragg .was born in
Adelaide in 1890. He was, awarded the Nobel
Prize for Physics in 1915 for work on X-rays and
crystal structure.... .J.L.O’N.: To be on the safe side
you should have him insured. .. .E.W.P.: (1) and
(2) If A owns the business, and has borrowed money
from B to carry it on, and the business fails, B
can claim as a creditor in A’s insolvent estate. If,
on the other hand, B is only the nominal proprietor
and working for A, as his agent or servant, A has
no claim against B for loss of capital. (3) Not if
the intention was to defeat A’s creditors. The furniture
is an asset in A’s estate F.W.C.: Hop-bush
plants or seeds may be obtained through the Q’land
Acclimatisation Soc., Brisbane (Many others
mailed.)


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
In happy tadpole times, when the rain
descends and the mud riseth up to meet
her [writes Sappho Smith], one can’t help
being struck by the feeble grip with which
Sir HENRY BROUGHAM (afterwards
Lord ) LOCH, the very handsome and
popular Governor of Vic., 1884-89. He
was afterwards High Commissioner of
South Africa. [18/8/’88.]
the average woman hitches her pendant
draperies out of harm’s wet way. Half the
back of her gown is grabbed high and dry,
certainly, and then the other half is left
hanging loosely, swabbing up all the liquid
increment round about, and the last state of
that woman is woi’se than her first. But
one hardly blames her —for there are only
two ways of keeping one’s final frill spot-
less in bad weather, and neither of them
looks nice enough to be photographed in.
One is to take off your skirt and hang it
in a dry place; the other is to give both
hands to the job, and trust to the chivalry
of your male friends to look another way
as you loom across the gutter. To keep clean
and look pretty in the rain is almost as
possible as to fall up a hill.
Writing of Father Walsh, who died/re-
rently at Port Macquarie (N.S.W.), a
country paper tells how one of his Litligow
parishioners thus delivered herself to him
on one occasion: “Yer riv’rence, that ould
Misthress Kelly up there beyant does be
saying that the clergy should be practising
and not be praching so much ; and she said
(bad luck to the same ould woman for a long-
tongue she has!) that last Monday, as ye
was going to Sydney, yer riv’rence tuk a
bottle of portlier at wan dhrink for yer
lunch; and I up and told her she was a
liar.” Without a smile came the reply in
Father Walsh’s best brogue: “True for you,
Mrs. Rafferty, my good sowl, it was what
you called her that she was; for I tuk
two!”
When the unco guid some time ago raised
an outcry against boxing being allowed in
Sydney, Parkes promised to visit the saloons
and decide for himself whether the affairs
should be allowed to go on or not. Accord-
ingly one day a while back, having set Abi-
gail [Minister for Mines] a jiage of dictation
to copy out, the great man strolled down to
Foley’s to see what was to be done, and a
representative of this journal, who happened
to be there at the time, gives the following
account of what occurred: As the great Hi-
Ham marched majestically into Foley’s bar
and demanded to see the “pugilistic pro-
prietor” an aged fighting-man, who was
attending to the bar, after gazing hard at the
Premier’s classic features gave a yell of
astonishment, and exclaimed, “Lord bless
us, if it ain’t Deaf Burke come back to
life!” Sir Henry is said to bear a strong
facial resemblance to a departed pugilist who
was famous in the scientific world under the
sobriquet of Deaf Burke. The Premier
stared, and the old bruiser advanced, holding
out the hand of amity. “ ’Ow are yer, deaf
’un?” lie yelled at the top of liis voice. “Put
it there, if it’s red hot” —at the same time
offering to shake hands. With an aggrieved
look the great man drew himself up and
replied haughtily, “You make a mistake. Hi
ain’t' deaf, and my name isn’t Burke. I’m
the Premier.” “Not Deaf Burke!” said the
old warrior astonished; “I could have sworn
to your nose. ’Owever, I wouldn’t be so
flash about it; I’ll swear you ain’t as good
a man as Deaf Burke, anyways. What’s
your name, anyhow?” “Parkes! Parkes!”
repeated the knocker-out. “Never heard of
you. What’s your line —boxin’, rowin’, three-
card, thimbler-riggin’, foot-racin’ —though I
shouldn’t take you for a man with much
dash of foot.” “I told you,” said the states-
man angrily, “that I am the Premier.” “Oh,
stow that rot!” said the athlete. “What are
you premier at—middleweights, Graeco-
Roman, collar-an’-elbow ? Everybody’s a
premier something or other these days. The
town’s stiff with champions and premiers
and nonpareils and such like.” “I’m the
Premier of New South Wales,” thundered
the old man, now thoroughly roused. “Oh,
only a, local celebrity,” said the other pity-
ingly. “I’m premier
middleweight boxer of
the universe myself-—no
Noo South Wales cham-
pionship for me. ’Ow-
ever, there’s some boxin’
goin’ on inside if you
care to ’ave a look, so
come along—it’s dry
work talkin’, though,.”
And the boxer went
through the solemn per-
formance of holding up
his gnarled and dirty
forefinger and making-
three separate ineffec-
tual attempts to spit on it. Then he
held it up for the Premier’s inspection,
at the same time remarking, “Puffeckly dry.”
This ceremony, which is de rigueur in scien-
tific circles, is meant to indicate the extreme
thirst of the gentleman going through it,
and his consequent inordinate desire for
liquid refreshment. The Premier, however,
did not take the hint, and the boxer ventured
on a further suggestion: “Wouldn’t it be a
go'od line to blow the froth off it before we
go?” This time tlxe veteran politician
assented, and they blew the froth off two
foaming tankards at the Premier’s expense.
“Now,” said the pug, “come along
o’ me and I’ll interjuce you to the
boys as Deaf Burke; you lay low.”
They moved on into a room where
a lot of the fistic fraternity were
assembled. “Boys,” said the
fighter, “this is my old friend Deaf
Burke —the greatest man that ever
stepped into a ring. When him and
me used to be fightin’, then fightin’
was fightin’, no playing puff-face with big
gloves and makin’ a draw for the gate money.
Lor’, I seen, a Brummagem chap and a snob
from Lunnon ’ave a set-to in Seven Dials
just for love of it, and the Brummagem chap
had his left listener chewed off in the fust
round. Ah, them was the times!” The
entrance of Foley put an end to these remi-
niscences, and the politician went away with
him, leaving the old man o'rating to a bored
and incredulous audience about the time
when Tom Sayers died —“and all the profes-
sion "went to the funeral, and there was 37
fights in the first two hundred yards, not
counting a scratching set-to between two
women.” Our representative followed the
Premier to the boxing hall, where Foley
explained the mysteries of the noble art.
“You see,” he remarked, “the phap facin' us?
Well, he holds his dooks too high, and in ’arf
a minnit he'll get one in the pantry.” This
prediction was amply verified, and the boxer
was floored. “Ought to have looked out for
that.” said Foley. “He’s all for. sloggin’ out.
that cove; if he’d go in for protection he’d
do a lot better.” “Protection!.” snorted the
boss of all Freetraders. “Do you mean to
tell me you believe in Protection?” “In
course.” was the reply; “if .you don’t pro-
tect yourself you’ll get more than you give,
and that don’t pay.” “That’s a fallacy,”
said the other, “It has been said by Ring-
nose Wise, and it must be true, that imports
and exports always balance each other; it’.s
an invariable rule.” “All right,” replied the
boxer, “you come here some night and put
on the gloves with Black Jackson and see
if you don’t import a great deal more than
you export.” But here the old man stalked
wrathfully out, muttering something about
“seedplots of Protectionism,” and we may
expect to 1 have all boxing saloons closed at
an early date.
TWO SIDES TO A QUESTION— By “Hop.”
POET: “Why didn’t you publish the contribution I sent you?”
EDITOR: “Did you write on one side oj the paper only?”
POET : “Certainly.”
EDITOR : “Then I must have published the other side.” [26/10/’89.]
It was on the last day of the tour that
the great pianist and the tuner met for the
last time. During 20 long years the wealthy
piano firm had told the tuner off to accompany
distinguished artists, and in all that time he
had never been asked if he had a mouth.
The famous man ( loquitur ) : “Oh, Smith,
I've a little thing I’d like to give you before
saying good-bye, if you will call at the hotel.”
The poor tuner (log.) r “Oh, it’s very good
of you, sir,” and promised to call. Smith
spends the meantime dreaming of the many
precious things that would be very suitable
rewards after 20 years’ faithful service, and
calls at last at the hotel. Not without a
certain shyness, he is shown into the pres-
ence of the maestro, who commences: “Oh,
Smith, I thought I’d like to give you this
before leaving,” and, putting his hand in his
pocket, he continues: “I don’t think I shall
require it any more.” It was the key of
the piano.
One of the curiosities of Melbourne is an
insolvent moneylender. Less than 12 months
ago his advertisement glared out conspicu-
ously in all the papers, stating that he was
prepared to lend any sum from £5 to £5OOO
without security, promptly, with the utmost
secrecy and at, lowest, current rate, repay-
ment any time you liked. Also he would buy
up your interest under your aunt’s will, or
purchase your annuity, or advance money ou
a bill with two good names on the back, or
take over your reversionary interest, or be
a father to you without any extra charge,
or if money had been left to you he would
fix up an arrangement whereby you could
have a sudden and immediate burst, and then
the money would be left to him instead. Then
his advertisement disappeared, and he took
to leaning up against lamp-posts in a ragged
and pensive state, and lent £5 to £5OOO no
longer. It is rumored that he got hard-up
through some temporary extravagance and
borrowed money from himself on a bill. Then
he couldn’t pay when it fell due, and he
called at his own office and renew r ed the
document at a steep percentage, and when
the second bill became payable there was a
painful scene between him and himself, and
lie had to give a mortgage on all his pro-
perty, and the interest fell into arrear, and
there were more bills, and in a moment of
indignation he called himself a skinflint and
a money-grabber, and then he rushed at him-
self and threw himself out of the office, and he
sued himself for libel and had to pay damages,
and afterwards he brought a counter charge
of assault against himself, and finally he sold
himself up, and the proceeds went in law ex-
penses. And now his premises are closed, and
the man who wants to blow out his annuity
knocks in vain at the door and arouses only
a hollow echo, like the ghost of a lost
mortgage; and the elderly maiden lady who
sleeps on the floor because her furniture has
all been seized under a bill of sale comes to
weep at the keyhole and call down judgments
on his head no longer; and even the elderly
man with the bald head who rashly went
“shecurity” for a friend has abandoned the
place and all its emptiness.
The girls of the telephone exchanges are
said, from force of habit, to begin their
evening prayers with a preliminary “Are
you there ?”
In a N.S.W. cattle district a grazier
missed a pure-bred shorthorn cow. He rode
in hot haste to the homestead of one whose
pickle-tub was likely to be empty. He saw
his cow in the stockyard amongst beasts be-
longing to his neighbor; and so overjoyed
was he at finding the animal alive that he
went inside for a social glass. On coming
out he returned to the stockyard. Lo! the
shorthorn cow was missing and an unidentifi-
able carcase hung from the slaughtering
gallows. He knew it would be folly to com-
plain, so he returned meekly homewards.
But he drove before him one of his neigh-
bor's beasts —a fine red, fat bullock with
a bell round its neck. Next day the neigh-
bor visited him and said: “I’ve come to
inquire about a red bullock.”^
“I shouldn’t wonder if lie’s strayed away
with my shorthorn cow.”
A pause, and the neighbor spoke thus,
with impressive gravity: “Mind ye, Davie,
it’s no’ fair o’ ye to keep the bell.”
A friend in need is a friend to be avoided.
WHEN YOUR NEIGHBOR TURNS THE
TAP.
On these sultry summer mornings when the
bed feels like a. stew,
And the flowers are sadly wilted for the lack
of nightly dew;
When you long for restful slumber and yet
hanker to get up—
’Cause you’re in a perspiration and are
“dying for a sup”;
Then you stagger to the bathroom where the
waters ought to lap ;
But they don’t do more than dribble —’cause
your neighbor’s turned his tap.
On a hillside in the suburbs, in a terrace on
a street—
You’re the lowest in that terrace, lowest
down by many feet,
And you ought to get a shower that will
chill you softly through,
But the shower doesn’t seem to act as
showers ought to do.
Then you rage with righteous anger and
your towels wildly flap
As you realise the hideous truth —your
neighbor’s turned his tap.
In the dead and silent hours of night you
lie and read the news,
And then proceed to court repose and just
begin to snooze;
Sweet dreams are stealing o’er you to replace
your weary thought,
And your fancy is in realms of light, com-
mencing lamblike sport.
A jangling jar horrific tears you rude from
slumber’s lap,
And —wide awake —you know thereby your
neighbor’s turned his tap.
There’s a horrid fate awaiting the man who
builds a row
Of Tom-and-Jerry “villas,” with a single
pipe of flow;
So that when, up on the corner, Gynx per-
mits his tap to run
The fellow down below him, wanting water,
can get none.
When this builder, down in Tophet, wants a
drop to cool his sap
He will find the furnace roaring—while his
neighbor turns his tap.
NEVILLE FORDER.
Dear Bulletin, —There is a tribe of
blacks in the Northern Territory of S.A.
who do not allow their women to speak at
all after marriage. This law is strictly
enforced, and obeyed, but I do not know the
penalty incurred by disobedience. The gins
above a certain age all converse by means
of signs. This tribe occupies the dry coun-
try between the heads of the coast rivers
running into the Gulf and those falling
'inland, a sort of debatable land between the
coast and the interior. In the earlier days
of the overland telegraph-line an old man
and his gin came in to Powell Creek station
and were allowed to stay there. They got
some rations and a little tobacco, which
they soon learned to use, and did the usual
blackfellow ? s work of bringing up the horses
and milkers. Nothing could induce the gin
to utter a word. As an experiment, her
rations and tobacco were stopped, but it
availed not. Then they stopped the old man’s
rations, and at last his tobacco. This was
too much for him, and he sternly commanded
her to speak. She did so: she turned on
her husband, and belabored him with all the
long-pent curtain-lectures of years; all the
bottled up abuse that should have been doled
out in instalments was paid in full. Next
she went for the stationmaster, and then for
all hands, winding up with the Chinese
cook, who encountered her valiantly in
Chinese, and the two went at it for hours.
Finally, as she could not be stopped, she
had to he cast out, like a second Hagar,
into the wilderness. The aboriginal plan
works well so long as the rule is not in-
fringed.—
DELCOMYN.
THE MINT OF GOD.
Would God but still the clangor of the sky
And wheels of destiny that harshly roll,
Crushing the golden glory of the soul
From out the dross of dull mortality,
Then every doubting heart and straining eye
Might see and understand the perfect
whole,
The earth, the stars, and spiritual goal,
Obedient to the Master standing by.
But while we blindly drive from dust to dust.
Confounded in the chaos of an hour.
With death and hell tumultuous everywhere,
We cannot hide our hearts in trembling trust,
Or differ from the dying daisy flower,
Save in this weary wisdom of despair.
DOWELL O'REILLY.


11 ;11
ns
m
SdUuyl
" if/FODERN car finishes show
IVJL the effects of weather and
travel stain by a dullness which
is really a dead film of oxidized
nitro-cellulose.
Your car finish will give you
full-life satisfaction if you re-
move this surface dullness and
maintain that ‘new-car’ brill-
iance with a chemically correct
polish ...”
The leading car finishing experts
recommend Leggetts Red Dia-
mond Liquid Car Polish because
it contains no harmful acid or
wax and pfbduces a new brill-
iance with amazing ease.
Insist on this chemically correct
Car Polish made by the makers
of the famous 42 Red Diamond
Motor Products. In bottles:
soz. 1/9, Boz. 3/-. 16oz. 51'.
AT ALL GARAGES
Made in Australia by
LEGGETT PRODUCTS PTY. Ltd
Melbourne and Sydney.
\\
1 1 i
CAR POLISH
\
BUB
jgzZZ2222:
fV 5
CAR \ i
polish
..a little care ivtll save i/ourcar /
A SIMPLE GUIDE TO ECONOMICAL MOTORING
Your car is just as old as you make it.
It is just like any other machine —the
more care you give it the more value it
represents to you in motoring comfort
and economy.
In your home garage or on the road,
you can do many necessary jobs easily,
quickly and cheaply, which will make all
the difference to your car’s capacity for
unusual service.
It is obvious to the thinking motorist-
that the care of the ear should be ex-
tended to other than frictional surfaces
and working parts —the bodywork and
hood, subjected as they are to all kinds
of severe weather conditions, cannot give
full-life service unless cared for.
The tyres, too, will give “miles” more
service if properly cared for. When you
consider the tremendous strain and hard
knocks that road travel subjects your
tyres to, and realise that on their relia-
bility depends your safety, you will give
them the care necessary for life and
economy.
The chassis and all under-carriage fit-
tings are exposed to the elements, and
call for periodical attention. A little care
on these parts will save much expense.
The radiator and cooling system of a car
is perhaps the most neglected unit,
mainly due to the fact that internal
metals are “out of sight out of mind.”
The cooling s'ystem should be regularly
treated with a special cleaning compound
to remove the rust, scale, oil and grease
slime which is constantly accumulating
and causing overheating and over-con-
sumption of petrol and oil.
The engine, battery and brakes will all
give longer and more trouble-free service
if properly cared for.
To help you take care of the car every-
where is the mission of the famous
Leggetts 42 Red Diamond Motor Pro-
dnets. They are known for their ser-
vice and quality in every corner of the
Commonwealth, and it is certain that
garageman will endorse them as neces-
sary and dependable aids to economical
and care-free motoring.
Write to 6 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney,
or .317 Exhibition Street, Melbourne,
for a printed guide showing how to
keep your car young with care.
m
SERS of all 5-minute type
vulcanizers are now offered a
worth-while saving on Patch &
Heat Unit refills.
The match-lit heat fuels burn perfectly—the
nickel silver pan ensures full pressure to
the red rubber patch which flows readily, fills
the fracture and becomes a flush, resilient
part of the tube.
Each Leggett Universal Refill contains 12
Patch & Heat Units with Nickel Silver
Pan and Roughener. Price 3/6.
There is now positively no need to pay more
for Patch & Heat Units—insist on this
dependable refill, made by the makers of
the famous 42 Red Diamond Motor Products.
at all garages
Made in Australia by
LEGGETT PRODUCTS
PTY.
LTD
Melbourne and Sydney.
Refill
•{ ii
PER DOZEN
Slightly Higher Outback
PATCH&HEAT
UNITS
r.mm
HAMM
imumm
UNIVERSAL
PATCH&HEAT UNITS
for all roadside vulcartisers
SHADOW SHOWS.
Hollywood is at its best in films like “The
Criminal Code,” at Sydney State. The
Yanks turn out gaol pictures that are as
honest as British naval ones. Solecisms don’t
seem to matter in U.S.A. naval films. Ameri-
cans swallow episodes, such as a member of
the lower deck making love to the captain’s
daughter at sea, that would cause hoots of
derision in England. But they are sticklers
for the verities in anything touching their
police force—an institution which evidently
holds a place in their hearts similar to that
held by the British Army in the hearts of
London’s pre-war melodrama patrons. Holly-
wood directors have met this situation by
substituting types for actors, to a great
extent. They don’t want an experienced oid
mummer like, say, George Arliss, who makes
up variously as a Hebrew Prime Minister, an
Indian rajah and an English business man,
and looks and talks alike in all three parts.
It a gaol warden is required they go after a
man who in appearance, voice, manner and
dress is the sort of warden that a consider-
able number of Americans seem to know all
too well.
Walter Huston is Warden Brady in the
State show, and he is worth going a long
way to meet. Not for a moment do you get
the impression that you are watching an
actor, though he is, of course, a fine actor.
He neither overplays nor underplays—just
plugs along, doing and saying the things to
be expected of a man of his class, character
and mentality as 'if limelight didn’t exist.
“Tim (Criminal Code” has an uninspired
plot. Young Phillips Holmes, as Graham, has
killed a man in a restaurant brawl. Brady,
who is State Attorney at the time, gets him 10
years, and then comes as warden to the prison
where he is serving the sentence. Graham
becomes involved in the politics of the gaol,
is suspected of the murder of a stool-pigeon,
lias his innocence established by a desperado
who won’t let a fellow-prisoner take a rap
for him, gets his parole and clasps the
warden’s daughter to his bosom with her
father’s consent.
The hero and heroine are the only un-
satisfactory. features of the production, apart
from the hackneyed story. They do what
they have to as well as could be expected,
but they are obviously interpolated to meet
the popular demand for romance. The charac-
ters who matter are the warden, the gaolers
and the convicts, and they are as realistic
as the sailor's in “The Middle Watch.”
Y Y Y
Sydney Capitol always has an elaborate
programme of vaudeville acts, news-gazettes,
overseas and Australian, orchestral numbers,
and at least two pictures, sometimes funny,
sometimes otherwise. “Amos ’n’ Andy,” the
gagsters, supply most of the humor on this
week’s bill. To the writer they are as dull
as an hour in the N.S.W. Assembly, but
Sydney seems to like them. Clara Bow
dominates the other film. Clara, as most
newspaper readers know, has been in trouble
with the wowsers of her native land. There
have been allegations that she doesn’t
resemble Caesar’s wife as closely as some of
her Hollywood sisters. “No Limit,” in which
she is showing with Stuart Erwin and Harry
Green, is accordingly the last work of a
festive nature that the “It” lady will orna-
ment. Her next effort is to be propaganda
stuff, showing how a pure-minded woiking-
goil can be misunderstood by a censorious
world.
Neither of the above has the rich, care-
free fun of “The Gang Busters,” which was
at the Capitol last week. Jack Oakie is the
exuberant ass who, with no wish to play a
hero’s part, delivers the homicidal rum-
runners who have kidnapped his girl into
the hands of the police. Oakie is another of
those Hollywood stars who don’t need to
make up, or deviate from normal as regards
voice or manner. He is always eager to
please, wooden-headed, familiar without
being disrespectful, good-natured, modest and
capable of pushing jauntily into anything.
A most engaging character, with an absurd
face to match. “The Gang Busters” is only
a skit, but it has some thrilling moments.
All these offerings are from the Fox Movie-
tone factory.
Y Y Y
The best thing at the Regent this week,
and one of the best things in Sydney, is
“Enter Sir John,” a British talkie by Helen
Simpson, an Australian now living in Lon-
don. There is a murder in a theatrical com-
pany which is touring the provinces, and
Sir John, the famous West End star, first gets
interested and next decides to turn amateur
’tec and unmask the perpetrator. The
dialogue is very funny in spots, the voices
are extremely English, and the story runs
on as smoothly as a Rolls-Royce car. In
the novel, which Miss Simpson wrote in
collaboration with Clemence Dane the play-
wright, Sir John is elderly—another Gerald
Du Maurier. The picture represents him as
young, which is absurd. In all other respects
the screen version is as convincing and excit-
ing as the book, and that is saying a IoU The
photography is picturesque and the sound-
recording is just about perfect. Herbert
Marshall and Miles Mander are the stars.
Y Y Y
Fox’s “Under Suspicion,” wdrich was also
shown for the first time in Australia at the
Regent, is another type of work in which
Hollywood shines. Harold Murray is the sus-
pect ; he has joined the Canadian Mounted
Police as Private John Smith. Love develops
with Lois Moran, the delightful daughter
of Lumsden Hare, the Commandant. But
George Brent, Inspector (Ang., Adjutant),
also desires her. His evil machinations
result in his discomfiture, and the revelation
that Smith is a bart. wdio has adopted an
a lio.fi for noble reasons. It may sound Vic-
torian, yet the impression given is essen-
tially one of reality. The landscapes are
masterly, and .so, with some trifling reserva-
tions, are the characters. Lumsden Hare
is all an O.C. should be, and Murray, though
slightly fatuous, is, in character, too. The
Inspector is the one serious blot on the pro-
ceedings. His villainy is all too obvious.
A magsman as frank in his scoundrelism as
Mr. Brent is v r ould be out of business in
short order.
POVERTY POINT.
“L. de R.”: Devereux and Lunt, members
of the “Sons o’ Guns” co. now performing
at Melbourne Royal, met the economic de-
pression by handing their railway tickets
to their wives and walking from Sydney to
the new stand. It took them 13 days to do
it and cost them nothing, hospitable people
giving them food and lodging.
“Cine Ma”: Hollywood has been so used
to seeing eminent artists take it lying down
from illiterate magnates with two cigars in
their mouths that it gasped, according to a
cable, when Edna Best, a young English
actress, walked out of a lucrative job, saying
that she didn’t think she was fitted for it,
and anyhow she was pining for her homeland
and her husband. If Australian audiences
showed the' same spirit less of Hollywood’s
sewage might be discharged into this country.
“Cauboy”: Gregory Stroud, one of the
principals imported by the Firm for the
G. and S. season, was the son of Ali Baba in
the first Chu Chin Chow co., which opened
at the Tivoli, Melbourne, 10 years ago and
had an amazing run. He was one of a high-
metalled cast, such as one doesn’t often see
nowadays. It included Arthur Styan, G. K.
Souper, Chas. 11. Workman, Maggie Moore,
Vera Pearce (now in London). Lottie Ser-
geant, Louie Pounds and Eily Malyon.
Stroud had a rich baritone voice in those
days, and, judging by his long engagement
at Daly’s, it hasn’t deteriorated.
“Cine Ma”: After all, that nigger wasn’t
killed and eaten by the lion in “Africa
Speaks,” and the “Argus” had its humani-
tarian instincts aroused for nothing. The
incident did not even occur in the Dark
Continent. It was added in Hollywood,
and the King of Beasts was an inexpressibly
tame animal, which always looks round at
the camera after it has done its stuff to see
if the operator is satisfied. Hollywood
would not have blown the gaff on itself had
not accusations of bowellessness compelled
it to confess the true position.
“Maeann” : The few good theatrical yarns
in Mrs. C. N. Williamson’s “The Inky Way”
include one of Hannen Swaffer. She saw him
with his face bent over a cup of tea, ignoring
the fact that 25 pretty women wouldn’t have
been sorry had he noticed them. “For this
Hamlet, not the play but the tea was the
thing. I tried to chat. Sadly Hannen
Swaffer’s eyes remained fixed upon his cup.
At last I could bear no more. And what fol-
lowed I brought upon myself. ‘Mr. Swalfer,’
I ventured, ‘do you—do you—ever smile?’
He turned, regarded me as if I was a thing
beneath the notice of a wrecked ship’s cat
after a week on a rationless island, and
murmured, ‘Madam, I am not an actor.’ ”
“Dinn Dinn”: The supremacy of silence
over sound was never better emphasised than
in the talkie “Let’s Go Native.” The night
I saw it two following episodes, showing a
serious and self-conscious gentleman attempt-
ing to carve a recalcitrant duck and a
number of sea-passengers throwing each
others’ wearing apparel overboard, held the
audience in hysterics for five minutes con-
tinuously. Not till I was mentally review-
ing the picture an hour after did I realise
that during those episodes not a word had
been spoken. We had many such laughs m
the dumb days. Ten good silent films shot
at the public in quick succession would kill
talkies, and the people who would enjoy the
funeral most would be the exhibitors.
“L de R.”: Allan Wilkie’s production of
“Hay Fever” is the first professional show-
ing a Noel Coward comedy has had in this
country, if “This Year of Grace” is classed
as a musical play. Amateurs have murdered
them again and again, but legitimate entre-
preneurs have for some obscure reason shied
off some of the best money-spinners London
has seen.
“F.S.”: Mrs. .Tames Dyer, whose hus-
band made a fortune in Melbourne, has
offered a musical library to the National
Gallery, to assist in making the work of
British composers more familiar in Aus-
tralia. During and for a few years after
the war Mrs. Dyer maintained a society
whose aim was to demonstrate that _ music
could be carried on without the assistance
of German and other enemy composers. The
aim was not achieved; as in every other
country where such a scheme was tried, the
absence of Wagner and Beethoven only
resulted in concerts of pretentious medio-
crity. Some of the modern British com-
posers were featured, but Melbourne music-
lovers were either intellectually or auricu-
larly unprepared for them. Since national
prejudices have died down British composers
are beginning to assume their right place,
as minor but valuable elements in pro-
grammes, and interest in them is steadily
increasing.
“ J.D.”: I read a number of American
criticisms of “The Middle Watch,” the
British naval film which had a recent first
night at Sydney State, and practically all of
them —notably one by the admirable
Pare Laurentz, of “Judge”—expressed
amused incredulity at so much fuss being
made because a couple of girls accidentally
spent a night aboard a warship. It exempli-
fies that remoteness from the realities of
life which characterises Hollywood, and is
reflected to a great extent in America’s film
critics. The Hollywood idea of a warship is
a kind of sea-going cabaret. In “Sea Legs”
the captain had his wife and daughter and
some of their girl friends aboard, and the
daughter and an A.B. made love and crooned
in a storm. About a hundred chorines per-
formed on the. deck of a battleship in a
recent Clara Bow picture. The truth is,
as any American sailor will tell you, the
ladies are barred from U.S A. wai'ships,
except on special occasions, as rigidly as
they are from the ships, of the R.N.—and a
woman has about as much chance of spend-
ing the night on a British warship as she
has of sojourning in a Trappist monastery.
“The Middle Watch” provides a photo-
graphically perfect picture of life on a war-
ship under normal service l condition#, and
of the reactions of all ranks, and ratings to
the presence of unauthorised females, but
to most Hollywood directors it seems a
caricature. That is what is chiefly wrong
with Hollywood, and it explains, amongst
other things, why British naval and mili-
tary pictures are beginning to make fools
of those from the U.S.A. -


\ For Better,
Easier Sweeping-
Bissells
SWEEPER
BRUSH
CONTROL
With magic ease the neW
Bissell sweeps thickest car-
pets without dragging —any
kind of carpet with NO HARD
BEARING DOWN on the
handle and will even sweep
linoleum.
Twice as much self-adjustability
as any other sweeper in the
world. Light—easy to handle
—sturdy—lasting.
Try a new Bissell—at leading
merchants.
Booklet on request.
Arkell t& Douglas, Inc.
General Agents
Sydney, Melbourne, Auckland
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Company
Manufacturers
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SERVICE and RESULTS
Eighty-two years of faithful service
to the assuring public, and
OVER ONE HUNDRED MILLION POUNDS
paid to members or their
dependants since establishment.
Efte
A.M.P. SOCIETY
(Established, 1849.)
Assets over £83,000,000.
All classes of Life Assurance business trans-
acted, including Probate and Group (combined
with Disability Benefits) Assurances.
Exceptionally Strong Reserves.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Offices in the Capital and Leading Country Cities and field repre-
sentatives in all districts throughout Australia and New Zealand.
THE BIGGEST and THE BEST.
FINGER & TOE
NAIL NIPPERS
N25—W. JNO. BAKER
NAIL NIPPERS,
highest quality steel,
finely finished, nickel-
plated ; 44in.
11/6 each.
NSO—STRONG NAIL
NIPPER, nickel-plated,
4sin. overall, German
make.
6/6 each.
Post Free for Cash with Order.
New Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Amusements.
g YDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: DEAREST ENEMY.
CRITERION:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SONS O’ GUNS.
LAST NIGHTS.
COMEDY THEATRE: ON THE SPOT,
With Frank Harvey and brilliant company.
MADE and FINANCED by AUSTRALIANS and
PRODUCED BY HIGHLY TRAINED AUSTRALIAN WORKERS
An outstanding exhibit at the
Royal Easter Show is that of
William Arnott, Limited, the
Biscuit Specialists of over 60
years' experience. Arnott s Pro-
ducts are freely admitted to
challenge the World s foremost
manufacturers for quality and
excellence.
See Our Exhibit
in the
Hall of Industries
ARNOTT’S FAMOUS BISCUITS
have supplied the housewives of
Australia with a perfect health
food, which delights their families
and their guests, and saves them
untold work and worry. Always
available oven-fresh in airtight
tins, they ensure the housewife
against surprise visits and give
her delicious, dependable items
ready for any meal or social
function.
M anufactur e d by
WILLIAM ARNOTT,
LIMITED, THE BIS-
CUIT SPECIALISTS o)
over 60 years’ experience.
- * fc,
D r~.
:
* *%*i jKjf -
■
fp MOTTS BISCU
f i A 1
m
■
■ T| I
»w
AjWiOirin
1
FAMOUS
m
wawm
This purely Australian enterprise
has proved that Australia can
take her place in the forefront,
and that our sun-ripened Aus-
tralian-grown produce supplies
raw materials unsurpassed in
rich, ripe, health-sustaining quali-
ties.
See Our Exhibit
in the
Hall of Industries
William Arnott, Limited, directly
and indirectly employ thousands
of Australians, not alone in the
production of their Famous
Biscuits, but in the growing and
handling of wheat, currants,
raisins, etc., etc., the supply of
milk, butter, eggs, jam, cream,
etc., etc., and the distribution of
the finished products throughout
Australasia.
four Grocer sells them.
For Economy Buy Whole
Tins.
Important to Housewives—when buying Assorted Biscuits always ask for ARNOTT’S and make sure you do not take substitutes,


Missing Friends.
DRAITHWAITE.—American relatives seek
information about William, Ralph,
Thomas Braithwaite and their sister, or
descendants, who came from Ulverston, Lan-
cashire, England, to Australia about 1876,
probably as farmers. Write MISS NELLIE
BRAITHWAITE. 68 Kirkland Street, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
IJfAROLD DAGLEY GIBBS, formerly of
W.A., please communicate with W. M.
NAIRN, M.H.R., Canberra, for something
to your advantage.
YY/ILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
STEPHEN JOHN HAYWOOD, also
known as STEPHEN JOHN WEST or
JOHN WEST, who left Tasmania about
1920 and is thought to be either in Queens-
lander the Northern Territory, please com-
municate with the undersigned.
CLARKE, HUTCHINS & GEE,
Solicitors,
Launceston, Tasmania.
Patents.
PREPARATION OF FODDER FOR
CATTLE AND SHEEP.
ISJOTICE is hereby given that the owner of
A Australian Patent No. 7813-27 is de-
sirous of entering into arrangements to
supply all requirements of the public by
means of license or otlierswise, for working
the said invention. Further particulars will
be supplied on application to DAVIES
AND COLLISON, Patent Attorneys,
483 Collins Street, Melbourne.
X
*s6cz£ SictieJ, Stajpe.
s-Scte&n ?urte4, ft-”"*
€6e P~<n
TheAUSTRALASIAN
,C>N SALE ALL STATES
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
9. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
Missing Friends.
l/'EILY.—If the widow or children of
JOHN EDWARD KEILY, late of
Reedy Creek, Victoria, apply to the EQUITY
TRUSTEES CO., 85 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, they will hear of something to their
advantage.
For Sale.
prOR SALE. —Ten acres of first-class Land,
four-roomed Cottage and necessary Out-
buildings, Fowlhouses and Fowlpens. For
many years has kept 500 laying hens and
grown the feed for them. Small. Orchard.
Close to Melbourne market —half-mile from
railway station. Daily train to all mining
towns and cities. Motor mail and passenger
service passing the door daily. £5OO cash
will buy the lot.
M. FINNERTY,
P. 0., Mengha,
Circular Head, Tasmania.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Duncan made an auspicious return to
Sydney courses, from which, owing to the
accident which nearly ended his career, he
had been absent for a twelvemonth. His first
mount at Warwick Farm was on Sun Eagle
in the Farm Stakes. In Melbourne this
would have been enough for Sun Eagle to be
sent out’ favorite, seeing tha t the Queensland-
bred three-year-old was second from the rails
and had shown promising form, but 11 to 2
was available throughout, and one book-
maker (the veteran Alldritt) called sixes
just before the start. Always well up, Sun
Eagle came away at the entrance to the
short straight, and Duncan did not have to
exhibit his vigorous finishing powers to land
him a good winner from Intrepid and
Gr.atian; the favorite, Lord Dane, shaped
poorly. Sun Eagle should be worth following
in his class, especially if Duncan rides him.
The withdrawal of Ammon R,a from the
first division" of the Fairfield Handicap
reduced that race for youngsters, backers
imagined, to a match between Martand and
Gloriole, but it proved nothing of the kind.
Neither of the favorites ever looked like
winning; Rory O’More (10 to 1) was out
by himself at the finish, with Lightning
March (raced by the executors of the John
Brown estate) and Johnnie Jason most
prominent of the others, who were a strung-
out lot. Rory O’More is trained at the Farm
by Albert Wood for Harold Longworth, and,
like Sun Eagle, first saw the light in Queens-
land, being by Seremond —Stable Girl. He
is decidedly smart, as witness the fact that
he ran his six furlongs, easing up at the end,
in lmin. 13sec. Movie Star (7 to 2) took
Bert ThaVs our new ©owlb«? "
QERT IS HE A.Ny <3000? "
Bert:" He took three wickets for
-tV/O IK THE PIR&T IKKIK<%&'.‘
l" FbOR FELLOW ! NEW? SIGHTED
l SUPPOSE ;*
a quarter of a second more in getting away
with the second division, and Ashley Reed
kept him going when Suntan came at him.
The Chipping* Norton Stakes proved a great
surprise—which is not seldom the case with
this w.f.a. tussle over a mile and a quarter.
Chide (14 to 1), last in the Rawson Stakes
at Rosehill the previous Saturday, and one
of the outsiders of the field of seven, had the
race won a furlong from home, and Cook
did not have to take out the whip or ride
him out with his hands; Veilmond (9 to 4)
■was second, a length away, and Tregilla
(7 to 1) was three-quarters of a length
behind Veilmond. Waterline, a comfortable
winner at Rosehill and a 7-to-4 favorite here,
came in fifth. He went a bit wide at the
first turn and Chide hung in on him when mak-
ing his victorious run; still Waterline showed
little dash in the straight. However he looked
well enough, and should not be discarded
because of one indifferent showing. Tregilla
finished in capital style after having been
lengths behind the bunch for about half the
journey, which was traversed in 2min. sisec.,
and then been hampered about the three-
furlong post by Glare, who ran a striking
fourth. Chide immediately became one of
the favorites for the Sydney Cup.
• • • i
A plunge on Holdfast was the feature
the betting on the Liverpool Handicap, for
which there was a field of 17. Gahan’s
horse dashed to the front with Anchor,
but Casque d’Or (10 to 1) was going easily
behind the pair at the home turn; and from
that point the thing was as soft for the
Rossendale gelding as it was for High Dis-
dain in the last Liverpool Handicap. Ticino
(12 to 1) passed Holdfast towards the end,
but gave no trouble to Casque d’Or, who
with the same weight as in the Doncaster
(Sst. 61b.) sped over the six furlongs in
lmin. 12sec. He is very fast and very fit,
but can he go at twelve to the furlong for
a mile? Killarney, doing well at the finish,
was fourth.
Another reversal of form was witnessed
in the Autumn Cup. John Buchan (12 to
1), who twice disappointed at Rosehill, gal-
loped kindly on this ocasion, and his ulti-
mate victory was apparent a long way from
home. However, Darby Munro had to shake
him up when Troilus (7 to 2) challenged;
an interesting set-to ended in the English
horse’s favor by half a length. Honest old
First Acre (7 to 1) was another length and
a half away, being followed by New King
and The Dimmer. The Dimmer’s display
was voted satisfactory by his Sydney Cup
supporters, and Dalston, who is Troilus’s
stable-companion and was unbacked, made
a well-sustained run from last to seventh or
eighth.
Havaspot (5 to 1), an Australian-bred
gelding (Tippler—No Belle), trained and
owned by J. T. Jamieson, the shrewd
Maorilander, ran away with the Cabramatta
Handicap, in which there was another large
field. The Abbot and Ring Boy were in the
places; Comanche, Bawn-a-Glas, Sir Duni-
nald and Weotara were among the beaten
horses.. Havaspot is not in the Doncaster.
:|i =is * *
The A.J.C. is not to have Phar Lap at its
Easter meeting, but if the attendance suffers
on that account the tote figures on the w.f.a.
races will improve. Nothing can really be
said to stand out from Waterline, Chide,
Glare, Tregilla and Veilmond. Water-
line is perhaps the best of them at the
w.f.a. scale, up to a mile and a half at least;
but there will be spirited support for some
of the others. This Maoriland horse is in the
Doncaster with 9st. 21b. and the Sydney Cup
with Sst. 111 b., and he may be a weary horse
at the end of the meeting if he runs in the
two.
On his second in the Newmarket and his
defeat of Pliar Lap over the Doncaster dis-
tance, Waterline is entitled to all his weight
in the mile handicap, but he is not so well in
as his stable-mate Temoin. Seven stone is
a luxurious weight for a four-year-old with
such capital form. At Rosehill Temoin
showed his liking for the Sydney way of
running, and this Page really can’t pick
anything to beat him. Parkwood (9st. 21b.)
would look far more attractive if the distance
were six furlongs; but good races should
be run by Killarney (Sst. 121 b.), Pavilion
(Bst. 91b.), Casque d’Or, Sir Chrystoplier
(Bst. 51b.), Brazenface (Bst. 51b.), Ticino
(7st. 101 b.) and Myarin (7st. 101 b.). More-
over, First Arrow (7st. 121 b.) bore a well-
trained appearance at Warwick Farm,
though his name was not called at any part
of the Liverpool Handicap running.
In September tips Page pronounced Tre-
gilla the best of the three-year-olds, and
his showing at Warwick Farm having dis-
posed of doubts as to his condition this
autumn, he is chosen to win the St. Leger
from Veilmond and Balloon King. All
three are nicely handicapped in the Sydney
Cup, Tregilla and Balloon King with Bst.
21b. and Veilmond with' a pound more. Tregilla
is scarcely a robust sort, and a hard race
in the St. Leger will not improve his Cup
prospects. Nor does Veilmond’s honesty
impress—though he can gallop when he likes
—and Balloon King does not look the part
of a Cup horse, albeit game enough for any-
thing. Chide (9st. 51b.) and Glare (Bst.
121 b.) have undoubted chances. So have The
Dimmer (7st. 121 b.) and Troilus (7st. 81b.).
The Bulletin had hopes of Spearman (7st.
131 b.), but he did not turn out at Warwick
Farm, nor has he been galloped much dur-
ing the past 10 days, although his appearance
at Rosehill suggested that he needed a lot
of work. So Spearman is reluctantly dis-
carded. Other candidates deserving of men-
tion are Donald (Bst. 121 b.), Dalston
(Bst.), First Acre (7st. 121 b.), Carry
On (7st. 91b.), Inducement (7st. 8:1b.),
and Aleman (7st. 31b.). Dalston looked as
well as anything at Warwick Farm, and,
uncertain beggar though he is, he will be
given a No. 1 vote once more. He was a
good horse on Summer Cup day, though he
has disappointed since. Fancies :
Autumn Stakes: Chide; next, Glare.
St. Leger: Tregilla; next, Veilmoud.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Ammon Ra.
Doncaster Handicap: Temoin, 1; Ticino,
2; Casque d’Or, 3.
Vaucluse Handicap: Havaspot; next, Sun
Eagle.
Sydney Cup: Dalston, 1; The Dimmer 2;
Glare, 3.
Roley is a middle-distance horse that might
pick up a race at the meeting. Myarin and
Vertoy are good wet-weather nags, and the
Maoriland two-year-olds, especially Ammon
Ra, seem a bit better than ours.
* # * *
Epsom racecourse, where the first Vic-
torian totalisator is to be set in operation on
May 2, was liberally patronised on Saturday
by punters who hoped to collect relief tax
from McShortodds. They would have gone
home utterly disconsolate if Blematic had
not come to their rescue in the last race.
Blematic is owned and trained by Dave
Marks, who landed the preceding event with
old Reputed King. Neither horse had done
much towards paying its oats bill for a con-
siderable period. Reputed King finished
second to Farlurc in the Pakenham Cup on
February 19. As Farlure subsequently appro-
priated the important Eight Hours Welter
at Moonee Valley, Reputed King ought to
have been better than fifth favorite in a field
of seven at Epsom.
Little A. Goddard, who began his career
as a jockey in Brisbane and afterwards rode
with success on Sydney courses, weighed out
for both Reputed King and Blematic. The
choice of backers in Reputed King’s race
was Lampra, owned by racecourse-caterer
P. F. Hogan. This daughter of Poitrel
opened in equal demand with Jack Holt’s
candidate, El Rey; final quotes revealed
Lampra at 9 to 4 and El Rey at 3 to 1.
Time for the mile and a quarter—2min. Bsec.
—wasn’t nearer than 24sec. to the course
record; yet the speed set by Broken Doll and
Hazelwood in the first five furlongs had
rather a demoralising effect on the field.
With a long-sustained effort, Reputed King
vanquished El Rey by half a length ; Lampra,
who appears to have had a surfeit of racing,
struggled into third place.
*•••••
It was the triumph of his stable-mate that
caused Blematic to be backed from 4 to 1
down to half those odds for the Epsom Plate,
as the gelded son of Emblematic had failed
to gain a situation since he ran third to
Umbertana and Binna in the Standish Handi-
cap. Blematic performed his task in trades-
manlike fashion, coming at the right end to
cut down Binna and score by half a length
from Khanong, who, as usual, was unruly at
the post.
• • • • • •
In 1929 Bay of Biscay (Lanius —Maplin)
ran third in the V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdle. Last winter he was heavily supported
for that race, but fell. Solidly backed against
a big field in the Epsom Purse, he scored by
a neck from Finsbury (once the pride of
Ben Cliaffey’s stable) and the favorite,
Llangollen, a champion of the Melbourne
“pony” courses. (In Melbourne registered
horses may compete on the pony courses, and
vice versa.) Bay of Biscay is sure to be a
fancy for the Grand National next July.
* ft * *
For Williamstown on Saturday
Trial Hurdle: Nar Ron ; next, Solo King.
Easter Stakes: Wise Force; next, Spanish
Galleon.
* * * ft
“Becher”: The 93rd Grand National, run
at Aintree last Friday, was won by the 100-
to-6 chance Grakle, owned by C. R. Taylor,
and carrying 9.10. A length and a half
away second was Gregalach, winner in 1929,
which went out aiT2s’s. Forty-three started
in the famous steeple, which gained added
interest by reason of the tremendous sweep
organised by the Irish Hospitals Trust.
Emilio Sea la, an Italian cafe-keeper, drew
the first prize of £354,544.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The Lincolnshire Handi-
cap over a mile, which officially opens the
English flat-racing season, was run last
week, and won by the light-weighted Knight
Error, who carried 7.7 and started at 100
to 9. The winner, a four-year-old by Prince
Galahad from V.A.D., by The White Knight,
finished third in this race last year, when
another outsider in Leonidas won at 66 to 1.
The favorite, Slipper, was unplaced.
* * * *
“Fitzeray”: Victoria will - sec its first
official tote in action at Epsom racecourse on
May 2, the buildings having been completed
and most of the machinery erected. Two
plants are provided, one each in Paddock and
Leger. The device installed is known as the
Lightning Automatic, and is similar to that
in use at Adelaide. The V.R.C., on the other
hand, has adopted the Julius machine, on the
lines of those at Randwick and Warwick
Farm.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Fighting like a wild cat, American Tommy
Fielding (10st. 141 b.) made liis scrap with
Wally Hancock (lOst. 641 b.) one of the most
exciting yet seen at Leichhardt. Fielding
floored Hancock in the fourth, but the bell
rescued the local man. Hancock was dropped
again in the sixth, and Fielding seemed sure
of a win. Hancock, however, fought a rear-
guard action, popping so many lefts to
Fielding’s advancing face that the mill was
called a draw.
* * * *
Billy Thomas of Wales drew with local
Billy Richards when they first fought at
Leichhardt 16 months ago, but the Welsh-
man had no chance in their second scrap,
in which Richards knocked him cold. At the
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night Richards
(10.4) again hit too hard for Thomas (10. S).
The lad from Leekland fought furiously for
a time, but Richards twice dropped him in
the eighth. Early in round nine, Richards
was crowned winner on a technical k.o.
* # * ft
Bearing the marks of many a hard-fought
contest, George Cook (13.6 J) arrived in Mel-
bourne to give Leo Bandias (12.44) a lesson
in ringcraft at the local Stadium on Satur-
day night. Bandias was down in the eighth,
and in the next round a left to the jaw fol-
lowed by a right cross deprived the affair of
all further interest for Leo.
Mosman, stroked by R. W. Butler, won the
N.S.W. champion eights on the Nepean last
week, beating Sydney, which has recently
downed the North Shore club twice, by six
lengths. Leichhardt was two lengths further
back third. The time for the three miles was
lOinin. 37 3-ssec., a good deal above the
average. The win secures Mosman the cham-
pionship pennant for the tenth year in suc-
cession, an unparalleled feat. J. R. Gould-
ing, from Sydney club, won the champion
sculls from J. R. Scott, of H'abcrfield, the
Australian title-holder, while his brother,
W. A. Goulding, was first home in the light-
weight event.
* * * *
The Victorian eight-oar title, rowed for on
the Lower Yarra, went to Richmond, which
won easily from Albert Park in 15miu. 14sec.,
with Mercantile third. The State sculling
championship was taken by H. E. Ricketts,
who has now appeared in sculling events for
Victoria, South Australia and N.S.W.
(Continued on next page.)


Queensland Is Calling!
KEEN BUSINESS
MEN KNOW
that Queensland is most favorably
situated of all the States, and are
planning accordingly. They also
know from long experience that
the circulation claims of
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
are dependable claims which have
always been supported by un-
deniable proof. They know, too,
that this great newspaper is cer-
tainly unsurpassed as a business
getter by any Queensland publi-
cation. '
Rate cards, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.
ti.S.W. Branch, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
The old-established firm of
COWLES & DUNN
(THE GUN HOUSE)
Our new address:
71 King Street, Sydney
“Near the old spot.”
ŗ
“WILL CORRY”
De Luxe
Golf Clubs
“Cony” De Luxe Steel-shafted,
Gun-metal Finish, Matched
Woods, Nos. 1 to 3 ... 30/
“Cony” De Luxe Steel-shafted',
Gun-metal Finish, Graded
Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 . ... 30/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted,
Hickory Sheath, Matched
Woods, Nos. 1 to 3 . . .37/0
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted,
Hickory Sheath, Graded
Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 .... 53/-
A Special Cltib
De Luxe!
“Corry” De Luxe Tru-
Temper, Steel-shafted
Matched Woods (Inlaid
Faces). Each
Other
“CORRY” CLUBS
Matched Woods De Luxe, with
Super Grade Hickory Shafts,
25/-
Stainless Graded Irons De
Luxe, with Super Grade
Hickory Shafts 2 5/*
“Corry” Special Bright Steel
Graded Irons 10/0
“C orr y” Special Rustless
Graded Irons 19/0
“C orr y” Special Matched
Woods 17/0
COUNTRY GOLFERS
State your specific requirements and
Mr. Corry will malce a personal
selection for you.
PROFESSIONAL GOLF TUITION
By Will Corry and Assistants on the
Roof Sports Ground.
(Carriage Paid on Golf Clubs.)
All Letters to Box ISB, P. 0.,
Hay market, Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
7 2 0 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and
Home Entertainment.”
The Ins and Outs
“Barnum”: Your correspondent (B.
25/3/’3l) was quite wrong when he implied
that Clarrie Grimmett’s sudden decision to
retire from the team touring N.Q. under
Alan Kippax was due to the fact that fellow-
author Bradman was likely to absorb the
literary limelight. Grimmett had prepared
a movie dealing with cricket generally and
bowling in particular, and proposed to show
it in the Queensland towns during the tour.
The management turned the suggestion down,
so Clarrie’s prospective goldmine proved a
duffer. Seeing that other amateurs in the
team are pushing the cricket and other sport-
ing goods for winch they are agents, Grim-
mett naturally went sour at having his stunt
sat upon. It meant that he would have to be
satisfied with £3 10s. per week in addition to
all expenses, and wliat’s that for an amateur
of standing, I’d like to know?
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian cricket
season is practically finished. Queensland
has already put the shutters up, and the
other States will hand over to the foot-
ballers before the middle of April. It has
been a disappointing year all round, for,
while the grade games have failed to produce
anyone of note as batsman or bowler, the
Sheffield and other big matches have served
to indicate that more than one of the trium-
phant Australian Eleven was far from being
the demigod in a cricket sense which the
success of the team in England suggested.
Indeed, there seems to be fair reason to
think that Australia brought back the bacon
rather because of the weakness of the oppo-
sition than because of its own brilliancy. If
anyone cavils at this, let him peruse the
record of the English side —on the whole a
stronger one than any that met Australia
in the Tests —against South Africa.
* * v *
“Bowen Bridge” : Valley captured t.n Bris-
bane premiership, with Toombul only a point
behind in the marks. Since electorate cricket
was introduced 35 years ago Valley has
won five times. Leo O’Connor, for long
captain of Queensland, led the batting aver-
ages with 66.40. It is worth noting by those
who recall him as a first-class wicket-keeper
that this season he took 30 wickets at a cost
of 11.70 each. A. G. Hurwood, the Aus-
tralian XI bowler, was the only one to take
more—bis tally was 33, costing 11.36 apiece.
* * $ $
“Statis” : The 1931 “Wisden” has at last
reached Australia and is particularly inter-
esting, since it illustrates fully the English
attitude towards the last Test series. _ The
editor in his review of the tour is of opinion
that England’s failure was largely due to the
inability of many leading players to pick
up their proper form. He doubts whether,
with the bowling at their command, the
visitors would have been able to overcome
the best eleven England could have placed in
the field, an opinion in which he is not alone.
Special features of the book are an account
of Wilfred Rhodes, with his 40,000 runs and
over 4000 wickets in first-class cricket, and
a history of Lords and the Marylebone C. C.
during the past 30 years in relation to
international cricket.
* * # <•
“Albert” : A long-forgotten trophy came to
light when the Belvedere Cup was offered to
the N.S.W. cricket authorities as a trophy for
the first-grade competitions and accepted.
Once known as the N.S.W.C.A. Cup and
standing three feet high, with a value of
£lOO, the pot was won outright in 1888 by
the Belvedere Club, one of Sydney’s most
formidable sides in the pre-district days. Two
of the survivors of the club, Dr. Percy
.Charlton and Harry Moses, have been in-
strumental in returning the cup to its original
donors.
* * * $
“Cash Amateur”: A Sydney sporting
writer has recently been stressing the
amateur outlook of cricket by complaining
bitterly of the fact that in the international
games with Australia England always gets
away with the largest lump of the loot. One
particular grievance is that while an Aus-
tralian team in England gets only 50 per
cent, of the gross “outside” gates, the county
clubs benefit by a greatly increased member-
ship during an Australian visit, and the un-
happy tourists are not allowed a cut of this
deadhead profit. Further, English grounds
are small, and are invariably closed when
full. The English in Australia, however, are
on a much better wicket because of the much
larger grounds and greater gates, and here
again they benefit. It is, no doubt, distress:
ing for those regarding cricket in terms of
cash, but it might be worse. The Australian
clean-up for last tour was £38,180, of which
£37,570 was taken in England, enough to
carry on with.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: Victoria’s first open golf
event of the season was staged by
the Victoria club. The play was 36
holes stroke, the winner turning up
in R. Jupp, the Metropolitan club pro-
fessional, who returned a card of 146
(74-72). Jupp, who won the Victorian
professional championship in 1929, finished
four up on M. J. Ryan, winner of the Vic-
torian amateur title last year and the Aus-
tralian the year before. Headlam and Ivo
Whitton followed, and then four profes-
sionals headed by Le Fevre. Naismith was
sixth.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland golfers are get-
ting set for the annual State championships,
to be held from May 20 to May 30 at Yee-
rongpilly. The “open” over 72 holes stroke
play will be the first contest on the list, and
then follow the amateur events. The amateur
championship will be shortened this year by
starting the first eight lily whites in the open
event. These will fight out the matter in
30 holes of match play, the semi-finals and
finals being played in the same way. The
change will save a considerable amount of
time and trouble.
•* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Some of the Sydney golf
clubs have been forced to reprove cer-
tain of their members for leaving the keep-
ing of their scores and the counting of their
strokes to their caddies. The practice is
against all the rules and regulations, and for
obvious reasons should be jumped on heavily.
Apart from the fact that there is a strong
inducement to the caddie to profit by the
task entrusted to him, this delegation of
duty argues very little keenness on the part
of the player. To carry the idea to its logical
conclusion, such a golfer should sit on the
verandah of the nineteenth and let his caddie
play the round for him.
S|c Jft Hi
“Muirfield”: This year’s British “open”
will be a cosmopolitan affair. In addition to
entrants from America and the Continent,
there will be at least one Australian, while
the Argentine is sending four players;
one, Jose Jurado, figured prominently
in the big event two or three years
ago when Walter Hagen won. Like
cricket and football, golf is very popular
among the Argentinos, who have taken td
sport with an enthusiasm which is notably
wanting in other South American communities.
* * * *
“H'oylake”: What golf means to the lead-
ing professionals nowadays is shown in a
Yankee newspaper’s revelation of the way
the Mexican national championship was
wangled. The championship, by the way, has
nothing to do with the Mexicans, but is held
on their side of the border because there
are no “hootch” inhibitions. Von Elm, for-
merly amateur champion of the U.S.A., and
Johnny Golden, a prominent Ryder Cup
player for the States, tied for the match.
The first prize was worth £2700, and this
the pair secretly agreed to split. At the
same time it was fixed that Golden should
win the play-off for the title, in itself an
asset to be computed in terms of dalilars.
* * * *
“Samurai”: It is a little over 70 years
since the only swing the Jap knew was
that of the keen, two-handed katana, with
which he decapitated his foemen. To-day the
country is given over, body and soul, to golf,
as far as the more affluent members of the
population are concerned. The craze has
bitten even the sacred Emperor, who was first
inoculated when, as Crown Prince, he visited
Scotland in 1921. He Mays on llis own
course, but the fact remains that he plays.
Naturally the high nobility and the princes
of the blood royal took up the tale, among
them being Prince Tokugawa, whose ances-
tors, as the Shoguns, ruled Japan in the
Mikado’s name for centuries.
Car and Cycle
“Hotham”: The Victorian Light Car
club’s annual Grand Prix race on the Phillip
Island roads drew a good attendance, and
in spite of the fact that the going was
affected by the recent _ bad weather some
stirring racing was witnessed. Fourteen
cars faced the starter for the 200-mile run
round a seven-mile circuit. The winner was
C. R. Dickason, driving a super-charged
Austin 7, who had a Start of 30 minutes.
He made second-fastest time, 3hr. 2mm.
24sec. C. Junker (35min.), in a super-
charged Bugatti 8. registered the fastest
time, 2hr. 54min. 50 2-ssec., which brought
him the £lOO cup. Hope Bartlett, in his
Bugatti, averaged 79.09, and had hard
luck in being thrown out through engine
trouble. One woman driver, Joan Richmond,
finished the course, taking second place in
B class with a Riley.
*.* * *
“Drag”: It is not often that one finds
a car that has travelled 43.000 miles with-
out an overhaul, and a racing car at that.
Anticipating the many who will rush in
with the comment that J. T. Lang is a
mere amateur beside me, I would stress the
point that the car is the late
Golden Arrow, with which he made his
record at Daytona. On February 6 the
Golden Arrow left England for the Buenos
Ayres exhibition after having made a tour
of the Dominions. All its journeying has
been done on board ship, with the result
that it has covered, by this means, over
1000 times the distance it has done under
its own power.
* * * *
•‘Kick Starter”: The 100-mile motor-
cycle race on Easter Saturday has attracted
27 entrants, and 14 have nominated for
the 27-mile side-car handicap. For the past
two years the 100-mile lias been held on a
circuit near Goulburn. The race this year will
be over a seven-mile circuit close to Bathurst,
the riders completing 14 laps. The last time
Bathurst saw the spin was in 1928, when it
was won by Stewart Williams, one of the
selected Australian representatives for the
Isle of Man Tourist Trophy race in dune.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Advices from France show
that Opperman and Lamb made their first
appearance at Marseilles in an 80-kilometrc
teams race. Though still very green the pair
rode well, finishing seventh in a large field,
the race being won by Pelissier and Marechal.
In a match against Moineau and Guyol at
the same meeting the Australians won hand-
somely Nicholson and Thomas are now in
France, and the quartette should be able
to settle down to serious preparation tor
their big job, the Tour do France.
Miscellaneous
“C. 8.”: Melbourne sport is noteworthy
for anatomical miracles. Recently a horse
finished in a race with its spine broken.
Now C. Davies, of the Atlantic Union Oil
Co., has demonstrated that a broken thigh-
bone is no obstacle to winning a 130-yds.
footrace. When he had finished his exploit
the doctor gave him ten weeks off duty to
recover from it.
* * * *
“D.”: “Bowlette,” a Sydney game that
was as popular as it was short-lived, took
the knock the other day. The Crown prose-
cuted the owner of a Pitt-street “bowlette”
palace under Section 42a of the Gaming
and Betting Act. Its contention was that
the participants were after money rather
than sport, and Scobie (acting-S.M.) agreed
and fined defendant. A few days later the
proprietor of a Gcorge-street “bowlette” mau-
soleum was convicted and fined in another
court, and that settled the matter. Just pre-
viously Minister for Education Davies had
formally opened one of these resorts at Bondi,
and prophesied a future for the inventor, who
had claimed that all the materials used were
of local origin. That it is a game of skill is
indisputable. Playing with bowls which
have the same bias as ordinary bowls, but
are smaller, the man on the mat needs to
make a very tricky shot to put even one
peg down. But under the N.S.W. Act, _as
the Crown Prosecutor remarked, “it is im-
material whether the game is one requiring
skill or not.” Logically, going by this deci-
sion, all competitions in which there are
cash prizes are illegal. And notably minny
golf, which threatened to be hit badly to
leg by “bowlette” at one stage. Providen-
tially, however, the law hardly ever is
entire 1 ” logical.
& si: * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. liugby League has
entered on an economy campaign, like all
the rest of us. Staff salaries, are to be cut
10 per cent., while players in inter-State and
other big fixtures will be pruned 20 per
cent., and, alas! the hapless referee is to
be subjected to the same treatment. District
clubs are to retain 5 per cent, of their share
of the gates until the League finds out where
it stands. It has lost over £5OOO in the past
two years, and is out to recover financial
equilibrium this time. As an aid it proposes,
if it finds itself behind the balance at the end
of the season, to annex the 5 per cent, and
devote it to reduction of the overdraft. It
there is a credit the clubs retain
their money. The proposals are well enough,
but one’s heart bleeds for the ref. His pay
is not wonderful considering the opprobrium
and personal risk he encounters in the course
of his duties.
* * * *
“Parana”: That Spigotty’s endurance
swimming record of 71 hours 55 minutes (B.
25/3/’3lj was broken a few days later in
Sydney by the Maori woman Mrs. Nehua,
who kept going for 72 hours 9 minutes. The
swim was done in open-air baths, and
during the last 24 hours the weather was
bitterly cold and the water rough. The
South American’s swim was with the current
down a tropical river, and there is no ques-
tion as to which was the more meritorious
performance.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Though American sprinter
Simpson was unable to turn out at Manly,
Rothert, the burly undergraduate from Stan-
ford University, gave the big crowd its
money’s worth. The young American is
ranked No. 1 among field-game exponents m
his own country, and he has lived up to the
standard during this tour. At Manly he
heaved the 161 b. shot 49ft. sin„ or just 4ft.
better than Maorilander Munro’s Australian
record of seven years’ standing. Rothert
had six attempts, and bettered Munro’s
figures in all of them. A javelin throw of
179 ft. 2Jin. was a State record, though it
was 19ft. sJin. short of S. A. Lay’s Aus-
tralian figures.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Bumpkin”: The decision of an Italian
firm to build a liner that won’t roll recalls
the first attempt to solve the problem, o'f the
Atlantic crossing for the queasy passenger.
It emanated from a medical report. An
American millionaire travelled for the first
time to England. On the other side he was
carried ashore more dead than alive, and the
doctors told him to attempt to recross would
be almost certain death. So he offered an
enormous sum for a vessel that would guar-
antee a calm passage even in the wildest sea.
Naval architects during the next 25 years
actually modified their designs in an endeavor
to fill the marooned one’s need, but he died
an exile on Shakspeare’s sceptred isle.
The cabled news that Japan has struck a
now of oil in Formosa is probably true, for
the island is on the direct line between the
Asian and American oilfields, which runs
from Borneo to California. Japan is already
a fair producer, but has never been able
to get enough for her own requirements in
times of stress —during the war, like most
of Britain’s other allies, she had to look to
the Anglo-Persian supply. No definite news
is yet to hand as to the new field’s yield. If,
however, the local estimate is correct, Nip-
pon has, at one and the same time, acquired
an asset of incalculable military and com-
mercial value. Save for the fact that sup-
plies from, the island oilfield are liable to
be cut off in war time, Japan’s very power-
ful navy will now be quite independent of
outside fuel. At the same time the cheap
methods of production for which Japan is
notorious should enable her to build up vast
financial reserves from the sale of petrol at
heavily cut prices. Motorists may welcome
the possibility, but it has other and less
assuring aspects.
“Boomi”: I called at Sunday Island (B.
4/3/’3l) in 1917. It is a high volcanic speck
of land in the Kermadec Group with a
climate, I should say, similar to that of
Norfolk Island. It was in the same year
that the German raider Wolf used it for
a couple of weeks to clean her boilers and
refit. The American schooner Winslow and
the Union steamer Wairuna stumbled across
her while she was there, and were both shelled
and sunk under the northern cliffs of the
island. Two Maoriland war prisoners, Clelland
and Steers, met their deaths in an attempt
to escape from the Wolf the night she finally
left Sunday Island to sow her minefields in
the Tasman Sea. The German seamen had
been catching sharks, and had left the lines
dangling over the stern ; when the prisoners
were ordered below at sundown the two in-
trepid men slipped down the shark lines,
intending to cling to the rudder till darkness
and then attempt to swim the shark-infested
strip of water. They were never seen
again. Later on, Von Luckner, of the raider
Seeadler, made his escape from Auckland in
a stolen boat and reached Sunday Island,
there to be re-captured by the cable steamer
Iris.
“Morimoto”: Consuls are sometimes con-
cerned with much bigger game than free
railway passes (B. 4/3/’3l). In U.S.A. bad
specimens go in for bootlegging. In China they
smuggle opium, trade in arms to rebel gen-
erals and even recruit soldiers for the rival
armies. The Japanese Consul in Shanghai
was accused not long since by the republican
Government of having allowed his launch
to be fitted as a torpedo boat for the .sinking
of a Chinese man-o’-war—probably the most
staggering charge ever made against the re-
presentative of a friendly nation. His de-
fence was that he had sold the launch before
it was put to such a use. Consulates in
distracted lands like China do a thriving
trade in sheltering political refugees. When
I was in Shanghai the Consul for Sticka-
daggerinyou was the envy of his colleagues
for the splendor of his menage and the
number of his motor-cars. He had thrown
the toga of diplomatic immunity over a
roulette wheel.
“D.”: A Sydney gossiper accuses Tom
Clarke, managing editor of the “News-
Chronicle,” (1) of having gone to London
originally from Australia, and (2) of having
risen to fame by being Northcliffe’s golfing-
partner. All wrong. Keith Murdoch brought
Clarke from London, where he was the bril-
liant news editor of the “Daily Mail,” to be
associate-editor of Melbourne “Herald.” lie
belongs to a well-known Lancashire family.
It was Keith Murdoch whom Northcliffe
favored as a golfing companion. Keith,
though not so hot as his brother, the Sydney-
champion, is a low-handicap player. There
are worse golfers than Tom on earth, but
not many.
“2nd Divvy” Mrs. Pat Osborne, who is
being given a presentation at Australia
House to-day (25/3/’3l), is a standing proof
of the parsonical maxim that if you do your
duty you will be happy. She is an English-
woman, who bore old Pat Osborne, of Cur-
randooley (N.S.W.), a large family of boys
and girls over half a century ago. All her
offspring have married well and succeeded
in life. Not till her husband died did she
leave for her beloved England, where her
daughters’ homes are, and she has never lost
touch with Australia since. She did great
work for the Diggers all through the war,
and to-day, at 84, many times a grandmother
and several times a great-grandmother, she
is almost as active as when she led Sydney
society in the ’nineties. A wonderful little
woman with a gentle, fine-featured face and
a will of steel.
“F.S.”: Rembrandt’s “Anatomy Lesson,”
slashed with a hatchet in the Ryks Museum,
Amsterdam, wais the sort of picture to
arouse uncontrollable emotions in an unbal-
anced mind, just as did the “Chloe” of
Lefebre, which hangs in Young and Jack-
son’s bar in Melbourne, though the motive
would be different. The realism of Rem-
brandt’s naked corpse in the act of being
dissected moved a sadist to attack it, while
it was probably the sentimental voluptuous-
ness of Lefebre’s picture which impelled a
young religious maniac to throw a glass of
beer —somebody else’s —at Chloe. And it
was no doubt a similar perversion, mixed
with allegedly artistic considerations, which
caused some unknown individual some years
ago to scratch a phallic emblem on Mel-
druni’s “Peasant of Pace,” at present the
subject of a controversy in Melbourne. Rem-
brandt’s picture is not as great a loss to
the world as would have been one of his
later pictures. Regarded as his masterpiece
for centuries, it now takes second place to
the smaller, simpler and more truly realistic
portraits. Dr. Claes Pietersz, known as
Tulp, who is the central figure in the paint-
ing, was one of the first promoters of anato-
mical researches and gave lectures in the
convenient environment of a butcher’s shop.
He was also an enterprising trader, selling
sage to China as a remedy for sadness and
leceiving in exchange tea for ten times the
value.
“Farleigh”: Everyone has heard of the
lucky Australian digger of the ’fifties who
shod his horse with gold—some fairly recent
paragraphs in The Bulletin make it clear
that there was more than one claimant to
this dubious honor —but how about that
other ostentatious spender of those halcyon
times, the chap who placed bank notes
between two slices of bread and butter and
devoured them with easy grace? In some
of the stories I read and heard as a boy in
England about the extravagances of the first
gieat goldfields boom, the two-legged goat
who ate paper currency to get rid of some
of his easily-got, wealth the faster loomed
quite as large as the golden-horseshoe eccen-
tric. Of course there were those festive souls,
too, who drank champagne out of buckets,
not because they particularly liked it—“a
nobbier of brandy's worth 20 of it,” Mick
Maggot explains in Trollopeip “John Galdi-
gate,” “but it’s the glory of outfacing the
swells at their own game.” Still, there’s no
originality in drinking money, but there is
a lot in eating it raw, and I’ve always
wanted to hear some further details about
OUR WONDERFUL LANGUAGE.
PROUD FATHER: “She needn’t think I’m going to let her marry Anybody. Why, with
her looks and my money she might marry Anybody.”
MOTHER: “But, if you keep her on the shelf too long, she won’t marry ANY body.”
these shadowy spendthrifts. Probably it
was dripping, not butter, they consumed with
the “flimsies,” butter having been too
precious to be wasted in this way, and it
is at all events to be hoped that the notes
were less greasily malodorous than so many
encountered nowadays. But if the shoes-
of-gold horseriders are well enough remem-
bered to be still identified, it seems unfair
that the name of the deviser of the
pound-notes sandwich should have gone into
oblivion.
“Chev.” : In U.S.A. nowadays magistrates
sentence motorists found guilty of slight mis-
demeanors to go to the nearest police station
and write out such maxims as “Always slow
down at intersections” 100 times. They argue
that -such offences are usually due to a strain
of childishness in the offender, and that the
best way to treat him is as if he were still
in the kindergarten.
“Si Anu” : The wild-cat promoter of Aus-
tralia has nothing on the pawaug or mining
wizard, who is still to be found in fair num-
bers and wielding considerable influence in
the remoter parts of the Malay Peninsula.
The native is an easy mark because of tin-
nature of his beliefs concerning minerals,
which he inherits from pre-Mohammedan
times. The minerals have a soul which takes
the form of an animal. The soul of gold is a
deer; of tin a buffalo. The tin soul lives
underground and is in the habit of capri-
ciously moving to another spot. When he
does this only the pawang can woo him back
or indicate his new location, and he does it
for a very moderate fee. He may be seen
strutting in a peculiar fashion about the
mine, clad in a black coat and waving a
white cloth. During moments of meditation
he clasps his hands behind his back or claps
them on his hips. If he has difficulty in
making his spells work his fee is doubled, and
he proceeds to look for the adverse influ-
ences. They may be due to limes having been
brought on to the mine, or to a miner having
gone to work in the trousers of another man,
or to a weapon having been brought into
the smelting house. These things are all
offensive to the spirits, and until they have
been rectified the pawang’s efforts will be
of no avail. The spirit of tin usually makes
itself apparent by uttering a sound at night
not unlike the call of a bird. It objects to
the presence of a corpse, so when a miner
is expected to die he is removed to a hut
outside the lines. It also loathes the sound
of wood'being chopped and can’t stand a
Chinaman carrying an umbrella. Newchum
Celestials offending in this way have been
mobbed. There are, in fact, so many pan-
tangan or restrictions that if they had all to
be observed no mining manager could ever
raise a ton of ore. By a merciful dispensa-
tion, however, the spirits can be induced to
ignore most of them if the company gives a
selamatan or festival of requisite magnifi-
cence, and if the pawang gets a large enough
share.
“Fourwalls”: A recent book about, human
freaks recalls some of the odd identities who
allowed themselves to be exhibited in this
part of the world. Jo Jo, truly styled a dog-
faced man. was an attraction at the old Mel-
bourne Waxworks. A native of Central
Russia, and only five feet high, his face and
body were covered with dog-like hair from
44in. to Bin. long. The greatest of all dwarfs,
Tom Thumb, who helped to make Barnmn
rich, was here in the ’seventies. Unzie the
Wonder, who had a mop of snowy-white
hair about Gin. thick, was an Australian
abo. albino. H'e was exhibited in London.
One Menier used to eat glass, coal, sawdust
and other non-nourishing “food.” His fan-
cies in beverages turned to kerosene, heavy
machine-oil and ink. Sambo was an Ameri-
can coon who had a mouth like a piano,
into which he could squeeze a dinner-plate.
Annie Leek, of Bailey and Cooper’s circus,
was an armless woman who used to do ail
sorts of things with her toes. Virginia
Brison, a gruesome freak, had actual claws,
which were about 10 inches long. Professor
Maw had a dummy mouth, w r ith lips and
teeth complete, running diagonally across
one cheek. One of the most horrible human
freaks in existence to-day is Madam Bauer, a
German woman, who has two complete
heads!
“Raja of Woop”: The present rate of
exchange and the vagaries of silver (B.
25/2/’3l) remind me of a period in the
post-war years when the Indian rupee was
worth 4s. in English money instead of the
normal Is. 4d. My pay as a sergeant was
about £2 a week, after mess bills had been
met, and as the pay of the British soldier
in India is stabilised at the rate of Rs 15
to the pound, each Friday I “saluted” for
Rs 30. Retaining 10 for pocket money, I
bought from the bank with the other 20 four
“John Bradburys” and sent them home. As
900 of our establishment of 1010 men did
something similar we were on a good wicket
when we reached Blighty on six weeks’ fur-
lough.
“Whitehall”: What beats me is why the
Lang Government doesn’t follow London’s
example and allow Sydney cinemas to open
on Sundays, provided they-contribute to the
hospitals. The London hospitals draw
£150,000 per annum from the West End
talkie palaces alone. It isn’t as if Sydney
was more or less consistently Sabbatarian
like Melbourne. Special trams and trains
serve the beaches, excursion steamers career
about the harbor, every kind of game is
played publicly by members of every class,
and in quarters like Darlinghurst shops
are open day and night. Also, several of the
other theatres already provide free shows
at which the highest in the land attend.
Sunday shows don’t even keep peoplfe from
church. Parisians find it much harder to
get a seat at Notre Dame or the Madeleine
on a Sunday than at Longchamps or Auteuil.
“C.A.8.”: No exhibit received more atten-
tion at a recent N.S.W. agricultural show
that an exquisite Irish mahogany spinning-
wheel. The show was at Cooma, and the
machine, lent by a local resident, was given
to him by Melba. It was the wheel always
used by her when she played Marguerite in
“Faust.”
“Feng-Shui”: Film censorship is a mixed-
up business in China. Recently “All
Quiet” was withdrawn in Nanking, the
national capital, following on a com-
plaint from the German consul that
certain features were objectionable to
the Teuton. A similar Italian protest at
Peking concerning the American filqi “Three
Sisters” failing of effect, patriotic black
shirts burst into the operating-room, seized
the celluloid and burned it. In this case
national honor was outraged by the way'in
which one of the characters ate macaroni.
Not to be outdone in sensitiveness, French
Legation guards broke into the same theatre
and stopped the performance of “Hot for
Paris,” on the ground that it was a libel
on their beloved city. American patriots
then announced that next time the poilu, or
any other person, interfered with an Ameri-
can film, Uncle Sam’s marines would take
a hand. These petty brawlings only serve
to confirm the impression the Chinaman has
already got from the pictures that the
western world is hopelessly divided, as well
as hopelessly mad.
“Farn Ivwei”: Australia is producing
more wool than can be absorbed by the
existing markets. North China could be
made a market. Woollen clothes can be
worn there at least ten months of the year;
and blankets and rugs are wanted. There
are difficulties in the way, of course, but
they are not insurmountable. It pays to
send wool to England, manufacture it into
cloth and ship to China. Surely it would
pay to send the wool direct to China and
manufacture it on the spot. I spent 25
years there (North and South), and am
quite satisfied that good business can be
secured by intelligent, patient effort.
“Blinking Billy”: A hundred years ago,
“sure” as an expression of assent was
common colloquial English. Even now, one
hears it occasionally in Devon. Other ex-
amples of Yankeedom’s verbal unprogressive-
ness are “gotten,” “yea” and “getting mad.”
Mr. Pepys, in 1667, “did get so mad with the
poor wretch that I did give her a blow.”
The Noo Yark gunman of the talkies who
says “Yea, bo” is hundreds of years behind
the times, and the cutie who’s “gotten her
a diamond bracelet” by gold-digging a boob
guy is talking obsolete rural English.
“Jeames”: A speaker at the Sydney
Advertising Convention remarked: “The
public quickly forget. Look at Day and
Martin’s blacking and Pears’ soap.” It
was a good point. For some reason boot
polishes and soaps depend for their lives on
publicity. I have seen at least three polishes
and half a dozen brands of soap rise by
advertisement, and fall by the lack of it in
the past 15 years. The same with whisky
(the once-famous “Green Stripe” has almost
vanished from the face of Sydney since the
war), beer, mustard (the Mustard Club cam-
paign was started because. Colman’s mustard
advertising having stopped, people were actu-
ally beginning to dispense with all kinds of
mustard), cigarettes, aerated waters and
many other commodities. But will it be
credited that there are great businesses, par-
ticularly in England, where publicity is
shunned like the devil? This is the case
with the establishments of all the best tailors
and bootmakers —shabby little places whose
customers are millionaires, home and foreign.
Pui'dy, who makes most wealthy people’s
guns, never advertises outside one or two
sporting papers with tiny circulations. And
there are jewellers’ shops in obscure London
and Paris streets that look like private houses
from the outside, and don’t want to be talked
about, much less written about.
“W.L.”: In an old shipping paper I came
across some details showing the conditions
under which slave-trading was carried on by
British ships in the 1770’5, about the time
Cook was discovering Australia. Here are
extracts from the owners’ letter of instruc-
tions to the captain of one of these craft
for a voyage that was estimated to produce
about £BOOO profit. “We appoint you command
of our ship Hector and desire you to make
your way to the coast of Angola, where you
will dispose of your cargo [muskets, gun-
powder, brandy, rum, etc.] for good, healthy,
young negroes and ivory.... You are to make
the best of your way to Charles Town in
South Carolina, but if the agents are not cer-
tain of turning your negroes out at Thirty
Pounds sterling upwards you are to proceed
to Virginia.. . . We recommend you to treat
your negroes with as much lenity as safety
will admit. None of your people are to
beat or abuse them.... Be sure to let their
provisions be well dress’d and given in due
season.” For these and other services the
captain received £5 a month as wages, six
per cent, of the net proceeds of each voyage,
and was allowed to deal in five negroes. His
first officer might trade in three negroes and
the doctor and second mate were allowed
one apiece. Such was what was called a
“Guinea voyage”; the human cargo was
found by Arab dealers.
Artificial silk, which has given the Aus-
tralian wool industry such a bump, is in
for a bad time itself, if there is anything
in the claim of Derek Shannon, described as
a Birmingham scientist. The silkworm,
while manufacturing a superior article, is
seasonal in its output, working only in
summer and even then demanding continuous
sunshine. The new system will set the worm
to work under violet rays, with the result
that he and his successors will work the
year round, with a consequent increase in
output and the lowering of prices for real
silk to a point below that of the artificial
product.


UndeS
Royal
Warrant
d
ToH.NL
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
ChariesHeidsieck
Mas
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY. t
ChampagnC
REIMS
“MERCURY" BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only from 10/- per day
Single Room only, with Private Bath from 15/- per day
Room and Breakfast from 12/b per person
Inclusive Tariff from 20/- per day
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath from 27/6 per day
Private Suites quoted on application.
Luncheon 3/6 or a la carte. Dinner 5/*
Meals served in rooms, 1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM COURT LINKS
Open from 11 a.m. till midnight—lB Holes for I/-
Golf and Morning Tea or Coffee 1/-
Golf and Afternoon Tea 2/6
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH HILL SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
They safeguard all apparel and household
linen Neat- Distinctive and .Fadeless.
Actual Size
Style No 6
The Price* are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6; 6 doz. 5/-; 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Draper*.
Write for Name Style Circular to
i o i /'/ipn Australian
J. & J. CAbn WEAVING CO. m. ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melb.
MARK YOUR
LINEN in the
MODERN WAY
“A Few Stitches
& They ’re On.
d?S \93ffittiamA.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
The Girl Guides’ jamboree being over, and
every woman of them busy benzining the heat
and turmoil of her glorious hour from her
trig uniform, Sydney is cheerful because its
limelight needn’t be wasted. The. Red Cross
conference is keeping it busy until the Show
and Randwick arc ready to step forward. The
conference is quite an outsize this year, no
fewer than 50 country and 51 suburban
branches being represented. The Junior
Red Cross party to the conferrers was one
of the bright happenings of Friday night.
The Juniors entertained in their new home,
which is above Angus and Coote’s. Mrs.
R. R. Mackinnon and Miss Elsie Lorimer
did the honors, and the offices cheerfully
attached to their own tearooms were loudly
acclaimed. The Governor and Lady Game,
having polished up their trees and flowers and
flung an extra bit of gilt on the goldfish in
the pond, spread a party yesterday for the
delegates in Government House gardens.
The District Nursing Association promises
to become the fashionable charity of the year.
Lady Game, as president, is taking an active
interest in its welfare, and last week in the
ballroom at Government House Knight
Henry Braddon explained the pressing needs
of the association to an overflow gathering
of women. Philip Game has organised a
committee of youth for a bridge afternoon to
be held in David Jones’s on April 18. A
musicale at the home of Miss Fairfax is
another of the money-raisers; behind this
Lady Game, Miss Crowdy and Mrs. Horace
Sheller, whose father, Dr. Camac Wilkinson,
helped to found the association, arc putting
all their weight.
One of the friendly acts that make Clara
Butt’s circle of admirers an ever-growing one
was her invitation to the Queensland girl
cricketers to drop in at her matinee last
week. The girls, very businesslike in their
blazers, had been undergoing a Town Hall
reception; as they were departing the song-
bird, by the mouth of Sergeant Turner,
coo-eed them to her concert. Clara, by the
way, wore a ravishing pink outfit with a
scarf of Oriental tones, and the back of
her chair was ornamented with an enormous
green butterfly bow. Earlier in the week
she took the gazer’s breath away in a sheath
of rose and gold embossed lame. The scarf
effect which finished this deserves a word.
Over one arm it fell in black, bordered with
gold, and over the other it scintillated gold,
lined with rose.
“The. First Mrs. Fraser” is probably one of
the cleverest plays ever penned for middle
age. Great tragedies have been written
about old age, drama is constantly being
woven around the late twenties (for women
have to acquire a past young to become
stage heroines), and sex problems and musi-
cal comedy are ceaselessly manufactured for
the very young. But middle age is terribly
neglected. However, this is a witty play, full
of subtleties worthy of a Barrie, and not a
woman, old or young, visiting Her Majesty’s
but must chuckle inwardly if Convoyed by
the acquired or intended victim of her matri-
monial net, outwardly if in female company,
at the colander St. John Ervine’s pen makes
of man’s vanity and selfishness. Ethel Mor-
rison, as James Fraser’s first, was dulcet in
tone and altogether pleasing, dressed in blond
laces in the second act and summer-sky georg-
ettes in the third. But why, in the same act.
should daughter-in-law, wearing a royal
blue kit, sit on the sofa beside the pale blue
frock, making it pallid in effect?
Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert is one
of the most youthful-looking grandfathers in
Sydney. Daughter Ilenriette (Mrs. Andre
Brenac) is the proud mother of a son, to
be called Paul Henri. In a few weeks Mr.
and Mrs. Segaert are off again to visit their
native land.
Sydney flats and guesteries are being in-
creasingly populated by members of our older
families who usually live abroad. The high
rate of exchange rather than nostalgia is
causing the return. They busy themselves
with a round of self-contained little junket-
ings, and on the day the cables trumpet the
glad tidings “A pound for a pound” the
shipping offices will probably have to call
out the traffic police to regulate the queues.
The Old Clo’ Shop netted £l6O for Kari-
tane in ten days. Mrs. Purves and Alex-
ander Gordon’s lady carried out the idea,
and think so much of it that a similar shop
is to be run for the Rawson Institute; a
preliminary meeting was held at the Tom
Ivnox home last Monday, The shop will be
in one of the poorer parts of the city, the
object being the twofold one of helping the
hard-up to obtain warm clothing for a few
shillings and getting money to keep the
institute doors wide for the seamen.
Dorothy O’Sullivan, the eldest grandchild
of one-time Cabinet Minister E. W.
O’Sullivan, has just become engaged. The
man in the case is James McNally, of the
Forestry Department, and the wedding will
happen in April.
Marcelle Wooster, who has put behind her
her long, lazy days at Taylor Point, and
with her husband has joined her sister Ann-
ette Kellerman in Europe, drops a line to say
that in London long dresses have not taken
on for daytime wear. And even at night
the sweeping-the-ground garment is in the
minority. All the flappers and the near-
flappers (as many as are in Sydney) are wear-
ing every sign of hair brushed off the fore-
head, and on top of this planting a small
bonnet, beret, pancake or diminutive halo
at a breath-holding angle at the back of
the head. Annette has been appearing all
over Europe; at Rotterdam and The Hague
she overjoyed her audiences by rattling off
her 20-minut.es’ talk in Dutch. She is the
second visiting artist who has paid the
people of Holland this compliment, and the
papers all featured the performance.
Whether the audience was French, Danish,
Swedish or German, the one-time Sydney
girl (now known as a famous exponent of
physical culture) spoke to it in its native
tongue.
Some of the younger bloods are beginning
to rebel against the quiet evening in the homo
entailed by lowered bank balances and dwind-
ling dividends, and as hardly anybody can
afford to give a dinner followed by a dance
party, groups of young men and young women
are foregathering in luxurious haunts each
paying his or her own expenses. There must
be quite a bit of arithmetic worked out on
the backs of the menus.
These days the really fashionable up Bow-
ral way always come to town by way of
the motor-’bus, which delivers them into
Martin-place before lunch. Among the pas-
sengers from, Burradoo the other morning
was Mrs. George Vivers, coming to the city
for the committee meeting of the auxiliary
for the Industrial Blind Institution. She
reports that wind or rain, sun or shade, she
walks four miles every day through the
bracing mountain air. Her looks certainly
justify the exertion. The house Mrs. Vivers
is living in was once a summer home of
the late Mrs. Tom Dalton.
Popular Nan Garvan is settled once again
among her own furniture at Warwick Flats.
She is at the moment probably one of the
best-tailored and the most-invited-out women'
in Sydney, though, of course, the not-long-
distant death of brother Din Garvan restricts
her social activities.
Maurice Hewlett! The name is a pass-
word to romance. Last week the sparkling
little widow of the man who wrote “The
Forest Lovers,” and “Open Spaces” blew
into Sydney as
crisp and fresh
as an April
morning, and
The Bulle-
tin man’s
camera records
her. But Mrs.
Hewlett is a
personage in
her own right.
She wa.s the
fi rs t British
woman, pro-
bably the first
woman in the
world, to
secure a pilot’s
license.
Twenty years
ago, dressed
in leather
breeches, a
double - breast-
ed leather coat
and a leather cap with snug carflaps, she flew
her own ’plane. In those days the flier had
no cabin to protect her from the elements,
but sat bared to the four winds of Heaven,
playing her joystick and her controls. Mrs.
Hewlett first saw' flying at Blackpool when
Farman went up in an Antoinette. Not very
long after that, in partnership with a young
French aviator, she was running an aero-
plane factory where during the war about
300 women, in addition to men, were employed.
Mrs. Hewlett is a thistledown of a woman,
but hardships have no terrors for her. She
has lived for the past three years at Taur-
anga (M.L.) in the Bay of Plenty. Her
days are spent in angling; she catches every-
thing from swordfish to whitebait. One
sw r ordfish to her hook, she declares, weighed
3901 b. Mrs. Hewlett is on her way to Eng-
land to visit her son, a group commander
in the Royal Air Force.
The Society of Women Writers had a trio
of interesting lunch guests last week. They
wore Mrs. Adair, an Irishwoman with a
voice like cream, who is on the staff of one
of the largest Art publications in India, and
has done notable work in stimulating a
renaissance of their own immemorial arts
and crafts among the natives; Mrs. Maurice
Hewlett, and a home-grown poet, Frederick
Macartney, of Darwin..
Clara Butt completely refutes the asser-
tions that men prefer small -women and
gentlemen prefer blondes. The regal and
brunette Clara sweeps all male hearts to her
net. Youths at the concerts sit hypnotised
and tranced by the glamor of the creature,
and at the party given to her and husband
Kennerley Rumford by the Musical Associa-
tion the tongue of every man grew lyric.
Some, like president Asprey, Faunce Allman
and Clara’s old friend Roland Foster, got a>
chance to air their thoughts. The singer
repaid their kindness by declaring that no
audiences in the world sang “God Save” like
those in Sydney. This Letter has heard them
innumerable times. It agrees with Clara.
The company of Independent Players,
still attracting crowded audiences at the
Savoy with its
presentation of
“And So to
Bed,” holds no
prettier or
more versatile
member than
Rita Cullcn-
War d. The
clever Killara
girl, who is a
daughter of
well - known
public accoun-
tant Rex, did
splendid work
as Hester in
“T li c Silver
Cord,” a part
entirely difler-
e n t from
Romo, her
modern girl in
“Michael and
Mary.” In the
present Independent production slie is lat-
tice, the serving-lass with a ‘‘voice like
cream” to whom Pepys insists on giving
singing lessons.
With the passing of Monsignor O’Haran,
the It. C. clergy of Sydney lose heavily in
wit and culture. Even when making direct
demands for funds for the church, the Mon-
signor could keep his listeners in peals of
laughter, and so charm them with the bouquet
of his words that every, rich man or woman
present would automatically loosen the purse-
strings. He himself was always ready to
give and give again. To the blessing of the
wing given to the Sacred Heart Hospice by
Mrs. J. C. Williamson and daughter Tootles
Horsley, he arrived with a hundred-pound
note in “the heel of his list” for the St.
Mary’s building fund appeal which the
Archbishop was just launching.
Monsignor O’Haran had his last resting-
place prepared long beforehand on a location
opposite the great Irish monument at Waver-
ley cemetery. It is a tomb of white marble,
carved in Celtic design, a Monsignor’s in-
signia in relief on one side, and these words
lettered in black. “May the God of my cradle
be the God of my tomb.”
This Letter waggled a streamer of con-
gratulation at Mrs. F. S. Black, who sailed
away by the Orama to England and Europe
generally. She was Lela Settle before her
marriage the other day to the N.S.W.
manager for Shell Oil (whom she, of ‘course,
takes with her on her wedding journey).
This brilliant sister was in charge of the
cancer clinic at Prince Alfred’s. This, by her
personality, she contrived to fill with cheer-
fulness and hope, and it’s not to be won-
dered at that an address signed by 21 doctors
and sisters testifying to'her good work is
now among her prized possessions. Another
document the lady carries is a letter from
the University commending her to the heads
of hospitals and clinics, for this unusual girl
means, if possible, to combine honeymooning
with research work.
One of Sydney’s most popular young flut-
terers, Naomi Waters, gave her girl friends
the thrill of last week. She departed for
Europe without farewell teas or tears by the
Commissaire Ramel, whose first port of call
is Port Said. It is rumored that she con-
templates matrimony at the end of the
voyage. Meanwhile her father and mother,
the C. E. Waters couple, have recovered from
tlicir 1 surprise, and have wirelessed their
daughter wishing her a happy journey.
A Brisbane budget•
Government House gave a dinner for Lord and
Lady Baden-Powell. The other guests were the
C.-J. and his lady, Mr. and Mrs. R. M. King, the
Rev. Nathan and Mrs. Levine, Mr. and Mrs. F. R.
Lloyd, Mr. and Mrs. O. S. Snow, Mr. and Mrs.
E. J. Shaw, Dorothy Hawthorn, Archbishop Duhig
and Colonel le Breton.
The Chief Scout begged Brisbane not to give him
too many receptions, and the civic one arranged at
the City Hall was merged in a large evening meeting
there. The distinguished travellers, of course, re-
ceived their first welcome at the railway station,
where their Exes., Mayor Watson, Marcus Hertzberg,
C. S. Snow and Dorothy Hawthorn were among
those on the platform. Neth Hutchinson, daughter
of the late Colonel Hutchinson, is secretary to the
Girl Guides.
The wedding of Claude Barron, of Kedron, to
Elfreda Rhoades, of Clayfield, took place at the
Albert-street Methodist church, lavishly decorated
for the occasion. The communion-rails were framed
in green and gold marigolds, with the initials of
bride and ’groom on either side, and white doves
hung overhead. The bride, who was given away by
her father, was in ivory bridal satin. Her vei
was of hand-made broidered Brussels net, mounted
on pale pink tulle and formed a train. Ena Ander-
son, Maureen Jacobsen, Ena Hitchcock and Fianeis
Boddington ’maided in apple-green taffetas with
bandeaux of green and gold velvet leaves. Hazel
Barron was flower-girl, in white silk lace and app e-
green ribbons and a Juliet cap of ivory lace and
green. Rose petals were strewn in the path of the
bridal pair as they left the church. Norman Barron
best-manned. The ’moon will be spent in a motor
tour to the Northern Rivers and Sydney.
Susan Glaspell’s play “Alison’s House” was well
interpreted by the Barbara Sisley players on two
nights in the Theatre Royal, which has been closed
since Nellie Bramley went to Westralia. Several
charities benefited, and Dr. J. V. Duhig stage-
managed. Barbara was in buttercup and was warmly
applauded when she took her “curtain.’ Beryl
Telford, as Elsa, was one of the conspicuous suc-
cesses ; Hilda Mastie and Jim Pendleton also did good
work. On the second night there was an entirely
new cast.
Clara Butt’s second concert drew the largest audi-
ence ever seen in the City Hall —some 4000-odd.
Many stood throughout.
On the second day of the races at Ascot, Mrs. J.
H. S. Barnes (Canning Downs) was in begonia-red
and white with a large black hat; Mrs. R. J. Spence
(Maroomba) in navy with a Lido-blue hat;
and Mrs. D. G. Evans (Malvern Hills) in black
and white. The Blair lady chose navy blue and a
rose-pink hat; Mrs. N. F. Macgroarty, wine-red
and a hat of mastic; Mrs. Cecil Palmer, red and
amber and cream felt hat. Mrs. E. K. Tully was
in navy and white; Mrs. George Mocatta, in black;
Jean Barlow wore leaf-green, and Norma Logan navy.
Mrs. John Macdonald staged a tea at Atcherley
in honor of Gwendolyn Pitt, who is marrying John
Macdonald, of Cunnamulla, this month. The music
was made by Cecile Hives and Molly Corbett. The
hostess was in black, with a vest of powder-blue
and a black hat; the guest of honor wore black
satin beautg with touches of white. Apiongst the
guests were Mesdames Virgil Power, Edward Hill
(Wyandra), Dr. Ethel Pitt, Ella O’Shea, Aileen
Lyons and Isabel Fox.
Old pupils of Fairholme Presbyterian Girls’ College
decorated St. Stephen’s, Toowoomba, for the marriage
of Alan Lindley to Eunice May Sitz. The bride,
who was given away by her father, was in white
crepe romanette and Brussels-lace veil. Beryl Sitz,
the bride’s twin sister, and Thelma Hatton 'maided
in rose-pink with green summer felts. They wore
green shoes and their posies were rosebuds in green
tulle.
Tassy speaks up;—
The Royal Society welcomed Douglas Mawson and
his merry men at a conversazione, a cheery affair
enough, even though the voyagers seemed to have
brought the weather from the South Pole in their
pockets. The Lieut.-Gov. and his lady were among
those who were compelled to send apologies; president
Dr. L. Crowther did the honors. The travellers
report that Antarctica is not the desolate waste it
was, what with a whaler to every 50 miles or so,
and three of them with captains’ wives on board.
The Hobart Repertory Society opened the ball for
1931 with A. and P. Stuart’s flimsy but amusing
comedy “Her Shop,” and scored a deserved success.
Outstanding was Mrs. Goddard’s hit in the chief
part, that of Lady Mary Torrent, the impulsive and
impecunious society woman bent on retrieving her
fortunes independently of her husband. The manne-
quin parade was colorful arid calculated to make
feminine mouths water.
Our community is the poorer for the deaths of
two public-spirited women, Mrs. H. V. Bayly
and Mrs. G. H. Bailey. Both devoted untiring
energy and patience to social service of all kinds.
Mrs. H. V. Bayly was president of the Tas. branch
of the Women’s International League for Peace and
Freedom. Mrs. G. H. Bailey is still remembered
for her splendid war work from 1914 to 1918.
The League of Nations Union staged a welcome
to Dr. H. 0. Busing, Consul-Gen. for Germany in
Australia. Representatives of the churches, the Con-
suls for Belgium and the Netherlands, Messrs. Dwyer
Gray and W. A. Woods, M’s.H.A., and many others,
were present. Mrs. Tom Murdoch was the only
woman speaker, and what she said was to the point.
Mrs. Walter Gatenby hostessed a novel party in
the lounge of the Launceston Hotel recently when
a number of guests was bidden to see (on the
screen) the wedding of her grand-daughter, Barbara,
daughter of the J. J. Gatenbys, to Mr. Tom Ormond,
of Maoriland. The pictures were clear and distinct,
and all agreed that it was a delightful way of
attending a wedding across the sea.
The Admiral and officers of H.M.A.S. Australia
gave a dance on board by way of farewell to
Hobart. The only fly in the evening’s ointment was
that it teas a farewell to Admiral Evans, his charm-
ing helpmate and his officers till next year. The ship
was gay with flags and colored lights, and dancing
was kept up till late. Mrs. Evans’s northern fairness
was set off by her pink frock. The Lieut.-Gov.
and his lady were present.
The “Ungrown Ups” held their dance at the Con-
tinental, and were all smiles at the success of it
and at the big crowd that rolled up to help the
Child Welfare Association. The Lieut.-Gov.’s lady,
who is president, and her committee, with Miss
Shoobridge as hon. sec., worked hard to make things
go smoothly. The supper, largely home-made, was
most delectable. A good sprinkling of naval men
helped to provide plenty of partners for the dancing
girls.
Tall, fair Nancy, daughter of Col. Wilfrid Giblin,
C. 8., and Mrs. Giblin, is to be another of Hobart’s
naval brides. The happy man is Lieut.-Commander
Roy Lethbridge, R.N., and the wedding is fixed for
May.


Are you supporting this totally Australian industry? It employs
hundreds of Australians directly in the REX factories and
offices in each State, hundreds of Australians indirectly
on the land, in glass and can-making, printing, labels,
machinery, etc., and only Australian capital. It
will employ more if you buy REX products
instead of the imported, the very best
of which are not better than, if as
good as, the REX pure foods
made in your own country.
Every REX Delicacy is ,
the highest quality
it is possible to
produce.
Cfioioe
REX-PYE is the famous
meat in jelly delicious for
lunch and for sandwiches
lb.cans and llb.cans
W
FOOPZ
PURE
Rex K-be-B (Kidneys
Beans and Bacon)
lb. cans "and I lb. cans
033523311
‘‘URE
Rex Red-tj-mele
-a ready meal of choice
beef and veqetables
I lb cans
Rex Devilled Kidneys
% lb. cans and lib. cans
Rex Ox Tonque
lb cans and I lb, cans
Rex Pork Brawn
I lb cans
Rex Picjs FeeC
I lb. cans
Rex Fru and Bacon
I lb. cans
03SE3P
FOODS
PURE
Rex Baked Beans
with Tomato Sauce
lb. cans and I lb.cans
Rex Pork and Beans
with Tomato Sauce-
%lb cans and I lb. cans
Packed b 4 FOGCITT JONES PTY. LTD.
The Latest REX Products
cowslip
in Jr lb. cartons and 51b. blocks
Rfchi mild-the besh pasteurised cheese on rtie market’
3
FOOt)S
Rex Lorraine Smoked Sausoqes
\lb cans and I lb. cans '
Rex Pork Sausacje.
h lb. cans and I lb. cans
Rex Beef Sausaoes
I lb cans
///-
Vterq choice poalitq Soups
(lex Pea Soup ’
Rex Vegetable Soup
Rex Ox Tail Soup r
Rex Mulliqatawnq Soup
Rex Consomme Soup.
%th
• and
11b
cans
Rex Lunch Tongues
I lb. cans
D
Rex luncheon Cheese
-delicious for sandwiches
and savouries
Zen. cans - cans & Jars
Rex Salmonella
-a delicious Fish Paste in
dainty glass jars
Rex Bloater Paste
2 02. glass and i%s<» can
Rex Anchovy Paste
2oz.qlass and Ifeoz can
Rex Ham Pate>
3*202. can and 2oz. can
Rex Veal and Tongue
or. can and Woz can
Rex Devilled Ham
3*202 can and fcoz. can
Rex Ham and Tongue
Hjorcan
Rex Veal and Bacon
1% oz can
REX HAMS and BACON
Mild Sugar-cured*- Delicious
Support a totally Australian Industry
Foggitt Jones Pty. Limited.
Curers of the choice REX Hams & Bacon & Packers of REX-PYE & other delicious Canned Delicacies


Legal Notice.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an application
under the PRESUMPTION OF LIFE LIMITA-
TION AOT 1891 has been presented in the Sheriff
Court of Lanarkshire at Glasgow at the instance of
Mrs. Mary Livingstone 64 Graham street Govan Glas-
stow craving the Court to find and declare that
JAMES JOSEPH ELLIS who resided at 64 Graham
Street Govan Glasgow has disappeared; that he
has not been known to be alive after Ist January
1913; that he died, or must be presumed to have
died on Ist January 1920—in which application the
Court has pronounced the following Interlocutor:-
Glasgow 9th February 1931—Having con-
sidered the foregoing Petition appoints the
import thereof and of this deliverance to be
published once in the “Glasgow Herald ’ and
Sydney “Bulletin” newspapers and ordains any
party desiring to oppose the Application to
lodge answers thereto in the hands of the Clerk
of Court at Glasgow within three months after
such publication with certification.
(Sgd.) W. BOYD BERRY,
Sheriff Substitute.
Of which intimation is hereby made.
EDWARD HENRY, Solicitor, 143 West Regent
Street, Glasgow, Scotland, agent for Mis. Mary
Livingstone.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Ecclesiastical Juuisdiction.
To the next of kin of FANNY DAVIS a daughter of
John Beale and Margaret Beale and the widow of
Charles Davis formerly an employee of the “Mercury”
and Government Printing Offices Hobart and to all
persons claiming or pretending any interest in her
WHEREAS there is now depending in our said Court
a cause entitled the Public Trustee v. Samuel
Marshman and Others wherein the Public Trustee
is proceeding to prove in solemn form of law the
will of the abovenamed Fanny Davis deceased.
NOW THIS IS TO GIVE NOTICE TO YOU and each
of you to appear in the said cause either personally
or by your Proctor Solicitor or Attorney should
you think it for your interest so to do at any time
during the dependence of the said cause and before
final Judgment shall be given. AND TAKE NOTICE
that in default of you so doing the Judge of our
said Court will proceed to hear the said will proved
in solemn form of Law and pronounce judgment in
the said cause your absence notwithstanding.
DATED at Hobart this twenty-sixth day of March
one thousand nine hundred and thirty-one in the
twenty-first year of our reign.
(Sgd.) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA.
No. 118 of 1931.
Between ELLEN ETHEL SELWAY Plaintiff
And ALFRED GEORGE SELWAY Defendant
To ALFRED GEORGE SELWAY.
NOTICE is hereby given to Alfred George Selway
formerly of Adelaide whose last known address was
at Stoke Newington London England that Ellen Ethel
Selway of Warburton in the State of Victoria has
issued a Writ in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia in an action in which Ellen Ethel Selway
claims an order for divorce from her husband on
the ground of his desertion for over five years but is
not claiming maintenance or costs against him. If
Alfred George Selway desires to be heard in oppo-
sition to the claim for the order he must file an
appearance in the office of the .Master of the Supreme
Court of South Australia within 120 days of the
publication of this advertisement otherwise he may
be found guilty of desertion in his absence.
JOHN LEO TRAVERS,
Insurance Chambers,
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
NORTHERN DISTRICT.
In Divorce.
To GEORGE JAMES CURTIS the husband of VERA
MAY CURTIS formerly of Dannevirke Motor-
driver but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued out
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Auckland
citing’ you to appear and answer the petition ot
Vera May Curtis of Auckland Married Woman wheiem
she prays for a divorce on the ground of desertion
and such citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition and to pronounce sentence therein not"' l He
standing your absence. NOW THEREFORE TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you are within
30 days after the last date of this publication in the
“Sydney Morning Herald’’ on the 2nd April 1931
to attend in person or by your Solicitor at the
Supreme Court Office at Auckland and there to
enter an appearance without which you will not pe
allowed to address the Court at any stage of tne
proceedings. ... ,
A copy of the said citation and petition will
supplied to you on your applying for the sam
at the Supreme Court Office at Auckland.
Dated this 18th day of March, 1931
[L.s.] E. M. MOSLEY,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
VINCENT NOEL HUBBLE is the Solicitor for the
Petitioner, whose address for service is at tP
offices of Messieurs Meredith and Hubble in on
land Street in the City of Auckland
Harold T. Morgan and Morgan, Solicitors and
Notaries, Ocean House, 34 Martin Place byaney,
agents for Messrs. Meredith and Hubble, Auck >
New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
[?] Contral [?]for P[?]
Buckleys [?]Nunn L[?]mited,
[?]
His Ex. of South Australia, Sir Alexander
Ilore-Rutliven, went to watch the gee-gees
at Moonec Valley and had lunch with acting-
chairman J. B. McArthur and the committee.
The weather was clear and bright, with a
touch of autumn in the breeze, and there was
a big crowd. Ensemble suits and coat-and-
skirt outfits were general wear. In the mem-
bers’ enclosure were Mrs. J. B. McArthur,
in navy blue with a black velvet hat; the
A. R. Lemprieres, Oscar Lemprieres, Mr. and
Mrs. W. S. Cox, Mrs. Vaughan Cutten, of
Adelaide, Mrs. Norman Falkiner and the
Rogers Thomsons.
The Victoria Golf Club, Cheltenham,
allowed its links to be used on Saturday for
a fete in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital. On
the clubhouse verandah were stalls of cakes,
sweets, smokes and flowers, the lounge being
occupied by bridge-players. Mrs. W. Car-
negie, the associates’ president, who was
in a fawn knitted sports suit with
darker straw millinery, had decorated
the rooms with the aid of some other mem-
bers, masses of mauve and white Easter
daisies and gladioli making a gladsome show.
This club a few years ago changed its loca-
tion from Fishermen’s Bend to the present
site. The clubhouse, with its green tiled roof,
is one of the prettiest in the environs of
Melbourne. There is an entrance avenue
of gold-topped pines, and in the flower-beds
asters, delphiniums and petunias make con-
trast with the fresh green of the fairways.
Among those who went round were
the Lud Mayor, the Stanley Bruces,
she in brown suit and beret with a pink
blouse ; the Alec Russells, the Harry Gulletts,
Mrs. Austin Gatehouse and Susie Tolhurst.
The committee of the fete was representative
of 13 clubs, with Mrs. G. Bowcher organising
sec. and O. Snellgrove, hon. sec., aided
by Mrs. K. S. Ross and the sec. of the
V.G.C., W. Meader. Some beautiful trophies
were presented at the close of the afternoon's
play.
Old Lauristonians, who have a custom of
meeting once a year at a garden party,
assembled indoors this year to escape the
rain. The principal of Lauriston, Miss
Irving, lent her drawing-room, beautifully
decorated with massed flowers, on which
there was the pleasant glow of firelight. The
school prefects attended to afternoon-tea,
which was served in the dining-room.
Present besides the principal were her sister,
Miss F. Irving; the president of the 0.L.,
Mrs. F. Merrifield; the hon. sec., Betty
Thomson ; and assistant sec., Margaret Bell.
Ex-students of Fintona had better luck
with the weather, and their reunion took the
form of a picnic on green lawns beneath
shady trees. Some of the Old Fintonians
described their present-day routine, amongst
those who testified being a doctor and ai dis-
penser attached to a big city hospital, a
nurse and a married lady whose duties are
to her home and family. Others related
* ravel experiences. Tennis and basketball
matches were played between past and
present scholars. The principal, Miss Hugh-
ston, is president of the 0.F., Miss Betty
Hughston being hon. treas. and Betty Bei-
lairs hon. sec.
A dance was held at Elwood to provide
wares for the produce stall at the carnival
in aid of the Children’s Hospital. Bonnie
H'ume, who danced in almond-green chiffon,
was organiser, wdth Sybil Rodda as lieutenant;
Ethel Roberts, the president, sported deep
pink ninon, and Una McDermot, hon. sec.,
chose attire of tourmaline hue.
Mrs. E. W. Cox organised a dance at
Anzac House for the Blind Appeal and
received so much help that expenses were
nil. The supper and the use of the hall
were donated, and a number of returned
soldiers supplied the music. Mr. and Mrs.
Cox gave the hop a cheerful, cordial atmo-
sphere. She was in black chiffon with a
sparkling floral spray over one shoulder.
Madame Kroef sported flowing draperies of
pale green with a stencilled design in gold.
Mrs. Russell Jackson chose lace flounces of
mushroom-pink, and her sister, Mrs. E.
Dyson, was> in powder-blue chiffon with
alternations of glitter. Mrs. C. Hudson,
Mr. and Mrs. 11. J. Bean, Mrs. W. Lang
and Myra Marsh were among the dancers.
With Dr. Nihill was Paul Coate, an Eng-
lish relative, who is getting Australian experi-
ence at one of the Manifold stations. He is
a Bachelor of Agriculture of Oxford and a
a son of the Rev. Canon Coate of St. Alban s.
The V.A.T C.’s meeting at Caulfield in
aid of the Alfred Hospital was well
attended by the general public, but there
were empty spaces in the members’ enclosure
and grandstand. The weather was fine and
warm. The president of the hospital, F. D.
Miclmelis, and the board of management en-
tertained several guests at tea. Robert
Knox, chairman of the auxiliaries, was there
with Mrs. Knox, whose black suit intro-
duced the fashionable touch of turquoise
blue. The matron, Mrs. Murdoch Evans,
Lieutenant-Colonel and Mrs. J. H. P. Eller,
Mrs. E. H. Willis and Dr. and Mrs. J.
Kennedy were there. Mayoress Lu.xton was
present in ensemble of fawn cloth with
matching felt hat. The chairman of the
V.A.T.C., Ben Cliaffey, brought Mrs. Chaffey,
whose attire was bottle green. Mayor and
Mayoress Ritchie, of Caulfield, the Merson
Coopers and Mrs. Iv. Baillieu, the last-
named looking charming in frock and mil-
linery of pale tan and brown tones, were
among those who strolled on the lawns.
The enclosure marked “Wirths’ Circus”
near Prince’s Bridge blossomed for the Garden
Week Show a.s it had never done before.
In the pavilion there were masses of dahlias,
gladioli, roses, tuber-begonias and delphi-
niums, mingled with the golden autumn
foliage of oak and maple. In an adjoining
marquee the Associated Nurseries showed
some gorgeous flowers. Their display in-
cluded also a banana-tree and a pitcher-
oi*chid. All about the grounds outside ponds
of water-lilies surrounded with crazy-paved
paths and garden-pottery were scattered.
Miniature trees reminiscent of a Noah’s Ark
were here and there, and a sea of mauve
ageratum was set about a map of Australia
laid out in varicolored phlox, with a coast-
line of wee begonias. A doll’s-house _ set _in
its own elaborate gardens was a fascinating
exhibit, with miniature lawns, vegetable and
flower sections, ponds and flagged walks.
The little house had electric light and water
laid on, and as a finishing touch of realism
a few tiny toadstools grew upon the well-
trimmed grass patches.
Lud Mayor Luxton, who attended with his
wife on the opening day, launched the show,
Mrs. Luxton receiving an armful of golden
dahlias and russet-tinted foliage. In connec-
tion with Garden Week two scholarships at
the Burnley School of Horticulture are annu-
ally awarded. These were endowed by the
Nurserymen’s Association as a memorial to
John Cronin, one-time Director of the
Botanical Gardens, who died in 1923.
On Friday the city was full of fair crea-
tures selling buttons to help the Institute
for the Blind, and on Sunday the churches
had a special plate-passing for the same
cause. F. W. M. Spry, whose garden was
adjudged to be the most beautiful in a recent
competition, handed over his prize of £2O as
a donation. Other competitors opened their
gardens to the public, making a small charge.
This is a Broothorn portrait _of Mrs.
Norman Brookes, who will don Girl Guide
uniform during the visit of Lord and
Lady Baden-
Powell to Mel-
bourne. She
is one of those
who are orga-
nising social
functions in
the Chief
Guide’s honor,
and will be
hostess at an
afternoon - tea
gathering at
Menzies’. Mrs.
Brookes had
many anxious
hours after the
accident to her
husband
—known wher-
ever tennis is
played—but he
is happily re-
covering. Her
chief interest,
outside her family and her picturesque
home, which overlooks the sea at Franks-
ton, is the Queen Victoria Hospital.
As president she has been active in raising
large sums of money for it. She has travelled
extensively, and proposes, with Mr. Brookes
and her three daughters, to have a glimpse of
Asia next month.
Past and present students of the Albert-
street Con. paid a moving tribute to the
memory of Melba. To the diva’s lonely grave
in the country cemetery of Lilydale they took
offerings of flowers, and at the graveside sang
a requiem written and composed by Fritz
Hart, and the old English round “Adieu,
Sweet Amaryllis,” which was a favorite of
Dame Nellie’s.
At a Town Hall meeting presided over
by the Lud Mayor it was decided to revive
the flag-day notion, so on Empire Day
miniature Union Jacks, priced at 3d., Is. and
10s., will be offered for sale. The proceeds
will be divided between the Queen Victoria
and Children’s hospitals. Amongst those sup-
porting the idea were Bishop Head, the Rev.
D. A. Cameron, knight James Barrett, Big-
Brother Richard Linton, M.L.A., and E.
Lee Neil.
There was a suggestion of autumn about
the attire of the bride and her ’maids at the
wedding of Marjorie, elder daughter of the
Rev. E. A. Forbes and Mrs. Forbes, of Lis-
more, and William, son of the W. E. Sar-
goods, of Corowa, N. S. Wales, which took
place at the Collins-street kirk, Moderator-
General Cameron doing the forging. The
leading lady wore lace of deep biscuit-tint,
with a toque of bronze-brown velvet and a
bouquet of yellow roses and Duchess of
York pansies. Her attendants, sister Gwen
and Mollie Manning, were in russet-pink
georgette topped with close-fitting millinery
of a paler hue of velvet. There was tea after-
wards at the' Oriental. Among the guests*
were Mr. and Mrs. Ewen Sargood, of Sydney.
Here is Mrs. Austin Gatehouse, our best-
known woman golfer. She is president of
the Ladies’ Golf Union, and has won many
championships. Recently a number of Mel-
bourne play-
ers, at the
invitation of
the Warrnam-
bo o 1 club,
journeyed
there to sample
the new links.
Mrs. Gate-
house and
Susie Tol-
hurst played
an exhibition
match and
other Mel-
b o u mites
who took part
in singles and
f o u r s o mes
were Mrs.
Gordon John-
stone, Nancy
Hewlett and
Nancy Mur-
doch. Many
tea parties and bridge evenings were given
in honor of the visiting golfers. The picture
is from the Broothorn studio.
At St. John’s, Toorak, on Thursday,
Dorothy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs., R.
Dixon, of Yallourn, was handed into the safe
keeping of Randall Alexander Stewart. The
bride’s deep cream satin gown was moulded
with a basqued bodice and flared skirt, with
a topping of Brussels lace and tulle. Mar-
celine Dixon and .Winifred Hughes attended
in frocks of pale pink lace and caps of tulle
with a touch of turquoise blue. Congratula-
tions were spoken at Windsor.
From London comes the announcement of
the engagement of Margot, elder daughter
of the R. A. Macgibbons, of Kew, and Fred-
erick. elder son of Mrs. Arthur Jackson, of
Lincoln, England. Miss Macgibbon went
to the Royal Academy of Music three years
ago on a violin scholarship won under Ger-
trude Healy’s tuition at the Albert-street
Con. Her fiance, a pianist and harpsichord
player, is accompanist to the Philharmonic
Choir and the Bach Cantata Club, Miss
Macgibbon was an assisting instrumentalist
with Phyllis Lett on a Maoriland tour some
years ago.
Cora O’Farrell arranged the musical pro-
gramme for an afternoon soiree at the Picca-
dilly in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital. The
Southern District branch of the auxiliary,
led by Miss K. Esmonde, president, Miss M.
Fitzpatrick, hon. sec., and Mollie Parker,
assistant sec., was responsible for the party,
which, in spite of rain, was very successful.
The disappearance of the Southern Cloud
was a fearful shock to the community. Ever
since the fateful Saturday any ’plane seen
making towards Essendon aerodrome has
been looked upon as a harbinger of news, and
not until the last of the searching air fleet
has been locked in the hangars each night
have the crowds who haunted the vicinity
returned to the city, to line up again next
morning. Last Friday some folk came into
The Bulletin office saying they had with
them a clairvoyant who was confident
that if left alone with a map in a quiet room
she would be able to trace the course of the
missing ’plane. A map of Victoria was
removed from the wall and the seeress was
given solitude for an hour or so. She returned
the map marked with the route taken from
Sydney, as she saw it—the ’plane being blown
out to sea and in again some miles inland
from Lakes Entrance, Gippsland. The infor-
mation, for what it was worth, was supplied
to the searchers that evening.
The long arm of coincidence operated to
insure that 11. A. Farrall should be a pas-
senger on the Southern Cloud. His sister
had just flown to Tasmania and enjoyed the
experience so much that she induced his wife
to try it. Mrs. Farrell communicated her
enthusiasm to her husband. He had gone to
Sydney to induce a brother to come to Mel-
bourne and stayed a day longer than he had
intended. On the morning the ’plane started
he ’phoned Melbourne, and liis family told
him the weather was awful, advising him to
postpone the journey. The weather was s'o
fine in Sydney that he couldn’t believe it.
He was manager of the Irrewarra Cream
Company in Melbourne.
The staging of “The Roof,” by Gals-
worthy, presented by the Gregan McMahon
Players exhibited a cToss-section of an old-
fashioned Parisian hostel, dining-room, four
bedrooms and flat roof, this being necessary
to show , what everyone was doing at mid-
night when the place caught fire. The people
take refuge on the roof in various stages
of dress and undress. The only two ladies
not in pyjamas or nighties were Mrs. George
Bell, in evening-gown of black chiffon, and
Miss Brown, in a frock of Patou pink, very
long with floating loose pieces.
A letter from South Australia: —
It was good to see a crowded and enthusiastic
first night once more at the Theatre Royal. The
English artists in “The Gondoliers” were delighted
with their reception. The Mayoress (Mrs. G. R. •!.
Glover) gave an at-home at the Town Hall. Dapper
little Ivan Menzies, who fills Charles Walenn’s lAles,
received with the Mayor and Mayoress, and after
Mr. Glover’s speech of welcome responded on behalf
of the company. Mrs. Glover wore a black georgette
ensemble and a black baku-straw hat. Her daughtei,
Mrs. Keith Pavey, of Narracoorte, assisted in enter-
taining the guests. Mr. Alban Whitehead convinced
the assembly that he was more than the sweet
17 that he looks on the stage by bringing his
pretty wife with him. Mrs. Mellis Napier, the
Bruce lady and Mrs. Lavington Bonython were
among the guests.
Following on Easter there will be several
dances. Mrs. Allan McFarlane will give one for
her daughter Betty, and the Cecil Goodes another
at Kooyonga clubhouse. There is to be a Junior
Red Cross ball in the ..Town Hall in aid of chari-
ties. Mesdames W. G. T. Goodman and Bronte
Smeaton have chosen April 17 for their dance at
the Australia Hall..
The marriage of Dr. and Mrs. Smeat oil's daughter
Joan to W. McGregor will be another social event
this month.
Mrs. Horace Marsh and her daughter Mavis,
after spending a few weeks with Mrs. Dudley
Turner at Mount Lofty, are the guests of the
Stirling lady at Strathalbyn.
The Malvern Methodist Church was fragrant with
roses for the marriage of Erina, second daughter
of the late Dr. Percy Bollen, and William Fletcher.
Jean Clarkson and Keith Willcox supported the
bridal pair. The bride’s mother entertained after
the ceremony at her pretty home in Northgate-
street, Unley Park.
Westralia’s budget:—
The Hon. Mrs. Robert Lindsay and pretty daughter
Joyce are as regular as the feathered creatures in
their migration with the seasons. After summering
at Yanchep and Jurien Bay they packed up for
the opposite extreme of comfort, the Oronsay, a
holiday in Egypt and their house in London. The
Countess of Bective, who by her first marriage is
Mrs. Lindsay’s sister-in-law, is travelling by the
same boat. On the morning of the Oronsay’s arrival
in Fremantle Mrs. le Souef gave a tea party for
the three travellers. Among the guests were Mrs.
Whitfield, who is sailing shortly with her Pro-
fessor for six months abroad, and Mrs. Shann, who
leaves with her three daughters to join Professor
Shann for a year in Sydney.
Nightingale Irene Standiffe changed her name to
Mrs. Russell West' in St. George’s Cathedral. Ivorv
satin and platinum lace fashioned the marriage
garment, the sleeves of which were puffed above
the elbow in period fashion. The skirt descended
in a train and the veil was a mist of tulle. Two
’maids, sisters of the bride and ’groom respectively,
wore primrose georgettes and big picture hats, and
carried sheafs of dahlias.
St. Andrew’s was the church chosen by Dorothy
Parsons and Alan Preshaw for their wedding. The
bride, in a sheen of ivory satin and a glint of silver
lam S-lined train, was given away by her father.
The lace veil, made by Flemish fingers two centuries
ago, was lent by Mrs. John Nicholson. Joyce
Parsons and Betty Goff attended in tiers of sunset-
pink moire and matching millinery of crinoline straw
and velvet. Toasts and dancing followed at King’s
Park pavilion.
Mermaids from half a dozen schools dived into
the glassy surface in Claremont baths on a warm
windless morning for the inter-school swimming.
Methodist Ladies’ College kept up its aquatic pres-
tige with a runaway victory, and Ruth Fleming of
that seminary was champion swimmer. Dot Oliver,
Pat Gordon, Dorothy Fleming, U. Glauert and B.
Pearse were others who did particularly well.
Musgroves, Ltd., had a party to celebrate the
first birthday of its radio child, station 6ML.
Orange cannas made a splash of color in the reception-
room, where artists did their turns for the audience
and the microphone. Mr. and Mrs. Musgrove, she
in black and white, and Kittie Gillies, in scarlet,
welcomed 130 guests. Among those who listened,
supped and danced were Mrs. Fred Piesse, in a
ravishing black garment a-glitter on one shoulder;
Mrs. Eden, in kingfisher-blue; Colonel and Mrs.
Roberts; Dr. and Mrs. Battye; Mrs. M. W.
Elliott; Mr. and Mrs. Fred Kingston; Mr. A. T.
Gray and Eva; the R. D. Scott and the W. D.
Hopson couples; Cecil Rowan and Frank Thornton.
The Karoola sailed without its popular pianist,
Eileen Foley, who became seriously ill while the
steamer was in port. Doreen Sheridan slipped into
the job for the voyage to Sydney and back.
The Saw twins, Pat and Alan, gave a dinner party
to celebrate their coming-of-age birthday.
Parties are being arranged for various members of
the Lawrence Craven family, who are getting read.'
to sail for the Fog. An informal at-home spread
over the week-end drew carloads of friends to Mis.
Craven’s home in Mahogany Creek. A few days
later a sale of the land, house and antique furniture
attracted a multitude of buyers.


Evidence
Ford Quality
<!s
-mm
wm
mm
■x*'
«tta£^- v -'- v - v - v *
M-JMf
g
m
WOCCOMWwv^,.
ii
M
3
m
m
m
si
03k f
•ii
Ford Trucks help to maintain the
efficiency of the Melbourne City
Council Electric Supply.
FORD CARSj
TRUCKS ANDj
TRACTORS ARE f
BRITISH EMPIRE j
PRODUCTS |
i
Australia’s greatest
City Councils choose
Ford Vehicles!
TO meet the strict requirements of City Council work,
motor vehicles must measure up to high standards of
quality, dependability, performance and economy.
Significant, then, that after years of experience with many makes,
the Melbourne City Council has standardised on Ford Cars,
Trucks and Light Deliveries for all vehicles of up to two tons
capacity, while the Sydney Municipal Council has a fleet of
no less than 120 Ford vehicles.
And these City Council fleets must be British. Throughout
Australia there is a demand that public money be invested
in British products. Authentic figures prove the Ford British
content unusually high even among English makes; some Ford
models ranging up to 92% British in actual manufacture .
The Ford commercial range covers thirty distinct standard
models from half ton to two tons capacity .... And special
equipment is available which increases the Ford Truck’s
capacity to four tons, yet with running costs increased only
15 to 20% over those of the standard 30 cwt. Truck. Extended
chassis, six-wheel equipment, trailers and semi-trailers can be
supplied through your nearest Ford Dealer. Ask him for facts
and figures of Ford transportation costs. These will assure you
of Value far above the Price.
§*
Fieic of portion of the Melbourne City Council
Maintenance and Cleansing Fleet of Ford Trucks.
‘For National Economy'
iwvioifS'-
ms
i
Units of Melbourne City Council Electricity Supply fleet of Ford Vehicles
""Mi
Sydney Municipal Council uses these Ford Cars and Light Delivery vehicles in its Electricity Department
11
*^XXXXXXXav
smmsm
1f.C.40/56
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. . GEELONG, SYDNEY, BRISRANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH


THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH
m
15,000,000
MOTOR VEHICLES ARE
LUBRICATED EVERY
500 MILES WITH
ALEMITE
The Universal Lubricant
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. $.
Wales, xoest of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a prac-
tice, lie is troubled by the fret-
fulness of his wife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against liis
wish, but who now, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. Allegations touching upon
his professional performance and other
misunderstandings make him deter-
mined to leave, but imperceptible influ-
ences work to keep him there. He has
made a friend of John Cartwright,
Banton’s leading citizen, and is slowly
winning the respect and, friendship of
others. But Mrs. Gherardi becomes
more and more intent upon returning
to Italy, and at last, when their house
is burnt down, wins Dr. Gherardi’s
agreement that they should go. Going
to the bank after the fire, Dr. Gherardi
is made to see Banton’s people in a
new light—they have anonymously sub-
scribed £3OO as a token of appreciation
of his ivork and sympathy in his loss.
He feels that he cannot go now, and
rejects Mrs. Gherardi’s suggestion that
he should return the gift; since he
regards it as a tie. Mrs. Gherardi
becomes more and more fretful, and,
completely losing her control, she
takes strychnine. She rings the hospi-
tal, tells her husband to come to her
urgently, and is icaitvng for him.
Chapter VI {Continued).
WHEN Teresa had controlled her
trembling she went out to the
kitchen. She took a glass and
filled it with water, ; crushed the tablets
and emptied the powder into the glass.
Somewhere in the house a clock was
ticking. She listened. She found that her
head was moving in unison with the rhythm.
She went back into the bedroom carrying
the glass, which she set on a table near the
bed. Her mind slowly emptied She
stretched out her hand.
Minutes passed and she realised that the
glass was empty. She must have drunk.
She grew rigid with fright. She was
suffocated by the sense of impending. anni-
hilation. She tried to scream, but the
effort produced nothing but a hoarse
mouthing of her husband’s name. She tore
out of the room and through the passage.
But panic left her. She returned
slowly to the bedroom and lay down on the
bed, huddling up her limbs. But she could
not lie still. She jerked herself from the
bed and stood staring wildly round the
room. The remembrance of the child
soothed her. With a caressing little ges-
ture she placed her hands over her body,
where the child lay.
“You aren’t frightened, my baby? Death
is kind—much kinder than life. Help me,
little baby!”
With a tremendous effort of will she
relaxed and drew air into her lungs in a
great panting breath. But in a moment she
ceased to will and her throat and jaws grew
rigid. She tried to think, but thought dis-
solved, was shattered before she grasped it.
She flung herself back on the pillows. Then
a great tremor, prelude of disaster, ran
through her body. Suddenly her legs, which
had been hugged close to her body, shot
out from her. Her mind was clear while
the paroxysm held her in its grip. She
knew the torture of her body, and terror,
and an awful longing for her husband.
About half-past three Dino came home
from school. He dropped his schoolbag on
the verandah and went into the house
crying, “Mother! Mother! I’m hungry.
Mother, where are you?”
Teresa moved her racked body with diffi-
culty, until she was half-lying under the bed.
“Mother!”
The pain and the convulsions started
again.
“Send him to me, God! I must tell him.
I’ve done it for him. He must know. I
must tell him God!”
With an effort so terrible it threatened
to destroy her she dragged herself to the
window and raised the blind.
Leo had come at last.
She saw him lift the catch of the gate,
then he turned smiling at something she
could not see.
“Only a few minutes, God! He is here
now. Only a few minutes, one minute, a
few seconds to tell him! Keep the pain
away for a few seconds, so that I can tell
him clearly.”
A man had come up to him. They shook
hands. The man was speaking. Leo bent
his head to listen. Then both of them
turned from the gate and walked slowly
away—talking!
She tried to scream: “Leo! Leo! Come
back! Leo”
He went on down the road. He was ques-
tioning the man as to his son’s hurt.
When Leo came in he found Dino
hunched on the floor, his face pressed against
the door. He had been crying, but was not
crying now though his eyes were dark and
wide.
“What’s the matter with you, boy?” he
said kindly, catching up the child. “You
mustn’t cry.”
“I’m hungry,” the child said. But he knew
his trouble was greater than. that. “I been
calling and calling mamma and she. won’t
open the door. You make her open it.”
“You wait here and I’ll ask her where we
might find some biscuit, eh?” He went
into the room.
Teresa was lying under the window. She
was very still. But a little breeze had sprung
up and ruffled the window-curtains, and
stray sunbeams danced unafraid about the
room.
Chapter VII.
(1)
Cartwright had given him the address of
the seaside boarding-house, saying, “It will
be quiet enough this time of the year.
Take a month or two and think things
out. When you get over the shock you’ll
see more clearly what’s the best thing to
do.”
He had taken up his quarters in the
cottage perched on a windswept cliff, obey-
ing Cartwright’s directions because he was
incapable at that stage of commanding
himself. He scarcely knew how the days
passed, but he was conscious of the sea,
stretching blue and boundless. He shrank
from the contemplation of action. He knew
that he was going home, but the details
of his going seemed as yet too onerous to
consider.
There were few guests. Summer was
over and the little village by the sea was
sinking into its winter sleep. When the
first autumn wind swirled the yellow leaves
from the trees and the pine needles fell to
form the year’s weave of an ever-thickening
carpet, the -summer visitors packed their
bags, and departed.
Leo, sitting on his verandah chair, or
taking his walks, alone or with Dino, was
conscious only of the season’s dying as it
reflected his state of mind. He indulged
no speculation as to the life of the village.
Had you asked him, after a month’s resi-
dence, he could not have-told you of a
single one of its features. Only the sea
and its boundlessness held him.
His fellow-guests respected his desire for
solitariness. Mrs. Crabtree, the landlady,
had told them of his bereavement, and
they, as she, refrained mercifully from in-
truding on his privacy. But all combined
to enliven the child’s days, and Dino went
blithely towards forgetfulness of his grief.
He understood vaguely that his mother had
gone somewhere, and that he would never
see her again. But the pain of youth is
short, and his laughter was joyous as he
came upon a crab overturned; his con-
centration as he built a moat round his
sand castle, or ruffled with bare, cold toes a
rock pool, was unchecked by thoughts of
death.
One evening Leo realised that they had
been there two months and that he ha.d
made no plans. He was alone in his room.
It was dusk. He listened to the sea as it
broke upon the beach, and he fancied that
the crashing of the waves on the shore
must bring relief to the pent,’ mighty ocean.
He felt in himself deep upon deep of
restless trouble, seething and chained, and
how it would be good if this force could
expend itself, as the sea’s, in lashing some
resistant shore.
Suddenly he flung himself on his knees
by the bed and buried his face in his
hands. He cried, and as his big body was
shaken with sobs he felt Teresa near him
for the first time since her death. All
these weeks he had been divided from her
by infinite distance. He had tried to
visualise the contours of her face, her
figure, her mannerisms, all the little things
which recreate a person in memory, but
had seen only her heavy, brooding, dead
eyes and in them the terrible gleam of hate
which he had occasionally surprised in
them, living. The Teresa of loving gaiety
he had groped for in vain. But to-night
as he knelt, he recaptured her forlorn,
wistful face, and found in her eyes the love
which, he had seen there so many times
(until -he had ceased to care or look for
it) and felt, for the first time, that for-
giveness from her might have been possible
and that she had perhaps died without
hating. The ice which had numbed his
heart and brain was melted by the sen-
sation of his wife’s nearness. He was able
to think again.
That night he decided to return to
Banton and live out his life there. Never
had the desire to leave Australia been so
strong in him. Because of this, because
he knew at last what he really wanted to
do, he was able to decide upon his atone-
ment —which was to go back to the little
town and abandon any other hopes life
might hold for him.
Only a lifetime of self-punishment, he
felt, could wipe out the sin he had com-
mitted against his wife. To return home
now—what base betrayal! He had destroyed
her, as surely as if he had poured the
poison down her throat. How blind! How
selfish! He suffered an agony of remorse,
tramping the room, pounding his brow with
clenched fists. “Teresa! Little Teresa!”
he muttered over and over again. But
Teresa was annihilated. He wished he
could believe something of her endured
somewhere. For a few seconds, listening
to the wind and the sea, standing 1 breathless
in the dark, he imagined.her faint, small
voice insisting on , survival; but reason
thrust out the precious idea, and he knew
that there was nothing except that thing
in the graveyard which must not be thought
about.
Vain to imagine that Teresa could ever
know of his punishment! If he went back
to Europe now, she could never know of
his treachery. But he would know, and a
man could not live with himself knowing a
thing like that.
The breaking of the ice set the river of
his repentance flowing, and it carried all
his logical restraint away in its swirling
flood.
Next day he went to see the agent to
whom he had delegated the sale of his
practice. The night had tired him. He
was very pale and felt ill, but the exhaus-
tion of the struggle was attended by a
feeling of peace. He moved, talked as one
not quite awake, and was not conscious
of the crowds who jostled him along the
pavement.
The agent greeted him with smiles and
hand rubbings.
“I’ve been wondering when you’d come
in, Doctor. McKinnon told me he’d like
an answer by Saturday week. He has an-
other practice in view, but he wants Ban-
ton. I was going to get in touch with you.
My advice is to decide on this. I don’t
think you’ll do better—really I don’t think
you’ll do better.”
“I have decided I do not wish to sell,”
Leo sa.id slowly.
The agent was never astonished at his
clients’ actions. But sometimes he was
pained, as now. After a man has had half
a dozen good offers turned down for reasons
which wouldn’t hold water —the beggar
hadn’t intended to sell at all! Trust a
foreigner to give a person trouble! Lord,
you’d think the fellow would have been
only too glad to shake the dust of the
place from his heels after a thing like that
happening. But you couldn't tell with
foreigners. Some people in this world had
mighty thick, hides!
Rather, wearily Leo made his apologies.
He was glad to > escape from the agent’s
insistence —the agent, who was wondering,
he knew, what had made him change his
mind. Well, a lot of people were going
to wonder that, and none of them would
ever know. , .. . y
He walked aimlessly through the streets,
and found himself, without consciousness of
the direction he had taken, standing in
front of his old rooms in Elizabeth-street.
A host of memories stabbed at him. The
quiet greystone front seemed to bristle
with searing points, each one driving for
his heart.
During the first year, before Dino’s birth,
Teresa had been his room-attendant. She
had been able to do very little, limited as
was her knowledge of the language, but
she had begged to be allowed to help him,
proclaiming thriftily the saving entailed.
He had consented, not because he was
won by any of her arguments, but those
first days of waiting for patients who never
came had been very trying. Teresa, gay,
beguiling, ever hopeful, had rendered bear-
able the irritating days. “Only a little
while, beloved,” she would say, pressing
her cheek to his. “Before you know the
time has gone, we will have the pardon and
we will return with our pockets full of
gold and then for your laboratory.
Listen! What is that sound?” And she
would run to the door, to return dolefully.
“It is Henry, who sweeps. Let us pray
his aged legs will tumble him down the
stairs and break, and he will be a good,
fat case!”
Gone! Nothing! That... .in the grave-
yard! He fled from the street.
He wondered,' when he was capable of
sane thinking again, why he had not loved
her. She was so worthy to be loved. It
was some lack in himself. Perhaps he was
not capable of love —the kind of love
Tei’esa had given him. He wondered if he
could die, as she had done, for either.
Once he had been ready to die for a cause
what a long time ago that seemed!
Well, he hadn’t died; he was alive and he
was going to live out his life in a little
country town in Australia, for all his fine
emotions and his youthful passions and
beliefs. It was Teresa who was dead—he
would 1 realise that when he returned to
Banton.
After much thought, he decided to leave
Dino in college in Sydney. It would be
impossible otherwise, he felt, to give the
child the care and attention he needed. He
had decided to live at the Empire Hotel,
taking two ground-floor rooms for surgery
and waiting-room, and to engage an attend-
ant. The thought of living in the new
house, now completed and unlet, was
abhorrent to him. The hotel would have
many drawbacks, but he felt that, for a time
at least, he would be more satisfied with
it than with the house, which would remind
him so constantly of Teresa.
A friend, an Italian merchant married to
an Australian, advised him in his choice
of a college, and the man’s wife, a gentle,
childless woman, attended to the furnish-
ing of a wardrobe for the boy. Within a
week all arrangements had been made for
Dino to enter St. Bernard’s College, and
Leo was prepared to return to Banton. The
thought of parting from Dino hurt him.
Since Teresa’s death her son had become
more precious, though he had always loved
the little fellow deeply. But he felt that
any other course would be injurious to the


child, and for the time being he Was done
with selfishness.
Dino did not begin to realise what was
happening to him until his father kissed
him good-bye in the college reception-room.
Bewildered, he started to follow Leo from
the room; but the priest caught him
gently.
“You are to stay here with us, Dino. You
cannot go with your father. Not just yet.
You will like it here when you no longer
find us strange.”
The priest, who was quite old, was not
sure of the thoughts of the extremely
young. He had made some demur about
taking Dino, but when the special circum-
stances had been explained to him he con-
sented to take into his fold a child so
much younger than any in it at present.
Dino stared at him wildly, then broke
away from the restraining arm. Leo had
gone quickly from the room.
“Daddy! Daddy!” he yelled and tore
through the corridor and out the front
door. The tree-lined avenue was long, and
Leo, unaware of the hurrying little figure,
had passed out the wrought-iron gates be-
fore the child reached them; so there was
nothing for Dino to do beyond beat on
the iron with his small fists, and savor all
the horror of abandonment, and in time be
led gently back to the building by a young
priest who was kind, but rather shocked
at the despairing grief in the child’s brown
eyes.
(2)
The train left Sydney Central at eight
o’clock. It was a wet, cold night. Leo
had a window seat, and, peering through
the rain-clouded panes, he saw the station
lights, vague, taper.ing oases without distinct
centres; the rails glistening, steel cobwebs.
They chugged their way solidly, bleakly
through factory areas, through thickly
populated suburbs. After fifteen miles
habitations dwindled in number. There
were long stretches of dark woods and
paddocks. Dim discovered lights, villages
passed in the night.
He felt that he was being rushed to some
dreary doom. The thought of the night
to be passed was intolerable. But the
exigencies of the little railway carriage
world prevented madness from gripping him
that night. A train journey is often a
hiatus in a person’s existence. The train
takes possession of him. His world is shut
away. It is difficult to consider any prob-
lems which don’t concern the little world
of seats, cinders, water bottles, windows
which will not open, or, being opened, will
not close, suitcase's in racks the sopo-
rific chug chug chug, chug chug chug
Dozing, waking.... dozing, waking he
passed the night.
In the dawn the landscape slid by, a
frieze repeating its pattern of cleared pad-
docks and quiet forests of box and euca-
lypti against a background of low hills.
The train crawled through the morning.
It was half-past eleven when the clustering
tin roofs and pepper-trees of Banton took
their place in the frieze; scarcely percep-
tible variations of the main motif. The
train puffed up a rise, ran through a cutting
and emerged to rumble down on the negli-
gible little huddle which hardly marred
Nature’s plan. He knew of Gilbert who had
pioneered this district, and he found him-
self wondering at the intrepidity of the
man.
His life was to be lived here, he thought
next. Not as Gilbert’s life, in great achieve-
ment, but in huddling with a few thousand
others on the fringe. He was unable to
see the possibility of achieving anything.
There was nothing that he could do here
that another could not do, probably do
better. A general practitioner in a country
town. Not for a time, in the pursuit of
an object, but for all his life. Not an
interlude.... all his life. The thought re-
volved with the wheels, chug chug chug;
chug chug chug. Wasn’t it better to finish
with the whole thing, to have done with
such- a travesty of a life, as Teresa had
finished.
Teresa! Her eyes came to him from
nowhere, sad and accusing. The last two
months were hazed in his mind. But he
was responsible for her death. No getting
round that. His own selfishness and blind-
ness! (Then, after a minute, was he respon-
sible?) One would like a little of that
fanatical desire for punishment, that re-
morse Christo! What a word to use:
“fanatical!” How had that popped into
his mind? What he meant was that he
felt so commonplace. Tired. Dirty. The
little town was ordinary, peaceful, slug-
gishly peaceful in the fresh autumn morn-
ing. Not like a whip for a flagellant, but
just something to bore a man to death.
He’d like to feel, now, that almost delirious
frenzy of remorse and purpose which had
inspired him on the night of deciding his
atonement, or even that the atonement
was some unusual agony; to perceive Ban-
ton as a cross, crippling, torturing, bowing
one to the ground.
Soot had got down the back of his neck.
His collar was limp as a rag. He had felt
disinclined to put on a fresh one while he
was unwashed.
The penitent in hair shirt and ecstasy!
A country practitioner, tired from the
night’s train journey; unwashed, in a
crushed suit, returning to a dull little town,
a peaceful little town. Numbers of people
found it very pleasant; people with blank
incurious eyes. The martyrdom of Main-
street !
A number of the people on the station
greeted him. One or two said, “Glad to
see you home, Doctor. You’re looking well,
after the change. How are things in the
city?” Fate, it seemed, had condemned
him. He planned always the violent and
strange, and Fate dealt him the common-
place.
The locum, two years out of University,
was very young and still cherished the illu-
sion that one managed life. When Leo
said, with absent politeness, “What are you
thinking of doing now, Doctor?” he thought
erroneously that an answer was expected
from him. A rather surprising sense of
delicacy kept him modest. But he couldn’t
keep the eager light from his eyes, and his
young resolves showed through all his care-
ful curtaining. You knew that when he
said, “Then I think I should be able,” he
was really proclaiming “Then I will.” An
M.D. degree at Edinburgh. A couple of
years in a London hospital, and perhaps on
the Continent. Specialise in nose and
throat surgery, because he felt that in the
future the profession would be given over
to specialists. What was Leo’s opinion? Of
course there would always be the place
for the general practitioner. He was in-
dispensable in the small towns He
didn’t notice Leo’s face, nevertheless he
felt rather sorry for the poor buffer who
couldn’t get past this one-horse town and
its makeshifts. He’d got enough cash saved
now, and he was off.
“I’ve managed to get the job of ship’s
surgeon on the Mercedes leaving in Novem-
ber. That’s a saving.”
After all, this chap probably wasn’t
sorry for himself. If he’d had anything in
him, any real ability, he wouldn’t be here.
If you had the ability to succeed, you
succeeded. That’s how life was. He didn’t
think he was a genius, but if he wasn’t in
Macquarie-street and well in it in five
years he’d be mighty surprised Queer
chap this; not like the usual run of them.
A foreigner, of course. He wasn’t 01d....
and the people here spoke well of him,
very well. Then why did he stay here?
Possibly some sentimental idea about his
wife. A man had to leave ideas like mar-
riage alone until he had made a success of
life. It wasn’t any use just having ability.
You had to have commonsense as well.
The pity which that fool had felt for
him stung Leo intolerably. The attempt at
concealment made the sentiment all the
more offensive. He didn’t want pity
Yes, it was going to be difficult, almost as
difficult as he had imagined. It would hurt.
Now and again when young men would look
at him and talk in just that way, it was
going to hurt intolerably.
When he went to the hospital after
dinner he heard said again, “Glad to see
you home, Doctor.” Home! Well, it was
home, after all, this strange, sleepy little
town. This was the hospital where his
achievement lay. No other. He had for-
gotten while he was away the smallness,
the meanness, the shabby, inefficient make-
shift that the hospital was. Nothing im-
agined is ever quite so small or so shabby
as reality. He had had several times in
his life the shock of going back to a re-
membered place and finding it so much
smaller than memory had pictured it.
The familiar smell, the unshaven faces,
figures propping themselves up on pillows
to watch him and welcome him, pale
women who ceased to gossip as he came
into the ward. He felt as if he had been
away for a hundred years, and then as if
he had never been away.
The locum was performing his task of
explanation expertly, with a shade of con-
descension. Leo recognised that brisk effi-
ciency, that slight touch of condescension.
Everyone was the same, fresh from Uni-
versity. He knew exactly what was passing
in the young man’s mind.
(3)
When he found that he could pass the
house without even noticing the boarded
windows and the signboard “To let,” which
was stuck crookedly in the untended garden,
he went to the cemetery for the first time.
He took a spade with him and a little
cypress-tree which had been sent up from
Sydney and which had not been properly
packed and was already withering. He
did not know much about plants. Her
grave was in an uncrowded corner because
he had remembered her saying how the
woman Schultz must feel strange lying
between a man named O’Leary and a child
named Dodd, and there were no pepper-
trees near the grave with its plain head-
stone. As he planted his cypress he wished
that she could know he remembered the
things she had said.
There had been rain recently and the
earth fell packed and richly dark from his
spade. He pressed in the little tree firmly.
“Little Teresa,” he muttered once. Exit
his voice seemed too loud in the silent field
and he did not speak again.
He went aimlessly away, treading various
little paths through the graves before he
reached the gate. Going down the road m
the sunlight he felt more alone than he had
ever felt in his life, even more alone than
he had been as a child. The visit to her
grave had convinced him that nothing of
Teresa existed anywhere. He did not go
again, and the tree withered and died. But
he never knew it had died, and when he
thought of it he imagined it growing in
rich, dark beauty and that it would have
pleased Teresa if she could have seen it.
She had loved the cypress-trees.
(4)
He found life in the hotel irksome. After
a couple of months he wondered how he
could have conceived the idea of living this
rabbit-warren existence.
He decided that another week would kill
him. But he did nothing about moving
that week or the next. Another month
passed. He w T as wretched and wondered
why he didn’t make a change. But all his
strength for making decisions seemed to
have been exhausted. He must drift for a
while until the battery was recharged. He
was grateful for his work. However trifl-
ing the ailment he attended the patient
with care, almost eagerness. When there
was no work, he made work. He visited a
sick child three times a day, until the
father hinted that such assiduity seemed
rather more than the case demanded and
rather more than he was prepared to pay
for. Then it dawned on Leo that his con-
duct was capable of misinterpretation. He
knew red shame, and veered to the other
extreme. Over-sensitive, he waited until
he had been called several times, in many
cases. Then he struck a balance.
He visited few of the townspeople,‘though
they were kind and considerate enough. He
would be asked to tea: “It will be quite
quiet—just ourselves, Doctor.” The veiled
sympathy got on his nerves. As he had
anticipated, no one mentioned Teresa, not
even Cartwright. Sometimes when the hurt
was a little less than usual he was capable
of a grim amusement at the town’s attitude,
at the hushed funereal decency. Everyone
appeared to assume, by their behavior, that
Teresa had never existed, that the thing
which had furnished weeks of choice gossip,
had never occurred. Sometimes he was con-
scious of regret that all evidence of his
wife’s brief being should be thus obliterated.
He would have liked to think that she had
left a brief impression of her personality,
that someone, anyone, would be compelled
by the memory of her to mention her to
him. The completeness of her annihilation
made the fact of her short futile life and her
passing, more sad.
When he received letters from Teresa’s
relations he could have wept with gratitude.
He opened them with hands that trembled.
Her brothers commiserated with him. Only
her sister suspected the truth and wrote in
the letter all the things he had been say-
ing to himself.
“this is what you have done to my
adored little sister. Teresa, who was my
life until you took her and took my lije
with you! You will remember, please, the
night I begged you on my knees not to
take her away. I told you that 1 knew
better than she what exile would mean. I
told you that you would never return jrom
that strange country and that Teresa would
be lost there for all her life. I saw the
weakness in you she refused to see. She
was so little, and young and loving, and she
thought that the love of a man was enough
for a life. If you had loved her at all you
would not have taken her. My only prayer
now is that she never learned what I always
knew. Teresa, with her most wonderful
voice, her youth, her heart so capable of
ecstasy! I could kill you when I think of
the sorrow which must have mounted
through the years to culminate in this death.
I have only one thing for which I can thank
God, and that is that you cannot return to
this country and that I will never see your
face again.’’
Even that, harsh and painful as it was,
was better than the silence, the forgetful-
ness of the town. To this woman, Teresa
was a living overpowering memory. It com-
forted him, while it hurt him, to read the
biting phrases. Every word of condemna-
tion, every excess of feeling against himself
proved the loved endurance of Teresa in
this one heart at least.
He sent no replies. A copy of the
“Avanti” had come by the same mail. This
he destroyed unopened.
While he was uncertainly debating some
change in his manner of living, a telegram
came from the Superior announcing that
Dino had run away, had been gone since
early morning, and would Leo please come
down at once.
There was no train that day and he passed
the night in a fever of dread. Sleepless,
he paced his room, and predominant in his
wild reflections was a realisation of his own
folly in parting with the only thing that life
had left to him. Morning brought another
wire saying the child had been found un-
harmed, but repeating the request for Leo’s
presence.
He was glad that Dino had shown him,
beyond any possibility of doubt, the course
which he must take. With an arm round
the little boy who was sullen, but unafraid,
Leo heard the story of his flight. He had
set off during morning chapel, had crossed
by the ferry and spent the day at Circular
Quay. His intention was somewhat vague
and difficult to grasp, but it seemed he
desired to return to his mother’s house in
Bologna. He had prowled round the
whai’ves unnoticed. Someone had told him
that there was no boat among all those
boats which would take him to Bologna,
though many would go across the sea.
A policeman had found him huddled
against the iron railing, frightened, tired
and extraordinarily hungry.
The old priest thought it would be just
as well to take the child away. He had
been worried by the reports which had been
given him. The child possessed a disturb-
ing emotional capacity. That in a way was
to be understood—the old priest paused
delicately, unwilling to obtrude Teresa—-
and it would be better to take Dino home.
When he was older, by all means! But he
had to be honest and confess it was impos-
sible for them to give the child the peculiar
attention he needed at that crucial stage
of his growth.
On the journey home Leo learned some-
thing, not all, of the horror of loneliness
the last months had been to his son. It
seemed that the nights had been the worst.
One night it had been so bad that, the
next morning he had just gone away. That’s
what he’d done.
“But why didn’t you try to come home
to me? That’s what puzzles me, Dino.
For what reason did you want to look for
boats to Bologna? What did you think
you’d do there? You don’t know anything
about Bologna.”
The boy’s eyes, dark and brooding, were
in that instant so like his mother’s that
Leo was possessed with fear.
“I thought you’d send me back again.
I knew mother wouldn’t.”
“But, Dino, mother is is not in
Bologna.”
Dino gazed at him distrustfully. “She is
there,” he said. “One night when Father
Paul heard me crying, he told me she was.
He said she’d gone Home. Home is Bologna,
mother said.”
(To be continued newt week.)
Advancing.
From boundless leagues of sand and
sun,
Whose soul the desert secrets keep,
Where Hebron’s walls and by-ways
run,
The ranks of Anzac horsemen sweep.
With careless pride their columns stride
Through noon and night and
morning-shine,
While swift or slow they creep or flow
From Bethlehem to Jericho
Across the throne of Palestine.
Far down the winding highway-steeps
By curving stretch and bend they go,
A moving tide which never sleeps,
A mighty river’s endless flow.
And sounding far, from peak to star,
The ceaseless drum of hoofs awake;
As creeks that fall from ledges tall,
As mountain floods in chasms brawl—
Such tones the tropic tempests make.
They rumble on from post and pyre
Where strife’s tornadoes rock and
reel,
A running stream of conquest-fire,
A crested wave of naked steel.
They storm and shock Gilboa’s rock,
While Esdraelon’s fragrant breath
Inhales the chime of vesper time;
Then onward through the night they
climb
The starry steeps to Nazareth.
They thunder down to Galilee
In serried ranks, in endless files
That seem to stretch from sea to sea
Across the sombre, stony miles.
Like ordered flight across the night
N.S.W.
They move from sleep’s surrendered
shore,
And closely pent they make descent
With purpose clear and high intent,
. Like vanished armies gone before.
A ghostly moon, which rides on high,
Now ranges with their column vast,
On either flank, from sky to sky,
The spectral armies of the past.
With soundless tread, by banners led,
In casque and helm, with shield and
blade;
With plume and crest they surge
* abreast
From storied realms of fierce unrest,
In night’s supernal cavalcade.
Tall spearsmen from the woods of Gaul,
Swart henchmen from the market-
place,
The gilded chariots of Saul,
A phalanx from the hills of Thrace
Flow proudly forth to shake the north,
Recalled, some kingdom to restore,
From times of old engraven bold—
A resurrected escort told
To move beside them evermore.
Though soft years glide, and commerce
reigns
Where peace her drowsy vigil keeps
On planted slopes and garnered plains,
And strife, a space arrested, sleeps,
Down throbbing heights on moonlit
nights,
From ’planes that wing the ways of
air,
Front, flank and rear, stretched far and
near,
The seeing soul with vision clear
Shall mark those armies marching
there.
GERARDY.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Ffre on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
- —■— - Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
A. Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland's
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
(The Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from :
SThe Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
HAIR
V
ft
meed
r
HERES
-ymy -
ď
Grey Hair ia always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfccUhms (.MEXICAN')
Vkdmd Sicdm.
♦removes THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6), 6d. being postage.
w
A/OM/-THE WORLD
m
2&n
a' s
Hm
PA-S*
EWYOKK
ovw
r<ov
NOW to the veal business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings and plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Ferth.
CAN ADI AN=AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
ourthe Pacific Islands
Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday land! For rest, for
play, for thrilling new experien ces.... colorful native life and
customs, quaint tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and flowers,
coral lagoons... .outrigger canoeing, morning dips in cool jade-
green waters. And always you return from exotic
delights' to the palatial modern comfort of the
S.S. MAT ARAM.
Write for Leaflet No. 52/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
EXHIBITION OF SOUTH SEA ISLAND & JAVA CURIOS.
A most interesting collection of Native Curios and
Native Handicraft is now on display at Anthony
Horderns’ Goulburn Street Windows 63 and 65, and
is a source of great interest and attraction.
Inspection is well worth while.
IHL
. I •'
| “ V
- - -
„ iZjZtiS&Sl# ■•>*• Wl&VtOfcjJy.- ~ «•*>' •■
■ V #S
ssi? ji; ■ ■
Ask for
the “B. P. Magazine,”
1/- per copy.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
đ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping end hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
d
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fDemosthenes 12,000 tons, April 11
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ May 8
*First class only. fFivst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. •
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
A Simple Treatment
That Radiates Health
i'm
tfucun
futicura
VJ OtNIMCNT
EDICINAL
Use the Soap every day for the
skin, also for shampooing the hair
—the Ointment as needed for
little irritations and to precede
the shampoo if there is dandruff
—the Talcum as a finishing
touch to the toilet.
Soaple. Ointment Is. and 28. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
ď
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc-
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
The population of Broken Hill, where
“The Barrier Miner” is the great daily,
is actually more than a year ago. The
hinterland never looked better. Every-
body stocking up. Everybody reads the
great 43-year-old daily. If you want to
sell anything, let the people know in
“THE BARRIER MINER.”
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.


“EOTHEN
đ
PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
ndutive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528 j
Mrs. PARKER j
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUMT9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
446 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3, 6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
FIFTH AVENUE
a street every woman wants to see!
m
Photo, by “Wide World.”
Fifth Avenue—the heart of American fashion —looking north from
34th Street. This renowned street is fronted by many famous shops.
¥ ONDON has Bond Street and Paris Rue
la Paix. .New York has Fifth Avenue,
famous centre of fashion.
Fifth Avenue sparkles with names you’ll
recognize. Hotels, clubs, restaurants, art
galleries—and scores of shops filled with
jewels worth a King’s ransom and frocks
worth a Queen’s smile.
Stroll on Fifth Avenue—when you go to
England or in your holiday. Your shortest,
fastest route “back home” is by Matson Line
from Sydney to San Francisco, then by swift
trains across the United States. The cost is
reasonable. Ask for new illustrated literature.
Write to Dept. M 45
American Railways Travel
and Information Bureau
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY Telephones B 7981-3
While Shepherds Watch.
J. H. M. ABBOTT
GIVES US A LITTLE PICTURE OF THE EARLY
DAYS OF SHEEP-RAISING IN AUSTRALIA.
WHEN Captain Sir Edward Parry,
It.N., landed in Sydney a couple of
days before Christmas, 1829, he had
already made a name for himself as a naval
officer, a scientist and an Arctic explorer,
and was still only 40 years of age.
In 1818 he had sailed with Ross to find
the North-west Passage. The following year
he had explored Barrow Strait, and had only
been prevented from reaching Behring Strait
in the spring by the condition of the ice.
Between May, 1821, and November, 1823,
he had led an expedition into the frozen
wastes of the north, and again in 1824-25.
In 1827-28, attempting to reach the North
Tole by way of Spitzbergen, he had attained
a record high latitude (82deg. 45min. N.),
which was not reached again until 1870.
Such a reputation as “a handy man” had he
made that the Court of Directors of the
Australian Agricultural Company had bor-
rowed him from the Admiralty to straighten
out the wholly unsatisfactory affairs of their
corporation in New South Wales.
And this is the story of Mr. Augustus
Billingham, a gentleman who had occasion
to wish that a Polar bear had eaten the
Arctic navigator before ever he began to
turn the A. A. Co. into a sort of well-disci-
plined mercantile craft.
The A. A. Company’s affairs were in a
chaotic condition when Sir Edward arrived
at Port Stephens in - the beginning of 1830.
Mr. Dawson, the first Superintendent, had
not made a success of things in the four years
since the settlement had been inaugurated,
and had been suspended—he was eventually
dismissed —whilst the local committee of
shareholders proceeded to make a further
mess of matters. Old John Macarthur, the
most influential of them, gave it as his
opinion that it was useless to proceed further
with the undertakings of the company. But
the energetic seaman put new life into its
operations, found out what was wrong, and
proceeded to set it right with a thoroughness
that was in keeping with liis career and
reputation.
So we come to a Saturday afternoon in
Sydney in the spring of 1830, and to a pre-
arranged meeting between Mr. Augustus Bil-
lingham, runholder, of Patrick’s Plains on
the Hunter River, and Ephraim Mordival,
Esquire, merchant and financier, of Mac-
quarie-place. The conference was being held
in Mr. Mordival’s private office on the top
floor of his big warehouse, and through the
two windows of the room a charming view
was available of the blue waters of Sydney
Cove. The portly figure of Mr. Mordival was
planted before one of these windows, an air
of indifference obvious in its pose, as though
its owner cared little for the argument being
advanced by his visitor with some amount
of heat.
“Look here, Ephraim,” the latter was say-
ing. “You just listen to me now. ’Tis
of no use your pretending the busi-
ness doesn’t affect you, for it does. Every
bit as much as it affects me. You’re in it just
as deep as I am. If I have to go to the
Insolvency Court, it’ll mean that I’ll also
have something to do with the Criminal
Court as well —and so’ll you. You’ll look
well helping to make one of Major Mitchell’s
new roads, won’t you? Oh” —Mr. Billingham
laughed mirthlessly—“you’d be an ornament
to any iron-gang!”
For a moment or two the broad shoulders
of the stout gentleman at the window
remained motionless. Then they shrugged a
little as they slowly swung round, and the
bright eyes in the fat Jewish face focussed
themselves upon the other. H’e stood with
his back to the light, his fingers thrust into
the horizontal slits of the trouser pockets,
and contemplated his visitor a little scorn-
fully.
“Vot you mean, iron-gangs, ’Gustus? And
vot’s Major Mitchell’s roads got to do with
me? I ain’t stole no sheep from the A. A.
Company, have I? It seems to me you ain’t
considering vot you’re a-saying. The Criminal
Court don’t affect me, ’Gustus. Me and Jus-
tice Forbes —why, we’re on very good terms.”
“But you wouldn’t be, Ephraim, after
Judge Forbes had said ‘seven years’ hard
labor on the public roads of the Colony.’
Why, I don’t believe he’d even nod ‘good
morning’ if he was to pass you by, as you
toiled on Lapstone Hill, when he was going
on circuit to Bathurst. And, believe me, if
I go rock-chopping for the Surveyor-General,
you’ll go too!’
“You’ve no proof, ’Gustus—there’s not a
line o’ writing to show I’ve had anything to
do vith them little games vith the company's
sheep up there behind Port Stephens. Not
a line. I’ve took good care o’ that. Not a
damn line. You’ve been acting all on your
own account with them shepherds o’ the
company’s. You know that very well.”
Mr. Billingham laughed his mirthless
iaugb.
“Oh, I know there’s nothing in writing
between us, Ephraim. But you forget Billy
Truscott.”
“Billy Truscott?”
“Yes. Don’t you remember the voyage we
took together to Newcastle last yeat in the
packet-boat—the Lord Liverpool? Can’t you
recall how the whole business was discussed
and arranged between me and you and
Billy, my head-stockman, that moonlight
night as we sailed up the coast, the three of
us drinking rum in the cuddy? Well, if you
can’t, I can—and so can Billy. Billy’s just
as clear about it as I am. We’ve both got
good memories. You try and recollect. And
you’d better think again about advancing
me that thousand pound I’m asking for.
You’ll get it back. But you won’t get back
your liberty—not for a few years, anyhow —
if I go under for the want of it. You can
rest easy as to that, Ephraim. Come now —
I can’t stay here arguing all the afternoon.
The packet sails to-night, and I’ve other busi-
ness to attend to. Well” —he rose to his feet
and took up liis beaver top-hat from the
table —“what’s it to be?”
Speechlessly, for a few moments, the other
glared at him, his fat face stolid but flushed,
and the bright little eyes hard and angry.
Then lie moved ponderously across the
room to his table and sat down. He motioned
witli his pudgy hand to Mr. Billingham to be
seated, and that gentleman replaced his hat
upon the table and took the chair he had
recently vacated, the flicker of a smile play-
ing about his thin lips.
“ ’Gustus,” said Mr., Mordival huskily,
“don’t let’s have any nasty vords —or nasty
feelings. Of course, I’ll write you my cheque,
an’ then you’ll tell me vot’s in the vind. I
mean, about this big deal you’re thinking of
with regard to the A. A. Company’s sheep.
Tell me all about it.”
“The cheque first, Ephraim.”
“Oh, veil,” sighed Mr, Mordival, “I thup-
pose so.”
He took his cheque-book from a drawer,
filled in a form, signed it with a weary
air of resignation, waved it in the air to dry
the ink and passed it over the table, to Mr.
Billingham. That gentleman examined it,
folded it up and put it in his waistcoat
pocket. Then he leaned back in his chair,
placed the tips of his fingers together and
addressed his friend with an air of graye
impressiveness.
“You know, Ephraim,” he said, “that the
dealings we’ve had with the company’s sheep
hitherto have been both profitable and easy.
But that’s come to an end. Things have been
tightened up since that navy captain took
charge. The convict shepherds can’t be got
at now, like they used to be when that new-
chum Dawson was at Tahlee. This fellow's
got eyes in the back qf his head, and ears
that listen everywhere. He knows every-
thing that goes on all over the estate. Look
at this. ’Tis one of his General Orders—
a copy of it. This’ll give you an idea of
him.”
He extracted a paper from his pocket and
handed it to Mr. Mordival. This is what
that gentleman read :
GENERAL ORDER No. 30.
August 5, 1830.—As the stopping of the tobacco
from the prisoners who slept at the camp on the
night of the 18th ult. has not led to the conviction
of the offenders, it is my direction that the tobacco
of all the prisoners who were at Carrington, the
tan-pits and the brickfield on that night, including
also Page and Donelly, the Tahlee gardeners, and
Denis Reardon, be stopped from this time.
Memorandum to Mr. Wetherman. —Issue and send
up to Stroud by the first opportunity for Matthew
Delaney, at Lawler’s Station, one blanket, two shirts,
three-quarter pound tobacco, in lieu of the same
articles stolen by the blacks when he was speared.
Order. —Simon Kemp is to explain how it has
happened that the horse placed in his charge has
died. Mr. Barton is not to pay the last quarter’s
salary to Simon Kemp till he has given me a
satisfactory explanation as to this serious loss to
the Company.
“Damme, the fellow must be a mean man,”
commented Mr. Mordival as he returned the
paper. “Vot the devil did those fellows
do who slept at the camp on the night of
the 18th to have their tobacco stopped? No
half measures about that order, where
assigned servants are concerned, is there?
What did they do?”
“Merely robbed a hut. That is to say,
some of ’em did. A fortnight later, as no-
body had owned up, he stopped their issue
of tea, and at the same time directed the
storekeeper, Wetherman, to remind him every
second Friday to stop some other allowance
till the prisoners had been reduced to the
Government ration or the offenders had come
forward. That’s the kind of fellow this navy
captain is, Ephraim. It’s as delicate a job
removing his sheep or cattle a.s ’tis to strip
the breeches from a Highlander. But my
plan’s a sound one, and will succeed in
spite of Captain Sir Edward Parry, R.N.”
“Yell, then,” said Mr. Mordival eagerly,
“leth have it, my boy—letli have it.”
* * * *
The situation of Tahlee House, on Port
Stephens, a little to the westward of the
indentation known as the North Arm, is a
beautiful one to-day, when the passing of
a hundred years has mellow’ed its charms and
matured the oaks and elms and other Eng-
lish trees that were only recently planted
when Sir Edward and Lady Parry lived
there in the ’thirties. However foolishly
Mr. Dawson had chosen the company’s mil-
lion acres, he had shown much discrimina-
tion in selecting a site for the headquarters
o'f the Port Stephens settlement.
Tahlee was the residence of the Commis-
sioner and stood on rising ground near the
mouth of the Karuah, in the midst of a
beautiful and well-cultivated garden. Scarcely
half a mile to the east of the house, the
township of iCarringto'n had been laid out
on a flat along the shore. It contained the
storehouses, the dwellings of the officials, the
cottages of “the hands” and the quarters of
the military guard provided by Government
fro'm the Newcastle garrison. To the west-
ward, on the left bank of the Karuah, was
the No. 1 farm, and further up the stream
another called Booral had been formed on
a wide flat beside the river. Four miles above
that, land had been cleared at the junction
of the Mill Creek and a township called
Stroud laid out, and here was the residence
of one of the superintendents. Two miles
beyond Stroud was Teligherry. where the
principal superintendent of stock lived, and
close at hand was the woolshed. Sheep
stations had been formed in different places
on the Karuah and Mill Creek, and were
already in process of establishment along
t Continued on newt page.)


SWOLLEN JOINTS
That’s kidney
trouble
d
Invaluable in all cases of
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA
BACKACHE, LUMBAGO
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of Kidney
and Bladder Trouble
Start taking
De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills NOW.
Your day’s work will
be a pleasure and your
spare time pleasures
will be doubled. No
more sallow, spotted
complexions, no more
sleepless nights, no more
chronic pains in the
joints and muscles, no
more agonising stabs
in the back. Try just
one bottle of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder
Pills and prove this in
your own case. You
will never regret it.
ř
the valleys of the Avon and Gloucester rivers.
Each station usually contained tAvo flocks
of betAveen four and five hundred sheep,
looked after by two shepherds and a night,
watchman —as was invariably the case in
those days, they were yarded up at night.
Altogether, the company depastured about
25,000 sheep, with 121 people and three
superintendents to look after them. There
were 13 free overseers, three convict over-
seers, one chief overseer, two free shepherds
and 102 convict shepherds. Such was the
condition of this vast estate of a million
acres, lying between Port Stephens and the
Manning River, at the time when Sir Edward
Parry was in the first year of his reign at
Tahlee House.
On a Sunday morning in October the Com-
missioner was walking in the garden at
Tahlee A\ T ith Mr. James Ebsworth, his cap-
able second in command. Mr. Ebsworth Ayas
a young man, not yet out of his twenties,
and he Avas booted and spurred and travel-
stained, in striking contrast with the dapper
neatness of Sir Edward Parry. Both had
an air of Sharing the knowledge of something
that was grave and serious.
“It is evidently,” the Commissioner was
saying, “a case of rogue falling out with
rogue. Do you know anything of this per-
son, Mr. Ebsworth —of this Mr. Ephraim
Mordival, of Macquar ie-place ?”
“Oh, yes, sir—lie’s very well known in
Sydney. A wealthy merchant with a finger
in a good many pies. A Jew, of course. I
believe he was originally transported to the
colony for some commercial roguery, but ho
has prospered in New South Wales almost
from his arrival.”
“Is he of good reputation?”
“I hardly know what to say to that, Sir
Edward. There’s never been anything against
him in the colony, so far as I’ve heard, save
the fasliio'n- of his arrival and the fact that
he’s an Emancipist—if that can be held
against him. Some of our best citizens have
been at one time prisoners of the Crown.
But he’s got the reputation of great sharp-
ness—lie’s sailed very close to the wind, I’m
told, but has never actually been on the
wrong side of the law. It is said that there
is nothing he would not invest his capital
in, so long as it appeared to be without risk
of trouble for himself —it does not matter
about the others concerned in it.”
“H’m, so that is Mr. Mordival. And this
Mr. Billingham, of Patrick’s Plains?”
“I’ve come across him in Maitland, but
I don’t know anything about him, except
that he has a grant on the Hunter over in
that direction. I can’t say I was much
attracted to him when we met. But I’ve
never heard anything against him. Not
until you informed me just now of Mordi-
val’s accusations.”
Sir Edward read from a letter he carried
in his hand —-
Together with a man named Truscott, who Avas
recently drowned in Hunter’s River, he has, by
corrupting certain shepherds, and by other means,
been stealing the company’s sheep and disposing of
them to squatters on the Liverpool Plains during the
last two years. I have recently become aware of
these practices, and have considered it my duty to
make you also aware of them. It is only right that
I should do so and I trust you will take steps to
frustrate the villainous project he is con tern plat mg',
* f ° lloWinS “ °° me Wlth “
„ w ~ \ r whatever Mor-
*«-. motive, tic Cut, ’ devolve, upon m
of taking action to prevent this raid to-night
at McCarthy’s station on Mill Creek I will
in boa'ts You arS others, will
a thousand sheep at McCaithy s, and the
four shepherds employed there, together wit
the hutkeeper and watchman, a e o .
°f very good character With their comm-
ance Jt would not be difficult for a party
of marauders to drive the sheep off with the
moon almost at the full, and to pick up the
other two flocks at Miller’s and the Sawpits
in the early mor iiing. Your breakfast will
reac jy by this time. I will have a fresh
ho'rse provided for you, and we will start at
o’clock ”
N tl • ' wpnt w „ mio . thp rinmmis-
for the hap-
“ .if,, rwr.w nioi.t i„
1830, as they affected McCarthy’” %heep
station on Mill Creek, some five or six miles
above the junction of that picturesque little
strea m with the Karuah River. Up the
creek the soldiers marched after dark, and
werc strategically disposed about the sheep-
yards before the moon rose over the treetops
in the surrounding hills. Down the creek
came Mr. Augustus Dillingham and his four
men shortly before midnight. He was not
met by the shepherds, for the reason that
those gentlemen, together with the watch-
man and the hutkeeper, lay on the eartlmn
floor of the slab-and-bark hut with the big
rubble chimney bound and gagged. So he
walked across from the yards to the hut
alone to see what was the matter. It was
thpn that the BoldieM began to dosc in t 0
to . whfaUc
- lom tllc hut befoie takin » action,
The open door of the shanty looked black
and mysterious as Mr. Billingham paused m
front of it and wondered what plight be the
matter. The night was windless and silent,
and the moon, not much past the full, made
everything as clear as day. Across the creek
a mopokc was croaking, and the occasional
jingle of a bit or a horse’s snort amongst
the raiders by the slieepyards was the only
sound he was , conscious of.
“Dammit!” he muttered. “The rascals
have run off—frightened, I suppose. I’ll go
and see if a °y message has been left for
me -
He had reached the threshold, when a
pleasant voice greeted him from the black
interior of the hut.
“Ah, Mr. Billingham, I presume? Pray
do not move. I have yon covered with a
pistol, and so has Mr. Ebsworth. If you
are armed, drop your weapons on the ground,
I am sorry to _ have inflicted this surprise
upon you, but it cannot be helped. Kindly
put those handcuffs on the gentleman, Mr.
Ebsworth. Don’t move, sir. Dear me, yes-
‘While shepherds watched’—a beautiful old
caro ] ”
’ . „ T> .,, r rival ” mni.
I hope Billy Tl uscott S in Hell, mut
tered Mr. Billingham savagely.
Ann’s Garden.
Ann’s garden should not look like this,
AVhere ragged boughs o’er fences kiss;
But it should be some stately spot
Smelling of box and bergamot.
Here pigs root in the Aviry grass,
And kangaroo, grey ghosts that pass,
Have leapt the broken rail, to find
A pasture richer to their mind;
Where thistledown in white rain falls
Are rusty tins piled by the Avails,
And cabbages throAV up a spire
Tipped with their seeding’s yelloAV fire,
And mint runs riot in the ditch
And one starved cat, that lacks a witch,
Yoavls at the gate, Avlicre through the grass
The feet of Ann were wont to pass.
Were they sloav, halt, or dancing feet?
Was Ann a hag, or young and SAveet?
I know not —only this I kuoAV:
Not thus Ann’s garden ought to groAv.
The name belongs to lovelier things—
To painted peacocks, and to wings
Of nesting rooks in hoary trees,
Of silver doves in shrubberies:
Of sundials stained with ancient moss,
Where mellow sunlight slants across
The hedges dipt to bird and beast
And mignonette for brown bees’ feast,
And wallflowers flecked Avith red and gold.
A priest, Avith ivory face and old,
In habit black, his mild eyes vext
By some bright missal’s minute text;
A spaniel whom Ann’s maid AA’ould deck
With sky-blue riband round his neck;
Where marjoram and sage ran free
And herbs for the distillery;
Gay bulbs that out of Holland came,
Making the sunken garden flame;
Secluded paths where Ann might go
With some proud gallant bending low
To kiss her mittened hand, and beg
A favor, while ho made a leg.
And Ann herself, sun-warmed, serene
In silken gown and crinoline.
Tall hollyhocks Avould nod in rows
Where many a velvet damask glows
That garnered fragrance near and far
To fuse in the potpourri jar
That would enshrine it at the last
When dew and bud alike are past.
Ancestral to Avers, grey and old,
Beyond Ann’s garden I behold:
Gables Avashed dark by myriad rains
And mist on leaded Avindow panes.
Like this Ann’s garden should have been.
I look on such a different scene—
A brindled cow, all ribs and back.
Whereon the bones tilt like a rack,
Thrusting her nozzle through the fence,
Snatching at thistles; makes pretence
Ann’s garden is the town “reserve ’ —
Or just perhaps her own preserve.
Under the weatherboarded house
A snake pursues a squeaking mouse;
A broken boot lies by the gate,
A handless saucepan and a grate
(A strange, ornate, suburban thing
For Ann into her cot to bring)
Is half o’ergrown with creeper Trails....
I stare, and stare; but Fancy fails
To bring Ann back. It is a shame
To look like this, with such a name!
Ann’s garden should be some green spot
Smelling of box and bergamot.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Suns.
Once the sun was wine and gold,
Wealth and warmth it meant to me;
Noav, alas, ’tis white and cold,
Like the moon, grown wintery.
So I say; but this I know,
Time’s the rogue who caught me out;
For the sun that fails to glow
Is my own blood’s sun, no doubt.
Yet there’s hope: the old man’s sun,
Dionysus, still can bring
Clinking cups ; and, for our fun,
Naked autumn turn to spring.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Captain Bold.
When I was a boy, with a boy’s glad mind,
And all the roads of the world were long,
I loved the ways of the wave and wind.
And loved a mariner, brown and strong.
The captain bold of a ship was he
That sailed to London and back again,
And many a tale he told to me
Of the wonderful ways of sailormeu.
To him and his yarns my mind goes back
Through years of roses and years of rue,
A.s, pipe in mouth with a beard of black,
He told me stories of derring-do.
’Twas much he told me of midnight gales
On Avild dark waters, and tropic calms;
But more to me were his wondrous tales
Of coral atolls and isles of palms.
As these he pictured I saw them rise,
Upstart in splendor ’neath moons and
noons,
Tall fronded palms under cloudless skies,
Red reefs of coral and blue lagoons.
My fancy, bursting its homespun bonds
The while he gossiped, went speeding free
To where brown folk under rustling fronds
Danced night and day by a dazzling sea.
No more that captain of old beguiles
The boy I was in the days of yore;
Romance has gone from the cocoanut isles,
And he that loved it sails ship no more.
No more he travels the long trade track
That leads from Sydney to London Town;
For years ago, with liis beard still black,
That captain bold with his ship went down.
But blow the wind from the north or south
Or east or west, him still I’ll see,
And ever he’ll talk with pipe in mouth
Of palm and island and pine to me,
And ever his eyes will grow more bold—
How bold they were and how dazzling
blue! —
What time he tells, as he told of old,
Those wild, salt stories of derring-do.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


EJ
m
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4:
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—MOnnies .<*, t'HUKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., ITD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per ceut. of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, CL
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CUUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with ft
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the IV orid ’« Leading
Advertising A gen -,!«».
tlx mercury
—by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
—"is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Cl»c Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
sn Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to lhe man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
MM
M
*
A
*
p
r
f9*
%
‘ZA
-sr
? %
K
I
*»
».' *
:r» ’,.'.
•s ft tin
l*\
msssh
siso&
n
To be in
perfect trim /
Without health you lose a great deal of
interest in life.
Constipation is the cause of most poor
health. People suffer headaches, bilious-
ness, indigestion, without thinking that
the cause is constipation.
If you suspect this to be the cause of your
poor health—buy a box of Beecham’s Pills.
This medicine is famous for its thorough
action and possesses in a remarkable measure
the power to assist the stomach, liver and
bowels to work in harmony.
BEECH AMS
.PILLS ’
Quinea a Box M
m
$
v
V
The
Centre of
and
Tasmania’s
Prosperity.
“The EXAMINER" is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information- copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner ” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
3 Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph k Sons Ptv., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426- National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney..
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
d
0
0°
s oX *<&
-0
1
m
s e
2r
**
•*’


m
m
&
3
X?
'W
'•m
TUDCT
1111\ r 4
WISE MEN!
Wise in their knowledge of the real Australia,
the vast Australia that stretches away and
away behind the cramped cities.
Wise in the choice of a drink; a beverage
befitting their rugged health and physique.
TOOHEYS
)
e
NEW LIGHT LAGER
IN THE BOTTLE WITH THE
YE HOW LABEL
m
OOHIYS
EXPOW
IACEB
