

m i
• * * ;
pip.
■hp
* v «®
Ha& .:-a
•«.•.-«
\
v ~v> ■ >
»
Hi*
rf
...............
■ ’
A
*
COMPETITION
CLOSES
MAY SI"
Over a hundred
prizes to be won!
Cash prizes for snaps
anyone can make
It's easy to enter and easy to win
in this big Kodak Competition. A
little snapshot will win the Grand
Prize of £2OOO for someone, and
it can quite easily be yourself with a
snap you yourself made this coming
week-end. Keep your camera by your
side every day and every week-end.
Ask for Entry Form
from any
Photographic Dealer
r.-..'Va.
kits
fifes
Co in to win—spend every
minute in search of pic-
tures with natural charm
and interest—for that's all
that counts with the judges. No
photographic knowledge is necessary
—all you do is make plenty of snaps
and send in the best before MAY 31st.
KODAK
(Australasia) Pty. Ltd,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Cl; 250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane; 37 Bundle
Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street,
Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba ; East Street, Rockhampton :
Flinders Street, Townsville; 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 40
Princess Street, Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay,
Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
Vol. 52.— N0. 2673,
cmxL 8
Wednesday, May 6, 1931.
Price 6d.
Pegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR. New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
v " / now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mu Address
S.B. 131
JLYSAGHT
O
a
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
a>
42
IMPROVEd" HI -lo”
PUSS ELL
“'sweeper
SWEEPS EASIER
The new Bissell sweeps every sur-
face from heaviest carpets to lino-
leum—easier. This wide sweep-
ing range made possible by ex-
clusive, patented Bissell “Hi-Lo”
Brush Control.
Real work saver and best for
daily sweeping. It is easy to use
—easy to empty economical
light, handy and durable.
Try a new Bissell —at leading
merchants.
J
x
y
Booklet on Request to
ARKELL & DOUGLAS, Inc.
General Agents
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Co., Manufacturers
. Rapids, Michigan, U„ S. A.
ķ
w*
m
rnt
Hi
We suggest that
you ask your nearest
distributor to show you
the complete line of RAY-
O-VAC Electric Torches
and RAY-O-VAC Bat-
%ati^
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Sox 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.5.A.
•a A
J A
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE ; 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
ALEMITE
ĸ
The Problem of Friction
The ALEMITE System of Lubrication solves the problem of
friction just as surely as Sherlock Holmes solved the prob-
lem of “The Speckled Band.” * * * * * * Grit, sand and dirt
in bearings cause friction and friction eventually destroys
the bearings—repair bills follow. ALEMITE Lubricant is
forced (by the Alemite Lubricating System), into the bear-
ing under pressure of 3,000 pounds. Old, worn-out grease,
sand, grit and dirt are forced out, leaving the bearing
clean, perfectly lubricated, and therefore friction free.
See that your car is Alemited every 500 miles and enjoy
smooth, noiseless driving .
ALEMITE CORPORATION, Chicago, U. S. A. *
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd . 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACIIIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd,, 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED .... 1 122 Pirie Street,, Adelaide k-AUST-4
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
LUBRICATION
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Mock Frustration?
Either Robert Graves is suffering from
the sad enough disease mock frustration
or he is one of the most wounded men the
yvar left alive. I prefer to think the latter
is true, though evidence seems set against
it. His Poems (1926-30), just published by
Heinemann at 3s. 6d. net, tend to confirm the
impression left by Good-bye to All That,
that he is one walking in the shadow of a
cloud of his own making. In neither does
he seem a natural part of the scenery. A. E.
Housman’s gloom is inevitable; it is over
his world; and even if you feel that he
misses much you have no doubt about his
poetic truth. But Graves seems to go out
of his way to make sure of missing no ugli-
ness: “This house is jealous of its nasti-
ness!” His whole landscape is one
Whose griefs are melancholy,
Whose flowers are oafish,
Whose waters, silly,
Whose birds, raffish,
Whose fish, fish.
He cannot see fruit but it is dangling from
ill-pruned boughs; he voyages
On an uncoasted featureless
And barren ocean of blue stretch.
It is. sad company, whichever way you
take it—whether he is preferably frustrated,
or, as another has 'said, is one of the dark
ones, who,
pierced by torturing thorns of light, in despair
Made moan: “Our punishment is greater than we can
bear.”
That is the charitable view. Pity one must
feel charitable in taking it.
The Gay Romance
There can be no question of frustration,
mock or otherwise, about A.E. His
Vale, and Other Poems (Macmillan; Roy-
croft; ss. 6d.) is a collection of about 30
lyrics, several of witching loveliness and all
reaffirming a poet’s faith in beauty’s high
heaven. Even though the cry be “Vale!”
—literally so; he hints it may be—A.E. still
looks with sudden awe beneath his feet and
finds the old gay romance of song; finds
his young ancient will-o’-the-wisp,
playing at hide and seek,
An elf in the ivory delicate wild rose,
Dilated at the zenith, sparkling afar,
Here blurring the brown rough earth with beauty,
Dancing to a greybeard as to a child.
He may cry:—
But save Death restore
Those heaven-climbers I had known when young
Life has been vain. lam as one who takes
An angel-haunted road to And it fade •
In a void desert.
But his faith is equal to that: our dreams
are immortal; “the soul is but a congrega-
tion of high dreams.” The several lyric
lovelinesses of the too-brief pages are yet
too long to be given here, and it is unfair
to their beauty to shred it, though such an
epigram as this may, and should, stand
alone:—
There was never sin of thine
But within its heart did dwell
A beauty that could whisper thee
Of the high heaven from which it fell.
A last verse; how much poetry there is in
last verses! And perhaps this may be given,
if only for contrast with the world seen
through Graves’s war- or hand-shaded
vision
The immortals hide from us.
Themselves we see not, only their disguise,
Beauty, the tempest they make in passing
Before our dazzled eyes.
The difference is only that A.E. can see
beauty in the brown rough earth; to Graves
the flowers are crooked in their border.
Cabell’s Credo
A.E.’s credo, fairly stated even in those
few excerpts, is more expansive but not
more clearly defined than is James Branch
Cabell’s, set forth, perhaps imperishably,
in Jurgen, and scored deep on the pages of
The Certain Hour, a mosaic of technically
excellent short stories, first published in
America in 1916, but only now given to a
wider public by Bodley Head, at 7s. 6d. net.
Cabell, too, is the seeker and seer of beauty,
but he fails to find it in the contemporary
scene. Indeed, he implies that nothing so
lasting is to be found at such close range;
asserts, in a diverting and clear-minded in-
troduction, that it never has been so found;
that the whole visible scene can at the
most be but distorted into enduring paro-
dies of itself by the broad humor of a
Dickens or the colossal fantasy of a Balzac.
Shakspeare, pronouncing his celebrated
dictum about art’s holding the mirror up to
nature, was “no doubt alluding to the cir-
cumstance that a mirror reverses every-
thing which it reflects.” Cabell’s need is “to
write perfectly of beautiful happenings,”
and, holding his belief that, with the ex-
ception of the two novelists mentioned, no
one since Homer
has done so con-
temporaneously, he
goes back to the
Prince of Orange,
Alessandro de
Medici, Shakspeare,
Pope. Doing so, he justifies his credo and
adorns it. Whatever unpopularity this
mosaic of hours caught out of the living
past may have, no one is likely to suggest,
as he suggests of the contemporary Ameri-
can literature of about 1916, that it “ought
not to be vended over book-counters, but
rather in drug stores along with other nar-
cotics.” He is, on the way, refreshingly
severe on those people you see clamoring
for the latest “vital” book in the circulat-
ing library:—
It is begging the question to protest that the class
of people who a generation ago read nothing now
at least read novels, and to regard this as a change
for the better. By similar logic it would be more
wholesome to breakfast off laudanum than to omit
the meal entirely. The nineteenth century, in fact,
by making education popular, has produced the
curious spectacle of a reading-public with essentially i
non-literary tastes.
His whole case is that what mankind has
generally agreed to accept as first-class art \
in any of the varied forms of fictitious j
narrative has never been a truthful repro-
duction of the artist’s era. It might be i
interesting—of course, merely as a pastime—
to sho% r e a few Australians up against that
rather solidly-laid background.
A Flying Dunce-hall
Bruce Marshall’s Father Malachy’s
Miracle (Heinemann; 7s. 6d. net), though
it is an urgently contemporary picture, can
be shoved up against such a background with
much the same absence of risk of damage
to itself as might have attended a similar
shoving of Gulliver’s Travels in Swift’s day.
Marshall’s piercing satire is levelled at this
day’s Christianity, and press, and life in
general, with the action in to-day’s Edin-
burgh ; but the roots are in the old—and now,
perhaps, old-fashioned—acceptance of what
Christ really said, in word and act. Super-
ficially, the argument is that even if the
present Christian world were to be given
such evidence of what it outwardly believes
and inwardly disbelieves as an indisputably
genuine miracle, it would cling to its dis-
belief, its church dignitaries would be dis-
comfited, the apparent performer would be
threatened with proceedings for compensa-
tion on damage to property or goodwill,
and a promoter of Atlantic flights and
musical comedies would make an offer for
the entertainment rights. All that happens
when Father Malachy, provoked by the
sophisticated un-Christliness of one of the
advertising Faith (“Come to Evensong.
It’s Cheaper than the Pictures. God doesn’t
Mind if You Hold Her Hand .”), prays to
have a dance-hall fly from the heart of
Edinburgh to the top of Bass Rock in the
Firth of Forth. It is devastating but not
bayoneted satire. It laughs and chuckles on
the j ob. One with whom I was talking
about the book professed to be amazed at
my suggestion that some will regard it as
sacrilegious or even blasphemous; but it is
not necessary to agree with that sort of
outlook to know of it. I feel just as sure
that some will so regard it—especially
churchmen of the kind that “can’t get a
congregation together without resorting to
the methods which have made Bovril a
household beverage”—as I am sure that "
real, and not merely professing (or profes-
sional), Christians will welcome it as a
much-needed medicine, and that readers in
general will love it, as the song says, for
itself alone. I estimate its laughs at, con-
servatively speaking, one to the page (325
pages).
Novels
There may have been better novels avail-
able this week than Storm Jameson’s A
Richer Dust (Heinemann; Bs. 6d. net) and
Edward Sackville West’s Simpson: A Lije
(Heinemann; 7s, 6d. net), but if so I have
missed them. In each there is life, visible
and worth sharing. Miss Jameson’s closes
a fine trilogy, different from most of the
kind in that it is a rising instead of a
falling close. And Simpson is a woman
almost as good as Miss Jameson’s Mary
Hervey.
RED PAGE.
Australian Letters and Professors
As soon as a student comes within the
shadow of the University he is forbidden j
to take any further interest in Australian S
literature. Evidently the professors of Eng-
lish and the public examiners in the sub-
ject consider that Australian literature is :
not worth serious study by anyone over 14
years.
These reflections are prompted by sad
memories of my own studies revived
by the contemplation of the English text- i
books I have recently purchased (at very!
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Salt oj Business.
Anthony Horderns'
Genuine Autumn
mn^
Iscfe'-
SaBsSi !
smaasas!*
ySS!
wwmm
3fP
-^S^y I*7
&&*%?<■
mm*
SKaSsfJ
sssaaaaai
£sPjs£jg
sM£»
*Sf?iSf;sS? ¥ -
JSj|
jy
ppi*
SB S 3?
V i
:s,.'.
SPScst-V*
:;xr
SSAvJS'!::-.
«
L %
:
m
m
■ $
11
Imported Overcoats at sale prices
mean large savings! We could
not buy these Coats to sell to-day
at anything near the price.
Showerproof Gabardines . . 84/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 67 / 6
In Fawns, Moles, Navy
Blues £5/7/6
Anthony Horderns* Sale
Price 90/-
All fashionable shades in good-
quality Gabardines .... £6/6/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 105/-
(Men’s Clothing, Ground Floor,
George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
k
Men’s Trousers. English Fawn Cotton
Gabardine. Will give long service.
Our own make. Side or hip pockets.
Plain or cuffed bottoms. Price, 17/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 12/6
f. i : . t
4?
m
Boys’ Suit of All-wool Worsteds and
Serges. Well tailored! Excellent
trimmings! Made in our own work-
rooms. Single or double breasted!
For boys 6 to 1 0 years.
Prices .......... '59/6 and 56/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 45/-
Oddments in Boys’ Knickers, greatly
reduced. To fit'boys 9 to 12 years.
In Tweeds, Worsteds and Serges.
Prices 12/6, 14/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices,. . .
each 6/11, 10/6
m
Striped Poplin Golf Shirts. V-cased fronts,
detached collar, in Fawn and Blue stripes
on colored grounds. Sizes 14 to 18. Price,
8/6. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 6/9
Broadway Ties. 2/11. Sale Price, 1/6
m
Extra Value! Boys’ Water-
proof Macintoshes, good
quality! Smart Raglans, with
all-round belt. Serviceable
shades of Grey. A timely bar-
gain temptingly priced. Fit
boys 8 to ! 6 years.
Prices 27/6, 30/-, 32/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
each 19/6
ķ
Knitted All-wool Coat Sweaters, fancy
designs, on Fawn and Brown grounds.
Sizes, 34in. to 40in. chest.
Price 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 15/-
fifsssa
mm
»
*
l
m
m
Youths* Sac Suits —made in
our own workrooms from all-
wool Vicuna in plain Dark
Greys. Best trimmings.
Price, each 82/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price,
each 55/-
(9
Wool and Cotton Under-
wear, winter-weight;
short-sleeve Undershirts
and Underpants to ankle.
Assorted sizes, 34in. to
44in. Price .... 9/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price, each 6/6
Striped Flannelette
Pyjamas. Sizes 34in. to
36in. Prices, 8/6 & 9/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Prices .... 6/9, 8/6
{Men’s Mercery, Ground Floor. We Pay Carnage.)
’Phone: M2J+Ol
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
"THE SENIOR STORE."
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


m i
■
mmmM
Hf
s :
MRS. H. KEANE of PENSIIURST had a very severe
bum which wouldn’t heal until she tried Rexona.
She says :
44 I burnt my leg very badly and
could hardly walk. I tried everything ,
but could get no relief , until my
sister recommended Rexona Oint-
ment. I can honestly say that one
hour after putting on the Ointment
the pain disappeared , and within
a week my leg was healed. My
HPi
mother burned herself two weeks ago , and 1 persuaded
her to use Rexona. Her burns are nearly healed.
Rexona is truly the rapid healer
Rexona is used in thousands of homes for Cuts, Cold Sores, Ulcers, Cracked
Lips, Sore Throat, Pimples, Stiff Joints, Boils, Chilblains, Rashes, Chapped
Skin Abscesses, Poisoned Wounds, Lumbago, Rheumatism. Rexona immediately
soothes pain, and prevents germ-infection.
Accident in the kitchen! Badly
scalded hand . . . the pain is un-
bearable l Quick! Qet the Rexona,
spread some on a bandage, and
lay it on the burn.
Ah ! That’s better !
.... the pain is gone now !
Within a few minutes Rexona Ointment takes
the heat out of burns or scalds, and banishes
the searing pain. Rexona prevents blistering,
helps to form new, healthy skin, and safeguards
against infection.
Rexona
THE RAPID HEALER
OINTMENT
Rexona Ointment is sold
in two sizes. The large
size contains enough to
last the whole family for
months.
REXONA PROPRIETARY
LIMITED
m
wmm
■
9.96.7 X.


OVERCOATS
*2
V!
i'/
YV
a
/j
TO
/
Some Special
Values from
Men’s Single-breasted “Raglan” style Overcoats, in fashionable
tweeds. Warm, protective and smart to a degree.
EXTRA SPECIAL VALUE FOR ZiZ? j O
Superior Qualities 39/6, 63/-, 75/-, 84/-
Men’s Double-breasted “Prince” Overcoats, in the latest
fancy tweeds. These distinctive overcoats have . , _
been reduced from 59/6 and 63/- to ...... 48' 9
Others at 50/-, 55/-, 63/-, 70/-, etc.
Grey or Olive Gabardine “Raglans” .... 55/- and 63/-
Special “Waterproof” Oilcoats 39/6
We pay freight. If writing, kindly address your letter to
Desk R.
s I<4 Svdinie
PARKb GtQRGLSIRLm
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.’’
enhanced prices, as they were all imported
—of course!) for my son, who is now
entering upon his sub-intermediate year.
He will read and study Conan Doyle’s
“The White Company,” a number of poems
listed in Palgrave’s “Golden Treasury,”
which, beginning with the Elizabethans,
ends with Wordsworth; Shakspeare’s “Henry
V.” (97 pages of Shakspeare and 77 pages
of “Notes”); and a book of English ex-
tracts in prose and verse. Wonder of
wonders, there is an Australian poem —“Ban-
nerman of the Dandenong” bracketed with
“Young Lochinvar and “How We Brought
the Good News” as illustrative galloping
poems. How the selectors came to choose
a book containing an Australian writer’s
name passes comprehension,
Compare the attitude of the compilers
(teachers and inspectors) of the new Vic-
torian Reading Books. As- stated in the
preface to the first book of the series pub-
lished by the Government Printer: —
The main aim of the committee that made selec-
tions was to obtain such as possessed literary
merit, were informative, were likely to arouse
interest, and were suitable as regards the average
standard of attainment of the grade or form for
which the book was intended. The young readers
were to begin at home , to be taken in imagination
to the various parts of the Empire, to Europe, _ and
;o the United States of America, and thus gain a
tnowledge of their rich heritage and acquire a well-
iounded pride of race.
And they have carried out that, ideal to
perfection. Of the 95 selections in this
particular reader 41 are from Australian
poetry and prose, and two from Maori-
land; and this is typical of the whole series.
If the works of Australian writers are
worthy of study in the primary school and
up to the E form of the secondary, surely
they are more worthy of study in the higher
forms, when youth is reaching out into life,
when the emotional appeal is at flood tide.
But no! The Board of Examiners of the Uni-
versity takes charge then (I refer particu-
larly to Victoria), and the cultivation of an
abiding love for and faith in Australian litera-
ture is brought to a halt. And so our children
grow up, those with the highest education,
to periodically deplore that the great Aus-
tralan novel is still to be written, and that,
though we have more writers of verse to the
square (populated) mile than any other
country in the world, we have no poets.
The defence might be made that the
content of Australian literature is so small
that it would be waste of time including it
in the selected courses of study. But our
literature is as old as our history, and no
one can object to the University’s attitude
towards Australian history. From the
primary school right up to the University the
study of Australian history is an essential
part of every stage of education, and has
been for at least 20 years. I believe this
is so because one Australian professor of
history, whose researches into Australian
history have made him world famous, and
whose influence on the teaching of history
extends throughout the Commonwealth, is
not a university graduate, and so in his
youth did not come under the supercilious,
devitalising influences of imported profes-
sors.
Have we no professors of English, Aus-
tralian born and bred, who will do the same
for Australian literature?
COUNTRY PED.
How Revolution Comes
Ludwig Renn’s After War (Martin Seeker;
Robertson and Mullens, Melb.; 15s. 6d.) is
the complete sequel. At the end of “War”
the author was in a troop train on his way
to Germany; at the beginning of this book
he has crossed the frontier, and, to quote
his friend Mayer, “there’s a revolution on.”
The blatherskites immediately take charge
and propound their crazy plans:—
Workers and Soldiers’ delegates; Comrades and
Friends. Two weeks ago you. opened a way to
freedom. Now you are called upon to suppress
the forces of reaction, which after their first fright
are creeping again from their corners. The well-
known Social Democratic theorist Eduard Bernstein
appeals for the reconciliation of the nations.
Military indiscipline begins:—
Everywhere they were smashing their rifles to
pieces. “No more war,” they kept shouting. But
the leaders warned them: “Don’t smash your
rifles! They’re the best friends you’ve got.”
There is indiscriminate shooting by those
who have kept their rifles:—
At noon a motor-car drove at a reckless pace into
the Leipziger Platz and halted. The square was
busy, as always at that hour. The people were
standing watching when suddenly the occupants of
the tar began to let off shots on every side, and
then drove off as rapidly as they had come.
The inhabitants attribute the feat to the
Spartacists, who look like dominating the
situation before long, but the Spartacist
leaders soon go the way of all pioneer revo-
lutionaries. From a description of a meet-
ing at Parliament Buildings:—
“Comrade Engert has the floor.” A little man
with prominent cheekbones got up, “Comrades.
Yesterday the two chief leaders of the Spartacist
movement lost their lives. Karl Liebnecht was shot
by Government soldiers in the Tiergarten, while
Rosa Luxembourg was killed by bludgeon blows
from the angry crowd and a revolver shot.”
The rest of the book describes the rise and
fall of the revolution, which seems to have
functioned like every other revolution,
allowing for essential differences in the Ger-
man and, say, the French or Russian tem-
peraments. There is interminable speechi-
fying and discussion, much of it by idlers
who have nothing to say and wouldn’t be
able to put their ideas into coherent lan-
guage if they had any. Spying and intriguing
become epidemic. Citizens who try to
remain aloof from the hurly-burly which
is none of their making are as liable to
be shot or bludgeoned as active revolu-
tionaries. All classes go in for looting:—
Under the heading “Embezzlement in the Castle’’
the newspapers reported that Schladitz and a dele-
gate from headquarters had been arrested. Valuable
carpets had disappeared.
Schladitz has wangled the job of Castle
Commander at the beginning of the revo-
lution, and is typical of the men who are
getting high office everywhere. A comrade-
soldier describes the democratic lines on
which comrade-C.O.’s are chosen:—
“Why, one of the companies changed their com-
manders three times in a fortnight. I’ll tell you
how it came about. It’s because the commanders
will promise anything just to be elected. When
they can’t keep their promises there’s a row in the
company. The commander is deposed, and then
there’s another election. The man who’s most
brazen in his promises is elected.”
The picture is dimmed by the fact that
Renn saw nearly all of it from behind the
bars of a military barracks, yet it is vivid
enough. Its spirit is what differentiates it
from its predecessor. “War” had what the
French call elan; it was all fire and move-
ment. “After War” is in a minor key, as if
the writer had lost hope. And he certainty
had when he penned the dreary conclusion
of his memoir. After four years’ honorable
service in the German army he has lived to
fall down on his job as officer of a guard,
and allow his men to be disarmed without
a struggle. He is given his discharge and
then:—■
I found work, sometimes here, sometimes there,
but never for any length of time. And in addition
I was unsettled within myself; I felt uprooted and
hopeless. For seven years I lived this life, until
finally I found my way to Communism.
The translation by Willa and Edwin Muir
is a success on the narrative side, but it
becomes unconvincing whenever they try
to render German workers’ slang into Eng-
lish idioms.
J.B.D.
A Satchel of Books
<Thc Gladiator, by Nikolai Gubsky (Elkin
Mathews; 7s. 6d. net). This Russian writes
in English with more facility than the Polish
Conrad did. His comedy of Russian life
is written with imagination, humor, origin-
ality and insight, and his thought is never
clouded by inadequacy of expression.
Monk's Magic, by Alexander de Comeau
(Methuen), is an attack on clericalism in
the Rabelais-cmm-Dell manner. Disnas the
Monk sets out to find the Elixir of Rife, and
only succeeds in raising the Devil. The Devil
turns out to be considerably less black than
the Churches have painted him. In fact:
“God and I adversaries!” said the Stranger.
“You must remember that it was holy men
who started that notion. Certain men of
old held a contrary view, namely, that God
and I are one.” So Disnas goes back to
the fair Radegonde, whom he loves, and finds
her, “and behind her lay the lighted hall, a
promise of comfort and love and of life
lived to the full.” The defect of “Monk's
Magic” as a mediaeval novel is that it never
for a moment creates the shadow of a
mediaeval atmosphere.
Booth Tarkington isn’t his gay and glit-
tering best in Mirthful Haven (Ileinemann;
7s. 6d. net). It supplies another portrait
gallery of delightful young Americans, and
every word they utter and every intonation
of their voices ring true. Their elders, and
the seafaring natives of the New England
village where the action takes place, are
also brilliantly observed. But it seems as
if the shadow of blindness which has been
threatening Tarkington had cast a shadow
over his art. This is a sad book, with
hardly a laugh in it from the moment when
poor Edna and young Gordon Corning meet
and love each other to their inevitable
separation. Still, this 'great novelist, work-
ing under a bitter handicap, is better than
most others at their best. No admirer of his
books should miss Mirthful Haven."
The Art of Generalship, by Lieut.-Colonel
C. O. Head (Gale and Polden; 7s. 6d. net).
The author, a field-artillery commander in
the Big Job, shares the view that while there
remains any possibility of war it would be
just as well to know something of the mili-
tary game. His selection of generals is
Napoleon, Wellington and Wolseley, with
Sir Henry Wilson, “who did more to win
the war than any man living,” as the best
modern exponent. Colonel Head’s personal
experience enables him to make running com-
parisons that help to present the past-
masters in a new light, and most of the com-
parisons fall some distance short of flat-
tering the moderns. On at least two occa-
sions within his personal observation great
opportunities were lost in France—one, July
14, 1916, on the Somme; the other, the first
tank attack at Flers. He has another word,
too, on one aspect of the conduct of the war
that will stir a sympathetic echo or two —
the petty pin-pricking of the real fighters
when they came out of the line by the people
behind.
Every petty official of the hordes of them in the
area, to justify his existence, would formulate some
trifling complaint against the luckless unit, or
would harass its comfort with irritating and un-
necessary restrictions.
Ilis book is sincere and its criticism pro-
vocative.
Vision, by Anne Praize (Lothian, 7s. 6<1.
net), happens to he Australian, but the venue
might be anywhere else. It is one of those
romances in which the expected always
occurs. When the Melbourne lawyer says,
“It [the will] means, Captain. Warrington,
that in order to share in the considerable
estate left by Mr, Craig you and Miss Rut-
ledge must marry, live at Callemondah
Station for six months, and during that six
months support yourselves entirely by your
own work,” the reader knows that super-
cilious Richard C‘his blue eyes like twin
points of ice with the sun on them”) and
indignant Valmai will fall in love. And that
they will enter into their happiness a couple
of hundred pages later like this : —
“You do love me, really, don’t you, Dick?”
“Love you —good lord, woman, I worship you.”
Dick was on his feet now, and his arms were drawing
her closer and yet closer to him. “I love you with
every bit of my body, soul and brain.”
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice (except o] a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J. 8.: As sad as a spilt beer.... 396:
Judged by its effect upon Furnace 8, “The
Waterfall” must have come out of a bowser....
Scriptor Ignotus: Idea of a man pursuing a foreign
land sent to the Amateur Tin Hare Society....
J.T.W.: Overcome by the rhyme “howls” —
“bowels”... .H. 8.: Depression season declared closed.
Trespassing muses will be locked in the savings bank.
.... Q.P.: Strangely off the track with the
Chaplin item.... J.M.: Can’t add any notes to “The
Birds’ Concert”... .H.W.A.P.: Heavy as a light
comedian.... The B.: “Nathless” we say “Oh dear!”
and “Fie, fie, fie !”.... A.D.N.N.: “I am yearning to
write with all my heart.” Hearts are such awkward
things to write with, unless you have them specially
sharpened... .Hugh W.: The rummest thing about
“Rum” is that the Religious Editor couldn’t swallow
it... .0.K.: French forms have to be extraordinarily
well used. Crossbreeds among ’em are worthless....
T.W.N.: “Sympathy” is the best of the trio, but
you’re some distance off print yet... . J.R.H.: “The
Shock” was Slight.... Patroclus: Sorry it can’t go in.
. ...D.A.8.: Not much use for purely descriptive
verse; it usually describes so little... .Ann M.: No
use merely crying “Bah! ” That page doesn’t care
for sheepish noises... .J.A.K.: All that can be said
of that refrain is refrain.... Leuroomba: Writing
too good to waste on such an old one.
.... D.A.R.: Don’t think verse will meet the
case... .1.L.T.: One good line out of 47 is a
wretched average...'.D.W.S.: All right as a credo
for yourself; no use as an article... .K.D.S.: Might
have put it over with a touch of subtlety, but with
that obvious treatment it would never d 0....
G.N.: Main trouble is that so many have seen those
things and written of them.... Sudor: You just toss
in a rhyme as it takes your fancy, which doesn’t
take ours.... The Thoor (or something) : Touches of
a fumbling idea, but barely worth while... .M.M.8.:
“It resembles Keats.” It might. What is he —a
winchdriver ?.... Hilda J. J-: Turned down with a
bang. .. .B.B.: No use for lines that read
like an excuse for not learning the craft Bellerive:
They’re off !
ROOSTER FIGHT.
Near a tree shadowed abode
In the evening light
, Two roosters charged
And did fiercely fight.
As they leaped and spurred
Rent feathers did fly.
The combatants battled
For to do or die.
When armed with a broom
A woman appeared
And slashed the victor,
Who homeward cleared.
Back to the hens
The conqueror sped,
Leaving he’s opponent
Stretched out for dead.
{Next: A charming lyric entitled “Porpoises.”)
Cousin Jacky: So be it. Liverpool Cathe-
dral was designed by Jules Gilbert Scott. It
was Truro Cathedral that was designed by J.
L. Pearson, R.A., who did the same for Brisbane.
G.W.R.: It didn’t reach its objective N.S.:
You’re welcome to send them, but they’ll need to
be very different from the two already judged....
F.R.: No tent space here for the sheiks... .E.G.:
Absurd... .D. 8.0.0.: You’ve erected the framework
only H.E.8.: Tired of characters who wake up in
the last line.... A.H.E.H.: Only worth a par.
. ...U.S.: Most unconvincing... .G.S.C.: Both mis-
fired. .. .0.J.5.: The countryside must be teeming
with maidens clinging to runaway horses... .A.D.M.:
A bit shopworn N.M.: The sort of adventure yarn
a boy might write for his school paper... .A.8.C.:
Kicks feebly... .E.W.: Memory-training expert who
loses his own memory has been overdone... .E.R.J.:
Very little in it... .U.J.L.: You killed all the
characters. Perhaps they’re better dead....
H. 5.8.: Could be told heaps better... .E.M.:
Worked hard for the happy ending, didn’t y0u?....
R.E.F.H.: Not up to your usual standard... .V.T.:
It didn’t grip... .L.M.W.: Try us with something
stronger... .E.V.T.: Considering 0ne.... V.G.W.: A
verse from “The Roadmenders”:—
“Why squeal at Lang? You helped to put him in.”
“Too right, but then he said he’d raise some tin.”
“Well, ain’t he raising it, for all your fuss,
That bob a pound he’s squeezing out of us?”
....Saltbush: It altogether fails to “meet with our
requirements”.... Pajaud: Your rhymes are awful.
.... R.E.: The depression seems to be death on expres-
sion C.A.P.: “Oh wasteth not thy younger days”
is good advice, but the lure of the muses seems too
strong for many Paul Cupid: Arrested by the idea
of “the billiard-table of the gods,” but prepared to
put the office shirt on Lindrum against any of them,
especially Bacchus. .. .N.R.: You get a slightly new
twist into it, but the general idea has worn out many
souls.., .8.H.Y.: Has moments. Give it a fly in
another market... .R.G.O’C.: Yes ; but it will have
to be vastly better... .C.T.0.: You haven’t read The
Bulletin much in the last dozen years or you’d not
say no one saw what was coming... .M.T.H.: Scores
of depression verses must go unanswered every week.
Latest effort misses S.M.: So you think there is
“ £6,000,000 worth of English silver in Australia”
and it ought to be sent to London. Tell it to your
banker and bring a grin to his worried face. Or
breathe it to an overseas boat steward —his face will
be a study in conflicting emotions.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.R.C.: It had a fine run in the ’eighties
J.J.F.: You overdo those heavy strokes—.W.T.A.:
Why crowd everything into the top right-hand
corner?... .C.H.: Don’t use solid black in such large
areas.... M.L.W.: Nothing distinctive about it....
D.C.S.: Can’t judge from copies... .F. 8.: It takes
more than a few oblique lines to suggest rain....
H.A.A.: You lose your characters at the back of
the stage.. . .T.W.E.: No assurance in your line-
work... .A.P.: A visit to the Zoo would improve
your knowledge of animals... .L.N.T.: Can’t see it
putting any reader into a pleasant state of mind... .
W.S.: Whoever person in top-hat may be, he is not
Willis... .T.G.: Don’t take color work... .N.N.: Low
handled the idea in the conscription days F.M.G.:
Daintily drawn, but schoolgirl humor. .. .E.J.:
Dreadful.


k
G
"'V
1 ' .4 I
n<* *». W
.
H—l
MHHMI
M
■
AJ
k
4
m
te-
J
.31
■
3v:
■
■ -
iKI
.
3
H
n
m
.
V*
Hit
■
j
1
#
I'':
mm
V
mm
e


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2673.
May 6, 1931.
HELPLESS BUT HAPPY.
“Mr. Scullin has denied that there is any truth in a published rumor that he is about to resign.”
THE TAXPAYER: "Another month past! When are you going to chuck it in?”
THE MAN UNDERNEATH: “Go away! Don’t worry me! Can’t you see I’m in quite a comfortable position?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 314 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521138; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : lVi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 hs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months; 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, Neiv Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
POLITICIANS AND BANKING.
In most fields of human endeavor, persons
holding positions of trust or operating on
their own account with other people’s
money have to answer for sins of commis-
sion or omission. During the war non-
professional company commanders and the
like found that under military law they
were personally liable for property care-
lessly damaged or destroyed in a spirit of
mischief by their men; scores of Aus-
tralian captains were the poorer for these
experiences. Bankrupts have been sent to
gaol for riotous extravagance; directors of
burst building societies for sheer recklessness
—in both cases without actual dishonesty
being proved. N.S.W. mayors and their
deputies are expected to make good amounts
stolen from the ratepayers while they are
in control. The municipal accounts of Ten-
terfield having been found in disorder, the
council was dissolved by the Governor at
the instance of the then Minister, and an
officer of the Local Government Department
was named administrator. He discovered
defalcations amounting to £7OOO or there-
abouts, and after the trial of an employee the
mayor of the period and two aldermen were
coldly informed that the department would
be glad to receive their cheque for the
£7OOO-odd. They appealed to a Judge, who
decided against them, though, as a Labor
member who has taken up their case pro-
tests, “the evidence proved that their integ-
rity was beyond reproach.” So if the law is
enforced they will have to reimburse the
ratepayers or go insolvent.
Only politicians are exempt from responsi-
bility in these matters. Not for N.S.W. poli-
ticians the sort of punishment they prescribe
for careless mayors and aldermen, though for
every pound lost through lax municipal ad-
ministration N.S.W. politicians have cost
the taxpayers thousands. They have bought
votes in the mass with insolvent railways
which they said would pay from the start ;
they have offered lavish bribes to civil
servants; they have made lying promises
which they knew they could never fulfil-
and not one of them has been “surcharged,”
as the Tenterfield burgesses were, or even
brought to book. The present N.S.W.
Premier, by plunging recklessly into dis-
honest courses without precedent in the
history of the Empire of which he is so
unworthy a son, has wrecked the Govern-
ment Savings Bank—ruined it utterly as an
instrument of State policy. By so doing he
has brought wretchedness into thousands of
decent homes, injuring most those who
trusted him most. Yet he is not to be
impeached, nor has he been dismissed from
office. He continues to draw his excessive
salary, and to make a show of running a
distracted country.
If ever a Premier deserved to be punished
John Thomas Lang is that Premier. The
more this Savings Bank business is ex-
amined the uglier it looks. Deadly was
the indictment which ex-Treasurer Stevens
drew up in the Legislative Assembly while
the chief culprit and his craven followers
cowered in their seats, for once at a loss
for words, “Interest amounting to £432,000,”
said Stevens in effect, “was due by the Gov-
ernment to the bank on the first of
February—it was not paid. A loan of
£250,000 fell due on the same day—the Gov-
ernment converted this sum into a short-
term deposit and used it for ordinary Trea-
sury purposes. Fixed deposits amounting to
£929,000 matured in February and April,
but were not repaid. Neither was £995,000
held on short call, though the Premier knew
that money was being withdrawn from the
bank at an alarming rate. When the
Savings Bank closed its doors it had prac-
tically no cash in hand. The Common-
wealth Bank and the trading banks paid up
every penny due to it, and must have
found between £6,000,1)00 and £8,000,000 for
it during the last few weeks; the Govern-
ment, which held £7,000,000 of deposits, the
savings of the people, found nothing.” Yet
again and again it was asserted—even while
power was being sought to “scale down”
interest on the £30,000,000 of State Govern-
ment securities held by the bank from 5 per
cent, and better to 3 per cent.—that the
depositors had nothing to fear.
Even the school' children, who had
730,000 accounts with £178,000 to then-
credit, were deceived. In a supplement to
the April “Education Gazette” Minister
Davies, quoting his precious leader, said
that “no Government would be so foolish
as to do anything that would in any way be
harmful to the depositors and the many
thousands of deserving people receiving
assistance from the Homes and Rural sec-
tions of the bank,” adding on his own
account that the supplement was designed
to “allay any fears that may be expressed
as to the safety of deposits in this institu-
tion.” Even infants were taken in, and
under the measure rushed through both
Houses have been deprived of the right
to withdraw their own money, along with
the ailing, the workless and the aged!
The sober countrymen who are govern-
ing Queensland, and whose State under
their commonsense administration is a
bright contrast to N. S. Wales under the
Lang blight, have their own idea of the
responsibilities of politicians. They are
trying to recover for the people some of
the money which, as a Royal Commissioner
reported, was wantonly spent on the Mun-
gana mines, and portion of which, in his
opinion, found its way into the pockets of
two politicians, both ex-Premiers; and,
whatever the result of the proceedings, the
people should be grateful to them. There
is no reason in the world why politicians
should not be held as strictly accountable for
the expenditure of other people’s money as
are mayors and aldermen and bankrupts.
Wilful default in the payment of interest
on debts lawfully taken over by the Com-
monwealth, with the consent of 754,446
N.S.W. electors, was an act so wicked, and
so certain to react seriously on State, Com-
monwealth and honest people, that the
mere threat of it should have been enough
to wring from the Scullin Government, weak
as the Scullin Government is, a law making
it a criminal offence. Since more swindling
is threatened, it is not yet too late to do
this, and to cause Lang, if he defaults again,
to be tried by a High Court Judge and a
jury “in the State where the offence was
committed,” or “at such place or places
as the Parliament prescribes,” as expressed
in section 80 of the Constitution Act.
Above all, a complete separation will
have to be made between politics and bank-
ing. In spite of the Savings Bank smash,
politicians, in their crazy vanity, will go on
imagining that they have forgotten more
about banking than bankers ever learned,
but unless they are to ruin Australia alto-
gether we must place it beyond the power
of political ruffians to monkey with the
banks, to force them to hold excessive sup-
plies of Government paper, to “scale down”
the interest on which they live, to issue
bad money, to commandeer the savings of
the thrifty for distribution among the thrift-
less. Plain men and women now see what
“the nationalisation of banking” means. It
means control of bank funds by politicians
for purposes as rotten as they are them-
selves.
THE MAORLLAND WAY.
Maoriland faces precisely the same prob-
lems as Australia as a result of the fall in
prices of primary produce. As in the case
of the Commonwealth the power of pawn-
ing the country has been the most puissant
weapon in the armory of the professional
politician, and a public debt of £179 12s. sd.
per head testifies to the zest with which the
weapon has been wielded. Like Australia,
too, Maoriland is criss-crossed with political
railways, and the loss on the whole system
for the last 12 months was over £1,000,000.
The Government’s revenues have declined
to such an extent that a deficit of £5,500,000
was prophesied by Priminister Forbes for
next March unless taxation was increased
and expenditure drastically curtailed.
As in Australia, there is an army of unem-
ployed, rapidly increasing with the arrival
of winter. On February 9 17,000 workless
people were registered. On March 9 the
number had jumped to 29,941. More press-
ing even than in this country is the prob-
lem of relief for farmers, for agricultural
and pastoral settlement is much more
advanced and the proportion of agrarian
population is much larger. The majority of
freeholders on the land are mortgagors; the
tumble in prices has in many instances
reduced the value of their land to an extent
that wipes out their equity, and to let them
go smash would be to pull the props from
under the whole fabric of the Dominion’s
internal credit.
In coping with these emergencies Maori-
land has some advantages that Australia
does not possess. Party lines of demarcation
are not very strongly marked. Between the
reddest Laborite and the bluest Tory there
is a gulf not so wide as that which separ-
ates a Scullinite and a Langite. The taunt
that opportunism is placed before idealism
is levelled at all three parties, but that may
be taken to indicate a tendency to give facts
the right-of-way when they conflict with
theories. There is an almost entire absence
in Parliament of personal bitterness. .
Priminister Forbes, who has offered to
stand down, with all his Ministers, to admit
of the formation of a stronger Government,
is typical of the House he leads. He is
a business man who went farming, and
became very prosperous at it. Though
in the latter capacity his private interests
were represented by the party led by
Massey, it never occurred to him to leave
the party of Ballance and Seddon, in which
he was born. Attaining the Premiership in
a time of financial and economic stress, it
never entered his mind that there could be
any way out of the trouble save the prac-
tice of economy so that the country’s lia-
bilities could be met. His simple view
of the matter is shared by the party he
leads and by the followers of Gordon
Coates, and the opposition of the Laborites
under Holland is more of a formality than
a matter of conviction.
Therefore the steps which the Dominion
has taken to put its house in order show
no symptoms of originality. Since the
earning power of the country has demon-
strably diminished a 10 per cent, cut has
been made in the pay of all public servants
and Parliamentarians, and the Arbitration
Court has been empowered to reduce wages.
Unemployment has been met, as in Aus-
tralia, by special taxation, but the alloca-
tion of work, for which less than union
rates of pay is paid, is in the hands of a
board of business men. To check revenue
losses the railways are to be placed under
a board of directors, immune from political
influence. Postal and telegraphic charges
have been increased. A moratorium, strictly
limited in scope, gives farmers a chance to
weather the present unfortunate condition
of the worlds markets, and a system of
special loans for the purchase of fertilisers
is being inaugurated.
There has been no suggestion from any
quarter that the present plight of the
country is due to the Great War, though
Maoriland conscripted its citizens for mili-
tary service and compelled them to lend
money for military purposes. There has
been no suggestion that the £27,000,000 owed
in London on war account (twice as much
again was raised in the Dominion) should
be repudiated, or that interest should be
“withheld” or “scaled down,” although
the war debt to Britain is the subject of a
funding arrangement on almost exactly the
same terms as Australia made. There has
been neither default nor talk of default; no
bank smash nor any danger of one. Maori-
land faces its troubles without squealing,
and without seeking to apply any rules save
those of common honesty. Its exchange
rate in London is £9 per £lOO against Aus-
tralia’s £3O 10s., and it would be lower still
were it not for the interlocking of the Aus-
tralian and Maoriland banking systems.
Confidence in the country’s ability to
weather the storm and in the soundness
of its financial institutions is unshaken.
ON THE TRACK.
While May Day was being celebrated by
ragged marches through Sydney and a few
other Australian warrens, the saddest pro-
cession this Continent ever saw was dotting
every road in the settled parts of the south-
eastern States. We picked them up first
on the outskirts of Sydney, stepping along
briskly, with faces turned away from the
city; and in 1500 miles we never lost them
for an hour. On the Prince’s Highway,
the coastal road which links up Australia’s
two main cities, they were moving steadily
north and south—north from Melbourne
towards the rule of easy rations which
it is believed in Victoria that Mr. Lang
has established in N. S. Wales; and south
towards the dairying districts.
As they pass through the Southern coal
towns that cling to one of the most beauti-
ful coasts in the world, the apostle of Com-
munism gets his work in upon them. On a
grassy bank at Clifton a little group had
been swept together and a Comrade was
cursing the Capitalist system and expound-
ing the blessings of Red Revolution and a
Soviet Republic. These Southern coal villages
are funnels through which thousands of men,
mostly young men, pour, their minds just
ready for the poison; and so they pass
down to the South Coast, or climb over"
the Dividing Range on to the Monaro, or by
the Southern-road into the great wheat
territory of the South-West.
Out there you will meet them, not in
mere ones or twos, but trudging along
by threes and fours. Few of them belong
to the old school of sundowner of the Lach-
lan and the Darling; most are young
men, many are mere lads. Our old
friends of the mulga and the saltbush would
not budge without their billy. Scores of
these young recruits manage—God knows
how—without one. On the other hand, you
could make a pretty good muster of top-
coats ; and no ancient sundowner ever owned
that encumbrance.
On the track it is not always easy to get
into intimate talk. Between the man
tramping laboriously in search of work and
the man speeding luxuriously in search
mostly of pleasure there seems to be a
great gulf fixed, and it takes careful bridg-
ing. It is easier when the wanderer is
camped or is spending his evening in the
township. In a few places rooms have
been set apart for their use: in others
the kind souls of the township have set up
soup kitchens, whose name is the only
bad thing about them. The country parson
is a fine chap, as a rule, and is proving a
very fine chap in this crisis. Further,
though the average farmer has little enough
in the locker, the hospitality of the track
seems never to have been more generally
acknowledged. Occasionally, of course, it is
abused. Motorists have been known to
turn up at homesteads for the orthodox
traveller’s ration, having first hidden their
car in handy timber.
And yet—who knows? They may have
been genuine enough in their way. One
stuck up on the track confessed frankly
that he was “humming petrol.” He had
been long a traveller for a city firm, which
had at last found it impossible to carry
travellers. “There’s your car,” they said.
“Take it, if you like, and we’ll pay you
the last farthing of commission the business
will stand.” So he set out with the car,
and now, all his last commission having
been paid to his wife, he was cadging juice.
The extraordinary thing about this imri
and most others on the roads is that they
are not bitter. The good parson whose
praises provoked a sentence just now has
his theory. “They haven’t got anything to
reproach themselves with. They are just
like the Diggers in France. It’s all a
mess, they’ll tell you, and they’ll - well
let somebody else do it next time. Mean-
time they make a grim joke and cany on.
And it is all so hopeless; for there is no
faintest prospect of work ahead for one-tenth
of them. Certainly there is work to do, but
no money to pay for it. Considering all
things the area under cultivation in the
three south-eastern States is surprising.
Much of it will not be well cultivated; a
great deal of it will not have fertiliser ; but
hundreds of farmers are scratching in as
much as ever they can, reckoning that if
they lose the seed they won’t lose much at
present prices, and if luck turns to them
they may make a punch. In the matter ol
taking chances the Australian wheat-farmer
beats the gold-digger. And the season’s
prospects are excellent. The whole country
has been well soaked; and there is good
grass everywhere.
But as the winter deepens the miseries of
this sad procession will increase. Many of
these unaccustomed “travellers” have no
tents; few of them have the old hands’
knack of improvising shelter. A year ago —
six months ago—we ought to have set up
farm colonies, as The Bulletin repeatedly
advised. By this time most of them would
have been almost self-supporting. Six months,
twelve months hence, it seems, we shall still
be saying that we should have done this
thing six months, twelve months ago.
Meantime the sad procession passes on —
all of it sad, but with patches that tear
the heart. Young men, middle-aged men,
old men; most of them on foot, but here
and there a sulky well loaded with the
wealth of two or three; a few with their
women with them; others still proudly wear-
ing their Digger’s badge; a city street-
hawker’s truck, well beyond Wagga, 400
miles out.
And every day more are passing out of
the city than are creeping back dispirited.
S.H.P.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lang Government’s Latest Grab.
The Lang Government’s latest idea for
raising the wind is to get a forced loan
estimated at £5,000,000 from the insurance
offices doing business in N. S. Wales. This
is to be done under the pretext of guarding
policy-holders against wild-cat offices. But
who will guard the guardians? Is there a
person in the wide world who would rather
trust his money with the Lang Government
than with the A.M.P. and the other great
life and fire insurance offices of Australia?
There was a time when such a guarantee
might well have been demanded in N. S.
Wales as it is in many other countries, in-
cluding various Australian States. But to
do the thing at this time, to require insur-
ance offices to put themselves in the same
position as the State Savings Bank deposi-
tors who have just had the door slammed
in their face—this is too much like a plain
hold-up to be tolerated without a struggle.
If, however, the Lang Government insists
upon adding hypocrisy to its. other sins,
and declares that policy-holders must be
protected against rogues and sharks who
withhold payment when payments are due,
or who attempt to “scale down” promised
benefits, then at least one of two other things
should be demanded in the interests of the
same policy-holders: either the Government
should accept its own bonds in satisfaction
of the required guarantee or, if money is
demanded, it should be held outside N. S.
Wales.
♦
Let’s Have Some Civic Pride!
The slowest tortoise ever born could out-
strip the growth of civic pride outside the
capital cities in Australia. For the most
part indeed the thing simply does not exist;
Countaquid is content to take a pride, not in
its owfh progress and possibilities, but in the
progress* and possibilities of Sydney or Mel-
bourne, whichever happens to be its capital.
The result is that there are not half a dozen
country towns in N. S. Wales which are not
thoroughly drab and depressing; and,
though things are distinctly better in Vic-
toria, and to a less extent in the other
States, there is room even there for tre-
mendous improvement.
After the war almost every hamlet rose
to the enthusiasm of a memorial hall or a
monument of uninspiring character: not
more than one in a hundred thought to
plant a grove to the memory of its soldier
sons. Indeed, in most country towns of
N. S. Wales —the greatest offender of all —
the tree seems to have been as greatly hated
as the Kaiser ever was. There was some-
thing behind the apparently unreasoning
enmity, of course. The forest was the great
enemv of our grandfathei. It stood be
tween him and the possibility of making a
living. It represented an infinity of labor
from"which there could be no direct return,
timber having then no market value. Aus-
tralia thus grew up with an unconscious
bias against trees; so that in these later
days it has become necessary to teach wJiat


in most other countries needs no teaching,
and to do of set purpose and by public en-
couragement what elsewhere just happens,
like being born.
There is hardly a town in Australia which
need be without trees of some sort; even
the “pepper-tree,” despised elsewhere, can
be very beautiful on a West Darling plain,
and no tree that grows in England is
greater of leaf or shapelier than our drought-
resisting kurrajong. And while there is
hardly a town in which trees of some sort
are out of the question there is hardly a
town which has not also its inhabitant with
a few pounds still in his pocket and anxious
to be well remembered by future genera-
tions of his townsmen. Further, there
never was a time when the tolerably well-
to-do inhabitant’s few pounds could be
spent with greater benefit to local out-of-
works.
The drift to the cities has been one of
the underlying causes of all our national
distress. It has enabled demagogues to
exercise a power which they never would
have captured had the population been
more -evenly scattered over the country.-
The present and the next few years should
be specially devoted, then, to strengthening
the pull of the country; and to that end
every country town ought to have its
committee to promote civic pride, especially
to popularise tree-planting and every other
form of beautification, and as a first instal-
ment to see that John Brown, the old
inhabitant with the few pounds, should be
encouraged to perpetuate his memory in
Brown Park or Brown-avenue.
<► .
The Commonwealth Savings Bank.
So broken is the N. S. Wales people’s confi-
dence in their own institutions that there
was something of a run on even the Com-
monwealth Savings Bank towards the end
of last week. Fortunately nothing serious
happened; nothing serious could happen.
For this bank’s position is quite different
from that of the N. S. Wales State Savings
Bank, which had suspended payment 10
days earlier. The chief immediate cause
of the State bank’s failure was that it was
owed large sums by the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment, from which it could collect neither
principal nor interest. The Commonwealth
Bank has also, it is true, lent largely to
Governments; but, whereas the Common-
wealth Bank can issue notes up to a certain
amount against the Government securities
it holds, the State bank could do nothing
at all. The Commonwealth Bank is the
one authority entitled to issue notes in Aus-
tralia. At present the volume of paper it
may print is limited to four times the
amount of gold it holds. A day or two ago
it held £15,140,949 in gold, which entitled
it to issue £60,563,796 of notes without any
further authority whatever; and as actually
at that date, it had only £48,153,426 of notes
outstanding, it could call on the printer at
any moment for £12,410,370 more, to be
issued against the Government securities
already in the bank’s hands. That reserve
of note-issuing power is sufficient to meet a
run 20 times more serious than the one
which the bank had to face at the week-
end.
But it has reserves of power far beyond
that. In the first place the same authority
which gave the Commonwealth Bank the
right to issue notes to four times the value
of gold on hand can empower it to issue
up to five times that value; and certainly it
would not hesitate to exercise its authority
that way in the event of a crisis. And, in
the second place, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has complete control over silver
coinage and can issue as much of this cur-
rency as the public can absorb.
Thus the Commonwealth Savings Bank
can literally make money, both paper and
silver; wherefore the idea of a successful
run upon it is ridiculous. And that, of
course, is as true of this bank in the
other States as it is in N. S. Wales.
The Haphazard City.
The N.S.W. Government proposes in its
Greater Sydney "Bill to give N. S. Wales a
sort of subsidiary Parliament, with the
Trades Haul in more or less permanent
control, through the ever-growing industrial,
or lodger, vote; and the Trades Haul is
watching the progress of the measure with
the pleasures of anticipation. Sydney has
never shown much civic pride. Unlike
Melbourne, it hasn’t had to struggle against
odds for form and beauty, and it is conse-
quently apathetic about such things. It has
never had a policy, as a city, in the sense
that, say, Paris has had for over a century
and a half. For 30 years it has been getting
increasingly industrialised. Labor politicians
have been able to treat it as a good place
to loot, and the so-called Reformers, when
in control, generally settle themselves by
quarrelling, as they are doing now.
Sydney’s “city” is unique in the white
countries inasmuch as all its population-
attracting institutions are huddled into a
very few acres. The population exceeded a
million long ago, yet, within less than 10
minutes’ walk of the Circular Quay, you
find all the principal residential hotels,
theatres, clubs, cinemas, newspaper offices
and retail shops; the law courts and barris-
ters’ chambers and solicitors’ offices; the
Houses of Parliament and great Govern-
ment departments; the medical specialists,
public libraries, picture galleries and the
Museum ; a great school, the biggest public
hospital, the G.P.O. and even the Observa-
tory. And wherever the biggest kind of
movie palaces, clubs and hotels are pro-
jected the aim is to crowd them into the
same area. Another mammoth residential
hotel and shopping arcade are going up in
George-street as soon as the Bridge railway
materialises.
A “city” obviously should be reserved for
specified activities. Luxury restaurants and
hotels, places of entertainment, clubs, libra-
ries, legislatures and their appanages
have no place in it. Neither have law
courts, observatories and the like. Insti-
tutions which have a right to be there are
the Stock Exchange, the head offices of the
banks and the shipping and insurance cos.,
the warehouses, the forwarding and other
businesses connected with the wharves, and
perhaps (though probably not) the G.P.O.
and chief newspaper offices. If Sydney
could be persuaded to take the intelligent
interest and pride in itself which it has
failed to do hitherto a suitable develop-
mental policy would soon make its appear-
ance. It happened at different periods and
under different inspirations in Paris, Brus-
sels and Berlin, and it is happening now
in London, where the building of the Char-
ing Cross bridge promises to shift part of
the “city” to the south side of the Thames.
The right place for Sydney’s law courts
and barristers’ chambers is almost certainly
in Darlinghurst. Expensive club, cinema
and hotel life is already tending to shift
eastwards, and the movement might be
accelerated with advantage to Sydney as a
whole. The G.P.O. and great newspaper
offices are likely eventually to go south to
the neighborhood of the central railway
station, which is their logical position.
Pending such changes Sydneyites ought
to see to it that no more irrelevant build-
ings are imposed on its limited “city” area.
There is plenty of scope. The proposal
to put an Anglican Cathedral on the Mint
site, which has the backing of Premier Lang,
is a case in point. If influential citizens,
preferably without Parliamentary records,
could be got to resist such crazy notions
for making Sydney more of a monstrosity
than it is—more, that is, of a giant body
with a pinpoint for the reception of its
brain—a developmental policy of an inspir-
ing nature would quickly emerge.
. ♦
The Proposed Gold Shipment.
An important question will have to be
settled at Canberra this week. We shall
have to pay a large sum in London at the
end of this half-year; and the Government
advises that unless we ship off the little
reserve of gold we have against our note
issue the commitment cannot be met and
we shall have to default. The Senate finds
itself thus thrust on the horns of a dilemma;
and it has taken the very unusual course of
calling in the Chairman of the Common-
wealth Bank for advice.
But Robert Gibson and his co-directors
are on the horns of the same dilemma, and
have been thefe for 18 months past. Their
difficulty is, not to meet commitments, but
to do it under conditions which this poor
apology of a Scullin Government insists
upon maintaining. There is no doubt what-
ever that had we accepted the Niemeyer
plan we should have been able to arrange
for all our overseas payments; and the
Niemeyer plan, after all, was nothing more
than that we should make a serious
attempt to live within our means. Nor is
there any doubt that even now we could
get all the money we need if we showed a
determination to do that simple, honest
thing. Instead of showing any such deter-
mination, however, we have declared with
varying degrees of emphasis that rather
than touch the “standard of living,” as it is
called, we will default a dozen times over.
So it is most untrue that this proposed
shipment of gold is to be made in order to
save the Commonwealth from default. It
is to be made in order to save the Scullin
Government from defeat. There was no
necessity for earlier shipments; there is no
necessity for the present shipment. They
were and are necessary only because the
Scullin Government refused and refuses to
make those economies which were and are
needed, not to immediately balance the
budget, but to demonstrate that in normal
times the budget will be balanced.
■ ♦
The Moral of Mt. Morgan.
This country, hag-ridden by professional
politicians, might profitably consider the
remarks of J. M. Niall, one of the liquida-
tors of Mt. Morgan, when announcing the
completion of his labors. The winding-up
of the great gold-copper enterprise was due
not to the mine having become an unpay-
able concern, given a commonsense relation
between costs of production and the price
of its products on the world’s markets; it
was brought about by bad leadership in
the trade-union and political fields. Urged
on by fools who imagined that the boom
would return, and that in any case the State
Treasury was inexhaustible, the men em-
ployed in the mine refused to take any
reduction on the rates of pay imposed by
Arbitration Courts, backed by a Labor Gov-
ernment of which the present Federal Trea-
surer was then a leading light. The present
Queensland basic wage would have enabled
the mine to carry on.
It was pointed out, time after time, that
with wages and metal prices at their then
level it was impossible to conduct opera-
tions without sei-ious loss. For a consider-
able period the directors, representing many
small shareholders, let losses accumulate in
the hope that the grim facts of the situa-
tion would be accepted by the Courts or
by the union. No response, unfortunately,
was forthcoming from either. Eventually
the company had no option but to put up
the shutters. When this happened there
was £16,000,000 worth of ore accessible in
the mine, while a plant valued at over
a million sterling was on the ground. The
closing' of the mine threw thousands of
employees and tradesmen on the labor
market and made a dead place of what for
decades had been one of the most pros-
perous towns in Queensland.
A more damning indictment of Australia’s
fantastic arbitration system, with the union-
boss control and political meddling which
has grown up round it, could hardly be
imagined. In the new Australian world
which we are to enjoy, if we get a new breed
of public men, there should be no room for
the parasitic growths which have stifled
Mt. Morgan.
4
The Dead End.
Herb is a short history of Australia since
Federation which will serve as a chart of
the road we have traversed in the last 30
years, and as a sufficiently plain warning
against trying to pretend that it is any
longer a road and that we can make head-
way along it:—
Percentage Increases.
1901-10. 1910-20. 1920-30.
Population .. . . 17.5 22.5 18.8
Debt (excluding war debt) 26.5 179.9 41.7
Average rate of interest 3.1* 23.3 16.6
Primary production . . 42.1 75.9 15.2 f
Manufacturing production 212.6 115.2 62.7 t
Exports 49.8 101.1 16.6*
Imports . . .. . . 41.4 64.9 32.4
(1920-29.
The marked increases in the value of pro-
duction, exports and imports in the 1910-20
period are largely due to the post-war
inflation of money. The enormous increase
of debt in the same period—it must be
emphasised that war borrowings are left out
of this account —can be explained only on
the basis that the politicians of that time
thought it their duty to pledge the country’s
credit up to the full limit of its capacity to
pay interest. The figures relating to debt
and interest in the last 10 years do not take
into account the 30-1 per cent, loading
entailed by present rates of exchange, other-
wise the position would look still blacker.
The figures are a plain indication of over-
borrowing, with its concomitant of over-
importing, associated with under-produc-
tion. The very creditable development of
manufacturing industry .is a bright ray in
a dark record, but even here the rate of
progress is slowing down. The remedy is
not more loans. That’s the disease.
4
British Gold for Our Mines.
Some of the ideas of that very energetic
person, Claude de Bernales, chairman of the
Westralian Gold Industry Council: —
To a country in our situation the mass production
of gold is of the greatest importance. Maximum
production means maximum employment. Gold cannot
be overproduced; its sale value cannot fluctuate
except upwards.
Given advanced methods of handling and treat-
ment, Australia’s gold prospects are unlimited. The
auriferous belts are enormous ; payable gold has been
found in every State.
The number of unemployed is a tragedy, and
work must be found for them. But the work must
be productive in the real sense, not in the sense in
which the word has been used to excuse the
borrowing of huge sums abroad for unnecessary
and undesirable “works” which have bloated costs of
production.
Exports are the only legitimate income avail-
able to us. To increase' them by the creation of
new wealth is a matter of fundamental importance.
That means encouraging the investment of capital ;
it means also the rectification of the false or unsound
conditions governing employment; but it does not
mean reduction of real wages. Decreased costs of
production, with decreased costs of living, can be
obtained through the increased effort of labor com-
bined with the introduction of up-to-date methods
and machinery.
Encouragement for the investment •of overseas
capital is offered in the form of a 30 per cent, rate
of exchange on London —leaving bounties out of the
argument. This, at the moment, gives the overseas
investor a corresponding increase of capital, plus
exchange on the money remitted to Aus-
tralia from the proceeds of London sales.
There is also the possibility of Australian credit in
London coming back to normal, thus allowing the
investor to make an actual profit of 30 per cent, on
his original capital investment, in addition to his
trading profit.
.1 propose that a corporation be formed in London,
with a working cash capital of £10,000,000, to
prospect, develop, work and equip Australian gold-
mines. The capital, I suggest, should be invested in
a new issue of Commonwealth bonds, the Government,
for its part, to guarantee repurchase of the bonds in
Australian currency, when called upon or at maturity,
at not less than par. The Government to agree also
that 70 per cent, of the proceeds of the sale
of bonds should be used in meeting its
interest commitments in London, and 30 per
cent, lent to State Governments in propor-
tion to the percentage which each State’s gold or
other product output for the previous 12 months
bears to the total gold output or to the total other
product output over the same period. The
distribution to the State Governments would be con-
ditional on their utilising these loans to liquidate
their London commitments.
My notion is that the interest on the bonds pur-
chased by the gold corporation should be paid
quarterly in Australian currency in Australia. It
might be arranged at 5J per cent. The interest on
£10,000,000 English plus exchange of 30 per cent. —
£13,000,000 —would be £715,000 p.a. This would
alone be sufficient to carry out the prospecting and
initial development on the company’s properties, and
when their equipment was decided upon bonds could
be sold and repurchased by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment in Australian currency, as required under the
conditions stipulated at the time of their issue.
It would be necessary to send a delegation to
London. The delegation might be authorised to
arrange for the promotion of an executive council of
London directors of companies interested in Australian
goldmines and to address meetings of shareholders
in Australian mining cos., of whom there are many
thousands.
Birth Control—Whither?
Cable from America:—
The time is apparently near when medicine will
enable a woman to forestall birth through immunisa-
tion for a considerable period. ;-Sh'e will become
immune from child-bearing just as a person is im-
mune from small-pox by inoculation. Experiments
on a broad scale on this line are being conducted in
Russia and Japan.
The method mentioned in the cable is
no doubt that evolved by Metchnikoff,
Dittler, McCartney and others. It is based
on the analogy of immunisation as it is used
in small-pox, diphtheria and similar diseases,
In the case of persons infected with small-
pox or diphtheria the blood automatically
develops resistance to future infection by
creating antagonistic toxins, and an unin-
fected person can be made more or less
immune by the injection into his blood of
certain chemical substances which have the
same effect of causing the blood to build
up a defence mechanism. The analogy with
babies is obvious. After all, they are only
foreign organisms introduced into the body
by infection. It is a well-known fact that
constant exposure to this form of infection
tends to make the subject less susceptible.
Thus married women tend to become less
fertile after the first years of marriage, and
prostitutes, even those unaffected by ven-
ereal disease, are generally less fecund than
their chaste sisters. To make assurance
doubly sure, the investigators enlisted the
services of those faithful allies of medical
science, rats, mice, rabbits and chickens.
It was found that these animals did respond
in the desired manner. Therefore it may
be said that science has demonstrated the
feasibility of baby immunisation quite as
conclusively as it did that of immunisation
from diphtheria, pneumonia and small-pox.
The first persons who will want to control
the new method of preventing babies will
be the eugenists. They will probably want
it to be used on all individuals who are
unable to pass intelligence tests or tests of
social fitness. Unfortunately, nobody knows
whether Shakspeare’s parents would have
satisfied the modern eugenist, and certainly
Villon’s wouldn’t have. The militarist will
want it confined to all those classes which
don’t provide good soldiers, such as
musicians, painters and pacifists. Prohi-
bitionists will want it applied to beer-
drinkers and brewers to prohibitionists.
Extremely spiritual people will probably
agree with St. Augustine and want it applied
to everybody, including themselves.
Science does not concern itself with the
moral or spiritual consequences of its dis-
coveries. Thus the man who discovered
TNT did not blame himself because other
men used his invention to blow thousands
of human beings to perdition. If the new
method of birth control proves suitable for
general application it will no doubt be put
on the market, and St. Augustine’s short cut
to Paradise may be in a fair way to realisa-
tion in our time. However, humanity has a
habit of postponing its own destruction,
and, as babies become less numerous and
better selected, having them may come to
be regarded less as a misfortune, like small-
pox, and more as a privilege, like life itself.
*
The Five-year Plan.
“Bildad”; In its five-year plan Soviet Russia
appears at last to have struck something
workable. The plan would only work in a
land where the people have been trodden
very flat, but the Russ of the humbler kind
is naturally flat, and so he is remarkably
fitted to be “organised” by strenuous
characters who take him in hand. Though
he is supposed to have much religion of a
sort in his make-up he even stood, without
any insurrection, the issue of a decree, in
May, 1929, altering the Constitution and
making atheism the State religion (the
Established Bolshevik Atheist Church, in
fact), with the sole right to teach its views.
Most things happen in Russia by decree
just as they once did by ukase.
The plan is based on the facts that the
country is immense (nearly three times the
size of Australia), that its resources are
immense and quite genuine, and that the
population is large and very humble.
It is believed to be possible to drive any
heretic competitor (a heretic being a non-
adherent of the Established Bolshevik
Atheist Church) out of the world’s markets
if this population, though rather stupid, is
and stays sufficiently obedient, industrious
and cheap. Production is increasing in a
remarkable fashion under the plan, and
there is a new and widespread uneasiness
among foreigners about being undersold.
The position is quite novel, for the Bolshe-
vik boss cranks don’t aim very much at
making money, which might only demoralise
the obedient working hordes and spoil their
invaluable cheapness. They want power, but
what they will do with it should they
acquire it to a blood-curdling extent it is
hard to imagine. The dominant cranks
doubtless think they know, but they will
probably find themselves mistaken, if they
and their plan last long enough to find
anything.
The Russian is subject to rigorous
compulsory service both in the military
and industrial sense, and even the Private
Enterprise peasant is in process of being
“nationalised” as a worker on public
farms. The spread of the gospel is hindered
by the difficulty of finding races which are
sufficiently flattened and industrious and
obedient and cheap, and yet have some
intelligence. The intelligence is to work
under supervision and direction, but not
to work too much. The tame Slav seems to
fill the bill pretty well up to date.


j
Leipzig Trade Fair
(Germany).
k
“THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS”
(TWICE YEARLY).
Autumn Fair, Incorporating Textile Fair,
Begins August 30, 1931.
The Organisation of the Leipzig Trade Fairs is so effective that visitors will not experience any
difficulty with the language, questions of freight, duties, banking and general commercial information.
The Advisory Offices of the German Exporters’ Association offer expert assistance in your purchases.
The WEZ Organisation will gladly supply you with all information concerning the addresses
and reputation of suitable German Export Houses.
"SUMMER IN GERMANY IS THE PERFECTION OF THE BEAUTIFUL.”
Inquiries invited, courteous and full information given, by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. ’Phones, B4OOG, MW2201.
C N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd., Post Office Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
ķ
£3O
£55
£42
// you, cannot
call, send for
free Illustrated
Catalogue.
A selection, of
e up a getment
rings sent oil
approval.
Lti
\ -' - f - ' '
HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
’LBOURNE:
lOLLINS STREE'i
v.' N
POLITICAL
POINTS
Times have changed. In the early ’nineties
when a run started on the old “Barrack-
street bank” in Sydney—a semi-public sav-
ings bank governed by trustees —the great
lumbering form of George Dibbs, then Pre-
mier, appeared at the door. The man who
damned Chicago had a piece of gummed
paper in his hand, and he dabbed it on the
premises. It was a very brief note in
Dibbs’s own fist that the Government stood
behind the bank. In those days the idea of
a Government defaulting had never occurred
to anybody; so the crowd which had come to
draw out assured itself that it was there
to pay in, but had forgotten its passbook,
and faded away shamefacedly to get it.
After Theodore had explained his recipe
for extracting sunbeams from cucumbers to
an incredulous audience at Adelaide, a per-
son in the gallery rained pieces of paper on
the departing assemblage. They were Ger-
man mark-notes of the inflation vintage. A
fitting amen to the great financier’s sermon,
for the marks were also “fiduciary.”
Vic. Parliament will be open for 1 business
again to-day after a recess of 19 weeks. The
session will probably last till Christmas; if
the Ministry is defeated, it is unlikely to
appeal to the country. Nor will it stake its
existence on the Moratorium Bill, which is
expected to have a rough passage.
Lang schemes to raise four or five million
pounds in a hurry by enacting that every
insurance company doing business in N. S.
Wales shall make a large cash deposit with
him, or else clear out. He proposes £lOO,OOO
each from institutions which belong outside
the Commonwealth ; £75,000 from those be-
longing inside the Commonwealth but out-
side N. S. Wales; and £50,000 from those
which have their headquarters in N. S.
Wales. As legislation concerning insurance
matters is a Federal matter, the measure may
be ruled out early or over-ridden by Federal
legislation. Or the Supreme Court and the
High Court (on appeal) and the Privy Coun-
cil (on further appeal) may declare the dis-
crimination between N. S. Wales and other
State offices illegal.
Labor will be the strongest party in the
new Brisbane City Council, though with
everything in its favor it failed to gain a
majority of the 20 seats. Its opponents won
hands down in 1925 and 1928, when they
“Mr. Lyons is being inundated with advice.”
STANLEY: “I’ve only one thing to say to
you, Joe. Don’t ever take to spats!”
were united; on this occasion they were
divided into Civic Reformers (20), National-
ists (16), Progressives (16) and Indepen-
dents (7). If they had considered Sydney’s
Civic Reform group, and the results of its
periodical wrangles (one is raging now)
they wouldn’t have been so foolish.
Australian Labor politicians have a pair
of convictions which cause a heap of trouble.
In the first place this is a very rich coun-
try ; its natural resources are so staggering
that the people should work less for more
wages than any other people on earth. In
the second place it is such a poor country
that it can’t build the smallest public work
without borrowing the money, even at high
interest in a tight market. So the Govern-
ment of the principal State, the one with a
basic wage which is the highest in the Com-
monwealth, has set out to swindle its public
creditors on the pretence that the money is
required to buy food for its starving people.
The two contradictory convictions have been
pointing towards this contradictory culmina-
tion for a good many years.
The N.S.W. Government’s act of bank-
ruptcy at the beginning of April was incom-
plete, inasmuch as it paid the interest due to
the Yankee creditor, while the British credi-
tor was to be swindled. At the beginning of
May, however, both were to be swindled;
but Scullin paid. Uncle Hoover won’t
worry much so long as somebody pays,
nor will he create an unholy shindy
at the British Court and make Lang
an international question. While it was un-
certain whether Scullin would pay Lang was
very careful about prodding the somnolent
dog at New York.
Printed that at a meeting of the Austra-
lian party W. M. Hughes’s action in joining
the Lyons-Latham party
was endorsed. Details were
withheld, but it is under-
stood that, the chair was
taken by W. M. Hughes,
and that the motion was
put to himself as the meet-
ing, being carried unani-
mously.
Priminister Forbes has
offered the Coatesites a
coalition. There are no
strings on the offer;
Forbes holds the resir.- a-
tions of his Ministers, and
doesn’t insist on retaining
the leadership. Before the
depression the Forbes
party had a friendly un-
derstanding with the Labor-
ites, who are dead against
retrenchment; latterly
Forbes has had to depend
on Reform votes. Labor
regards the coalition as
bringing its own capture of
the Treasury benches
nearer, but the fantastic
performances of reds and
pinks this side of the Tasman stand in the
way of its success.
People who oughtn’t to be allowed to suffer
by the adverse exchange are the student
teachers who have gone to Britain to acquire
experience of value to the State educational
systems. Each individual has a pair in the
shape of a British teacher who is on loan
to Australia.’ The British pedagogues get
a 30 p.c. increase in their salaries, while the
Australians are short by the same amount.
As the allowances are no more than adequate
these is heartburning among them.
Jones, Hogan’s deputy in the Vic.
Treasury, is in trouble with some of the com-
rades. He absented himself from the Labor
caucus to get on with his job as chairman
of the economy committee appointed by the
Loan Council; to that body, as was
bitterly recalled, he proposed a conference
of leaders of all parties to grapple with the
financial situation. One impulsive Laborite
from the subbubs suggested that Jones should
be “sent for” to explain, but Tunnecliffe,
who was boss of the Caucus, Hogan being
away in Queensland, administered soothing
syrup. Jones was one of the three Labor
Parliamentarians (Hogan and Bond were the
other two) who declined to give “personal
undertakings” to obey A.L.P. orders to go
slow on retrenchment; so baiting him is
becoming a regular Trade Hall pastime.
British Treasurer Snowden takes Free-
trade in deadly earnest; but though he swore
to abolish all the semi-protective duties put
on as a matter of necessity he has failed,
through necessity, to do so. Consequently
he suffers from a miserable half-damned feel-
ing, as if he were a Mohammedan eating
pork for a living and forced to choose be-
tween being hungry and being lost. Britain
now raises 119 millions a year by customs
(taxing goods made by other people), 159 mil-
lions by excise (taxing goods made by its
own people), 293 millions by income tax and
super tax (commandeering the earnings of
its own people) and 114 millions by other
direct taxes on its own people. More re-
venue is urgently wanted, and Snowden is
putting another tuppence a gallon on the
petrol duty, making it .sixpence, and taxing-
land values.
A sore point with non-official white resi-
dents of Papua is the appointment of men
to represent them on the Leg. Council.
The Lieut.-Gov. nominates these members
without reference to the wishes or opinions
of the population supposed to he represented,
which generally gets its first news of a new
appointment when it is announced in Aus-
tralia. Protests that the community should
he at least allowed to put forward candi-
dates for the Governor’s approval have been
ignored. The situation is the more irritat-
ing since the missions, who have a member
on the Council, are invariably consulted
when a vacancy occurs.
Almost on the day when the Federal Par-
liament was asked that Australia should
take Lang’s Savings Bank in tow it received
the report of Coleman, M.P., on Australia
House, London. This monument cost a mil-
lion of loan money. It contains eight floors
and more than half a mile of stately corri-
dors ; and in it 247 well-paid employees, in-
cluding 40 cleaners and dusters, keep moving
around. In the earliest years of our. house-
keeping there annual expenditure was be-
tween £7OOO and £BOOO. The latest figure is
alleged to be £488,000, the extensions and
ramifications made with a view to advertis-
ing our boundless natural resources having
been tremendous. It was suggested a while
ago that for all the real business that is
doing two floors would be quite sufficient.
But though the free picture-show has slowed
down, and the fruit and vegetable stall has
a tired-to-death look, the salary list keeps
its head above water.
Europe is divided at the present fleeting
moment into 35 independent States, taking
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Russia as one, and not counting Iceland,
Free State Ireland and the 17 States of
Germany, which lack real independence.
There are 18 monarchies, including Hun-
gary, where a man who describes himself as
“regent” has been in possession for 11
years, and Vatican .City; and there are 17
republics if Spain sticks to its recent resolu-
tions.
Charles 11. of Roumania, who has thrown
out his Parliament at its first meeting and
is going to fix up a new Constitution with
more Royal prerogative in it, is a maker of
history, or, at least, biography. He early
attained to years of indiscretion, and de-
serted his second wife and prospective queen
t<> go abroad with another man’s wife. Later
he abdicated his crown princeship, so when
his father died his son, aged six, became
king. Growing tired of lounging round the
billiard-rooms of Europe, the unstable young
man went home last year and contrived to
dethrone his baby. Then he asked his de-
serted wife to return, but she has consist-
ently declined to share the palace with the
harem, so he may be crowned as a grass-
widower or with the harem as company.
Meanwhile Parliament is fretful over the
whole squalid business, and the army may
become annoyed, and even the dethroned
baby king is liable to be riled. Whatever
a king may be he should avoid being a bad
joke.
If the McPhee Government doesn’t win
the Tas. election on Saturday it won’t be
because the A.L.P. is a happy family. There
has been secession after secession from the
State party since Lyons left; the latest is
that of Ben Watkins, Ogilvie’s colleague for
many years in the representation of Frank-
lin, and deputy-leader since Og'ilvie suc-
ceeded Lyons. Ben protests that he has
been “a victim of the most diabolical in-
trigue within the Labor organisation, _as
surely marked out for political assassination
as was ever any* man by the basher gang” ;
and that bringing Theodore to Tasmania was
the last straw. Ogilvie still has four team-
mates —Brooker, Dwyer, Ilohne and
McGann. The Nats, are running a ticket
of six—retiring-members John Evans, Baker
and Piggott, with former Federal member
Seabrook, Rennie and Burgess to fill out—
and Pearsell, the Independent who got in
unexpectedly last time, is standing again.
Before the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank closed its doors, Lang rushed over to
Melbourne to show the Victorians how to
do things. H'e has been tartly reminded by
the Vic. Savings Bank board of commis-
sioners that Hogan has promptly met all his
engagements to them and that they, for their
part, have reduced by £lOO,OOO interest payable
by the Government to the bank this financial
year. Confidence in the Vic. bank was never
greater, but any possibility of doubt by timid
souls would be removed if the vacancy on
the board caused by Mcßeatli’s death were
filled by the appointment of E. Emery,
the former general manager. Warren Kerr
has been made chairman in succession to
Mcßeath, but Kerr was already a commis-
sioner. There are now four commissioners,
including Laborite Bob Ross, put on by the
Hogans a few months ago in place of the late
James McCay. Another Labor nomination
would be a blunder.
Almost the first mail after publication
of the details of Lang’s grab at the insur-
ance offices brought one office this letter:
I notice that Jack Lang has decided to rob the
assurance cos., and as I would rather spend my own
few bob I have decided to accept surrender value
on my policy, No. . Please advise amount, and
oblige.
Mr. Lang says he is doing it all in the in-
terests of the policy-holders. But the lamb
that wants protection from wild cats may
doubt whether it ought to go to the wolves
to get it.
Westralian Log. Council President Kir-
wan, in the course of a recent speech in
London directed to showing how impossible
it was for Australian Premiers to balance
their budgets at less than a few years
notice, mentioned that by virtue of his office
he was a non-party man. This is true, of
course, save perhaps at election-time, but
no politician in Australia ever banged the
party drum harder than Ivirwan _ when it
suited him or exploited party feeling more
assiduously to keep him in his job. In the
first Commonwealth Parliament lie was a
follower of Reid. After losing his seat. to
Labor he turned to State politics ; and being
one of the first to realise that Labor had
become the dominant force in goldfields elec-
tions he promptly became an as-good-as-
Labor man. ready to go to any distance with
his new allies short of signing the pledge.
And as he controlled a daily newspaper whose
support was regarded as valuable this last
wasn’t insisted on.
Dean Inge has pronounced another wail
to the effect that Britain is finished
as a Great Power. So many Great
Powers have been and gone, and in
some cases have been again and gone again,
that the matter isn’t final. Mere provinces
like Normandy and Burgundy became boss
in their spheres, and one of them annexed
Inge’s country in passing. Undersized and
poorly populated places such as Sweden,
Holland and Portugal took a turn at run-
ning a world show. Constantinople has been
mixed up with three empires, Macedonian,
Roman (it was Rome for a thousand
years after Rome left off being Rome in an
official sense) and Turkish, and if it gets
a wash it may begin afresh. And Venice
contrived to be mistress of the sea for an
odd century or so; in fact, she was legally
married to'the sea by an annual ceremony,
and was the only legal wife that that dissi-
pated and washy institution is ever known
to have possessed. Taking the past, the
present and the future into account, Inge
ought to cheer up and put a hopeful polish
on his gaiters.
“Bildad”: N. S. Wales politicians have
a number of records to their discredit. They
smashed up the agreement that there was to
be only one railway gauge in Australia, and
how much that act of proud and bad-tempered
“The N.S.W. Government Savings Bank Amendment
Bill contains moratorium clauses suspending the right
of any depositor or customer to receive payment,
pending' the amalgamation, till December 31.”
BOOKIE: “You’ll all be paid, I tell yer, when
the new firm takes over; but I’m giving,
meself a moratorium for eight months."
foolishness has cost the nation it is hard
to say. Under their direction N. S. Wales
was the first State to default on its public
debt, and its Government Savings Bank was
the first to close its doors. They were respon-
sible for the Canberra capital, which was
evolved out of the shifty devices of Yesno
Reid and his gang. In various other ways
they have contrived to make N. S. Wales the
Great Australian Nark.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“H.A.L.” ; The other night two S.A. Gov-
ernment officials were in a car doing 50
m.p.b. along one of our bitumen speedways
when a honking behind made them pull to
THANK HEAVEN, THAT’S PAID, TOO!
“It couldn’t have been such a dull party after all; did you notice how merry they all
were when they were going away?”
“Yes, deah child—doosid glad it was ovah.”
one side to let another car pass. To their
amazement the vehicle which whizzed past
was a motor-hearse containing a coffin. They
are still wondering whether the hearse had
bolted, or whether the late lamented was a
former speed maniac who was having a
dying wish gratified by being taken on his
last earthly journey at about 70 miles an
hour.
“Buna” : The closing of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Savings Bank averted at least one mat-
rimonial rupture. A woman who had repeat-
edly threatened to leave an uncongenial
husband began saving a year ago to put
her threat into practice, and had amassed a
secret fund in the bank to enable her to
go home to mother in Victoria. After a
breakfast argument she decided to depart,
and she wrote the usual note, packed and
went forth in the afternoon to secure her
cash. She was too late. It took the lady
some time to get over it, but in the end she
beat her husband home by half an hour,
unpacked, and w 7 as peeling the potatoes when
he arrived. She lighted the kitchen fire with
the note.
“Lao-dah”: In his new book, “Magical
Malaya,” Ambrose Pratt makes the surpris-
ing assertion that the after-tiffin siesta is
an essential to health for the white man,
and, if missed by a white woman even twice,
means ruination. As nine-tenths of the busi-
ness population has
no chance of getting
40 winks, even at its
desk, it i,s remarkable
that the white man
remains so healthy. It
is true that the white
woman usually slum-
bers away her mid-
day meal of curry and
cocktails, but that is
because she has no-
thing else to do, and
I have yet to' learn
that her health is any
better than that of
her office-enslaved hus-
band. The healthiest
white woman I ever
met was the wife of
a Cornish coalminer
who was overseering
on a mine in Borneo.
She was a sister to the
sturdy person Oswald Pryor depicts with so
much insight, and the thought of native
servants messing around in her kitchen filled
her with horror. She did not only the cook-
ing but most of the housework of her big
bungalow, and her mental, spiritual and
physical well-being was so obvious as to
be in sharp contrast to the lassitude and
boredom displayed by European ladies
Who believed that a hand’s-turn of work
would entail a nervous breakdown.
* =l= * *
“Co-sec.”: Whenever anyone comes into
the office of my acquaintance Wallingford
and starts talking about the depression, Wal-
lingford says, “For Heaven’s sake leave the
depression alone. Have you got three bob?”
If the visitor has, Wallingford suggests a
joint ticket in Tatt.’s. In this way he col-
lects many three bobs, but he only buys one
ticket to produce to' each of his fellow-
gamblers in turn. I am wondering what
sort of a riot will take place if this ticket
should win a prize and Wallingford’s pals
arrive in force to collect.
* * -f *
“R. Volt”: The committee that inquired
into the loss of the Southern Cloud found that
no blame attached to anybody, that the
weather probably had something to do with
the catastrophe, that everything possible
was done to find the aircraft, and that the
affair remains a baffling
mystery. Recommenda-
tions for the future fol-
lowed the lines already
suggested in The Bul-
letin ; two-way wireless
and a qualified operator
should be compulsory
on all passenger carriers, investigation
of ground wireless direction-finding should
be regarded as urgent Government busi-
ness, and the department should make
available specialist advice on the subject.
There was a special reference to the Mel-
bourne-Launceston service. The craft engaged
in this pass over my house so regularly that I
could set my clocks by them. The first
attempt to establish connection by seaplane
was a failure, and it was thought that the
regulations requiring that aircraft must not
leave the coast unless equipped to “land” on
water would prevent a license being given to
the present company. The enormous confi-
dence placed in Kingsford Smith was the
deciding factor, and now the three-engined
land machines ply across the Strait, and
nobody thinks anything of it. The fate of
the Southern Cloud, however, leaves the case
for wireless on this route unanswerable.
* :j: * *
“0.Q.”: There is one man who disagrees
with the committee’s finding that everything
NOW, WHAT DID THE FELLOW MEAN?
VISITOR: “I’m looking for a gentleman from Sydney.”
HOTEL CLERK (with a confirmed Melbourne preference ): “You’ve taken on a pretty
big contract, haven’t you, sir?”
has been done that can be done to locate the
Southern Cloud. He is Clarence Farrell,
brother to one of the lost passengers. With
his sister and a brother-in-law, who is on
The Bulletin staff in Melbourne, he has
never let up on the quest, and after sifting all
reports lie is satisfied that the machine is
down somewhere in the region of Kinglake,
about 40 miles from Melbourne. A score of
aeroplanes could descend there and remain
invisible from the air, however minute the
search made. The thickly-wooded range is
crossed with innumerable ravines, and it
would be-a simple thing for the aircraft to
slide off the tree crests into the bottom of a
gully several hundred feet in depth, where it
would be effectively screened from anything
but a land party. To supplement liis own
efforts Farrell has offered a reward of £5OO
for information.
* * * =l=
“X.S.” : When sexual considerations enter
into a case the Law is apt to behave curi-
ously in Melbourne. Recently a laborer
was' charged with obtaining sustenance by
falsely deposing that he _ was a married man
and was supporting a wife and five children.
'Phe prosecuting constable testified that the
accused had only one child and was living
apart from his wife. The accused presum-
ably thought all would be well if he made
a clean breast of things, so he deposed on
oath that for two years he had been living
with another woman, for that period had
supported her five children, and when lie
lost his job was only able to save them from
starvation by claiming the 12-bob-a-week
sustenance. r Phe beak accepted his word, and
remarked that in reaching his decision he
would endeavor to eliminate the moral aspect
from his mind. And to show how well he did
it he fined the malefactor £25.
* * * *
“Spare ,Corp.”: Anzac Day always sees
some strange reunions; this year a Digger
suddenly realised that he was standing side
by side with a brother whom he had not
seen since he had run away from home as
a boy. Both were Anzacs; and the queer
thing is that they were in the same battalion,
yet something always interposed to prevent
them meeting during the war. One arrived
on Gallipoli two days after his brother had
been sent away wounded; the wounded man,
when fit for duty again, came back as a rein-
forcement in France a week after his brother
had left the line, a sick man. This sort of
thing went on right through the piece until
one brother, who had been at Weymouth,
moved out to join his ship for Australia
the day before the other arrived in camp
on Ms way home. Both had received assist-
ance from Repat.; but the first to return
home had a spell in the Randwick Hospital
before he applied for it; and in the mean-
time his brother had been found a job in
the country.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : On Anzac Day 13 Diggers marched
behind Avar decorations which they had
borrowed from Alex. Isaacson, director of
Melb. Tivoli, who is the only person in the
State authorised to deal in these emblems.
What was once Isaacson’s collection not
only includes all the British war medals
struck since Waterloo, but the biggest range
of medals of all sorts in the British Empire.
The collection reposes at the National Gal-
lery, and a poignant story lies behind the
label that they were presented to the nation
by their former owner. A couple of years
ago one Baker called on Isaacson, introduced
himself as the OAvner of a famous collection
in Birmingham, expressed the admiration
of a connoisseur for Isaacson’s lot, and
offered to buy it. The owner scoffed at the
suggestion, but the visitor persisted, and
even postponed his departure to continue the
negotiations. For days Isaacson was
a haunted man with a bribe of £3OOO dang-
ling before his inward* eye. He had started
collecting at 14, and without his medals life
would have lost much of its savour; still,
£3OOO was a lot of money! It was a
brother’s advice which solved the problem.
One morning Isaacson went up to the Gal-
lery and asked Dr. Leeper for a piece of
notepaper, and on it he wrote a deed giving
the entire collection to the nation. When
he emerged into the daylight he thought the
sunshine had never looked lovelier.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: At a Ballarat Methodist
church the other day the best man at a wed-
ding disclosed himself in an entirely new
role by entering a theatrical objection to
the completion of the ceremony after it was
well under way. . There was a hurried
adjournment to the vestry, where the refrac-
tory gentleman, a brother of the. ’groom,
elaborated his objection by declaring that
the latter didn’t love the lady sufficiently,
and although the parson ingenuously pointed
out that, even if it were so, this was no
lawful impediment, the brother himself
jibbed at this stage and refused to go on with
the ceremony. The only other relevant re
mark credited to the person who had spragged
the wheels of wedlock was that “there w r as
no truth in the suggestion that he was. in
love with the bride himself’’—a conclusion
to which the feminine part of the congrega-
tion, at all events, had doubtless jumped. Why
he should have consented to act as best man
and converted himself into the worst one
possible wasn’t explained. Well-intentioned
persons, as well as merely aggrieved ones,
certainly forbid marriages on rare occasions,
hut this must be about the first instance on
record of a best man having broken up the
show.
s{» *s*
“Hula”: The Papuan speaks better
pidgin English than any other Island race.
This is probably due to Sir William Mac-
gregor’s insistence on officials making the
natives learn English, rather than that they
themselves should laboriously acquire a
native tongue, which would only be under-
stood in one circumscribed district. The
most infernal “pidgin” in the Pacific is
that of ex-German New Guinea. Übable to
induce brown brother to speak the shatter-
ing German lingo, the whites had to fall
back on Germanised pidgin English. The
French have done something of the same
sort in the New Hebrides, but the result is
not so bad as the Mandated Territory lin-
guistic brew.
$ * if *
“Bangemall” : Originality in the naming of
streets (B. 29/4/’3l) is rare chough, but
the rude forefathers of Southern Cross
(W.A.) struck a happy idea when they
bestowed on their main thoroughfares
astronomical names, in keeping with that
of the settlement. Antares-street i.s the
main artery. Most of the goldfields
towns were content to label their streets
after local celebrities —early prospectors,
councillors and so on. But there is
a certain risk in naming even a street
after a living person. This was impressed
upon Cue when a gentleman whose moniker
had been conferred on an outlying thorough-
fare was sentenced to two years in Fre-
mantle gaol. There was some talk of scrap-
ping the name, until the Mayor pointed out
that it was no great matter, as the town-
ship wasn’t in the least likely to extend
in that direction. It was a sound prophecy;
very few goldfields towns extended in any
direction after attaining municipal status.
* * * *
“Ecclescake”: London’s chops have been
watering over an exhibition of folk-
cookery wherein were featured many tra-
ditional dishes, such as the Yorkshire
Frumenty, made of boiled wheat, spices,
hot milk, currants, raisins and brandy
—a highly-regarded accessory of Christmas-
time. Another North-country periodical is
the Simnel Cake —flat, brown loaves of
richly-fruited and heavily-spiced provender
which adorn the pastycooks’ windows from
one end of Lancashire to the other at Easter-
tide. Then there are Northumbrian Singing
Hinnies, Biddenham Maids from Yorkshire,
and many another storied cake from Ban-
bury, Shrewsbury and Sedgemoor, with
Cheeky Pigs, Lardy Cakes, Bakewell Tart,
Burying Cake, God Cake and Yule Doos,
from Tyneside. They were mighty cake-
eaters, our forefathers, nor does it seem that
the digestion of the children has been set
on edge thereby.
RADIO JIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The sobriquet of ‘Radio Jim’ has been conferred
on the Prime Minister by a former Labor supporter.”
Though angels in Heaven might stifle a sob
On noting the mess he has made of his job;
Though the party he led, it’s abundantly
plain,
Is rent, like the veil of the Temple, in twain;
Though tin l votes he could count, when his
reign was begun,
Have melted like snow in the rays of the
sun;
There’s few will deny him proficiency rare
At pattering platitudes over the air.
With chin music always surcharged to the
brim,
A proper old preacher is Radio Jim.
Though the State is in Queer-street, the
Commonwealth, too,
And nobody knows what the dickens we’ll
do ;
Though jobs are elusive and taxes appal,
And Governments’ selves are the stiffest
of all:
Though lenders of loans have directed a halt,
And Lang is indulging in double default;
There’s a ripple of phrases, well-rounded and
smug,
That gurgle as smoothly as milk from a jug.
Some Uni. professor, didactic and prim,
You hazard? No, brother, it’s Radio Jim.
Though the gist of his gab from the press
you may glean,
He’d sooner you got it across the machine,
For if scant be his knowledge of practical
biz,
Some training in arts dialectic was his.
He can make out a case superficially good
To prove he’s a patriot, misunderstood.
There are webs lie will spin, there are skeins
he can wind,
To suggest he’s a statesman, unfairly
maligned.
For he’s always in fine controversial trim
As a churner of monologue, Radio Jim.
Though his plight’s even less to be envied
than Lang’s,
Though Mud is his name while to office he
hangs
By the grace of a handful of men who defy
And hate him and bait him and give him
the lie ;•
He finds him a refuge from taunt and rebuff’
In framing debating-society stuff.
Ah ! If all that were needful our spirits to
raise
Were turning a period or pointing a phras >,
What an asset Australia would treasure in
him,
That glib elocutionist Radio Jim !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Don Jose”: With the possible exception
of Benito Mussolini, nobody seems to hold
a very secure job in a Latin or near-Latin
country these times. During the recent
18,000 miles’ jaunt of the Prince of Wales
and his brother, the Royal pair only just
missed seeing a revolution in Chile. Then
they crossed the Andes to the Argentine,
where they were received by a President
whose predecessor was ejected by force a
year ago. Portugal lay on the road home-
ward, and Portugal is in a mild but dis-
tinct state of civil war just now. The itin-
erary included a trip to Madrid and a visit
to King Alfonso, but before the travellers
got to Lisbon Alfonso’s kingdom had ceased
to exist. It must have been a thoroughly
informative trip, in a sense not altogether
anticipated.
* :!: * *
“Shep”: He edged into the bar on Anzac
Day when there was a full house of ex-
Diggers chorusing war melodies, and asked
for a beer out of the last bob-in. “Get to
blazes,” roared somebody; “you’re not one
of us”; and he didn’t look like them, being
unkempt and tattered. But he insisted that
he was. “Show us a badge or ribbon or
something,” was flung at him. Hauling
up his strides the stranger showed a scar
that might have been made by many things
beside a bayonet. The mob was ushering
him towards the door when he came at us
from a new angle. “Give us the third degree
on any of the Ist Divvy stunts,” he pleaded,
“and see if a man ain’t dinkum.” Pozieres
was his first hurdle, and for our benefit he
again walked up Sausage Gully, around
Casualty Corner and past the sunken road to
the Chalk Pit. Lagnicourt, Bullecourt and
Glencorse Wood, he knew them all, and on
the strength of a few drinks settled an argu-
ment about the Landing. After that there was
a hectic afternoon for him, along with the
rest. As he slouched off, when we were all
AT LEAST ONE POINT SCORED.
"If I propose on the way home, will I win?”
“I don’t know yet. But you’ll have put up the fastest time, anyhow.”
tossed out at six, someone asked why he
hadn’t hung on to his badge. “Went with
the rest,” was the drifter’s reply—“slung
away. Anyway, what the ’ell’s the good of
’em?”
* * * *
; “Gockney” : From “Smith’s Weekly”:—
Way back in the sixteenth century the Meredyths
lived in Henry VIII.’s Tower. The other day Sir
Charles George Meredyth died at the Liverpool
(N.S.W.) Old Men’s Home. He was not the only
baronet who has not flaunted a title in Australia.
A reason, as in the case of many others,
being that he didn’t have it to flaunt. The
Meredyth baronetcy died out eight years ago,
and the last holder’s name was not Charles
George but Henry Bayly. “Smith’s” isn’t
greatly to blame. Australia is creeping with
people who claim to be overseas aristos.
There are two what I might call secret
barts. in my seaside suburb; neither genuine,
as anyone can discover by reference to
Debrett. I struck a gent, the other day
whose surname was the same as a well-known
peer’s title—say, Bilgewater. He claimed to
be his Ludship’s first cousin, the Hon. Bilge-
water, regardless of the fact that the peer’s
ncume (that is, the family name) is, say,
Jones! Many assume well-advertised local
names. Probably the lady who posed as
Mrs. Fordyce Wheeler a week or so back
didn’t do it originally for gain, but because
she happened to like the sound of the name.
On these lines Australia has scores of bogus
Wentworths, Deakins, Jteids and so on, all
claiming kinship with the eminent originals.
A crop of Scullins and Bavins may be confi-
dently expected in the next few years. My
own countrymen are largely responsible;
many re-name themselves shortly after they
arrive here.
* # * *
“Umgeni”: In South Africa there is a
very different class of rickshaw-pullers from
the downtrodden Asiatics whose hard lot
“Lao-dah” deplores (B. 29/4/’3l). The hefty
Zulus who drag the two-wheeled contrivances
about Durban or Pietermaritzburg are gor-
geously got-up beasts of burden who make
light of their work and seem to take a
pride in it. The man who argues with them
about fares has to be careful, for the steed
is no weakling and stands on his rights as
a British citizen. A few of him that
used to ply in Jo’burg in my time were more
restrained —the Boer tradition of the sjambok
for cheeky natives still lingered there. I
remember seeing a curious mishap in Pieter-
maritzburg when a Zulu was pulling-
two 15-stone tourists. Bowling down a hill
he leapt exultantly into the air, as is the
habit of his kind. He jumped a bit too high,
and the weight behind him capsized the rick-
shaw backwards, the passengers being spilt
in the road. He himself was thrown five
or six yards behind his trap, as he insisted
on hanging on to the shafts. For once the
Zulu didn’t stand on his rights; he picked
himself up and bolted. The last I saw of
the affair was a heated discussion between
the infuriated tourists and a native con-
stable who was impounding the deserted cart.
❖ :|c He ❖
“Jonathan Wild”: A suggestion received
with favor at the N.S.W. Police Associa-
tion’s conference was that all private inquiry
agents should have to be registered, and that
registration should be refused to those who
couldn’t prove themselves reputable. The ques-
tion is whether the collection of such evidence
against erring husbands and faithless wives
as will justify Divorce Court proceedings—
a branch of business which is the p.i.e.’s
mainstay—is a job which.any person of un-
exceptionable character would care to under-
take. Judges frequently make it clear that
they regard the evidence of such persons
with suspicion, and refuse to accept it un-
corroborated, for the excellent reason that
the witness is pecuniarily interested in
making it as convincing as possible. That
in itself is significant of the lack of estima-
tion in which the calling is held. It is the
same with the informer whom the police
occasionally employ to get convictions
against publicans for breaches of the law, and
who is paid by results; it is highly desir-
able that he should be a man of good char-
acter as well as alert and resourceful —but
how often is he such?
Hs ❖ HJ *
“Jacques”: I have no bias against women
doctors (B. 15/4/’3l) ; indeed I know there
are many thoroughly capable practitioners of
the sex who deserve all the patients they
get. For all that I’d rather have
such portions of my anatomy as
may require it removed or repaired
by male hands. A couple of years
ago I let a room to two lady doc-
tors who were getting experience
at a neighboring women’s hospital.
One looked as hard as nails and
claimed to be able to stand any-
thing, but the other frankly con-
fessed that she hated the sight and
smell of blood. One day I was sur-
prised to see one of my lodgers
being led home by two nurses, one
of whom informed me that the lady had
fainted at a cancer operation. It wasn’t
the one who said she couldn’t stand the sight
of blood, either.
❖ * sji *
“Chev”: One of the disabilities which
make the country so much less desirable than
the city—the necessity for descending from
one’s vehicle in order to open gates—is on
the way to being removed by the latest
development in radio. This is a small trans-
mitting set which sends out a wave to
operate a receiving instrument; this in
turn closes a contact which starts a motor-
driven door-opener. Ninety per cent, of Yan-
kee millionaires are said to have them
already installed in their garages, and there
is no technical reason why the principle
should not be extended to cover rural neces-
sities.
“Pippin”: I wonder if apples were ever
retailed more cheaply in an Australian city
than has been, the case of late in Sydney.
The other morning the barrowmen were out
in force with their loads, mostly Jonathans.
In the morning I noted that they were going
SEVERAL WAYS OF DOING IT.
LANDLADY: “Tell me, Professor, what is the right way to pronounce ‘margarine’?”
PROFESSOR: “Really depends, Mrs. Thiuscrape. Some landladies pronounce it ‘butter.’”
at 8 or 10 for a shilling, at lunch-time it was
12 or 14, and by nightfall 18 and even 20.
Few fruits vary in price (and quality) more
than lemons, but one enterprising street
merchant with a heaped-high barrow was
crying these at 24 for sixpence, which must
be pretty nearly a record. What the growers
make in times like these causes one to think
hard.
* * * *
“Phil O’Logie”: It was asserted in a
case before the Chief Justice of England
last week that the words “totalisator” and
“tote” invaded the English language from
Australia. This may be true of the abbre-
viation, but there is a French word “total-
isateur,” and seeing that France is the home
of the machine there can be little doubt that
the name, too, originated there. “Pari-
mutuel,” of course, was more common, and
a great deal more expressive, and no other
term used to be employed in England 30
or 40 years ago when the device was spoken
of. But the promoters of tote betting in
Australia doubtless regarded the other word
as a lot easier to Anglicise.
* * * *
“Imbaga”: It is. the boast of Papuan
officialdom that the once-cannibal country
is now like the legendary Ireland, which
could be traversed in
safety by a maiden wear-
ing all her jewellery.
The old leaven still works
occasionally, however, as
the conviction of four
colored citizens for mur-
dering some friendly visi-
tors has recently indi-
cated. The deceased came
to trade with the mur-
derers’ tribe, and one of
them artlessly disclosed
the fact that he had ten shillings.
That was too much for his hosts, who
fell on the plutocrat and his friends with
all the abandon of an income-tax commis-
sioner. Only in one respect were the old
native 'traditions ignored. The murdered
men were buried in a scrub-turkey’s nest,
instead of being eaten.
* * * He
“Bildad”: It is speculated that the
British census, just taken, will show a popu-
lation of 40,000,000 for England and Wales.
The figure doubled between 1801 (first cen-
sus) and 1851, and it doubled again between
1851 and 1911. It is still doubling. Anglo-
Wales is now the most densely inhabited
country in the world except Belgium, for
Saxony, Lubeck, Bremen, Hamburg, Monaco
and Vatican City are scarcely distinct
enough or sufficiently national to count. The
new Papal State, where only two (2) of
the inhabitants were born on the premises.'
so to speak (census of 1929), is an especial
anomaly.. Awfully good people maintain that
it is man’s duty to “be fruitful, and multiply,
and replenish the earth,” and that nations
must increase for ever, even if they are
already packed almost to suffocation, or peg
out as a sign of divine indignation. But plain
sensible people think that some places are
too dashed much replenished already. Eng-
land took about 2000 years of known his-
tory to accumulate 8,000,000 people. To
accumulate 30,000,000 more in a little over
a century speaks well for sanitation and
other matters, but it suggests that a new
problem may be looming, especially as so
many countries are striving to do the same.
In Old Testamentary times high-handed
kings went abroad foraging for population ;
hence Israel and Judah were “carried away
out of their homelands, not apparently as
slaves but for filling-in purposes.. And
Babylon, the king-city of its period, did
its great fading-away act simply because
there weren’t enough people to go round.
Monarchs of foreign origin built new capi-
tals at Seleucia and Antioch, and the people
of the old place took up their carpet-bags
and skipped. The Government of the day
probably gave them free tickets. Embit-
tered Jews, anxious to get square with the
ghost of Nebuchadnezzar, wrote that Baby-
lon was gone bodily and would remain
blithered for all time, but as a matter of
fact Babylon still stands in the old place
under the name of Hillah, though there isn't
much of it, as it never got over the prig-
ging of its population. The world has
changed, (perhaps it has changed too much
in some places), and England, at all events,
has inhabitants to give away.
* * * *
“Gat” : One thing that strikes the casual
observer in connection with the American
gangster is the poorness of his shooting. It
is quite customary for rival gunmen to ex-
pend their weight in ammunition on each
other without any satisfactory result to the
community, and this probably explains the
fondness of the marksmen for getting their
man with the pistol touching the target, pre-
ferably from behind. Recently the cables
have been telling the experiences of a gentle-
man named Jack Diamond, whom an unfeel-
ing Europe recently forced back to the arms
of the New York friends whose attentions
he was endeavoring to escape. Immediately
on his return, Diamond was shot seven times,
but in such slovenly fashion that he recovered.
A second attempt the other day saw 10
hits recorded, but they were evidently again
“outers,” the patient being reported once
more on the road to recovery.
* * * *
“10-2-4” : A curious aspect of the slump,
when jobs are understood to be at a pre-
mium, is that Sydney shop assistants
are more arrogant than ever. They have
always, as a class, managed to give me an
uneasy feeling that I am an intruder, a nuis-
ance who is unwarrantably interfering with
their leisure. It isn’t a matter of asserting
their rightful self-respect; for years past
the Sydney shop assistant has reversed the
situation which obtains in every other part
of the world that I have visited by definitely
dominating the customer. You notice it
most, of course, in establishments with slack
executives and no shopwalkers. There is a
lad at a counter where I sometimes make
a diffident attempt to buy smoked fish whose
manner is even colder than the wares he
handles. A duke in the presence of a herd
of Bolshies could hardly exhibit such patri-
cian scorn, and I have been so discouraged
more than once by the reflection that when
he allows me to catch his eye he may not
have my paltry 2s. worth of sable cod, and
will icily tell me so, that I have faded, miser-
able and empty-handed, from his evil-smelling
vicinity. Dagoes have another manner. They
specialise in a Mussolini-like violence.
“Veil? Vatta you vahnt?” roars one
dark-eyed son of the south as he detects
me in his fruitshop, and his deafening trucu-
lence so unnerves me that I usually buy
twice as much as I had meant to. Tobacco-
nists are the most tolerant of all, take them
by and large. I have rarely bought cigars
from one who didn’t treat me as practically
an equal. Teashop girls, on the other hand,
and, of course, all post-office employees, look
at and speak to me as if I was a dog.
BLOOD ON THE BOTTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Written after a heavy supper of lobster and
Edgar Wallace.)
Mike iCroucher lathers his well-worn strop
(There’s blood on the bottle that once held
gin!)
In his lair behind the barber’s shop
(Melbourne for murders and Sydney for
sin).
Around him ranged are his souvenirs,
Post-obit lyrics and ladies’ ears.
“The personal touch is the thing,” says he;
“My slogan is ‘Battery service free’!”
Out in the alley stands “Snowdrop Kit”
(Melbourne for murders and Sydney for
sin.)
With a flask of metho. in either mitt
(There’s blood on the bottle that once held
gin !).
Alas! for the cop with the bulbous jowl.
She crowns him twice with a frenzied howl —
For ’tis he. Yes, spite of those feet so vast,
Jasper the Twister, unmasked at last!
Mike iCroucher leaps from his noisome lair
(There’s blood on the bottle that once held
gin!).
False are his whiskers and dyed his hair
(Melbourne for murders and Sydney for
sin).
Now clasped in his arms sobs Kit, in truth
“Kate of the Yard,” or “The Cocaine
Sleuth.”
And the supers, cheer as they hold the scene,
For Mike’s revealed as—The Missing Dean !
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


18ct. Gold and Platinum
£lO/10/-
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£l5/15/-
“Fx & R”
DIAMOND
RINGS
are supreme in value, because
they are of modern design,
perfect workmanship, and all
diamonds are carefully chosen
for their fire and blue-white
color. Prices are the most
reasonable in Sydney for such
quality, .and in spite of tariff
amendments, etc., Fairfax and
Roberts have not raised the
price of any of their diamond
rings.
SOBSdi
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£l4/14/-
mu
and Platinum,
£2O
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
■•*RUIT
r~
Between the Games.
“Hello, Mabel! Who
v*
WOI1?
“We did, but it was a
close set, and now I feel
ready for a drink of
r
UONMPAT
IVH LIME JUICE
The only Lime Juice in the world pressed
from cultivated limes; strong in vitamins.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING GROCERS.
Bottled by Schweppes, Ltd., Sydney,
by arrangement with
Evans, Sons Leseher & Webb, Ltd.
SCHWEPPES LIME JUICE CORDIAL
is made exclusively from Montserrat.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Young John Fairfax, great-grandson of
John 1., was added to the board of the “S. M.
Herald” last week; so the directors now are
three—John; his father, Dr. E. W. : and his
cousin, Warwick, the chief. Only once has
anybody but a Fairfax been on this board:
that was when late general-manager Billy
Conley was given a seat.
Dr. Edgar King, who has just been
awarded the Jacksonian prize by the Royal
College of Surgeons for original work in
surgery, is the second Australian to land this
distinction; Dr. Harold Dew, of Sydney, was
the first. Dr. King, who is 31, took his
degree at Melbourne Uni, in 1922, and was
superintendent of the Alfred Hospital
before leaving-for England in 1926 to become
an F.R.C.S. Oh his return to Melbourne he
was appointed surgeon to the Alfred Hos-
pital, and lecturer of Pathology at the Uni.
James O’Grady, late Governor of the
Speck, has secured another vice-regal job
at the Falkland Islands. It isn’t much of
a one as such billets go, for the salary is
barely two-thirds of what Tasmania pays
its figurehead, and the climate is bleak, the
glass never going above 65, and the total
population isn’t much over 2000,. and Port
Stanley (897) seems to be the only town.
Still, O’Grady was 65 last week, and he pro-
bably counts it lucky that the Ramsay-Mac
Government, which gave him his Hobart
appointment, happened to be in power again
when liis term closed.
W. H. Irving, who passed over in Bris-
bane the other day, at 85, spent half his
long life in the Queensland Customs. He
started as a locker and rose to the head of
the department. When the Commonwealth
took over the State administration, he was
summoned to Melbourne by Charles King-
ston to make the arrangements for the
change. He retired in 1910.
S. A. White, Chief Commissioner of Scouts
in S.A., is retiring, to devote himself to the
native-bird life which is his other chief
interest. He has had eight years with the
boys, and helped to build up a big movement.
Now he will continue his search for the
illusive night parrot of way-back.
It was a queer run the .Commonwealth
Savings Bank had to meet at the week-end
ROBERT GIBSON.
in Sydney.
Queues lined up,
handed in their
passbooks an d
went away con-
tentedly with
C ominonwealth
notes, though if
the Savings Bank
was broke the
authority which
issued the notes
would be broke
too. A plain ofli-
ci a 1 announce-
ment might have
been made on
Saturday morn-
ing, but it was
postponed till
Sunday night,
when Robert Gib-
son, the chair-
man, spoke over
the air to as big
a crowd of list-
eners as any man
in this country
ever had—through
most of Saturday
and all day Sun-
day warnings of
the approaching
“important state-
ment” were wire-
lessed. Gibson
spoke plainly in
his guid Scots
accent, and, with-
out going into
figures at all, told
depositors plainly where they stood. There
was no run on Monday.
Australia’s old acquaintance the Right
Rev. Cyril Golding-Bird has moved another
rung up the episcopal ladder. Before the war
he was Dean of Newcastle. Then Ivalgoorlie
had him as bishop for five years, during most
of which time he was Senior Chaplain of the
Commonwealth Military Forces. From Kal-
goorlie he went to Bishop’s Court, Mauritius.
It was a queer transition from the open spaces
of the Westralian goldfields to the speck in the
Indian Ocean with its teeming, polyglot
population of all shades. After a dozen
years there lie returns to England as Suffra-
gan Bishop of Guildford. The much-travel-
led prelate’s more remote experiences include
an incumbency on the Falkland Islands and
a chaplain’s job in the Boer War, and he
was with French’s army for a time in 1915.
Senator Matt Reid was one of Queens-
land’s earlier Labor stalwarts and a con-
temporary in the Assembly of Tom Glassey
and the late Andy Dawson. Matt first
entered Parliament in 1893; when he fluked
in for the swanky district of Toowong, many
of whose inhabitants were horrified at being
represented by the then equivalent of a Bol-
shevik. He was turned out at the following
election, but in 1896 was returned for the
more democratic electorate of Enoggera,
Beaten again three years later, he occupied
QUEENSLAND SENATOR REID.
himself with journalism and other pursuits
until his return to the Federal Senate for
Queensland in 1917, and there he has
remained, under the Nationalist flag, ever
since. Never a very articulate member of the
Federal Wiseheads, he has done useful work
as ;i member of select committees and the
like.
Fliglit-Lieut. C. W. Hill never played to
the gallery, and because newspaper inter-
viewers could get very little copy out of
him the Australian public heard few of the
details of his England-Australia flight. Hill
returned to England by the s.s. Moreton
Bay, financially crippled and somewhat dis-
couraged, but he brightened up on the voyage.
Most of the time he spent in putting his
story into book form, and in mid-ocean his
fellow-passengers heard the aviator’s own
tale of his flight, told in a manner all the
more impressive for its simplicity. Hill still
believes that, with average lucli, it is pos-
sible to fly solo from England to Australia
in a light ’plane in nine days, and thinks, if
he can manage to get another chance, the ex-
perience he has already gained will be invalu-
able. He was granted six months’ leave for
his last effort and returns to duty with the
R.A.F. as soon as he lands.
The late Chief Justice McMillan (W.A.)
was one of the wittiest of speakers as well
as the soundest of Judges; only a few
minutes before his death he was recalling at
a University function how he ha* once had
to sentence a chemist who had mis-applied
his educational attainments by cleverly
“sweating” sovereigns. His Honor added
that, with the disappearance of the gold
coinage, there was no further scope for this
malpractice; “nobody could take anything
off a pound-note—except a politician.”
Christopher Augustus (“Gus”) Kelly, who
told Lang a few home-truths in the Assembly
and then suffered a rush of cold to the feet,
is a stoutish, spectacled, middle-aged, cheer-
ful-looking person who qualified for Labor
membership as an A.W.U. organiser. He was
returned to the Assembly for Bathurst under
the proportional representation system in
1925, and held the constituency, when single
seats were reverted to a couple of years
later, by a four-figure majority. He* had
a harder contest to fight last year, as certain
Labor strongholds had been transferred to
the Hartley electorate, but the swing from
Bavin to Lang kept him in his job.
A. G. (“Smiler”) Hales, having published
his 50th novel, has camped for a while and
written a book of reminiscences and reflec-
tions. It is not his first: 40 years ago he
was guilty of “The Wanderings of a Simple
Child,” mostly contributions written for the
“Barrier Miner” (he was a mining reporter
at Broken Hill) and the Sydney sportinv
press. “Smiler,” a carpenter, had his first
regular writing job on the Barrier, where
he happened to be working at his trade when
he won a Literary Societies’ jingle competi-
tion. Then he went off to Westralia and
S’Africa, contributed many purple patches to
the literature of the Boer War, and has been
a diligent potboiler in London in the 30 years
since. His “fist” is still as bad as ever and
his spelling as delightfully erratic.
Redeeming a promise made seven years
ago to skipper Beighton, of the Ferndale,
Dr. Gengoult Smith, a Melb. city coun-
cillor, goes as the cargo steamer’s surgeon
on a voyage to London. He will get
a shilling, but at the end of the trip he will
have to pay for lunch for two at the same
cafe where the verbal agreement was made.
Gengoult is a son of Doc. £ £, who was a
Vie. politician from 1859 to 1894 and sat
in nine Assemblies.
>T. J. Hardie’s story, “Cattle Camp,” which
won a prize in The Bulletin’s last novel
competition, is to be this paper’s next serial:
it is over a year since an actual prize-taker
was previously published. Hardie knows the
life he writes about. Coming from Troon
in Scotland 19 years ago, when he was IS,
he went north at once, and was still work-
ing on a Northern Territory cattle camp
in 1914 when he heard that there was a war
on. lie and a mate rode 200 miles to enlist,
and _ Hardie was turned down. But that
didn’t matter much: he rode a few hundred
miles more, then shipped to Canada, joined
up there, and long before the cease-fire
sounded had not only won a commission, but
made such a reputation that he was chosen
for service on the nor’-west frontier of India.
That job done, he came back to Australia to
pick up as far as he could the old threads,
and, incidentally, to write “Cattle Camp,”
filling it with some of the most thrilling
things of liis colorful life.
The Marist Brothers seem to have a knack
of turning out politicians of the quiet and
studious type. They gave Eddie McTiernan
his early schooling, and did the same for
J. M. Concannon, who has taken over A. C.
Willis’s job in the N.S.W. Upper House. It
is doubtful whether Concannon will ever
have the grip on the Chamber that his astute
predecessor _so quickly obtained; and he
lacks the nimble mind or ready tongue of
.Toe Coates, who would have had the leader-
ship if he had been more of a verson,a grata
with Lang. For 20 years Concannon was
a Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board
clerk: he resigned to become secretary of
the Professional Officers,, and it " was
his work as an industrial advocate'
which brought him under the notice of
the Labor heads. He stood for R.vde in
1925 as one of the Labor five, but was un-
successful; later in the year Lang sent him
to the Upper House.
Passed over at 77 in Melbourne, Dr.
Donald Grant, in his heyday regarded as the
greatest physician in Victoria. He was a
product of Edinburgh University. 111-health
brought him to Melbourne in 1885, where his
brilliant teaching at the University had a
big influence on local medicine. The Govern-
ment frequently employed him on commis-
sions. He was a Greek and Latin scholar
of distinction.
Old Stuart-Robertson, who was made bank-
rupt and so lost; his seat for Anuandaie
(N.S.W.), won it, again almost as a matter
of course, Annandale being the sort of decent
industrial suburb which wouldn't, kick a poor
old bloke when he was down. For years
Stuart-Robertson has been the Dr. Arthur
STUART-ROBERTSON, M.L.A.
of the Labor party—a good, motherly old
sold, full of ideas for making everybody
healthy and happy and wise. He was a
great fighter, for Saturday afternoon shop-
closing in his earlier days (he was elected
for Camperdown first in 1907 and hasn’t been
out of Parliament since), and in the family
cupboard there is alleged to be the skeleton
of a novel he once wrote.
George Campbell Addison, who died last
week, was appointed registrar under the first
Arbitration law passed in N. S. Wales in
the late ’nineties; in a similar capacity he
put Wade’s Industrial Disputes Act of 1908
into effect. In 1912 he became chief indus-
trial magistrate, a post in which he did
uncommonly useful work till he retired two
years ago. He was a fine athlete in his
youth—he went across with the first Rugby
team to M.L. His favorite author was
Joseph Addison, the most celebrated member
of the family; G. C. Addison himself was
a prolific writer of lawbooks.
One of Brisbane’s old identities in the
person of Richard Woolcock called it a day
recently at 72. He came from Cornwall as
a child with his parson father, and after
reaching man’s estate took to farming on
the Upper Brisbane. Later he went in ex-
tensively for sheep-raising, owning proper-
ties in the Springsure district and other
parts of Central Queensland. The late Jus-
tice Woolcock was a brother.
Edmund Collins, w r ho' manages the Aus-
tralasian end of Gilbey’s in Melbourne,
smiles when you tell him that Zane Grey in-
vented the sport of rod-fishing for marine
monsters in Maoriland waters. Long before
the American novelist thought of the Shivery
Isles as a piscatorial paradise, Collins landed
a 3251 b. swordfish at Tauraunga, 100 miles
from Rotorua. He has also fished in exotic
fashion in the Solomons and Northern Aus-
tralia. Before he w’ent into the gin busi-
COLLINS, of Gilbey’s.
ness he was a journalist—his father was
that Ilenry Collins who helped Reuters to
grow from a London press agency to a world-
wide network of newsletter's who are always
on the spot, whether a bomb has been thrown
at Warsaw or an earthquake has shaken
down a provincial town in China. Since
August of ’BO the son’s job has been to
demonstrate to Australian palates that Gil-
bey’s Australian gin, distilled at the new
West Melbourne factory, is as good as the
imported variety.
Dale Collins isn’t the only Australian
writer who lives on a boat. Years ago The
Bulletin had a Bohemian contributor named
Jimmy Ryan (“Narranghi Boori”), who
presently crossed to the U.S.A. Ryan was
Marie Narelle’s brother; and her son is pre-
sident of the Atlantic Lighterage Corpora-
tion. So for a good many years past “Nar-
ranghi Boori” has found comfortable dig-
gings on a Lighterage Corporation houseboat
at Jersey City, and there he writes verse and
entertains friends—among the latter the
Count Yon Luekner, who commanded the
German raider See Adler and afterwards
wrote a popular book about it. The two have
been talking lately of a cruise to the South
Seas and Australia in the Count’s schooner-
yacht, Mopelia ; and the thing is still possible.
“Inner Temple”: Sir Edward Clarke, who
has died in London aged 90, always made me
feel there must be a lot in the Christian
religion. I used to go to the Temple Church
for the music, and I spent a lot of time
watching him pray. Here was a man with
one of the most powerful analytical brains
in England, if not in the woj;ld, yet be was
the complete Anglican—a much more con-
sistent one, for example, than Bishop Barnes
or Dean Inge. Clarke was a nuggety little
man of about sft. sin„ with a big square head
and jaw and the remnants of a Cockney voice.
When I first knew the Law Courts in
the Strand (which was at the time of the
trial of the Jameson Raiders) the duds of
the Bar were complaining that Clarke was
a “cad,” a “bounder” and so on —meaning
a jeweller’s son who had been educated in
the East End. But the leaders of the Bar
and the Judges loved him. It was often
said by those who had worked with him.
professionally and politically, that lie had
never told a lie or countenanced the shadow
of a shady action. On the other hand, ho had
a bad temper and was full of intellectual
arrogance. : He was a strong Tory and a'
passionately patriotic Briton. He enlisted as
a private during the war at the age of 75.
and made a strenuous effort to be sent to
the front. If he hadn’t been the man he
was he might have gone; he was unite fit
enough. His son, the Recorder of Exeter,
married a Sydney girl 25 years ago.


Clothes for Men
and Their Sons
ķ
A Good
Work Shirt
The “SANTWILL”
Worn by men in all corners of the Common-
wealth. Sand coloured Twill Shirting,
guaranteed fast colour. It revels in the
wash tub and laughs at hard work. 7/0
All sizes. Three for 22/6. Each lI Z 7
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street,
THRIFT PROFIT
Opportunities for profitable investment are many and varied,
but in almost all cases call for a lump sum of money in advance.
Deposits made with a Savings Bank, however, return a profit
in a way that few investments provide, for sums of from 1/-
upwards are accepted and may be deposited as often as is
desired, while the balance earns interest from the first pound.
Every Post Office in Australia is a Commonwealth Savings
Bank Agency, and there are full Branches in the principal towns.
Cbmmoitwcaltl) Savinas Bank of Hustralia
{Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
In days long gone each craft and trade
Was overworked and underpaid;
A twelve hours’ day and six days’ week
Made toilers weary, sad and meek.
In days long gone such life was brief,
Curtailed by want, disease and grief—
None knew for colds relief so sure
As soothing Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT,
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital •• • • £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,15 b
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Busine
conducted.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £
1920 .. 87,694 10 p.c. = 50,000 37,694 1 „, r
Written off premises, £5OOO .. ) '
1921.. 93,108 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,608 ( , 7Q
Written off premises, £5OOO .. ( ’
1922.. 92,633 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,133 672,312
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 722,312
1923 . . 94,889 10 p.c. = 67,500 27,389 749,701
1924.. 115,823 10 ~ „ 87,500 28,323 778,024
1925.. 117,217 10 ~ ~ 87,500 29,717 807,741
1926.. 104,733 10 „ ~ 87,500 17,233 824,974
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 874,974
1927 . . 104,644 10 p.c. = 89,781 14,853 889,827
Premiums on new shares, £lOO,OOO 989,827
1928.. 128,637 10 p.c. = 115,000 13,637 1,003,464
1929 . . 145,410 10 „ „ 125,000 20,410 1,023,874
1930.. 138,108 9 ~ ~ 112,500 25,608 1.049,482
1931 . . 91,813 7 „ „ 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
Not since the fiirancial storm of the ’nineties
has the position been more perplexing. On
the heels of a long drought in 8. Aus. —it
broke early in the last term —came the col-
lapse of prices for the State’s staples, and
general slump, while, on the whole, costs
have become inelastic, due largely to the
growth in taxation. Thus advances are not
the assets they were a few years ago. Also
there has been a sharp increase in the
amount of interest-bearing deposits; lighter
turnover in the exchange market has affected
earnings there, and the drift in the national
finances and political proposals with regard
to the currency have made the outlook very
uncertain.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the
board “considered it prudent to conserve the
bank's resources,” and reduced the final div.
to G p.c. p.a., making 7 p.c. for the year, the
lowest rate paid since the beginning of this
century. Declared net earnings were £46,205
lighter than the previous year’s, and only
3.9 p.c. on total funds (capital and reserves
combined), or 7.3 p.c. on capital alone as
against 11. 11.6, 11.1, 11.6 and 11.9 p.c. back
to 1926. That was after providing for con-
tingencies by further strengthening the inner
reserves.
The market expresses its doubts by pricing
the £lO shares paid to £5 —the other £5 is
a contingent liability—at £5 2s. 6d. as
against £6 10s. a year ago. At £5 3s. 6d.
the return is 5.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis;
the visible backing is £9 4s. 4d. in net
tangibles.
The bank’s chief field is its home State.
Last year merchants worked down stocks
and book debts ' and lightened their over-
drafts, while producers did what they could
in this way as their attenuated wool, wheat
and other cheques came in. Thus there was
was a drop of £776,144 in the book value of
advances, which were 94,6 p.c. of the deposits
at March 31 as against 102 p..c. a year
earlier and 81.3 p.c. four years ago. Here
are balance-sheet figures :
1921. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Notes.. £7,306 £6,713 £6,670 £6,661
Bills, etc. 866,054 633,075 535,004 343,423
Deposits 5,984,597 6,177,592 6,105,440 5,762,326
Liquid
assets.. 3,303,919 2,857,214 2,417.584 2,653,795
Advances 4,689,898 5,949,107 6,230,987 5,454,843
Premises,
etc. .. 162,569 347,434 348,025 345,067
The contraction of £343,114 in deposits was
in current accounts, which suggests that
traders generally are operating on lighter
working capital, and, in some cases, consum-
ing previously accumulated fat.
All the spare money went into liquids,
which were strengthened by £236,210 during
the year:—
1929. 1930 1931
Coin and bullion. . £251,967 £79,712 £45,874
Aus. notes . . 654,305 804,180 1,038,513
Government securi-
ties, etc. . . 817,194 649,934 778,521
Owing by other
banks.. .. 185,112 126,697 194,312
A f poll ptp
London ’ . .’ 125,000 170,000
Remittances i n
transit.. .. 948,625 632,061 426,574
£2,857,204 £2,417,584 £2,653,794
The continuous fall in the value of exports
’shows up in the sharp drop in remittances.
Public securities include £174,136 of Com-
monwealth Treasury bills. When the books
closed £43 Bs. of every £lOO of the public’s
money was held liquid as against £36. 6s.
at the previous balance. The ratio of cash
to deposits (18.7 p.c.) was 4.3 p.c. stronger.
At March 31 the bank was holding only
£2 13s. of the public’s money for every
pound of its own funds. Altogether they are
very satisfactory figures.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 48,747 20 p.c. = 42,000 6,747 25,088
1922.. 50,196 20 „ „ 42,000 8,196 33,284
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. 3,284
1923.. 28,353 8 p.c. = 19,200 9,153 12,437
1924.. 56,669 12 „ „ 28,800 27,869 40,306
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 .. 306
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 ~ ~ 22,400 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 ~ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
Reserves disclosed, £4050 .. 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 p.c. = 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 „ ~ 22,400 368 25,551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ „ 22,400 21,601
The slip in profits is due mainly to the
shrinkage in the average price received for
raws. For ordinary Australian consumption
the figure has been fixed at £26 10s. for the
last five years. But, owing to the dulness
in the world’s sugar markets, where the
export surplus (about 40 p.c. of the output)
is sold, the average price received last year
was only £l7 16s. lOd. Final adjustments
are expected to lift the figure to £lB 17s, 6d.
as against £2O ss. 10d., £2O 17s. lOd. and
£22 for the three preceding terms.
So, despite a record crushing and savings
due to improved technical efficiency, last
year’s net result cased to 6.7 p.c. on capital
compared with 8.1, 8.3, 12.9, 7.8 and 12.5
p.c. back to 1925. That is leaving out of
the reckoning £12,099 net (£11,117 in the
previous term) dropped into the depreciation
reserve, raising it to £69,605, some or all of
which may be genuine profit. Thus the 8 p.c,
div. may have been actually earned, although
other accumulations were raided for £3950
to pay it.
In 1921 the factory and plant alone were
assessed at £70,000 more than their book
value. Since then £130,869 more than has
been written off has been spent on the chief
earning assets, without shareholders being
called upon to contribute. Last year’s net
addition to their book value was £11,005, as
the next table shows :
1921. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £210,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities .. 16,205 18,594 6,121 8,054
Freeholds,
m a chinery,
plant, etc... 162,031 255,612 281,895 292,900
Stocks . . 30,851 63,545 41,199 37,985
G o v e r nment
securities . . 16,000 15,910 15,910 16,000
Debtors, cash,
etc. . . 65,211 32,690 38,573 40,773
Finances are snug. The more or less liquid
surplus (£86,704, including stocks) improved
£2857 during the year, despite the additions
to plant, etc. These additions reflect the
expansion of cane production following im-
proved methods; owing to over-production
there has been a check on the planting of
new areas since 1925.
The Federal Government has renewed the
embargo on imported sugar for another five
years from Sept. 1 next. The base price for
raws has been fixed at £22 per ton, rising to
£23, subject to variations in production,
wages and hours. For the whole industry
the present average cost of raws, including
depreciation, is estimated at £lB _ ss. per
ton. Any increase in production is to be
discouraged. Gibson and Howes, Ltd., does
not broadcast its outturn of raws ; but the
capital expenditure on plant extensions can
be expected to ease; it averaged more than
£13,000 p.a. at Bingera over the last decade.
So an 8 p.c. div. may not prove beyond the
co.’s reach.
The market, uncertain as to the future of
the industry, prices the pound shares at
17s. 6d. The return at that figure is 9.1 p c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis; the cover amounts
to 21s. 7d. in net tangibles, chiefly plant,
etc., worth what it can earn. The price-fixing
agreement, if it remained operative, would
make earnings inelastic in the event of
inflation.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
£, £ £ £ £
1921.. 43,618 10 p.c. = 36,412 7,206 107,309
1922. 32,921 8 „ „ 31.828 1,093 108,402
1923.. 37,100 9 „ „ 35,997 —■ 1,103 109,505
1924.. 42,376 10 ~ „ 40,000 2,376 111,881
1925.. 47,371 10 ~ „ 40,000 7,371 119,252
Premiums on new shares .. 32,500 151,752
1926.. 54,924 10 p.c. - 41,974 ( ? q , n -,,-,0709
Staff provident fund, £5OOO ) ’ ’ “
1927.. 57,134 10 p.c. = 48,299 ( y g 35 16 7 537
Staff provident fund, £lOOO )
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. = 52,638 - ( qq. iqd .^4l
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ) I>UU4
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c.>,= 52,974 j 16 336 184,877
Staff provident fund, £3500 \ 9
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,877
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. = 58,295 110115l 10115 141 992
Staff provident fund, £3,000 (
1931.. 62,769 10 . P’ c ; = 58 ’ 30 ° ~ } 1,469 143,461
Staff provident fund, £3OOO )
The slump has hit Maoriland. like all other
countries dependent on exports of primary
produce. But its Government has not brought
chaos to its national finances and its credit,
and its people are more evenly distributed
between town and country than Australia’s.
It is thus feeling the effects less acutely.
Last year this co., which does a big drug-
making and -importing and fertiliser busi-
ness throughout the Dominion, was able to
work down its stocks and book debts, reduce
its outside liabilities, extend its plant and
maintain a 10 p.c. div., despite difficulties.
The div., by the way, was sweetened with
£53,000 of bonus scrip in 1929 to celebrate
the co.’s jubilee, but share premiums on
earlier issues take the icing off the cake.
Business was well maintained, but after
providing for contingencies and openly
striking £25,350 off premises and plant as
against £20,000 in the previous year, there
was a slip of £24,683 in gross profits :
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1910 . . £53,034 £36,426 68.6 p.c.
1920 . . 139,909 100,098 71.5 „
1925 . . 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1928 . . 177,159 120,533 68.0 „
1929 . . 199,318 126,522 63.4 „
1930 . . 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1931 . . 177,996 115,227 64.7 „
Exes, were got back £15,543, leaving the net
result at 10.7 p.c. on capital as against
12.3 p.c. the year before last. Though the
10 p.c. may be less insecure than the bare
figures suggest, much will depend upon the
extent to which the co.’s four super, plants
can be kept employed, and upon the course
of turnover in its four drug warehouses. The
use of chemicals for top-dressing should in-
crease, but the trend of prices is still down-
wards, and exchange, taxation and the tariff
have added to outgoings. The board, how-
ever, claims to have “taken a long view of
the position,” which may mean that more
than usual has been set aside for contingen-
cies.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures '
show-
-1920. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £367,140 £529,866 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities . . 76,650 206,081 252,463 166,425
Factories, etc. 140,114 447,048 466,943 452,305
Stock. . ..188,874 294,721 373,891 302,107
Book debts .. 105,283 194,782 172,094 135,514
Cash, etc. . . 133,976 16,914 38,025
The book value of plant was £14,638 lighter
than at the previous balance, notwithstand-
ing the installation of a new grinding plant
at Burnside and extensions to the northern
works. The reduction in stocks and book
debts enabled £86,038 to be lopped off the
outside debt and the cash holding to be
strengthened by £38,025. Altogether the net
improvement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£309,221, including stocks) was
£15,699. As usual, plant is reported thor-
oughly efficient.
Following publication of the sheet, the
fully-paid ±2 shares strengthened from 51s.
to 60s. on the market. The return at the
higher figure is 6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 495. lOd. in net tan-
gibles.
Australian Investment Trust, Ltd.
Towards
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Promoter’s consideration, £13,000
Preliminary exes. . . 17,075 30,075
1929.. 8346 5 p.c. = 3776 4570 25,505
Loss.
1930.. 5143 Nil 30,648
For a concern of its nature this co. could
scarcely have started at a more unfavorable
time. It was registered in Sydney on June
29, 1927, and commenced business on Sep-
tember 17, 1928, buying up many of its
securities at the height of the Stock Ex-
change boom. The promoters, Phoenix Invest-
ment Co., took £lO,OOO in shares and £3OOO
cash; other preliminary exes, ran off with
£17,075.
By September, 1929, 310,000 £1 shares had
been placed, and paid to £169,223. Most of
the funds and £57,032 of outside money
besides were then invested in shares, etc.,
which stood in the books at £205,541. After
providing for estimated losses on invest-
ments, a profit of £8346 was claimed, and
a 5 p.c. div. was paid.
The break in the share market commenced
at the beginning of the next term, and for
the 12 months to September 30 last a loss
of £5143 was shown. In addition, at January
21 last the auditors estimated that on market
values, etc., shares in other cos. and advances
against securities showed a capital depreci-
ation of £78,435 compared with balance-sheet
figures. Provided the situation has not since
altered, about 9s. lOd. of every £1 of capital
is unrepresented by tangible or realisable
value on the basis adopted by the auditors.
The co. has acted as underwriter or pro-
moter for several concerns, notably Strand
and Pitt Street Properties, Ltd., Australian
Benzol and Coal Distillation, Ltd., and
Bond’s Industries, Ltd., besides being inter-
ested in other ventures, which have not all
been successful. Also, at Sept. 30 last, it
was holding 56,640 shares in Waters Trading
Co., Ltd., on which it had borrowed £40,021.
Other liabilities were an overdraft of £40,734,
secured over all other assets, and sundry
creditors, £50,557. Here is as much 33
balance-sheet figures tell: —
1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . .. . . £169,223 £223,536
Overdraft . . . . . . . . 56,972 63,145
Creditors . . . . .. . . 1,059 68,166
Investments and advances against
securities . . . . . . 205,541 322,997
Fittings . . . . . . . . 287 232
Cash, etc . . . . 2,566 1,190
The £54,310 or capital got in during the year
and a further £73,280 borrowed from out-
siders (making total ascertained liabilities
£131,311) went into investments, etc.
(£322,997, up £117,456). No explanation is
offered for this large amount put out during
a year of falling values. Contingent liabili-
ties, covering commitments under agree-
ments, guarantees and unpaid calls, at
balance-day amounted to £109,629, of which
£79,322 was considered covered by collateral
securities.
No details of the investment portfolio are
given. The co.’s scrip is not listed.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920 .. .7,843 10 p.c. = 7,500 343 4,114
Special div. (5 p.c.) from inner
reserves, £3760
Reserves taken in, £17,350 .. .. 21,464
Co. reconstructed ; £25,000 of re-
serves capitalised.
1921 .. 10,137 10 p.c. = 8,750 1,387 1,387
1922 . . 10,500 10 „ „ 10,000 500 1.857
1923 .. 10,045 10 „ „ 10,000 45 1,932
1924 .. 10,047 10 „ „ 10,000 47 1.979
1925 . . 9,041 9 ~ ~ 9,000 41 2,020
1926 .. 6,542 7 „ ~ 7,000 —■ 1,563
1927 . . 8,509 8 „ „ 8,000 509 2,072
1928 . . 8,626 8 ~ „ 8,000 626 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,500. . .. 15,198
1929 . . 23,561 8 p.c. = 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 . . 18,875 9 ~ ~ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 .. 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
This co. has been trading on the N. S. Wales
South Coast for the last 79 years, and for
many of them it was a struggle to pay 7
p.c. The rate climbed to 10 p.c. in 1918,
and two years later a special 5 p.c. was
paid from inner reserves and £25,000 of
bonus scrip was scattered. Still the 10 p.c.
div. continued until interrupted by drought,
floods and industrial troubles, beginning
about seven years ago.
Though favorable conditions have been
since experienced, the board appears to have
w'ritten the figures with care. In 1929 the
label on £12,500 of accumulated earnings
was changed from “overhauls and surveys
account” to “general reserves.” Then
£13,800 dropped from somewhere into the
same pot, raising the contents to £26,300.
The increase appeared to be due mainly to
the amount by which the insurance received
exceeded the book value of the Merimbula,
which had become a total wreck. That is to
say, the board could have shown more profit
in the past if it had wanted to do so.
Last year’s earnings were affected by
lighter cargoes, the board says, and there was
a drop of £8776 in the disclosed net earn-
ings. Still, the div. was lifted a point to
10 p.c.—a rare occurrence these days—not-
withstanding that it called for a bit more
profit than was shown.
The co.’s snug position and other things
are reflected in the next comparison:—
1920. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Liabilities .. £11,505 £11,282 £9,894 £9,815
Ship property .. 49,500 60,844 58,558 54,600
Other property . . 1,717 2,807 2,135 2,895
Plant, stores, etc. 3,362 2,645 2,173 2,078
Book debts . . 14,078 15,936 10,862 6,652
War Loan, cash, etc. 43,062 48,268 81,800 89,323
Assuming that Government securities and
deposits turn in 5 p.c. net, the ships, etc.,
have to earn only 5.7 p.c. clear on their
book value at March 31 in order to pay a
10 p.c. div. During the year the more or
less liquid surplus (£86,160) was strength-
ened by £3392.
The market sums up the position by pay-
ing 245. for the pound shares as against
255. a year ago. At the lower figure the
return is 8.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis;
the visible backing amounts to 235. Id. in net
tangibles, of which 16s. 2d. was more or
less liquid.
Luke Muras, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
21,856
1925.. 2239 Nil 2239 19,617
1926.. 6309 Nil 6309 13,308
Pref. 8 p.c. Ord.
1927.. 7405 5286 8 p.c. = 4600 15,789
Reserves disclosed, £948 . . . . 14,841
1928.. 9658 1344 8 p.c. = 4600 3714 11,127
1929.. 6972 1343 8 „ „ 4600 1029 10,098
Loss.
1930.. 332 Nil 10,430
Luke Muras’s structural steel and engineer-
ing business paid a couple of 20 p.c. divs.
just before the present co. took it over in 1923
for £63,549, including £19,000 for goodwill.
Then a rush of foreign competition, followed
by rising costs and easier stock values,
affected earnings, and it was not until a
little relief was gained from the tariff about
four years ago that shareholders got into
the picture again. Meanwhile 35,000 S p.c.
(Continued on page 16.)


V .
pr-
¥?:¥:
sss:
X-
m
m
m
o
ST
3
S 8?
130
H*:
WK|lB«^
Tt\
XjTi
Look for
the green
and brown
packet
11
CORK
TIPS
6"
HERE’S a cigarette - making triumph
Australia’s lowest-priced cigarette. Made
from a brand-new blend of finest Virginia
tobaccos, and called by a grand old name.
"WILD WOODBINES" have been famous in
England for nearly half a century. Here’s a
bigger, better " Woodbine" with cork tips
—at 11 for 6d.
Get a packet to-day!
//
m
Made in Your Own Country at
The Garden Factory Raleigh
Park—by W. D. & H. O. Wills
(Aust.) Ltd.
1662


NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FEEDS. LEVY, Managing Director.
The Savings Bank
Suspension.
On April 23 the Government
Savings Bank of N.S.W. sus-
pended payments.
Are any of the other banks
likely to do the same?
Can this drift in the public
accounts be stopped?
Is inflation inevitable; if so,
who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to
come through with the best
results ?
These, and many other prob-
lems of vital interest, are dis-
cussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR MAY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, .and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
A considerable saving in first cost and 'subsequent
savings in upkeep and maintenance costs provide
reasons for the growing demand for Pioneer Wood
Pipe for practically all classes of liquid conveyance.
The service rendered by this modern wood conduit is
thoroughly efficient. Pioneer Wood Pipe is light,
strong and durable, it does not rust and is unaffected
by extremes of heat and cold, or bv electrolysis.
Send for illustrated literature to the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtrse
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria.— Advt.
* * * #
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE. —Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd..
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used ail
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
ASSURED POSITIONS—BETTER MONEY.
k
We can set you ou the road, to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. liyan, Esq. j
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geenral banking buisness.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Ig WOMEN j
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
SHELTER BELTS.
CTOCKS of large, two-year-old, healthy, strong,
insignis pine plants for sale. Very suitable for
shelter, ornament, general planting, etc.
Price, 10/- per 100; 45/- per 500; 80/- per 1000.
Cash with order. Packed, delivered Dartmoor Rail-
way Station. Fullest instructions for planting sen
with plants. The Forestry Pulp and Paper CP- °
Aust., Ltd., Box 516 G.P.0., Melbourne; or Managei,
Nurseries, Dartmoor, Vic.
cum. par. prefs. were offered, but only 16,792
were taken.
An all-round 8 p.c. div. was paid for the
three years, to the close of accounts in 1929,
when the timber strike made itself felt. Last
year the slackness in the building trade be
came acute, the plant could not be kept em-
ployed at anything like capacity, and gross
profits (£7492) were £12,284 lighter. There
was a saving of £4980 in exes. (£7824) ; still
a loss of £332 showed up, increasing the
amount of capital unrepresented by tangibles
to £10,430 at Dec. 31, and shareholders went
hungry again.
Keen competition and the overbuilt state
of Sydney make early prospects of satisfac-
tory earnings far from bright. Results will,
largely depend upon what the management is
able to do in the way of getting exes, back,
and, of course, upon the efficiency of the
plant.
The slackness in orders is again revealed
in a sharp drop of £21,307 in the combined
book value of stocks and book debts:—
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £74,305 £74,292 £74,292 £74,292
Overdraft . . 13,436 11,976 18,591 16,235
Creditors . . 20,090 6,124 12,814 1,501
Freehold and build-
ings .. .. 20,256 20,160 25,516 25,323
Plant .. .. 18,332 22,804 21,757 20,329
Furniture .. . . 506 746 726 689
Stock .. . . 41,001 30,811 1 rf) , oo 7 0 7
Debtors . . . . 7,989 19,188 j 60 > 044 38,737
Cash, etc. . . . . 644 279
Thus the board was able to wipe £11,313
off the amount coming to trade creditors, and
lighten the overdraft by £2356. Neverthe-
less, there was a slip of £7359 in the more
or less liquid surplus (£21,280).
The public is interested only in the prefs.,
wffiich have not an active market. They are
covered by £3 16s. in net tangibles, mainly
plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
Nervous Depositors
The Government Savings Bank of N. S.
Wales, a grand old institution, born in 1832,
was strangled by the profligate Lang Govern-
ment in its ninety-ninth year. Depleted of its
cash- resources, and with the realisable strength
of its second line of defence, mainly State
Government bonds, greatly weakened! it was
compelled to suspend payment, inflicting
great hardship on many needy people.
Because Lang stands revealed as a reck-
less destroyer, there has been much un-
necessary nervousness concerning the safety
of deposits in other banks. Last week-
end there was a quite unwarranted rush
on the Sydney branch of the Commonwealth
Savings Bank. This bank is in a very dif-
ferent position from the State institution
whicli it has been asked to take over. It
is a branch of the Commonwealth Bank,
which is partly a central bank, created and
guaranteed in 1911 by the Commonwealth
Government, and which controls the note
issue, within statutory limits, and has all
the resources of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment behind it. It is spread over all the
Australian States and the mandated terri-
tories, and its affairs are in the hands of a
very able and independent board of direc-
tors, headed by Robert Gibson. It is sub-
ject only to Federal legislation.
At Dec. 31 the Savings Bank department
held £47,442,070 of deposits and £374,367 of
other liabilities. Assets exceeded the lot by
£1,472,349. They comprised cash and notes,
£1,151,736; Government (mainly Common-
wealth ) securities, £30,755,235; municipal,
etc., securities, £15,175,893; other assets,
£2,221,922. Thus the bulk of the assets are
represented by the most realisable securi-
ties of the day. Over 13 million pounds of
them could be cashed immediately at face
value with tlxe note issue department. Even
if the whole of the gold reserve should be
shipped away, legislative authority would
enable the bank to issue sufficient paper to
repay every penny of depositors’ money. _
Depositors withdrawing their money in a
hurry are not acting in the best interests of
themselves or the community. For one thing,
excessive withdrawals will not make it
any easier for the Commonwealth Bank to
absorb the State bank; also to force an
increase in the note issue at the present
moment would be undesirable, to say the
least.
The public has much for which to thank
the trading banks in the present crisis.
Because they kept their heads during the
boom years’ they are now able to show
depositors, on the basis of capital and re-
serves combined, approximately 40 p.c. more
protection than they did in 1890.
Ormildah Associated Oil Fields, Ltd.,
which put down a number of shallow bores
in the vicinity of seepages at Wakip Creek,
Matapau district, Mandated Territory of New
Guinea, is offering 10,000 new shares of 10s.
each. The money is wanted to protect the
co.’s area while efforts are made to secure
Canadian capital in order to thoroughly test
the property. This course was suggested by
Dr. Woolnough, following a favorable report
by Nason-Jones, of the Anglo-Persian survey.
The seepages are thought to issue from a
thrust-plane or fault, the rocks of which are
non-petroliferous. It is therefore proposed
to put down one or more test bores on selected’
sites in an area which half a dozen geologists
say is worth testing.
ijc »$» *!»
The old Marengo field at the back of
Bowen (N.Q.) was given another trial when
the exchange rate lifted the local return
from gold. A Charters Towers party
took up the Homeward Bound, but down to
90ft., although sampling occasionally in
ounces, the bismuth in the stone settled
chances of battery operations. Another
option was sought, but nothing eventuated.
Specking is all that retains a couple of old-
timers at present. This field has never
boasted a lasting mine.
sjs ifi i\i
A New Guinea gold co. has taken a work-
ing option on an old goldmine in the Yunga-
burra district, near Cairns. The show was
worked with indifferent results about 15
years ago. Recently the premium brought
local capital into it, and a couple of promis-
ing crusliings caught the eye of bigger fish.
❖ ❖ Sfc ❖
It is officially reckoned that 2000 new
prospectors have joined the gold hunt in
Queensland within the last 12 months. By
the end of 1931 it looks as if the State’s
production may be more than double that
of 1930. Mt. Coolon, North Arm and Mt.
Cassidy promise to lead the race, with
Cracow not far behind.
* * *
Bismarck Range Gold Exploration, floated
originally to operate in New Guinea, but
which later transferred its activities to
Lucknow (N.S.W.), has decided to increase
capital from £12,500 to £20,000 by the crea-
tion of 60,000 contribs. of 2s. 6d. each. So
far the work done at Lucknow has been
purely prospecting; the new cash is needed
to get the mine to the producing stage, be-
ginning with the sinking of a main shaft and
the installation of a surface plant. Beyond
an assurance that the reef is within the
co.’s property, no mention is made of what
the prospecting disclosed.
* * * $
Sons of Gwalia, W.A.’s biggest show out-
side Ivalgoorlie and Wiluna, appeared to be
near the end three years ago. Then a £70,000
cash advance from the W.A. Government
altered the outlook, and £lO,OOO of the money
has been since repaid. The mine is looking
better at depth than it has done for years.
When the other £60,000 is cleared up, the
board may decide to sink a new main shaft.
* * * *
One Mandelstamm, of London, lias been
granted a temporary reserve of some hun-
dreds of acres at Tindal’s, near Coolgardie
(W.A.). Prospector F'ranks wants a por-
tion of the ground, but Minister for Mines
Scadden says Mandelstamm is on the way
with capital to work the area, and that the
period of the reservation must run out be-
fore Franks can be given a chance. Victor
Leggo has .been granted a reserve of 270
acres at the Transvaal, Southern Cross. He
is likely to be left in peaceful possession;
prospectors shy clear of the arsenic there.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (1912), Ltd., which jtook
over Oroya Links’s property, together with
investments valued at £lB,OOO, for £38,333 in
scrip a couple of years ago, has struck a
new lode on the 366 ft. level. This has been
driven on for 28ft. over a width of 151 ft.,
the average assay value of the stone being
12dwt. per ton. Last month the co. treated
665 tons ore for a gross return of £2073.
* * *
Though most of the strikes reported on the
Trans, line, east of Ivalgoorlie, have turned
out duds, something better is expected from
operations at the 32-mile peg. So far gold
values are claimed to be right; it is the
quantity of ore that is in doubt. Melbourne
and Adelaide are interested.
❖ * * *
Prospectors have spread to Mt. Shenton,
100 miles east of Laverton (W.A.). few
years ago the directors of a Perth co'. inter-
ested in a property there inspected develop-
ment, and then presented the mine, ore at
grass and tools to those on the pay-roll.
* * # $
Oroya Links Co., Kalgoorlie, has ceased
pumping; unless something is done about the
heavy inflow of water it will soon cause
trouble in adjoining mines. Cessation of
pumping by Edna May brought about the
end of the Westonia field.
* * * *
The eight Alluvial Tin subsidiaries in
Malaya made profits aggregating £11,998 for
the month of April. Kramat topped the list
with £3500. In all 455 tons of ore were
recovered for £31,300. Costs were £19,304;
these have been reduced, and further cuts
are anticipated. The average' price of tin
for April was £ll5 and of tin oxide £69 per
ton. The Government quotas under the re-
striction scheme have not yet been allotted.
* * * *
Ivundang, which shut down for five months,
showed a loss on production of £l4O for the 12
months to Dec. 31. This, the cost of the stop-
page (£1010) and £B5O for depreciation are
to be written off, leaving the p. and 1. credit
at £3284. The dredge turned over 749,000
cubic yards for ISO tons of tin at an aver-
age cost of 4fd. per yard. Arrangements
have been made with Rawang Tin Fields,
an adjoining show, to supervise Kundang’s
plant at trifling cost. It is hoped that the
two will obtain a group quota under the
international tin restriction scheme, and that
Ivundang, by shutting down, will' avoid
depletion of its ore reserves for little or no
profit.
* * * *
“Spare Tow’kay”: Malayan tin-dredging
interests are by no means unanimous on the
subject of restricting output. Opponents of
the scheme have not forgotten the failure of
the attempt to curtail rubber production,
and are apprehensive. In some quarters the
scheme is regarded as an attempt to get
control of the world’s tin production.
i\i ❖ ❖ *j»
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Main uses of titanium? (2) What is
titanium white? (3) Where could I haw
samples of rutile tested for titanium white?
(4) Any firm interested in the production
of rutile? —2911.
(1) As an alloy in some classes of steel.
(2) Titanium dioxide, which is used as a
pigment. It is of dazzling whiteness, works
well, spreads evenly and is very durable. It
is also used in enamels. (3) and (4) Try
Radium and Rare Earth Earths Co., 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.
(1) Present price of wolfram in Australia
and London? (2) Have deposits of the
metal been worked near Bobodah, Nyma-
gee or Euabalong? (3) Australian buyers?
—2926.
(1) Sydney, 13s. 6d. per unit, or £45 ss.
per ton, containing over 65 p.c. tungstic
acid. London, 13s. 6d. per unit for 65 p.c.
ore. The market is a fluctuating one. (2)
Wolfram is recorded as occurring in the
Nymagee-Bobadah and Euabalong districts,
but there has been practically no production.
(3) Lohmann and Co., 5 Hunter-street, Syd-
ney ; O. T. Lempriere and, Co., Sirius House,
Macquarie-place Sydney; Elder, Smith and
Co., 4 Bridge-street, Sydney.
(1) Is our 'silver coinage protected in any
way? (2) Would Ibe any better off hold-
ing silver than, say, Australian notes? —
3001 a.
(1) Australian silver coins are current
only in Australia, where they are legal
tender up to 40s. Outside Australia they are
worth (a) their value for silver or ( b )
their value in Australia less costs of ship-
ment, whichever is the greater. At present
£lOO (face value) of Australian silver coins
in London would be worth about £75 less
cost of transhipment to Australia and in-
surance. With any increase in the exchange
premium the coins would be worth less. (2)
It might conceivably be safer to hold silver
than notes. With inflation in progress notes
—even notes already held —may become prac-
tically valueless, whereas silver coins cannot
fall much below their silver value. Pre-
sent value of silver is about Is. 2d. per ounce,
or 14s. per lb. troy; and as 66 shillings are
coined out of lib. troy, the silver in a shil-
ling i.s now worth approximately 24d.
(1) With London tin at £l2O per ton,
what should be the Sydney quotations accord-
ing to Australian exchange rate? (2) Who
should get the exchange premium?— 3oo6.
(1) Tin sold in London at £l2O equals
£156 Australian currency to-day. (2) The
producers should get it —with very small
deductions, if any.
Are there any shareholders in a State
savings bank? What becomes of the profits?
—3213.
There are no shareholders : the profits con-
stitute the capital of the bank, as a reserve
fund or otherwise. In the case of the Gov-
ernment Savings Bank of N. S. Wales the
accumulated profits in the Savings Bank
Department were as follows : Reserve fund,
£1,500,000; investments depreciation fund,
£62,360; unallotted profit, £20,418. Thus
the securities into which depositors’ money
has been put can depreciate £1,582,778 before
the Government would have to be called upon
to make good any losses. The other depart-
ments of the bank (Rural Bank, Advances
for Homes and Government Housing) have
their own reserves.
A person has £lOOO in the bank. Assume
that the Government makes a fiduciary note
issue, after which he builds up his credit to
£2OOO by deposits of fiduciary notes. Should
. the Government afterwards recall the fidu-
ciary issue a n d stabilise the currency, would
he be entitled to £2OOO sterling? —3o92.
No ; old notes, including the fiduciary issue,
would be converted into sterling at whatever
rate w r as determined after stabilisation. In
Germany the old notes became practically
worthless; in France the potential value of
original franc was discounted by 80 p.c. by
the monetary law of June, 1925.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
M.S.P.; Golden Mile Hill End, N.L., went
into liquidation about 1916. For further information
write Cooper and Oertel, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney.
.. . .A.G.: (1) Export figures a>re subject to exchange
and gold shipments. (2) For estimate of real posi-
tion, see B. 8/4/’3l. (3) Only by further reducing
imports or increasing exports; a rise in the price
of our staples would, of course, help greatly....
Howard (Q.) : Any comprehensive work on mercantile
law (e.g., Stevens’), or Young’s “Insurance,” will
give details of rights and obligations of parties to
fire insurance contract. . . .2:3: (1) Slow rate at which
capital is coming in will delay operations for at
least 12 months. (2) Very doubtful. .. .J.8.M.: (1)
About' 2s. 6d. a share. (2) Every reason to hope
they will be paid in full. (3) Indefinite; realisation
of fixed assets will probably be lengthy... .W.M.G.M.:
Provided the- price is a good one, as you suggest,
you could sell and invest in property elsewhere, as
all values are down.... Mug: An additional director
(e.g., your wife) might be useful when you are not
available. Apparently nothing to prevent you being
sole director. .. .Pro Patria: (1) Prospects of amuse-
ment parks very poor. (2) Don’t know it....5.L.:
(1) Adverse trade balances in former years, stoppage
of loans abroad, and flight of capital from Australia.
(2) Fixing the exchange rate at an arbitrary figure
—not according to supply and demand. (3) Con-
fidence, a series of favorable export years, and per-
haps a new loan in London.. . .T.W.M.: Communicate
with the Manager, State Smelters, Chillagoe (Q.).
C.H.H.: (1) The most promising of the lot.
(2) Doubtful. (3) Not with metal prices as they
are R.W.: Queensland Mines Dept, cannot recom-
mend any particular locality, nor does it recommend
an inexperienced person to go prospecting without an
experienced mate....N. Gosford: Pure inflation, un-
less you could guarantee that the works would pay
their own bill for interest, maintenance and renewal.
....Windy: No, hang on. .. . 5.1. M.: Write to the
office which issued the policy. It won’t see you
stuck. . . .A.S.R. : Liquidation can be voluntary or
compulsory ; in the former case the shareholders will
decide upon it at a regular meeting; in the latter
case the Court will order it. In either case the
liquidator can call in unpaid capital, if necessary, to
pay debts or meet obligations.... Longreach: A matter
of opinion. The theory is that, though it pays out
a proportion of its earnings to shareholders, the
life insurance office with share-capital gives more
than it takes, since its control is in the hands
of people who are financially interested in the results.
S.H.W.A.: Pref. shares are either cumulative or
non-cumulative. If the former, the annual fixed
minimum div. is a debt against the co. until it is
paid; if the latter, the shareholder has no right to
recover dividends for past years. Debentures are of
riiany kinds; generally they are a mortgage over
specific assets, and come in ahead of all share capital.


THE SOCIAL FAILURE.
THE ESCORT: “She’s attracting a good deal of attention, isn’t she, Ted?”
THE GENTLEMAN WHO MADE THE INTRO.: “Yes. Funny thing, Jim —I’ve told ’em over and over again she’s a nice, respectable woman, but they don’t seem to believe me.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Duchess of Dantzic”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “The, Spot on the Sun”
State 'Movies and Talkies
MEL BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
w .„. r ( “The Pirates of Penzance”
, ( “Trial by Jury”
Comedy “Loyalties”
State Movies and Talkie*
4)
Last Friday this ’ Showman undertook a
delicate mission. He wanted •to explain to
Miss MacGregor, of “The First. Mrs. Fraser”
company, at Sydney. Criterion, that when
he said she was as sour as. a saw he was
referring only to an interpretation of the
part of the second Mrs. Fraser, and not to
herself nor to other appearances in which
she had been a joy and a delight. This
seemed necessary. Even a, dramatic critic
doesn’t hanker to be cut dead in Heaven.
Unfortunately—or otherwise —Miss Mac-
Gregor wasn’t in. There was nothing for it
but to nurse the bunch of disappointed and
somewhat withered zinnias on the footpath
outside the Cri., in which embarrassing posh
tion a mild, good-natured, generous, unex-
acting, friendly critic, had to stand and suffer
the tamest, lamest, dullest, driest, crudest,
emptiest and most banal theatrical display
since—well, since the last one.
The title of the production is somewhat
elusive, but its main ingredients were a
superintendent of police out in front con-
ducting, then a band about as charming as
a Wurlitzer, then a thousand or two’supers.,
carrying playbills on hefty waddies, inter-
spersed with imported stars of. no talent,
some rather uneven ballets and a few
choruses that should have been .at the Con. —
getting lessons or passing.- round the lemons.
This amazing troupe held up the traffic for
10 minutes or so, evoked such encouraging
applause as “Count, the number , of-Austra-
lians among ’em !” arid/passed on in the
general direction, of College-street and its .
hospitable environs.
It had barely gone .when a voice broke the •
sunny silence. “Damn good scheme,” it said.
“Absolutely. Get the idea? Hands off.
Down with. Join the. Boss rides on the
workers’ backs. Traitors and rats. Don’t
forget Rosa Luxemburg. Who, by the way,
wa.s Rosa?”
It was Snodge.
“Speaking of down with,” he added dream-
ily.
Friday, May Day, was reasonably warm.
Apart from that there was the thirsty spec-
“This amazing troupe held up the traffic for
10 minutes or so.”
tacle of a Union Jack burning on one of the
procession posters; also another poster repre-
senting what appeared to be the demonstra-
tors’ idea of Heaven —a place over-heated by
a star apparently enlarged from a Chateau
Tanuhda bottle, with a sickle rampant upon
a sledge-hammer as the only wall decora-
tion ; probably symbolical of the well-known
theological fact that no one works in Heaven,
At any rate, it was all very suggestive,
and after the third, or it may have been
the fifth, Snodge opened out. “What,” he
said, “does all that make you think? No-
thing? Probably not, But I’ll tell you what
it makes me think, why should those codgers
have, it on their Pat Malone? They go through
the streets with ‘Hands off India,’ ‘Hands
off Soviet Russia,’ ‘Hands off China,’ ‘Down
with Pawnbrokers,’ ‘Stop Exploitation of
New Guinea Natives,’ ‘Damn Capitalism,’
; ‘Don’t Starve—Fight!’ ‘Smash Prison Doors,’
‘Down with the Police Terror,’ ‘Join Lenin’s
Party,’ ‘Join the Workers’ Defence Corps,'
‘Are We Going to Fight?—Yes,’ ‘Hang
Pimps,’ ‘The U.W.C., Botany,’ ‘More Power
to the Workers,’ ‘Smash the Moss Yale
Scheme.’ Very good. Damn the Moss Yale
Scheme! What is it? Another Lang plan?
Hands off China. Good. Damn China!
That’s me. Don’t care for lettuce. Hate it.
Down with the Police Terror. Certainly.
Why not? Who is he? What’s his weight?
Down with him, anyway.
“What I want to say is this—why should
this mob have it on their own? Haven’t the
rest, of us got a say?
“Now take yourself, for instance. Couldn’t
you and the ‘Herald’ march in column of two
round the principal box-offices? Arm your-
selves with a few fairly plump birds and
a handful of pennies and at ’em! Banners?
Good. ‘Hands off Syd Beck.’ ‘Hands off
Dot Brunton’s Barrel.’ ‘Down with Amateur
Actors.’ ‘Join the Gallery Girls*.’ ‘Smash
Dress-circle Oacklers.’ ‘Damn the Firm.’
-‘Blast the Unfirm.’ ‘Give the Juvenile Leads
to the Infirm.’ ‘Down with Fat Opera
Singers.’ ‘Curse Midnight Performances.’
‘ ! ! People who put on Dress Re-
hearsals as Pay-to-go-in Matin6es.’ You
follow me ?”
Snodge took in a moist breath. “I mean
to say,” he went on, “these people simply
can’t have it on their own. Now take me.
I’m not a married man now, but I used to
bo. What about married men? ‘Down with
Mother-in-laws.’ ‘Thank God for Lifesayers.’
‘Damn Lawns.’ ‘Curse Boiled Shirts.’
‘Should Children Wake Workers at 5 a.m.?’
‘Blast Cracker Night.’
“And,” said Snodge, putting his other foot
on the rail, “what about the office boy?
■Hands off Fatty Finn.’ Or take the office
■flapper. ‘More Morning Tea.’ ‘Flirting in the
Boss’s Time.’ ‘Hands off Frank Harvey.’
‘Don’t Gus Bluett.’ Or take politicians,
‘Hands,off Ananias.’ ‘Gimme.’ ‘Up with the
Lang Scheme and Down with the Brandy.’
“Um.... Yes.... That reminds me,”
Snodge said. “Good. Now take poets. ‘Up
with Daisies.’ ‘Bigger and Better Souls.’
‘Mother.’. ‘Spring.’ ‘More Billabongs.’ ‘Bring
Back the Old-S.waggie.’ ‘Damn Editors.’ Or
what about editors ? ‘Damn Poets.’ Or
landladies. ‘Down with Actors.’ And can’t
punters haye a go? ‘He Nearly Won.’ ‘Just
About,. Square.’ ‘Couldn’t Win a Goat Race.’
‘Remember" Poitref.’ ‘Hands off Bridles.’ Or
take - black-and-white artists. ‘More Ugli-
ness.’ ‘Down with the Bruce Sort of
Face.’ ‘Grow;.Crooked Noses.’ ‘Pot Bel-
lies and Cauliflower Ears for All.’
“ ‘Same to' you. Skin off
your nose. Now, take
poets.’”
“Keep going
as long as you
like,” Snodge
added. “Fisher-
men, police-
men, bankers,,
bakers, gro-
cers, lawyers,
cockies, school-
teachers, tram-
drivers, why
not let ’em all
have a proces-
sion? I mean
to say”—
This Show-
man l e fit
Snodge to it'.
Others besides'
Snodge get
taken that
way. And
then, in the
gathering dusk
of a North
Shore sub-
urb, Snodge, or Snodge’s idea, cropped
strangely up again. It was only a shuffling,
henpecked, moustached, 1 ; bespectacled little
specimen of * Suburbia. ~He was . marching;
along a ghostly, tree-shaded footpath" quite
on his own, a sight to'put loneliness into the
heart of a riot. There was just the evening
gloom, the long street, the;; shadows.
little man marching. And, of course, his
banner. He hugged it close to his breast,
timidly, shyly—a banner with the strange’
(almost inaudible) device: “Hands off mar-
guerite 1 Chambard and Alb My Other xtoses.”
In shyer, minute print he had added the
faintly whispered addendum : “And Hands off
Me.”
¥ ¥ *
The most sensational turn in local theatri-
cal history occurred at Melbourne Tivoli last
week. On Wednesday the theatre suddenly
closed its doors. Its mummers, musicians
and staff were scattered to the four winds
or possibly to the 49 suburbs. It was
announced that a new syndicate had bought
the show. As a matter of fact, negotiations
were still on foot. In the darkened building
sundry financiers were bargaining in human
flesh-and-blood. At 5 p.m. on Friday they
were still haggling. At 5.5 negotiations defi-
nitely broke down. At 5.10 the Emperor
Napoleon Mclntosh shook his lionlike rnane ;
turned to his staff and said, “The Tivoli
will' open, at 2.30 p.m. to-niorrow' with • the
Greatest Show on Earth.” “Impossible,
sire,” cried seven of his field-marshals. Six
of them were taken out and shot. At 2.30
p.m. on Saturday the theatre duly opened
with the melodious Eileen Castles, the cele-
brated Gregory Stroud, the laughable Walter
Cornock, the Mackarl Bros., jugglers extra-
ordinary, Lily Moore, London comedienne,
the Ten Tivoli Beauties, and other items;
and The Bulletin went along and looked at
the show and saw that it was Good. Now,
if the Emperor N. Mclntosh were only at
the head of the State!
* ¥ *
Those desirous of sampling the very best
Galsworthy seen in Melbourne to date should
go to the Comedy, where Frank Harvey’s
company is performing “Loyalties.” Honest
John o’ London is here/ once more concerned
with public schoolboy ethics, as carried over
into adult life, but he is now the detached
observer of those ethics instead of their
acceptor, as in the lately-demented “Roof.”
The story is of Ferdinand De Levis, a
wealthy Jew, member of three London
clubs and aspirant to a fourth, who has
£9OO stolen from under his pillow in a coun-
try house. The assortment of English upper-
class types who are his fellow-guests expects
him to say nothing more about it. especi-
ally as he suspects that popular officer and
gentleman Captain Ronald Dancy, D. 5.0.,
in the room next door. Like his Shaks-
pearean prototype, however, he demands his
pound of flesh, and organised society
promptly mobilises all its forces to crush
him and defend the guilty one. The best
people ostracise him, the clubs blackball him
and his enemy challenges him to a duel, on
the sound ground that dead men tell no tales.
“As charming as a Wurlitzer.’
The Jew, with Semitic subtlety, circumvents
every move, and finally forces his opponent
to proceed against him for defamation.
Owing to the tracing of the stolen notes to
Captain Dancy, the plaintiff’s case breaks
down, and so does Galsworthy’s artistic re-
solution. He gets rid of the gentleman thief
by suicide, whereas there were several other
ways out for a man of Dancy’s self-sufficient
character; but presumably Galsworthy
thought he ought to be punished for steai-
ing the money, even if he did it to buy off
a blackmailer who was trying to wreck his
married life.
Dramatically the piece, which is in seven
scenes, is first-class. It has all a good mys-
tery play’s excitement and intensity, without
the mystery play’s moronic brains. There
are no heroes or villains. Every character
has claims on human sympathy. It is the
first play of Galsworthy’s in which he has
reached somewhere near the philosophic
roundness of his books. As the modern
variant of Shylock, Alexander Marsh is well
placed, his Shakspearean training being a
gain rather than otherwise. Frank Harvey
plays the military burglar with such re-
straint that writer did not recognise him till
well on in the piece. In Lady Adela, Mar-
garet Orme and Mabel Dancy, Galsworthy
sketched three very faint ladies, but Dieu-
donne Waldron succeeds in making a tender
. picture of wifely devotion and emotion out
of:the last-named. Coral Brown, the young
acquisition of whom the Firm has been very
enthusiastic of late, was mainly a succession
of stunning fashion notes.
* * *
The Gilsullivan operators at Melbourne
Royal turned from. “The Gondoliers’” to “The
Pirates” on Saturday, and a packed house
greeted them with . the usual sustained
applause. “.Trial by Jury” was, as usual,
the curtain-raiser. The Bulletin is keep-
ing, a careful'eye on - the.proceedings, and will
immediately report: any signs of-sclerosis of
the arteries, decreasing blood pressure, loss
of appetite., elephantiasis, or other, symptoms
of old,age, if or when such appear; At present
the patient appears to _be in the best of
health and in full enjoyment of its powers.
... * * *
T,lie chief trouble with the Levitzki
, season in Melbourne was the programmes,
which were pretty well replicas of , the pro-
grammes he -waded through during his
previous call, and which dozens of other
virtuosi have waded through before and
since. Diszt’s dear old Bells chimed monot-
onously and Schubert’sMarche Militaire
showed its unblushing’face for the umpteenth
time: 1 This, as much as the depression, prob-
ably accounted for the public’s poor response.
The surprising thing is that the performer
didn’t play these l hackneyed items more like
a pianola than he did. Melbourne ‘ audiences
are used to- plenty of variety in their local
symphony concerts, and the example of Back-
haus ought to have shown manager Grave-
stock that music-lovers have a habit sometimes
of growing up. Backhaus played colossal
compositions which had never been played by
a visiting pianist before, and as a result
hejsvas packed to the doors.
* * *
If theatrical entrepreneurs want an
example of the spirit of exploration they need
go no further than the Scots’ Hall, Mel-
bourne, where Joan and Betty Rayner eon-
“A dramatic critic cut dead in Heaven.”
tinue their troubadouring to large and
chuckling houses. Last week they put to
sea in a set of delightfully rendered chanties.
Present writer feels only one regret over
the talented ladies’ visit. It will probably
start at boom amongst local elocutionists for
the same thing, with additions and improve-
ments. After Pavlova’s last season swans,
with red-ink bottles concealed in their
blouses, were dying in droves all over the
country, to the accompaniment of off-stagi-
gunshots.
# * *
“ITindle Wakes,” at Sydney Savoy, takes
its title from the pleasure-making of Lan-
cashire millhands round about Bank Holi-
day, when they descend upon Blackpool in
thousands, ride the merry-go-rounds, work
the penny-in-the-slot machines, and patronise
those who purvey wedding rings to furtive
couples seeking peace with landladies. Two
who go further than pier promenading are
Fanny Hawthorn, a comely weaver in a
cotton mill, and Alan Jeffciote, a free-and-easy,
weak-kneed son of the mill-owner. Their esca-
pade, which takes place before the curtain
rings .up,- becomes known to the elder Ilaw-
thorjis, > who . hit . the roof in the approved
North of ‘ England ' Nonconformist fashion.
Fanny’s mother barracks furiously for a
marriage between the pair and packs off her
husband to interview, young Jeffcote’s father,
a hard-hearted old beggar but scrupulously
fair. 1 - ITe agrees' to do his best to bring his
son up-to f the mark, but Alan, supported by
his mother, is unwilling to wed. He changes
his tune when Beatrice, to whom he is
engaged, turns him down and his father
threatens to disinherit him. When the plan
is put to Fanny, however, she pours cold
water on it by telling Alan that he is not
good enough for her, leaving an overjoyed
young man with his cash intact and with
the prospects of regaining Beatrice.
The acting was one of the Independents’
best efforts up-to-date. Arthur Reardon (the
senior Jeffcote) and Marie Rosenfeld
(Fanny) were particularly good, and Garry
Byrne put plenty of spirit into his work.
* * *
Good organising, plus the pulling power
of Nat. Phillips and Syd Beck, filled Sydney
Opera House on Friday for a united hos-
pitals charity show that kicked off near mid-
night and ran on into the small hours. The
success is greater than it sounds if you come
to think of Sydney’s wretched transport after
midnight. Present writer , lives in one of the
nearest suburbs, but it took a taxi, half-an-
hour’s wait, a boat and another taxi to make
the distance. The show, chiefly helped by
Herbert Browne, of the Firm, and Hector
St. Clair, was worth even that. Nat and
Beck are in rare fettle at the moment. 1 hey
"March in column of two round the
principal box-offices.”
have built up a solid revue garrison at the
Opera and are steadily improving it. Their
current bill is “Fun Spots,” and some ot
its spots are uncommonly bright.
* * *
Jim Gerald has returned to his old love,
or near it —he is appearing at the 1’ uncr-
owned Sydney St. .Tames. He, Janette Gil-
more and Charles Sylber now head the bill
there in “Laughing Eyes,” a far better show
than “Topsy T.urvy,” whose good run it
looks like beating.
Provided it gets the support such a bright
and handsome show merits, “The Duchess
of Dantzic” will be given a run at Sydney
Majesty’s. A second inspection of it last
week convinced The Bulletin that it is as
pleasing a musical show as the Majesty s
lias seen for years.
V # *
Mosman M'usical Society had a 28th birth-
day on Saturday and celebrated it by open-
ing a five-nights’ season of “The Student
Prince” at the suburb’s Town Hall. A fair
orchestra, a good chorus and adequate cos-
tuming helped the operetta along. Brightest
spots were the singing and acting of Sally
Whitehurst as Kathie, and John Hogans
characterisation of Lutz.
Poverty Point
“Ike Pagliacci”: In my publicity job I
described Bloggs as “the greatest genius in
vaudeville” and “tlie world’s greatest miitn-
maker in his epoch-marking entertainment.
He pursed his lips. “Couldn’t we get a
strong line?” he queried.
“Hops and Scotch”: The death of com-
edian Will Evans recalls his unhappy open-
ing at Sydney Tivoli. A discriminating
audience gave the old boy a patient hearing.
But Will wasn’t among London cobbers, and
although nobody had been rude up tot hat
moment, somebody voiced the feeling of the
multitude when the comedian, who appa-
rently couldn’t hear the lack of applause,
said: “And now what would you like me to
do?” The voice, full of anguish, cried: “Hill
you please get orf!”
“Craiser”: I can see the path of Melba’s
trustees strewn with as many roses as that
of the Felton Bequest guardians. Under
■the diva’s will large sums, in certain even-
tualities, will be available for the establish-
ment of national grand opera. No provi-
sion was made for the vesting of the con-
trol of the institution in the hands of musi-
cians, so the present trustees may find them-
selves in the invidious position of la J 7 ™ n
deciding questions of artistic taste. f be
Felton Bequest people get a bad enough time
as it is, but fortunately for them the peoples
eyes are not as discriminating as their ears.
"A shuffling, henpecked, moustached,
bespeckled little specimen of Suburbia."
It is safe to say that for every pair of eyes
able to distinguish bad painting from gooi
there are a dozen pairs of ears quicK
detect the spurious in music from the true.
“Cauboy” : The new G. and S. revivalists
at Melbourne Royal should make Fritz Har
feel quite fatherly. Amongst products ot
his operatic nursery, the Albert-street
Melbourne, are Marie Bremner, Ma J
Hotham, Dawn Harding, Muriel Betty
Bonnie Roberts, Rita Gilson and Albar
Whitehead. Alban was one of Melba-
whiteheads.


This group of Stuart Crystal gives
you some idea of the beauty of this
exquisite hand* cut glass with its varied
patterns and its diamond*like lustre.
Look for the registered name Stuart
etched on every piece .
: HH ■ v : :: : i
i§s 1 ■■■pi wmm
* ~ \* < ‘ * . "Zf."' ... >
■".* • . >
$? ;> 4' <‘h-'ri zV& '
immß
454 £ «**«£««» <*» •* .?
■ 1
i
PMt\
S* JF 7/il
m
i
n
.>
mmXt^am gii®
.
• ■■ ■
mm
■
B
W 2
■HI
2*
■ 1 woes /Jr/OB
u±^\\:'mkWMm^d
m.
m
i
/K
■ ■ ■
i*” 1 Vi
m
mm
1
■
II
\
■V 3
raa*
im
iti,'
V
.-.A
llllliifffM
mm
w**-m
i «
MA
■ R
idT
R
PVSp
R I
«»
.•
R
:
i
»
:
m
m
m
■",' -
: . .
1
if
S
Isbr^
•«• .♦
V
SK
Hi
1
>
>
■
\V
m.
sis®*
M
sitfsa
<
£)
s
I £2H
PI
%
>i
H
Wm
SiOfc
■
fflP**
■
I H Mg
..' •:
■
m
1
fT-ir
im
mm
m
- . A
: '' .'
English Hand-made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
Ip
70
35
35
Lp
35
m
Graham-Paige offers a variety of body
types, including Roadsters, Cabriolets,
Coupes and Sport Phaetons, on five
chasses, in Sixes and Eights—at a
wide range of prices. All are equipped
with four speeds forward except
Model 612.
£AAMAM-PAl££
has always had
Four Speeds Forward
'X’HE first Graham-Paige ever built offered the great advantage of four speeds
A forward with standard gear shift—now time-proved in the hands of thousands
of owners. A 25% reduction in engine speeds at all road speeds adds a new thrill
to motoring. . . .silent smoothness with flashing acceleration and greater economy.
This outstanding feature, and the many important body and chassis improvements,
are reasons why you should see and drive a 1931 Graham-Paige before buying any
motor-car.
I \ \
)1 ’ \
im
MODEL 817 FIVE-PASSENGER SEDAN
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA . . ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
TASMANIA .. TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.


Queensland Is Calling!
KEEN BUSINESS
MEN KNOW
that Queensland is most favorably
situated of all the States, and are
planning accordingly. They also
know from long experience that
the circulation claims of
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
are dependable claims which have
always been supported by un-
deniable proof. They know, too,
that this great newspaper is cer-
tainly unsurpassed as a business
getter by any Queensland publi-
cation.
Rate cards, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.
N.S.W. Branch, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,090,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY BURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
federal lerntory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
. the "orld.
_ 01 General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
ķ
ĸ
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
I for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double,
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafd. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 65/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyons
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
ABORIGINALITIES
BUSH COMPLIMENTS.
HALF-CASTE JOCKEY (returning to weigh in after race in North Queensland): “I stir the
plurry ’possum up in you that time, Jacky.”
OTHER HALF-CASTE JOCKEY : "Yes, and by cripes I bin stir the rice up in you, too, mine
tinkit, Chinkee.”
“Mr. Cato”: “I’ll have ter have a word
with that bloke that’s after Sarah,” declared
Dad.. “He’s been visitin’ here close on three
years now and he don’t show no signs of
cornin' ter the point.” Interviewing the
swain that evening, Dad began: “Now you've
been cornin’ here after Sarah fer a long time,
Bill, tailin’ her ter picnics and darnces and
all that. So now I ask yer, Bill, as man
ter man, what’s yer intentions?” Bill
responded unabashed: “Well, answerin’ yer
man ter man, there’s no cause fer yer ter
do yer block. Me intentions is honorable —
but remote.”
“Kismet” : Matsume Meomatsu, the Japan-
ese diver, came to the little island hospital
bearing with him as his introduction a
beautifully written letter setting forth that
the bearer suffered from pain in his young of
cow. Sister in her forthright way demanded
“Where?” And Meomatsu indicated the calf
of his leg.
“C.Q.”: A grim tragedy was narrowly
averted when police broke into a house in
East Malvern, Melbourne, and released its
33 inmates on a recent evening. Left with-
out food and water for three days through
the owner of the house having been removed
to a hospital, the victims were mad with
rage and fear, and there was evidence that,
if cannibalism had not actually occurred, it
had been attempted. The police got their
first inkling of the situation when six of
the residents savagely attacked them in the
garden, and inside the dwelling they had to
protect themselves from assault with their
batons, so frenzied were the tenants. The
house owner—a spinster lady—was herself
the victim of monstrous ingratitude at the
hands of her charges, although she had
lavished all the affection on them of which
the human heart is capable. Her removal
PERFECTLY FIT.
“You shouldn’t be allowed to work your wife like that, Jacky.”
“Why, Boss? She no gottem sore shoulder.”
to the hospital had been necessitated through
her being bitten by one of the 33 —a Pom-
eranian.
* * * *
“Frigid”: Falling upon bad times, Dad
Logan moved into the city with all his
family. The other day I called to see him.
Houses built nowadays are not made for
old-fashioned furniture. When I arrived
Logan was trying to squeeze in between a
big four-poster bed and the edge of a huge
wardrobe. “Well, Dad,” I said, “how are
you getting on?” “Things might be worse,”
he replied. “Anyhow I haven’t much room
to complain.”
“Tiki” : In the days before his white Chris-
tian brothers instructed him in the lethal
qualities of firearms, thus enabling such
homicidal lunatics as Te Rauparaha to make
a trail of blood from one end of
the country to the other, the
Maori went to war with an
armory of primitive weapons of
his own devising which gave him
a lot of fun and were no more
cruel than necessary. There
were several kinds of spears —
the taialia, man-high and made
of hardwood with nice carvings
on the point, and the pou-
whenua, similar in design, were
most used. The huata, 18ft. or
20ft. long, took a lot of learn-
ing, and so did the tao, which
was short and pointed at both
ends. An approach to the boom-
erang was the hoeroa, made of
whalebone, which was cast with
an underhand bowling motion,
and retrieved by a cord if the
thrower hadn’t been transfixed
by a huata. The weapon of the
chiefs, symbol of authority and
sign of bravery and brawn, was
the greenstone mere, fruit of
years of patient labor. Eighteen
inches or two feet long, broad-
bladed, keen-edged, it could kill
a man very neatly if wielded
hard enough. There were Ex-
caliburs among the meres—
weapons with names and long
records of slaughter achieved
with them by dusky paladins.
Most famous of these was “Te
Heketua.” A warrior captured
with this in his possession
begged to be slain with it in
preference to a common patuki,
which is a bit like a tomahawk.
Te Heu Heu of Taupo had a
mere that made him invisible.
Mentioned in tradition is a
slingstick (kotaha) used to
throw darts (kopere), and it is
recorded that in 1690 Otakinini
pa was captured by use of these
weapons. The stone-throwing
sling and the bow and arrow
were unknown, though prevalent in Polynesia,
and the only case in which barbed spears seem
to have been used is embalmed in the legend
of a massacre in the South Island, where
a pa was captured by warriors armed with
spears made from stingrays. Outside the
spears tlie weapon nearest to those of G i* -
tendom was the tewhatewha, very n
battle-axe.
* * _
“Hopesprings”: Things had gone wrong
with the miner working down the shatt under
the old-fashioned whip. The day was hot,
the tools were blunt, the ground was hard,
and there was a new-chum braceman. Small
things had fallen down the shaft, with yelis
from the brace: “Look out below 7 .” At last
the wire rope slipped over the pulley and
down it went. That Was the climax. After
a breathless interval came a voice from the
depths: “Now throw the flamin’ horse down,
and tumble in yerself, and let’s have a bit
of peace.”
* * *
“0.P.V.”: The subject under discussion
round the camp-fire was fog. This yarn
ended it. “When me an’ me mate was fall-
ing trees for Brown’s Mill in the Dee coun-
try, in Vic., we was out one _ very foggy
mornin’. We walked up to a big messmate
and drove the axe into him to see if he was
solid. He sounded 0.K., so we set to with axe
first and then cross-cut saw. We cut that
tree right off, but it would not fall. ‘lt must
be tangled with some branches up above,’
says me mate. ‘We’ll come back when the
fog lifts and have a look at it.’ About eleven
o’clock the fog had cleared and we went
back to our tree, to find we had sawed three
feet off the top of a stump. That was the
thickest fog I ever seen.”
“X.N.0.”: “Bad Australian’s” deduction
(B. 22/4/’3l) that a bee must be capable of
doing over 40 miles per hour because he
observed one travelling between barrels of
molasses on a waggon going that speed won’t
stand investigation. He forgets that the
bee on leaving one barrel carries with it,
for the time being at any rate, the velocity
of the waggon and only needs to add a little
speed on its own account to enable it to
travel from the back bumper bar to the
bonnet. “Bad Australian” could walk from
the stern of a destroyer doing 40 knots to
the bows, but he could never walk that
speed on his own.
* * * *
“P.M.”: The Digger spirit is .still much
alive in the Gippsland bush. Recently a
contractor was about to truck a horse to
Melbourne, 75 miles away, when a Digger, a
sawmill hand out of work, offered to lead
the horse to the city for the rail freight, _ a
matter of 355., cash in advance. He left 255.
with his wife, led the horse to Melbourne
and wa’lked back, living on the ten shillings.
W/hen he returned the local policeman had
been transferred to a place 30 miles way,
and the amateur drover led his cow across
for 15s.
“Temsik” : Cocoaimt pearls (B. 8/4/’3l) ?
Years ago when James Clarke was passing
through Torres Strait in his yacht he showed
a peculiar pearl. He had leased a small
group of islands for watering bases.
Whilst ashore one day he noticed a strange-
shaped palm with only one nut, and that
right in the centre, and he sent a*
Malay boy up after it. When the nut was
opened there was nothing in it but a little
globe of congealed milk about the size or
a marble. Clarke said it was a cocoanut
pearl and the luckiest thing in the world.
Many a Rajah would give the half of his
kingdom for one. At that time it was
one of the four known ones in all the
world.
THE KNOCKEMOUT BATTERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“A few old fossickers like me are all that’s
left,” said Sam, “no more.
A dozen years ago they closed the pub, and
now they’ve shut the store.
And yet we’ve had our crowded hours, like
lots of other busted camps.
How well I mind the night when first we
heard the music of the stamps!
“A public battery it was, State-owned and
all the rest, you know.
Our member battled for it hard —’twas all
of thirty years ago.
He asked the chance for Knockemout to show
its reefs were rich and good,
To prove the pudding, as it were—and we
were confident it would.
“They built the plant, and dropped the
stamps with all the usual frilly biz;
The Minister of Mines came up ; his missus
broke the bottle o’ fizz.
They held a banquet in the pub, a finish to
the day to set.
B'truth! how the liquer flowed,” said Sam,
“and how they talked! I mind it yet.
‘The departmental heads were there. The
mayors and mining experts came
From far and wide, and round the board sat
every chap that owned a claim.
There wasn’t one that didn’t feel the time
of pinch and stress was past
And long-neglected Knockemout had come
into its own at last.
“When once the stamps their glowing tale
began to tell, by all the powers,
The speakers swore, our little field would
hammer, spots off Charters Towers.
Some trial crushings, just a few, would soon
convince the veriest dolt
That here were reefs to startle Perth and
give the Golden Mile a jolt.
"Strath! how we drank and cheered that
night! Of all the crowd that claims had
got
The surer everyone became of wealth the
nearer he was shot.
Some slept beneath the board, some zigzagged
home to camp to dream of bunce.
Ah, well,” said Sam, “make no mistake. We
had our hour of greatness once.”
“And did the battery prove the field?” the
stranger asked. Sam shoved his lid
A trifle further back and groaned: “Too
right, too blanky right, it did.
Two middlin’ shows there were at most, and
every other one a dud.
Take it from me, it proved the field —but
only proved it up to mud.
“’Twas thirty years ago,” said Sam, “since
first they set those stamps a-hum.
In half as many months they’d killed the
field. I s’pose it had to come,
But still we might have staved it off. He
queered our pitch beyond a doubt
The blinking M.L.A. who got that ten-head
mill for Knockemout.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


w
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER * HIS
M'
[ANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests.. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
PRODUCERS f/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
ss- Agency Co., Ltd. "
Wfoe
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leathe
hinged case prou'ded free wit!
every razor.
k
ķ
Each Razor set
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths—fin. and fin.
roach- for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
nsaras:
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
Fits any blade razor J, f, f inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
“Taniwha” : The Maorilander is a resource-
ful person and keeps well abreast of the
march of science. A business man who lives
at Paekakariki (famous for possessing the
most steeply-graded road in the Dominion —
the place is called “Pie-cocka-reek” for
short) and lias liis office at Rangitoto left
his home in his car, carrying with him the
keys of his household —cupboards, pantry,
bathroom, piano and henhouse included.
Arrived at his destination, he discovered
what he had done, and was overcome with
remorse. How would his family get along
with no food, no music and nowhere to
ANOTHER UNFORTUNATE ACCIDENT.
NABBS (welcoming an old friend back): “But you shouldn’t ha’
robbed a poor crippled beggar, ’Erbert.”
DDBBS: “But I didn’t know he was crippled. I thought ’e was
blind.”
wash? Suddenly he smote his brow and
ejaculating “By Jove!” dashed along to the
local aerodrome. There they had an auto-
giro, the invention of the ingenious Spaniard
De la Cierva.. Could he hire it, and had they
a ball of string? He could, and they had.
Half an hour later he was hovering in the
air 400 feet above his own back yard. He
lowered the keys on the string, banging them
on the tin roof till the family rushed out to
see what was up; watched them salvage the
keys with cries of joy, and flitted back to
Rangitoto. You may think this is a lie if
you don’t know Maoriland.
“Roamer” : I was heading for a crossing in
a dried-up swamp in Arnhem Land when
my boy let out a warning yell and, pointing,
said: “Alligator sit down there.” Right
enough there was the snout just visible out
of the mud, which was then caking on the
surface into squares. A .303 bullet soon
stirred him into activity, but I slew him and
ho measured over 12ft. when stretched out.
It could not have been despair of ever
reaching another water that made him hiber-
nate, as the Wild Man River was only a
quarter of a mile distant. The only
conclusion I can come to after having met
•five other quite healthy specimens under
similar conditions is that when they have
found a good feeding ground they are afraid
to leave in case their claim is jumped.
* . * !|= *
“Harold Ilardupp”: That tact is a neces-
sary attribute of a bush publican was not
apparent to me until I met Bill Bulger,
the new licensee of the Timbercutters’
Arms. Bill had no tact. He was throwing
someone out of the bar when I arrived, and
he continued to throw people out at intervals
during my two days’ stay. Some of
them wouldn’t stay thrown out. I was told
that the trouble started when Bill, a novice
in the pub-business but full of good inten-
tions, announced truculently that he was
going to keep a quiet pub and he intended
to throw* out anyone who made it otherwise.
That was taken as a challenge by many, and
the situation wasn’t helped when Bill said
such things as “Peterson couldn’t put you
out of his pub, couldn’t he? Well what
Peterson likes to stand in his pub isn’t what
I’m going to stand in mine.” Peterson was
as big as Bulger and he came down to see if
Bill could throw him out. Bill could and
did, but that success only invited further
warfare. When I was 150 miles away, two
weeks later, I heard the matter being put
like this to a giant Matilda-waltzer : “There’s
a bloke keeping the Timbercutters’ Arms at
Blankville who says he can throw you or
two like you out of his pub.” The large man
rolled his swag right away and departed with
anger in his eye. When I next visited the
Timbercutters’ Arms a couple of months
later it was being run by a quiet old chap
who could fight nothing stronger than nog-
gins of rum, but who could assuage any rum-
pus by appealing to the rioters to go outside
and “settle the matter like gentlemen.” There
is nothing a tempestuous drunk appreciates
more than a compliment to his gentility, and
that’s one of many ways of showing tact a
bush publican has to master.
* * * *
“Tum-Tum” : The people of the Tai-asai-
pu of Central Malaita (Solomon Islands)
make music for religious purposes. Their
orchestras are composed of never less than
20 men, and the in-
struments are reed
flutes after the pat-
tern of the pipes
shown in pictures
of Pan. From 12
to 20 reeds are
used in a flute, and
these range from
Bin. to 24in. long,
blown, not by the
mouth, but with the
nose. The music,
though weird in the
extreme, is delight-
ful to listen to,
especially in the
pitch blackness of a
native village at
night and from _a
distance of, say, 50
or 60 paces. The
Tai-asai-pu, from
which the tribe
takes it name, is
the god who gov-
erns all calamity,
and his ear is sup-
posed to be tickled
by this brand of
music. If he gets it
in sufficiently large
doses he sees that
nothing untoward
happens to the
tribe, so it is quite
common for the
band to perform for
48 hours continu-
ously. The bands-
men are almost
nude, such things as
calicoes, shirts or pants being strictly taboo,
though no objection is raised to shell ear-
ornaments, armbands or beads. Boys below
the age of puberty are not admitted to the
band for fear of offending the old gehtle-
man’s sensitive ear with notes of discord, in
which case he would surely cause the
mothers and sisters of the offending parties
to become sterile,
* * * *
“J.S.”: Tell “Yexam” (B. 15/4/’3l) that
the term “laughing jackass” was first used
bv Collins (1798) in his “Account of the
English Colony in New South Wales.” It
was not till 1881 that David Blair, in the
“Cyclopaedia of. Australasia,” launched the
jacasser theory. The “jackass” of Tassie is
the grey butcher-bird.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: When Alan Gerbault, the
French . tennis-player and seafaring adven-
turer, sailed through Torres Strait a couple
of years back in the Firecrest he got into
difficulties near an island through his anchor
chain carrying away. He was rescued by
a native boat and
brought in to Coco-
nut Island, where
he found a fellow-
countryman (the
only Frenchman
living in the Strait
now), and was hos-
pitably entertained
for a few days. On
leaving, he pre-
sented to the island
exile some taro
which he had
brought with other
native food from
Tahiti, and this
was passed on to
the natives and
planted. Now there
are gardens in
which the taro is
doing well. It has
been distributed
amongst neighbor-
ing islands, and in
these days when
natives are return-
ing to the making
of their gardens,
being unable to
patronise the
“white-man store,”
the product is very
welcome. He may
not know it, but
Gerbault has thus
earned a place in
legendary history.
The arrival of a
new food is an
event of prime im-
portance to the
islanders, who give
the happen in g
supernatural trim-
mings. Other islands attribute the introduc-
tion of the various foods that they grow, such
as sago and cocoanuts, to the visit of a
magical person named Sida, or Said, who
brought them in days gone by inside a great
bird. In a hundred years’ time Gerbault
and his boat Avill figure in native lore in
esoteric magnificence.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: The brolga dance of the
abos. extends from the Castlereagh, or there-
abouts, to North Queensland. It is an imita-
tion of the frolics of the brolga, or native
companion, with a few embellishments to
fit in corroborees, and is amusing to watch,
especially when a few old fellows in the com-
pany pretend to be frisky birds. Their bodies
are decorated with white and red clay, and
their heads with feathers. Forming into a
circle, they bow and scrape, twist and parade,
and now and again jump and chuckle and
squawk like the birds, then stand on one leg
with the other stuck out behind. Setting
the lifted leg down suddenly they bow
gravely to one another, stretch their necks
forward and upward, give another jump and
squawk in unison, and engage in a fantastic
gallop, while the gins beat time on ’possum-
skin drums. Occasionally two form partners
in the centre and perform a crude waltz. At
intervals they flap their arms, and, finally,
to a crash of the drums, they fly away into
the black night-—which is the curtain. A
long time ago, the old wizards tell, the black-
fellows knew nothing about dancing. Then
the birds of the plains came anil taught
them how to make merry by their camp-
fires.
* * * *
“Pick”: Some animals are fine distance
swimmers. From the Punkalla jetty (N.S.W.
South Coast) a Gordon-setter slut followed
her owner, who had departed per boat for the
port seven miles distant. Hours later she
dragged her dripping form up the steps of the
Noorooma wharf. With an overladen boat,
and feeling sure that the slut would return
home by road, the owner left her. But she
again decided upon the waterwmy, and dur-
ing the night floundered wearily ashore by
the home jetty. When the steamship Bega
turned over off Cutagee beach, near Ber-
magui, many pigs were spilled into the
Pacific. Date on the following day the
sailors aboard the Murray—dispatched from
Sydney to rescue the shipwrecked—sighted
one of the porkers north of Montague Island.
Against the current he had swum 20 miles
and was still going strongly. Some working
bullocks in a river bend on Nanangro station,
beside the ’Bidgec, were washed away by
sudden floodwaters. One of them landed from
the tumbling torrent at Gobarralong, 40
miles further along the river.
“Erua”: One of the characteristics of the
Maori that endears him to his white brothers
is his entire lack of l’esentment. The
ancient Maori was credited with undying
hatred towards anyone who had insulted him
and would spare no effort to achieve revenge,
but that trait faded with tribal wars and
cannibalism. Our family was involved in
court proceedings over the theft of grass
seed, with three Maoris as suspects. On the
day of the trial the dusky trio came riding
COUNTER COMPLIMENTS.
“Surprising value, these goff stockings, sir. Worth double the
money. Latest pattern, fast colors, holeproof, won’t shrink,
and it’s a good yarn.”
“Yes—and darn well told, too.”
from the hinterland, pulled up at the home-
stead to inquire when the prosecutors would
be ready to ride into Gisborne, and waited
until the court party was complete, when all
accused, with their accusers and a motley
gathering of wahines, dogs and children,
clattered townw’ards together. Two of the
Maoris were awarded two years’ gaol each,
but all their relatives remained on the
friendliest terms with us. Eighteen months
later we were awakened one morning in
the dawn by a tremendous clamor outside,
and found our just-released friends waiting
to give us greeting.. They were on their way
home, and had diverged four miles from their
track to have a sociable interlude with us
before appearing at the kainga. Against
SHIFTING THE BLAME.
MRS FLANNAGAN (who has just given her
husband one to go on with): “Oi'll not
be responsible! Wid all me care and
attinshun, th’ dthrink is going to be th’
death av yez!”
the third Maori in the case, who had turned
“Queen’s evidence” and gaoled the other two,
they cherished no grudge either. He rode
past in the new hat of one of his victims
a day later.
* * * *
“ Jacko”: Bill was having trouble with
one of the Binghi crew on his beehe-de-
mer cutter. “Damn it all, Yarrie,” he said
“do you want to loaf all the time?” “No,’
Boss; I want sleep sometimes,” was the
mildly indignant reply.
MULGALAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out among the mulga ridges and the red
sandhills,
When the wind as if from out an oven
blows,
Oft your fancy flits at noontide to the far-
off rills,
Where the laughing, lapping water ever
flows.
There’s a hellish glare and glitter on the dry
sheep-run
When the water in the bag is running light
And your horse is wet and weary in the hot
noon sun,
But there comes a glimpse of paradise at
eight.
There’s a glory all around you when the sun
dips low
On the opal-tinted skyline far away,
Poising like a giant beacon with a soft, red
glow,
That redeems with magic charm the dying
day.
And you sometimes wish that summer was
just one long night,
But the quiet dawning lias its glory too.
Though the sluggard likes to slumber by the
fire’.s pale light,
’Tis the hour to get abroad, as drovers do.
In the regions of the mulga when the dust-
storms rise.
There’s a longing for the flowers of far
away,
Till the swelt’ring ride is over and the long
day dies
With a radiance that paints the drab and
grey.
And you feel the grip that holds men to the
sun-kissed land,
Who wouldn’t swap her nights for other
noons.
Nor for all the silver beaches of a cold, green
strand
Leave the wide ways and the lignum-lined
lagoons.
N'.S.W.
E. S. SORENDON.


On April 23 the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W. suspended payments.
Are any of the other banks likely to do the same?
Can this drift in the public accounts be stopped?
Is inflation inevitable; if so, who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to come through with the best results?
These, and many other problems of vital interest, are discussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for May.
NOW
ON
SALE
2/-
SINGLE COPY.
a
22/6
year post free.
From Newsagents,
o r “B ull eti n”
Office, Sydney,
Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide,
Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
UNLADYLIKE.
“Lady Heath, the famous British aviatrix, charged
by the Detroit (U.S.) police with being under the
influence of liquor, denied the charge indignantly.
‘I had only two beers and one whisky, and no lady
gets drunk on that,’ she said.”
A lady, because she’s a lady, may do
A number of things that, between me and
you,
Mere women are rightly advised to eschew
As being decidedly risky.
She may smash the conventions and make
the pace hot.
But don’t call her a lady — she’s patently
not —
If she shows any sign to suggest she is shot
On a couple of beers and a whisky.
Time the Lang reign was over; it has
got us wet.
* ¥
“Instead of receiving the dole, the unemployed
may be given one day’s employment per week.”
Ah, well. We live in a work-a-day world.
* #
SERVICE ITEM.
“Wanted, general, wash and cook.” — “S. M.
Herald.”
By cripes, it's crook!
Gorblime, ’arc a look!
I asks ycr, Digger, wot
Dam’ charnst ’as us poor privits got
Ter cop a job, when people want to book
A flamin’ general ter wash an’ cook!
J. R. 11.
* *
Oddly enough, it is their sinking-funds
that keep most nations afloat in the stormy
seas of finance.
“Communists in Australia constantly advertise
their vacuity.”
“Reds Vacant,” as the signs say.
¥ ¥
YE BANKS AND BRAYS!
Lav ft damns his enemies—“the Banks”;
For leave to rum them he prays.
For favors 'past, no word of thanks;
“To Hell with all Ye Banks!” he krays!
Dr. Nil.
ORDEAL.
With all due respect to the solemnity
of the occasion, I trust that the doings of
another band of silent heroes will not go
unrecorded next Anzac Day. I refer to the
thousands of married men who have the
grim duty thrust upon them of making their
wives observe the two minutes’ silence.
Me.
¥ ¥
“A dissatisfied English settler complains that he
was on his block 18 months and couldn’t get a
house.”—“Herald,”
As against which the N.S.W. Government
has a House too many but is off its block.
¥ ¥
“Resolution moved by Dr. Georgina Sweet, ‘That
the restoration of national credit is vital to the
interests of Australia.’ ”
Also of interest tof the vitals of Australia.
HONESTY DOESN’T ALWAYS PAY.
Traffic Intersection : “Just my luck!
I’ve been driving without a license for years,
and I have to get bowled out on a wet night
when most of you blighters are afraid to
come out and do your jobs.”
Tiie Dock : “The idea of an old ruffian
like you lecturing me! Think I’m afraid of
your sentence? Do your worst.”
Ruo Emoii, S’lugville: “What if you
are her husband? Meantersay you imagine
I’m the first?”
Town Hall : “I want that wood-blocks
contract, but I give you fair warning: I
won’t pay any alderman blackmail for it,”
Government House: “Touching my
1v.8.E., I don’t suppose it will make any
difference to Downing-street, but I thought
I might as well mention that. I did five years’
penal servitude as a young man.”
B LOGOS.
“Sydney taxation buildings stand upon the site
of the old Tank Stream.”
It accounts for the sinking feeling experi-
enced by so many who cross its threshold.
“There is a likelihood of N.S.W. civil servants
being asked to take State Government bonds instead
of pay.”
A similar situation in Nicaragua is said
to have inspired the song “I’d Rather Have a
Hard-boiled Egg.”
* *
IN 1932.
Melbourne: Following the inflation of the
Australian note issue, thirty
thousand unfortunates on
the basic wage have been
reduced to millionaires. Fifty
thousand billionaires, unable
to find the price of a meai,
have formed a Plutocrats
Army and are threatening to
march on Canberra.
Sydney: The punting in-
dustry has been ruined. Ike
new racing club rule forbid-
ding bookmakers to bring
their petty cash pantechni-
cons into any ring is respon-
sible. Over 90 per cent, of
the pencillers have gone on
the dole.
■ Auburn ( N.S.W. ) .' Pre-
mier Pang lias sold lus
estate agency here for three
tons of billion-pound notes.
The money is expected to
tide him over the week-end.
After that starvation faces the
Lang family and N. S. Wales.
Stop Press.
Salvation! An overseas
inventor has discovered a
new use for paper. Backed
by a powerful U.S.A. syndi-
cate he has offered to buy up
all Australia’s notes, irre-
spective of denomination, at
2d. (real money) a ton.
Later: Premier Lang has
accepted the inventor’s offer, ‘
and restored payment of
members, gold-passes and re-
numeration for an IS-hdur
week on a 54-liour week
basis. lie has also put for-
ward anew Plan, which pro-
vides, inter alia, that lib. in-
stead of 1 ton of paper shall
be delivered for each 2d. sent
to the country by usurious
foreign bloodsuckers.
The Domain: Mr. Donald
Grant says 11b. of paper is
too much, and has declared a
general strike against the
Hebrew octopi of N. York
being supplied with more
than a quarter of a pound.
F.
A lot of N.S.W. people are losing interest
in Lang.
CLARIFYING THE ISSUE.
“Now that the complete subversion of capitalism
is looming on the horizon, the paid myrmidons of
plutocracy grasp like drowning men at straws at
the idea that it may yet be possible for their dis-
torted niinds to bolster up some blood-curdling and
diabolical oral means of swaying the minds of the
people from the logical and growing universal opinion
that the affairs of the community as a whole would
be much more prosperous if controlled by a prole-
tariat body,”— “P.A.D.” in “Labor Daily.
PAD.- “The fluids rich and rare distilled
beneath the sinister and demoniacally subtle
hoof of the capitalist octopus for the further
bull-dozing of the enchained proletariat need
not, despite certain teachings of the Itchski
or soi-disant neo-Trotsky School, be rejected
in fiJohn by workers rightly struggling to be
free, since under the sesquipedalian —
Friend (anxiously): “I don t quite get
V< P.A.D. : “Rather let us, as militant indus-
trialists, make resonant and scornful answer
to the affluent oppressor, soon to be dashed
like Lucifer into a bottomless pit of his own
hellish and usurious contrivance, the ter-
minology of our reply, shouted defiantly at
the very portals of the breweries, being:
‘Your liquor is, acceptable, but your-
selves’. ’
Friend: ‘‘Woodger mind saym it again,
more, slowly-likc, mate?”
Barmaid ( sharply ) : Time, gents,
please.” ,
P.A.D. (with reluctance) : “Oh, well, ave
a beer.” j
GLAD-EYE WEEK EPISODE.
Humpty Humpty on the sea wall
For a dainty flapper did fall.
All the king’s horses and all the king’s men
Couldn’t keep Humpty from Coogee again.
R.
MORE HARD TIMES.
“Hasn’t a bean? Why, I thought you told
me he was rich!"
“No, I told you he had more money than
sense.”
DEATH BY MISADVENTURE.
“Handle him gently, lads.”
With reverent tread the ambulance atten-
dants bore their tragic burden into the
Sydney Hospital casualty ward. The doctor
gazed pityingly down on the senseless form
—that of an elderly man still black in the
face from his recent hideous experience. Did
the medico dream, or was that a shadowy
halo playing over the victim’s brow?
“How did it happen?”
“He was looking for a hall where he had
arranged to preach, and blundered into
the Legislative Assembly.”
“Well?”
“There was a debate on.”
“God! And he—he heard?”
The other nodded, stony-faced.
The doctor bent and felt his patient's
pulse; it had ceased to flicker. He rose
ANOTHER RUINED INDUSTRY.
’ORACE ( gloomily): “A bloke don’t have much luck pickin’ up money or joolery like ’e
used to.”
ALF: “Naw! It’s them short dresses that’s done it, ’Orace.”
and squared his shoulders. “Communicate
with the Federal Government,” lie ordered.
“Another Commonwealth Film Censor will
havt? to be appointed at once.”
10-2-4.
THE BACKLESS BACK.
“It won’t be very long,” she said,
"Before you see me, Jack.”
lie watched her fondly as she fled,
And longed to sec her back.
At last she came, and side by side
Surf wards they made their track.
His mouth and eyes were opened wide,
For he had seen her back.
BRUTUS.
NOT THEIR JOB.
Driving one Sahhath afternoon
By shining hill and leafy dale,
J saw upon a notice hoard „
The legend, “ktop! Fresh Eggs for Sale,
The farmer turned a hateful eye
Upon the hens hesidc the creek,
“The egos is off” he said: “the cows
Ain't laid a hlanky egg this week!
GETTING INTO THE NEWS.
“The wife was always at. me to make a
name for myself,” said Scoggins. “You
know how women are. Every Sunday she d
turn to the papers and read out„San
public characters. About Bavin
K.C., being a scoutmaster, aad °n ar mis-
being a wartime admiral, and simi £
information. ‘Why can’t you do liketiiem
she’d ask. ‘Think how proud them wives
and families must be of them . *•>
you get into the news? Put H’ u • talk
ihe public—do something to make people tat
THE GIRL IS STILL THERE.
THE ZEALOUS PAINTER (who has been publicly criticised
because of his choice of subjects) : "And, after all,
what is so chaste as the perfectly nude figure?"
THE GIRL: “Yes; but, after all, why should it be?
Clothes merely cover one, you know.”
of you. Remember what Napoleon said: 'I
don't mind what the world ( says of me as
long as it says something.'.’ ’ ”
“Well, I’ve brought it off at last, Scog-
gins proceeded after a pause, ‘ and I hope
she’s satisfied.” He picked up a copy oi
the “S M. Herald” and pointed. I read: —
“In Bankniptcy. —Re Henry Eustace
Scoggins. Ex parte Moses Levy and Sons.
D.


fa
m.
Ira
ST;
''v
-0
m
k
m:
sparkling *
hock
m
HAIADT'S
SR A RKI LIJVG
AUSTRALIAN
MADE
BILLABONG
Australian-made Pumps
Billabong Pumps stand alone for efficiency and durability. Our many
years’ experience in the manufacture of pumping and irrigation
machinery accounts for the superiority of all Billabong Pumps and the
great popularity they have won throughout the Commonwealth. If you
are wanting a Pump
For Farm, Home, Factory, Etc.,
it will be worth while to tell us of your requirements and get our
prices. We shall also be glad to advise on Pumping and Irrigation
Equipment.
NOTE. All Billabong Pumps carry our guarantee.
If you are thinking of installing a Windmill we shall be glad to forward
you, post free, our Billabong Windmill Booklet.
flntmnmtnnii
1 JOHN
fitmiiiiu iiiiiiini'
Q,
lllllQ
&SON I
<IIIIIIIIiIIIISIIIII||7
pry-
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
en
The Cheery Ca 1 1... that never fails
"'V' OU can depend on Big Ben
A to wake you on the dot;
millions have for years.
Strictly modern in design
and finish ... sturdy Big Ben
lives long, serves faithfully.
High quality and thorough
dependability make him most
satisfactory in every way. A
better alarm clock, worth his
price. There are many other
Westclox... alarms, watches,
auto clocks.
Prices from 9/6 to 26/6
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
Brown & Dureau Ltd., Distributors for Australia
Melbourne :: Sydney :: Perth :: Brisbane
m
10
2
4
7
5
103
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
mmm
mm
A,#
Mill
"Not a bite in
a bottle
McCallunis for n
me every time!”
(DTollums
ffi hiskv
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LT D., Svdney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
McFARLANE BROS., Hobart.


in
C *i£
m
°0
k
K
Save, earn interest
and
Start saving now with the
p p B.—it pays you interest
on current accounts.
Have a Bank Account-Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
X
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGSTT'S LINSEED
MEAL
OLIVE-TREES FOR ARID PARTS.
“Atriplex”: The suggestion put forward
by W. W, Froggatt that olive-trees be planted
in the western parts of N. S. Wales to pro-
vide shade and drought fodder is well worthy
of graziers’ consideration. Mr. Froggatt points
out that this tree is most easily propagated
by seeds, cuttings, layers or truncheons
branches 4ft. or sft. long planted deeply in
the ground. It thrives under climatic and
soil conditions similar to those prevailing
in western N.S.W., and once established
(which does not appear to be difficult of
accomplishment) is quick-growing, hardy
and of remarkable longevity. The fruit forms
a valuable drought fodder reserve, as it falls
to the ground and lies there until stock
require it, or if needed can be knocked off
the tree.
This makes good reading from the point
of view of the black-soil sheepman. Given a
few ridges well timbered with wilga, white-
wood or boonette it is remarkable how long
sheep will live on the windfalls, and without
the expense of scrub-cutting. But all these
trees are notoriously slow growers, and that,
I think, is the main reason why so little
planting is done. Most of us would be
greybeards before they \yere any use. Agaiust
this, Mr. Froggatt states that the olive comes
into bearing in about five years. The coii-
amplation of a “self-feeding” drought
fodder, too, is cheering in times like these.
I intend to lay out this tree with due
regard to certain factors: (1) Borers and
case-moths are rampant in the north-west of
the State and wreck havoc on many valuable
trees. (2) The deep cracking that occurs
in the black soil militates against establish-
ing any trees without irrigation, for no
amount of cultivation seems to prevent the
cracks coming in underneath your work and
allowing the conserved moisture to evaporate.
Of course the non-cracking ridges ( e.g .,
cottonbush country) have not this disability,
but they comprise only a small portion of
the land, and then they may not be in the
required situation. If the olive can with-
stand these two drawbacks it is likely to
prove one of our greatest boons.
We have two other trees which exhibit
this self-feeding property, both of which
T have seen growing on practically pure
sand at Richmond, where western N.S.W.
climatic conditions are reproduced to some
extent, though less severely. These trees
are the carob bean ( Ceratonia. siliqua) and
the honey locust (lioiinia pseudo-acacia).
The fruit of each has a good food value. The
carob bean has been recommended for grow-
ing in the drier parts of the State, and why
the honey locust should not be suitable
also I cannot see. A comparative test of
these with the olive should be interesting and
valuable.
CHEAP SAFETY DEVICES.
“Kripple” : Should the Government inspec-
tor of machinery call and order guards to be
erected round engines, machines or belting,
no need to rush oft' for a load of timber and
a carpenter to do the job. A post or
two fixed at suitable points, through which a
few strands of wire are spaced and lightly
strained, will make a cheap, neat and effec-
tive protection to keep within the law —
Queensland law, at all events—and without
the danger.
The under-side of an overhead belt work-
ing across a shearing-board can be dealt with
by fixing strips of timber to bottom edges of
planking, boring several holes one inch apart
through the strips, lacing wire between and
straining, with spacers at three or four feet
intervals. This will make a miniature hori-
zontal fence to prevent a broken belt —a real
danger—coming down on a passing shearer or
shedhand. Projecting ribs fixed, inverted
umbrella fashion, out from the platforms of
windmill towers and covered with wire net-
ting may be the means of saving valuable
lives, a slip while oiling or making adjust-
ments always being a possibility. Such jobs
should not be put off till to-morrow, no
matter what device be used for protection.
WESTRALIA FOR FAT LAMBS.
“Jamwood”: Westralia, like its sister-
States, is giving attention to the production
of fat lambs for export, and is pondering on
the example of Maoriland. Mr. E. 11. Gold-
ing, in a recent address to farmers, reported
by the “Primary Producer,” pointed out that
Maoriland had for years past topped the
world’s market with its Canterbury Down
lambs, and, by way of explanation, gave an
instructive parallel. During the season
which ended in December, 24,000 out of
190,000 lambs which passed through West-
ralia’s Midland Junction market were
secured for export. Not 40 per cent, of them
were classed as top-grade. Maoriland, on
the other hand, exported ten million lambs,
and over 92 per cent, were top-grade.
In Mr. Golding’s opinion the ideal cross —
for Westralian conditions at least—-is a
Border Leicester-merino ewe mated with a
Southdown ram. In wet districts, where
footrot is a danger, it may be advisable to
mate the merino ewe with a Romney Marsh
for the first cross, but in every case the
second cross must be with a Southdown ram.
This will give a lamb with a thick short, low-
set, compact body, fine bone and all meat.
The lamb should suckle .the e\ye until taken
to the works. It should be about 101 b. live-
weight the day after it is dropped, and if
the ewe is properly cared for the lamb
should increase in weight 41b. daily, or
a week, up to 14 weeks. When dressed it
should then go about 361 b. The best price
realised on the London market is for lambs
361 b. and under.
There is a meatworks co. at Robbs Jetty
whose charges are claimed to b<s lower than
those ruling in the Eastern States, For
seven-eighths of a penny per pound it will
take delivery of lambs at the works, kill and
place frozen carcases on board ship at Fre-
mantle, consigned to brokers in London or
elsewhere, to be sold on owner’s account. For
a trifle more it dries the skins and hands
them over to the owner’s agent.
WHERE TOP-DRESSING PAID,
“Wunderless”: “Curlew” (B. i5/4/’3l)
wants to know if top-dressing is a payable
proposition. It is. In our N.S.W. district
I have 447 acres, the ordinary carrying capa-
city of which was one sheep to the acre. I
started top-dressing in 1928. Up to last
year I had top-dressed 210 acres with super.
—from 801 b. to 1501 b. per acre. The place
carried 2 1-5 sheep to the acre in 1928, 2 1-10
in 1929 and 2 in 1930. The rainfall was
1900 points in 1928, 1539 points in ’29 and
1759 points ip ’3O. ,
The cost of sowing 1121 b. per acre', which
includes super, freight, works out at 6s. 6d.
per acre. This amount is good for two years
(often, the second year" is the better), making
the cost 3s. 3d. per acre per year. There-
fore I am able to carry an extra sheep for
3s. 3d. per year. I also put 25 acres of oats
in each year for hay.
The country is partly natural pasture and
partly old cultivation; and it consists of
natural grasses, trefoils and clovers and
some crowfoot. My sheep are always in good
condition. ■ I liaye. repeatedly topped the
local market with my fat lambs and agfed
fat ewes, and my weight of wool pci- sheep
has increased. If “Curlew” wants , more par-
ticulars I shall be pleased to supply them.
“Tumba Munda” : I am top-dressihg now
on my better class of soils ohly. There are
those who say that their poorest soils give
the best results when super, is applied, but
this is only true when the land alleged to
be poor is rich in all plant foods, except
phosphate. In South Aus. many graziers
possessing poor-quality soils have made
heavier dressings than their soils could use
and have been disappointed. I know; I’ve
been there.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT YIELDS.
“Midlander” : A district challenge competi-
tion-organised by the Westraiian Agricultural
Department and covering the past three years
affords further proof (if any is needed) of
the value of good farming. Teams of live
farmers were entered by' numerous districts,
and as each man had to crop at least 200
acres the thing was run on commercial lines.
In 1928-29, 17 teams cropped 40,978 acres
for an average of 16bus. 301 b. The Yanda-
nooka team had highest average with 26bus.
171 b.; one member, P. C. Neville, put up a
new State record with an average of 31bus.
381 b. In 1929-30 12 teams cropped 32,741
acres for an average of ISbus. 401 b. The
Gnowangerup team averaged 30bus. 341 b.; a
member qf it, J. McDonald, established
a new record for over 50 acres by averaging
36bus. 411 b. Last season ended the contest,
Bruce Rock leading for the year with 26bus.
4llb. A total of 16,779 acres harvested by
eight teams averaged 21bus. 501 b. The
brothers Pascoe, .of Bruce Rock, brought glory
to their district by averaging 31bus. 541 b.
Over the three years the Gnowangerup
team put up the best performance, jbut as
judging was on yield only the fertility of
the area and the regularity of the rainfall
gave a great advantage. The average yield
from 3918 acres for the period was 26bus.
591 b. Yandanooka, which is on the privately-
owned Midland railway, came second with
25bus. 91b. average off 4071 acres, and Bor-
den, which adjoins Gnowangerup, was third
with 22bus. 351 b. average from 4517 acres.
In the three years the competing teams
cropped 92,498 acres for an average return
of 17bus. 31b. The State average over the
same years was about bushels.
RAILWAY FREIGHT CHARGES.
“Jackaburra”: The man on the land is
buying in smaller quantities than before the
slump, and in many cases he is called upon
to pay a higher freight rate. In Queensland,
for instance, there is little difference between
the charges for carrying half a ton of salt
and a ton of salt, three tons and six tons.
Of course, this does not hold for all classes
of goods, but where a considerable quantity
is required the buyer would be well advised
to make inquiries first—the merchant will
generally be found willing to give full infor-
mation.
Another idea is for several neighbors to
combine in getting a large consignment sent
in the name of one of their number and
securing the benefit of quantity rate of
freight. This practice is opposed in a half-
hearted way by the Queensland Railway
Department, which is a pity, because
the spirit of co-operation is sorely in need
of encouragement. Moreover, if the depart-
ment took customers into its Confidence
by explaining how freight charges could be
saved, it would be, a step towards meeting
motor competition.
PRUNING DECIDUOUS FRUIT TREES,
Before hopping into the pruning this
season there are 14 points that should be
weighed, like the late President Wilson’s: —
(1) Non-bearing and bearing trees require dif-
ferent treatment.,
(2) Young trees must be cut back at planting-time
to balance root loss in digging from nursery.
(3) Head them low as a protection against sun-
burn and to make the trees easy to spray, prune and
harvest.
(4) Allow three or four scaffold “mains” well
separated down the trunks.
(5) Six to eight main branches at five feet from
the ground are all mature trees require.
( 6) Nightly-pruned trees have stockier and stronger
trunks and branches thaii heavily-pruned trees,
(7) Hard cutting on young trees reduces develop-
ment and inhibits bearing.
(8) To encourage growth in a weak limb, prune
it lightly.
(9) Up to Christmas trees make growth at the
expense of food stored the previous summer.
(10) After Christmas they are busily making
and storing food for next year’s growth and crop.
(11) Various kinds of trees bear their fruit in
different ways—some on spurs, some on new wood.
(12) In bearing trees light and air should have
access to all fruiting parts.
(13) Many light cuts rather than few heavy ones
are preferable in bearing trees, because the influence
of any one cut is localised.
(14) Remember, pruning is only one of the jobs.
Good growth and good fruit production depend upon
proper nutrition.
TH'E BUSH NUT.
“Azac”: Although Maeadamia ternifolia
its a native of Queensland and N. S. Wales,
not one person in a hundred in those States
has ever seen, let alone tasted, this excellent
hut. Tests have shown it to be superior in
flavor and food value to almonds and Eng-
lish walnuts. It makes high-grade salted
nuts, while bush'-nut butter is mild in flavor
and compares favorably with other nut
butters. The bush nut also produces an oil
which, in addition to being useful for salads,
could also be employed in the manufacture
of high-class .soaps and for medicinal' pur-
poses.
Even before Australians have recognised
the worth of their bush nut it has been intro-
duced and is being grown in other parts of
the world, notably in Hawaii. There, in
qrder to encourage its culture, an Act has
been passed exempting from taxation for
five years all land growing the bush nut.
Moreover, the Imperial Institute in London
has reported that a ready market awaits the
nut in the U.K. as soon as it can be for-
warded in commercial quantities.
Little attention haa been devoted to bush-
nut culture in this country, and naturally
there is room for improvement, particularly
in the ■ direction of producing a thin-shelled
variety and in the elimination of the prickles
on the margins of the leaves. The greatest
drawback is the thickness of the shell, which
makes it almost impossible to crack the nut
in the ordinary way ; nevertheless thin-shelled
strains have been produced. Although the
bush nut is generally propagated from seed
sown in either autumn or spring, this
method is unsatisfactory. There is only
one way of being sure of perpetuating desir-
able characters, and that is by vegetative
propagation. It is suggested that patch
budding and side tongue and whip grafting
of year-old seedling trees -would be satisfac-
tory.
The tree is not particular as to soil, pro-
vided the position is sheltered from very
strong winds. It grows best in the banana
districts of N. S. Wales, where old planta-
tions are interplanted' a few years before
the end of their period of usefulness, the
trees being then well grown when the
bananas go out. As a rule the bush nut
does not produce a full crop until its seventh
year, but the space between the rows can
be utilised for the growing of beans, tomatoes,
pawpaws and passion-fruit. The nuts fall
to the ground when ripe, but are then too
fresh to market and should be stored for
some time in order to cure.
It has been estimated that the yield per
tree in Australia is 1001 b., but Ilawaiians
claim that they can average nearer 3001 b. per
tree.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Best trees to plant for shade and
drought fodder on the Darling Downs (box
country), near Toowoomba? (2) Are
kurrajongs grown from seed or cuttings?
(3) Gan they be obtained from seedsmen?
(4) Any. literature on subject? —292o.
(1) Kurrajong ( Sterculia diversifolia) ,
red ash ( Alphitonia excelsa), bellasombra
(Phytolacca dioica) , honey bean (Gledit-
schia triacanthos). (2) From seed. (3)
Yes. (4) Get in touch with the Forestry
Department, Brisbane.
(1) IToio are sheepskins (fresh killed arid
sun-dried ) prepared for sale after being fell-
mongdred? (2) Method of grading? (3)
Method of packing? (4) Present value?
(5) Best market in Q’land? —2673.
(1) They are pickled in a solution of
lgal.‘ sulphuric acid and 1 bucket salt in
200 gal. water. Immerse pelts and keep them
moving for 20min. (2) They are graded
according to quality—firsts, seconds and
thirds. (3) In casks with a small quantity
of pickle to keep them moist. (4) Is. 6d.
to 3s. per doz. (5) Any number of agents in
Brisbane are prepared to sell pickled pelts
on owners’ behalf.
I have a red woolly sheep-dog pup, and
want him to grow big. How should he be
fed?— 26B4.
If wormy, clean him out and move kennel
to fresh, clean ground some distance away.
Then feed on fresh raw bullock’s heart,
sheep’s heart or bones with a fair amount of
fresh meat on them for morning feed, and
fresh milk, warm from the cow if possible,
for evening. Any table scraps may be fed
as well, provided they are not stale. Don t
give him liver or lights; such diet stunts
growth. Fresh clean water is necessary ; and
a bed of straw (frequently changed) will
keep the coat in good order.
(1) What progress is being made with the
discovery of a vaccine for tuberculosis in
cattle? (2) Is there a commercial ' va A£^ l< i
of proved worth on the market? (3) Ir/iat
is the nature of the tests applied to vaccines .
(4) From whom could detailed information
be obtained? —3050.
(1) and (2) The Bacillus-Calmette-
Guerin vaccine, known as “8.C.G.,” the dis-
covery of Prof. Calmette, of the Pasteur In-
stitute, holds the field, claims made for the
Spahlinger vaccine not having been substan-
tiated. Experiments with B.C.G. have been
proceeding at Cambridge at the cost of the
Empire Marketing Board since 1027, but
while it has been proved that the immunisa-
tion of calves is practicable, many more years
of work are considered necessary before the
vaccine can be used commercially. (3)
Calves are inoculated with t.b. after vac-
cination with B.C.G. The inoculation is
very much more severe than could be caused
by ordinary infection. In most instances
greatly-increased resistance to t.b. has been
brought about by vaccination. (4) From
Prof. J. B. Buxton, Dept, of Animal Patho-
logy, Cambridge Uni., England.
(1) In the treatment of land infested with
eel-worm ( nematodes), is formalin used
in the form of a fumigant , as crude formal-
dehyde, or as an irrigant in solution? (2)
If the latter, strength of solution? (3)
Number of applications necessary? (4)
Length of time between treatment and crop-
ping? (5) Quantity required to treat i-acre?
(6) Is treatment possible during the growth
of a crop? —3B3B.
(1) In solution. (2) One part of 40 p.c.
formaldehyde to 50 parts of water, admin-
istered at the rate of about three or four
gallons per square yard. (3) In the U.S.A.,
where this method is mostly practised, only
one. (4) At least one year must elapse before
replanting. (5) It is not considered prac-
ticable to adopt such a procedure on a i-acre
block. (6) It is used in the U.S.A. in
orchards where only a few trees are in-
fested, after destroying the infested trees.
So far as Australian experience goes the
method is not in favor, and sterilisation with
steam has been found much more effective.
Queensland Agriculture Dept, issues a pam-
phlet on nematodes in which control mea-
sures are discussed.
Is the owl a noxious bird, and what does
it feed on? —3019.
No. It preys on rodents and the larger
nocturnal insects, and sometimes eats star-
lings and sparrows. The boobook owl feeds
almost entirely on insects, but occasionally
captures mice and small birds.
Best means of exterminating sparrows?
—2874.
By the use of poisoned wheat. One-eightli
of an ounce of soluble sulphate of strychnine
is dissolved in a cupful of boiling water.
This is then poured over one quart of wheat
which has previously been well dried. A
two-quart jar with a tight-fitting top may
be used, and should be shaken at intervals
until all the solution has been absorbed. The
bait is then spread out to dry. The poisoned
grain should be scattered where the sparrows
frequent. Pre-baiting with unpoisoned grain
increases the chance of success, as the birds
are quick to detect danger. Where there is
a danger of poultry or pigeons feeding on
the grain it may be protected with suitable
wire netting to exclude them but permit the
sparrows to enter. Care should be exercised
and intelligence displayed in deciding where
safely to scatter the grain. Collect dead
sparrows from spouts and gutterings, and
label and keep both poison and poisoned grain
out of reach of children.
Is subterranean clover indigenous to Aus-
tralia? llow long has it been known to
botanists ? —2656.
It is not indigenous. A specimen of the
plant was identified by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment botanist in 1896. Baron von Mueller
records it as an introduction into Victoria
in 1887. It is mentioned in some of the
earliest English botanical works. W. Howard,
of Mount Barker (S.A.), has grown sub.
clover for the last 30 years.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Wunderless”: Catch the crows and save
your lambs. This is how. Place a rabbit
or a dead lamb in the ground, preferably
under or near a tree; set ordinary rabbit-
traps about six inches apart round the car-
case as if for rabbits and collect the crows.
My record last year was 42 crows, 8 hawks
and 2 wedgetail eagles.
“Wunderless”: It is worth while look-
ing after the teeth of your sheep. All loose
ones should be extracted, and long teeth
should be cut off level with the others
Broken-mouthed sheep should have their
teeth extracted; the gums heal up in a few
days and they are then able to feed as well
as sheep with good sound teeth even on
(Continued on page 29.)


7^
\
&
\v
VYSSfc^ NN ' vXNwW
JillUllii
ms
tm
"'AVC
A body of local manufacture for every haulage requirement
FASTER HAULAGE
with LONGER LIFE
Exclusive engineering advantages of the
Reo Speed Wagon provide:
1. Greater load capacity in proportion to
chassis weight.
2. More actual horse-power for each pound
of chassis weight.
3. Greater road speed at slower engine
speed —prolonging the life of power
plant and connecting parts.
A demonstration will prove these facts.
Reo Trucks in 14 wheelbase sizes provide a sturdy,
dependable chassis for 93 % of all hauling needs and
for ’buses of various passenger capacities. Load
capacities from f -ton up through the heavy-duty range.
REO STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
171-175 William Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Queen’s Bridge Square, Melbourne, Vic.
REO MOTORS (SALES), LTD.,
96-100 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
DENNY BROS., LTD.,
439-447 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
Barry Parade, The Valley, Brisbane, Queensland.
REO
SPEED WAGONS
AND TRUCKS
REO MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LANSING


Our Service Department
This page is. set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (23), Vic., handy with machinery,
wants job on station.—3o24.
Houseman-cook (Melbourne) wants employment.
—3003.
Lady (N.S.W.I wants' position as cook on station
in the Eden-Monaro district. —3012.
Young married couple, Q’land, no children, hus-
band returned soldier, exp. station worker, can kill,
milk, fence, etc., wife housemaid, waitress, plain
cook, want position anywhere.—3ol7.
Young man, Sydney, invalid, wants position as
telephone attendant, with clerical work in spare
time. —2980.
Married couple, Sydney, no children, desire position
as caretakers, gentleman’s seaside or country resi-
dence. Husband exp. with boats, launches and
gardening ; wife, housekeeper.—3o6o.
Ex-soldier, N.S.W., married, many years’ exp. with
copra, sefks position on plantation. Refs. —3049.
Girl (17), Sydney, just left business college, wants
position in office. —3040.
To buy back numbers of “Everybody’s Magazine”
(1920 and 1921). —3000.
To buy book dealing with breaking in and train-
ing saddle and farm horses. —2999.
To buy 1929 Morris Minor instruction book. —3023.
To buy, second-hand, “Encyclopaedia Britanniea,”
any edition. —3039.
To buy copy of “The Golden Shanty.”—3o34.
To buy, second-hand, accountancy and law text-
books. State price and year of publication.—3o3l.
Whereabouts of Mary Ann O’Donnell, who resided
at the Australian Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne, in
1890 and 1891 and in 1897 was in Ivalgoorlie.
—3068.
Information Sought.
Which is correct, “The numbers arc as
follow” or “The numbers arc as follows” ?
Can you support your opinion by authority?
—2BS6.
“As follows” is proscribed by the Oxford
English Dictionary and Fowler’s “Modern
English Usage.” It is sanctioned by long
usage, and while its grammatical soundness
is debatable it is no more ungrammatical than
“as follow.”
In what circumstances did Sir Alexander
Hore-Ruthvcn, now Governor of S.A., win
the V.C.? What regiment was he in, and
what rank? —2763.
In 1898 lie was captain in command of
the Camel Corps engaged in the siege of
Gedaref in the Sudan. An Egyptian officer
was lying wounded about 50 yards in front
of advancing dervishes. Captain Ilore-
Ruthven went out and picked him up and
started for the Egyptian lines. Three times
he had to put his burden down while he
kept the dervishes at bay with his revolver.
(1) What are the favorite breeding
grounds of fleas? (2) How long do they live
and how do they breed? (3) Are they
amphibious? (4) Have they any natural
foes? (5) Occasionally what looks like one
flea separates, if alarmed, into two or three.
What happens? (5) Best method of ridding
a house of the insects? —2505.
(1) In dust, cracks of floors and anywhere
where ground-down organic remains are
allowed to accumulate. (2) Nearly 18 months
if fed ; if unfed, about four months. The female
lays eggs which hatch out into eyeless, leg-
less larva;. At the end of three larval stages
a cocoon is spun within which the larva
changes to a. pupa, from which in due course
the adult emerges. (3) No, but they can
swim. (4) None are known save their
hosts. (5) Probably a case of huddling
together to mislead an enemy. Fleas if in
danger frequently sham dead, tucking their
logs close up to their bodies. (6) Rid the
house of rats and mice ; wash cats and dogs
with a soap containing an insecticide; wash
all floors and pour a solution of naphthaline
in benzine into all cracks that cannot be
filled up. If a room is very badly infested
scatter flaked naphthaline on the floor and
shut the door for 24 hours. Oil of eucalyp-
tus should be sprinkled between sheets, and
rubbed on the legs of bedsteads, and naphtha-
line should be placed in wardrobes. An
emulsion of one part kerosene to 20 water
will kill all fleas it touches.
(1) Hoic much does Britain owe U.S.A.
(war or other debts)? (2) Who fixed the
mint value of gold, and when? (3) 11 hat
gold reserves are held by the nations of the
League? (4) How much yearly is paid in
Australia for protected necessaries over
world's parity? (5) If Australia was able
to pay, how much of the total public debt
could be paid off at once without consulting
creditors? (6) What percentage of our
adult population is made up of morons?
3839
’ (1) War debt at present stands at
4.416,000,000 dollars. That is the only
public debt of any importance owed by
Britain to U.S.A. (2) Value for mint pur-
poses was fixed in Britain by. Royal procla-
mation, 1816. (3) The only important gold
reserves held by members of the League ot
Nations stood at the beginning of this year
as follows: France, £435,600,000; Britain,
£144 543,000 ; Germany, £108,500,000 ; Spain,
£96 700,000. (4) No computation is avail-
able (5) Only the amount of loans matur-
ing this year—about £30,000,000 redeemable
in’Australia, and an inconsiderable amount
in London. In present circumstances, how-
ever, holders of bonds maturing at , later
dates would not be likely to refuse cash pay-
ment (6) No statistics available as to
number of persons below normal mentality;
3.45 persons in every 1000 were insane and
under official care in 1928.
My variegated aspidistras have gone all
green. Is there any way to restore the
r a ri eg a tion ?■ —2851.
Yon are probably treating your plants too
well; the variation is a symptom of weak-
ness in the plants, and disappears if . the
plants are manured. Don’t, use fertiliser,
be sparing with water, and keep the plants
out of the sun. The variations will probably
come back.
About ten years ago a Melbourne college
awarded a prize of £25 for a long poem on
Gallipoli, llow did the prize originate, what
were the conditions, who judged it, who won
it, and was the poem published? —2922.
The prize was given by the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College, Melbourne, in memory
of Rupert Brooke, for a poem of not less
than 150 nor more than 300 lines by any
Australian writer. The winner was the
late David McKee Wright, of Tiie Bulle-
tin, whose poem was published in The
Bulletin, September 2, 1920. The judges
were Prof. Wallace, Dr. Archibald Strong
and Mr. Oliphant (president of the Shaks-
poare Society).
(1) Composition of Australian Navy in
1914 and at present? (2) Same informa-
tion as regards the military forces? (3)
Strength of Air Force? (4) Cost of defence
per head ' in Australia and United King-
dom ?- —2347.
(1) June 15, 1914, 14 ships, all in com-
mission ; 279 officers, 3300 men. February
15, 1931, 5 ships in commission, 11 in re-
serve; 363 officers, 3015 men. (2) June 30,
1914, 45,465 all ranks ; December 30, 1930,
29,974 all ranks. (3) March 31, 1931, Per-
manent Air Force, 98 officers, 18 air cadets,
710 airmen; Citizen Air Force, 39 officers,
250 airmen. (4) Australia (1929-30), 155.;
United Kingdom (1929-30), £2 9s.
I am buying land in N.B.W. but have
fallen behind with payments. (1) Does the
Moratorium exempt me? (2) Must l pay
instalments due but unpaid before Act was
passed? (3) Must full amount be paid on
expiry of Act plus interest for the term?
(4) Are the original conditions resumed on
expiry of Act? (5) Commencing and expiry
dates of Act? (6) To what extent have
values decreased in the Toronto district? —
2891.
(1) It suspends repayment on condition
that if purchaser is in arrears for 12 months in
respect of principal or interest, and during
six months has made “no payment in respect
of any portion of the amount due,” the vendor
mav take action to exercise all his rights
under the agreement. (21 and (5) Assented
to, Dec. 19, 1930; remains in force to April
30, 1933. Actions to recover instalments,
even if commenced, could not be proceeded
with after Nov. 26, 1930. (3) Ultimately
all must be paid. On failure to pay instal-
ments, Court may fix interest where not
orovided for in agreement. (4) Yes. (6)
Values have fallen in sympathy with general
trend; no percentage can be specified.
I have taken out a provisional patent,
employing a patent attorney a k t a cost of
£4 14s. 6d. 1 am told that to complete the
patent it will cost £2l, giving protection for
16 years. Is there no cheaper way, such
ns taking out a patent for, say, two years? —
2898.
No patents are granted for a short term.
The price quoted is in accordance with the
usual scale of charges adopted by patent
attorneys.
It is claimed by some that international
sport is detrimental to world peace. Is
'there any literature on the subject,wind what
is the opinion of prominent workers for
world peace? —2949.
So far as we know the view is not held
by any prominent worker for world peace,
and we can trace no literature on the
subject.
Can milk for sale in N. 8. Wales be
watered, and, if so, to what extent? —3018.
No. It must be “the normal, clean and
sweet secretion obtained from the udder of the
healthy cow, properly fed, kept and regularly
milked, excluding that got during the seven
days immediately following on parturition.
It shall contain not less than 8.5 per cent, of
milk solids not fat, and 3.2 per cent, of milk
fat. It shall not contain any added water
nor any other added substance.”
The owner of an adjoining block has
erected a dividing fence next to my vacant
section without giving me notice of his inten-
tion. He now wants me to bear half the
cost. Has he any claim in N. 8. Wales law?
—2990.
Yes. The" amount may be determined by
the arbitration of two persons to be mutu-
ally chosen by the parties, and th'e amount
awarded is recoverable at law within 12
months after the date of the award.
(1) Names and positions of the Australian
crew which won the Grand Challenge at
Henley-on-Thames in 1912? (2) Names of
manager and coach? (3) Average weight of
crew? (4) Details of final? (5) In what
circumstances was this crew sent abroad? —
2870.
(1) J. A. Eyrie (bow), N.S.W., 12st. 81b.;
S. Fraser (2), Vic., list. 101 b.; K. Heritage
(3), N.S.W., 12st. 21b.; T. Parker (4),
N.S.W., 13st. 101 b.; H. Haunstein (5),
N.S.W., 13st. 81b.; S. Middleton (6), N.S.W.,
13st. 61b.; FI. Ross-Soden (7), Vic.. 12st.
51b.; R. B. Fitzhardinge (stroke), N.S.W.,
lOst. 131 b.; R. G. Iv. Waley (cox) . (2)
Coach, W... Middleton; manager, Alex. Thom-
son. (3) 12st. 81b. (4) Australia defeated
Leander over u, course of 1 inile, 550 yards
by three-quarters of a length'in ,7min. Oseev
(5) The crew was selected and financed to
compete in the Olympic Games at Stockholm
and while in England entered for the Grand
Challenge Cup.
(1) What is the procedure and how long
would it take in Q’land to legally eject a
tenant whose rent is not in arrears, and who
cannot he proved undesirable? (2) Within
whai limits can the rent he increased with
the intention of forcing the tenant to leave ?
2939.
(1) Give 28 days’ notice to quit. If he then
fails to qnit, apply to the Court for an eject-
ment order. (2) If the rent,has not already
been fixed by the Fair Rents Court, the
tenant could apply to it to fix it, and you
would have to show good grounds for an
increase.
(1) Do the veterinary surgeons who
inspect sheep specialise in sheep? (2) Where
one may learn this profession? (3) Length
and cost of course? (4) Any age limit? (5)
Prospects of. obtaining employment on com-
pleting course? (G) Salary? —2B23.
(1) No. They undergo a course of instruc-
tion embracing a study of all domesticated
animals. (2) Veterinary School of Sydney
or Melbourne Uni. (3) The course extends
over a period of four academic years, com-
mencing in March, and costs approx. £2OO
for fees and books. (4) Must attain the
age of 21 before degree will be conferred;
no age limit to entrance to the schools. Matri-
culation is essential. (5) Very bright. (6)
A cadet graduate entering the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department’s service as a junior
officer is paid £325 p.a.; otherwise salary
depends on experience and length of time
since graduation. In most services about
£4OO is the commencing salary.
(1) 1 am a resident of Vic. Can the
N.S.W. Government tax my Manly Gas
dividends with unemployed tax? The co. has
been deducting the tax. (2) 1 have a M.L.
income of £l5 p.a. Do I have to pay Federal
income tax on this? —2907.
(1) Yes, the tax is correctly deducted by
the co. (2) You shouldn’t, but the amount
must be included in the return lodged for
Federal purposes.
(1) How to keep'weeds off earthen tennis
courts in winter. (2) What treatment is
required to prepare the courts for next year?
—2931.
. (1) Regular applications of a weedicide
or covering the weeds with salt are recom-
mended. (2) In the spring give a top-
dressing of very fine sandy gravel, well
rolled in.
What is the distinguishing feature of the
Double Geneva stamp, what is its appear-
ance, and what is it worth? —2897.
The Double Geneva is a cantonal stamp
issued in 1843. It was sold in pairs and
the face value of each stamp was five cen-
times (Id.). The design, which is in green,
represents the arms of Geneva. The value
of a pair of these stamps is about £l5O and
a single copy runs into about £3O. There
are forgeries on the market.
How to propagate oleander, camellia,
lagcrstromia, daphne, buddleia, gardenia,
hydrangea and poinsettia and the best time
for the work? —3045.
All except daphne and gardenia can be
propagated by cuttings. Choose last year’s
wood, set them in soil well mixed with sand,
and water sparingly. Daphne and gardenia
can be “struck” by layering low-growing
limbs and also (under liot-house conditions)
with pieces of ends of limbs which have
borne flowers. The work should be done in
May. Organic manures should not be applied
when propagation is being done.
1 wish to cover an unsightly fence with a
hardy evergreen creeper. What is most suit-
able; its habits of growth and color of
blooms ?— 3041.
Depends on position, since strong winds
create havoc and destroy the young clinging
shoots and tendrils. In very exposed positions
Hedera (ivy) and Ficus, neither of which
carries flowers, will thrive. In less , exposed
positions, Doliehos (white and pink blooms,
very quick growers), Bignonia (cream, white,
rose, lavender, orango and other color
blooms), Lonicera (white, yellow and red)-,
Convolvulus (blue, pink and white) and the
Everlasting Blue Pea ( Lathyrus pubescens),
are suitable. Bougainvillaea (mauve, rose,
magenta and purple shades) can be used if
it is intended to train the runners on si
frame near the fence—a method which will
not injure the fence or be an annoyance
to your neighbor.
(1) How much raw silk do we import
annually and where does it come from? (2)
Is it dutiable? —3B36.
(1) For the year ending June 30, 1930,
imports wei*e: From Japan, 293,2821 b., valued
at £331,517; United Kingdom, 26221 b.,
£1363; U.S.A., 6951 b., £831; Italy, 3251 b.,
£434. (2) It is subject to primage duty of
4 per cent, ad valorem.
1 am thinking of taking over a sawmill.
What are the ' prospects generally in the
timber industry? Any money in making
fruit-cases ? —3033.
At present the. industry is in a precarious
state. Trade depression and financial strin-
gency mean that building, particularly of
wooden houses, is more or less at a stand-
still. In the matter of fruit-case cutting,
present prospects are far from encouraging.
Owing to keen competition, the price in
some instances has been reduced to 61d. per
case in shooks.
(1) To which side does a vessel lean if
the helm is put hard a-starboard and she
turns in a circular path? (2) Why docs
she turn in this manner? —2792.
Presume you mean a sailing vessel, as a
ship under power does not lean to any appre-
ciable amount when the helm is shifted. (1)
If she was heading dead into the wind and
the helm was put hard a-starboard she would
get the wind on the starboard side and lean
to port when under plain sail. The helm
held hard over would cause her to pay off
till she jibbed, when she would get the wind
on the port side and lean to starboard. (2)
Because putting the helm to starboard puls
the rudder'to port which steers the ship’s
head to port.
Information Supplied.
2733. —“Boalla” is an Irish word mean-
ing the soft field .(boggy land) of the swans,
derived jfrom bogj a soft .place, and caia
(alia), a swan. The word designating swans
has been given to many of their haunts, such
as loughanalla, lake of the swans, and
monalla, swamp of the swans.—“Luehorpan.”
Brief Answers.
Approximately 15 p.c. P-®- ® uch
calculations are made by the use of loo a ■ •
P.F.: Kingsford Smith, Hinkler and Ulm all h
honorary commissions in the 8.A.A.F..
you can prove that the cat was the offendei, jou c
sue the owner in the Small Debts Court 01 ania S
done. . . .P.E.T.: (1) In 1890—now, with
amending Acts, consolidated in Act of 1928. (.
will not affect her title, but she will have to pio\e
identity J.E.W.: Your wife’s will speaks from
the day of her death. Her sister being then dead,
the legacy lapsed... .J.S.W.: “Poultry Farming in
N. by Hadlington (4s. 4d. post free), from
Govt. Printer W.C.D.: Consult Consul-General for
the Netherlands, 28 O’Connell-street, Sydney....
C.M.P.: (1) The team played 34 games; 12 were
won, 1 lost, 20 drawn and one resulted in a tie.
(2) Bradman scored 11 centuries, Woodfull
6, Kippax 4, Ponsford 4, Richardson 2 and
Jackson 1....F.L.5.: The lines occur in
stanza 86 of Christopher Smart’s “Song to David ... .
O. : Get in touch with the Secretary, Real Estate
Institute of N.S.W., 30a Martin-place, Sydney....
E.D.C.: If a patent exists you must get patentee s
authority to make the article, though for your own
use only. . . .11. A.: N.S.W. Fisheries Dept, knows
nothing about the experiments.... Q,.: Your method
is incorrect. It is essential to ascertain the angles.
. ...A.E.B. : Yes, the same sight can be seen at the
South Pole G.M.: The number of sheep in N.S.Y.
at December 31, 1930, was 49,870,000 ... .H.A C :
(1) The superficial area of the earth is estimated to
be 196,550,000 square miles; 55,500,000 land and
141,050,000 water. (2) Diameter of the earth at the
equator is 7926 J English miles. . . .D.C.: Pawnbrokers
in N.S.W. pay an annual license fee of £lO. The
hours for receiving pledges are, with certain excep-
tions 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. No restriction is placed on
interest H.T.M.: Dr. Bradfleld was born at Sand-
gate (Q’land) .in 1867 ; educated Ipswich Grammar
School and Sydney Uni A.J.U.: (1) A. W. Dye,
219 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (2) An approximate
analysis would cost £1 I s L. 0.5.: (1) Suggest
you canvass the lot. A list can be obtained from
the advertising columns of the “S. M. Herald. (2)
Ko A.F.S.: Elliott Bros., 20 O’Connell-street,
Sydney..'. .G.M.R.: You might get a pamphlet from
Q’land Health Dept C.H.C.: Write Agriculture
Dept., Brisbane. .. .F.R.: The Wynne Art Prize con-
sists of the interest on approximately £lOOO, and is
awarded annually to the Australian producing the
best landscape painting of Australian scenery in
oils or water-colors, or the best figure sculpture.
F.O.C.: Payments under the N.S.W. Widows
Pensions Act commenced on March 10, 1926. At
December 31, 1930, 4843 pensions were current and
£611,947 was paid in 1930... .T.L.D.: Without a
written order of the Court no person may receive
a child under seven in N.S.W. to be maintained
apart from its mother for payment W.A.W.: (1)
Obtain leaflet issued by Vic. Agriculture Dept. (2)
Fine-wool ewes usually get in lamb earliest
R. J.G.: The only book on the gladiolus known to
us is by Matthew Crawford, published in America
in 1911. You could get instructions for growing
them from catalogues issued by Errey Bros., Cam-
perdown, Vic..... J.L.: N.S.W. Unemployment Relief
Tax has been correctly deducted. Where an em-
ployee has to provide any plant, etc., portion of
payment represented thereby should not be taxed.
S.C.L.: By submitting samples of your work to
advertising agents and commercial art studios....
T.W.M.: Communicate with the manager, State
Smelters, Chillagoe, Q’land.. . .H.H.: Monis s
“British Butterflies’’ (1855) arid “Mr. Sponge’s
Sporting Tour” (1882) are worth about 10s. each.
Others no value. .. . A.M.N.: Valueless. .. . J.M.:
N.S.W. Unemployment Relief Tax applies to
all income, derived in N.S.W. by any person,
resident or non-resident. .. .C.11.A.: Leonard Mei-
riclc changed his surname by deed poll
from Miller. He is 65.-. . .R.L.M.: Montbretias roots
should be planted during the late autumn or early
winter months, any rich soil and an open sunny
situation suiting them well. Once established they
will flower every year.. . . J.S.E.: First editions of
Mrs. Campbell Praed’s “Outlaw and Lawmaker”
(1893) have fetched up to 42s 5.T.8.: Wolumba
(“big waterhole”), Moorilla (“stone”), Euroka
(“the sun”), Buribuca (“lilies in water”) K.F.:
Prairie grass is not an annual, but is a permanent
pasture grass suited to moist ground. It is propa-
gated by means of seed, and except for the tussockj
nature of the plant is not difficult to eradicate
E.H.P.: Federal Pastural Shearing Co., 245 George-
street; Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co., Ltd., 23
Macquarie-place; Merriwa Contract Co., Ltd.} 255 a
George-street—all Sydney... .W.N.: The Slade School
of Fine Art is at University College, Gower-street,
London. It is under Prof. Randolph Schwabe, and
provides complete courses in all branches of drawing,
painting and sculpture. .. .E.S.H.: There was no earl
of that name. Other information not available
locally. .. .A.S.C.S.: N.S.W. newspapers cannot fur-
nish details concerning sweeps conducted outside the
State... .R.H.: Communicate with the secretary,
Prickly Pear Land Commission, Brisbane F.S.A.:
Try Berger and Sons, 11c Castlereagh-street; Major
Bros., Concord; Taubman’s, Ltd., Mary-strec-t, St.
Peters—all Sydney A.A.: Suggest you procure a
copy of the Nurses’ Registration Act, 1924, from
Govt. Printer, Sydney, Is W.H.S. : An invalid
pensioner attaining the age of 65 is regarded as an
old-age pensioner, the pension being continued as an
old-age pension. . . .T.S.M.: Only procurable by order-
ing from London G.G.A.: Trouble is probably
caused through the nipple hole in the generator being
too large and allowing too much petrol through.
These lamps are constructed so that the gas
generated from a mixture of air and petrol, and if
the mixture is not correct it causes the mantles
to blacken. Brandt’s, Ltd., 371 Pitt-street, Sydney,
can supply new generators for the Akron lamp at
2s. 6d. each, plus postage M.F.: Dig it out with
a good ball of earth at any time from now on to
September 1.D.H.: All the six quartettes, Op. 18.
and the three quartettes, Op. 59, of Beethoven have
a popular appeal. The same applies to all Mozarts
quartettes, especially those dedicated to Haydn.. ••
E.H.: Your description is too vague to enable us to
diagnose. Specimens of diseased plants should be
forwarded .to the Biological Branch, N.S.W. Agricul-
ture Department, for examination D.P.: The Aus-
tralian goldfields, as a whole, were orderly and the
diggers and miners law-abiding. Exceptions occurred
at Ballarat and Lambing Flat (Young). H. G. Turner,
in his book on Victoria, deals with this phase..••
W.T.8.: A children’s edition of the “Arabian Nights
can be procured from 3s. to 12s. from most book-
sellers. Burton’s Edition in 17 volumes costs £2l.
. ...M.D.S.: (1) Peace Society (N.S.W. Branch), 4-
Bridge-street; League of Nations Union, 32 Castle-
reagh-street—both Sydney! (2) International Peace
Society, King’s Buildings, Dean Stanley-street, h° n '
don, S.W.I H.C.: Write to the Assistant Pay
mas’ter-General, Supreme Court Pay Office, bo» d “';
giving full particulars of your claim M.C.H -
It might be best ; for the growers to consult W»t*'
the Marketing Board . and adopt the suggestion of a
test - case. Await the finding of the Court before
taking action and then be advised by a solicitor.. ■
J. 8.: Without the name of the paper and the appro»-
mate date of the notice, search would be hopeless.
(Many others mailed.)


A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One third of Queensland's
Entire Population .
rf #
In Greater Brisbane
Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marlcet, from:
ffibe Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agent*- H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
m
m
d.
m
m
mK£/t
j%y<vy*ooooo
1
w
m
U
isii
lit It
e
s
m
m
as a cat!
car
You haven’t experienced the full joy of motoring unless your
feels like a live thing under your control. To learn this thrill, fill
up with C.O.R. For C.O.R. British is a triumph of British Industry—
undoubtedly the finest motor Spirit the world has produced.
M*
tMP//^£
C.1./1/S6/31
BKI Tl SH
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co Ltd )
Agents -for Queensland, South Australia and Country Districts of New South
Vv ales:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
& CO.
LTD.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“City Lights,” pre-shown at Sydney State
and due at Sydney Lyceum and Melbourne
Majestic on Saturday, is easily Charlie
Chaplin’s best. He wrote and directed it,
composed some of the incidental music and
probably thought out the comic stunts.
Though he is, of course, the star, the action
is so balanced that several others are able
to grab the limelight now and again. Notably
the Eccentric Millionaire, who knows him
when drunk but ignores him when sober, and
the Blind Girl, whom he loves —two outstand-
ing examples of brilliant casting.
A feature of the film is its old-fashioned
flavor. The story has been done many times
with slight variations by its author in the
past 20-odd years. The poor little tramp,
futile in everything but with a heart of gold,
meets and loves beauty in distress. He gets
hold of the money required to save the girl,
and goes to gaol, though innocent of theft,
and when he . comes out she is indifferent.
There is nothing for him to do but paddle
forlornly off, and resume the unequal fight
with life elsewhere. The photographic and
lighting effects belong to the pre-talkie era,
and some of the comic stuff is pre-war. The
drunk who. keeps falling into the water and
dragging his would-be rescuer after him, for
example, and the incompetently driven car
that whizzes over pavements and round
street lamps. A good deal of the pathos is
Edwardian, not to say Victorian.
But what an incomparable entertainment
it is! How superbly all the characters act,
and how endearingly Charlie repeats the
tricks that have made him the best-loved
man in the world ! Someone at the pre-view
said his business of accidentally swallowing
the whistle, and then getting the hiccups,
was old. It may be, though it was new to
this writer; but certainly no one else could
have matched Chaplin’s despair at the em-
barrassing results of his misfortune —the
frigid disapproval of the restaurant guests,
and the arrival of the taxi-drivers and the
dogs.
In this picture, more definitely than in
any of his others. Charlie is the universal
child. He is a little boy in everything; in
his trustfulness, recklessness, affection for
those who treat him well, agonised self-con-
sciousness when subjected to indignities, and
in his lavatory humor. The last-named
brand of essentially Chaplinesque fun is
is a bit overdone in “City Lights.”
* # *
“Range," pre-shown recently in Sydney by
Paramount, is a jungle picture by Ernest
Schocdsack, the creator of “Chang” and
“Grass.”
There are four principals—Ali, an old
Malay tiger-hunter, and his little son Bin,
and Tua, an ancient orang-outang, and his
son Range—and innumerable supers. Among
the supers, are a water-buffalo, tigers, leop-
ards, and cascades of monkeys. The plot
revolves round the desperate struggle of all,
save the buffalo, to keep alive. He is serene.
He is the friend and servant of man, and is
dreaded by the tiger, who is the consuming
and ceaseless dread of all the rest. Rango
arrives at Ali’s hut as the result of a trap
set because monkeys have been raiding it.
He becomes Bin’s cobber, in the Digger sense
of the word, and with him participates in
a more terrible war than the Diggers knew,
and one which will know no armistice. Rango
goes in the end, killed by a tiger which, in
its turn, is killed by the buffalo at the behest
of Bin. So the story ends on a note of cer-
tainty that Bin, Tua and Ali will follow
Rango in due course.
There may be some faking in this picture
• —there probably is—but all the zoos in the
world could not help us to understand ani-
mals as it does. In a zoo the animal is
placid, perhaps contented. At least he has
nothing to fear. In the jungle fear never
leaves him. The faces of the monkeys in'
“Rango,” got by the tele-photo lens, are
not the faces we know but those of beings
distorted by permanent terror. Children
might appreciate “Rango” even more than
grown-ups. Skipping its horrors, they would
probably note no more than the responsive-
ness of animals to kindness —Rango, as lie
snuggles into bed with Bin, or the terrific
buffalo who smiles as Bin strokes his muzzle.
Anyhow, it is a picture to be seen by old
and young.
* * *
Sydney Capitol, which provides two im-
portant pictures a week and a vaudeville
show, is now running “Cape Forlorn”
(banned at first by our Censor, and then
passed with emendations) and “Honor
Among Lovers.” A version of “The Bat”
was screened there last week. In this show
Chester Morris portrays Detective Anderson
as a disciplinarian of epileptic energy, and
Grayce Hampton is the dauntless female to
whom lie reports for duty. Gustav von Seyf-
fertitz .is Dr. Veness, and Maude Eburne’s
maid-servant is as funny as anyone could
make her. In short, the cast is splend d,
and many new and strange photographic
effects have been achieved. Yet the public
wasn’t impressed. Derisive laughter greeted
the horror-mongers when it wasn’t wanted,
as well as when it was. Apparently talkies
of the ooli-ooli class have lost any appeal
they may ever have had, like films in techni-
color. An interesting example of the ten-
dency of picture audiences to reject artifi-
ciality in favor of naturalism. Thousands
are already too sophisticated for musical'
comedy, much less opera.
*V
In “Reno,” which was pre-shown at Fox-
Movietone’s Sydney theatre, Montague Love
is a scoundrelly millionaire. Ruth Beale,
as his wife, epitomises Mother Love and
the Sanctity of the American Home. The
husband has fallen for Judith Vosselli, an obvi-
ous vamp, and she flaunts her shame at a
dinner in honor of the couple’s sixth wed-
ding anniversary. Outraged at the pollu-
tion of the Home, Miss Roland leaves for
Reno with her boy. He looks a lot older
than his alleged years, but that is a trifle
by comparison with other discrepancies, im-
probabilities and idiocies. On the way she
meets Kenneth Thomson, a regular fellow
whom once she loved (and, but for the rigid
rules of the Home, might be induced to
love again), and they are framed by the
villain and a couple of detectives while en-
joying an innocent kiss. A Judge hands the
child over to the Court’s officer, and the
action shifts to Lake Tahoe, where the mil-
lionaire is living with Miss Vosselli. The
wife arrives, whereupon the husband leaps
for his car to get the child, and she leaps
palpitating for hers, and follows. “A wild
chase ensues through a terrific storm,” to
quote the publicity stuff, until the villain’s-
car “topples over and rolls down the moun-
tain-side.” As it crashes the title does the
same; the divorce has been pronounced, not
by Reno, but by death.
The show is an unusually exasperating
example of the results of handing over
talented mummers and unlimited money for
stage and scenic effects to vulgarians who
know nothing of tale-construction. Love is
a fine actor with characteristics which
recall Louis Wolheim ; the ladies are admir-
able, and Douglas Scott is a Boy Pheno-
menon.


NO ESCAPE
By Velio Ercole
Chapter X ( Continued ).
LEO did not answer and she crossed to
his seat and put her arms round
him.
“If she knew she’d be glad, Leo. She’d
be glad that you’re happy, if she loved you.
She wouldn’t want you to grieve and be
lonely always.”
“She had a different idea of happiness,
Teresa,” he said thoughtfully. He did not
expand the idea. This was not the way
to keep his resolve, but he thought how
wrong Olwen was, and how Teresa would
have regarded this as the ultimate treachery.
Well, Teresa was gone. He could have done
no good to Teresa by refraining from re-
marriage, and he could make Olwen happy.
He had failed once; he would not fail
with Olwen, if he could help it.
“Leo,” Olwen was saying, “you do love
me, don’t you?”
“To convince you it seems hard.”
“More than you loved Teresa? You told
me you did not love her like this. Leo, for-
give me f0r....f0r harping. But I don’t
want to be jealous. I want to be sure now,
at the beginning. I don’t want to be
haunted by the shadow. You know about
Michael. I’ve told you everything, pur-
posely, so you would never think things.”
“Never have I loved any woman as I
love you. Not Teresa. This is truth.”
She knew it was, and, burying her head
against his breast, she did not see his face.
He hated himself for his disloyalty to the
dead woman. “I wish I had loved Teresa,”
he was thinking. “She would not be there
under those trees, and I would not be
wedded to Banton.”
They spent two weeks on the Blue Moun-
tains. Except for his pleasure in Olwen,
Leo was slightly bored. He found the
amiability of their fellow guests in the
boarding-house distasteful, and was surprised
at 01wen J 6 quickness in intimacy with these
birds of passage. She glowed; she sparkled.
She had a smile for everyone, as if asking
them to share her happiness. When Leo
commented on it, she said:
“I’ve had to hide unhappiness so long, I
just can’t help letting people see I’m happy.
If you don’t like me to make friends with
these people, I won’t. Do they worry you?
I thought you got on well. And they all
seem to like you. Anyhow,” she • added,
“you’ve been a recluse long enough, and
it’s time you started getting friendly with
people.”
He thought, “If I had been here alone I
would have known none of these people.
I would have been a foreigner and they
would have been as strange with me as I
with them. And with Teresa.” He had
a vision of Teresa and himself in the
boarding-house. They would be silent, and
then Teresa in her own tongue, with ex-
pressionless face, would stream forth to
him her conclusions of the people around
her; would make sharp and devastating
comments, edged with humor—aliens, con-
spiring with each other for protection in
the strange land.
By the time they moved on to Sydney, he
was rather appreciative of Olwen’s easy
ability to establish contact with the people
around her. In the shops she did most of the
talking. “Leo, is it too expensive? It’s
so idng since I’ve had any money to spend
lost my sense of values.”
' His accent now was better; his nationality
was not detectable when he spoke calmly
and quietly.
It was a curious experience for him. See-
ing through her eyes, walking with her,
silent while she talked, he seemed to be
shedding his racial differences. She brought
up the question of his naturalisation. Well,
why not? He had no country, you might
say. But the thing was not accomplished
without a pang of regret.
“Now you’re an Australian, aren’t you?”
“I suppose I am. If I am anything.”
He resented his position suddenly.
“Christo, lam not! I could never be. I
am Italian, Olwen! Always I will be Italian
....in sentiment and prejudice. I assume
this nationality as a dress. It is easier to
dress as one’s fellows.”
“Well, I will help you to wear the dress
perfectly.” She was not going to quarrel,
though her heart sank a little. He was
different from the men she had known,
after all. He would always be.
The first instance she had of his un-
governable rages frightened her. She had
been out during the afternoon and came
back to the hotel room about five o’clock.
As she knocked she could hear him snarl-
ing and muttering in a strange, terrifying
fashion.
“Leo!” She was aghast.
He muttered a string of blasphemies
through his clenched teeth, none of which
she understood. Her face grew scornful.
As he caught sight of her twisted mouth, it
seemed to madden him further, and, catch-
ing her by the shoulders, he bundled her
roughly from the room and shut the dooi.
She did not return for three hours—until it
was quite dark. She found him pacing the
room.
He smiled, a little sheepishly. “I’m sorry,
dear....l lost my temper. I was looking
for a shirt and I could not find one. All
the shirts from this laundry have the
buttons off. So they are no use, and I tore
them up. But that is nothing. Shall we
go to dinner? Forgive my roughness
don’t take any notice, Olwen.”
She still stared at him.
“Come, let us forget all about.”
“No, wait.” She thrust away his offered
arms. “I want to understand. Are you
telling me that this upheaval was caused
simply by your not finding a shirt you
wanted?”
“I don’t know.” He shrugged his shoulders.
“Many little things irritated me, then this.
Let us finish with it. I’ll tell the boy to
take away these things, and to-morow we’ll
buy some shirts—with plenty of buttons.”
He was smiling.
She had nerved herself to any crisis.
“But, Leo, you were like a madman!”
“Oh come, let us eat, Olwen! lam
hungry. Have you had dinner?”
“You’re insufferable,” she snapped sud-
denly. “Go to dinner without me.”
But when he had gone she felt repentant.
He had looked like a child with a slapped
face. Hurt and bewildered, curiously
she felt in the wrong. “This has got to be
faced,” she thought. “I knew he had a
sudden temper. But I didn’t know about
this....this mad rage. Well, I’ll have to
try to cure him of it if I can. If I can’t —
and I probably can’t—l’ll have to take it for
granted. Let him roar himself out. Luckily
it doesn’t seem to last long.”
When he came back, he entered the room
very quietly. She was at the dressing-table.
“Do you feel better now, dear?” His
voice was. solicitous.
“Better? What from?”
“You seemed upset. I thought you could
not be well. You acted strangely, Olwen.
I have order for you some supper. You
will feel better if you eat something.”
“Leo, do you honestly think I was the
one acting strangely?”
“Well, you were not very agreeable when
you came in, were you? I thought perhaps
you had headache.” He looked at her a
trifle blankly.
He was perfectly sincere. She gave up.
“This is part of him,” she reflected in those
early weeks. “I don’t love him any the less
for this. I don’t understand how his mind
works. I don’t think I ever will. But I
can try.”
As the days passed, she realised that he
was still a complete stranger to her. This
was not going to be much easier than being
married to Michael had been, but it was
going to be infinitely more wonderful. When
they returned home it would be different.
Here she felt strange, she had not the com-
forting assurance of a familiar background.
Banton would have its effect on him and on
her. And it would give the advantage to
her. The end of her reflection was a slight
confusion but a clear courage. “You weren’t
frightened of strange things, Grandfather
Gilbert. I’m your daughter. I’m not afraid.
I’m stronger than he is, for all his pas-
sions which I can’t understand.”
She was glad when the decision to return
to Banton was made. They had been to
dine with some Italian friends of his. Out
of courtesy to her, English had been spoken
most of the time, but occasionally there had
been a break into Italian. Then Olwen
had felt, almost painfully, her difference
from them. She had seen Leo distinctly as
a foreigner for the first time. The vision dis-
concerted her.
In the taxi she had drawn close to him.
“I want to feel you’re mine.”
“I am.”
“To-night you seemed different. I wish
I could speak your language, Leo.”
“It would be waste of time for you to
learn. If you like I will teach you. But
it is better we speak English. What use is
the Italian language in Banton? Myself
I learn now to think in English.”
“I’m glad.” Silence. Then: “Leo, I
liked her, the wife. Isn’t she quaint?”
“Quaint? She is average woman. I found
nothing unusual.”
“I suppose it’s because she’s a foreigner”
She stopped suddenly.
“Do I seem quaint?” he said.
“No. That’s the funny part of it. I
never think of you as a foreigner—like those
people. To-night I did, a bit. I didn’t like
it, Leo. I’ll be glad when we get back to
Banton, won’t you?”
He was vaguely depressed. “Yes. I
will be glad. We will go soon.”
Banton was desirable. Strange winds
which stirred the mind to conflict could not
blow on him there; he would be hedged,
safe, undisturbed. It had been a mistake
to visit Grandi, who was leaving with his
family by the next boat for Italy—a mis-
take costing him this soul sickness. Back
to Banton, and don’t peep over the sides
of the rut!
A couple of days before they returned
home they met the Robinsons in the street,
and Olwen was effusive in her joy. Leo,
too, felt a pleasurable sense of familiarity,
of having a bond with the Banton people.
Olwen’s welcoming gladness was contagious.
“You never really know how much you
like the people from home until you meet
them among strangers, do you?” she said
later; and later still: “It’s all been won-
derful, our holiday. But to be at home with
you will make me even happier. Leo, I
think it would be dreadful to wander round
the world, like some, and never have any
roots anywhere.”
Strangely, hearing her talk, he did feel it.
(2)
As the train was grunting into Banton
station he felt a chill fear.
Olwen was leaning out the window while
he pulled their cases from the racks. The
train went slower, slower, past the grey
heaps of sleepers with grass growing over
and through them; past the sheds with the
bellying wheat-bags; pepper-trees; the
coaches drawn up in the gravelled yards;
“Banton,” white lettering on the black sign-
board; faces. Olwen waved to someone he
could not see.
“Mona and Dino! Oh, Leo, it’s good to
be back!”
The guard unlocked the carriage door and
she was out like a shot from a gun. He
followed slowly. His face, brightened at
sight of Dino, sturdy and dark-eyed, watch-
ing for him.
The child was a little shy in his greeting;
he avoided Olwen and clung to his father’s
hand.
“Mrs. Cartwright gave me a dog,” he
said. “It’s a w r ater-spaniel. She says it’s
mine to take home if you’ll let me. May I?”
He was a fool. He had a son, a wife
whom he loved and .who loved him, work
to do and friends who seemed to like him.
He descried John’s burly figure flanked
by Alan Macpherson. What more could
he want? He was lucky. This place had
been generous to him, more generous than
he deserved. From to-day he would make
an effort to lose himself in the life offering,
and not strain backwards to the dead past.
(3)
Olwen delighted in her house. The veran-
dah was heaped with packing-cases and lit-
tered with straw. She had been extravagant,
but Leo had not hindered her. He had a
substantial bank account and his early
poverty had not affected his natural gener-
osity in money matters.
He was as interested as she in the re-
furnishing of the house, and he unnailed
crates and unpacked goods with childish
zest. He laid linoleums, placed rugs and
displaced them at her orders, hammered
cheerfully and discovered he had a natural
bent for carpentering. The place grew
lovely under their eager hands.
“I have never had really a home,” Leo
said; then immediately regretted the reflec-
tion on Teresa. He hastened to add:
“Teresa had the real temperament of the
artist. She had, I believe, genius, Olwen.
But she was not concerned with these things
which make life tolerable for so many.”
Olwen had effectually killed any jealousy
of Teresa. She felt nothing but a deep pity
for the w T oman who had had such a tragic,
brief existence. So now she sat back on
her heels and talked about Teresa. It was
a relief to Leo. It was the first time he had
spoken of his dead wife at any length, and
he was grateful for this opportunity. He
tried to explain to Olwen.
“I would not feel so base if her memory
were kept in some small way alive. I had
resolve never to speak of her to you. But
you are sure enough of my love to admit
her, aren’t you?”
Encouraged, he spoke of the qualities of
the dead woman with affection and rever-
ence, creating a glorified image of her.
After that there was no restraint imposed
on either of them when Teresa’s name came
up, as it frequently did; and Olwen, ful-
filling a previously formed resolve, spoke
often to Dino of his mother, and endeavored
to keep her alive and tenderly beautiful in
his memory. By cunning and caution she
won his affection; but in times of crisis he
turned always to Leo.
For Dino’s room she had bought a minia-
ture suite of blue-painted furniture, and
wallpaper with a jungle frieze. She had
pleased Leo by her constant inclusions of
his son’s wants in her purchasings.
“He’ll soon be too big for this, Leo, but
it’s so lovely. And we’ll probably have”
She did not finish her sentence.
She wanted a child passionately.
When the house was in order they began
to receive callers. Hardly a day passed that
Leo did not find visitors in his home.
Olwen’s gift for friendship, for gathering a
herd around her, became more and more
apparent to him.
“I don’t know how you managed to
endure the loneliness of living unvisited in
the country?” he said to her.
“It had to be endured.” Her mouth fell
into the old resolute lines which the ease
of her life seldom provoked these days. “I
wasn’t unhappy all the time, Leo. I can
content myself with very little.”
He realised with a curious sense of sur-
prise that Olwen thought rather well of
herself. She took her semi-public position
as his wife quite seriously. He overheard
her saying once: “My dear, between the
door and the ’phone I’m almost run off my
legs. I like to interview the patients my-
self, and the people like the personal inter-
view, I find. Some of the poor dears are
terribly funny, with their pains in the
small of their backs.”
Leo was rather shocked, but consoled him-
self with the reflection that she was a
human being, no more perfect than most,
and that he did not want her perfect. She
had a brain, but it had been trained by
Main-street, after all. What had he ex-
pected? But what he had overheard was
the truth. His practice had increased since
his marriage because the qualities of per-
suasiveness which Teresa lacked Olwen had
in plenty. She was the type of doctor’s
wife Banton understood and demanded.
He had a further proof of what he pre-
ferred to regard as the humanness of his
wife. Olwen liked to gossip. She liked to
pour tea into her fragile, beautiful cups
and talk about those of her friends who
were not present. The talk was not always
scandal-edged, but just occasionally there
was a hinting malice sufficient to give
tang.
When he reproached her, she said, “I
know. That’s the difference between me
and the others. I know what I’m doing and
they don’t. But one can’t talk fundamen-
tally all the time, Leo. If we were great
and wise and good without any littleness, we
couldn’t live here. This is only surface.
But with each other we can be honest and
real. That’s an advantage we have that
most other husbands and wives in this town
have not got. Together we can view
bravely and tolerantly, we can see out
beyond Banton to the world of things, of
mind and matter. The trouble is that most
of- the people who realise there’s a world
outside Banton go to look for it. They leave
Banton as soon as they realise it’s narrow-
ness, so it hasn’t much of a chance. Leo,
you don’t know what a fierce pride I’ve
got in that old grandfather of mine who
came here so fearlessly and turned the first
sod of this town. I’d love it to be a big
town. I’d like beautiful buildings and parks
and lovely trees and libraries and a fine
hospital; a place big enough for people to
be big in I’m a fool, I suppose. Some-
times I wish I’d been born a man. I would
have made things move. But I’m not a
man. I did the best I could when I fell
in love with you. You’re going to do things
for me.”
But Leo had no such aspirations. He
told himself frequently that ambition was
dead in him. He was in the rut and he was
content to walk it, but he w r as not going
to listen to any Main-street clarion call to
battle.
One day he said, after a mood of depres-
sion which had attacked him during the
night and kept him wakeful:
“Olwen, we will not always stay in Ban-
ton. Some day, when we have money enough
to feel safe, I might try practice in Sydney.
Or even in Europe, or America. There is
scope in America. I am still young enough
for a struggle, after all.”
“Some day, perhaps,” she said, her calm,
immobile face giving no hint of the dis-
turbance his words had provoked. This
rebellion was to be expected, she thought.
Probably he would often say such things
as this, but while the goal of removal was
so vague it would hurt neither of them.
“Some day,” she said, and no more. He
was ready for an argument and was sur-
prised at her passivity.
“You’ve changed your mind about Ban-
ton, then? You wouldn’t mind living some-
where else?” .
“I haven’t changed my mind. I fixe
living here. But it is for you to say. You re
the captain of the ship. I know you won t
steer us into any troubled waters, and
you’ll be quite sure you can navigate the
boat before you push off Leo, I’ve had
something on my mind.”
“What is it?”
“I’m going to get everyone to work to
get that maternity cottage. Mona and
I have talked it over. We women can
start the ball rolling. You approach the
committee and see what they think o
the idea, and if they’re agreeable I’ll cal
a meeting of the ladies at once. I thought
if we got everyone to work: a concert,
euchre parties and socials —we could have
a series, winding up with a big bazaar.
There hasn’t been a cause in the town for
some time.” , ,
She had caught his attention, and as she
continued outlining her plan she gradually
roused him to mild enthusiasm He lett
her, promising to see the president ot the
hospital committee that morning.
“It can be done. There is money in the
town and in the district. The season has
been good.” ...
After he had gone she went into hei
room and shut the door. She was afraid
that, now the crisis had passed, her teiro
might be showing on her face. Dont ie
him get restless; God! This is the firs
time he’s said it. He’ll keep on saying it.
I suppose. But don’t let him do more than
say it. Don’t let it get into his flesh. J
couldn’t stand transplanting. And n
couldn’t either now, though he doe&n i
know it.”
(4) , .
Another doctor established himself id
the town. He called to see Leo on


m
jLr
*
m
m
The hard-wearing
lightweight
A riding boot of amazing suppleness
.... made by Abbey on a special last
that ensures most perfect fit. It is
lined completely with soft leather,
with stout elastic insets at ankle. The
sole is made of the toughest leather
obtainable. The upper curves over
the instep. . . .comfortably accommo-
dating its natural arching.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF... 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 227.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Kid ins the surf ai Waikiki Beach.
Just 4z days to SUVA
6 days to PAGO-PAGO
13 days to HONOLULU
Holiday in Suva,
Honolulu—with a back-
ground of primitive splendour
you enjoy all modern con-
veniences. See Pago Pago’s
stunning beauty. Swimming,
golf, tennis—these fascinating
islands offer all the sports you
love! A Matson Liner sails
from Sydney every third
Saturday. This is your fastest,
coolest route to England!
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY!
Please send, me free information on a
trip to Suva [] Pago Pago [] Hono-
lulu [] United States [] England [I
{Check).
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B 7981-3.
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 50/-
MERCHANTS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
illliiai
k
RUMPS
FOR ALL PURPOSE*
1
The “ROTEX,” shown below, is in heavy demand
for service in dairies, tanneries, refineries,
factories and on farms.
Suitable for rapidly elevating liquids of all kinds.
Four sizes, for 1% up to 21 inch pipes. Capacities
range from 1200 up to 4200 gallons per hour.
Prices Range from £611316 F.O.R. Melbourne.
Can be supplied with motor or engine, or in a
portable power unit.
Full particulars and Catalogues on request.
M
PTY. LTD.
554 Collins St., Melbourne. 51 Bathurst St., Sydney,
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide. 532 Murray St., Perth.
ķ
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS SINCE ls4o
hard, dry feed. I have 20 gumrnies on my
place. I extracted their teeth two years
ago" $iid to-day they are carrying as good
fleeces and condition as young sheep with
sound mouths.
“Bill It.” ; Instead of aiding the intended
crop a ploughman hinders it when he brings
up too much of the crude subsoil. In turn-
ing over an old field, the depth of the furrows
should never be allowed to exceed the former
depth by more than an inch.
“Tridit”: The feed mechanism of a drill
often becomes stiff and sometimes jambed
altogether, especially when the drill has been
lying idle. Here is a simple test of the
gears. Lift one wheel and slip a prop under
the frame (not the axle, as this, of course,
revolves). Let drill into gear and turn the
raised wheel slowly; any undue stiffness in
cups and starfeeds will be at once felt and
the trouble put right. The test takes but
a few minutes.
“Disc Harrow”: When cutting cabbages
and cauliflowers, don't forget to mark all
the outsizes you encounter. A criss-cross
slash on the top of the stump is sufficient.
The marked stumps can be later transplanted
to produce seed.
“John Quill”: When setting up a grind-
stone some buslnnen use a wooden chuck;
others use molten lead for fixing the spindle
in place. Wood expands or shrinks accord-
ing to the weather. Lead does not always
set firmly. _ Use ordinary sulphur, heated
to the consistency of treacle, in place of
these and you have a cement that grips
firmly on both spindle and stone and is not
sensitive to atmospheric changes. Do the
job close to your heating arrangements, as
sulphur hardens quickly.
“Paul 0.”: Good surface drains about the
farm or dairy can be made with earthen-
ware pipes split in halves ; and this is the
way to split them. Mark the necessary lines
down opposite sides and then upend the pipe,
big end uppermost. Pill it with earth, ram-
ming it tightly as you fill. Take a light
hammer, and, starting at the bottom, strike
firm, but not too heavy, blows along the
lines—close together for a thick pipe, and
farther apart for a thin one. As you reach
the funnel part the blows should be lighter.
If struck heavily enough the pipe will fall
into two equal halves.
The International Harvester Co. of Aus-
tralia, Pty., Ltd., lias decided to accept
orders for McCormick-Deering grain driils
and cultivator-drills on a “no deposit” basis,
with payments spread over three years—
first in February, 1932.
“Berseem” : Of special interest to pastoral-
ists was the exhibit of introduced grasses
at the Sydney Show. The plots were con-
ducted by Arthur Yates and Co., and con-
tained practically all the recognised grasses
and clovers recommended by the agrosto-
logists. Although the job was undertaken
at short notice, there was sufficient growth
to demonstrate the quality of each and every
variety, and a fund of expert advice and
information was available as to qualities and
suitable localities. The value of introducing
grasses, clovers and lucerne is only now
being recognised in N.S.W.; a campaign of
publicity and instruction is necessary to ram
home the full benefits that will accrue from
top-dressing and planting suitable pastures.
Demonstration plots might well be included
at all big country shows.
Prof. Richardson, of the Waite Agricul-
tural Research Institute in S.A., has been
responsible for rather a notable utterance.
“I do not fear the competition of Russian
wheat,” he says. “If Australia can get back
to the pre-war ratio of internal prices to
export levels, and if research and educational
services can be maintained, we can grow
wheat in competition with the world.”
“Atriplex”: I had just finished crutcliing
some sheep and went out of the shed to let |
them out. On my return, there was a little j
mouse cleaning up the minced remains of a
few maggots scattered on the board. He
(or she) finished the meal with insolent dis- ‘
regard for my presence before calmly trotting
off. Is the genus Mus going to justify its ;
existence and provide us with another para-•
site for the blowfly? One mouse could con-
sume a heap of maggots in a day.
“Disc Harrow”: In southern Vic. orchards
there is already a fair show of fruit buds
for next year. Many growers I have met
still put quantity before quality, and leave j
a mass of buds on trees which are already
weakening and making hardly any new
growth. It’s worth considering whether you
ought to cut out more severely than usual
this pruning season. When the crop is
smaller in number but of larger size, you
use less spray, need fewer cases and less cool-
store space, have less picking to do and not
nearly so many windfalls to bother about.
And ten to one you’ve shown a better result
on the year.
“Midlander”: Northam Agricultural So-
ciety sets a good example to similar bodies
in Westralia by staging silage contests. W. G.
Spencer headed five competitors this year
with 92 points out of 100 for a concrete silo
filled with Guyra oats, cut and ensiled by
October, which is earlier than usual. W. G.
Burges was only one point behind, a choice
batch being of higlHieeding value on account
of early cutting of the plants. He lost but
one point for waste, usually a pitfall even
for the man of ripe experience. Farmers
will be interested in Mr. Burges’s method.
The inside of his silo was painted with an
impervious paint and pieces of rubber were
tacked around the doors, covered with fiat
iron tacked tightly to the rubber. Dairy
superintendent Baron Hay does not advise
settlers to go in for costly concrete silos
with things as they are. Hillside silos, fibro-
lite sheet silos, trench silos, cheap face-cut
silos and stack silos are inexpensive and
have proved their worth.
“Hamer”: The Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
Agricultural College draws students from all
over the world. Its cosmopolitan quality is
shown this year in the prize list; K. V.
Byrne, a Cornstalk, was dux, and was
closely followed by a student from Eng-
land and another from Maoriland. Minor
honors went to collegers from various coun-
tries, among them Japan, China and Pales-
tine, where the Jews are getting down solidly
to agricultural development.
morning, just before lunch, and intimated
politely his intentions of settling in Banton.
“If there were a practice to be bought, I
would buy it. I have reasons for desiring
to live in this climate.” Leo noticed his
lean, flushed cheeks.
“I have acquaintances in the district who
informed me that there would probably be
an opening here.”
Leo, considering it, found the idea agree-
able. The man was pleasant, he seemed
intelligent. It might not be a bad thing.
The town was growing, and there was room
for another doctor. The serious surgical
cases, which for lack of an anaesthetist went
to Gundibbie, could be kept in the town.
He said that he had not the slightest objec-
tion to the other’s coming and was prepared
to help him in every way possible. The
thought of having someone with whom to
talk “shop” was pleasant.
His visitor, whose name was Darnley, did
not protract the interview, which concluded
with mutual amiabilities. Only when he
had gone was Leo conscious that the visitor
had posessed a reserve, a slight superiority
of manner.
Leo hastened to inform John Cartwright
of the projected arrival. John said casually.
“That’s the doing of the Noble crowd.
I believe he’s a friend of theirs. He had
quite a good practice in -town, I believe,
but had to get out into a drier climate. He’s
an Englishman, isn’t he?”
“Yes.”
“You know that crowd can’t forgive you
for not having been bom in England—
or Edinburgh at least.”
Leo accepted the revelation philosophi-
cally, but it punctured his conceit of him-
self.
“They’ve nothing against you personally,”
John said. “But don’t ever forget that
you’re a success here, not because you’re
a foreigner, but in spite of it. You needn’t
fear the competition of this chap. What
you don’t manage Olwen will. It will be
good for the town. The more competition
the better.”
At first his practice fell off perceptibly,
then recovered, and in half a year was even
bigger than it had been before, although
Darnley was doing quite well. The town
was growing, but its growth was not per-
ceptible until an apparent anomaly such as
this forced reflection and consequent recog-
nition.
(5)
Olwen’s son was born in the summer of
1912, and she felt at last absolutely secure
in her possession. Her happiness in her
child was augmented by this fact. A
family would be an anchor stronger even
than her love. Leo’s unfailing devotion to
Dino showed her that the parent instinct
was highly developed in him.
With her son nestling in her arms she
felt a blessed security. She regarded the
red wizened scrap with an awed gratitude.
“We can do together what we cannot do
alone, little son. He will be more content
with us now.”
She was more than ever tender to Dino
after the baby’s coming. Dino regarded the
baby with curiosity.
“Do you like him, Dino?”
“It’s all right,” Dino said. And thereafter
he exhibited an unflagging interest in the
baby.
“I want him to go on the land, Leo. I’d
like him to carry on the family tradition.
All our men have gone on the land.” She
grew dreamy. “Think of him, Leo, riding
round the paddocks, tall and brown, with
his hat turned down over his eyes—he’s
got the Gilbert eyes, Leo. I’m so glad he’s
a boy. Aren’t you proud? My Australian
son!” She did not see Leo’s expression as
he bent over the child.
His sensations were strangely conflicting.
The grey-eyed baby, looking up at him,
seemed more Olwen’s child than his.
Moved in an unaccountable way he sat
down on a chair near the window and drew
Dino into the circle of his arm.
“Che cosa jarai quando diverrai un
uomof” The use of the Italian tongue was
spontaneous.
Dino was puzzled.
“When you are a man what are you going
to be?” Leo repeated in English. He
smiled a little sadly at the boy.
“You don’t remember any Italian now,
Dino?”
Dino shook his head. “Not much. I’m
going to be doctor, like you, and I’m going
to Italy to that place where mamma lived
—t0”.... He frowned. The word escaped
him. “Where I tried to go that time I
was at school.”
“Bologna?”
“Yes.”
Leo looked out into the swift-gathering
dusk.
“I wonder. I hope you do, boy.” He fell
silent, reflecting, until Dino tugged at his
arm.
After Christmas Dino was sent to college.
Looking back over the year 1913, on the
last night of the year, at midnight, while
the bells of the public school were being
rung riotously by some festive hand, Leo
tried to think what had happened in the year.
He had bought a car. The maternity cot-
tage, a tliree-roomed shack, meagre, ineffi-
cient, a parody of his fine intention, had
been opened with the correct complement of
flags, bunting, a band and a speech by the
Mayor.
(To be continued next week.)


Firearms sent C.O.D.
To Shooters S Fishermen
If you arc considering the purchase of
QUALITY FIREARMS or FISHING
TACKLE, you automatically think of
SIL ROHU, whose HIGH STANDARD
is known throughout Australia. Firearm
or Fishing Tackle Catalogue sent on
Request.
Special Fox Decoy Whistle, 3/6 post
free.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540,
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET; SYDNEY
tieajal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1238 of 1929.
Between ARLEAN GLADYS ALLEN Petitioner
And THOMAS CHRISTOPHER ALLEN Respondent
To THOMAS CHRISTOPHER ALLEN late of 26
George Street Leichhardt near Sydney in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Arlean Gladys Allen
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
third day of July one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition herein may be had on applica-
tion at the undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this twenty-third of April, a.d. 193.1.
For the Registrar,
[L.S.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. CATHELS & JONES,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
28 Martin Place, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme Court of
Victoria made in the action 1931 No. 270 in
which Priscilla Day and others are Plaintiffs and
THE CURATOR OF THE ESTATES of deceased
persons Defendant the persons claiming to be the
next of kin to JOHN THOMAS CANTY late of the
Metropolitan Mission Bourke Street, Melbourne in the
State of Victoria Dealer deceased intestate who died
on the eighth day of December 1922 are by their
solicitors on or before the twenty-fourth day of
June 1931 to come in and prove their claims at the
cfHce of the Chief Clerk Law Courts William Street
Melbourne aforesaid or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
order. The eighth day of July 1931 at eleven o’clock
in the forenoon at the said office is appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this twenty-seventh day of April, 1931.
M. M. PHILLIPS, Chief Clerk.
Missing Friends,
send some word. Very anxious.
Did you see advt. 14th March? Put
advt. in this paper. Very lonely, Helen.
Legal Notice.
OSBORNE OF ROSNAREE, IRELAND.
TT* THOMAS ALEXANDER OSBORNE son of the
Reverend Charles Osborne of Rosnaree County
Meath Ireland who left Ireland over 40 years ag
or if dead to any of his sons or grandsons.
Pursuant to an order of the High Court of
Irish Fred State in the matter of the Trusts of the
Will of Evans Kettlewell deceased the abovenamea
Thomas Alexander Osborne if alive or if dead 1
sons or grandsons should on or before the loth
of July 1931 communicate with the undersigned whei
they may hear of something to their advantage.
If the said Thomas Alexander Osborne is dead
information should be sent to the undersigned as
the date and place of the death of the said Thoma._
Alexander Osborne and as to the names and add
of any of his sons or grandsons.
After the said loth day of July 1931 th ®
of the said Evans Kettlewell deceased will be admin
stored regard being had only to such claims as shan
then have been proved. cumvott
DARLEY, ORPEN & SYNNOIT,
Solicitors, 30-31 Kildare Street.
Dublin, Irish Free State.
If any illustration in The Bui etm
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the origina-
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Eric Connolly races few horses nowadays,
but makes the members of his small string
pay their way. “Con” put his money down
on Veridique for the first division of the
juvenile event at Epsom, and punters
tumbled over each other to get the best re-
maining odds about the Legionnaire filly.
Veridique had started twice before and finished
second to iCalina at Flemington in Novem-
ber. It was a mere question of put and take
on Saturday. Veridique obtained a flying
start, whereas Illustrious, a formidable rival,
was left almost standing, and might as well
have remained at the post; and the Connolly
filly romped home. Tindall, formerly of
Sydney, annexed the second division with
Mataram (Caravel—Gipsy Girl), who
started a slightly better favorite than Head-
man—a turn in the tide of fortune for Tin-
dall, who had such bad luck with Mollison.
Frank Lewis, brother of the evergreen
Bob, has at last got the French stallion Lor-
rain into racing trim. Lorrain belongs to
the Belgian millionaire Jacques Wittouck,
for whom Frank Bullock trains in France;
Bullock, who married a sister of the Lewis
boys, sent Lorrain out to Australia about
15 months ago. Bookmakers and big pun-
ters had been well primed with the news
that Lorrain was working well, and the best
odds obtained about him for any consider-
able amount were 5 to 1, reduced by half
before barrier-rise. Beginning slowly, Lor-
rain was. second last at the end of a four-
long. He finished brilliantly to run third,
GERT. 'Did you vun
Bert’. r,f Mo_, our forwards let us
down B^ouy”
“ How wa.e> thaot?”
6SRT ■/ "OH, THEY AwLL WENT TO THE
PACK ",
a head behind Field Artillery, who lost by a
neck to Doradus, owned by 11. Alan Currie.
The cat is out of the bag now, so far as
Lorrain is concerned.
Bob Inkson must have regretted declining
the mount on Rakwool in order to ride
Flavedo in the Brush Steeple. A heavy
betting plunge was made on Flavedo by
“Horne” Leek and his associates. The race
resolved itself into a match between Flavedo
and Rakwool. Outjumping his rival, Rakwood
drew away at the home turn and scored by
several lengths. This powerfully-built son of
Woorak cleared the brush fences in spec-
tacular fashion, and ought to be capable of
negotiating Flemington.
Cecil Godby engaged Dempsey to ride Sir
Roy in the middle-distance Epsom Handi-
cap, and the Maoriland-bred prad was sent out
a 3-to-l favorite, 7 to 1 bar one being offered.
Sir Roy needs a sound pace, and in his in-
terests Land of Nod established a long lead,
causing the field to spread out. Coming with
a late run, Sir Roy won handsomely from
Walter Scott and Reputed King. Imported
Full Hand registered his first Australian vic-
tory in the Epson} Purse, giving Ashley Reed
his second winning mount for the afternoon.
Battenburg, who started favorite for the
Epsom Purse and finished third, is trained
and raced by Bob Ferguson, whose father-
in-law, Frank Musgrave, won the first divi-
sion of the Encourage Mile with Beauclaire.
The second division went to Sabtali, a pro-
vincial performer. Beauclaire and Sabtah
were comparative outsiders, and evened up
matters a little for the ringmen.
sjs ❖ ❖
For Sandown on Saturday:—
Brush Steeplechase: Flavedo; next,
Patriotic.
Sandown Welter: Finsbury; next, Kool-
paroo.
* * * *
How poor a thing the tote that pays 60-
20-20 p.c. dividends is compared with the
win-and-place machines installed at Rand-
wick was evidenced at Moorefield on Satur-
day. Returns were very poor, and people
grumbled loudly, especially as the club could
have catered for s.o. punters, at least, in the
old barn that does duty for a tote building
in the paddock, even with its antiquated
device of rubber-stamped tickets. If these
proprietary clubs won’t give the public
proper tote facilities of their own free will,
they should be compelled to do so. In no
case since the Westralian system of place
betting was introduced at Randwick has the
backer of a placed horse lost on the trans-
action, and rarely have divs. for 10s. fallen
below £l. At Moorefield there were divs. of
7s. (two), 7s. 6d. (three), Bs., Bs. 6d., 95.,
10s. (id. and 11s. (two) —all on the 10s. tote.
At the concurrent Ascot pony races only
£7OO was speculated on the 60-20-20 con-
trivance —clear proof that it has had its day.
Intrepid (evens), a three-year-old that had
finished fast in the Novice Handicap at
Randwick, proved himself the best of the
bunch in a division of the Kogarali Stakes,
and gave Cook the first of three winning
rides ; the others were on Lady lan (6 to 1)
in a race for two-year-olds—she finished
second but was placed first on protest —and
Black Dina (3 to 1) in the first division
of the Flying Handicap, wherein Carnella
and Prince Verderer cut one another’s
throats. Stately (evens) had a six-lengths’
win in the other division of the Kogarali
Stakes, and the owner could scarcely have
been pleased with the jockey, Knox, who
allowed the margin to be so great. Later in
the day the stewards ordered the young man
to cease riding for two months. In making
a victorious run on Greenbird (11 to 2) in
the Moorefield Handicap, he interfered with
the favorite, Brazenface, who ran third.
Plucky little Gibsontea battled out an excit-
ing finish with Greenbird, whose third suc-
cess it was since he was brought over from
the pony courses.
Tom Pinch, whose owner a year ago had
visions of capturing the Epsom or the Caul-
field Cup and shaking Phar Lap’s supremacy
with his black, gained his first victory as
a three-year-old in the second division of
the Flying Handicap. He was backed down
to 5 to 2. Tom may turn out a pretty good
six-furlong horse, but he had to be kept
going to beat Mintage* a moderate, and Beck-
with, who is far from being the horse he
was. The jockey was obviously afraid that
he, might strike himself or turn it up at any
moment.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Granville Stakes: Commandant; next,
Muy Bueno.
Auburn Handicap: Tom Pinch; next,
Cleave.
Rosehill Handicap : Bawn-na-Glas ; next,
Gemlight.
Highweight Handicap: King Crow; next,
Workman.
* S: * *
“Der Jong” : Recent references in The
Bulletin to the doubles tote remind me that
what must be nearly a record divvy for this
type of machine-betting recently staggered
the bagmen at the Germiston meeting. Ger-
miston is the railway junction from which
most of the South African main lines switch
off to Jo’burg; it is really a part of the
Rand field and the money is always good.
Certainly in this case there was only one
ticket on the winning combination, ' but it
brought the punter the lordly sum of £2125
for a £1 ticket.
* * * *
“Billy tli’ Goose” : Things are stiff in ther
macaronis all right. Th' uther day I ’ad er
charnce of cornin’ inter town fr’m me coun-
try ’ome at Long Bay, so, uv course, I
makes fer good ole Robbery Park. Ther
first cove I puts ther nips inter sez, “Sorry,
ole man; me gonce is in ther Savin’s
Bank.” Ther second and ther third spun
ther same yap, ’n then I tumbled there wuz
nutliin’ ter do but ter roll er drunk er two.
Berlieve me or not, there wuzn’t one in
sight, ’n I can remember times w’en a bit
uv er stroll round ther rubbin’ sheds wuz
gen’r’lly good fer er five-quitl divvy. I’ve
alwiz been er follower of Jack Lang. Me an’
me sort ’as put 'im w’ere ’e is. Fr’m this
out I’m fer tlier Lyons mob. Ther cove w’at
’as bin responsible fer chuckin’ ther ear-
bitin’ game inter ther discard makes no more
appeal ter me.
The V.A.T.C. has followed the lead of the
other big Australian racing clubs and has
cut its prize-money heavily. Some £6OOO is
to come off the spring-meeting stakes at Caul-
field, the Cup money being reduced from
£6500 to £5OO0 —the cup itself, valued at
£l5O, is, of course, retained. The Toorak
Handicap drops £5OO to £lOOO and so does
the Debutant Stakes. The Guineas will be
down to £2OOO in place of £3OOO. And
£6OO is to be taken from the Australian
Hurdles and Steeple respectively, both races
now being rated at £l5OO. The Futurity
for 1933 drops from £3500 to £2lOO. The
Toorak Handicap this year, by the way, will
be run over a mile and half a furlong instead
of the original mile. This is to obviate
division of the field.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
In the opening match of the Sydney
Stadium wrestling season Jim Deakin
(11.1-J) met Jack Ilamon (10.13|) for the
Australian middleweight championship. The
go did not thrill as did those between im-
ported men last year. Each gained a fall,
but Deakin did the better wrestling and
should have been declared the winner. The
decision, however, went to the other man.
Looking about 11 pounds lighter than
Jimmy Kelso (9.6) at Leichhardt last Fri-
day night, Young Llew Edwards, his weight
given as 9.0 J, outboxed the bigger battler.
Kelso made the weight advantage pay, how-
ever, and his forceful, albeit not very clean
or attractive, fighting resulted in a draw
decision. Edwards’s counter-punching really
gave him a lead.
:J: * *
Teddy Green, senior, in his day one of the
finest bantams the Australian ring has seen,
took the final count in Sydney last week at
51. Born in Orange (N.S.W.) he first
climbed to championship class in Sydney in
1902 and for the next dozen years held his
own with all-comers, most of his fighting in
the earlier days being done at the old Golden
Gate and Gaiety Hall. Two of his nephews,
Jack and Teddy, carried on the family tradi-
tion, holding the feather and flyweight titles
respectively in their day, while a third
nephew, Theo Green, became well known as
a trainer of fighters.
* * * =;t
“Tom Cribb” : Former Sydney barman
Pat Redmond is earning good money in
America. Stacked up against one Pedro Lopez,
Pat “stretched” him 'in six 'rounds, which leads
Australian followers of boxing to the sur-
mise that the Dago must have been a proper
mug. Pat’s chief asset in the ring is his
exceptional height. Possibly, the Yanks, un-
familiar with the bean-pole fighter since
Jess Willard was walloped by little Jack
Dempsey, have taken him to their hearts
on this account. He certainly seems to have
a good press in N’Yark.
Footbrawl
On Saturday Melbourne’s populace turned
in joy to football. Some 15,000 bar-
rackers pushed into Victoria Park to see
if Collingwood could repeat last year s vic-
tory when they won the grand final trom
Geelong. They managed to do it by 93 to
Geelong's 87, but it was touch and go. YV ltk
five minutes to play the Seasiders held a
5-point lead, but the steady determination ot
the ’Woodmen gained the day. The winners
miss Albert Collier, gone to coach in Hobart,
and his brother, on the sick list. Geelong
lack cohesion, and would have gone down
badly but for Moloney, a forward from V .A.
On Carlton Oval 30,000 got shocks and
thrills when the home side piled up 53 points
to Richmond’s 26 by half-time. Thereafter
Richmond steadily overhauled the opposition
and gained the day, though they deserved to
lose for their vile kicking—Richmond, 14
goals 23 behinds (107) ; Clarlton, 15 goals
8 behinds (98). St. Kilda, hard to beat
on their own ground, outed Essendon by
92 to SO. There, were 15,000 to see Mel-
bourne beat Fitzroy by 106 points to 94.
South Melbourne had little trouble in .scor-
ing 100 points to 63 by North, and Foots-
cray managed to get home from Hawthorn
by 61 to 60, though the odd point is disputed,
as having been scored after the bell rang.
:,'s ; I :
The Rugby League games in Sydney pro-
vided a surprise in the defeat of the pi*e-
miers. Western Suburbs, by North Sydney,
the Shoremen getting home at Pratten Park
in a determined spoiling game by 19-16, after
leading 12-6 at half-time. Western Suburbs
made the pace a welter in the second half,
but the Northern defence was equal to the
occasion. The winners scored 3 tries and 5
goals to 4 tries 2 goals. Balmain had little
trouble in beating the weak University team
at Wentworth Oval by 29 to 14, though the
students’ reconstructed side was a distinct
improvement on that of the previous week.
A close- game between Eastern Suburbs and
Newtown at Marriekville gave East the
victory by 13-8. East led at the interval by
5 to 2, and gaining the upper hand in the
closing stages added two tries and a goal
to their score, Newtown’s contribution being
4 goals by Ellis. South Sydney had an unex-
pectedly easy win from St. George at the
Sports Ground by 16-2, the Saints making
a shocking showing, and scoring only a
penalty goal to 4 tries and 2 goals. South
Sydney would have done better but for
indifferent handling, especially in the back
division. In the Southern vanguard O’Connor
showed exceptional form.
* * * *
The second round of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union fixtures saw the premiers, Randwick,
still on top, Northern Suburbs being beaten
11-6; each side scored two tries. Spoiling
tactics by North in the first half, coupled
with atrocious handling by the inside backs
of both teams, were responsible for an unin-
teresting display. Randwick recovered form
in the second spell, but will need to shake
the side together for coming engagements.
University and Drummoyne gave a much
better display at Uni. Oval, Drummoyne win-
ning 13-11 —3 tries, two converted, tc
a converted try and two penalty goals. The
Drummoyne forwards were very solid and
were well backed by the Newton brethren
behind the pack and Palmer on the wing.
Playing a forward game, St. George con-
siderably troubled the strong Eastern
Suburbs side at Sydney Cricket Ground,
though, thanks to brilliant inside back play
by T. and B. Egan, with Alec Ross in the
last line, the Tricolors came out ahead, 10-6.
Manly bolted in the second half from West-
ern Suburbs on the Village Oval, and
finished winners by 24 to 10, scoring 5 tries
to 2. The game was a battle between the for-
wards, though Malcolm did some good things
for Manly, as did Tolhurst on the wing. The
Westerners had much to thank McKeon and
Blair for in the forward division.
(Continued on next page.)


“EOTHEN
k
PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St'
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
L GARAGE
Inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
Chemist Tells Recipe for
Family Cough Remedy.
HELP PEOPLE SAVE MONEY.
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading cliemist,
that will enable people to make tlie best
family cough remedy, and at the same time
save much money. Everybody knows that a
good cough and influenza remedy consists of
two main sections:
The first section is the undiluted medicinal
ingredients; and the second is, of course, the
necessary water and sweetening. The prepara-
tion of the medicinal ingredients requires
trained knowledge, but the water and
sweetening can be added in the home just as
easily as in the pharmacy. And you save a
lot of money by doing so. Now, prove these
facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into
a jug put four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three
of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar,
and a large breakfast-cupful of warm water.
Stir till dissolved, and when the syrup is
quite cold pour into a large bottle, and
then add a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, obtained from your chemist or
store. By doing this you will have a family
supply equal in quantity and superior in
quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of
the best ready-mixed cough remedy that, if
purchased in the usual way, would cost up to
£l. An outstanding feature about HEENZO
is the fact that it is a safe remedy for
babies as well as adults, and over 12,000
people have written letters proclaiming it
the best remedy they have ever used for
quickly banishing coughs, colds, croup, bron-
chitis and influenza.*
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed- —
ķ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & OLtd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Aiso 122 Branches and. Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America arid elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS,,
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL. STATE S'6?
# T %
m,
o
FOR
o
<X
'f)
V AJ
(uticura
Is Found in
Cnticora
Preparations
Use the Soap regularly every
day—it not only cleanses but
also protects the skin.
The Ointment, pure and
soothing, is a household neces-
sity. It brings relief and healing
to all skin troubles.
The Taleurn gives the perfect
finishing touch to the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The rates of pay for Vic-
torian football umpires have been fixed
for the season, and are calculated to
make the referees of the N.S.W. Itugby
League, who have had their emoluments
docked, think of swapping over to the Cab-
bage Garden code. Field umpires get £3
15s. for an afternoon’s risk and the boun-
darymen £1 10s. The goal adjudicator has
to be content with 17s. 6d., which is hardly
fair. On most grounds his duties bring him
within range of orange-peel and even more
substantial missiles, to say nothing of the
ever-present possibility of being bayoneted
by some enraged female armed with an
umbrella.
* * * *
“Richmond”: The Victorian Football
League has drawn up a new set of rules for
awarding the annual Brownlow medal for
the best and fairest player of the season.
Umpires will name three players in each team
at all matches, numbering them in order,
the first receiving three points, the second
two and the third one. At the end of the
season the player with the highest score
takes the medal.
* *
“Stand Off” : The depression burst with a
bang as far as the Australian Rugby Unions
are concerned when the M.L. Union remitted
the £1316 representing its share of the gates
for the matches against the British team in
Australia. As a result the N.S.W, and
Queensland Unions will be able to show a sub-
stantial credit balance, while the little Vic-
torian body will more than square off its loss
on the match with Britain in Melbourne. 11
Avas a graceful action on the part of the All
Blacks, but they can afford it, the profit on
the. British tour of M.L. exceeding £20,000,
Avhich brings the Union’s total bank balance
to something over £40,000.
* * * if
“Lancaster Park”: The Maoriland itin-
erary of the Australian Rugby Union XV
which will leave Sydney early in August
shows that the opening match will be against
Otago at Dunedin on August 22, a stiff start
for a side just off the boat. Only eight
matches _ will be played against the lead-
ing provincial teams, with one Test against
M.L. at Auckland. On the last tour in
1928 (N.S.W. players only) 10 matches
were played. Of these five were won, in-
cluding one of the three Tests, and five lost,
the team being far from representative of
the State.
* * *
“Cash Amateur”: Some of the Sydney
Rugby League clubs have been so hard hit
by the departure of leading players to take
up coaching jobs in the country that they
are considering ways and means of hobbling
their straying stock. It has been suggested
that all players be compelled to register
Avith their clubs, transfers not to be allowed
unless the club losing the player’s services
is paid a fee. This is how they do it in
the professional League and Soccer clubs in
England, but there the players are so tied
up in watertight contracts that they are
completely in the power of the people that
hire them. A radical 4 change would have tc
take place before such a system could come
into operation in this country.
4* ?j{
“North End”: West Bromwich Albion,
winner of the British Association Cup, Avas
one of the first professional Soccer clubs to
be formed outside Lancashire. The club first
achieved prominence by being runners-up to
Blackburn Rovers in the “Coop” final of
1885-86. Next year the Broms were again
beaten in the final by Aston Villa, another
Midlands club, the game beginning a famous
series of duels between the two that have
passed into football history. West won its
first cup from Preston North End in 1887-88,
and then towelled up Aston Villa five years
later, only to get another hiding from its
old rivals in 1894-95. W.B.’s last appear-
ance in the limelight was in 1919, when the
club headed the League championship table.
Nowadays West Bromwich has to be content
with a place in the second division of the
League.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The list of survivors in the
Davis Cup tourney is shortening as one
entrant after another takes the k.o. The
new South American zone lias finished its
section, the Argentine outing Chile in the
finals by three matches to two. The meat-
packers will have to meet the winners of the
North American zone in due course, and it
seems certain their opponents will be the
U.S.A. side. Indeed, all the signs point
to the Yankees taking the courts in Paris
again in the challenge round against France.
* * * *
“Foot Fault”: That promising young
South Australian player D. P. Turnbuil
and his mate D. Thompson, the coming
N.S.W. junior, returned to Australia the
other day from their trip to Honolulu, where
the pair took part in the Mid-Pacific tennis
tourney. Their chief opponents were Allison
and Hall, of the United States, graded in
their own country as Nos. 3 and 18 on the
official ranking list respectively, and Aki-
moto and Kuwabara, of Japan, listed as Nos.
4 and 8 in their own country. The matches
were played on asphalt, to which the Aus-
tralians were quite unaccustomed. Thomp-
son was outed in the first round of the
singles by the Hawaiian champion, Hogg.
Turnbull Ayent down in the semi-finals "to
Allison by 19 games to 15 in four sets. In
the semi-finals of the doubles the Australians
were beaten by Akimoto and Kuwabara in
a five-set go.
* * *
. “Centre Court”: Britain, which nursed
hopes of winning through to the finals of
the Davis Cup, is reconsidering the matter
since Dr. Gregory and LI. G. Lee have
announced that they are not candidates for
selection. Austin will be the front line of the
English singles attack this year, helped by a
new find. F. J. Perry. A good doubles
combination will have to be dug up if the
Old Dart is going to do any good.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Lutwyche”: Brisbane’s municipal golf
course at Victoria Park is to be formally
opened this month, and all arrangements for
keeping the wheels going round have been
completed. There were 125 applicants for
the job of secretary, the choice falling on
A. E. White, who has had plenty of experi-
ence as lion. sec. of the Sandgate club and
the Outer Brisbane Metropolitan Golf Asso-
ciation. The Bananaland season is now in
full swing; the first of the big events
will be the open and amateur chamnionships
beginning at leerongpilly on May 20. Frank
Eyre, of N.S.W., who collected the open title
last year, is expected to turn up in defence
of it.
* *
A. E. Gazzard, the Queensland professional
golfer who has been appointed to the charge
of the new municipal links in Brisbane, is a
N. S. Welshman by birth and was at one
time employed at Moore Park. In Queens-
land lie has recently been Sandgate’s pro.
A golfer of class, he has many good perform-
ances to his credit, including the Queensland
open championship in 1929.
“Hotham”: An important annual golf fix-
ture in Victoria is the public schools’ old
boys’ meeting. This was held the other day
on the Victoria club’s course at Cheltenham,
the entries including some of the State’s
leading amateurs. The championship event
was brilliantly won by Ivo Whitton, who
finished 3 up on the next player, P. O.
Graham, with Alex. Russell third. The
winner’s stroke score was 74, one over par
for the course. The inter-schools’ contest
was decided by averaging the aggregate
scores of each school’s entries. Geelong
Grammar was the winner, with Geelong Col
lege and Melbourne Grammar following.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : The N.S.W. Golf Council
has decided to limit entries for the State
amateur championship, which commences at
Rose Bay early next month, to players han-
dicapped at three strokes or less, while if
the entries exceed 128 players will be asked
to ballot for position. There will be one
round of match play on the first day and
thereafter until the semi-finals and finals,
which will be of 36 holes each, two 18-hole
matches will be played each day. The eli-
mination of stroke-play marks an important
change, while the restriction of entries should
considerably improve the general standard of
play. A big entry is expected from Vic-
toria. and if Ivo Whitton, who is playing
wonderful golf just now, is among the en-
trants, Eric Apperly will have to fight hard
CUTTING COSTS,
MUSS NCGREGIR : “I’m surprised that you don’t play golf,
Mr. McTavish!”
MR. MCTAVISH: “Na, na. Tossin' the medicine-ball
is just as quid exercise—an’ it’s verra deeficult to
lose a medicine-ball.”
to retain the title which the Victorian
annexed in 1929.
'•* JjJ :*i
“Kunai”: Port Moresby Golf Club evi-
dently believes in providing for all emergen-
cies. Recently a general meeting considered,
among other things, the committee’s power
to expel a member in case of any individual
rendering himself liable to such a penalty.
A rule was eventually passed endowing the
committee with the necessary powers after
holding an inquiry, at which the accused
should be permitted to speak for himself.
Just what constitutes “conduct prejudicial
to the interests of the club” in Port Moresby,
as the new rule puts it, was not defined at the
meeting, but the incident suggests that
“Port” is becoming unpleasantly refined.
There was a time when any conduct short
of drinking the last of the whisky wdtli the
flies would liavo been cheerfully condoned in
that outpost of Empire.
“Brassey”: This year’s contest for the
Kirk-Windeyer .Cup has been definitely aban-
doned, following on the request of the Maori-
land Golf Association to be absolved from
their obligation to defend the pot in Sydney
this season. Of the four matches played for
the trophy to date, M.L. has won two, the
other brace being credited to N.S.W. Vic-
toria. which has never been enthusiastic
about this event, has so far failed to do any-
thing impressive.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Another addition has been made
to the interminable list of motor-car records.
P. Brewster, a British driver, lias, sped over
3020 miles in 48 hours, with occasional
reliefs from two other drivers, in a 16-li.p.
car. It is a new product of the Singer
aid was designed by the racing motorist Kaye
Don. The engine has six cylinders with a
pistoii displacement of 1920 c.c. and the run
was made on Montlhery.
s i : Jjs :J:
“Hobo”: Assault and robbery cases by
pedestrians who have' asked passing motor-
car drivers for a lift have become so com-
mon in America that five States and the
Federal district of Columbia have made it
an offence to solicit a ride. The practice is
very common in out-back N.S.W. and
Queensland, where a passenger to open gates
on the road comes in very handy. So far
no assault and robbery cases have been re-
ported, though one Queensland swaggie came
near it when he sued a good Samaritan for
a day’s wages for gate-opening during his
free ride, and gat them.
* =i= * *
“Pore du Chemin": The reckless car-
driver is an even greater curse in America
than he is in this country, and several of
the States have been conferring with the
idea of evolving some method of notifying
the pedestrian public of the road-liog’s pro-
clivities. Legislation is to he brought in
to compel convicted offenders to carry red
plates with the letters “R.D.” thereon on
the back and front of their cars for so long
as the Courts may direct. There is no parti-
cular reason why the unoffending car should
carry the badge of shame instead of the
motorist.
❖ sjs * ❖
“Frogskin”: Members of the A.I.F. in
France had some experience of the French-
man’s financial outlook. Lamb and Opper-
man got a lesson on the subject when they
arrived to take part in the Tour <tc France
and other Continental events. The Cus-
toms held up all their bikes, spare parts, etc.,
until 3000 francs duty had been paid. The
French cycling authorities intervened in vain,
and the disgruntled tourists had no option
but to pay up and make the best of it.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip” : A notable Australian crick-
eter was given out in Sydney last week when
A. J. Hopkins passed over at 54. He was
on his day an exceptionally good spin bowler,
while he was among the soundest batsmen of
his time in Australia. He had three visits
to England with Australian Elevens, and
did well on all three occasions, among his
contemporaries being Joe Darling, Trumper,
Cotter, Ernie Jones, Clem Hill and many
another player whose names are household
words in cricket. For 17 Test matches he
averaged 16.69 with the bat, and took 21
wickets at an average of 27.66. In the ►Shef-
field Shield matches he played 55 innings for
an average of 30.65 and a highest score of
218 against South Australia, while his 96
wickets, cost 22.57 apiece.
“Fitzcray”: C. S. Gordon, recently dead
in London at 81, was credited with being
the last survivor of the Vic-
torian eleven of 1870. Inter-
State rules must have been lax
in those days; lie played for
the Cabbage Garden during a
short visit on leave from
India, where his regiment was
stationed. N.S.W. must have
regretted his appearance, for
he made 22 and 121 against
them. A Cheltenham boy, he
figured with success in the
Gloucestershire side, his lob
bowling proving a valuable
addition to his batting.
“Blade” : This week will see
the annual frenzy of the
G.P.S. ‘‘Head of the River”
championship of N.S.W. on
the Parramatta, the finals
being set down for Saturday.
North Shore Grammar still
heads the list of wins with
13 victories. Sydney Gram-
mar is next with 12, though
it has failed to score since
1924. The baby of the race,
Sydney High, has five wins to
its credit, three of them in
succession. St. Ignatius claims
four, St._ Joseph’s two and
The King’s a solitary single.
* * $
“Shell”: Australia’s old
cobber Bobby Pearce is acquir-
ing social effulgence. A Lon-
don ."journal announcing his
arrival for Henley regatta refers
to him respectfully as “Mr."
Robert Pearce. The champion is
being coached and paced by
Ted Phelps, the holder of the
world’s professional title, who filled the
same office for Bobby when he won the
Olympic sculls. The big fellow tipped the
beam at 14.8 on his first visit to the weigh-
ing machine, but should soon get the surplus
beef off, since he is rowing daily. He intends
to get race practice at Walton and Marlow
regattas during May and June in order to
tune up for the Diamond Sculls at Henley
the first week in July.
v j{l -1- »l»
“Tchakoe”: Otago has of late years proved
as formidable in rowing as it has been
in the Rugby field for many years.
The Otago crew recently collected the
Maoriland eiglit-oared championship for
the third year in succession, winning
easily from Canterbury, Auckland and
Marlborough. Hard times kept most of
the other provincial associations from boat-
ing crews. For some reason rowing does not
draw big crowds in the Shivery Isles, with
the result that clubs and controlling bodies
generally are never very flush of cash.
* ❖ * *
One of Australia’s most famous swimmers
headed for the Jasper Lake last week in the
person of Jack Hellings. Only 55, he learned
to swim at the old Sydney Domain baths, then
kept by his father, and soon moved up into
the championship class, winning several State
and Australian championships, mostly over
the sprint distances. Hellings was the first
Australian amateur swimmer to figure with
success in Europe, winning many important
events in Britain and on the Continent. He
married in England, his wife, Miss Stratton,
being herself a swimming celebrity, and
during his residence there played water polo
for England for two successive years in
1898-99 before returning to Australia.
“Botham”: Melbourne historians of the
game have recently been arguing as to when
and where bowls was originally imposed on
this country and to whom the blame
should be allotted. The consensus of opinion
is that Burgess and Lipscome started
the initial bowling-green in Australia at
Hobart in 1845, while in Victoria the pioneer
green was laid down at Windsor in 18(54.
Thomas Fades, of Parramatta, turned the
first pair of woods made in this country,
using Australian timber ; and N.S.W. started
the first inter-State match. Victoria was
taken on in Sydney, greatly to the enrich-
ment of the local wine and spirit trade, in
1880.


llndert
Royal
iJ/Varrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPACne
Reims
MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
A Perfect qloss
A GLOSSY, healthy-
looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
FIRST
SOLD
1792
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
Rwked’s
Macassar Oil
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: •,
THE DUCHESS OF DANTZIC.
CRITERION: SPOT ON THE SUN
(Commencing Saturday).
J, c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
AND
TRIAL BY JURY,
COMEDY THEATRE: LOYALTIES,
With FRANK HARVEY and brilliant company.
Why can’t Governor Game dismiss
Lang? This was explained in “The
Barrier Miner” last Friday. Also how
to enable him to do it.
This bright Far-Western daily holds
the lead outside Sydney. Miners,
Pastoralists, Bosses, Wage-slaves all
read it right through every day.
HAIR
(T
need
|s|o
HERES
ajA\m -
ĸ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally i£ she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey, it is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
gPOJUniS CMEXICAN)
tikUmd Stourt-
♦removes the grey
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (t;/6) ,
6d. being postage.
k
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Sydney journalists very seldom have the
pleasure of listening to such a good after-
lunch speech as Governor-General Isaacs
made at the Institute of Journalists’ repast
last week. The G.-G. was in great form, and
summed up in. masterly fashion the case for
the press and the pressman. Of presswomen
he spoke not at all, but, of course, the
presswoman in his more strenuous days
would be few and far between. The Isaacs
lady, in smart black and white, supported
her husband, and with them came Captain
Bracegirdle and Lieut. Forrest. On the
tables pink roses blushed gaily, and among
the speakers was Holman, K.C., whose mel-
low notes and rounded sentences fell suavely
on the grateful ear.
No matter how successful a bridge party
may be, there’s nothing picturesque or spec-
tacular about it. It would have been almost
a relief the other night at the District Nurs-
ing Association’s money-raiser if some lady
had been found with a spare ace or two in
her sleeve. But everything was most cor-
rect and marched to a triumphant success.
The players arrived by the hundred in the
early afternoon, played till the sunset hour,
departed for a bite of dinner and a change
of garment, and in the evening returned to
the fray. The serial card-party, which started
in early afternoon and ran till midnight, was
held in David Jones’s; during the second
part of the programme the big dining-hall
was the battle-ground for the seniors, while
the younger group played in one of
the smaller rooms. Lady Game and
son Philip were the backbone of the
committee, and although the Governor’s
wife does not play bridge she happily
enough played rummy all through the
afternoon in company with Mrs. A. T.
Anderson and daughter Bethia, Mrs. Longer
Owen and Miss Isabel Crowdy; in the even-
ing Mayoress Jackson was in her party. The
Governor was among the players, as was
son Philip, who was treasurer of the younger
effort, of which Anne Gordon was secretary.
Pretty and expert girL vendors of cigarettes
and sweets garnered an extra harvest of
silver for the cause.
Evans of the Broke and his clear-com-
plexioned, bright-eyed wife are soon to leave
us. The Admiral and Mrs. Evans have a
way with them, and all Sydney has fallen
under their charm. Farewells with cere-
monial are being thrust upon the pair from
every side, and one of the gayest was that
staged' by the Women’s Country Club at
the Wentworth last week. A pretty touch
was the guard of honor that awaited the
guests at the foot of the palm court stairs.
Thirty-six pretty young things stood with
crooks colored red, white and blue, and under
this bright archway the good-looking couple
.stepped into the room. One wondered if the
crooks were a sort of pastoral hint, in these
days of shrinking navies, about the joy a
sailor is always supposed to find down on
the farm. Mrs. Evans was vivid and smiling
in rose-pink chiffons; the club’s president,
Mrs. George Irvine, was resplendent in white
and silver, and Mrs. R. Duncan, another
chieftain of the club, wore chiffons as refresh-
ing as water-cress. Former Mayoress Hilda
Marks wore opulent-looking black and silver.
But the hero of the night was C. W. A.
Scott, whose amazing endurance on his flight
from England to Australia is still the won-
der of all men.
Wedding garments are being ordered with
great care for the marriage of Bethia Ander-
son and Lieutenant Thomas Harry Brudenell
Foott, of Victoria Barracks, Melbourne. The
invitations are already out for the afternoon
of May 27. Guests are to go from St.
James’s Church to Government House,
which is being lent for the occasion.
Bethia is the daughter of Brigadier-
General Anderson, who is private secretary
to the Governor; the young man’s father,
who was D.A.Q.M.G. of the Ist Divvy in
Gallipoli, is Military Commandant in Mel-
bourne. The Men of Mons in Sydney are
to form a guard of honor at the ceremony;
Bethia’s father (he’s a poet, too) was one
of the “Old Contemptibles.”
This will be the first time since Lord
Hampden gave his daughter, the Hon. Alice
Brand, in matrimony to Captain Ferguson,
his private secretary, that Government
House has harbored a wedding party. A
Governor’s daughter is to be the baby
bridesmaid; there will be seven full-size
ones, all pretty and witty and artistic. The
bridegroom is a grandson of Australian
poetess Mary Hannay Foott.
Japan’s Consul-General Inoue and his
popular little wife had a ceremonial tea-
drinking at their home in Point Piper to
celebrate the birthday of their Emperor.
This was a very smart party, and netted all
the Consular sets, many University dons.
civic dignitaries and social tea-tasters. Tlie
guests were received in the drawing-room,
where the flag of Japan was draped below
the portraits of the Emperor and Empress.
Chrysanthemums and sake brought a touch of
the exotic. Government House was repre-
sented by Commander Gifford and Miss
Crowdy, the Navy by Rear-Admiral Evans
and the military by Base-Commandant Heri-
tage. Mrs. Evans and Mrs. Heritage were
with their spouses.
Dr. R. Dick, Director-General of Public
Health, armed his youngest daughter Betty
up the aisle of St. James’s the other night.
In the usual glimmer of satin and tulle, with
orange-blossom and lily-of-the-valley embel-
lishments to taste, she made the time-honored
vows to Robin Zillman, of Mackay (Q.).
Dr. Robert Dick, jun., was best man, and
the toasts were drunk at the home of the
bride’s parents on Bellevue Hill.
Sydney’s State Theatre attracted an
astonishing audience for the pre-view of
‘‘City Lights.” Judges, leading K.C.’s, cap-
tains of commerce and industry, politicians,
Federal and State, and their wives were
there, with a generous sprinkling of Stephens,
Knoxes and Allens —all anxious to see as
much as possible of Ken Austin before his
imminent departure for M.L. Poetess Dorothea
Mackellar aroused attention by her striking
headgear in the d.-c., where, incidentally,
few appeared in glad rags; and the happy
little couple who were “married” on the stage
last week were the centre of interest in the
stalls. The new Chaplin picture is a
scream where it doesn’t reduce the spectator
to utter misery. It is due for release at
the Lyceum early next month.
The Water-colorists broke new ground in
their decoration of the Education Depart-
ment galleries for their recent show. Squat
yellow tubs on orange bases, from which
lemon and mandarin trees, heavy with fruit,
rose in green felicity, greeted the visitor
inside the doors. Up the middle of the room
were placed screens of dark wood, and
against these were massy pottery jars. in
which prize chrysanthemums stood stiffly
erect. In the long inner room were more
orange-trees in yellow tubs and more pottery
jars blooming with plant and flower. Vivid
tones were flung into the pattern by hand-
woven Turkish rugs, and the stage was
flanked by huge porcelain pots, out of which
sturdily rose Japanese cypress-trees oyer
150 years old. Another stage decoration
was' a bowl of fruit on a dark table. Mixed
with the fruit were autumn leaves laid flat,
so brown and flame-splashed that it was
hard to know where pear or apple began and
leaf ended. The warmth and grace of B. E.
Minns’s “Midday Rest” and “Coaching-
Days,” the vigor of H. W. Grace’s “Red
Head,” Norman Lindsay’s highly-decorative
“Modern Girls” and the blaze from 80 or
so other artistic tapers put life and meaning
into a rain-washed, sombre fortnight.
Never in the knowledge of this Letter-
writer has there been such a great audience
gathered to listen to a woman as packed the
Town Hall when Mrs. J. A. Lyons spoke
to the women
of Sydney.
Mrs. Lyons is
neither didac-
tic in manner
nor domineer-
ing of tone. A
swee_t reason-
ableness
seems the key-
note of her
thoughts and
p e r s onality.
Her speaking
voice is clear,
her enuncia-
tion nearly
perfect, and she
has fine eyes
that help her
not a little in
making her
points. Mrs.
Lyons is, like
her husband, a
Tasmanian; she is the mother of nine child-
ren, so she spoke the truth when someone
asked “Do you find your children interfere
with your career?” and she replied “My child-
ren are my career!” She believes that every
political question, whatever its nature,
should be of keen interest to women, for all
matters of State affect the home, and there-
fore the mothers and the children. Mrs.
Lyons gained the crown and sceptre in the
first Queen competition for the Red Cross
held in Australia. This, of course, was in
Tasmania. The photo is from the new May
Moore studio in Kyle House, Macquarie-
place; it was the first picture taken there.
The Ole Clo’ Shop at 869 George-street
in aid of the Rawson Institute has proved
such a success (the £2OO objective was
passed in less than a fortnight, so one
of the helpers whispered) that former Jus-
tice Gordon’s lady, who started the venture,
decided to open a city branch. This is in
the Sydney Arcade, and the window gleamed
for the opening day with strings , of near-
jade and other glittersome trifles against a
background of rose and blue evening wear,
while in the right-hand corner staunchly
stood the sterner stuff of a three-piece. Mrs.
Colin Stephen is manager-in-chief of this
establishment, which has in stock used even-
ing frocks and ensembles of recent or not-
so-recent vintage. These frocks aren’t of the
dirt-cheap order. One green three-piece was
on the opening day priced, without the quiver
of an eyelash, at three guineas, and some of
the evening frocks as high as two guineas.
There is a business-like air about the Arcade
shop, where all the frocks are on hangers in
glass cases, and are displayed in quite a pro-
fessional manner by Sydney’s high society.
There has been such a demand for the goods
that a constant SOS has to be kept flashing
for more stocks.
The girls of the Pickwick Book Club,
headed by Dorise Hill, ran a success-
ful dance aboard the Atsuta Maru in
aid of the Adult Deaf and Dumb Society.
The boat had been lent by the Nippon
Yusen Kaisha .Co., and the decks had been
turned into a Japanese tea garden, gay with
cherry blossoms, trailing wistaria, colored
lights and red and white flags. Japan’s
Consul-General and Mrs. Inoue were among
the guests, and Chief Justice Street brought
his lady. Gwen Field and Ann Hannan
were the treasurers, and Joan Hoskins the
secretary. Mrs. Gore-Jones, social organiser
for the Deaf and Dumb Society, was among
the hard workers for the night’s success.
Gwynnetli Stone, the girl in this Rene
Pardon picture, has just walked off with the
W a t e r-color
Institute’s an-
nual prize for
mural decora-
tion. The prize
is ten guineas,
and the win-
ning exhibit
is a classic
bit of group-
ing, showing
r e m a rkable
talent in a
girl not out of
her teens.
G w y n n eth
comes from
the pastoral
haunts of Bee-
croft, and is
a fourth-year
art student at
the Technical
College in
D a rlinghurst.
Before that she was an Abbotsleigh College
girl.
It was a good thing for the new Mrs. Ken
Atkinson that she had on something more
serviceable than her wedding raiment (a
classic gown of ivory satin and a beautiful
point-lace veil) when the honeymoon car
collided with one driven by the redoubtable
William Morris Hughes, M.H'.R. The Iyen
Atkinsons were on their way to Canberra,
but owing to the accident ’they had to return
to Sydney, where they " are staying at 44
Macleay-street. Ken is an old King’s School
boy, second son of the W. Atkinsons, of
Cashmere station (N.Q.). His bride, who was
Pat Lacy, of Stratlifield, is a pretty fair-
liaired girl, an ex-pupil of Meriden School.
She doesn’t reach the shoulder of her six-
foot husband.
Mrs. Harrie Yale,- secretary of the Queen
Victoria Homes auxiliary, is looking forward
to a success for the ball equal to the en-
thusiasm shown at the last meeting. The
Forum Club held the discussion of ways and
means, and Lady Game was among the keen
advocates of the inexpensive supper. It was
on the vice-regal suggestion that the ball is
to be called “The Birthday Ball.” The
date is June 23, the Prince of Wales’s birth-
day.
N.S.W. Con.’s director, Arundel Orchard,
is now among the musical elect; he has
been made one of the 50 ITellows of the
Royal College of Music. News of his honor
came to him last week from Sir Hugh Allen,
director of the Royal College.. Dr. Orchard
has been leader of our Con. since 1923, and
Sydney is proud of this distinction as well
as of the fact that in 1928 the Durham Uni-
versity (where he graduated) conferred on
him the degree of Doctor of Music.
The choice of Vincent John Flynn as
president of Sydney Uni. Students’ Repre-
sentative Council for 1931 is a popular one.
Vincent John was the State’s Rhodes Scholar
for 1927, and entered Christ Church, Oxford,
where he gained his B.A. with honors and
his B.C.L. the following year. He has played
Rugby for Oxford and Blackheatli, and if
that doesn’t widen a man’s horizon, what
will ?
Tire little Argosy Gallery was crowded out
for artist Nevill Smith s show l" 1 •
The Governor’s lady, in quiet fiockingj did
the opening act, and musical and educational
Sydney came in cohorts. Slim Jean Chen
ton wore a white pique vest with her
cloth costume in quite a dashing Wy y> ~
Hutchens, tall Mrs. Dettmann, Mrs Mar>
Irvine and Mary Jay were omong the CTo«ds
that rubbed shoulders so often that &
looked imminent. Mrs. H- Osboine j
back from Colombo, was among the picture-
gazers, and there was quite a sprinkling ot
the male in the intimate room
Charlie Bryant, painter of big ships and
fishing-smacks, goes oft by the Esperance
Bay to catch the herring fleets of England
and Scotland as they go out to sea, sails
spread, or drift below a sunset sky. lie
murmured these hopes under the screw
cross-examination, blushing above bis us -
blue-and-wliite-dotted bow-tie among ms
many craft at mooring on the walls or
Bribery Bonnet’s gallery. Lady Game panj
this show the compliment of an unofhcia.
visit. Charlie has, incidentally, probably
the smallest hands among the artists o
Sydney. , c
Edith Gillespie, third daughter of tlie
George Gillespies, of Turramurra, has be-
come the wife of Dr. Norman Keirle, ot
Manly. Both bride and ’groom are well
known, and the reception at tlie Macquarie
Club was a happy affair in spite °? tlie rain-
waslied night, which had necessitated the
chib’s spreading green and white awning
from the footpath to the portals.
The 17th Battalion A.I.F. will hold its
annual reunion on May 12, the anniversary
of the date upon which the original battalion
sailed from Sydney. Sargent’s, Market-
street, at eight o’clock are the place and the
hour of meeting. Further information can
be bad of the secretary, 17th Battalion Asso-
ciation, 7 Poate-road, Centennial Park.
Mrs. E. Coungeau, of Brisbane, who has
written verses of charm, and some years ago
had an operetta of hers produced by Alfred
Hill, has just had 12 of her lyrics accepted
by Peter Derek, a London music publisher,
live of these have been set to music and are
already on sale. .
The King’s School Old Boys’ Union dance
will be held at David Jones’s on Friday,
July 10. The tickets are 10s.; the trea-
surers are W. S. Friend. B. B. O’Couor,
G. B. Sutherland and C. M. Gunther.
May 12, IB and 14 have been marked off
for the Junior Red Cross exhibition, which
this year of thrift will be held in the lecture
hall of the Agricultural Department in
Rafael-street.
Queensland’s quota :
More than 200 members of the Royal Society of
St. George in Brisbane attended the annual dinner
at the Canberra, President E. R. B. Pike
being in the chair. The Governor, in replying to
the toast of his health, mentioned that he had spent
more than 2Q of the last ‘35 years out of England,
adding that though he loved Queensland for her own
sunny sake he hoped to spend his last years at home.
The Apollo was loudly cheered when it landed
at Archerfield carrying the first British air
mail to Australia. There was a crowd at the
aerodrome, where the Mayor welcomed R. B. Tapp.
Fergus McMaster, of Qantas, escorted the pilot to the
platform, and there he spoke oyer the wires. A
dinner at the National was given to him by the
Qantas heads.
Brisbane has seen a good many weddings lately.
At All Saints’, Wickham-terrace, George Seaman
and Marjorie Alder were made one. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in ivory satin.
Her Honiton-lace veil fell to a train and she carried
eucharist and arum lilies. Beryl Alder and Ellen
Doak ’maided in turquoise blue chiffon velvet, with
berets to match. Mrs. J. B. McLean, the bride’s
aunt, received at the Westminster.
In St. James’s, Toowoomba, John Douglas Taylor
married Maida G. Bailey. The bride was in oyster-
grey crepe de Chine and a Russian turban in the
same shade. Her father gave her away, and Mrs.
S. Morris, her sister, was matron of honor in cocoa-
brown.
Edith Homer, a sister of the well-known baritone,
was united to Hugh Nicholson at Holy Trinity,
Valley. The bride, given away by her father, was
in ivory bridal satin; her veil of silk, studded with
rhinestones, fell from a Juliet cap of rare old lace.
Hilda Homer, Margaret Nichol and Molly Lindenian
’maided in daffodil mariette with apricot-tinted hats;
Wanda Bellingham was trainbearer in old gold
taffetas and poke bonnet of the same shade. The
breakfast was at McKimmin’s tapestry-room, where
the bride’s aunt, Mrs. W. Lingley, received the
guests. The ’moon rises in Sydney and Melbourne.
The Greater Brisbane municipal elections were
marked by a sad happening. Alderman John Tait,
who represented Ithaca ward in the previous council
and was a candidate again, died during the actual
polling. His death did not affect the result. In
1925 ex-Speaker McDonald, Federal member for
Kennedy, died after the closing of nominations, but
before the polling.


PROPERTY SEEKERS
Invest on the Darling Downs
CLIMATE ATTRACTIVE.
HANDY AND ESTABLISHED MARKETS.
CLEAN, SOUND WOOL-GROWING & BREEDING COUNTRY.
AGRICULTURE AND DAIRYING.
A few very attractive propositions:—•
6100 acres, all sheep-to-the-acre country, clean, sound
and healthy, practically all plain, excellent home
and improvements, ideal and handy situation, 37/-
per acre.
3200 acres, all first-class grazing and fattening land, one
sheep to the acre, beautiful home, no pests, also
every acre could be cultivated, 37/6.
1040 acres, ideal for fat-lamb raising, wool-growing,
breeding, dairying or agriculture, all Freehold,
beautiful home, Wizard light, telephone, septic
system, low ridges, valleys and open plain, situated
close proximity to Bunya Mountains, fine climate,
handy rail and school, £3/15/- per acre, half cash,
good terms.
All of the above properties we can strongly recommend. We will be pleased
to arrange • early inspection, and will gladly supply further details upon
application.
McPHIE & GO., Land Salesmen, Dalby, Q.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Caulfield Grammar School has been indulg*
ing in a week of mild frivolity to mark its
50th birthday. Archbishop Head, who pre-
sided at a speechmaking-, recalled that in
1881, the year of the school’s birth, the
Revised Version of the Bible was introduced;
St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, was in
course of construction and the battle of
Majuba took place. Always unofficially
under the aegis of the Church of England, the
school now passes right into the fold, and in
January of ’32 will take its place as one
of the Great Public Schools. It was founded
by the Rev. Henry Davies, who later became
a missionary in Korea, where he died. The
Rev. E. J. Barnett was the next head, and
he was followed by the present principal,
W. M. Buntine, who has served for 35 years
and will resign next year. At the beginning
there was a roll of .nine boys, the school being-
located in a shop not far from its present
site. Among old boys of the school are
Archdeacon Herring, the Rev. Canon Lang-
ley, Dr. J. C. V. Behan, Warden of Trinity
College, and George Maxwell, M.P. Among
those who attended the speechifying were
Miss Davies, a sister of the founder.
Old boys of the Caulfield G. S. gave a ball
at the local Town Hall, secretaried by Eric
Dakin. They were about 500 dancers. The
school flag and pennants won in sports hung
on the walls, and there was a full represen-
tation of the teaching staff. Mrs. Buntine,
who accompanied the principal, was attired
in black chiffon. L. B. Lloyd, deputy-presi-
dent of the 0.G.A., greeted guests of honor,
backed up by Mrs. Lloyd, who was in twine-
colored lace. Dr. and Mrs. M. A. Buntine
were there, she in deep cream satin with a
touch of pale green. The headmaster of
the C.G.S., F. H. Archer, escorted Mrs.
Archer, who was in poppy-red lace and chif-
fons. Among a bunch of nice-looking girls
was fair-haired Peggy Shiels, in black chif-
fon, with black mittens; Dulcie Dakin, in
pink georgette ; Una McArthur, in pale blue;
Aldwych Steele, in flowing gown of turquoise
blue; and Nancy Criswick, in coral-pink
ninon. A. J. iCarlton, the first scholar on
the school’s roll, was among the dancers.
Melbourne Grammar School chapel was
the scene of the uniting of Evelyn, daughter
of the late Reginald Court, of Brisbane,
and Alan, son of the late Andrew Murray,
of Langley, Kyheton. Lace of the hue
known as chandelle was worn by the bride,
and her cap was chenille of darker color
with a brush plume at the side. She car-
ried a bouquet of roses and autumn foliage.
Grizel Hamilton, her cousin, bridesmaided
in pale green lace topped by a close-fitting
hat of black chiffon velvet. Robert O. Black-
wood, of Stanhope, Toorak-road, put on the
wedding tea at his home, among the guests
being George Fairbairn and his lady, Mrs.
Ross Watt and the W. F. Weigalls. Tom
Weigall was best man.
The country came to town for the knot-
tying at the Collins-strect kirk of Evelyn,
elder daughter of the J. I). Scotts, of Del-
vine Park, Bairnsdale, and Archie, son of
the Archibald N. Macarthurs, also of the
Gippsland district. The bride held a great
sheaf of cream gladioli which blended with
the vellum tone of her trained satin gown
that radiated a glow of pink. Four ’maids
were in tourmaline-pink chiffon with felt
hats and armfuls of gladioli of the same
shade. Congratulations were said at the
Windsor.
Robert, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Vicars, of Sydney, came over the border to
claim his bride, Claire, third daughter of
W. L. Baillieu, Toorak. The knot-tying
was done at St. John’s, Toorak, with little
fuss. The leading lady dispensed with brides-
maids and orange blossoms, choosing an all-
blue gown of lace with a small hat of match-
ing velvet; a posy of red roses made a
vivid contrast. The wedding feast was
spread at the home of the bride’s sister, Mrs.
R. Ramsay. Among the guests were Wil-
liam Vicars and his lady.
Gwen McLean, niece of the late Alan
McLean, one-time Premier of this State, is
shortly to marry Ralph Randell, of the
Flinders-lane. firm of Wilks, Todhunter, who
is interested in oil-prospecting companies in
Australia and Maoriland. Miss McLean is
a qualified chemist.
St. Kilda Town Hall housed the Royal
Horticultural Society’s flower show, the out-
standing feature of Avhich was the chrysan-
themums—-immense decorative blossoms that
looked as if they had been dipped in rain-
bows for their coloring. The champion
bloom was a pure white monster grown by
J. R. Dyer, of Trafalgar. T. W. Pockett,
who sends his hybrids all over the world,
showed some new strains. Gordon Hum-
phreys, a returned soldier, who is an inmate
of the Macleod Sanatorium, won the Dr.
Edgar Inglis trophy. There was a good dis-
play of dahlias and gladioli, and A. M.
Nicholas exhibited yellow, white and mauve
orchids.
Laura Nyulasy, vice-president of the St.
Kilda-South Yarra Auxiliary of St. Martin’s
Home for Boys, sponsored a matinee musi-
cale at. her home, Graeme, Toorak, in aid
of the institution. The hostess, in reseda-
green chiffon with figured tracery in golden
hues and felt millinery, was helped by her
sister, Mrs. C. R. Cowper, whose black cr§pe
•satin gown was brightened with ficelle lace.
Members of the auxiliary present included
the Raws lady and Mrs. W. Pulteney Mein.
Sales of blossoms and berries swelled the
proceeds. Eda Bennie, Edith' Cooke and
John Stewart sang, Cecil Parkes fiddled,
and Mrs. Cecil Parkes and Mrs. Hale Morris
played accompaniments.
The new premises of the Lillian Cannam
Free Kindergarten in Eastern-road were
opened by Lady Somers, who was welcomed
by Mayor Wright, of South Melbourne. The
president of the kindergarten, Mrs. Lee Neil,
and her committee came in for congratula-
tions, and Mrs. Cannam, founder of the
school, beamed upon the realisation of her
dream. The South Melbourne municipality
gave the _ land, and the State Government
helped with the building, which cost over
£2BOO.
Cars were parked about the drive of Mr.
and Mrs. J. T. Tweddle’s home at Haw-
thorn one afternoon last week, when guests
who brought gifts of linen for the Tweddle
Baby Hospital were entertained with music
and tea. The Central Auxiliary, of which
May Rimmington is hon. sec., organised the
party. _ Mrs. Tweddle’s drawing-room has
draperies of goblin blue and pale amber, and
there is a touch of red lacquer about the
grey woodwork of the doorways. Hydran-
geas of many shades, gladioli and pink car-
nations enhanced the general effect. Piano-
forte duets were played by Mrs. G. B. Lock-
yer and Mrs. T. Flattely Lewis, and Mrs.
Wallsgott and Shirley Tweddle sang, the
latter accompanied by her sister Betty, whose
two-piece suit was of rosy red plumelaine.
Tea was served in the hostess’s studio, which
is panelled with dark wood and. hung with
many pictures.
Mrs. .T. G. Latham launched the Gentle-
women’s Aid Society’s sale of work at Mal-
vern Town Hall. The Time and Talents
Society stocked a cake-stall, and Mrs. Eric
Harrison engineered a bridge party which
wag well patronised.
There was rain on the morning of the
gymkhana at the Riversdale links for the
Children’s Hospital, but after lunch the sky
cleared and all was bright. Lord and Lady
Somers, the Lud .Mayor and Mrs. A. Rus-
sell were competitors. Profits are expected
to exceed £3OO.
At the opening of. the Yic. Artists’
Society’s show by the Lud Mayor, the Law-
ford lady attended in a mole fur coat, a green
and fawn patterned black frock and a green
felt hat. Harrison Moore’s lady showed
powder-blue chiffon beneath a brown chenille-
embossed cape, topping these with a black
satin toque. Mrs. M. Fitzgerald, Mr. and
Mrs. H. Gill, Mrs. P. Phillips and a bevy
of wielders of brush and pencil also studied
catalogues.
The Austral Salon’s programme this month
was compiled by Natalie Dawson as a mem-
orial to Melba and Agnes Murphy, the last-
named having been one of the founders.
Schubert’s “Unfinished Symphony” was
played by Miss Dawson and Joan Allan; and
Massenet’s “Elegie” was sung by George
Cowley.
Walter Murray Bun tine, principal of Caul-
field Grammar School, pictured here, is a
member of one
of the pioneer
families of N.
S. Wales, but
saw the light
of day in Vic.,
ami graduated
at Melbourne
t ni. His wife
has been very
helpful to him
in his long
and successful
teaching
career, and is
as popular
with the boys,
past and pre-
sent, as the
principal. Onfe
of their sons
is headmaster
of the Cam-
berwell Gram-
ma r School,
another is a medical missionary in Tangan-
yika, and the youngest son is a medical
student at the Uni.; the eldest son was
killed in the Great War. Their daughter
was married not long ago to Dr. Alan Wil-
son. of Perth, an old boy of the Caulfield
school.
. Thu six bridesmaids who danced into Court
in -trial by Jury,” at the Royal on Satur-
day night, were attired in peridot-pink georg-
ette, with shaded pink roses dangling from
glistening head-bands. Marie Bremner as the
bride was covered in little frills of white
tulle scattered with tiny blossoms of blue, with
a voluminous tulle veil. In “Pirates of
Penzance,” on the same bill, the numerous
daughters of the Major-General appeared in
"Victorian frocks of varied hues of
silken fabric with matching poke-bonnets,
mittens and peggy-bags. Maisie Ramsay wore
the white satin gown stuck o’er with posies
of lily-of-the-valley, and the white nicture
hat with drooping 4 feathers that have been
assumed by all the Mabels who have sung
“Poor Wandering One.” In the audience
were Mrs. J. J. Liston, in turquoise-blue vel-
vet coat with white fur collar ; Mrs G. Ber-
ling, in black lace; Dr. Strong and his sister,
Mrs. Stuart Brunton; Mrs. Leslie Benjamin,
a slim figure in apple-green and white fur
coat; Mrs. Dale, the Fred Bishops, Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme, Mrs. Charles Wenman, Mrs.
P Lucini, Miss .T. Bell of Murrnong, and
Mrs. Hugh Murdoch.
Pyjamas cut by a master-hand were the
outstanding wear of the trio of good-looking-
girls, Kathleen Goodall, Dieudonnee Waldron
and Coral Brown, who made their profes-
sional debut in Galsworthy’s “Loyalties,” at
the Comedy on Saturday night. The trou-
sers were flared from the knee down and the
coats were long. Miss Goodall, whose suit
was backless, was all in pale green; Miss
Waldron was in pale pink; and Coral
Brown’s amber crgpe satin pants were worn
with a coat of bright blue.
Artists R. E. Battarbee and J. A. Gard-
ner have got back to Melbourne after
another caravan tour. For nine months
they have wandered, putting up their easeis
by the wayside and transferring local color
to canvas. Their way lay through western
N.S.W. and Central Australia, and they
followed the Darling River as far as they
could.
Painter Tom Roberts is on the sick list
At the week-end he was forced to leave his
home at Callista in the Dandenong hills and
become a patient at Somerset House private
hospital. Mrs. Roberts is residing at Tasma
Parliament-place, close by.
Amy and Eileen Castles, who arrived by
train on Friday, were given a home-coming
party by some pals. Eileen, who has slimmed
considerably, appeared at the Tivoli on Satur-
day afternoon, wearing a white satin gown
whose flares wandered over the stage. A
splash of rhinestones on one hip was the
only trimming.
Gloves making a color contrast with the
gown have put in an appearance here at some
of the dances, but have not been much in
favor for daytime wear. At a recent wed-
ding, however, the bridesmaids, in frocks
and hats of deep primrose hue, sported
green shoes, muffs and long gloves.
The Kodak show of royal snapshots, hung
in Ball and Welch’s gallery, was launched
by Lord Somers. Proceeds go to the Lud
Mayor’s fund and the King Edward Hos-
pital.
Mrs. W. M. Robins and a group of auxi-
liary workers gave a card party at the Wind-
sor for the Queen Victoria Hospital, with
profitable results. Sales of flowers, sweets
and home-made cakes swelled the proceeds.
This is Constance Jorgensen, leading lady
of the Bank
Officials’ Am.
Dram. Assoc.,
who made a
hit in the
recent produc-
tion of “Tons
of Mone y.”
“Tons” \vill
have a sec-
on d produc-
tion on the
9th at the
Playhouse to
help M y r a
Marsh’s can-
didature in
the Queen
competition in
aid of the
blind. Miss
Jorgensen is
one of the
many clever
girls who
occupy positions in .banking offices.
Adelaide’s note:—
There has been a lot of controversy over the
national war memorial on North-terrace, unveiled
on Anzac Day. It is not artistic, and requires an
explanatory note for the man in the street to
recognise what the figures are meant to convey.
The Chief Scout and Lady Baden-Powell departed
thoroughly impressed with the efficiency of our Scout
and Guide movement. Lady Baden-Powell, among
other charming gifts, took with her four of Miss
Ariel Shearer’s songs, one of which is dedicated to
the Chief Guide.
The public still manages to be generous in its
support of charitable institutions. A most successful
effort to raise funds was that of the Mayoress and
the committee of the South Adelaide Creche. It
took the form of bridge at the Town Hall, where
70 tables were engaged, and many sent donations.
Equally good results were obtained by Mrs. T. S.
O’Halloran, who, with the aid of Mesdames Tenison-
Woods, Kevin Healy and W. G. Fuller, organised a
large bridge party at her residence, Don Feagal,
Unley Park, to raise funds for an X-ray apparatus
at the Calvary Hospital. A two days’ fete in the
Town Hall in aid of the Methodist Children’s Home
was also well patronised.
The Adelaide Ladies’ Rowing Club held a benefit
night at the Palais Royal, when Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon, president, presented the prizes recently won
by the crews. There was also a surprise presenta-
tion of a silver clock to Miss Jo Thomas, one of the
promoters of the club.
The Social Club of the Adelaide University held
the first dance of the season on Wednesday night in
the refectory. Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters received
the guests, Mrs. Matters .wearing a smart frock of
white moire, tight-fitting, flared at the feet and
having a draped effect. Many professors and their
wives were present. Huge bowls of gold and brown
chrysanthemums decorated the ballroom and pink
and mauve phlox the supper tables.' Over 300 were
present.
Miss Dora Morris, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
E. W. Morris, has returned from a trip to India.
Marie Tuck, herself a painter of repute, was made
sole judge for its autumn still-life awards by S.A.
Society of Arts. She gave first prize to a flower-
piece that Adelaide Art Gallery had already bought,
by Nora, the young daughter of Hans Heysen; second
to a fine fruit-and-flower study by George Whinnen.
A few lines from Westralia:—
The Savoy Hotel opened the dance season with a
cabaret de luxe in its palm-decked ballroom, where
balloons and multi-colored streamers bobbed about
overhead. Supper tables, aglow with pink roses and
carnations, were parked in the lounge and dining-
room, and David Samuel’s orchestra provided the
dance harmony. Betty Wood trod a measure in filmy
black and gold silk nets; Cecilia Brennan's crimson
velvet was a happy choice; Billie Yde flaunted much
black Spanish lace; Mignonne Jago blossomed in
apple-green georgette; and Edna Noble trailed many
lengths of reseda-green floral ninon.
Tawny chrysanthemums adorned the Repertory
Club’s newly redecorated rooms for a musical after-
noon. Songs warbled by Ethel Treadgold, Phyllis
Gillett and Dorothy Solomon were warmly applauded
and a quartette, headed by Mr. T. Webster made music
with steel guitars. Mrs. K. Meares did the accom-
panying and Mis. D. D. Paton, swathed in black
marocain, headed the committee which plied the
assemblage with tea.
Billy Poynton was feted many times and oft prior
to her nuptials with Frank Morrison, eldest son of
Mrs. and the late Mr. Jock Morrison, at St. Mary’s
Church, West Perth. Lengthy ivory chiffons girded
Billy’s lissome lines for the ceremony, and a cream
panamalaque hat framed her dark beauty with an
Andalusian brim, while a sheaf of scarlet dahlias
made a vivid splash of color. Betty McCullough
undid the glove in an Elizabethan creation of per-
venehe blue satin with matching headgear. The
Esplanade Hotel housed the festivities.
“An Evening of Comedy Touched with Fantasy’’
was offered at the Assembly Hall by Mrs. Walter
Mcßostie’s Dramatic Society. Four playlets, “Mag-
nificent Monty,” “Chalk and Cheese,” “Affinities”
and “The Pierrot’s Mother,” provided the fare. The
stage was effective with bright flowers and the
costume plays were admirably carried out. Noble
Norwood did well, and Mrs. Mcßostie was a favorite.
Harold Lalor, Miss M. Chugg and Miss Gulbhrason
ably assisted.
Back from Great Britain and Europe, after an
extended trip, is Walter James’s lady. While in
London she represented Australia at the British
Empire Red Cross Conference, which was opened by
the Duke of York. Being a figure in the Girl Guide
world, she missed the Lord Mayor’s banquet, com-
plete with gold plate, to be present at the foundation-
stone laying of the G.G. headquarters.
The Speck .speaks up:—
The Vincent Shoobridges’ fourth daughter, Jean,
walked down the aisle of the Bushy Park. Methodist
Church as Mrs. Redvers Terry in a wedding garment
of white supple satin, with Honiton-lace veil falling
to the hem of the long skirt. Sisters Ruth and
Nancy Shoobridge ’maided in saxe blue and chrome
yellow respectively. About 70 guests attended the
festivities at the bride’s parents’ home, Cloverlea.
The bridegroom’s job takes him to Malaya, where the
neyly-weds will settle.
The Philip Smith Teachers’ College organised a
reunion of ex-students, and about 200 came. J. R.
Johnson, principal of the college, had a happy time
among the sometime charges whose careers lie has
watched over. Bridge and dancing kept things
lively during the evening.
Pre-wedding parties in honor of Nancy Giblin keep
the younger set busy. Among recent hostesses have
been Mrs. F. X de Bavay, Mrs. Stoyles, Miss Max-
well, and, among girl-friends, Betty Ross-Reynolds,
Alison Gray, Wanda Piesse and Sibyl Lyons.
President’s Day brought a goodly company to the
King’s Meadows golf links at Launceston. Dr. and
Mrs. Ramsay received in the lounge of the club-
room, decorated by Mrs. Andrew Raeburn with cosmos
in all colors. The weather was perfect and the links
a picture, their vivid green setting off sports cos-
tumes in the prevailing gay tones. In the throng
were the L. A. Cuffs, the G. W. Fyshes, Col. and
Mrs. Evans, Mrs. Alfred Youl, Mr. and Mrs. Hollis,
Mrs. Robt. Wall, Mr. and Mrs. H. Gray, the R.
G. O’Connors, Mrs. P. A. Harisson, Anne Clemons,
Winnie Monds, Mr. and Mrs. Doolan, the Trevor
Eardley-Wilmots and a host of others.
The Midland Hunt Club has started on its winter
activities. The first meet was held at Pisa Forest,
and a picnic lunch was a cheery entertainment.
Among those out were the Master, John Foster, Mrs.
Arthur Bennett, Kathleen Mercer, Dorothy Foster,
Mary Taylor, H. and T. Dowling, J. Melrose, M.
Gibson, J. Bayles and J. Clark (huntsman). There
was a big muster of cars, too.
Thomas Murdoch resigns his position as head of
the Caledonian Society to Eustace Cameron, Mona
Vale. A cheery shivoo at St. Andrew’s, Montpelier-
road, was his parting gesture. Mrs. Murdoch, in a
fascinating frock of ashes-of-roses crepe romaine
with gold thread embroidery in a leaf design, helped
her husband receive.
Helen Gray went to Colombo with Mrs. Tom
Lyons and daughter Sibyl. The party expect to
return in June.


n:
>
minim
smEm
m
W'
V',\\
N'
'/V
/
WINTER in SUMMER SEAS
UNION CO. Excursions to South Sea Isles
offer a triple choice to Winter Holiday-
makers. Sydney Auckland Suva
Honolulu—Return
(£75 First Saloon; £55 Second).
Sailings: MONOWAI, MAY 28.
NIAGARA, JUNE 25.
Further particulars .and fares from —- ' , ..
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., . • -
247. George Street, Sydney; 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
Excursions to Hawaii
Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday land!
For rest, for play, for thrilling new experiences. . . .
colorful native life and customs, quaint
tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and
flowers, coral lagoons.... outrigger
canoeing, morning dips in cool jade-
green waters. And always you return
from exotic delights to the palatial
modern comfort of the
S.S. MATARAM.
Write for Leaflet No. 52/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
Ask for
the “B. P. Magazine,”
1/- per copy.
:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liabiilty
ķ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. •• _ - £ B9 - 228 > 378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneed e St., • ■ •
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zea an , J , P >
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Women? Never Come at ’Em!
JOHN CRISP’S
TALE OF HOW TIM TOON RODE THE WIDOW’S HORSE
IN THE COOLOOLOO CUP.
LISTEN! The worst downfalls I’ve ’ad
in me racin’ career ’as been all through
women. I’ve always tried to keep
clear of ’em, but at times I couldn’t ’elp
meself, because a topnotch rider ’as got
to mix up with all sorts. The day I ’ad
me first mount, sixteen years ago, me old
mother says, “Whatever else you do, don’t
ever go mixin’ yerself up with a lot o’ brazen
’ussies; because if you do,” she says, “you’ll
bring yer old mother’s grey ’airs in sorra
to the grave.” Well, me old mother is still
gettin’ round with the best of ’em, which
shows I never did what she told me not to.
But look! What I want to know is, what
could the brazen ’ussies ’ave done to me
that the shy, soft-speakin’, kind-lookin’ ones
didn’t do?
It’s a fact wliat Mr. Landsalc says, “In
the racin’ game yer can’t do business with
a woman.” A woman might be the most
obligin’, the kindest an’ nicest woman you
could ever meet, like Mrs. Sloghard was,
but if she takes to racin’, an’ you get mixed
up with ’er, then Gawd ’elp yer, tha't’s all.
It don’t pay a rider to be crook. I’ve known
lots of ’em you couldn’t trust. Stopped their
mounts when they should’ve won, an’, worse
than that, won when their instructions was
to run a bye. An’ where are they now?
Down an’ out. But you ask any owner or
trainer about me. “Tim Toon?” they’ll.say.
“He’s a ’orseman, he is ; he knows what ’is
’ands is for —an’ ’is arms. Tell ’im,” they’ll
say, “where you want yer ’orse at any part
of the race, an’ where you want ’im at the
finish, an’ that’s where Tim’ll ’ave ’im. Tirn
obeys ’is instructions. I once lost, for a bit,
me reputation as a straightgoer, because it
looked like I ’ad double-crossed the man I
was ridin’ for by winnin’ a race I ’ad been
instructed to lose.
It was when Dick Wells was trainin’
for Mr. Landsale and I was ridin’ for ’im.
Mr. Landsale was up against it. He’d been
’avin’ a rough trot, an’ he told me an’ Dick
that unless ’is ’orse Cutpurse won the
Coolooloo .Cup he’d ’ave to : go out of the
game. He said he’d ’ave to go back to com-
pany promotin’, an’ he said he didn’t want
to do that if he could ’elp it.
Well, me an’ Dick was doin’ all we could
for ’im because Mr. Landsale was a terrible
good sport an’ free with ’is money when
’e ’ad it.
Cutpurse was a pretty fair ’andicap ’orse,
but he ’ad never done .anythink great because
’is connections before Mr. Landsale got' ’im
didn’t know ’ow to prepare ’im. But Dick
’ad ’im at ’is best for the Coolooloo Cup, an’
as Mr. Landsale ’ad an hon’rable under-
standin’ with' the connections of the favorite.
We’d made a good market for ’im too. I
rode a couple o’ : neat byes on ’im, an’ Mr.
Landsale backed ’im to win a poultice in
the Coolooloo Cup.
Now, Mr. Landsale was a terrible ’ard
worker. He didn’t believe in leavin’ any-
think to chance. He useter say the man
that trusts to luck on the turf is on the
road to the poor’ouse. When he .’ad a ’orse
goin’ for a bit he didn’t leave no stones un-
turned to get the strong of everythink in
the race. He useter say the stren’th of the
other ’orses was not so important to know
as the stren’th of the owners’ bankin’
accounts, an’ that it was better for a ’orse
to be owned right than bred right.
Well, about a fortnight before the Cup
Mr. Landsale ’ad the strong of every ’orse
an’ ’is connections, except a ’orse called
Slippery Mick, owned by Louisa Ann Slog-
hard, a widow with a farm about twenty
miles at the' back. o’ Coolooloo. On paper
it looked ' as if Slippery Mick wasn’t worth
while botherin’ about. . Nobody seemed to
know anythink about ’im or Mrs. Sloghard.
But Mr. Landsale felt he would. be failin’
in ’is duty to ’isself if lie didn’t make an
effort to find out somethink about them.
That’s ’ow he put it- to me an’ Dick. He
said he would start next day for Coolooloo
to try and get an eyeful of Slippery Mick,
an’ if possible a word with Mrs. Sloghard.
An’ he did.
Well, Mr. Landsale came back from the
Bush terrible excited, an’ lookin’ fatter an’
redder than ever, an’ wipin’ the sweat off
’is ’ead an’ neck with ’is two ’andkerchiefs.
He puts one ’and on Dick’s shoulder an’ the
other on my ’ead, an’ leads us into a loose-
box, sayin’ all the time in a funny ’oarse
whisper, “Gor lumme, what a turn up!
What a turn up!” An’ after boltin’ the
doors he takes ’old of our pulls
us close to ’im an’ says, “Look, gentlemen !”
(It’ll show you ’ow excited he was, callin’
us gentlemen.) “Look, gentlemen,” he says,
“Slippery Mick’s goin’ to ’elp Cutpurse to
win the Cup, an’ Tim ’ere is goin’ to ride
’im.”
“ ’Struth,” says me an’ Dick together.
“Who’ll ride Cutpurse?”
“Listen,” says Mr. Landsale. “Cutpurse
don’t need a ’orseman on ’im in this race.
I’ve attended to everythink., He’s ’ome an’
dried,” he says. “ ’Arry the apprentice,” he
says, “will ride ’im, an’ Tim ’ere will make
the goin’ for ’im on Slippery Mick an’ deal
with anythink that wants to talk out of
’is turn. Tim ’ere,” he says, “is a ’orseman,
an’ ridin’ Slippery Mick in the Cup will
be a ’orseman’s job.”
Then ’e tells us that ’e went straight, on
’is own, to Mrs. Sloghard’s farm an’ put
it all over ’er with ’is personality, like ’e
used to do as a company promoter. ’E said
she was a widow; a pretty little tabby that
was terrible popular all round the country,
an’ that she was always ’avin’ things left
to ’er by wealthy squatters because she was
a great nurse an’ ’ad nursed a lot o’ them
through their last illness, “an’ that,” he said,
“is.’ow she got the racehorse.”
’E said that Slippery Mick, when ’e saw
’im in action, gave ’im the shock of ’is life.
’E was bein’ trained by an’ oldtimer that
’ad forgot more about trainin’, than most of
’em would ever loam. ’E said *6 was glad
’e got the shock while there was still time
to take action. “If ever there was a dark
’orse,” ’e said, “it’s that chestnut, Slippery
Mick. But that’s all in our favor now
that we know.” ’e says. “Tim ’ere will see
to that, an’ I’ll make it up to Louisa blog-
liard later on.” Then ’e told us ’ow Mrs.
Sloghard asked ’im to recommend a jockey
to ride ’er ’orse in the Cup, an’ ’e said e
would arrange for ’er with Tim Toon,
she said she didn’t know ’ow to thank im,
she didn’t care if the ’orse won or not, pro-
vided ’e was treated with kindness, an
Mr. Landsale said I should go up to the
farm a couple of days before the Cup
fixture to make the acquaintance of the
’orse as ’e was nervous of strangers. “I
tell yer,” ’e \yinds up,, unboltin’ the. loose-
box doors, “we got on together;, like a ’ouse
afire, an’ before I left she was callin’ me
Ted, an’ I was callin’ ’er Loo.”
The day I left for the farm Mr. Landsale
shook ’ands with me an’. said, “Tim,” he
said, “everythink I own in the world an
all I could get on the cuff is. on Cutpurse,
an’ after he’s won I’m goin’ into the game
big, an’ you an’ Dick is cornin’ with me
because you’re men after me o\vn ’eart
you’ve got vision.”
Well, when I told me old- mother ’ow
Mr. Landsale was dependin’ on me to elp
’im win the Cup, slie said, “There you are,
what did 'I tell yer?,. A straightgoer can t
’elp but rise. It shows yer,” she says, that
Mr. Landsale reco’nises honesty when _he
meets it, like,*every other ’ead does.. Im
proud of yer, my son,” she says; ‘go on
like that, an’ one day you’ll be a ead your-
self. Give the crook stuff a wide berth,
she says; “it gets nobody nothiiik but dis-
grace an’ the finger of scorn.” An’, while
I was packin’ for me trip, she said she
was glad I wouldn’t need me battery, as it
was no use tellin’ ’er they wasn’t dangerous.
An’ she said if Mrs. Sloghard asked me to
’ave meals with ’er, to remember I wasn’t
at ’ome, an’ to use me fork; an’ it would
be better to say “No” if she wanted me
to ’ave soup.
Mrs." Sfogliiardt treated me like a toff,
an’ I slept- in the best, room in the ouse.
You could see she thought a terrible lot ■of
Mr. Landsale. She sahl it was a windfall
for ’er, ’is callin’ - on ’er the way ’e did.
She was the kindest-’earted woman I ever
met —talked : to an’ treated ’er ’orse like a
woman does a kiddie;. fussin’ about when he
was being saddled, ’opin’ the girth wasn’t too
tight an’ the bridle didn’t ’urt ’im. She ad
a snitcher on ‘the bridle, an’ was certain that
Slippery Mick wasn’t comfortable in it. She
told me she was ’avin’ a bridle made to ’is
measure in Coolooloo, an’ that she would
pick it up on the way to the course on Cup
mornin’, an’ she said she was ’avin the bridle
made artistic, so’s to set ’is dear little ’ead
off. She made me sick, but I didn’t say
nothink. 1 just went on with me job,
obeyin’ instructions like I always done.
The old trainer ’ad Slippery Mick up to
the minute. He was a gOod cut of a ’orse ;
well bred, a stayer. If me instructions ’ad
been to win, I felt sure hud ’ave been with
them when the whips was 'crackin’. ’ls
mouth was a bit ,’ard, but that, didn’t worry
me none. It was well known, there was
nothink on four legs I couldn’t .pull up. Mrs.
Sloghard, in .’er fussin’ way,, kept tellin’ me
’ow the jockeys that ’ad . rode, ’im ’ad been
cruel to ’im, an’ that the ~’orse' .’ad become
nervous, an’ ’ad.lost ’is faith in ’uman nacher.
She said, she - was sure. I would be gentle
with ’im,' an’‘ she wouldn’t, let me put on
me spurs, sayin’ the sight’ of ’em always
made ’er blood run cold. An’ I promised
’er that if Slippery Mick', didn’t feel like
goin’ on to win the Cup I wouldn’t push
’im.
On Cup mornin’ me an’ old Joe the
trainer arrives on the: course bright an’
early with the ’orse,; but. Mrs. Sloghard
stays in Coolooloo to pick; upthe new bridle,
sayin’ she’ll be in plenty o’ time for the
saddlin’ up: Among the crowd I sees Mr.
Landsale and- Dick Wellsj but I don’t say
nothink to them. I. know me job. In the
paddock I meets:’Arry, the apprentice that’s
goin’ to ride Cutpurse, an’ I gets a quiet
word with ’im. ’Arry was a good ’orseman
an’ a good boy. He was followin’ in my
footsteps, an’ I’d learnt ’im all lie knew.
I tells ’im that I’d set the pace for Cutpurse,
an’ all ’e ’ad to do was to glue ’is eye to
Slippery Mick. I tells ’im that I’d ’op mi-
mount right out at the start, so’s to string
out the field an’ stop any dirty work they
might try to pull on Cutpurse. They was
a dirty lotta cows in Coolooloo. I tells ’im to
get a possie as near Slippery Mick as he
can, an’ to leave the pace to me. I’m a
judge o’ pace, I am. I tells ’im to be ’andy
at the ’ome turn an’ watch out. “That,” I
says, “is where Slippery Mick’ll run wide,
an’ Cutpurse’ll shoot through on the rails,
an’ go on to win, leavin’ me an’ Slippery
Mick,” I says, “to deal with anythink that
might want to talk outa ’is turn.”
That’s me all over. Plan out me job before
I start, an’ always thinkin’ of the interests
of me employer. " An’ that’s one o’ the
reasons why I am where I am. See?
Well, Mrs. Sloghard was late for the
saddlin’ up,' an’ it looked as. if Slippery
Mick would ’ave to go out wear in’ ’is old
bridle. But at the death she ’ops ’er frame
in, outa breath an’.terrible.excited, an’ she’s
carryin’ the swankiest-lookin’ bridle you ever
set yer eyes on. - She puts it on the ’orse
’erself, an’ makes the crowd snicker at all
the lovey-dovey things she says, to ’im. We’re
the last to get out,, an’ there’s no time to do
a prelim, an’ old Joe is ’oldin’ the ’orse’s
’end an’ leadin’ ’im to the post, because Mrs.
Sloghard got -fussier than ~ ever, an’ would
’ave it that way—sayin’ the -’orse wasn’t
used to such .a-crowd’an’ might do ’isself
an injury. At the post old Joe lets go. I
wheel ’im into line—an’ we’re off!
Lumme, I ’ate to tell yer the finish o’
this....
Before the - flag ’its the ground I kicks
Slippery Mick to the front. He takes to
the rails like a champeen, an’ settles down
to ’is long swing. .’E was a bpnzer ’orse.
At the mile post there’s a lot o’ daylight
between ’is tail an’ the next lot —three of
’em bunched together, an’ the riders yellin’
for room. Turnin’ into the back stretch, I
takes a screw over me shoulder. Cutpurse
is on the rails leadin’ the bunch. The pace
is ’ot. Slippery Mick seems to like it; ’is
ears pricked to get what’s-happenin’-behind,
an’ lookin’ like ’c ain’t goin’ to let nothink
pass ’im while ’is breath ’olds out. I says,
“ ’Ere, m’ lad, break it down,” an’ I takes
’old of ’im, but, strike me, it don’t make no
difference to ’im. I puts on the pressure
’ard. Does ’e stop? Not ’im. Takes it as
the tip to extend ’isself.
There seems to be somethink wrong, but
I can’t jerry what it is; a ’elpless sort o’
feelin’ comes over me.
Turnin’ outa 'the! back stretch I gdts
another peep at the field. They’re all strung
out, an’ some tailed off; Cutpurse is lyin’
second, but he don’t seem to be catchin’
Slippery Mick. Then I ’ear a terrible yell.
It’s young ’Arry. He’s yellin’ to me to take
a pull. We’re at the top o’ the straight,
an’ I’m ’angin’ on wit’ all I’ve got left, but
’Arry’s yells don’t sound any closer.
I’m beginnin’ to get windy. There’s some-
think crook. . I can’t make it out. I’m
pullin’ like ’ell an’ the reins is always slack.
It looks like I’ll do me block. But I pulls
meself together. I reaches over an’ takes
’old of ’im short. Then I begs ’is pardon,
and.... strike me dead! it felt like I’d
pulled the bit right through ’is ’ead; I go
right back till I bump me block on ’is
backbone. Then up I comes again with a
bang; I’m dazed, an’ all in. But I’ve got
me senses. I can ’ear the yellin’ o’ the
crowd. I know there’s a ’orse’s ’ead at me
knee. I can see it’s Cutpurse. But it’s too
late. Slippery Mick passes the box with
nothink in front of ’im. , , >
When they stop the ’orse at the back
the course, I goes right orf. I kn °w
more till I come to in the casualty-room,
with Mrs. Sloghard bathin’ me br °w- im
feelin’ somethink chronic, but Mrs.
tells me I’d only fainted. An no wonder,
she says, “after all that excitement. She
seems to be in great nick— lauglun an
jokin’. She sits me up, an gives me a
drink, an’ says, “You’re wonderful, your
just wonderful! To think,” she says ; lve
not only won the Cup an’ the stake, but
three ’undred pounds besides. When he left
for the startin’ post, he looked so lonely l
just ’ad to put somethink on ’im to keep im
company—silly-like. So I put on twenty
pounds,” she says, “at fifteen to one. isn t
it just too wonderful?” she says. „
“But now that you’re better, Mr. Toon
she says, “I’m dyin’ to ’ear what you think
of the new bridle. AH me own idea, sue
says. “It always disgusts me,’ she ? says,
“the way the jockeys pull the poor orses
mouths about, so I makes up me mind to
alter all that, as far as Slippery Mack is
concerned at any rate. Mr. _ Toon, she
says, “the reins of the new bridle is made
of leather only at the rider’s end. All the
rest down to the ’orse’s mouth is made of
elastic!”
I didn’t ’ear no more. I’d gone orf again.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House.
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE”
Established 185£.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over _95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
- and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 47 Fleet Street.
Zbc dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com*
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elisabeth
Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
m Relation to Population.
* The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements,
Copies of “THE ADVERTISERS may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch , price lsd.
advertiser newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
0. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
-London Office; 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
"The Week"
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern fa
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
BOTTLED & CUARANTEEO
PURE OYTHE FRENCH
GOVERN M ENT
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
deity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
following statement defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, dubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Gxamme the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119. William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
/
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER" is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
information, copies, advertising rates of “The
Evening Express'
er,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
from,
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mv. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
feuLletCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin*'
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which / enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
k
0°
* 6V
S e V*
6V
6V
# s ‘
o<
. ’ ’ o^ 6^ c6 ofc«-
■• «v$4X
■■■:
C*'


Full of Energy and Cheer
The two letters reproduced here are from
people who suffered from nerve-weak-
ness, listlessness, lack of energy, etc. Read
how quickly Sanatogen helped them to
recover strength and vitality.
“It is years since I felt so
well and happy. I was full
of pain and depression
through indigestion and
nervousness, but now,
through Sanatogen, the
world and all that is in
it is brighter and more
cheerful.”
MISS G. H., LONG EATON.
“Before I had finished
my first tin of Sanatogen
I felt great relief and
could eat and sleep better.
I am a new woman and
now, when I feel tired
and a bit “run-down,”
I take Sanatogen and I
am all right.”
MRS. A. H, NETHERFIELD.
w
' ■■.
'x
A
S 3
\
If you want to feel stronger, fresher,
healthier -if you want to get rid of nerve
weakness, listlessness, digestive troubles,
then start a course of Sanatogen to-day.
Sanatogen will refresh, and revivify your
whole system in a few weeks, because it
contains exactly the right proportion of
those elements glycero-phosphate and
albumin—that build “Health” into the
nerves, muscles and blood.
Give this famous nerve - strengthening
food a trial. A tin of Sanatogen now is
an investment in Good Health.
Feel fit and fresh by taking
SANATOGEN
THE TRUE TONIC-FOOD
At all Chemists .
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
