

#
¥
■ 3
H
f i
iisli /
, .‘ii, V’il/ifSll./
iiiissiisiiii
I
mmm
i
!j"i
ill
1.......... 1 .t
m
lliiiiiiii
iiiiilllliyyiiii
j • » * • j|H:
[jlijjjili til |n ‘ .
: ' -
1 , *5,
,•1 - .
' •_
'
- u.A«jfajLs-< a ,
!ii! ill!:
Out of eleven smokers, ten choose "Capstans.”
This fact gives you two good tips: First, for-
the well-known safe bet, "10 to 1 it’s a Capstan,"
and second, a tip for a smoke you’re sure to
enjoy. For if so many different people choose
this one cigarette, there must be a satisfying
something about it that you, too, will appreciate.
Made in your Own Country at the Garden Factory—Raleigh Park—by
W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.
Heavyweights.
Also in tins of
fifty and one hundred.
The Bulletin
l/l/kcub RfidtLj )fl\sUMuo.
Vol. 52.—N0. 2657.
Wednesday, January 14, 1931.
Price 6d.
leistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


’"TT'.HE New Library Catalogue is now ready
and will be forwarded, with full terms
and particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story, Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
I ly Address
S.B. 316
ILTYSAGHT?
8
o
p
R
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt!
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world’s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE C E
X\\\\\\\\Y^
;
r
H 5 £
W\\\\\ x
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says:
“A few drops
of my Worcest-
ershire Sauce
served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
unexpected
guests.”
tR
h.
™£hester
-T-i
S'
s.
4
Hr
STAYNLESS
ft
&?
■45
&
/
H?
SP
$P
m
mm
LMwj
:■
2®
f
*
toj { l
yio-
-
SSMp
SS
TVMCff£STM
TRADE MARK
STAYNLESS
CENTER FIRE CARTRIDGES
all the old-time Winchester accuracy and dependability
and our special non-corrosive priming mixture, which neither
rusts nor pits your barrel. They save you the trouble of con-
stantly cleaning your barrel and long protect the shooting
qualities of your favorite guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, „ONN., U„ S. A. '
3 Always use Winchester Ammunition
Arms they are made for each other
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Red Page
Preserved Smith
I have it on the authority of One Foot
on the Brass Rail that Preserved Fish is
not unknown in American nomenclature.
Personally, I prefer Preserved Smith. Its
owner, who is writing A History of Mode
Culture (Routledge; Dymocks; 12s. 6c.
net), is to be congratulated on refraini t
from any undignified abbreviating. He wi
live up to the full significance of Preservec
Smith if he finishes his work, for the fi
672-page vol. takes the story only from 15:3
to 1687. Grist ranges from the establish-
ment of the heliocentric theory by Cope
nicus to influences of coffee, tea and choc
late. Historical manner, Green’s; thorough-
ness, Teutonic; subject, dry. But he is n
introduced here so much as an author as
name; Indeed, his is more than a name
it is a category. You read E. C. Bentl
m his Biography for Beginners (just add
<o \\ erner Laurie’s inexpensive Eclect
LibrarjO,
Mr. Bernard Shaw
Was just setting- out for the war,
" hen he heard it was a dangerous trade
And demonstrably underpaid,
and at once you have a large-size Candida e
for the illustrious category of Preservec
Smith. Disrespectful? Not at all. Mere
the feeling of wholesome biographic paga
ism engendered by Bentley’s little boo
to say nothing of Chesterton’s illustratio
that go with it.
Art of Dying
“Geography is about maps, but biograph
is about chaps,” sings the lyric Bentlet
and it’s a queer string of .chaps you me
m The Art of Dying (Hogarth;’ 55.), a
anthology of “last words,” edited by Franc
Birrell and I. L. Lucas. Focli, pointing o
Heaven.: That is where I am going
Ramon Narvaez (Spanish patriot: 1868
being exhorted by a priest to forgive h
enemies; My father, I have no enemie
I have shot them all.” General Bootl
to his son Bramwell: “I am leaving vou
bonme handful.” Mme. Maurice Dupi
(mother of George Sand): “Please tidy m
hair.” Lord Chief Justice Tenterden (1832)
“Gentlemen, you are dismissed.” Goethe
mother, in reply to an invitation froi
friends ignorant of her illness: “I must ask
to be excused, as I have to die.” Williar
Pitt (version traditional): “O my country
How I leave my country !’’ (version ribald)
I think I could eat one of Bellamy’s pork
pies.” And yet there are those who deer
all. anthologies!
Another Artistic Death
Will be found on page 15 of Tyro
Dndcr the Axe of Italian Fascism, by D:\
Eduard Reut-Nicolussi (Allen and Unwin
12s. 6d. net). “Written at five o’clock
•the morning,” wrote a condemned compat
riot, “At nine I journey with the help o
all the saints to God.” And so to th
scaffold! And that is a minor note in thi
extraordinary indictment of Mussolini anc
his works. The book is intensely nervous
It vibrates with the bitter feeling of a pat
riot who, according to his own account
saw r his country stave off Italy during wa
only to invite it in to help keep peace
afterwards, and see it usurp power and go
craftily to Wilson, the apostle of peace, to
have a country handed over to it almost
for the bother of asking; or, at least, that
is his version. After one of the many
outrages which he alleges against the Fas-
cisti he accuses Mussolini of saying tha,
tne Bozen bombs were only a preliminary
solemn warning; Fascist daggers and petrol
would always be ready for the Germans in
South Tyrol.” Believe this sort of thing—
the book is alight with it—or not, this
savagely patriotic document must surely
give some misgiving to the most hopeful
workers towards peace.
The .heavier the blows of the Italian rain down on
us, the more intensely burn our longings and the
firmer grows our conviction, “The hour of our
freedom will strike at last.”
He asserts: “A very typhoon of persecution
set in over hapless South Tyrol,’’ and
his last words are, “Our cause will conquer”
(his italics). It is not necessary to belong
to one side or the other to see the firestick
of war in such a book. And the writer
is no nonentity. He was a leader of the
country which he says rankles under in-
justice: He himself has been handed an-
other injustice—by his literal translator.
The Older Blaze
A leliable niemory-refreslier, rather
apropos of that rankling hatred in peace,
is war-poet Sassoon’s Memoirs of an In-
fantry Officer (Faber and Faber; Roy croft*
6s. 6d.), straight
auto biography
thinly disguised as
a novel. In it
Sherston, who dis-.
appointed some
~ j , and delighted
thousands more when, “Memoirs of a Fox-
hunting Man” turned out to be not a war
book goes to war in earnest. It is a rattling
good book for males in general— except for
he petticoated variety—and in particular
tor those who had enough of the job in
ranee to know the real thing from the dis-
torted reflection. There is no striving after
high lights, like the butterfly landing on the
skull m All Quiet’s” no-man’s land. Even
his buffoons raiding-party is more start-
ling to oherston than to his rc&dcr!
f_ r m w? f the ° t , her dug-out I was slightly startled,
nLtrJ f d fol f, otten , tha t the raiders were to have
lacked faces (to avoid the danger of their mistaking
iokp^Tllr** 1 ' f ° r G( ; rmans )- Exchanging boisterous
jokes, they were putting the finishing touches to their
V&Z T TV 0 * stowinfa. ttS
another and 9 . pret . e . nd,ri S to recognise one
another, those 2o shiny-faced nigger minstrels
might almost have been getting ready for a concert
Everyone seemed to expect the entertainment to be
a i oaring success. But there were no looking-glasses
an <t they were brandishing knobkerries
coSbe W c a ahed he a S j 0 o C k k e) joke a wdl - worn wish
To my way of thinking, the book’s great
meut_ that is not a careless adjective—
rests m its people: Allgood, who was “fond
of watching birds’’; Julian (“It was diffi-
cult to imagine old Julian killing a German
even with an anonymous hullet”) • the
major at the training-school (“Though at
that time underrated, he was afterwards
awarded the D.S.O. for lecturing”). There
are a score or two of them, and all are
amiiiar, fp r . men something like them lived
(and died) in every unit. In the end Shers-
ton turns militant pacifist, and, thank
Heaven! is swept out of it all as a mental
case. May he get out of the Slateford War
Hospital at once—and get back to fox-
hunting.
With Redlake.
Yes. perhaps, with Redlake. For Shers-
ton has a good deal in common with the
leading figure of fiction’s latest extensive
tapestry. Jim Redlake, by Francis Britt
Young (Hein em aim ; Roy croft; 10s. 6d.
net), though 1 fancy Sherston would prdb-
ably prefer that Redlake had not been
quite so much the average docent English-
man as to make- the marriage he ended up
with. There is no lesson in Redlake’s life,
either to be followed or avoided. He ends
by marrying Catherine, when he obviouslv
should have married Lady Cynthia, but if
no liaci not done so the splendid rest of
him would have been smacked with the
cheap and showy bladder of the literarv
clown. - Young has no sermon to ram down
anyone s neck. All he has is a faith in
he ordinary Briton of fair education: Red-
ake is a type rather than a character, and
most of the other figures (there are 91 o
them) are ditto. It may seem even more
appalling that there are 787 large pages
in the novel. It is, rather. The second and
third parts of the book, when Redlake is
tailing in love with Cynthia and becoming
a medical student, are heavy going, re-
lim ed, however, by flashes of brilliance in
situation, character touches and craftsman-
ship generally. Jhe book’s strength lies in
its second half—Redlake’s going to South
Africa his part in the East Africa fighting,
and the savage criticism of the medical
side of that minor but none the less re-
volting war. Coincidence is stretched amus-
ingly for such a practised writer: with
galling regularity Redlake keeps meeting
his acquaintances in the oddest spots. I
cannot imagine anyone wishing the book
any longer, yet I think it will have its
readers a year hence. Which is as far as
f ’j I }. prepared to venture in the fortune-
tellmg business.
RED PAGE.
Snooping at Mother India
India is in a very sad state. We have
it on the authority of Trevor Pinch, whose
Stark India (Hutchinson) is the' latest
work on Hindustan to arrive hot—very hot
—from the press.
India, according to Mr. Pinch, a journalist
, s P ent nin . e months in India editing the
Civil and Military Gazette” and acting as
special correspondent of the London “Daily
Mail, is crammed with sex-maddened mil-
lions. Indian life is one vast prolonged
orgy of fantastic incontinence.
What my readers like most is a very full account
tu u >? e v cnnle t said th e editor, not of the “Daily
Mail. but of a “comparatively respectable 'lndian
daily newspaper” according to Mr. Pinch], With
the advent of the moving picture and, more recently,
the talkies [says Mr. Pinch] the average cinema
proprietor required only about five minutes to realise
what the picture-going public wanted. It wanted
sex, then more sex, and, after that, sex again. Con-
nected plots and stories, even if they chanced to be
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


'Truth in Advertising”—always adhered to at Anthony Horderns’
(THE SENIOR STORE)


Does your mirror say :
cwn
Read how others succeeded in building up
their health again by taking Sanatogen.
. . . I was beginning to get mentally
flabby, to hate the very thought of
work, when I struck Sanatogen.
For the first week I perceived no
difference, but from the end of the
second week I began to pick up.
Since then I have gained strength
rapidly.”
MR. EDGAR N. DUFFIELD, oi “Golfing.”
. . My husband used to come
home from work utterly tired out —
sometimes too tired to eat. Now,
after taking Sanatogen, he is ever so
much brighter in himself. Even after
the first dose of Sanatogen he noticed
the difference. He is not nearly so
tired —and his appetite has certainly
increased.”
MRS. M. O. EASTERBROOK, BECKENHAM.
fa
I
W/
V
\\
Revitalize your nerves
with
SAHATOGEN
The True Tonic'Food
Take Sanatogen to build up a
reserve of bodily and nervous
strength ! Take Sanatogen, and
you will forget what nerve weak-
ness means for it will restore
you to sound, lasting health.
Sanatogen provides the muscles,
nerves and blood with exactly
the right proportion of glycero-
phosphate and albumin that the
run-down system needs. Sanatogen
gives you new strength and vitality
to conquer all forms of nerve
weakness: loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness and general debility.
More than 24,000 physicians all
over the world have written
recommending Sanatogen as an
ideal nerve - strengthening food.
Why then should you not give
Sanatogen a trial ?
Go to your
Chemist to-day.
e
He sells
Sanatogen
SANATOGEN will do you good. It will do good to the whole of your family.
Sanatogen builds healthy, happy home life by conquering nervousness.


.OP
V
s
A
Vi
Vg>
V 1 > C V
«>
vVeS® 1 v... «’ . sv
lV
oV
« o c,cV '■' ve« % e
** tl *• -V
vV e 1 .-,«*
lV e . \ot *
*
ft* 6 '
o vv ~ _ e^ et
■ kr
.-Cl
I
e
è
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY., LTD.,
Formerly Robert Bosch Supply and Service Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Melbourne.
Obtainable from all Progressive Garages and Accessory
Houses.
JPViUDX PVP&MC
grnrm m JT^nmnm
so slightly constructed as to require an audience to
apply its mind, say, to only two minutes of though,,
during a 90 minutes’ run, were not, and still are
not, of the slightest use. But, show a film with
sufficiently strong purple patches, and of
passionate moments, preferably with a “gripping
bedroom scene or two, and the rupees and annas will
roil in merrily.
The “picture-going public” mentioned
above, it is perhaps necessary to state, are
not Englishmen, Australians or Americans,
but these hopelessly perverted Indians.
Moreover, it must regretfully be admitted
that even the classic Hindu literature is per-
meated with the same taint.
The Rigvedas, the Tantras, the Sust’ras, the Sutias
(especially the last-named) and a host of other ancient
writings much venerated by Hindus are plentifully
sprinkled with distinctly indecorous words and
thoughts. “Desire,” “fervor,” “potency,’ ‘ gratifi-
cation,” and many similar expressions become so
familiar (to the Indian) as to color his whole out-
look on life.
Mr. Pinch’s remedy for the above sad
state of affairs is for the British Parlia-
ment to pass legislation separating sex from
religion in—no, not in England, but in
India.
Stark India is a tenth-rate book, written
by an unconscious humorist, but as it
reflects, however crudely, a new and very
prevalent English attitude towards Britain s
great dependency, it has importance of a
sort. Mr. Pinch’s work is obviously in-
spired by Katherine Mayo’s “Mother
India,” but whereas that clever American
inspires a certain amount of respect for
her revelations of the horrors of child mar-
riage, child widowhood and the like, Mr.
Pinch gives the impression of a very ex-
cited wowser snooping at Mother India in
her bath. It is no doubt very disturbing
to the Puritanical type of mind that Indians
should go about with phallic emblems
strung round their necks and that they
should worship a god of fertility in the nude,
but that is certainly more logical than the
creed of Mr. Pinch, who presumably be-
lieves that a deity who sent us into this
world naked must be shocked at seeing us
without clothes. As for India’s preoccupa-
tion with sex, an eminent Englishman has
thrown a light on this by pointing out that
the Indian masses are so incredibly poor
that s.exual intercourse is for many the only
form of entertainment they can afford. II
an excessive birth-rate is the result that is
an inevitable concomitant of abject poverty.
But the ridiculous Mr. Pinch unfortunately
belongs to an influential school of thought,
which holds that' until the Indians have
adopted an alien moral code they are not
entitled to have their grievances considered
on their merits, whatever those grievances
happen to be. There is something richly
comic in a Lancashire cotton magnate, who
probably keeps a couple of mistresses under
the nod, objecting to a rise in the Indian
tariff on piece goods because Indians are
in the habit of openly supporting a plurality
of wives.
It is a relief to turn to An Indian Diary,
by the late Edwin S. Montagu (Heine-
niarni). Montagu was Secretary of State for
India between 1917 and 1922, and during
that period visited India to inaugurate the
reforms embodied in the Montagu-Chelms-
ford Report. His very human record gives
a more vivid picture of the titanic job
facing the reformer, both English and
Indian, in Hind than less intimate volumes
could. One of the first tasks before him
will be that of humanising the English
bureaucracy. Montagu’s picture of Lord
Chelmsford, the Viceroy, and his advisers
suggests a seventeenth-century description
of an Oriental court. Most of the Viceroy’s
time was occupied with a pompous ritual,
and, dependent as he was on his council, he
was as unapproachable as any Czar. Ex-
cept for a few rare spirits, the Indian Civil
Service was banded together as one man to
resist any interference with the status quo,
so much so, as Montagu sadly observes, that
even on the greatest questions they were pre-
pared to put the interests of the I.C.S. before
those of the Empire. The Dyarchy, which
was the system of dual control on which
Montagu compromised, has since failed,
some say because of Indian incompetence
and others because of the opposition of the
I.C.S.
M.G.S.
A Disputed Raid
The Jameson Raid, by Hugh Marshall
Hole (Allen; 15s. net), treats of what is
now history 34 years old. Yet the disastrous
and piratical adventure had its indirect influ-
ence on things as they are to-day. It
opened the eyes of Britain to the universal
dislike in which the Continent, and especi-
ally Germany, held her. It precipitated the
Boer War, and that, before it was too late,
led to the reconstruction and realignment
of the British military and naval forces
which later played so important a part in
the 1914 upheaval.
That there was no justification for the
raid on Johannesburg from British territory
by a British force, and that it was one of the
worst arranged and most thoroughly bungled
affairs of the kind ever attempted, can be
taken for granted. Most comment on it
has been partisan. Hole, then a junior
official of the Rhodesian Chartered Com-
pany and later High Commissioner at Bulu-
wayo, is rigidly impartial. He was intimate
with most of those responsible for the raid,
in which he did not take part; his well-
documented story is compiled largely from
the first-hand accounts of many who did.
His book affords a curious illustration of
how great financiers, mining magnates, poli-
ticians and others in high place and power
can make an utter mess' of an unfamiliar
situation. Even more interesting is the
evidence of the timidity, vacillation and
worse of some of these potentates in the
face of the storm they had helped to brew.
In Holers opinion, neither the Chartered
Company nor the Imperial Government was
to blame for the raid, Cecil Rhodes and
his reckless following, headed by Jameson,
coupled with the Johannesburg mining
magnificoes, were the responsible parties,
though the Boers themselves were largely
to blame for insisting on a line of conduct
bound sooner or later to cause an upheaval
among the despised Uitlanders. It is a
verdict with which posterity will probably
agree.
J. B. H.
A Satchel of Books
Things That Annoy Me, by E. V. Knox
(Methuen; ss. net). More facetiae from
“Punch” of the “Yet One More Marvellous
War Book” kind. Those who do not care
for Evoe’s brand of banter can at least
repeat his title with meaning comfort.
The Outdoor Meeting and A Commonsense
Guide to Public Speaking (Chapman and Hall;
ss. net each). Two carefully done books
that should give confidence to the novice in
the Gasbag Stakes. Idints are given on
most aspects, from organising to the finish-
ing sentence.
The Divorce Case of Queen Caroline, by
W. Dodgson Bowman (Routledge; 12s. 6d.
net). Spice of Straclicy facetiousness adds
piquancy to this rehash of an oft-cooked
dish. The topic, which is mainly the drink-
ing, goose-racing, woman-chasing, royal
George, couldn’t well be improved on to .suit
the manner of treatment, so the author has
no strain to keep his version racy to the end.
Where Will You Fall? by Leo Perutz
(Elkin Mathews). Five ex-prisoners of war
.swear to kill the commandant of the Siberian
camp where they were interned because of
his ferocious treatment of them. After
civilian life has claimed them all forget their
vow except one. He returns to Russia to
hunt his victim down. The end is unex-
pected but inevitable. A brilliant study of
emotional obsession.
Everyman's (Dent; 2s. net). Additions
continue to make this more and more the
library of time-tested English literature, and
the altered binding makes it more handsome
on the shelf. The latest additions are Field-
ing’s “Amelia” in two vols. with _ George
Saintsbury’s introduction; “Rattlin’ the
Reefer,” by Edward Howard, edited by
Marryat; “Middlemarch,” with an introduc-
tion by Sir Leslie Stephen; “Conversations
of Goethe with Eckermann,” introduced by
Havelock Ellis; and Yol. 11l of the “Shorter
Novels” series, including “Rasselas,” Horace
Walpole’s “Castle of Otranto” and Beck-
ford’s “Vathek.”
A Season’s Work at Ur, by H. R. Hall
(Methuen; 255. net) ; Digging Up the Past,
by C. Leonard Woolley (Benn; Gs. net).
Dr. Hall’s is an account of the British
Museum archaeological mission to Babylonia
in 1919, with 276 illustrations of more than
three times that number of objects, them-
selves a fascinating chronicle of the impor-
tant excavations made by the author and,
more recently, by Woolley and others. The
book has a good deal to offer technicians and
general readers alike. The other is more
“popular,” based on talks broadcast by the
8.8. C. The manner of both authors is
free and easy; their material, a romance.
Sigfrid Sivertz’s Goldman’s (Allen and
TTnwin) has been admirably translated by
E. Gee Nash. It is _ the romance of a
gTeat department store in Stockholm. The
novel has a certain unity, inasmuch as the
orphan boy who is the fruit of a _ night
spent by two poverty-stricken lovers in the
store appears in the last chapter as Gold-
man’s heir. . But mostly it consists of the
more or less unrelated adventures, emotional
and financial, of the employees. The people
who interested the writer most were Gold-
man himself (a very lovable old Jew),
Asklof, the brilliant managing director who
inevitably goes bankrupt when the post-war
slump arrives, and the man-mad baroness
in charge of the dress salon; but there arc
many others just as real and human._ It is
a remarkably plain-spoken book in the
matter-of-fact Swedish style.
Constance Smedley’s The Woman in the
Wilderness (Methuen; 7s. 6d.) is primarily
a study’ of a charming and spoiled wife who
is reluctant to face middle age. Elise, aged
37, starts a liaison with a boy tenor, more
to prove to herself that she can still domi-
nate men than because she cares for the
rather unpleasant youth. The familiar theme
is brightened by many witty and original
touches, and the character-drawing is as
observant as anything this admirable writer
has done. Seventeen-year-old Stella and her
small brother Zach are gems. But it is the
Thackerayan pictures of life below stairs
that lift this novel right out of the ruck.
Faithful Mrs. Perkins, the housekeeper, who
has been erring Elise’s nurse, is a fount of
humble wisdom. Her respectful counsel to
her mistress on the unwisdom of paying
blackmail couldn’t have been bettered for
terseness and good sense by a Lord Chan-
cellor.
Storm Drift (Hutchinson; 7s. 6d. net)
is about a congenital idiot named Viola who
arrives on a liner which is just due to sail
from Bombay, minus her abominably cruel
and drunken husband, and strikes up an
acquaintance (soon to develop into some-
thing deeper) with a young soldier of similar
mentality to her own named Tiggie. Viola
has “childishly wistful blue eyes that seemed
to be searching for something.” She spends
her inane life “quivering” and “shrinking
away,” and “making little movements as of
appeal,” and “crying ‘Oh !’,” and then going
“back into her silence as though she drew
an impenetrable veil about her.” Tiggie is
good and brave and true, and animals and
children adore him. Viola and Tiggie, for
whom the wedding-bells ring joyously out
when the former’s husband accommodatingly
falls off the Slimby Rock on p. 326, bear no
resemblance whatever to human beings; but
thousands of morons will weep over their
wbes and rejoice over their happiness, for
they are the latest products of the Ethel
Dell fiction-factory.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) wiU he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned\ unless stamps accompany.
R.J.M.: Well put; but you don’t add
anything to the case for inflation already printed....
Jeffus: Quite true; they’d probably know more if
they were older. But the comparatively young bar-
rister lifted to the Bench generally works like fury
at his law, while the old barrister similarly lifted
generally loafs like mad.... R. 8.: Pretty moral; in-
different verse... .H.A.D.: Flows easily nowhere
L.P.: Interesting, but would have to double our size
to find room for it. ...8.C.: Good work in it, but
it doesn’t convince... .L.G.: Liked only the snappy
refrain, “Give me more guts to plod through Life’s
ruts”....G. de R.: Y r ou might possibly shorten it
into a music-hall song... .R.E.: You’ll do better....
N.P.: The opening line, “Parched and dry and dusty
ran the arid street of Tanker’s Hill,” put the
Religious Editor on a bender .K.R.8.: A bit on
the lightweight side. .. .T.N.: Always a welcome here
for such heroism:—
It was about noon as the robber withdrew
A gun from his pocket, and cried, “Hands up, you!”
The bank teller gazed, in whose heart courage lay,
With true manly pride he refused to obey.
“Hands up!” cried the robber, “I’ll shoot you stone
dead,”
And levelled the gun at the bank teller’s head.
Crack went the gun, and the teller was shot,
In the shoulder and arm, but dead he was not.
Ho seized the bold robber and held his throat tight,
He knew he was fighting for life, and what’s right.
The robber being strangled, he forced out a roar;
They strained and they staggered then fell to the
floor.
With effort supreme, he now tried his best,
To bring round the pistol to the robber’s breast;
At last he succeeded and shot the thief dead,
Whose soul through his wound to eturnity fled.
. ...W.M.W.: Might make something of it in prose.
As verse it grows monotonous.... Sandplain: Work
shows a decided improvement, but you’re not up yet.
. . . .Banyak Utong: Like topical verse to do a trifle
more than merely express some easy sentiment....
Emel: You’ll have to settle down to do something
well. .. . K. 8.: Both a trifle hysterical. .. ,C.C.:
Don’t care for the picture of a virtuoso standing
“like a rare exhibit in a museum”. . . .Theistis: Drop
the obsolete and use current English and you might
be all right. .. .G.J.: At least it is an attempt to
write from experience. .. .K.W.: Prefer to reserve
judgment till the poet’s ten years or so 01der....
W.J.S.: “More Hopes.” Sorry—dashed. .. .T.T.R.:
Some swing in it, but it hangs loose as a whole.
... . Bellerive: Hail to the
CELEBRATED OARSMEN OF THE PAST.
Strong physical oarsmen
Of muscle and reach.
Were Stanbury, Harding,
Kemp, Searle and Beach.
Searle the foremost
And best of he’s time.
From fever expired
Before he’s prime.
A oarsman whp achieved
A household name.
And lasting nich
In the temple of fame.
(Next week: “A Motor Bike Race.”)
....Gag: That accursed bridge still , has to find its
poet. ... J. 1.: Point doesn’t appear to be worth
making... .L.J.F.: No room for the anecdote padded
out in verse... .E.J.: Weather a little heavy on
“The Gippsland Lakes”... .Nitric: What on earth do
you mean when you tell us that “at Oxford a
Balliol degree may be considered better than one
from Magdalen or New College” ? The University
gives the degrees, not the colleges; and in the
schools men from all colleges meet on an equal
footing.... Simmo: Step right in:—
Criticise me a little bit harder,
Bulletin dear, do!
There’s nothing so wakes a fellow up
As a slap in the eye or two,
Mix the sugar with vitriol,
And hand me the deadly brew,
I won’t be the first poor poet you’ve killed,
You champion wet-blanketer, you!
. ...J.D.: Glad we weren’t in the carriage when the
bagman spun that yarn. ... V.P.: Not interested in
biographies of pet canaries... .M. 8.: Badly put to-
gether.... J.K.: Drunk impounded.... S.L.: The
“gentle reader” wouldn’t be gentle after he had
struggled through that. . . .N.D.: Poor plot, un-
real characters, stilted style... .J.M.F.: Sweepings
of Deadwood Dicks. .. . A.T.: Slumps badly after the
second page. .. .G.N.: Too many corpses....S.H.:
Confusedly written. .. .B.B.: Obviously you have
never met an admiral in the flesh... .L.S.F.: Straggles
to a dreary end... .H.R.P.: You should have decided
beforehand whether you were going to write a story
or a patriotic address... .V.C.W.: Have met that
henpecked hubby often ... . E.W.E.K.: Not pulling up
at the wayback shanty... .A.L.: The first is far-
fetched; the second stale... . J.E.F.: It’s been better
told a dozen times before. .. . A.M.D.: Cut down con-
siderably, it might interest a daily... .R.P.A.: Not
putting “The Silent City” on the map... .M.F.C.:
You could never reform a drunk in that fashion. .. .
C.F.: Forced hum0r....A.H.E.1T.: That class of stuff
has to be brilliant to get through. .. .J.G.S.: Not in
our line. .. .E.D.: Good atmosphere and feeling, but
too slight for us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.M.: An uninteresting 10t... .G.J.H.: It didn’t
score a grin. . . .E.M.M.: No hope. . . .R. 8.: Childish.
. ...J.M.: Joke is the best part of it, and it’s not
much of a joke. .. .R.M.: Fewer and firmer lines.
. ...8.J.T.: Clumsy craftsmanship... .T.L.: Dealt it
a dirty left. . . .G.M.E. : Improving. .. .S.A.: Things
you can’t draw—a man, a woman, a child and a
car. .. .P.C.: We rather liked it about the time of
the Boer War... .W.D.: They’re going home... .E.G.:
You’re wasting Indian ink W.S.M.: Don’t want
dim pencil strokes on crumpled tissue-paper. .. .R. 8.:
Have another go at the wash drawing... .C.L.:
Shadow of suspicion fell on drunk. .. .G.T.: Basketed.
. ...J.8.K.: You might have removed dead fly from
pen. .. .R.V.: Work has no value at present... .C.K.:
Well, at least you can draw a full m00n... .S.P.W.:
Not a winner among them. .. .F.D.: Keep 0n....
A.J.: Too much of the fashion-plate about them.


*
V
r. W
■
I:
mk
m
■■
5 !
4\
m
m
ir m m
B
mm
m
M
n
8k
M
£
..
m
m
m
.
Mm I |
. W... c


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 3657.
January 14, 1931.
GOLIATH AND THE PRODIGAL DAVID.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: ZU, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 81911.
Victoria: IV/-~0 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address is Australasia,
weekly: 12 mouths, .€1 ■ }s .; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Ovehseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, liis. (id.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji.
2d. United Kingdom: 2d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Sd. Elsewhere: sd.
EXCHANGE AND INFLATION.
You can’t pay debts outside your own
country with paper. You must have gold.
But it is expensive and unnecessary for
Smith to send gold from London to pay
Brown for his wool in Australia when Jones
in Australia owes Robinson gold for a few
bales of linen bought in London; a bank
will do the whole business by collecting
Jones’s money and paying Brown with it,
while its London branch collects Smith s
money and pays Robinson with it. Now
that works out quite simply so long as the
bills we have to pay abroad total the same
as the money due to us abroad. But if we
don’t send away enough gold or goods that
will sell for gold, then there will be com-
petition for what gold there is. That is to
say, we will offer something more than £lOO
in Australia to buy £lOO of gold in London
wherewith to pay our debts there.
When trade balances—our exports being
just sufficient to pay for our imports and
also the interest on our foreign debts—the
settlements between the Browns and Joneses
and Smiths and Robinsons are made for a
few shillings per cent. When the balance is
disturbed and competition sets in, the
exchange rate, as it is called, goes up to
pounds. Last week the Australian rate went
up to £ll5 10s. This means that a, man
in Australia who wants to pay a bill for
£lOO in London has to hand an Australian
bank £ll5 10s. And if a man in London
had £lOO which he wanted to shift to Aus-
tralia, he could take it to the London
branch of an Australian bank and get for it
£ll5 payable in Australia. The bank would
find somebody in Australia who wanted to
pay a bill for £lOO in London and would sell
this money to him for £ll5 10s. The 10s.
between what the bank paid for the £lOO
and what it sold it for would be its profit,
after deducting clerical and other costs of
the transaction.
When the balance is not even it may be
temporarily rectified by borrowing; and that
is what we did for many years. As soon
as the borrowing ceased, then exports had
to pay for imports plus interest on foreign
debts; and because it was impossible to
restore the balance immediately, there was
competition for money in London, which
competition was reduced to some extent by
shutting down on imports. But unfortu-
nately our exports fell away greatly in
value; and so a balance has not yet been
reached. On the contrary, as the prices of
our staples continued to fall, reducing the
total of our gold in London, the competi-
tion for it naturally increased. For some
time, however, the premium payable was
“pegged,” or fixed, by the banks. This was
done chiefly in the interests of the Govern-
ments and the taxpayers. The Australian
debt overseas is so great that interest and
charges upon it amount annually to over
32 millions, which has to be paid in gold.
Therefore for every 1 p.c. which the com-
petition for gold in London raises the
exchange rate, the Australian taxpayer has
to provide an additional £320,000 or there-
abouts.
But while it was most desirable from
this point of view to hold the exchange
rate in check, if an exporter can get 12 or
14 per cent, premium outside he will not
take it to a bank; and large sums were
thus sent out of the country without going
near a bank. The operation may be done
in a hundred ways; thus one can buy wool,
paying for it in Australia with Australian
money and sending it to London for sale for
English money. A good deal of this capital
in the shape of wool was sent away, not for
the purchase of goods, but to invest abroad,
mainly due to the threat of inflation in
Australia. And obviously the more goods
that were sent away for sale, the proceeds
being invested abroad, the less there was
left for ordinary trading purposes and for
the payment of interest, thus steadily in-
creasing the competition and the exchange
rate, and adding thereby to the national
burden of taxes required to pay the exchange
on Government transfers to London. With-
out a doubt it had become very necessary
to stop this export of capital; and the banks
saw no other way than to increase the
official exchange rate. Whether even this
will be effective remains to be seen; if there
is further serious talk of inflation it will not
be. There was a time in Germany when
money was the poorest property to have,
whether in your pocket or on deposit; and
serious threat of inflation will drive it
out of Australia even if it costs 30 p.c. to
shift it to what is regarded as a place of
safety.
But there was another factor at work;
the exporter and the producer of export
goods complained that he was being pen-
alised for the benefit of the importer and
others; and probably he was. He is plainly
better off if he gets £ll5 in Australia for
produce sold in London for £lOO than if he
gets only £llO for it, provided his outgoings
are the same in each case. His charges prob-
ably fall under four headings: (1) Wages;
(2) transport; (3) interest; (4) taxes. The
question is will the Australian £ buy the
same as it w r ould when there was no ex-
change premium worth mentioning? At
present, we can see. the Australian £ is
worth only 17s. English; that is to say,
it takes £ll5 Australian to buy £lOO English.
That is declared to be inflation. Yet there
is a clear difference between this inflation
(if it is inflation) and that from which, say,
Germany suffered. Germany’s inflation was
caused through over-issue of notes; ours is
caused through a deficiency of exports. If
we reduced our note issue by one-half there
would still be the same deficiency of exports
and still the same high exchange rate. There
is thus no apparent reason why the high
exchange rate should have affected or should
affect the local purchasing power of the £
except to the small extent by which it may
increase the cost of imported articles or
articles in which there are imported raw
materials and the very small extent to
which the home price of two or three
articles will be affected by the rise in the
export price. Thus the charges for wages,
local transport and interest should make no
inroads upon the exchange premium
earned by the producer’s goods. Transport
outside Australia will, however, make a
small hole in it; and so will taxation,
because the higher the premium the pro-
ducei- gets the higher the premium the State
will have to pay to get gold .for its interest
payments in London.
Three conclusions of importance seem to
follow from all this-
(l) There is a marked difference between
the so-called inflation caused by a tem-
porary deficiency of exports and the real
inflation caused by the over-issue of notes;
and where one may benefit the producer the
ether might ruin him.
(2) Because of that difference, the pur-
chasing power of the Australian £ in Aus-
tralia is not seriously affected; and therefore
(3) The producer of export goods ought
to be a substantial gainer from the ex-
change premium.
WELL, HOW ARE WE DOING?
This ought to be printed in the gayest ink
on the premises. It reports the most hope-
ful development of the past 15 months.
Nothing quite so satisfactory has happened
since the Federal Labor Government re-
solved that imports must be greatly
reduced, and when it therefore shut out
some lines and put a repressive duty on
others.
The exports of merchandise in November
exceeded the imports by £3,058,120; and to
that must be added, say, £125,000, a fair
monthly average of gold won, bringing the
total surplus to £3,183,120. True, that is
not good enough, because, though the sur-
plus is at the rate of over 38 millions a
year—which would be more than enough to
pay our interest —November is better than
an average month. Thus whereas the ex-
ports (merchandise) in November, 1929,
were £10,362,147, the total for the year (to
June, 1930) was £97,980,010, an average per
month of only £8,165,000. Still, though that
takes some of the gilt off our gingerbread,
it does not rob us of this consolation: that
whereas in November, 1929, imports ex-
ceeded exports by £3,002,000, this year ex-
ports exceeded imports by £3,058.000.
Our imports (gold is excluded on both
sides, unless specially mentioned) reached
their maddest in 1926-27, when they were
£164,093,000, a monthly average of
£13,674,000. In the year to June, 1929, the
monthly average was £11,942,000. In
November, 1930, the figure was £6,004,000.
For every £226 we imported in our maddest
moments we are now importing only £lOO.
And for every £lOO we imported even in
1929, we are now importing only £5O ss.
For the five months of the fiscal year to
the end of November, 1930, our exports
were £1,756,000 better than our imports. Add
£625.000 to represent our current gold pro-
duction, and we have a total surplus of
£2,381,000. For the corresponding five
months of the previous year, the excess of
imports was £23,869,000. Deduct £625,000
to represent gold output, and we have
£23,244,000 as the net excess of imports.
Thus on the five months’ operations we
have improved our performance by
£25,625,000, or at the rate of £61,500,000 per
annum.
Lastly, if we go on like this, how shall
we end the year? Our exports must be
about £36,000,000 ahead of our imports to
let us pay our foreign interest and come out
square. In the five months, as we have
seen, our surplus of exports (including an
allowance for current gold production) has
been £2.381,000. That is at the rate of
£5,715,000 for the year. But, seeing that
July, August and September are always
rather slack months in the export trade, the
figures for the full year might be expected
to be a bit better than that. The export
figures for these five months in 1927-28
were 40 p.c. of the year’s total; for 1928-29
file corresponding figures were 37 p.c. If the
five months gave a fair average they should,
of course, be 41 p.c. and a fraction of the
total for the year. Thus the first five
months of the year are as a rule a few
points short of the average for the year. We
may therefore add a trifle to the past five
months’ performance and say that at
present our exports are beating our imports
by £6,000,000 a year. Which looks highly
satisfactory, in view of our past perform-
ance, until we realise that we must do
nearly 30 millions a year better than that
in order ,to come out level.
A TEXT FROM FORMOSA.
Although the press was almost unani-
mously silent about it, Japan has just had a
little trouble in one of her colonies. As
is usual in these affairs, it was a weird
mixture of comedy and tragedy, of heroism
and folly. Several tribes of headhunters
in Formosa grew tired of being turned into
civilised human beings, withdrew their
children from the Government schools and
their money from the State sa,vings banks
and retired into the inaccessible interior.
Suddenly reappearing in the middle of a
patriotic celebration, they ran amok through
a village and slaughtered 600 people. Then,
laden with heads, they departed into the
interior again, where even bombing ’planes
could not do much damage to them.
The incident gave a painful shock to
Japanese complacency. It indicated that a
quarter of a century’s ameliorative work had
gone for nothing. When the Chinese owned
Formosa they were content to keep the
peace in the lowlands, leaving the head-
hunter to pursue his fellow headhunter in
the mountains. It was argued that by this
means he would solve his own problem by
eliminating himself. The energetic Jap,
however, set about; controlling the entire
island. He pushed the savage back by
ringing him round with an immense barbed-
wire fence which was kept alive by elec-
tricity. Finally he induced him to come
outside the, fence and submit to the process
of being turned into a 100 per , ; cent.
Japanese.
This process is likely to go on, despite
the, latest drawback. Oil has been struck
in Formosa, and Japanese patriots claim
that the field is as rich as all the American
fields put together. If this should be even
half-true it may well change the whole nature
of Pacific relations. With such a reserve of
power Nippon will be independent in one
of the prime essentials of modern imperial-
ism. She will be practically impregnable
from overseas attack and will be enabled to
continue the encircling movement which she
started 50 years ago and which has turned
the China Sea into a Japanese lake. The
next obvious step is the Philippines and
the Dutch East Indies. The Philippines
contain only a fraction of their potential
population and go do the Dutch possessions,
although the latest census, 61 millions, is
an enormous increase over that of 10 years
ago. i It has been estimated that they would
not be uncomfortably crowded with 173
millions. They are one of the richest
areas in the world for oil, tin, rubber and
tropical products generally.
Before such developments take place,
however, the old crude method of going to
war to obtain outlets for population, mar-
kets for manufactures and control of raw
material -may be superseded. Although
Japan is in practical military command,
she has to sit more or less helplessly by
while; international finance fights out the
profitable business of mortgaging Asia. Be-
ing deficient in yen, she is obliged to
look on while the American dollar and
the British sovereign struggle for supremacy.
The dollar is already beginning to oust the
sovereign from Manchuria and China, and
its arrival in force in India is foreshadowed.
Is is prevalent even in Japaii itself, and is
nc- mean competitor of the pound in French
Cochin-China, British Malaya , and the
Dutch East Indies.-
Under the present rules, when one coun-
try seizes another country, it promptly shuts
out the trade of every other country—at
any rate to the best of its ability. Even
small and ragged countries like Portugal
endeavor to practise this form of patriotism.
With economic control of colonies goes
every form of interference with the habits
and customs of the colonials. Thus little
Koreans are being turned into good little
Japanese so that they will acquire a taste
for Japanese kimonos. Moreover, if the
subject nation, being short of the price of
the kimono, wants to mortgage its resources,
the controlling country insists on being the
one to provide it with the accommodation.
It is factors like this which cause troubles
even in remote Formosa. Another method
of mbnopolising a colony, but not so im-
portant, is the restriction of immigration
to nationals'of the controlling country.
It is possible that the financiers of
America and Britain will prove enlightened
enough to come to the conclusion that the
business of advancing money to Asia can
best be arranged on a mutual basis. If, at
the same time, Japan concludes that her
national interests are best served and her
honor not outraged by her acting in the
role of well-paid policemen, then peaceful
exploitation of. the Pacific is in prospect.
But this will involve such a revolutionary
change in the aims and ideals of imperialism,
that a lot of education will be required;
before it is consummated. And on the' sub-
ject of imperialism two other Pacific coun -
tries, Russia and China, are scarcely yet out
0 f the kindergarten.
FENG-SHUL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Unemployment in Two States.
The melancholy news comes from Can-
berra, and is vouched for by the Common-
wealth Statistician, that 104,951 Australian
unionists out of 447,882 registered are out
of work. These are the unions’ own figures,
brought up to December 31. And the morti-
fying fact emerges that easily the best
showing is made by Queensland, where
there is a “capitalistic” Government that
has cut Comrade Percy’s salary and refuses
to pay union rates for relief work; and that
far and away the worst showing is made by
N. S. Wales, whose Labor Government
promised to find work straightway for every-
one at boom-time wages and restore the
44-hour week and the 8k per cent, of which
Comrade Percy was docked by Bavin-.
Queensland has 54,303 registered unionists,
of whom 6810 are unemployed. N. S'.
Wales has 194,923 registered unionists, of :
whom 51,301 are unemployed; and the
idiotic ban on rationing has been a sentence;
of dismissal to many thousands more.
The “brutal capitalists” of Queensland
collect 3d. in every £ of wages by way of
an unemployed-relief tax. N.S.W. Labor’s'
impost is Is. in the £, and even pensioners
on £2 a week have to pay it. Harshly as
it operates in such cases, it would be
accepted philosophically in the main if there
were any guarantee that the proceeds would
be fairly and fruitfully spent; but guarantee
there is none. Davidson, the Minister of
Works, bragged the other day that, he had
tracked down the Rothbury miners and
hounded them out of their Government
jobs—making it clear that non-unionists
would get no relief work if he could help it.
The same gentleman immediately afterwards
had to deal with a strike of relief workers
at Broken Hill, where he comes from, the
men demanding £5 Is. per week, or 11s.
more than the rate offering for mine work!
Grown obsequious now, he gave them the
£5 Is. Ely, the Assistant Minister of
Industry, improved the shining hour by
promising to pay “award wages” on the.
pathetic sand-shifting job out Maroubra
way. This humble disciple of Lang has a
great scheme for appointing union officials
to supply all labor required and doing
away with the Government Labor Bureau,
Baddeley, whose assistant he is, has prom-
ised that there will be “absolute preference
to unionists in the Government service.”
And in connection with the Federal Gov-
ernment’s Christmas grant to N. S. Wales,
it has been asserted in white and black (1)
that Nationalist electorates were de-
liberately cut out, and (2) that in at least
one Labor electorate only men recom-
mended by the member were given jobs.
Since so many unionists are out of work,
it is probable that a majority of those
paying the shilling-in-the-pound tax are
people who have no sympathy with the
travesty on Labor ideals represented by the
Davidsons, Elys and Baddeleys. If the
Davidsons, Elys and Baddeleys imagihe
that these people will tamely submit to
their money being reserved for the pets of
politicians and union secretaries anti the
Comrade Percys of the overmanned depart-
ments, they never made a greater mistake
in their lives. The unemployed non-union-
ists have just as much claim on the fund as
the unemployed unionists; many of them
are architects, accountants, chemists and
the like, and students. The Commonwealth
Government could do something for this
class by going on with its census *instead
of making periodical fatuous distributions
of dirt-money. And a dole for the many
would be better for the State in the long
run than sand-shifting for the few—particu-
larly if people were privileged to contract,
in part, out of the Unemployed Relief Act
by giving work to the extent of, say,, half
their liability under the tax.
Arbitration and Hard Times.
It will be almost a miracle if the industrial
arbitration system which has grown up in
these latitudes in the past 35 years, survives
the next five. It was born in the early
’nineties, when world prices were exception-
ally low. The price-level of exports had
fallen severely. A mass of our staples which
wOuld have brought £lOOO on the average
in the first half of the ’seventies averaged
only £644 in the first half of the ’nineties.
Year after year there had been a shrinkage,
until in 1894 bottom was reached—£s32.
From that point there was a steady recovery.
From £532 in 1894 the price-level of our
exports had climbed to £736 in 1899.
Wickens, taking up the parable in 19Q0
where Coghlan (“The Seven Colonies of
Australasia”) dropped it, shows that a mass
of exports which brought £lOOO in 1901
would have realised £2803 in 1924-5. On
such an upward curve of Australian pros-
perity (Australian prosperity being chiefly
governed by the price of exports) industrial
arbitration could not help being a success.
Anything would have been a success; it is
very doubtful whether industrial arbitration
gained for the workers any more than the


oid trade union would have done, and it is
equally doubtful whether there would have
been as many strikes under it.
But now the upward curve has stopped,
and the downward sweep is in progress.
Wickens takes the wholesale prices of Mel-
bourne for 1911 as his base. In Sept., 1929,
the index figure had reached £lB5B. That
was the peak of the last small recovery,
though in 1927 the figure reached £1972.
From Sept., 1929, there had been a fall
to £1532 in September- last; and the down-
ward movement has , since continued. Just
as wages had to rise on the upward curve,
so they have to fall on the downward. No
force on earth can prevent it.
And the workers will be no worse off.
Wickens produces tables of what he calls
“effective wage index numbers.” In these
he balances the increases in wages against
the increases in costs, and shows that the
wage-earner’s real gain during the past 25
years has been no more than about 6 p.c.
What wages a man gets is of very little
consequence. What matters is how much
he can buy with them; and the mob of
union bosses who have been pointing trium-
phantly at the increase in pay have been
pulling the worker’s leg.
The strain upon the system will come
when the Courts and other tribunals are
compelled by economic law to cut down
awards. Maoriland the other day had a
taste of what must happen in large quanti-
ties. The Dominion has practically a
world’s monopoly of the production of
Phormium tenax, “native flax,” mostly used
for the manufacture of binder-twine and the
like. Many cos. have been formed to work
it; but they have come into competition
with substitutes. In the M.L. court the
other day Judge Frazer, the president,
said he was satisfied that it cost, at the
ruling rate of wages, £23 to £25 to produce
a ton of fibre, for which only £lB to £l9
was obtainable; and he therefore decreed a
deduction of one-third from the wages of
all employees, which means that the lowest-
paid worker will receive 10s. instead of 15s.
per day.
Of course it looks cruel; and so will a
hundred other similar variations of awards
to which we must look forward. But it will
be infinitely more cruel to insist upon con-
ditions w’hich merely result in unemploy-
ment, especially as the economic law with
regard to pay will prevail in the long run.
The point to which the worker’s attention
must be constantly drawn is that, in effect,
the reductions mean no worsening of pay,
just as the majority of the increases in the
past 30 years have meant no bettering of it.
4
Broken Heads in Adelaide.
There were a few broken heads in Adelaide
last week when the unemployed clashed
with the police; and it is safe to say that
the men responsible for the outburst will
not go to gaol for it. Most of them, in
fact, are not in South Australia. They are
the politicians scattered all over the con-
tinent who, in order to win votes for them-
selves, have been making promises which it
is not possible to fulfil. Some of them are
in Melbourne, some in Canberra, more in
Sydney. They have talked of vast wealth
locked up in the banks, of great reservoirs
of a mysterious thing called credit untapped,
and of a gigantic conspiracy to keep these
things from the people so that wages
may. be reduced and the worker’s standard
of living lowered. The fact that standards
of wages and living have been estab-
lished and maintained during the past
few years only by the' nation going into
debt to the extent of 40 millions a year
has been hidden from a large mass of the
people—if not hidden has at any rate not
been explained. Nor has the fact that un-
employment is rife because, partly on
account of fallen prices, it would no longer
be possible to maintain those standards
even had they been previously justified.
So far from being shown these unfortunate
and distressing facts by the men who should
guide them, the people have been encouraged
to believe the opposite by the actions of the
Government of N. S. Wales in maintaining
the basic wage for the unemployed, in
putting a ban upon the rationing of work,
in restoring civil servants’ pay previously
reduced by 8i per cent., and in ordering a
return to a 44-hour week at the 48-hour
rate of pay. Those outside the State know
only that these things have been done: not
knowing how they have been done or the
inevitable consequences, unemployed in
other parts can only conclude that the same
things might be done for them. So a heavy
responsibility lies with the Lang Govern-
ment—a responsibility not only for bring-
ing disaster to its own State, but for de-
luding the citizens of other States.
And a great responsibility, therefore,
rests also with the citizens of N. S. Wales.
They may not be able to escape the
immediate consequences of the Lang Gov-
ernment’s policy; but they will have some
opportunities of letting the other States
know that the Lang policy is proving a
disastrous failure; and it is their plain duty
to seize those opportunities with enthusi-
asm. The first will come with the Federal
by-election for the Parkes seat.
Meantime it is to be hoped that, while
such outbursts as that by the Adelaide men
will be handled with firmness, those engaged
in them will be regarded with much sym-
pathy. This is not the time for hard words
and heavy blows except against the madmen
and scoundrels who are making these un-
fortunate citizens their cat’s-paws.
Nobody’s Business.
Mob psychology is a puzzling thing. It
may range from sudden mass violence to
equally inexplicable long-enduring mass
apathy. An interesting example of the
latter was seen the other day in Sydney.
A man long recognised in the neighborhood
which harbored him as hopelessly deranged
ran amok and killed two fearless policemen
who attempted to arrest him. After a brief
pursuit and siege in his dwelling he had to
be shot down like a mad dog.
Yet for a long time and every day this
individual, who led a hermit’s existence,
gave evidence of the fact that he was over-
ripe for a mental hospital. After the
tragedy neighbors in the crowded street in
which he lived came forward by the dozen
with their testimonies. It was his delight
to go everywhere carrying a rifle, often
affecting military attitudes. He had the
weapon with him in the public street when
he turned on the police. At other times
he marched about his tiny back yard beat-
ing a drum, sometimes stark naked. He
continually carried out shooting practice
with his rifle in the same back yard, shoot-
ing at short range at a brick wall. One
person is said to have warned him that he
was in danger of injury from ricochets.
There public interest seems to have stopped.
Parading naked in the public view, even
in one’s own premises, is a punishable
offence. A civil action lies if an exasperated
individual objects to his quiet being dis-
turbed by noise. The use of firearms for
sport or practice within the boundaries of
towns or cities, save in duly-appointed and
licensed places, is prohibited under heavy
penalties the world over. Yet it does not
seem that any of the many who might
reasonably have been expected to report
to Authority the unhappy man’s continual
infringements of several laws moved in the
matter. The local police, who should cer-
tainly have been in touch with the maniac s
activities, appear to have been ignorant of
or indifferent to them. The result of this
curious inertia has been the loss of two
valuable lives and the destruction of an
unfortunate who should long ago have
been placed under control.
A rider may be added calling the atten-
tion of Authority to the necessity for re-
imposing the system of licensing firearms of
every description, including the small-bore
rifles of the type that this poor fellow used.
Known colloquially as pea-rifles, the restric-
tions imposed on all firearms after the war
were removed in their case, since they are
in general use among farmers and orchard-
ists for the destruction of small vermin,
furred and feathered. An impression has
grown up that these “small” rifles are com-
paratively harmless. As a matter of fact,
up to 200 yards’ range most of them are as
deadly as any arm of the kind. Indeed,
some of the superior makes have been com-
ing into fashion among game-shooters in
America, Africa and India where the
quarry is not large or dangerous.
4 .
The Worker and Inflation.
The N. S. Wales A.L.P. Executive has de-
cided in favor of inflation, and has instructed
Federal members accordingly. This, of
course, is the policy approved by Com-
munist headquarters, and is no doubt sug-
gested by it. Its purpose is to take from
those who have and give to those who
haven’t. The immediate result would be
a reduction in the purchasing power of
money. That, in fact, is what is aimed at.
The idea is to put up prices, the argument
being that if prices are high wages also will
be high.
No doubt it is not the intention of the
dupes and instruments of the Communist
organisation to entirely wreck the value of
money. All they want to do is to restore
prices. But it is absurd to suppose that
Australia can restore prices in the face of
a world fall. All we can do is to raise
prices in Australia; and that can only be
done by reducing the value of the £ in Aus-
tralia, while the value of the English £
stays where it was.
Do the two or three millions of Savings
Bank depositors in Australia realise what
that means? Do they realise that what is
aimed at is to reduce the value of every
deposit, by reducing the purchasing power
of every pound? Do they realise that, even
to double the value of commodities, the
purchasing power of the pound must.be re-
duced by one-half, and that in practice the
effect always is to reduce it by much more
than one-half?
There are over half a million members of
friendly societies in Australia. Do they
realise that what is aimed at is the reduc-
tion of their benefits? At present they may
receive perhaps 30s. a week sick pay. The
object of inflation is to make that 30s.
worth less and less. The value of death
benefits will be reduced in the same propor-
tion. The reply may be that, as money is
inflated, the benefits can be increased. But
they cannot be increased. The funds are
invested; and the investments will not in-
crease. That, in fact, is one of the things
aimed at. A house is mortgaged for £5OO
to a friendly society. The mortgage will
not increase nor will the interest. So also
with public securities and every other form
of investment. Hence the friendly society
will not be able to pay more than it has
agreed to pay, no matter how little the
money may be worth.
The same is true of all life and other
insurances. The amount to be received will
not, cannot, increase, though it may be
worth less than one-half of what it formerly
was worth.
Only one side of the matter has been
presented to the view of the majority of
the workers. They have been told of the
good it will do them. The good is a sham,
because it is no use getting twice as much
wages if you can buy only half as much
with them. But the evil is not a sham.
For inflation means robbing every working
man who has attempted to make some little
provision for the future, for the benefit of
the loafers and the wasters who have made
none at all.
4
Has Economy Been Forgotten?
Dear Bulletin, — The Prime Minister
made a disappointing public reappearance
at Perth before starting for Canberra and
the East. It would have been better if he
had pleaded sore throat, and thus gained
three days in which to assimilate the pre-
sent local atmosphere, instead of rushing
into print. “No one,” he said (or is re-
ported as having said), “should believe in
the continuation of borrowing overseas, but
we cannot suddenly stop borrowing or im-
porting money.” When silence is so abun-
dant and so cheap and so non-committal,
the folly of a statement like that was monu-
mental. It is easy to say that we “cannot”
stop selling our bonds or our wheat or any-
thing else overseas; but if we must stop for
want of buyers, then the superfluous word
“'cannot” sounds a great deal too much
like a statement that Australia must have
more loans or default—not repudiate its
foreign debts, of course, but fall into inde-
finite arrears with the interest payments.
Before Scullin and two colleagues went to
England, leaving the red and rampant ele-
ment of the Labor Ministry with far too
much influence, the air was filled with
vague assurances of financial reform. But
the position on Scullin’s return was that
neither Federal nor State expenditure
showed any serious economy, and, despite
plenty of additional taxes, seven more defi-
cits were in active preparation. Scullin
found a gigantic industrial stoppage
arranged for at Broken Hill, the miners
having been offered considerably over the
award wage at a time of record low metal
prices, and having demanded more. The
stoppage of the huge smelters at Port Pirie
(S.A.) will naturally go with the sus-
pension of the mines; likewise an
extensive railway stoppage. Then the in-
credible Lang Ministry celebrated Scullin’s
return by “concessions” which will add about
£250,000 a year to the N.S.W. railway
deficit, and also arranged to throw many
thousands more people out of work by the
ban on rationing. A trouble in the meat-
export trade and an indefinite sort of shear-
ing strike in Queensland likewise synchron-
ise with Scullin’s reappearance, and as such
events can’t be kept out of the British press
there was naturally more depression in Aus-
tralian securities on the London market. In
New York there is practically no market
now. At this ill-selected time the Prime
Minister is reported as saying that the Com-
monwealth can’t get along without selling
more of its unwanted securities overseas!
Silence is described as being golden, and
anything that is golden should be cultivated
in the present scarcity of the precious metal.
—Yours, Sol Malaprop.
* 1_
A Taxpayers’ Strike.
The following is one of a dozen letters re-
ceived on the subject. There can be no
doubt that the N. S. Wales Government is
in great danger of having to face a wide-
spread movement for passive resistance to
the taxgatherer:—
The position of the middle-class people of our
State, who constitute the majority of taxpayers, is
indeed serious. In brief, they are being taxed out of
existence, and how much longer they can stand it is
a problem. To add to their previous heavy burdens,
they are now suffering from legislation which appears
to have but one object, to crush the taxpayer.
There is no incentive or encouragement for indi-
vidual effort and private enterprise, which are being
most successfully hampered, if not destroyed.
It is time the taxpayer commenced to assert him-
self. This could be accomplished by organisation,
meetings of indignation against the existing tyranny
held throughout the State, and, as the least desired
but last resort, emulating the principles and practices
of labor by striking and refusing payment of the
devastating demands of the Government.
4
Not All Our Fault.
Once Upon a Time there lived a Pioneer.
He had left the Dear Old Village because
it was a place where it cost so much to
rear a Cow, a Pig or a Sheep that Human
Beings of Humble Station seldom had
Enough to Eat. All the Pioneer had was
some Seed, some Livestock, a little Money
and a Lot of Good Advice. He planted the
Seed, bred the Stock, spent the Money on
Imports, and, for a while, made but little
use of the Advice.
Soon he was growing so much Grain, pas-
turing so many Calves, Piglings and Lambs,
and digging up so much Gold that he was
able to Export to Mother, who opened up
a new page in a Big Fat Ledger and wrote
back: “Dear Boy, you are doing splendidly.
Any time you want a Plough or a Pocket-
knife you can have it On Tick.”
The Pioneer bought many Ploughs and
Pocket-knives; but as his Boys grew up
they proved Handy and made Ploughs and
Pocket-knives Out of Their own Heads.
When Mother was informed she wrote back:
“Dear Boy, Very Natural, but Very Fool-
ish. You shouldn’t let your sons Waste
their Time on That Sort of Thing. They
should develop your Great Natural Re-
sources. I’ll debit you with a Trifling
Amount, and you can have the Materials
to Build Railways and Bridges to open up
your Great Country.”
So the Pioneer Built Railways and
Bridges on Borrowed Money.
Then Uncle Samuel, who hadn’t hitherto
Taken much Notice of his Nephew, sent
over some Samples of Most Entrancing
Things, and a good deal of Mother’s Brass
was Diverted to his Pocket. This went on
for a Long While, till the portion of the
Pioneer’s Estate around the Homestead was
so fully equipped with Things made by
Mother and Uncle, or made out of Parts
they had provided—all the Boys had to do
was to Set them in Place —that there wasn’t
Enough Work to keep, the family Occu-
pied.
At about this time the Pioneer got Angry.
“Why don’t you Get to Work?” he said
to his offspring. “Here we are, Mortgaged
to Mother up to the last Tree-stump, and
paying so much to Uncle Sam that I don’t
know where to turn to Pay the Old Lady’s
Interest. Get out and Dig. You can have
any amount of Land you like if you Take
Your Share of the Mortgage.”
The Boys didn’t See It That Way. They
grumbled amongst Themselves: .“All he
would Let us Do was to Fool Around with
the Things Grandma and Great-Uncle Sam
sent us. We might have made his Motor-
car and his Player-piano and his Prayer
Book, and we wouldn’t have Put the
Bailiffs In if he was a Eat in Arrears.
Now he’s got to the Stage where his Wool
don’t bring in enough from Grandma—Old
Sam won’t buy it—to keep the Mortgage
alive, and yet it’s too Dear for us to Buy
Socks. We’ve been Badly Brought Up.”
Moral: Mother doesn’t Always give Good
Advice.
4
The Advance from Moscow.
Dear Bulletin,— All the time that the
Imperial Conference has been sitting, the
Port of London has been importing Russian
grain, Russian timber, Russian biscuits,
Russian sweets and other Russian products.
There are in Great Britain 2|- million un-
employed, and land going out of cultivation
in all directions. And a great overseas
Dominion is in terrible straits because it
cannot find a decent market for its products.
The whole position in this country is simply
crazy.—Yours, William Stanley Shaw
(4 Bloomsbury-square, London).
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE —HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON ?
EDITORIALS .. .. • • ~ • S, 9
EXCHANGE AND INFLATION .. • . 8
WELL, HOW ARE WE DOING? .. •• 8
A TEXT FROM FORMOSA 8
UNEMPLOYMENT IN TWO STATES: THE
DOLE WOULD BE BETTER . . • • 8
INFLATION AND THE WORKER .. ..9
A TAXPAYERS’ STRIKE 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
WEST AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE .. . . 14
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE . . 14
MYER EMPORIUM (S.A.) 14
R. FOWLER, LTD. .. 14
INVINCIBLE COLLIERY 14
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 18
THE FLAPPER MEETS “UNCLE TOM”—
Drawings by Skipper . . .. . . 18
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 22
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 23
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
WHEAT FOR STOCK 24
CONTROL OF FRUIT FLY 24
SNAKE TRAPS 26
SHADOW SHOWS 27
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . • • 28
SPORTING (illustrated) 31, 32, 33
CANTERBURY PARK RACES 31
SANDOWN PARK RACES 31
WEST INDIAN CRICKET 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. 36
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 36
AS WE SAID BEFORE (drawings by Phil May
and “Hop”) .. .. .. .. .. 38
SERIAL, “BREAK O’ DAY”—
By John Crisp .. .. .. 40, 41
VELIA ERCOLE, who wrote “No Escape,”
the remarkable serial which is to start next
week .. . • .. • • • • .. 41
COMPLETE STORY—
“THE MAN WHO WAS NOT AFRAID”—
By Dulcie Deamer .. .. .. 29, 42
VERSE —By Edward Harrington, R. D. Fitz-
Gerald, Kathleen Dalziel, M. Forrest.. 12, 42


Thousands are
changing
—changing
to Chesterfield
because
“Tttow some
my way
y
Sqtiskj
put a\ring around
that word and f
don’t forget it •
POLITICAL
POINTS
There was a shudder in the Labor mem-
bers’ room at Canberra a week or two before
Christmas when the question of what to
do with the Chief Justiceship arose. Caucus
had fixed things all right for Dr. Evatt and
Edward McTiernan; hut the newspaper
comments had not been comforting, and, any-
way, was Sydney going to scoff everything?
Then the voice of the Genius at Finding a
Way Out was heard : what more democratic
and obvious than that, on the appointment of
Evatt and McTiernan, the High Court
should be called together in a sort of Caucus
and invited to pick its own chief? And if
there’s any trouble about the matter, that
will be carried, too, in the Labor Caucus.
A _ Sydney paper suggests that “the Prime
Minister will have something up his sleeve
when he faces Caucus.” He will need to
have a baton up his sleeve and apply it
Something up his sleeve — perhaps.
to the skull of the loudest defaulter and
inflationist, or it will be the end of him as
far as Australia is concerned.
The A.W.U. is out with a plan for bor-
rowing £30,000,000 in gold from the U.S.A.
But it was thought that at least £30,000,000
would be extracted from the reef “ten miles
long and carrying two ounces to the ton”
which an A.W.U. stalwart discovered in
Central Australia, especially as A.W.U.
leaders organised a syndicate to work the
bonanza and secured the blessing and
practical , assistance of A.W.U. Minister
Blakeley. An aeroplane sent out by the
syndicate was lost in the wilds, and seven
R.A.A.F. machines had to be requisitioned
before pilot and passenger were found —hap-
pily alive. This kind of rescue work is
very expensive; but perhaps the cost will
come out of the £30,000,000 loan.
Circumstances couldn’t have been much
more unkind to South Aus. and its Labor
Government and its unemployed. It depends
more than any other State upon wool and
wheat. Over its north wool country it has
had a four-year drought; and this season,
when after good rains it might have had
heavy harvests, the wool market, weak for
all sorts, was exceptionally so for its own
strong fleeces, while in its wheat areas red
rust worked havoc for the first time for
a quarter of a century. Hill isn’t a financial
genius; and it would have taken more than
a genius to make a good showing with the
empty Treasury and the flattened-out tax-
payers he inherited.
Federal Labor jibbed at the Perkins plan
of a sales tax on flour consumed in Aus-
tralia, the proceeds to be distributed ahiong
the farmers whom it urged to Grow More
Wheat, but rushed in with an export duty on
sheepskins when Parliament was breaking
up. Now the sheepskins can’t be sold, and
for want of the Perkins plan, which would
have furnished another 7d. or Bd. a bushel,
the position of the wheat-growers in
N. S. Wales, Vie., South Aus. and West-
ralia is desperate. Probably the incompre-
hensible crowd at Canberra will accept the
Perkins plan when it is too late.
The day after the banks lifted the
exchange rate 6 p.c., there were enthusiastic
yelps: an immediate jump of id. in wool
and 2d. in wheat was predicted. Poor
cocky—he’ll be disappointed again ! As a
matter of fact, though the old exchange rate
was nominally 9 p.c., actually importers and
people who just ivanted to send money out
of the country had been offering up to 14
p.c. ; and the difference between the old
actual rate and the new rate is scarcely
worth mentioning. Which, of course, means
that the farmer has been getting just about
all he; is likely to get. The exchange pre
mium is a help; but real relief won’t come
to him that way.
Britain’s disastrous Prime Minister says
that 1930 was “a tragic demonstration of
the truth of the socialist case that the
machinery of capitalism is bound to break
down.” In about two-fifths of Europe the
“machinery of capitalism” broke down, or
was stolen or smashed, a dozen
years ago, 'and the substitute.
Bolshevism, is heavier and
more hungry and oppressive
than; the old concern. Reckon-
ing in Asiatic Russia and the
vast and utterly disorganised
Chow Republic, one-third of
the world’s population has
busted the old “machinery of
capitalism,” and got some-
thing worse in its place.
Queensland’s stocktaking
for the first half of the finan-
cial year reveals an increased
deficit—£l,s4l,6l6, as against
£1,444,060 for the same period
of 1920-30. The railways, as
usual, make the worst show-
ing, with a decline of over
half a million in receipts. A
lot of revenue has gone in un-
productive relief schemes,
which could not well be
avoided. Still, matters would
have been much worse if the
Government had not heavily
cut expenditure on services;
and the bulk of the income-
tax money has still to come in.
The Labor movement breeds
ingenious spruikers, anyway,
even if most of them are fbore
slippery than honest. Thus
the other day, when it was
announced that the ban on
rationing in N. S. Wales
would mean the dismissal
of thousands, sundry union secretaries replied
that there really wasn’t any ban at
all: if a person was employed by the
week he could still be put off for a week, or
if his engagement was by the year he could
still be stood off for a year. All that had
happened was that, if a man was engaged
by the year, he mustn’t be stood down for,
say, a month. On the same principle, of
course, when the unionist family gets hard
up, it isn’t the thing for all hands to cut
out one course; all hands except one or two
cut out nothing, and the one or two cut
out the whole meal.
Premier Lang, after repudiating the Loan
Council and then crawling to it for cash
to pay salaries, announces in the arrogance
of temporary affluence that Ma will not
attend meetings of the council in future.
Speculative people are willing to bet, in
spite of the tax, that Ma will, and on Lang’s
arm, too. Comrade Percy will see to that.
Anstey, the political medicine-man, came
out in his true colors last week. To a
“Labor Daily” interviewer he said that Aus-
tralia would presently “have no option but
to tell foreign creditors that she could not
pay. ‘Default, and be damned,’ he added.”
As for “internal creditors,” they “should be
paid by the release of credits.” The Parkes
DR. WAUGHHOOANSTEY: “Roll up, roll up,
and buy my famous Default Drops and
Inflation Nuts. Prepared from recipes
imported at vast expense from the
steppes of Russia, and guaranteed to
cure , everything, from depression to
hammertoes. The two for two and
nine, and a copy of my celebrated
pamphlet on the nationalisation of
credit thrown in.”
by-election will show whether these quack
remedies are wanted by a representative
Australian constituency.
Having “rationed” the army and reduced
the navy to a couple of cruisers, the Labor
Government has put a ban on foreign immi-
grants. A “Worker” writer cordially
approves of this proceeding, and is particu-
larly delighted at the interdict on Italians ;
Italians, he says, have a virtual monopoly of
fruit shops. How these sentiments must
appeal to Lamaro, Lang’s Attorney-General,
and to the Lazzarinis. M.H.R. and M.L.A.!
The Federal Government, which protests
that it can’t afford to take the decennial
HIS PARTNER.
“Latham, leader of the Federal Nationalists, announces that
Senator Massy Greene is one of them again, having left what is
left of W. M. Hughes’s Australian party.”
BILLY: “I’m dancing with tears in my eyes ’cos the girl
in my arms isn’t yew.”
census this year—though the census would
give useful work to unemployed professional
men and clerks —distributed half a million
among the State Governments for Christmas
relief works. Ex-Speaker Levy complains
that his suburban constituency, Woollahra,
got nothing, though two adjoining Labor
electorates were awarded £2OOO each. _ln
Randwick, also a Labor electorate, the griev-
ance is that preference was given to men
whose names were on “Flanagan’s list,”
Flanagan being the member. A famous
figure in U.S. political history is Flanagan
of Texas, who said, when Government jobs
were in question: “To the victors belong
the spoils—what else are we here for?”
Flanagan of Randwick may be a connection.
The worried S. Aus. Government is up
against an odd difficulty at the “Stockade,”
or Yatala prison. Escapes have been comic-
ally easy and frequent. It is proposed to
prevent them by the erection of watch towers
by the prisoners themselves. But the Brick-
layers’ Union protests that this will be taking
the bread out of the mouths of its members,
most of whom are workless; if convict labor
is employed in this case, it says, wliy not
on railways and roads? Chief Secretary
Wliitford replies that Yatala is a hard-labor
prison; and asks if tailors and quarrymen
and cooks are also to be hired from outside
while the prisoners sit and look on. ____
A Ma State Labor M.L.A. named Knight,
apologising for Lang’s sliilling-in-the-pound
tax on earnings, said that “the Labor party
objected to the Bavin Government’s 3d.-in-
the-pound tax because it was being, used to
employ men on rates and conditions far
below the awards.” This was too much for
even Sydney Trades Hall stalwarts, and one
of them, Albert W. Thompson, wrote wrath-
fully to the “Labor Daily”:—
Bavin engaged men on £3 18s. after robbing
the workers of 3d. in the £l. ■ Labor is, on the
Is., going to engage those men on the basic wage,
and then take 4s. off them, and leave them with
£3 18s. 6d. —a whole 6d. a week better off. Why
not give them a packet of Capstans?
And since the shilling in the pound is levied
on wage-payers as well as wage-earners,
there will be less private work, available
than there was under the crool Bavin. Let
us “cut out the ‘kidstakes’ and tripe,” as
the indignant Thompson says.
Brisbane City Council is to take over St.
Helena, in Moreton Bay, a prison island for
many years. A few long-sentence men are
still there, being engaged in demolishing the
old buildings. Well watered and picturesque,
with fine beaches and good fishing, St.
Helena' should be an ideal pleasure resort,
and that the Council intends to make it.
Rottnest, outside Fremantle, was similarly
converted years ago, with great benefit to
the people of the Westralian capital.
Some tough propositions are being put up
to us in London. One, the other day, drafted
by that good highbrow Conservative the
“Referee” —which isn’t a sporting paper—
was that Australia should return to fhe
brassbound gold standard: none of your 25
p.c. of gold to the note issue, but a full
100 p.c., which would mean withdrawing
two-thirds of the notes now issued, and more
than two-thirds of those in circulation.
Further, the “Referee” would prohibit loans
from London or New York: nothing more
should be imported than could be paid for.
And there should be no instalment pur-
chases: if you didn’t have the money you
shouldn’t buy the pianola or the fur coat—
or even the kitchen furniture. Also you
shouldn’t be entitled to buy a home or a
farm on terms; but you should be entitled
to borrow half the value of anything pro-
ductive. As a fine old Tory plan for keep-
ing the working class in its “proper place”
this has its merits (“prices of everything,
including labor, whether high or low, would
always be economic”) ; but Heaven only
knows how Sydney “Labor Daily” could
approve of it.
The new Queensland railway freight rates
will mean a bit to the man on the land. There
is no general reduction, except in the wool
rates (10 per cent.), but many everyday
lines are put into cheaper classes. In com-
petition with the road carriers the railways
have lost business by failing to tell cus-
tomers how to get the lowest possible rates
for various quantities of goods and so on.
Minister Morgan claims that the new rate-
book has been drawn up so as to make things
simpler for the layman. But it’s not much
use trusting to the rate-book: that will miss
19-20ths of those who want help most.
Uncle Sam is in a dreadful state over the
affairs of Liberia, the black Republic estab-
lished by sentimental Yankees in the days
of Legree and Little Eva. Liberia is supposed
to be governed by the descendants of freed
niggers, but Ludwell Denny, in “America
Conquers Britain,” describes it “as a virtual
American protectorate under the dictator-
ship of a few native puppets.” With the
help of the U.S. State Department, Ameri-
cans lent the Liberian Government five mil-
lion dollars and leased a million acres of
rubber land, the agreement giving the U.S.A.
“complete control over Liberian finances.”
The scheme was part of a plan “to break
the British rubber monopoly.” It has been
repeatedly alleged, and as repeatedly denied
by the State Department, that the labor con-
ditions —300,000 blacks were to be employed
on the concession—amounted to out-and-out
slavery. Finally the charges were investi-
gated by an international commission con-
sisting of a League of Nations man, an
American and a Liberian. Its report is so
damning that the black President and his
offsider have resigned, and the State Depart-
ment has called them everything it coulo 1
think of while hysterically protesting its own
innocence; and the half of the world that
isn’t shocked is rinning at Uncle’s discom-
fiture.
ENGLISH POUND NOTE: “Gam, you’re, only
worth seventeen and thrippence in
London.”
AUSTRALIAN P.N. : “Well, you needn’t rub
it in.”
“P.X.” : When this wage plug turned up
last Friday to get his weekly insult, and
found that Lang had stung it for a bob in
the £l, he somehow remembered Jeroboam,
the son of Nebat, who came unto Rehoboam
saying, “Thy predecessor Tombavin made the
burden on us too grievous, even thrippence
in the £; make thou our burden lighter and
we will serve thee always.” And Rehoboam,
having got the job, said, “Whereas Tom-
bavin did lade you with a heavy yoke, I
will add to your yoke ; Tombavin hath chas-
tised you with whips, but I will chastise you
with scorpions.” After which “Rehoboam
sent Adoram, who was over the tribute; and
they stoned him with stones, that he died.”
Whereupon Rehoboam “made speed to get
him up to his chariot to flee.” And that
was the end of Rehoboam in those parts.
Which only shows that there is a limit to
taxgathering.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Shep”: An unrehearsed entertainment
was provided for the local lads by a young
damsel who sported in Bondi’s bogey hole
the other afternoon. She had crawled up
the rocks to get out when, just as she reached
the top, an outsize roller flung itself against
the outer wall. The tons of water that
rushed across the pool picked her up and
skidded her in a sitting posture for yards
across the slippery rocks. Her undignified
disappearance brought gurgles from the
crowd in the water, and she amiably joined
in the mirth. When she’d recovered enough
to get on her feet the roars redoubled, which
threw her into fresh peals of merriment.
At this stage an elderly dame gestured warn-
ingly, and after a moment’s puzzlement the
damsel tugged at the back of her costume,
AERONAUTICS.
“Her husband is in the Air Force”
“What, the Royal Air Force, dear, or the Australian?"
“Well, no, not exactly either. He demonstrates a vacuum cleaner."
to find that the skid across the rocks had
worn the seat right out of it. A moment
later she was streaking for some sort of
wrap; it is a long walk to the dressing-
sheds.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S. Aus. made its contribution
to the Christmas Week dramas. From the
mallee country on the Adelaide-to-Melbourne
line a 17-year-old boy drove into Tintinara
and told the police that he had shot dead his
late employer and wife. With the youth
Was the tearful 14-year-old daughter of the
victims. She was sent to her grandparents
in Adelaide; and there the police arrested
her a day or two later on suspicion of having
helped to arrange the tragedy. Simple by
comparison is the case of the crazy father
in the Adelaide.hills who shot himself dead
after having chased his screaming daughters
with a gun; they took refuge at the home
of the veteran legislator and K.C., Josiah
Symon.
“Chev.”: The aerial house-removal is
coming. The Vickers firm has constructed
a winged pantechnicon capable of carrying
packing-cases large enough to transport a
grand piano. The cost is a drawback, and
the scheme seems applicable only to parts
where land conveyance presents insuperable
difficulties, such as impassable mountains.
In other places householders will probably
stick to the old-fashioned custom of giving
their furniture away by auction.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: The promoters of the Coogee
pier concern are asking the Randwick Coun-
cil for a 50 per cent, reduction of rent on
the ground that they have already lost
£lO,OOO. It was inevitable. Their error lay
in the assumption that
the frequenters of an
Australian seaside re-
sort resemble those of,
say, Brighton (Eng-
land). The principal
Brighton pier, within a
few hundred yards of
the Hotel Metropole, is
a world in itself. It
has a noble concert hall,
where the best of
music is provided, and
innumerable little shops
and side-shows. Few
visit Brighton, or
any other British sea-
side resort, to bathe;
the majority like to
stroll about, show their
clothes, and lead a
social life generally.
Piers are ideally suited
for the purpose, and
are also well patronised
by the permanent resi-
dents. Australian city-
dwellers have none of
the leisurely ways of
the English. It is their
custom to dash to a
beach for a given pur-
pose—to surf, sunbake,
fish or picnic—and then
dash home again. The
locals are equally one-
idea’d. I fancy there
is only one way to
make a success of the
Coogee pier—to shift it
to one of those leisurely
backblocks towns where
the chief excitement
consists in waiting at
the station to see the mail train come in.
No other Australians have the right psycho-
logy for piers.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The death of the Duchess of
Fife, eldest of King George’s three sisters,
revives memories of the wave of enthusiasm
that swept over Britain at her marriage,
over 41 years ago. The country was getting
very tired of the German princes and prin-
cesses with whom Queen Victoria had so
assiduously reinforced her family circle.. Cer-
tainly the old lady’s sixth child, Princess
Louise, had been allowed to marry the
Duke of Argyle to-be, but after that the
three youngest, Arthur, Leopold and Beatrice,
had all been fitted up with German spouses,
and the country made whoopee (as it would
be phrased nowadays) over the news that the
Queen’s eldest grand-daughter was to marry
a Scot. The music-halls, as not infrequently
happened at that period, led the way in re-
flecting public opinion, and I can still recall
some of the doggerel songs with disparaging
references to the “German band that comes
from across the water” which were roared
with approval at the Pav. and the Alhambra
of those days. They would have hurt good
Queen Vic.’s feelings if she had heard them,
but, of course, she never did, and the only
newspapers she read were of the decorously
restrained type.. The Princess Royal’s mar-
riage was to mark the end of the long
German lane of diplomatic alliances, though
perhaps few realised it at the time. The Earl
of Fife got a dukedom among his wedding
presente.
.'. . *
Penleigh : Very ingenious the way some
people have been struggling to get a bit of
money outside Australia, so that in the event
of a smash at home they still may . have
enough to keep the wolf away from the door
by going abroad! All sorts of people have
been in the scramble, from the Supreme
Court Bench downwards. Some have bought
wool, others wheat, a few butter: they pay
with their Australian money, ship the goods,
sell them (or hope to sell them) and bank
the proceeds in some foreign country. It
was a common enough practice in Europe
before and even during the Great War:
there weren’t very many European royal
persons who didn’t have at some time or
other a little, wad in Switzerland. That
queer mountain State is the bank of last
resort of all the world. Even just after the
war, when the youngsters of other lands
were growing up without ever seeing a
golden coin, you could get a pocketful in
Switzerland if you brought the necessary
credits, though they took all sorts of care
you didn’t leave with any. Unfortunately
it’s a bad time to sell most things, but not
many ships go out of Sydney nowadays with-
out having a few old pictures or other art
treasures aboard; and for small amounts
MAKING A JOB OF IT.
EFFUSIVE YOUNG MAN : “I’ll look after you all right. I throw myself with enthusiasm
into anything I undertake.”
FED-UP YOUNG WOMAN : “That’s kind of you. Did you ever try digging a well?”
there is quite a demand for old and_ rare
stamps, which are always saleable abroad, and
lately have been fetching very good prices.
On the other hand, the man, no matter how
rich he may be, who goes direct to a bank
and tries to arrange to send some of his
wealth to America or England or even Maori-
land is liable to meet with a frosty recep-
tion. If he can show that he wants to trade
with it —to buy something for shipment to
Australia—-he may get half .of what he
wants; if he confesses that he merely wants
to send it away for safety’s sake, he hasn’t
a chance in life of getting a bean.
* * * *
“P.X.”: These long shots come off some-
times, Early on Christmas morning a
visitor to Sydney took himself, his bathing
cobwebs and his specs, to Balmoral beach,
where the Pacific rolls in through the Heads
and makes the nearest approach to surf to
be had inside the harbor. He and his party
had hardly wetted their
knees when a big roller
lazed in—and suddenly
reminded the visitor that
he had been wearing his
specs, by whisking them
off. All hands turned to
and looked for the miss-
ing lenses, whose loss
was all the greater be-
cause the wearer was
700 miles away from his
spare pair and the opti-
cians were closed. No
good—the Pacific had
swallowed them. Next
day (Boxing Day) one
who had been of the
party was going in with
a friend. “Just about
here,” he was saying,
“Jack McFerguson lost
his specs. yesterday.”
“Oh,” said the other,
“were these his, I won-
der?” and, stooping,
picked up McF'erguson’s
specs, from the sand beneath 2ft. of water.
Not only had the tide run in and out again
since the lenses were lost, but thousands
of people had bathed thereabouts since
Christmas morning.
* * * *
“Foochoo”: Ferries squirming into Cir-
cular Quay, Sydney’s front door, have been
' passing great stacks of good Australian hard-
wood sleepers; and there’s an interesting
scrap of history clinging to them. Back in
the beginnings of this century, when the
Society of the Fist of Righteous Harmony
started what we prosaic Westerners call the
Boxer rebellion, so much damage was done
to the cursed foreigner and his property that
the Chinese Government was ordered to pay
an indemnity of 450 million taels. To the
Chinese “No can do” the lordly white man
replied that there was an eternity to pay
it in, and meanwhile there was still a little
of the Customs revenue unpawned. Well,
that went on for 20 years or thereabouts,
China paying, annual instalments; and then
Britain agreed to a compromise; half of
the unpaid indemnity might be used for the
development of the great national resources
(etc.) and the other half for education. But
John Bull hasn’t been making bargains for
all these years without picking up a wrinkle
or two; so he dropped in a proviso that, in
buying materials for the development pro-
gramme, such goods as the British Empire
could supply must be bought from it. Now
as part of the scheme a railway is being
built in Southern China; and a bit of the
huge Boxer indemnity is represented by the
piles of sleepers waiting shipment on this
Sydney wharf.
* * * *
“Erua”: The people who really fall head-
long in love at a moment’s notice are the
last you would expect to. A well-known
society woman had occasion recently to inter-
view a city solicitor, and on her way to his
office she passed the open door of another
solicitor’s room. She did not even glance
in, but the occupant, a solid, well-off
bachelor, a pillar of the church and a bowler
of inter-State reputation, waited to see her
depart and then sought an urgent interview
with the lady’s lawyer. On being informed
that she was a widow, he put his case of love
at first sight so earnestly to his learned friend
that on the lady’s! next visit she was
astounded to have a secondhand proposal
wedged between chat about wills and be-
quests. She didn’t view his suit favorably,
and the elderly Miles Standish took a trip
to England to get over his sudden and quite
genuine infatuation.
sjc jJc
“Spare Corp.”: Wandering through the
’Loo I heard a woman shout a direction to
a boy, addressing him as “Westham.” His
age, which looked about 14, gave me the
clue, and a question showed my conjecture
was right; the kid had been bom in Wey-
mouth whilst his dad was one of the con-
valescents in Westham camp. I know a
Monte whose name (short for Monte Video)
came to him for a similar reason. Other
Diggers loaded their offspring with the
names of places which held war associations
for the parent. One hapless youth is almost
a complete epitome of his dad’s battle his-
tory—Bullecourt Fromelles Messines Met-
eren Larkhill Weymouth were the names
bestowed on him at baptism. His family call
him “Bully” and his mates “Skinny.”
“Old Q.”: The unconventionality of the
modern female! I was standing outside a
shop in Queen-street, Brisbane, waiting for
my wife to finish the few minutes’ shopping
on which she had been engaged for two hours
when a dusty car, evidently finishing a long
journey from the country, drew up at the
kerb. Out hopped a neatish-looking dame clad
in a rather baggy set of overalls. She walked
into the window-bay where I was waiting,
slipped off her outer coverings and stood
revealed —in a neat little one-piece frock.
Paying no attention to me whatever, she
pulled a vanity-case from the pocket of the
overalls, powdered her nose by her reflection
in the window, and, with the overalls over
her arm, boarded her ’bus again and
departed.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”; An outsize sensation seems
to have been made in London by an exhibi-
tion of Persian art. The show embraces
wonderful cloisonne, inlaid weapons and
armor, all manner of vases, ewers and bowls,
jewelled and chased and ornamented in
infinite variety, priceless carpets and other
treasures. Perhaps an even greater surprise
to most of the visitors is the display of illu-
minated manuscripts and the characteristic
Persian paintings and enamels showing
scenes wherein human beings and animals
are represented. The popular notion among
those with a smattering of the Koran’s teach-
ings is that no living thing may be depicted
by a Moslem artist. That is true of the
Sunni sect, which makes up the greater part
of Islam, and explains why the Sunni Mos-
lem can find artistic expression only in archi-
' tecture and geometrical design when it comes
to decorative art. The Persian is a Shiah,
; however, and has set aside the prohibition
on drawing and painting from the life, just
as he has thrown overboard the ban on strong
drink.
THE (MODERN) WILD COLONIAL
BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“At 12.30 a.m. the young aviator glanced at his
watch. ‘I think we will make a start now,’ he said.
A little after 2.30 p.m. word came through
that he had landed safely at Harihari, which is
close to Herepo.”
There was a Wild Colonial Boy,
Guy Menzies was his name,
He cut it in a single day
Deep on the scroll of Fame.
At midnight he was all unknown;
At twenty-five to three
P.M. (New Zealand time) he’d flown
Magnificently on his own
Across the Tasman Sea.
By wire and beam the news they switch,
They flash it to and fro:
“He’s safe at Harihari, which
Is close to Herepo.”
There was a Wild Colonial Boy
Some ham and eggs who scoffed
Within an unpretentious joint,
Then coolly sailed aloft.
They deemed the youngster westward-bound;
He scarce was out of sight
Before the ’wildered watchers found
He wouldn’t overland around
The Great Australian Bight.
’Twas east-south-east without a hitch
Till wireless shrilled “Hello!
He’s safe at Harihari, which
Is close to Herepo.”
There was a Wild Colonial Boy,
Just old enough to vote,
A name to go with Kingsford Smith’s
Indelibly w r ho wrote.
Then give the lad with Lindbergh place,
And eke with Amy J.,
Who rose—a deuce —and lit —an ace,
From shore to shore within the space
Of half a summer’s day.
The moon at Mascot, round and rich,
Beams on him, rising from the pitch,
And ere the sun is low
He’s safe at Harihari, which
Is close to Herepo.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“2nd Divvy”: Australia, I think, is
the only country which participated in the
World War that doesn’t give its uniformed
jobs to ex-service men. In France commis-
sionaires, attendants in picture galleries, etc.,
have to be ex-soldiers by law, and preferably
mutiles; and it is the same in most of the
other European countries. In England you
rarely see a restaurant or hotel norter with-
out a row of service medals, and practically
all the ornamental functionaries about the
Mansion House, theatres, law courts, royal
residences, and houses of the great are old
soldiers. Here it is the rarest thing to see
a bank or insurance company’s messenger or
hotel commissionaire with a medal up, and
ex-soldiers seem to be definitely banned by
the movie palaces. Their elaborately cos-
tumed “floor captains,” “staff majors,” and
“service colonels” are generally male flappers
who make their dainty uniforms look ridicu-
lous. Possibly the film magnates have tried to
get Diggers to don the preposterous clothes
worn by attendants in the business, and have
failed. Even the men who stormed Villers-
Bret might be excused for recoiling from
sky-blue tunics, white pants and brand new
Sam Brown belts.
* * * *
“Harold Macllardupp” : Sydney saw at least
one unique family celebration on New Year's
Day. A certain hard-
headed Scot, as his four
sons came of age, had
presented them with
accounts showing the
cost of their upbring-
ing, detailed with such
exactitude that even
the weekly pocket
money was included:
also, he had extracted
from each one of them
a note-of-hand for re-
payment of the full
amount. Dad gave a
dinner to commemor-
ate the fact that the
youngest son had com-
pleted his final pay-
ment. It was a lavish
entertainment, and
concluded with the
reading of the old
man’s will to show
the dutiful sons that,
instead of losing any-
thing, each of them
would gain a good deal
by having recognised
and redeemed his law-
ful obligations. The
name of one son, how-
ever, was neither men-
tioned in the will nor
at the feast. He had
made no attempt to
redeem his p.n.; the
shivoo was in itself an
indication that both
the debt and the pro-
digal has been wiped off the slate.
* Hi Ht *
“Dabarere”: “Sixenate” is wrong if he
thinks that hominy has been discarded as
prison fare. It still figures prominently on
the menu, and there is no earthly
reason why it should not. Made from whole,
maize meal, hominy is far more nourishing
than any other cereal food, and in America
is a national dish, highly valued on account
of its vitamin content.
* * * *
“J.E.C.” : The tercentenary of one of the
most useful of all drugs, quinine, has just
passed with scant
notice; its first re-
corded use as a
remedy for malaria
was in 1630, though
doubtless S o u t h
Americans had dis-
covered its proper-
ties long before that.
Anyway in that
year Juan Cani-
zares, Spanish cor-
regidor of Loja in
Ecuador, recoro-
mended it to the
Countess of Chinon,
wife of the Spanish
Governor of Peru.
In 1640 she return-
ed to Europe and
introduced the bark
into Spain; later,
under the name of
“the Jesuits’ Pow-
der,” its use gradu-
ally spread through-
out Europe. Fol-
lowing the rapid de-
pletion of the South
American forests in
the middle of last
century, much blood
was spilt in the en-
deavor by various
countries to steal
cinchona seeds. The
South American
peoples naturally
sought to retgin the
monopoly, but even-
tually seeds were
smuggled out and
plantations started
in various other
parts of the world.
Nowadays the Dutch
do some growing in
Java, but the only
place within the
Empire where the
thing is cultivated is
India, and even
there the quantity is
only about a third of that required for India’s
own needs. In fact, the total world supply
of quinine is inadequate for the treatment
of all malarial sufferers.
He * He *
“D.”: I was inspecting toys on Christmas
Eve when I noticed a small girl admiring
some cheap wooden horses. Inspired by her
ishy beauty,, I bought one for her. She accepted
it with a gracious smile and was lost in the
horde of deafening juveniles who were ex-
perimenting on toy pianos, trumpets and so
on in the neighborhood. A few minutes
later I felt a diffident touch on my hand.
It was my friend accompanied by one who
was a male replica of herself, except that
he looked younger and not so clean. “My
brother,” she explained gently. I bought him
a horse, too. It was a small enough tribute
to pay to so much intelligence, initiative and
family loyalty.
He * * *
“Bodega”: “Thousands of Londoners,”
said a cable of last week, “are favoring Aus-
tralian port types. Heavy purchases have
been made by the clubs with lower-priced wine
lists, though the wine is not always sold as
Australian.” It isn’t always sold as Aus-
tralian in the hotels and restaurants, either.
Londoners of the black-coated classes have
always been heavy port drinkers. You can
still count a dozen big bodegas between
Charing Cross station and Ludgate Circus
in which port is the principal beverage
drunk. In the pre-war days, when Oporto
(or rather Lisbon; few know the taste of
real port) was cheap, a half-pint glass could
be bought for a shilling over the counter,
and nearly as much was supplied for the
same price in middle-class restaurants. With
a friend who is a winetaster I was lunch-
ing. recently at one of the most famous
eating-places east of Temple Bar, and the
port duly arrived.—in liqueur glasses, or
thereabouts. “Australian,” said ,my com-
SO DIFFERENT NOW.
OLD BOY: “When I was young, a girl'wouldn’t dream of going out with a hoy unless
she had somebody else with her of her own sex.”
MODERN MA : "But they’re so different now. Two seems to spoil it for both of them.”
panion as he sipped his. He went on to tell
me that most of the port now being drunk
at such resorts,is the product of my native
land, and that it is superior in every way
to the Lisbon that England used to accept as
port. But such a small amount, is supplied
for the money that it is clear someone is
making a fortune out of the business, and
Australians being denied her rightful credit
as a land that can produce not merely sound
but absolutely, first-class port. The claim
would have been derided 20 years ago, but it
is now accepted as just by every experienced
wine-drinker.
* * .. . * *
“Nakhoda”: Merapi, the Javanese volcano
which recently swallowed two German pro-
fessors who were trying its temperature, has
a bad reputation. Although regarded as
extinct for 40 years, it contains a hot sul-
phur lake which periodically boiled over
and devastated the crops on the lowlands.
It was the, annual custom of the native
regent of Banyuwangi to go in state to the
summit and endeavor to placate the moun-
tain by casting rich cloths, fruits and vege-
tables into its bowels. Although this was
claimed to have the effect, of modifying its
worst transports, the volcano continued to
do a lot of damage until Dutch engineers
drove a tunnel through one wall of the
crater and diverted the overflow into the
Indian' Ocean. Other volcanoes in Java
have been even more effectively harnessed.
One has actually been supplied with a con-
crete bottom of Tasmanian cement because
the natural one periodically fell in and
caused an eruption. Some years ago I was
nearly caught on the floor of Merapi—-but
by sulphur fumes, not lava.
He He * H=
“Temp”: A recent contributor told of
having spoken to a woman who came out in
the First Fleet, and wondered if any other
living person could
make the same claim.
My mother, Mrs.
Annie Bolitho, now
in her 80th year and
living at Bendigo,
was a grand-daughter
on her father’s side
of Joseph Eades, a
petty-officer in the
First Fleet, under
Major Grose. He
died at a great age
about 1860. My
mother lived in the
same house with him
when a child, and
heard many interest-
ing tales from him
about his early ex-
periences. He was
on' the boat with
Bli g h when the
latter was recalled
to England, and was
an ardent partisan
of the deposed Gov-
ernor. Returning to
Australia, he was
eventually pensioned
off, receiving a grant
of 80 acres of land
where the city of
Bathurst no w
stands. Incidentally,
my mother’s mater-
nal grandfather was in the Second Fleet;
both are buried in the Orange cemetery.
He * : * *
“Ped Est”: In three week-end tallies made
by me of serious accidents in and around
Sydney recently the figures worked out this
way: First week, accidents to motor-cars 5,
to motor-cycles 2; second week, cars 7, cycles
4; third week, cars 5, cycles 4. Yet there
are six times as many cars on the roads of
N.S.W. as there are cycles. Cycles crash
oftener than other vehicles, of course, be-
cause their whole raison d’dtre is speed.
Also flaming youth is mostly at its steering
handle, sometimes with a female of the
species on the pillion urging hirn to glory
in the way* of overtaking and cutting in. It
wouldn’t matter so much if the cycle riders
were financial. As a rule, one responsible
for the smashing up of a costly car, or even
costlier human beings, can only plead ex-
treme youth or offer to go bankrupt when
sued. Here is where Australia might take
a leaf out of England’s new Road Traffic
Act, which prescribes third-party insurance
for every holder of a oar or cycle license.
England's penalty of £5O for first offenders
in reckless-driving cases would also have a
sobering effect. Nearly, all the careless driv-
ing in this country is done. at present by
those who have nothing to lose but their
lives.
* * * * :
“Lao-dah”: The man who isn’t a bit super-
stitious yet won’t light three . cigarettes
from the same match on any account had
a counterpart in a Melbourne citizen of some
prominence who died recently. For the past
10 years he had been a strong opponent of
earth burial, partly for sanitary reasons
but mainly because he was a rationalist with
pronounced views about religious dogmas
concerning the soul, the after life and bodily
survival. To give point to his principles he
became a shareholder in a crematorium.
When he died it was discovered that his
will provided that on no account was his
body to be cremated. All the rationalising
in the world had failed to dislodge his belief
in the resurrection of his mortal remnants.
ije 5j% ❖ .
“Nakhoda”: One of the few persons of
my acquaintance with a truly religious ven-
eration for trees was a traveller for South
Australian wines. Wherever he stayed, over-
night he poked into the ground a couple of
cuttings of the N. S. Wales flame or coral
tree (I have heard it given both names).
As the cuttings will remain vital for an
astonishingly long time he was able to
brighten up dozens of towns, though few of
the residents of them to-day could name their
benefactor. When he died he was buried
in the Gore Hill cemetery, outside Sydney.
DISILLUSION.
“I had a great disappointment in love.”
“I’m so sorry. Did he die—or did you have to drop him?”
“Oh, worse than either . I married him.”
The trustees had thoughtfully destroyed
every living tree before they opened their
God’s acre, and as I accompanied the coffin
to the graveside across that desolated lands-
cape I fancied I heard sounds of indigna-
tion coming from the casket.
The first instalment of Velia Ercole’s
remarkable story, “No Escape," an extra-
ordinarily powerful study of country-town
life in Australia, will be printed in “The
Bulletin" next week (Jan. 21). It does
for the country town what “A House Is
Built" did for Sydney.
THE ROMAN ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the foot of Judah Mountains there’s a
place they call Latron,
AY here there stood a massive fortress in the
ages past and gone.
Upward through the gloomy mountains
where the eagle makes his home
Winds the mighty road constructed by the
engineers of Rome,
Skirting precipice and fissure, dark ravine
and gloomy gorge,
Strewn- with rocks like fragments scattered
round some mighty Titan’s forge,
Past decaying tomb and temple, Moslem
mosque and mean abode,
Onward, upward through the mountains goes
the mighty Roman road.
Up that winding road we journeyed on a
morning long ago,
Pressing like the old Crusaders hard behind
the Moslem foe.
We had swept them from Beersheba through
the vale of Ajalon ;
All in vain they sought to rally, vainly
sought to hold Latron.
Now Jerusalem had fallen, and the tide of
battle flowed
Up the iron hills of Judah and along the
Roman road.
And it may have been a fancy, for my heart
was younger then,
But a gladness seemed to hover o’er those
worn and weary men
When they saw the Holy City crowned with
minaret and dome.
Was it that their thoughts went straying to
the distant ones at home?
To the things they’d learned in childhood of
the debt the whole world owed
Unto Him who once had wandered on that
bitter Roman road ?
There were troops from half the Empire, for
the line was moving on,
Ghurkas, Sikhs and Bengal Lancers strug-
gling upward from Latron ;
Sulky mules and laden camels groaning
underneath their weight,
Horse and foot a mighty torrent flowing
past the Jaffa gate.
As we journeyed through the city convent
bells were pealing loud,
And our horses stirred the wonder of the
ragged, motley crowd.
But the very beasts seemed conscious some-
how of a lightened load
As they carried us that morning ’long the
winding Roman road.
SMALL GOODS.
“Well, I can truthfully say that my husband’s meals are always
on the table when he comes home.”
“So are mine, Mrs. Goodwif. But very frequently the string
isn’t off them.”
Many years have passed, old comrade, since
that morning long ago
When we saw the Holy City with its golden
domes aglow—
Years of pain and disillusion ; and I think,
these lines who pen,
We were happier together, though we might
not know it then,
When we heard the far guns calling where
the baleful beacons glowed,
And we swung in line to follow up the wind-
ing Roman road.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


■a
WIN. FOWLES
(of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne)
Hands yon a garage
for nothing
A large adjacent garage, free of
charge, is another service Car-
lyon’s Hotel offers you in addi-
tion to what is recognised as
Australia’s greatest refined hotel
values. Tariff: Single Rooms
from 4/6 per day; double from
7/6. All meals optional in tea-
rooms or cafe at competitive
prices. Inclusive, from 11/6
daily; or 70/- weekly. Right
opposite Spencer Street station
—no taxi fares for train travel-
lers. Please write for detailed
tariff card.
■'J
Always Order
SCHWEPPES
DRY
GINGER
ALE
The Standard o f
Comparison through-
out the World.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
INVINCIBLE
MARINE MOTORS
are stocked in
12 popular sizes:
2£ h.p to 60 h.p.
“The World’s Best Since 1906”
All Spare Parts always available.
Write for 30-page illustrated
Catalogue.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LTD.
Sydney Showrooms:
53 North George Street
(near Harbor Bridge).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Captain Ancel Clement Gregory, of
Broome, is the outstanding figure in the
pearling world these days. Il'is Darwin and
Broome fleets last season fished 270 tons of
mother-of-pearl valued at £l9O a ton in
London.
“I. Temple”: “There is plenty of Univer-
sity learning on the High Court Bench,”
says a Bulletin paragraphist (31/12/’3O) ;
and he might have included in his list Jus-
tice Rich, who is perhaps the most learned
of the lot. Rich graduated M.A. at Sydney
Uni. under the famous classicist Badham,
and was one of the first Challis lecturers in
Law with Drs. Cullen and Coghlan and
Frank Leverrier, K.C. Pitt Cobbett, as cele-
brated as Badham in his way, was Challis
Professor in Law at the time. Rich, like
Knox, was an Equity “silk,” and left a big
practice to go on the Bench. All the pre-
sent members of the H.C. Bench were K-C.’s
except Starke and McTiernan; and all are
ex-’Varsity men except Starke.
To join the Dominican order, Michael
Killeen, LL.M., has thrown up his £7OO-a-
-year job in Vic. Crown Law Department.
He is a widower of 40 without, children.
He was in charge of the railway conveyanc-
ing branch, and took a keen interest in his
work, but the call of religion was irresist-
ible.
If Dr. Evatt isn’t appointed Chief Justice
it is pretty certain that Owen Dixon will
be; and then the High Court will still have
the youngest C.J. in Australia. Dixon, who
built up the finest practice at the Vic. Bar
before he was 40, took a seat on the State’s
Supreme Court at that age to see how he
liked the Bench and the Bench liked him,
got a satisfactory answer on both counts,
declined a permanent appointment, and
High Court Judge DIXON.
waited for the High Court offer to arrive—
which happened very shortly afterwards. He
is still only 44. Blair (Q.) was 59 last
birthday, Nicholls (T.) 62, Murray (S.A.)
67, and Irvine (Vic.) and McMillan (W.A.)
72.
Jack Sincock, secretary to a long series
of S. Aus. Premiers, was a promising junior
on Bonython’s “Advertiser” before he settled
down to his life’s job. Since then a trip to
England with Henry Barwell has been the
only break in the official routine. Among
his bosses have been A. H. Peake, Crawford
Vaughan, John Verran, Richard Butler,
Richard Layton Butler, John Gunn, Bar-
well and Lionel Hill, and he has never
failed to hit it off with any of them, largely
because of his insistence that he is not in-
terested in politics. Jack was born at
Clunes (Vic.), and spent his early youth
at Mt. Gambier.
The Last Post has sounded for another
Indian Mutiny veteran in Thomas Powell,
a sergeant-major in the Royal Black Horse
Artillery, who died at Hastings (M.L.) at
the age of 90. He must have been almost
the last survivor of the Mutiny—certainly
last in Australasia.
A. C. Davidson, general manager of Aus-
tralia’s biggest bank, was born in it; his
father was manager of the Brisbane branch
of “the Wales” for many years, and when
Alfred Charles was finished with school he
went into the service which had treated dad
so well. Years later, being then chief officer
in Wes tralia, he joined the Western Aus-
tralian Bank as g.m. That was the period
when banking heads, seeing strenuous times
coming, were getting together. Mr. David-
A. C. DAVIDSON, g.m. of “the Wales.”
son’s old love had thrown an arm out West
and was ready to embrace his new love; and
Mr. Davidson was best man at the wedding.
Soon afterwards, on Oscar Lines’s retire-
ment, the heads called him to the g.m.’s
chair. Besides having very definite opinions
about most things he has a rare capacity
for expressing them and the courage to put
them into effect, even if it means going
alone. It was he who exploded a bomb early
this month by putting up the exchange rate,
practically compelling every other bank to
follow his lead. His ears must have burned
that day.
Mayor Lathlain, of Perth, whost first
term in the chair lasted for five years, and
who is now embarking on a second one,
started at the very bottom of the industrial
ladder. Born at Clunes (Vic.) 67 years ago,
he had his first steady job among the horses
that delivered the wares of a Melbourne soft-
goods firm about the city and suburbs. In
due course he rose to be a driver, and long
before he became a master softgoodsman him-
self he knew the business outside and in.
Lathlain transferred himself to Perth about
the beginning of the century and prospered
materially. A public-spirited as well as
long-headed man,, he never spared himself
in the arduous work that devolved on him
in the war years.
Dan Matthews, Harold Clapp’s chief
booking clerk at Spencer-street, Melbourne,
is that station’s oldest inhabitant, having
been there for 37 of his 46 years on the
railways. He was a youthful penpusher
with a remarkable aptitude for figures at
Nhill when the first express ran through
from Melbourne to Adelaide. In his spare
time he is one of the best rifleshots in Vic-
toria.
Arthur Fitzgerald, dead in England at
60, was a squadron-leader in the Inniskilling
Dragoons when he first met Martin Conway,
perhaps the most famous of all Alpine
climbers. Conway infected his friend with
his enthusiasm, and the pair climbed the
Alps from one end to the other. In later
days Fitzgerald led an expedition to South
America which scaled Aconagua and Tupun-
gata, twin volcanoes on the Chili-Peru
border, previously unconquered. He passed
through Sydney in 1894 on his way to Maon-
land, where he climbed the M.L. Alps and
gave his name to the Fitzgerald Pass.
The untimely death of Major Norman
Robertson in Sydney last week (he was only
44) will be mourned by a very large circle
of friends, and by none more than the mem-
bers of the First Light Horse Brigade with
whom he served in the Sinai-Palestine cam-
paign as O.C. Field Ambulance. A grand-
son of the John Robertson who was five
times Premier of N. S. Wales, he was edu-
cated at Scots College, Sydney, and the
University, where he took his medical degree.
Post-graduate courses at Edinburgh followed,
and then a tour of the chief Continental
medical centres. A skilled surgeon, he wms a
much-travelled, deeply-read man with an
attractive personality.
Exit from the secretaryship of Adelaide
Steamship Co., J. E. Morphett. after over
half a century’s service. He started when
the co. was a trivial matter at the Port,
with three small vessels. In time he became
manager of the “branch” office in the city.
It soon became the head office, and Morphett
was assistant secretary from 1900, and secre-
tary since P. D. Haggart’s death in 1922.
(He is still chairman of the S.A. branch
of the Steamship Owners’ Federation.) The
new secretary is Denzil Hill, who has been
accountant for the co. in Fremantle, Towns-
ville and Sydney; A. S. Faulkner will move
over from Fremantle to the Port Adelaide
managership.
Queensland Uni. is losing its Bertram Steele
owing to ill-health. The professor was born
in Plymouth 60 years ago, and came to Aus-
tralia in 1888. From Melbourne Uni. he
went to Adelaide, then to Montreal’s McGill,
and later to the Heriot-Watt College in
Edinburgh, finally returning to Melbourne.
When Queensland Uni. was founded in 1910,
he took over the Chair of Chemistry, and,
with the exception of a break while engaged
in munition and chemical work in Britain
during the Great War, has occupied it ever
since. He is the only Queenslander who is a
Fellow of the Royal Society—a rare dis-
tinction.
Edward (“Pa”) Taylor, who finished his
last “head” in Brisbane the other day with a
score of 93, was a bowler renowned through-
out the Commonwealth. Head of Taylor and
Elliott, wholesale chemists, he had spent
the greater part of his life in Brisbane. For
years after retiring from active sport, he
made it a practice to tour the southern
States with Queensland bowling teams; he
was almost as well known in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide as he was in Queens-
land, and a huge favorite into the bargain.
The fine old gentleman was probably the
last Australian exponent of the mid-Vic-
torian mutton-chop whisker cult, a fact of
which he was secretly proud.
Another link with the Melbourne of half a
century ago has been snapped by the death
of James Moloney, solicitor and a director of
Melbourne “Herald.” His brother, Dr. Pat
Moloney, was the first medical graduate
from the Melbourne University. James was
one of the founders of the A.N.A., a some-
time alderman of the Melb. City Council and
M.L.A. for Carlton, and a fine Shakspearean.
One of his particular friends in his early
days was Marcus Clarke.
Koroit, one of the richest agricultural dis-
tricts in south-west Vic., has lost its oldest
inhabitant, William Crowe, at 93. He came
out from County Clare when he was 18,
found a patch that suited him at Koroit and
stuck to it. He was a councillor for years
and Maj>or thrice. Like a good many more
early settlers in the Western District he
raised a big family, 11 of whom survive
him —all residents of the State.
Edwin Mitchelson, of' Auckland (M.L.),
has been serving his country in various capa-
cities for well over half a century. He was
a County Council member before he was out
of his twenties; was elected to Parliament
in ISBI and became Minister of Public
Works and Railways two years later. He
has also been acting-Premier, Postmaster-
General, Native Minister, Commissioner of
Customs and Colonial Treasurer, and wore
EDWIN MITCHELSON, M.L.C.
the mayoral robes of Auckland for a term.
He has been the chairman of innumerable
public bodies, and, now that George Clifford
is dead, is the doyen of M.L. racehorse
owners. Mitchelson was appointed to the
Uppish House in 1920, and is a knight twice
over—K.C.M.G. and St. John of Jerusalem.
J. T. Collins, Vic. Parliamentary draughts-
man, who has been a sick man of late,
retires this month; at 67 lie has been re-
tained two years beyond the customary
leaving age. Bernard O’Dowd, Collins’s off-
sider, will be 65 in April, but it may be
necessary to hold on to him for a while
unless he is anxious to devote the whole
of his time to the Muse.
Archbishop Spence, of Adelaide, is another
of the growing company of R.C.’s who won
their mitres in Australia. Still he had
climbed a few rungs before he came this way;
when the Black Friars set up a friary in
Australia, Dr. Spence was their first
superior. It was Archbishop O’Reily—a
great believer in the orders—who induced
Archbishop SPENCE.
these Dominicans to come to S. Aus. (and
the Passionists and the Marists and the
Good Samaritan and Loretto Sisters) ; and
when the years began to weigh he chose rhe
head of the Dominicans as his coadjutor.
On the good O’Reily’s death his old friend
and neighbor succeeded him (1915). On
Jan. 13 Archbishop Spence had his 71st
birthday.
Elected chairman of S.A. State Savings
Bank for the 29th year is Herbert Phillipps,
who succeeded E. T. Smith in 1902. He is
83 now, but as indispensable as ever to a
dozen leading institutions of Adelaide.
The. late Archer Berry wasn’t the sole
surviving son of Graham Berry, sometime
Victorian Premier (B. 31/12/’3O). A
younger brother, Harold, is still on deck.
The octogenarian John Walters, who died
just before the New Year at Greenaway Cot-
tage, Lindfield, was an Englishman in all
things, though he had spent most of his
life in N. S. Wales. Soldiering and sport
were his hobbies. When the departed Sydney
Drag was in its heyday—when old Edward
Terry, of Eastwood, was master, and the
officers of Paddington Barracks, led by
Major Airey, followed the hounds twice a
week—Walters was always in the first flight.
“The Breaker,” Bob Lenehan, “Banjo”
Paterson and many other oldtimers were his
friends. His health and physique were
phenomenal, and he . excelled at all sports,
notably cricket, jumping and swimming. He
joined the Camden Light Horse as a young-
ster, rose to fieldi rank, and took the N.S.W.
Lancers to the Diamond Jubilee in 1897.
Like scores of other Australians and Maori-
landers Walters was a collateral of the Bute
family; most of them belong to the Pro-
testant side of this vast clan, being descended
through Rev. William McDouall from an
Archbishop of Armagh. His first wife was
a Rudd, of Howlong station, which passed
into the possession of the Watt family, and
was owned by Colonel Oswald Watt when
he died. His widow is a daughter of Dr.
Swinson, of Bowral.
Wars did much to spoil the flavor of life
for ITerman Sabiel, Sydney’s well-known
chemist, who died last week after a long
spell of heart trouble. He left Germany
because of the misery and want that followed
on its winning of the Franco-Prussian war,
and he lived to see something of the sort
happen in his beloved Australia. The out-
break of the World War was a severe trial
to him. He had married an Australian, his
children and grandchildren were Australian,
and by 40 years of effort he had built up
a big business in Hunter-street. Also he
had a large circle of friends, not only as a
pharmacist but as a sportsman. He was a
cyclist in the boneshaker days and a motor-
cyclist later; and he bred horses and rode
them, though by no means a lightweight.
He remained a sunny-natured optimist—a
Teuton of the best type —through all his
unmerited adversities.


CLOTHES FOR
MEN
ê
AND THEIR
SONS.
A PERFECT COMBINATION.
“BOLBEC” Tobacco and
a “PIBRO” Pipe.
Hours of sweet contentment in “Bol-
bec" Tobacco. An English mixture,
to Pike Brothers **"
per lb
“PIBRO” PIPES.
A natural English Briar, silver-
mounted or unmounted old Bruyere.
Each 7/6
Pike Brothers
, zuz uu
21/6
exclusive
2/5)
LTD..
in Queen-street, Brisbane.
Uhe
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged case provided free, with
every razor.
- “PLUM” - RAZORS are supplied, in two widths—fin. and fin.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
ë
M 2
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
... ■ ) '-4
Fits any blade razor f, f, $ inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Western Australian Insurance.
Reserves
(including
Reserves for
Towards Unexpired
June, Surplus.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
£ £ £ • £
1920.. 56,101 lOp.e. =lO,OOO 46,101 741,704
Securities written down, £43,637.. 698,127
Loss.
1921.. 58,406 Nil 639,721
Taxation, £143,894 .. .. 495,827
Written off, £11,559 .. .. 484,268
1922 111,930 Nil 372,338
Written off, £33,341.. .-. 338,997
1923.. 42,778 Nil 296,219
Written off, £58,543.. .. 237,676
Over-provision for taxation, £ 57,430 295,106
1924.. 21,164 Nil l o-q qio
Transferred to Accident Fund, 1297 j ~
Written off, £11,421. . .. 262,521
From Life Fund, £96 .. .. 262,617
1925.. 134 5 p.e. = 5,000 257,483
Surplus.
1926.. 46,145 5 p.c.= 5,000 41,145 298,628
1927.. 59,821 5 ~,,5,000 54,821 353,449
Loss.
1928.. 42,773 Nil 310,676 /
From Life Fund, £493 .. .. 311,169
1929.. 42,752 Nil 268,417
Surplus.
1930.. 13,874 Nil 13,874 282,291
•Apart from Life Department.
Since the flood of Marine premiums which
almost swamped the office during the war
period ebbed, the management of this 18-
year-old concern has not had much luck in
its efforts to develop other lines. More-
over, much of whafr' f once looked like profits
turned out to be losses; these, the special
demands of the taxgatherer and adjustments
of the book value of securities swallowed
over half a million of reserves during the
five years to the close of accounts in 1925,
reducing them to £257,483.
They were, however, still 2 \ times s the
paid capital, and that ought to have meant
comfortable divs. from interest returns
alone; yet shareholders have averaged only
1.5 p.e. over the last decade. Most of the
mischief has occurred in the Accident branch,
where net premiums sprang from £44,305
in 1924 to £240,139 in 1927, when results
raised hopes which were shattered by losses
of £75,435 and £51,974 in each of the follow-
ing two. years. In an effort to correct the
position, Accident business was drastically
restricted, the recession in net premiums
amounting to no less than £165,205 over the
last tjiree years. How things panned out
in this and other departments during the
last term the next table; shows
Net ' *
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Loss.
Accident.. £74,924 £46,152 £35,961 £7,189
Surplus.
Marine . . 56,992 41,731 8,813 6,448
Fire ' .. 39,053 17,619 20,998 436
Net underwriting loss .. .. £305
Interest, etc. . . . . .. .. 14,179
Surplus as per table .. .. £13,874
On Accident account the co. has paid ‘out
in claims and exes, during the last three
years £134,616 more than it has received in
premiums, and reserves were tapped for
£71,158 of it.
Much of the trouble arose through exces-
sive competition and the rapid growth of
motor-car insurance. This led, in some in-
stances, to the introduction of novel fea-
tures, including elaborate extensions of third-
party risks, while the premiums received
were barely sufficient to cover the main
features of the hazard —damage to the car
and property and injury to the person.
Combining the underwriting figures of all
departments we get these results:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.e. 48.8 p.e.
1918.. 1,142,901 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 „
1922.. 229,537 259,678 95,783 113.2 „ 41.7 „
1924.. 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
1926.. 215,812 115,091 78,653 53.3 „ 36.4 „
1927.. 326,481 186,809 112.228 57.2 „ 34.4 „
1928.. 292,856 239,825 119,725 81.9 „ 40.9 „
1929.. 167,470 147,217 76,140 87.9 „ 45.4 „
1930.. 170,969 105,502 65,772 61.7 „ 38.4 „
Premium income in the Marine branch
dropped from £381,448 in 1920 to £56,992
last year, when the result was a surplus
of £6.448 as against a loss of £4473 for the
previous term. In the Fire department
£156,657 was gathered in net premiums 10
years ago compared with £39,053 last year,
when, for the fifth time since 1922, a small
surplus was shown. The return from in-
vestments was a comfortable 14.1 p.e. on
the £lOO,OOO of paid capital; so shareholders’
prospects are bright enough provided under-
writing results can be got in hand.
Policy-holders are well protected. At, the
close of accounts they could see net tan-
gibles, apart from the Life fund (£125,471),
equal to 258 p.e. of the year’s net premiums—
-150 p.e. is usually considered adequate. The
funds were invested in this way
1920. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Public . securi-
ties " . . . . £144,211 £160,115 £159,904 £159,582
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. 350,600 264,958 240,694 264,043
Properties ~ . 69,174 70,012 68,584
Rook debts, etc. 230,564 59,270 46,700 47,656
Cash, etc. . . 295,808 65,662 ’ 46,063 34,556
Odds and ends 5,753 7,298 7,162 5,935
Total assets £1,026,936 £626,477 £570,535 £580,356
Liabilities* . . 141,715 170,814 99,325 72,594
£885,221 £475,663 £471,210 £507,762
-Including provision for taxation (1926, £BO,OOO ;
1927, £40,000; 1929-30, £2000).
The net improvement last year was £36,552,
of which £22,678 was on account of Life
business. The £264,043 of mortgages, etc.,
includes £107,392 of shares in other cos., but
no hint is given as to what, if anything, they
turn in.
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance.
Industrial
Income. Claims. Exes. Losses. Deficit.
£j £ £ £ £
1923.. 111,164 4,074 75,492 8,251 7,599
Funds.*
1924.. 127,788 10,083 73;728 ;>:12,886 23,492
1925.. 143,435 9,315 100,958 12,347 44,307
Freehold written up, £34,609 .. .. 78,916
1926.. 155,Q08 13,922 94,005 6,765 119,832
1927.. 167,993 20,139 101,284 8,144 158,258
1928.. 196,514 22,374 114,111 137 218,150
Surplus.
1929.. 200,012 42,909 98,385 512 277,380
1930.. 195,250 33,922 79,966 6,714 365,456
*Net funds apart from capital.
This 10-year-old is about the most promising
of the post-war life ■ offices; it quickly
linked itself with strongly established far-
mers’ organisations throughout the Common-
wealth. Still £101,926 of its £.108,495 of paid
capital at Aug. 31 last had been swallowed
by establishment, etc., charges. But expendi-
ture on that account has ceased, the assur-
ance funds (£467,381 at Aug. 31) are be-
lieved to exceed liabilities under policies, and
last year’s excess of incomings over out-
goings (£88,076) is expected to provide a
small margin of divisible surplus—the exact
, amount will not be known until the actuary
completes his overhaul, now in progress. So
the co. lias apparently turned the corner.
The next stage is the development of bonus-
earning and dividend-paying capacity, which
will largely depend upon still further reduc-
tions in costs.
Owing to financial stringency and other
difficulties less new business was writen last
year:—
Ordinary:— 1924. 1929. 1930.
Policies issued.. 3,130 2,662 2,054
Assuring . . £1,679,669 £1,260,727 £802,793
Renewal premiums 80,673 152,926 156,429
First premiums 43,850 29,467 22,087
Interest and rent 3,265 17,619 16,733
Also lapses appear to have been a bit heavier
than usual; but on the average the co. has
gathered around 80 p.e. of the premiums fail-
ing due* for renewal, which is a very favor-
able experience. Costs were easily the most
satisfactory that the co. has recorded. Exes,
made off with 44.8 p.e. of the net premiums
compared with 53.8 p.e. and 63.1 p.e. in
1929 and 1928 respectively. The improve-
ment is most heartening; if it continues at
anything like the same rate it should not be
long- before bonuses to policy-holders become
a regular event. The year’s first premiums
cost 212 p.e. as against 220 p.e. for the pre-
vious term; that is on the generally accepted
basis that new business is 10 times more
expensive than old. Until the premium in-
come swells these ratios are likely to remain
high ; hence the importance of a large pro-
portion of renewals. More than three-quar-
ters of the, business in force is whole-of-life,
and that is satisfactory.
The office assumes that its assurance funds
will earn 4 p.e.; after allowing for taxation,
the return from interest, rents, etc., was
5.4 p.e. on mean funds last year. The amount
invested in premises and the downward trend
of rents have not helped in this direction.
The protection for policy-holders is in this
form :• —
1925. 1929. 1930.
Government securities.. £43,833 £56,981 £90,289
Mortgages .. .. 18,656 53,603 53,314
Loans *n policies .. 4,905 31,699 55„202
Book debts, cash, etc. 84,488 86,295 113,383
Equipment . . . ■ 8,464 16,229 16,771
Freehold . . • • 2,000 154,636 154,636
Total tangible assets .. £162,346 £399,443 £483,595
Liabilities* . . • • 6,751 12,060 5,181
Net tangibles . . ■ . £155,595 £387,383 £478,414
Assurance fund . . 88,207 377,306 467,381
Paid capital . . . . 108,340 108,495 108,495
* Apart from premiums paid in advance.
In addition they could see £153,991 of un-
called capital when the books closed. The
year’s surplus went mainly into Government
securities, loans on policies and book debts.
The last include £53,929 of bills receiv-
able, £29,247 of sundry debtors’ balances and
£24,748 of premiums in days of srrace and
overdue. Incidentally the book value of
premises was written up £34,000-odd about
five years ago.
In the Industrial branch costs made a
brisk advance in the right direction last year,
and the business continued to grow:—
Income. Claims. Exes. Loss.
1923 .. £4,822 £3 £13,070 £8,251
1924 . . -9,884 104 22,666 12,886
1925 . . 12,300 408 24,239 12,347
1926 . 16,974 2688 21,051 6,765
1927 18,759 1695 25,208 8,144
1928 . . 25,248 1329 24,056 137
Surplus.
1929 . 28,136 1810 25,814 512
1930 . . 34,578 5056 22,808 6,714
Exes, took 65.9 p.e. of the year’s income com-
pared with 91.7 p.e. and 95.2 p.e. in each
of the two preceding terms. The heavier
claims were due mainly to conversions from
endowments to whole-of-life and endow-
ment assurances.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
! Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
July, Profits. 7 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 54,092 23,956 8 p.e. = 16,000 14,136 58,792
1925.. 38,411 27,790 5 „ „ 10,000 621 59,413
1926.. 30,534 27,790 Nil 2,744 62,157
1927. . 39,409 27,790 51 p.e. = 11,000 619 62,776
1928.. 36,061 27,790 Nil 8,271 71,047
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil 43,715
1930.. 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,029
Control of this old-established business—
it used to be James Marshall and Co.,
founded over 80 years ago, and built up by
James Marshall and the Taylors—passed
to the big Myer Emporium, Melbourne, in
1928, when it bought the 200,000 pound
ords. for 30s. each. The public is interested
in the prefs.—loo,ooo A’s and 297,000 B’s,
which rank in the order stated for capital
and a 7 p.e. div.
The new control adopted a bold trading
policy, based on quick turnover at small profit
margins. So, to immediately strengthen
goodwill as well as make room for newer
lines, there was a quick clearance of stocks.
The organisation was overhauled, the pre-
mises were remodelled, and attention was given
to the manufacture of some of the co.’s re-
quirements locally—Holdens’ old King Wil-
liam-street freehold was bought (at
£30,000) for factory, etc., purposes.
Trade livened, but heavy non-recurring
exes, bit deeply into the 1929 figures, and
reserves were raided to pay the pref. divs.
Then, on the heels of a long drought in S.A.
—there were three and in some parts five
bad seasons in succession—came the general
slump with reduction in spending and price
recessions. Nevertheless, for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts there was a
spring of £16,807 in gross profits (£234,463),
but the extra expense of the larger trading
left the net result £2OOO short of the average
for the four years immediately preceding
the change in control. After attending to
the pref. requirements, there was enough to
show but 2.1 p.e. on the ord. capital, so, for
the third year in succession no div. was paid.
Since the books were ruled off tariff in-
creases, import prohibitions, the acute posi-
tion in the exchange market, stinging in-
creases in taxation, the quick growth of
unemployment and the downward trend of
prices have made trading vastly more diffi-
cult. And with a lot more money invested
in property and plant one danger is that
these items may become in excess of trade
requirements, in which event it might be
a while before the ords. get on to the divi-
dend list.
Over the last two years £200,000-odd has
been added to the book value of fixed assets ;
the ords. put up £lOO,OOO and the board went
outside for the rest. Here is the position
as balance-sheet figures show it:—
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Capital ■ • £597,000 £597,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities .. 86,375 186,545 307,869 181,965
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 340,109 351,201 495,578 498,305
'Furniture,
plant, etc... 34,857 57,642 112,467 110,581
Stocks . . 256,420 264,897 296,240 233,745
Book debts .. 142,728 214,785 158,490 113,970
Cash .. . . 12,355 7,893 5,551 7,258
Last year stocks and book debts were worked
down and £132,580 was wiped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors and the bank,
reducing it to £151,668. Deposits (£30,298)
were £6666 heavier. However, the more or
less liquid surplus (£173,038, including
stocks) was £20,626 stronger than at the
previous balance. Much. depends upon the
figure at wdiich stocks have been taken into
account, and upon the extent to which over-
head can be restrained.
On the market the A shares are priced at
16s. 6d.; at that figure the return is 5.5 p.e.
There has been no quote for the B’s for some
time. The net tangible backing amounts to
£7 9s. sd. for the A’s and £2 3s. 6d. for
the B’s.
R. Fowler, Ltd. (Sydney)
( Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept, Profits. 10 p.e. Ord. serves, serves/
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 18,437 4000 8 p.e. = 16,631 16,136
Establishment exes, new factory, £1793.. 14,343
1928.. 3,258 4000 Nil 13,601
1929. . 8,779 4000 Nil 4779 18,380
Exes, capitalised, £457 .. .. .. 17,923
Loss. (5 p.e.)
1930.. 6,760 2000 Nil _ 9,163
The best result claimed by this co., which
took over the brick and tile and pottery busi-
ness of R. Fowler in 1919, was 11,7 p.e. on
average capital in 1924. Since then it has
issued £65,000 of ord. scrip, lifting paid
capital to £290,000, and leant on its bankers
for an extra £40,000 or thereabouts, in order
to finance additions to the tileworks (Syd--
ney) and to put up a factory in Melbourne.
Following changes in the control some 24
years ago it was decided that provision for
depreciation bad been inadequate. That is
to say, some of what had been previously
claimed as profit was not profit at all, but
really capital consumed in the process of
earning income; so special provision was
made for its replacement out of the 1928
earnings. The poor showing in the following
term was attributed mainly to price cutting.
Last year the slump in the building trade
struck this and other concerns in the ancil-
lary industries a severe blow, the full effects
of which may not have been felt when the
books last closed. For the first half of the
term the co.’s Sydney establishment earned
enough to pay the interim pref. div., but
registered a loss of £3954 for the full year.
The loss on account of the Melbourne busi-
ness was £2806, of which only £551 was in
respect of the last six months—that was
after capitalising £457. So the prefs. bad
to be content with half a meal, while the
ords. again went hungry; they have aver-
aged 5J p.e. over the last nine years.
Nor is there much that is reassuring m
the co.’s outlook. The tariff has afforded a
little help, but Sydney is overbuilt, money
threatens to be tight for some time, and the
finances are not very robust. Here are the
figures as balance-sheet figures present them:
1927 1929 1930
Paid capital . . . . £265,622 £290,000 £290,000
Liabilities . . .. 52,263 93,666 95,023
Freehold and plant . . 223,743 261,904 256,666
Stocks 52,787 62,975 68,031
Sundry debtors ~ 39,405 46,099 34,602
Shares in other cos. . . 33,252 35,486 34,652
Cash, etc. .. .. 61 582 334
The more or less liquid surplus (£7944, in-
cluding stocks but not shares in other cos.)
slipped £8046 during the year. Improve-
ment will call for better trading results.
No hint is given as to the basis on which
stocks have been taken into account, and
much depends upon tliat. The pipe-making
subsidiary, R, Fowler, Vianini, Ltd., con-
tinues to register losses —the figure was
£2226 last year.
Since the close of accounts four of the
half-dozen directors have resigned, and
an advisory committee of shareholders has
been appointed. The co.’s trouble is that the
plant won’t earn enough ; results will largely
depend upon the extent to which it can
be kept employed, its efficiency, whether
allowances for depreciation prove to be ade-
quate and upon the course of prices and
costs. New lines have been introduced, and
others are to be added as opportunity offers.
The co. will be fortunate, however, if it
manages to pull through without loss of some
of its capital.
Subject to intangibles in the subsidiary,
the prefs.—there are 40,000 of them,. carry-
ing a cumulative 10 p.e., with priority as to
capital—were covered by net tangibles with
a book value of £7 9s. 7d. at Sept. 30. They
seldom come on to the market. On paper
the cover for the ords. was 20s. 9d.; they
are priced around 3s.
Invincible Colliery, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Net Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
1920.. 14,832 10 p.e. = 10,400 4432 8,289
1921.. 23,810 20 „ ~20,800 3010 11,299
1922.. 5,720 si„ „ 5,720 11,299
1923.. 10,854 10 „ „ 10,400 454 11,753
1924.. 10,400 10 „ ~ 10,400 11,753
1925.. 5,365 5 „ „ 5,200 165 11,918
1926.. 5,216 5 „ „ 5,200 16 11,934
1927.. 10,595 10 „ „ 10,400 195 12,129
1928.. 9,527 74 „ „ 7,800 1727 13,856
1929.. 10,608 10 ~ „ 10,400 268 14,124
1930. . 7,484 5 „ ~ 5,200 2284 16,408
This co. works the Lithgow seam at Cullen
Bullen on the Western N. S. Wales field.
Howard, Smith holds 66,321 of the 104,000
fully-paid pound shares; it bought control
about 16 years ago, and since then shipping
influences have no doubt greatly affected the
lay-out of the figures. Of course earnings
have been up and down according to indus-
trial and other conditions; still, the control
has ensured ready sales for a sub-
stantial output, so shareholders have had
an unbroken run of divs., averaging 7.0
p.e. over the last nine years, though accord-
ing to the profits claimed there has been
(Continued on page 16.)


-
il
‘6ZK£Q‘Q
iiii
wmmm.
mam
■
m
iiii i f
dHfl
s=r
.
'-^ k .
S&AsSs fcaitesSSs&SriiiSssSs
■
mi'!::;
SSsSS:
MM IBM
* :
.
HS
S!
1
l-’MlllllMHllHlllllltlll
!'!!!!:••••••••
;iiliill!i!Si!H
SfcS&SS
'
Eg iiiipii;
IKi".::!"” 1
KBSSiBWiSS
■" r -:i!:rHSv
■HHssssM
i. -•-• ViF
V
\£^
<>
x>
N
ixf
m
&
m
m
\
ii
1
■*7^
33Nviin
N 3
WfC


Watch Your
Step J
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
JANUARY NUMBER NOW
ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEli ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth • patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and. Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
In comparing Pioneer Wood Pipe with metal pipe,
many interesting facts are revealed. Pioneer Wood
Pipe weighs considerably less, and, because it is
non-corrosive, has a longer effective life. It costs
only about half as much, and this low first-cost is
perpetuated in low handling, freighting and instal-
lation charges. Any type of liquid can be safely
carried in Pioneer Wood Pipe—even the strongest
acids or alkalies, without harm. Write for interesting
data of installations. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting 1 Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. Jo give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ē
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.!
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bana offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
W&W26.
®SiSSIiR®i!iMN
i
mmm
London Office:
95 Gresham Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
QNVUS
6s>
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY,
LTD.
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
little to spare. There is, however, in addi-
tion to the accumulation shown in the table,
an accident and insurance reserve, built up
as opportunity offered to £23,599 at the
close of last accounts —£74 was added dur-
ing the twelvemonth.
But in June last there was a drop in the
selling price of coal, following resumption
of work on the Maitland field. Also com-
petition got more of an edge on it, and the
co. lost its contract with the N. S. Wales
Government railways as from July 1, 1929.
This means that the output has shrunken
by about one-third; it was 127,096 tons last
year as against 141,614 tons the year before.
Thus the declared profit fell to 7.3 p.c. on
capital compared with 13.4, 9.1, 10.4, 6.8
and 11 p.c. back to 1925. An interim 5 p.c.
was paid, but no final distribution was made.
Appearances are that the current year’s
profit, if any, will be very meagre, failing
a recovery in turnover or substantial reduc-
tion in costs, and prospects of either are
not bright.
Finances are comfortable enough:—
1916. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Liquid assets .. £10,410 £63,215 £61,671 £46,802
Liabilities .. 3,588 8,376 11,648 5,415
Surplus . . £6,822 £54,839 £40,023 £41,387
Liquids included £14,000 of Government
securities and £29,292 of book debts. Over
the last three years they have been drawn
upon for £13,452 net to finance the outlay on
fixed assets, to the book value of which
£14,925 was added. Thus the mine, plant,
etc., now figure at £102,620; but they are
wasting assets, so the capital involved needs
to be recovered out of profits during the life
of the mine.
How soon the trade will be able to re-
organise itself and eliminate waste due to over-
capacity and over-manning is difficult to say.
Meanwhile, those concerns with snug finances
and secured markets, ensuring a ready sale
of an adequate output, will suffer least.
The market prices Invincible’s scrip at
10s., of which Bs. is represented by surplus
liquids. It therefore discounts the book value
of the fixed assets by approximately 90 p.c.
Satupulo, N.L.
This Melbourne-controlled concern is an
offshoot of Pulo Tin. It was launched in
1926, and took over from the parent about
250 acres adjoining the Siamese Tin Syndi-
cate’s Peek River property in Western Siam.
A further 101 acres was bought from Siam
Concessions, and another 1200 acres was
taken up under E.P.L. Last year purchase
of the leases was finalised, and the co.’s total
dredgable area at Dec. 31 was approxi-
mately 29,000,000 c.y., bored to average
13.120 z. tin oxide. Though there is a band
of silted clay on the surface of the original
properties, it has thus far offered no dredg-
ing difficulties; the ground generally is easy
digging with a small stone content in the
wash.
The dredge began in August, 1928; it is a
steam-driven bucket machine of 130,000 c.y.
monthly capacity, equipped with boxes and
launders. Early recoveries (6.50 z.) were dis-
appointing, but for the 12 months to March
31 last they averaged 14.40 z., and the co.
netted £13,783 on a turnover of 1,063,000
cubic yards; tin averaged £l9l 3s. 7d. per
ton, and costs were 8.2 d. as against 4.3 d. for
1929. But the bottom has fallen out of the
market since. On the present basis of royal-
ties and smelting charges the measured
ground would realise about £715,000 with
tin at £l2O, London. That is, assuming that
average recoveries exactly equalled bore
values; of recent months the co. has been
handling lib. a yard dirt. If all-in costs
can be got back to 6d. per yard as expected,
and kept at that figure, £725,000 would be
spent in dredging the property. However,
should recoveries be maintained at lib. per
yard realisations would amount to about
£BBO,OOO. . , ,
Paid capital is £159,300 m pound shares —
10,500 10 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and 148,800
ords. The market prices the ords. at Bs.; so,
after allowing for the pref. capital and div.,
the investor at that price who looks for the
return of this money plus 10 p.c. p.a. for
20 years—the estimated life of the property
—counts on recoveries being maintained at
11b. per yard and tin averaging nearly £l3O.
Tasmanian Shales
Dear Bulletin, — Your correspondent
“Shale,” in his remarks regarding the Latiobe
(Tas.) shale industry (B. 31/12/’3O), writes
either with an inadequate knowledge or has
deliberately disregarded facts. His state-
ment that the crude oil contains 5 p.c. sul-
phur is incorrect. The crude produced by
the Crozier process contains actually 2.44
p.c. This crude is being refined by normal
acid-soda treatment and yields a petrol con-
taining 0.25 sulphur. (British standard
specification allows 0.4 p.c.) The Latrobe
Shale petrol is of a definitely superior
quality and tests have shown an increase in
mileage amounting to over 40 p.c. as com-
pared with' imported petrol. The petrol has
been used in the district for several months
past and has given universal satisfaction.
In addition to the petrol, power-kerosene,
Diesel oil and bitumen are also being refined
from the crude and marketed locally. Con-
trary to “Shale’s” statement, the shale is
not difficult or costly to mine. Even on the
present small development scale of working,
and allowing for discarding the middle low-
grade band, costs are well below the figure
of 20s. that he mentions. In fact, on a
reasonable commercial scale of working, say
300 tons per day, the total cosit of mining,
retorting, refining and marketing would be
under 20s. per ton. —Yours etc., R. H.
Crozier.
Bulolo Gold Dredging now has the pro-
ducing stage well in sight. One of the giant
’planes specially built to carry the dredge
parts into the mountains has been landed
at Lae beach, where the aeroplane service
for the New Guinea goldfield begins. _ It
should be assembled by the time the first
shipment of dredge material and machinery,
which left Sydney last week, arrives. The
second ’plane will reach Sydney early
in February; when the two are on the job
the transfer of the material should not take
long. Dredge erection is a different matter.
In Malaya a year or more usually elapses
between the first arrivals of material and the
commencement of digging. At Bulolo a haul-
age road is being made between the aero-
drome and the power site and a truck,. trac-
tor and waggons are to be carried in by
’plane to haul the dredge parts to the assem-
bly area. Also, fluming and other work in
connection with the hydro-electric power
scheme is well advanced.
* * * *
It was in 1925 that a Cairns syndicate,
headed by Arthur Clark, sent C. H. Way and
Walter Baker to examine the lower reaches
of the Palmer River, the natural tail race
of the old Palmer goldfield, as a dredging
and sluicing proposition. The outcome was
the formation of the Palmer River Gold Co.,
which has spent about £75,000 in testing the
area, building 84 miles of road, and buying,
transporting and erecting a dredge, etc., with
a capacity of about 60,000 c.y. monthly.
The wheels began to turn on Dec. 29 last,
and everything is reported to be running
smoothly. Those interested in the renais-
sance of mining in North Queensland will
anxiously watch results. There are thou-
sands of acres of river flats and terraces
in N.Q. which, though not payable for small-
scale working, might be worth while with a
big turnover.
* * Hi *
Mt. Morgan, Ltd., which is engaged in
precipitating copper from water pumped from
the old mine, obtained 201.7 tons of precipi-
tates containing 167.55 tons of copper for
the six months to Dec. 31. The water in
the mine was lowered 26ft., representing 12
million gallons. Assuming that the standage
water contains lib. of copper per 1000
gallons, the copper leached out of the ore
by the descending waters was equal to 5.161 b.
per 1000 gallons, which is reassuring. The
bulk parcel of upper ores forwarded to the
American Cyanamid Co. was concentrated
with a ratio of 10 or 12 into 1 for a recov-
ery of 90 p.c. copper and 74 p.c. gold, the
pyrite being relatively free of gold. It was
estimated in the co.’s prospectus that
the old Mt. Morgan concentration ratio
of 3.45 tons into 1 would give a
profit of 9s. per ton. The improved ratio
should enhance the profit; in addition the
gold bounty and the present rate of exchange
have increased the value of the ore by
about 6s. per ton. The board is consider-
ing several propositions for dealing with the
available ore, but nothing definite is to be
done until the Cyanamid co.’s final report is
received.
* * * *
“Poverty Flat”: There has been a marked
revival on the old Gulgong (N.S.W.) field,
where surface prospecting and underground
development are in progress, including the
sinking of new shafts through the basalt.
H. Dawson and his party have bottomed
their Caledonia Extended shaft at 110 ft., and
are tackling the water with a steam winding
and pumping plant. Driving on the wash
is expected to commence shortly. In the
shallow ground in the old days sections of
the Caledonia lead returned as high as 16oz.
a ton, before the water beat the pumping
facilities of that day. The Ludowici-Brown
interests of Sydney are floating a company
to develop leases on the old Happy Valley
and Black leads. A new shaft is to go down
near the Junction Leads, and the old shaft,
now at 104 ft., is to be deepened. It is
expected that the oldtime water difficulties
will be satisfactorily overcome.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for 1930 was
416,369 fine ounces, or over 39,0000 z. in
excess of that for 1929. The more intensive
working of existing mines and the reopening
of abandoned ones consequent on the passing
of the Gold Bounty Act are expected to add
200,0000 z. this year, Wiluna’s contribution
being estimated at 150,0000 z.
* * * *
Lake View and Star, Ltd. (W.A.), had
a roll up in London the other day, when
chairman Agnew prophesied a great future
for the co.’s Kalgoorlie mines and appealed
to Labor to be reasonable. H'e was probably
referring to the insistence of the unions
on a fortnight’s holiday at Christmas. When
the Wiluna mine, for instance, works up its
output to the expected 50,000 tons a month,
a stoppage for half a month will represent
a serious loss of production. _ This loss
has been occurring for years in the Kal-
goorlie mines, but there is no stoppage of
interest charges and a host of other over-
head costs.
* * # *
Stimulated by the gold bounty, Wiluna
Gold Corporation has issued £350,000 of
fresh capital in order to bring mine develop-
ment to the desired stage and to complete
surface equipment. Lake View and Star
Co. has followed with an issue of £300,000
for erection of a large oil flotation treatment
plant, and Associated Northern, after hesi-
tating, has decided to resume operations.
There is a willingness in London at present
to provide further cash for Westralian shows
with decent prospects.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) last year proved
1100 ft. of payable ore in the bottom work-
ings (2800 ft.), and greatly improved the
stoping position throughout the mine.
It is anticipated that the co. will be allowed
this year to work parts of the property
which, owing to alleged stagnant moist air,
it was prevented from working last year.
This, according to the local inspector of
mines, will add a further 15 years to the
life of the show. The co. was tottering
when the State Government came to its
aid with, cash advances for developmental
work.
* * * *
H. F. Hansen wants £lO,OOO of the
£32,000 made available by the Federal Gov-
ernment for unemployment relief in W.A.
used in assisting prospectors. They have had
little success in W.A. during the past decade,
but the game always holds a chance, greater
of course for the experienced man than the
newchum.
=!=***
“Spare Towkay”: The Dutch, Bolivian
and Nigerian Governments having finally
approved of the international agreement for
the curtailment of tin production, the Tin
Producers’ Association is awaiting a reply
from the Malayan Government, which in
its turn is waiting for the verdict of its
producers, who have been circularised. The
agreement is based on the 1929 production
figures—Bolivia, 46,338 tonls ; Dutch interests,
35,730 tons; Malaya, 69,336 tons; Siam,
9939 tons ; the rest of the world, 14,733 tons ;
total, 186,518 tons. A preliminary curtail-
ment of 41,327 tons (22.3 p.c.) is aimed at
for 1931. The allotment of production for
the year gives Malaya 53,853 tons, Bolivia,
Dutch companies and Nigeria 71,920 tons
in all, Siam 7685 tons, and the rest 11,733
tons. The quota is to take effect as from
January 1, and will continue for two years.
The object is to strengthen the price by
correlation of supply and demand and the
reduction of present accumulated stocks to
normal proportions. An advisory committee
will be appointed, including producers and
Government representatives from each coun-
try which is a party to the agreement. If
Malaya comes in, as seems certain, it is
expected the various Governments will back
the scheme by banning the export of tin
in excess of the quotas allotted to the
various producing companies.
* $ « *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(,Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What stocks would come through
serious inflation, best? (2) Is the present
an opportune time to buy? —lol6.
(1) Inflation is bad for the creditor and
good for the debtor. As a recent “,Wild Gat”
review of German stocks after inflation
showed, no group or section escaped heavy
loss, while there were individual cos. in
every group which suffered little. Generally
speaking, cos. which ought to come through
pretty well are land-holding cos. (not land
mortgage cos.), including coal cos., shipping
and insurance cos. (2) It is all a gamble.
(1) How would the new currency be put
into circulation, by whom and to whom?
(2) Would proprietary banks advance over-
drafts on less security and at lower interest?
(3) Being a livestock buyer, could I con-
tinue to operate? —lo2s.
(1) It could be put out in various ways—
for instance, in Government advances to
farmers and others; or in Government pay
generally. (2) Don’t know. Like every
other creditor, banks would presumably get
in every possible penny, because a debt of
£lOOO. might be paid off presently with a
few inflated and almost worthless notes.
There is a man in Sydney with a German
envelope, posted in 1923, with stamps on
it which before inflation would have cost
over £10,060. (3) With inflation in pro-
gress, dealing of any sort is difficult. If
he didn’t take care, the trader would sell
himself poor; that is, he would sell to-day
for less than it would cost to-morrow to
replenish his stock. Hence traders cleared
out their goods and left their shelves empty.
That’s why inflation is so severe on fac-
tories and factory employees.
(1) In the absence of gold, would it not
be possible for silver to take its place as a
basis and standard? (2) In the event of
inflation, would silver have a greater value
than notes or would it depreciate in the same
proportion as the note drops in value? {ln
the event of tram rides going up to £1 a sec-
tion, it would be jolly awkward carrying
enough two-shilling pieces to foot the bill.)
—lOlB.
(1) Yes, a silver currency is possible.
But those countries which have had it have
been abandoning it —which partly accounts
for the present lowest-on-record price of the
metal. (2) Bad money always drives out
good. Inflation wouldn’t drive silver out at
once, but it would start to disappear as
soon as it paid better to ship the coins
away as metal than to keep them as money.
(1) At what depth is gold usually found
along sea beaches? (2) Is it more likely to
be found at the head of creeksf (3) Brief
instructions on how to prospect for gold,
along the coast? —B46.
(1) Gold is concentrated on the surface
of sea beaches during certain weather con-
ditions. (2) No hard and fast rule. Depends
upon the relative position of the reefs from
which the gold has been shed. The grade
of the creek and the nature of the rock
bottom also play an important part. If
steep and a smooth bottom, the gold will be
transported lower downstream. (3) Look
for patches of black sand along the beaches.
Scrape this off into a prospecting dish and
pan off. The gold is likely to be associated
with other heavy minerals, and its separa-
tion requires experience.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.J.T.: Don’t know it. Commonwealth
statistics don’t reveal any salt-production in N. S.
Wales.... Jim C. : See “Exchange and Inflation”
this week’s leader page... .R.S.R.: Better ask the
Union or the Bank of Australasia to look after it
for you. Their head offices are in London....
A.C.C. : It’s a toss-up, though the bonds seem to
win on points... .H.G.D.: Quite agree with you.
More than one bank service would be the better
for a staff circular reminding officers that, though
this is a time for firmness, it is also a time for
sympathy.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Send for Monash!
Dear Bulletin, —The most sensible sug-
gestion yet made is that of “Old Digger”
(B. 31/12/'3O) that martial law be declared
and that General Monash be the chief of a
committee of experts who would disinterest-
edly rule the country for a period of at
least seven years. Under him all the rank
and file of the parties would work for the
country’s benefit—except, perhaps, the
Bolshies.
At present the Australian people are like
a herd of sheep. They have no faith in
the politicians, and are in many cases losing
all heart. Under good leadership, on a
non-party basis, the country could be righted
in a few months, as confidence would be
festered; and confidence is the basis of
prosperity.—Yours truly, Iv. M. E.
English War-time Currency Notes
Dear Bulletin, —“J.H.W.” (B. 31/12/’3O)
suggests “the issue by the Loan Council of
currency on the lines of the Treasury notes
used by England to finance her internal needs
during the war.”
England did not “finance” her internal
needs by the issue of these notes any more
than an ordinary employer finances the pay-
ment of his weekly wages bill by writing out
a cheque. They were issued simply to
ensure that the amount of currency avail-
able was at all times sufficient for the
expeditious transaction of the nation’s busi-
ness, both Government and private.
British Treasury notes were _ issued
against securities, such securities being held
by the Note Issue Department until released
by 'the repayment of the notes. Thus the
amount of currency in circulation constantly
expanded and contracted in exact accordance
with the nation’s needs, but at all times
every British Treasury £1 note had a back-
ing of 205.-—Yours, J. E. Garfunkle.
Cut Interest Rates by Half!
Dear B., —The recently-created Advisory
Council has started off with a big new
Mother Partington broom to sweep away
Arbitration Courts, tariffs, Governmental
extravagance and restrictions on exchange.
But wdiy stop half-way on the job? High
interest rates are a bigger slug than any
of the above. Farmers and graziers w 7 ith
wheat at 2s. per bushel and wool at
per lb. cannot pay 7 per cent, to 10 per cent,
interest rates; in a great many cases they
are not paying, but it is a/further charge
on their properties, which are no longer a
safe security; and if the banks and financial
companies attempt to realise they won’t be
any security at all. The Governments are
in exactly the same pickle. They can’t pos-
sibly pay the interest bills and expect to
balance their budgets. Would it not be an
honest and economic proposition to face
facts and urge a reduction of interest rates
by half? Of course, somebody is going to
get hurt; but somebody is getting hurt every
day—property holders, merchants, investors,
business people generally—and it seems, to
me that if some move is not made in this
direction a financial cataclysm is inevitable
in which everybody will get hurt, and damn
badly too. —Yours, Valeri n.
“Pay Day in Russia”
Dear Bulletin, —“Pay Day in Russia,”
translated by the late Mr. Beale from a
German writer (B. 31/12/’3O), is a piece of
sophistry.
The popular assumption about conditions
of life in Russia is that the hardships now
being undergone by the Russian people are
due to Communism. The Australian public
is invited to compare conditions in Russia
with those in this country and judge accord-
ingly. But it would be as profitable to com-
pare conditions here with those of mediaeval
England, or any other mediaeval country.
Such comparisons are superficial and irrele-
vant. How could one expect to find in a
country of breast-ploughs an enjoyment of
material welfare comparable to that attain-
able in a land of motor-tractors? Pre-war
Russia was a land of breast-ploughs, a priest-
ridden backwater of ignorance, superstition
and poverty, the contemplation of which
would make any civilised person gasp—if
he heard of it. But no one bothered to tell
us about it then. Now that a far-seeing and
essentially humanistic Government is attempt-
ing to bring it up to date, however, we are
hearing a lot about it. And since that Gov-
ernment has included amongst its reforms a
refutation of the Divine Right of Capital,
what we are hearing is not always designed
to assist unbiased judgment.
To understand Russia as it is; we need to
recall Russia as it was. When we do that,
we may well find that even now, while yet in
the transition stage, the lot of the common
man is better, on the whole, than it was
under the Czar. The diet of the workers,
given in this article, for example, should
be compared not with what we regard as an
adequate diet, but with what the average
Russian peasant got before the revolution.
And as for the seeming violence by which
the Soviet attains its ends, that, again,
should not be compared with our standards
of personal freedom and dignity, but with
the peremptory methods to which the Rus-
sian is accustomed, or to the standards which
prevailed in our own race in mediaeval times.
Then we shall see that the Soviet Govern-
ment is merely speaking to the- Russian
people in the language which the Czarist
regime taught them.
The fact is, while screaming in concert
about Communist propaganda, the whole
capitalist world is engaging frantically in
anti-Communist propaganda, because it
knows instinctively that, as soon as tlie Rus-
sian experiment succeeds, no capitalist coun-
try will stand a dog’s chance against an up-
to-date Russian State with its land and capi-
tal at the service of the nation and an honest
day’s “work compulsory from everyone.—
Yours, G. W. R. Southern.
Reform of the Public Service
Dear Bulletin, —Your article (B.
31/12/’3O), under the caption of “Our
Cleakly Masters,” is appropriate to the occa-
sion. However, having myself become one
of the offenders some time ago, after earning
my living in another field for 20 years, I
have formed some definite opinions regard-
ing the Federal service which may prove of
interest.
The first great fault lies in the “Permanent
Officer” cult. Officers are permanent or tem-
porary, and I should imagine that in N. S.
Wales they are about equally divided. The
permanent officers almost invariably joined
the service on leaving school, and conse-
quently have no proper appreciation of out-
side conditions. They are very nearly uu-
sackable, and may neglect their work in a
disgraceful manner, go on “sick leave” by the
week, arrive late and leave early; but, thanks
to the extreme difficulty of securing their
dismissal, are, at the worst, merely “trans-
ferred” to another department when oppor-
tunity offers. There is no suggestion in this
that many permanent officers are such inflic-
tions as the above might seem to imply. All
I wish to demonstrate is the lengths to which
a waster may go and yet retain, not only his
job, but also his regular increments and leave
privileges.
Allied with the permanent-officer prin-
ciple is that of seniority. It may have
been a brainy notion when Methuselah in-
vented it, but that old gentleman has been
dead a long time.. Incidentally, The Bulle-
tin’s scheme for retiring 5000 clerks, while
possibly quite feasible in itself, would cer-
tainly be made to apply to temporary officers
first, regardless of their capability. I believe
a great deal could be done to imnrove effi-
ciency in the staffs with a proper weeding
out, but that could only be done by a man
absolutely free from all political interference,
and free also from most of the present Pub-
lic Service Regulations. Other remedies, per-
haps a matter of more practical politics, are
the placing of all officers on the one foot-
ing as regards employment, the cutting out
of superannuation (with due. regard to com-
mitments to date, of course), the cutting out
of any preference by. reason only of seniority,
and the giving to departmental heads the
power to dismiss at will without any right of
appeal, subject only to furnishing the
reason for dismissal to the Public. Service
Board as a guarantee against victimisation.
The other great stumbling-block to effi-
ciency is the law—including the Auditor-
General. There are so many laws, amending
laws, ordinances, regulations and instruc-
tions, and they all get tangled up, counter
each other, and fall over each other that your
Government clerk must be half a lawyer to
keep in touch with those that affect his
particular job. And behind all these laws
there is the Auditor-General, who, if a clerk,
in error, overpays or undercharges, may
recover out of the clerk’s pocket. Every new
Government, as a matter of course, amends
and passes a few laws at the earliest pos-
sible moment, and every new Minister has
his own fads and fancies which demand a
variety of regulations. Politicians do not
care a straw what the addition of a couple
of paragraphs to an existing law may cost in
the time of clerks; and from my experience,
in one department in particular, I am cer-
tain that the work could be done just as
well by two-thirds of the number of clerks
were it not for eternal “amendments” and
“instructions.” And that is apart from the
waste of stationery, which is no small item
when thousands of forms may be rendered
useless by a ten-line paragraph.—Yours etc.,
674.
Our Case is hJot America's
Dear B., —In the latter part of 1930 the
lack of employment in the United States was
very bad. Uncle Hoover has no all-round
relief system, as John. Bull has, with his
pensions and his dole, so Uncle makes aston-
ished noises about the scarcity of work, and
that draws attention to his case. A great
many people in Australia are rather pleased
to hear these noises, and say that other coun-
tries are as badly off as our own, and that
pessimism is consequently out of place.
But the parallel is an empty delusion. Both
Britain and U.S.A. could raise a big cheap
loan abroad at any moment if they wanted
one, which they don’t, and Australia can do
nothing of the sort, though it has begged hard
enough. They both have money to lend
abroad to almost any civilised Government —
save that of Australia. They, and Uncle
Hoover in particular, have piles of gold for
which it is difficult to find profitable invest-
ment. In Australia the Federal Govern-
ment has confiscated or commandeered the
gold supplies of the joint-stock banks with
which to pay interest on its oversea debts.
There is very little gold left, and people w r ho
haven’t lent Australia money are afraid to
begin, while those who have done so have
no encouragement to go on.
And it gives a minimum of hope for better
times when Broken Hill is in a- practical
state of suspense because, with metal prices
very low, the miners scorn .the idea of work-
ing for “a miserable £4 10s. a week.” A
sort of impression that public bankruptcy
would be preferred to £4 10s. a week isn’t
a help to any country.
Hack of wmrk is a trouble in Britain, the
United States, Canada, South Africa, Maori-
land and Australia; but Australia is the
only place of the six where it is associated
with constant deficits and the wreckage of
overseas credit. —Yours, Sol Malaprop.
And Why Not Birth Control?
Dear Bulletin,— Modern social condi-
tions have brought about such a state 'of
affairs that birth control becomes a biologi-
cal necessity. But in spite of the frank dis-
cussion at recent religious conferences and
frequent mention of the subject in the press,
nothing is being done to educate the people
in these matters.
The vast majority of women undermine
their health by adopting crude and often
dangerous methods of dealing with this pro-
blem, and hundreds of women are compelled
to undergo serious operations in their middle
age which possibly could have been avoided
had they had the opportunity of protecting
themselves when they were younger. It can-
not be denied that there is a genuine desire
for information. Our doctors and chenfsts
are continually being called upon for advice,
but owing to the stand taken by the Customs,
their advice is practically worthless. Quite
recently the Customs definitely forbade the
postal delivery of a German contraceptive
pamphlet addressed to members of the
B.M.A.
As a result of the rapid spread of con-
traception in Germany, the birth rate of
32.9 per 1000 population for the decade
1901-10 has decreased to 19.6 per 1000
population for the period 1924-27; further-
more, the, death rate has decreased from
18.7 to 11.9 per 1000 population during this
period, notwithstanding adverse post-war
conditions.
The pressure of large families may even
discourage . many thoughtful persons from
marrying. For example, the Irish Free
State, in which both Government and C'hurch
encourage large families, is noted for its
low marriage rate and a birth rate per
thousand population which is relatively low
for. a country of Roman Catholic culture.
Holland is well known for its high marriage
rate, contraceptive practices, small families
and 1ow t death rate. The natural increase
(that is, of births over deaths) in 1928 was
11.7 per thousand population, compared with
10.5 for Italy, although the birth rate is con-
siderably lower than that in Italy, which
country has for years adopted the most
severe laws against contraception.
The question of increase in families of
the unemployed is becoming very acute.
Some of these women are filled with despera-
tion, at the position they find themselves in.
Why not birth control? The people should
be free to live their own lives, and they
should have the right of access to in-
formation if thev need it. —Yours, John
Anschau.
The Motor-spirit Industry
Dear Bulletin, —I cannot agree with
“D.N.” (B. 31/12/’3O) that locally distilled
motor spirit should be marketed by the four
big oil cos. Power alcohol made at Sarina
(Q.) is marketed by the Shell Co. after mix-
ture, with petrol and the price, of course, is
the same as for the imported fuel. As the
alcohol in the compound dissolves the shellac
in gaskets with which it comes in contact,
many of us tried it and went back to petrol.
Had it been cheaper we would have prepared
our engines tq accommodate the local fuel.
I believe power alcohol can be sold profit-
ably at about Is. per gallon. It is a good
fuel and can be used in any ordinary engine
without structural changes, about 1.8 times
more alcohol than petrol being required to
develop the same h.p. It can be used with
greater compression, and an alcohol motor
can be made to give higher power than a
petrol motor of the same size. A motor of
good design should use about 1.151 b. alcohol
per h.p. hour as against 0.71 b. petrol.
There are possibilities also in naphtha-
lene, produced in the manufacture of gas
from coal, and known to most in the form
of moth balls. A comparative test of this
fuel wms made wfith two 40-h.p. trucks on
a long trip, one using petrol. The naphtha-
lene cost only one-fourth as much as the
petrol.-—-Yours truly, Tomb.
The Too-Casual Australian
Dear B., —Bad salesmanship is responsible
for part of our troubles. I recently had a
novel published in London. An Australian
firm bought an edition “blind/’ and I sold
15 per cent, of it, free of charge, to a retailer
while the books were still on the water. The
firm I had sold to formally ordered
the. books, and I was told later that
the order had been fulfilled. A month later,
when most of the reviews were things of the
past, and interest had to that extent begun
to die down, I discovered by chance that
the books hadn’t even been sent out. I wrote
to the head of the firm on the subject, but
he didn’t bother to answer; in my experience
few in Australia do.
The book had become something of a best-
seller in Sydney by now, and it occurred to
me one day to make a round of the shops
and see how it was getting on. I asked
for •it at shop A, where I proposed to buy
it for a friend, and a lad went away osten-
sibly to get it. After standing as though
lest in thought for a few seconds he came
back and said they w T ere sold out. I pointed
out that there were four copies on a counter
near the front door. In nowise abashed he
wrapped up one and took my 6s. The book
wasn’t displayed at shop B, though it wms
very much in the news at the time, and at
shop C they “had been sold out for a week,”
according to a painfully-fatigued attendant.
It made me smile, as I had had the same
answer the same day at a shop where I
periodically buy Stilton cheese. There is a
steady demand for the cheese, but the pro-
prietor hadn’t remembered to stock it.
I went to collect my car at a re-treading
concern, w’hose traveller had left a note in
it emphasising that one of the tyres needed
urgent attention, and that all were in a bad
way, only to be told (1) that none of the
tyres would stand retreading, (2) that the
worst of them was stood for another 1000
miles or so, and that there was consequently
no need for me to worry.
This kind of casual foolery is going on
everywhere—in the tourist trade (with a
few notable exceptions our hotels are the
Fjmpire’s worst outside Ireland) ; in trans-
port and particularly in railway travel; in
the marketing of our wines, fruits, etc., in
England, and in a hundred other important
directions that might be mentioned. The
talkies are almost the only commodities that
are being sold all over Australia on really
alert lines, and the bulk of the money that
they earn goes to the U.S.A. —Yours etc.,
J.D.
Bring the Horse Back!
Dear B., —Our hot climate does not permit
of a suburban dw T eller keeping a litter of
pigs, etc., in his back yard; but. during the
war D.O.R.A. distributed vegetable Seeds for
planting on common grounds, and such a
movement here would be welcomed.
But a better plan still wmuld be to go
back to horses for traction, with pads on
the beasts’ feet for use on concrete roads.
One can see now the harm the dismissal
of Dobbin has done us. It would even be
cheaper in the long run to take up the sides
of our concrete roads for use of horse traffic
only, while increasing our horse-breeding.
—Yours, 841.
What to Do with Public Servants
Dear Bulletin, —I have been saying for
years that we are governed, not by Parlia-
ment, but by the permanent civil servant.
But it is no use railing at the civil servant
for this. The weak-kneed politician must bear
the blame_ for allowing the public employee
to work himself into a position where he can
interfere in all our affairs, at our expense,
by regulation.
Through all the ramifications of industry
stalks this horrible spectre of Government
interference. Pools, boards and the like ex-
pensive busybodies take our products and
try to find markets for them and sell them.
This work is surely the function of pro-
ducers themselves. The result has been ir-
rational production, needless expense, waste,
inefficiency, loss of markets and, the saddest
of all, sapping of initiative amongst pro-
ducers here. We have lost our New Zealand
market, and we are losing those in Prance,
India and the Orient, simply because our
merchants, through paternalism, have got
into the liabit of leaving it to George at
Canberra.
The function of Government* is to govern
and that of the producer is to trade. Govern-
ment in this country could be carried on by
a very small skeleton of the present public
services. I am prepared to argue that even
the valuable Council for Scientific and In-
dustrial Research should be a private founda-
tion like many in the U.S.A. There the pro-
ducer acknowledges his debt to science.
Here he loafs on the Government, and the
employees of the Government hop in for
their cut out of production by way of taxes.
But it is no use saying “Sack the brutes.’’
It must be remembered that pusillanimous
politicians have assumed a contractual obli-
gation to give these people some sort' of
security of tenure. What, then, to do? The
Government should surrender all right to
regulate or otherwise interfere with the free
play of trade. This would result, I feel
sure, in freedom from necessity to float
foreign loans, which are now used either in
paying the cost of government or in public
bribery of the electors. Next, Government
should contract for the captains of industry
to take over the surplus civil servants and
put them to useful work on production. This
would have two obvious advantages; (1)
The producer would get work-value out of
people he _ now has to pay for being a nuis-
ance to him; (2) as a corollary of this and
of the fact that the cost of government,
including loan interest, would fall with a
great thud, he would pay less in taxation
and could improve plant and output.—
Yours, J. V. D.
The Canned-fruit Industry
Dear B.,—Melbourne’s two largest canning
and jamming cos. have enough stocks in
hand to last, at present rate of sales, for
two years in the case of apricots and peaches
and three years for pears ; consequently they
are not processing to any extent this season.
They are not providing, as usual, for another
year or two ahead simply because they know
that sugar may come down and other costs—
wages, etc. — must come down. Meantime
the fruitgrower is up against it. If he can
get £5 a ton for half his crop he is lucky;
the best offer I have had for mine is £l,
and it cost more than double that to grow
it. I’m not blaming the canner or any-
body except the damfool city worker who
spends his wages in amusements instead of
buying fruit and vegetables. As to “Kva-
bramah’s” grouch (B. 24/12/’3O) about the
Monaro price of 18d. per tin of peaches,
prime peaches in 21b. tins (actual weight)
have been on sale by Melbourne grocers for
months at 84d. per tin—l bought some
myself in November at 6d. per tin —and I
say that two pounds of prime ripe peaches,
in syrup, ready to. eat, are cheap at S4d.
Pears are 9Ad., pineapples Is. And “Kya-
bramah” needn’t worry about the tin; that
doesn’t bring the Monaro price to 18d. Those
tins are supplied to the smaller factories
at a shade over Id. each; the larger firms
make their own. The 21b. tin is a handy
size, and can be used for lots of purposes
afterwards. —Yours, Elgar.
The Bolshevik in Art and Literature
Dear Bulletin, — A kind of anarchy pre-
vails in everything and appears under the
varied forms of futurism, cubism, impres-
sionism, syndicalism and Heaven knows
what else.
Should one have the temerity to question
the notions of these extremists, “old-
fashioned,” “reactionary” or “wowser” is
their clinching reply. Our so-called art
reveals a persistent urge to abandon form,
style and tradition; in fact, a semblance of
reality itself is no longer considered essen-
tial to a masterpiece; and so the liberated
soul soars forth on the unfettered pinions of
his boundless fancy. In literature the same
thing prevails.. Alfred Noyes warned Eng-.
land earnestly against the literary bol-
sheviki. “We are confronted to-day,” he
said, “by the extraordinary spectacle of ten
thousand literary rebels each chained to his
own solitary height, and each chanting the
same perennial song of hate aeainst every-
thing that has been achieved by past genera-
tions.”
This form of Bolshevism of the past 80
years is more responsible for the present
peril of civilisation than is realised. One
cannot treat all the laws as if they were
scraps of paper without a terrible reckoning,
and we are beginning it. — Maurice Mears.
Idle Lands
Dear Bulletin, —Alongside most railways
there is room for hundreds of industrious
families to occupy themselves producing
most of their own foodstuffs, and wheie
holders of adjoining land would give part-
time work on wages. The temporary use of
cultivation blocks of land with grassing
ground for stock could be arranged for far
less than present-day unemployment allow-
ances cost. It only wants a number Of
families to come forward and convince the
Agricultural Bank officials of their serious
wish to help themselves, and working details
of a scheme could be quickly arranged.—
Yours etc., Mutual Help.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
w
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Turned Up”
Criterion “Eliza Comes to Stay”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The House that Jack Built”
Comedy ‘"The First Mrs. Fraser”
Tivoli “Top Hole”
- State Movies and Talkies
«
The Flapper Meets “Uncle Tom”
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes
Well, I have broken the habit of a life-
time. I mean, I have been to what The
“Uncle Tom putting his faith in the Lord
and the palings under his jacket.”
Bulletin Dramatic critic calls a legiti-
’ mate show. (Why he calls it that, I don’t
quite know. I mean, if Dean Aching or
Archbishop Head or one of those' gentlemen
of the cloth sat through two acts of “The
First Mrs. Fraser” and then came away
they would call the theatre anything but
legitimate. But that is by the way.)
Well, I went because the dramatic Critic
said that it was my duty to support the
Australian stage and all that sort of thing,
i and besides I would bring a Fresh Mind to
it and he would like to know" how it affected
me; besides there was such a rush on at
the talkies that I couldn’t have got in there
any way.
Well, I put the proposition before my
, girl friend, and after some argument she
agreed; so we bought a paper and looked up
the 'advertisements and this is the.first thing
that caught our eye—
“UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.”
“UNCLE TOM’S CABIN?’
Everyone, young or old, has read or heard of this
wonderful story. Come and see it enacted before
your eyes in a
SPLENDID SPECTACULAR PRODUCTION ON AN
ELABORATE, UP-TO-DATE SCALE,
With sl ’• v *
BIG CHORUS AND BALLET, ENTIRELY NEW
SCENERY AND COSTUMES, A SMALL ARMY OF
CHILDREN, PLANTATION REVELS, BUCK AND
WING DANCING. Special Engagement of THE
COTTON-PICKERS’ OCTETTE.
FOUR ACTS, COMPRISING SIX BIG SCENES OF
MUSIC AND DRAMA, POWERFULLY ACTED,
SUPERBLY STAGED.
Well, it looked pretty ominous to us, but,
like Jurgen, we are prepared to try anything
once, so in due course we found ourselves
inside the King’s.
Well, you never know in this world what
surprises fate has in store. I mean, I am
ready to admit that the movies aren’t Art
> and that we girls that go to them haven’t
any Standards or patriotic feeling, but if
Cecil de Mille advertises a million-collar
spectakel you do feel, after you have seen
it, that lie spent more than one-fifty on the
thing.
I mean, the curtain went up and a girl
came on with a bundle in her arms and ran up
and down in front of the footlights a couple of
times shrieking at the top of her voice and
then walked off diagonally as if she were
treading on eggs and then the curtain went
down.
Well, for heaven’s sake, said my friend,
what do you know about that?
Well, when the lights went up, we con-
sulted our programme, and believe me or not,
we had just witnessed Spectakel no. One,
Eliza, Pursued by Bloodhounds, Crosses the
Ice.
Well, said the other girl, I can’t stand
this. Let’s go and look at the latest pur-
chase of the fel ton Bequest up at the Gal-
lery. I mean, anything would be better than
this.
But I said, no, I paid for the programme
and I’m going to see it through.
Well, the next Big Moment is where a
slave girl throws herself into the Missis-
sippi because Simon Legree wants to separate
her from her child, and Little Eva throws
“The water Uncle Tom splashes on the stage
is not imported rice.”
herself after her and then Uncle Tom takes
off his coat and plunges to the rescue of
the lot. . , ,
Well, there was water painted on a back-
cloth with steamers on it and there was a
stone parapet of hessian in front. Well, the
slave girl ran off the stage and Little Eva
ran after her and then there were loud
shouts and then Uncle Tom flung himself
over the parapet and then the curtain came
down again.
Well, I looked at the other girl and said
what do you think of that?
Well, she said, I should think that
patriotic members of the audience would
like to be assured that the water Tom
splashes on to the stagers not imported rice
but genuine No. I Australian, grown at
Coonamble, and if the stagehand in charge
of the arrangements had only thrown the
bag after the rice, he would have
settled what struck me as the most important
point.
Well, the third spectakel was Little Eva
ascending to Heaven from an invalid-chair,
and the Fourth was Uncle Tom being flogged
to death offstage by the myrmidons of Legree
and there may have been other Spectakels,
but if so they have slipped my mind. Well,
even the best of things must end, and in due
course we found ourselves in the open air.
Well, the first person we met was The
Bulletin Dramatic Critic. It seems he had
seen us in the theatre and he had been wait-
ing with eagerness to know what we thought
of it all. Well, the other girl looked at him
and said, is what we have seen a fair speci-
men of the rest? Well, he said, I suppose
it is, more or less.. Well, she said slowly,
dabbing her nose with her powder puff, then
in my opinion only one thing would be
required to assure the future of the legitimate
theatre in these enlightened days.
Well, that made him buck up no end and
he said, what is that?
Well, she said, giving her nose another dab,
if the population of this fair State were com-
posed entirely of great-grandmothers, who
had spent the previous seventy years of
their life on Thursday Island, your legiti-
mate theatres would be packed to the doors.
When she is properly stirred she can talk
like that.
Well, the poor man was cut to the bone.
He said that of course theatregoers would be
obliged to Mr. Gregan McMahon if the flog-
ging of Uncle Tom were done on stage
instead of off and that in previous produc-
tions Legree did the job himself and the spec-
takel of Tom putting his faith jointly in the
Lord and the palings under his jacket was
one’ which appealed to the highest emotions
of an audience. Well, it appears according
to Mm that Little Eva ascending to Heaven
the way she does is another offence against
tradition because in the brave days of old the
leading man used to get into bed, drag the
blanket over his face and do Eva’s dying
At “The First Mrs. Fraser”: “Well, brothah,
Ai have sat through two and a half
acts, but Ai still fail to perceive whai
they call it the ‘legitimate’ theatah.”
throes, while the leading lady concealed her-
self underneath' and did the vocal accompani-
ment. If the blanket lacked length the
leading man’s! boots appeared, and if it
lacked width the leading lady was revealed,
and in the best versions it lacked both.
Well, it seems this is the sort of thing
that makes critics say that the legitimate
theatre is not what it used-to be, but what
he was really cut up about was because it
seems that every year at this time the editor
likes him to write a review of the activities
of the legitimate stage for the previous 12
months, and he had been working on it
for 2£ days, and he showed us the result.
It was a piece of copy paper and on it
was “The australian stage in 1930,” a large
blot and nothing else.
It seems that Conscientious is his middle
name and he simply couldn’t bring himself
to the task because, as he said, to tell the
Truth would be like biting the hand that
had fed him, not to mention his family, for
the past 55 years.
It seems he has the Legitimate Theatre
in his blood as his father was a dramatic
critic before him and knew Sarah Bernhardt,
so it has been in the family, so to speak,
ever since he was a boy.
Well, he has my sympathy.
* ¥ *
At the end of this month the Theatre of
Youth, 8 Young-street, Sydney, packs its
props.—doubtless in a matchbox—gets into
a caravan and goes on tour of N. S. Wales,
Victoria and South Aus., before heading for
Maoriland, U.S.A. and other fortunate parts
of the globe.
Having seen its offering of last week—a
medley of choice bits from past programmes
—there is little in Sydney theatrics this
Showman would not rather see going in its
stead. The T.O.Y. shines like a good deed in a
mostly vulgar, crude, ostentatious and dully
serious theatrical world. Simplicity, plus a
good sense of drama and design, is the ground
it stands on. It offers a stimulating antidote
to the blatancies of the talkies, the mono-
tony of the musical comedies and the flushed
highbrowisms of the arty-tarty amateurs.
To describe objectively almost any one of
its separate offerings—last week’s bill held
a dozen or so —would be to make it all
sound very absurd. In this bill it was
really a variety show, with a basis in folk-
lore instead of in bananas, horses' tails or
commands to fill a stein for dear old Maine
and shout till the rafters ring—a pretty
tall order, in view of what they drink in
dear old Maine these days. The players
take a song—preferably 200 years old—and
act and sing it, without any accompaniment,
in the spirit of its time; or at any rate that
is the illusion they give. A background of
mouse-colored curtains, receding inwards to
converge on a black centre, is the only
“scenery.” A signpost at one side, with a
seat by it, a bare table and a couple of
chairs, or foot-square pieces of wood with
fragments of sea painted on them, are the
sole props.
“Bring forth the Bosphorus!” commands
the interlocutor (off) and out trundles a
page with one of the oceans. The hero has
to venture abroad; he (it is a very obvious
she) picks up . a crude craft, with a canvas
ocean suspended from it, and undulates
across the stage, till he comes to port m
the Persian Gulf, Ift. x Ift. (left). A high-
wayman makes mimic use of an invisible
horse; a maiden does ditto with a smooth-
ing iron. The audience laughs—but not at
the players. The laugh is with them. Thcy
neither take what they are doing seriously,
nor burlesque it. There is a balance between
seriosity and burlesque, and they hold it
nicely. A few words from the interlocutor,
either off stage or behind the drawn _ cur-
tains, or with head thrust rather startlingly
between them, and the tone of the thing
is fixed. The audience knows it can laugh
beforehand, and then the sheer intensity of
the playing prevents its laughing too muen.
The players—Joan and Betty Rayner are
the principals—have brought simplicity to a
fine point. The meagre props, they have
seem all that are necessary for their pur-
pose. They rarely waste a gesture. A
mere carol as they sing and act it is a one-
act play which does what one-act plays
rarely do —gives a sense of . satisfaction;
seems complete; is shut in at both
ends. Their complete bill is satisfy-
ing in much the same way. It leaves
the feeling that it is memorable. That
is, perhaps, chiefly because of its quaintness;
but that quaintness has a spiritual content
and a refreshing comedy in it.
The clanging of the swing curtain-rings
on their rod jarred this observer’s ears after
every act. A blackout and a pause before
drawing the curtains might get over the
technical defect. Otherwise, the perform-
ance was capital. Budding playwrights
might inspect it, by way of picking up a few
hints on just how little of the elaborate is
necessary to creating illusion in a theatre.
* * *
As it happened, this Showman went along,
the night after having seen the above, to
inspect “Michael and Mary,” the A. A. Milne
comedy with which Doris Fitton opened her
lease of a year of Saturdays at the Savoy.
In parts the piece was very good, in parts
very bad; but the most interesting part
about it was that, in the first scene at least,
that seriosity which is the bane of amateur-
acted comedy was as strongly in evidence
as the ’possum-skins in an out-of-season
police case at Woop.
The offender was Clive Coppard, as
Michael. Smile as he would, chirrup away
like a treeful of sparrows, say all the silly
things Milne gave him to say, Mr. Coppard
could not shake off the shadow of the fact
that in Act 2 he was going to have a serious
time of it. It spoilt a clever arrangement
of contrast, for Michael—
light-hearted young dog, with
a flair for the girls—had
strayed into the British
Museum, a bit ahead of his
appointment; had met there a
tearful young person, and had
breezily set about trying to
cheer her up. Mr. Coppard
Michael was almost as serious
as the down-in-the-mouth Mary, and so
the contrast was up the spout. He
improved slightly after his girl friend had
come along, been offended at the presence
of Mary, and buzzed off, to the relief of
Michael, who had already heard enough of
Mary’s story—her marriage to a chap named
Price, and Price’s quick desertion —to want
to emulate the late Galahad.
He went further than that gentleman. He
married Mary, well knowing the marriage
to be bigamous. Later he went to the war,
and was back and a successful novelist when
Price returned from abroad, saw his wife’s
photo in the paper, hurried along to collect
blackmail, and passed out to a heart attack
whilst being bustled off the premises, a flat
in Chelsea. Enter the police, to whom
Michael, to keep Mary out of it, has told
a yarn about Price having come to him, a
total stranger, with a tale about having
been with his battalion in France. When
the curtain rises again it is learned that that
tale had been swallowed. The flat in Chelsea
has grown into a house in ditto. Everybody
is ten years older, including son David, who,
out of disgust at the ravings of a very
advanced youth at a cocktail party, and also
to convince himself that the world is not as
rotten as the fellow said, commits a hasty
marriage and comes home to tell his parents
about it. The remarks of the youth at the
cocktail party included one to the effect that
even David’s most respectable dad had most
likely had at least one illegitimate son,
“Drag the blanket over his face and do
Eva’s dying throes.”
which, coming out in David’s explanation of
his marriage, and being, in law, true enough,
leads Michael, what time he holds the hand
of Mary on the sofa, to tell young David
and his bride All. David, instead of feeling
the weight of the bar sinister, is uplifted by
the confession; David’s bride is delighted
over David’s reaction, and David and his
father —the others having gone downstairs—•
shake on it in complete understanding and
mutual admiration. A natural and not un-
satisfying ending; but, for reasons this Show-
man failed to discern, the thing drags on
through a feeble anticlimax, the ending of
which is air.
Coppard was sound after the first scene,
though colorless. Marie Rosenfeld, as Mary,
was close to first-rate where vigorous
emotion did not matter. A newcomer to
this Showman’s ken, she has a slim, fine-
eyed, brunette personality that would win
her a place in any stage group. She seemed
nervous and short of a gallop, but Sydney’s
amateur stage has few that give the same
impression of latent talent, and fewer quite
so decorative. Arthur Reardon —Michael's
clerical father, and then a police inspector —
has yet to appear in a piece that isn’t better
for having him. The only reason he is not
on the commercial stage seems to be that
“Eliza pursued by bloodhounds” (the
hounds in full bay).
there is so little of it left. Frank Cayley,
as Price, is another well-cast one who does
his job thoroughly in capital make-up ; and
Phillip Lewis, Hawdon Wilson and the lady
of the riotously hopeful name of Erna
Living rub along pretty well. Even among
the pick of ’em, however, there was a lack
of cohesion, which may have been a first-
night fault, or the play’s fault, or a bit of
both. As plays go, the offering seemed thin
stuff.
The Firm turned the first sod of the Gil-
bert and Sullivan season in Melbourne last
week when a call Was made for voices for
the chorus. The answer was prompt and
overwhelming; nearly 800 rolled up. Many,
or most, of those selected have had profes-
sional experience. The season is due to
start at Easter, and already, it is alleged,
first-night seats are being called for. Minnie
Everett,. who produces, makes her seventh
appearance in that capacity.
¥ * *
Melbourne Bijou has returned to its old
love, vaudeville, for the night attraction;
for a while panto, will continue to be the
daily matin6e bill. “The House that Jack
Built” continues to do well at Melbourne
Royal. The end of its reign there is not in
sight yet; when it comes the.piece will go
on tour.
The Palette.
Vic. Nat. Gallery students have been hold-
ing their annual exhibition in the studio. All
that can be said of the score or so exhibi-
tors is that the worst vices of the Royal
Academy and the Slade School are stamped
all over them. First prize in the still-
life division was bestowed on Norma
Bull for a canvas 2ft. by Sft. There
are some 16 varieties of vegetables in this
horticultural cyclorama, but no unity in
their portrayal. J. Macintosh got an award
for a full-length portrait of a woman in
black ; the Grace Joel prize went to S. Atyeo
for half a young man, and J. Hennessy won
by a horse’s head in the cast division. There
is a depressing collection of charcoal nudes
to show that the hopelessly-outmoded con-
vention of teaching students draughtsmanship
in line in order to make them tonal painters
still flourishes at the Nat. Gallery. That
there is whips of talent latent in the young
Victorian artist is nevertheless evident.
“F.S.”: Recently I pointed out in The
Bulletin that scholarships and prizes for
painting in Australia were mainly waste of
money because girls invariably win them.
S. Atyeo, a 20-year-old student of the Vic.
Nat. Gallery, has just provided an exception
by winning the £5O Grace Joel scholarship.
He has still to bag the £250 travelling
scholarship for' his career to be definitely
fixed. Of the numerous flappers who have
gained this award in the past not one has
subsequently made any appreciable dint on
the tablets of fame. One
reason why the girls grab
all the prizes is that they
are usually more precocious
than boys. Precocity is
much more likely to catch
the eye of a judge than
mere promise. The last
girl to win a travelling
scholarship showed all the
usual traits. Her pictures
were as audacious as so
many Orpens, as slick
as so many Augustus Johns; and they
had all the superficial tricks of draughtsman-
ship so fashionable at present with the Aus-
tralian academies. There is not the slightest
sign as yet in this young lady’s work whether
her destination is Parnassus or marriage and
motherhood.
Douglas Pratt, a young artist who has a
show of pencil drawings at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, is an impeccable draughts-
man, balances his pictures prettily, and
knows the use of every one of Faber’s pro-
ducts from 6H to 68. “A Corner of the
Quay,” “McMahon’s Point,” “Pyrmont
Bridge,” “On George’s River” and “Darl-
ing Point” arc capital things. There are
some etchings, too, but they can’t compare
with the pencil sketches.


THE AVERTED MARTYRDOM.
“All N.S.W. railway-workers will be given the benefit of the 44-hour week with full pay at the 48-hour rate'. This
should be very satisfactory to railwaymen in view of their parlous plight.”— Labor Daily.
DOCTOR: ‘He's all right now; but he’s had a terrible shock.”
INQUIRER: "Why, what hit him?”
DOCTOR: “Well, you see, he’s been demanding pay for a 48-hour week, and for a few minutes the poor fellow
thought they were going to make him work 48 hours to get it!”


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
> 41
S*
mu
.
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Single Koom and Meals .. ..
Double Room and Meals ..
Single Room and Breakfast ..
Double Room and Breakfast ..
Telephone: F4I4X.
Day. Week.
25/- 168/-
45/- 300/-
15/- 100/-
27/6 182/6
Finest quality Sheffield made
Silver-plated dessert knives and
forks, with white handles.
In handsome Oak
case
65/-
Selecting
Household Silver
Although it is not a difficult matter
to choose the various articles of
household silver that you may require,
it is well to remember that such pur-
chases should last a lifetime—from
which it will be seen that thoroughly
dependable quality and workmanship
are quite essential. Fairfax and
Roberts offer only those articles' that
will definitely give honest service,
and their prices are based on the
policy of giving the keenest possible
value.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
II
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and co
water, central heating and telephone. Ala y
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elega
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest
foods and wines. The lounges are spaciou
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ABORIGINALITIES
A GOLDFIELD’S SYMPHONY—THE
WASHER-LADY’S OFFSIDER.
“Frigid” : Dave married a city girl called
Anne, and when they returned to the farm
she tried her hand at baking bread, having
bought five shillingsworth of flour and five
shillingsworth of yeast for that purpose. She
decided to start while Dave was out in the
yard. Presently Dave yelled, “Anne, have
you got that bread in the oven yet?” “Oven
be hanged,” came an exhausted voice. “It’s
taking me all my time to keep it in the
kitchen.”
“Motuku”: Recent
references to the im-
portation of a wasp
from Cuba to cope
with the sugarcane
grub, and to the wasps
whose larvae feed on
the blowfly mag-
gots of sheep,
remind me of an im-
portation of Mexican
wasps to the Friendly
Islands. The Ton-
gans call them hi
kula (red bee), and
those of us who have
felt their caressing
touch quite agree that
it might, with advant-
age, be a little less
fiery. Before they
arrived the islands
were overrun by
blowflies; now they
are overrun by
wasps, but the blow-
flies have disappeared.
Closely resembling the
paper-nest wasps of
North Queensland, but
rather more pugna-
cious, these insects
have an unpleasant
habit of hibernating in
houses. As very few
of the houses, native
o r European, ar e
wasp-proof, the occu-
pants are obliged to
get out until the in-
vaders have settled
down in dark corners,
behind curtains or
under window blinds,
when they can be ex-
terminated with insect
powders or sprays. I
have had painful en-
counters with them in
the bathroom, i n
ankle-deep grass, among low bushes and
in the tall, wild orange-trees of the
bush, and on . one occasion an angry
swarm scored innumerable hits before I
could dive beneath the sheltering waters of
Neiafu-tahi Bay.
* * * *
“Tee Essbie”: Nature seems to have been
in capricious mood when she dealt out their
allotted spans to living things. Here are
the ages attained by a few creatures: May-
fly, 4 hours ; moth, days ; locust, 4 weeks ;
dragon fly, 7 weeks; common house fly, 5
months; snail, 2 J years; mouse and squirrel,
6 years; rabbit, 10 years; blackbird, 18
years; pigeon, hog and crayfish, 20 years;
cat and dog, 30 years ; lion, 35 years; toad
and sparrow, 40 years; bear, 50 years; goose,
80 years; parrot and crow, 100 years; golden
eagle, 104 years; swan and elephant, 150
years; carp, 200 years; turtle, 850 years;
whale, 500 years.
“E.S.”: Tough times have
revived the home hat-industry
here and there where the cab-
bage palm is obtainable, but not
many nowadays know how to
make the cabbage-tree nutcover.
In its day it was the special
pride of stockmen and drovers,
and the price ranged from 30s.
to £2O. When Bill Beach won
the sculling championship from
Hanlan his admirers presented
him with one that was valued
at 20 guineas. “Cabbage-tree
Ned,” Cobb and Co.’s famous
whip, never wore anything else
on his head. Its manufacture
began in the bush, and subse-
quently one or two Sydney firms
turned out the high-priced
article. On the Richmond
River and in southern Queens-
land the hats were made by
selectors’ wives for the men and
children. Some were more am-
bitious ; one woman, with the
help of her children, netted
£5600 in five years out of hats.
The leaves for plaiting were
usually got for them by the
blacks along mountain gullies
and creeks, where the cabbage
palms were plentiful.
jJ- ❖
“0.W.W.”: “I once owned a tyke that
persisted in cuttin’ through a mob er sheep,”
remarked Fretful Fred; “so I used me block
an’ sold ’im to a squatter fer five quid.
‘ ’Arold,’ I says, before sliowin’ ’im ’ow th
tyke could work; ‘whenever I sings out
“divide,” Bluey will do it. You watch!
I sent ’im out, an’ as soon as I saw im
erbout to cut through th’ mob I yells
‘divide,’ an’ sure enough ’e did it. ’Arold
bought ’im on th’ spot, but a week or so
later I found that tyke chained by me door,
an’ a parcel on th’ step. I opened it an’
found a sheep’s ear, a few pieces of wool
THE BEGINNING OF THE TRIANGLE.
SKINNG (to the object of his blasted affections) : “Buh! It’s the likes of you, Dot,
that turn us blokes into women-haters.”
and skin, an’ a note that said: ‘Here is your
dog; return my ‘dough.’ I could put up with
his division, but his multiplication is over
the odds.’ ”
* * * *
“O’Hara”: Now mother is in her nineties
she lapses to the patois of her native Done-
gal when recalling old times, but she hasn’t
lost her sense of humor and her memory is
as keen as a whistle. The name of the
late Terence Ryan cropped
up in conversation. Ter-
ence was a politician, and
we said what had to be
said about him. Mother
listened, and we knew by
the look on her face that
she wasn’t going to join
the chorus. “Say what you
loike about Terry,” she
said, “he was wan av
Nature’s jintlemen. Now
whin Dinny an’ Oi were on
our honeymoon—me a
great fat sthrapping gurrl
an’ Dinny, though he had
the heart of a lion an’ the
courage of tin tigers, a
little wisp av a man —we
were separated on the
train, so we were. There
was Oi on wan seat an’
Dinny on the seat ahead,
an’ poor Dinny’s neck' was
loike to break screwin’
round to collogue wid me.
Next to me was sitting
Ryan, a joyent av a man
wid a carnation in his but-
tonhole. He niver said a
wurrd —he was too much
of a jintleman—but all of
a sudden he stud up an’
picked me out av me seat
an' sat me beside Dinny—
me weighing 14 stone at
laste—an’ went an’ stud in
the aisle. That was koind,
but the koindest thing av
all was what he said.”
“And what did he say,
grandma?” chorused the
kids. “He said,” murmured
mother with a fond smile,
“ ‘l’m thinkin’, little gurrl,
ye’d be more comfortable
sittin’ wid vour broide-
groom.’ A foine jintleman
was Terence Ryan.” I con-
cur.
“Strict Veg.”: When a traditional belief
is abolished something equally illogical and
certainly less beautiful is usually substituted.
I was driving the other day with a farmer
in the Cooma (N.S.W.) district, and we
passed some of the curious, circles which
are so conspicuous on the hillsides, of that
constituency. “Fairy rings?” I inquired.
The farmer scoffed loudly and gave the
botanical explanation, quoting the Abo. page
of The Bulletin by way of confirmation.
When we reached the homestead his wife was
preparing the evening meal. She was measur-
ing out the food according to its vitamine-
content, a cutting from a Sydney Sunday
newspaper, being her scientific authority.
SEEMED TO BE ROOM FOR ANOTHER.
“Here, what’re you doin’ scuffling round on my porch this
time of the mornin’?”
“’Scuse me, old man, I was just measurin’ it to see if
it wazh big enough for miniature golf course."
LUCK AND A LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Luck runs in streaks, the wise men say, the
blokes who ought to know;
An’ if they’re right I reckon that it’s time
I got a go.
A bonzer girl’s come up from town to teach
the local kids;
’Er eyes would make a coward brave, ’er
hair’s like minted quids.
But every time I’ve dropped across ’er since
she came ’ere first,
I’m never lookin’ at me best, but always
at me w'orst.
Last week I’m busy strippin’ oats, an’ things
would not go right;
The belts were either slippin’ round or else
too flamin’ fight.
I’m covered up with grease an’ oil, an’ cursin’
like a fool;
She passes not a chain away, ’er greetin'
rather cool.
I ’ad me oldest trousers on, a torn an’ dirty
vest.
She always sees me at me worst, an’ never
at me best.
On Saturday I harnessed up an’ took a load
to town.
An’ struck old Bill, who asked me in to keep
a snifter down. _ _ f
He shouted once, I kicked it back, an
-wouldn’t sample more,
But, starve the croVs! I meets ’er as I’m
marchin’ out the door.
She’s down on pubs, an’ looked at me as
though I was accursed.
She never sees me at me best, but always
at me worst.
With just an ounce or two of luck, I’m game
to back me chance;
Me looks, I know, are nothin’ much; I’m
useless at a dance.
I’m not a social light at all, but somethin
seems to say
If I could only. meet ’er right she’d be a
bit my way.
But ’ow the blazes can I put me fortune to
tllG tGSt ?
She always sees me at me worst, an’ never
at me best.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday , , 4/-
'Phone M 4131,
FUMIGATION!
HAVE YOUR PREMISES FUMIGATED WITH
“ZYKLON B”
The only cyanide fumigant available in Australia which com-
pletely eliminates the possibility of damage to furnishings,
metals and fabrics of all descriptions. Harmless to foodstuffs,
“Zyklon B” kills bugs, moths,'fleas, silverflsh, rats, mice, etc.
Eighteen steamship companies employ us to use Zyklon on their
vessels.
?
e
Consultations Free. Skilled staff. Moderate charges.
Sole Fumigation Contractors for Zyklon B.
Send for free illustrated booklet.
HOUGHTON & BYRNE,
2 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone: 81633.
Melbourne:
Cent,
4 6 Elizabeth Street. Cent. 11504. Brisbane: T. & G. Building.
‘ . Adelaide: 105 King William Street. Cent. 8005.
<23
ifemwm
motel
Co RDTSR
BRISBANE
TV cen/ne of Queens /a nc/s
' c/Zs/ingu/shec/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
è
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 83211 —6 Line*.
“S.T.S.”: It is no disparagement to
“Barangkali” (B. 29/10/’80) and his
interesting description of the swift frigate-
bird robbing the liard-working booby of a
fish lunch to recall that the same idea,
treated humorously, is one of the best things
in the late “Tom Collins’s” “Such is
Life.” Why is that classic not more uni-
versally known, by the way? Is it too long?
Or too clever ? I am still open to back it
as the wittiest book that Australia has
produced.
* * * *
“T.P.”: A pity that “Dramofilm” (R.P.
24/12/’3O) subtracts from the grace of his
cogent article by misspelling two of our
most euphonious Victorian native names- —
Croajingalong and Boomanoomali. Their
correct titles —Croagingolong and Boomah-
nahmoonah—are much more poetic. They
rank with such fine-sounding place-titles as
Upotipotpon, Ozenkadnook and Duchem-
begarra. It is time abo. nomenclature was
accorded the same protection as native flora
and fauna.
“Nakhoda”: The empire of superstition is
as wide as the world and almost as ancient.
At a holiday camp in, Vic. recently I had
occasion to borrow a packet of pius
from a woman in a neighboring tem-
porary establishment. Before giving
them to me she insisted on pricking
my finger lightly with one of them.
This ceremony must always be per-
formed when one lent pointed things,
she explained, because otherwise any
sickness due to them, such as blood-
poisoning, would react upon the
lender. She was a woman of intelli-
gence and a member of a psychological
—not psycliie—society. The Malay
belief in the sentieney of inanimate
objects is obviously first cousin to the
psychological lady’s superstition. A
Malay shikafi I once went hunting
crocodiles with on the, Kedah River
never failed to explain to his target
before he fired that the expected wound
had nothing to do With him, but was
the result of a conspiracy between the
gun, the powder and the bullet. If
the saurian harbored the. spirit of a
deceased female relative he was thus
in a position to prove an alibi.
“Wang”: It had been raining constantly
for a week, and the river was in flood. Dad
had exhausted all the wet-day jobs he could
find to do on the farm, and Dave and the
three hired hands were whiling the time
away in the barn, where they were holding
a mock church service. They had just
started to sing “Shall We Gather at the
River?” when Dad thrust his head in. at
the door. “Too right yet will,” he
bellowed, “an’ straight away, too. As yer
feelin’ so religious yer can have a job
that’ll suit yer right down to th’ ground.
An’ if yer luck’s in yer’ll be able ter con-
tinyer yer singin’ under proper conditions,
an’ With all th’ trimmiu’s.” “Why, what’s
up, Dad?” Dave asked. “Th’ church from
up th’ gully is cornin’ down in th’ flood,
with th’ parson sittin’ on th’ ridge, an’ he
ain’t singin’ no hymns, I can tell yer!” was
Dad’s terse and dramatic reply.
* * * *
“Currawong”: Sportsmen and others
visiting New .Caledonia may have all the
deer-shooting they want if they are prepared
to pay for it. A recent Australian visitor
found that two or three days’ preparation
would be needed. A band of Kanakas must
bo hired as beaters. The plan is
to drive hundreds of deer into a deep
bay and force them into the water,
where they can be shot by anybody who
MADE ’EM FEEL HOMESICK.
DAD (referring to silent cop): “’Struth, Mum, look at the-flamin’ punkin they got half
buried in the middle of the road.”
ANOTHER COMMISSION.
YOUNG EILL (to eminent artist ): “When you finished that job, Mister, dad says will
you slip up and give his boat a coat?"
can hold a rifle. As an alternative to
that sort of hilling the tourist was told that
he might go out in a boat and cut the ani-
mals’ throats. There should be good deer-
stalking in New Caledonia, where the coun-
try is wild and Craggy, and keen eyes and
food shooting are needed to see and bring
own the quarry, but the place for that sort
of sport in the Southern Hemisphere is
Maoriland, where deer have become a pest.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: The wombat deserves more
protection than it gets. It has a
thick, tough skin that is unsurpassed
for purposes where durability is re-
quired. Stockmen who have used "wombat
leather for seats of saddles declare that
these never wear out, and are superior to
hogskin; it is also excellent material for
the soles of heavy boots. A few years ago
the P. P. Board w T as paying for as many
as 1500 wombat scalps a month at Batlow
(N.S.WA, representing a huge loss of good
skins. The worse crime the wombat can be
accused of is that it sometimes breaks down
flimsy fences and gets into cultivation pad-
docks. But cows and goats offend in the
same way. When war is declared on wom-
bats the scalp-hunters don’t restrict their
operations, but go into country where there
is nothing connected with the industries of
man that the animals could interfere with.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Binghi was never much of a
land-grabber, but there is a legend that tells
of the annexation of the Larrakeeyah country
by the Bathurst blacks. The islands Bathurst
and Melville were overcrowded with blacks,
and food wms scarce, so they crossed in
their canoes to the mainland, where the
Larrakeeyahs lived. Food was plentiful
there; the Larrakeeyah blacks were fat
and lazy from good living. They had for-
gotteh how to fight, and the invaders defeated
them in battle and took their women away
to the islands. At last a truce was made,-
and is kept to this day ; but each year the
Melville and Bathurst blacks cross over and
take Larrakeeyah "women for their wives.
• He * * *
“Bad Australian”: I have often seen
crows, magpies, “grey-jays” and other indi-
genous insectivorous, birds lunching off a
dead animal, but I have never known a
kookaburra to join in the banquet. Jack
will roost for hours on a tree immediately
over the carcase of a sheep, horse or cow
without taking the least interest in it. But
let a lizard, frog or cricket move in the
grass and he is off his perch in a flash, and
in less than five seconds his gastric juices
are at - work on the unfortunate reptile or
insect. It is difficult to understand the
bird’s aversion to feeding on carrion. It
can’t be due to a distaste for dead animal
flesh, because when scraps are cut from
the carcase and thrown to him, he will gorge
until he can hold no more.
* * * *
“Frigid”: The kangaroo fish or mud-
skipper, found in the mangroves of N.Q.,
does not always use its gills for breathing,
as surmised (B. 24/12/’3Q), but has a tail
provided with a thin skin and small blood-
vessels which enable the little creature to
extract oxygen from the sea. With' its pec-
toral fins it can climb on to a branch or a
mangrove-stem, or up jetty-posts and bask
as long as it likes. It is so quick in its
movements, whether climbing, leaping or
walking, that it is seldom caught. It can
truly function as a “fish out of water.”
It has projecting eyes near the top of the
head which are adjustable to the different
conditions, enabling it to see equally well
in or out of water. These little grey crea-
tures are like tiny seals in appearance, and
break all Nature’s usual rules for fishes.
* * * *
“Flox” : The mystery of the flight of the
flying fish can be solved by anybody with
good eyesight. The fish bursts through the
surface and spreads its fins, which act like
aeroplane wings and do not flap like those
of a bird. The speed is sufficient for a
fairly long glide, which is carried out with
great skill, the fish rising at times several
feet above the surface. When the speed
slackens, the fish drops until it just skims
the waves; it then bends down its tail until
the lower lobe of the stern fin touches
water, when, with a swimming motion of the
tail, it uses the tip of the fin as a sculling
paddle and gives itself a new kick-off. The
extra speed permits it to rise in the air
again and • travel, after several of these
evolutions, for a distance of two or three
hundred yards.
* *■ * -
“Ledraw”: The color line causes compli-
cations in Darwin. Recently a white man
was charged with supplying whisky to a
full-blooded aborigine—his own wife. The
lady wag not produced in court, and couldn’t
have given evidence against her husband if
she had been, so the case was dismissed;
but immediately afterwards she was
hauled in to answer a charge of using
naughty language. Legal marriages between
white men and lubras aren’t frequent, but
they happen sometimes. At a recent one
at Pine Creek the bride’s mother, a full-
blooded aborigine, was not allowed in the
hotel where the bridal feast was spread and
had to eat her share of the good things on
the woodheap.
A BROAD HINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vairs, Maude an’ me ,’ave parted, Jim, an’
life ain’t ’arf as bright.
The future now is cloudin’ dim, an’ I ’ave
slipped orl right;
It’s ’er ole man—l’m blamin’ ’im —an’ wot
’e did one night.
I went erbout a month ago ter Maudie’s
place fer tea ;
I thought ’er dad was out, yer know, an’
things were set for me.
It happened that it wasn’t so—-an’ the result
. you’ll see.
’ls greetin’, mate, was pretty cool; ’e simply
growled an’ swore;
But bein’ surly, as a rule —’e’d done the
like before—
I took no notice, like a fool, an’ that’s wot
makes me sore.
Me lid was ’angin’ on the wall—it was me
Sundee hat.
’E pulls it down, an’ I reeall ’e punches it
out flat,
An’ then ’e does the worst of all. Yairs,
there wuz worse than that.
’E lifted up ’is number ten an’ kicked it good
an’ true,
An’ muttered, “You come ’ere again, I’ll do
.the same fer you.”
The ’int was good—l left ’im then—ah’ now
me life is blue.
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


SMOKE-OH!
As far as the last New Year’s honors are
concerned, Australia is-.without a peer.
* *
“Petrol in champagne.”— “S. M.: Herald.”
Motto: Never throw oil in bubbled waters.
¥ *
“She established a reputation in Europe as a
prima donor.” — “News.”
Her gift being one of song, presumably.
* *
Few have escaped the effects of the depres-
sion, and N.S.W. Laborites are particularly
down on their Uppers.
TESTIMONIAL.
To give the year that’s gone its due
(As I may do as well as not),
I owe a lot to it. Too true!
At any rate, I owe a lot.
The .Constant Bankrupt.
¥ *
IN REVERSE.
“Parents get the maternity bonus. Why should
the doctor have to wait for his money? I now demand
cash.” —Sydney medico.
We, used to call him “Doc.,” and he
Much patience with us always showed—
He seemed to live on what we owed.
But now he won’t chalk up his fee,
And so we call him C.O.D.
H. M.
' * *
“ ‘There are people who will hail you as ‘Old
Top’ but won’t give you a sixpence,’ he said-bitterly.”
— “Pictorial.”
And he’s not the first Old Top that’s been
given a rough spin.
at K
“The president of Melbourne’s Trades Hall
is D. Cameron.” For pity’s sake, keep the
news from the Federal Censor.
“One of Egypt’s wealthiest men, he habitually
wears jewels worth a fortune.” — “Sun.”
He would be one of the celebrated flash
pots of Egypt, no doubt.
THE BLUES.
Blue were her eyes and blue her dress,
And blue the skies that saw us two
Made one—since when I must confess
The air at home is mostly blue.
* *
“So the two great ‘popular’ newspaper-owners of
London are in holts again—Lord Rothermore, of the
‘Daily Mail,’ and Lord Rothermere, of the ‘Daily
Express.’ ’’—Sydney “News.”
Lord Beaverbrook, of the “Express,” and
Lord Beavercrook, of the “Mail/’ seem to be
cut of it for once in a way.
* *
ALL SQUARE.
Though love is blind, as cynics know,
It doesn’t vex some flappers much.
Their men-friends’ cheque-books plainly show
A compensating sense of touch.
“Restaurants are finding the need of economy.
Many items formerly, on the menu are now definitely
off.” — “Guardian.”
And so are some of those still on the menu.
FREELANCE PRAYER.
With hackless gowns, devoid of shame,
The flapper at convention laughs.
Ah, how much better if there came
A vogue of hackless paragraphs!
“At an Auburn gathering a lady speaker said she
could kiss Mr. Lang.... He sent an apology for
inability to attend.” —“Labor Daily.”
So he missed the buss.
* *
“It is anticipated that there will be a considerable
decline in the number of N.'S.W. divorce suits for
1931.” — “S. M. Herald.”
The decline in these suits, of course, is due
to the high cost of loathing.
ORIGINS OF THE EMINENT.
Inspired by the disclosure made exclusively
in Sydney “Referee,” “S. M. Herald,” Mel-
bourne “Herald,” etc., that Bradman owes
A CHAMPION ALL-ROUNDER.
“She’s driven two men mad already.”
“Two?”
“Yes—jilted one and married the other.”
his fame to practice with a golf ball, our
representative interviewed other celebrities.
Sir Muglas Foursome (Sydney): “I attribute the
ease with which I won the Canberra miget golf
championship to the hours I have spent buying drinks
after 6 p.m. Continuous practice in popping in and
out of front and side doors has taught me to
manoeuvre a golf ball through anything.”
Dame Yellie Elba was discovered singing “Home
Sweet Home.” “My great-uncle,” she confessed with
a moue of indescribable charm, “was a garbage con-
tractor. He imbued me with an intense desire to
carry on his work in other directions. And so I
took up the profession of slinging ’em muck.”
“Yellowpress” Yahoo, of the “Weekly Sneak,” a
fearless pressman who has tracked many a co-re.
to his lair and purloined many a chemise from its
native haunts, removed his eye from the keyhole.
“From birth,” he said, “my favorite character in
history has been Peeping Tom. When only 11 I was
presented with a copy of ‘Ten Nights in a Bath-
room,’ by A. Plumber. My sole regret is that I
wasn’t sent to describe Lady Godiva’s journey. In
other words, I ascribe my eminence in my profession
to natural ability. No practice was required.”
B. .B.
TRUE LOVE.
I Jcnow her face is painted,
I know her hair is dyed,
I know the way she dresses
Is far from dignified;
She’s girlish and she’s silly,
And, though it sounds uncanny,
With all her flighty nonsense,
1 love my dear old Grannie!
RIC.
"RED PASSION: A PROPAGANDA
DRAMA.”
“Apart from its propaganda value, a working-
class theatre would be a boon. In Russia, the Pro-
letcult has dramatised everything.” —“Labor Daily.”
(Scene: The Domain. The Proletcult
lovers Jock Robesjnerre and Lou Corday
are discovered murmuring sweet nothings on
the outskirts of a crowd surrounding the
“Friends of Russia” platform.)
Jock (amorously) : “The proletariat
struggle stands broad-based on the luminous
doctrine of Marx (Op. LXVII., p. 2490).
‘The undermining of tyrannous octopi is the
goal which every revolutionary will treasure
in spiritual moth-bricks lest the capitalistic
lion in the path destfoy.’ As Yon Megrim
acutely said in 1884”
Orator (drowning Jock’s tender whisper-
ings) : “Awake, I say, arise, and cast off the
shackles of religion”
(Voice from Audience: “Intlirojuice the
sectarian issue an’ Oi’ll have me money
back!”)
Lou (with girlish gesture of surrender) :
“The inflation of tlie national currency by
nine hundred millions sterling and the
simultaneous imposition of a 40 per cent, tax
on earnings of 15s. a week and over were
originally advocated by none other than Yon
Bunk himself.”
Jock (soulfully) : “As regards any
attempts at gambling in valuta”
Orator: “You have nothing to lose but
your chains, comrades”
(Voice: “Where’s yer sex element? When-
ner we goin’ ter get the Clara Bow stuff?’)
Lou (wistfully) : “The prime need is the
organisation of Young Communist Sunday
Schools. ‘Let me have the first ten years
of a child’s life, the bourgeoisie paying the
exes,’ said Count Grabstein in his immortal
‘Geben sie mir Das Kapital,’ and”
Orator: “The great and glorious Day is
at last approaching”——
Jock (with passion) : “Taking the rouble
as our standard of value, and comparing it
as token-money with the yen, the peseta, the
DISCOVERIES AFTER MARRIAGE.
“When we were married you 'promised me a new hat
every season.”
“Yes, but blow it! I didn’t know there were twenty
hat seasons in the year.”
edible nut (circulating in certain parts of
Equatorial Africa), and that monument of
perfidy and greed the Bank of England £lO
note, we arrive at seven significant conclu-
sions. One”
(Voice: “Let’s ’ave some umor, Dig.!
Fer Gorsake givvus a few comic bits!
Approving cheers and cries of Dull as
mud!” from audience.)
Oratob : “And when the Day to which
I have referred comes, comrades, Churches
and Creeds, Capitalists and Clerics, Jobs
and Job-holders will crash to Hell in a
common ruin”
(Voices : “The sectarian issue agin! By
Hiven Oi’ll not stand ut!” “The show’s
rotten!” “We bin swindled!” “Smash up
the theatre!” Hoots and uproar.)
From the “S. M. Herald”: “An unseemly
disturbance occurred at the Theatre of Re-
volution last night. During the premiere
of ‘Red Passion: A Propaganda Drama,’ the
audience got out of hand. The stage was
rushed by disappointed patrons, and Mr.
Aubrey St. Clair, who had ably interpreted
the trying rOle of the hero, Jock Robespierre,
ALL BUT PERFECT.
ARTIST ( hopefully ): “Do you like it?" „
EDITOR: “Splendid! All you got to do is just redraw it and stick on another gag!”
was hit on the head by some blunt instru-
ment. He was treated later for concussion.
Mr. Walmsley Maltravers (Orator) sus-
tained lacerations of the scalp and back.
Advices from the Trades Hall disclose that
‘Red Passion’ is not likely to be staged in
the metropolis! again.”
10-2-4.
COURSE CHATTER.
By “DINKUM OIL."
“Owing to the Betting Tax Act, the Cessnock R.C.
has offered to let the Government run its next meet-
ing.”
Weaver (by Bellow out of Rothbury) was
clocked to do an Empire speech in the smart
time of shrs. 36min. lOsec.
yesterday. When pulled up
by a fusillade of eggs, he was
roaring (as usual), but
otherwise showed no signs
of distress.
The veteran Leg. Council
is apparently still a force to
be reckoned with. Some
months ago there was talk
of adding him to the list.
How r ever, despite his spavins,
his wind trouble, and his
habit of interfering, he
remains a hot popular favo-
rite. It is feared, however,
that the additional handicap
of 30 or 40 union bosses will
yet prove too much for the
gallant old prad.
The connections of the im-
ported Jock Hard’un are
optimistic of his chances in
the Pre-selection Handicap.
His trial spin of five dud
strikes in 12 months was
impressive. It ensures his
starting a Bed-hot favorite.
The Monthling Betstax
opened a strong Treasury
favorite in the Tenpercent
Handicap, but eased later,
and finally blew out to 33’s.
He is likely to be given a
prolonged spell, while his
untried stable-mate Lottery
goes after the oats-money.
In a burst over the Finan-
cial Hurdles The Premier
(by Skite out of Auburn)
blundered badly and smashed
a promise. Dr. Arthur, who
was present, directed that he
should be politically de-
stroyed, but no one took any
notice. „ ,
Mv Special Selections
(“Dinkum Oil’s” Nap) for the Political
Cup
(1) Perks.
(2) Asinine Abuse.
(3) Work.
(Three to start.)
S.W.K.
IT HAPPENS HERE TOO.
“Thirteen-year-old Adolphus Orthwein, heir of one
of the wealthiest families in the U.S.A., has been
kidnapped. Hundreds of policemen are searching
the city and countryside for the blonde lad. Chief
Detective Kaiser said it was evident the abductor
knew about the Orthweins and would demand a
princely ransom.” — Cable.
The Cohensteins, of Turramurra, were dis-
tracted. The family’s idol, dear little 10-
year-old Izzy, was
gone spirited
away without a
doubt, and being
held to ransom by
his heartless cap-
tors.
Mr. Cohenstein's
wrath was appal-
ling. “If I get my
hands on the throat
of the criminal re-
sponsible!” he
thundered, and then
broke off to com-
fort his weeping
wife.
“It’s no good
saying one thing
and meaning
another, Mr. C.,”
said the sergeant.
“It’s going to cost
you money.”
“W hat does
money matter?”
cried Mrs. Coheu-
stein. “I want my
Izzy.”
“Money’s no ob-
ject here,” agreed
her husband.
“Well, shove
something like this
in the ‘S. M.
Herald,’ ” said the
guardian of the
law: “ ‘Lost, under-
sized Tom Cat, old,
grey’—and your
’phone number. But
I warn you that,
with the reward,
it’s going to cost
you the best part
of ten bob.”
D. J.
GETTING A STORY.
“A Sydney paper tells the Minister for Justice
that if he wants to find out how bad living con-
ditions are in Long Bay Gaol he must make inquiries,
not in an official capacity, but as a competent jour-
nalist sent out to get a story.”
Assuming the Minister has not learnt how
to become a journalist in four lessons (post
free, mail coupon, learn at home, etc.), a
few hints are appended on how to get the
story.
Proceed to Long Bay and hand governor
card with the words:—
“I represent the ‘Daily Error,’ and I
want a big story on the living conditions
of your boarders, permanent and otherwise.”
Should the governor show signs of hos-
tility, say brightly: . .
“My dear sir, the publicity arising from
this exclusive interview will make yours one
of the most popular gaols in town. Visual-
ise the superior patronage it will bring you.
People will flock here like goats.”
Should he show signs of an intention to
kick you out, proceed as follows:
“Sir, do you realise that a great metro-
politan newspaper is waiting for this story?
I refer to the ‘Daily Error’ (daily and Sun-
day, free colored supplement for kids, free
insurance and special cross-words, etc.),.”
Then follow up' with a few tactful ques-
tions :
“Your guests, do they come hack fre-
quently?” .
“They admire the lovely and exclusive
view of the sea, no doubt?”
“The balmy air attracts them? Yes?
No?”
“Do they find it hard to tear themselves
away?” .
Your report, if you escape alive, will be
along these lines.
From Our Special Representative in an
exclusive interview: — : -
Of all holiday resorts, hotels, flats, boards
and residences, none is so popular as the
Little Cottage by the Sea.
Those in charge have made every effort
possible to give it a “no-place-like-home”
effect.
Both manager and attendants (who wear
smart uniforms decorated with the crown
of Rex Georgius) look after their visitors
assiduously.
A massive stone wall encloses the' Cottage.
This is to shield it. from ( the prying eyes
of envious curiosity-mongers. The wall itself
is a splendid example of free masonry. It
was entirely erected by voluntary labor.
Inside, the flagged paths a'hd bbhirtyard
are of best granite,’and are much patronised
by walking parties.
There are many modern improvements _ m
accommodation facilities. Water is supplied
free of charge, and is brought round to the
occupants in their rooms twice a day. Gar-
dening enthusiasts have ample opportunity
to indulge in their hobby.
Windows have been done away with, and
iron grates installed in their place. These
not only let in an abundant supply of fresh
air, but also offer more protection than
gl&ss
Inscriptions in the visitors’ book bear
striking testimony to the popularity of the
resort.
One patron writes: “I have spent nine
years here, and only death will get me
away.”
Another: “Money couldn’t get me out ot
this place.” And again: “The free hair-
dressing service has relieved me of all my
grey hairs.”
To sum up, the “Daily Error” can confi-
dently recommend this unique seaside resort
as being not only salubrious and near town,
but as an ideal spot in which to make a
success of the modern craze for “slimming,”
while, as an additional advantage, there are
no minnie golf courses on the premises^
B. O’C.


THE QUESTION.
THE SPOKESMAN BEHIND THE BOULDER: “Well, what is it to be, boys —shall we heave a rock at him, or had we better fall in behind him?”


m.
©
( tr atvV
A saietV Retest'
, tee V a;--***
V^ c - **
V N cC^ >n rrt vst° ttU xcco^ 1 *
fcan* rtS an * Gro^n&-
ft ua^ n ’
*\o «f *:
'TV\c cC tf" s .
V r\ofc
vn
bc atW ‘W 10 n ,
,un^
s m al
H ave
garif
/tcc° u
nt-
it
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Head Office: 12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London.
PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK of AUSTRALIA U?
e
WHEN BRICtIT
EYES CLANCE/
* •
More precious than the richest gems are a pair
of healthy, laughing eyes. Be on your guard
against Inflammation and Disease. If the eyes
are overstrained or bloodshot of afflicted with
Sandy Blight, Scaly Eyelids, Granulation, etc.,
treat with ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
according to directions. This famous Lotion not only
soothes and heals tired and inflamed Eyes, but restores
the natural brightness and strengthens the sight.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION provides a
simple, rational treatment that is safe for people of
all ages.
Every reputable Ghemist and Storekeeper sells it.
è
é
HQIIOHM
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MECGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WHEAT FOR STOCK.
“Jamwood”: This important matter, to
which recent Bulletin correspondents have
referred, is the subject of an article by
Senior Experimentalist Clayton in the Decem-
ber issue of the N.S.W. “Agricultural
Gazette.” The writer recalls the Hawkes-
bury A. C. experiments in the feeding of
rice and wheat to pigs. Rough rice was
then (1929) worth £7 10s. per ton, or .Sd.
per pound; wheat was worth £lO ss. 4d.
per ton, or ss. 6d. per bushel, or l.ld. per
pound.
Even at ss. 6d. per bushel, Mr. Clayton
remarks, feeding wheat to pigs proved to
be profitable. “The cost of the rice ration
was £1 10s. and it resulted in an aver-
age live-weight gain of 80.71 b. The cost
of the wheat ration was £l 13s. lOd. and
the average live-weight gain 91.11 b. The
value realised per lb. of gain in the case of
the wheat-fed pigs was 5.65 d. The price of
pork on August 21, 1929, was 9d. per lb., and
this was the figure used in computing the
above results. The gain over and above
the ss. (id. per bushel allowed for the wheat
was 1.189 d. per lb., wnich more than com-
pensates for the time and labor expended in
attending to the pigs.”
Glancing at results recorded in other coun-
tries, the “Gazette” writer mentions that
lambs fed on wheat in the TJ.S.A. made the
same gains as those fed on maize, and only
required 2 per cent, more grain and hay for
each 1001 b. gain. “Wheat is slightly better
than barley for lambs, and less of it is re-
quired for 1001 b. gain in live weight. Eng-
lish experiments with lambs also confirm
American results.” Moreover, “in America
it lias been shown that good-quality wheat
is worth as much as maize for feeding pigs.
Pigs fed wheat and tankage made slightly
more rapid gain and required 3 per cent,
less feed per 1001 b. gain than those fed maize
and tankage. When fed without any supple-
ment wheat was also found to be superior
to maize. In Ireland, pigs fed on wheat
gave much better results than those fed on
bran and pollard. Wheat is a suitable feed
for calves, fattening cattle and dairy cows.
For dairy cows in Denmark, ground wheat
was fully equal to mixed barley and oats.
Provided the price is low, wheat can also
be fed with economy to horses.”
Mr. Clayton points out, as Bulletin con-
tributors have done, that wheat needs the
addition of a supplement when fed to pigs.
“Any palatable roughage rich in protein is
satisfactory. If the pigs are on good grass
or lucerne pastures they will make rapid
and economical gains when wheat is added
to the diet. When stall feeding with wheat
it is advisable to include in the ration _ a
food of animal origin that is rich in protein,
such as skim-milk. Field peas are also of
great value for feeding with wheat. The
udieat should be ground or rolled for pigs.
This treatment has the effect of greatly in-
creasing the feeding value. It should not be
ground too finely, as it then tends to form
a sticky mass in the mouth of the pigs.
Soaking the wheat is of very little value, and
does not justify the trouble involved; more-
over, it is not nearly so satisfactory as
grinding.”
With lambs “the best results are obtained
when the wheat is fed with legume hay,
This has the effect of balancing the ration.
Wheat fed to lambs on good pasture gives
good results.” As regards cattle, “wheat
should be fed with some bulky concentrate
for dairy cattle, and ground or rolled for
all cattle.” In the case of horses, “wheat
should be fed only in moderate amounts and
mixed with a bulky concentrate or with
chaffed forage. If fed in excess it. may
cause digestive troubles and skin eruptions.”
THE WORKING OF FALLOW.
“Valerin”: The N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, as a result of experiments .at
the State farms, issued directions regarding
the working of fallow to ensure a maximum
yield of wheat. The directions were all
right when wheat was 4s. to ss. a bushel;
with the price under two bob these work-
ings don’t pay.
What’s wrong with the department con-
vening a conference of farm managers and
other experts and issuing a new set of
directions for a minimum working to get
a payable result? It should be done at once.
HILL PASTURES.
“J.W.W.”: I spent 20 years in the hill
country ' near Traralgon, Gippsland, and
found, with “Old Toolong” (B. 24/12/'3O),
that “the soil is often better than on the
inferior types of bottom lands,” and gener-
ally healthier fdr sheep than the richer flats.
Getting permanent grasses to “take” on the
poorer hill lands is not easy; the pro-
cess is nothing like the rapid one we followed
on the rich, heavy musk and hazel scrub
country in the best parts of Callignee and
Mirboo. That was just to cut the scrub,
burn it off and sow your seed in the ashes.
The poorer land, where the scrub is_ light
and patchy, with native grass among it, re-
quires patient and skilful handling. You
need to make a judicious selection of grasses,
having regard to the strong and weak points
of each. Paspalum, sown with the early
autumn rains, or sometimes in late spring,
among the wallaby grass (dominant here),
was found satisfactory. We heavily stocked
the wallaby grass with sheep in spring to
get as much droppings as possible; then
among it we sowed cocksfoot, timothy, red
or alsyke clover, or else subterranean.
We always grew our own grass seeds, when
possible, and always on a poor paddock, as
we found a hardier type resulted; though
the yield was smaller the seed grew better
when put into a better soil. We put about
a third of a bushel of cocksfoot, a quarter
of timothy and the same of perennial rye
grass among the other grasses. We also grew
our own wallaby grass seed, and thickened
up the pastures with it as it got thinned
out. But any kind of seed, whether of native
or introduced grasses, will reproduce grass
of only a temporary character on the poorer
ridges, unless it has been pre-acclimatised for
the purpose and changed into a hardier type
before being given the .sterner conditions and
environment of the hills. Bib grass,
J’halarift and burry clover are kinds worth
trying in the mixture, if of a hardy type. It
is like introducing animals from a highly-
favored to a less-favored place; they need
some pre-adaptation. I must not forget to
state that super.—iewt. to lcwt. per acre
—was used with advantage. Once you
get this kind of country well established in
these grasses it improves rapidly under
sheep. Soil texture changes and it becomes
good land without manure.
There is a small type of native trefoil in
most parts of s.-e. Australia that is well
worth encouraging. It has a little yellow
flower and tiny seed pods, and is very fatten-
ing where it thrives best; like all legumens
it is useful for nitrification as well as
fodder. It was found a great stimulus to
growth to drag a chain harrow or light ordi-
nary harrow over the pasture in the winter
to break up and distribute the droppings.
This agitates the surface soil without injur-
ing the grass, if done in damp weather. It
revives and accelerates the action pf the soil
bacteria, greatly increasing the soil’s fatten-
ing capacity.
GOOD RESULTS FROM JAPANESE
MILLET.
“Jethro Tull”: A dairy farmer on the
Tweed (N.S.W.) planted two acres of
Japanese millet in November and began feed-
ing off in December. The crop received rather
less than an inch of rain during the growing
period—-a little more than five, weeks.
Planted broadcast. 201 b. to the acre, it
attained a height of over ,30in., and increased
the production of 35 cows over a couple of
weeks. Without further rain the ratoon
growth will be ready in three weeks from
when the paddock was-closed; with rain it
will be earlier. Even as it is it promis.?s
to be a heavier crop than the first. The
farmer has put in more millet, and wishes
that he had done so previously.
Two paddocks of this fodder .should prove
a first-class drought insurance, worked alter-
nately. Its advantages over other fodder
crops are considerable. Though best returns
are obtained from a soil rich in humus, it
has given good results on hilLside clays and
creek loams, and responds appreciably to
fertilisers on the lighter, poorer, sandy soils.
Super, at the rate of lcwt. to the acre greatly
increases the yield from soils having a suffi-
ciency of lime; it is advisable to apply also
a little potash to delay premature ripening
during dry spells. On soils having insufficient
lime improved results have been obtained
from the use of bone-meal or (better still)
steamed bone-flour; to 2ewt. per acre.
Considerable quantities of farmyard manure
are also beneficial. , . . „
There is little labor in cultivation ; m fact,
an extra advantage of millet is its use as
a cleaner of dirty land from a weed growth
that might prove a serious competitor to late
corn or early-winter fodder. One ploughing
is sufficient, the fertiliser being scattered
broadcast and worked in during the har-
rowing.
It can be fed off at any stage during its
growth prior to heading, though it is advis-
able to allow the first growth to reach Din.
or Ift. to enable the young plants to with-
stand grazing.
STINKWOOD AS A POISON PLANT.
“Yancannia” r- “Specker” (B. 24/2/’3O)
reminds me. When panting disease was pre-
valent in the Speck 27 years ago, the
Government assured cattle-owners that stink-
wood was not responsible, declaring that the
trouble was malignant odema of the lungs.
Veterinarian Burke insisted that stinkwood
was to blame. It has taken the Speck’s Agri-
cultural Bureau 27 years to find out Burke
•was right. During that period, I suppose,
20,000 head of Speck cattle have gone under
to the disease.
The opinion given by the Bureau now is
that stinkwood would only be eaten under
conditions of semi-starvation. Government
Botanist Rodway’s statement 26 years ago
was that “stinkwood agrees with cattle when
in good condition, but may be poisonous in
other circumstances.” Burke’s view was that
it is the condition of the plant and not that of
the cattle that matters. Unfortunately cattle
will eat any member of the family to which
Zieria smithii belongs. Generally speaking,
the poisonous oil secreted in the leaves of
the plant reaches maturity in the autumn
months; thus it catches the cattle at a time
when their blood is not in a condition to
combat the active principle.
Treatment must begin as soon as the first
panting is noticed. Use a good purgative.
Never be caught without green food where-
ever the pest grows, feed sparingly and have
cattle under your eye in a clean yard, pad-
dock or shed while treating them. Study
the inspirations and expirations of your
cattle at all times; this is the A B C of the
Veterinary art.
STOCK-DISEASE PRECAUTIONS.
“Wilt”: Much unfair criticism has been
levelled at the veterinary branch of the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture for the
drastic action taken regarding the control
of Newcastle disease, which has made its
appearance in Victoria. A similar wail went
up a few years ago when rinderpest found
its way into Westralia, and yet it was only
by the prompt and efficient handling of the
situation that this much-dreaded disease was
eradicated Within a few months. In the
Westralian case the losses suffered through
the destruction of cattle were a bagatelle
compared with the damage which would have
been done had rinderpest been allowed to get
a firm footing. Eighty years ago, when
pleuro-pneumonia was first introduced into
Australia, no action Was taken at the outset.
We have been fighting the scourge ever since.
The introduction of Newcastle disease (or
ranikhet, as it is called in India) is a
Serious matter to poultry fai’mers. Inocu-
lation is out of the question—there are four
to five million birds in N.S.W. alone. Sum-
mary and complete eradication is the only
sound method of dealing with the case.
Our veterinary departments in Australia
have reached a high standard of efficiency.
When they decide on action which causes
losses to individuals it may be taken
for granted that their measures are well
warranted, and in the best interests of the
people who complain. Their object is to
prevent diseases rather than to cure them,
and stockowners should afford them every
assistance by conforming rigidly to all the
conditions imposed, however severe those
conditions may seem to be.
IRON FOR BUSH-SICKNESS.
“Fernie”: Maoriland’s Agricultural De-
partment, when it undertakes an investiga-
tion, does flie job thoroughly. In many areas
of the North Island the sheep, though on
apparently good pasture, have been afflicted,
ever since settlement commenced, w r ith the
ailment knowm as “bush-sickness.” In 1912
the Government bought a 50,000-acre grazing
area in one of the affected districts; it
has run sheep and dairy cattle there, analysed
the soil and the pastures, and experimented
exhaustively with various crops and manures.
The net result of these experiments, checked
on other areas, is to confirm the theory,
early formed, that bush-sickness is en-
tirely due to a deficiency of iron in the soil.
The cure for the soil is a dressing wfith
super, and slag, and for the sheep the
administration of iron and ammonia-citrate
pellets. A lick composed of salt and native
iron carbonate has also been successfully
and economically used as a restorative,
THE BUFFALO FLY.
“Centurion” : For some years past various
Bulletin correspondents have commented
warningly on the continued eastward and
southward progress of the buffalo fly, which
has gradually worked through the Northern
Territory to the Queensland border and
across it. Over four years ago the Federal
authorities, after repeated warnings, in-
structed the Council of Scientific and Indus-
trial Research to do something. That body
is understood to have engaged a Javanese
expert to find a destructive parasite for the
invader’s benefit, and it was later announced
that no fewer than 12 different kinds had been
discovered. There the matter seems to have
rested. Meanwhile the dangerous pest is
gradually working down into the Queens-
land cattle country, and neither the State
nor Federal authorities are doing anything
serious in an attempt to cope with it.
It is the story of the tick invasion, which
came the same way and in the same quiet
fashion some 30 years ago. Signs and por-
tents were unheeded, until one day the
Queensland cattlemen woke to find their
herds decimated. Frantic efforts to stop
the progress of the now w T ell-established
plague were fruitless. The dairy herds of
the south suffered the same fate as the beef
cattle further north. To this day Queens-
land and N.S.W. spend thousands of pounds
annually in combating the tick. In those
days ignorance could be pleaded, at least, in
the beginning. Nothing of the sort can he
said in regard to the latest infliction.
One thing is certain: if the fly is per-
imitted to get the upper hand, no methods of
border or district quarantine such as have
partially succeeded in the case of the tick
will be of any avail. About the only pos-
sible hope seems to be the discovery of an
effective parasite, or else the complete cut-
ting off of all infected country, with a wide
neutral zone bdtween it and that so far im-
mune, across which no cattle should be per-
mitted to come. That is a drastic measure,
but one to which South Africa has had to
resort more than once when rinderpest has
swept the country.
PAPER MULCH IN QUEENSLAND.
“Gwalior”: I believe in the paper mulch,
but there is no real economy in using old
newspapers, as “S. Quire” (B. 17/12/’3O)
suggests. They last only a, short period, and
the real thing, which does last, can be bought
cheap. I planted beans, using paper mulch,
and after taking off the crop pulled the
beans up; now I have a fine lot of cabbage
in the same ground under the same paper
mulch.
I reckon paper mulch saves two-tliirds in
water supply and nine-tenths in labor. It
prevents evaporation and growth of weeds
and gives a bigger and quicker crop. Here
in Queensland it is being used very ex-
tensively, particularly by pineapple-growers
and market-gardeners. Round Brisbane
alone, the area under paper mulch this year
runs to hundreds of acres.
control of fruit-fly.
“Wodgil”: The mild winter in Westralia
was favorable to the fruit-fly, and Mr. L. «3.
Newman, the State’s Economic Entomologist,
warns orchardists that the pest may be
particularly troublesome this year. The
warning may well be heeded in other fruit-
growing States, for the ravages of the fly are
by no means confined to the West.
November to April is the active breeding
period. It is folly to wait until fruit is
struck. “Once that stage is reached,” Mr.
Newman says, “no amount of baiting or
luring will do any good—there is nothing
for it but to destroy the infested fruit by
boiling.” This authority recommends Clensel,
1 part to 30 parts of water, as a luring
mixture, pronouncing it superior to the pol-
lard-and-borax solution. The lure should
be renewed every seven days in the summer,
but is effective up to 12 days in the winter
and spring. He also prefers glass jars to
tins. But whether jar or tin is used, it
should have a capacity of about half a pint;
this is half filled, making the amount of lure
required each time of renewal quarter of a
pint. At least two traps per tree should be
used—the more the better—and the traps
should be hung during hot weather in a
shady position.
Mr, Newman also recommends foliage
haits consisting of the juice of a dozen
averaged-sized ripe oranges (or the equiva-
lent in essence), lib. of molasses, 4 to 5
ounces of arsenate of lead in paste form —of
powdered arsenate of lead half tfie amount
is required—and 4 gallons of water.
Squeeze out the juice of the oranges into
a kerosene-tin or other vessel; dissolve the
molasses in two gallons of water ; add the
fruit juice. Reduce the arsenate of lead to
a milky paste by the addition of water and
stir into the bulk, making up to the required
strength by the addition of water. When
using keep thoroughly agitated.
When it is impossible to obtain citrus
fruits, boil 41b. to 61b. of ripe fruit in season
in a gallon of water, until reduced to a pulp.
When sufficiently soft, mash and strain off
the liquid, add the molasses and arsenate of
lead as in the other formula. Foliage baiting
does not mean the spraying of the entire
foliage of a tree. It is applied here and there
by means of a syringe or other suitable
sprayer, avoiding the fruit as much as pos-
(Continued on page 26.)


FIRE FIGHTING
PUMPING AND SPRAYING
sss
All prices
F.O.R.
One of these powerful Double-
acting “AJAX” Pumps will be
a reliable defence against fires.
Even in a small blaze it may
save many times its cost.
After (and during) the danger
season it may be used for
numerous other jobs, such as
ordinary pumping, spraying,
etc.
The heavy suction hose goes
into a tank mounted on a
truck. By means of the long
handle and the cog gearhead
the Pump can be worked with
surprising ease.
Price,
£6|lsl-
without
Hose.
The Steel air chamber causes the water to be
delivered with great pressure. Pressure, of
course, is a big factor in the efficient extin-
guishing of fires.
Special nozzle fitted to hose enables the
operator to have a powerful jet, a heavy
soaking spray, or a gentle mist, at will.
Suction Hose, li inch,
2/9 per foot.
Delivery Hose, i inch,
7d. per foot.
Delivery Hose, f inch,
Bd. per foot.
Proprietary limited
Established ISGO.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
116-130 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN*'
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the originaL
Trade direct with Q. P. S.
and save the Middleman’s Profit
£
\
RIGHT
7
Their low prices will help you to
balance your Home Budget.
Their 176 page illustrated catalogue
gives full details and prices of the
thousands of lines stocked.
We mention a few:—
GROCERIES.
GALVANISED IRON.
TANK MATERIAL.
WIRE AND
NETTING.
DOVER STOVES.
Every line at bedrock in any quantity.
Whilst everybody is advancing their prices on account of the
embargo—we kick off the New Year with reductions.
We can do Best British Crown Corr. Galv. Iron at £24/10/- per ton.
Or by the sheet —
sft. Oft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. 10ft.
2/- 2/7 3/- . 3/5 3/10 4/6 sheet
1000-gallon Tank Material only, built 24g. Iron throughout, £3/15/-.
Other sizes equally low.
We are the largest Distributors in Queensland.
Bg. Galv. Wire, in coils 18/3 per cwt.
12Ag. Hibiscus Barb Wire, mile lots 27/6 coil
36*x 2 x 19 Netting 9/- per 50yd. roll
K. Wire—we allow 20 per cent, off any Maker’s List.
Hibiscus Dover, No. 7, 79/-; No. 8, 88/-
ē
We can do the best quality Seamless Cream Cans at special cash
prices.
2gal. 3gal. 4gal. Sgal. 6gal. Bgal. lOga.l.
14/- 15/- 15/9 18/- 20/- 22/- 25/- each
CASH MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER AT THESE
PRICES FOR CANS—OPERATING THIS MONTH
ONLY—MENTION THIS PAPER.
We actually manufacture —
All Galvanised Iron and Rainwater Goods—Piping—Ridge Capping—Galv. Iron Tanks—Troughing
—Fencing Posts—Cold Safes—and all Stock Licks. You therefore get direct Factory Prices.
Lowest also for Farm Gates, Lampware, Furniture, Saddlery, Tarpaulins, Ice Cream Freezers,
Wireless, etc. Write for 176-page copyrighted catalogue. It will save you pounds.
WE ARE DIRECT CASH BUYERS ALL WOOL, HIDES
AND SKINS. WRITE FOR DETAILS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
This group of Stuart Crystal gives
you some idea of the Leauty of this
exquisite hand* cut glass with its varied
patterns and its diamond-like lustre.
Look for the registered name Stuart
etched on every piece.
WB
m
.
■
u
H
m
Jmd
:
M
~ ,a«
'*»>-
> >
n
I
I
ffpsswawr
. :
■
-
■
■•:v :
■
m I
-, i
■
mmmmmm.
m
a
H
*
I
y
I
42
H
S
x
JR
v\
§&*
h,M
Ml
English Hand= ma.de Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is


ĕ
CHANDLER'S
Chain and Tripod
HARROW
The Harrow which will do
ALL your job s—both
Pasture and Cultivation .
The only Harrow made in
Australia with renewable
teeth.
Chandler’s Harrow is the most up-
to-date and effective Harrow made.
Other makes of Harrows wear quickly
on front row of tripods, but the
CHANDLER HARROW, with inter-
changeable tripods, enables you to get
three times longer life.
The Spring Steel Teeth are renewable,
and can be varied in length from
2fin., 3in. to 3fin.
Chain and Tripod Harrows.
3 Rows.
6ft. wide—
£lo 5 0
7ft. wide—
£ll 15 0
Bft. wide—
£l3 10 0
9ft. Wide—
£ls 10 0
Depth complete-
eft. 9in.
4 Rows.
£l2 15 0
£l5 0
£l6 15
£l9 5
7ft. lOin.
The other reasonable prices will be
sent on application.
Manufactured by
chandlers
S33Z
234-236
276-294
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at
HORSHAM,
WARRNAMBOOL,
BALLARAT and
VICTORIA.
BENDIGO,
PORTLAND,
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER
PROFESSION?
ė
We can set you on the road, to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
£. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
fflicnra
MEDICINAL
2?ms# Hands Kept
Soft and Smooth
By Daily Use of
Cuticura
Soap
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum
Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address; R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N.S.W.
'llllllli*’!
mm
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
ę
as,
mt
0
GVAT RA/Vg?
tf TO Ison
\
We suggest that
you ask your nearest
distributor to show you
the complete line of RAY-
O-VAC Electric Torches
and RAY-O-VAC Bat-
teries. There are no
better made.
7Z&
BLA^
%ana^
Manufacturer's Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
a, CHICAGO U.5.A. ...
. k l
sible. One gallon of the mixture is sufficient
to bait 40 to 60 trees. Apply every seven
(lays and following rain.
In conjunction with luring and foliage
baiting, orchard sanitation must be prac-
tised, Mr. Newman insists. Keep the
ground free of weeds and rubbish and
destroy daily all infested fruits, both from
trees and ground. Finallv. in the control of
this, as with other pests, it is essential that
ail growers of fruit co-operate; one neglectful
grower can nullify the good efforts of his
neighbors.
SOLDERING ON THE FARM.
“Bert the Carpenter”: For the farmer
there are few more handy things than a
soldering outfit, and the cost is small. You
need only a lib. copper bit (usually called
a soldering iron), lib. of half-and-half solder,
a block of sal-ammoniac, a worn farrier’s
rasp, a bottle of spirits of salts and some
scrap zinc. Add a tin of a good paste solder-
ing flux, and iron, brass and copper may
be soldered as well as galvanised iron and tin.
Unless the soldering iron is new, it must
be shaped and tinned. To shape it, heat
to red heat in a fire and forge it down to
a fairly long four-sided point. Next file
smooth with the rasp, and, while still hot,
rub each side on the block of sal-ammoniac
with a little solder. This will give the
whole point a nice clean coat of solder, which
is absolutely indispensable.
Next you require a firepot. This is made
of sheet iron from an old petrol- or oil-drum ;
it should be Sin. in diameter at the bottom,
Gin. in diameter at the top and 15in. high;
the seam is simply held together with a
few rivets. It is provided with a wire handle
like a bucket, and 2in. from the bottom
holes are punched through it at 2in. inter-
vals right round. Through these some pieces
of old ~}in. rod are passed, bent to pass over
or under each other, and with their ends
bent at right angles to stop them from
falling out. These act as a grating which
allows the ashes to fall out. Three inches
above them a square hole is cut in the side
and the piece turned down to form a rest
for the iron. Charcoal or coke is the fuel.
Now to use the outfit. The first thing to
observe is that the iron # must be hot —so hot
that solder runs like water when brought in
contact with the point. As soon as the
solder ceases to run freely, put the iron
back into the fire again to re-heat—you only
waste your time if you don’t. On the other
hand, the iron must not be overheated, or
the tinning becomes burnt off and it has
to be re-filed and tinned again. Second, you
cannot solder a dirty surface- —it must be
scraped clean of rust, dirt or grease by means
of an old knife-blade before the flux is
applied. The fluxes for the different metals
are: Spirits of salts killed by having pieces
of zinc dropped into it for tin ; neat spirits
of salts for galvanised iron—applied with a
feather for a brush —and the paste soldering
flux for brass, copper or iron. Don’t put
on great blobs of solder —try to get the neat,
smooth finish typical of a competent
plumber’s work. It’s quite easy, if you have
thoroughly cleaned up the surfaces and have
the iron at the proper heat, and a little
practice soon gives the knack. After the job
is done wipe it free of flux with a wet rag.
Don’t try to solder aluminium. It can
be done, but it’s never worth the trouble.
SNAKE-TRAPS.
“Gumblegubbin”: Should a snake take up
its quarters under a farmhouse, it may be
caught easily with a rabbit or dingo trap.
If the reptile has a regular track, set the
trap on it, just under the wall, buried so
that the plate is level with the surface off
the ground. Sprinkle a little sand over it.
If the sleepers are off the ground all round,
set several traps wherever tracks are noticed,
or where the snake has been observed.
I have seen a fairly large snake caught
in a small circular mouse-trap, where it had
gone after a trapped mouse, and many a
one entangled in the meshes of a netted-
wire fence. Wire-netting is often used near
houses when a snake is known to be
about. The wire is fastened to a few
stakes in the form of a small pen or hen-
coop. and a live mouse or frog is imprisoned
in the centre to entice the reptile to commit
siiicide. A small mesh that will not admit
the body of the snake is used, so that in
turning it ties itself up. Sometimes the
bait is a saucer of milk, which is generally
a fatal attraction to a black snake —and
it is the black snake that mostly gets under
houses. x\nother effective means is to tether
a frog with a strong piece of cord to a stout
stake. When the reptile swallows the frog
it is held there. Nor is it always necessary
to sacrifice the frog, for the amphibian
usually makes a frantic outcry when it can’t
escape from its deadly enemy, which can
then be shot.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I have read that a disease breaks out
at intervals of five to seven years amongst
the rabbits in North America, and so reduces
their numbers as to prevent their becoming
a pest as in Australia. Is it a germ disease,
and if so would not an experiment with
it in Australia be worth while? —643.
The disease has never been scientifically
investigated and it is not possible to state
whether it is communicable to other animals
or man. It would be dangerous, even if it
were possible, to introduce it here —it might
attack other animals. Anyway introduc-
tion is illegal under the Quarantine and
Noxious Acts.
(1) Where to sell Angora-rabbit wool in
Melbourne? (2) Will they catch cold after
shearing? (3) Any book on the subject? —
Sio.
(1) No demand, so far as we know. (2)
Great care is required to nrotect the animals
from draughts. (3) “Fur Farming for
Profit,” by F. G. Ashbrook, and “Rabbits
for Fur and Flesh,” by C. J. Davies (Robert-
son and Mullens).
According to advices from U.S r A. it would
appear that in the world crash of prices
fax was one of the very few farm products
that continued to show profitable results.
Why is that 50? —737.
All farm products are liable to a severe
drop in price owing to the world economic
position. If flax is continuing to show pro-
fitable results in the U.S.A. there must be
some special and artificial reason. In .Maori-
land the flax industry is so depressed that
the Arbitration Court has just reduced
wages by one-third.
(1) Would sesame grow in the coastal dis-
tricts of Queensland? (2) Would it he a
profitable crop? (3) Is any sesame oil im-
ported into Australia? (4) Likely markets?
—747.
(1) No difficulty should be experienced in
getting sesame to grow in the coastal dis-
tricts of Queensland if good soils are chosen.
If the plant matures its seed during the wet
season some will be lost through shedding.
(2) There is no official record to indicate
•whether it is a profitable crop to grow. The
Queensland Agriculture Department estab-
lished an experiment plot at Monto, but it
was shown that the harvesting, curing and
threshing involved a good deal of labor, and
difficulty was experienced in handling the
crop, owing to the ease with which the seed
was shed immediately the cured plants were
handled. (3) Kapok and sesame are classed
under the one heading by the Customs
Department. The combined value of an im-
portation from China for the year ending
June 30, 1930, was only fl. (4) England
appears to be the most suitable market.
How to treat mammitis in cows? —659.
Give the cow' lib. Epsom salts, 2oz. ginger,
1 quart warm water. Massage the udder fre-
quently and strip often. Should abscesses
appear on the udder, apply eapsolin blister,
and as they form a head they should be
opened and flushed out with w'arm boracic
solution. The Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories supply a vaccine for the prevention
of the disease. To prevent the spread of
mammitis, hand-milk affected cows after the
healthy ones, put the milk into a bin of dis-
infectant, and if possible keep them isolated.*
Do not milk on to the floor of bails. Should
only one or two cows be affected, the sound-
est scheme would be to fatten these and dis-
pose of them for slaughter.
Would it he worth a man's while having a
shot at tobacco-growing in the Tamworth
( N,B. W. ) district ?—979.
It might. The district is classed as a
tobacco-growing area, and the prospects of
the industry are good if leaf is produced
suitable for the requirements Of the market.
It is suggested that you should visit the
district and interview some of the growers
at Dungow'an as to costs.
HINTS FOE THE FARM.
“Honi Pikau” : In 54 trials conducted by
the Department of Agriculture in different
parts of Maoriland, the application of l|cwt.
of super, per acre to the turnip crop has
given an average yield of 21.8 tons as against
12 tons where no manure -was used. Apart
from increasing the yield of roots, We have
it on the authority of Russell of Rotlramstod
that super, increases the palatability and
feeding value of turnips. This has been
tested by putting stock on a field of turnips
part of which has been unmanured; the
stock will invariably oat the manured roots
down to the ground first.
“Gw'alior": The best onion crop this
Queenslander has seen for a long time is
ten acres of Early Hunter River, seed
planted late in June. Growers spoil their
market by trying too many varieties; pick
out at most two and make sure Early Hunter
River is one of them. If sown through a
seed-sower and your ground is in good order,
a pound of seed per acre is sufficient.
“Malo”: To guard against “seedy ’ pump-
kins, melons and tomatoes, try coaxing the
vines to grow in furrows instead of on hil-
locks They will soon reach a long way
from the centres in both directions and the
crop will set at the ends of the runners.
Dirt can be filled in upon the vines where
they root afresh in the furrows, and, later,
the original roots can be removed outright.
To treat tomatoes in this way, lateral
growth must be permitted and plenty of
water allowed in the growing stage; the
crop also needs to be sown earlier than
usual. • , . ,
“Biro”: To keep rats and birds from
grapes it is worth while netting an enclosure,
overhead as well as sides, with fine-meshed
wire. As to that, a rest room for the summer
can "be made by training grape-vines over a
rectangular frame; if joined to the verandah,
it makes an ideal tea-room also. A drip-
safe placed in such a room is nearly as good
as an ice-chest, for there is no cooler screen
than grape-leaves and they keep the air
percolating. .
“Valerin”: After 30 years’ experience of
all kinds and makes of farm machinery I
plump for Australian-made every time. First
cost is a minor detail in comparison with
maintenance, and this is where Australian-
made wins. Our machinery is stronger with
fewer working parts and consequently fewer
duplicates. These are the things that cost
money. . ,
“Paul C.’’: The most convenient site tor
a farm dam is where a gully narrows in
its course. At the narrowest point is the best
place to build the wall, provided the bottom
is of clay, sandstone or slate, and the wall
should be at least three feet above water
level -when the dam is full. It is a good plan
to plant couch or other suitable grass on
its top and outer side, as this keeps the
bank from washing away during heavy rains.
“E.A.M.”; If you have a soakage about
the yard which persistently refuses to dry
up, sink a hole in it about 2ft. 6in. deep and
throw in broken glass bottles, china and the
like. Fill it in, and there should be no more
trouble.
“Tuart”: The decline of Federation (B.
7/l/’3IV is not confined to Victoria. Says
the N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette”: “In
N. S. Wales the area sown to Federation
in 1925 was 853,430 acres, which in 1929
had decreased to 679,043 acres. It is at
present the second leading variety of the
State, but is being rapidly superseded by
Union, Bena and Nabhwa. In Victoria in
1925 it was first favorite, and in 1929 was
still the second most popular variety. In
South Australia it was the second leading
variety in 1925 and still occupies that place.
In Western Australia it was the fourth
variety in popularity in 1925, but to-day
there "is only a small acreage sown there as
compared with Nabawa ”


WHAT A ROUSING CHRISTMAS
IT HAS BEEN AT BROKEN HILL!
Now, A HAPPY NEW YEAR to
Everybody is what
THE BARRIER MINER’ wants to see.
Down with the Croaker and up with the
Joker for 1931.
Keep the Flag Flying in “The Barrier Miner,"
the Great Newspaper for the Woolgrowers.
Now for a
day of
uninterrupted
leasing
£5
W
t;
THIS happy family enjoys
motoring holidays. They
will enjoy this one because,
amongst other things, they
have taken the easy pre-
caution to see that their
tyres are properly inflated.
Take a minute or two be-
fore a holiday outing or
business trip by motor, and
regularly at least once a
week, to see that your tyres
are properly inflated.
Use a Schrader Tyre Gauge
to test the pressure in your
tyres. It is rugged, inex-
pensive, easy to use.
Your tyre supplier will tell
you the correct pressure for
your tyres, and will furnish
you with aGenuineSchrader
Tyre Gauge.
Be sure it’s a SCHRADER
Look for the Name
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
2
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
HAIR
here's
<tmy -
e
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CUUris CM EX 1C AN)
VkUnut^ioMt
♦removes the grey
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6), 6d. being postage.
è
Legal Notices.
Re FRANCIS MAYBURY—Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order in the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice in England dated
the 21st day of October 1930 and made in an Action
in the matter of the Trusts of the Will of Francis
Maybury deceased late of Forest Gate in the County
of Essex Foxon v. Attorney-General 1930 M. No. 2060
whereby the following enquiry was directed namely
an enquiry whether Elizabeth Morelli the daughter
of the abovenamed Testator Francis Maybury in his
Will named is living or dead and if dead when
she died and who by devise descent or otherwise is
entitled to the freehold property at Forest Gate in
the County of Essex by the Testator’s Will devised
after the death of his grand-daughter Elizabeth
Isabella Taylor in the event of her dying without
issue upon trust for the said Elizabeth Morelli
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons claiming
to be entitled under the said enquiry are on or before
the 15th day of March 1931 to send by post pre-paid
to James Smith Solicitor of 8 New Square Lincoln’s
Inn London their full Christian and Surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims or in default thereof they will be excluded
from the benefit of the said Order unless the Court
or Judge on application otherwise orders. Claimants
are to attend personally or by Solicitor before Master
Watkin Williams at the Chambers of the Judge Room
No. 157 Royal Courts of Justice Strand London on
Wednesday the 25th day of March 1931 at 12.0
noon being the time appointed for adjudicating upon
the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales must
send with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in England or Wales to whom
notices to the Claimants can be sent.
Dated this 26th day of November, 1930.
R. T. WATKIN WILLIAMS,
Master.
RIDER, HEATON, MEREDITH & MILLS,
8 New Square, Lincoln’s Inn, London, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
NOTEIt is believed that the said Elizabeth Morelli
went to Melbourne, Australia, with her children
over 40 years ago and that there is issue of the
said Elizabeth Morelli.
NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
PE JOHANN JOACHIM FRIEDRICH HEINRICH
HOLLMANN late of Upper Broadwater near
Stanthorpe in the State of Queensland Orchardjst
k NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be next of kin of the abovenamed
rOI-lANN JOACHIM FRIEDRICH HEINRICH HOLL-
vIANN late of Upper Broadwater near Stanthorpe
n the State of Queensland who died on or about
he Fifteenth day of December 1919 at Upper Broad-
tv a ter near Stanthorpe in the said State are hereby
•equested to forward proof of their relationship to
the Public Curator Brisbane Queensland on or
lefore the Thirty-first day. of July 1931.
AND THAT after that date the Public Curator
vill proceed to distribute the assets of the said
leceased amongst the persons entitled thereto having
■egard only to the claims of which he shall then
lave had notice. Information as to the whereabouts
if Ludwig Heinrich Carl (or Karl) Bernhard Holl-
mann and Carl (or .Karl) Cord (or Ivord) Hollmann,
brothers of the said JOHANN JOACHIM FRIED-
RICH HEINRICH HOLLMANN or of their children
(if any) is particularly desired.
Dated this fifth day of January, 1931.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane, Queensland.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
Ho Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
for
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN -LI VERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 135 Sussex Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Paramount’s “Laughter,” shown for the
first time iu Australia at Sydney Capitol,
will give many film-fans a shock. Some-
thing like getting a book of modern poems
in mistake for an Edgar Wallace. The whim-
sical theme is brilliantly used by the great
D’Arrast to emphasise some of the simple
truths of life.
O. Morton Gibson, millionaire, who is
elderly in mind as well as in years, and lias
forgotten how to laugh if he ever knew, mar-
ries Peggy, a mercurial Follies girl. She is
starved for laughter, which can be as serious
in its pathological effects as being starved
for love. Enter Paul Lockridge, whom she
threw over for riches, who is of her own
period, understands her jokes, and sympa-
thises with her often outrageous views.
There are misunderstandings, scenes and
eventually a tragedy, with the husband
always right and always in the wrong; and
then youth turns to youth, like to like.
If there is a defect in a magnificent pro-
duction it consists in the director’s deter-
mination to justify his rather feeble title.
The characters keep bursting into guffaws
to the detriment of illusion. Not that there
isn’t plenty to be amused at. Rarely on a
stage or from a screen has Sydney heard so
many gay and glittering sayings. The artist-
lover alone has enough to stock the average
comedy. But they are not such stuff as
laughter is made of: a quick smile is the
right tribute. The acting is masterly. J. F.
Archibald used to say that a stylist could
turn the butt of a cigar into a novel. Frank
Morgan has done as much by turning an
obtuse cuckold into a man we understand
and admire. The ridiculous capitalist is
really the hero of the piece, and it seems
right, though it is doubtful if the director
meant it. Fredric Marsh, who plays the
lover, is as polished and sure as he was in
“Sarah and Son,” and the performances of
Diane Ellis and Glenn Anders quite equal
his. Nancy Carroll is a little wooden by
comparison with her fellow-stars.
“Laughter” is stimulating if only for the
constant reminders it gives of the advances
that have been made lately in photography
and the mechanisation of sound. As the
aeroplane already plays tricks that are be-
yond birds, so the sound-machine produces
illusions which are beyond the stage. The
devices for tickling the ear’s memory are
most apparent in the minutiae. When Nancy
Carroll pours out a drink the “glug” is exact
as the liquor leaves the decanter. A com-
bination of sound and light is applied to a
thunderstorm in a manner which leaves the
stage standing still. The flashes are replicas
and the thunder more real than the human
ear has heard.
¥ * #
Sydney Lyceum gave “Tollable David” its
Australian kick-off. David is a boy with a
man’s ambitions. H'e is shoved aside, with
maddening smiles, as too young when he
wants to do a big job such as driving the
mail. In the primitive part of the U.S.A.
where he and his family farm, differences
are settled without reference to the sheriff.
His brother is crippled for life by hand
of villainy, and his father is shot in an
attempt to avenge the wrong, but he can’t
carry the feud on; he is only 16. Luck gives
him the chance to do deeds of spectacular
heroism that millions of boys are perform-
ing in daydreams all over the world. He
kills his enemies—all three of them —in
defence of the mail, delivers his sacred
charge at the post-office, and then collapses
in a bloodstained swoon into the arms of
the admiring villagers.
There is no room for subtle acting in such
a plot, so Richard Cromwell (David), Noah
Beery (head villain), and even pretty Joan
Peers, David’s child-sweetheart, lay the
emotion on with a trowel. Noah Beery
presents one of those scoundrels who are so
extravagantly bestial in appearance and
habits that they are in danger of becoming
likeably comic. He is as hard to* hate as a
lunatic, which may be why the director has
him killed “off.” Richard Cromwell is a
nice-looking lad with a sense of humor, as
well as a conspicuous talent for registering
agony of spirit and body. All the other
members of the small cast do well, and the
scenic effects are fascinating—a series of
summertime pictures of villages, farms and
country roads as lush and mellow as those
of Devonshire.
* * #
Sydney Regent starred Fox Movietone’s
“Scotland Yard” in place of its other Fox
film, “Up the River,” on a recent bill. Heaven
knows why. “Up the River,” already
noticed in this column, is a charming blend
of light sentiment and satire; “Scotland
Yard” is a crude English melodrama with
American principals. Sir John Lasher (Ed.
Lowe) is killed at the war. Lady Lasher
(Joan Bennett) isn’t sorry; he was a drunk,
and she had never loved him anyhow. Dakin
Barolles, a criminal friend of the family,
gets a bad face wound, and, having a locket
containing portraits of Sir John and Lady
Lasher on him at the time, he is (1) mis-
taken for the dead man by the authorities
and (2) made to look so like him by a
plastic surgeon that no one can tell the
difference for a time. He and Lady Lasher
come to love each other. Sir Clive, the
Scotland Yard chief, wishes them well, but
has his suspicions. The masquerader is
exposed, but Sir Clive, satisfied that there
has been a change of soul as well as face,
decides benevolently to compound a felony
or two.
Edmund Lowe gives a clever reproduction
of an English voice, but he obviously isn’t
English, and Joan Bennett doesn’t even try
to be. Easily the best performance is that
of the Scotland Yard magnate, but his name
is missing from the programme. As in most
Hollywood pictures of English life the male
characters booze and smoke cigarettes most
of the time.
There was an innovation in the form of a
full-length Australian news reel by Fox
Movietone on this bill. These absorbing
pictures go all over the world, and should
do more to advertise the Commonwealth in
Britain than herds of wandering politicians
and officials.
THE. KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA.
nPHE Committee of the Old Boys’ Union
invites competition for the writing of
the words of a Song for the School, to be
sung on such occasions as Commemoration
Day, the Annual Dinner, etc.
The Song should be limited to four verses,
or three verses with a refrain, and must suit-
ably treat the tradition and sentiment of the
School, which was founded in 1831.
A prize of £lO will be awarded to the suc-
cessful competitor.
One or more adjudicators will be appointed,
and the decision of such will be final, but no
award will be made if the adjudicators are
of opinion that no entry sufficiently covers
the ground.
The. copyright in the selected verses must
remain the property of the Union.
Entries close on the thirty-first day of March,
1931, and must be sent in signed with a
nom-de-plume only, hut with a covering
envelope containing name and address and
addressed to the Hon. Secretary of the
King’s School Old Boys’ Union, Warwick
Building, Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Any further particulars required will be
given on application to Mr. G. W. Ash, the
President of the Union, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney, or to Mr. F. A. Brodie, the Hon.
Secretary.
It is proposed to have a separate competition
for the Music.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must b;* confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Male nurse, Q’land, 20 years’ experience, offers
services to invalid for a passage to England.—926.
Ex-Digger (56), married, Sydney, with commercial
and varied exp., wants j0b.—932.
To buy “Hits, Skits and Jingles,” by W. T. Goodge.
—934.
To purchase home-grown edible nuts. —914.
Well-educated young lady, Q., wants position as
subsidised schoolteacher or teacher to one or more
families, anywhere.—92o.
Experienced energetic young man with 40,000
acres, south-west Q’land, wants partner with £lOOO.
—921.
Lady, Q'land (40), secretarial exp., desires position
as companion to travelling lady.—974.
Young man, Sydney, typist, own machine, wants
any kind of typing work ; specialises in manuscripts.
—BlB.
Young man, Sydney, good office training, wants
position anywhere, correspondence clerk or organising.
—Bl9.
Tutor, Vie. (35), seeks engagement; athlete; go
anywhere. Refs. —956.
Man (35), N.S.W., wants position as boundary
rider or general station hand; can count and draft
sheep. Refs.—BB 6.
Governess, Vic., seeks engagement; general course
or study and music.—BB 9.
Girl, 17, commercial-school course, typing and
honors in book-keeping, wants position in office. —912.
To buy “Pugh’s Queensland Almanac” 1859, ’6l,
’62, ’63 and ’65, or will exchange for other dates.
—960.
To buy “Character and Sex,” by Otto Weininger.
—862.
To buy Vol. II “Memoirs of (General) Joseph
Holt,” by T. Crofton Croker (London, 1838).—901.
Will exchange vocal scores of “The Arcadians”
and “Chu Chin Chow” for “Merry Widow’’ or “Kiss-
ing Time.” —969.
Whereabouts of Albert Ernest Devereaux. (To
Darcy T. Wright, Tullamore, Sorell, Tas.)
English words of “Hohe Liebe” and “Seliger Tod,”
by Von Uhland; also name of author and words of
“The Glory of the Garden.”—s2l.
Words of verses, “Barcoo Jim’s Bath” and “Old
Content.” —903.
Information Sought.
(1) Can process-color blocks be made
from black-and-white drawings? '2) How
are process blocks, which include both line
and half-tone, work, madefy— B99.
(1) Yes. A color guide is supplied in
words, and the engraver uses his own judg-
ment. (2) In making a block of this kind
the line negative and the screen negative
when “stripped” are placed together so as
to allow the etching of the combined nega-
tives on one-plate of metal. The portion
to be line-etched is made by the line pro-
cess, while the half-tone portion is coated
with a “resist” which prevents the acid
eating into it while the line portion is being
etched. Then while the half-tone section
of the plate is being etched, the line portion
is protected. In some cases the line and
half-tone portions are made separately and
then cut out and mounted together on one
block.
Meaning of the following aeronautical
terms: (1) zoom, (2) slip-stream and (3)
pancake? —B77.
(1) To climb for a short time at an angle
greater than that which can be maintained
in steady flight, the aeroplane being carried
upward at the expense of its kinetic energy.
This term is sometimes used as a noun to
denote any sudden increase in the upward
slope of the flight path. (2) The stream of
air driven astern bv the propeller. (3) To
level off an aeroplane at a greater altitude
than normal in landing, thus causing it to
stall and to descend on a steeply-inclined
path with the wings at a very large angle of
attack and without appreciable bank.
My shrubs have become dotted with a
white soft scale. (1) What is it? (2)
The remedy ? —B6B.
■ (1) It appears to be Indian wax-scale.
(2) Make a mixture of 21b. washing soda,
2oz. caustic soda and dissolve in four gallons
of hot water. Stir thoroughly and apply
while warm with a strong jet-spray or a
brush. One treatment in January and
another in late February will clean the
pest up.
Is blackwater fever caused by the exces-
sive use of quinine, taken to combat malaria?
—BBO.
The theory is not generally accepted. If
it were correct, one would expect black-
water fever to be regularly prevalent in
malarial countries and to be more or less
co-extensive with the use of quinine, which
is not at all the case. According to the
modern school of tropical parasitology, it is
a disease due to a protozoal parasite akin to
that which causes the redwater fever of
cattle.
Method of fishing for snapper and black
bream and best baits to use? —898.
In N. S. Wales snapper are usually caught
by means of a line, baited with any kind of
fish. Mackerel, yellow,tail, mullet, shark,
sqilid and starfish are mostly used. The
snapper is a large fish requiring careful play-
ing and some skill to land successfully. Black
bream can be caught by net or hand-line.
Hauling and meshing nets are employed.
In the case of line-fishing the best bait is the
nipper prawn, though the common prawn is
suitable. Mackerel or oysters are some-
times used with success.
How do Starr-Bowkett building societies
f miction? —885. ■ •
The rights of members to loans are deter-
mined by periodical ballot or by the sale of
ballot rights. The usual procedure is that the
member pays a subscription of 6d. per share
per week for 15 years, or in some cases
until the last appropriation is made, and
is entitled to a loan of £5O in respect of each
share held. Loans are repayable by in-
stalments spread over liO to 12i years
without interest. The duration of societies
varies, but frequently over 20 years elapse
before the last loan is made. When an
advance lias been made to all members
remaining in the society the process of
winding up commences; share capital is
repaid as repayments in respect of loans
accumulate.
My youngster goes in for stamp-collecting.
Can you give a few hints as to points that
should he observed when making purchases?
—950.
(1) Refuse any but perfect copies, free
from cuts, tears, stains, finger-marks, etc.
(2) Unused stamps should preferably have
the original gum on the back. (3) In the
case of used stamps select lightly post-
marked copies. (4) Sec that perforation
teeth are intact, and that the margins of
alleged imperforated stamps are sufficiently
wide to make it certain that they are not
perforated stamps cut down. (5) The print
of a stamp should be well centred, and the
color well preserved; the paper should not
be rubbed or thinned down at the back.
“Stamp Collecting’’ (Nelson, London) will
be found helpful.
Why is a publican sometimes termed Boni-
face and a barmaid Hebe? —947.
(1) Will Boniface was a famous char-
acter in Farquhar’s comedy “The Beaux’
Stratagem” (1707). He was the sleek and
jolly landlord of an inn at Lichfield, in
league with the highwaymen in the play.
(2) Hebe, in Greek mythology, w r as the
goddess of youth, and cupbearer to the im-
mortals before Ganymede superseded her.
She w T as the wife of Hercules, and had the
power of making the aged young.
(1) Value of rice imported into Australia
p.a.f (2) Has there t been any decrease in
imports since the recent rise in tariff? —533.
(lj For year ending June 30, 1930, im-
ports of uncleaned rice totalled 566,9001 b.,
valued at £3439; other rice, 11,289,3001 b.,
valued at £86,283. (2) Yes. In the four
months, July to October, 1929, 111,1001 b. of
uncleaned rice and 3,251,4001 b. of rice
(n.e.i.), valued respectively at £637 and
£24,732, were imported, and during the cor-
responding period this year 37001 b. of un-
cleaned rice and 2,394,8001 b. of rice (n.e.i.),
valued respectively at £35 and £14,973, were
imported.
What is the rule in golf when (1) the
ball is in casual wafer lying, on the course
and (2) when the ball is in casual water on
the putting green? —93B.
(1) The player may drop a ball, with-
out penalty, within two club lengths of the
margin as near as possible to the spot where
the ball lay, but not nearer to the hole. If
a ball, when dropped, rolls into the water,
it may be redropped without penalty. (2)
If a ball on the putting green lies in casual
water, or if casual water intervenes between
a ball lying on the putting green and the
hole, the ball may be played where it lies,
or it may be lifted without penalty and
placed by hand, either within two club
lengths directly behind the spot from which
the ball w ; as lifted, or in the nearest posi-
tion to that spot which is not nearer to the
hole and which affords a putt to the hole
without casual water intervening.
I reside in one of the coldest parts of
Tasmania. This year I will be doing a lot
of concrete work on my property. Can you
tell me- —(1) What temperatures are unfavor-
able for curing concrete? (2) What is the
effect of frost on concrete? (3) Can con-
crete which has been frozen be recovered?
l 4) What special precautions should be
taken in case concrete has frozen?. —945.
(1) Temperatures below 50deg. Fahr. are
considered unfavorable for the early curing
period. Below 40deg. the curing is greatly
retarded and at freezing temperatures it
cannot set strongly. (2) It disrupts the
mass and permanently impairs the strength.
(.3) With very careful thawing-out treat-
ment it wall acquire considerable strength,
but .will never be as strong as' if it were
made in warmer conditions. (4) It is par-
ticularly important to keep it from drying
out after having thawed. Flooding with
warm water j.nd keeping the surrounding air
at a temperature above 70deg. Fahr. would
be the best treatment. Because of its low
humidity, winter air has a great avidity for
water when its temperature is raised, so that
an unprotected concrete structure dries out-
very rapidly in such air.
How is oxygen separated , and what litera-
ture is available concerning the process? —
655.
The latest method is the Linde process
of distillation of liquid air, described in the
“Times Engineering Supplement,” April 14,
1909.
Hoic are (1) absinthe and (2) vermouth
made?—Bo7.
(1) The characteristic flavoring matter
is derived from various species of wormwood.
Among the other substances generally em-
ployed are angelica root, sweet flag, dittamy
leaves, star-anise fruit, fennel and hyssop. A
colorless alcoholate is first prepared, and to
this the well-known green color of the bever-
age is imparted by maceration with green
leaves of wormwood, hyssop and mint.
Inferior varieties are made by means of
essences, the distillation process being
omitted. (2) The basis consists of a forti-
fied and aromatised white wine. The wine is
fortified with spirit up to a strength of
about 15 p.c. alcohol, and is then stored
in casks exposed to the sun’s rays for a year
or two. Another portion of the wine is forti-
fied up to a strength of about 50 p.c. alcohol,
and in this various aromatic and tonic
materials are macerated in casks which are
exposed to the sun in the same way as the
bulk of the wine. The two liquids are then
mixed in such proportions as to make the
strength of the product 17 p.c. alcohol.
(1) Would it be constitutional for a Minis-
try to be formed of members from all the par-
ties represented in Parliament? (2) Could
a law be introduced compelling all parties to
co-operate? —Bs6.
(1) Quite, and in Westralia such a Minis-
try has been seriously proposed by the
Attorney-General, who, with two other
Ministers, has offered to stand down to admit
of the Opposition being represented. (2)
It could; it might even be passed; but it
could be repealed.
(1) What is the difference between dic-
tionary, encyclopedia and lexicon? (2) Who
were the Rosicrucians ? —759.
A dictionary, which is the same as a
lexicon, defines briefly the meaning of
words; an encyclopaedia gives fuller informa-
tion concerning the subjects to which the
words apply. (2) The Rosicrucians or
“Brethren of the Rosy Cross,” flourished in
the seventeenth century and traced their
tenets to a fifteenth-century founder, Rosen-
ereutz. They dabbled in alchemy and astro-
logy and other pseudo-sciences.
Any recent Australian figures available as
to household budgeting—adjustment of in-
come to expenditure and the proportions
spent on food, clothing, fuel, lighting, etc.?
—Bl5.
No, but there was a recent Maoriland in-
vestigation, as a result of which it was
shown that the proportion of expenditure
on food steadily decreases as the total in-
come of the family increases. The propor-
tion spent on housing is greatest in the
lowest-income group and lowest in the
highest-income group. The groups between
£6 and £7 per week show increases as com-
pared with the immediately preceding groups.
Expenditure on clothing, drapery and foot-
wear is higher proportionately in the higher-
income groups than in the lower-income
groups'. Fuel and lighting are responsible
for between 5.5 and 7.6, per cent, of the total
expenditure, the highest figure being recorded
in the case of incomes of between £4 and £4
10s. per week, while successive decreases in
the proportion spent on this item are shown
to occurred as the income increases be-
yond £4 10s. per week. Miscellaneous items
are responsible for a steadily increasing pro-
portion of family expenditure as the income
rises, the variation between the lowest-in-
come group and the highest being very con-
siderable (21.3 per cent, in the lowest and
34.7 per cent, in the highest groups).
When a motor-cycle is travelling over a
bumpy road docs the rear wheel, owing to its
being bounced off the ground, perform more
revolutions than the front one? —910.
Yes. As soon as the fear wheel leaves the
ground the load on the engine is diminished,
and the engine races. This has been the
cause of many troubles in road and track
races, owing to the strain thrown on the
engine when the rear wheel bites again and
the motor is suddenly jerked back to its
former r.p.m.
How should a cork carburetter float be
treated which has become benzine-logged?-
83S.
■Dry the float and then soak it in a solu-
tion of shellac and methylated spirit for an
hour or two.
The tallest human being on record? —
973.
The Old Testament records that Og, King
of Bashan (about 1450 b.c.), slept in a
bed, by our measurement, 17ft. long, but, of
course, anybody could do that. Goliath
is reckoned at lift. 6in. Pliny says he saw
a giant 9ft. 9in. John Middleton, born 1578,
measured 9ft. 3in., and a gentleman at
present touring Australasia boasts Bft. 9|in.
What would it cost to bring about a uni-
fication of railway gauges in Australia? —
913.
The scheme recommended by the Royal
Commission of 1921 as a first step provides
for a standard 4ft. S|in. gauge railway
between Brisbane and Fremantle, and the
conversion of the whole of the broad-gauge
lines of Vie. and S.A. at an estimated cost
of £21,600,000. The estimated cost of con-
verting the whole of the lines in the States
concerned was given as approximately
£57,200,000.
(1) Can a Commonwealth patent be
obtained without the services of a patent
attorney? (2) Where? (3) What is the
initial procedure? (4) Can protection be
obtained against improvements, alterations
or slightly varied designs of the same nature
as the registered patent?■ —s93.
(1) Yes, but it is wiser to employ a com-
petent attorney. (2) Vic. applications must
be lodged at the Patent Office, Bourke-street,
Melbourne. (3) Lodge an application for a
patent, which must be accompanied by
either a provisional or a complete specifica-
tion, a statement of address for service, and
the prescribed filing fee of £l. Patent Office
will provide forms. (4) A patent may be
obtained upon an improvement in or modifica-
tion of an existing patented invention, but
mere alteration in the shape or configuration
of an invention would not justify the issue
of a new patent.
Can a blind person become a competent
musician f-"—931.
Yes, though the handicap is great. John
Stanley, bom blind, was at 11 organist of
an important church in England, and at 21
was occupying a similar position at the
Temple Church in London. Subsequently he
qualified for a doctorate in music. Two
other very famous organists and composers,
Wolstenholme and Hollins, were blind, and
one of the great pianists of the world, Marie
von Paradis, was similarly afflicted.
(1) Would a first-class passenger travel-
ling to America get any reduction in fare
for a personal attendant? Where would his
servant be berthed and, have his meals? (2)
Would the passenger have to pay for medical
attendance aboard? —933.
(1) Servants accompanying their em-
ployers and travelling first-class are charged
two-thirds of the usual fare, located in
cabins at the company’s choice and furnished
with meals at the second-class table. (2)
On trans-Pacific liners medical attendance
on passengers is free in case of accident or
an outbreak of an epidemic, but in other
cases the surgeon can charge first- and
second-class passengers ss. per visit.
Brief Answers.
Medicus: Consult “Universities’ Year
Book”... .E.W.P.: Kyrac Pty., Ltd., 49 Bull-street,
Bendigo, Vic J.S.: (1) Write 1.C.5., 140
Elizabeth-street, and Metropolitan Business College,
6 Dalley-street—both Sydney. (2) Very helpful....
P.G.W.: N.S.W. Agriculture Department advises that
the Jersey cow Lady Prometheus of Binna Burra,
owned by E. W. Flower, of Binna Burra, produced
687.2351 b. and 531.941 b. butter fat for 365 and 273
days respectively as a two-year-old cow W.M.R.:
It is necessary for a N.S.W. dairy farmer selling
scalded cream, no matter how large or small the
quantity, to apply to the local authority (in a
municipality to the Town Clerk, in a shire to the
police station) for registration of his premises....
H.J.G.: Muscio’s “Industrial Psychology,” Burns's
“Philosophy of Labor,” Gilbreth’s “Psychology of
Management”. .. .G.D.S.: (1) Out of print. Try the
secondhand shops. (2) Probably by Jean Paul
Richter. Most of his works have been translated into
English. Pay a visit to the N.S.W. Public Library.
. ...A.R.C.: See report on the use of windmills for
generation of electricity issued by the Institute of
Agricultural Engineering, Oxford Uni. There’s a
copy at N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney... .E.P.:
“Practical Millinery,” by Anslow ; “Modern Millinery,”
by Lyon; “Make Your Own Hats*” by Martin....
P. 0.5.: “A Short History of Chinese Civilisation,”
by Richard Wilhelm (17s. 6d.), Robertson and
Mullens, Melbourne... .A.P.S.: The tallow should be
as clean as possible, and free from salt. To every
41b. add lib. plumbago and about -lib. soft soap. Mix
thoroughly.... J. 0.: Try Elliott Bros, O’Connell-
street, Sydney. .. .J.R.: (1) M. Witmark and Sons,
114 West 37th-street; Waterson, Berlin and Snyder,
1571 Broadway; Schuberth and Co., 11 East 22nd-
street—all New York. (2) Copyright in Australia
would not protect you in U.S.A. You would have
to copyright there. .. .T.S.: The Currajong sank in
collision with the Wyreema in Sydney Harbor, March
8, 1910. One life was lost. She was blown to
pieces by divers a few days later.... J.L.R.: Elec-
trolysis is the only reliable treatment. You can
bleach the hairs with peroxide of hydrogen, which in
time weakens the growth... .E.H.: (1) W. Shaw
Sparrow’s “The Fifth Army in March, 1918” gives a
comprehensive account of the Fifth Army’s fighting.
Many British divisional histories since published deal
in detail with parts played by those divisions in
the offensive. (2) See bibliography in “Statesman’s
Year Book” (1930), available N.S.W. Public Library,
Sydney... .J.R. (Etheridge): Compulsory registra-
tion of births took effect in Ireland from 1864 and
a certificate of registration of a birth since that
year should be procurable from the Registrar-General,
Dublin, Irish Free State. Fee for copy (including
search), 5s W.A.8.: “Economic Review” (weekly,
Is. 6d.), 6 John-street, Adelphi, E.C.2 ; “Economica”
(quarterly, 2s. 6d.), London School of Economics,
Houghton-street, W.C.2 ; “Economist” (weekly, Is.),
3 Arundel-street, W.C.2—all London; “Economic
Journal” (quarterly, 65.), King’s College, Cambridge.
... .E.G.S.: See “Mirror,” January 6, 1931, page 46.
....J.K.: German—start with Otto’s “Elementary
German Grammar” (4s. 5d.) ; “German Conversation”
(7s. 9d.) and Hugo’s “German Simplified’’ (7s. 9d.).
French—Heath’s “Modern French Grammar” (ss.
9d.) ; Otto’s “French Conversation” (7s. 9d.) ; Hugo’s
“French Simplified” (7s. 9d.) —Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .W.C.: lialianna (“to ascend, to climb
up”), Wirain (“sloping”), Bangalla (“a low hill”),
Dangal (“a shelter”), Narambang (“very good”).
W.J.S.: Stay where you ai’e. Not one chance
in a thousand of employment in Sydney J.M.J.:
Get in touch with Buzaeott and Co., 7 Market-street,
Sydney.... T.T.; The use of steam road vehicles in
Australia has not been extensive; the Transport
Department’s developmental policy is to encourage
the production in Australia of a fuel suitable for use
in internal-combustion engines.... V.W.: “Bullulah”
(bald ridge), “Calga” (stony ridge), “Bywong” (big
hill), “Dunoon” (a ridge), “Pindari” (high ground),
“Yarrawohga” (stony mountain) ... ,L.P.: Write Iven
G. Mackay, secretary, Sydney Uni. Extension Board.
... .H.D.A.: (1) A nose for news, an eye for pictures,
and sufficient photographic ability to produce, even
under very unfavorable lighting conditions, negatives
from which prints suitable for reproduction can be
made. (2) “The Complete Press Photographer,” by
B. R. Bell (Bs.) ... . E. J.G.: At June 30, 1928, it was
estimated that there were 228,183 permanent Govern-
ment employees (State and Federal) in Australia....
G.L.: Send particulars to Lyster Ormsby, 235 Castle-
rcagh-street, Sydney... .C.L.: The word was derived
from the name of Capt. Chas. Boycott, agent for an
absentee landlord in Ireland, who was declared “black.”
His life was threatened, his servants were compelled to
leave him, his fences were torn down, his letters
intercepted and his food supplies interfered with.
. ...W.N.L.: Write Agriculture Department, Mel-
bourne, for pamphlet “Cider-making,” by J. Knight
(6d., post free) ... .M.K.: From Trewhella Bros.,
Trentham, Vic F.W.P.: Holystone is a soft kind
of sandstone used by sailors for scrubbing and
cleaning the decks of ships. The origin of the word
is doubtful. Some say it arose from the general
practice of scrubbing the decks for Sunday service.
Others think the name arises from the fact that the
stone is porous and full of h01e5.... Can: (1) Sydney
to Vancouver, Ist, £73; 2nd, £5O 10s.; 3rd, £3l
10s. (2) No definite amount specified, but immigrant
must be able to prove that he will not become a
public charge. (3) Useless going there unless you
have secured a job beforehand. (4) Apply American
Consul, Sydney... ,T.C.: Safest course is to embody
the wish in your will: “I desire that my body shall
be cremated after death and direct my executors to
take steps to that effect.” You should inform your
executors that you have made this provision, as
frequently the will is not read till after the funeral.
You can arrange with the Cremation Society to carry-
out your wishes and pre-pay costs. Address, 19
Bligh-street, Sydney... .H.V.P.: Harry Rountree was
born at Auckland (N.Z.) in 1878 and went to London
when he was 23. Present address: Dormers Well,
Southall, Middlesex, England... .F.M.S.: (1) Condi-
tions are depressed there as elsewhere. (2) Cattle-
raising. (3) Write Australian Investment Agency,
79 Pitt-street, Sydney... .N.C.: See “Aust. and N.Z.
Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book” (2s. 6d.)....
C.F.T.: Write Bert Bailey, Kendall Grange, Morisset,
N.S.W A.AV.: What you have in mind is a
quotation from Samuel Smiles’s “Self-Help” which
reads “No laws, however stringent, can make the
idle industrious, the thriftless provident, or the
drunken sober”... .G.T.: Formalin solution for killing
flies is made by adding one tablespoonful of formalin
to one pint of water. The solution should be exposed
in shallow vessels, such as saucers or soup plates,
in which a piece of bread or blotting paper is placed.
A little sugar and milk may be added... .G.H.:
None of the varieties appear to be sold by nursery-
men. Hazlewood Bros., Epping, N.S.W., have other
kinds in stock... .A.G.P.: Best plan would be to
write to the ministers of that religion. For names
and addresses see the “Religious Announcements” in
Saturday’s “S. M. Herald” ... .K.G.8.: There are. a
thousand causes of hives. An application of calamine
lotion to the skin is comforting... .D.T.: Wine, spirits,
or other alcoholic beverages are not allowed: toi be trans-
mitted through the post in Australia except in the
case of bona fide samples of a specified weight....
(Many others mailed.)


ROTO HU A
t/uhere mineral
waters glue health,
and happy Maori
people laugh and
liUe
a
■
mBSE®
W
m
?2®l2*S
rvas«^:
■ ■
r
<lll®
Come to
O M E for health .... or just for pleasure to the
extraordinary thermal marvels of Nature. Rotorua is
richly endowed with the waters of health. Well-equipped,
modern bath-houses, beautiful gardens and parks, electrical
and massage departments, a highly qualified Government
Balneologist . . .all combine to give that greatest gift of
all, HEALTH!
In the words of a visiting Doctor, “ There is probably no
spa in the world as rich in hot mineral waters covering so
wide a range of therapeutic possibilities.”
NIEW ZEAILA
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to—N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand.
Name
Address
SB s*'
Jorct
DIFFERENT fiofiday
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau, Martin Place,
Sydney; 59 William Street, Melbourne; Queen
Street, Brisbane; and all Travel Agencies.
be in
NEW
ZEALAND
3A
@m
WM
The Man Who Was Not Afraid.
ANOTHER OF
DULOIE DEAMER'S
POWERFUL STORIES OF THE
UNDERWORLD.
“WARIE, you dirty little slut, get out
IVI 11V t^ie Sent.’s way. You can’t play
’ere. An’ ’ere’s a lidy cornin’ ter see
the doctor, too. You get inside!”
A child of nine, with bare, dirty legs and
a dirty head, dragged a dirtier child of three
out of the tunnel-like passage where the
pattern of the linoleum was worn away as
grass is worn from a trodden track. A
smell of burnt food-fat impregnated the air,
as in the low-roofed communal-caverns of
rock-dwellers.
The lilac-grey of the outer twilight showed
where a door stood half-open. A stoop-
shouldered woman, as out of shape and semi-
crippled from motherhood and near-mother-
hood as an animal distorted by some rare
disease, pushed feebly past Phil Cotter.
She wore no hat, and a dark plush cape,
trimmed with imitation monkey-fur, shrouded
her shoulders.
Phil Cotter, with one hand almost touching
the wall as though he groped, took, stiffly,
the dozen or so necessary steps to the black-
painted threshold-stone. The lilac winter
dusk met him face to face. The doctor’s —or
rather the witch-doctor’s —den and the com-
munal-passage leading to it were behind him.
He stood with his back to a bit of blank
wall, and down the stony slope of the street
children’s Soap-boxes on wheels rattled as
they ran races.
The witch-doctor had once been an official
doctor, but he had broken some taboo of the
recognised medical priesthood and had been
disrated. His reputation ranked very high.
The under-people of the tribe came to him
freely, and paid him as they could —some-
times with five-pound notes in morocco
wallets that were the spoilof a “kill.” He
had narrow, sunken blue eyes that looked
through one as he spoke of one’s body
destiny, and. the women told each other that
he had second sight. The men laughed at
this, and believed it.
Phil Cotter believed it. And the witch-
doctor had just told him that in a "week or
two, inescapably, he would be dead.
He took out a cigarette and lit it, but he
had to strike four matches first. Then he
took off the pince-nez that he had to wear,
and wiped them, and put them back.
Tallish, slight, and just around thirty, was
Phil Cotter. Pale ; a bit dissipated-looking;
shabby. Only the fact that the witch-
doctor had imparted stayed with him —not
the explanation.
He believed it, and he was more afraid
than he had ever been before. And he had
often been afraid. For he was highly-strung,
and under-nourished, and a coward.
Imagination had been the rod laid across
his. slight shoulders. Of bankrupt theatrical-
artistic stock, his fitful schoolings had meant
playground punishment and an almost
psychic horror of school bullies. A show
stranding up country had given him a taste
of bush experience—and another hiding or
two for good measure. Then back to Sydney,
and jobs as shop-assistant, bookmaker’s
clerk, offsider in a starting-price shop.
(Fear of the officers of the tribal law had
been the impending shadow here.) And thus
and so the meeting with Darkie Driscoll the
Killer, and with the lads and Jessie.
A tigress, Jessie. At first she had hated
Phil because he was “different” —just drifted
round with the lads, and swopped drinks
and cigarettes, but never apparently cracked
anyone, or took a chance, or threw his weight
about. Then she began to mother him, and
to Phil she was a demi-goddess with lucid,
fear-empty, green-grey eyes. She worked
in an eating-place—three-course meals a
shilling. Many of the things she wore came
to her from the most precious city shops,
via the lads; but she continued to belong to
herself, like a young tigress whose surround-
ing jungle has not yet quickened into the
mating-time.
It was at this point that Darkie Driscoll
cut in. It was his intention to play tiger to
Jessie’s tigress, and Phil was distracting her
notice like a stale bone. One of the lads was
primed to get on to Phil and make a job of
him —scare him off.
This was done; but in the brief one-sided
mixup in a back lane, Darkie, who was
present, to supervise, accidentally encountered
an old antagonist of his own, and shot first,
and the other man fell across the gutter,
and the life bled out of him in a few
minutes.
There was just the chance that Phil,
beaten-up as he was, might crawl to the
officers of the tribal law—the outward tribal
law—and tell his tale. So Darkie stooped
over him, and said very distinctly:—
“If yer open yer mouth I’ll get you next.
An’ if me or any of the boys run across
yer sneakin’ round this part o’ the town,
yer’ll get a double dose of what yer’ve just
had. Swaller that, son.”
Which was principally why he was on his
feet —somehow or other—and out of the
picture before the officers of the tribal law
arrived. And he remained out of the picture
until the fits of dizziness, stomach-sinking
and sudden flashes of blindness that came on
in the next few weeks sent him, half-fur-
tively, to the witch-doctor of whom he had
heard through Jessie, and in whom he knew
she utterly believed, and whose lair was
close to the outer edge of Darkie Driscoll’s
hunting-ground—to enter which meant to go
looking for death’s half-brother at least.
Jessie he had not seen since the day
before the massacre. The three-course-meal-
for-a-shilling eating-place was well within
Darkie’s tentory, and Darkie had recently
rented a room in the senile, warren-building
where Jessie slept, kept her dresses, and
boiled water on a gas-ring. To write to her
would have served no good purpose. A
proved coward to her was just a coward.
Phil Cotter’s inner self sobbed for her
as though it were actually a child in a cradle
and she its mother. Just before the smash-
up she had begun to pat his shoulders, in-
quire as to whether he walked around all
day with wet feet, and intimate, half-
laughing, that he must come up to her
“place” and have a cup of tea with her,
and some toasted and buttered crumpets,
because they were nourishing, and it was
winter.
He had looked forward avidly to this
promise coming true.
. He found that he had smoked his cigarette
m about half the usual time, and took out
another one.
It had got darker, the tone of the dusk
turning from lilac to sapphire. At a corner
a little lower down a scuffle suddenly de-
veloped—two youths punching at each other
while a girl stood with her hands on her
hips on a doorstep laughing at them. There
was the quick shuf-shuffle of their feet, and
then one of them said, “Aw —Christ!” and
sagged back a pace or two with blood on his
face. The other said something to the girl
and made a grab at her. She jerked back,
but he pulled her to him off the step, and
in a moment she had fully given him back
his kiss.
It seemed to Phil Cotter that this girl
was just a hint like Jessie.
An electric something went through him;
a jolt, a barbed dart of life. He must see
Jessie! He was going to die. Hell, what
did anything matter now? One couldn’t do
more than die —and if it wasn’t to-night, it
would be within a fortnight.
It was as if a daybreak had occurred in
the middle of the dark hours. An unnatural,
brilliant rift. A current of vitality swept up
through him. He felt, as it were, twice him-
self. His spine stiffened and straightened.
The sag was out of his shoulders. The
sapphire dusk, that had been blurred and
blurring, seemed suddenly definite, like the
mineral facets of a gem.
He threw away the second cigarette. It
was after six-—too late for the pubs; but
that didn’t matter. Phil knew the run of
the ropes.
He went briskly down the street and round
to the right. Into Darkie Driscoll’s terri-
tory.
A knock at a yard gate, and a word, ad-
mitted him into one of the semi-occult
sanctuaries of the tribe’s under-people,
though quite a few from the official caste
used the password and were secret initiates.
In the back room where he drank his
quick double-header of half-matured whisky
one of the lads —one of Darkie’s pack—was
swallowing beer. The sight of Phil amazed
him.
“Whadyer lookin’ for?” he said.
“Nothing.”
“Yer’ll find more than that. Clear out,
son.”
“I’m not leaving yet.”
(No, not for a week or two. And then for
good.)
The other, an unremarkable person with
the hair shaved off the back of his neck,
glanced at Phil without any further com-
ment, put down his glass and went out.
Phil Cotter saw himself in the mirror-
back of the cheap stained-pine sideboard.
His sallow, shadowed face, immature mouth
with a sensitive artistic quirk to it, dark
eyes that gloomed behind their rimless glasses,
but were now elated, almost as though he’d
won a ticket in Tatt.’s. The raw whisky
crashed through him. It was like benzine
poured on a just-lit fire. He paid for
another double-header.
The alcohol neither blurred the edge of
liis thought nor flooded it with spurious
light. It merely tensed him. The know-
ledge that he -was, essentially, beyond hurt
was extraordinarily elating. He ; felt as
though he had just come out of prison.
It was dark now in the street. He went
briskly, treading light. A little group on
a corner were regarding him. Soc?e of the
lads. One was the man who had spoken to
him in the sly-groggery. He ignored them.
But he was quite aware that they were
behind him in a narrow darkness that led
from one corner light to another —an alley
like an obscure jungle-path with blind, dumb
walls.
He about-faced quickly, hit out at the
men nearest him, ducked from the lunge of
another and caught up an empty bottle that
was lying derelict in the gutter. His hands,
his eyes and his mind were working to-
gether as do the physical mechanisms "of a
cat.
The lads —there were four of them —scat-
tered away from the front of him and circled
to strike from behind. Dingo-tactics were
part of their initiation into the under-people’s
Lodge of Manhood. But Phil Cotter,
swinging the bottle, crashed it down on the
least speedy of the four, and the man, with
an animal’s slight grunting cry, gave
instantly at the knees and sprawled in the
road.
The corner-light was close at hand now;
it was an Italian’s small fruit shop. Phil
grasped an arm of the fallen one and towed
him to it. He felt that he wanted to see
what he had done.
The man’s face was blood from brow to
chin. Phil was glad. He felt like a person
does who has paid a harassing thing clean
off. It was at this moment that the shop-
keeper, who yielded spiritual tribute to
Darkie Driscoll and his clan, switched off
his lights.
“Put them on again, you mongrel!” said
Phil Cotter. “I’ll cut you to ribbons if you
don’t!”
Evidently the Italian believed him, for
the transformation was immediate. The
darkness somersaulted backward; Phil took
the prone man’s revolver from him, noted
the complete disappearance of the other three
(another dingo lesson), and turned the
corner into a brighter street beyond. The
street where Jessie roomed, and Darkie the
Killer.
(Continued on page Is.)


Sale of Selected “Bulletin” Drawing
A Chance to Get One for 15/-
* r-
■Ml
S %
A 0
\ \
\
l
For over 50 years the best drawings made in Australia
have come to “The Bulletin,’’ and a collection of a
hundred of the choicest examples of this country’s black-
and-white art is now offered for sale.
Though the prices at which they have been marked are
exceedingly low, “The Bulletin” makes a large offer in
addition. To every purchaser of a drawing who sends a
12 months’ subscription to “The Bulletin” or the “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” a rebate of 25 per cent, on the price of
the drawing will be made. To every subscriber who
sends a renewal order, a rebate of 33 1-3 per cent,
will be made.
Thus a reader who sends a 12 months’ subscription to
either Bulletin” or “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” can buy a
picture marked at 20/- for 15/-; and a present subscriber if he sends a renewal can get a 30/- drawing for 20/-.
Readers who send two years subscription can get a 25 per cent, rebate on the price of one drawing and a 33 1-3
per cent, rebate on the price of a second drawing; or they can get a rebate of 58 1-3 per cent, off a single
drawing, making the price of a 20/- drawing 8/6.
Of course you can buy without sending any subscription; and you will still get something worth a good deal
more than the price you will pay.
Following is a list of the drawings included in this unique offer:—-
FRENCH
\ 1
tvMS
GEORGE LAMBERT.
»• U.
“When a Lady Makes the Pace” , . 40 0
School Is In” (as illustrated) . . . 60 0
“The Stockmen” 40 0
‘‘Portrait of Arthur Adams”
Fifteen Guineas
"Giddy Giddy Gout” 40 0
“Girl Logic" 40 0
FRANK P. MAHONY.
it Sl
"Up to Specifications” 20 0
"Racing Abbreviations” 25 0
"As Per Agreement” (as illus-
trated) 25 0
OSWALD PRYOR.
s. d.
“The Way of It” (as illustrated) 25 0
"Any Port in a Storm” 20 0
"A Good Year’s Work” . 25 0
"Another Optimist” 20 0
“And His Riverence Didn't Know" 20 0
NESSIE TINDALL.
t s. d.
"A Common Complaint” 20 0
UNK WHITE.
"Trumps Just Poured In” (as illus-
trated) 30 0
“Lunch Ideal” 30 0
B. E. MINNS.
s. d.
"Wanted, a Paying Guest” 30 0
Abo. Studies—
“ The Monarchist” , . 20 0
"Cash and Carry” 20 0
"Long, Long Ago” 20 0^
“HOP.”
s. d.
A Touch of Nature” 25 0
A Cheerful Bridal Tour” 25 0
"Ask the Driver” . ... 20 0
Dishing Parkes” 30 0
“lhe New Literature” 20 0
“Encouraging” 20 0
The “Heathen in His Blindness”
Series—
"ln Anticipation” 20 0
“Posthumous Consolation” .... 20 0
“A Fragment” 20 0
LIONEL LINDSAY.
•• s.
"A Reasonable Objective” 20 0
DAVID LOW.
W. M. Hughes’s Tariff Wall” .... 40 0
“Woodrow, the Balancer, and the
Fourteen Points” 40 0
“Strenuous Times for Cartoonists” 40 0
“Times Are Changed” 30 0
“Willing” . 20 0
“The Final Appearance” 20 0
G. K. TOWNSHEND.
s. d.
“Not Like Bradman.”—A golfing
subject 20 0
“Safety First” 20 0
"Gilded Meals, Too" 30 0
PERCY LEASON.
s. d.
“An Apt Pupil” 20 0
"The Evolution of Home” 45 0
“Billy the Sport.”—Another Billy
Hughes Series of six in one
drawing 40 0
“Trying to be Funny” 40 0
"Finding Things Out for Himself” 30 0
"When Crowns Go by Ballot” .... 30 0
COLIN COLAHAN.
s. d.
"French Polish” 20 0
“Not in the Least Particular” .... 20 0
“The Wine and the Wit” 35 0
“Defined” 20 0
“No Spoil Sport” 25 0
DENNIS CONNELLY.
s. d.
“No Excuse for It At All” 20 0
“Cabby Gets a Tip” 20 Oj
“He Knew It Wasn’t Smith’s Fault” 20 0
NORMAN LINDSAY, ]
s. d. I
The Subscription Habit” 25 0
Real Courtesy” 25 0
A Few Suggestions by Our Suicide
Expert” 40 0
“The New Order” 30 0
A Lack of Sentiment 25 0
D. H. SOUTER.
s. d.
“Off and On” (as illustrated) . . 25 0
_ When the Southerly Came Up” . . 20 0
“The Indirect Method” .20 0
“In Strict Confidence” 25 0
You Must Keep Your Balance” . . 25 0
Included in the Award” 20 0
TED SCORFIELD.
s. d.
“Right Turn” 20 0
“Confession” 20 0
“A Prodigious Success” 20 0
“Unexpected Philanthropy” 25 0
“It Might Come Off Once” ...... 30 0
“Reassuring Him” 25 0
BERTHA BENNET BURLEIGH.
s. i.
“The New Rule” 20 0
“Jimmy’s Done For” . . . 20 0
“Opportunities Ample” 25 0
"After the Quarrel” 20 0
“The Treasure” . . , 30 0
“The Humbug” 30 0
“In the Reign of King Jazz” .... 20 0
PERCY LINDSAY.
s. d.
“Inhuman Almost” 20 0
“A Matter of Figures” 25 0
“The Homing Dove” . 25 0
“Trade Measurements” 20 0
“Taint” . . 20 0
ALF VINCENT.
8. d.
“His Panacea” 20 0
“The Iron Cross” 40 0
“Followers Supplied” . 30 0
“The Accident” 20 0
“The Mission Woman” 25 0
AMBROSE DYSON.
s. d.
“Consolation” 20 0
“In Push Society” 1 20 0
“In Push Society” II 20 0
“In Push Society” 111 20 0
“Excluded” 35 0
“With View to Above” 25 0
C. H. PERCIVAL.
s. d.
“The Flapper Knows” 25 0
Natural History Problems” .... 20 0
‘‘Great Changes” 20 0
‘‘The Martyr” 25 0
Sticking to His Guns” (as illus-
trated) 25 0
BETTY PATERSON.
s. d.
“Confidences” 20 0
“Something New Ahead” 20 0
“Judging by Appearances” 20 0
“Any Soil, Any Climate” 20 0
“They Ought to Be Marked” .... 25 0
' i* /
BERT LEVY.
i. d.
‘Quite Unsuitable” 25 0
‘French Laundry” (as illustrated) 20 0
ESTHER PATERSON.
. . 8. U.
Exclusively His Domain” ...... 25 0
“Considerate Child” 20 0
“Biding His Time” 20 0
RUBY LINDSAY.
s. d.
Standing Forth” . 30 0
Fully Covered” 30 0
No Disqualifications” 42 0
Indiscriminate Youth” 35 0
‘His Wife Had One Too” 40 0
é


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne racing is likely to be advan-
taged by the 10 per cent, on winning wagers
in Sydney. Suburban clubs under V.R.C.
jurisdiction bemoan the depression, but con-
tinue to make huge profits. Though they
have obtained authority to reduce stakes,
they keep admission charges at war level.
Sandown Park enclosures were packed with
people on Saturday. This course is under
sentence of obliteration, and M. P. Con-
sidine could scarcely be expected to set an
example ;in lowering gate tariffs. Rival
‘down-tlie-line” institutions, which will
benefit by Sandown being closed, ought to
be compelled to admit patrons at less than
12s. (grandstand) and 65.. (flat).
Austin Scobie, whose father has won cups
galore for the Clarke family and other
wealthy sportsmen, owns a fairly smart
juvenile in Coolac. This black colt is by
Dunottar (son of Tracery), now at the
stud in N. S. Wales. He scored handsomely
at Mentone on January 2, and was made
favorite at Sandown Park, but could only
get third, Tyrium (by Paper Money) gain-
ing the judge’s fiat by nearly a length from
Jacomalt, whom she outstayed. At the last
moment Elliott was substituted for Neville
Percival as rider of Tyrium. As the filly
was drifting badly in the betting, the
stewards interviewed owner and trainer, as
well,as Percival; the Westralian stated that,
in the he would like to be
relieved of the mount. Tyrium immediately
firmed from 10 to 1 to half those odds and
led from start to finish. It would be inter-
esting to know what bookmakers fielded
heavily against her in the first instance, and
their reasons for doing so.
The late Tom Payten, of Sydney, turned
out many crack jockeys, and appears to
have imparted a lot of his training skill to
Fitzroy, who landed the Sandown Plate for
an Adelaide patron with Antonello. This
stallion, a four-year-old son of St. Anton,
belongs to G. Bradman, who has a half
interest in the last Australian Steeplechase
hero, Good Whisky. Having failed in a
five-furlongs event at Woodend three days
before, Antonello was allowed to go out at
15 to 1. He began quickest, was never
headed, and won from Byron and Binna, first
and second favorites respectively. Another
long-priced pop, Borrodale, threatened to
roll home in the Welter Handicap; but Ash-
ley Reed, on Santorb, was merely “kidding.”
When asked to extend himself Godby’s Salt-
ash colt soon obtained the measure of Borro-
dale. Backed from 2 to Itos to 4, Santorb
was the only favorite to score in six events.
As a three-year-old Lady Kentrel ran third
in Amounis’s Williamstown Cup and was
fourth in the Oaks. At U>e late Melbourne
Cup meeting she finisln a second in the
Veteran Stakes. Until last week, however,
the daughter of Poitrel had not been seen in
winning brackets. Now trained by Alan
MePhee, former champion buckjump horse-
man, she landed the Mornington Gold Cup
on Thursday and the Sandown Purse two
days later. Tamit, by the sire of Easingwold,
went out a slightly better favorite than Lady
Iventrel, but was not sighted. The mare
won by a neck from Rudyard, who formerly
belonged to Albert Coppell. With a clear
passage, Ray of Hope (third) might have
brought home the bacon. This Treclare stal-
lion is owned and trained by Lou. Robertson.
Jack James, who used to visit Sydney
pretty regularly with trotters, appropriated
the Trial Handicap at Sandown with Spear-
star, a daughter of Spearhead, about whom
10 to 1 could be had. Duncan was on the
7 to 4 favorite, Ellebanr, but could not get
the Poitrel gelding out of the ruck. To
the further chagrin of punters, King Aura
(33 to 1) scrambled home by half a head
from Burramain (4 to 1) in the Jumpers’
Flat. Percy Foster, owner-trainer of King
Aura, won at Randwick last Easter with
Myarin.
Selections for Caulfield on Saturday:—
Holiday Stakes: Gallantie; next, Coolac.
Anniversary Handicap: Prince Don ; next,
In Petto.
* * * *
The N.S.W. tax on winning bets is blamed
by pro-bookie writers for things of which it
is guiltless, but it has certainly done away
with “clash” meetings. A pony club was to
have raced on Saturday as well as the
Canterbury Park people, but a trickle of
rain during the night was seized upon as
an excuse, absurd as it was, for postponing
the pony meeting. There was quite a good
crowd at Canterbury, and attendances would
increase if the Government gave the public
—or saw that it got—what the situation
calls for; that is to say, “straightout,”
“place” and “doubles” totes. It is idle to
talk, as some politicians are doing, of pro-
hibiting the publication of starting prices.
That cannot possibly stay the drift of small
punters to the s.-p. shops, but “straightout”
and “doubles” totes on the racecourse can
and would. The shops pay bookies’ prices,
and always will; but they would never pay
tote odds if the provision of these machines
were compulsory. For example, they won’t
bet s.o. tote odds in Perth.
The Canterbury Handicap furnished the
most exciting race of the season. Bosmina
(7 to 1), who has had a lot of racing but is
standing up to it remarkably for so frail-
looking a little mare, did nearly all the lead-
ing, but in the straight she was tackled by
five others —Zeeland (6 to 1), Mabel Yetman
(3 to 1), Gleaner, Inducement and Exact.
The judge placed Bosmina and Zeeland first,
with Mabel Yetman half a neck off third;
Gleaner was only about half a head away
fourth, and the other two were almost on
terms with him.
Irish Eyes (11 to 8), presented by Booth,
the Rosehill owner-trainer, to his daughter,
won the Nursery Handicap easily, but was
placed second to Wanderlust (7 to 2) on
MAKING A CLEANER JOB OF IT.
GOLFING BEGINNER (as divots fly) : “I don’t seem to be doing much good with this club.
What would you suggest using, boy?”
SARCASTIC CADDIE: “Ever tried a chippin' hoe?”
protest, having carried that filly out wide
at the turn. James Munro rode Wander-
lust, and it was a lucky day for him, for
he was on Strength (S to 1), the winner
of the Welter Handicap—ln which, by the
way, Staroff galloped so freely for a mile
that a handicap at that distance should come
his way presently. Horses ridden by Knox
—-Shamash, at eights, and Promptitude, _at
fives —carried off divisions of the Flying
Welter, and Bartle, Zeeland’s pilot, had an
outright victory on Silent Bird (4 to 1), a
Magpie filly, in the Farm Stakes.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday :
Ivogarah Stakes: Solitaire; next, Anchor.
Moorefield Mile : Lord Romeo ; next, Mag-
netic.
Three-year-old Handicap: Porneit; next,
Wedding Feast.
Moorefield Handicap: Jeypore; next, Lord
Kennaquhair.
Carlton Welter: Staroff; next, Just Gold.
* sfe * *
“Centurion”: The wail of McShortodds
and his inky friends that the falling-off in
racecourse attendances and totalisator bet-
ting in N. S. Wales was due solely to the
betting-tax is discounted by Maoriland’s ex-
perience. M.L. has no such tax, yet tote
takings for 14 Christmas and New Year race
meetings fell off £232,283 as compared with
the corresponding period of 1929-30. The
same experience befell the “Red Hots,” the
drop for seven meetings beine £69,201.
* * # *
“Anti-Cant”: I abhor most of Premier
Lang’s works, but like his proposal to license
s.p. bookies. In the scandalised words of
the chairman of the V.R.C., “it will be inimi-
cal to the best interests of racing”; but
why should the liberty of the subject be slain
to make a racing holiday? The citizen’s
bank account is not protected by the State
in respect of other financial transactions.
He may mortgage his house, give a bill of
sale over Ms furniture, borrow from usurers
or pledge his credit in any other way he
likes, and spend the proceeds on drink or
Jezebels, and it is his own affair. But let
him waste his substance in the capacity of
punter away from a racecourse, where the
charges are outrageous, and he becomes a
malefactor. The Irish, who are nearly as
logical as the French, saw through this im-
posture. They found that hordes of small
bettors couldn’t be blackmailed into going
racing (in most cases they hadn’t the cash),
and couldn’t be stopped from punting away
from the courses. So they licensed s.p.
bookies, and it is now as easy to make a bet
in Dublin as it is to pawn your watch. The
two main benefits are that there is hardly
any illegal betting now (with the result
that police are available for more useful work
than raiding s.p. shops), and that the Gov-
ernment has another source of revenue. Both
would accrue in N. S. Wales.
Jjs * *
“Hotham”: Following on the example of
the A.J.C. the V.R.C. is cutting the prize
money in most of the principal events for
the coming year. The V.A.T.C. had earlier
announced a reduction of the Oakleigh Plate
stake from £2OOO to £l5OO. Now the New-
market will be worth £2OOO instead of £2500,
while the Australian Cup will drop from
£3OOO to £2500. Stake and nomination fees
have recently been lowered in addition, but
owners and trainers are of the opinion that
there is room for further cutting. There are
plenty of races where the prize money is
between £lOO and £2OO in which it costs
£6 to start a horse.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Few besides the. Leichhardt referee saw
Walter Lee (9st. 9|lb.) hit Norman. Gil-
lespie _(9st. 911 b.) low in the seventh round
of their contest on Friday night. It was
Lee’s first fight here. With a left to the
body the colored gemmun dropped Gillespie
for “eight” before the mill was a minute old,
and the white was down again for “seven” in
the second. Lee looked a certain winner
when lie floored the other fellow with another
left body punch, but the referee reached down
to declare Gillespie winner on a foul.
* * * ijc
No front-rank fighters figured in the four
10-rounders at the Sydney Stadium On Satur-
day night, but the bouts turned out to be
as thrilling as any seen at headquarters for
years. Young Heeney (Sst. 101 b.) and
Billy Cooper (Sst. 81b.) battled like two
wounded wildcats to a draw; and Ron
Leonard (7st. BJib.) outpointed Ted Law-
ler (7st. 51b.). Because his boxing know-
ledge was the greater, Newcastle Harry
Mack (Bst. 1211 b.) knocked Billy McAnnally
(Sst. 911 b.) cold in eight rounds. And
Bob Thornton (list.) stopped Doug. Lisson
(list- 21b.) in three.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: An interesting aspect of
the boxing game in Australia is the persist-
ence of promoters in importing hopelbss duds
from abroad. These persons come across
preceded with screaming press publicity and
usually bearing famous boxing names with
the prefix “Young” or something like that
tagged on to them. In three cases out of four
these prove pathetic frauds when onnosed to
Australian ringmen, and after a pretence of
a fight or two are shipped home by their
disgusted importers or wisely skip of their
own accord. If half the money wasted in this
way were spent on developing Australian
boxers, this country might get back again to
the proud position in the world of the ring
that it occupied less than 30 years ago. Pro-
moters say that Australians will not support
local lighters and need to be enticed by
imported reputations. I cannot remember
hearing of that in the days of Darcy add
Dave Smith.
* * * *
“Straight Left”: Camera may shortly
be back at his proper job of selling specked
fruit, or whatever it happens to be. America
has refused him recognition as a pug, and
now his native Italy, which recently fell
upon his neck when he returned from
America with a pocketful of lire, has hung
him on the peg until he parts up £275 for
dodging a fight in Florence on Armistice
Day. This means that the mountain of brawn
will be banned throughout the 29 countries
composing the International Boxing Union.
Britain is the only non-member of the union,
and after the joke recently worked by Car-
nera’s promoters on the London public when
they staged the. farcical fight w 7 ith Meen,
even easy-going Britain is likely to prove a
barren hunting ground.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: As all anticipated, that
pathetic fraud as 'a world’s champion, the
German Max Schmelling, who won the title
from Sharkey on a foul after having the head
nearly belted off him in the few minutes’ fight-
ing, has been thrown overboard by the New
York State Commission, which controls
American boxing. The commission has wiped
the German’s name off the slate —how it ever
came to permit its being placed there is a
mystery—and has commanded a scrap between
Sharkey and Stribling for the title. Of course,
the commission has no right but a self-con-
stituted one to arrogate to itself the deciding
as to who is a world’s champion candidate
or vice versa, but nobody seems to bother
about that. The vogue for “world’s cham-
pionship” boxing for extravagant purses is
like the Irishman’s inadequate nip of
whisky, “Dyin’ every minyute.”
The Ins and Outs
West Indies showed improved form against
the strong Queensland bowling in Brisbane,
though they took the whole ot the first day
to reach 309. Eight of the side reached
double figures, Constantine hitting most
attractively for 75. Gilbert got 5 for 65.
Though he allowed 21 byes, Queensland’s new
’keeper, 17-year-old Duncan, dismissed three
batsmen.
* * * *
“ ’Gabba”: Not satisfied with having a
freak bowler in abo. Gilbert, Queensland
now puts forward Kathleen Smith, the first
girl cricketer to make a century in the
State. The young lady is also a lefthanl
slow bowler of undoubted capacity, one of
her latest bags including a hat trick. As
she is only 15 years old, she has plenty of
time before her to emulate the feats of her
fellow-Queenslander and mollyhander, Bert
Ironmonger.
=i= * * Ht
“Kingston”: The West Indians are much
more varied as to occupation than their
Australian cobbers. There are only two
professionals in the side, Constantine and
Francis. Skipper Grant is a Cambridge
undergrad, and vice-captain Birkett a sugar
chemist. Wright is a clerk, Barrow a mer-
chant, Roach a solicitor, Bartlett a soli-
citor’s clerk, Griffith chief sanitary inspector
of Barbadoes, De Caires a merchant, St. Hill
a clerk and Sealey a student. Headley and
Martin are fruit co. employees; Hunt and
Scott are civil servants. None of them are
employed by sporting goods firms as sales-
men, nor has any one of them written a
book or composed jazz songs.
V »«» iji
“Five Ways” : The decision of the Queens-
land Cricket Association to return to its old
haunts at the Brisbane Cricket Ground—
which was originally intended to be the
Brisbane equivalent of the Sydney C. G. —
for the State’s game against the West Indies
was not prompted by sentiment. For years
the association has hired the Exhibition
Ground, which belongs to the National
Association, for its big matches, but the
number of deadheads coming in on member-
ship tickets has cut profits to bedrock. The
result of the State game at the ’Gabba
should supply a useful pointer as to whether
it is worth while continuing on the E.G.
The Rugby . Union has already secured a
lease of the ’Gabba, and will play all big
games there in future.
% * 5{C %
“Der Jong”: The Afrikanders who are
giving England such a towelling up will open
their Australian tour on October 22 witli a
three-day match against Westralia at Perth,
working eastward in the usual fashion. The
matches with the States will occupy four
days, with the exception of those against
Tasmania, to which three will be devoted.
Five days are allotted for all Tests, including
the final in Melbourne. Brisbane and Syd-
ney get one Test each—much to the latter’s
disgust—Melbourne bagging two and Ade-
laide one. The first Test is set down to
begin in Brisbane on November 27. In all,
the tourists will play only 19 matches, a
fairly light programme, as these things go.
m * * *
“Spin”: As a result of recent tariff in-
creases, the N.S.W. .Cricket Association is
turning its attention to the Australian-made
ball for first-class matches. There are
several makes of these, and they are
freely used in minor cricket and for prac-
tice. Whether they come up to the standard
of the English article remains to be proved.
With a practical monopoly vested in them —
•they have already seized the opportunity to
advance prices from 12s. 6d. to 15s. —the
Australian makers must set out to improve
the quality of the article. The English ball
is made only from pit-tanned leather.
(Continued on next page.)
The Australian swimming carnival opened
in Sydney Domain baths on Saturday, five
championships, three Australian and two
N.S.W., being decided. Cecil Light, of Syd-
ney, retained the 100 yards State title after a
great sprint with fellow-Cornstalk Hooper,
winning by a yard in the excellent time of
55 3-ssec. Frank McCure, also of Sydney,
hoisted new State figures for the 220 yards
breast stroke, won in 2min. 59 3-ssec. The
Australian quarter-mile was taken by that
most promising youngster, Noel Ryan, who
won easily in smin. 12 l-sscc. N.S.W. also
scored in the Australian springboard diving,
won by Clive Barrass, while Victorian Tom
Morris retained his title for the high dive.
SKIMMING THE CREAM
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Revenue from the 10 per cent, tax on bets is
coming in at the fate of a million a year. Although
this is only half Mr. Lang’s estimate, Treasury
officials express themselves as well satisfied.”
Still, still across the sward there strain
Steeds just as gallant as of yore;
Their fancies still with might and main
Enthusiastic punters roar;
Books operate as heretofore;
Totes in a trice the odds compute;
But old-time pots are made no more.
Lang and his legions lift the loot.
Some pepper dead ’uns, but the gain
Which once had swelled their satchelled
store
No longer may those hags retain,
Whence many a Hebrew heart is sore.
Where are the days of “skinners”? O’er,
Till clouds shall lift, beyond dispute.
Gloom hangs above the Ikey corps.
Lang and his minions cop the loot.
And some the dinkum oil obtain
And grab the odds, intent to score
A decent punch—illusion vain !
By Labor’s gods the heads have swore
None shall that damning toll ignore.
So howsoe’er in oof’s pursuit
Punter and book all fields explore
Lang and his cobbers nip the loot.
What use to pore o’er equine lore?
It matters not a tinker’s hoot
If past the judge the winner tore
At fifties or at six to four —
Lang and his legions lift the loot.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Bert: "III not be a minute?
Gert; “vihat oo you want ? m
Bert: "omu"
Qert" Poor Boy, 1 'nohosr
WHAT UPSET you ? "
The Ins and Outs
The Victorians won the Sheffield match
against South Australia in Melbourne on the
first innings by 121, but were dashed lucky to
avoid a hiding. South Australia hung on
manfully in their second knock until 353 was
on the board for 8 wickets, when the innings
was closed. The colt Lonergan played a
sterling shot for 100 n.o. and with Waite
(59) made a _ great stand for the sixth
wicket. Victoria, with 243 to win outright,
had lost 7 wickets for 85 when the gong saved
them. Carlton (3-28), Lee and Waite divided
the wickets.
* * * *
Time robbed South Africa of a victory
over England at Capetown, though if
Wyatt (29) and Hendren (86) had not been
missed in the slips before either had made
double figures in England’s follow-on, anothcr
win would probably have been posted. Ham-
mond (65) played a very stodgy innings, as
did most of the others, Hendren being a
bright exception. The deficiency of 173 was
made up w-ith the loss of three wickets, but
the last five batsmen offered no opposition,
the score at stumps being 252 for 9 wickets.
Catterall, who has figured in several Test
series, had the good average of 3 for 15.
“Hotliam”: The theory which some
Sydney pundit advanced after Ponsford had
failed against Larwood in Australia that the
Victorian didn’t like fast bowling was
rudely shattered in England. It has been
dispersed to the winds by Ponsford’s per-
formances against the West Indies fast bowl-
ing—undoubtedly high-class—this season.
His scores read 187, 24, 92 n. 0., and 183—
an average of 162 for the three completed
innings, or 121.5 for the four appearances
at the creases.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: “Stork” H’endry, who has
been appointed coach to country clubs in Vic-
toria by the State association, is a player
who has never quite fulfilled his early
promise, though he has had his good days. In
Tests he has played 15 innings for an aver-
age of 21.84, and a highest score of 112.
Bowling, he took 14 wickets for 36.28 runs
apiece. In Sheffield cricket he did very much
better both with bat and ball, making over
3000 runs and taking over 100 wickets for
N.S.W. and Victoria. Nevertheless, and in
spite of his fine slip fielding, he never man-
aged to make his marble good as a fixture in
the Australian XI as some worse players
have done.
* * *
“Lansdowne”: George Giffen’s record as
an all-round cricketer —“a better bat, if pos-
sible, than bowler,” as “S.T.S.” puts it (B.
7/l/’3l) —was a memorable one, but Warner
in his “Book of Cricket” questions if Noble
wasn’t an even better all-rounder than
George, although, of course, he didn’t last
nearly so long. Certainly there were years
when it would have been hard to say whether
Noble’s batting or bowling was the more
valuable to . his side; in addition, he was
a matchless point. Finally, the N. S. Welsh-
man was much the better captain of the two.
Giffen had that irritating defect in a skipper
who bowls, a pronounced dislike for taking
himself off whether he was getting wickets
or not.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: There has been a good deal
of disappointment over the . team selected to
play for Australia against the West Indies
ir. Brisbane this week-end. With two matches
in the bag, it was felt the selectors might
have given the young entry a chance, especi-
ally as some of the returned tourists are
obviously off color. Oxenham, included vice
Hurwood, could hardly be left out of a Bris-
bane fixture, for after Grimmett he is easily
the most formidable wicket-getter in Aus-
tralia this season. The inclusion of Iron-
monger when the young Sydney lefthander
Hunt was passed over was a bad error in
judgment. There is nothing to be hoped for
in after days from Ironmonger, while Hunt’s
showing in this season’s Sheffield series sug-
gests he may be the lefthand bowler Aus-
tralia has been looking for, while he is a
brilliant field and a really good bat. Some
of the younger batsmen, including Rigg and
Darling, of Victoria, Marks, of Sydney, and
Nitschke, of South Australia, might also
have been given an opening.
3: $ $ *
“Lancaster Park”: While Sydneyites wore
yawning over the snail-like progress of the
Australian batsmen in the second Test
against the West Indies, Canterbury and
Wellington, clashing at Christchurch for the
Maoriland Plunket Shield, provided quite
a different show in their four-day meeting.
Wellington started badly with 164, but Can-
terbury did little better —229. Wellington
came again, and this time hoisted 537 at a
racing rate. Canterbury had 43 up by
stumps on the third day. Going for the
gloves next morning, they got the remaining
430 five minutes before time with four
wickets in hand. It was a magnificent bit
of fighting cricket under circumstances in
w’hich the modern batsman is too prone to
potter along on a chance of a draw.
It is worth noting that the highest score in
Canterbury’s second innings was 80 by
Hamilton, and the lowest 46 n.o.—consist-
ency itself.
* * * *
“The Bridge”: An interesting visitor to
Sydney for the second Test against the West
Indians was Dr. Stanley McDonnell, who
flew all the way from St. George, in south-
west Queensland, where he is in charge of
the local hospital, travelling via Brisbane.
He is the son of the late Percy McDonnell,
perhaps the most perfect specimen of a bats-
man who was a hitter and a stylist at the
same time that Australia has seen. Percy
played with four Australian sides in England,
in 1880, ’B2, ’B4 and ’BB, captaining the side
on the last occasion, when he headed the
averages. He was a most attractive batsman
to watch, and all bowlers and wickets were
alike to him on his day. Son Stanley him-
self has the root of the matter in him, for
a couple of years or so ago he showed good
form as a batsman and ’keeper for one of the
visiting teams in Sydney during N.S.W.
country week.
* * * *
“ ’Badian”: Let me enter a protest against
the contemptuous criticism levelled by some
Australian cricket writers at the inability of
the West Indies side to live un to its over-
seas performances. The collapse in Sydney
in the second Test was certainly regrettable,
but these things may happen to any cricket
team. Should any scout the notion let me
refer to the performance of the cream of
Australian cricket against Percy Chapman’s
team in the first Test at Brisbane; the side
was routed for the paltry scores of 122 and 66.
Racquet and Bawl
“Shamateur” : Tilden having become a pro.,
the question arises how he is to make the
good going which he enjoyed in his amateur
days. When such a sterling player as Vin-
cent Richards had to throw up the game in
disgust because there was no money in being
a professional at tennis, things must be
pretty bad. Still William probably intends
to follow the lucrative side-lines of press
comment on the game, advertising tennis
goods by lending the makers his name, and
the like, and he doubtless hopes for the recog-
nition by the International Tennis Federation
of “open” tournaments and matches wherein
pro. and amateur could play together as they
do in golf. Such a step would add tre-
mendously to interest in the game.
* * # *
“Top Spin”: According to a cable received
last week, Tilden may visit this country
at the end of the year with Kozeluh. Much
will depend on the amount of money the
pair are asking for. Last season when it
was proposed to invite Richards and Kozeluh
to come over, the terms were too high, and
they are unlikely to be lower on this occa-
sion. Still, as other countries are to be
included in the tour, the deal may click.
Matches between the pair and J. O. Ander-
son and Pat O’Hara Wood should prove a
good draw.
* * * *
“Gut Shot”: The County of Cumberland
tennis tourney in Sydney, which is practi-
cally equivalent to a N.S.W. championship
event, provided some fine tennis. Hopman
again showed his superiority over Jack
Crawford by beating the inconsistent ex-
champion by two sets to one in the singles
final. Jim Willard and young D. Thomp-
son wiped the floor with the Davis Cup
pair, Crawford and Hopman, in the doubles,
while the consistent Mrs. Buttsworth took
the women’s singles title. Hopman’s depar-
ture to Melbourne will be a sore loss to
N.S.W. tennis. He has learned a lot from
his last tour of Europe.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The Adelaide metropolitan
tennis championships proved a triumph for
that sterling colt Turnbull. The young-
ster, now well in the championship class, won
the singles title after a five-set go from the
experienced E. T. Rowe, several times cham-
pion of S.A., and helped R. L. Shepherd
to down the Hone brothers in the doubles.
Then, with Kitty le Mesurier, he wound up
a good meeting by taking the mixed doubles.
Turnbull’s partner proved equally invincible
in the women’s events, winning the singles
from Miss Weston and, in company with the
latter, defeating Misses Begg and Lawrence
in the doubles.
* * * *
“Ivaikoura”: Maoriland tennis is likely to
benefit by the return to the game of Mrs.
Dykes, who, as JVlay Spiers, was one of the
doughtiest of the Shivery Isles’s petticoated
players a few years ago. Most of her first-
class tennis career was laid in Christchurch,
where at one time she was practically invin-
cible. Away from home the lady was not so
formidable, and though she won the M.L.
championship thrice in the Canterbury capi-
tal, she lost it just as consistently on three
occasions at Auckland. Very fast in the
court, she was a powerful and accurate
driver, while few men players could equal
her in smashing ability.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: In his recently published
book on golf, Bobby Jones scoffs at orthodoxy
as expounded by the older school of players.
This is especially the case with regard to
the stance, a subject on which the pundits
have waxed eloquent for years. The Geor-
gian’s stance is at variance with, all the
canons of the game, just as is Leo Diegel’s
putting. It is very narrow, and according
to accepted conventions this should make a
balanced swing impossible. Yet few living
golfers have a better swing than Jones, and
none are more deadly accurate with the sub-
sequent shot, a thing which would be impos-
sible with any lack of balance. Jones strikes
an unusual note when he says that most
good golfers have, like himself, large hands
and “ample” feet. This may be so, but I
don’t know how some of our leading asso-
ciate players will appreciate the ruling.
* * * $
“Claypan”: The surmise that Bobby
Jones would abjure his vows and have yet
one more go at the British golf champion-
ships (B. 24/12/’3O) was not so wild as
might appear. The young gentleman is
reported to have turned up at H’oylake and
is now busy practising on the famous Deeside
course. He has staggered the oldest inhabi-
tants —folks who recall, or say they do, old
Tom Morris and Wullie Auchterlony—with
a new species of niblick, the like of which
has not been seen by land or sea since time
whereof the memory of man runneth not to
the contrary. With a heavily scooped face,
it carries a flange on the underside, which
makes it unique among golf clubs. The
flange is stated to do away with the necessity
for skill and judgment in “exploding” a ball
out of a sand lie. To play the shot with
the old-style niblick it was necessary to
hit the sand behind the'ball, the compressed
sand particles conveying the impulse to the
pill. This stroke called for discrimination
and experience. With the new club you
play directly at the ball: the flange is sup-
posed to do the rest. What St. Andrews
will have to say about it is another matter.
* * * *
“Baffy”: The monstrous army of golfers
in Australia is increasing even more rapidly
than the financial stringency, and it is only
a question of time when Parliament will be
called upon to resume some of the locked-
up lands in order to make room for more
courses. America is said to be in even worse
case. There the game is now seriously
threatening baseball as a popular attraction,
and baseball in America, like Gilbert’s legal
fiction, is a solemn thing. A local statis-
tician has lately issued a forecast wherein he
estimates that 15,000,000 additional golfers
will be playing the game through their noses
in the land of the brave and free within the
next decade.
* * sj<
“Hamilton”: Queensland golfers seem,
somehow, to be more human than the species
in other States and countries. As a writer
on golf who has never been appreciated at
his true worth, I am moved to tears by the
announcement that the various Brisbane
clubs are throwing in for a presentation to
H. E. O. Green, who has for some years been
golf correspondent to the “Brisbane Courier.”
This is to take the form of “a substantial
wallet of notes.” I offer my congratula-
tions to the prospective recipient of that
“substantial wallet” and can only add that
I hope he will give me a call. The Intelli-
gence Department of The Bulletin will tell
him where I am usually to be found.
* * *
“Hoylake”: The new large golf ball had
its first serious trial in Britain when Mitchell
and Cotton played a 26-hole match with
it at Brockenhurst, in Hampshire. There
was a very high wind, but nevertheless Cot-
ton controlled the ball wonderfully, winning
by 10 up and 3 to play—the hiding of Mit-
chell’s career. The ball must be used by the
British teams appearing in the States this
year, and as a consequence all the likely
candidates are practising hard. The general
impression, so far, is that the innovation
will make little difference to good players.
Britain is manufacturing the new pill by the
million, one firm having recently dispatched
50,000 dozen to America.
■f H! * *
“Westchester”: The Americans, who have
brought golf organisation to a higher pitch
than any other country, perhaps, have just
issued a useful suggestion in regard to
women’s golf, which might be noted with
advantage in Australia. Now that par and
scratch figures have been fixed for men
players, in most of the- Australian States, it
seems time that some formulae of the kind
should be evolved for the associates. The
United States Golf Association has adopted
a fixed yardage to determine the par for
women players. For a 200-yard hole this
will be 3, up to 375, 4, and over that, 5.
Handicaps for associate players will in
future be made on that basis, and all clubs
and associations are instructed to adopt it.
* * * *
“Fed Up”: The midget-golf epidemic con-
tinues to rage, and from Cape York to the
Leeuwin new courses continue to spring up
in every available nook and cranny. News-
papers which once counted on divorces and
the ponies to swell their profits are endea-
voring to scrape in an additional bawbee
by fitting out courses on their premises, while
the game has even invaded the home. A
midget table has been put on the English
market by some ill-advised person. The sur-
face of the table follows the usual midget
conventions, but the tiny pill is propelled
by a club that looks like a cross between a
toothpick and a mustard spoon,
* Si' Si! Sf.
“Westchester”: Yankee professional golfers
are already tuning up for the liyder Cup
contest with' Britain, which is to be played
in America in June. Five of the American
team have already been selected, these being
Hagen, Diegel, Farrell, Sarazen and Horton
Smith. Three more are wanted and 14 players
have been picked to play a 72-hole match to
decide which is which. In spite of recent
American press attacks on Hagen for his
loss of form, it is evident his countrymen
have still a secret admiration for Walter's
fighting .abilities.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz” : By this time Malcolm Campbell
and his freak car are on the high seas bound
for Daytona Beach, where he is to go for
Segrave’s world record. Nothing has been
said yet as to the date of the actual attempt,
which is not likely to be made until well on
in February. Even so, it will forestall the
Australian go at the record in Maoriland,
which is set down for March, so the Smith-
Harkness combination may have something
extra-special to beat —Campbell is confident
he will hit up 250 m.p.h. at least. A point
of interest is that both the Australian and
English'cars are fitted with practically the
same type of aeroplane engine of identical
horsepower. Smith counts on 300 m.p.h.
and he has the advantage of a beach run
at Waitaia which is superior to that at
Daytona.
* * :ji *
“Differential” : There is a move in Europe
to revive the road-race for the Bennett Cup,
which has been in abeyance since 1905, when
Leon Thery won. The cup was presented by
Gordon Bennett, of New York, for all coun-
tries manufacturing cars, no entrant to start
more than three. There was a minimum
weight limit and two passengers had to be
carried. The route was varied annually,
being always in the neighborhood of 350
miles in length. The first race in 1900 was
from Paris to Lyons, and was won by France,
which has captured four of the six races run
to date. S. F. Edge took the pot for Eng-
land in 1902 in a spin from Paris to Vienna,
while Jenatzky came home- first for Ger-
many in 1903. The Gordon Bennett was
superseded by the Grand Prix de France,
which permitted more liberal conditions and
is now the most famous of the world’s motor
races.
* . * # *
“Liz”: That quaint annual event for
motor-cars, the London-Brighton run in
which no car may be less than 26 years old,
duly came off in England the other day,
there being 51 starters, of which 48 reached
Brighton. The race was inaugurated in
1897 to celebrate the passing of legislation
which abolished the previous law that any
mechanically propelled vehicle on the high
roads must be preceded by a man on foot
with a red flag. There were 33 in the first
race, and 16 of these put in an appearance
again, another eloquent testimony to the
sound work of the early designers and
builders.
* * * *
“Methuselah”: A controversy has been
raging over the originator of the automobile,
the credit being generally divided between
Daimler and Benz, who both lodged patents
in 1886. Their claims were extinguished by
one Markus, also a German, who had a
benzine-driven vehicle actually on the roads
in 1873. It is interesting to note that when
Henry Ford and a forgotten inventor called
Seldon were fighting in America over motor
patents years ago, Markus’s invention was
referred to by the Ford side as rebutting Sel-
don’s claim to sole patent rights. All parties
seem to have forgotten that some years ago
the French Automobile Club held an exhaus-
tive inquiry into the matter. The verdict
was for a Frenchman, Lenior, who patented
and produced a practicable motor-car in 1862.
* * * *
“Formula”: One of the most sporting
motor trials in existence is the Monte Carlo
rally, which is due to conclude on January
21. Each competitor has to select his own
starting point, perhaps hundreds of miles
away, and has to arrive at the mount
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the date fixed.
There are two classes, for light and heavy
cars, the first carrying two nassengers and
the second four. The competition is mainly
based on the distance covered at an average
rate of 40 kilometres an hour (24.85 miles)
maximum and 32 kilometres per hour (19.8
miles) minimum. Points are awarded for
one or two minor tests and also deducted for
faults in condition on arrival, such as noisy
exhaust or damaged mudguards. Secret con-
trols at many different points check the com-
petitors.


You cannot realise what joy and comfort the keen rigid edge of
a Probak blade can bring to your shaving unless you put a
Probak in your own razor. Test for yourself how it glides like
silk through the stubble on your own chin. Learn by actual
experience how it goes on giving you the same velvety close shave
day after day. Probak blades are guaranteed. They never vary,
for they are made from continuous ribbons of steel, ground, honed,
finished in one unbroken operation. Five blades 1 /9, ten blades 3/6.
probak blades fit all two-
edged razors • make
shaving just like
wiping your face
PROBAK
BLADES
Made and Guaranteed by The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207 City Road, London, Eng.
Managing Agents for Australia;
PHIPSON & COMPANY: LIMITED. 181 CLARENCE STREET SVnNEV
e
K
CN
D
Z"
Cl
i U 3
o
m
I
o
o
ui
/
*
i
<5
o
V
%
••• \
«a
%
BT*
V !
\ • i
BSBP
V--
' ™
\ ■-..: , ~ * <■ ■■ ■ ■ \ '
For old type
or new.
NOW
19
FOR
FIVE
The Watermen
“Toowong”: Hstrry Wetherell, _ one of
Brisbane’s leading rowing identities, and
chairman of the Commercial Rowing Club,
has been felling interviewers his impressions
of English rowing as gathered during a
recent visit to Henley. He found the same
difference prevailing there as to the compara-
tive merits of swivel and poppet rowlocks
as exists m Australia to-day. Eeander, the
famous Thames club recruited solely from
Oxford and Cambridge rowing Blues, sticks
to the poppet. London, which has been the
strongest club on the river for several
seasons, goes baldheaded for the more
modern swivel. On general form, the. critic
thought the rowing standard below that
obtaining in Australia. One amusing com-
ment. is that “the self-complacency of the
public-school oarsmen was most notice-
able.” It is a good bet that he must have
run into the Eton crew for the Ladies’
Challenge Plate.
* $ * *
“Shrewsbury”: This year’s Oxford-Cam-
bridge boat race promises to furnish some
special thrills. Each of the universities has
won 40 times, with a single draw recorded.
“Boat Race Night” in London, is usually
a lively occasion, the Americanised section
of the London press making the most of it
next morning with vivid accounts of music-
hall brawls and police-court appearances.
Invariably contumely is cast at “the under-
graduates” who are accounted responsible
for the scenes. A small percentage of the
youngsters who come down to London from
Cam and Isis for the race may be found
among the riotous revellers. The balance
is made up of swanking cubs, whose nearest
approach to an educational foundation of
repute is, possibly, Borstal Reformatory.
Since Cambridge has won six years in suc-
cession, I am anticipating that the Light
Blue complex will be strongly in evidence
next March.
* * * *
“Blade”: Australian rowing generally, and
that of N.S.W. in particular, will be the
poorer by the retirement from active parti-
cipation in the sport of “Ossie” Wood,
N.S.W. selector and coach. For years he
was sole selector and coach of Mosman club,
and the high standard reached by that famous
organisation in Australian rowing was
largely due to him, while before he went to
Mosman he was guide, philosopher and
friend to several., other Sydney clubs. He
was also one of those responsible for the
formation and coaching of the A.I.F. crew
which won the King’s Cup for Australia in
1919 at the Peace Regatta on the Thames.
In his active rowing days Wood was a re-
nowned cox, handling the lines in the N.S.W.
eights of 1912, 1913 and 1920.
* * * *
“Swivel”: A recent letter from Bob
Pearce confirms the story (B. 31/12/’3O)
that the big fellow intends to make his home
in Canada, but is eager to represent Aus-
tralia at the Los Angeles Olympiad if the
powers that shouldn’t be on this side desire
to select him. In view of their recent
churlish action in withholding from the cham-
pion his return ticket and expenses from
Canada, it is almost possible that someone
else will be selected to represent Australia
in Bob’s stead. The Australian authorities,
who never did a tap to help the man to a
job after he had put the name of Australia
on the Olympic roll, are notoriously sour
because he jumped 'at a first-class billet
offered when he went with the Australian
Empire team to Canada. Whatever happens,
Bob is certain to figure in the next Diamond
Sculls at Henley. The unfortunate part
about .this is that he will appear as a Cana-
dian, since nomination by the sculler’s club
is necessary. Pearce is not now a member
of the Sydney R.C. Hamilton (Ontario)
is the club which will nominate him.
* * * *
“Shell” : J. R. Scott, of Sydney, holder of
the Australian amateur sculling champion-
ship, is not .to visit Maoriland after all. The
M. authorities originally invited Scott to
figure in their championship on Feb. 7. Later
Maoriland advised that the race had been put
off until February 28, and later still a
cable advised the possibility of a further
postponement. As the Welshman desires to
defend his State title on the Nepean on
March 2S, further parley was useless. A
pity. It is a long time since an Australian
sculler, amateur or professional, has figured
in M.L., and the game in both countries
might have been given a fillip if Scott had
been able to cross the Tasman.
Miscellaneous
“Third Base”: Having failed to obtain
a visit from an American side, the Aus-
tralian Baseball Council is negotiating with
the Japanese Keito University team to come
this way next winter, with Australia re-
turning the call in 1932. The Nipponese
have reached a very high standard in the
game, which is immensely popular, and will
probably prove too strong for our men.
Baseball is making steady progress in Aus-
tralia, especially in the country districts.
The latest N.S’.W. centre to take up the
game is Glen Innes, where an association
has been formed. A Sydney side is to give
the new body a formal kick-off at Easter,
when a couple of Sydney teams will invade
the Tableland.
* . * * *
“Hotham”: A somewhat foolhardy attempt
to run from Melbourne to Tasmania in a
small speed-boat came near to disaster
recently, the craft being forced to turn back
on encountering some typical Bass Strait
weather. However, the two hardy mariners
concerned, Hunter Yule and Ken Bolton,
who are reputed to hail from the well-known
N. port of Darlinghurst, intend to have
another shy in March, which says more for
their pluck than their sense.
* * * #
“Hamilton”: Queensland has sorted out
the State representatives for the Australian
18-footer sailing championships to be held
in Sydney on January 31. In view of the
prevailing weather conditions two different
types have been relied on, the narrow and
broad beam. The largest points-winner,
Ibex, is of the former type, and the second
will be represented by Marjorie, a flatter,
beamier boat. The latter, which holds the
State championship, is most fancied of the
two under Port Jackson conditions. So
much so, indeed, that Lance Watts, Queens-
land’s crack skipper and himself owner of
Ibex, has resolved to sail Marjorie in pre-
ference to his own boat, though Ibex will
also be a competitor.
❖*" ■ * *
“Hotham”: Toogooloowoo Two (B.
3/12/’3O) is the successor of the N.S.W.
yacht Rawhiti 11., which was brought to
Port Phillip by owner Dagg and re-chris-
teued. T. Two is a notable craft in more
ways than one. Though built in Victoria
she was designed by the famous British firm
of Fife, and is the first six-metre boat de-
signed to the new rules and specifications
to be put together in Australia. Her special
mission is the Nortlicote Cup, and though
she is quite a different-looking craft from
other Australian boats of the type, all con-
structed to the old rule, she has already
shown that she can move, especially in
light weather. The races for the cup are
taking place in Sydney, where the utensil
at present abides. Victoria is confident that
the trophy will come back to Yarraville
this season, after an absence of 12 years,
but as Tasmania and Queensland are also
going for the gloves the betting is open.
* * * *
“Chev.”: The latest air device is a direc-
tional parachute. You jump out of your
'plane, and as soon as your parachute has
opened you start up a little engine attached
to a light frame; by this means descent may
be controlled to a remarkable degree. In
U.S.A. flights of 20 miles and more have
been managed.
“Nitre”: Apropos Sydney Uni.’s change
of blazer (B. 24/12/’3O), this has been done
in Queensland for the same reason—un-
authorised pinching. The maroon blazer with
blue braiding is rushed by bowlers, cyclists
and “minnie” champions, and the green and
gold of the Australian ’Varsity’s “blue” is
more common still. Many fantastic designs
are sported, the magnificence of the badge
varying immensely with its significance. In-
cidentally, it is not generally known that
three colors are necessary before registration,
hence many sporting bodies introduce a
white to make the three/
H*
“Tenakoe”: The American amateur ath-
letes, Kiser, Rothert and Simpson, open their
tour of Maori I and on January 22 at Master-
ton. The star of the combination is G. S.
Simpson, an undergraduate of Ohio Uni-
versity, whose duels with Tolan roused Ameri-
can admirers of the spiked-shoe cult to
fever heat. Simpson has been clocked to
cover the 100 in 9 2-ssec., and his times
for the 220, in which' he excels, are approxi-
mately as fast. A pity the team will not
visit Australia, for a duel between Simpson
and Carlton would be epoch-making. Carl-
ton’s best figures for the 100 are 9 3-ssec.,
but this time was made on the grass and
out of the ordinary holes. Simpson’s records
have all been done on cinders and with
wooden starting blocks, not permitted in
this country.
* * * *
A mighty British bowler visited Sydney
recently in the person of Sir Thomas
Powell Thomas, a Welsh coal and shipping
potentate. He was a famous player in his
younger days, and his son Ivor carries on the
tradition. With John Scott and James Wall,
both kings of the ancient game in N.S.W.,
the visitor left for Maoriland last week, the
trio being evidently bound for the M.L.
championships at Otago.
iji jjs ifi v
“Colombes”: The international Rugby
season opened in Paris last week, when
France beat Ireland, 3-0, in a rousing match.
Both. sides play much the same game, with
dashing, vigorous forwards. In this instance
the French backs proved a trifle the better.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Australasian Rugby
Leagues are showing bitter resentment over
the continued buying by the North of Eng-
land professional clubs of their finest play-
ers. Solemn undertakings to discontinue
the practice have been made again and again,
and just as often flouted. The governing
body of the English League takes refuge in
the excuse that it cannot control the clubs.
There is something in this, for without
the money the clubs earn the League cannot
exist, while, since they have no training
schools of their own, the clubs have to
recruit their ranks by buying British Rugby
Union players or others from Maoriland
and Australia. The Australasian bodies are
threatening to abandon the exchange of
visits which has been going on for the past
20 years. This would mean suicide, for the
visits are the Leagues’ chief sources of
revenue, and maintain the interest in the
game, which has been visibly waning in the
case of club competitions. The position is
a cutting commentary on the results of pro-
fessionalism in snort.
* * * *
“Lido”: That historied carnival the
N.S.W. Anniversary Regatta will be held
on January 26. The revival of the race
for professional scullers last year proved so
successful that it has been retained on the
programme, while all the usual sailing and
rowing events, have been maintained. Fea-
tures not dreamed of in the long-ago days
when the regatta was first inaugurated are
the races for outboard motor-boats and
hydroplanes, of which the programme con-
tains five.
The first instalment of Velia Ercole's
remarkable story, “No Escape,” an extra-
ordinarily powerful study of country-town
life in Australia, will be printed in “The
Bulletin” next week (Jan. 21). It does
for the country town what “A House Is
Built” did for Sydney.


Undetf
/Royal
jjf&rrant
e
Tom
Kins
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPACNS
Q»arlesllcidsie(>
Reims
~TU trr
'‘MERCURY’’ BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only from 10/- per day
Single Room only, with Private Bath from 15/- per day
Room and Breakfast from 12/6 per person
Inclusive Tariff from 20/- per day
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath from 27/6 per day
Private Suites quoted on application.
Luncheon 3/6 or a la carte. Dinner 5/-
Meals served in rooms, 1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM COURT LINKS
Open from 11 a.m. till midnight—lB Holes for 1/-
Golf and Morning Tea or .Coffee 1/-
Golf and Afternoon Tea 2/6
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH HILL SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
(COMMENCING SATURDAY.)
CRITERION:
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
T C. WILLIAMSON, LTo!
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME—
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER
OICK.ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
- MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
MUSICAL COMEDY,
TOP HOLE.
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
The proletariat has taken Palm Beach to
its bosom. Fraternally in lorry loads the
honest toiler at the week-ends and over the
holiday season goes rolling and bowling out
to what was only two or three years ago
looked upon as the plutocrats’ bit of ocean
front. This _ year a whole tented army
sprang up within an easy sprint to the
surf. A favorite camping ground was round
about the golf links, but, as one green is
perilously close to the fence, campers were
apt to hear golf balls ricochet off the roof-
tree a few times a day. One lad known to
this Letter sent a ball singing like a bird
over the tree-tops, but when he followed
through in the flesh he found to his dismay
that his ball had caught a siren in siesta
on her negligently extended forearm. Solici-
tude on the gent.’s part and amiability on
the lady’s salved bruise; but the story
recalled a happening on a links down South
presided over by an irascible old Scots pro.
One day he was taking a beginner round,
and explaining with almost pious fervor the
wrist cunning to a good mashie shot, when
smack into the fleshy part of his calf can-
noned a ball. The Scot threw his arms
to heaven gibbering on an outbreak of pro-
fanity, when up rushed a wild-eyed
flapper. “Oh, Mr. MacTaggart,” she cried,
“wasn’t it lovely your leg was there? If
it hadn’t been my ball would have gone
right into that horrid bunker!”
To get back to Palm Beach. If you are
really exclusive you don’t beach very much.
You swim before breakfast and at sundown;
between whiles you play golf, or do any-
thing that makes you look as though you
didn’t know there was a beach within miles.
Pat Levy is reported the big beach sheik of
the hamlet. His bathing togs are worthy of
an American magazine cover, and his hat
fringed with fly-frightening doodahs is stun-
ning. But on the links Judge Coyle is the
splendid creature. In company with a gentle-
man in a canary-toned pullover, he does his
rounds clothed brilliantly in a royal blue and
gold sweater, shorts and eye-smiting blue and
gold stockings. There’s only one thing more
heartening in these depression days than
his raiment, and that is his smile.
Esther Paterson, the artist, who is as
pretty as the girl she so often decorates The
Bulletin pages with, has been visiting
Sydney. With her husband, a slim young
sailor man whose name is Gill, Esther
motored from Melbourne. They came by way
of Albury, but are returning by the Prince’s
Highway. And if you want to know what a
young woman who is both pretty and clever
looks like, visit her portrait in the National
Gallery. With Esther as his subject Mc-
Innes composed the alluring “Silk and Lace.”
Mosman Red Crosserg will speedily be
brewing a welcome to that great worker
Mrs. P. Leahy, now back in her Balmoral
home after her travels in Europe. Vividly
etched on her mind is a performance of the
“Passion Play” at Ober-Ammergau. The
perfection of detail, the tender yet powerful
grouping, *and the gorgeous coloring of the
tableaux attracted as many as 3500 for each
performance. Vienna is sunk in the slough
of depression, but Berlin carries quite a
brave front; and music once more is the
absorbing theme. London, however, is the
city of the traveller’s heart. Its historical
associations, museums and old buildings held
even stronger charm than an all-star per-
formance of “The Meistersingers” in Berlin.
Mrs. Leahy declares that if she had the
power she would make it compulsory for
politicians to spend 12 months studying
conditions and people in other countries. She
is certain that if our law-makers could see
what Europe generally is doing to combat
the world-wide depression we would hear no
more of the 44-hour week.
Neither of the two new High Court
Judges is a Beau Brummell. Dr. Evatt’s
tie has a way of looking as if it had been
knotted in a great hurry, and Teddy McTier-
nan’s coat is always more of a protection
from the weather than a sartorial ornament.
But if both young men are too impatient to
bother about outside adornment they have
seen to the perfect tailoring and embellish-
ment of their brains; and, after all, it is
what is inside a man’s head rather than
the hat that covers it which counts.
“Lack of production and not unemploy-
ment is this country’s chief evil. Employ-
ment without production cannot cure our
depression.” Thus spoke a wise man last week
to the writer. But in spite of wisdom the
rumored closing of so many of the city’s
luxury shops brings a pang to the already
overtaxed spirit. The small, discreet,
smoothly-panelled places where a gleaming,
silver-stitched, gem-encrusted evening bag
might cost anything up to 20 guineas, and
a whispering trifle of chiffon and fur 40
or 50, were like so many gay bandboxes of
beauty. Here cunning hands displayed
wares that would make a plain woman
pretty, a pretty woman beautiful. Not in
these days do such shops thrive, so doors
close and shutters go up till good times
return.
The Royal Prince Alfred will benefit by
a cheque for about £4OO from the Whoopee
Ball held on New Year’s Eve. President
Mrs. W. Arnott and organiser Don Finley
can give themselves a pat on the back for
the good work. The committee’s next job
is to speed the “Millionairess for a Day” on
her adventures. Phyllis Kellett holds the
winning ticket which entitles her to new
clothes, theatres, a lunch and a dinner party,
a motor-car for a day and a long aeroplane
flight. January 23 has been picked for her
lucky day.
B. E. Minns is among the fortunates to
make a success of recent one-man shows.
His before-Christmas exhibition brought in
over 100 guineas in sales. And here’s a
resurrection of a Lambert storv: An art
buyer who had met the immaculate Streeton
for the first time was telling Lambert, whom
he encountered shortly afterwards, his im-
pressions. “lie looks like a banker," he
concluded. “Yes,” said George, unable to
resist the opening, “and paints like a
banker.” After which he laughed and
admitted that wasn’t his opinion of Streeton
at all.
When Dorothy Snow recently became Mrs.
Francis E. Jones, she was banded over by
brother Sydney, of the well-known clothing
firm. In the billiard-room of Goodwood, her
Wahroonga home, and against a background
of pink and blue hydrangea, Dorothy and
her ’groom clicked, and were cued into the
matrimonial pocket by Padre C. James.
Ivory satin, Brussels lace and magnolias
were the principal ingredients of the bride’s
outfit. Sister Daisy ’maided in yellow
chiffons. Mr. and Mrs. John Snow did the
handsome thing by their daughter at the
subsequent reception.
Artists are more keenly interested than
ever this year in the bestowal of the Archi-
bald prize. So far the number of entries
shows no diminishing; hope springs eternal,
and the small painter doesn’t see why he
shouldn’t fish the same stream as the big
men. And with art back almost to the old
crust-and-attic days, the big men are all
casting a line for the catch of the season.
The Newtown District Day Nursery, the
latest of the splendidly-equipped homes in
which hard-working mothers can leave their
babes all day, claims this good-looking lady
as its president. She is the wife of knight-
engineer George Alfred Julius, and the Day
Nurseries have
been her great
interest for
many years.
The work of
these presi-
dents is very
real. Each has
to be thor-
oughly con-
versant with
the business
and needs of
her particular
branch, and
each organises
a series of pri-
vate social ac-
tivities to keep
the wheels
well-oiled. In
these days of
betting-tax dis-
cussion, the
lady has an
interest for Australia apart from her own
amiability and good works. It was her
husband who invented the tote that bears his
name. He is a son of the well-loved Arch-
bishop Julius, of Christchurch, Maoriland.
Melbourne’s Art Gallery, just-returned
Syd. Smith reports, is often positively
crowded. But our National Gallery, though
set in more attractive surroundings, draws
but *a thin stream of art lovers even in the
holiday season. Of course, the Melbourne
Gallery is closer to the shopping centres,
but for a complete refresher from the day’s
work this Letter knows of nothing to equal
that plunge from Macquarie-street into the
sudden cool greenness of the Domain. You
can come in by the gate around from St.
Mary’s, in which case you’ll pass the plough-
man poet Bobbie Burns quiring, or so it seems,
into the aching blue a lyric that at night will
ripple a singing star across the Milky Way.
You can come in by way of Hunter-street
and, walking along the avenue of lopped
Moreton Bays, already hiding their scars
with leafy plumes, you can reflect on this
outward expression of inward courage. In
any case you will come to the pillared entry
of the gallery, guarded by the massive eques-
trian without, and by an attendant in a
quaint straw hat within.
Ch'ief Justice Philip Street in his trailing
crimson robes dominates the portrait gal-
lery, where one afternoon last week quite a
little crowd was viewing Augustus John’s
picture of. a Canadian soldier. Out of the
ruddy coloring of the face look blue eyes,
cold as a glacier. Their coloring is intensi-
fied by a turquoise-green background. You
feel that the man in the picture is doubly
strong because of his leash of discipline.
Another new portrait of a clerkly-looking
person, by Glyn Philpot, is somewhat over-
shadowed by the wafm personality of Syd.
Smith, who sits in a canvas alongside, smil-
ingly attentive, as though listening-in to a
bedtime story.
Gowing’s Building houses still another
woman’s organisation; the Women’s Country
Club is one of its newest tenants. Delf-blue
curtains, long mirrors and an atmosphere of
friendliness' are among the outstanding fur-
nishings. Mrs. Earle Page was a former
president of this club, which in its begin-
nings was a sort of white rose in the political
lapel of the Country party. Now, Mrs.
George Irvine is the president, and to-day
she will hostess the official opening of the
new club at three o’clock.
The artistic and the industrious are
blended in Daisy Richards, who is recog-
nised as one of Sydney’s leading violinists,
and whose one aim in life is the perfection
of her art.
With this end
in view Daisy
sails for Eur-
ope in April
after her fare-
well recital in
March. Th e
Queen Vic-
toria Club has
taken her un-
der its wing,
and under the
e n t h usiastic
supervision of
Mrs. Arthur
Scrivener a
series of testi-
monial musi-
cals are being
arranged.
Lady Game
and Alexander
Gordon’s lady
are both interested in this indomitable girl,
who since she left the Conservatorium in
1922 has worked as a concert and broad-
casting artist. Miss Richards was born in
Kalgoorlie, and toured Australia and Maori-
land with the Verbrugghen orchestra. Before
that as a youngster she was at the Adelaide
Gon. This picture is a Catherine Ainsworth
study.
Three cheers for Mrs. Metcalfe, of Wash-
ington Flats, Musgrave-street, Mosman, who
rushed out of her bed at nearly one o’clock the
other morning, leaped down a flight of steps
to the waterfront, dived into the harbor and
grabbed a drowning man. She supported him
until her husband, who had also raced to tho
rescue, came alongside, and between them
they brought the hapless one to shore. The
couple had been awakened by cries for help,
and instantly responded to the SOS.
Thank your lucky star you don’t run a
road-house, licensed or unlicensed, just now!
During the Christmas holidays people set
out a-touring without a thought of hotel
reservations; and those who missed getting
accommodation anywhere they asked for it
had extra-bad luck. The Government houses
at the Caves and Kosciusko have been manned
by skeleton staffs for months past. No, the
people haven’t been staying at home. The
beaches —even as extra-suburban as Terri-
gal—have got the crowds that once or twice
a year treated themselves to a week or so
on the Mountains or down the South Coast.
At Manly and Bondi it hasn’t always been
possible to get more than standing room in
the water —swimming has been quite out of
the question. On the outer roads the motor
traffic has thinned: on the roads that lead
to any spot between Palm Beach and Cron-
ulla it is thicker than ever.
Enid Falkiner is carrying economy even
into her wedding arrangements. She is not
having a party after tlie knot-tying at
All Saints’, Woollahra. After the vows have
been exchanged Enid will be Mrs. Eric
Nelson, of Hawke’s Bay, Enzed. Sister Mrs.
Jim Lowry is already a citizen of Maorilancl.
Arriving in Sydney to-morrow from New
York are the Herbert Brookes couple, Mr.
Brookes has been Australia’s Trade Commis-
sioner in America; he left because he
thinks it is too expensive an office for Aus-
tralia to support. At home he is an active
member of the Australian Paper Mills Co.
Mrs. Brookes was Ivy Deakin, daughter of
the famous Alfred, and a brilliant pianist.
On the eve of their departure for the States
Padre Ruth offered a special dedication ser-
vice on behalf of the work these two good
Australians were undertaking in Uncle Sam’s
land.
How nice the girl of 1903 could look in
her ankle-length, many-gored skirt and her
Eton-jacket, from which the sleeves of her
blouse ballooned, was exemplified by Marie
Rosenfeld on Saturday night at the Savoy.
Marie was the Mary of A. A. Milne’s
“Michael and Mary,” with which the Inde-
pendent Theatre opened its season. The
beauteous Edna Best played this part at
St. James’s in London, but even she could
scarcely have had a prettier speaking voice.
Indeed the Sydney girl might have been
bathing in Dublin Bay and drinking in the
waters of the Shannon all her life, such a
soft Irish note is captured in her voice.
Zita Harris, in a snug little black velvet
coat with a flaring basque, above a pink
skirt voluminous, trained and slit up the
side, made an effective entry. And so inti-
mately have present-day styles and those
of former years mingled that Zita’s newest
hip-length evening coat did for the scene.
The little theatre was crowded, but, alas!
many of the audience came late, and the
dialogue in the first scene was uttered to a
running accompaniment of seats being
banged down.
Earrings and long, pushed-behind-the-ear
bobs, like Hollywood favors, were noticeable
among the ushers and front-seaters. Moire
and satin ruffled bravely, for your Indepen-
dents are a well-dressed crowd. Incidentally,
it was by no means certain that the blessed
rag would go up upon the show, for up till
Thursday cables about the production were
flying between somebody in London and
Doris Fitton; but “Michael and Mary” duly
eventuated. .
The long white kid glove has been, so a
girl from London tells, a good deal rejected
of woman. With black frocks the tendency
seems to be to wear colored shoes* and
gloves; for example, if shoes are green, then
gloves are green. With white frocks, long
black gloves are the favorite. Cork neck-
laces are said to be a craze in London. The
Girl in the Flat Opposite has adopted the
idea with enthusiasm, but whereas the Eng-
lish miss demurely threads hers with the
corks of unused medicine bottles, my neigh-
bor will have no corks except from used
champagne bottles. Part of the charm is
that the cork must come from a bottle that
has been made a present to her.
In the showroom of one of the city’s most
expensive stores this Letter met two friends
last week. They are not long married —one
to a squatter with extensive holdings, the
other to a rising young man in a city bank.
They were both trying on evening-coats at
positively annihilating prices. The first de-
cided on a lame coat, with beige Arctic-fox
collar and cuffs, whereupon the second said
she’d take the black velvet-and-ermine mix-
ture, and gave the entry and her address with
the cool detachment of a duchess. After-
wards, when the plutocratic young person
had been swept from our gaze by a limousine
as big as a house, the bank clerk’s wife
plucked me by the hand. “Come along,” she
cried, “I must get hold of a telephone.
I want to ring the shop and tell them I’ve
decided not to have that velvet-and-ermine
coat after all.” Then she twinkled. “It was
only a bluff. I wasn’t going to let Evelyn
think her husband was the only one who
could buy his wife model coats.”
The beret seems the inspiration of all
the new French ' millinery. No matter
whether it is frankly a sports affair or the
afternoon version developed in velvet or in
fur, it is worn high upon the forehead and
definitely tilted to one side, showing the
entire hairline at the left side but entirely
concealing it on the right. Paris and London
seem to have gone mad on a white velvet
version of the beret. Some of these are
stitched and corded, many are shirred. A
just-returned traveller reports that some of
the papers refer to them as the muffin style.
The Tyrolean mountaineer’s hat has been
plagiarised in many little felts, which are
pointed in shape and have rolled-up double
brims. Quills are run through the crown of
these at one side, and to be effective the
little lid must be worn with a distinct list
to one side showing a Tot of hair. Feathers
are definitely in, but on the best hats they
are shown in flat treatment. The übiquitous
beret entirely made of flat feather pads is
attractive but expensive headwear. The
jewelled ornament can be put away till the
turn of the tide; amber or tortoiseshell
ornaments are the only ones tolerated. Black-
and-white is again the ideal color alliance,
and when in doubt as to the material for
the ne>w autumn hat, choose velvet.
Something like a birthday party was in-
dulged in by Mrs. Martha Macken, of Bal-
main, when she celebrated a whole-day
picnic in the Domain. A son, several
daughters, grand- and great-grandchildren
(39 all told) took part in the festivities.
There were lunch and tea and games on the
green grass. The first open-air celebration
was started over a quarter of a century
ago by Mrs. C. Smith, one of Mrs. Macken s
married daughters, and her friend, Mrs. E. G.
Wise, of Bankstown.
OVERHEARD.
First Cat: “He’s a great admirer of art.”
Second Cat: “Oh, rather —just look at his wife!”


ENERGY AND HIGH SPIRITS
-WITH ENO!
i
/
£
I
1
m
GOOD health turns life
into a fine exhilarating
game! Good health gets
you up each morning to a
world of laughter and advent-
ure. No wonder then that Eno
has always been associated with
happiness and high spirits i
Taken first thing every morn-
ing— just a dash in a glass of
water—Eno’s “Fruit Salt”
retains enough fluid in the
food canal to dismiss the waste
and poisons from your system,
safely, naturally and thorough-
ly. It keeps the blood flowing
freely and vigorously through
your body*
That is why, for generations,
the morning glass of Eno has
been a golden rule of healthy
living among sensible people
all over the world* Not
simply because it is such a
glorious sparkling drink in it-
self, but because it leads to a
fuller enjoyment of every
minute of your daily life*,
'words Sno and n< 3rUit Satf*'
are registered trade marks.
Sales dPZgents :
c&he fHarold < 3. fflitchie
6* Go. £td., Sydney, £N‘.S. C W.
FRUIT
All"
I.IP/
m
i
g.


AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
ISSUE JANUARY 13—NOW ON SALE.
TWO SERIALS.
TWO SHORT STORIES.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
The Vogue for Metal Furi^ture.
Table Linens Printed Ready for
Working a new Mirror
Service to Readers.
NEEDLECRAFT SPECIALS:
Futurist Design for a Cosy.
Knitting a Pouched Jumper.
Rose, Thistle and Shamrock
Crochet Design.
Baby Boy’s First Knitted Suit.
HEALTH AND MOTHERCRAFT:
The Cure of Whiteheads.
How to Prevent Prickly Heat.
FREE PATTERN:
A Schoolgirl’s Tunic Frock.
Coming in February: Rosemary Rees’s Latest Story.
The Biggest Bargain on the Bookstalls
64 PAGES, 3d.
A selection from the contents of the next two issues shows the wonderful variety
of reading offered. The “Mirror” contains everything a woman needs to know.
ISSUE JANUARY 20—ON SALE JANUARY 17.
TWO SERIALS.
TWO SHORT STORIES.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Was Mrs. Disraeli as the Talkie
Depicts Her?
The Influence of the War on
Women’s Life.
The Several-in-One Apartment in
Modern Flatting.
“Le Medecin” on the Causes of
Diarrhoea.
NEEDLECRAFT:
Simple Applique Stitches.
A Crocheted Doyley for the
Beginner.
How to Knit a Jumper that Slen-
derises.
Canvas Work: Instructions and
Chart.
How to Knit Peter Rabbit.
Making a Simple Beach Bag.
HEALTH AND MOTHERCRAFT:
Physical Training for Women
(by an ex-imperial Army in-
structor) .
Preparation for Motherhood.
FREE PATTERN:
A Baby Boy’s Romper-overall.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] [?]00[?] [?]
Buckley e-Numn [?]
[?]rke [?] M[?]
A contrast to the gaiety and vim of
Portsea, Phillip Island and Lome at this
season is the peacefulness of Flinders, which
looks across Westernport Bay to the ocean.
That doesn’t mean that the place is ne-
glected, but people go there to play golf,
and golf is not a hilarious game. After a
day on the links the habitues usually settle
down to bridge—and bridge also is a serious
business. There are only a few guesteries,
but several Melbourne folk have established
holiday homes there —the C. J. Aherns, sur-
geon H. Devine, the J. E. Haynes, the
Clive Leonards, Acting-Priminister Fenton
and his wife among the number. Mrs. Val.
Macdonald and her son ar.e visitors.
Dressiest of our seaside resorts is Elwood,
which is on the bay between Point Ormond
and Brighton. It is situated on a sheltered
cove with a nice stretch of sand, and boasts
a good dressing-shed. A big parking area
for cars helps to make it popular. There
the smart miss airs her gorgeous pyjamas,
wrap, backless suit and gigantic hat.
At St. Ivilda the murmur of the waves is
drowned by the rattle of wheels and cogs and
the noise of the Luna Park cars careering
over the switchback railway. Merry-go-
rounds with their engine-driven orchestras
add to the din.
Brighton is the Mecca of the family party
—dad, mother and the kids disport them-
selves on the sand, and don’t give a darn
if their bathing togs are fashionable or not.
Among visitors to Lome are the George
Armytages, Mrs. George Russell of Geelong,
the Leonard Lansells of N. S. Wales, and the
Otto Bayers of Colac. Major and Mrs.
C. S. Cunningham and Miss Beverley Jack-
son are at the Hotel Lome.
Edith Mernda Terry, of Mont Albert, ex-
changed promises with Donald Roberts
Manson, of Newry, at Scots kirk. Brussels
lace as veil and train made a soft cloud
round the ivory satin gown of the bride, who
held masses of creamy water-lilies. Georgette
gowns and straw hats of cyclamen pink
graced the two bridesmaids and the matron
of honor, Mrs. Kenneth Cone. After-rejoic-
ings took place at the Windsor.
When Zillah Agnes, elder daughter of
the G. McC. Hawthornes, of Kerang, ex-
changed vows with James Ferguson, of
Tenterfield (N.S.W.), son of the D. B.
Fergusons, of Sunshine, at the Kew kirk,
she had the support of a trio of ’maids who
for their sheaves of pink gladioli had a
background of enamel-green chiffon frocks
traced with gold leaves. The wedding gown
was of ivory satin and delicate lace with
just a glance of pink and lots of white tulle
as veil. There were two trainbearers in
rose pink. Rejoicings were staged at No. 9
Highbury Grove, Kew.
St. John’s, Toorak, saw the forging of the
bonds which bound Judy, only daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. A. J. Prytz, of Hawksburn,
to John Parker, of Bellevue station,
Urana, N. S. Wales. A few relatives and
intimate friends offered congratulations at
Scott’s afterwards. White crepe georgette,
a study in flounces and frills, made the
wedding gown, a tulle veil descending from
a bandeau of silver and orange bud trails.
A posy of orchids and waterlilies was carried.
Alison Cook, the only attendant, suggested
in her attire a briar rose and its foliage,
her flesh-pink frock being contrasted with
toque and shoes of opal green and match-
ing jewellery.
A matrimonial linking last week was that
of J. S. McCarthy, who is in charge of the
Yic. branch of Leyland Motors, Ltd., with
the Baroness Hella von Elpons, of Berlin.
They met in Paris a year or so ago, and
the lady arrived from Europe some time
before Christmas. Of Russian and German
parentage, she is keen on every form of
sport and can pilot a ’plane or motor-car
expertly. She has taken part in some
thrilling motor races on the Continent.
The A. R. Lemprieres, of South Yarra, are
issuing invitations for the knot-tying on
February 4 at All Saints’ Church, East St.
Ivilda, of their daughter Patricia with Robin
Charles Todhunter. Also due to change
their names early this year are Joan, daugh-
ter of the Harold Newbigins, and Lavender,
younger daughter of the Leslie Stuarts, of
Toorak.
A three days’ tennis tournament at Mace-
don added to the funds of the local branch
of the Country Women’s Association. The
games were played at various private courts,
and there was a great deal of entertaining.
The chief centres were the courts of Frank
Clarke’s lady, Mrs. George Landale and Mrs.
Stanley Allen. Among the players were
Nancy Bawden and Nancy Holgate, who
were victorious in the women’s doubles, Beryl
and Maisie Cowper, Margery Stephens, who
won the women’s singles, and Alec Cres-
wick, who emerged as the winner of the
men’s section.
Macedon is very lovely at present—cool
and green, with magnificent shows of flowers
in the gardens. On account of the large
areas taken up by society folk, it is never
likely to become popular with the holiday
tripper, though it is but a little over an
hour’s run from town. Behind high hedges,
fringing elaborately-laid-out gardens and in
some cases private golf links, the naicest of
Melbourne’s naice people enjoy their holi-
days, secure from intrusion. Dr. and Mrs.
Murray Morton have a house there where
they spend most of their time now, and Mrs.
Morton’s sister, Mrs. William Cameron, and
her husband also have a Macedon home —
Cameron Lodge. Major and Mrs. George
Landale, the George Russells, Mr. and Mrs.
Oswald Symes, William Mcßeath and
his lady and the G.-G.-elect and his lady are
householders in the vicinity.
The Toy Shop ballet danced by Jennie
Brenan’s pupils in the J.C.W. pantomime
“The House that Jack Built,” at the Royal,
features Isabel
Mahon, pic-
tured here, as
a Lenci doll
that is bought
by a little girl
who won’t
have any other
of the wonder-
fu 1 “living - ’
dolls arranged
around the
wall. Though
Isabel is not
yet in her
teens, she has
been doing
clever things
with her toes
for some time
and has ap-
peared in parts
of Australia,
as well as
India and other
Asian countries. With frilled blue muslin
frock and blonde hair she looks the prettiest
of dolls as the shopkeeper carefully lifts her
out of a big cardboard box and she sinks all
a heap beside it.
Macßobertson, the chocolate man, whose
first sweets were boiled in a home-made tin
oven and hawked about Melbourne’s humblest
streets, has been elected an F.G.S. Exploring
is his hobby—by proxy, of course. He gave
£lO,OOO towards the exes, of the first Aus-
tralian Antarctic Expedition, and then
guaranteed a further expedition to the regions
immediately south of Tasmania to the extent
of another £6OOO.
Another equally capable Melbourne citizen
has just left for Sydney en route for Japan,
the U.S.A. and England—E. B. Myer, of the
famous Emporium. He also started from
scratch, and now runs one of the greatest
stores of its kind in the world. He married
a Baillieu, and in that way is connected with
most of Melbourne’s important families, not
to mention a few important Sydney ones.
Archbishop Head made an almost tearful
appeal to ’Varsity undergrads, on Tuesday
to take the Church a little more seriously.
His address was given under the auspices
of the Student Christian Movement, and
was, of course, made to the already con-
verted. But it is doubtful if a certain
note of pessimism which it contained was
justified as regards those outside this body.
To judge by church attendances the young
men of Melbourne are probably the most re-
ligious in Australia, and are certainly a long
way ahead of those of the average English
city. The Archbishop has created a splendid
impression in Victoria since his arrival, but
like nearly all imported clerics he tends to
talk of Australia in terms of the other side
of the world. ’Varsity students in Britain
are understood to do quite a lot of brooding
on the state of their souls; and the prosely-
tising young atheist is said to be a fairly
common affliction in the U.K. Here it is de-
finitely not so. A bore who started casting
doubts on religion would be liable to collect
a severe push in some tender spot—just
on general principles.
This is the home of pre-views but for
some strange reason the pre-sliown talkies
are always screened at a Sydney picture
mausoleum first. This remark applies to
British International’s “The W. Plan,” a
spy drama which was applauded by a big
crowd at the Majestic the other night. It
is a fine show, a bit slower in tempo than
most Yankee pictures, but none the less
exciting for that. Someone pointed out a
slip, though the picture was directed by a
British colonel. The hero mentions that he
once rode the winner of the Grand Military
at Sandown. And he is in the Argyle and
Sutherland Highlanders, which is a regiment
of foot-sloggers! According to my informant
no member of a Scottish regiment, other
than a Guardsman, has ever lifted the Gold
Cup, and few have had a mount in the
famous race.
In a remarkably clever talkie being shown
at the State Theatre, the acting is all
done by dogs and the dialogue by hidden
humans. Various breeds of dog are appropri-
ately cast for their respective roles. There are
jazz-band players in a cafe, and there is a
triangle tragedy in which the lady shoots.
Also there is a thrilling trial scene. The
synchronisation of canine gesture and human
speech is perfect.
The useful work of the Travellers’ Aid
Society has received recognition from the
Harbor Trust, which has allotted to it two
rooms on the new railway pier at Port Mel-
bourne. Commissioner D. MacLennan form-
ally handed over the quarters, and Lud
Mayor Luxton turned the key. Mrs. J.
Booth said “Thank you” on behalf of the
T.A.S.
The E.S.U. gave a welcome to Dr. D.
S. Davidson, a Philadelphia anthropologist,
who is making a study of our abos. Greet-
ings were spoken bv the new president,
knight Arthur Robinson, who was accom-
panied by his lady, attired in raspberry-red
lace.
A recent gift to the just-dedicated Phelia
Grimwade House of the South Yarra C. of
E. Girls’ Grammar School is a portrait of
the headmistress, Miss Gilman Jones. The
picture was painted by Aileen Dent, and
was presented by the Parents’ Association,
the president of which is Mrs. R. R. Harper.
In Hugh D. Mclntosh’s production of
“Top Hole” at the~Tivoli, the maidens who
play golf in the first act wear accordeon-
pleats of white silk and jumpers of sapphire
blue, and swing their clubs in sports suits
of red and dark fawn. In a carnival dance
and song, the lassies’ lampshade dresses
blend yellow and red. Colin Crane’s song
“Every Time the Clock Strikes” is punc-
tuated by a double quartette of pretty girls
in fantastic costumes that run the gamut
of styles from Spanish to Japanese. Byrl
Walkley, as the golfing heroine, plays the
game in frocks of rose red, and also sports
a white with a dash of blue. There' is
a glitter of rhinestones beneath her pink
evening apparel in the last act. Beatrice
Day looks dignified in black velvet and
tulle, and,. later, in an ensemble of cigar-
brown satin and ficelle lace. Minnie Love
is sheathed in draperies of red chiffon.
The. Napier Wallers, who live at Darebin,
on Fairy Hills, have just completed a couple
of stained-glass windows for Geelong Gram-
mar School chapel—a memorial to two
brothers, ex-students, who were killed in the
Great War. Thomas Arnold, of Rugby, and
Wykeham, of Winchester, are represented in
the designs, each in converse with a young
pupil. The Wallers have installed an elec-
tric kiln, the only one in Australia, and are
able to execute their own designs.
The smile belongs to Mabel Thompson, a
bright me m-
ber of Lucy
Ahon’s student
Theatre So-
cie t y, who
filled a lead-
ing r6le in the
little com-
pany’s recent
per formance
of “The Wo-
men Have
Their Way,”
a play with a
Spanish flavor
by the broth-
ers Quinlero.
Miss Thomp-
son has made
several stage
a p p earances
under Miss
Ahon’s direc-
tion ; one of
her most con-
genial parts was that of Hester in “The
Ship.” She has versatile talent as an enter-
tainer, and next year will give a recital.
Arthur Charles Collins, winner of the
Tite prize of the Royal Institute of British
Architects in 1929, has gone to investigate
the latest developments in design and plan-
ning in Europe and U.S.A. for a year or
more. He began the study of his profession
at the Gordon Institute, Geelong, and pass-
ing on to the Uni. picked up the Grice bronze
medal.
Ethel A. Cotton, who is a kindergarten
instructress in Sydney, is combining a holi-
day with business in Melbourne just now.
She is introducing to the Education Depart-
ment a novel method of teaching arithmetic
to very young children —a sort of game, in
which an aluminium domino disc with two
fives figures. Given a few rules, the children
learn to add, divide, subtract and mul-
tiply.
Dr. Gwynnetli Buchanan, president of the
Dyceum Club, who has been on the sick list
for some time, has reached the convalescent
stage, and will complete her cure in the
bracing air of Buffalo.
R. M. Cuthbertson, best known in hunting
circles, being long associated as secretary of
the Findon Harriers with the sport in Mel-
bourne, went off by the Niagara with his
wife and son Alan for a. holiday at Hono-
lulu.
Mi*, and Mrs. W. G. L. Spowers, of
Toorak, with Ethel and Rosalind, sailed in
the Otranto for an extensive European tour.
Mr. and Mrs. Bremncr Lewis, who have
been on a European tour for the last 12
months, are due back next month. Mr.
Lewis is president of the Melbourne Hospital
and he and his wife are workers for many
philanthropic movements.
With the converting of what was Federal
Government'House into the Melbourne Girls
High School, there is no home here for the
Isaacs couple when they come to town.
The Public Works Department is now in
possession, putting scholastic touches to the
historic building. The old school building is
damp and dark, with broken window-panes,
and the change to more palatial quarters
should be much appreciated by everyone
concerned.
Miss Gutteridge, head of the Kindergarten
Training College, Ivew, is convalescing after
an operation for appendicitis. She is the
guest of the late Baldwin Spencer’s lady
at Toorak.
Paying his second visit to Australia and
at present the guest of Prof. G. LI. Cowling,
St. Ivilda, is C. C. Lynam, a man of many
parts. For 40 years lie was master at
Dragon School, Oxford, which occupation he
dropped six or seven years ago. He is
known to the reading public by his books
describing cruises in his yachts, the Yellow
Dragon and the Blue Dragon. He is a
painter, of portraits and seascapes, and is
also a musician.
Connie Parkin, winner of a National Gal-
lery travelling scholarship, waved adieus to
her friends from the deck of the Bendigo
last week. This young artist specialises in
portraiture and has had several commissions.
She will be abroad for about two years study-
ing her art in England and on the Continent.
Back from ten months with her paint-box
in Jugo-Slavia and other picturesque parts
of the new Europe is Jessie Traill. Miss
Traill held an exhibition of paintings and
etchings—many of them Centralian scenes —
at Rouen. Una Teague, a sister of painter
Violet Teague, accompanied Miss Traill on
her travels.
The Y.A.L. boys had a great time in Mel-
bourne enjoying the sights and being fussed
over by alt and sundry. They spent a
thrilling day at the Prestige mills watching
the bobbins bob and the wheels a-wheeling.
Dame Nellie Melba, recovered from a spell
of ill-health, recently put up for a few days
at the Quamby Club. She is now back at
Coombe Cottage preparing for a visit to
friends in N. S. Wales.
Ruth Adamson, who has been associated
with the Y.W.C.A. in this city since ’23, has
been appointed secretary of the association
in Townsville (N.Q.). In Melbourne Miss
Adamson was “senior activities” secre-
tary. She has served on the professional
staff, was treasurer for a time, and also a
member of the board of directors. She re-
ceived many farewell gifts.
Priminister Scullin received a warm wel-
come on his home-coming. The crowd
elbowed each other anxious to glimpse him
as he stepped from the train at Spencer-
street, and several ’planes, in formation,
whirred greeting overhead. Mr. and Mrs.
Scullin said they were glad to be back, and
the sentiment was echoed by Attorney-
General Brennan and Mrs. Brennan.
Tenor Alfred O’Shea received flattering
notices in New York, where his concerts in
the Carnegie Hall attracted large audiences.
In his publicity, by the way, much use is
being made of verses written by poetess Mary
Gilmore in praise of the lyric tenor who
sings Irish songs, according to the London
“Morning Post,” with tears in his voice,
which is the one thing critical audiences
demand and rarely get.
Australia’s old actress friend Irene Van-
brugh acted as one of the judges at n
mannequin parade in London recently. In
addition to being a connoisseur of clothes
and the stage, Irene is a judge of good
housekeeping. Perhaps the fact that she has
had but one housekeeper ever since her
marriage to the late Dion Boucicault, nearly
30 years ago, is proof of that. Like her
friend Mrs. Vivers, she is a dog-lover, and
among her chums counts a pet Airedale and
a Sealyham.
The first instalment of Velia Ercole’s
remarkable story, “No Escape,” an extra-
ordinarily powerful study of country-town
life in Australia, will be printed in “The
Bulletin” next week (Jan. 21). It does
for the country town what “A House Is
Built” did for Sydney.


FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s’’
Land page have been reprinted and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not
previously know a thing about book-keeping
is carried along, step by step, and shown how
accounts are kept. Every entry is explained
in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his
business on a proper basis and keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to
follow every branch of the business and see
where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply
through not knowing that he was going back
a little further every year. Had he known in
time he might have made changes that would
have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the
farmer how to keep accounts is that they
assume he knows something about book-
keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of
farm readers, decided to produce a cheap text-
book in which the whole business of book-
keeping would be dealt with from the very
beginning.
The little book is published at a price which
brings it within the means of everybody. It
will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for
sixpence, to which must be added 2d. for
postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on
the land, it will be found just as valuable to
traders and others who have hitherto had only
a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin have gone to N.S.W.
for a month. Before leaving Sir John lunched
with the committee at Ascot races and afterwards
entertained several guests to afternoon tea. Lady
Goodwin was in rose cendree pussy willow, with
rose straw hat. Mrs. R. H. Levine (Sydney) wore
black; Mrs. A. G. C. Hawthorn, who was in the
vice-regal box, chose black-and-white; daughter
Dorothy was in green voile with a black hat;
Mrs. Morgan Lane wore forget-me-not blue; and
Cecily Cadell Garrick was in navy- and white.
The fancy dress parade on Currumbin Beach
gathered some 1500 people. A display of acro-
batics and a concert on the sands were part of the
programme. Dr. Earle Page presented the prizes.
Redcliffe was all dressed up for the pageant to
commemorate the landing of John Oxley, R.N., at
Humpybong Peninsula. Bluejackets in period dress
and a somewhat subdued band of “fierce” natives
met the modern Oxley, Mr. T. J. Lucas, of Redclife.
A motor-boat was camouflaged as H. M. Mermaid, the
sloop which carried Oxley. The proclamation of
November 9, 1823, was re-read; cheering and the
National Anthem followed.
Two well-known Queensland families were allied
when Edwin Roberts, of Toowoomba, married Kath-
leen, daughter of the C. F. Whites, of Stanthorpe,
and late of Pikedale station. The bride’s mother
was Lena Goodrich, one of Warwick’s pretty girls.
The knot was tied in St. Paul’s, Stanthorpe, where the
bride, in magnolia satin with a train of tulle and
silver and a veil of tulle, was given away by her
father. Mervyn Jones and Jean White ’maided in
green taffetas lined with primrose and soft green
straw and tulle hats. The feasting was at Moio-
minda.
Southport finished its festivities with a ball .in
the Pier pavilion. Coolangatta cleared its campers
out with a monstrous gale that unroofed houses
and drenched a hundred tents.
The Bishop-elect of Newcastle and Mrs. de Witt
Batty are staying with Dr. and Mrs. R. S. Roe at
Stradbroke Island. The Peter Macgregors have
left for a holiday in Sydney.
Wynnum saw the wedding of William Bickerton,
East Brisbane, and Florence, daughter of the late
C. McKinnon and Mrs. McKinnon. Brass bowls of
agapanthus, blue hydrangea and shasta daisies deco-
rated, with an arch of asparagus fern and white
roses. The bride, in ivory bridal satin and Chan-
tilly lace, her cut tulle veil encircled with orange
blossoms, was given away by her brother. Janet
McKinnon and Ailsa Bickerton wore powder-blue and
peach-pink hats for their ’maiding. Mary and Joan
Pigram were flower girls in frilled frocks of pale
pink and blue georgette. The Hotel Canberra saw
the feasting; the honeymoon is being spent in
Sydney and the Blue Mountains.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Evening gowns with little coats or detachable
capes to veil low-cut necks were plentiful at the Cup.
Blue and sand-dune figurings floated upon Mrs. J.
P. Dwyer’s chiffon ensemble; Kittie Gillies’s brown
was pin-spotted with white; Mrs. Marshall, in navy,,
was with her niece Elsie Saw, whose frock was a
medley of red and white. Mrs. Newman, in a black
gown adorned with a pink vestee, chatted with
another bank manager’s wife, Mrs. Stan Wreford, in
nutmeg-brown lace. Trellises of flowering creepers
criss-crossed upon Maud Mitchell’s white chiffon,
worn with blue millinery; Mollie Mahood was in
Cowslip silk; reds predominated in Kathleen Castieau’s
ninon; and white organdie bows flew upon the black
taffetas worn by Elizabeth Edwards. Mrs. Percy
White wore dark green, and sister Mamie Brown’s
pink ’broidered voile had blue pipings upon its cape.
Ellen Mulcahy chose an all-red color scheme, Mrs.
Monteath flush-pink, and Betty de Bernales Robin
HoOd green for her satin gown and hat. Tinka
Salmon looked cool in white chiffons sprinkled with
green twigs.
A red-hot day thinned out the crowd at the
Imperial Handicap. But the Turf Club officials
underestimated the toughness of punters or the depth
of their pockets and there were not nearly enough
race books to go round. Shilling spots and a pepper-
ing of the pin variety chased one another upon the
black surface of Mrs. Marillier’s gown; gay slippers
peeped beneath Lillian Crisp’s orange and
bronze chiffons ; Mrs. Cocks wore black satin, and a
three-quarter coat was included in Mrs. Bentley’s
beige lace ensemble. Madeleine Durack chose blue,
figurings upon white voile; dark green millinery
crowned Mrs. Strickland’s jade and henna georgettes;
and Elizabeth Edwards wore her pink organdie long
and bunchy as to skirt and tight as to bodice, with
a white camellia blooming under the brim of her
crin. hat. Margaret Gavan-Duffy and Mrs. B. Kiernan
both chose chiffons patterned with lobelia blues.
Mrs. Ted Lukin’s frock ran to russet tones, and Mrs.
Brum White favored pink and blue traceries upon
a white background.
Patsy Regan and Stan Slattery have announced
their engagement.
An enterprising couple, Molly Ick and Joan Good,
presented “By Candlelight” at His Majesty’s. Miss
Good was congratulated upon her playing of
Elizabeth the vivacious maid, and Miss Ick, with
the responsibilities of production on her shoulders,
did a clever bit of acting as the vampish Lulu.
The Esperance Bay took the F. W. H. Stilemans
and their family back to the Big Smoke. Mr.
Stileman was Engineer-in-Chief for the past five
years; he carried with him the good wishes and
sympathy of a host of friends, his job having
been abolished by a retrenching Government.
A Mount Lawley engagement is that of Olive
Sheppard and Frederick, eldest son of Colonel and
Mrs. Wieck. Edna Johnson, of Inglewood, and
Harold, eldest son of Colonel and Mrs. Pope, are
also among the troth-plighters.
Maisie Campbell has given up her job at the
Perth Dental Hospital and has nailed up her brass
plate. She is the first woman to practise dentistry
here.
Jeannette, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Gordon,
and Tom, only son of the T. Flintoff couple, of
Mount Lawley, were married the other day at the
Colin-street kirk. The bride, whose milestones
number only 18, wore delphinium-blue georgettes.
A white fur collar adorned the coat of her
ensemble and she carried cloth-of-gold roses. The
one ’maid bore pink roses to match the flowered
design upon her blue frock. After toasts at Dr.
Gordon’s house, the young couple boarded the
Orford for a ’moon in Ceylon.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
At the S.A.J.C.’s second summer meeting at
Morphettville, the frocking was as varied as the
weather, which started cold and finished warm. His
Ex. was present with a full quota of A.D.C.’s.
Chairman Whitmore Carr entertained at afternoon
tea. Mrs. H. P. McLachlan wore a black-and-white
pin-spot toilette, and her black baku hat was
banded with white. One of the most. effective
floral chiffons was worn by Mrs. Fred Tennant; it
was in autumnal tones, with a lace straw hat.
There was a much larger crowd of well-known
people than is usual at this time of year. The
conditions generally are against holiday trips, and
the result is that the racecourses, like the local
seaside resorts, are being better patronised.
Lieutenant H. F. Robertson-Aiknmn, one of his
Ex.’s aides, who leaves for England by the Bendigo,
was given a dinner party at the St. Vincent. Glenelg.
Afterwards the 22 guests visited all the side-shows,
including Luna Park, and then were entertained
by Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Bray at their residence,
Glenelg.
The numerous legal lights who spent their vaca-
tion at Kingscote, Kangaroo Island, have returned.
Patricia Hackett came back with stepfather Frank
Moulden. Joan Hackett, who has been studying
abroad, returns from England by the Naldera.
The Mayor and Mayoress (Mr. and Mrs.
C. R. J. Glover) entertained the Federated
State School Teachers’ Association at morning tea,
the reception room being decorated with pink roses
and daisies arranged in bowls. Mrs. Glover looked
well in a simple frock of white crSpe de Chine,
worn with a natural toned straw hat banded in
black and red. Speeches were numerous. There
were several women teachers among the guests.
Miss Mollie Mcßride has returned from Melbourne,
where she was one of the bridesmaids, at the
Kingsford Smith wedding.
Mrs. F. E, Cilento is returning to Brisbane; she
has been the guest of Dr. and Mrs. John Close
during her visit to Adelaide.
Enter for the up-to-dateness championship a
letter-writer in Adelaide “News” (15/12/’3O) who,
quite seriously and signing his name, complains of
modern bathing costumes as too ample! He calls
them “most unsightly, positively ludicrous, and
difficult to swim in,” and “longs for the return
o’ the clean, broadminded, and beautiful days of
ancient Greece.” Or of modern Germany ?
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Launceston’s two big racing days were none too
well favored by the weather; women who had got
their summer rigs ready for the Derby reluctantly
put them away and brought out winter furs. Chairman
G. E. Clemons and his wife entertained a throng of
guests to tea in the private room under the stand
at tables gay ; with the browns and golds of
coreopsis and marigolds. Mrs. Clemons sported a
kasha ensemble in pale beige, worn with a black
hat. In the crowd one saw Mrs. Harden (England),
Mrs, Guy Meredith, the Harold Archers, the R. C.
Fields, Mr. and Mrs. Alee Boyes, the Allan Stewarts,
the. C- Headlams, Dr. and Mrs. L. 0. Macnamara, the
F. Youls, the A. E. Peppers, the H. P. Harrisons,
Mrs. Bede Percy Dove, the G. Martins, the L. G.
Johnstones, the G. Grubbs and Miss G. Whyte-
Parsons, while among punters from the capital were
the James Sprents, the G. Canns, the Thos. Lyons
couple, Sybil and Rupert Lyons, Mrs. Payne and lan
Miller.
This portrait
shows A. N.
Lewis, eldest son
of knight Elliott
Lewis, the first to
receive the LL.D.
degree at the
Speck’s Univer-
sity. There are
five generations
of Tasmanians
behind Dr. Lewis,
who had a fine
war record, join-
ing up young and
rising to the
rank of major;
in 1918 he won
the Military
Cross. He has
kept up his sol-
diering, is a
member of his
father’s legal
Arm, and an authority on military law.
The race meeting at Newnham was held in
rather better weather, and a few more summery
frocks made a timid appearance. President Lance
Archer entertained.
The big dining-room at Mona Vale, Ross, was
cleared for dancing and decorated with blue del-
phiniums and yellow lilies for the Eustace Camerons’
party in honor of daughter Cynthia’s coming of age.
Mrs. Cameron wore beige lace and the young
hostess’s fairness was set off by a: long frock of
poppy-red lace. About 100 guests danced or played
bridge. Mrs. Moore’s orchestra made the music.
Misa Mallarkey, of Sydney, is spending her 20th
successive summer at the Springs. She ranks next
to Mr. Critchley-Parker for profound belief in the
Speck’s recuperative properties. Mungo MacCallum
and his lady are at Ferntree, as also is Lilian
Frost. The Mannings (N.S.W.) have taken Mrs.
Hunger-ford's Red House on the mountain for
some weeks.
Galea of wind, continuing for several days without
a let-up, made the championship tennis matches hard
work for the players. Mrs. Bond retains her title
at singles champion in the women’s division; Miss
JiHett and Brenda Piggott won the doubles.
Mi'S- J. Hungerford is home again in her pretty
house in Holebrook-place, after a trip to the Big
Smoke, whither she was accompanied by her niece,
Miss Ailsa Cullen, of Sydney. The Cyril Lewises’
with daughter Margaret,-and the Walter Gellibrands
are other returned travellers.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The Eureka Stockade flag is said to be in the
possession of Mr. James King, Minyip View
(vie.), whose father, it is -averred, took
it down from the flagstaff on the stockade
after the fight. Some small strips were torn
from it, but with that exception and some
bullet-holes it is in good order. [5/l/’94.j
Mark Twain, while travelling lately in the
country, found that he had forgotten his
tooth-powder, and after a vigorous hunt m
the room of the lodging-house wherein he
slept he discovered something in a small
box on the mantelpiece which certainly re-
sembled tooth-powder. At any rate he used
it vigorously on his teeth and found it
satisfactory. When he got downstairs he
apologised to his hostess for using her tooth-
powder. She appeared surprised. “What
tooth-powder?” she inquired blandly. “It
was on the mantel?” she repeated. “Yes, in
a small box; it was excellent,” he declared.
“Good gracious!” she ejaculated. “That
wasn’t tooth-powder.” “What was it?” asked
Mark, now slightly alarmed. - “Why, that
was auntie,” said she. “Auntie” had been
cremated. [22/l/’B7.]
They don’t eat rice to any great extent
now at the Mein telegraph station on the
Cape York line; they had a substantial meal
ON OUR UPPERS.
SALNATION ARMY BRIGADIER: “‘War Cry,’ sir?”
UNGODLY: “Not to-day, thanks.”
S.A.B. ; “Ah, my friends, how will you get to Heaven if your souls are lost?”
Ungodly: “We will walk in on our uppers.” [2/3/’89.]
of it in 1887, and have never quite recovered
since. The line was just finished in those
days, and the Government inspector came
along with a party of officials" to survey the
work. The- operator in charge resolved to
give his visitors a wild, imperial banquet of
beef and rice—only, as it happened, the beef
was all gone, so he concluded that the only
thing left was to have a. riotous burst of
rice. Therefore he issued orders to his
principal supporter, one Kelly, to boil rice
for ten. and Kelly filled a huge billy to the
brim with the required vegetable and water,
and put it on the fire. Pretty soon it began
to swell up in an awesome manner, and
Kelly hastily emptied it into a kerosene-
tin, put in more water, and made a fresh start.
It boiled over the top of the kerosene-tin,
and Kelly filled the billy again with the over-
flow, and commenced to boil the two .of them.
They both slopped over in about two minutes,
and the frantic Kelly, having no time to run
for more kerosene-tins, filled up sundry bat-
tery cells. and insulators. Then he saw
that the rice was still “cornin’ at him,” and
he filled two dozen insulators, and thus
secured a respite, which enabled him -to
run for some more billies. The dinner party
arrived about, this time, and surveyed the
scffiie... There was rice in billies, kerosene-
tins, insulators, cells and tin pans, rice in
tlie fire,' rice on the floor, and the walls and
the roof and other places. And in the middle
of all this rice stood Kelly with an awe-
stricken expression on his countenance,
swearing faintly and holding six more insu-
lators like a man who was prepared to die
in the last ditch in" a frantic conflict with
rice.
An eccentric N.S.W. civil servant, while
breakfasting the other morning, fell off his
chair in a fit, and on recovering wired to
his official superior,: “Dead —accident —will
explain to-morrow.”
A Vic. penwoman who wears, her’ hair
short relates that on a late visit to' Sydney
she travelled in the same train as a , bride
and bridegroom. She and another girl, hav-
ing a" carriage to themselves, lay down on
the seats arid covered themselves with rugs : .
At ; a ' wayside station the people had 1 been
told that there *' were ; a bride arid
bridegroom on board, and some intrepid
loafers who walked by the carriages
peered into the windows. When they saw
the sliort-haired. girl and the other one
lying on the seats, they took them for the
bride and bridegroom and began to “bar-
rack.” “And would you believe it,” says
the penwoman, “I had to stand up, throw
off my rug, and show them my skirts before
they would go away?” They had taken
her for the bridegroom! If anyone had taken
her for a bride she possibly wouldn’t have
been so annoyed.
She entered a tram-car, and as she
accepted a seat which an obliging passenger
vacated for her accommodation she noticed
that a gentlemanly-looking man who sat
opposite was extending his hand towards her
cordially. Without taking the trouble to
determine who the supposed acquaintance
might be by a closer scrutiny of his features
the lady grasped the extended hand and
shook it vigorously, at the same time going
right along settling her draperies to her
critical satisfaction. When this was accom-
plished; she looked up with a beaming smile
to greet, the owner of the well-shaken hand.
To her astonishment and. horror she gazed
A CENTENARY CONVERSATION.
ACTIVE TRADES COMMITTEEMAN : “Has your husband gone to the
meeting of the united sons of toil, Mrs. McGoogerty?"
MRS. MCG.: "He has sor."
A.T.C.: “Was he delegated?”
MRS. McG.; “Well, sor, if it’s drunk ye mane, begorra, he was
simply bastely.” [10/3/’88.]
into the face of a total stranger. The hand
was dropped with startling velocity. “But,
sir,” she exclaimed, crimson with anger, “I
never saw you before in all my life.” “I
am aware of the fact, madam,” was the
reply; “I only wished to accommodate you
by passing up your fare.”
A N.S.W. country school-teacher set a boy
a question in compound proportion for home-
work one evening, which happened to include
the circumstance of “men working 10 hours
a day in order to complete a certain work. ’
Next morning the unsuspecting teacher, in
looking over his little pack of exercises,
found “Jim’s”'sum unattempted and the fol-
lowing letter enclosed in the page:—
Sir, —I refuse to let Jim do his sum you give him
last night has it looks to me to be a slur at 8-hour
sistum enny sum not more than 8 hours he is welcume
to do but not more. —Yours truely, Abram Blank.
WHICH?
“Is your mother at home?” inquired the
old parson, as he took his long-accustomed
seat in his best parishioner’s drawing-room.
“Oh, no. She went to Queensland last
week, to stay with Effie —I thought you
knew.” The old man leant forward; he was
very deaf.
A discreet lady caller here interjected a
remark about the weather, but it was no
use, for he answered beamingly
“Dear Effie —well, well, I am glad—boy or
girl?”
The discreet lady glanced in despair at
her companions. The gentleman visitor
gazed fixedly into space—the young daughter
of the house seemed flurried.
“Well, really—you see, we don’t quite—
I mean it’s neither.”
“Eh?”
“Neither!”
“Neither? Really? You don’t mean —
well, that’s very ex”—
There was a violent ring at the door-bell,
and the girl fled; a moment later she
returned.
“It’s both!” she said, holding out the tele-
gram.
Haggles.
BILL ANDREWS’S CHUM.
A seedy wreck is my actor friend
With his pose of studied grace,
And the nasal blossoms that softly blend
With the grease-paint on his face,
And. his grating chuckles that ever seem
Like the grit of a coffee-mill,
And his. doleful tales of the old regime,
And the days when he played with “Bill.”
You talk of Anson and Boucicault,
And Brough ; why, I’d swap them all
To sec Ruth Pakley on the show
With Rayner playing Paul;
And “Tiddlywinks” Collins and Russell, too,
.And Dicky Stewart and Hill.
Bill Andrews—why, where’s your actor now
That can ‘-cackle” a part like “Bill”?
He’d wander on through the Thespian maze
Till the beer made his voice grow thick,
Mid the shadowy scenes of the palmy days
On the boards of the “good old Vic.”
To vary the subject I’d try in vain,
For, in spite of my utmost skill,
He’d wrestle away and begin again
On the days when he played with “Bill.”
Poor fellow’, he once was respected and rich,
Now he plays “the carriage waits,”
And says that they always “queer his pitch”
As he’s “multy on his plates”;
But he’ll drink to the joy of other days,
Let the pain come now if it will,
Till the Prompter Death rings down the
baize
On his happy dreams of “Bill.”
W. A. S.
ON THE LAND.
Hot!
A blistering heat that drove the fowls,
with their beaks gaping, off the burning
ground into the shelter of the slab hut. A
scorching, withering heat that had made sap-
less hay of the grass in the paddocks, and
reddened the foliage of the gums and the
stringy-barks like the blaze of a bush fire.
A heat that had sucked up all moisture, and
marbled the land with cracks of shrinkage,
and turned the waterholes into mere mud-
baths ; while the distant creek had nothing
but its brown flag-grass and dry swamp-bed
to show where the water had run.
About the homestead the few cattle still
alive hung .with their heads stolidly over
the sliprails, refusing, in spite of all driv-
ing, to seek again for the sustenance it was
impossible to find. The framework of a
horse, his head between his legs, and as
much in shade as he could get on the lee
side of an old ironbark, stood impassive and
motionless. All round the horizon, a dirty
haze of smoke that melted into a yellow veil
of fog, covering the sky.
The sun glared. down. The air shim-
mered tremulously, as though it sickened
with its burden. And over all that land not
one gleam of freshness, not one sound of
joy, not a murmur save the eternal zing-zing-
zing of the locust. Seared, blasted, stricken,
a curse was upon it and upon every living
thing.
Abe Saunders was down at what used to
be the creek, trying to drag out his last milk-
ing cow from the place where she had bogged
in a vain effort to find water-grass.
Abe hauled and strained at the rope, his
shirt and trousers clinging to him with
sweat. The -beast kicked and plunged feebly,
its, little strength quite gone; and after two
hours’ work it was more firmly bogged than
ever. “It’s no good,” said Abe. “I must
get help ; I’ll go up the gully for old Mason
and his tackle. If we lose that cow what
will the children do for milk?”
Wearily he turned to go when the sound
of a “Coo-ee!” turned him sharply about.
“000-ee!” lie shouted.
A little nause, and again the cry echoed.
“Coo-ee!”
“It’s Mary,” he said. “What the deyil’s
up?” It was a good three miles to the ridge,
but like a wallaby with the dogs in full cry
he sped over rock and gully back to the
homestead. Long before be got there he
heard a strange roaring in the air, saw black
belching clouds over the tree-tops, and felt
a fierce rushing furnace breath.
The bush was on fire!
With the energy- of fear he dashed along.
There was the clearing, with Mary at the
house door still shouting at intervals. Even
as lie came up the red storm was upon them.
In mad frenzy he seized the two children,
one under each arm, and, shrieking to his
wife above the din of the fire to bring tlie
baby, he rushed to the centre of the ploughed
paddock. There they crouched panting. The
children were howling, the baby was crying,
and Mary was sobbing. The man said no-
thing. He watched the fire.
Would the house escape? There was fifty
feet of bare ground about it. But the air,
so calm a minute ago, was now a roaring
hurricane travelling at racing speed over the
ridge. The tea-tree scrub melted before it,
and the bush trees remained in its rear only
as black and .burning trunks. Thte fence had
caught; the flanies licked it up daintilyl
The shed and his cart and harness - were;
and were not, while lie looked. A piece of
burning stringy-bark, whirled by the wind,
settled :on the . shingles of the house. The
woman moaned and
pressed the child
closely to her bosom.
The man’s face was
drawn in agony.,
W eek by week,
day by day, he had
seen the, work of his
life perish under the
merciless' sun. The
best of his cattle
were festering car-
cases ; his - horses
were dead, though
his last pound liad
been spent in hay
for them. His sea-
son’s crop was sickly
beyond redemption.
All this, he had
born e, arid still
toiled in the unequal
struggle.'
And now the
house was burning,
the work of his own
hands. How many
months of weary
sawing. and splitting
had its shingles and
slabs cost him? He
thought of it all as
he stood there, help-
less and half-suffo-
cated. In less than
a minute the - flames
were shooting out of
the doorways . and
windows, and a loud
report was followed
by the fall of a side
of the house. It was
the explosion of his
powder flask, hung
on the wall.
“Can’t you put it
out, Abe?”
“Put out hell!”
and he ground his
teeth.
Through the open
framework they
could . see the bed,
the tables, the chairs
all blazing one after
another. The spirit
of the man revolted.
“Look, Mary,” he cried, “there goes the
cradle I made for the kids.” And as he
spoke the _ aspect of his face changed. The
limit of his suffering had come, and, like an
old-time victim of the rack, he began to
laugh. A hollow laugh, weird and terrible.
“That’s a good joke, Mary! The farce, is
ended—-all over in one act! Ha,.ha, ha!”
“You’re mad, Abe,” said his wife, shrink-
ing from him, with a great dread in her
eyes. “Don’t laugh like that.. It’s hor-
rible !”
“Mad, my dear! That’s good. Ha, ha,
ha! Say I’ve been mad —the most con-
founded lunatic in this blasted, blistering
country. To slog and belt for ten long years
to make a home of our own, to clear land,
to fence it, drain it, plant it —and all to
make five minutes’ bonfire! Yes, I’ve been
mad, stark, staring mad ; but now —ha, ha,
ha! I was never so sensible in my life!
“See how the cradle burns, Mary! It was
a bit of she-oak, and worked like a watch.
Don’t it look pretty now? They might be
silk curtains, all those flounces round it!
Why don’t 'you laugh, girl? It’s a great
joke. Look, the roof is falling in! It’s
as good as fireworks. Hold up the kids;
let them laugh. It’s all the same price!
Ha. lia, ha!”
But the woman replied nothing, frightened,
staring at him. The children screamed.
The driving sheet of flame had long gone
by. Skirting the ploughed ground where
they • stood it had left the bare surface an
untouched blank in its ghastly funeral trail.
Only tree-stumps, posts and fallen branches
smoked and smouldered here and there. The
man stood motionless till nothing but the
four : charred corner-posts remained of his
home.
“Let’s see the play out,” he said. “Ha,
ha, ha ! Ha, ha, ha !”
The fire was raging many miles further
onward when Abe Saunders, taking the two
children by the hand, led the way down the
track to the main road. His wife dragged
wearily after him, the baby in her arms;
looking back from time to time at the smok-
ing ruin.
The ' group passed on to the road where
the red dust blew in thick choking clouds-
that shrouded them from view. But long
after they had disappeared there sounded the
wail. of. the children, the moaning-- of the
woman and loud above all the - mirthless
laughter of a broken-hearted man.
HENRY FLETCHER.
MUCH—A LITTLE WHILE
“Love me little, love me long”;
Laggard lover sang such song;
, Rather, Peg, in other style.
Love me much —a little while.
If of old that minstrel knew
■ Maid so kissable as you
(Like you? There was never such!)
He’d have warbled, “Love me much.”
Since creation, never, yet
Aught arose'but it must set;
Wayward Lovp at Time may flout,
But Father Time shall rub him out.
Brown-eyed, bright-faced Margaret,
Kiss me, whilst you’re able yet!
Sweetheart, with the sunny smile,
Love me much —a little while.
THE BREAKER.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
thp World. Every description of Banking Business
< •onduet ed
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping ind hoping if yon wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
tf you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell
Personal Attention.
Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
è
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
é
1846.
oLhe Brisbane Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in_
Che Brisbane Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RttTDGING ALL SEAS
s«ii wa
n
0
ê
LINKING CONTINENTS
u.s.A., canadaTeurope,
via the South Seas
Hawaii Fiji Tahiti—
Raratonga—New Zealand
Through Bookings with
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Agents,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL HAIL LINES
n
rlS>
f
F*
w
Visit the Island
Wonderlands of
the Beautiful
South Seas.
Invigorating ocean voyage, then vacation
delights unsurpassed. Swimming, surfing,
inter-island sightseeing, quaint and inter-
esting native life and customs; multi-
colored coral lagoons in a romantic
setting of incomparable beauty.
Trips 2 to 4 \ weeks’ duration.
Apply for illustrated Pamphlet No. 52/G to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY,
LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
Ask for “The B. P. Magazine ‘
- —l/- a copy. '
ë
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liabiilty
ē
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. . £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIE'ND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J< R. DRYEVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
beoeral Territory, Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
SAFE
the world.
Classes °* G enei *al Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ĕ
TEbe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—-
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Ccfmmonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
kfi'ow. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
214 George Street, Sydney.
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN.
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Bydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.


ASK THE MAN
WHO’S BEEN THERE—
And he will tell you that the finest holiday
he ever had was at Mf. Buffalo National
Park—Victoria’s “ Garden of the Gods.”
Wide-flung views of mountain and valley, a great granite plateau with tre-
mendous precipitous walls, deep ravines and yawning cliffs, clear mountain
streams and deep, placid lakes—these are some of the features which cause
those who have once visited Mt. Buffalo to return there year after year.
Excepting the Christmas period, when rather higher rates
operate, the tariff at The Chalet during the summer
and autumn is only 15/- per day for weekly vacationists.
Book at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney, or
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or else get in touch direct with the manager of
The Chalet.
è
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
__ N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and A
==•- Agency Co., Ltd.
BREAK O' DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scor field
Chapter V.
MALCOLM could face a situation,
analyse it, and make a decision with
a strength of purpose, a self-reliance,
unusual in a young man of one and twenty.
When his father gave into his hands the
responsibility of securing the freehold of
Raebutn and of developing its potential
wealth, he gave himself to the business with
the singleness of purpose that he had given
to the study of natural science at the Uni-
versity. Two points were clear. He must
have the freehold before anything was done
that would indicate that the property was
being used for any other purpose than a
sheep farm; and when the freehold was se-
cured, machinery for crushing the stone
must be installed to reap the utmost profit
per ton. He found that the stone offered
less resistance to the hammer than road
metal, and that it could easily be broken
into nuggets, such as was said in Krupp’s
letter to be worth £llO a ton.
But the crushed and treated stone was
worth £l3O a ton. Why lose the difference
if the money could be raised for a plant?
There crossed Malcolm’s mind the words,'
“If ever you think at any time I can be
of any help to you, please don’t fail to
come and see me.” Lady Richmond? Why
not? He knew nothing of business methods,
but she had a reputation for successful, if
hard, dealing, and had crossed swords with
the keenest business blades. In any case,
she was his prospective mother-in-law. Of
course she did not know that. She might
even fight against it, when he claimed her
daughter. But she would lose; his mind
was clear there. Yes, he would speak to
her. Keep the mine in the family. Per-
haps she would finance it in consideration
of an interest. It might be well worth offer-
ing her half of his share, which was three-
quarters of the nett income.
In the middle of January, 1886, he had
another letter from Krupp requesting him
to give some idea of the quantity of the
metal that he had at his command, and
the number of tons he could supply within
the next year. The firm also offered to send
him an i expert to manage the getting and
treatment of the stone, and to export to
him the machinery for crushing.
Two days after receipt of this letter, he
called on La.dy Richmond. He handed her
without preface, when they were seated in
the library, a copy of his letter to Krupp,
and the reply, together with the firm’s
second letter.
When Lady Richmond had read the cor-
respondence, she looked at the young man
"and said, “Will you assure me that I am
not, dreaming?”
“Lady Richmond, you are the only person
in New Zealand, beside my parents, who
has seen that correspondence. Will you
please let me tell you why?”
“Certainly, Malcolm. This is one of the
few interesting moments of my life.”
Thereupon Malcolm, with the utmost
sang-froid, and succinctly, as befitted a
mathematician, laid before her the whole
of the facts and his proposal.
“Young man,” said Lady Richmond when
he had concluded, “I am the last person
in the world to rush into a venture, and it
would be a very exceptional case indeed
where I would put money into a business
over which I had not some control. But
this is unique. Mining ventures are usually
speculations with the odds against you. This
is the rai’e exception. The mine is proved,
though, of course, you have no idea of the
extent of this valuable stone?”
“Not even a general idea, Lady Rich-
mond. It would be possible to get a general
idea by excavating, but that would be
a dangerous thing to do till we have the
freehold. It is apparent, though, from the
outcrops that there are many thousands
of tons of schefelite on the place.”
“Quite right, my boy; do nothing till
you get the fee simple. And now I want
to think this thing over in the light of other
matters that I have in hand. Will you
come here to-morrow morning at ten? As
I see it now, we must act quickly and
quietly. When this becomes known, schee-
lite may be discovered on other properties
sufficient to glut the market. In fact, many
things can happen to militate against us.
To-day tungsten is used for hardening gun-
metal. To-morrow it may be superseded by
a cheaper and better process. That has
been the way of the nineteenth century so
far. Malcolm, this is eminently a case where
hay must be made while the sun shines.
Meantime I thank you for your confidence.
Good-bye.”
“Good-bye, Lady Richmond. I’ll be here
to-morrow at ten sharp Oh, Lady Rich-
mond, how is Linley enjoying her holidays
in Wellington?”
Malcolm knew perfectly well that Lin was
counting the days till she would be back
and in his arms. She had told him so in
the fifteen letters which at that moment he
carried in a pocket over his heart.
“Oh, she is having a splendid time with
her daddy. I had a letter yesterday from
Sir Alfred to that effect.”
Chapter VI.
After Malcolm’s visit Lady Richmond
spent the rest of'the day consultihg files of
papers that consisted for the most part of
statements, balance-sheets and confidential
reports which proved beyond doubt that
times were very bad. The only business
holding its own in which she was financially
interested was the shipping company.
Associated Farmers, Ltd., was insolvent and
in liquidation. She had dropped more than
twenty thousand pounds there. Her station
properties, including the Hermitage, had for
three years past shown disturbing losses.
But the thing that weighed heavily on her
mind, disturbing her nights and poisoning
her days, was the condition of the Pastoral
and Agricultural Bank. The P. and A. was
the biggest institution of its kind in the
province, and its financial soul. The Rich-
monds were among its largest shareholders
and Sir Alfred was a director. All the con-
cerns in which they were interested
depended upon the bank for financial
security. Fortunately it was unknown to
any but the directors that the bank was in
anything but a hopeful position. That posi-
tion was due mainly to the fall in the
value of securities during the lean years,
together with the too optimistic policy
adopted by the management during the
years that were good.
Had young Malcolm known that, when
Lady Richmond heard his proposal, she re-
garded him in the light of a possible
deliverer from a terrible catastrophe, being
the clear-sighted mathematician and deter-
mined young man that he was he might
have held that the moment was propitious
to put that other proposal to her, the one
about Lin, and so kill two birds with one
stone. But her Ladyship kept the state of
her mind to herself.
The evening shadows were lengthening
when she at last locked away the unbeauti-
ful statements, the balance-sheets and con-
fidential reports, heartily wishing she could
as easily lock her mind against the worry
of them. She went into the library, the
one room at the Hermitage where disquiet-
ing thoughts hesitated to enter, and, opening
the French windows, sank into an easy chair
to look out upon the orchard and its ripen-
ing fruits.
“Time! Old Father Time! What fan-
tastic tricks he plays!” she thought. “They
show him with a scjdhe. Why not as a
clown in a circus? Of all persons in
the world, why should it be the son of Allan
Macalister? Allan, who regards the Hermit-
age as a place to be wrested from that too
wealthy, that detestable woman, begets a
son who gives that woman a confidence that
he would not share with another person in
the province, and delights in being of
service to her and her?; also, unless she is
very much mistaken, is head over heels in
love with her daughter; and, strangest of
all, she is not perturbed! Good Heavens!
Allan Macalister’s son and Bess Richmond’s
daughter! ”
What was it about Malcolm Macalister
that disarmed her and made him so desir-
able? She had felt it at their first meeting
in the pines. The son of Highland crofters
—peasants—with the air that one associates
with a prince, but which a prince never has!
Why had she not sent him packing, as she
had half intended to do when she waylaid
him in the pine grove? There was no
answer. It had been taken out of her
hands. “There’s a divinity that shapes our
ends.”
“That boy,” said Bess through the open
window to the reddening cherries, “fits him-
self into this house as if he had been bred
in the place. Did Lin love him? Lin—her
daughter! And a Richmond—the last of a
long line! . Lin, whom none but the best
were to approach, in love with Malcolm
Macalister! Well, perhaps Malcolm Mac-
alister, the delightful son of a detestable
father, was the best. Who could say?”
On the following morning, before the
clock had stopped striking ten, Malcolm had
taken the proffered seat in the library and
mentally noted that her Ladyship looked
especially well.
“You have been thinking about the schee-
lite, Lady Richmond?”
“I’ve thought of little else since yester-
day morning, Malcolm.”
“Would you like to have a look at the
stone? I could drive you over to Rae.-
burn.”
“Oh no. That’s not necessary. Nothing
would be gained by my looking at the stone;
and, besides, I think I had better not go to
Raeburn at present. If you wonder why,
ask your father if he v'ould care to take
a walk over the Hermitage property.”
Lady Richmond smiled quizzically at
Malcolm, who was reminded of Lin’s re-
mark, “Aren’t old people funny?”
“Money,” Lady Richmond went on, “is
very tight at present, and it is going to be
tighter. You may think me a very wealthy
woman, Malcolm. I want to be open with
you, because I have decided to finance the
mine. I can only say this. If these times
continue for another two years, I may be
a poor woman. I tell you that to let you
see that not only am I about to confer no
favor ,on you, but that the boot is on the
other'foot. What I mean is that I shall
look to the scheelite as a possible financial
saviour for myself.”
“You can depend on me, your Ladyship,
to respect your confidence.”
“I know that, my boy, but it is only
fair that I should tell you so. Confidence
for confidence. Now, here is the position
as I see it. I’ll finance the purchasing of
Raeburn, the establishment of a crushing
plant and every other matter where money
is required until such time as the mine be-
comes self-supporting; and in return you
will give me a one-quarter interest in the
mine, which is the same as your father will
hold.”
“Oh no, your Ladyship. I offered you
yesterday half of my interest—half of three-
quarters. I think that is fair.”
“Why do you think so?”
“You are making it possible for me to
get the mine going with the utmost secrecy
and dispatch. Your doing that might make
all the difference to me and my parents
between wealth and poverty. It is worth
half of my interest.”
“Malcolm, this is the only benevolent
business conversation I have ever had a
voice in. Look you; this is not a venture
at all. We have the goods and we know
its value. It awaits only the money and
machinery to make it marketable. I am
supplying the money without risk of loss,
or at any rate with the odds well in my
l'avor for a very big win. A quarter share
is really more than ample. Let’s therefore
leave it at that. Now, what I want to say
is this. You and I trust each other im-
plicitly; that’s apparent. I should be quite
satisfied to proceed on our spoken agree-
ment, but one or both of us might die or
something might happen to us. For instance,
I might go mad, or you might fall in love.
So we had better have it in writing, but
the writing we shall do ourselves, thus keep-
ing to our pact of secrecy. Why did you
blush when I said you might fall in love?”
“Because I am in love, your Ladyship,
and I’m .very”
“Now, that will do. It will keep, will it
not?”
“For ever, I hope, but”
“Now, now! Don’t take me so seriously,
my dear boy. I can talk only business this
morning. Some other time we’ll hear all
about it.”
“Very well, Lady Richmond. There’s one
thing I should like to suggest.”
“Strictly business?”
I want to suggest that all the
correspondence and business of the mine
be done from here. I would do the work,
of course, but in doing it I would have the
benefit of your advice and experience.”
“Very good idea, Malcolm. I’ll have the
room off the side verandah fitted up for
the purpose. Now let us write out our
agreement. We’ll have it in duplicate, a
copy for you and a copy for me, and then
I shall dictate a. letter for you to the solici-
tors for the Raeburn trustees, notifying them
that the lessee is prepared to exercise his
option to purchase Raeburn farm, con-
sisting of 10,000 acres, for fis. an acre, and
that the purchase money will be paid in
cash.”
“Then, Lady Richmond, we’re off!” ex-
claimed Malcolm smiling, as he drew his
chair close to the writing-desk.
“Yes, Malcolm,” agreed Lady Richmond,
opening a telegram that the maid had
handed to her. “We’re off, and I believe
we’re off on the most pleasant journey that
either of us has ever taken. This wire is
from Lin. She is coming home on Thurs-
day ; but perhaps, Malcolm, that is not news
to you.”
“I beg your pardon, your Ladyship?” hesi-
tated Malcolm, not quite sure that he heard
aright.
“Sit up to the desk, Malcolm, please, and
we’ll compose this agreement together.”
Chapter VII.
In the year 1887 Sir Alfred Richmond was
in his twentieth year as the Parliamentary
representative for Rewa-Rewa. During the
past ten years he had been opposed at only
one election. No seat in the colony had
been so secure as his, and no member wouid
have lost his seat with fewer regrets. At
sixty-two years of age he was quite sure,
reviewing the long period he had spent as
a legislator, that no' other calling in life
could have become him less, or been less
to his liking. Those wasted years that should
have been the best of his life—what might
he not have done with them had this damn-
able public life not been forced upon him!
He would have produced the finest
thoroughbred horses in the colony and
would have possessed one of the foremost
racing stables; carried off the New Zealand
and Australian Derbies, and as likely as
not the Melbourne Cup! What a record
that would have been! And what had he
done instead? Nothing! He had followed
like a dumb dog at the heels of the Con-
servative party—a party he knew now to be
incapable of appreciating the needs of a
pioneer country. There had seemed to be
ho way out of it short of making a noisy
scene by pulling out of politics altogether.
He would hate to have been the cause of a
demonstration.
He had had no chance during his political
years. The dice had been loaded against
him. Frequently mentioned in the press
as the most popular man in Parliament, and
loved by his constituents, he had had exe-
crable luck also on the few occasions when
he had been opposed at the elections. Weak


The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The “Daily Mail”
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
men in every case had been put up against
him—men he had not the slightest chance
of losing to. Why did not Macalister stand
long ago as an ‘independent on his land
policy, and break away from the unpopular
Radicals? Macalister would have given him
a good run for the seat. A man had to be
as strong as Macalister to do even as much
as that. But poor Macalister did not have
the wherewithal. He had it now, though,
and would win the seat hands down this
year.
Sir Alfred was in Wellington and about
to leave for his home. Hp had obtained
leave of absence for the balance of the
session to attend to urgent private business,
and he had made up his mind that, come
what might, from Bess or anyone else, he
would not seek re-election in December.
He was as firm about that as he had been
in taking his own line of action when Mac-
alister was charged with sheep-stealing.
Two good reasons he had for his decision.
He was getting old, and wanted to spend
the rest of his days in doing what he liked
to do; and he was not, and had not been
for some years past, in sympathy with the
policy of the party he had so long sup-
ported. His belief now, the sum of twenty-
six years’ .experience of life and conditions
in the colony, was that the Conservative
policy was out of sympathy with the
colony’s needs and the aspirations of its
people. He believed now that the country’s
destiny could be shaped only by men cap-
able of original thought, and courageous
enough to pass democratic and even experi-
mental legislation designed to keep pace
with the requirements of a growing country.
During his twenty years in Parliament he
had kept his mind so well detached from
the exigencies of party that it was free to
form its own impressions of the problems
that confronted the State, and to arrive at
the conclusion that, although one might be
a Tory in England, he could with fine sanity
be an advanced Liberal in the colony.
In 1887 the country was depressed. Un-
employed walked the streets of the cities
in numbers hitherto unknown. Wages were
low, conditions of labor poor. The workers
were amalgamating. Trades unions were
coming into being in spite of the bitter
hostility of the employers. The voice of
the people was being heard throughout the
land from the mouths of organising dele-
gates, fresh virile men who knew what they
wanted and were determined to get it.
When Sir Alfred Richmond arrived homo
he was surprised to find that the Hermitage
was not nearly so much concerned with
this situation, however, as with the market
value of scheelite. He found, too, that his
wife and young Macalister, who had done
him a splendid turn when Flying Scud won
the Moana Steeplechase, did not seem to
care how a man stood in his political
opinions, so immersed they were in shipping
dust to Germany.
He had been at the three days
before an opportunity was given him to
speak to Bess about it all.
“My dear,” he told her then, “my mind is
thoroughly made up about this; I shall not
seek re-election in December. I’ve been
twenty years in the House and I don’t know
of one act of mine that has been of benefit
to the country; and, what is worse, I can’t
put my finger on one act of the Conser-
vative party that has contributed to the
progress of the colony. I say nothing against
the members of my party personally.
Splendid fellows, most of them; but the
party itself is, if you get me, informed with
a spirit that is nothing short of poisonous
to a virilb pioneer country. So now I am
going to perform the one and only states-
man-like act of my political career.”
“You remind me, Alfred, of what the
Queen said of Gladstone.”
“What was that, my dear?”
“ ‘Gladstone addresses me as if I were a
public meeting.’ ”
“Oh, I’m sorry if I am lengthy, but I
must explain. Very well then. Now hold
on hard, Bess, for I am going to horrify you.
I am going to vote and work for Macalister
at the forthcoming election. I have come to
believe in his policy, and I have never had
any doubts as to the man.”
Alfred and Bess were seated in the library.
It was one of Alfred’s big moments. Hav-
ing delivered his blow, he leaned back in
his chair, tightened his lips, and folded his
arms. He awaited the lightning. He re-
ceived instead a charming smile.
“My dear Alfred,” beamed Bess, “you
have taken a world of worry from my mind.
I didn’t think it possible to bring you to
see it. You can be very obstin—ah—firm,
once you have made up your mind. What I
want to say is that it has come to me only
in the past few months—in fact, since the
mine has been going—that it would be to
our interest, and very much so, if a Gov-
ernment were in power that favored the
breaking up of the large estates for the'
purposes of closer settlement, always granted
that provision was made for the payment
of a reasonable price to the owners. For
three years our stations have been a dead
loss. You’ve seen the balance-sheets. The
mine is, and will be, our sheet-anchor. I
am, as you and the other directors know,
bolstering up the bank till the bad times
pass, and it is taking everything I get from
the mine, the shipping company and my
city properties to keep the thing going.
Now, listen to this. Macalister has become
a much more reasonable and responsible
individual since he has been reaping a har-
vest from the scheelite. No flamboyant
talk now of dispossessing the large land-
holders. Oh, dear no! The talk now is
‘resumption by the Crown of the larger
holdings suitable for close settlement at a
reasonable price, the money to be borrowed
in London for the purpose.’ Now, my dear,
we should be much better off with a few
hundred thousands of the London money
than with three stations going to the bad.
Alfred, what a darling you are, and what
a politician! I beg your pardon—l mean
statesman.”
Bess rose from her chair, bent over her
husband, and kissed him on the brow.
“ Ton my word, m’dear,” exclaimed
Alfred, “you’re delightful. I was in a terrible
quandary as to how I was going to break
the bad news. Well, I’m damned, my dear!
I must have a brandy.”
Across his glass Alfred regarded Bess with
a humorous twinkle in his eye.
“Really, m’dear, when one considers what
the whirligig of time can do, it’s enough
to make a fellow sit down and do abso-
lutely nothing. Look here, you sent me to
Parliament twenty years ago for the express
purpose of holding together the large estates,
and now you are delighted that I am quit-
ting Parliament and that the large estates
are likely to be burst up. Isn’t that a
beauty, m’dear? What?”
“I must admit, Alfred, it is a beauty;
but listen! Let me confess. I refused to
believe that there could be circumstances
that we oux*selves could not control. Quite
lately several things have happened that
have caused my mind to be disabused of
that belief. I shall now and hereafter be
the first to admit that there are circum-
stances over which one has no control.”
“Bess,” said Alfred, rising from his seat
and going to her, “I have never loved you
as I do at this moment.”
Chapter YIII.
“ ’Tis a pity, Fogarty, you couldn’t keep
a silent tongue in your head. You’re such
an infamous liar,” growled Pat O’Gorman
as he helped himself to a toothful of Irish
whisky.
“I tell you it’s the truth that I’m saying
to you, O’Gorman. Didn’t I hear the doctor
tellin’ his patient the same? ’Tis right,
O’Gorman. Sir Alfred is retiring in favor
of Allin Macalister. He tould the doctor
so.”
“Now, Fogarty, I’ve had to kick you
out of here more than once for your lies.
I don’t want to have to do it again. Tell
me this. What were you doing to be hear-
ing the doctor talking to his patient?”
“What was I doing, is it? What would I
be doing but listenin’?”
“The Bulletin” has no hesitation in saying that “No Escape” is one of the
best stories of Australian country-village life ever written: probably the very
best. It does for the country town what “A House Is Built” did for Sydney:
and those who liked that story will be delighted with “No Escape.
Leo Gherardi is an Italian who, after a brilliant medical-student career, gets
into political trouble and has to flee from his country. He is accompanied by
his young wife, who was just preparing for an operatic career when the storm
broke. She has tremendous faith in her husband—believes he is destined to
do the greatest things for his and her beloved Italy. They find themselves in
a raw, crude country town of Australia. How they react to their surroundings
is the fascinating story of “No Escape.”
Velia Ercole, the writer, whose portrait is printed herewith, is the daughter
of an Italian doctor, long settled in Grenfell, where the daughter was born.
The book runs to a great length in its original form. It has been slightly
condensed for serial publication; but, being still considerably beyond average
serial length, it will be printed in rather larger instalments than usual. To
enable this to be done illustrations will be dispensed with. The pictures which
“No Escape” itself draws are so extraordinarily vivid, however, that illustrations
will hardly be missed, if missed at all.
“Where were you listening?” O’Gorman
leaned towards the witness after the manner
of cross-examiners.
“Where would I be listenin’ but at the
surgery door?”
“And by what right, if I may ask, had you
to be listening to a conversation between
the doctor and his patient? Now look me
straight in the face and tell me that?”
“Don’t I always look ye straight in the
face?”
“You do not, and for a good cause.”
“An’ well I know the cause, O’Gorman.
There be nothing in the face of you to look
at.”
•‘Fogarty, answer you the question, or go
out.”
“Wasn’t I passin’ the surgery door? And
wasn’t it a crack or so open? And didn’t
I hear Neild tellin’ old Logan that if he
didn’t go easy on the whisky he’d shorten
his life, and thin he said that Sir
Alfred”
“Ye can stop there, Fogarty. Ye are
convicted as a liar on your own words.”
“I am?”
“Yes, you are.”
“What wurruds, O’Gorman?”
“You say you heard the Doctor tell
Logan to go easy with the whisky.”
“I did that.”
“Well, ’tis enough. That convicts you.
Doctor Neild would not try to injure my
trade in that way. Why should he, when
he gets more money out of me than any
dozen in the district? I tell you, Fogarty,
you’re not only a liar but a base calumni-
ator. How could Doctor Neild say such a
thing when I know that he advises his
patients, when it is necessary, that whatever
they do, they must not stop the whisky,
stoppage being like to shock the system.
But, hold on,” he added, looking through
the window over Fogarty’s shoulder, “here
come Logan and the doctor now.”
“Hell!” said Fogarty, “I’ll be off out
the back way. For the love o’ God, not
a, word to the doctor that I was here.” And
Fogarty slithered through the side door as
the doctor and the dominie entered by the
front.
“Good day to you, gentlemen.” It was
O’Gorman’s habit to greet customers accord-
ing to their status.
“I have just come from the railway
station,” said Andrew Logan, “where I saw
Allan Macalister. He is off to Moana and
would have liked to see you, but he had
no time to call. He told me to tell you
Richmond has been to see him and that
Richmond is resigning in his favor and is
going to work for him publicly. Now, what
do you think of that?”
“Well, well, ’tis great news.. I could
hardly be better pleased if the Home Rule
Bill had gone through last year. But what’s
come over Richmond at all?”
“I can tell you that,” said the doctor,
“when you have given us a couple of
whiskies and had one yourself.”
O’Gorman having produced the decanter
and glasses, the doctor proceeded.
“I had dinner with Richmond last night.
He didn’t say much, but what he did say
was to the point. He said, ‘Neild, I’ll tell
you something, and there need be no secret
about it, as I am making it public in a day
or two. I’m not standing this election. I’m
done with Parliament for good. My party,’
he said, ‘has outlived its usefulness. I’m
going to support Macalister. I don’t care
what party he belongs to, because I now
believe that his land policy, if put into
operation, will make this country.’ ”
“Well, well, ’tis great news.” repeated
O’Gorman.
“Then Richmond said that he was going
to spend the rest of his days breeding
thoroughbreds, as a gentleman ought, and
trying to win the Melbourne Cup. What
do you think of that, O’Gorman?”
“Well, good luck to him, anyhow,” said
O’Gorman.
“The Government is done for. Theyill
be beaten two to one,” said Andrew Logan,
and added: “Macalister’s luck turned to
some purpose when it did turn, what with
the scheelite mine and the country up
against the Government.”
“They tell me,” said O’Gorman, “that the
Macalisters and Lady Richmond are taking
a small fortune from Raeburn every month.
What a wonderful thing it is!”
“Yes,” said the doctor, “and the wonder-
ful thing also is that not an ounce of schee-
lite can be found on any other place—not
even on the property adjoining Raeburn.”
(To be concluded next week.)


Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834.
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
460 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6, 12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL . . £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Exapiinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
... »'>
/
4 t
hi i
4mkt.
#V# ,<S:
/
W
PSQ
, *
9*
If % \
m
MID -AFTERNOON on a broad verandah. Cocoanut palms
nodding in a South Sea breeze cast moving s’ tdows on a velvet
lawn. A brown-eyed sprite barefooted and bedec .d in blossom-leis
glides out of the shade and pauses in the sunshine.
From a low-throated ukulele comes a vibrant strum like a warning
note. Suddenly the echo is caught by the pulsing lilt of steel guitars.
In weird grace the immobile figure slowly swings into the lithesome
movements of the Hawaiian Hula Hula.
The wild ecstasy of the tribal dances of old Hawaii, the sobbing of
their music which tells of winds in forest branches, the moan of surf
on coral shores, plaintive loves confessed to a tropic moon, lend a
glamour to the Paradise Isles which grows with every visit.
To-day, in flower-scented groves, thrilled by the drama of ancient days
enacted in fairyland settings, are many who return year after year,
and so too will it enchant you—arrange to go now.
Special excursion fares now available. First class accommodation from 15/- to £3
per day, including meals. Write for descriptive literature to
Hawaii
A-1931
JVot.
17.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 88,
G.P.0., Sydney.
A wireless set in a rosy-glowing confec-
tionery and soft-drinks shop, twenty, steps
or so on from the corner back of which the
Italian fruiterer’s small window discreetly
shone,. was broadcasting hoarsely and cheer-
fully a song dealing with the theory that
every cloud has a silver lining. The dark-
ness had a bracing frosty edge, haze blurred
the street lights a trifle, cars slid past, a
cat slept at the side of a garage entrance,
girls wearing coats of dyed rabbit fur over
dresses ending in ragged wisps of chiffon,
and wobbling stilt-lieeled shoes, bought ice-
cream cones, meat pies, chocolates and
packets of cigarettes.
A couple of doors from Jessie’s old war-
ren house Phil Cotter stopped, took off his
pince-nez and put them in the case that
lived in one of his inner pockets. ,He could
see without them, though not distantly, and
where there was any danger of injury to
them it was second nature with him to put
them away. He would have done so just
now in the lane if there had been more
time.
He slipped a hand into the pocket where
the revolver was. It felt cold and good.
In himself lie had never before felt so
alive, so limber—so cheerful.
In a few minutes he would see Jessie.
Her eating-house shut down at seven; it
catered for those who worked heavily and
considered six o’clock a late hour at which
to dine. He knew on what floor to find
her, for she had often spoken of such things,
smiling round at him while she threatened
to invite him to tea and crumpets.
The house was a sombre, battlcmented
affair, with big-leafed pot-plants in tins
huddled about the entry. Four storeys high,
its old-fashioned rooms were divided up by
makeshift partitions* into twice as many
cubicles. Its walls harbored vermin, and
there were usually a perambulator or two
parked about the porch.
Day and night the front door stood
always open. This saved much trouble, both
to the proprietress and the semi-nomadic
population.
Phil walked straight in. It was like the
prince who has a charmed life daring some
Dark Tower wherein Beauty, the eternal
magnet, is concealed. The protective charm
was simple: “In a week, or at the most two,
you will be dead.”
The hallway was dark. So were the first
two flights. Somewhere a baby was mewling.
On the third landing light showed from be-
neath a door. There was beer on the other
side of that door —or it might be that raw-
wine, cheap as raspberry cordial, and known
as “pinkie.” The tw r o sodden and conten-
tious voices that were audible might have
drawn, inspiration from either.
On the fourth landing brightness leaked
from a door that stood ajar. Phil was as
sure as though he had done just this a dozen
times previously. He gave the door the
merest tap with his knuckles, didn’t wait
for any word good or bad, pushed it half-
open and went in.
Jessie w-as standing by the table in a
faded flowered wrapper. .She had been iron-
ing. There was a lighted cigarette between
her fingers. At sight of Phil she dropped
it. Her square, strong little face seemed
to sharpen, and the unusual green-grey eyes
to suddenly enlarge.
She took a couple of steps towards him
and .said “Sli-h !”
“Jessie,” said Phil Cotter, “I’ve been a
bit of a crawler, but not now. I've come
beck.”
They stood looking at each other, and he
saw that she was afraid.
“What’s wrong, Jessie?”
She earner very close to him, put her hand
against him, spoke low.
“Darkie’s in the room next this. He
moved there last week. He’s there now.
He’ll shoot you, Phil.”
To Phil this seemed relatively unim-
portant now 7.
“You reckoned I was a skunk, Jessie?”
“No—the swine was out to smash you.
I can see through him just like a bit of
glass. His camping on my doorstep hasn’t
got him anywhere; but I wouldn’t move —
I wouldn’t let the mongrel think he had me
bluffed. But he’ll shoot you, Phil.”
She had her hands on his shoulders, her
tiger eyes wide as a mother’s when her child
is all but under the wheels of some towering
traffic juggernaut. Then another expression
flashed across them —pale lightning, a blend
of defiance and fear.
Phil knew what it was. He turned quickly
and saw Darkie Driscoll standing just within
the door.
A shortish, wide-shouldered man was
Darkie. Sallow 7, with a plain, flat and rather
heavy face. He was in his socks, and he
lacked collar and tie.
Nothing was said —there was no time. Phil
whipped the revolver out, and his finger
crooked on the trigger. Darkie’s mouth
opened, and a sort of surprise was stamped
upon his face. Then his knees bent side-
ways and he went to the floor with a heavy,
jarring thud.
The revolver had spoken almost noise-
lessly. It was fitted with a silencer.
“O, God, Phil!” said Jessie, But not
very loud.
He had an arm round her and was patting
her as she, in the past, had patted him.
“It’s fixed, anyway. I’ll go along and
explain to the cops pretty soon. It doesn’t
matter —it doesn’t matter a scrap, Jessie.
They can’t do anything to me —they won’t
have time. I’ll be dead for certain in a
fortnight.”
“What? What are you talking about?
Whcre’d you get that from?”
So Phil, still patting her, told her.
She drew away from his hands ; she gave
her copper-brown bobbed head a shake; she
uttered a sound that was like a laugh. Then
put her arms round him and shook him just
a little.
“Boy, that doc.’s been full of dope this last
month He’s crazy. All that’s nothing.
He’s mad, that’s all. Phil, there’s nothing
wrong with you.”
He looked absolutely blankly at her.
“Now listen, dear, this is where I come
in. Just look the other way while I slip
into a dress. And then we’ll both go down
to the station. You shot in defence of me,
and I’m your witness. He’s got a gun on
him, I know. Anyway, they know him
there, and you can tell them what you saw
the time he had you smashed. I’ll fight for
you ! My God, any woman would ! You’ve
got the pluck of the Devil, Phil.”
The Stranger-Lad.
Though you have charmed him singing glad,
Designed his scheme of stars anew,
Forget not that the stranger-lad
Time and again will go from you:
H'e will be sundered and dismay’d
By sharp distress of sharp farewell;
But you must hear hie footsteps fade
Down the coarse track.... and none to tell
Whither he went nor what returning
Dawns unforetold prepare for him
When he shall add new kisses, burning,
To his old praise of breast and limb.
Brave maid, you havb taken to your side
One with the mark in him of flame,
Not of your people; shall you chide
If the dark couqtry whence he came
Rules him with shadows still, its laws,
And tiros in shadows as of old,
Till he is fretful with no cause
And leaves you with his love half-told,
To tread dry roads of sand and gravel,
Or roads not mortal leading far
Where you have never sought to travel
Being not he but all you are?
N.sw.
R. D. FITZGERALD.
Which?
Mine is the wisdom that misses so much;
The creed of the coward, the armor of
fools ;
Prudence that, guarding its self, will not
touch
The burnt children’s fire, the shining edged
tools;
The wisdom that parries and hides and stoops
low,
And never stands forth with its face to the
foe.
Yours is the foolishness heroes have worn
(Leading where angels scarce ventured to
tread)
Like a lingering halo. And yours is the
scorn
For compromise, caution, the calm courage
bred
In truth's cradle; the eagerness freed from
self’s taint;
The crusader’s banner, the badge of the
saint.
I have guarded my pathway, nor spilt any
blood
In the cause of the helpless, nor challenged
the knave.
Your banner is down in the mire and the
mud ;
You, saving others, yourself could not save.
But which, think you, smells in the nostrils
more sweet —
My sorry success, or your splendid defeat?
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Grain.
There was yellow grain on Shinar’s plain
Before the brown floods swirled about the
Ark,
And like a dancing rainbow in the tide
Went down the hoarding vase of polychrome;
Which, in the layers of the centuries’ mud,
Wise men found fecund with its store of
grain,
Bearing for them a page of history—
Grain that was reaped with sickles made of
stone,
Where listless, dark-eyed women ground the
corn.
Pouring a bright stream from the pottery jar
Into the grinding stone, and pondering
The luck of some swart lover in the chase.
The wealth of Antioch grew from the tolls
On camel trains that, down Orontes way,
Labored to bring the bales of amber wheat,
Linen and ore and painted porcelain cups
And lapis lazuli, and limestone slabs
Whereon was traced a chariot with wheels
Brushing aside a field of ripening corn.
When pastoral peoples drifted from the
heights,
And as grain-growers settled in the vales,
To beat out copper knives and shares and
spears.
From these first settlers rose the harvest
dream,
The lush-green paddy-fields where blue canes
feed.
The rye upon the Afghanistan hills,
The oats in Wiltshire, and the barley gurs
Paid to their slaves by Babylonian kings;
Wild barley running over Turkestan,
And wheat in Persia, or in burial-chests
Of Egypt, packed in alabaster urns.
For when the Nile was swamp the sowers
came
With pear-shaped mace-heads, wavy-handled
pots
They had brought with them out of Pales-
tine
To shimmering visions of a fruitful land.
Wheat on the Darling Downs, like sheets of
silk,
A rustling company in Lincoln green
With listening ears turned to December
winds;
Corn slowly mellowing through drowsy hours
And barley bright as dragons in the grass,
And tall white silos, sentinels of the plain,
And dusty barns where shadow trips the sun
Through lofty windows, or the hum of
scythes
Singing in English counties. Grain on grain,
The history of Man is written here—
Man rising from the mud of a morass
To concrete highways; sickles made of stone,
To the swift smoothness of machinery;
And Nature working just the same old way.
With sun and shower to find the grain for
bread!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


e
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONOD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLAIES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House.” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. EEBER, SMITH & CO., ETD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the ; interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Who Wish to
South Australia
è
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
•—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. S.
Thompson, "Llt-
flar House,” 30
Carrington street.
MELBOURNE.—
J. N. Bednall,
The Herald Office,
Flinders street.
Clk Itlerpir
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The "Mercury** is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE "MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fas*.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS, •'
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
3O Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che fld»«rtiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
m Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and (ill
t h e Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may
obtained at all interstate, agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotchj price 1 id.
be
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
„ „ N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, SO Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8AV70.38.
Representative in Victoria:
N - BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
The Week"
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published 'in the Comm™
wealth. It features
woman ought to know. Once
read it you wm never be witho t y ? u
Its up-to-date weekly pattern i«
free for the asking. 18
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co
214 George Street, Sydney. **
To keep
smiling &
vigorous-
KEEP
HEALTHY
&£££s
pi
LLS
PR
Si
iyineKropri«[ors
HELENS
ST
' Sx
Health is the key to happiness. Radiant
smiles and high spirits speak of a system
vital, active and clean. Health depends
on that, you know! Once you become
constipated, wastes and poisons vitiate
the blood, and the system slowly becomes
sluggish, inactive. Eyes get discoloured-
tongue becomes furred—the complexion
shows sallow; headaches and biliousness follow.
If you suspect auto-toxication is ruining your
health, take
BEECHAMS
BUS
'WORTH A GUINEA
A BOX'
MIRROR OF CONFIDENCE
The Examiner, Launceston’s only daily,
was established 89 years ago. It has
become the trusted Family Newspaper
in Northern Tasmania —it is the reliable
Advertising Medium for the North.
As this Graph indicates, the advertising
in The Examiner has been, steadily in-
creasing. The unstippled portions show
the increases year by year. They are the
Mirror of Confidence that reflects the
reliability of The Examiner as an Ad-
vertising Medium.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising
Rates obtainable from
[■ag'T 1922 | 1923 |l wTl92s| 1926 T 1927 |l 92fl | 1929 ]
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty., Ltd..
73-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
M. S. ALLAN,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
W. G. DOUG AN,
liembla Building,
Margaret Street,
SYDNEY
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin’*
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jor ward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, S months }rom
jor which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS ....
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
é
o
o°
6
0)
£
s e
6®
tf° >
** a V
# v
sP 1 , v*
U'>


I
lililSlf
* afSri’s
iiiaiiftfc
feSSiltfilviPM
.-■ ?::S;
•-■
felflrt
.
fe&t ■ 'mesm A
'Will
I imat
■ 4' -; : . ■
“• l> i , ■ ‘ .
"
Ssliii
■; , ■ 1,1 • . v
m§ * a fisaip pi
■'Ti * j -jji 1 l
'
. .%’>■ ■ ' ! ' i:3W—
!o-■ :i: : r .- -a .' “y’a /;;: :;-::: i .i : ,;; i ,:;:a;;: : Aiiui;!M!i;:;_- . '
■!t -i&. , .
■IP 8
fc’ VP . 1 1 -''^lfi
; - -y \,r • 1 'V' /
■ -
W:§ - X ■■ ■ - "'■'
Sllllll
sn n i
- a,';
4# !,
iijpVij'.Pi
../:-i
Ik ,V ;■
fti.:lSlfll .."■■'■•/%
9^SiV-rvS'>;: v a-’ , \ .
HftP-ppv:
M? :; :*■ ?*'' ■'' ■
E.-| llllll;
BWVVP«’'Si
■lsP'vi "
K .
■H Nsfc.
......
ilL' „ v -; VV ) V
mb.
'0
j
g^.VVV>V*i'i
sss>
,
■ b.
if 1111
• ’
' v' -P pPi: ,
.ife; ■?: . •:
»li
:::»»!
siisw
$
SsB£ssB&i
Ik. 5?«
*’ v .
'
-. : ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■.",
■'
•Sipipl.Bßife: !
! v „i ; i *■ V'-';
wmmm
t •., m i
..............j
mm
m si
■
P ; ' ; p : Vi;;i
i..
■'l
