

KULIAK
è
m
Picture
Competition
Win I
£2OOO
with one film
One simple little snapshot will win
£2OOO for someone, and it can quite
easily be you!
The Kodak £20,000 International Picture
Competition is the biggest contest in the
history of photography—and the easiest!
No technical skill required—prizes are
for picture-interest only. Nothing to do
but snap!
Get out your own camera —or buy, a
new or better one—load with Kodak
Film and join in the fun.
Dont let a prize-winning picture escape
you—you have many chances to win!
Entry forms and full particulars now
available from all photographic dealers.
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney.
The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane.
37 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
662 Hay Street, Perth,
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
East Street, Rockhampton.
Flinders Street, Townsville.
162 Queen Street, Auckland.
40 Princess Street, Dunedin.
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
681 Colombo Street, Christchurch;
The Bulletin
(A 3 CL uIiAX xaru, — (ft S.
Vol. 52. — N0. 2665.
Wednesday, March 11, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE for Dymock’s Library Catalogue,
W and lists on all subjects, wffich will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Story Wa{,£2
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
If y Address
S.B. 231
U-YSAGHT"
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
'////////////////////////////////"S'
(/■>
!►
r>
Prt
WORCESTERSHIRE
THE DINNER,
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah ! the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
e
w
* v '
We suggest that
you ask your nearest
distributor to show you
the complete line of RAY-
O-VAC Electric Torches
and RAY-O-VAC Bat-
teries. There are no
better made.
~ in
Manufacturer’s Representativa
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821. G.P.0..
Melbourne, Viet. .
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
.. CHICAGO U.S.A. ... I
LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITEE.
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
The Red Page
HI BOOKS
Eh, Maoriland?
ë
A Horrible Book
w
“Saint a Flop”
I Asa ladder out of that depressing Pit
I hopefully advance The Miracle oj Peille,
by J. L. Campbell (Collins), first published
about a year ago and now just issued at
7s. 6d., with color illustrations by Clive
Gardiner. It is as strangely spiritual, un-
earthly, as “Yama” is sordid and worldly.
Its heroine is a feminine Christ, who would
have cheerfully embraced her sisters of the
Pit and even cured them of their diseases.
Her locale is an idyllic, rusticated place,
an old chapel ruin,
in Monaco. Her
life, materially,, is
as futile as was
Christ’s. She is
carted off to New
York by a loud
ŵ
More Antidote
If that ladder won’t serve—and I can’t
imagine its doing so for an atheist, a materi-
alist, or one bigoted against the Roman
Catholic religion—l’ll stake the beer-jug on
some of the rungs of Some Crajtie Arts, by
Jan Gordon (Kennerley; Roycroft; 6s. 6d.).
Gordon, going through the British Museum
catalogue, is struck by entries under the
heading of Art—“ The Art of Keeping
Women Faithful,” “The Art of Educating
the Spirit and Heart of a Prince,” “The
Whole Art of Smoking and Taking Snuff
without Disgusting the Ladies.” Then a
browsing over such books, and a stringing
together, with bright, gusty comment of his
own, of their best bits. Sauces capable of
“making a man eat his grandfather”; the
provocative information that a mole on the
buttock “denoteth that the partie is of a
playful affable character”; a sterling defence
of water as a drink; “The Art of Catechis-
ing” by one divine, and “The Art of Wench-
ing” by another. Perhaps not the least of
the book’s amusingnesses is that the most
absurd work it touches upon, “The Art of
Attracting Men,” is an American publica-
tion which first saw the light in 1925.
Another Anthology
The “Craftie Arts” is really an anthology
with the author on the stage introducing
his select performers. An anthology more
in the mode is Humbert Wolfe’s A Winter
Miscellany (Eyre and Spottiswoode; Bs. 6d.
net). The reader who does the usual thing,
and omits to read the introduction, will mis-s
one of the stalest things of the kind ever
done. But the rest is a capital anthology
of prose and verse, capable of making the
Old World winter a reality even on a
Sydney midsummer day.
A Serial Machine
Though the author’s rather American
manner is a bit loud for my taste, The
Inky Way, by Mrs. C. N. Williamson
(Chapman and Hall; 18s. net), is in many
respects a diverting autobiography, and in
one respect unique; there is scarcely a
breath of scandal in it. The writer—the
“A.M.” of the well-known best-seller part-
nership—has met numerous personages
about whom plenty of scandal has been
written; but she sees only their better side.
Arnold Bennett’s smile is “as full of charm
and romance as it is of teeth,” and even
people like Lloyd George and Winston
Churchill, who snub her, appear excused.
In her day the author was a serial-writer
whom even an Edgar Wallace might envy.
Touring Europe on her honeymoon in an
early, incredible motor-car, she kept up weqk
by week instalments of six different serials.
A trier if the Inky Way has ever known
one.
RED PAGE.
Epstein at Home
Jacob Epstein, about whose latest work
there has been the usual shindy, is a little
fat man with guileless eyes and hands per-
petually, irritatingly, on the move. His
lower lip, negroid and full, sags a little and
he talks in a high, caressing voice. He has
exceedingly good manners, but he is always
shy. He is the most hospitable man in
London, and when you have met him you
have a place to go whenever the mood takes
you. His doors are never closed. You can
go at three o’clock in the afternoon or
three o’clock in the morning. There will
always be someone about to make tea for
you.
I went first on a Sunday afternoon. A
devil of a noise came out of the house and
burred the edges of the respectable Sab-
bath silence. He lives near Hyde Park,
just round the corner from the Albert Hall.
The Albert Memorial, indeed, casts its
sanctified shadow over him. And nurse-
maids going past with their little droves
of offspring from city bankers, nose, ear and
(Red Page continued on page 6.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING**—when Anthony Horderns* say a thing you know it is true
Anthony Horderns
(THE SENIOR STORE)
2
3
sC
4
1
5
iv\W\
W-
■fc*.
Wa
%
Wa.
"///,
SP
\w
'<£3
'A
y*
n
m
&
M
m
w
§Ss
k!.«f
An
if
\U
SB3
%
0?
(S
Warm Comfort
for the coining
Chilly
Nights!
DOWN QUILTS
New Designs—Finest Qualities —
Anthony Horderns’ “Famous Low Prices”
DOUBLE-BED DOWN QUILTS
Here is remarkable value in Floral Cambric Down
Quilts. They feature attractive designs, with one
plain sateen panel. Well filled with purified down.
Colors are Rose, Saxe, Black and Mauve. Single-bed size,
L)ouble-bed size. Price, each 21/-
7Y-
In Floral Cambric, 29/6
O Plain sateen panel and border.
** Attractive designs in Rose,
Blue, Black and Mauve color-
ings. Well filled with purified down.
Single-bed size, 6ft. 4ft. Price, 29/6
Double-bed size, 6ft. x 5 ft. . . 33/6
Superior Quilts, 49/6
4 Superior Floral Cambric Down
Quilts, in good designs. Large
outside satin panel, with bor-
dered diamond satin centre. Well
filled with superior down. Single-bed
size, 6ft. x 4ft. Price 49/6
Double-bed size, 6ft. x sft. . , 59/6
In Floral Cambric, 38/6
3 In smart designs, with satih
panel and border. Colors are
Rose and Saxe. Well filled with
superior down. Single‘ted size, 6ft.
x 4ft. Price, each 38/6
Double-bed size, 6ft. x sft. . . 457-
In Floral Sateen, 59/6
5 Floral Sateen Down Quilts of
superior quality. Narrow satin
bar, with fancy satin centre
surround. In Rose, Saxe and Mauve
colorings, Single-bed size, 6ft. x
4ft. Price, each 59/6
Double-bed size, 6ft. x sft. . . 67/6
6ft.
Floral Sateen Down Quilts, 79/6
Floral Sateen Down Quilts of superior quality. With large outside satin
panel and wide goffered satin panel. Very attractive. Colorings in Rose,
Sa ?, e an p , Mauve ' Well filled with high-grade down. Double-bed size,
x Mt. rrice, each 79/6
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
’Phone: M2/+Ol. Day and Night.
SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Australia’s Greatest Values
in Down Quilts and Blankets
Whether you judge by range of choice, quality of offerings, or
the greatest test of all—VALUE—you must agree that Anthony
Horderns is THE place to buy Blankets or Down Quilts.
AUSTRALIAN
B LANKETS
At Prices
Substantially Lower
All Anthony Horderns blankets are Australian-made. They are guaranteed
to be full standard weight and size. Prices are substantially lower this
y® ar > and Anthony Horderns’ give you the full benefit—our values challenge
the strictest comparison.
White Blankets from 22/11 pair
Size. ins. 54 x 78 63 x 81 72 x 90 81x 99
Single Bed.
Prices, pr. 22/11
Prices, pr. 25/11
All. Wool— Prices, pr. 27/6
Bettfet quality, pr. 31/6
Superior quality, pr. 33/6
All Wool; Boxed—*
Prices, pr, 35/6
Superior quality, pr. 37/6
Pure Merino; Boxed—•
Prices, pr.
Outsize, All Wool, 90in. x 108 in.
Grey Blankets
Inches 54 x 78
Single Bed.
Silver & Dark Grey, pr. 16/11
Silver Grey, pr. 21/6
Dark Grey, pr. 21/6
All Wool, Fawn, pr. 27/6
White Cot Blankets,
from 11/6 pair
Size 28 x 48 32 x 52 36 x 56 45 x 63
Bassinette. Sgl. Cot. |--cot. Dbl. Cot.
Pr. 11/6 15/6 18/11 27/6
Check Camp Blankets,
from 9/6 pair
In light and dark checks.
Size, ins. 50 x 70 60 x 80
Prices, pr. 9/6 12/11
(Blankets and Down Quilts, First
Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
o
Our D.P.S. is a Convenient Buying Method.
You leave a deposit, pay the balance as it suits you, and on com-
pletion or payments the goods will be delivered to you in the usual
way. No interest is charged.


World Champion Athletes
will compete here in the
1932 Olympic Games
’WLTHENEVER you go to America,
* " either in your holiday or en
route home to England, you’ll have
so much that’s interesting to see and
do! And this will he especially true
next year when the picked athletes
of the world gather in Los Angeles
for the 1932 Olympic Games.
What a sight it will be—this ancient
festival of the Olympiad revived in
a glorious modern city! Plan now
to be there. You’ll find superb rail-
way trains to take you everywhere
in the United States. At moderate
cost you can visit New York, Wash-
ington, Chicago Yosemite, the
Grand Canyon, Zion, Yellowstone.
For your ocean voyage in 1932, you
will have the fast new steamers now
building for the Matson line. The
trip from Sydney to San Francisco,
already the fastest, shortest route
to America and England, will be
shorter still by these great liners.
Our new illustrated literature shows
fascinating pictures of America.
May we send you a free copy ?
Write to Dept. M 42,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION RIJREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Telephone: B 7981-3
•rntm*
mlf frfibAP
m
• ■> •.
gS&j&fXis&ji,
S3*!fc
e&k.: -'V
H
H§§
.
- *
m
m
■m#
m
§ssl %*!§. *• ’ <s&■■../,
W*.
Xy'x>
Si»i
as
*
&
a&t-A
ysi
«
Hi
%
.#
»
it
m
S&K
x.
&&
ft ft
ffKlßn
■
* ' •:
wmm
S >'■
i§
I
II
’sy)
m
*V-<> *
issm
*V;, ‘
«1
gp
>: s&.’'
WUK
The great Los Angeles Coliseum, seat-
ing 125,000 persons, where the 1932
Olympic Games will be held. Every
spectator has a clear view and is kept
in touch with the fine points of any
match by announcements through
radio loud - speakers. This picture
shows the stadium with a college
football game in progress.
Fantastically carved and gloriously
colored, the Grand Canyon in
Arizona is one of the beautiful
scenic places you can visit when in
America. This great gorge is thirteen
miles in width and one mile deep.
Through it runs the magnificent
Colorado River,


£
4
w
Faultless
Tailoring
and astonishing
value!
LIERE’S proof of absolute Suit
1 satisfaction for you. A full
range of the actual clothes pat-
terns will come to you free, so
that you may test the wonder
values. Also, every Suit carries
a binding guarantee of “perfect
satisfaction or money refunded in
full.”
Murdoch’s famous
Suits to Measure
are lowered in price to meet the
times. For instance, you can obtain
a Suit, perfect in every detail, from
all-wool Worsteds, Tweeds or Serges
—all latest weaves.
To your
Measure for
£3189
Usually £4/19/6 value.
Also other special reductions at
£4/15/- and £5/15/-, and hand-
finisKed at £6/10/-, £7/10/- and
£B/8/-
Send this Coupon
for Free Pattern.
Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send me, with-
out obligation, complete range of
patterns of the above Tailoring Specials.
Name
A ddress
C
a»\v(
is
M»Ki,cigiic;.si«UK
We pay freight.
Kindly address all
letters to Desk “R,”
Box 3875TT, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
throat specialists, retired colonels and the
like—it is a tremendously righteous neigh-
borhood—point a trembling finger at the
green door of the house where lives the
great national bogeyman, Jacob Epstein.
The noise, the smell, the smoke and the
crush were so overwhelming in the drawing-
room that I needed all the resolution of
one born of pioneers to persevere past the
doormat. When I began to get my bearings
I saw something that looked like a cross
between a three-course spaghetti basement
and a Rembrandt interior. Two-thirds of
the room was occupied by a Bechstein con-
cert grand, a fat, Jewish gentleman talking
in Polish about the quantam theory, and
an enamel family teapot that would have
done honor to an Australian sheep station.
Everybody was talking at once, and a
woman with a very handsome figure and a
nose leaning towards Lebanon was placing
Bach, Epstein's favorite music. Afterwards
I met the lady, but as she couldn’t speak
any of the three languages I understand I
never discovered who she was and why she
stopped every few minutes to take a bite
from a piece of garlic she kept in her garter.
During the next half-hour I met about
forty people, painters, musicians, poets, jour-
nalists, novelists. Not one sculptor. Later,
encouraged by his flattering hospitality, I
asked Epstein if I could bring two Aus-
tralians to meet him—Frank Lynch, the
satyr man, and John Gough, the young Mel-
bourne musician, who was about to have
an. orchestral work performed in Paris.
"What do they do?” he wanted to know. I
told .him Gough was a musician and Lynch
a sculptor. He stroked his chin. “Bring
the pausician,” he said. It was a relief to
see that he was so human, anyway.
Of that vast gathering—it was the usual
Sunday afternoon crush—the only personali-
ties that stuck in my mind were Epstem
himself, Edith Sitwell, Mrs. Epstein and
Epstein’s little daughter, Peggy-Jean,' who
has an intimate acquaintance with celebri-
ties that would make a poor Fleet-street
columnist chew his coronet with envy.
Conrad had told her fairy stories and left
behind to ripen in her imagination little
pictures of miraculous adventure in remote
places. When she was young—she is not
ouite twelve yet—she used to think he was
father Christmas. I wonder what anybody
would say to that who remembers how
Conrad’s voice sounded, coming up with the
spray to the miserable wretches who were
taking too long over the job of packing
the royals in a forty-mile gale. I once met
a man who’d been to sea with him. What
he said didn’t suggest a beneficent old
gentleman at all.
Mrs. Epstein, matriarchal, urbane, indul-
gent and terribly fat, sat behind the titanic
reservoir of tea. Every five minutes it,
was refilled. The tea was black, and tasted
like tar, but everybody kept on swaliow-
mg it. I have never seen such tea or tea
lust since I attended a shearers’ ball at
Cloncurry. There was a heavy fog on
London that day and everybody had the
birdcage mouth, so they had. to drink some-
thing. It was very nice, very nice indeed,
to see some of our young poets having this
vile decoction forced down their sensitive
throats. And not without smiles of mali-
cious humor from Mrs. Epstein. She is an
extremely intelligent woman. Life has
been fairly tough for her and she knows a
whole lot, though I don’t think she has
read half a dozen books altogether. When
she married Epstein he was unknown. To
her. he owes the opportunity to work
straight towards the development he eventu-
ally achieved. Her sacrifices for him were
enormous, and though men and women
make similar sacrifices for each other every
day there is something peculiarly touching
m hers. She left a comfortable home to
follow Epstein, and for many years, the best
part of her life, she had to work hard for
the crust that kept them alive. Since the
war, of course, Epstein has become the
most famous, though I doubt by any means
the richest, sculptor in England. He is also
the, most reviled man in England, but I
don’t think he makes much money out of it.
He showed me some of his work in pro-
gress. I can’t say I liked it very much, but
1 admired Epstein. He is a man with a
problem and he is the only sculptor in Eng-
land intelligent enough to know it. Sculp-
ture is even more hopelessly muddled to-day
than painting. The fact is that the sculp-
tor in his medium cannot get to grips with
the life. It is too complex to be rendered
ui simple, visible form. For the Greeks
the whole thing was easier. They were a
simple people whose emotions flowed easily
into gesture, and sculpture was their natural
mode ol self-expression. To-day the sculp-
tor has either to content himself with simple
form problems, or he has to become sym-
bolic. Einstein has become symbolic. It
is a pity. His magnificent craftsmanship
is being wasted. He spends his time dupli-
cating Polynesian forms that are interesting
as Polynesian forms, but not as Epstein
forms.
Jhe people who howd at him here, how-
ever, understand nothing of this. They kick
RP . a - because he is doing something
that is nev r to them. Somebody tarred and
. eathered the Hudson memorial. You
wouldua be surprised, either, if you saw
.he bladders of wind and sawdust and com-
placency that stand round it jeering on a
Sunday afternoon. That’s just the sort of
high jmks they’d evolve after thinking hard
about it for six months or so.
God help Epstein. But God help a thou-
sand times more the pathetic creatures who
think he is being paid by the Russian Gov-
ernment to disseminate Bolshevik propa-
ganda by means of sculpture. That’s one
theory about him.
LONDON.
BAIRN PENTON.
A Satchel of Books
Crickd Memories , by a Country Vicar
iJS h Ki en; 7s -‘ - 6d - net) - An old hand’s
agreeable reminiscences on the game, with
an introduction by P. P. Warner, who is
becoming a veteran in that office.
Oscar Wilde, Selected Plays, Prose Writ-
herp,l srs • P °r. mS (Dcnt; 2s - net), is num-
n 8 in a circumstance that
might have troubled even Wilde to provide
an apt retort The selections include “The
«rnj^ r « st \’ “ T h e Picture of Dorian
<V T ia V Soul o f Man under Socialism,”
Lady Windermere’s Fan,” “The Importance
fette? S emg Earuest ’ “ Re ading Gaol” and
IT ilsod’s Sydney and Suburban Street
Svfml 0r! i: 1 i 931 ' Kou S hl y more than 11,000
hmfwJ. I 'i >ads ’ avenucs , lanes, places, squares,
boulevards, crescents and what not split up
Sydneys metropolitan area. This capital
handbook tells all that’s worth knowing about
“ c P; f It: a PPears annually and each issue
is ratter and more full of maps than the
one before. Its accuracy is standard.
vr J n I % h o’° il ! e .? f The Wind-Laborer, by
M. C. T. Sawbridge (John Lane; 7s. 6d )
has an unsatisfactory father who marries
again and leaves her a small step-brother to
hI'SL n P- i E °-l £ as beauty, charm and
biams, and poor Julie adores him:
She had had nothing in her heart when he had
first burst in and now she had nothing else.
The story is a depressing account of her
fruitless efforts to make something of Roy
who is a congenital waster. The principals
have been met before in many another novel
—Julie a sad, sensitive love-hungry old maid •
Roy a cheery young waster—but they live
m tins one, and so do most of the people
who come m contact with them.
There is nothing exciting about Two
l amilies, by Archibald Marshall (Collins;
is. bd, net), but it is a novel of exceptional
interest and charm. Henry Blake is Squire
of Harford when the story begins in the
sixties of last century, and Sam Abel is a
blacksmith on, the estate. Sam leaves to set
up as a manufacturer of agricultural imple-
ments. By 1918 the_Blakes are penniless,
and Sam s son, Sir Ebenezer Abel Bart
owns the Hall. The fragrant atmosphere of
a remote English county is over the whole
narrative, and the development of the charac-
ters, nearly alp of whom are delightful folk
is traced with the sure hand of one who
uas evidently known them all. Mr. Mar-
slialls styie is discursive, and he has an
ola-fashioned belief in the goodness of human
nature, yet he lias performed the feat of
writing a book without a dull page.
Monsoon Music, by Marie Bjelke Petersen
(Hutchinson’s; Bookstall Co.: 7s. 6d.) con-
cerns the sorrows, of Neva Lynton. s'lie is
as. happy as it is possible for such a lugu-
brious female to be as accompanist to Ivan
K lavmsky, the world-famous violinist. How-
ever, though as virtuous as she is beautiful
and chuckle-headed, she has a past. She
was inveigled while still an innocent girl in
Melbourne into marrying a creature with
sinister eyes, who made her take a drug
which enabled him to acquire her fortune
put her in an asylum, and divorce her as a
lunatic! Anyhow, that is the story she told
the scandalised Klavinsky. Lippington, the
ex-husband, turns up and tells Klavinsky
ah, though the violinist asks him over and
over again to shut, up and get out of the
hat. Eventually, in an attempt to shoot
Neva, Lippington hits Klavinsky, and while
fleeing from the scene trips and accidentally
shoots himself. Neva remains with the
expiring musician:—
Presently her sobbing ceased, and, lifting her
head, she looked over the sea and whispered in a
strange awe-struck voice:
“He has—gone to play to —God.”
There are many passages like that.
In Honeymoon Hate, by Mrs. C. N. Wil-
liamson (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d. net)
an American shrew is a Venetian
Petruchio. Gail Grant, millionairess, is one
of the most objectionable girls in the U.S.A.
She is puzzled by the proprietor of an
antique shop in Venice. ' He refuses to sell
her a piece of fifteenth-century brocade for
30,000 lira because she-means to cut it up;
and when she drops her bag in the canal
outside the; shop Hie ; appears in a bathing-
suit (“a golden , and gldrious quality in . his
strong yet slender - limbs where muscles
moved”) dives in and retrieves it. This is
Prince Dautarini, whom ..she eventually mar-
ries. She strikes the* prince on the-wedding'
night (for she does mot yet realise that she
worships the beautiful :creature) and they
separate. Till at last : . ~
Her head in the little pearl cap lay'close vto his
neck.
“That' other wedding night doesn’t count,’.’ he
said. “Not -that we didn’t love each other ever,
then. We did.”
“I thought we hated .each other,” Gail ’breathed
under her lips. “Honeymoon Hate! ' I said to my-
self that night shut up- in, my, room.”
The luscious Dantarinphas a sort of,-interest
as the answer to every American spinster’s
prayer while visiting Yurrup.
And a Little Verse
CRY IN THE NIGHT.
Here in the' gusty night as,l lie,
With the boughs above me streaming across
the sky,
And the wind through the branches making
the stars fly,
There is forgetfulness even for such as I. .
O wind, shake on me glistening drops of
rain !
O bouglis, still my heart with the monotone
of your refrain!
Stars, with your far-off, icy fire, strike
through my pain
And teach me wisdom, patience once again !
O burn me, Beauty! Scourge and scar!
Blind me with the terrible loveliness of a
tree or star!
Flash on me as sharply as the curve of a
scimitar
If I should ever forget how rich and strange
you are! °'
MAOKILAND.
UNA CUBBIE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
ana no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
■ P.E.S.: YY ell, first, the Commonwealth
Constitution forbids it.... Brawl: “I don’t suppose
you ever met old Sam, the station cook?” Dozens
of times, but this one is too prosy for verse....
J.S.: Your shearers’ cook is too reminiscent of the
operator in Gilbert’s Nancy brig... .C.E.G.: The
wheatgrowers’ lot is surely hard enough without
doggerel of that kind....Kep: Not without merit,
but it s too much to have to wade through nine
verses before arriving at the point in the tenth
F.S.S.: Night came swiftly down on “A Budding
Author’s Day”.... A.F.: Chief fault is the sing-song
metre... .J.G.: Both have glimmerings of merit....
T.A.: “The Sailor” misses the boat T.N.0.:
Weie Dan but Living Now” is dead. ... Sayongra :
Wobbles here and there W.M.W.: Never too late
to give such a good resolution an airing:—
So once more to The Bulletin'
I send my verse and ask it
To have a heart and “put it in” ;
“Yes,” comes the answer, “Basket!”
Ye gods! Some day I yet may win
A Tatt. or Golden Casket,
And when I die I’ll leave my tin
To bards whose fate is “Basket.”
But neither of those would go very far. You ought
to have a shot at that Irish sweep.... M.W.: “My
Love Is Like a Piccolo.” Fancy we’ve seen her.
L.A.R.: Only thing memorable about the iceman
story is that it arrived on a hot day John
Citizen: Perhaps Lang deserves it. .. .H.C.8.: Hullo;
has the old swagman gone and died again ?....’
J.W.D.: Too much wind in it for what it has to
say.... Ming: “Despair” not quite cheerful enough.
Jerild: “Wish”—“kiss.” Still, it’s probably
hard to keep even a rhyming ear these times
G.R.:
I went on as Hamlet,
Feeling rather good;
Acted the part as well
As anyone could.
I came off as Omelette,
Feeling rather sad—
Result of the eggs thrown,
Some of them bad.
Still, there’s hope for you. Your acting might be
all right for the talkies C.C.F.: “Crucified.” No-
burnt....l.T.W.: “The Sheik” couldn’t' catch a
wall-eyed spinster on the Block M. 8.: Sorry if
it’s true; it isn’t much as verse H.A.D.: Evidence
of feeling, but you make a poor job of passing it
0n... .G.T.M.: It had to go back... .A.J.8.: If you
sent a request to the Service Page you might strike
something G.McD.: It’s a very tight market.
W.G.W.: Ought to interest a natural-history
magazine V.W.: Old plot, and you bungle it
at the end....M.H.: There never was, and never
will be, a detective like that E.W.: Loathed the
eccentric bachelor before we reached the second
page A. 8.: Why the abrupt finish? J.P.: A
preposterous p10t... .8.L.P.: Strange how many con-
tributors to this column hav e used that idea of
the surgeon who has to operate on the lady who
jilted him... .M.L.P.: No g00d... .N. 8.: Better
handled it might have a chance C.W.P.: Too
many arid stretches between the humorous patches.
H.G.T.: Not strong enough W.P.: Hermit’s
secret wasn’t worth revealing... .H.H.1.: It might
have been made a laughable yarn.... N. 8.: Foggy.
.... Flash of Steel: Might place them at some sport-
ing address... .Bellerive : It’s superb:—
IN THE DAYS OF OLD.
Among courtiers, knights
And fierce warriors bold
Grim duels were fought
In the days of old.
A quarrel, a challenge,
And combatants would meet
With doctor and seconds
In a secluded retreat;
Captains and majors,
Dukes, squires and lords,
Did settle disputes with
Pistols and swords.
For the love of a lady
Fearless and bold.
Musketeers fought in
The days of old.
(Next -week: “Aboard a Tramp Ship.”)
.... Patroclus: “Bellerive” might have made a job of
“Don and Archie,” but can’t imagine any lesser
pen doing 50....H.D.: Can admire only the spirit
of it....Wog: Your muse is suffering from a severe
attack of inflation... .H.C.M.: Like a bit more feel-
ing. .. .Strutt: All far too thin... .D.A.S.: Don’t
fancy that one. Try some more... .E.H.: Main
trouble is that the topic has been frayed by others.
... . J.L.: Priggish... .C.D.: There’s a glut of depres-
sion yarns W.H.8.: Creditable effort, but this is
not the shop for it. Study the art of “placing” your
stuff... .E.J.S.: Has its bright moments, but they
are too few....M.M.: Feebly flippant... .J.Y.:
Rogue wouldn’t be trapped in that fashion....
A.R.Q.: Too far removed from reality... .E.F.W.:
Lady who mistook saampering of rats for a burg-
lar’s footsteps has had her day... .C.J.0.5.: Tangled
and tedious tale... .N.W.: Painter, poet and musician
all dumped... .P.T.C.: You’ll have to murder them
more artistically if you want to get into print....
M.U.W.: Commonplace travel notes... .D.T.: Fairies,
gnomes, goblins and elves not admitted... .H.A.:
Received your 800-word “serial.” Now expecting an
80,000-word short story... .G.W.0.C.: Your sus-
picions were correct.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.P.A.: Confine yourself to parallelograms for the
next few weeks... .5.8.: Angular figures and anaemic
jokes... .G.A.E.: A long way after Phil May....
M.S.: Bears too many artistic scars C.K.: Inept.
.... E.N.: Original design but handling is p00r....
D.A.: Might suit a fashion paper... .W.J.P.: Very
rough... .K.J.: Think before you draw... .N.S.F.:
The hands are faulty 8.5.: Has an individual
touch, but you’ll have to think up better jokes
F.A.0.: Teach your pen to obey you—.G.H.F.:
Scraggy pen-strokes... .S.A.W.: Not too bad, if
drawn in a dream T.A.G.: Not well put together.
. ...J.C.G.: A scratchy pair... .K.S.: Don’t count
us among their admirers... .W.V.L.: Offering a
prize to anyone who can see the point ? C.W.:
All missed .J.S.L.: Draw from nature, not from
photos.... .M.K.: All right as an architectural study,
but no good as a joke block.


e
w
PH
mm
A,
m
m
■*?'
■S
■ ■
i
v ■,.
V
' :
:« '■
1:
.
I
:
SSI
mm
£
■
.ST ..
.... f
%
m
Nsa
■
&****«&
mz
WBDm
WKSSm
■
Wk
m
MSI
mm m
. gg
®. -
■
■HL
sssssi
xr*:
.......
, • .;:•
ISBaSgIF ~s§?
Svfaafe'- ~ ;3r;4 lEssgg=gfa«?!^s>sS»s»,-.
:!!»-» ; : ■ V. .. ■"' •■^•*
Sum ggEl - m*
~ <-* -»•*•"“' "-« - *.* .. .'.‘jays ....*~ -- /
■ ■ ■ - ' :
■■■■■■■■■
;
: ' ; ' ■ -;• •■ ■ y: '■ ;\ ■: ; .- : ■ :^:W..
e
; ;
>£S
k ■ ■
Eg; ~ i
■ i
K
&


The Bulletin
VoL 52.—N0. 2665.
March 11, 1931.
“GET SET!”
"All Ministerial positions were declared votes Messrs Beasley, vacant by the Federal Labor Caucus. Mr Scullin was re-elected Prime Minister; Mr. Beasley, who nominated against him,
received only five votes. Messre Beasley, Anstey and daly were voted out of the Ministry; Messrs. Holloway, Culley, Dooley and McNeill Were voted in. Messrs.
Lyouns and Fenton. who had resigned their portfolios on account of Mr. Theodre's reappointment, were not candidaes; messrs. Lyons, Guy and Gabb did not attend
and Mr. Fenton did not vote.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21b George street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
VicToniA: lV r ~O Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
■7 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 iOs.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Sd. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. -.5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS i. 8, 9
A CARTOON BY PERCFYAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. . . .. 13
‘'WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 18
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC. 19
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. . . .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. ..27
SERIAL—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole .. 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) 30, 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 32
SHADOW SHOWS 33
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. . . 32, 34
SAID BEFORE (drawing by “Hop”) .. .. 36
COMPLETE STORY—
“THE SUPERCARGO’S WOMAN,”
By, J. H. M. Abbott .. . . 37, 38
VERSE- —By Una Currie, Kathleen Dalziel,
Hugh McOrae • • • • • • 5, 38
MR. THEODORE’S NOTES.
Better to be served by a clever rogue than
a dull fool; and on some such ground many
people, accepting Justice Campbell’s findings,
consoled themselves on the return of Mr.
Theodore to the Cabinet. But it becomes
more and more evident that the position of
Treasurer and fiiiancial guide of the Ministry
is not one which ought to be in the hands
of any person who is under suspicion of
being crooked; and it becomes more and
more evident that Mr. Theodore should
never have been readmitted to the Govern-
ment until he had disproved Justice Camp-
bell’s findings, and probably not even then.
The question, so far as the Commonwealth
is concerned, is not, however, whether Mr.
Theodore is guilty of what has been alleged
against him in the Mungana matter: the
question is whether he can be trusted to go
straight when it seems to him that it might
pay better to go crooked. And because Mr.
Theodore was readmitted to the Cabinet
without that question being in any way
settled, it becomes the unpleasant duty, not
only of the press, but of Parliament, to
regard all his proposals and all his actions
with suspicion.
Following Mr. Theodore from Queens-
land, first there were the remarkable circum-
stances under which he gained a seat in the
House of Representatives. With ample finan-
cial means, no matter how acquired, he came
to Sydney; and soon an elderly member,
holding a safe Labor seat, found it con-
venient to retire, having come in for a
good deal of money through backing a
horse with bookmakers whose names he
could not recall. There is no positive proof
that Mr. Theodore bought this man’s seat;
but this paper would be surprised if there
is a man in a thousand who believes the
story about the horse.
After that Mr. Theodore began to
thoroughly exploit the reputation which
he had made in Queensland as a financier
and winner of elections. The Bulletin
has shown upon what foundation his repu-
tation as a financier was built—how, in
fact, the State public debt sprang from
£B2 9s. 2d. per head of population in 1915,
when he took office, to £lO9 Bs. 9d. in 1924,
when he was preparing to leave; how dur-
ing the same period State taxes per head
rose from £2 2s. 9d. to £4 9 s. 2d.,
far and away the highest in Australia; and
how the railways, previously profitable,
fairly bolted to insolvency, the losses for
nine Theodore years being £417,991, £663,020,
£945,372, £1,323,252, £1,087,001, £1,581,060,
£1,580,207, £1,292,556, and £1,412,900. His
reputation as a winner of elections was
built on something more unsavory. Elec-
torates were gerrymandered; the Legislative
Council, standing in his way, was swept
out of existence in defiance of the vote on
a referendum; political bribery and cor-
ruption were practised right and left. Mr.
Theodore may not be cynic enough to be-
lieve that every man has his price; it is
fairly obvious that he believes so many
have their price that the rest don’t - matter.
On such a reputation, so achieved, Mr.
Theodore, having bought or otherwise
obtained a seat in the. House of Repre-
sentatives, soon found himself in the fore-
front of the Federal Labor party; and, by
virtue of his success in Queensland, he was
appointed campaign director when a general
election arrived 18 months ago. It is hardly
necessary to recall that campaign. No
statement was too wild to make if it looked
like winning a vote, no promise too out-
rageous. The unfortunate miners of Mait-
land, who had been out of work for a
year—at the beginning the victims of a
lockout not at all creditable to the owners
—were told that if Labor was returned they
would be back at work in a fortnight with-
out a cut in either pay or hours. The
man who made that promise must have
known that it was not even remotely pos-
sible to realise it.
Mr. Theodore took his place in the new
Ministry as Treasurer and Deputy-Leader;
and Justice Campbell proceeded with his
inquiry into the conduct of Mr. Theodore
and others in Queensland. It was a matter
which Mr. Theodore must have regarded as
of the utmost importance, not only to him-
self but to the Government of which he
was a member. Mr. Theodore should have
known what evidence had been given, what
grave charges had been made against him:
it is not possible to believe that he did
not know. But he did not attend to rebut
those charges or to submit to examination.
Apparently satisfied that Mr. Theodore was
deliberately absenting himself, Justice
Campbell reported his conclusions upon
the evidence before him. Then Mr. Theo-
dore took the obvious course. He
denounced Justice Campbell as a hired ser-
vant of his, Mr. Theodore’s, political
opponents. He, Mr. Theodore, had a com-
plete answer to the charges; only his
public duties had kept him from putting it
forward, and in its absence Justice Camp-
bell had come to his wicked conclusions.
It is for the public to decide whether any-
thing in the world should or would have
stopped a normal man, who knew himself
innocent, from appearing before that Com-
mission.
The Bulletin is not concerned with the
character of Mr. Theodore as a private citi-,
zen. But whether he is to be trusted be-
comes a matter of great public moment
when he puts forward a proposal for a
“fiduciary” note issue of 18 millions—that
is, a note issue of 18 millions with no gold
or other tangible backing; it becomes a
matter of great public moment whether he
really believes in it or whether, like the
promises made at the last general election,
it is put forward merely for electioneering
purposes. The manner of it is suspicious.
A general election cannot be avoided much
longer. Upon whom must the Government
depend for a return to office—with Mr.
Theodore probably as Prime Minister?
Whom must this Government placate—or
bribe? Obviously, before all others, the
hundreds of thousands of unemployed, who
have cause to be so entirely dissatisfied
with the Government, and the wheat-
farmers, who have been so shamefully
misled and abandoned. Mr. Theodore pro-
poses that his 18 millions shall be spent
one-third upon the farmers and two-thirds
upon the unemployed.
In view of the imminence of an election;
in view of the perilous position of the
Government, and the need to win back two
large and disaffected sections; in view of
the promise that two-thirds of the new
money shall be paid to one of those sections
and one-third of it to the other—in view
of these things and of Mr. Theodore’s
record, is it possible to come to any other
conclusion than that this is a plan for
buying votes on a vast scale for Mr. Theo-
dore and his friends with the people’s
money?
TRADE FIGURES FOR SEVEN
MONTHS.
The most cheerful feature of our trade
situation is that our imports continue to
fall. In January, 1930, we had already got
well into the trough; but the orders we
had placed in other drunker days were still
coming to hand, and our imports of mer-
chandise for the month were £12,421,853.
For January of this year they were down
to £5,074,307. Limiting the figures to mer-
chandise (that is, to everything except gold)
we reach these results for the first seven
months of the last two financial years:—
1929-30. 1930-31.
Exports ..£56,534,679 £50,522,986
Imports .. 87,094,574 43,434,833
Excess Excess
imports £30,559,895 exports ..£7,088,153
So in these seven months we have made
our position less dreadful by £37,648,048.
To the excess of exports for the past seven
months must be added, say, £875,000, repre-
senting gold won in excess of gold imported;
making a total of £7,945,153 as seven
months’ contribution towards paying our 12
months’ interest bill.
It is impossible to say what the 12
months’ interest will be, expressed in Aus-
tralian money: but our present monthly re-
quirements are at the rate of something
over £3,000,000 Australian, though it was
less than that earlier in the year when the
exchange rate was lower. Over the seven
months we were probably between 10 and
11 millions short of paying our way, which
would give us a trade deficit of at least 19
millions for the year. This means that in
order to pay our interest bills and for our
foreign purchases we shall have secured
accommodation abroad to that extent. Thus
far we have managed to get these accommo-
dations in some mysterious way. To a great
extent no doubt we have been living upon
our goodwill; foreign manufacturers and
merchants, for example, anxious to oblige
old customers and retain their trade, have
been accepting payments in Australia, put-
ting the money on fixed deposit. But there
are clear signs that that fountain is drying
up.
If we could carry on as we have done
during the past three months we should still
be on the wrong side, but not far. Our
exports for this period were £24,853,345, our
imports £16,220,461, and our trade surplus
£8,632,884. But exports for these summer
months are always better than normal.
What we are faced with is the possibility
of a poor harvest while prices are still low.
It would not be at all possible to further
greatly reduce imports without causing
hardship: a large proportion of present im-
ports are tools of trade and raw materials
not immediately procurable in Australia.
There must, no. doubt, be further steady
efforts to work down imports; but be-
cause of the difficulty of promptly carrying
that much further, and because of the
possibility of a poor harvest with prices
still low, it is most important that we should
put ourselves in a position to raise a few
emergency loans. We have been told what
the conditions are, and we are bound to
admit that they are such as any prudent
"banker would dictate: first and last, make
an honest effort to balance your budgets.
The trading community is doing it; for the
most part the individual citizen seems to
be doing it. Only the politician is failing
his country.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fiduciary Currency Issues.
The use of the word “fiduciary” in con-
nection with the proposed new note
issue is characteristically tricky. It is well
known that the Bank of England has a
fiduciary note issue, and it is plainly in-
tended to suggest that what is proposed
is merely a replica of it. There is no more
real likeness between the two than there
is between Mr. Theodore and St. Paul’s
Cathedral.
It is true that the Bank of England has
a fiduciary note issue. But so has Australia.
The Bank of England’s gold issue is en-
tirely against gold. But in 1844 the bank
was authorised to issue also notes to the
extent of 14 millions provided it bought and
held securities to the same amount. That
is the fiduciary issue. The figures have
changed since that day, but the principle
has not. The Bank of England at the end
of February had 347 millions of notes in
circulation and 53 millions lying in its bank-
ing department. Of its total issue 140 mil-
lions was covered' by gold: the other 260
millions, the fiduciary issue, is backed by
245 millions of Government securities and
15 millions of silver and “other securities.”
The fiduciary issue is thus only 65 per cent,
of the total issue, including notes lying in
the bank, and only 60 per cent, of the notes
in circulation. And the gold backing of the
total issue is 35 per cent., and of the total
issue in circulation. 40 per cent.
Down to 1910 there was no Government
note issue in Australia nor provision for
any. For many years, however, there had
been a plank in the Labor platform in favor
of “a Commonwealth Bank of Issue, De-
posit, Exchange and Reserve, with non-
political management.” The bill, passed in
1910 and amended in 1911 before business
was begun, provided for a gold holding of
“not less than one-fourth” of the entire
note issue. For the amount not covered by
gold—the fiduciary issue—the issuing autho-
rity must hold Government stocks. This
fiduciary issue has varied considerably. For
a long while it was about 52 per cent, of
the total issue; that is, there was a 48 per
cent, gold backing for the entire issue.
Twelve months ago the gold backing was
59.27 per cent. Last week it was only
34.26 per cent.
It is interesting to note that the plank of
the Labor party upon which the Fisher Gov-
ernment brought the Commonwealth Bank
into being expressly provided that it must
be under “non-political management.” The
fathers of the Labor party in Australia knew
well that “the sight of means to do ill
deeds makes ill deeds done.” At every step
they strove to keep the party clean, not in
the present only, but in the future. They
saw a time coming when it would have
enormous power, and they sought to save it
from becoming then the tool of adventurers.
In conformity with the policy of Labor
itself, the bank was placed under strictly
non-political management. To-day we find
a Labor Government, after putting every
ounce of political pressure it could bring
to bear upon the management, scheming
to uproot the very foundations of the
bank as laid down by its Labor fathers.
There is complete proof of that in (1) the
proposal to get legislative power to over-
ride the non-political management and
debase the currency with an additional note
issue; (2) the proposal to split the bank in
halves, call one half the Central Reserve
Evank and put its management completely
in the hands of the Government; (3) the
announcement, made only last week, of a
proposal to re-enact the law “giving the
Treasurer the right to control the note issue
in a time of national emergency”—the very
time when it is of the first importance that
it shall be kept out of his hands. It shows
how far the Labor movement has been
dragged by its worst' enemies, masquerading
as its friends, from the lines upon which the
builders of its foundations worked.
Who Got a Mandate on Saturday?
It was far too much to hope that a seat
like East Sydney could be won by anybody
not carrying the brand of Labor. In such
cases the test of how the mind of the
public is running is not whether this or that
man won; the real test is the loss or gain
of votes. Never before in Australian history
was a campaign fought on like lines.
Though this was a Federal election, the
Federal Labor Government kept out of the
ring, and even during the progress of the
campaign threw overboard those of its
Ministers who were supporting Ward, the
Labor candidate. Whoever else, then, won
East Sydney, the Federal Government em-
phatically did not. Though this is one of
the Labor strongholds of Australia, embrac-
ing both Surry Hills and Woolloomooloo,
this pitiful Government did not dare to put
up a candidate.
It is a cold day when Lang cannot dis-
cover a mandate, and he found one on Satur-
day. Ward fought the election mainly on the
Lang policy of repudiation, so the Labor
candidate’s win is, of course, a mandate
to Lang to proceed with his policy. Putting
aside the fact that an appeal to a Federal
constituency is no way to ascertain the
will of the people, on a State matter, what
support does Lang get from Saturday’s
figures? They are not quite complete at
the moment of writing, but it is beyond
question that Ward will win by about 3500
votes as against the majority of 13,522
scored by John West at the general elec-
tion. At the present count Ward has 52.7
per cent, of the votes cast; John West had
68.4 per cent. Ward, therefore, has lost 15.7
per cent. Now turn to the general election
at which Lang won his victory. On the
Monday following the count it was reckoned
that the total votes cast in the State were
1,210,052, of which Labor had won 56 per
cent. If Labor lost 15.7 per cent., Labor
would thus be in a hopeless minority. In
that election, the Nationalist vote on a first
count was 487,593. A bare 15 per cent,
added to that would have carried the
figure to 731,389, which would more than
exceed Labor’s total even if Labor did not
lose a vote! Such a swing as that on
Saturday would rob Lang of three-fourths
of his country supporters. In Murrum-
bidgee, Flannery polled 7507 of 13,232 valid
votes. A loss of 15 per' cent, would put
him behind Kelly, of the Country party. In
Namoi, Scully (L.) and Waterford (C.P.)
polled 7286 anti 5430 respectively. A 15
per cent, swing would put Scully behind
Waterford. In Young, Martin (L.) scored
6869, including second preferences; Reid
(C.P.) 6055. With half Saturday’s swing-
over, Lang would lose this support. A pro-
portionate swing over from Labor to their
opponents would leave Lang’s pirate-ship
without even some of its metropolitan sup-
porters—Connors (Dulwich Hill) and Howe
(North Sydney), for example.
In these circumstances, the question is not
whether Lang got a mandate on Saturday
to carry on with his predatory campaign,
but whether the Governor of N. S. Wales
did not get a mandate to send his advisers
to the country. And support will be got
for that view from the fact that, although
there were two elections on Saturday, one
of them a State election, the Government
did not venture even to put up a candidate
for that vacancy.
♦
The New State Movement.
Our Red and repudiationist folk hope to
bring about the unification of the States for
their own ends by some violent process, it
being part of their revolutionary pro-
gramme. There are six reasons why every
patriotic Australian and intelligent Aus-
tralian should favor, instead, a subdivision
movement.
(1) According to precedent our six self-
governing States are absurdly big and un-
manageable. Other Federations of import-
ance are the U.S.A. (48 self-governing
States), Canada (10), Mexico (28), Brazil
(20), Argentina (14), Switzerland (25), Ger-
many (17), and Austria (9). To govern
an area the size of Westralia from one
centre is absurd. Even the United King-
dom, less than half the area of N.S.W.,
runs to six legislatures.
(2) It is an absurd and lopsided business
when, one State (out of six) has 39 per
cent, of the population. It leads to people
like Lang becoming too swell-headed. The
dominant position of Prussia in Germany
is (and was) a similar case, and the swelled
Prussian head was a disaster to all Ger-
many.
(3) .Australia has no big cities except in-
state capitals, and they are absurdly few
(five in a whole continent), and two of them
contain 36 per cent, of the continent’s popu-
lation. If there were more States and more
State capitals, it is fair to assume that there
would be a better diffusion of population
—more cities, not such bloated cities, and
fewer dreadful blank spaces.
(4) The common and very stupid argu-
ment against more manageable States is that
we don’t want a larger number of rotten
State Governments than we have already.
Because unwieldy provinces and inefficient
provincial administrations go together, it n
proposed to unify Australia into on',
supremely unwieldy and unprecedented pro-
vince, and consolidate the inefficiency into
one monstrosity. .
(5) A powerful plea against unification is
the men who advocate it. They expect it
would lead to the kind of results they want,
and these, including repudiation, are who!}
undesirable. The typical unificatiomst here
has too much resemblance to the boss


THE BACKSLIDER.
“The news that the State Treasury had paid £100,000 as interest to the Commonwealth Bank for transmission to London came as a bombshell to the Trades Hall.
Union officials excitedly discussed the payment, which they declared had violated all the promises made by the Premier (Mr. Lang).”—“s. M. Herald.
SCANDALISED DEMOCRAT: “The crawling capitalistic pimp! He’s gorn and turned HONEST!”
gangster of Chicago, who wants to unify
the United States as one vast illegal boot-
leggery, with himself in charge.
(6) The map of Australia, with a line
drawn across it from Brisbane to Perth,
shows that the seven capitals, and the seven
Governments, and about 95- per cent, of
the people are crowded into one-fifth of
the area. The other four-fifths aren’t
Australia Deserta, but Australia Blank (or
Australia Blanky, which perhaps sounds
more impressive). It is time to do some-
thing with Australia Blanky.
■ ♦
Who Gets the Money?
“A pair of fine wool socks weigh 20z.; here in
Queensland the cheapest retail price is 2s. 9d. Fine
wool Australian singlet, lightweight, large size,
weighs 40z., costs 7s. lid.; the socks run out at
225. per pound, the singlets at 275. Bd. per pound.
Now, who is getting the rake-off between the cost
of the raw material and the finished article?”'—
An old Queensland correspondent.
This is where the invaluable Wickens
comes in. In the Commonwealth “Year
Book,” whose figures are based on official
returns, costs of production are followed
closely; and from its figures we can get
these results for the year 1928-29: —
Value of raw material used in Aus-
tralian factories . . .. • • £238,938,566
Total value of output .. .. .. 420,445,288
Difference, being value added in
manufacture .. .. ..£181,506,722
And we can get a further division of these
last figures:—
Fuel and light £13,883,406
Salaries and wages .. .. .. 90,986,908
All other .. .. .. .. .. 76,636,408
Total £181,506,722
That is to say, of the value of the product,
as it leaves the factory, materials consume
56.83 per cent., fuel and light 3.30 per cent.,
and salaries and wages 21.64 per cent., leav-
ing 18.23 per cent, to cover all other. “All
other” includes, among other things, inter-
est, replacement, insurance and rates and
taxes; what is left is profit. The value of
the land, buildings and plant employed in
manufacture at that date was £239,348,849,
of which £124,692,788 represented plant and
machinery. Interest, at 6 per cent, on plant,
etc., would reach 14 millions; replacement,
at 2 per cent, on buildings and 8 per cent,
on plant, approximately 11 millions; and in-
surance, of which no close estimate can be
made, probably 3i millions, including in-
surance on material, manufactured and in
process of manufacture. Interest has to be
paid also on these stocks; this is a heavier
item when material is drawn from an annual
crop.
It is obvious, therefore, that of the 76
millions available for “all other” purposes,
a very small part is left to reward those
who risk their capital in these industrial
enterprises. Several of the woollen mills are
privately owned; but the accounts of others
are available. The history of these concerns
is not dazzling:—
Amalgamated Textiles.—Paid capital, now
£293,375; overdraft and sundry creditors, £80,861.
Registered 1923. No dividend ever paid; £156,106
of capital has been written off as lost.
Ballarat Woollen Mills.—No dividend paid for
years past.
Queensland Woollen Manufacturing.—Registered
1875. Paid capital now £70,968; one-half of the
then paid capital was written off in 1906 as lost.
Fairly prosperous in war-time and for some years
after, and £18,750 of the old capital restored;
dividends for past seven years averaged 4 p.c. and
a fraction.
Lincoln Mills.—Registered 1922. Paid capital,
£480,527. The 402,635 ordinary shares were
formerly £1 each; 16s. per share was written off
in 1925 as lost. At the same time prefs. gave up
their right to £133,000 of unpaid divs. Pref.
divs. since 1926, 9 p.c.; ordinaries, nil. Debts of
one sort and another, £229,474.
Yarra Falls.—The most successful public co. in
the combing, spinning and weaving cos. in Australia.
In the year to June 30, 1930, it made £77,003
profit on a capital of £900,000, a shade over 8}
per cent. It paid 8 per cent. It owes £236,464.
Warrnambool Woollen. —Pref. div. for seven years
has averaged 5 per cent.; ordinary for the same
period, under 2 per cent.
Kelsall and Kemp (Tas.), Ltd.—Registered 1921.
Paid capital, £133,611. Pref. shares, 8 per cent,
to 1928; nothing since. Ordinaries never have had
a div.
Australian Knitting Mills. —Easily the most suc-
cessful of Australian knitting cos. Paid capital (at
June 30, 1930), £500,000. Div., 8 per cent.;
average div. for seven years, 9} per cent. Profits
for past four years: 1927, £79,813; ’2B, £71,600;
’29, £67,806 ; ’3O, £51,980.
There is not a single entry in the whole list
which can give much comfort to the patri-
otic Australian who wants to see secondary
industries developed enormously. And the
record ought to make Australian labor in
particular very thoughtful; for there is
nothing in it to encourage the investment
of capital or the increase of employment.
Yet, as we have seen, the output is sold
only at such a price as to provoke pro-
tests. There is something obviously wrong
with our costs.
4
Labor’s Defence Policy.
If a monument is ever erected to the Labor
Government’s defence policy, “Seymour”
ought to be inscribed on it. This Victorian
town was the scene of the first camp under
the new voluntary enlistment system. It
equalled even the achievements of the Hai-
tian army, which is entirely composed of
generals. After one battalion, numbering
150, had supplied the essential services, such
as machine-gunners, cooks and orderlies,
there were seven riflemen remaining. An-
other battalion was found to be composed
of 86 officers and non-coms, and 60 privates.
Still another had 19 officers and three
privates.
That the scheme has broken down is
obvious. One reason is that prospective
volunteers are afraid to leave their jobs for
fear someone will step into them. The
absence of compulsion places a premium on
unpatriotic employers, who can refuse leave
without fear of the consequences. Yet the
new system will probably cost as much as
the old one.
♦
Compulsory Medical Inspection.
“Dialectica” : Undoubtedly the cause of
most sex outrages is unappeased or un-
natural sex hunger. In theory no man need
go unsatisfied. Actually, a lot of men
shrink from that course for fear of contract-
ing a disease. I am confident there would
be fewer outrages—reported and unreported
—if all public women were subjected to
frequent and thorough inspection by Gov-
ernment medical officers.
I offer a case in support of my belief.
I was on friendly terms with a young man
of about 28. He was good-looking in a
fragile way, well educated and a fine pianist,
but highly sensitive, and, I suspected, the
victim of a bad habit. He was of the
nervous, abnormally intelligent type who,
properly handled, becomes a valuable
citizen, but falls swiftly to ruin if sex gets
the upper hand. He rather embarrassed
me one day by telling me of his sex prob-
lems. He was, he said, “pure,” but felt
he could not remain so much longer. He
found sex-pressure too strong. He asked
for advice. I suggested the obvious remedy,
and he was horrified. He might become dis-
eased! He would not dream of going to
such a woman!
I lost sight of him for a year or so.
One day I was shocked to hear of his
being sentenced to two years’ imprisonment
on “a serious charge.” He had got in tow
with a youngster of 14 or 15—probably
much older in sex experience than her years
—who, in a fit of pique, had “told” on him.
Released from prison he was forced into
bad company. He is at present serving a
third sentence for a sexual offence. God
knows to what depths he will be forced be-
fore he dies—perhaps from the very disease
he was so eager to avoid. His life is
wrecked. On release from gaol with an
unnatural, but, to him, logical grudge against
womankind, he will be a potential murderer.
At the least he will be a horrible menace
to women.
Government inspection and, if you like,
licensing of prostitutes would remove this
fear from most men; particularly men of
his kind. Its hunger having been satisfied,
sex would be relegated to its proper place in'
their lives and they would no longer be
potential violators of its laws and molesters
of women.
Is Mr. Lang in Communist Hands?
Dear Bulletin, —Your suspicion that Mr.
Lang } s ; n t he hands of the Communists may-
be strengthene d by a consideration of the
aims explicitly advocated by their prophet
Karl Marx and adopted by his disciple Lemm
The Communists aim, as an aid to the
revolution, to bring about a state of chaos.
Accordingly a part of their policy here is
to frustrate the efforts of moderate Labor-
ites and others to bring about a restora-
tion of solvency.
In an address to the League of Corn-
munists in 1850, Marx said: “The workers
must, during the conflict and immediately
afterwards, as much as ever possible, oppose
the compromises of the middle class. When
the Democrats propose measures which are
no t revolutionary but merely reformist,
the workers must press them to the point
of turning such measures into direct attacks
OEL private property; thus if the Democrats
demand the regulation of the State debt,
the workers must demand State bank-
rUptcy.”
Lang is am bitious and forceful. Does he
ag pj re to be the Australian Lenin?—l am
t p p Ttohe
•
*
Law Reform in N. S. Wales.
“Fjtzwilliam” : The bill threatened by the
Government to abolish distinctions
x 5 , . , , .... . . .
between barristers and solicitors is going to
make things hard for the small city solici-
tor. The different branches of the law have
become specialised, for no one man can
carry it all under his hat. Under the present
regime this does not matter, as the ser-
vices of the most competent specialists are
as fully available to the solicitor just
started in practice as to the biggest firm,
But if the Bar is abolished the dozen or so
big firms in Sydney, already organised into
departments, will absorb the leaders of the
Bar, and keep on the premises a specialist
in every subject. No “small” man will be
able to do this, and it looks very much as
if all superior court litigation, as well as the
profitable company and bankruptcy work, is
going to fall into the hands of the few big
firms who can afford to take in the promi-
nent specialists. It may be that Mr. Lysaght
will cheapen the cost of law to the litigant,
but it does not look like it.
Labor legislation seems fated to have
these repercussions. The effect of all our
elaborate legislation for the control of
industry is to squeeze out the small man.
Only the big firms have sufficient margin to
survive it, and the man who 30 years ago
would have been on the way to independ-
ence is thrust back into the ranks.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Repudiation Day arrived ih N. S. Wales
and found Premier Lang in a blue funk.
He had made the definite declaration that
he would pay no more interest to “overseas
bondholders” till the interest was reduced
to the rate which Britain pays to the U.S.A.
The test arrived when an item of £lOO,OOO
fell due at the end of February. The amount
veasn’t much, but the principle was at stake.
And Lang sent the money. Also he talks
of another payment at the end of March
being fully provided for. So the end of the
world is postponed, to the disappointment
of people who held that if Lang proposes
to finish the world he may as well do it in
their time and let them see the big fuss.
Thank God for one honest man! Daly,
thrown out of the Scullin Cabinet, said he
would miss the money very much, having
dropped all his other work to do his Minis-
terial job. Daly makes only one mistake.
Doing the Ministerial job wouldn’t take more
than two hours a day. Scheming and strug-
gling to keep the job takes the other 10,
allowing 12 hours for meals and sleep.
The Nats, might have captured East
Sydney but for their pre-selection tomfoolery.
Save for the fact that the seat has been
Labor since 1910 everything was in their
favor—on the other side a party stripped of
its glamor and split into factions, one yell-
ing for default and the other for infla-
tion —and they must go and pick the wrong
man. For one thing, their candidate was an
ex-Labor conscriptionist, and the country is
sick of ex-Labor conscriptionists, having
done enough for them, and more than enough;
also, a generation has grown up which laughs
at their claim that they are more
Labor than the Labor push. The Trades
Hall majority was reduced from 13,522 in 1929
to 3642, or 4253 including the Communist’s
votes. With an “open go,” such as the Nats,
have in Westralia and the Country party
nearly everywhere, it would very likely have
been wiped out.
THE RED KING AFTER THE BATTLE.
“King, Phillip and Paddington, parts of East
Sydney, have Labor M’s.L.A. As compared with the
State election in October, there was a tremendous
fall in the party vote.”
PYRRHUSLANG: “Another such victory and
I’ll have a lot more time to give to my
Oxboro farm.”
Scullin told the representative of a Sydney
daily that he would be too busy at Canberra
to speak in the East Sydney by-election. It
was common knowledge, of course, that he
wasn’t asked to speak, the Sydney Labor
heads having repudiated his financial policy
and ordered 20 of his followers, four of them
Ministers, to accept and expound theirs. All
the same, they wouldn’t have tried to stop
him by force, and it is a pity he didn’t insist
on his palpable right to mount a Labor plat-
form and hold forth. An address by the
Prime Minister in such circumstances would
have been like nothing ever heard in Aus-
tralia before.
Evidently Theodore looked up dictionaries
before he fixed on the word “fiduciary” for
his new financial scheme. According to
Webster’s and Collins’s, it means “one that
depends for salvation on faith without
works.”
S. Aus. Premier Hill’s fate as a Labor
politician is to be decided at a special A.L.P.
conference next week. The business-paper
contains about two feet of motions for the
expulsion of Hill and his Ministers as “trait-
ors to the workers.”
At Lithgow (N.S.W.) the other day
Knight, the local M.L.A., said: “In spite of
the Senate or any other body, the Federal
Government must be stiffened.” Precisely,
but the electors will attend to that. They
will also stiffen Knight’s mob as soon as
they get the chance.
Dr. Maloney tried to persuade the Federal
Labor Caucus to buy a million pounds’ worth
of silver and mint it into five millions pounds’
worth of silver coins. Presumably the little
doctor wouldn’t give the coins away, but
would require everybody to give two genuine
bobs’ worth of goods or service for five-
penn’orth of silver and nineteen-penn’orth of
faith. Yet, being as honest as daylight, he
would be shocked if anybody suggested that
a doctor, being short of a drug, should water
it down, make five doses out of one, and
charge full prices for the five.
The exchange rate is being cheered on its
way by all the Freetraders in the country.
Yet it is having some results which must
make the Freetrader gulp. He has always
been horrified at the idea of a protective duty
on literature; yet the present exchange means
a 30 p.c. protective duty. And it is working
out in the way protective duties always do
work out. Thus this month, for the first
time ever, two novels by English writers will
be published simultaneously in England and
Australia. All the same, an exchange rate
is no substitute for a tariff, because it falls
alike on those things we might make or grow
and those things we haven’t a hope in the
world of making or growing.
There is one good thing about appointing
an ex-High Court Chief Justice like Isaac
Isaacs to be Governor-General —he knows
the law and is not afraid to do things.
So when Anstey and Daly were no
longer wanted in the Federal
Ministry, there was merely a
“Gazette” note that their
“appointments” had been
“terminated.” No resignation
of Mr. Scullin, followed by
the "re-appointment of himself
and such of the old Ministers
as he might want to hang on
to; just the plain, unequivocal
sack of those who weren’t
wanted. The news no doubt
thrilled Mr. Lang; for the
State Governor has just the
same powers in these matters
as the Governor-General.
Five million pounds of Trea-
sury bills fell due in London
at the beginning of the month,
and instead of a renewal being
asked for they were paid off
with funds available in the
Commonwealth Bank. Yet
the Commonwealth hasn’t
raised a long-dated loan on the
English market for a long
while because none was avail-
able, and it is five months
since it shipped away a big
chest (£5,000,000) of the
sovereigns commandeered from
the joint-stock banks. An
explanation may be found in
the fact that during October,
November, December and January (the last
four months for which figures are available)
exports paid in full for ■ imports without
using up old gold reserves, and left about
enough over to meet oversea interest bills.
This wasn’t done by an increase in the value
of exports, which was impossible, but by a
remorseless cutting down of imports. In
short, the tariff saved Australia. And there
is no reason why Australia shouldn’t remain
saved, unless politicians are tired, as they
seem to be, of their brief lapse into sanity.
The Lang Government’s so-called Indus-
trial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is pure
Sovietism, with its provisions for compul-
sory membership of Soviets, for requiring
any employer to sack a man who is behind
in his contributions to his Soviet, for pro-
hibiting piece-work, contract-work or other
payment by results except by consent of the
Soviet, and for appointing a supreme com-
missioner—“ Good old Piddo,” if he will take
it —whose decisions are not to be “called
in question by any Court of judicature on
any account whatever.” Sovietism may be a
perfectly good system for Russia, which had
over 30 millions of adults who could neither
read nor write when the system was intro-
duced —85 per cent, of the Red Army were
illiterate —and which had never known what
self-government was. But to try to impose
a similar system on Australia, with its
smallest proportion of illiterates in the
world, and with its long tradition of self-
government, is an insufferable insult to the
people.
A Fokker ’plane will shortly leave Batavia
for Sydney and Melbourne, the object being
to demotistrate the feasibility of a regular
air-mail service from Europe to Australia.
It will follow the route blazed by Austra-
lians. The Hollanders already have a service
from their homeland to Batavia, and a great
convenience it is. The Federal Government said
it couldn’t afford to look at either the Dutch
offer or the offer of Imperial Airways, a Brit-
ish concern, to establish a similar route. The
Dutch enterprise is one more result of Scul-
lin’s refusal to look for economies except in
the wrong direction.
When the Vic. executive of the A.L.P.
showed an inclination to listen sympatheti-
cally to union complaints against the State
Ministry, ITogan said that if it wanted the
Government to resign the Government would.
He admitted that his crowd hadn’t obeyed
the A.L.P. conference direction that there
should be no reductions or rationing without
the unions’ consent, but when a railway
deficit of £2,000,000 threatened, what, he
LONG NED: “If you don’t stop chipping at
me I’ll jump off the chair.”
passionately asked, was the State to do?
There was no apparent eagerness to accept
Hogan’s offer. In December the railway-
union bosses were afraid that the Govern-
ment was about to destroy itself and begged
it to stay its rash hand.
Vic. Railway Department has a humorist
who was sent to post “For Sale for Removal”
notices on sundry heaps of old posts, sleep-
ers and other junk lying alongside the new
railway to Glen Waverley. He plastered the
placards on the concrete pillars carrying the
line over roads —on the railway itself, in
fact. As the line isn’t likely to pay for the
next 20 years the joker evidently sized up
the position accurately. Speculators who
bought market-garden land at £3OO an acre,
hoping to turn it into building blocks at £6
a foot, look at the matter in another light.
THE MAROONS.
CAP’N SCULL’NBONES : “Well, we jettisoned them scuts,
Ted.”
First Mate Fiduciary Ted: “Fes, but it’s a pity we
didn’t get rid of ’em before they scuttled the ship.”
Spinning out the debate on Slang’s Arbi-
tration Bill, one Olde, M.L.A., resurrected
an old timber-strike lie about Judge Lukin.
He alleged that the man from Queensland
“was dragged out of his retirement when he
was almo'st at the stage of senile decay to sit
on the Commonwealth Arbitration Bench,”
giving his age in one sentence as “nearly
70,” and in another “as close on 80.” As
a matter of fact Lukin was a Supreme Court
Judge of 15| years’ standing when he was
summoned to Melbourne —transferred, as it
were. He was 58 then and is 63 now. Pid-
dington, whom Olde’s push wants to set up
as an industrial dictator for seven years,
is riffing 69. What humbugs these windbags
can be!
There is the expected outcry against the
Lang Government’s bill to hand the control
of industry in N. S. Wales (other than
rural industry) to Soviets; but what is the
good of yelps if they are not followed by
definite action? It was fairly obvious a
month ago that Lang had got out of step with
the people; it is quite obvious now that he
has got out of step with the Australian Labor
movement. The Australian Parliamentary
Labor Caucus has thrown out every Minister
known or even believed to be favorable to
Lang’s financial schemes; and if Lang’s sup-
porters in the Federal Labor Ministry are
regarded as too mischievous and dangerous
to be retained, it is about time Sir Philip
Game had doubts about the advice a whole
Cabinet of Lang’s supporters is likely to give
him. Yet there is not one chance in a dozen
of the Governor acting on his own initiative;
but a petition signed by something over one-
third of the electors of N. S. Wales would
give him something to go on.
Cerutty, the Commonwealth Auditor-
General, has finished his annual overhaul,
and finds, among other things, that in Aus-
tralia a man may have an income of close-
up £lOOO a year and still not pay income tax.
In the case of one man who has £6OO a year,
the deductions (five children at £5O = £250,
superannuation and insurance £4O, medical
exes. £l4) left £296 ; and that is just below
the taxable limit. Cerutty finds that of
3,500,000 electors there are only 264,766
individual payers of income tax; and he
reckons that, even allowing for a quarter of
a million out-of-works, there are still over
a million people getting more than the basic
wage who won’t pay one farthing of tax.
The Auditor-General of course isn’t a poli-
tician. If he was he would know that every
election is a competition in vote-buying;
after about the 12th competition it is aston-
ishing that there should be 264,766 on the
list of taxpayers. What’s to be done about
it isn’t clear; but one simple and direct plan
might be to disqualify from all public offices
for seven years every member of every Gov-
ernment which was certified by the Auditor-
General to have had a deficit for two years
running.
The N.S.W. Government is carrying,
through a> modest scheme for the relief of
necessitous wheat-farmers. The State will
buy the flour needed for home consumption
at a price to be fixed, and the profit on sale
will be paid into the Treasury. The profit
will depend, of course, upon the difference
between the two prices; and as already there
is a shriek about the possibility of bread
being a ha’penny a loaf more, the difference
isn’t likely to be what it should be. The high
cost of distribution of nearly all goods is
one of the curses of Australia, and this is
largely due to the fact that the Australian
of the cities will not be his own delivery-
cart. And when he can’t be his own delivery-
cart he encourages 15 vendors of the same
goods to wear out the street that costs high
rates to make and keep in repair. The
M.P. who says it is outrageous that bread
should cost so much and the farmer get so
little will never do much to improve matters
until he fackles the problem of distribution.
Canada has shut down absolutely on the
importation of a lot of raw materials from
Russia, on the grounds that they are prac-
tically slave products and are produced
cheaply by reason of a standard of living
which js below anything conceived of, or
possible; of conception, in the Dominion. To
quote fl-ota the “Statesman’s Year Book,”
“The foreign trade of the Union of Socialist
Soviet Republics is organised as a State
monopoly*.” The U.S.S.R. owns the people,
owns tSeir products and pays them in
paper, and it is in need of a surplus
to sell abroad for some better kind
o* money so that it can buy machinery and
other products that its drilled and regulated
populace don’t turn out for themselves. The
surplus for export can be enlarged by leaving
the home supply short. But prices of
raw materials are low just now, and when
the Soviet officials demonstrate their capa-
city to dump timber, for instance, on coun-
tries which themselves specialise in the
article they draw attention to the fact that
they control a big supply of horribly cheap
labor, and that leads to comment.
After all, they probably don’t hug many
delusions in Russia. Some time ago, finding
that a large amount of capital was wanted
to reconstruct the country, the Soviet high
authorities decided that loans were out of
the question, Langski having done too much
repudiating. So in order to raise the wind
the Five-year Plan was adopted, involving
the export of much raw material, especially
wheat, timber and hides. But the Russian
peasant could not see why he should toil
to produce vast quantities of stuff which
his country was collaring for export, so he
decided to go slow. That was the beginning
of the remarkable series of orders and decrees
relating to forced labor which lately decided
Canada not to have any commercial deal-
ings with Russia. For example, relating to
timber: —
Where it is found that all other means of providing
an adequate supply of labor and/or means of haul-
age have been exhausted [executive committees are
empowered] to institute compulsory paid labor and/or
haulage in order to fulfil the needs of timber pre-
paration and transport.
Incidentally, to remind them of just where
they stancT, “rich peasant elements are to be
engaged, having regard to local conditions,
at a lower rate of pay.” What a gorgeous
time Jock Garden would have cracking the
whip over, say, ex-Treasurer Arthur Cocks,
who, having a week-end farm somewhere on
the Hawkesbury, is patently a “rich peasant
element.”
The Nat. pre-selection system got another
advertisement in the Assembly by-election
for Clarence. In 1921, A. S. Henry, a young
Digger lawyer, stood in the party interest
for West Sydney, and did a great deal better
than any other non-Labor man has done in
that Trades Hall stronghold since 1906. He
polled 5287 votes to 7857 for the late
Bill Lambert, whereas the Labor majorities
at subsequent contested elections were 3 to
1, 4§ to 1 and 64 to 1. A party with any
nous would have kept its eye on Henry and
given him something easier at the first
opportunity; but the Nats, dropped him
there and then. Tired of being neglected,
Henry joined the Country party, and with
eight men in the field he has easily topped
the poll for Clarence, of which he is a native.
So a pre-selection party loses and an open-go
party gains a man with brains and energy.
A decision to grant special trading conces-
sions to Japanese while other Asiatics are
rigidly excluded has raised a storm in the
Afrikander Parliament. Hertzog explains
that it is necessary for the Union to find
new markets in Eastern Asia, and this can-
not be managed without some measure of
reciprocation. He stresses the importance to
Australia of the wool trade with Nippon,
and is anxious to help Afrikander growers
to a cut of the same cake. How rich that
is can be seen from the fact that for the
five years 1924-29 Japan paid £40,228,479
for the Australian jumbuck’s covering.
TAKING AUSTRALIA’S CREDIT FOR
A RIDE.
“When U.S.A. gangsters want to dispose of an
enemy, they ‘take him for a ride.’”
The mentality of the Government servant
was visible in the official reply to a sugges-
tion that motor-vehicle owners in Vic. should
be permitted to pay their fees quarterly, in-
stead of yearly, as an urgent measure of
relief. If this were allowed, said officialdom,
revenue would suffer, as many motor-’bus
owners and others engaged in seasonal trades
at-seaside resorts and the_ like would register
for only three months in the year. Yet
the tax was originally imposed to coyer the
use actually made of the roads, which are
built out of revenue collected from motorists.
The Melbourne paper which spoke of Mr.
Theodore’s “seduciary” currency said almost
the last word on the matter.
Lazzarini, M.L.A., asked the. N.S.W. Pre-
mier if he knew that “the private trading
banks” were refusing big money offered by big
importing firms on fixed deposit, and desired
him to see if he had power to squash this
sort of “deliberate conspiracy.” Lang said
he would have the matter glared into. Just
at present it costs a lot in exchange to send
away money for imported goods, so importers
are inclined to wait a while in the hope
that the exchange rate will fall. Meanwhile
they want to put a few millions in the banks
for three months so that it will earn interest
while the exchange rate is going down; but
the banks don’t see how they can lend out
these sudden millions safely and yet be sure
of having them ready at a moments notice
when the new and alien depositors come
howling for them. Why doesn’t Lang star.,
a N.S.W. State bank, with Lazzarini as
manager, and take all the interest-bearing,
deposits that offer? This would- be bette
than a silly, futile “smelling-out of con-
spirators or witches or things, as it Jo
Thomas was a black king with little or not
ing on.


SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS
Sol Malaprop”: A cable from Germany
tells about two infants who were supposed
to have been mixed at a maternity hospital.
A doctor who relied on the blood test of
the parents swore they were all right, but
a rival, who went by some formations of
the parental jaws, said they were all wrong.
The Judge adjourned the problem, saying
that Solomon might have decided right off,
but he couldn’t. Solomon certainly decided
right off, and gained by that one act a name
for wisdom that has gone howling down the
centuries, and yet he was quite probably
wrong. His alleged writings are a great
credit to whomsoever wrote them, but his
deeds (the few that we know of, including
fratricide, profanation of the sanctuary,
polygamy, apostasy and wallowing in
luxury) made a bad record, and as for his
famous decision his Honor at Berlin might
be hissed off the bench if he gave one like
it. The story is that two girls of in-
different character, possibly named Rachel
and Sarah, lived together and owned two
babies equally divided between them. One
cherub died suddenly, and they both claimed
the survivor, whereupon Chief Justice Solo-
mon, who apparently made laws as he went
along, ordered that the survivor should be
bisected and half given to each. Rachel,
who perhaps cared little for babies, agreed.
She may have thought the infant better
MORE OF THE KITTEN’S CLAW.
BETTY: “Why do you give so much time to that silly pup? It’s not even a good pup.
In fact, Billy says it is one big fault.”
PEG (her rival ): “Yes, Billy told me last night that I was kind and generous to a fault.”
dead than in the other woman’s custody,
knowing the other woman better than we
do. On the other hand Sarah, being perhaps
stricken by remorse, said that Rachel might
have the entire offspring. It is taken as
read that Sarah got the infant because she
said Rachel could have it, but according to
the man who wrote the Ist Book of Kings,
or_ our translation of it, the decision was:
give her the child, for she is the mother
thereof. Which got the child seems un-
certain, but the loyal and polite scribe
declares that it went to the right girl. The
still more loyal and polite scribe who wrote
up feolomon m 2nd Chronicles leaves the
w? ° Ut , fattier. Possibly they were
both scared of the king, and thought it safer
to lienge. *
«t ™ r • , * ,
Uao-dah : Louis Becke must have turned
m his grave if be listened-in to counsel’s
bph^lf 1 a f elb I °. uriie court the day ° n
behalf of a client charged with being in
possession of two gold brooches, a signet
ring and a pair of spectacles. According
to Costs, the accused’s method of business
was to get up early in the morning and
search the lawns and seats in the parks for
the flotsam and jetsam thrown up on those
city beaches by the ocean of humanity which
rests in and flows through them. In this
enterprise he was assisted by his fiancee.
According to the Gent One, it was a legiti-
mate profession, known as beachcombing.
The Bench was so impressed that it sent
the case up for a re-trial.
* * *
“Cosmop”: Any fairly recent visitor to
Europe who listens to the speeches of Jock
Garden, Donald Grant
and their German and
Swedish friends can’t fail
to notice that they have
the approved formulae for
starting general strikes —
which always lead to
bloodshed if they last lofig
enough—off pat. Then-
mistake lies in confusing
social conditions here
with those in the coun-
tries they have come from.
In Europe and even in
sporting England the
workers have the brawn,
while members of the
bourgeois classes are phy-
sically feeble as a rule.
In a fair fight between
the classes in, say, Lon-
don or Paris the odds
would be on the sons of
toil, which is why the
Harry Pollitts and Mar-
cel Cachins put in so
much time trying to’ cor-
rupt the soldiers and
sailors, whom they alone
fear. Here there is no
army and hardly any
navy to win over, and the
middle classes, male and
female, are as athletic
and combative as the
workers, if not more so.
If street fighting is ever
started in an Australian
city the overseas propa-
gandists in our midst are
going to get a horrible
surprise when the shop
assistants, bank clerks
and other representatives
of the black-coated army
hop into action. The
University and other stu-
dents alone would form
formidable little units. In
tne countries which are
providing our agitators with most of their
arguments nine-tenths of the students are
revolutionaries; here they are nearly all
constitutionalists.
* * , % 4s
“F.S.”: The Sydney correspondent of a
London daily cabled that Melba died
with Gounod’s “Ave Maria” on her
lips, and this inevitably led to a
symposium among persons of note on
favorite deathbed music. Composer Her-
mann Finck said he would prefer Tosti’s
“Good-bye”; Charlie Chaplin plumped for
the “Hallelujah” Chorus; Prof. Low, the
eminent physicist, wanted the “Jolly Fellows
AValtz,” and Sousa expressed a liking for
“The Stars and Stripes for Ever,” possibly
because he wrote it. The only public figure
who showed any pretensions to culture was
bruiser Gene Tunney. He said he would
like the Dead March from the “Gotterdam-
merung.” A nurse of my acquaintance
says that none of these people know what
they are talking abo'ut if they imagine
that their dying thoughts will turn to
the topic of incidental music. In all
her experience she has never known a
dying person to be concerned with anything
but the struggle to go on living. She says
the novelists and the poets are equally
at sea about it. The dying person never
admits that he is dying until it is too late
for him to admit anything,
* * * *
“Oxon”: The appearance of a great-grand-
son of W. C. Wentwo'rth at Sydney Sports
Ground the other day (he ran fourth in the
mile) provided an exception to the rule that
members of the Ma State’s old families don’t
compete with hoi polloi either in sport or
politics. It is different in England, and that
may have something to do with the fact
that the few bearers of gilded Australian
names who get into the sporting or political
limelight are old Oxonians, like young Went-
worth and Bettington the cricketer, or men
who were educated entirely abroad such
W. H. Kelly, ex-M.P., who went to Eton
when he was a small boy. Wentworth is
probably the first member of the Union Clnh
who has ever competed at the Sports Ground;
in any good West End club you can find
dozens who have run at Stamford Bridge.
Rich amateurs ride against pros, in
every important steeplechase in England and
Ireland ; no amateur ever has a mount in a
N. S. Wales ’chase nowadays. Our amateurs
do all their riding on the fiat at picnic meet-
ings, from which pros, are barred. A duke
put up a good show in the British amateur
boxing championships not long ago, and
younger sons of peers are as common as police-
men in these competitions year by year. Who
ever heard of a rich Australian’s son enter-
ing for a local boxing championship? It is
the same in politics. There were three well-
HIGHEST REFERENCES GIVEN.
FUTURE MA-IN-LAW (at the first inquisition) : “Is yours a long-lived family?”
THE GIRL: “Oh, wonderfully! In fact, dad lived a double life.”
to-do professional men and Australian club
members in the last Bavin Government —the
Premier himself, who is a Maorilander;
Boyce, son of an English-born parson; and
Dr. Arthur (also the son of a clergyman),
who was born at Aldershot. There isn’t a
single Osborne, Knox, Stephen, Dangar or
Wigram Allen in N. S. Wales politics at the
present time.
* * -1-- $
“D.”: There is a devil-may-care quality
about the average Laborite’s loyalty to the
candidate chosen for him by the Trades
Hall. In East Sydney, for example, “Vote
for Ward” was painted in huge letters on
the pavements of most of the streets, and
the windows of all the uno'ccupied, and
quite a few of the occupied, houses which
flew “Vote for Courtenay” signs were
broken. No Nationalist supporters would
run the risk of getting into trouble by com-
mitting similar illegalities to help their can-
didate ; they lack the particular brand of
enthusiasm which impels those affected by
it to spectacular foolery. Nationalism, be-
haved in this way during the war, but it is
getting on in years now. Paradoxically,
Labor, which is about a quarter of a century
older, remains the irresponsible, destructive
youngster it was in the ’nineties.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : At least one Eng-
lish institution is ready to give Australia
the benefit of the doubt. The Great West-
ern Railway, in installing chocolate
machines in 16 express trains, states that
it will accept “not only English and Irish
but Australian money.” Since it is the
hardest thing in the world to get rid of
Australian notes or coin in England (even
the Commonwealth Bank won’t change
them), I can see the G.W.R. doing a roar-
ing trade with Australian tourists.
* * * *
“Vernac”: Even Homer nods; similarly
the most inflexible literary precisian among
all our Judges is liable to express himself, in
moments of stfong emotion, just as an
ordinary bloke might. It happened in the
N.S.W. District Court, where a firm was
sueing for the recovery of instalments on a
piano before Justice Curlewis, who regards
the time-payment system, except for neces-
saries, as a thing abhorrent.
Counsel : “I ask your Honor to grant a verdict
for the amount claimed.”
His Honor: “No fear, I won’t!”
Straight to the point. Yet if his Honor
had asked counsel if he admitted something
or other, and had been told “No fear!” a
stinging judicial rebuke and a short homily
on the misuse of English might reasonably
have been expected.
H= * # *
“Exon”: “Nakhoda” (B. 4/3/’3l), fresh
from a visit to the Lake Tyers (Vic.) abo.
settlement, assures us that the older natives
there “talk like Oxford dons, with soft, melo-
dious voices.” Why he should assume that
Oxford dons, or those of any other university,
talk euphoniously and in pleasant cadences I
don’t know; my own experience of erudite
professors is that they can be just as harsh
and discordant as average politicians—l
exclude Domain orators because they have
to yell. Certainly at Oxford lectures one
used to find every variety of voice on tap.
I recall one massive scholar, Ewing, who
had a high, squeaky falsetto that lent itself
to mimicry, a voice so abnormal that you
wouldn’t have thought another could be found
like it. An undergraduate of another col-
lege went up to Ewing, who was presiding at
a schools examination, and asked him an
innocent question about the time allowed for
the paper. The student had a voice as like the
professor’s as ohe screech-owl’s to another’s,
and the don’s face crimsoned with rage.
“You’re mocking me,” he squeaked. “I’m
not mocking you,” squeaked the other, just
as indignantly, and the amazing duet went
on till it was drowned in the roars of laugh-
ter of all who overheard it. There were
other lecturers who bellowed like bulls, and
about as musically. No class that I know
of, not even preachers, can be held up as being
ipso facto the possessors of soft, melodious
voices.
“R. Volt”: The time is not far distaut
when a commercial magnate in, say, Mel-
bourne may address a correspondent in
London by speaking into a dictaphone.
His typist will take the dictaphone and
transcribe the words on to a typewriter,
the message simultaneously appearing on
a typewriter in the office of the man in
London. An American inventor has just
perfected a radio typewriter. It can be
operated from any distance by a sending
typewriter, and is capable of six times the
speed ever attained by the swiftest steno-
grapher. Each letter depressed at the send-
ing end automatically sets free an impulse
that is picked up by a selecting relay at
the receiving end, which' boosts up the weak
transmitted current with a local battery
sufficiently to work the corresponding letter
on the receiving instrument. The scheme
has long been used on Australian and Maori-
land land telegraphs, but various mechanical
factors have prevented it being applied to
wireless.
-i= * * *
“Bill Bagman”; Nowadays one encounters
all manner of men on the track. Besides
laborers and more-or-less-skilled workers
forced out of the towns I have travelled in
the past few months with a very capable
journalist, a doctor, many seamen, a veter-
inary surgeon, two pharmacists and an ex-
officer of the Guards. The new nomads are
usually known as “bagmen,” to distinguish
them from, normal swagmen, who regard them
and their” communal camps (established in
almost every town in the more populous
areas) without much favor. The bagmen
mostly get a lift from town to town on cars
or lorries, and sometimes manage a free
train ride. I have walked only about 20
miles in the last month, and I have covered
a large stretch of northern N. S. Wales.
❖ ❖ ❖ #
“80-aim”: “Pursuivant” is hardly correct
in claiming relationship to King George for
Rupprecht Wittlebach, ex-Crown Prince of
Bavaria, through his ancestress Mary of
Modena (B. 25/2/’3l). That lady was the
second wife of the last of the Stuart kings,
James 11., and mother of the ill-fated Pre-
tender and his line. King George is descended
from the first Stuart king of England, James
1., son of Mary Queen of Scots, through his
ancestress the Elec’tress Sophia of Hanover,
whose son became George I.
* * * &
“Strict Veg.”: Three days of tropical
thunderstorms in Melbourne culminated in a
terrific clap at three o’clock the other after-
noon. Windows were smashed, doors torn
off their hinges, ceilings dislodged, and in
one hotel an astonished barmaid was bom-
barded with bottles and glasses flying from
the shelves. Nobody supposed that it was
anything but an aerial disturbance until it
transpired that 30001 b. of nitro-glyeerine had
been blown up by lightning at Deer Park.
The regulations provide that the danger zone
must be evacuated during thunderstorms, or
there might have been a terrible loss of life.
Thirty-six men and 50 girls are employed at
the works; a few minutes after the girls had
been ordered out of the explosives room,
metal and wooden fragments of the building
were hurtling 100 feet into the air. Every
room in a near-by hotel was wrecked, and
two miles away the alignment of houses
was altered. All the buildings in Nobel’s
are surrounded by earthworks constructed
so as to deflect upwards the waves of an
explosion, and the value of the principle
was proved up to the hilt.
SNIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the moneybox rings hollow, and the
crop is tall and rank
Of the oats Australia’s sown so wild and
free,
And a Treasurer knows it’s useless rushing
blindly to the .bank
For advances of the needful L. s. d.
When things come to such a pass
He can only raise the brass
By notes on the “fiduciary” side,
You may take it that they’ll not
Be different a lot
From the stuff that some folks call “snide.”
When how he’s going to pay his way a
Premier cannot tell,
But makes a show of keeping up his tail
With a wild, vociferous bellow and a loud,
defiant yell
That he purposes to bilk and welsh and
scale;
When a solid party block
That th.eir State shall take the knock,
If their leader can accomplish it, decide,
Then the aptest adjective
To the programme you can give
Is that good old Cockneyism “snide.”
There’s a downhill track that’s crooked,
there’s a path uphill that’s straight,
And it means distressful climbing, we’ll
allow;
But seeing that it’s got to be attempted, soon
or late,
There’s nothing gained by shying at now.
Let knaves to fools exalt
Their gospel of default,
And honesty glib demagogues deride,
There’ll be lower depths to plumb
If the time should ever come,
The day when the land “turns snide.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Nakh.” : The Federal Government’s deter-
mination to ban freaks for exhibition pur-
poses does credit to its humanity, but it is
unfortunate that the taboo should have oper-
ated against the people who attempted to
bring in an African woman with saucer-like
lips of immense dimensions, because this lady
is not a freak at all. She is more like a
salutary sermon on male folly and feminine
vanity. In the Central African tribe from
which she comes the standard of female
beauty demanded by the men includes an
upper lip which should protrude for a dis-
tanee of at least six inches. So the baby’s
lip is split by every mother who aims to
do her duty by her offspring, and a button
inserted. The lip presently becomes the size
of a penny, of a small saucer, possibly of a
plate, until the beauty is unable to drink
in the ordinary way, and has to have fluid
thrown into her mouth. Yet the lady who
sought admittance to the Commonwealth is
no more a freak than the Sydney flapper
who spends half her life balanced on the
tips of her toes because the prevailing fashion
demands liigh-heeled shoes.
* * * *
“Late Fee”: Nations, like individuals, have
their little likes and dislikes, and anyone
who cares to peruse that noble work the
THE BEST ONE SHE COULD THINK OF.
“What did you want to tell me a silly lie for? You said you were not in business in
the city, and now I find out you’re a telephone girl.”
“M’yes, but I—I didn’t think that was a business; I thought that was a calling.”
Commonwealth “Post Office Guide” can
glean much edifying information on the sub-
ject. According to this authority it would
be a faux pas to send a packet of fags to
a friend in Abyssinia. Algeria has an anti-
pathy to feeding-bottles with tubes, and
Brazil bars brass. Ink eradicators and soli-
dified beer are taboo in Colombia, and Czecho-
Slovakia, in other matters tolerant to a fault,
won’t accept anything which has Franz
.Tosef Stollen” as part of the address.
Whether lie’s an s.-p. bookie, a glacier or a
personal enemy of the President can only
be conjectured. Egypt vetoes bees, and I iji
has a fixed antipathy to' leeches. France
can’t stand the sight of playing-cards, and
India draws the line at pink quinine. The
Irish Free State objects to the entry of
almost everything in the dictionary; it
enumerates prussic acid and beer as being
particularly unwelcome. Lollies must not
be sent to Lettonia, and glycerine is disliked
by Morocco. Maoriland proves a foe to
botanists with an embargo on the leaves of
trees, and anyone desiring to post a pound
of salt to Palestine is warned that it can t
be done. Poker chips may not enter the free
land of Poland, collections of stamps
are regarded with especial hatred by Soviet.
Russia, Uruguay lias a snout on litmus
paper, and Uncle Sam bars any magazine
that carries a booze ad.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: The idea that Melba’s
throat should have been preserved for
scientific investigation assumes that the
larynx is responsible for the singing voice.
Actually, it is only part of one large instrument
—from top of head to’ diaphragm. Apart from
its laryngeal qualities, Melba’s voice wore
well (1) because her lungs did not develop
emphysema with age, i.e., the air cells did
not burst because of the elastic tissue giving
out; and (2) because the singer’s accessory
nasal sinuses and the bony cavities in the
head were large and proof against any
catarrh of the mucous membrane. These
cavities are the main “resonators,” where
the richness of a voice is made. Caruso’s
resonating cavities were large and gave a
drum-note when his head was percussed
with a finger. He had five overtones in his
voice as tested by 'the Helmholtz apparatus.
His singing of a melody was therefore a
harmony, containing all the richness of an
artist’s colors compared to the thin pencil
line of the architectural draftsman. An
X-ray picture of Melba’s skull cavities would
interest me as much as her throat. _ Many
singers become emphysematous early in life.
In Melba’s case either the lung elastic tissue
was abnormally strong, or else she. never
overdid her practice, particularly in the
upper register.
* * * *
“Aileron”: ■ Cabled that a German school
for air-gliders has trained a number* of
falcons to fly within movie-camera range.
The films are subsequently run off in slow
motion to let the pupils see how gliding
should be done. But the falcon is not a
genuine glider, as many other birds are.. He
largely relies on speed to get into position
for his swoop on the prey below. Presum-
ably the albatross, greatest of gliders, was
unavailable, but the ordinary gull should
have been easy enough to get. Australia’s
champion gliders are the pelican and the
wedge-tailed eagle, my preference going to
the former.
$ * * *
“Avon”: One of the results of the Hawkes
Bay disaster is that the building regulations
of the whole of Maoriland are to be revised.
As Priminister Forbes put it, “buildings to
be erected in future must be able to stand
earthquakes.” The revision should be bene-
ficial to the Dominion’s newly-fledged iron-
and steel industry, and should stimulate the
use of Portland cement, since the experience
in Napier and Hastings showed that ferro-
concrete buildings of the most modern pat-
tern suffered little, if any, damage from
earthquake. A striking example was the
Napier Post Office, which was designed just
after the big shake at Murchison, with a
special view to earthquake resistance. It
was gutted by fire, but the ferro-concrete
work did not show so much as a crack.
Wooden-framed roofs and floors will pro-
bably be tabooed in big buildings, as these
when agitated by a ’quake get “out of step”
with the walls and crumple up. Bricks won’t
be ruled out, and the stonemasons need not
fear the loss of their occupation, but these
OUT ON BAIL.
“Your milk is quite fresh, I hope?”
“Madam, only an hour ago it was grass.”
wall materials will have to be reinforced
by steel. A deathblow has been struck at
the “Spanish-mission” style of architecture
so popular in the suburbs of Australian
cities. The Napier Nurses’ Home was a
building in this style, and the pretty, round-
topped arches proved about the weakest pos-
sible defence against an earth tremor.
* * * *
“Philm”: Add to the vivid pen-pictures of
present-day Russia that have appeared in
recent issues of The Bulletin the unhappy
lot of one family there, relatives of
an influential Perth Jew, who forwards
them a bank-draft every few months. These
Russians are forced by the Soviet to grow
wheat; they receive in return no money, only
a little food. Clothes being denied them
because they have well-to-do connections in
Australia, they are forced to beg articles
of attire from friends who are themselves
almost on the bread-line. To cap it all, the
last six letters containing financial assist-
ance have all “gone astray.” And that is no
isolated case.
* * * *
“Cipherer”: Sydney, on the authority of
the Government Statistician, now shelters
just on a million and a quarter people. A
few years ago it ranked twentieth among
the world’s largest cities, but it may have
climbed up a rung or two since then. Among
the cities of the Empire it came fifth, after
London, Calcutta, Bombay and Glasgow, a
trifle ahead of Birmingham and well ahead
of Liverpool. In 1921 it held about two-
elevenths of the population of the Common-
wealth ; it has just on one-fifth now.
*,* * *
“Runa”: Ships in the Bay of Plenty
(M.L.) on a winter morning can see from
a great distance a column of steam rising
high from White Island. Fo'r many years
periodic volcanic outbursts and sea erosion
have combined to render the island gradually
smaller, and there is an ancient legend or
prophecy that when the agitated speck finally
disappears there will be a tremendous up-
heaval in the North Island. The locality of
the expected outburst is Rotorua and there-
abouts, as it is widely believed that when
White Island is particularly active the
Rotorua geysers play furiously in sympathy.
A few workers at the big sulphur deposits on
White Island brave the possibility of sudden
death; some years ago a party working there
disappeared and were seen no more.
* * * *
“2nd Divvy”: Profiteering, in the war-
time sense, is responsible for a good many
of Australia’s troubles. (Profiteering might
have been defined 13 or 14 years ago, as
“charging more than you should because
you’re in a position to, and doing no good
for yourself in the end.”) Some transac-
tions look like profiteering but aren’t. Fat
lambs can be bought cheap at the saleyards
(10s. apiece is about the average figure in
Sydney and Melbourne) and absurdly cheap
at farms, but chops are still Is. a pound.
The president of the N.S.W. Graziers’ Asso-
ciation supplied the reason in an inter-
view on the abandonment of the Sheep Show:
Our industry needs lower transport charges, lower
taxation, a scientific tariff, lower distribution costs.
Similarly with fruit. Peaches cost about
ss. a case to market, fetch about 3s. 6d. a
case at the markets, and are sold for Is. a
dozen in shops, which are skill paying land-
boom rents. But if you are a motorist and
buy peaches at a roadside orchard they are
still liable to be Is. a dozen. Profiteering.
Unless you are a fool you never visit that
orchard again. Some Sydney hotels _ are
trying to get the 2s. luucliers away from
the unlicensed restaurants —a big trade, since
SO per cent, of city business men won t pay
more than 2s. for lunch nowadays. The lure
of the hotels is that they can supply alcohol
without ceremony, but most of them are
profiteering on the drinks. I lunched for
the first (and last) time at one the other
day where the charge was Is. 6d. for a
tankard of lager (intrinsic value, say, 2id.).
and it was served by a wine-waiter who
obviously expected a tip! The same short-
sighted greed can be seen in a thousand
other directions, and now that people are
getting careful about their money its effect
is to ruin trade.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: It must be many years since a
Parliamentary seat in Australia was declared
vacant through the conviction of its occu-
pant for felony, as will happen at Adelaide
unless an appeal is successful. Any offence
punishable by a year’s imprisonment dis-
qualifies a person from assisting to frame the
country’s laws; so, for that matter, does
insolvency. This misfortune did occasion-
ally unseat a member in the old days. One
of the most eloquent debaters the Westralian
Assembly ever knew lost his seat through
exhausting the patience of his creditors. But
that was in the days before payment of
members. Nowadays there is an excellent
reason why creditors should be less inclined
to go to extremes. They can hardly expect
to make things better for themselves by
depriving the debtor of his means of living.
* * * *
“Clerk”: At Williamstown f Vie.) court
the other day the local Mayor prosecuted a
defiant councillor under a rusty section of
the Local Government Act, never before in-
voked, which provides that “any councillor
who uses offensive or disorderly language and
has been twice called upon to withdraw or
apologise and refuses to do. so” shall be
liable to a fine of £2O. It was alleged
that the defendant had been slightly
under the weather at a council meet-
ing and had declared belligerently that
he was “more truthful than the Mayor, or
words to that effect, and had refused to with-
draw. Defendant hotly asserted that he
had been perfectly sober at the time, was
still sober, and still determined not to with-
draw. Mumbling something about much
ado about nothing,the beak dismissed the
case with costs against the Mayor.
* * * *
“Miaow”: Kindness to Animals Week,
recently observed in N.S.W., cuts no chop
suey in China. In Pekin alone, it has recently
been computed, five million cats are slam
annually to be converted into sable and other
valuable furs —there is no reference to the
other uses to which the portions not employ-
able in a fur coat are devoted. Apart from
the humble rabbit, there are few animals
which supply to the world’s markets a greater
variety of rare furs than the tiger in the
house. And as to puss’s edible qualities, it
is an open secret that no one ever eats rabbit
in a European restaurant of the meaner sort.
The Parisians have a special phrase, lapm
du toit, or roof rabbit, which sums the situa-
tion up succinctly.
SOUVENIRS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Flat-irons that have put an edgfe on vice-regal
trousers and plates used by the Prince of Wales
will be offered at the sale of household furniture at
Admiralty House, Kirribilli, Sydney..’’
“What am I bid?” —the rostrum’s glib
accoster
Of eager bargain-hunters thus descants —
“This flat-iron smoothed the vest of Baron
Forster
And creased Stonehaven’s deftly-fitting
pants.
Going, going, gone! (Lady, you nearly lost
her.)
And here’s a chance that Fortune seldom
grants,
The very brush some hand adept would use
To put a gloss on Viscount Novar’s shoes!
“This set of knives! What memories
abounding
Of lordly hands that grasped around them
cling,
Of titled visitors who sat surrounding
Their Christmas turkey or their lamb in
spring.
This very fork, while chatter gay was
sounding,
Bore bit by bit, be sure, a liver wing
To lodge some marchioness’s teeth amid,
Or p’r’aps a duchess’s. What am I bid?
“These plates! Why, ev’ry one’s a certain
winner
In souvenirs. Could they but speak, what
tales
They’d tell of various potentates whose inner
Men they regaled ! A firm belief prevails
That this one bore the Duke of York his
dinner,
And that his breakfast to the Prince of
Wales!
And here are chairs those royalties sat upon.
Come, now, what offers? Going, gone, gone!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


e
DIAMOND RINGS
of faultless
quality ...
The wisdom of buying diamond
rings where you are certain of
securing definite value will be
apparent to all. Fairfax and
Roberts, Ltd., are the oldest
jewellery house in Sydney, and
offer diamond rings of exclusive
beauty and faultless quality at
pre-tariff prices.
Remember these facts when you
are considering the purchase of
a diamond ring.
w
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS, LTD.,
e
IYH LIME JUICE
Ready to take you on!
The tennis girl knows a thing or two; she
has found that ‘Montserrat’ Lime Juice
keeps her fit. It is Nature’s healthy drink —
strong in vitamins.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING GROCERS.
Bottled by Schweppes, Ltd., Sydney,
by arrangement with
Evans, Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd.
SCHWEPPES LIME JUICE CORDIAL
is made exclusively from Montserrat.
FI
«
* ON T SPB* 4 '
*E*FRUIT
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Edward John Ward, the brand-new M.H.R.
for East Sydney, was born at Darlington,
Sydney, 32 years ago, and educated at Cleve-
land-street and Crown-street State schools.
He entered the N.S.W. tramway service in
1916, and lost his job after the 1917 strike.
For six years he was employed on the cleri-
cal staff of Hoskins, Lithgow. Whilst there
he qualified as a survey draughtsman and
returned in that capacity to the electrical
engineer’s branch of the tramway service,
resigning last year to contest and win a seat
in the City Council. His recreations include
long-distance running—he lias been a promi-
nent member of the Botany Harriers —and
boxing.
“F. Pen”: Another surviving octogenarian
(B. 18/2/’3l) of the first Federal Senators
elected by Queensland in 1901 is J. C.
Stewart, who is in his 81st year.
“Texas” Green, the first Postmaster-Gen-
eral who ever wore a cheerful grin as a
permanent adornment, was very nearly dis-
carded in the Cabinet reshuffle. Green, it is
hinted, suffered from something of the same
disability that led to .the unquestionably able
Senator Daly being rejected ; he was under
suspicion of trying to ingratiate himself with
both Scullin-Theodore and Beasley-Anstey
factions. Vet no Minister was credited with
having pleaded harder with Fenton and
Lyons to dissuade them from le'aving the
Cabinet. When Labor portfolios are being
scrambled for there are always liable to be
some undercurrents and personal equations
at work of which the outside public knows
nothing.
When Eric Rhodes, of Auckland (M.L.),
came out of the ether after an appendix
operation recently the first thing he was told
was that the Government had appointed him
to the Building Regulations Committee, and
wanted his advice about earthquake-proof
structures. Rhodes, who is quite the young-
est member of the committee, is an engineer
and a director of the Fletcher Construction
Co. He is one of the leading M.L. authori-
ties on reinforced concrete. Educated in
Auckland, son of one of the wealthiest citi-
zens, he coffimenced his professional career
in California, where the folk are earthquake-
shy. He served in the A.I.F. during the
Great War.
Charles Ernest Culley, who replaces Lyons
as the Speck’s representative in the Federal
Ministry, is a small man with a plodding
mind. When first elected to the State
Assembly he was carrying a hod, and, great
day as it w*as for him, he didn’t leave off
carrying the hod till he had worked his
New Assistant-Minister CULLEY.
proper union hours. He was for many years
secretary of the Tas. Trades Hall, and has
held a dozen honorary union secretaryships
as well. When it was Tas. Labor’s turn to
send a man to Geneva, Culley was chosen,
and it was Culley who unseated John Gelli-
brand in 1928. Il'is majority was 128 votes
then; it went up to 3259 last time.
John Darnell, who died recently in Queens-
land leaving a will that astonished the com-
munity-—it knew little of the unobtrusive
citizen—came to Australia from England 53
years ago. He was one of a well-known
boo'tmaking family, with factories* in North-
ampton, and he applied the capacity of his
clan to many undertakings in Queensland,
including tobacco manufacture; a portion
of the family wealth came his way, too.
Apart from bequests to relatives his will
gives Queensland University £12,000 to
endow a Chair of English, in addition to
£5OOO for the foundation of a University
library, while £lO,OOO has been left for the
establishment and maintenance of a national
picture gallery in Brisbane, conditionally on
the same amount being raised by public or
private subscription within 10 years. A
considerable residue is divided among vari-
ous charities.
C. J. Cerutty,
the Federal xAudi-
tor-General, whose
plain - spoken an-
nual report has
caused a little stir
at Canberra, was
one of the public
servants whom the
C o m m o nwealth
drew from the Vic-
t o r i a n service.
Appointed su b-
accountant at the
Treasury when the
Commonwealth first
got a Treasury, he
moved along stead-
ily until five years
ago he succeeded
J. W. Israel, the
only Auditor-Gen-
eral the Common-
wealth had known
until then. Israel
came over from
Tasmania to that
job; Cerutty was
born in Victoria,
at Sale, and had
his 61st birthday
last year.
A 1 Henry, the '
C.P. man whom
Clarence is send-
ing to the N.S.W.
Assembly in place
of the late A. J.
Pollack, is a Syd-
ney solicitor. His
father was a doc-
to r at Grafton.
Federal Auditor-
General CERUTTY.
Henry was a champion swimmer in his day,
and is a returned soldier and a travelled
man; a trip overseas some years ago took
him to Spain and Algeria and other places
out of the beaten track.
J. R. Pescott, sec. of Vie. (Closer Settle-
ment Board, who’ retires next month, has had
47 years in the State service. Forty years
ago he was kept .busy attending to the butter
that was exported under the bounty scheme
by the Agricultural Department. Thence he
was transferred to the Lands, and by hard
climbing reached the first-class • clerical divi-
sion.
T. A. Clolierty, a former harbor-master of
Brisbane, who made his last landfall re-
cently, was a Galwegian of an old seafaring
stock who first saw Australia as an appren-
tice on the Corlic, an, immigrant sliipi which
plied to Moreton Bay. On his second voyage
to the Queensland port he and others, includ-
ing the mate, left the ship on the ground
of her unseaworthiness. Their judgment was
confirmed when the tub, after leaving
Queensland on her homeward voyage, was
never heard of again. Service in Howard
Smith and the A.U.S.N. followed until as a
master Cloherty joined the Brisbane pilot ser-
vice. He it was who took the Ophir,
with the present King and Queen on board,
to her Moreton Bay anchorage. He was
appointed harbor-master of Brisbane in 1910.
and held the position until his retirement
in 1927.
William Newton Wortley, Clapp’s goods
agent, is the man who was responsible for
the introduction of the “nominated days of
loading” system into the Vic. railways. This
scheme, the first of its kind in the world,
revolutionised goods handling in Victoria by
restricting the acceptance of freight consign-
ments for different stations to certain speci-
fied loading days. Wortley started off as
a school-teacher, but soon switched on to
railroading and had 27 years’ experience in
the Melbourne goods-slieds. Besides con-
trolling the operations of his cherished load-
ing system, he acts as railway commercial
representative.
A term as Agent-General in London has
meant the end of many a politician’s career;
he who returns and seeks to re-enter Parlia-
ment is apt to find that he has lost touch or
isn’t wanted. Westralia’s Hal Colebatch is
an exception; he came back to win a Senate
seat and to force himself to the front in the
Federal legislature even more rapidly than
he had done in the State Legislative Council.
Colebatch was 40 when he w T as first elected
to Parliament, after over 20 years of journal-
ism, and he soon showed that he could be
just as incisive and cogent with his tongue
as with his pen. As a journalist he had the
curious experience of being once debarred
for some weeks from entering the press gal-
lery of the House in which he was to become
the foremost figure 18 years later. Simi-
larly J. W. Kirwan, now President, made
his first appearance on the premises in 1898,
when he was called to the bar of the august
Chamber and solemnly reprimanded for an
editorial offence against its dignity.
An outsize m optimists among mining men
is Vestralia’s Jock Thomson, who predicts
that the gold bonus will mean an increased
output of 50,000 ounces a month the first
year, and 100,000 the second. Jock’s mining-
experiences go back to the early days of
Coolgardie, and since then he has varied
gold-mining ventures by pegging out islands
of iron ore. In his spare time he has been
a suburban mayor, and even an M.L.A. for
one term, but he never made much hit as
a speaker, his political outlook hardly extend-
ing beyond numerous grievances against the
Mines Department. Jock is the type of
Scot who looks happiest seated somewhere
near the haggis at a Burns banquet.
Mrs. B. Smiles, who died the other day
at Albury, lost all her four sons in one
year. Three were killed in the war, the
fourth in a railway accident at Albury.
Curious that the names of so many front-
rank Federal Labor politicians should end
with “y.” Three of them, Beasley, Anstey
and Daly, were shot out of Scullin’s Cabinet
last week, but, to counterbalance this, four
of the five newcomers—Dooley, Holloway,
Chifley and Culley—dragged in the penulti-
mate letter of the alphabet behind them.
Parker Moloney and Blakeley retained their
jobs, and one of the Rileys becomes Govern-
ment Whip.
Dr. S. S. Cameron, Vic. Director of Agri-
culture, will step out of -the service in June,
-when he will be 65. A native of Cumberland,
he came to Australia in 1889, was appointed
Chief Veterinary Officer in the department
in 1896 and rose to the top job 18 years ago.
He represented Australia at the Imperial
Conference on Agriculture in London four
years ago. R. Crowe, Exports Superinten-
dent, who will be 64 in June, is likely to
get a run for a year as Cameron’s successor.
Perth tramway superintendent Shillington,
deviser of the excellent plan that small par-
ties of “trammies,” as an alternative to part-
time work, should be sent out prospecting,
with backing in the shape of a small levy
on fellow-workers, did a lot of battling about
early-day goldfields camps before switching
on to railway work. He has a good first-
hand knowledge of the Australian abo., too,
and has shown a keen insight into native
ways in contributions to the press. Shilling-
ton’s keenness and initiative early marked
him out for promotion in the railway service,
and he was lifted to his tramway job over
the heads of many senior officers. A brother
also rose high as a Westralian railwayman.
Out in Parkes (N.S.W.), if you see a
dog and ask whose dog that is, you’ll pro-
bably be told one of the McGirrs. And if
you ask who owns that place, you’ll be told
one of the MoGirrs, too. All the boys got
the political itch, and Greg was the first
to get into Parliament —that was in Hol-
man’s day. Then came Paddy: he was put
in the Leg. Council. The third, Jim —Frith
has been calling on Jim —got in the Assem-
bly first for Cootamundra, but afterwards
moved down to the city, and now (by the
grace of Lang, who has stuck to him as he
lias stuck to Lang) sits for Bankstown.
McGIRR, Lang’s Health Minister.
They are a cheerful, popular mob, the
McGirrs; and Jim has slapped more people
on the back and called them good fellows in
a day than his predecessor in the Health
Department, Dr. Arthur, has done in 50
years.
Lieut.-General Baden-Powell. who arrives
in Australia as the King of the Boy Scouts
next week, has been one of the Empire’s most
picturesque figures for the past 40 years.
As a cavalry officer he saw service through-
out the Empire until his achievements as a
scout and leader of Irregular Horse in Mata-
beleland brought him into the limelight. His
sensational defence of Mafeking clinched his
The king of the scouts
reputation, and after organising and com-
manding the South African Constabulary
he ended his active-service career as
Inspector-General of Cavalry. In 19-OS
Baden-Powell evolved the brilliant con-
ception of the Boy Scout movement,
which has entrenched itself in every
quarter of the globe, within the Empire and
outside it. A mighty shikari , he is also a
clever artist and a notable writer on many
subjects throughout his amazingly versatile
career. A brother was A-D.C. to two Queens-
land Governors, Anthony Musgrave and
Henry Norman, and was a counterpart of
Baden in many ways. A Guardsman, he also
saw much active service, and he was one of
the chief actors in the revival of the Aero-
nautical Society.
“ Jeames”: Earl Russell, who died last
week, and Bertrand Russell, who succeeds
him, had parallel careers, though there was
a difference of seven years in their ages.
Both were Laborites (the earl was Under-
secretary of State for India in the Ramsay-
Mac. Government, and Bertrand stood twice
for Chelsea as a Labor candidate) ; both were
cranks and went to gaol (the carl in connec-
tion with a matrimonial offence for which
he was subsequently pardoned, and Bert-
rand as a result of his activities as
a “conchy” during the war) ; both were
divorced and re-married, and both gained
world-fame in the intellectual sphere. In
Germany the new earl has been classed
with Leibnitz as a philosopher, and
with Einstein as a mathematician. He
is a kinsman of the Duke of Bed-
ford through his grandfather, Lord John
Russell, who was given an earldom for his
political services in 1861.
A. O. O’Dowd, of Vic. Titles Office,
the new president of the State branch of the
Australian Public Servants’ Association, is a
son of Bernard O’Dowd, Chief Parliamentary
Draftsman and poet in his spare time. A.O.
is a lawyer, like his dad.
Excepting the late Neville Howse, George
Barber collected more distinctions and deco-
rations than any other Australian medical
officer during the war, winding up as Director-
General of Medical Services A.M.F. and
Major-General. For many years before 1914
Barber, who is a Lancashire man, practised
his profession peacefully at Boulder and Kal-
goorlie, where he rose to be Government
Medical Officer. He showed a talent for
hospital organisation in Egypt and France,
and was a strict disciplinarian.
According to local accounts, a lot of Vic-
torian money is being laid out in the west of
Central Queensland just now and cattle-runs
further north-west are also being picked up
by similar interests. Still this is no new
story, for much of Queensland, north and
west of the Darling Downs was taken up
by Victorians in the early days. Nearly all
the stations on the famous Upper Barcoo
were originally owned by Victorians —Whit-
tinghams, Murphys, Govctts, Fairbairns,
Powers and Olivers. In later days a similar
Victorian contingent, the Coldhams, Jowctls
and otnerSj invaded the Longreach district
and practically made it a province of the
Cabbage Garden. Now the southern wave
is returning, and, in view of the flood tide it
was responsible for years ago, is welcome.


e
frinces. Easily
the bestvalue in
Australia to-d?y.
yf /
|| / JO
MSSf IS /
Send your order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street + Brisbane
THIS YEAR
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to con-
serve carefully and to spend wisely, it is now. In most cases
incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and conse-
quently reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money—it is just as
much a matter of careful, useful spending; but obviously the
saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully.
It costs nothing, but will help you to help yourself.
Cbmciwcaltl) Savings JBankof Australia
(Guaranteed by the Com monwealth Government.)
PH
WIN. FOWLES
(of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne)
hands you a garage
for nothing
A large adjacent garage, free of
charge, is another service Car-
lyon’s Hotel offers you in addi-
tion to what is recognised as
Australia’s greatest refined hotel
values. Tariff: Single Rooms
from 4/6 per day; double from
7/6; bed and breakfast, from
6/6 single, or 11/6 double.
All meals optional in tea-
rooms or cafe- at competitive
prices. Inclusive, from 10/6
daily; or 65/- weekly. Right
opposite Spencer Street station -no taxi fares for
train travellers. Please write for detailed tariff card.
The WILCAT
COIUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 121,588 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1921 .. 570,065 198,603 78,755 11,488 281,219
1922 . . 641,593 231,764 81,292 6,977 322,560
1923 . 715,179 260,200 79,765 12,036 357,178
1924 809,039 292,241 83,115 4,613 429,070
1925 . . 867,172 339,366 90,190 25,912 411,704
1920 . . 980,372 371,455 98,364 2,410 508,143
1927 . . 1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1928 . . 1,223,364 516,262 126,903 53,351 526,848
1929 . . 1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
1930 . . 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
The outstanding features of the latest
accounts are a contraction of £435,500 in
the amount Of new business, a growth of
68 p.c. in surrenders (£97,897) and an in-
crease of £223,081 in loans on policies. Never-
theless, actual income (£1,098,901) sprang
£41.182, of which £21,376 came from pre-
miums and £19,806 from interest, rents, etc.
The £353,000 of bonuses declared was 49.1
p.c. of the year’s net premiums, and
£320,559 of it remained in the business as
additional insurance. The two amounts
are included in claims and income
respectively in the table. After satisfying
all legitimate claims, paying exes., striking
£lOBO off the book value of assets and send-
ing £30,000 to the contingency reserve (now
£130,000), approximately half the years
takings remained to swell the life fund,
raising it to £6,007,281 at Dec. 31. There
was also £lOO,OOO earmarked for equalisation
of bonuses; it was set aside a year ago after
life Government decided to tax life offices.
-The shrinkage in first premiums was
as the next comparison shows: —
1911. 1929. 1930.
Policies .. .. 3379 5811 4909
Assuring; .. .. £599,361 £3,290,500 £2,855,000
First premiums '. . 40,406 96,397 73,845
Renewal premiums 79,826 598,651 644,494
Annuities .. •• 400
Iriterest, etc. . . 30,722 357,488 377,294
Leaving bonus figures out of the calculation,
exes, took 12.9 'p.c. of the year’s income as
against 14.5 p.c. and 13.4 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. The lapses affected new
business costs, which mounted to 100 p.c. ot
the year’s first premiums compared with
95.3 p.c. and 80.7 p.c. in 1929 and 1928
respectively. That is assuming that new
business is 10 times more expensive than
old. The actual rates, however, may not
be so high as those figures suggest, since the
society’s investments call for special care
and attention.
It is on its investments, mainly mort-
gages, that the o'ffice scores heaviest. It
assumes that its life fund will turn in 3i
p.c., whereas last year’s interest, rents, etc.,
were 5.8 p.c. on the mean fund as against
6.6 p.c. in 1926. Exactly what the future
holds it is impossible to say at the moment.
A reduction of the rate of interest on mort-
gages has become Labor policy; the N. S.
Wales Government proposes to hasten the
matter by legislation, details of which have
not yet been annohnced. This and increased
taxation, including the proposed 3s. 6d. in
the £ on the return from Government secu-
rities, threaten to curtail surpluses available
for bonuses. Chief danger lies in the possi-
bility of inflation. As inflation progressed
the real value of policies would diminish.
That is to say, people who had paid in solid
premiums for years would be paid out on
maturity of tlieir policies in paper which
might have very small purchasing power.
Last year the society reduced its holding
in Government securities by £140,463, and
put out an extra £325,776 on mortgage :
1929. p.c. 1930. p.c.
Public securities . . £1,088,750 18.5 £945,287 14.8
Mortgages .. . . 3,203,840 54.4 3,529,616 55.1
Loans on policies.. 621,160 10.5 844,241 13.2
Properties .. . . 414,666 7.1 517,690 8.1
Shares & debentures,
etc 414,254 7.1 413,046 6.5
Cash and sundries.. 132,708 2.3 148,631 2.3
The fall in property values has at least
narrowed the margin of security on existing
mortgages, and the' N. S. Wales Moratorium
Act does not make things look any better.
The position calls for expert handling, and
that is assured while managing-director
George Crowley remains at the helm.
Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends. To Ee- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 p.c. = 70,000 99,212 010,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 ~,, '70,000 84,872 700,492
1922. .205,243 30,000 15 „ „ 75,000 100,243 800,735
Transferred to Capital .. £250,000 550,735
1923. .159.479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924..142.315 30,000 12* „ „ 93,750 18,565 608,779
1925. .133,005 30,000 12* „., 93.750 9.255 618.034
1926. .198,008 30,000 16 ~..120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. .153,881 80,000 14 ~ ~105,000 18,881 684,923
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 ~ „ 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. 30,000 10 „ ~ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. .103,969 30,000 8 ~,,60,000 13,969 754,770
The weak and disorganised condition of the
coal trade is responsible for many of the
difficulties being experienced by the inter-
state shipping cos., which have invested
heavily in N. S. Wales collieries. Work was
resumed at Maitland in June of last year,
but competition and price-cutting have made
it difficult to secure profitable business. Thus
the takings of this co.’s colliers and returns
from pits in which it is directly interested
have diminished—it controls the Hebburn
and Metropolitan, the latter on the southern
field, and is interested in Abermain-Seaham,
which recently linked up with the J. and A.
Brown interest, and in B. H*. Prop. Collieries.
The generally lessened trade activity and
lighter tourist traffic also affected the year's
figures. Inner reserves absorbed any loss
there may have been in respect of the coal
merger.
The board wrote net takings at £95.981, or
£28,077 less than the previous year’s, chipped
a couple of points off the div., reducing it
8 p.c., and visibly ploughed in less than has
been its custom. Meanwhile £7989 had been
dropped into the insurance fund (£809,608),
which the “Wild Cat” treats as genuine
profit. In addition there is a reserve for
“contingencies, taxation, repairs, superannua-
tion, etc.” Recent movements in this fund
have been as :—
1925 .. ..£351,981 Decrease £2,521
1926 .. .. 364,142 Increase 12,161
1927 .. .. 380,213 „ 16,071
1928 .. .. 407,095 „ 26,882
1929 .. . . 408,047 „ 952
1930 .. .. 420,623 „ 12,576
The probabilities are that a substantial por-
tion of the £420,023 is genuine profit also.
Treating the lot as such, last year’s net
earnings were £116;546. After satisfying the
pref. requirements, enough remained to show
11.5 p.c. on the £750,000 of ord. capital, as
against 13.7, 17.4, 18.0 and 24 p.c. back to
1924.
Divs. averaged 12.4 p.c. over the last
decade, sweetened with a one-for-two gift
scrip issue. They were largely products of
the post-war boom, helped by profits on the
sale of surplus tonnage when prices were at
their peak. Conditions did not warrant
re-employment of all the money in the busi-
ness ; thus £1,293,350 was invested in Gov-
ernment stocks, debentures and other securi-
ties at Dec. 31.
Here is the mixture, which is well com-
pounded, as put in balance-sheet form: —
1924. 1929. 1930.
Ships, etc. .. £1,055,442 £1,434,815 £1,345,769
Cash . . . . 35,127 37,634 26,627
Book debts . . 159,817 94,269 118,067
Investments . . 1,283,256 1,208,437 1,293,350
Stores .. . . 54,441 41,097 39,556
Total assets . . £2,588,083 £2,816,252 £2,823,369
Less liabilities.. 311,052 364,904 352,975
Net assets .. £2,277,031 £2,451,348 £2,470,394
During the year the Barwon was sold, and
the book value of shipping property, which
includes freeholds, leaseholds and some shares
ill other cos., dropped £89,046. The more or
less liquid surplus (£1,124,625) was £108,092
stronger than at the previous balance.
Over the last two years the price of the
ords. has receded from 465. to 245. in the
market. The return at the lower figure is
6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to £2 in net tangibles. The prefs.
fetch around par.; there are a half-million
of them, carrying a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
with priority as to capital. The net tan-
gible cover is £4; and last year’s declared
profit was over three times their annual
requirements.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
( Dividends \
Pref. Writ- Re-
Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. ten Off. serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1920.. 64,001 17,500 8 p.c. = 48,000 24,833 71,929
Loss.
1921.. 6,096 17,500 Nil 25,606 22,727
Profit,
1922.. 10,550 17,500 Nil 14,272 1,505.
1923.. 37,867 17,500 Nil 16,328 5,544
1924.. 37,072 17,500 Nil 11,293 13,823
1925.. 41,864 17,500 Nil 22,413 15,774
Loss. Deficit.
1926. .205,435 Nil Nil 23,464 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,186 269,990
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929.. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
This is another station-owner in the far west
of Queensland which has suffered severely
from drought, lost markets, falling prices and
high costs. It took over in 1915 the pastoral
properties left on the Q. N. Bank’s hands
over 20 years earlier. After a run of 8 p.c.
divs. the bottom dropped out of the Austra-
lian meat-export trade, and it was dimcuit
to keep up payment to the prefs. for the five
years to the close of accounts m 1920. cheep
offered a way out, so Lucknow and Cork were
converted at a cost of about £BO,OOO. But
drought arrived, and heavy losses on livestock
account and the cost of hand-feeding gobble
up the small reserves and much of the capital
besides. , ,
Last year the seasons got back to normal
again, flocks and herds increased and the cup
was heavier. But the collapse of wool prices
and recessions in the sheep and cattle
markets spoilt financial results. Allowing
for losses on livestock, sales sprang £03,00d,
as this cheerless comparison shows: —
1925. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Sales etc ..£187,938 £60,323 £58,210 £111,213
Emensls 146,073 265,758 106,153 97,430
Depreciation.. 22’,413 23’,464 29,869 28,716
Exes., which were got back £8723, were the
lowest in the co.’s history. Nevertheless,
after striking off £28,715 for depreciation the
final result was a. loss of £14,934, making
aggregate losses over the last five years
£491 293. Thus the deficit on shareholder s
account was £475,519 at Dec. 31, or 15s. 10d.
per ord. share. In addition there was £8<,500
(7s per share) of accrued divs. coming to the
prefs.—2so,ooo of them, carrying a fixed
cumulative 7 p.c. and having priority as to
capital. j , . .
Further, in the fight to protect its chief
earning asset, the livestock, the co. added
£106,296 net to the outside debt during the
last five years. Here is, the. position as the
poblished accounts disclose it: —
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Capital . - £650,000 £850,000 £850,000 £850,000
Liabilities .. . 135,094 202,551 244,863 241,390
Freeholds . . 68,605 68,605 68,605 68,774
Leaseholds .. 325,524 286,065 261,194 237,070
Livestock .. 495’,513 216,852 223,639 231,391
Plant, etc. .. 85,285 80,874 77,434 70,780
Wool . . . . 34,490 16,232 2,156 5,830
Debtors, cash, etc. 8,950 1,150 1,250 2,027
There was £213,410 coming to the bank and
£27,980 to sundry creditors at Dec. 3r.
Together they exceeded the more or less
liquids by £2142, the position having
improved £15,676 during the year.
Though good seasons can work wonders for
these pastoral cos., with prices and costs as
they are recovery threatens to be slow. A
readjustment of capital is, of course, inevit-
able. The market, noting the heavy outside
debt, prices the prefs. at ss, There is little
business in the ords.
South Australian Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
Registered in Adelaide in 1926 as Per-
petual Pine Forests, Australia, Ltd., this
co. apparently had some connection with
South Australian Pine Forests, Ltd., formed
in 1925. It owns 7370 acres of freehold near
the S.A. Government forestry reserves at Art.
Gambier and Penola, and holds options over
other large areas. Subscribed share capital
is £39,192, of which £33,225 had been
paid to October. The co. for four
years has been offering the public acre-
lots planted with 680 Pinus ttmgms
seedlings, the present price being £2<
an acre. Up to August, 1930, £141,917
had been subscribed by bondholders; that
represented about 5600 bonds, in respect of
which 3900 acre-lots had been planted.
Subscriptions during the last two years
amount to approximately £90,000. The whole
of the land cleared and fenced during 1930
will have to be planted this year if the co. is
to keep pace with its bond commitments.
Out of the £27 per bond received the
co. undertakes to maintain the trees until
maturity (with a maximum of 20 years’ ser-
vice) and to pay all rates, taxes, and other
outgoings. Upon bondholders deciding when
and how the timber is to be marketed, the
trustees in each section act accordingly. Sec-
tions are marketed as a whole, and bond-
holders participate proportionately in the
returns.
The contract with bondholders provides,
amongst other things, for (1) the transfer of
the title-deeds to trustees, (2) the estab-
lishment of a reserve fund for maintenance,
and (3) proper maintenance for the stipu-
lated time. Trustees G. Glen Legoe and
A. E. 11. Evans report favorably on the co.’s
activities and the growth of the trees.
At October 31 last land and forests figured
at £25,130 in the balance-sheet, buildings,
etc., at £3556 and forestry reserves (to
replace posible losses through fire, etc.) at
£7394. Bondholders owed £86,653, and
£7546 had been handed over to the trustees
for the maintenance fund. Cash, etc.,
amounted to £391, and establishment account
to £5461. The co. owed £BB6O on land
purchased, and £3301 to the bank and other
creditors. The amount estimated as neces-
sary to complete bond commitments was
£76,767.
No timber, apparently, has yet been sold,
though shareholders have received several
divs. and a one-for-eight bonus issue in May
last. These distributions have come from
profits on land sales, estimated profits on
maintenance, etc. Last year a profit of
£3927 was claimed, after paying establish-
ment costs of inter-State branches. Subject
to the final div. for the current term (8 p.c.
on the ords., as in the previous year) reserves
figure at £6582, less intangibles (£5461).
Divs. to shareholders before completion of
bond contracts are not generally desirable,
unless there is a substantial uncalled capital
in the venture.. No objection can be taken to
capitalisations of reserves. Divs. in this case
have not called for very much, while they
have probably encouraged the raising of
fresh share capital. Auditor James Counsell
declares himself satisfied that “the co. has
made ample financial provision to carry out
the obligations to bondholders in their en-
tirety.’’ What conditions in the timber and
wood-pulp industries will be 20 years hence
can, of course, only be guessed at.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ &
1923.. 1(5,450 121 p.c.* = 15,387 1063 1,279
1924.. 15,252 10 „ „ 14,083 1169 2,448
1925.. 16,917 10 „ •„ 13,000 3917 6,365
1926.. 16,723 10 „ ~ 13,000 3723 10,088
1927.. 14,653 10 „ ~ 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 ~ „ 13,000 1961 13,702
1929.. 14,026 10 ~ ~ 13,000 1026 14,728
1930.. 4,071 4 ~ „ 5,200 14,199
*l4 months.
It used to be the Central Falace Buildings,
Ltd., which bought a 50-years’ ground-lease
from the City Council a year or so before
the war. The co. had a chequered career,
including five years without a license, and it
was not until 1921 that divs. commenced.
Most of the prefs—they represented about
four-fifths of the capital—were exchanged
(one for two) for pref. paper in the Rickard
Extended Co., now in liquidation. There
was a reconstruction in 1923, the present
title was adopted, assets were written up
£65,000, and two new shares were handed out
for every one (pref. or ord.) then held.
Thus paid capital became £160,000. From
that point the table takes up the story.
About four years ago tfie premises were
remodelled, 70-odd rooms were added and
the board went to its bankers for the
money. But results failed to come up to
expectations, despite boom conditions;
though enough profit was claimed to pay a
regular 10 p.c. div. till the close of accounts
in 1929. Last year reduced spending and
the weight of the fixed charges made them-
selves felt. Gross profits (£38,083) slipped
£16,773; exes. (£33,412) were got back
£7418, leaving the net result at 3.5 p.c. on
capital as against 10.7. 11.5 11.2, 12.8 and
13 p.c. back to 1925. That and a bit more
was earned during the first half, for which
an interim at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. was
paid; a loss showed up for the last half,
and the final div. was passed. Since it
may be a while before money becomes plenti-
ful again, the co.’s prospects are not encour-
aging.
Now look at these figures: —
1925. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft .. . . 19,125 43,734 45,334
Creditors .. . . 6,474 6,241 4,858
Buildings . . . . 137,373 166,493 164,349
Furniture and plant . . 25,276 27,713 26,288
Stocks . . . . . . 5,184 5,103 3,674
Book debts, cash, etc... 3,559 3,843 3,329
The excess of liabilities over more or less
liquids (£43,189 at Dec. 31) increased £2160
during the year. The lease runs out in
1960, and a sinking fund has been created;
but the board has not yet been in a position
to invest the money outside the business.
The position will look better when the debt
is reduced.
On the market the pound shares, priced at
265. 6d. two years ago, fetch 7s. At that
figure the return would be a shade over 8 p.c.
on a 3 p.c. div. basis.
N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal Quarries
Nomi-
Dividends \ To Re-nal Be
Nov. Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ r
1922 . 14,777 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 10,299 4,478 615
1923.. 16,349 10 „ 10 „ 11,824 4,525 5,140
1924.. 18,449 10 „ 10 „ 15,000 3,449 8,589
1925.. 20,815 10 „ 10 ~ 18,193 2,622 11,211
1926.. 25,808 10 „ 10 „ 19,462 6,346 17,557
1927.. 34,178 10 „ 10 „ 22,917 11,261 28,818
1928.. 33,803 10 „ 10 „ 25,000 8,803 3(,621
1929.. 33,934 10 „ 10 „ 25,000 8,934 46,555
1930. . 12,083 10 „ Nil 6,441* 5,642 52,197
*Provided for but not declared.
This co. took over Prospect, Minnamurra
and Bombo quarries nine years ago. Acti-
vity in road construction, due largely to lo'an
expenditure, resulted in a strong demand and
good prices for metal, thus enabling a run
of 10 p.c. divs. to be paid on an increasing
capital. , ,
Last year the outlook changed, com-
petition sharpened and prices were cut. So,
after setting aside £lBOO for taxation and
£l5OO for bad debts, there was a slip of
£21,851 in the net earnings, which were no
better than 3.5 p.c. on the £339,413 of paid
capital. That is counting as profit £0290
which was added to the depreciation reserve,
making it £39,545. The pref. div. was pro-
vided for, but not declared, and the ords. were
(Continued on page 16.)


PSKvJWWW'WWvV' • • • •
m
m
■
mm f
r
1
STRENgg
LLS.
(Auslralia)W«
IF you watch the hands around a card
table, you notice in the way they
shuffle, deal and hold their cards, differ-
ences which immediately point out the
experienced players. But you’ll also notice
that, in one respect, nearly all these hands
are the same in ten cases out of eleven,
when they hold a cigarette, they hold a
“Capstan/ 7
You, too, will enjoy that satisfying some-
thing in “Capstans 77 which helps keen card-
players to concentrate.
Capstan
Smoll and large packets.
Also tins of 50 and 100.
Also Oval
Heavyweights.
Made in Your Own Country at the Garden
Factory Raleigh Park —by
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) Ltd.
(298


If Inflation
Comes
What stocks or property would
stand up best in the event of
inflation?
What can be done with money
to make it reasonably safe?
What would become of investors
in life-assurance policies?
Are there any signs of a world
recovery?
These and many other problems
of most vital interest are dis-
cussed in "The Wild Cat
Monthly.”
MARCH NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PElt ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* • sE * *
Pioneer Wood Tanks, for the storage of any type
of liquid, possess unique advantages over metal
tanks. For instance, they are absolutely non-
corrosive—they are equally efficient for storing water,
wine, the strongest acids or alkalies. They are
simple to erect and will give many years of
thoroughly satisfactory service. Write for full
details to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. ; and at Footseray, Victoria.
He * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 ho Standard o 1 Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
#1
ASSURED POSITIONS—BETTER MONEY.
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
El
77
LORRIES . . . FEED CUTTERS . . . PETROL ENGINES
RUN BETTER and LAST LONGER WHEN LUBRICATED ivith
ALEMITE
THE HIGH PRESSURE SYSTEM OF LUBRICATION
passed over, all the money being required
in the business.
During the year all the 89,416 £1 shares
in Blue Metal Quarries, Ltd., were acquired
by an exchange of scrip on a par basis. The
co. works deposits near Minnamurra, but no
hint has been given concerning its trading
results or as to the state of its finances.
The deal, and other things, are reflected in
this next comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1923. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £123,788 £200,000 £250,000 £339,413
Owing on
Minnamuna 16,275 2,325
Overdraft .. 1,614 20,662 23,165 24,041
Other creditors 6,518 15,783 26,185 38,008
Fixed assets .. 131,840 217,371 309,505 318,918
Stocks.. .. 3,651 3,099 7,354 6,063
Book debts .. 25,735 48,983 47,394 48,625
Cash & sundries 909 2,375 980 1,471
Shares other cos. 89,416
To add £9413 to the book value of fixed
assets and make advances of £5218, presum-
ably to the new subsidiary, the board leant
upon sundry creditors for an extra £11,823
and added £876 to the overdraft. Thus out-
side liabilities exceeded the more or less
liquids, excluding shares in other cos., by
£5890 when the books closed, the financial
position having slipped £12,268 during the
year. It was probably because of this and
the tightness of money that shareholders
went hungry.
Shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) are all represented by quarries,
plant, etc., the value of which depends almost
entirely upon what they can earn. Therefore
too much importance should not be attached
to the net asset backing for the scrip, which
amounts to £6 Is. 7d. for the prefs. (64,407
cumulative 10 per cents.) and to 225. 2d. for
the ords. Prospects of an early revival in
construction work are not bright; but as
the weaker and less economical quarries
drop out of the struggle the turnover of
the survivors should benefit.
The market, after weighing the risks, prices
the prefs. at 10s. as against 235. 6d. a year
ago, and the ords. at 9s. as against 21s.
Australian General Investment Trust
This little Melbourne investment trust was
launched in Dec., 1928. Capital is £35,836
in fully-paid ss. shares. In its first year it
netted £lBO6, and paid a generous 6 p.c.
div. (£1714). That was after charging
interest (£156) and preliminary exes.
(£851) against a capital profit of £1069
arising from changes in investments.
F'or the 12 months to Dec. 31 last divi-
dends, etc., from investments (£2060) were
only £9O lighter than the previous year’s.
Exes, were £331, and the net result (£1729)
was 4.8 p.c. on capital. No div. was paid;
thus reserves were increased to a nominal
£lB9O.
At the close of accounts the co.’s own
funds (£37,726, capital and reserves com-
bined) were supplemented by £9266 of
deposits and £l7B of other liabilities. The
lot was represented by investments with a
book value of £43,967, and cash, etc., £3562.
No summary of the portfolio is given, but
the divs. received suggest that the holdings
are a satisfactory lot. Still their book value
was £17,670 less than market value at Dec.
31. However, this and other investment
trusts should be able to nurse their secu-
rities provided they do not go heavily into
debt. But nothing much need be looked for
in the way of dividends until capital losses
have been wiped out and genuine reserves
accumulated. Much will depend upon how
long Australia takes to readjust herself to
altered conditions.
Oilfields of the Californian type cannot be
expected in southern Australia, says Dr.
Woolnough, geological adviser to the Com-
monwealth. His statement is based on the
conclusion that in Australia rocks of ter-
tiary age are almost devoid of those folded
structures responsible for the accumulation
of oil in other parts of the world. This,
however, does not mean that other types of
structure favorable to the accumulation of
oil do not exist here.
In respect of the small oilfield at Lakes
Entrance (Vie.), Woolnough suggests pene-
trating the tertiary formations in search of
more favorable structures beneath. He
further adds that statements purporting to
indicate the discovery of favorable struc-
tures from surface indications should be
discounted. Continued scout drilling, includ-
ing the recognition of well-defined maker
beds, provides the best method of investi-
gating the oil possibilities of the district.
* * # *
Interest has been revived in an old reef
at Greta, about 16 miles west of Tullamore
(N.S.W.). A sample recently sent to the
Mines Department assayed 4oz. 4dwt. of
gold to the ton; another assayed privately
is said to have yielded 14oz. to the ton. A
bulk parcel of 6 tons 4cwt. of stone has
been sent for a trial crushing to Peak Hill;
this should give a better idea of values. The
show was worked by Jack Gray, a land-
holder in the district, 24 years ago, and
has been pecked at and abandoned by vari-
ous parties since. The old shaft is 140 ft.
deep, with levels from 14ft. down.
The concentrates from the 16-ton crushing
of arsenical pyrites ore sent by Lucknow
Pups to Port Kembla assayed 9dwt. gold per
ton of crudes, and a bit better than that is
needed. Since the clean-up cannot be treated
at the mine, it also is to be sent away and
the lot sold by assay. Prospects lie chiefly
in the possibility of a strike of old-time rich-
ness in the drive on the joint, which is show-
ing calcite. The dewatering of the 200 ft.
level is almost complete, and the workings
are to be put in order to prove the down-
ward continuation of the ore bodies.
Manna Hill, in the Orange (N.S.W.) dis-
trict, which has been worked with varying
results in the past, is producing again. A
first parcel of 20 tons returned 18oz. of
retorted gold, and a second of the same ton-
nage yielded 620 z. A total of 80oz. from
40 tons is distinctly satisfactory.
* * * *
Recent experiments show that the machine
for recovering gold from beach sands, in-
vented by H. C. Oaks, a Brisbane assayer,
is capable of a 1 p.c. to 5 p.c. concentration
from crude sand without loss of gold. Sand
from Currumbin Beach (Q.) was assayed
before and after concentration. The first
assay gave 3 grains of gold to the ton, and
the second 7dwt. 5 grains from the concen-
trates, which were thus worth 365. per ton.
Hopes are that the machine will solve the
problem of the fine gold-bearing black sands
in New Guinea and Papua, which have de-
feated sluice-box manipulators.
* * * $
Jerusalem .Creek Proprietary, which has
been working a deposit of gold-bearing beach
sands in the Richmond River district, has
applied to the local Warden for six months’
exemption. Ten tons of the sand concen-
trates have been sent to Germany for treat-
ment. No further work on the deposits is
contemplated until it is known whether the
result is favorable.
* 1* * *
Things are going pretty hopefully so far
at Mt. Coolon. The Coolon mine has been
taken over at a handsome figure by Gold
Mines of Australia, Ltd., but the option over
the Native Bear, Barclay’s standby, has
been extended for a further period of three
months. The rumor that one of the three
prospecting shafts bottomed in a blank is
probably responsible for the extension. This
may, of course, be due to several reasons
that are not necessarily irfimical to the con-
tinuity of the ore body in depth. The deep-
est shaft is down to a level of about 280 ft.,
and the ore body is being continually
sampled.
* * * *
“Old Warden” : Charters Towers has not
given up hope yet. A local co. is asking for
£5OOO to see what can be done with a diamond
drill. Other fields have found salvation in this
way, and the Towers itself once recovered
from a slump by going down a bit after the
upper levels had petered out. Pfeiffer and
his mates cut the Day Dawn reef in that
way.
* * * *
“Wau”: One of the best of the private
claims on the New Guinea goldfields, the
Pryke and Joubert show, on Koranga Creek,
is to be taken over by a co. The claim is
an alluvial one of some 90 chains in length,
with a first-class head of water. Economical
to work, for some time it has returned fat
profits to the holders, both of whom are noted
old Papuan hands. Capital is not to exceed
£30,000. Pryke will retire entirely for a
cash consideration not stated. Joubert will
remain in the co., which will have his
expert services in working the mine. This
claim was sought by the Ellyou Co. when
that organisation was buying out the smaller
companies and claim-holders for the concern
now known as New Guinea Goldfields, but
the deal fell through, as the partners stuck
out for cash, instead of taking part payment
in shares as the others did.
* * * *
The South Australian search for oil has
suddenly come close to Adelaide. The consent
of both the Harbor Board and the Mines
Department having been obtained, a bore is
to be put down alongside the Largs Bay
jetty, where bubbles of gas have come up
through the sand.
* * * *
Westralian gold-mining cos. are quietly
preparing for their coming argument with the
unions over wages and working conditions.
The unions reckon that with gold at a high
premium, and a bonus to boot, mineworkers
should get more money than they do now.
The other side of the picture is that the
exchange premium and the bonus are pro-
ducts of an economic crisis, and will pro-
bably pass with it. Meanwhile a fall in
the cost of living would mean a rise in
real wages, even if nominal rates remained
unaltered. South Kalgurli is the only regu-
lar dividend-payer at the moment, and its
main shoot has bottomed. At Lake View
and Star a lot of money has yet to be spent
on plant and development.
* * * *
Gangs on the gold and arsenic recovery
plants are having a race for a finish at
Wiluna (W.A.). Both reckon to be ready 1
to commence operations early this month I
in a small way. The Victor Leggo people I
(Vic.) are erecting the arsenic plant, and |
will take its entire output. They consider I
that if Wiluna has nothing more to be con-
cerned about than successful arsenic re-
covery, its worries are at an end.
* * * *
Hampton Consols, one of several hand-to-
mouth concerns operating at Westonia
(W.A.), is hopeful as to the future. Develop-
ment has disclosed two reefs trending at
different angles and carrying values “at differ-
ent stages” from 60s. to 80s. per ton. A
new make of stone has been discovered in
Tin Options’ ground adjoining, and it is dip.-
ping towards Hampton Consols’ leases. The
new reef, where it was cut, showed 2oz. of
gold to the ton. The co. has 50 tons of
ore at grass, and a crushing is to be put
through presently,
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Considering the possibility of a further fall
in the £ Australian, which is the best pro-
position— (1) Money in the bank, (2) pur-
chase of Government stock, (3) purchase of
bank shares, (4) purchase of house property,
or (5) other investments —the answer being
based on past experience in countries sub-
ject to an inflation of the currency? —2l42.
Under inflation money or an undertaking
to accept a fixed sum of money is the worst
property. That rules out fixed deposits and
Government stock. Banks in Germany suf-
fered greatly but not all in the same measure.
Apparently it depended upon whether they
made more by “robbing” their lending clients
than their borrowing clients made by “rob- ,
bing” them. House property wasn't good in
Germany, because the Government took it
over and the community (right on to 1923)
was living almost rent free. But productive
landed property was good buying. Industrial
interests were also favored, for, though the
dividends were generally insignificant, large
profits were sometimes made and promptly
put into factory extensions, improvements,
etc.
What is to prevent a man with £lOO,OOO
in England withdrawing 1000 hundred-pound
notes, bringing them to Sydney, obtaining
£130,000 for them, buying £130,000 worth of
wool, sending it to England and selling it,
thus clearing £30,000 apart from the wool
profits? —2l4l.
Nothing. But he will have to chance sell-
ing his wool for £130,000 when it gets to
England. In theory, at any rate, what a
man pays £130,000 for in Australia he
reckons worth £lOO,OOO in England. The
European buyer can afford to give the
£130,000 to get the £lOO,OOO worth because
he can get £l3O in Australia for every £lOO
he will make available in Europe. Many
people have bought wool in Australia for
sale in London, hoping thus to save exchange.
Their experience seems to have been gener-
ally disappointing.
(1) How do the banks control exchange?
(2) Who got the recent rise in the premium
on exchange?. —lBBo.
(1) The banks buy and sell money. You've
got £lOO in London. Banks will pay you
£l3O here in Australia for this £lOO. That
£l3O is the “buying rate” for £lOO. Another
man in Australia wants £lOO in London. He
goes to a bank, knowing it to be a dealer
in money. It has a sum there, made up per-
haps of many purchases. It sells him £lOO
for £l3O 10s. That is the' selling rate. On
that transaction the bank has made 10s. You,
having £lOO to sell in London, could go round
and find a man who wanted to buy £100;
but you find it more convenient to go to a
dealer. That is the only sense in which
banks control exchange. * Generally they
work at an agreed-upon (or “carded”) rate.
(2) Whoever it was that owned the money
in London when the rate went up.
(1) When did the A.B.C. take over the
Australian Joint Stock Bank? (2) The cir-
cumstances ? —2128.
(1) In 1909. (2) The A.J.S., having
“issued credits” too freely, especially on
pastoral securities, crashed in the early ’nine-
ties. The business was nursed for 16 years,
the shareholders getting nothing. The share
capital of the A.B.C. (£1,198,534 to begin
with) was made up partly out of deferred
deposits in the A.J.S. and in small part by
calls on old A.J.S. shares. The ’whole of
the share capital of the A.J.S. at the time it
crashed was lost.
Re shares in the Australian Metropolitan
Life Co. (1) What was the issue price? (2)
How much per share is now paid up? (3)
Dividends paid? (4) How to get in touch
with shareholders? (5) Are the shares a
good investment ? —1956.
(1) Recent issues, par. (2) Fully-paid to
20s. (3) Average 20.5 p.c. p.a. for last
three years. (4) Inspect last list of share-
holders at Registrar-General’s Office for 2s.
fee. (5) Depends on the price. See “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” May, 1930.
What is the material difference between
Australia borrowing, say, ten million overseas
and borrowing the amount from the Common-
wealth Bank on the credit of Australia?
2121.
Principal difference is that “overseas has
the 10 millions to lend and the Common-
wealth Bank hasn’t. If the bank had the
money, the principal difference would be that
the interest would remain in this country, if
we borrowed here, and would have to be
shipped in the form of gold or goods if we
borrowed abroad.
brief answers.
J.L.: Nothing would be gained by with-
drawing some notes and issuing a similar quantity
of silver coins. The silver-mines might be a trifle
to the good; but the country would be “out” the
difference between the cost of silver and of paper.
C.P.M.: In N. S. Wales, no Yaeka-gum:
Only for those who can afford to lose their principal.
. ...C.McG.: Sorry; you are liable for the total
amount uncalled on your shares W.H.S.: No
market outside the co. The sec. might possibly have
a buyer G.M.: If the advance is made in England,
the grower will get the benefit of the exchange. It
will not matter to the agent whether the rate
subsequently falls or not —he will not have paid it.
A.E.H.: Nobody can tell. Why not divide
your risk? But don’t buy shares in cos. with
large debts A.E.G.: Melbourne Parking Station
collapsed in 1927. Only 68,561 shares were sold
of 200,000 offered; so the £150,000 to be raised
on mortgage also failed to materialise. Moral:
Never invest in a new co. which has the power to
go to allotment after selling a few thousand shares.
D.J.S.: (1) Small, but well managed, and, we
believe, sound. (2) Depends on * your age and
nature of policy. (3) No G.S.M.: Waihi’s most
prosperous time was 1909 ; it then paid £446,316
(18s. per share) ; it paid 82s. ( £2,033,218) in its
best five years (1906-11). Mount Morgan’s most
prolific year was 1890 ( £866,667). It paid
£2,866,667 in the five years 1889-93. Broken Hill
Prop, paid £1,152,000 in 1891 and £4,128,000 in
the five years 1890-94 N.A.8.: The Australian £1
note is worth approximately 15s. 3d. in London.
S.J.A,: See “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” Nov., 1930.
F.P.D.: Write E. L. and C. Baillieu, 360
Collins-street, Melbourne. .. .A.J.S.M.: The sample
sent consists of ilmenite (oxide of iron and tita-
nium). Ilmenite, containing 50 per cent, or over
titanium dioxide (Tio 2 ), is quoted in America at
from £2 to £2 10s. per ton, according to grade
and impurities.


7
YA
n//
&
A
/
W
Your ESSEX
dealer holds the key to all
th
e answers
ESSEX
MOTOR
CARS
These are days of true economy and
wise investment—days when no one
should buy a motor-car without asking the following
questions:
How does the car get away in
traffic? What will it do on hills?
Does it steer lightly—ride com-
fortably over all kinds of roads?
Does it combine swiftness and
ease of handling with safety?
Is it an economical car? How
long will it last? Are reliable
dealer service facilities back of it?
Just ask your local Hudson-Essex
dealer for the key to an Essex
Challenger. Then take a demon-
stration ride and —we’ll wager the
answers will all be in Essex favor.
ESSEX
the Challenger
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney
Victoria NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
w
Tasmania H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
MANUFACTURED BY THE BUILDERS OF THE HUDSON GREAT EIGHT


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Dearest Enemy”
Criterion “On the Spot”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sons o’ Guns”
State Movies and Talkies
+
On Sydney Beaches
If the Superb Poe.t in Disguise who lately
decorated these columns with what many
took to be poetry, and consequently didn’t
read—if that fellow were to visit Sydney’s
unquestionably greatest show of the moment
would he begin his outburst,
Ah, Muse,
Oh, sing?
The answer is no. He would begin,
0 Muse,
Ah Singh!
There could be no other sensible beginning
to a poem about Sydney beaches. Ah Singh,
or Ooh Pflung, or Jimmy Fiji, or whatever
you prefer to call him, is the leading figure
of the comedy, and apart from that very good
reason for being starred on the bill, second
only to O. Muse herself, there are his own
private, or self-contained, claims to the posi-
tion.
He may look like anything between an
itinerant beer-barrel and an inverted clothes-
prop; between an ibis with its clothes off and
a prize steer. His chest may resemble a
blacksmith’s bellows or a punctured tyre.
Th<> more of him may be to lee or to wind-
ward. His head may resemble a doormat or
a doorknob. His knees may be noble or
knobby; knocking or gaping. He may walk
with his chest out and his thighs rising like
piston-rods, or droop with his belly out and
his feet snuffling in the sand. He may lie
on his back and contemplate the heavens’
superb and rounded architecture, or lie prone
and let the heavens contemplate his. He may
sit about in groups and play a ukulele, or sit
on his own, oblivious of the colorful page-
antry about him, and absorb the informa-
tion,
Hung at a great height
By a big kite,
that somebody’s cream will keep his skin
seventeeen, or take in the equally poetic
notice, more to landward,
Cold beer
Sold here.
You might look at him and scratch your
head and say, “Now, where on earth have I
“Chests out, knees up, faces tense, eyes
front!”
seen that fellow before ?... . I know; he’s
either the Hairy Maori or the Giant Zulu
Pygmy who put the wind up Frith at the
last Sydney Show” ; and then go up closer
to him, and discover that he’s nothing more
fearsome than the vegetable-man, whom you
had heard only the day before saying to
your landlady in the most dove-like tones,
“It may not be a very attractive-looking
pumpkin. Madam; but I can recommend it
as an eater.” He may even be your friend
Costs, whom you had last seen going into
the Supreme Court to earn some fees —for
whoever is keeping that pub these days.
Or he may be your dentist, or somebody else’s
banker, or the chap with whom Mr. Lang
studied, in those far-off, impressionistic
schooldays, the complete works of Jules
Yerne. But whatever he may look like,
or whoever he may be for the other, lesser,
days of the week, to-day, which is Saturday
afternoon, and to-morrow, he is nothing less
than leading character of one of the hand-
somest, perkiest, most populous comedies
ever staged.
To use the phrase which all critics worth
their salt apply to every musical comedy, and
call it a dressy show, would be correct only
in a superficial way. Survey it from the
back of one of the camels that parade this
beach, or from the pier (architecture by two-
and-a-half aldermen) of that one, or from
the concrete promenade of this other one,
and “dressy show” may appear to describe
it. It has all the color of a rainbow-trout.
Not of a rainbow it is not still, nor too
precisely designed. It is moving, animated,
reckless color, like a flower-garden that had
had its hose providentially connected to a
brewery.
But if you come down off the camel’s back,
so to speak, you find that the dress order of
the beach is to wear anything, consistent
with not wearing anything.
Every leading figure in the comedy—that
is to say, everybody from the flighty old
to the youngsters shrieking, riding then-
rubber monsters in the waves, building their
castles to the peril of the short-sighted and
the everlasting glory of Democracy—every
one of them is a walking, or lolling, or wave-
plunging argument for amending the mar-
riage service. For these there is no need
to cast in doubts about for better or for
worse. They know all that already. This
skinny fellow here might try to get away
with some bony secrets by wearing togs
that would fit that fattish lady over there,
but surely she is more than evening the
balance by wearing togs that would scarcely
fit him! Only a Scot, or some ether tra-
ditionally cautious person, would take her
for better or for tcorse. Each' is equally
visible. If he complained afterwards that
she had hidden something from him, not
even a Divorce Court Judge could get away
with the pretence of believing him.
The show has, of course, its Attaboys,
its Dismounted Postilions. Since Mr. Stuart
Doyle added these glorious trimmings to the
entertainment world, no show is a show with-
out them—it is merely a J. C. Williamson
theatre. To-day the Attaboys have to be
searched for among the heaving torsos, the
pendulous bosom's, the pot-bellies of the
Great Undressed. But it is not always so.
On special occasions, gala performances, they
“1 puts in me spare time readin ’ the ‘Daily
Girlie’ to me pore old mother.”
parade in squads, chests out, knees up, faces
tense, eyes front; troop after stalwart troop
of them; their reel of life-saving rope milk-
white in the honey-gold sunshine; skull-tight
rubber caps on their heads; proud toenails
flicEng up little bits of sand as they march;
their flag-bearer out in front; left-right-left;
wringing “Oh’s” and “Oo’s” and “Ah’s” from
the gallery girls; passing under the more
censorious eyes of the judges; and coming
up to the official dais afterwards to have their
brisk and brisket merit rewarded in silver
cups and honor medals, handed out by Mrs.
Gaphoops, wife of his Worship the Mayor.
But to-day they are standing to their un-
obtrusive posts, talking, like the true descen-
dants of the Homeric gods that they are,
about the ambrosial nectars brewed from
the amaranth which mortals call hops, or
about the immortal conflict at Thurstons, or
of how Apollo, drowsing on Olympus, forgot
to hobble Phar Lap for the night. Perhaps
if you wait about you will see them clash
into action, rush out at the cry of “Shark!”
—and maybe save your friend Costs from
the unseemly envy of his energetic relations.
Afterwards, of course, you will wedge your
way through the crowd, just in time, with
luck, to hear the godlike voice telling the
representative of the “Daily Girlie,” “Only
doin’ me duty,” or “Yes, I puts in me spare
time readin’ the ‘Daily Girlie’ to me pore
old mother”....
Such are some of the things the Superb
Poet in Disguise would naturally touch upon
in any attempt to do justice to this splen-
diferous show; this other Eden; this sun-
burnt world set in the sharky sea: this
place, these places, where even the shops
festooned along the shores are not as other
shops; where the halved melons in the win-
dows are redder than melons ever were; the
pumpkins arc attractive-looking; even the
soft-drinks look as if one might drink them
at a pinch. As for the younger, feminine,
members of this species of Hindu or Solomon
Islanders or whatever they are—as for them
—a.s for them —as f0r....
You remember your obligations, and limi-
tations, and climb on to a tram. The white-
ness of the chap sitting in front of you gives
you a start, none the less acute because, as
it happens, he is a stoker off a Japanese war-
ship. You let the truth of that sink in;
then you turn to your afternoon paper and
are soon lost in the overwhelming, not to say
devastating, news that all the King’s shirts
are Irish. It reminds you that there are
such things as shirts in the world. It is
worth commemorating in poetry
The papers sing an English King,
In Irish shirts instead of v’s....
Brave beginning! But you can’t wipe the
immediate past out as easy as all that. You
end :
But give me girls with salted curls,
And sun-kist dimples on their knees—
And divil a shift to cheat the breeze!
Perhaps you add a memo, to the comp.:
“Don’t make that ‘dimples’ ‘pimples.’ Last
time, when I said a certain actress had a
soupcon of paint on her cheeks, you, you
hound, made it a ‘soup-can’!” Having
cracked which old joke, you know your feet
“Superb and round architecture.”
& re firmly upon earth once more. At the
sll °w y° u went perilously close to forgetting
there was an earth. Now, you may go home!
* * *
“Dearest Enemy,” the vehicle which
brought Dorothy Brunton back to the Aus-
tralian boards at Sydney Majesty’s on Satur-
day night, is a musical romance with a War
of Independence setting—about as important
historically as anything nearer the real thing
would be histrionically. Through it runs a
love-story, with a plot as deliciouslv trans-
parent as a Manly breaker. Betsy, an Irish
cousin in an American home, goes swim-
ming in the face of the approaching red-
coats, has her raiment pinched by a
dog, is rescued by a gallant English officer,
who brings her on stage in a barrel with the
bottom out of it, falls in love with her, and,
after musicomedy suspense, returns to
her in a moonlight-and-roses epilogue.
Featherweight stuff; but bright, airy, light-
heart entertainment nevertheless. Dorothy,
as Betsy, was given a reception which
suggested that the old theatrical idol wor-
ship has not altogether passed. In return
she gave a performance which suggested that
the old theatrical idol has not passed, either.
Her Betsy was the best offering at this
address for months, Cecil Kellaway must
make the hearts of the J.C.W.’s glow every
time they think of him. There’s no need to
find a part to suit him; he can make any old
part that’s thrown his way fit like a flapper’s
swimming-togs. Other useful members of a
strong cast are Sidney Burchall, Herbert
Browne, Leslie Holland and Romola
Hansen. There is the usual J.C.W. standard
of producing and setting.
¥ ¥ *
“Hay Fever” continues to be so catching
at Melb. Tivoli that Allan Wilkie is said
to have made a vow that he will never
relinquish the stage until he has pro-
duced the entire 949 works of Noel Coward,
including his juvenilia, if any. Across
the road “Sons o’ Guns” continues to pro-
vide a banquet of purple and fine women, a
mort of hilarious comedy, some excellent
singing and a military spectacle that is sad
indeed. Old soldiers are asking why the
war was fought if actors are allowed to
appear as Diggers with their equipment all
wrong. “Mary Rose” has wilted under the
chill breath of public indifference at the
Comedy, and Gregan McMahon moves in with
“Yellow Sands,” a comedy by Eden and
Adelaide Phillpotts, on Saturday.
¥ ¥ ¥
In the interests of the theatre-going popu-
lace and of dramatic critics the Cairns
Memorial Dramatic Society ought to come
into the city. The meals it spreads in East
Melbourne are quite good enough for metro-
politan consumption; in fact, The Bulletin
knows several amateur dramatic restaurants
of the city which serve a poorer roast. The
society’s choice of plays is sensible. Its latest
effort was “The Family Upstairs,” the Ameri-
can domestic comedy which had a long run at
the Athenaeum just before that theatre seceded
to the talkies. It is not good art, but it
is good entertainment, whereas some of the
pieces favored by city amateurs, such as
Galsworthy’s “The Fugitive,” are neither
art nor entertainment. The current perform-
ance was hrisk and intelligent. As Joe Heller,
the American paterfamilias with a marriage-
by-capture complex, Wallace Robertson dis-
“Trying to get away with some bony
secrets.”
played a sober sense for the humorous, which
was shared by Dorothy Bush as his daughter.
There is no whine about Miss Bush, who has
that rare asset of actresses a musical
delivery. The piano-playing baby sister was
neatly handled by Tessie Cox, and none of
the others acted badly enough to merit a
critical cussword.
¥ ¥ ¥
Tony Perelli and his gunmen will invade
Melbourne for Easter. The show ends at
Sydney Criterion next week; it will be
replaced on the Saturday by “The First Mrs.
Fraser,” in which Ethel Morrison, J. B.
Rowe and others recently made a hit in the
Yarra town.
¥ ¥ ¥
“Silver Fern”: Bert Bailey recalls his
debut. He was with a vaudeville show at
Wollongong, and had got half-way through a
coster song when a drunken miner got up
in the stalls and roared, “Get off! You’re
rotten!” Bert decided to give up comic
singing and try acting, a course he and Aus-
tralian playgoers never regretted.
¥ ¥ ¥
“Sceneshifter”: Frank Harvey, now at
Sydney Criterion, claims that his father
(also Frank Harvey) was the first manager
to tour companies in England. Before his
time the stock system existed, and stars
would pay visits to the various towns, rely-
ing upon the local companies to furnish the
supporting cast. His father was also the
first actor to portray a parson on the Eng-
lish stage. There was a great outcry about
it. In his dad’s companies were many artists
who won success. Carter Edwards (here
with Wilson Barrett), Tom Wenman (father
of Charlie, the J.C.W. director), Clyde Mey-
nell and Fred Terry were in the show from
time to time.
* * *
“L.H.P.”: Leslie Woodgate has composed
a sequel to “Patience,” called “Out of
Patience, or Bunthorne Avenged,” which was
broadcast in London in January. It recalls
how prompt Gilbert and ioullivan were to
suppress any encroachment on their operas.
It was an injunction from Gilbert that ended
the Australian career of Luscombe Searelle’s
sequel opera, “The Wreck of H.M.S. Pina-
fore,” an atrocity perpetrated by Horace and
Alice Lingard in the early ’eighties. Walter
Browne, who was in the original touring cast
of “Patience,” produced later on “Im-
patience,” a sequel opera at the Prince of
Wales Theatre, Liverpool, but it flopped
badly. The Savoy people never forgave
him, so he went to America, where he pro-
“Survey it from the back of one of the
camels.”
duced many failures. He died, broken-
hearted, during rehearsals of his play “Every-
man,” done here at matinees by Julius
Knight.
¥ ¥ ¥
“L.H.P.”: Pending revivals of “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” remind that there
are in Sydney two survivors, the Deorwyn
sisters, of the cast that appeared in the
piece when, with Mrs. Mary Scott-Siddous
as Puck, it was staged at Sydney
Theatre Royal in 1878. Constance Deor-
wyn, now Mrs. Richard Stewart and a
sister-in-law to Nellie Stewart, played
Helena, and her sister Alice (Mrs. Charle-s
Holloway) played Hermia. An admirable
actor from America, George Chaplin, was
Bottom.
The Palette.
S.A. Society of Arts opens its 1931 season
by doing honor to Hans Heysen with a big
show of his paintings, collected from ail
sources, and some of them forgotten even by
himself. They work up through the familiar
gum-trees and farm-stock, fruit- and flower-
pieces, and Centralian ridges; with, also,
ploughing scenes and a ship, and even Dutch
interiors and a Madonna from student days
in Europe. A fine collection, and a worthy
tribute to a great artist. Heysen himself,
looking more obstinately than ever like a
country squire, and also absurdly young
for the father of a grown-up family, accepted
the honors with the frank simplicity that
is part of the man.
“M.G.S.”: Randall Davies, the Felton
Bequest’s new London buyer, received his
instructions the other day in Melbourne.
They comprised a list of artists whose work
was desired, the type of picture required
and the limit in price he should go to. Mr.
Davies also submitted some names he fan-
cied. The Felton Bequest is the biggest art
benefaction in Australia —in fact, one of the
biggest in the world—and it is the most
important single influence on local paint-
ing. As a public body administering public
funds thei committee should publish its
schedule of preferences, so that the people may
see what they will be getting. The recent
purchase of a Frank Holl, presumably
through Mr. Davies, has not tended to
restore public confidence, sadly shaken
by some of the selections of the last buyer,
Frank Rinder. What artists who regard
their job as something above potboiling
would like to see in the Nat. Gallery is a
good Rembrandt, even if it cost half the
Bequest’s accumulated surplus. The presence
of such a picture would tend to establish a
decent standard for Australian painters, and
especially for those Melbourne newspaper
critics whose published utterances indicate
that their idea of the function of art is no
different from that of Mr. Stuart Doyle, of
Union Theatres.
Will Ashton, a selection of whose recent
paintings in oils hangs just now at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, seems to live in
a world in which a bleak wind, blows con-
tinually and the sun, if it shines at all,
does so through clouds that presage the
coming of snow. In composition admirable,
in color-harmonies suave, these pictures
lack geniality. A notable exception to the
general impression is conveyed by an English
village scene, purchased for the Sydney Gal-
lery, in which mellowness is the outstanding
characteristic. Glimpses of Circular Quay
and Cremorne Point are a little cheerless,
and the sea isn’t liquid. A street scene in
Cairo is depicted in a key so mournful as
to suggest moonlight. Some landscapes and
marine studies from France are effective.
Three pictures of the snow-clad slopes of
Kosciusko —harsh things in malignant brown,
chalky white and watered-milk blue—serve
to make the rest of the offerings look a little
more joyful by contrast, and a study of surf
rolling in upon a Sydney beach at eventide is
so good that it is a surprise to find near by
a similar subject, “The Headland, Newport,
in which the waves are woolly.
In introducing his own show at Melbourne
Athenaeum, James E. Flett, the exuberant
young man who prints long and incoherent
prefaces on his catalogues, fires a broadside
at his fellow-artists in this wise:—
Art —painting—Australian painting—shows not form
being used to express the artist and his capacities,
but artists being dominated by and made the slave
of forms —forms turned into formulas.
Unfortunately Mr. Flett’s own art is entirely
composed of formulae, few, if any, of which
are his own, so his attack loses much ot
its ferocity. In one picture he. is under
the influence of Norman Lindsay, in another
of Blamire Young. Considered as art, his
painting is much like his literary composi-
tion—it shows a lofty indifference to
grammar, so to speak. Considered as illus-
tration it often rises to moderate heights, as
in the study of a pirate ship becalmed on a
romantic sea.


A PRETTY PAIR.
BOTTLE-OH TED: “Don’t you sell him no bottles, lady! He’ll take ’em and won’t pay you for ’em.”
BOTTLE-OH JACK: “Missus, that bloke’ll pay you with one of his crook fidooshary notes!”
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Bank Notes
Australia has had some queer ones. The
first might have been the forerunners of those
orders which the Lang Government .has been
having some difficulty in getting butchers and
grocers and bakers to accept, and still more
in maintaining at par. They used to' be
called “store receipts,” and were issued “for
purchases made on account of the Crown,
not only at headquarters, but at all the out
and subordinate settlements dependent on
this Territory”—so Governor Macquarie
ordered in 1815. But even before that there
were notes of a sort in circulation, some of
them hand-written—a nice temptation to the
forgers, of whom we had more than our
share; so that in 1810 it was made law that
“promises to' pay” more than £5 must be
printed documents; and non-payment within
three days of presentation made the drawer
liable to heavy penalties. Six years later
(maybe an early Theodore having appeared
on the scene) it was added that payment
must be made in sterling.
When the Bank of N. S. Wales came on
the scene things soon changed. That was
in 1817. Before 1820 the “Wales’s” notes
had pushed almost all the other paper out
of circulation. Its notes, by the way, were
for 2s. 6d., 55., 10s., and so on up to £lO.
Incidentally, the Commonwealth Bank was
given, and presumably still has, power to
issue ss. notes. The Wales issued metal
tokens as well as notes —for Is., Is. 6d. and
2s.
About the queerest thing that ever hap-
pened in connection with Australian bank
notes occurred in Adelaide. It was in the
early ’fifties, when after a bad spin most of
the province’s farmers made off to the gold-
fields and brought back sacks of gold. On
one small boat there was £50,000 worth.
But they couldn’t do anything with it! The
banks were under an obligation to pay gold
coin for their notes; but, as they couldn’t
make gold coin of the nuggets and dust, they
were afraid to pay away good paper for the
nuggets and dust at any price. Meetings
were held, and eventually somebody had a
brain-wave. If they couldn’t have a mint
they might have _ a Government assay office,
and the official in charge might make and
stamp ingots, and Parliament might autho-
rise the hanks to accept them. The thing
was done; and the crisis passed. Those, by
the way, were the first gold “coins” minted
in Australia. Presently, instead of ingots,
small pieces were stamped; they were the
“Adelaide sovereigns,” which were freely
taken for years.
In the hack country coins were always a
nuisance; and so the sliin-plaster was in
common use in some districts until 30 years
ago. It was merely the p.n. of some trader,
who probably prayed that it would get lo'st
or be burned or would fray to pieces—as
it often did. Station-owners’ orders were
good currency, too.
Of course, these were not legal tender, and
neither, for that matter, were the notes
issued by banks. You accepted them at your
own risk; and there were some pretty flimsy
ones in the late ’eighties and early ’nineties.
In most colonies the banks paid the Govern-
ment 2 p.c. p.a. for the right to issue notes;
ln Queensland 3 p.c. Trading banks can
still issue notes in Australia if they want
to': but they would have to pay a tax of 10
p.c. on notes in circulation, plus apparently
the 2 p.c. for the right to issue.
But though private banks’ notes were not
legal tender, extraordinary care was taken
to prevent the public being rooked through
them. Thus in Victoria notes were a first
charge on all assets within the colony; and,
though the boom of the early ’nineties littered
the Cabbage Garden with wrecks, very few
people lost much through holding Victorian
bank notes.
But, then, it is astonishing how few notes
were in circulation in those days. It was
not at all uncommon for the banks to hold
£3 in gold for every £ outstanding in notes.
When the Commonwealth Bank came in, the
notes of private banks in circulation were
less than four millions. And in two years
the aggregate had not reached 10 millions
under the Commonwealth. Then, however,
the Governments saw wasted opportunities;
and in 1914, when the State Governments
couldn’t borrow in London, the Federal
Government “borrowed” 10 millions in gold
from the private banks, and issued 30 mil-
lions or so of paper on the strength of it.
The war taught us many things—most of
them bad things, so far as those of us who
stayed at home were concerned.
Exchange Rates and the Wheat Market
Dear Bulletin, — David A. S. Campbell
states (B. 18/2/’3l) that it is extremely
doubtful if primary producers have derived
benefit from the recent increases in London
exchange rates. As far as wheatgrowers are
concerned they have certainly benefited.
While Mr. Campbell is right when he
states that Australian wheat values have
not advanced since December, he is wrong
when he adds that the oversea markets have
remained steady. The facts are that on
December 31 Australian wheat was sold in
London at 245. l|d. per quarter (3s. Old. per
bushel) ; the exchange rate on 60-day sight
drafts on London at that time was £7 Is. 3d.
per cent., which was equivalent to 1 13-16 d.
per bushel; Adelaide wheatbuyers’ quota-
tions at the same time were from 2s. o|d.
to 2s. l|d. per bushel for farmers’ lots on
trucks Port Adelaide. On February 18
Australian wheat was 21s. 9d. per quarter
(2s. B|d. per bushel) in London, exchange
was £2B 11s. 3d. per cent, or 6 11-32 d. per
bushel, and Adelaide merchants’ quotations
2s. Id. to 2s. lfd.
An examination of these figures will show
that the increase in the exchange premium
amounting to approximately 4|d. per bushel
was almost counterbalanced by the de-
crease in the London market prices amounting
to 3fd. per bushel. No one can reasonably
doubt that if exchange rates return to the
December level wheatbuyers’ prices will be
reduced accordingly by about 4|d. per
bushel.—Yours faithfully. K. L. Elphick,
secretary S.A. Co-operative Wheat Pools,
Limited.
Making the Inventor’s Way Hard
The inventor is a national asset —maybe
an enormous asset. Nearly all civilised coun-
tries help and encourage him. Australia, it
seems, though, is ready to kick him. At
any rate, the Federal Government recently
decided to add £2 to the fee demanded upon
an application for a patent. Previously the
fee on an application was £1 if the inventor
handled the matter himself. The increase
thus amounts to a trebling of the original
charge—this in a time when Australia is
having the worst financial slump in its
experience.
One aspect of this arbitrary increase is
that it hits folk who may be taken to be
Government supporters harder than most,
the great majority of applicants being
mechanics, a most valuable section of the
community. Few of these are well enough
off to afford such a lift in the application
fee, and it follows that a lot of possibly use-
ful ideas will have to go into cold storage.
A patent may be a goldmine or a washout.
The man who is lucky enough to strike a
payable proposition has later to pay pro-
portionately in taxes and renewal fees levied
after the fifth year of the life of a patent,
and fhat is objected to by very few. But
at the time of application no invento'r is able
to say how his idea will pan out, or, indeed,
whether he will be successful in obtaining a
patent at all. That at this stage the money
he is asked to put down “on the blind,” as
the poker players have it, should be increased
by 200 per cent, without notice is little
short of an outrage.
Arthur Griffith, president of the Patent
Attorneys’ Federated Association, made the
matter a subject of liis address at the recent
annual conference.
The Farmer’s Taxes
Dear Bulletin,— l’m the wife of a small
sheepfarmer. I have four children and for
the past 14 years have been doing all I know
to prove myself a good helpmate. I did
not mind picking up and classing the wool
when we were getting a footing in the
industry and could not afford help. I did
not mind bearing, rearing and tending the
children, because the place would not pay
domestic help. I did not squeal about scraping
and saving and contriving to manage on
next-to-nothing for years in order that
interest and taxes might be paid. I stood
seeing my husband working seven days a
week, daylight till after dark. But now
our industry is on the rocks I ask you is
it a fair thing that men on the land, who
live miles from a railway, who are obliged
to provide themselves with a means of loco-
motion, and who pay shire council rates and
main roads tax and petrol tax, should also
pay anything from £5 up for the privilege of
providing themselves with a car or ldrry—an
absolute necessity? The car has been the
only bright spot in our lives. Next month
we will have to hand in our number-plate.
We live 17 miles from a town and will be
isolated.
The man on the land, we are told, is the
only person who can pull Australia back to
solvency; but is it fair to ask him and his
family to live in this fashion while he is
doing it? —Yours, Sugar and Cream.
Germany has not been long lifting the
embargo on Australian meat imposed last
year. That move was forced upon the Gov-
ernment by the Agrarian party, which
claimed that, given encouragement, the Ger-
man farmers could supply their own markets.
The attempt has ended in dismal failure, and
the meat famine has become so acute that
the trade gates are open again to this coun-
try's meat-producers. Germany’s annual
“take,” obtained through Smithfield, has in
the past been in the neighborhood of 75,000
tons, mostly frozen.
* * !|: *
The best commercial news that Adelaide
has had for a long 'time is the vote of con-
fidence passed by the Shell Co. in starting a
block of offices to cost at least £lBO,OOO.
The site is on North-terrace, opposite Gov-
ernment House and next to the Adelaide
Club, and has lain desolate since two old-
time doctors’ houses were pulled down to
make room for a great hotel that never
arrived. The new building is to be 10
storeys, or as high as city by-laws will allow.
# * * *
The big shipping combines are hard put to
it nowadays to earn expenses, much less
interest. One of their latest devices is a
round-the-world tour for as little as £BO. Now
H. B. Larkin, in command of the shipping
that was once the Australian Commonwealth
line, has suggested a complementary service
-whereby passengers could book for a voyage
to Australia and return to Britain via the
Cape. The passengers would be disembarked
at Fremantle and, after having been shown
the Australian lions on the way, reshipped
agdin to Europe from Svdney, the steamer in
the meantime picking up cargo at the princi-
pal Australian ports.
H" * * *
The Queensland Government is co-operat-
ing with the nothern timber industry in mill-
ing and kiln-drying 40,000 super feet of
valuable cabinet-wood timbers. Lately there
has been a solid American demand for some
of these for veneers, the stumps, hitherto
left as worthless, being especially in demand
because of their contorted grain. However,
there is much timber, a lot of it cedar, still
standing on the north-eastern plateaus; it is
estimated that a thousand million feet still
remains on Atherton alone. With the Gov-
ernment’s assistance it is hoped to preserve
this supply for milling, and to convert it
into a valuable asset instead of the heap
of cinders which has been the fate of so
much of the plateau forests in the past.
* * H= *
The conference called by the Federal Gov-
ernment in connection with restricting the
output of pearl-shell ended in a tentative
agreement among representatives of Broome,
Darwin and Thursday Island to restrict the
annual output from each of the three centres
to 350, 175 and 350 tons respectively. Beyond
this it is not proposed to go in view of the
fact that, with over-restriction, the Nether-
lands Indies, with their output of 800 tons
annually, would be able to exploit the market.
One item that the parties to the conference
seem to have overlooked is that further
restriction may be forced upon the industry
by the departure from Broome of most of
the Japanese divers, who refused to accept
the reduced scale of payments. For years
the Japanese have monopolised the diving
side of the industry, and it will be difficult
to replace them.
* * * *
The first attempt to record an overseas
broadcast on the gramophone was made by
the Vocalion people in .Melbourne when the
Pope spoke from the Vatican. The speeches
were received on a special short-wave receiver
and passed on by landline to 3UZ, which
tossed them to the Vocalion studio. H’ere
they were impressed on wax, records being
made from them in the usual manner. One
of the records will be presented to Archbishop
Mannix and one to the Museum. Unfor-
tunately, the Pope’s speech was not amongst
those recorded.
* * * *
A shareholders’ meeting was being talked
to very gloomily the other day, when a direc-
tor interrupted. “D’you know,” he asked,
“how far a dog can go into a wood? No?
Well, only half-way. As soon as he gets
to the middle, he starts to come out, though
he may not know it.”


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
127*132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
f !f*
m
iii
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals ..
Double Room and Meals..
Single Room and Breakfast
Double Room and Breakfast
Day. Week.
25/- 168/-
45/- 300/-
15/- 100/-
27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
<ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest ot
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send jor Illustrated Booklet to
“The 1 Bulletin ” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ABORICINALITIES
“Honi Pikau”: The guid Scots of Otago
(M.L.) have lost none of their caution.
The other day Hugh McNear, who deals in
farm machinery, received a note from Jack
Cowbails: “Please send me >a separator, and
if it’s any good I’ll send a cheque.” Hugh
replied: “Please send a cheque, and if it s
any good I’ll send a separator.”
THE PHANTOM CAB.
(Seen by taxi-drivers in the near future.)
“Purple Brigadier”: The nearest approach
to a Solomon I met in a long acquaintance
with Oriental and Ethiopian rulers was the
young Sultan of Swat. His d&cl, who
died from powdered glass in liis curry, was
educated at Eton and Oxford, and he intro-
duced to Swat early in his reign the prin-
ciples of representative government. Two
parties were formed, representing the rich
and the poor respectively. They took turns
in, office, and what they did there interested
Swat very little till there came a drought,
and then a plague of locusts, and then an
outbreak of cholera, and then an earthquake.
Swat was in a bad mess, and Parliament
didn’t show much interest in clearing it up.
The young Sultan, new to the throne, and,
like liis father, educated in England, sought
my advice. “Call the leaders of both parties
together and tell them they must get busy,’’
I said. “Force a coalition on them if neces-
sary.” The leaders of the Ins and the Outs
listened with apparent respect, and with their
tongues in their cheeks, to their ruler, who re-
garded them attentively. “They are very
fat,” he whispered to me; “too fat, in fact.
Go away and leave me to deal with them.”
Next morning those leaders. were missing
from their homes. Fears for their safety
were allayed when they issued a joint
statement to the effect that they and their
lieutenants had gone into retreat to pre-
pare a programme of legislation. This they
urged Parliament to pass with a minimum of
delay, adding as a sort of afterthought that
salaries of all members would be suspended
till the country was restored to its former
prosperity. In three months everything was
going smoothly and the political panjandrums
returned to their homes. They were all
very thin. I asked the Sultan what
had happened. “Low living and high think-
ing,” he said with a grin. “A little rice, a
little water and very hard beds. They were
too fat.” He had imprisoned them in a room
in the palace, watched over by guards with
poisoned spears.
41 * <l= *
“Fernie” : In the words of the old negro
spiritual, Maoriland is “sometimes up and
sometimes down.” During the recent seismic
disturbances on the east coast of the North
Island, the bottom of Sponge Bay, near Gis-
borne, rose several feet, and now, at low
tide, there is uncovered a large area studded
with the stumps of trees —vestiges of a forest
long sunk beneath the sea. In the neighbor-
hood of a reef uncovered by the disturbance is
a great pool, 50 yards long and 20 yards
wide, in which milky-white water bubbles.
From this gas issues, and burns brightly
when a match is applied. The discovery of
the submerged trees gives corroboration to
the theorv long held by geologists that the
eastern coast of Maoriland is gradually sink-
ing while the western coast is rising.
* * * 4=
“C.Q.”: Is it a transmitted faculty that
enables each new generation of wild ducks
to know that it is safe from the guns of
sportsmen on the lakes of Melbourne Botanic
Gardens, and that this year the need for
protection arose on February 14? A couple
of weeks before the beginning of the open
season ducks began to arrive, their numbers
increasing day by day, until on the Sunday
when the guns started banging from Colac
to Gippsland there were hundreds apprecia-
EXPERT OPINION.
DAD : “Hey, the stooard says yer better not sit on the jence.”
DAVE : “That be blowed. It ain’t white-anted—l had a look."
tively listening to the very fine performance
of Dvorak’s “New “World” symphony by
Fritz Hart’s orchestra.
* * # *
“Yarraman” : In spite of ’plane and motor-
car, the horse still retains a reputation for
reliability in the out-back spaces. Recently
a manager of a station near Long-
reach (Q.) was transferred to
another property on the Georgina,
far to the south-west, the latter
part of the route between the two
places being over very difficult
country. He left Longieach with
a buggy and three horses, and
after 23 days reached his destina-
tion. H'e could have made the
trip by ’plane in five hours—the
distance is 600 miles —but there
was no landing ground available
if he had. A car might have done
the rough, cross-country trip in
a week or less, but there are few
bowsers en rcnote, and a special
line of petrol depots would have
had to be laid down. The mokes,
fuelling themselves and needing
no level expanses whereon to come
to roost, did the job as nothing
else could, averaging the tidy
figure of 26 miles per day.
* * *
“Matilda”: The day of the
swaggie with a couple of pups in
his billycan and their apprehen-
sive mother at his heels' has gone
for ever, just as the pack-horsed
shearer has followed tlie hand-
shears into oblivion. The shearer
goes to the shed in a motor-car,
often his own, and the, swagman
is developing on the, same lines.
One of the neo-sundowners w;ho
lately crossed the Queensland
border from N.S.W. during the
shearers’ strike looking for work
as a shed hand rode a powerful
motor-cycle, with his swag and
etceteras in front. On the lug-
gage-carrier at the back was a
petrol-case, and in this was seated
a very blase blue cattle-dog.
* * * *
“Ben Bolt”: Lightning is ,a thing of
moods. When spiteful it may split a _giant
eucalypt or knock a church spire bandy, or
even‘kill a man; when merely sprightly it
may singe the hair off one_ side of a cow
or knock a mug of beer to splinters. AtWest-
bury, near Launceston, on a recent night it
attacked 11 telephone poles at one fell swoop,
split two of them, cut notches in others that
looked like axe-chips, divorced seven houses
from the exchange, burst one resident’s tele-
phone-box as efficiently as a Mills bomb
could have done it, and —this is the strangest
thing of all —abolished over 1009 ft. of . good
copper telephone wire, which has simply
vanished into thin air. It was at first
thought the wires were fused, but there were
no traces of molten copper on the ground,
so they must have been completely burnt.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Touching fleas (B. 25/2/’3l).
Is my case peculiar? I have stayed with
my wife in Chinese and Japanese inns,
travelled with her on peasant trains in
Siberia, and we have occupied the same bed
in the poorer class of pension in many parts
of Europe. If there are any fleas about she
gets them. She will sometimes arise with
lumps the size of pennies all over her, while
it the nocturnal visitant has paid any atten-
tion to me, I have failed to notice it. The
same thing has happened even at classical
concerts in Australia. Have I a thicker
skin, or do some bodies distil an essence or
perfume attractive or abhorrent to the
parasites ?
* * * *
“Frigid”: The most remarkable thing
about the angler-fish is that the male lives
entirely on the female. The male fastens
itself to the body of the female with its
jaws and sucks nutriment out of her. Event-
ually the stomach of the dwarf-like male
grows flabby, and ultimately, being entirely
freed from all worries about, finding food, it
becomes a mere sponger whose only reason
for existing is to supply milt to fertilise
the female’s eggs.
:;< * *
“Comma” : The woolstore on A. J. Gordon’s
property at Ballmatum (Vic.) is a build-
ing with a history : a former police station,
used as a stronghold for the gold won
from the Beechworth diggings. It was first
erected at Violet Town, and later shifted to
its present position at Ballmatum. Com-
menced in 1848, it took two years to com-
plete. It is constructed from hand-hewn
logs, dove-tailed and mortised, and contains
three cells, each with a separate passage
entrance. The fastenings, bolts, hinges, etc.,
are all of wrought iron, and the building is
as sound as the day it was built. It is the
only log prison remaining in Vic., and was
the lodging place for a time of the first
woman to be hanged in the State.
WHERE HOOFS BEAT OVER HIM.
(Told of an old-time squatter, Harry
Annin ff. )
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A lover of horses all his life,
He asked, when his days were done
And his whip no more in the rush and strife
On old Mount Sturgeon run,
That they plant him deep at the stockyard
gate,
Where the horses, staunch and trim,
Would gallop in ere the day was late,
And their hoofs beat over him.
Where stockmen mounted the bucking colts
When the mustering day began,
And saddles creaked to the jars and jolts,
Was the place for a cattleman;
No stone or rail for his resting-place,
No flower on his trampled bed,
Nor aught to turn or to dull the race
Of the. hoof-drums overhead.
A pioneer in the squatting days
When the runs were wild and wide,
He won the blacks from their savage ways,
And he taught, the boys to ride
In the stockyard, where ’twass a test of skill
’Tween the colt and the station-hand.
And there in spirit he’s with them still
And the mob with the Aiming brand.
Though he may not sit, ere the morning
chimes
Sound over the beaten course.
On the cap he’d straddled a thousand times,
Or astride of a phantom horse,
They know he’s there, for they can’t forget
As they pass when the light is dim,
A merry troop for the muster yet,
Light-clattering over him.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Consider the Brisbane Market
Mr. National Advertiser!
YOU already know it to be a valuable one—this fine city with its more than
three hundred thousand inhabitants. But you should not fail to realise
that the one paper that reaches the Brisbane public more completely than
any other single Brisbane newspaper—without duplication and without over-
lapping is
The Sunday Mail
Queensland’s great weekly! A journal of character, a magnificent advertising
medium and companion journal. to
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s greatest newspaper—the daily whose net circulation has been proved
by unaccepted challenge to be greater than any other daily in the State.
Bate Cards, etc. from
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: E. B. BEETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
e
WHEN BRICtfT
EYES CLANC^/
0
More precious than the richest gems are a pair
of healthy, laughing eyes. Be on your guard
against Inflammation and Disease. If the eyes
are overstrained or bloodshot or afflicted with
Sandy Blight, Scaly Eyelids, Granulation, etc.,
treat with ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
according to directions. This famous Lotion not only
soothes and heals tired and inflamed Eyes, but restores
the natural brightness and strengthens the sight.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION provides a
simple, rational treatment that is safe for people of
all ages.
Every reputable Chemist and Storekeeper sells it.
w
e
THE SHORTCOMINGS OF SCIENCE.
“It's really shameful the way this branch of entomology
is neglected. Poor Fifi is so lonely, yet I find it
quite impossible to procure a pair of pedigree
fleas for him."
“Tiki”; Maoriland, like Australia, has
dreams of a renaissance of gold-getting, and
various districts, not reckoned rich enough
to work in the palmy days, are being combed
over by prospectors. The most pretentious
of these parties consisted of four higlily-
THE THING THAT MATTERED.
MRS. SHEEPSTATION: “Jacky, when do all the flies come?”
Jacky: “I dunno, Missus. I bin wantem know when they go back.”
qualified geologists—Profs. Bertrand, King
and Benson, from M.L. unis., and Prof.
Keble, of Melbourne. They tackled the prac-
tically unexplored fiord region at the south-
western corner of the South Island. In the
neighborhood of Chalky Inlet and Preserva-
tion Inlet they found country the geologi-
cal formation of which is exactly similar
to that of Australia’s richest fields. That
there is gold thei'o has been known for half
a century, but roads would have to be made
before mining could be commenced.
* M: *
“Dimon” : Few things in the bush have a
greater range of utility than the tree-fork.
In a temporary bush camp
I saw table-forks made of
small pronged sticks. The
sides of the tents were held
down with forked pegs and
the ridge-poles were laid
across forked uprights. A
neighboring selector carried a
forked stick about with him
for pinning snakes by the
neck. His shed, yards and
cultivation fence were all
built with forked uprights.
His slide for drawing water
was a fork with a cask
across the prongs. When-
ever anything wanted prop-
ping up he cut a forked sap-
ling. Small pronged sticks
were used for forking hay,
grass and corn-husks, and
bigger ones ranged from
clothes-props and grindstone-
bearers to the big posts that
formed his "allows. A couple
of his pocldy calves wore
forks around their necks to
prevent them getting through
fences, and on fishing excur-
sions he carried the catch on
a forked stick thrust through
the gills. He also rigged up
a Spanish windlass with two
forks, and, like every fencer
in the bush, used a fork for straining wire.
* * * *
“0. Coral”: “Oi Diba’s” account of a
native burlesque of a “white-man court”
reminds me of some actual happenings in
Torres Strait island courts. One represen-
tative of “Big Guvment” had an effective
method of securing convictions. “If you
want to say anything you’ll be fined a
pound every time you open your mouth!”
was his stock admonition to an accused
native, and most prisoners found it cheaper
to keep silent. Another Government official
solemnly fined a rooster, put into the dock
by the native sergeant, five shillings for dis-
turbing his siesta. It took some time on
another island to get Jimmy Susu to under-
stand that the Bench wasn’t having a joke
wiui him when he was ordered to part up
£3 for “purloining Government stores.” It
wasn’t'stated in the charge,-but the “stores”
consisted of a bottle of whisky which the
Bench had shared with Jimmy the night
before under the delusion that it was the
property of the little" man from Nippon.
There had been a little mix-up of labels
and deliveries.
He ❖ ❖ H*
“Georgina Washingday”: Dogs seem to
acquire a sense of responsibility when they
are much with children. An acquaintance
of mine is a gingery hound of doubtful origin
who belongs to a fisherman.. He wouldn’t
miss the hauling of the net for anything.
If by, any chance the boat sets out
without him Nipper runs as far as possible
towards the sandbank where the fish will
be landed, then takes to the water and swims
the channel, greeting, the boat, should it
arrive after him, with derisive barks. When
the - net is drawn into the shallows, Nip
dashes into the water ahead of the fisher-
man’s small boys and runs along the curved
line' of seaweed and splashing, flipping fish,
making a rapid inspection of the catch. If
there-is-a stingaree or something else that
he doesn’t like the look of, the old dog barks
furiously and will not allow the kids to come
near until the fisherman comes along to
remove the menace.
“H.P.”: AVhen experts questioned state-
ments that rainbow-trout fry placed in the
Coleraine (Vic.) reservoir three and a
half years ago had grown to about 101 b.
weight in that time, Coleraine fisher-
men got to work. One of them caught a
fish weighing 91b. 14oz. This was sent to
England, and an English expert, G. Herbert
Nall, has confirmed the fish’s age by the
scales. He says it must have grown even
faster than some 201 b. trout from Chile that
he tested some years ago. In fact, the
Coleraine trout have established a world’s
record.
“E.S.”: The jumper and the
bull-ant never go into houses,
and they don’t allow any living
thing to intrude on their prem-
ises. There is nothing so pug-
nacious, so ready and bold in
defence, as the jumper. He will
fight a man single-handed. The
bull-ant has more discretion. If
you step close to his nest he
raises his head and looks at you
with questioning eyes, at the
same time moving backwards,
with his huge mandibles opening
like a pair of forceps; but inter-
fere with him in any way, and
he will attack with ferocity. The
jumper doesn’t wait for a de-
claration of hostilities; he
accepts your presence in the
vicinity of his village as an ulti-
matum. If you so much as
touch the precious mound with
the point of a stick he charges
with leaps and bounds, whilst
out of the dungeons beneath
rush battalions of warriors to
repulse the invader, their an-
tennae quivering with rage, and
the attitude and action of each
implying “Where is he? Let
me at him!” They will follow
an intruder several yards from
the nest, jumping over grass and
sticks in their eagerness to over-
take him; and if he cuts one of
them in two the rear part will
continue to do battle, stinging
at everything it touches, whilst
the head part runs off to report
the casualty and summon assist-
ance. The jumper is a fanatic.
The bull-ant is fierce and deter-
mined in attack, but he does not
sacrifice himself in a mad
frenzy. He is often noticed
approaching slowly, looking up
as if watching the enemy’s eyes,
and after using his sting his
hurry to get away is amusing.
When two bull-ants Quarrel they
fight until one is killed, whilst
others stand around, their
haughty heads held high, as if
deeply interested in the combat.
The bull-ant seldom steals a
march on a man working in the
bush, but the occasions when
he does plant his fiery lance are
memorable. “The day when the
bull-ant stung father” is a date that is long
fixed on the mind of the bush youngster.
The jumper is a much more frequent offender,
being more numerous, but his sting, though
causing intense pain and raising a white
lump, doesn’t impart quite the same tingling
burning, paralysing sensation as that of the
bigger ant.
H< H* ;Js
“Mat”: Two wardens at Tuncurry
(N.S.W.) afforestation camp have killed a
lady death-adder which measured 3ft. 2iri.
and had 22 youngsters aboard. I’m inter-
ested, because when I told this page some
years ago that I had found a death-adder
36in. long several contributors arose and
said I ought to take more water with it.
GRATITUDE.
IT: “D’you know, 1 passed your place when
I was out riding yesterday!”
She : “Oh, thank you—thank you very
much.”
DAN’S STORY.
[FOE THE BULLETIN.]
“There’s countless thousands get the pip,”
asserted Gabanintha Dan,
“Along of—Shakspeare, isn’t it? —man’s in-
humanity to man.
Blokes can be hard on brother blokes, too
right ! But still the fact remains,
Janes can be ev’ry bit as bad, and sometimes
worse, to sister Janes.
“I think,” ‘ said Dan in reminiscent mood,
“it was in ’ninety-two
That Fred Carlisle or someone brought a
barmaid up to the track to Cue.
We’d only hard-faced coves till then to hand
his snifter out to each.
The camp was starved for petticoats, and,
strike me pink! she was a peach.
“She had the sort of sonsie face that wins
attention anywhere,
A figure that you couldn’t pack, a head of
reddish-golden hair—
The sort that Tissian gave his dames, some
edjicated chap decided.
You’ll recognise the shade, perhaps, although
I wouldn’t say that I did.
“ ’Twas dinkum-golden, anyhow—as much
of it,. it seemed to me,
As clad Godiva when she rode along the
streets of Coventry.
Not that we ever saw it down; ’twas packed
atop that comely head,
A woman’s crown of glory, like old Solomon
or someone said.
“Her court from morn to closing-time she
held amid the pint and tot.
She might have married anyone, whether he
had a wife or not.
A kiss from such a pair of lips, a lock of
hair from such a tart,
We’d all ha’ given as much to get as Sergeant
Leigh in ‘Britomarte.’
“But other clyners came along, and one or
other, I suppose,
Muster got jealous of the girl who had a
lien on all the beaux.
And what that jealous rival did convinced
me that a woman can
Be crooler to another one than ever man
could be to man.
“We woke,” said Dan, “one scorching morn,
and, spare me days! we found the proof
Upon the housetops, so to speak, that is the
shanty’s iron roof.
A wig it was! Red-gold it shone, like coals
of fire that glow and glister,
Not heaped upon a brother’s head this time
but lifted from a sister.
“No need to tell you whose it was. I reckon
half the township saw
And gazed in horror at the thing, with
bulging eyes and sagging jaw.
Then someone climbed aloft and pulled it
down from out the blazing sun.
But all too late ! The gaff was blown, the
secret out, the mischief done.
“And in the bar was gloom profound—no
fairy form, no girlish laughter;
We took our drinks from stubby hands that
day and many days thereafter.
That’s just a woman’s way, you see,” said
Dan as in the fire he spat.
“D’you think there ever was a bloke could
serve another bloke like that?”
n'.s.w.
IFORD.


IF INFLATION COMES
What stocks or property would stand up best in the event of inflation?
What can be done with money to make it reasonably safe?
What would become of investors in life-assurance policies?
Are there any signs of a world recovery?
These and many other problems of most vital interest are discussed in “The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly.”
MARCH NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
THE CONSTANT FASHION.
For stripes in myriad colors gay
The women hunt with might and main;
For men, however, experts say,
Spots will be popular again.
* *
Associated Newspapers shareholders have
decided that no “News” is good news.
* *
Coueism in 1931: “Every day in every
way, I get broker and broker.”
* *
THE END.
“This is the end!” he said, and gazed at
her, a knife in his blood-stained hand.
Did she scream? Did. she yell for help?
No.
“I don’t like the look of it,” she informed
the butcher candidly. “Gimme a round of
middle-cut instead,”
From ‘‘Company Registrations” in “S. M.
Herald” :
The Scottish Loan and Finance Cos., Ltd., capital
£15,000, divided into 10,000 fixed cumulative pre-
ference and 5000 ordinary shares, financial and
monetary agents, capitalists and promoters. Sub-
scribers: R. H. Tobias, N. T. H. Bergman, Sara E.
Bergman, Rebe Bessie Bergman, Isaac Bergman, L.
Rosengarten, Doris F. Rosengarten.
Scottish ? Hoots, mon, mein gootness, yes!
There’s not much Goode-fellowship be-
tween Cleary and Lang.
¥ *
THE DOUBT.
“Some colors have the effect of making people
drunk.” —Scientific note.
Should you observe your neighbor reel
Like someone who has over-wined,
Reserve your judgment: it may be
That, cursed by circumstances, he
Has become color-blind.
* ¥
“The Soviet is worried to solve the problem of
permanent fuel shortage in Moscow.” —Melbourne
“Herald.”
It is not the first to discover that it
can’t fuel all the people all the time.
w
NURSERY RHYME.
Two frogs who would a-wooing go,
Copied the garments of the bucks.
And that is why, I’d have you know,
Those foolish frogs are now in ducks.
“Whisky served in hotel bars is to be cheaper,
but will contain more water.” —News item.
When next you join a drinking bout
Let your acceptance of a shout
To altered circs, be suited.
Gone is “I don't mind if I do” ;
Boozers now breathe this slogan new—
“ Thank s, I shall be diluted!”
# *
“G. B. Shaw sometimes creates an England it
would be hard to live in.” — “8. M. Herald.”
Well, why not seek another Shaw?
AFTER THE INFLATION.
MILLIONAIRE : “Why do you want to leave
us and marry him?”
DAUGHTER : “He has a bag of potatoes and
ten pounds of flour.”
“A Mr. Sergeant and a Miss Major were married
in a London church recently.”— “News.”
And as usual the sergeant will take his
orders from the major.
“In the exchange between Zoos a giraffe is wortn
two elephants.”
The giraffe wins by a neck, as it were.
* ¥
SUCCESS!
The moment had arrived to announce the
result of the great Church and State drive
for the N.S.W.. hospitals—the mighty move-
ment that w r as to oust the iniquitous lottery
scheme for good. The chairman cleared his
throat. “Gentlemen,” he said, “our .efforts
have been crowned with a success hitherto
unprecedented in a project of this nature.
IT’S MOMENTS LIKE THESE WE
BEGINNER (at the fifth attempt): “Thank
Heaven, it’s gone this time!”
CADDIE: “That ain’t the ball, Miss — it’s yer
wristlet watch!”
I have pleasure in announcing that the dona-
tions have almost equalled the expenses, and
that with a little more perseverance and—
I shudder at the word —luck,, we should
finish without showing a serious deficit.
(Lo.ud cheers.)
S. W. K.
* *
“In some boardinghouses eggs are now served with-
out bacon.” — “Sun.”
Landladies must .save their bacon some-
how these times.
¥ *
THE ANACHRONISM.
He was an ancient mariner —
I knew that this was so,
Because he'd never been on strike,
Or heard of “going slow!”
BLOOD TELLS.
“I’m not keen on him,” said Miss Flapper
to her companion in the tram. “As soon
as I saw the long hair on his legs, I quite
lost interest.”
“Another case of beach disillusionment,
I thought. “What a multitude of male
sins are covered bv trousers, to be sure.!
But her next words put me right: So
I backed Lightning and, my dear, he simply
romped home at eights!”
Doric.
“Mr. Bluett ought to know. He is able to call
a couple of hundred aldermen by their Christian
names.” — “Guardian.”
A fat lot he knows, then!
* *
“MUCH ADO,” ETC.
“When told that a dish he desired was ‘off'
defendant flung a plate at the waiter.” — Police-court
report.
O'er trifling griefs why make a song?
I ask who have to scoff
Food in a rotten restaurong
Where ■everything is “off.”
# H-
“The minutes of the previous meeting were
quickly disposed of and Mr. Garden went straight
ahead with the business on the agenda.” —“Labor
Daily.”
They were, of course, taken as red.
TABLOID INTERVIEWS ON THE
DEPRESSION
(By our Special Representative).
“The first essential is to restore confi-
dences,” said Mr. “Skinner” Sundial, the well-
known three-card artist. “So long as people
regard strangers with suspicion so long will
business be bad. I appeal to the citizens of
N. S. Wales, and particularly to country-
men visiting the metropolis, to get back to
the good old days when allotments in the
Domain were readily saleable for spot cash.”
“The bookmakers have it in their power
to make things much easier for us backers,”
opined Mr. Boneskull, the chronic punter.
A NARROW ESCAPE.
“Now, my dear, that’s what they call a self-
portrait.”
“Oh, I’m so glad. I was afraid they might
blame you for it.”
“By a system of release of credits, our friends
of the bags have it in their power to restore
all the old glamor to the game. With un-
limited credits public-spirited citizens like
myself could race every day and thus help
to absorb thousands of unemployed.”
“Dor inderest rates must gome down,” said
Mr. Moss Israel, the eminent financier. “I
haf to pay der bank aid per shent. on vat
I borrow, und I only average ninedy-two per
shent. on vat I lendt. Mit der overheadt, id
leafs no margin at all.”
“Looks to me as if the only thing to do
is spend less and save more,” began a person
named Jones, but a politician who happened
to be in the office arranging about some pub-
licity threw him out before he was able to
utter any more heresies.
J. P.
IF IT HAD HAPPENED TO-DAY.
“Supplies were obtained [by Charles ll.] by
closing the Exchequer, and suspending the payment
of eithtw principal or interest on loans advanced
to the public Treasury. The suspension spread bank-
ruptcy among half the goldsmiths of London.”
-— Green’s “History of the English People,” p. 639.
Premier Lang: “A masterstroke of
finance and a complete vindication of my
own democratic policy, which aims at rescu-
ing the people from the ruthless clutch of
the institutions which contain their savings.
Shall loyal State servants —devoted em-
ployees of the King, who, as a king once
remarked, “is the State”—suffer wage-cuts?
Certainly not. Take the sad case of Miss
N. Gwynne, for example, a woman of the
people who is well and favorably known
about the fruit markets and in our leading
theatres, and who now, owing to the usurious
conduct of the banks, is threatened with the
loss of that which is dearer to her than
honor itself.” (Cries of “Shame!”)
“Labor Daily” : “King Charles’s spirited
application of the Lang Plan to the crisis
at the Palace will assuredly meet with the
approval of every honest citizen and intelli-
gent economist. Too long have overseas
cormorants been suffered to
pour their illgotten gold into
his Majesty’s fair demesne;
too long has their tainted
wealth enabled an average
wage of £lO a week to be
paid for work worth £5 a
week; too long, above all,
has interest been paid on
such ignoble contributions.
Owing to the introduction of
the Lang Plan the foreign
oppressor has announced
that he will force no more of
his filthy lucre on the coun-
try—in other words, that he
won’t lend another bob. Who
cares? Our splendid work-
ers will still remain the
highest-paid in the world
(that is, when they are
paid) if the State has to con-
fiscate their savings and
treble the tax on their earn-
ings to raise the necessary
cash.”
Donald Grant: “Yon wee
Stuart laddie has the right
idea, ye ken; but why stop
at spreading bankruptcy
among goldsmiths? Read
your Marx, comrades. Before the coun-
try’s ready for the priceless boon of
a bloody revolution half the bourgeois
capeetalists in Owstrellyer ’nil have to be
made bankrupt. I appeal to Jock, FTitzie
Schmidt, Alessandro Stiletto, ‘Moscow’ Nijni
and the rest of the good Aussies at the
Trades Hall.”
President of Amalgamated Society of
WeLshers : “My society has made his
Majesty a life member, and has invited him
to accept a seat on the board with the
Premier and Mr. Ike Macker, the pony
trainer, who was recently warned off the
turf for life.”
10-2-4.
FASHION NOTES FOR MEN.
The Lang ensemble is expected to be much
in evidence during the coming winter. Faded
colorings with a pronounced shine _ will be
favored. Trousers will be worn with, here
and there, cunning little peeps of shirting
showing. The waist-line will have a pro-
nounced tuck, say, about six holes. A con-
cession to the climate will be the ample
ventilation of the coat at the elbows, with
frayed collars and cuffs to harmonise. Heels
will be worn on a level with the soles —
where there are soles. Prince Alberts are
expected to come into their own again. When
selecting a hat, smart men will make an
excuse to leave the party early. It gives the
fastidious guest a chance to try on several.
D. McM.
NOT PROPERLY DEAD.
My Uncle Egbert left me nothing. I was
annoyed, in consequence, when his ghost
appeared shortly after the funeral that I
had paid for.
“Hullo !” I said coldly ;
“what are you doing
there?”
The shadowy lips
moved in the woebegone
old face, but no sounds
came.
I decided to ignore
him and get on with my
work.
But it was difficult.
The old boy became a con-
stant visitor, and his
grieved eyes worried me
more than I can say.
They seemed to be full
of reproach. It was mad-
dening in view of the fact
that I was still paying
off the undertaker.
“You know r ,” I said,
irritably, one night, “you
have no right to be here.
You’re dead.”
He shook his head
sadly and muttered some-
thing.
“Not properly ?” /
shouted, repeating what
I thought I had seen his
lips say.
He nodded vigorously,
So I went to the
trouble to hunt up his death certificate.
“There are you, darn you!” I said, waving
it at him. “Now who’s wrong—you or the
doctor?”
He only shook his head sorrowfully.
I was slowly becoming reconciled to the
prospect of being haunted for life, when one
day I was surprised to see him pointing
excitedly at the newspaper I was reading.
It gave me an idea. The next night, when
he arrived, I was ready for him. I held up
a copy of that day’s paper, my thumb-nail
indicating what I wished him to see.
This time I could almost hear the whoop
of joy he mouthed. The gloom vanished from
his face, and with a look like a radiant bene-
diction he faded away—for good.
After all, personal considerations apart,
it was worth spending a few bob if poor old
Uncle Egbert couldn’t believe he was pro-
perly dead until he was given an obituary
notice in the “Sydney Morning Herald.”
HAMER.


Healthy Nerves
An enthusiastic
Sanatogen user—
one of the many thousands of grate-
ful people to whom a course cf~
Sanatogen meant the end of their
nerve-troubles and a return to Health
and Strength—
writes as follows
“ There is nothing like
Sanatogen. Step by
step it pieces the
nerves together. It pro-
motes soothing sleep,
stops palpitation and
puts new life into one.”
MRS. C. TOOTELL,
NOTTINGHAM.
While another writes:
“To me it seems al-
most like a miracle. I
could not have be-
lieved Sanatogen could
do so much good in
such a short time.”
MISS I. STANSFIELD,
SALOP.
SANATOGEN will do you good. It will do
good to the whole of your f amily. Sanatogen
builds healthy, happy home life by
conquering nervousness and fatigue.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
mb
w
1
9
l /
&Z*M
rs§i
r »*•, * i'7
fcAv'/
%
>/ %*,:
>,/ V.i.'
A.
X !
A/
\\ll
'm
s
X
Healthy nerve cell of
human body, magni-
fied 1,000 times.
Strengthen your nerves
with
SANATOCEN
The True Tonic-Food
“ Sanatogen goes to the very core of well-
being, viz. the cells, and builds these up
into a lasting fabric of health.” In these
few words short and to the point
a well-known physician describes the
action of Sanatogen. Sanatogen is made
specially to feed the nerves, which in
these modern times are so often subject
to extra strain. The constituents of
Sanatogen—glycerophosphate and
albumin are the essential building
materials for nerves and muscles.
By going to the “core” of the complaint,
Sanatogen conquers listlessness,
stomach trouble, sleeplessness, etc., all
of which arise from a common source
nerve weakness.
Over 24,000 physicians recommend
Sanatogen in writing . Follow their
advice regain health and strength
by taking Sanatogen.
Ask you t Chemist
for a tin.
A
Sanatogen is an invest-
ment in Good Health.


CH *9o
m
Save, earn interest
and
cm:
Start saving now with the
P.P.B. —it pays you interest
on current accounts.
Have a Bank Account—Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
%
S>6e
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
e
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged case provided free with
every razor.
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths—fin. and Jin.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free ot cnarge.
w
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
Fits any blade razor 5, t» f s ’ ze '
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
FAT LAMBS IN QUEENSLAND.
, WAT „ ~ ~ „
6.Q.J. : Along the coastal belt in Queens-
land there is country devoted to mixed farm-
ing on which sheep should be introduced,
particularly with a view to the raising of
fat lambs. The opening of the new metro-
politan abattoirs should reduce the risk of
an over-stocked market. A note of warning
is, however, necessary to those remote from
the place of slaughter. Fat lambs lose a
great deal in weight by evaporation on long
journeys, and in addition are knocked about
in the trucks. Freshness and bloom count,
As an export trade should be the ultimate
goal of all those interested in promoting the
fat-lamb industry it is desirable that a uni-
form type be raised and maintained. Then
not only will Queensland lambs be wel-
comed on the foreign market, but the
Queensland type will conform with that of
lambs exported from other States. One
State lagging behind the rest in regard to
uniformity and quality will soon damage the
reputation of all Australian lamb carcases
overseas.
The Corriedale is obviously the type re-
quired, whether produced by the individual
crossing of the Lincoln-Merino or from pure
Corriedale strains. The direct cross is likely
to produce rough-covered sorts which will
reduce the value of the clip, whereas the
Corriedale has been definitely bred to secure
a good even fleece of about 56’s spinning
counts. For the coastal and low-lying areas
it would be well to introduce a Romney
Marsh strain for the breeders, but on the
higher country the Border Leicester ram
can be used to cross with the Corriedale
type ewes, and also with the first cross of
this mating. There is nothing to be gained
by maintaining many breeds.
Only ewes showing a good milk secretion
should be retained as breeders. This is a
most necessary point to secure quick-growing
lambs; lambs having a good start while on
their mothers will resist dry, hard conditions
far better than the slower-growing sorts. If
a Border Leicester-Merino cross be adopted
it will only mate successfully in the autumn,
say, from the middle of February to the end
of March. Thus the lambing will be over
by the end of August, and by the time the
lambs are commencing to feed the spring
pastures will be at the right stage for
grazing.
There is very little country really suitable
for the raising of fat lambs under natural
conditions. Artificial grasses must be intro-
duced to make the venture a paying proposi-
tion, and pastures should be top-dressed and
cultivated with the harrows. In addition
lucerne is almost a necessity, as are field
crops to top off the lambs and any broken-
mouthed ewes that have been culled from
among the breedeis. If crops of rape are
grown, they should not be fed to sheep while
MS'* should £ "kept on natural
E?
andasthh’flv is likelv to be bad at matffa-
time they should be crutched and jetted, and
if necessary treated for stomach worms. The
ewes should then be fit to go right through
to lambing-time without further interference,
SH'EARING-SHED FAULTS.
“Ivripple”: When plans for a new shed
are being considered the prospective owner
and contractor would do well to allow a
shearing expert to look them over, and take
heed of his advice where construction affects
machinery. to do this has led to
many expensive alterations and much un-
sightly patchwork; in other cases incon-
\enience has been suffered for years. B’or
example, in a big Longreach (Q.) shed at
shearing-time the swinging tube joints bang
on a wall between board and catch pens, ham-
pering the shearers and causing jolts which
are certainly not beneficial to the machines,
The wall was erected forward of the
machinery uprights instead of being flush
with or to the rear of them (that would have
been preferable), so that the swinging tubes
might have free unobstructed movement,
This shed is notorious for small tallies.
Other faults not uncommon are chutes
badly positioned in relation to where
machinery should be; omission of or poor
staying of uprights; planking joints made
between instead of on uprights—a cause of
much vibration; weakness where the pull
of engine-drive has to be taken, and an
expert’s workshop much too meagre in dimen-
sions, making it literally an oven. Some
shed-designers are prone to forget that sheep
are machine-shorn in Australia.
COUNTRY KILLING.
“H.H.C.”: The idea is not new. In the
middle ’sixties Charles Grant Tindal, of
Ramornie, on the Clarence River, founded
the canned-meat and extract-of-meat trade of
Australia at- the works at Ramornie. The
only reason that business is not running to-
day is that a one-time Premier missed out
on his election statement that the most
urgent work in N. S. Wales was a railway
from the Clarence to the tablelands of New
England. We are still without that railway.
The young pioneer experienced great diffi-
culties, but built up a long-lived business.
He had contracts with the British Govern-
ment, the Government of India, foreign Gov-
ernments and their colonies, and did a world-
wide trade in ships’ stores. He had his
stores in London and his works on the Clar-
ence, and for many years the sun did not
set on the products of Ramornie. These
things were done before the days of the
Australian Meat Council and before the
politicians took a hand in the meat, trade.
The Ramornie brand on a can of meat
counted for more than the Federal inspec-
tion stamp ever did.
Ramo'rnie turned out men also. For
example, Alban Gee, for upwards of 40 years
manager of Sydney Meat Co.; and Man-
ning, first manager of Redbank, Queensland,
and of the plant which grew into the im-
mense Swift enterprise at La Plata. Thomas
Cordingly also, who pioneered meat export in
North Queensland; the brothers Smith, who
handled plants in Queensland and pioneered
meat export in Patagonia; and George Kent,
who saw long service with Bovril’s Argen-
tine organisation. We owe much of our
knowledge of the processes used in our
modern works to the investigations of this
man and the men he induced to come out
to Ramornie. Even Chicago itself learnt
much from them.
It is time we tried some practical decen-
tralisation and had men like C. G. Tindal,
Cuthbert Feathersto'nhaugh, J. 11. Geddes
and T. S. Mort to build up our country
industries and our country towns. There are
assuredly men in Sydney in the meat trade
who can do these things; also there are many
young men in the country who must have an
outlet for brains, ability and honest service.
There is also the other question—how are
the people who must leave our big city to
find employment?
THE RIGHT PIGS TO BREED FROM.
“Bendee” : Now that farmers are scouting
for pigs to convert their losses on the “Grow
More Wheat” crop into profits, it is advis-
able to warn the inexperienced against some
of the fallacies that were responsible for pigs
going off many a western farm in N.S.W.
11 years ago. Then, as now, pigs were
requisitioned to consume a damaged wheat
prop of considerable dimensions. Many
farmers made the mistake of feeding too
much wheat by itself. But even when the
feed was supplemented with green forage
thousands of bushels of wheat were tipped
into the wrong sort of pig.
The old theory that rough sows are better
to breed from than pure-bred sorts is only
right when applied to what should be the
culls of the stud herds. A sow bred from
stock of pure strain which have proved
good consistent mothers of even litters is
always the best in the long run. Progeny
from rough stock may be hardy, and they
may look very nice as youngsters, but when
they reach bacon weight the faults start to
show out. Some of the litter are sure to
throw back to ill-bred ancestors, and an
uneven pen will never net the price that a
pen of all one type, weight and quality
will fetch. Apart from that, the rougher
sorts will not convert a given amount of
feed into as many pounds of first-graue
bacon as will the selected pigs.
A sow to be kept as a breeder should be
one of a litter of certainly not less than
eight reared pigs, all of which should be
of the same type, vigorous and quick-grow-
ing. A sow should be good-natured, intelli-
gent-looking and active, with a healthy
appetite; wide between the eyes and well
set on her legs. She should be strong-boned
without being coarse, and should have a free
gait. All these pdints apply equally to the
boar that is to be kept for stud purposes.
Avoid either boar or sow with a short,
mincing step—in sows it often goes with
farrowing troubles. The barrel should be
long, deep and roomy, there should be plenty
of room for heart and lungs, and the loins
should be well knit. The hams should be
full and deep; the shoulders strong, but not
over-developed. Shoulders, heads and flanks
do not bring as much per pound as sides
and hams, so it does not pay to put feed
into them. The back of the Berk, and
York, breeds will be flat and square; of the
Tamworth, flat and longer; of the Poland-
China, round and not so flat as the other
breeds. A sow should never have less than
10 useful teats ; a boar should not have less
than eight, and is better with ten.
A crossbred or a second-cross sow will make
a good breeder if her ancestry is right, but
a boar should always be pure. Never breed
from a crossbred boar, however good he
may look. A pure white boar will always
throw white pigs from any colored sow, but
a colored boar may throw any colored pigs
from different colored sows. Good-quality
sows will cost very little more to purchase
in the first instance than rough sorts , they
will cost less to rear,, and they will cer-
tainly -prove more profitable breeders.
Never buy pedigrees; buy pigs. If the
pig does not look the goods do not let the
paper that goes with him influence you to
waste your cash. When inspecting a pig,
always have your mind on the parts 1 of him
that are going to bring in the most cash per
pound.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT.
“Wodgil”: In quality as well as quantity
the 1930-31 Westralian wheat harvest has
never been beaten. As Mr. T. H. Bath, one
of the controllers of the voluntary pool, puts
it, Westralian bakers “are able to get an
increased number of loaves per bag of flour
milled from this season’s wheat as compared
with old flour, and the loaf is of better
quality.” The f.a.q. standard has been fixed
at 6211 b., as against 601 b. in South Aus.,
59Jib. in N. S. Wales and 58Jlb. in Victoria.
It is a tragedy that so splendid a result
of the farmers’ efforts to do what the poli-
ticians implored them to do should be so
poorly rewarded.
The chairman of directors of Westralian
Farmers estimates that the average return
to growers, at present prices, is only £1
2s. 2d. per acre, whereas in 1924-25 it was
£3 14s. Id. “Last year,” Mr. Harper says,
“10,000 growers had approximately £6,320,000
to spend, of which roughly £440,000 would
go out of the State for cornsacks and
£250,000 for phosphatie rock; say, £5,630,000.
This year the total is likely to be £4,056,000,
less £600,000 for cornsacks and £280,000
for phosphatie rock; say, £3,176,000. Assum-
ing 100,000 to be the number of homes in
our State the low price of wheat will have
reduced the spending power of each by £2O
per annum.”
One crumb of comfort in the situation is
that the wheat is being sold. Great quan-
tities are going abroad, notably to Asiatic
countries; China has come into the market
as a buyer on an extensive scale. And the ex-
cellence of the article will be favorably
remembered by overseas buyers and con-
sumers ; in fact, it will be the very best
of advertisements when the day of profit-
able prices returns.
SAVING SUPER.
“ J.W.W ”: The question of super, pro-
vision for this year’s crop is going to be a
big one. I have just traversed the wheat
areas of n.-w. Victoria and parts of S. Aus.,
and, greatly to my surprise, many farmers
told me their yields for 1930-31 were reduced
through overdoses of super.
Two very progressive men in the Boga and
Kunat areas (Vic.) stated that their yields
were no better where 601 b. and 801 b. to the
acre were used than in other paddocks which
got only 301 b. per acre. A Kunat man said
he had no manure for his last paddock, and
the difference was barely noticeable.
In S.A. I sought out one of the best
farmers near the Vic. border; he is a mem-
ber of Parliament, and a leading figure in
agrarian movements. I asked for his candid
opinion on the statements mentioned; he
endorsed them in general terms, but added
that if timely rains had come in the late
stages of the crop the full benefit of the
super, would have resulted. Inquiries in the
Gawler, Clare and other S.A. districts
elicited' replies similar to those at Boga and
Kunat, only somewhat milder in degree.
While it is obvious that we should use as
much super, as the soil and the season can
get full benefit from, it is unwise to apply
more. Many growers say, “Be light on super,
in dry years, and don’t spare it in a wet year.”
But how are we to know when we put it in
how wet or how dry the season will be? It
seems certain that a lot of Vic. and S.A.
farmers have overdone super, in the dry
years, and that, since much remains in the
soil still undissolved, less will be required
this coming season.
CROSS-BREEDING OF PUMPKINS AND
MELONS.
“Bendee”: The Cucurlita family em-
braces pumpkins, rock-, water- and pie-
melons, cucumbers, marrows and white- and
hubbard-squash. It is a common thing for
farmers to save the seed from a good crop
of any member of this family with the object
of repeating the success. This practice is
advisable only if the successful crop has been
uniformly good and true to one particular
type, and also if no other variety of the
same vegetable has been grown close enough
for bees to cause cross-pollination.
It is a mistaken idea that different mem-
bers of this family will cross-pollinate. Rock-
melons will not cross with cucumbers, nor
will water-melons cross with rock-melons.
Only members of each' individual group will
cross with one another. Any variety of
pumpkin will readily cross with another
variety. Water-melons will cross with jam-
melons or with wild paddy-melons. Rios, or
grammas, will not cross with pumpkins.
Hubbard-squash will cross with pumpkins
because they belong to the pumpkin and not
to the squash family. An exception to the
rule is that rock-melons of the cantaloupe
type will not cross, with the 'honey-dew
variety.
When selecting seed, do not make the
common mistake of saving from the biggest
pumpkin on the vine, but select from a vine
which has shown a good crop of even-sized
fruit, all true to type. If such a vine is
alongside one having fruit of undesirable
characteristics, discard it, as you are likely
to produce inferior types in your next crop
owing to cross-pollination. If seed is chosen
in this way for several consecutive seasons
the result should be an improved standard
each year.
CHICKS AND ELECTRIC BROODERS.
“Chookey”: Experiments made in Maori-
land with the electric brooder have shown
that, though it has many conveniences, it
causes a good many deaths. It is a thing
like a big lampshade, electrically heated,
which is placed canopywise over eggs, and
over the chicks when they emerge. The
heat is not as easily regulated as in brooders
in which lamps are used, and when, as was
the usual practice, the chicks were bedded
on straw chaff spread on concrete there was
a fairly large percentage of mortality through
sweating and chills.
This has been obviated by making a 6ft.
square frame of 3in. by 2in. timber ovqr
which a floor of lin. mesh wire-netting is
lightly strained, supported by three pieces of
2in. x 2in. timber nailed underneath. On
this the straw-chaff bedding is spread; the
space under the circular canopy is enclosed
by a circular tin fence to protect the chicks
from draughts and prevent them straying.
The frame is raised from the ground, by a
couple of supports of 3in. by 2in. timber,
laid flat, and the free circulation of air thus
induced prevents the chicks from becoming
overheated. When the brooder is no longer
needed and the chicks are to be hardened off,
a set of low perches, arranged grandstand
fashon, is placed near an opening in the
tin fence, to encourage the youngsters to use
their legs.
THOSE EARLY MOULTERS.
“Henpuncher”: “Jack Point’s” advice to
cull early-moulting birds (B. 11/2/’3l) is
too sweeping. Inherent weakness or lack
of breeding is not the only cause of early
moult; broodiness, lack of necessary food
constituents (especially greens), drastic
changes of weather, quarters or feeding
methods as the moult is coming on—-any of
these may do it. And what of the birds that
lay whilst moulting early, taking their spell
after, as many do?
Further, “Jack” repeats the old fallacious
advice to mark for future breeders the “good
birds” (late moulters), meaning those that
lay to exhaustion whilst eggs are dear before
further prostrating themselves whilst chang-
ing their clothes. It should be obvious that
birds so doing, by the extra effort, expend
the stamina which is the chief argument in
their favor as breeders. Those birds almost
assuredly won’t be laying when eggs are
wanted early for hatching.
I’ve lots of shot in the locker on this sub-
ject, but advise merely this: Go through
the early moulters, but discard only those
birds whose short, thick, almost closed
pelvic bones betray the congenital loafer.
Fine, soft, pliant pelvics denote the good
layer, in lay or not, moult she when she
may. “Jack Point’s” opinion notwithstand-
ing, m'oult-time points no more easy route
to that Valhalla of the poultryman, the
farm with a 250-egg average flock, than
any other, and less than the form of speciali-
sation he abjures—trap-nesting.
DOMESTICATED QUAIL.
“Kooragai” : The stubble quail is a prized
dainty that is easily domesticated and costs
very little to keep. A farmer on the Clar-
ence River hatched a dozen in an incubator,
and the chicks were allowed to run about
with the other fowls. In a little while they
foraged for themselves in the grass ana
weeds, sometimes wandering far afield; but
they always came up for their share of the
cracked corn when the poultry nock was
called up at feeding-time. The birds did
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


Vi
-v/
'k
5f4
SPt
C/
*
%
%
%>n
v%
V* <
4 % c °- <,2* *>■
\ N£*<?*
J
Pl3/A
Behind that smart
gold label is a
liqhf beer of"
throat-quenching
creaminess- • • •
Resch's Pilsener
in the LONG bottle/
Pub one on the
ice to-night:


■
72
<d&
si
m
A double-soled boot at
a lower price!
The toughest sole leather. . . .
in double thickness.... amaz-
ingly increases the wearing
qualities of this smart boot. And,
it is offered now at prices speci-
ally reduced.
Note the lacing curve. . .shaped
to lie easily over your instep,
since it follows the foot’s natural
arch. The upper, too, is cut
lower at back of ankle. So, it
neither bulges nor chafes. This
is an ideal boot for active, hard
service.... as smart as it is
durable.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney;
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 219.
e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Orescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
MAY’S
BROADCAST
FERTILISER SPREADER
When purchasing a Fertiliser
Spreader, bear in mind that the
following features are exclusive
to the “May” and have helped
considerably in placing the
“May” in its present pre-
eminent position:—
FIRST.—The supreme simplicity of
the “May”—both in mechanism
and operation.
SECOND. The “May” spreads at
least five times quicker than the
ordinary box or drill machine.
THIRD. The double-piece hopper
makes “Chambering” of the
manure impossible.
FOURTH.—The CURVED spoons
on the CONCAVE bronze dis-
tributor plate ensure a perfectly
even distribution.
FIFTH.—The regulator is so sensi-
tive that the quantity may be
gauged to within a few pounds
per acre.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New South Wales:
DALGETY & CO.,
Argyle Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
South Australia:
W. Y. SCRUTTON,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
Queensland:
CLARK & FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
West Australia:
EASTWOOD’S HARDWARE STORES,
Murray Street, Perth.
Tasmania:
W. HART & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. STUTTERD,
Wynyard.
H. C. BUCHANAN,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Manufactured by
CHASMS
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at BALLARAT, BENDIGO,
WARRNAMBOOL, HORSHAM and
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
limin'
i
POSITION WANTED
WANTED —A permanent position
pumping on a farm, or in a factory.
Have had experience in pumping
all kinds of liquids in all conditions.
Will pump more rapidly than others,
and use less power.
Am strictly attentive to business, do
not loaf on the job, never ask for
time off, and will Work 24 hours in
the day without stopping for meals.
Wages not wanted—will only cost
you a trifle for power. Inquire for
Macson Piston Pump.
ADDRESS
McPherson’s pty., ltd.
PUMP MANUFACTURERS
Collins Street, Bathurst Street,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY.
Waymouth Street, Murray Street,
ADELAIDE. PERTH.
POSITION WANTED
good service about the farm in destroying
seeds of weed pests, also grasshoppers, cater-
pillars and other noxious insects.
The stubble quail is prolific, laying up to
a dozen eggs to a sitting, and producing two
or three broods in a season. They like the
cultivation paddocks, which are generally
rich in their natural food. What grain they
eat is picked up from the ground. To keep
them always on the place it is advisable to
clip their wings until a flock has bfecome
domesficated. Quail movements, however,
are regulated by the food supply, and where
there is plenty to eat they are not disposed
to wander away. In the natural state they
are nomadic, but not migratory. There is
very little danger from hawks, as the quail
likes to roam under cover of grass and
weeds and through growing crops and
stubble.
There is always a market for quail, and
as they practically feed themselves they de-
serve a place on the farm. They are worth
keeping, anyhow, for the service they render.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Best varieties of trees to plant on the
open plains of Bombala (N.S.W.) for shade
and shelter? Soil is hlaelc and site very ex-
posed. (2) Best way to treat a dry lake
for tree-planting? —lB2B.
(1) White pine (Pinus radiata) , cypresses,
including Gupressus torulosus, G. lamberti-
ana and G. arizonica, black sally (Eucalyp-
ins stellulata) , manna gum ( Eviminalis ),
maiden’s gum (E. maideni), and Tasmanian
blue gum ( E. globulus). (2) Conditions are
not favorable for most tree life, and black
sally seems most suitable for such a soil.
Seed is obtainable from Mr. Murphy, Woy
Woy. No special treatment of soil is neces-
sary.
Is land available in the Dawson Valley or
Burnett areas, Q’land, for cotton-growing
or mixed farming? —l744.
Land is available for selection in the
Dawson Valley irrigation area; particulars
from sec., Irrigation and Water Supply Com-
mission, Brisbane. Areas are also to be
thrown open in the Upper Burnett and
Callide Valley districts; information from
Lands Department, Brisbane.
(1) Is the Pennant Hills (2V.S.TV.) dis-
trict suitable for apiculture? (2) Any books
on the subject? —l9l6.
(1) Small apiaries should show some re-
turn, but the district is not considered favor-
able for any extensive commercial venture.
(2) A bulletin, “The Beginner in Bee Cul-
ture,” is obtainable from the N.S.W. Agri-
culture Department, Sydney, Is. 2d. post
free. Free pamphlets on various phases of
apiculture may also be obtained.
(1) How to find bee trees? (2) Gan an
apiary be started with wild bees, tested
queens being introduced later? —lso2.
(1) When wild bees are seen flying low,
it is usually an indication that they are close
to their tree or stump. (2) Yes. The intro-
duction of pure-bred fertilised queens will
bring about improvement provided the wild
queen bee is removed and destroyed before the
introduction of the new queen. Any brood
comb which develops in the interim will be
of the. original stock, but will be in time dis-
placed by the offspring of the introduced
queen.
What are the symptoms of snakebite in
cattle? —lB32.
Varied, according to the quantity of venom
introduced into the animal tissues, and the
kind of snake concerned. Generally speak-
ing, first symptoms, lasting from a few
minutes up to an hour, are restlessness and
excitement and local pain. This is followed
by a period during which the cow appears
normal although signs of pain are shown
frequently or almost continuously. In a
very acute case difficulty in breathing
appears within a. few hours. The animal
shows trembling and contraction of muscles
or violent convulsions, death soon following.
In most cases the beasts survive for a
much longer time, passing through a
stage of depression that ends in either
recovery or death. If in any doubt as to
cause of trouble communicate as early as
possible with your district stock inspector,
who will investigate.
(1) Where can I obtain citrus cutting-
snips? (2) What is the best way to cincture
a mandarin-tree, and the best time to do it?
—ISS9.
(1) From Buzacott and Co., Adelaide-
street, Brisbane. (2) Use a pruning-saw,
obtainable from same firm. The width of
the blade makes a cincture of correct width.
Interspaces, if any, not accessible to the saw
may be removed with a sharp knife. Cut
through the bark but not into the wood.
Perform the operation when the trees are in
flower.
Has the wattle-bark of the Mittagong dis-
trict (N.S.W.) the qualities desired by the
Sydney tanners, or is it inferior to that pro-
duced by Vic. and S. Africa? —1914.
From Vic. and Tasmania northwards the
tannin content of wattle-bark decreases, and
for that reason buyers require an analysis
of northern-grown bark. Write to the
Curator of the Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney, sending specimens of
leaves, flowers, fruits and bark of the tree
you are concerned with.
(1) Best variety of mint for extraction of
peppermint oil? (21 Yield per acre? (3)
Best district? (4) Where to get further
particulars ? —lB9O.
(1) “Black mint” (Mentha piperita var.
vulgaris) is hardiest and gives the largest
yield of oil. “White mint” (Mentha piperita
var. officinalis) gives an oil of finer
quality. “Black” is the variety most
commonly cultivated. (2) 301 b. to 40lb. (3)
Mint grows well on light calcareous soils
and friable sandy loams, whilst gravels will
also support the crop. Any soil (except heavy
clay) seems suitable when well drained. (4)
Write to the Director, Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mulyan”: When green feed is wanted for
pigs don’t forget the redweed, pigweed, cow
thistle and fathen —common weed pests on
numerous N.S.W. farms. Pigs like them, and
do well on them; and in using them the
farmer gets something back for what they
take out of the ground.
“E.H.S.”: When a cow develops warts on
her teats it is difficult to get rid of them
while she is in milk. Castor oil will keep
the warts soft and prevent chafing, but the
time to effect a cure is when the cow is dried
off. Mix an eggcupful of washing-soda with
a pint of water and bathe the warts with
the solution twice a day. After a short
course of this treatment the warts will
scale off, leaving the teat clean.
“Disc Harrow”: A tip for those who
work their drays out on the road. Make
sure that brake is there —and in good work-
ing order. I smashed a cart the other day,
and was lucky to escape myself, when a
load bolted down a gradient. In any case,
a brake makes things a lot easier for Dobbin
when going loaded down hill, for the bearing-
back takes more out of a horse than a lot
of straight pulling. A simple contrivance of
iron with wood brakeblock is all that is
necessary, and is easily fitted at home.
“Paul C.”: When you have to take a
plough from the shed to the paddock or
from one paddock to another, put a bullock’s
horn on the point of the ploughshare, and it
will slide smoothly over the uneven ground.
“Comma”: Turn at least one of those pigs
into bacon. You can make an efficient
smoke-house cheap. Get two barrels, one
larger than the other, of a size to hold
the carcase. Remove both ends from the
smaller one, and place rods over one open-
ing from which to suspend the meat. Remove
one end from the larger barrel, and bore
about a dozen holes in the other end, with
a half-inch bit. Then stand it on two
pieces of quartering, with the perforated end
up; on top of this stand the smaller barrel
with the meat suspended in it. Place your
smoke fire under the bottom barrel, using
an old bucket or the like, with some holes
punched in the sides. When in operation
place a weighted sack over the top, leaving
enough opening to make it draw.
“Dirnon” : A good use for discarded inner-
tubes of bicycles is to slip them over the
parts of the chains that chafe horses. The
common protector is a bit of bagging, tied
round the chain; the rubber tube, being soft
and smooth, is much better. If it is too
big for the chain, tie the ends and pull it
tightly, or split the tube and wrap it neatly
round the links.
“Ligny Thilloy” : At times trouble is ex-
perienced in feeding the chafifcutter, particu-
larly if mustard is present in the hay, or a
weather-worn wooden feed-trough may offer
resistance to the drawing of the cutter.
These troubles will be overcome if the trough
is plated with tin. Out the ends out of
kero.-tins and open out; then, starting from
the mouth end, plate the trough, allowing a
liberal turnover at the top of the sides.
After a short run of the cutter, it is surpris-
ing the ease with which the sheaves will
feed. If attention is paid to the mouth plate,
filing it back to a right-angle edge when the
cutting edge has become rounded, and then
adjusting the side cheek steels to the new
edge, long straws will be eliminated, and a
good, sharp sample will result.
“L’Fou”: In Victoria the average price
of dairy butter is just about half that of
factory butter; and at present rates this
is no joke to the producer. The quality may
run down the scale from good to bad, but
too often it is all retailed at one price. If
you are turning out a good butter, adopt a
brand and stick to it: then you will be
able to get some of the extra value that
quality spells.
“Jethro Tull” : When rain threatens and
hangs off is the time to clear the cowyard
of the loose dust. It is this surface three
inches or so that makes the mess of mud.
Ashes should be spread over the yard, the
thicker the better, especially in the lower
places that bog up.
“Wilt”: Tomato seed should be selected
from a plant that produces heavy clusters of
early-maturing fruit of high quality, uniform
size, and true to type. Let the fruit ripen
on the plant, and then cut across horizontally
,on the fiat. Squeeze juice and seeds into
a container, to stand until fermented for
two days. Then add water, when good
seed will sink to the bottom and inferior seed
will float. Pour off water and faulty seed,
and repeat six times. Then screw the seed
in a cloth, and dry in the sun. If this
method of seed selection and treatment is
persisted in for several seasons, the grower
vvdll find himself producing far better quality
crops of even size for the same amount of
labor.
“L’Fou”: Let me give praise where praise
is due. In the 1929-30 season my home
tomato patch was a wreck with wilt and
blight. Wiseacres told me it was waste to
try to grow tomatoes in the same place for
some years; and all the garden books said
new ground. However there was no other
suitable spot. Taking a hint from a Bulle-
tin par., when clearing up ip autumn I gave
the land a dusting with sulphur and left
it fallow and bare for the winter. New
seed was bought and sulphur worked into
the seed beds before sowing. At planting-
out time the plots were dug over and another
dressing of sulphur applied, as well as
enough super, to give them a flying start.
Result, a clean and good crop. The past
summer has been 'one of the wettest on
record, and therefore favorable to fungi
disease, yet the plot has remained clean.
Queensland is to make an attempt to
bring back its once-flourishing remount and
light-horse trade. The demand is as keen as
ever where India is concerned, and there
is a steady market in Japan and the Nether-
lands Indies. For a long time the bulk of
their horses came from the cattle country,
of North Queensland, but, unfortunately,
with closer settlement and the intrusion of
stock other than cattle, the necessity for
breeding good horses has largely vanished,
though the overseas demand is still insistent.
The result is that the trade is being diverted
to other countries, where, though the quality
is not always up to Australia’s best, supplies
are easier to come by. .Queensland’s Minister
for Agriculture, 11. F. Walker, has resolved
to tackle the matter, and has convened a
conference of horsebreeders in Mackay on
March 26. Here the question will be
threshed out and, if necessary, a scheme of
State co-operation arrived at.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gentlewoman, Sydney, good education, competent
all household duties, seeks position as companion
or housekeeper, country preferred.—l9B3.
Painter, paperhanger and kalsominer, Sydney,
wants work with firm or on private contract. Can
carry out all house repairs.—1981.
Housekeeper, N.S.W., good cook, wants position,
country preferred. Refs. —2027.
Country woman, Q’land, exp. nurse, A.T.N.A.
certificate, wants position as housekeeper or nurse-
companion, town or country.—l96o.
Middle-aged Australian, Sydney, seeks employment,
any capacity. Press and customs exp. Refs. —1957.
Teacher, Sydney, 20 years’ exp., wants position
school or tutorship.—l 969.
Young man, Vic., £lOO capital, wants employ-
ment. Exp. as storekeeper, and handy with machin-
ery.—l 972.
Motor-cyclist, Vic., wants employment at week-
ends.—l 976.
Parent, Sydney, seeks position in the country for
intelligent boy of 15.—1954.
Partner with £275 to take half share in N.S.W.
poultry farm; up-to-date plant, market garden, etc.
—2032.
Scot (30), Vic., married, two children, ex-service,
6$ years with Vic. Education Department, wants
position as tutor, anywhere.—2ool.
Ex-steward (Melb.) seeks service as cook, house-
man, all duties, station or other residence. Refs.
—2004.
To buy Vol. 12 “Official History of Australia in
the War,” second-hand.—2o34.
Words of poem describing exploit of Australian
troops during Boer War at Elands River.—l9s3.
Information Sought.
(1) Annual cost of the upkeep of the
British Royal family? (2) Do the Dominions
contribute to the cost? (3) Cost of upkeep
of the Presidency of the United States? —
1694.
(1) For the year to March, 1929, £470,000.
(2) No. (3) The President’s salary is fixed
at 75,000 dollars p.a. and there is an allow-
ance for travelling expenses of 25,000
dollars, the two appropriations being equiva-
lent to about £2o*ooo. Of course a great
many items of civil-establishment expenditure
would have to be added to arrive at a fair
comparison.
(1) Can a Clerk of Petty Sessions sit on
any N.S.W. Bench? (2) Difference between,
a C.P.S. and a Chamber Magistrate? (3)
IFfto is the C.P.S. at Casino? (4) The
Chamber Magistrate there? —lB46.
(1) Yes, in the office of J.P. (2) The
C.P.S. carries out the executive duties of the
Court, is also Registrar of the Small Debts
Court, and has many other duties. Chamber
Magistrates are appointed in the principal
Petty Sessions districts only; they relieve
the presiding magistrate of some of his minor
duties, issue warrants, and afford assistance
to the public in laying informations, formulat-
ing charges and generally. (3) C. J. M.
Hade. (4) There is none.
Symptoms and treatment of glass-poison-
ing in dogs? Is it as deadly as commonly
supposed? —lB2s.
It may be fatal. Symptoms are vomiting
or attempts at vomiting, continual yelping, a
quick pulse, and possibly a distended abdo-
men. The dog may lie flat on his belly, and
may change from place to place in order to
relieve spasms. Vomiting should be encour-
aged (if not a symptom) by giving a little
salt or mustard and water, not purgatives.
Administer thick flour gruel and a sgr. tab-
loid of pepsin, bismuth and charcoal (pow-
dered), placed on the tonguo and washed
down with a little milk. If pain is severe,
give 5 to 10 drops of chlorodyne in a little
water.
Would forestry be a good thing for a bush
boy of 15 to study? What training is neces-
sary, and what are the prospects of employ-
ment?—lBso.
Applicants for officers’ positions in the
forestry service are required to spend two
years at a university, followed by two years
at the Commonwealth Forestry School at
Canberra. Apart from this the only pros-
pect for a boy in normal times is for em-
ployment in nurseries, which does not lead
to any position higher than overseer.
(1) Are the inhabitants of Norfolk Island
taxed? (2) Are goods imported there sub-
ject to customs duties? (3) Are goods
from Norfolk Island dutiable in Australia?
—l9lO.
(1) No taxes are levied, but every resident
adult male is obliged to work 15 days
annually on the roads and public reserves,
or make payment in lieu thereof. (2) Yes.
(3) No, save in the case of goods which, if
manufactured or produced in Australia,
would be subject to excise duty.
What causes thunder? —lBs3.
The violent expansion of gases along the
path of an electrical discharge (lightning)
due to the extreme heat generated.
What are the uses of tung oil? —1920.
In China for polishing, preserving and
water-proofing wood; for water-proofing
cloth, paper umbrellas and bamboo netting;
as an ingredient in the manufacture of putty,
and as lamp oil. Lamp-black for India' ink
is also made from it. The oil is also used
medicinally in China for the treatment of
boils, ulcers, swellings and burns. Western
nations use it in the manufacture of water-
proof varnishes, enamels, paints, rubber sub-
stitutes, linoleum and various other products.
(1) What was the cost to Maoriland of
her share in the Great War, and how was the
money raised? (2) What effect has the war
had on the M.L. interest bill? (3) p ro rata
to increase in population, wliat would the
increase in M.L.’s indebtedness have been in
the period 1914-30 had there been no war
expenditure —2olo.
(1) Can’t bo computed definitely, as some
of the expenditure arising out of the war,
such as the purchase of land for returned
soldiers, pensions and hospital treatment, are
included in official returns under other head-
ings. Actual loans for war purposes totalled
£82,245,000, of which £55,000,000 was raised
in the Dominion and £27,245,000 in London.
Probably the total cost of the war to M.L.
was not far short of £100,000,000. (2) The
total national debt at March 31, 1914,
stood at £95,500,000, on which interest aver-
aged £3 14s. sd. p.c. On borrowings since
that date (£116,500,000, including war debt)
the average rate is £5 11s. 3d. p.c. The
higher rate can be attributed largely to war
and post-war influences. The addition to
the Dominion’s annual interest bill owing
to the war may be guessed to be about
£5,550,000. (3) Between 1898 and 1914 the
increase in population was 47 p.c., and the
public debt increased by 123 p.c. Between
1914 and 1930 population increased by 29
p.c. On the basis of 1898-1914 borrowings,
adjusted to the lesser increase in population,
the increase in debt in 1914-30 should have
been £72,000,000. It was £94,500,000 in
excess of that amount.
(1) What capital is required to start a
soft-drink and aerated-water business in a
small way, using a hand machine? (2)
What conditions and regulations must be
complied with in Q’land? —1744.
(1) If new plant is being installed about
£250 would be necessary, but probably you
could obtain suitable second-hand plant for
£BO to £lOO. Allow also £2O for ingredi-
ents and small plant, such as buckets, mea-
sures, etc., and about £2O for bottles. (2)
The building must comply with the health
regulations, and the firm must be registered.
What was the entire Australian expendi-
ture brought about by the Great War? —
1771.
To June 30, 1930, from war loan fund,
£372,961,551: from consolidated revenue, war
and repatriation services, including war pen-
sions, £119,319,834; interest and sinking
fund, £251,881,024; total, £744,162,409.
How many years does a patent run before
it becomes public property? —lB7o.
A Commonwealth patent runs for 16 years,
but may be renewed if dated prior to Febru-
ary 2, 1931, at end of seventh year; or if
dated after February 1, 1931, at end of fifth
year, and annually thereafter.
Was the building of the Sydney to Bris-
bane railway, via the N.S.W. North Coast,
recommended by Kitchener or any other mili-
tary leader for strategic reasons? —1900.
Can’t say. Reports on defence are secret
documents. A Royal Commission recom-
mended the building of a standard-gauge rail-
way linking Sydney and Brisbane via Kyogle.
Is it true that the top of a wheel running
on a rail is travelling faster than the por-
tion on the rail? —1986.
The problem forms a nice little study in
relativity. So far as the wheel’s movement
on its axis is concerned the speed is mani-
festly uniform. But if a point be marked
on the top of a wheel at rest, and a point
where the wheel touches the rail, it will be
found that in the first quarter-revolution the
point marked on the top of the wheel travels
in relation to the rail a distance equal to
the diameter of the wheel further than the
point marked on the place of rail contact.
(1) The woodwork of the imported body
of a motor-car is crumbling into a pinkish
powder. Is not some compensation due to
the owner from the manufacturers? ■ (2)
What has destroyed the wood? —1922.
(1) In the absence of a specific guarantee
covering the case it would be difficult to
establish a legal claim against the vendois
or manufacturers, but they should be
written to and informed of what has hap-
pened. (2) Can’t say without inspection.
What railway serves the Federal Capital
Territory? Is it proposed to build any
further lines in the Territory? —l977.
Canberra is connected with the N.S.W.
railway system by a line 4| miles long to
Queanbeyan. A trial survey of a line from
Canberra to Jervis Bay has been completed,
but no action in regard to this project is con-
templated at present. An agreement exists
between the Commonwealth and N.S.W. in
relation to the construction of a railway
from Canberra to Yass, 43 miles, of which
about 33 miles extend through N.S.W. The
State is required to construct its portion
of the line as soon as the Commonwealth
builds a line to the boundary of the Territory.
Who made the design for the present Brit-
ish coins? Are they designed as small as
their minted size? If not, how> big are
the original designs, and how is the reduction
made? —2005.
Most of the British coins in use were
designed by the Australian sculptor Bertram
Mackennall. The original designs are usually
from three to four inches in diameter, and
they are reduced by means of a profiling
machine, which works on the principle of a
pantograph.
From wliat plant are “jequirily beads ”
taken? How can it be identified? —2023.
The plant from which the seeds are derived
is Abrus, a small genus of twining or trailing
plants of the family Leguminosae, chiefly
tropical. The flowers are pink or (rarely)
white ; pod almost square at both ends ; seeds
brilliant scarlet, with a black blotch; foliage
consists of several pairs of leaflets to each
stern, the midrib ending in a point. The
only indigenous species is Abrus prccatorius
(weather-plant), the seeds of which are
known as “crabs-eycs” or “jequirity beans.”
(1) In what circumstances did the Gov-
ernment of M.L. become the dominant share-
holder in the Bank of N.Z.? (2) To what
extent is the bank under political domina-
tion? (3) What portion of the subscribed
capital is owned by the Government and how
do the dividends paid on that portion com-
pare with the return to private shareholders?
—2050. , .
(1) The bank got into serious difficulties
in 1894, and to save a clash which wornd
have greatly damaged the colony the Seddon
Government guaranteed £2,000,000 of prefer-
ence share capital. In 1898, the storm hav-
ing been weathered, the Government’s hold-
ing was reduced to £500,000 and the present
system under which the Government appoints
four out of six directors, including the chair-
man, was inaugurated. (2) The power may
be there, but as Condliffe in “N.Z. in the
Making” says, “There is no evidence what-
ever that the Government has used its power
as a means of influencing banking
policy.” (3) As disclosed in the last bal-
ance-sheet (March 31, 1930) the Govern-
merit’s holding is £2,109,375 and that of
private shareholders £4,218,750. Dividends
aud bonuses to the Government last year
averaged 11.62 p.c. and to other shareholders
13.57 p.c. on capital subscribed.
Who was the pioneer of refrigeration {as
connected with the frozen-meat trade) in
Australia? —1995.
James Harrison, a Melbourne journalist.
In 1851 he invented a process of freezing
carcases for export. The American pro-
cess then in vogue merely froze the sur-
face of the flesh, which sufficed for the short
voyage between America and England, but
allowed decomposition to occur internally
during a longer voyage. Harrison’s process
froze the meat right through, and after a
slow thawing the body fluids re-appeared as
fresh as when they had been frozen. Un-
luckily Harrison, who had successfully ex-
perimented with mutton, chose beef for his
first shipment to London in 1873, the result
of which was a failure. Twenty years later
it was discovered that the small blood
vessels in beef carcases burst when frozen,
and so, when thawed out again, damage the
flesh they are embedded in. Beef must be
chilled, not frozen. The first successful cargo
of frozen mutton to reach London arrived
from Maoriland in the ship Strathleven in
1880. . a a . .
(1) How many policemen are stationed
at Canberra and who controls them? (2)
Have Commonwealth police ever been
assigned duties outside the Federal Terri-
tory?—l9B9. ,
(1) Thirteen; they are controlled by the
Federal Government. (2) Small forces of
Commonwealth police were enlisted for work
in the States by Mr. Hughes, when Prime
Minister, in 1917, and by Mr. Bruce in 1920 ;
the last-mentioned force was raised because
the Premier of N.S.W. refused to allow the
State police to act in certain Commonwealth
matters, and was officially known as “Com-
monwealth peace officers.” Mr. Hughes s
force was disbanded when no longer needed,
and Mr. Bruce’s force was absorbed into the
Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Depart-
ment*
(1) Description of a, wombat? (2) What
are its habits? (3) Where is it to be found?
—: 1990. . ,
(1) It resembles a diminutive bear. All
species are broad and thick-set, with a short
neck, broad head with short muzzle, very
short, thick limbs, and rudimentary tail. The
fur is coarse and harsh in the common wom-
bat, finer and silkier in the hairy-nosed
species. In the fore limbs the five digits are
approximately equal, and all are provided
with' stout claws; in the hind limbs the first
toe is very small and not provided with a
claw, whereas the rest have long, curved
claws. (2) The wombat is an active bur-
rower. During the day it takes shelter in
excavations which it makes, issuing forth
after nightfall in search of food, which con-
sists of grass, herbage and roots. (3) The
southern part of the Australian continent
and Tasmania.
My income consists solely of dividends
and ' interest. Am I entitled in my next
income-tax return to deduct losses on the
sale of shares bought in 1929 and sold this
year? —9sB.
The N.S.W. Taxation Department says
you are.
Is there any diminution of or addition to
any of the gases or other components of the
atmosphere during the hour after sunset?
Would it be possible to have a test made
15 minutes before sunset, and three tests at
intervals of 20 minutes after sunset? —1565.
There is no change in the chemical con-
stituents of the atmosphere. The decomposi-
tion of ozone by sunlight is so slow that
there is no appreciable change in the quantity
between sunrise and sunset. Quantitative
chemical tests would be expensive and do not
appear to be necessary.
(1) How much gold (won from the earth,
of course) is there in the world to-day, and
what are the holdings of the principal
nations? (2) What would happen if
the world’s stock of gold was doubled to-
morrow ? —1605.
(1) Can’t say definitely, because so much
gold is hoarded in Asia, particularly in India.
According to a statement by the British
Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Snowden)
on January 26 last the gold reserves of the
leading gold-holding countries are: U.S.A.,
£945.700.000 ; France, £435,600,000 ; Britain,
£144,543,000; Germany, £108,500,000; Spain,
£96.700,000. (2) If made available as a
basis for currency there would be a swift
rise in prices of all commodities.
What is the cheapest preparation for
painting the outside of fibro-cement walls
to render them resistant to moisture? —ls2l.
For first coat use liquid cement sealer,
which will lay a barrier between the alkaii
content in the sheet, and finish off with a
coat of oil-paint.
Are marriages contracted in the black-
smith’s shop at Gretna Green valid? —1669.
They are valid if the law was complied
with. At one time runaway couples from
England crossed the Scottish border into
the village of Gretna in Dumfriesshire and
were married after the Scottish manner of
a declaration before witnesses. In 1856 a
law was passed requiring one of the two
contracting parties to reside in Scotland
at least three weeks previous to the event.
The blacksmith was simply a witness, but
he kept a sort of register of the marriages.
Brief Answers.
K.T.F.: The first phrase is used in con-
nection with the remission of taxation or duty
usually excise duty—on goods exported. The second
is a figure of speech, meaning that one person has
another at his mercy... .J.F.: In either case (1)
claim for money paid, (2) claim for delivery of
furniture, (3) if any instalments paid claim for
return W.J.H.T.: Forty acres, 3 roods... .R.A.8.:
Hunziker’s “Butter Industry,” Percival’s “Agricul-
tural Bacteriology,” Russell and Hastings’s “Experi-
mental Dairy Bacteriology,” Conn’s “Bacteria in
Milk and Its Products”... .C.A.R.: (1) Fixed
by scale determined on value of the mort-
gage. (2) Continues to run subject to any in-
creased rate of interest fixed by the mortgage.
(3) Prior to moratorium, could sell or foreclose, but
now and until after April 30, 1933, payment cannot
be demanded.... W.S.: (1) A grouchy, surly or
slightly eccentric person. (2) See Emil Ludwig’s
“July, 1914.” (3) When last heard of he was in
Central Australia. (4) The Biblical character who
had Samson’s locks shaven off, thus depriving him
of his strength R.K.: The squadron under the
command of the Earl of Clanwilliam arrived at Syd-
ney on July 13, 1881. It was composed of the
Inconstant (flagship), Bacchante, Carysfort, Cleopatra
and Tourmaline.... J.W.P.: The super-tax charge-
able is 71 p.c. of the property income included in
the taxable income. Your assessment is correct
C.H.A.: Depends on the benefits it confers and the
industries it would benefit. So far as we can ascer-
tain there are no commercial possibilities for the
formula A.T.: Cotton-picking in Q’land will not
commence until about May next. Abundant local
labor is available... .5.8.: Write N.S.W. Agricul-
ture Department for pamphlet on subject... .T.J.N.:
Figures not available in Sydney... .J.W.P.: Write
to the port authorities at Singapore. .. -J.R.: “The
Land without a Past” was published in The Bul-
letin of June 27, 1903 ; “In a Tent,” Sept. 15,
1894 ; “Have Mercy on the Man You Carry,” June
15, 1895; and “Have Mercy on the Horse You Ride,”
April 27, 1895 J.L.: At present the market is
uncertain. Industry won’t flourish till a local demand
is built up J.S.P.: See reply to 119, Service Page,
3/12/’30. ..-T.D.A.: Dundulimal is" an abo. word
meaning “place of a terrific hailstorm. ’ Ulmarra
is also an abo. word and means “turn or bend in
the river” 8.K.R.: (1) Yes, about double the
quantity Australia exports. (2) No W.P.T.:
(1) Consult Sydney newspapers of that date. (2) No,
though half a dozen publications have made a half-
hearted attempt to compile such information. (3)
(a) Commonwealth Treasury Branch Office, Sydney.
(b) Town Hall, Sydney; (c) Diocesan Registrar,
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney; ( d ) out of print.
(4) Depends whether you consigned tho copyright to
them or n0t....J.M. (1) From 15,C00 to 18,500
words. (2) Three or four acts, preferably three.
(3) Borrow a few published plays from the nearest
lending library and study the layout. (4) Paling
and Co., 338 Ceorge-street, Sydney, will put you
in touch with a composer... .C. 8.; Communicate
with Telesports, Ltd., Post Office Chambers, 337
George-street, Sydney... .A.H.: Write to the country
lending branch of the N.S.W. Public Library, Syd-
ney, and ask for a list of works on the short story.
. .V.J.C.M.: Costs will depend on circumstances....
J.E.: Couldn’t say without description of machine.
Forward particulars to Customs Dept., Melbourne.
.H.J.8.; Send your correct address. All our let-
ters to you have been returned E.V.S.: Consult
the French Bank, 4 Wynyard-street, Sydney
D.G.: Write Director Civil Aviation, Dept, of Defence,
Melbourne... .M.H.A.: Serve a notice under the
Dividing Fences Act, N.S.W., calling on him to
assist in equal proportions towards the cost of the
fence. If he refuses or neglects to do so within
six months after receiving the notice you may pro-
ceed in the Small Debts Court to recover the amount
due H.C.S.: No, not periodically. He is, how-
ever, always liable to account to the persons inter-
ested in the estate, to whom he is in the position
of a trustee R.D.; The picture is Bernard Hall’s
“The Yellow Dress” R. 8.: Consult “The States-
man’s Year Book” or “Whitaker s Almanack at
the Public Library J.R.D.: Write to the editor,
Sussex and Surrey “Courier,” Crawley, Sussex (Eng.),
and ask him to make local inquiries W.R.: (1)
No. Best plan would be to advertise in overseas
trade papers. (2) A list could be compiled from
the overseas directories at the Public Library. Write
direct to the various firms... .0.W.W.: (1) The
world’s population has increased by about 225,000,000
in the past 20 years. (2) Figures are available for
the whole world. Crime has decreased in Great
Britain and risen in U.S.A J.F.D.: Pushtu is
the language of the Pathan races of Afghanistan and
the north-west frontier province of India. Gujarati
is the language spoken in Gujarat, the northern mari-
time province of the Bombay Presidency, and also
in Baroda and the native States adjoining M.L.:
Details are given in “The Public Schools Year Book”
(Dean and Son, London). “Whitaker’s Almanack”
for 1931 (page 343) gives a list with dates of
foundation and annual fees... .W.A.8.: (1) Write
1.C.5., Elizabeth-street, Sydney, and consult Clay’s
“Economics for the General Reader” (ss. 6d.). (2)
There is more demand for accountants F.J.R.:
If your idea is novel it is patentable. Employ a
patent attorney and secure provisional protection
before submitting it to a manufacturer P.M.L.:
A hard case, but in the absence of any specific agree-
ment, such as a written contract of service provid-
ing for periodical advances in salary, you have no
legal redress E.G.H.; The funeral did not pass
through the property in the exercise of right but
by permission of the owner. It vvould require long-
established usage to constitute a right-of-way....
F.P.: Call on the British Trade Commissioner, Herald
Building, Pitt-street, Sydney.,. .E.M.L.: Interview
the Chief Inspector, Food and Drugs Branch, Health
Dept., Hope-street, South Brisbane... .J.D.W.: The
palm seed is Livistona cliinensis, a native of South
China. Seed remains in the ground 12 months before
it germinates J.D.S.; From Angus and Robertson,
Sydney; 19s W.N.8.: Maru means “precious” or
“important,” and was formerly attached to such objects
as the central room in a Japanese castle. It later
came to be applied to merchant vessels, although it
has no nautical significance... .J. 8.5.: Might be pos-
sible to pick up a little money from newspapers if
you can furnish unusual prints of definite news value.
. ...J.D.P.; The Govt. Medical Officer at Norfolk
Island reports that the climate and general condi-
tions there are not suited to cases of pulmonary con-
sumption or asthma R.D. : Churinga is the name
applied to an aboriginal sacred totemic ceremony, to
a w'ooden or stone slab associated with the spirit
of each individual, or to anything regarded as sacred.
Alchuringa is synonymous with Alchera, which means
the time during which the ancestors of the totemic
groups arose; it is also applied to the totem and to
everything associated with it and the totemic group
in ancient times. For fuller explanation see Spencer
and Gillen’s “The Arunta” P.M.: (1) Correct
except that “Flanders” is written without an apos-
trophe, and that a semi-colon should be put after
“place” in the third line. (2) The author died
of pneumonia and meningitis on Jan. 28, 1918. (3)
Not without the permission of the holder of the
copyright. Write G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 2 West
45th-street, New York.... (Many others mailed.)


• • •
AUTUMN AT ITS BEST
MARCH, April and May are three of the most delightful months of the
year for holiday-making in Victoria. For autumn, south of the
Murray, is autumn at its best.
The tourist can choose from:—
MT. BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK: The most magnificent mountain
scenery in Australia, with a standard of comfort at The Chalet
unsurpassed by any other holiday-house anywhere.
THE VICTORIAN RIVIERA: Combined seaside-and-bush scenery at
Lome, Barwon Heads, Apollo Bay or Ocean Grove.
THE GIPPSLAND LAKES: Motor-boating and fishing in the lovely lake
country; or
THE MARYSVILLE DISTRICT: Invigorating walks through sweet-
scented fern gullies which experienced travellers have described as
“unexcelled by anything of the kind in the world.”
Travel experts at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU (Martin Place,
Sydney, or Queen’s Walk, Melbourne) will help the tourist to choose.
w
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
9S PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJ AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents; Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance ana
Agency Co., Ltd. a - ==
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. S.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Oherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a practice.
As yet he does not understand the
people, very well, and his difficulties
are increased by the local matron, a
good woman but incompetent, and by
the fretfulness of his wife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against his
wish, but who note, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. She bitterly resents his
having lost, in gold-mine speculation,
the money that might have talcen them
back to Italy, but when he offers to
send her back and support her there
she will not hear of it. Dr, Gherardi
takes consolation from the thought
that he will not stay in Banton very
long, and his wife tries to accustom
herself to the situation by meeting the
local social leaders, though with little
success. They think of her as a woman
who can’t fit in anywhere. Dr. Gher-
ardi attempts to have necessary re-
forms made at the hospital, but meets
with stolid discouragement. Allega-
tions touching upon his professional
performance and other misunderstand-
ings make him more than ever deter-
mined to leave, but imperceptible influ-
ences work to keep him there. He has
made a friend of John Cartwright,
Banton’s leading citizen, and is slowly
winning the respect and, friendship of
others. Mrs. Cartwright (Mona)
tries to befriend Mrs. Gherardi, who,
however, stumbles into one social
faux pas after another, and finally
determines to make no further effort
to become acquainted ivitli the people.
w
Enrico next mail and arrange to send the
money. It was time, now that he had
saved a bit, to put the law machine into
action. The pardon first. Then their
passage-money, and enough to ensure them
economic safety for a while. He would soon
have it. He was a fool to distress himself,
and to allow Teresa to distress him.
She was growing melancholy again. For
a time she had been almost gay and opti-
mistic. But these last months—ever since
that cursed concert It was no use
worrying. Teresa must bear with things as
well as she could. Well, she must endure
loneliness for a while longer, or go home
without him. He had his work to do.
Teresa stared for a long time at the door-
way through which he had escaped, and the
curious, half-smiling twist to her lips per-
sisted. It was a husk of a smile.
(6)
Soon even the pretence of including
Teresa in their activities was abandoned
by the women. Vaguely for their own com-
fort, they came to regard her as a semi-
invalid, incapable of meeting the demands
of society.
She saw few, except patients and trades-
people. But, as with her music, in aban-
doning the company of Julia, Mona and
the others she was abandoning only the
shell, the case. Real companionship she
had never had from them. Her loneliness
was not increased by this withdrawal, but
confirmed.
In her extremity she turned to Dino with
a passion of love and desire, trying to
wring from his baby mind and affection
something to take the place of the com-
panionship she lacked. She would spend
hours making suits for him. At night she
would spend hours bathing his slim, small
body. Then her laugh was purest, happiest.
She would devise games to keep him near
her, was jealous of the hours he spent at
school or with his companions in back
yards. Leo, noticing her increasingly morbid
concentration on the child, forebore, out of
pity, to chide her.
But one morning he was compelled to
interfere.
“Where is Dino?” he said. It was nearly
nine o’clock.
Teresa’s eyelids fluttered. Her glance was
secretive, almost furtive. “He is sick. I
am keeping him in bed. I do not let him
go to school this morning.”
“What is the matter with him?”
“I think he will have a cold. He—he is
feverish.”
Leo was concerned. “Oh, poor fellow!
Let us have a look at him.”
“There is no need. I will keep him in
bed.” But Leo had left the verandah and
gone into his son’s room.
“Well, old man, how are things?”
Dino was bouncing up and down on the
mattress. His face brightened at the sight
of his father.
“I want to get up. Why can’t Igo to
school?” His skin was rosy, fresh and cool
as a flower. With the restlessness of per-
fect health he yearned for the sun and the
joy of the world outside, which had been
inexplicably denied him.
Leo caught up the even-pulsing little wrist
and laid a hand against the boy’s forehead.
Dino’s round, dark eyes looked at him
wonderingly.
“Do you feel bad?”
The boy shook his head violently. “I
want to get up, Dadda. Why can’t Igo to
school? Mamma said”
“You can go to school. Come on, up
with you! Get into your bath.”
Teresa left the doorway and flew across
to the bed. “He cannot go. He must
stay here. I won’t let him go!” She
clutched at the boy’s shoulder and glared
at Leo.
“But he is perfectly well. Not the least
trace of a cold. You have imagined it.”
“He stays here to-day.” Unreasoning
as an animal, she huddled obstinately over
the boy, who was strained away from her,
and began to wail.
“Do you want to go to school, Dino
darling? Would you not rather stay here
with your mamma?” she said pitifully.
“I want to get up,” howled Dino.
Teresa loosed him and folded her arms
across her breast. “Then get up, boy,”
she said flatly. “You can go to school.”
Her beaten eyes blazed at Leo before she
walked from the room.
When the child had gone, she did not
attempt the usual performance of her
household duties. Listlessly she marked
the unmade beds, the dusty floors and the
dining-room littered with newspapers. She
went outside. Under a pepper-tree a rustic
seat had been fixed. From the house came
the sound of a bell. She made no move
to answer it. Her overwhelming depres-
sion precluded any coherent thinking. Leo,
on his way to the stable, where the man
was harnessing his horse, stopped at sight
of the drooping, little figure under the tree.
“What is it, Teresa?” he said gently.
She turned her brooding eyes to his, but
did not answer.
“Why did you lie, Teresa? You did not
really think him sick, did you?”
“No! I am sick! lam the one! Sick
with loneliness! You have plenty to see,
to do. I must stay here all day by myself
until I feel I am going mad. Why should
I not have the boy with me? I hate the
school He must forget everything he
learns. Why do you make him go there?
To take him away from me? To torture
me! That gives you pleasure?” She
twisted her hands together.
He left her, full of doubts. A holiday'
to the seaside for her and the boy? She
had scorned the suggestion. “Waste all
that money?” she had said. “Were they
settled here for good, taking their holidays
as the natives of the town! What did he
mean?”
(7)
Her fits of despondency alternated with
hours of hectic garrulity. She would over-
flow with love and encouragement, decorate
the house with flowers, polish it until it
shone, cook rare Italian dishes, laugh at
nothing and everything, insist on placing a
rosebud in Leo’s coat. Then for days she
would be silent, glowing like a trapped
animal, repulsing even Dino’s loving over-
tures.
One day she caught the child to her.
“Promise me, baby, that when you are a
big man you will go home to Italy, to
Bologna. I’ve told you about home—what
is home, Dino?”
The boy was frightened by her vehem-
ence.
“What is home?” she insisted.
“The big house over the sea. Bologna
is home; we’re going home soon, you said.
Mummie, why do you look like that? Are
you frightened, Mummie?”
“Sometimes. Yes, I’m frightened some-
times.” Her hand pressed roughly on his
head.
“You will never forget, will you, Dino?
Remember when you are a man you will
return to Italy.”
“Yes. Can I go and play now?”
(8)
The men came one morning with the
new acetylene-gas plant which Leo had
bought. Teresa came from the kitchen
into the yard.
“WTiat is dat?”
Larry Smith, the carrier, removed his
pipe from his mouth and told her.
“From where it come?”
“Oh, Austin; he’s the agent. It only
come up yesterday.”
“Well, you must take away. The doctor
he has changed his mind. He will not buy.”
Larry argued, but retreated before her
anger. He wasn’t going to deal with no
mad woman. It was Austin’s business. He
whipped up the horses and drove the
waggon out of the yard.
When Leo, having met Austin in town,
came in, raging, he found her on her knees
packing a large trunk. The dining-room
was denuded of ornaments and books.
Her eyes were scarcely sane as she said
to him, “I thought it must be a mistake.
You would not spend so much money on a
thing we will hardly use. We will soon
be gone. See, I’ve begun to pack already.”
Then, coming to her senses, she regarded
first him, then the gaping trunk. She
seemed dazed for a minute, then laughed
a natural laugh which relieved him of his
fright.
“Oh, Leo, I’m silly! I think it’s being
by myself so much. Forgive me.” Like
a child she came into his arms, which
tightened absently around her.
That incident disturbed him and he won-
dered if she were taking any drug. There
was plenty of morphia easy of access. She
knew the use of a hypodermic, and he was
careless with the drug—could not have told
what quantities he had had at any given
time. He watched her like a cat, and was
compelled to admit his mistake; though her
arms had lost a little of their roundness,
their freshness, they bore no trace of punc-
tures.
Another year, thank God, and they would
be gone! Enrico wrote that things were
progressing satisfactorily. But these irregu-
lar affairs swallowed money. Could he let
him have five thousand lira? A faint
doubt of Enrico disturbed him. Enrico
was his best friend; but money was scarce
in Italy. Who could tell? Want has a
way of subverting friendship. And it was
difficult to safeguard oneself. To do the
business through the Consulate was impos-
sible. It was a delicate business, must be
handled secretly. Whom could one trust,
if not Enrico? Still he could do nothing.
But it was impossible to send that money
just yet. One worked, tremendously. But
last year had been bad for the farmers.
The summer had been lit by bush fires.
Much property and stock had been lost.
The farmers’ loss was everyone’s loss.
Commercial, industrial, professional life was
all affected. The patients wrote, “Dear
Doctor, —Would you mind allowing the
settlement of my bill to stand over until
next harvest?”
Probably this wouldn’t interest Enrico,
who was so far away.
Strangely, he felt himself allied, without
bitterness, with the town of Banton and its
misfortunes. Enrico and Italy were remote,
outside.
(9)
Leo, waking first, groped to the door
and opened it. For a moment* he was
dizzy with shock, then snapped into com-
mand of his senses.
He pushed and pommelled at Teresa, but
she was hard to awaken, half suffocated as
she was by the smoke. He carried her with
bedclothes trailing through the door which
opened on the verandah, dumped her down
in a flower-bed, then returned for Dino,
who had wakened in his absence and was
running about blindly in the smoke-filled
room, screaming.
He did this automatically, hardly realis-
ing as yet that his house was on fire. In
the front of the house all was dark and
silent. A few eddying puffs of smoke curled
through the open door. But the back
premises, wooden attachments, were burn-
ing fiercely. He ran to the tank beside the
verandah. There was an old bucket placed
under the tap to catch the drippings. He
filled and dashed it against a blistering
flame-edged wall.
The fire laughed sizzlingly, and for a
few moments he stood inactive, watching
the licking tongues. Then with maniacal
fury he filled the bucket again, emptied
it on the burning wall, then filled it again.
He did it ten times, until the smoke and
the heat and a sense of his own impotency
overcame him, and he dropped the bucket
and staggered round to the front of the
house. Teresa crouched in the flower-bed
where he had dropped her, clutching Dino
to her breast. The child’s terror had died
at the feel of his mother’s arms. En-
chanted, he watched with wide eyes the
flames now visible from the front of the
house.
In the town a bell tinkled. A late re-
turning neighbor had seen the fire and was
sounding the warning; and in the course


Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
447 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3, 6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 % PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
e
D—1931
Dept.
17.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 88,
G.P.0., Sydney,
THE PATRIOT
w
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3<L
Contains everything a icoman needs to know.
of time the volunteer fire brigade, all the
town boasted, had collected itself from its
separate beds and had dragged the anti-
quated fire engine to the burning house.
For a few minutes there was feyerislh
activity. A thin stream of water trickled
from the single hosepipe; then the water
cart was empty. Soon too, the tanks be-
side the house were drained. The brigade
and a hundred or more curious spectators
drew their scant garments around them and
stood back to watch the place bum.
Leo, black-faced and agonised, implored
a few to help him.
“We must try to save something!”
Already a heterogenous collection of
clothes, books and light articles of furni-
ture were strewn round the garden. Furi-
ously he implored, and several men fol-
lowed him through the doorway.
Then Teresa, huddled in the flower-bed,
came to life. She flamed with savage joy.
She saw the men staggering with their
heavy burdens. She saw Leo’s awful face,
distorted as it pressed against the heavy
wardrobe which he was dragging, pulling
from the bedroom. His lips were bared
from his teeth, and the ghastly grin seemed
to sneer defiance at the fire which mock-
ingly overcame him. The wardrobe fell
and he fell with, it, but was up again in a
moment. Blood ran from a gash in his
head. He was trembling when he came
across to her. .The onlookers, mutely sym-
pathetic, made way for him.
“It is no use. We can save nothing.
Everything will burn, Teresa.” Blasphemies
fell from his cracked lips.
Teresa laughed. Purely, joyously, like
a child.
John Cartwright took charge of them.
“We can do nothing more, old chap.
Better come along now. I’ve arranged for
a constable to come round early in the
morning.”
Leo looked at him dazedly. He relaxed
his hold of Teresa. He felt that he should
say something about hotels, inconvenience.
But obviously it was not expected of him.
He was flooded with immense weariness,
and was coughing up his choking lungs.
John carried Dino and Leo staggered after
him, but Teresa walked lightly, gaily. Her
head was high. One of her bared feet ran
blood from a cut, but she paid no heed
to it. • Silent, exultant, she swept along.
Mona, solicitous and sympathetic, had
beds prepared. Brandy, coffee and then
the three of them were alone in Mona’s
spare bedroom.
“The suddenness of it,” said Leo brokenly.
“Everything gone in an instant. Oh,
Teresa!”
“Darling, don’t you understand?” Her
voice was eager, her face strained to his
was radiant as a child’s. “It is destiny,
Leo! It is a sign. God doesn’t mean us
to stay here. Now you must believe! Fire,
clean, beautiful fire, has swept away all
this hateful life! Now we can go. It has
freed us Leo!”
He regarded her gloomily, his receptivity
lessened by physical and mental misery.
He scarcely understood her. Her strange
rapture disconcerted him.
“Not a penny of insurance,” he muttered.
“It will take a lot to furnish again to
replace those things we have 105 t.... all
my instruments.”
She laughed. “Foolish one! Can’t you
understand? This fire has taken a.way
some furniture, clothes, a few pounds. But
it has replaced the big thing we’ve lost.
It points the way to freedom. We have
been too timorous, Leo. We were fright-
ened to go back without much money. But
I am frightened no longer. I will be poor.
I won’t complain! What is safety? What
does it matter to keep the body alive if
the heart be starved! This points the way,
Leo. Can’t you understand? Can’t you!”
At length her insistency penetrated the
thick veil which obscured his mental vision.
Suddenly he rose, and joined her laughter.
Turn this defeat into victory—anything to
escape the burden of worry.
“Yes, yes! We will go. We have been
fools, Teresa. We will wait no longer!”
In this delirious access of strength he could
blind himself to the facts that the pardon
remained unbought, that the money he had
sent home was swallowed as water in sand,
that he had barely enough left for their
boat fares. Such material obstacles were
negligible.
They clung to each other, whisperingly
waiting the dawn.
In the morning Leo was more sober. He
was sitting in borrowed clothes discussing
his affairs with John. From the bedroom
came the sound of Teresa’s voice. Volubly,
laughingly she chose and rejected garments
offered by Mona, whose instincts for friend-
liness had been revivified by pity and
admiration for the woman who could meet
disaster with such cheerful courage.
“My dear, I think you’re wonderfully
brave. I’d be prostrate with shock.”
Teresa smiled at her. “I do not care.
Eet is not’ing. Pouf!” But she did not
attempt to explain the source of her
serenity.
“Still, to clear out seems rather extreme,”
John was insisting.
“No. It is best,” said Leo moodily. “My
wife, too, wishes to go. She is not happy
here. No, John, it was a mistake ever to
have come. I will return to Europe and
take my chance. That is best. We are—
what do you say?—fish out of water.”
“You could sell the practice for a decent
sum if you stayed a few years. Ever
think of that?”
e


Position' Vacant.
Chief Secretary’s Office,
Brisbane, sth March, 1931.
“The Abattoirs Agreement Ratification
and Meat Industry Act of 1930."
A PPLICATIONS are invited for the posi-
*»• tion of General Manager of the public
abattoir and Chairman of the Meat Industry
Board to be established under the above-
mentioned Act. The person appointed will
be required to devote his full time to the
office. The salary payable to the appointee
will be £2OOO per annum. Applications,
which should be endorsed “Application for
position, Chairman, Meat Industry Board,"
should reach the undersigned not later than
the 18th April, 1931. Intending applicants
may obtain any further particulars desired
regarding the position from
G. W. WATSON,
Under Secretary-
“'pHE BARRIER MINER” began its 44th
year on March 1.
Certified and guaranteed circulation is still
over 5000 daily, not counting one free copy.
There is no municipal debt at Broken Hill,
nor £1 owing to the Rural Bank for building
houses.
No other daily newspaper goes to all the town
workers’ and district settlers’ homes.
Get your message into it. Get it now. There’s
nearly a million in the local savings banks.
Get some of it.
exporting
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES'S!
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales,- also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM SO/-
MERCHANTS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
“RECIPROCATING ENGINES.”
MOTICE is hereby given that the owner of
IN Australian Patent No. 3561/26 is de-
sirous of entering into arrangements to
supply all requirements of the public, bj
means of license or otherwise, for working
the said invention. Further particulars wi
be supplied on application to
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorney*,
483 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It happened at last. After 14 consecutive
victories, Phar Lap was obliged to accept
defeat in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes at Flem-
ington on Saturday. Conditions of this event,
as well as the Essendon Stakes and the
King’s Plate, had been specially altered to
prevent their being absolute gifts to Tel-
ford’s chestnut; penalties and allowances
were, attached to the time-honored weight-for-
age terms. Even so, few anticipated that
Phar Lap would fail to scoop the pool.
Bookmakers declined to field against the
champion at his first two appearances, but
it was a different story in the Lloyd Stakes.
“If Phar Lap is ever going to be beaten, it
will be to-day,” said shrewd judges. When
they began to back Waterline, the ringmen,
who had vociferously demanded 5 to 1 Phar
Lap, trimmed their sails, and they ulti-
mately accepted a shade less than 3 to L
Those who discarded Phar Lap for the
nonce argued (1) that a mile was too short
for him, (2) that he was not thoroughly
wound up, and (3) that Waterline —same
age—was too tough a nut to crack at a dif-
ference of 211 b. in weight. Adam Skirving,
the trainer of Waterline, astutely sent
Temoin out as pacemaker for his stable-
mate. Temoin set up a lead of six lengths,
and Pike, on Phar Lap, was compelled not
only to keep Waterline close company, but to
be careful that Temoin did not steal the race.
Merab, the only other candidate, never was
really in the hunt. Locked together, Phar
Lap and Waterline overhauled Temoin
near the home turn. A furlong and a half
from the judge it looked as if the champion
was overpowering “S. A. Rawdon’s” horse,
but when Duncan drew the whip Waterline
made instant response, and all the skill of
Pike was unavailing. Extended to the limit
of his present capabilities, Phar Lap lost
by a length.
Obviously Phar Lap wasn’t as fit as when
he spreadeagled Randwick fields last Easter.
Caulfield trainers had noticed the compara-
tively mild track work that Telford had
allotted him, and they concluded that reliance
was being placed on the chestnut racing him-
self into form for Wliat lies ahead in the
N. S. Wales capital, where he may attempt
to land the Sydney Cup under the unparal-
leled burden of lOst. 131 b. Phar Imp has
thickened out wonderfully as a four-year-old,
and now looks massive enough for heavy-
draught. work. His last-day effort at Flem-
ington will either string the super-horse
right up or cause him to go off, as he did
in the spring as a three-year-old. The A.J.C.
Autumn Stakes (14 miles), All Aged Stakes
(one mile), Cumberland Stakes (If miles)
and A.J.C. Plate (2f miles) will be run under
standard weight-for-age conditions. Assum-
ing that he is in normal shape, three of
these events will be at the mercy of Phar
Lap. It may be assumed that he will take
on the Cumberland Stakes on the Wednesday
in preference to the All Aged Stakes, though
a sportsmanlike act on the part of Telford
would be to give his hero a chance of demon-
strating superiority at a mile as well as
longer distances.
Auto Pay’s triumph in the V.R.C. Ascot
Yale Stakes gave a topsy-turvy appearance
to juvenile form in Victoria. La Justice
landed the Maribyrnong Plate in the spring,
but seems to have gone to pieces. After a
couple of autumn outings she was not con-
sidered good to run in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, and success went to Mulcra, a 10-
to-1 chance, with Bold Bid and Auto Pay
in the minor places... Starstone and Gallantic
figured among the also-rans. Starstone
nevertheless put up a 101 b. penalty in the
Ascot Vale Stakes, and finished second to
Auto Pay, while Gallantic vanquished Bold
Bid (who also is owned by C. B. Kellow)
for third honors. Auto Pay, bred in Maori-
land, will now be taken to Randwick. Finan-
cial whipped-in the Ascot Vale Stakes field,
and Sydney will require some more worthy
representative to withstand Victorian oppo-
sition in the juvenile classics of the autumn.
George Price, the Randwick trainer, had
a royal time in Melbourne. He won at Caul-
field with Veilmond, who later appropriated
the V.R.C. St. Leger. On Saturday last
Price annexed tl?e Leonard Stakes for Ned
Moss with Killarney (8 to 1) and credited
J. S. Brunton with the Australian Cup
through the agency of Carry On (10 to 1).
A pot of money had been lost over the Mag-
pie filly in the River Handicap (11 miles)
HE KNEW.
MUSICIAN : “I’ve had a hard morning with Chopin.”
Golfing Friend: “Yes, I know; it’s a fair cow tryin’ to get out of a bunker with the
old niblick, isn’t it?”
on the Wednesday; but staying is her forte.
With Duncan up, Carry On ran over her
rivals in the concluding furlongs of the Cup,
scoring by If lengths from diminutive White
Nos'e, with St. Mary (another South Aus-
tralian) third. The horse backed for most
money on the day was The Dimmer, from
Westralia. The Dimmer, who has inherited
high stamina from Spearhead, was third-last
as he passed the judge’s box for the first
time, and was rushed from that position
to the head of affairs in about a furlong and
a half —between the 7 furlongs and 54 fur-
longs. It was almost a physical impossi-
bility to win under such conditions, but The
Dimmer narrowly missed a place. He is
trained by Charles Barden. He has 31b.
less in the Sydney Cup than he carried at
Flemington.
* # * *
How unlucky Sunlit Reef (Great Barrier
—Sunny Brae) was in being beaten at War-
wick Farm on February 21 was demon-
strated in the Flying Handicap at the
Hawkesbury. Tom Pinch, the boomed three-
year-old of early spring, reappeared in this
race, and the bookmakers —who have fed
the boom for all they are worth —gathered
in a lot of easy money at absurd odds —
6 to 4 and 7 to 4. Tom again showed pace
for half a mile, but he was dead to the world
at five furlongs, and Sunlit Reef (4 to 1)
won easily from Trenette (12 to 1) and Cir-
culine (7 to 1), the favorite finishing sixth.
Knox was on Sunlit Reef this time.
§ • • * * *
That E. F. Walker has a stableful of
useful horses was again proved in the
Autumn Handicap. It was Sunflare’s turn
on Saturday, and it may be Troilus’s on the
next occasion. Gemlight was a short-priced
favorite, but ran badly—so badly that the
stewards were inquisitive—and Sunflare. (5
to 2), coming with a good run at the right
end, settled liosmina (4 to 1), an outsider,
Silent Rhua, being third. Sunflare is an
English-bred stallion who was once first prize
in a rafile. He runs his best races on this
course, having won there over the same dis-
tance (a mile and three furlongs) about 18
months ago. He is pretty good on his day,
though his successes have been few and far
between.
Workman (2 to 1) led from start to finish
in the Highweiglit Handicap, Snowcap (6
to 1) and Nan Kourgan (20 to 1) being
next in order of the procession. It was his
third victory in a few weeks —the second in
succession—and he was the only favorite
to score. Earlier in the season he galloped
like a squib, failing to see six furlongs out,
but he ran a good mile (in lmin. 43see.)
on Saturday, and looks robust enough to stay
any distance. He is a six-year-old chestnut
gelding by Colugo (sire of Gwillian G, the
last Sydney Gup winner) out of Clarice, and
Reynolds, the rider, seems to have mastered
his moods.
For Rosehil] on Saturday:—
Highweight Handicap: Ticino; next, Ver-
toy.
Club Handicap: Troilus or Truest; next,
John Buchan.
Trial Stakes: Sunlover: next, Sun Eagle.
Rydalmere Handicap: Troilus or Roley;
next, Kavalli.
* * =i: >!i
J. S. Barrett, who died recently at Christ-
church (M.L.), was for years one of Can-
terbury’s most prominent racing men, his
green colors with silver stars having been
carried on many M.L. courses. A solicitor
by profession, he divided his sporting affec-
tions between racing and cricket. It is on
record that he once said that his idea of
paradise was one long cricket match inter-
spersed with steeplechases.
* * * *
“Aintree” : In spite of the efforts of the
stewards to limit the entries by altering con-
ditions and increasing fees, the field in the
Liverpool Grand National to be run on
March 27 threatens to reach dangerous dimen-
sions. The race will have more of an inter-
national flavor than ever, for in addition to
American and Irish entries the Hungarian-
bred lepper Gyl Lovam will appear. Among
overseas winners in the past were Austrian
Count Ivinsky’s Zoedone in 1883, ridden by
the owner, and Lutteur 111., from France,
which won in 1909 with the French jockey
Palfrement up. Captain Poplar, a Czecho-
slav officer, owns Gyl Lovam, and has been
riding the horse in his European races.
* * * *
“E. Farm”: The Q.T.C. is discussing a
scheme for a new racing club with a course
in the Belmont district, within easy reach of
Brisbane city. The site chosen is ideal, and
there is room for a mile and a half track.
An ordinary club membership is contem-
plated, and the money is to be raised by the
issue of debentures.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Well-made matches are the rule at the
Leichhardt Stadium, and another even en-
counter was seen when Russ Critcher (10.6)
met Walter Lee (10.7 i). At first Lee looked
likely to score, as, fighting under full pres-
sure, he connected with many clean punches.
But the colored man only fought in flashes,
and Critcher’s consistency won him the
award. The referee’s ruling, although cor-
rect, was roundly hooted.
* * * *
Globe-trotting George Cook is no longer
the formidable fighter who beat Tiger Payne
a little more than four years ago. This was
made evident when Jack O’Malley (12.5)
was given a decision over the N. S. Wales
wanderer (13.7) at Sydney Stadium. Cook
fought hard, albeit sluggishly, and, in addi-
tion to scoring a knock-down for no count
in the seventh, patently won a majority of
rounds. O’Malley landed many gentle
punches to head or body, however, and these
taps gained him the referee’s blessing.
* * * *
The second meeting between Ambrose
Palmer and Tuzzolini drew a crowd of 7000
to Melbourne Stadium. The American
showed no better than in the fight in Sydney,
and the Australian middleweight champion
had an easy passage ta the k.o. in the ninth
round. Palmer, at list. 71b., was 21b. heavier
than the beaten man.
“Hotham”: Melbourne University rowing
enthusiasts held their 72nd annual meeting
the other night on Yarra’s banks. It will
come as a surprise to many that the boat club
has attained such a measure of venerability.
in point of fact, the Oxford-t Cambridge
boatrace is a bare 30 years older than Mel-
bourne Uni.’s first essay in watermanship.
:jc * * *
“Blue Chalk”: The “ranking” craze is
invading billiards, and an English journal
has published a list of the champions. After
Walter Lindrum comes Tom Newman, with
Davis third, McConachy fourth and Willie
Smith fifth. A lot of people will dispute
Newman’s superiority to Davis, while on
this year’s form, at any rate, McConachy
has no claim to rank ahead of Smith.
* * * *
Jack Crawford continued the fine form
shown in the N.S.W. championships by tak-
ing the Australian singles title from Harry
Hopman in Sydney by 3 sets to 1, scoring
20 games to 13 and annexing his third cham-
pionship for the season. Mrs. Crawford was
unexpectedly beaten in the women’s singles
by Mrs. Buttsworth, who won by 2 sets to 1.
The surprise of the meeting was the defeat
of the former champion, Moon, by the
South Australian colt Turnbull. The latter
lias been selected, with another colt, Thomp-
son, of N.S.W., to visit Hawaii.
$ * # *
Jim Carlton easily won the 220 at the
N.S.W. athletic championships on Sydney
Sports Ground. His time was 22 l-ssec.,
good going for the heavy ground, but 3-sths
of a second outside the record by himself and
Grehan, of Queensland. The ex-American
champion, George Bronder, also set new State
figures for the javelin throw —183 ft. 104 in.
$ * * *
“Splash”: Jean Cocks, the N.S.W. swim-
merette, who has been a bit off form this
season, redeemed herself in the 440-yards
State championship, swum at Bondi, cover-
ing the distance in smin. 50 4-ssec., or 12
3-ssec. better than the record standing in
Fanny Durack’s name since 1917. During
the swim she put up a new State record of
2min. 32 l-ssec. for 200 yards, and a State
and Australian best of 3min. 56 2-ssec. for 300.
Her time for the quarter was only 3 2-ssec.
worse than the world’s record by Josephine
McKim, of America, last year at Honolulu.
* * * *
“Baffy”: Nearly 400 entered for to-day’s
A.I.F. Cup, but many of Sydney’s best-known
golfing Diggers were non-starters. Blair
Wark, V.C., a leading Pymble light; T. A. J.
Playfair, one of the sponsors of Eleanora;
Bertie Lloyd, of Royal Sydney, and Ronnie
Osborne, of Killara, were amongst the miss-
ing though all went over the top last year.
The idea of conducting the competition at
Manly, Kensington and Killara simultane-
ously wasn’t popular. No. known system, of
handicapping can equalise play at Killara,
which is easy in all weathers, and Manly,
which is one of the trickiest courses in the
State in a nor’-easter. But the real reason
for the absence of so many ex-soldiers of
weight was the prevailing impression that
mid-week golf is out of place these hard
times. B. M. Riley, the Pymble doctor who
won the Cup the year before last; Nigel
Smith, also a doctor and about the most
persistent golfer in his profession and the
much-improved J. W. Adams, of Roseville,
were favorites in the betting on Tuesday night.
PERSIAN PHILOSOPHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Muhammed Ali, Shah of Persia —so
I heard the tale some twenty years ago—
To London went to sample its delights
And see the sights,
And generally get a bit more wise
To things undreamed of under Iran’s skies.
One morning half his staff arrived to say
’Twas Derby Day,
And chariots were waiting at the gate
To carry Epsomwards the Potentate.
“Nay,” said the Eastern monarch, “what
should I
Profit thereby?
Hither I came to learn and understand
Things hidden from us in our own far land.
But ’tis already known, well known to me,
I dropped to it before I crossed the sea,
My trusty brothers,
’Tis plain as ever was the moontide sun
In Teheran, that there are steeds can run
Faster than others.”
I see those courtiers bending to the ground
And meditating on that truth profound.
And ever since, when someone spills a store
Of his accumulated equine lore,
I wonder whether unequivocally
He’s got the bulge on old Muhammed Ali.
I see to races .sanguine punters streak
Week after week,
To learn no more than this, when all is done,
That some four-legged competitors can run
Faster than others, aye, and would and
ought—
That aggravating little afterthought
Must oft beset them —
If those who pull the strings behind the
scenes.
Or grasp the reins, the gods in the machines,
Would only let them.
N.S.AV
T. THE R.


Bert: | wouldnt risk it; it
LOOKS Too damgerous’,’
GERTi "oh, HOW THRILLING!"
Bert:' Surely youre not going,
in ? v
II >
Gert: If I shout for help dont„
YOU* DASH IN AND SPOIL THE FUN.
The Ins and Outs
The West Indians achieved their ambition
by beating Australia in the final Test at
Sydney, and throughout the game held
the upper hand. They had something the
best of the luck in having a hard wicket to
make a start on, but when the rain affected
the pitch skipper Grant was quick to take
every possible advantage of the position.
His decision to close in each innings and
give the home side a bad wicket to bat on
was a sound strategic move. Starting their
second knock 126 runs ahead, the Bucca-
neers lost five wickets for 124 at stumps.
Further rain came in the night, and Grant
again sent Australia to bat next morning.
It was soon evident that the wicket was
worse than in the first innings, and both
Woodfull (18) and Ponsford (28) should
have been out in the opening overs, the fast
bowlers Griffith and Francis making the ball
rise disconcertingly. The Vies, did well to
take the score to 49, when each departed,
caught by Constantine off Griffith and Mar-
tin respectively. Bradman, tricked by a
slow ball from Griffith, was clean-bowled for
a duck. Kippax, Oldfield and Rigg were
given little chance to loiter, and absolute
disaster was only staved off by a stand by
McCabe (44) and Fairfax (60. n. 0.), which
took the score to 180 from 76. Intense
excitement marked the closing stages, but
it was all over with the running out of Iron-
monger, the Australians being 30 runs down.
Fairfax played a great defensive innings, with
McCabe hitting spiritedly. Griffith, with 4
for 50, howled finely, while Constantine’s
catching was a feature of the match.
The tourists have not done so badly. Of
the 16 matches played 5 were won, 2 Shef-
field Shield States, N.S.W. and Queensland,
being among the victims. Eight matches
were lost and three drawn. In the Tests
the visitors scored 1763 runs for 91 wickets,
averaging 19.37. Australia scored 2247 for
58 wickets, an average of 88.74. W. 11.
Ponsford topped the Australian batting with
76.83, Ironmonger taking bowling honors
with 22 wickets for 14.68 apiece, though
Grimmett bagged 33. The consistent Grant
beaded the W.I. batting list with 42.5, and
Griffith with 14 wickets had the best bowling
figures, 30.92.
* * * *
“Carlton”: In spite of the fact that
N.S.W. is generally reckoned the premier
Australian cricket State, the Cornstalks have
only managed to win the Sheffield Shield
three times in the last ten years. Victoria
has collected the trophy six times, while
South Australia held it for a fleeting year
in 1926-27.
* * # *
“Cash Amateur”: Melbourne’s latest sen-
sation is the question of cricketer a’Beckett’s
amateur status. He is a member of the
Melbourne Uni. football club which plays
with the Metropolitan Association, a rigidly
amateur body. A’Beckett has taken money
for playing cricket with the Australian
Eleven, and the question is whether this may
not bar him from amateur football. The
matter is being considered by the metropoli-
tan body, but the Amateur Athletic Associa-
tion, which has been questioned on the same
point by the Uni. athletic officials, is of the
opinion that acceptance of the cricket money
is an act of professionalism.
* * * *
Cricket history was made in Adelaide the
other day when Tasmania and South Aus-
tralia met for the first time for 54 years.
South Australia won by 6 wickets, Nitschke
scoring 120, the first century in these
matches. The previous best was 87, made in
1877.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park” : After the Napier dis-
aster . the M.L. cricket authorities were
thinking seriously of cancelling the All Black
tour of England, especially since the public
was being asked to finance it by buying
shares. However, to do so would have meant
the disruption of the English season, and
the required number of shares had been
taken up, so it was resolved to carry on.
The team sails from M.L. on March 28.
Only one Test will be played, but the tour-
ists face a strong county programme.
* * * *
“W). G. Snort”: Some enthusiast has re-
cently summoned up energy enough to in-
quire into the means by which batsmen
contrive to get out. Contrary to the general
opinion that most are what Tom Emmett
once called “umpired out,” catches are respon-
sible for most of the trips to the pavilion.
In the long series of Tests between Aus-
tralia and England 1892 men have been
caught as against 1360 bowled. L.b.w. fills
a sinister third place with 279, and then
come c. and b. 176, run out 171, stumped
140, and hit -wicket 13. No one seems to
have obstructed the field, handled the ball, or
struck the ball twice, or if this has happened
the statistician has ignored it.
Racquet and Bawl
N.S.W. swept the board at the inter-State
champion tourney in Sydney, defeating Vic-
toria, Queensland and South Australia with
comparative ease in both the men’s and
women’s matches. The only fly in the teacup
from the Ma State’s point of view was the
loss of the Linton Cup, which carries the
junior championship, to Victoria after the
losers had retained it for six consecutive
years.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Jack Crawford showed such
remarkably consistent form, for him, in the
recent inter-State matches in Sydney that
onlookers wondered. John has taken to train-
ing systematically for the game, a thing he
had not done previously, with the result
that his old tendency to fade away in the
closing stages of a hard-fought match has
apparently vanished. He and Mrs. Jack
have put up something of a tennis record
this season. Each holds the singles cham-
pionships of two States, Victoria and N.S.W.
It only remains now to close down on the
Queensland titles later in the season
* * $
“C. Bumpkin”: If the next Australian
Davis Cup team travels abroad on the new
Orient liner Orontes it will be able to
get all the. practice required. A court
of the regulation size is available on the
spacious sports deck. I once travelled to
England with an English Davis Cup man,
and in order to keep fit ho played deck tennis
with a quoit, varying it with badminton.
He told me afterwards that he lost a tennis
championship as the result, it taking him
weeka to get over the bad habit of smashing
with a battledore at a shuttlecock which
merely floated away, however tremendous the
hit.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: That reference to the French
tennis ranking (B. 25/2/’3l) is a reminder
that France is producing an extraordinary
crop of left-handers. Boussus, as Austra-
lians who saw him will recall, is a molly-
hander. Three others ranked among the
hopes, Le Sueur, Goldschmidt and Merlin,
are also liver-wingers, so it may be that
France will some day field an entire left-
handed team in the Davis Cup.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The battle to select the
N.S.W. candidate for the Spalding competi-
tion, the winner of which is to have a free
trip to Britain to represent Australia in the
open championship, saw the Roseville pro-
fessional, A. Downs, come out on top. Downs
is a player of some consistency, and has of
late conquered his inability to' putt with cer-
tainty, but. few would give him a chance
against the might of Britain, America and
the Continent at Carnoustie in June. To
do him justice, he fairly overpowered an
opposition which included such formidable
opponents as Soutar and Fred Popplewell,
who finished third and fourth respectively.
His card for 72 holes of stroke play, 36
being played at Rose Bay and 36 at Ken-
sington, was 297 —good going. Downs will
now have to tackle the winners in the other
States in the final play-off in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Bris.”: Politics may mar the opening
of Brisbane’s municipal links in Victoria
Park at the end of March or some
time in April. Sunday play and the estab-
lishment of a bar being proposed, present
aldermen, who will have enough trouble
fighting several parties at the election in
May, are inclined to avoid a clash with the
wowsers and let the new council incur their
wrath. The newcomers will be asked to
permit Sunday play or risk financial loss,
and a club to' be formed (men, £2 25.;
women, £1 Is.) will take the blame for
the bar. Nine or a few more holes will be
ready for play at the opening, and 18 holes at
Is. 6d. will be available at the end of the year.
* # * *
“Plus One”: It has been decided to hold
the Victorian amateur championship on the
Yarra course from July 21 to August 7.
This is the first time a major event has
been played on this fine layout. Designed
and bunkered by Alex. Russell, it possesses
some of the best short holes in Australia,
and the imposing nineteenth is even more
suited to the occasion. Walter Hagen ex-
pressed the opinion that Yarra Yarra greens
were equal to any in the world. Walter
voiced the same opinion prettv often when
in Australia. Indeed, he never had a hard
word to say of any course if the gate was
up to expectations.
* * * *
“Hotliam”: The other day Melbourne’s
Kingston Heath Club staged a match between
teams of right- and left-hand players. In
most countries it would be hard enough to
rake up a team of a dozen or so southpaw
players, but Kingston Heath cam boast lash-
ings of them •in its own right. Of the 19
games played the right-handers won 11 to
their opponents’ 6, two being drawn. The
event roused a lot of interest, and it is
likely that other games of the kind will be
introduced to club programmes to vary the
monotony of bogey and par competitions.
* * * *
“Cosmop” : The parochial outlook has its
amusing aspects. Recently American ath-
letic authorities published an official list
of the world’s 10 greatest in tlie branches
of amateur sport affected in America. This,
very properly headed by Bobby Jones as
the golfing champion, consists entirely of
Americans, such world-wide sports as row-
ing and sculling, in which the Americans
do not excel, being omitted. A Sydney
journal commented adversely on the Ameri-
can attitude, and published its own opinion
of Australia’s best 10. Save for Ivo Whitton,
a Victorian, the list is entirely N.S.W. in
personnel, and it is safe to assume that
Whitton only just scraped in.
“Carnoustie”: The, fourth international
match for the Ryder Cup between profes-
sional teams from Britain and America will
be played this year in America on August
2G-27, at Scioto County Club, Ohio. Britain
at present holds the mug, having taken it
from a red-hot American side which invaded
England under Walter Hagen in 1929. Of
the three matches played to date the Britons
have won two, and the Tanks are keen as
mustard on winning the like, having selected
their team months ago and put the members
under a strict practising and coaching
regime, with Walter the Great as cock of
the midden.
“Carnoustie”: Golf has its martyrs like
every other form of fanaticism. I am not
referring to the husbands and families of
associate addicts, but to the genuine article
of the times when men were sent to the
bilboes and the stake for their convictions.
There is no record of the inventor of golf.
We do know, however, the names of the
first two men who suffered by reason of their
adherence to it. They were John Henry and
Pat Rogie, who in 1503 were fined and
imprisoned for playing golf on Leith links
during church-time. There is a hint for Mr.
Lang here. If his myrmidons could lumber
and fine all the folk of N.S.W. who play
go'lf on the Sabbath, in church-time and out
of it, there would be no need to take the
hat round to the Loan Council.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell is laying
down the tapes for a tour of the world in
the interests of the British motor industry.
He will take with him the car in which he
put up the speed record at Daytona, and
has kicked off by shipping it from
New York to Buenos Ayres, where it will
be on show at the great exhibition. Later
Campbell is to bring the big car to Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. It may he that when
he gets to the last-named he will find that
new figures have been set him to co'nquer by
Smith and Harkness.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian Light Car Club
is up to its elbows preparing the 200-mile
course on Phillip Island for its annual road
race. Alterations have been made in cor-
ners and gradients since last year, while one
or two narrow stretches have been widened.
As a result it is expected times will be faster
this season, the new handicapping system
being expected to assist in this respect. Dust
has been a nuisance on this course, and oil-
spraying has not proved very successful.
This year sea-water is to be tried. March
23 is the day of battle.
* * * *
“Brooklands”: Three English racing
drivers recently had an exciting experience
when trying to put up a new 24-hour record
for the 1500-c.c. class in a Delage car at
Montlliery. The car was travelling at 100
m.p.h. when the steering-wheel came off the
column in the driver’s hand. By some
miracle nothing else happened and the car
came safely to l-oost without any casualties.
Years ago a Melbourne motorist had a simi-
lar experience while attempting a Melbourne-
Sydney record. It happened on a long straight
stretch, down the middle of which the car
ran in perfect fashion. Disaster came at
the first turli, however, and in the subsequent
smash both driver and mechanic took the
count, fortunately without serious conse-
quences.
* * * *
“Rat Trap”: Hubert Opperman has duly
made his European landfall and is reported
as getting into training at once. One of
the tasks he has set himself is the annual
road race from Land’s End to John o’ Groats,
about 700 miles. Opperman’s longest straight-
out ride to date is 416 miles in 24 hours, put
up in Victoria four years ago. The through-
Britain ride is a much tougher proposition,
for much of the route is over very mount-
ainous country.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Auckland (M.L.) cyclists
rallied manfully to the relief of the Napier
earthquake sufferers, practically every bike-
straddler in the district turning out at a bene-
fit meeting held at Western Springs. The big
event, a five-mile scratch race, was won by
R. G. Foubister in the warm time of llmin.
13 l-ssec. An Australian woman’s record
was cracked by Miss V. Baird in the stand-
ing-start half-mile, the lady clocking lmin.
19 2-ssec. for the distance.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Cycling followers saw a novel
match at Sydney Velodrome the other day.
Keith Oliver, the well-known professional
rider, backed himself to cut through a 12in.
log before Leo Appo, the Australian wood-
chopping champion, could ride three times
round the track. Though Appo has never
starred as a cyclist, he won hands down,
Oliver having to find solace later in winning
the five miles’ scratch event. It is worth
noting that at least one prominent profes-
sional cyclist was also a top-notch axeman.
This was the Tasmanian crack A. F.
Grenda, who used to sandwich the two.
Miscellaneous
“Bias”: The Australian bowling authori-
ties have long been troubled by players so
lost to all sense of decency and shame as
to appear on the rinks in ordinary clothing.
Even more objectionable is the person who
wears braces with his otherwise immaculate
suit of flannels, though the average bowler’s
figure is such that some precaution seems
necessary. However, the A.B.C. is fed up
and has announced that no player will in
future be allowed to appear in representa-
tive events unless his attire is correct to
the last shirt button, not if he were the
reincarnation of Francis Drake.
Jjt sfc $ *
“Bumpk”: How is this for a feat of endur-
ance and versatility? Competing at the C-
grade semi-finals of the amateur inter-club
championships in Melbourne, 11. Mulholland,
a Hawthorn amateur, landed first in the 100
yards, 440 yards, high jump, and hop, step
and jump, and second in putting the weight.
He also took part in the relay race, being
on the track practically all the afternoon.
* # =!: *
“Cash Amateur”: The amateur-status
bogey has reared its head again, this time
in England. Three of England’s leading
amateur runners, J. E. ,Webster, F. Light,
and J. W. Benson, have been declared
ineligible to compete in amateur events.
The reason given is that the trio were
financed by their , club, the Birchfield
Harriers, out of a special fund devoted to
such purposes. According to the British
athletic heads, this is illegal, and the club
has been suspended as well as the players.
The competition arising out of the publicity
given nowadays to all branches of sport
leads inevitably to this veiled professional-
ism, and it is good betting that there is not
one amateur sport which is not tainted.
He He H« *
“Loom”: Queensland, alone of all the
States, boasts a rowing club composed of
oarsmen from the Great Public Schools,. and
the combination, which won the senior eighls'
at Brisbane regatta the other day, has a
long record of successes. Considering the
tremendous fuss that is annually made of
the “Head of the River” races in Sydney
and Melbourne, it is peculiar that neither of
these places can boast a club of old G.P.S.
boys. Even more peculiar is the fact that
the inter-State and State eights rarely con-
tain a member who has achieved distinction
of a sort in the much-boomed .school races.
Exactly the contrary is the case in England.
The University crews are invariably made
of men who have been in the first beats
at such schools as Eton. Westminster,
Shrewsbury and Radley. Australians who
from time to time gain places in the ’Varsity
crews are invariably products of Australasian
rowing schools —Platt-Mills, in the Oxford
eight this year, is a Victoria College (Well-
ington) oar. Where do all the Australian
G.P.S. rowing heroes go?
“Anon”: When the N.S.W. rowing pan-
jandrums decided recently that rowing races
for women should in future be cut out of
official programmes, the wail that * went up
eclipsed the crying of 14 cats on a Darling-
hurst roof at lunch-time —2 a.m. in that
locality. When the Victorians followed suit
the other day, even a bagpipe band couldn't
have drowned the miaowing. A delegation
of Victorian oarswomcn, presumably with
well-sharpened nails, attempted to interview
one of the offending authorities. The official
told inquiring reporters that lie had nothing
to say on the momentous subject. If reports
are true he was out when the delegation
called, having evidently escaped down the
back stairs—at least that is my own not-so-
wild surmise.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: As was expected after the
utterances of manager James Baxter of the
British Rugby team which played in Aus-
tralia last season, the International Rugby
Board of Britain has informed Australia and
M.L. that they must in future adhere to the
rules as approved by the board, the permis-
sion to vary these in some instances which
was granted some years ago having been
cancelled. These innovations were copied from
the rules of the professional League and
were supposed to make the game faster and
more attractive, though it is doubtful if they
did so. The matches against England in
Australia last year with the standard rules
showed that the game could be played at
sprinting pace under these. A large section
of M.L. players has always been opposed
to the altered rules, and the same is the
ease in Australia. The return to real Rugby
will be welcomed by all with the interest of
the game at heart, especially as M.L. and
this country will then conform, not only to
the British practice, but to the South
African as well.


UndeS
/Royal
jJYarrant
w
A^o^O
<*U!H
•WHO!
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGKC
QvmEsHddsiafc
Reims
“ MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
e
w
Food
w Bold. TSiDI MARK.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Better health
. in old age
The imperfect digestion of food
is a frequent cause of under
nourishment.
A nightly cup of Benger’s Food
greatly improves the general
health. It is most easily
digested and very nourishing.
From a Nurse: —
“My father, who is old, has your food
every day. We always think the cup he
takes at bedtime has a most soothing effect.”
For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
more and more as something better than a
hair dressing. It keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the encroachment of greyness apd
baldness.
m
ancTs
Macassar Oil
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND.
c.t.p.65
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
The Be-Kind-to-Animals Shop opened in
quite a doggy way last week with a pedi-
greed pup of the spaniel variety on the door-
step to welcome customers. The following
day a friendly Australian silky gave all-
comers the freedom of the shop, whose goods
are fruit and flowers, cross-stitch and lamp-
shades, powder puffs and iced sponges, baby
shoes and potatoes. Cool drinks and tea
are served, and the amateur shopkeepers
have so much stock to draw on that the
doors of 120 King-street will be open for an-
other two weeks. Of course, the good-hearted
souls who go out to spend a bob or two
that the underdog may keep body and bone
together are apt to feel a little stab of un-
certainty when, in Pitt-street or King-street,
they come upon a human underdog playing
a violin or a piccolo that his none-too-solid
flesh may not melt away altogether. Two busi-
ness women of this Letter’s acquaintance
solved the problem with Solomon-like impar-
tiality. “We will have lunch (for lunch
we must have) at the dog-shop, but our
spare pence we will give to the street
musician.” Last week from Camden came,
by the kindness of Mrs. Bayly Macarthur,
fruit and vegetables, and Mrs. Tom Knox s
garden at Leura supplied beauty in the form
of frangipanni. Miss Compton-Legge, of
R.S.P.C.A. renown, worked like an army, and
each day the shop was, as it is still being,
staffed by members and their friends.
Over 600 danced at the Wentworth on
Saturday to aid the Lud Mayor’s Earthquake
Relief Fund. The place was packed with
humans, the women in georgettes and chif-
fons, the males in the conventional glad rags,
which must have felt like steamy blankets
before the merry hours were sped. The
supper (the ingredients of which were
supplied by various city firms) was super-
excellent ; the cooking and service, donated
by Mrs. Maclurcan, were in the best Went-
worth style. The Governor smiled good-
will on all, and Mayor Jackson and Ins
lady were heartened by the whole turnout.
Mrs. Jackson sported black taffeta, and
former Mayoress Hilda Marks black-em-
bossed chenille. Miss N. Craig, a guest with
the Government House party, had pink roses
strewn on her black chiffons. President Mrs.
Stanley Hempton’s white chiffons were cosy
with swansdown, and Mrs. Maclurcan swung
a collar of venerable rose point on her ivory
georgettes. Maoriland Trade Commissioner
Schmitt and his lady were in the official
party. Knight Henry Braddon was there,
too. and auctioned a large box of chocolates,
which finally found an owner at £9-some-
thing.
Mrs. Jimmy Ashton’s welcome-home to
Mrs. Seppie Osborne and daughters Beryl
and Marjorie was linked up with a meeting
of the Harbo'rside branch of the C.W.A., of
which both matrons are enthusiastic mem-
bers. The meeting was a record one for
numbers, and all went merry as a marriage
bell, especially the offer of “Midge” Chis-
holm, now a luxury dress-designer and at one
time a woman on the land, to organise a de
luxe mannequin parade at the Race Tea
which the Harborside branch is arranging
for the last Saturday of the Easter meet-
ing. All the newest styles in winter clothes
are promised, and pretty and well-known
girls will parade in them, first on the stage
of the Wentworth and then down the length
of the ballroom. Gretel Bullmore will be
assistant director. The C.W.A. holiday
homes will benefit.
As delectable as fairy-floss was the wedding
frock worn by Struan Kemmis the other
night when she became Mrs. Henry Cross-
ing, of Quirindi, at St. Mark’s, Darling
Point. The wedding garment was of white
tulle that flowed in ethereal layers till it
cascaded into an 18-yard hemline. A tulle
veil and a string of pearls, of course, were
the complement. Lionel Kemmis, of Killara,
armed his daughter to the altar, and after
her walked two grass-green ’maids whose
tulle skirts were buoyant with excitement
and many yards. Murray Crossing was best
man, Bill Wood groomsman, and the popular
Oscar Irelands, of Darling Point, lent their
home for the celebrations. Mrs. Ireland
sparkled above absinthe-green made into the
perfect ensemble, and Mrs. Kemmis wore
commendable mist-blue georgettes, with
squirrel boundaries. Nor must mention be
forgotten of the new Mrs. Crossing’s little
black velvet basque coat, which, with deep
white velvet cuffs and high white velvet
collar, was the right finish for the black
velvet frock in which she waved good-bye to
the company.
Even 700 different styles, of summer mil-
linery absorbed above the bridge tables in the
Blaxland Galleries failed to prove that
society was rising phoenix-like above its taxes
and preening wings for a giddy flight.
Gazing down at that congested scene the
heart of the she scribe started a paean, not
unlike that song of Solomon which declares
that winter has gone from the land “and the
vine puts forth her shoots.” But, alas! the
rest of the week failed miserably to live
up to that early standard. Perhaps the
cause (the T.B. Clinic in Albion-street) had
a great deal to do with the rally of that
breathless army on surely the hottest, sticki-
est day of all this mad new year. There is
no Government subsidy for the clinic these
days, and an ardent committee and honoraries
are doing their best to keep the doors open.
Last week’s success, organised by Mrs. J.
Connolly and Mrs. C. O. Smithers and helped
by Mayoress Jackson and Mrs. W. J. Cleary,
will raise a barricade £5O high between the
wolf and the door.
Probably never in the history of Sydney
have barrowmen been so numerous along the
city kerbs. On the whole the policemen are
very human and refrain as much as possible
from moving them on. There are instances
of magistrates, too, tempering justice with
mercy in the matter of time to pay fines,
for the law recognises that many of these
men behind the shining load of tomatoes,
grapes, apples or pears have been squeezed
out of their ordinary jobs by the hard times,
and that the right sort of man will try any
sort of job rather than let his wife and
kiddies want. Women, too, have joined the
ranks of these movable fruit-shopkeepers,
and to guard against any risk of too harsh
a gesture by the arm of the law the House-
wives’ Progressive Association is approach-
ing the Marketing Board to look into the con-
ditions under which the street sellers are
allowed to retail fruit. The big thing in their
favor with the housewives, of course, is the
modest prices of such wares.
In a world where most artists are bewail-
ing that they sling paint from their brushes
instead of slapping on whitewash, the an-
nouncement of Will Ashton that lie’s off to
Europe sounds as inspiring as the first puff
of the southerly. Art-buyers at the moment
aren’t rushing the works of genius, and Will
probably thinks that while things are dull
is the,time to work upl material for a future
exhibition. Anyway he and his beret are
off as soon as his show at the Macquarie
Galleries closes. The Gallery snapped u£
the gem of this, a bit of English scenery
called “Monmouth.” It has the lush beauty
of stone houses, red roofs, green blade and
leaf and glossy river in which we must be-
lieve England abounds. The day was fever-
ish when this Letter dropped into the show,
and the snow scenes on Kosciusko heights
made particular appeal. What with the
Wynne prize and his recent sale to the
National Gallery, the artist goes to Europe
replete with credit if not cash.
According to cables the theatrical E. J.
Carroll, with wife and sdn Texas, will soon be
in Sydney again. It’s to be hoped that
no hasty printer misspells the lad’s name.
This would be no' time to arrive heralded by
the name of Taxes !
Maoriland will be feeling proud of Lily
Copplestone, who last Sunday added the
swimming ot
Sydney Har-
bor to her long
list of achieve-
ments in the
Dominion. She
is probably the
first woman
to have swum
Port Jackson,
and she beat
by one hour
and nearly 19
minutes the
game little girl
from Bondi,
Irene Rolfe,
who defended
the honor, as
it were, of
Sydney mer-
maids in the
adventure. The
two took off
at Neutral
Bay in shark-proof nets, which were towed
by launches, shortly after two, and arrived
at Manly in good time for supper, Lily s
time for the seven miles being three hours,
six minutes and twenty-one seconds. Laly
has already swam the Wanganui River and
Wellington Harbor, and now her thoughts are
turned to the English Channel and the
Catalina Marathon race. Falk made the
picture.
There was a gathering of the big
men in the publicity world at the Lyceum
last Sunday. Here in an atmosphere of
prayer and hymn the convention raging now
at the Blaxland Galleries received a bless-
ing from Padre J. Bidwell, of St. Paul s,
Bedfern Later Daisy Richards’s violin
poured out its riches, Thelma Houston sang,
and a girl with a haunting voice added two
poems of beauty to the afternoon. His State
Ex. Sir Philip Game, officially opened the
talkie on Monday morning, and when it is
ended the problem of how to make people
advertise every day and in every way will
be quite solved, though if the advertiser isn’t
quite solvent there’ll be still another pro-
blem to unravel.
Unemployment, wives and children on
short rations, and shattered nerves are the
lot of thousands o'f men who fought in France
and Palestine. To help them, the United
Returned Soldiers’ Appeal Fund is making
a big, drive in Martin-place on “Tin-hat
Day,” next Friday, when every citizen of
Sydney is asked to dig up a spafe bit of
tin for the cause.
Of course the fairies go to some christen-
ings, and apparently the whole of Fairyland
turned out with gifts for the lady in this
Bernice Agar picture. They ordained for her
good looks and charm a first husband who
was a wealthy
baronet, and a
handsome
second ven-
ture, who is
an earl. She
is the (Count-
ess of Bective,
who before
she married
the late Rup-
ert Clarke was
Elsie Tucker,
a pretty Syd-
ney girl. The
Countess
is back in
Australia on
business con-
nected with
the Clar k e
estate, but is
not staying
long; the
Oronsay, which
brought her here, will take her back to the
husband, who is referred to in the home
circle as “the Cinema Star.” Eldest son
of the Marquess of li'eadfort, he is heir to
two Irish seats, Headfort and Virginia Park,
and in due time the lady will on suitable
occasions sport a robe with three and a half
bars of ermine upon the miniver and a train
a yard and three-quarters long. At present
the Countess wears her waved hair short;
her clothes are very smart, and she is true
to her old passidn for browns and blues.
Her greatest thrill since her arrival was a
telephone call from her husband in London
at two o’clock in the morning. It started
as the ordinary three-minute six-guinea talk,
but before the silencer was put on the meter
had ticked up 14 guineas. (It was before
trans-Pacific telephone conversations had
been dreamed of that somebody wrote
“Silence is golden.”) The Countess is the
mother of four lovely children: the young Sir
Rupert Clarke and his brother Ernest, little
Elizabeth Clarke and Lady Olivia Taylour
(pronounced Tayloor), daughter of the Earl
of Bective. The Russell Clarkes were the
Countess’s hosts in Melbourne, and old Syd-
ney friend Mrs. Amos B. Coleman gave a
lunch in her lio'nor, to which, by the way,
came Mrs. Frank Albert, herself but newly
returned from London and the Riviera. The
decorations were the guest’s favorite red
roses.
Tartans are staging a come-back in Paris,
so a just-returned reports. Plaids and checks
appear in some of the best tweeds, cloths
and even chiffons. Gay little tartan coats
and skirts worn with plain flannel jumpers
and berets to match were already brighten-
ing the boulevards, as were tailored checked
frocks under cloth topcoats. The plaid .silk
blouse is also quite in the picture, and the
tiny little jacket with the upstanding fur-
bordered collar and the nipped-in waist
and the accompanying little muff is still
popular. Only the slim of hip really
look well in the long, straight-to-the-knee
and thence flared-to-the-ground styles. These
models are the essence of simplicity, often
with' only a self scarf for adornment. One
breath-taker seen the other day was of
chiffon in what this Letter calls Avalon
blue —every woman who motors to Palm
Beach knows just how lovely that is.
Another evening frock which any woman
might envy was in black crepe de Chine:
the long, slightly-moulded bodice was tucked
and the ankle-length skirt was many-pleated.
The neck of this frock was cut into a slight
V, and over the shoulder bands diamente
lay like a flat necklace meeting and ending
in a pendant device below the waist. Hand-
knitted suits are again the smartest among
sports wear; no small hat is complete with-
out eye veil. Black or white remains a fixed
idea for the dance frock, and the little velvet-
coat goes to every party. Combined with a
long velvet dress in the same coloring it is
both useful and lovely.
At the Forum Club the other day, clever
Miss Sarah Hynes, who spent her girlhood
between Scotland, England and France, told
how her mother had been privileged to know
Jenny Lind, Patti and Melba. Of the three
Jenny Lind, in Mrs. Hynes’s opinion, pos-
sessed beyond doubt the most beautiful voice.
It gushed out clear as a jet of crystal water,
w r arm as the song of the nightingale.
A bunch of pars, from Bananaland: —
The new club-house at Hamilton bowling green
was opened by Sir John Goodwin before a large
attendance. Dahlias and roses dressed the assembly-
room, and president and Mrs. Hornibrooke received
the throng, Mrs. Hornibrooke wearing black satin, with
a hat of black baku. Lady Goodwin wore ashes of
roses and Chantilly, and a baku hat to tone.
Archbishop Sharp presided at the farewell in All
Saints’ Hall to Bishop and Mrs. de Witt Batty, and
the Governor and Lady Goodwin attended. A wallet
of notes was amongst the expressions of goodwill.
Mrs. A. E. Moore, president of the Crfche and
Kindergaiten, and members of the executive,
arranged a garden party for the departing couple
at St. Mary’s, the home of Dr. Lilian Cooper and
Miss M. J. Bedfprd, which overlooks the curving
reaches of Brisbane River opposite the Botanic
Gardens. Under an old Moreton Bay fig the tea
tables were set amidst a gay embroidery of flowers.
Mrs. Moore wore black muslin and wide-brimmed
black hat; Mrs. de Witt Batty chose a gown of
red and blue on a black ground, with a navy .hat.
St. Andrew’s in Creek-street saw the wedding of
George Oswald Boulton and Ethel Aplin Campbell.
The bride, who was given away by her brother, J.
G. Campbell, was in primrose iris voile, the square
neck embroidered in daffodil and green. A daffodil
summer felt, with yellow flowers under the brim,
and a sheaf of deep gold roses completed the picture.
Ruth George and Kathleen Boulton ’maided in
matrix green and opal voile respectively.
The citizens’ farewell to Mayor Jolly took the
form of a casket of Queensland woods, the inevitable
illuminated address and a cheque for £lOO. Mrs.
Jolly will get her presentation later.
The Lake, Thargomindah, home of the C. H.
Greens, was the scene of the marriage of Henry
Ronald Hennessey, of Ardoch station, to Beatrice Helen
Green. The bride, who was given away by her father,
was in white chiffon voile with cut tulle veil. Her
bouquet was of lilies and roses. Elizabeth Maude
Green ’maided in pink floral voile.
Jean Annand has accepted an engagement ring
from Morton Douglas. She is the daughter of Colonel
and Mrs. Annand, of Ascot.
Rose Winter was welcomed at the Y.W.C.A. rooms,
with Mrs. L. E. Edmonds in the chair, and Mrs.
A. E. Moore on the platform. Thelma Harris,
Rhoda Felgate and others gave music, and an elo-
cutionary programme. A specially-composed song
of welcome was sung and Colonel Annand spoke a
welcome.
For Beryl Overell, whose marriage to H. A. Mc-
Donald, of Melbourne, takes place soon, Mrs. Harold
Thomas had a party at Verona, Clayfteld. The
hostess wore moonlight blue; the guest of honor
rose mariette. Pink radiance roses decked Rhodesia,
Clayfield, at the party given by Mrs. D. H. Rhoads
for daughter Elfrida, who is marrying Claude Barron.
The hostess’s cream crepe de Chine had a design
in blue and brown; Elfrida was in ivory chiffon,
patterned in blue. Hilda Nicholson gave a tea to
another bride-elect, Vera Stirrat, in Rowe’s cafe,
when brown was worn by the guest of honor. For
Phyllis Hempsted, who is marrying E. K. Penny-
father, Mrs. J. W. Ward staged a bridge party at
her home at Toombul. The hostess was in blue
Canton crepe, the guest of honor in nattier blue.
And a few from South Aus.: —
The last race meeting at Victoria Park had all
the aspect of a garden-party. Mr. P. J. Flan-
nagan (chairman) and Mrs. Flannagan entertained
at afternoon tea. Mrs. Flannagan wore a fawn
georgette ensemble with a small brown hat; her
daughter, Mrs. Eugene McLaughlin, chose a black
cloth suit and close-fitting black hat. The Mayor
and Mayoress were present, Mrs. Glover wearing a
navy toilette and small navy baku hat. Mrs. Fred
Tennant was smart in a white satin sports suit
and a black lace wide-brimmed hat.
Mount Osmond Country Club golfhouse presented
a cheerful scene when members entertained their
friends at “a night on board ship.” The spacious
lounge was cleared to represent the deck and hung
with bunting, and a programme of ocean-liner games
enjoyed. One item that found favor was a race
game, in which the men were jockeys. Dr. John
O’Brien and J. H. Morish, who organised the even-
ing, acted as stewards; E. W T . Holden was judge;
P. Claridge, in a scarlet coat, officiated as starter;
C. Craven was clerk of the course, and Dr. M.
Ericksen was a bookie in check suit, red waistcoat,
grey bowler hat and spats, and a false nose.
Some 200 were present; the supper-tables were gay
with phlox and asters, and the evening concluded
with a dance.
Mrs. F. Angas Johnson gave a farewell party at
her home, Portrush-road, Marryatville, for Mrs.
Victor Cohen, who leaves shortly for Melbourne.
Beautiful roses and carnations decorated the rooms
where bridge was played. Mrs. Cohen was again
the guest of honor at a bridge party given by her
aunt, Mrs. Arthur Roberts, at the Piccadilly. The
hostess was smartly frocked in black chiffon
embroidered with colored flowers, and her hat was
black and close-fitting. Mrs. Victor Cohen wore an
almond-green marocain ensemble and a beige straw
hat. The tea-tabje was gay with asters and del-
phiniums.
The bride of a mining manager must be pre-
pared for adventure. Ruby Barnes, who left
Adelaide for Sydney to catch the Marsina for New
Guinea, will travel by aeroplane from Salamoa to
Wau, where her marriage to Will Veale takes
place, the Warden of the district officiating. The
couple will then embark upon a 13-mile mountain
climb by mule back, with a retinue of natives, to
Edie Creek.
Dr. W. Anstey Giles will leave in April on a
trip to England.
Mr. A. E. M. Kirkwood, lecturer in English at
Adelaide Uni., returned with Mrs. Kirkwood by the
Balranald after a 12-months’ trip to England.


II
El I
■
I||l§!|l*/
Ills
II
LifH ?
ISII*/7!fniWl!
ill 111
Miff! I .IfliaHi
I ftili Mi
Ili II iifflll
.= =5 == =
}fm
$ tfioi-: nmm {*«**• I
11
=s =££=
ii
r
liiii
n"ilSs^J
IU-S-AV CAN AIDA» lEIUIROIPIE
Travel round the Sunny South Seas and
enjoy, not some, but every possibility of your
overseas trip. U.S.A., Canada, or Europe
may be either reached, or happily rounded off,
by a tour through the South Sea Islands, and
splendid accommodation on Royal Mail Liners
obtained with the expert assistance of Union
Company Officials.
Union Steam Ship Co., 247 George Street, Sydney; 59 William Street, Melbourne;
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane—Adelaide —Perth.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL LINES
ourthe Pacific Islands
Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
, r
, .... ■- 7 • '
' • ! .. >■ ""
iTC Cc.|« A v»^
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday
land! For rest, for play, for thrilling new
experiences. . . .colorful native life and customs,
quaint tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and
flowers, coral lagoons. . . .outrigger canoeing,
morning dips in cool jade-green waters. And
always you return from exotic delights to the
palatial modern comfort of the
S.S. MATARAM.
Next Sailing, February 18, March 31, 1931.
Write for Leaflet No. 52/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
Ask for
the “B. P. Magazine,”
1/- per copy.
CAMBRIDGE
WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
YORK HARROGATE
EDINBURGH
and other beautiful Cathedral Cities. These are on the
LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY.
the track of the “Flying Scotsman.” Illustrated Booklets gladly supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 7-11 Bridge Street, Sydney, and all branches, or
L.N.E.R. West End Offices, 71 Regent Street and 59 Piccadilly, London W.l.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liabiilty
e
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228 378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. ’ ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & C ttd.
If you have
Wool 8c Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London!
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One=third of Queensland’s
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
®he Brisbane (Courier*
has a Circulation which is
approxima tety
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* # *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
®he Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET,
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
hair
* EED
HERE'S
why
&
Grey Hair ia always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPCdLeris (.MEXICAN)
WcUrud S&dtt
♦removes the grey
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally , posted
direct (-4/6), 6d. being postage.
e
If any illustration in "The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
In Fox Movietone’s version of “Lightnin’ ”
at Sydney Regent Will Rogers is the gentle
rustic who proves less ingenuous than he
seems, and Louise Dresser is his wife, who
proves less capable than she thought. Helen
Cohan, as their daughter, helps to defeat
the crooks who are trying to rob them, and,
with her young man, provides the love
interest.
As in the play, the family hotel is
on the boundary-line dividing Nevada from
California. On the Nevada side it is
packed with ladies and gentlemen acquir-
ing domiciles for Reno divorces, and part
of the business depends on Will Rogers’s
homely advice to these people, and part
on the efforts of a comic Nevadan sheriff
to make arrests —said efforts being frus-
trated as the proposed victims step over
the line into California. A good deal of
comedy is got out of the American system
of administering justice, and it all helps to
keep the pot boiling. But Will Rogers is
the only genuine potato in the pot. The
audience is not really interested in the
sheriff, or his victims, or the Divorce Court,
with its strange litigants and preposterous
judge. On the rare occasions when Rogers
is off the screen dulness reigns. If any
quality stands out amongst those with which
he has been so lavishly endowed, it is pro-
bably his voice. In all pitches and for all
purposes it is reality itself, and there never
was a more perfect instrument for the ex-
pression of the whimsical sentiment in
which he specialises.
* * *
Jessie Royce Landis is the only woman
in Raramount’s “Derelict” at Sydney Capi-
tol. George Bancroft, making Havana as
mate of a tramp steamer, finds her in a
cafe with William Boyd, mate of another
tramp. Rivalry develops between the men
and culminates in several of those fights
that they do so well. The three sail for
Rio, with Bancroft as skipper and the girl
smuggled aboard by Boyd. After a col-
lision their ship limps into Orambo, where
Bancroft is sacked fori carrying women.
His former command goes to Boyd, and he
flukes a job on a crazy banana boat skip-
pered by a dipsomaniac. And so to the
hurricane which is the chief reason for this
picture’s existence, and the salvaging of
Boyd’s ship by Bancroft, whose rewards
are the return of his job, a huge salvage
dividend and the hand of the lady.
Bancroft is at his strenuous best, and
each part down to that of the humblest
super—the helmsman of the banana boat,
tor example, who is seen for no more than
a flash has been allotted with meticulous
care. Where all are excellent Ward Boetler,
as the dipsomaniac, and Donald Stuart, as
a Cockney steward, stand out. The sound
and photography in the collision and hurri-
cane are mechanical miracles.
. "follow the Leader,” also at the Capitol,
is senseless slapstick from which but one
intelligible fact emerges—the marriage at
the fimsh of Ginger Rogers and Stanley
Smith. Ed. Wynn, as leader of a band
of comic gunmen, is thrown out of stage
doors and offices and insulted and assaulted
in conformity with ancient tradition, and it
is all the sadder inasmuch as most of those
concerned are sound performers. However,
this production is a thing of sweetness and
light by comparison with “Dogville Melody”
at , . | e . Bi'ince Edward, an effort at humor
v inch is disgusting as well as unfunny.
* * #
The story of “Morocco,” the new Para-
mount show at Sydney Prince Edward, has
been told in every language. When an
elderly man, however rich and worthy, com-
petes for a true daughter of joy with an
attractive young waster the waster always
wins. Amy Jolly’s profession is not men-
tioned—she is nominally a vaudeville per-
former ; but Marlene Dietrich leaves the
audience in no doubt about it. She marks
Legionary Brown for her own on sight m
the Mogador cabaret where she is making
a first appearance, and his casual reception
of her advances, his habit of being discovered
toying with native girls, and his sudden
departure leaving the message “I’ve changed
my mind” scrawled on her looking-glass, only
fan the perverse flame in her courtesan's
heart. They are the methods of the success-
ful gigolo all the world over. Drink doesn’t
cure her; it is always resorted to in such
cases, and merely lias the effect of making
the victim bad-tempered. The prospect of
marriage with the wealthy and charming
Kennington only makes the pain worse. She
fights her way to the man whom she would
have cast aside in a month or so if the
course of her infatuation had run smoothly,
and tramps doggedly after him into the desert.
The choice of such a theme was 1 a stroke of
genius. It is interesting to intelligent film-
patrons as a cruelly faithful study of the
reactions of a lascivious woman to a worth-
less admirer, and it will appeal to the unso-
phisticated as a conventional romance.
Marlene Dietrich, the new star, has some
of Greta Garbo’s most effective tricks —the
insolent economy of words and facial ex-
pression, the habit of slouching indifferently
hands in pockets. She is more beautiful than
Garbo, but she has a dowdy head of hair and
she lacks the Swede’s taste in dress. To
balance these disabilities she lias a lovely
voice, and her articulation is startling in its
clipped perfection. Gary Cooper, as the
soldier of the Legion whom all the ladies
love, and Adolphe Menjou, as a smart globe-
trotter, who falls in love with Amy, are
themselves. The subsidiaries are unremark-
able, though sound.
The direction, for which the German
genius Von Sternberg was responsible, is
masterly. By cutting the dialogue to tiio
bone, and by his adroit use of music and skil-
ful handling of crowds and marching soldiers,
I on Sternberg has made what might have
been a dull, even sordid, picture a thing of
charm and beauty.


Books.
D ABBIT-F ARMING in Australasia.
Sainsbury’s Standard Book (4/6) tells
everything.—A. SAINSBURY, F.R.H.S. (ex-
editor “N.Z. Smallholder”), Otahuhu, New
Zealand.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: DEAREST ENEMY
CRITERION: ON THE SPOT.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SONS O’ GUNS.
■ THE 1
VCEVSTOte
\p>€AUTv/
S 3.
Lilli
gaiL
ftiCU^
SOAP+
MEDICINAL
<Q»k>
futicura
VJOIMTMIKT
Cutieura
Preparations
Cutieura Soap— fragrant and pure,
to cleanse and purify, Cutieura
Ointment —antiseptic and healing,
to remove pimples, rashes and irrita-
tions which mar the beauty of the skin,
and finally Cutieura Talcum— so
smooth and pure, to impart a pleasing
fragrance to the skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
M ebourne
Chatter
B uddey's
Clizabellran
Tea Boorns
Socially the mid-week meeting: at Fleming-
ton was ahead of Newmarket day, for Lord
Somers was there, and his bunch of luncheon
guests filled the v.-r. pen. Rain threatened
in the morning, and though later it was
gloriously fine the dressing was mostly con-
fined to tweeds. For several seasons the
dressmakers have endeavored to popularise
the woollen material, but with no great suc-
cess. The new weave is much lighter and
finer than of yore, and its advantages are
being fully recognised. The much advertised
wine and green hues are not greatly in
favor, and at Flemington flecked mixtures
with a touch of blue were in the lead. New
winter modes were seen in coat-frocks, in
suits that revived the Norfolk jacket, Rus-
sian tunics, basques and coats of every length,
including those that are cut longer at the
back than at the front. The ensemble outfit
with toque or beret of the same material was
chosen by many. One girl departed a little
from the vogue by wearing a crocheted
beret and scarf of the same tint as her grey
tailored cloth suit.
With his Ex. were Captain Speir and his
sister, connections of Lady Somers, who
are here on a visit. Miss Speir wore black
foulard printed with yellow and white
daisies and a black shiny straw hat. Cap-
tain and Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald were
also in the party. Among those who lunched
with vice-royalty were the Lud Mayor and
Mrs. Luxton, the Alec Russels, Mrs. Alan
Currie, the Hunter Landales, and Mr. and
Mrs. Harry Creswick, the last-named in a
banana-colored cloth costume with a collar of
mink that blended with her felt haG, Judith
Black, of W.A., whose black velvet beret
topped a fawn frock, Margaret Fairfax, of
Sydney, and the Hon. Mrs. Geoffrey Gibbs.
Mrs. Oscar Lempriere and Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald were wearers of all black, and
Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie chose wine-toned
attire. Madame Kroef was smartly garbed
in brown and fawn tweed. Mrs. J. J. Daly,
who was accompanied by her mother, Mrs.
M. E. McMahon, of Sydney, was tailored
in Lido-blue cloth with the same colored hat.
Mrs. Robert Knox cheered her black rai-
ment with a cherry-red parasol. Mrs. Philip
Parsons, of Adelaide, Mr. and Mrs. William
Ardlie, of Warrnambool, and the J. Laidlaws,
of Geelong, were amongst patrollers of the
lawn.
The Australian Cup usually draws a big
attendance to Flemington, but the alteration
of the day this year made a difference, the
meeting having to compete with several
counter-attractions. The weather being vari-
able, with fluctuations of temperature, there
was a medley of styles in the dressing, but
it was vain to look for anything very strik-
ing or original in the parade of fur coats,
tailored suits and chiffons. Mrs. Claude
Macdonald got a little away from the beaten
track with a gown of the princess robe mode
in bottle-green cloth, embroidered in black,
with leg-o’-mutton sleeves in a dark-wine
tone. This combination of the two shades
we are told we must wear this winter was
topped by a black felt hat. Lord Somers
lunched with the committee. In the v.-r
pen during the afternoon were Mr. and Mrs.
Keith Tolhurst, she in a powder-blue flecked
kasha tweed frock with a white hat, and
the Geoffrey Haggards, the lady choosing
black, relieved by mushroom pink that
matched her straw millinery. Captain and
Mrs. R. T. A, McDonald and Captain Speir
and his sister were likewise there. Mrs.
R. Linton was in summery raiment that
blended two tones of golden-brown lace. The
Moulden lady, of S.A., dressed for heat, her
gown and coat being of white georgette and
guipure lace linked to a leaf-green hat. Miss
Neville Collins achieved smartness with a
black gown, white fox furs and cherry-colored
parasol. Joan Chirnside was one of many
girls turned out in dark green. Beth Stuart,
of the Gippsland Lakes district, looked nice
m a frock of enamel green and a small white
straw hat. Marjorie Clarke sported deep
blue with a trimming of grey fur, and Marie
de Bavay was a study in petunia pink.
General Chauvel’s lady wore with a frock
of beige pink silk a primrose-tinted straw
hat. Mrs. Monty Grover was accompanied
by Mrs. Arthur Adams, of Sydney * Mrs.
Norman Falkiner’s suit of black-and-white
flecked tweed, was topped with black mil-
linery.
For the first time in the history of the
Jewish community in Melbourne, Purim was
celebrated with a dance, which took place
on Saturday night at St. Kilda Memorial
Hall and was engineered by the Liberal
Synagogue. The feast, which falls about
March 1, commemorates the deliverance of
the Jews from the plot of Haman. It is
only during the season of Purim that a
Jewess msiy wear male attire, and as the
hop was a bal masque the privilege was
exercised.
A reunion of ex-students of Lowther Hall
Grammar School took the form of a garden-
party at their old school. Gwen Harris, the
retiring president of the Old Grammarians,
was hostess, and the head-mistress, Miss E.
Kirkhope, and a former teacher, Miss Short,
were honored guests. Betty de Mole was
elected president, Gwen Harris v.-p., and Ena
Brigford hon. sec. and treas.
As president of the Royal Empire Society
medical-knight James Barrett, supported by
his lady, staged at their Tooralt residence a
welcome-home to the Herbert Brookes pair.
The hostess, who topped black and red
figured chiffon with a black hat, had
a helping hand from her daughter Cara,
whose pale green hat shaded a frock
of biscuit-tint. Mrs. Brookes had cheered a
black turnout with ficelle lace, and her
mother, Mrs. Alfred Deakin, was also in
black. Beautiful flowers decked the recep-
tion-rooms. The guests were chiefly drawn
from university and professional circles.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Cato offered hospitality
in the form of a luncheon at Menzies’ to Sir
John Randles and his wife, who took pass-
age by the Orontes after a brief glimpse of
Australia. Sir John is prominent in Metho-
dist circles in England, and among the
guests were the Rev. Dr. Sugden and
Mrs. Sugden; Rev. F. Walwyn Kernick, of
Queen’s College, and his wife; the Rev. F.
Lade, president-general of the Methodist
Church of Australasia: Mr. and Mrs. George
Nicholas and Mr. A. Nicholas.
A farewell tea-brew was served at Men-
zies’ to Madame Buesst, who waved good-
bye from the Orontes last week on her way
to England, where she intends to stay for
a couple of years. She is accompanied by
her son Tristan and Miss A. McNeil. The
good-bye party, hurriedly gathered together
by Kathleen Malone and Dr. Nihill, included
Theodore Fink and F. W. Eggleston. Tenor
Walter Kirby and Mrs. Fleming Dunstan
sang, and Rene Brego'zzo put bow to fiddle.
The guest of honor, who wore black with
touches of white satin and ermine, had with
her her grand-daughter Mrs. Lindsay Plant,
looking charming in black embroidered in
red and white.
A bridge party at Quamby Club on Friday
afternoon was hostessed by Mrs. H. R.
Hamer, in figured chiffon, and Mrs. Russell
Martin, who wore a French-blue, gown with
a dash of pink. Among the guests were the
Elder lady, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mayoress
Luxton and Mrs. Harry Emmerton.
At the Collins-street kirk Marjorie, second
daughter of the Robert Scotts, of Queen’s-
road, exchanged vows with Roy. son of
R. W. McLaurin, of Deniliquin (N.S.W.).
The bride trailed white satin, tulle and
Limerick lace over the aisle, and her three
’maids were in Patou pink crepe satin with
wreaths of American Beauty roses and posies
of paler-hued blossoms!
At St. George’s kirk, St. Kilda, links were
forged between Phyllis, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Morrison Evans, Balaclava-road,
and ‘ Rex, son of the Albert Fegans, of
Tocumwal (N.S.W.). The bride dressed the
part in cream satin with lace inlet and veil.
Three attendant maids showed a soft gleam
of pink beneath white chiffon which matched
their felt and ci’inoline millinery. Guests
met at No. 9 to congratulate the newly-weds.
When Peggy, only daughter of Mrs. Joseph
Bell, of Melbourne Mansions, kept her altar
tryst with William, eldest son of Dr. and
Mrs. W. Atkinson Wood, of Gippsland Lakes,
she carried a sheaf of gold and white lilies
against draperies of ivory georgette spark-
ling with rhinestones. The attached train
had done service when she made her curtsey
at Court, and clouds of tulle fell from a
coronet of orange buds. The ’maids, Edith
Cook, Joan Bostock and Kathleen Currie,
made a blue background in chiffon frocks and
straw hats prinked up with pink roses. The
Rev. J. H. Allen, chaplain of Geelong Gram-
mar School, tied the knot at Christ
Church, South Yarra, and the after-cele-
brations took place at No. 9.
The wedding of Beatrice Madge, younger
daughter of the William Taylors, of Over-
newton, to John Stoughton Clarke Bloom-
field, of Gisborne, is to take place at Essen-
don kirk on March 31.
The engagement is announced of Patricia
Allan, of the “Argus” literary staff, and
Douglas, younger son of A. E. Keep, Toorak.
Trawalla, a Toorak mansion built by the
late David Mitchell, Melba’s father, is to
be converted into flats. Originally owned by
the Stephenson family, it was sold to the
late Robert Simson. The estate when put
into the market last year realised over
£55,000. Last week the house with portion
of the land fetched £16,500.
The death at Mount St. Evins Hospital
of Mrs. C. B. Moore, of Ivanhoe, re-
moved one who is gratefully remembered
for her social services. Her interest in such
activities dated back to before the Great War
and continued right up to the formation of the
camp for the unemployed at Broadmeadows,
She it was who suggested the making of a
flower and vegetable garden around the
“Better Days Camp,” as it is known, a pro-
ject which has worked out very successfully.
Much sympathy goes out to Mrs. Moore’s
husband, son and daughter Doris, the last-
named one of the front-line helpers of the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College, of which she
is an ex-student.
The Grice lady, whose death occurred last
week, had been on the sick list for a con-
siderable time. She was a daughter of the
late David Power, of Cloverdale, Toorak.
For many years she gave active support to
philanthropic causes. She presided over the
central committee of the Melbourne Red
Cross Auxiliary for about six years, and
was also a leading member of the Victoria
League. One of her daughters, Mrs. Victor
Scriven, received the news while on the
Orontes at Adelaide with her husband,
Squadron-leader Scriven, and their children,
bound for England. Mrs. Scriven returned
to Melbourne on Friday.
The most treasured of many gifts pre-
sented to Fritz ITart by Melba is the antique
gold-framed mirror the diva always used
in the bedroom scene of “Otello.” She car-
ried it all over the world with her, and valued
it exceedingly. When she gave it to Mr.
Hart she stipulated that it must be lent to
her if ever she took the role of Desdemona
again in Australia. The mirror made its
last public appearance when Melba made
her last appearance in opera at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, on September 27, 1928.
On that occasion Fritz Hart was the con-
ductor.
At a meeting of the Women Citizens’ Asso-
ciation a greeting was given to Mrs. Head,
wife of the Archbishop. Mrs. Britomarte
James handed the guest of honor a posy of
roses, and made a speech of welcome that
was supported by Mrs. Warren Kerr and
Miss Gilman Jones.
Mona Nugent’s farewell recital—she is to
study abroad —was well attended. A cartload
of flowers and parcels was passed over the
hedge of colored blossoms that bordered the
stage of the Auditorium, and Miss Nugent,
who was attired iii coral-pink georgette, had to
respond to numerous encores. For her piano-
forte numbers she drew upon Liszt and
Brahms; and she sang French chansons,
some modern English lyrics and a couple of
opera excerpts. Baritone Roy Tartakover
and Constance Ziebell, with her fiddle, were
on the programme, and accompaniments were
played by Carrie Cairnduff.
There has been installed in the headquar-
ters of the Women’s National League a
memorial to a former president, the late Mrs.
H. S. Crocker. It is a blackwood table,
carved in designs adapted from Australian
flora, and serves as a companion to a simi-
larly-fashioned chair which commemorates
the memory of the first president, the Clarke
lady. The chair was unveiled by the present
president, Mrs. Claude Couchman.
The performance of “The Best People”
at the Bijou on Saturday night, in aid of
the blind, was well attended. Louie Dunn,
who produced the comedy, took the part
of Mrs. Lennox. The costuming was up-to-
the-minute in style, the play went with a
swing, and heaps of flowers were passed up
to the stage at the final curtain; and the
blind orchestra made music in the intervals.
The Lud Mayor thanked the performers, and
paid a special tribute to Mrs. Edgar Dye,
the organiser. Manager Hedger, of the
E.V.1.8., made a plea for financial aid for
the blind, and mentioned that £3OO had been
collected for them from people who viewed
the tuber-begonias in the Fitzroy Gardens
conservatory. The takings of “The Best
People” were added to by sales of flowers,
sweets and programmes, vended by charm-
ingly frocked girls.
At the champion show of the Alsatian,
Airedale and Sporting Dogs clubs, located
in the R.A.S. grounds, the judge was Mrs.
Leslie Thornton, an Englishwoman famous
for her knowledge of dawgs. The lady, who
is typically English, fair and not over-slim,
went about her task in a very business-like
manner.
This is Melbourne’s first native-born city
organist, William Neil McKie, who returned
last week, after a distinguished career in
England, to take up his new duties. He is
a soft of the
Rev. William
McKie and
Mrs. McKie,
of Kew, and
is in his 29tli
year. He won
the Clarke
S c h o 1 arship,
entitling him
to study in
Britain at the
Uni. Con. in
1918, and at
Oxford gradu-
ated as Mus-
Bac. and B.A.
He has been
deputy organ-
is t of Ely
Cathedral, and
lately was
head of the
musical staff
of Clifton Col-
lege, near Bristol. Mr. McKie returned here
on a flying visit about six years ago', and
gave a couple of organ recitals at St. Paul’s
Cathedral, creating such a favorable impres-
sion that he was offered the place vacated
by Dr. Price.
Visiting Melbourne at present from the
Malay States are Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Chester
and their two children. They are the guests
of Mrs. Askin Fo’ster at South Yarra, Mrs.
Chester being her daughter.
. Mrs. Harry Watson, who has been in this
city for some months, returned last week
to her home in Mo'ss Vale (N.S.W.) after
nearly three years’ absence. Mrs. Watson
was touring Europe with her daughter Car-
men when she was called to Melbourne owing
to the illness of her husband, who has now
recovered after an operation. Miss Watson
is remaining in Switzerland for an indefinite
period.
Mrs. Bess Golding, whose work as a minia-
ture-painter and water-colorist has attracted
attention, is packing away her tools for
a space. She is off to England to visit her
own folk.
James E. Flett’s show of water-colors at
the Athemeum Gallery was launched by Prof.
Bernard Heinze, of the Uni. Con. Among
private viewers were the Maudsley and
Cussen ladies, and Dr. and Mrs. E. Hcffernan.
Knight Arthur Robinson and his wife are
expecting their daughter Mrs. Huntley Grif-
fith, of Ceylon, to visit them in a few weeks’
time.
Archbishop Head told a meeting of the St.
George Society that the call to Melbourne
arrived when he was celebrating the 25th
anniversary of his wedding.
Westralia does its bit:—
The Country Women’s Association invited stu-
dents of the Rural Science Course now being held
at the University to have a night out at “The
Creaking Chair.” The Nellie Bramley co. provided
splendid scenery, a pleasing girls’ orchestra and a
melodrama seasoned with incense, stolen jewels and
a murder—a diverting contrast to lectures for
efficient home-makers.
Pietty dark-haired Bae Bick has become engaged
to Howard Bonner, formerly of Neutral Bay, Syd-
ney. Eileen, the fourth Smily daughter, has pro-
mised to marry John, only son of medico and Mrs.
Blackall.
Norbert Coomer, who took his violin to London
last year, has been handed an exhibition by the
Royal Academy of Music. The young fiddler has
won three gold medals during the last three years.
He was a pupil of St. Brigid’s.
Purple asters in shades varying from deep prune
to a pinky mauve, and golden dahlias, honey-colored
or flecked with russet, represented the Women’s
Service Guild colors of purple and gold at the
luncheon for May Holman. The M.L.A., who lately
returned from Geneva, where she was alternate dele-
gate at the League of Nations Assembly, spoke a
word of thanks and gave a brief account of her
travels. State president Mrs. Bromilow wore green
stiipes upon crepe de Chine. Mrs. Creeth was in
navy and beige, and Mrs. Cardell-Oliver in cigar-
brown lace. Mrs. Rischbieth, Mrs. Cadlola (South
Africa) and Ada Bromham were among the other
women present.
Claude Clement, who has cherished his bachelor-
hood a few years longer than the average man,
joined the ranks of the benedicts this week with
Fanny Walker, of N.S.W., as his chosen helpmate.
Love-in-the-mist blue was the bride’s choice for her
georgette ensemble, and a deeper tone for her mil-
linery. Honey-colored rosebuds nestled in her posy.
Betty Simpson ’maided in chiffons patterned in two
shades of pink and an airy pink hat. Mr. E. P.
Pretty escorted his sister-in-law into the Colin-street
church, and afterwards, with his wife, welcomed the
guests to toasts and cake-cutting in the Karra-
katta Club hall.
A marriage which caused a flutter this week,
for there were no engagement preliminaries, was
that of tall auburn-headed Kip, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Percy Holmes, and Mr. John Daniell.
The bride wore beige lace, and there were two
attendants in old rose and smoke blue.
Mrs. Rischbieth opened up her mansion in Pepper-
mint Grove for a novelty afternoon in aid of the
Women’s Service Guild. There was a tennis tourna-
ment, midget golf, bridge and fortune-telling. The
lily pond and the fernery were worth sauntering to,
and canaries sang in their roomy aviary.
Rural Science students took a breather from their
notes on economical cookery, dairying, pest-exterim-
nating and making things grow to sip tea and
enjoy the beauty of King’s Park. In the after-
noon sunlight the city below was softened by a blue
haze, the hills were a pencil sketch on the horizon
and the South Perth beaches were chalk-white streaks
against the still blue water. Dr. Roberta Jull,
Mrs. Mary Farrelly and Mrs. Pratt acted as hos-
tesses.
Though we have had hardly any summer, the
usual flock of people migrated to Albany to escape
expected heat. Their Exes, returned this week.
Lady Campion is a passenger on the Orontes with
son Simon and his young son David. His Ex. will
follow in a couple of months.
A note from the Speck:—
A smart dance, organised by- a committee of
matron and maidens, with Nancy Giblin doing the
secretarial work, was held at the Continental. The
ballroom was decorated with trails of Virginia
creeper, and the supper-tables with masses of pink
bloom. In the absence of the Lieut.-Gov. and his
lady, six debs, made their curtseys to the Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Evans. They were Margaret
Buchanan, Kathleen Symonds, Meg Smellie, Margaret
Hood, Nora and Pauline Shoobridge, all in the con-
ventional white, but with many variations of material
and style in their frocks. Frocking was very smart
and the Navy was there in force. The Continental
orchestra made the music.
The Fleet held its annual regatta at North-West
Bay under ideal conditions. There was a keen con-
test for the Denman Challenge Cup, the flagship
flying the golden rooster after the finals. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Evans had a throng of guests.
The Northern Aerodrome’s opening day at the
Western Junction had a grim finish in the fatalities
resulting from an airplane crash and a motor acci-
dent. The roads were packed with motors, and the
trains crowded. Lieut.-Col. Brinsmead did the official
opening, and president and Mrs. Ramsay tea-ed a big
crowd in the hangar, where the tea-tables were
gay with phlox. Lieut.-Gov. Nicholls and his lady
were present.
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Evans were at home to a
large section of Hobart on board the Australia at
the King’s Pier. Mrs. Evans was in a beige en-
semble with fur collar and small beige hat. The
younger ones footed it on one deck, and tea and
music made things cheery during the afternoon.
Hildegarde Margaret, daughter of the D. S. Gaun-
sons of Sydney, and Wilfrid S. Nicholson were made
one at St. Matthew’s, New Norfolk. The bride’s
frock was delphinium-blue georgette, with picture
hat in the same tonings. Margaret Nicholson ’maided
in pale pink georgette and pink hat. The wedding
supper was held at Forest Hill, the home of the
bride’s uncle and aunt, the J. L. Nicholsons. The
couple will settle at Ringwood, New Norfolk.
Mrs. A. C. Stourton leaves for the Cold Country
by the Nestor. Winnie Pocock, Archbishop Hayden,
Mrs. Harvey and Mr. R. Pocock are others who
will be making the trip shortly.
A recent engagement is that of Beverley, younger
daughter of the W. G. Bairds, Launceston, to H. G.
Barwick, England.


X
V
prestige CREATIONS
INCLUDE:- SERVICE WEIGHTS £r> SERVICE SHEERS
No. 400
A super stocking of medium
service weight, pure silk through-
out, with Picot edge and lace clox.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
No. 401
Similar in all respects to No. 400
without lace clox.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
7Tb
75i
No. FFi
Full service weight pure s
th roug hout.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
ilk
16
II
No. 800
Pure silk to welt, featuring the
new reinforced toe-guard.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
12
II
No. 600 0 „
An exquisite fine gauge service
sheer with Picot edge, and the
new Parisian heel. Pure silk.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
No. 500
A beautifully fine 45 gauge service
sheer stocking with taper or new
Parisian heel. Pure silk. Remark-
able wearing qualities.
Fully Fashioned per pair
171
HOSIEKY
w


There is no implement to equal the
SUNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc CULTIVATING PLOUGH
For Summer Fallowing'
k
m
m
HI
-'•.v
- SB
m
1
wm i 'ti
is
BrarafsaSßal
■
S 3 ffi
Mi
:
■I
|H
•f, >r: ••••
SPS^
■
Sr -V« v
111111
SB
. isati
» n
■
■HBHBMHsBMBi
mSmBmUWI
MMMMMMBMHMI
HI
H :
11
MB
:.rr
US
It does splendid work in heavy
weed growth, paddymelon, stink-
wort, etc., and the varying throw
of its alternate 20- and 18-inch
discs leaves the surface of the
soil in that granular state wherein
most benefit is derived from rain-
fall and atmospheric conditions.
A level bottom is made, and
every inch of soil is cut out.
The Sundercut works successfully
in all types of country, and
especially is it adapted for work
amongst stumps and stones, which
it passes over without difficulty.
10-DISC SIZE CUTS 5 FEET.
14-DISC SIZE CUTS 7 FEET.
Supplied with Levers for either
Team or Tractor pull.
The Sundercut turns over more
soil per horse-power used than
does any other disc implement.
It is an indispensable unit of the
economical farmer’s plant.
Sole Manufacturers:
H. V. McKay Massey Harris Pty., Ltd.
(Sunshine Section),
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
Queensland Distributors:
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (QLD.), LTD., Brisbane.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
e
A good, reliable prophet who can prophesy
by steam has long been one of the great
wants of Australia, and it is therefore
pleasant to learn that the next best thing has
been discovered in Melbourne and is now in
full blast with a great future before it. A
Victorian lady announces that she has a
brother who experiences shocks when lie
stands over ground containing gold, and she
offers to hand him over to the Mining
Department for a reasonable consideration.
She will also give a preliminary trial, not
necessarily for publication but merely as a
proof of good faith; and she guarantees the
brother to be in good repair and free from
spavin, the act of Divine Providence and
the Queen’s enemies only excepted. He is
also of good principles, and was brought up
by hand. The owner of this valuable public
blessing draws attention to the fact that
no Government should be without a brother
of this kind, and she estimates that when
he is in good condition he will be able to
gp out and have two shocks before break-
fast. Experts have calculated that a small
party, equipped with 12 months’ provisions
and 15 kegs of rum, and attended by* this
physiological curio, could thoroughly pros-
pect the whole of Australia within a year,
the apparatus being led about by a string,
and his shocks being taken down by an able
staff of reporters.
Soon after Victoria had elected her first
Parliament two candidates of equal popu-
larity were contesting a southern agricul-
tural constituency. The result of the con-
test was so uncertain that each would have
done anything to win a doubtful vote. Both
canvassed the electorate on foot, and one
morning a well-to-do Irish farmer, while
milking his cows, found himself stuck up by
one of the candidates. The politician, to
show what a really good fellow he was,
volunteered his services and finished seven or
eight cows, after which the farmer offered
him whisky. Then the candidate for the
first time broached politics. The farmer
was asked which would make the better
representative. “Well, you are both foine
fellows.” “What! Have you seen anything
of Mac ?” “Bedad, I have —he came
here an hour before you, and he’s away now
over in the paddock beyant digging spuds
and fadin’ the pigs. He says he will stop
there a week if I vote for him. But if you
will milk me cows everv mornin’ for a
week I’ll form a better opinion of your
politeecal capacity and give me vote accord-
ingly.” He did not remain, and lost th -
seat by one vote.
Idyll of a ball. Sentimental He: “How
often have I seen you?” Sweet Miss (inter-
rupting) : “Where?” S.H.: “In my dreams."
Sweet Miss (ingenuously) : “You must have
seen mamma as well, for I am never without
her. Doesn’t she look funny in her night-
cap?”
A pretty girl was looking in a Sydney
florist’s window the other morning [writes
Sappho Smith] when up to her ambled the
customary sheep in wolf’s clothing, who
asked her if she didn’t think them lovely and
wouldn’t she like some of them? “Perhaps,”
she replied with spirit—“but the window is
full of green, and it would be superfluous
to buy any, as the street seems full of it.
Good morning.” Then she smiled adorably
and passed on.
Surgeon W. H*. Campbell, who died the
other day, was one of the oldest identities of
the southern metropolis. He settled in Mel-
bourne in the ’forties, and lived for the last
30 years of his career in a dusty and
neglected-looking mansion in Russell-street.
Every Christmas for the last quarter of a
century he used to appeal through the Press
to all smokers for donations of tobacco for
the poor old fellows in the Immigrants’
Home. The weed always rolled in in rolls,
and the old men at the home used, narcoti-
cally anyhow, to spend a happy Christmas,
and bless the genial doctor. Now poor
Campbell is gone home, an immigrant to
another land. He was remarkable for his
clean-shaved, higlily-purple countenance,
vhich used to intensify to an alarming
degree when he heard a good joke and
chuckled violently. [5/5/’BS.]
Dear Bulletin, —Here is a. sto’ry about
old “Mac,” the Victorian Supreme Court
crier. It was at a Bar dinner given in a
Victorian provincial town by the Judge of
the circuit. Ordinarily, members of the legal
fraternity alone are invited to such affairs,
but on the occasion in question po'ssibly the
talent had run short, or perhaps the asso-
ciate entrusted with the “invites” was a
greenhorn. Anyhow, there near the foot of
the table sat old Mac, large as life. Proceeu-
ings had no't commenced, and some choice
spirit among the “gentlemen by Act of Par-
liament” sent a slip of paper to poor old
M. to “say grace.” He had scarcely time to
read the note ere he was poked in the ribs
by a young spark on either side of him, and
up he got like greased lightning. His Honor
looked as if he would take an apoplectic fit
when the old familiar words smote his ear:
“The evidence you shall give to the Court
in this case shall be the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth —so help,”
etc. The force of habit had been too much
for the veteran court-crier. —H.
A parcel of land in George-street, Sydney,
was sold for a keg of whisky 60 years
ago. The same land was purchased’ by a
syndicate for £50,000 last week. The Crown
grant bears the signature of the first colonial
Governor. [29/9/’BB.]
The substance of this story comes from a
Sydney religious paper, the "Echo.” A few
weeks ago a bishop had stacked his episcopal
limbs in a narrow bed at an Australian
country inn, and the landlady, who was
resolved to pay him proper respect, was inter-
viewing the boots downstairs and giving him
his first lesson in etiquette. “When ye take
up the shaving-water,” she said, “ye must
knock at the door, and when he asks who's
there, ye must say ‘The boy, my Dord.’ Now
let me hear ye say that.” The unhappy
youth said it accordingly a dozen times over.
He said it straight off, upside down, and
crossways; he said it sometimes with the
boy first, and sometimes with the Lord first,
and sometimes with the two walking abreast,
and when he thought he had got it right so
that the bishop would fully understand that
it wasn’t the girl he started upstairs and
knocked. The bishop yelled “Who’s there?”
just as the lady had foreseen, but he was
floored in one act when the voice outside
responded promptly, “The Lord, my boy!”
Judging from the way the good man rushed
to the door it was the very last individual
whom he had expected to meet. The con-
sequences to the boy were too painful to
be described.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
DOCTOR: “You are evidently worried with business; that is your chief trouble, I think.
What you want is peace of mind.”
PATIEN T: “I get a piece of that every blessed day. Sometimes I get it all night, too.”
[23/1/'89.]
OF A WILD WHITE BIRD.
To spar as a wild white bird,
k a song unbound and fetterless:
With a gush of song in the throat,
Loosened and loud and letterless,
And the wind its only accompaniment.
To sing and soar and look down
On a world one leaves when one tires of
it ;
With a glancing wing for a sail,
r , Dashing, when one desires of it,
Through the spray of the great sea-wilder-
ness ;
Or sweeping with mighty curves
From land to sky, and to land again:
To cast off Time, and to stay
Where one’s will alone lays hand on one:
Not to own nor owe in the universe.
Sudden and swift some day
Meet Death and know no fear of Him,
But close the eyes and have done
When a wild bird dies none hear of him.
He has sung and ceased, and is happiest.
LOUISE M. MACK.


PROBAK
FITS EVERY RAZOR
OF THIS TYPE
OLD OR NEW
THE BETTER
BLADE
You use a razor of this type? Then PROBAK Blades will
fit it. PROBAK —the better blades: the blades that cannot
vary because they are made from an endless ribbon of steel,
ground, honed and finished in one continuous operation.
The blades that glide across your face as though the stubble
wasn't there; and silently, smoothly make sure that it ISN'T
there .... Get a packet of PROBAK Blades to-day. Prove
to yourself that each is as amazingly sharp as the first you
try! Sold everywhere at fixed prices: 1/9 the small packet;
3/6 the large.
PROBAK-THE BLADES THAT CANNOT VARY
Made and guaranteed by the Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, London, Eng.
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
]ll!iuiTinniiHiiTTTniMiTT7]iiiiiiiiTniTnniiiiiin
J4JI __ muim'iim]
K
<-y
m
a
V_/~\ •~-.TST!m p_y
-\J mg>
The Supercargo’s Woman.
WHEREIN J. H. M. ABBOTT WEAVES A STORY AROUND THE
REMARKABLE EXPLOIT OF JEROME CORNELIS AND THE
EARLY DUTCH NAVIGATORS OF THE NOR'-WEST.
w
of such as you! Your woman! My God,
Mfhf , r be the woman of some black Afri-
c&n some yellow man from China than
be touched by yon again. But wait a while,
y OU hell-hound! Your time is coming—and
’ti s not far distant. The gallows awaits
your evil body, and Hell your wicked soul
as surely as the sun sinks towards the edge
0 f the sea. Wait until Captain Pelsart
returns with succors, as he will surely do.
You will not live an hour when that good
man learns what you have done, O vile and
brutal murderer and ravisher. Nothing can
save you, Jerome Cornelis, from the fate that
surely waits you!”
“Oh, tush, my pretty,” laughed the man.
“X fear not Pelsart’s return. He shall be
taken, too, and made an end of—just as
these others have been. Come, then. -Let
us return to the camp. This love-malung
wearies me—when ’tis all upon my side. l>ut
never mind. As I have said, time will make
a difference. Come—let us go down. ’ •
He caused her to walk before him as they
made their way across the rocfiy slope to-
wards the waterside.
“No, no, my sweet,” he laughed. A were
meet that you, being a lady, should lead the
way. I have no wish for a cracked skull,
the which, methinks, would be my very likely
reward for all my kindness of last night
if I should let you follow after. And, be-
sides, I love to contemplate your shapely
person as you walk before. It surely must
be the best figure on all the coast of New
Holland. Yea, of a verity, you, Ivaatje
Wouvermans, shall be Queen of New floi-
land. I, Jerome the First, the king-to-be,
have decreed it. It shall be so.
Slowly they made their way towards the
camp near the beach, the girl with hanging
head and tearful eyes, the man with the
arrogant swagger characteristic of his every
movement. Between the sails pitched as
tents a number of unshaven men lounged
about little fires, fantastically clad in gaudy
raiment made of rich silks and satins and
velvets roughly stitched together. A few
women, fearful and cowed, but also resplen-
dently arrayed, were amongst the company,
and some children played about the pools
of water on the shore.
It was more than a month since the Dutch
East Indiaman Batavia, running her pass-
age along Dirk Hartog’s track towards Ben-
draght’s Land from the Cape of Good °P®>
after having been separated in a storm from
her ten consorts, had blundered amongst
those reefs off the coast of Western us-
tralia which were known to the seamen of
Holland as the Abrolhos of Frederik Hout-
man, and had become a total wreck. After
several days her people had landed on a
small island distant about three leagues from
the wreck, and on two smaller ones, little
better than bare rocks, which lay somewhat
nearer to the scene of the disaster.
The year was 1629, and the month June,
Seeing that there was nothing else to be
done, Francis Pelsart, the Batavia’s com-
mander, had gone away in one of the boats
to seek assistance, either on the coast of New
Holland or in the East Indies, where, at
the beginning of July he fell in with three
of the company’s ships which carried him
to Batavia. Follows the brief and simple
account of Monsieur Thevenot, as he gives
it in his “Recueil de divers Voyages curieux,”
which sufficiently explains the situation as
we find it. _
“Whilst Pelsart is soliciting assistance,” he
says, “I will return to those of the crew
who remained upon the island: but I should
first inform you that the supercargo, named
Jerome Cornelis, formerly an apothecary at
Harlem, had conspired with the pilot and
some others, when off the coast of Africa, to
obtain possession of the ship and to take
her to Dunkirk, or to avail themselves of
her for the purposes of piracy. This super-
cargo remained upon the wreck ten days
after the vessel had struck, having discovered
no means of reaching the shore. He even
passed two days upon the mainmast, which
floated, and, having from thence got upon
a yard, at length gained the land. In the
absence of Pelsart he became commander,
and deemed this a suitable occasion for put-
ting his original design into execution, con-
eluding that it would not be difficult to be-
come master of that which remained of the
wreck, and to surprise the commander when
he should arrive with the assistance which
he had gone to Batavia to seek, and after-
wards to cruise in these seas with his vessel,
To accomplish this it was necessary to get
rid of those of the crew who were not of
his party; but before embruing his hands
with blood, he caused his accomplices to sign
a species of compact, by which they pro-
raised fidelity to one another.
“The entire crew was divided between
three islands; upon that of Cornelis, which
they had named the graveyard of Batavia,
was the greatest number of men. One of
them, by name Weybeliays, had been dis-
patched to another island to seek for water,
and, having discovered some after a search
of twenty days, he made the preconcerted
signal by lighting three fires; but in vain,
for they were not seen by the people of Cor-
nelis’s company, the conspirators having,
during that time, murdered those who were
not of their party. Of these they killed
thirty or forty; some few saved themselves
upon pieces of wood, which they joined to-
gether, and, going in search of Weybehays,
informed him of the horrible massacre that
had taken place. Having with him forty-
five men he resolved to keep upon his guard,
and to defend himself from these assassins
if they should make an attack upon his com-
pany, which, in effect, they designed to do,
and to treat the other party in the same
manner, for they feared lest their company,
or that which remained upon the third
island, should inform the commander upon
his arrival, and thus prevent the execution
of their design. .
“They succeeded easily with the party last
mentioned, which was the weakest, hilling
the whole of them, excepting seven children
and some women. They hoped to succeed
Tn broS a opln X P chSts an of
merchandise which had been saved from the
vessel. Jerome Cornelis caused clothing to
b e made for his company out of the rich
stuffs which he found therein, choosing to
himself a bodyguard, each of whom 'be
clothed in scarlet, embroidered with gold
an d silver. Regarding the women as part
0 f the spoil, he took one for himself, and
gave o ne of the daughters of the minister to
a principal member of his party, abandoning
the other three for public use; he drew up
also certain, rules for the conduct of his men.”
* * * *
At a respectable and safe distance from
the edge of the reef, the frigate Sardani
dropped her anchor on a sunshiny day in
m id_September, and that stout mariner
Francis Pelsart, seeing smoke rising from
t { le near est of the islands, gave thanks to
Heaven that his mission had not been in
V ain.
« >Tis a blessing and a miracle, good Pieter
gweers,” he said to the master pilot, “to
b nd them yet alive, for truly I left them in
a dangerous condition for lack of water,
However, thanks be to God, I make no doubt
hut that shrewd fellow Jerome Cornelis hath
f oun d means of obtaining it. Mayhap he
hath distilled it from the sea water, for
formerly he was an apothecary and chymist
Harlem, and would be wise and cunning
in suob practices. Perhaps diligent search-
j n g hath brought to light some spring in
yonder larger island which at first was over-
iGOked. At any rate, ’tis certain that some
0 f them, at least, are yet in the land of
ii v i llg men. I will make haste to man a
boat and will load it with bread and wine
an( j other refreshment, for I suspect them
by this time to be but scantily furnished with
provision ’gainst starvation. Give orders
j pray you, Pieter, and I will set out imme-
diately.”
“Here comes a boat!” cried the master
pilot, pointing over the carved rail of the
high poop whereon they stood. “Some of
y our people from the islands, I make no
doubt.”
“Ha!” exclaimed Pelsart. “ ’tis one of the
Batavia’s officers, good Cornelius Weybehays.
Almighty, but he seemeth sick and troubled !
j doubt much whether all is well with tin;
castaways. Fling him a line, Pieter. I
WO uld hear his news as soon as may be.”
Almost sooner than “may be,” Weybehays
to i d his terrible tale, whilst Francis Pelsart
listened aghast to his recital of its horrors,
He heard without interruption to the end,
his face flushed with anger as the villainy
0 f the supercargo impregnated his intelli-
genCe. When Weybehays paused he gripped
him by the elbow.
“And did you say you’d caught the villain?
Tell me how ’twas done, Mynheer Weybe-
hays, I pray you. Tell me quickly. ’Fore
q oc j, he shall pay for his diversions!”
“You must know, Mynheer, that after
ti iese horrible proceedings this murderous
ru tft au caused himself to be elected Captain-
writing himself out some sort of
commission, which he compelled his followers
to sign. Then he sent more than a score of
assass i nS) j n two shallops, against thy humble
servant an d the island whereon he was. But,
Q o( j be p ra } se d w e repulsed them with loss,
j^ ex t he came himself with a greater number,
( Continued on next page.)


itf
m
■a. r
‘a
i an
■«■»»
- /
Hi
w
■■■■»*
Li'*
Iff ::: . Wk
1 g
/ j
i
■•i r ms, -
Sl|f3
z-m
*1
mr
ir? *
S 1
1
v mh
ar
me
■
s**
SMB
MW
*< *, . “V’ 1 ' <* " !
Stuart Crystal is made
by craftsmen who have
never done anything hut
make beautiful glassware.
Their skill has been
handed down y from
father to son / for many
generations. Every gen «
uine piece bears the regis•
tered name " Stuai tC
tniiift
?
English Hand-made Crystal
Obtainable w herever beautiful glass is sold.
but we _ met him at the water’s edge, and
drove him back again, even though our only
weapons wore stout clubs. Finding force
unavailing, he had recourse to other means,
He proposed a treaty, which the minister,
who was with my party, was to draw up.
It was agreed that my people should remain
unmolested on their island if we would but
deliver to him the little boat in which one
of his men, being dissatisfied, had come over
to us. And he was to provide us, for his
part, with some of the material for clothing
w T hieh he had looted from the Batavia’s cargo,
But a young woman, Kaatje Wouvermans,
whom the black-hearted scoundrel had
seduced by force, privately sent us warning,
and”
“Good God!” Pelsart interrupted him with
a furious oath. “Little Kaatje—the damned
treacherous dog! She was going out to the
Indies to be wed to Mynheer Van Dotan,
the Governor-General’s secretary, and was
in my charge! He shall pay for this!”
“Aye, skipper, he shall pay. Already he
hath paid something, for I have flogged him
daily in his captivity. Kaatje sent us word
to have no trust in him, and that he pur-
posed offering a bribe to the French soldiers
who were of our company—a heavy bribe—
in order that they should attack us whilst
we slept. But the soldiers were true, for
they showed me the letters. Next day, when
Cornelis came, I took him prisoner, and
though they sought to rescue him on the
day following, I have him still, and he is at
your honor’s good disposal.”
“At my bad disposal, thou meanest, Cor-
nelius. I promise ye, ’twill be exceeding
bad—so bad as shall meet his crimes and
wickednesses with a wicked end. Bring him
aboard, Mynheer Weybeliays—bring him
aboard at once. But w T ho are these coming
in other boats?”
Through the channels in the reefs—light
blue and yellow against the deep blueness
of the surrounding ocean—two heavily-
manned shallops were approaching the
frigate, and the fantastically dressed men
in them were, as Pelsart perceived, armed to
the teeth. He hailed them, and demanded
to know what their business was. A spokes-
man in the leading boat replied, somewhat
insolently, that they would let him know
when they came aboard.
“That ye will!” cried the angry captain,
“I know full well ye’ll tell me. But listen,
ye murderous dogs! If on the instant ye do
not cast into the .sea every weapon of offence
that ye have in your possession, the frigate’s
guns will blow you out of the wrnter. The
gunners are standing by with their matches
lighted, and the pieces are trained upon you,
and loaded with grape; so ye had best yield,
Instantly, I say —instantly!”
Too late the pirates realised that they had
no choice, and presently, having thrown their
arms into the sea, they came aboard, and
were immediately put in irons and taken
below.
On the 19th of September all the prisoners
were landed on the larger island to undergo
examination and trial for their share in the
recent evil occurrences. So certain in its
ending was this process that the carpenter
and his mates took with them timbers from
the frigate wherewith to build stout gallows.
One of large size they made, and another for
the accommodation of but a single tenant,
A strange sight it must have been for the
sea-fowl, on the barren, yellow little island
centring that immense disc of blue ocean,
as those grave Hollanders sat in judgmeut
upon their compatriots who must inevitably
die. Guarded by musketeers, who stood with
their heavy and unwieldy pieces supported
by forked rests stuck into the ground before
them, with the matches burning near the
locks, the muttering prisoners silently eon-
templated the process of their destruction.
It was obvious enough that the judges were
not disposed to be unduly severe on the rank
and file, but meant to punish to the bitter
extremity where punishment was well
deserved. Many of the followers of the
infamous Cornelis would die, but they would
be given a chance of proving individually
that their ill-doing had been under com-
pulsion.
The women who had been so cruelly mis-
used were the principal witnesses. Their
evidence could hardly be expected to he
strictly impartial. “What woman’s could
be?” Pelsart had retorted to a prisoner’s
objection to being hanged on such testimony ;
but from whom otherwise would it he pos-
sible to obtain evidence as to what had hap-
pened in the larger of the three islands where
Cornelis had proclaimed himself Captain-
General?
When sentence of death had been voted by
the council of officers sitting on a semi-circle
of little barrels at the top of the beach, each
prisoner was drafted away into an increasing
contingent, and with the sullen wretches the
chaplains communed in pious endeavor to
comfort their troubled souls. At the very
last Jerome Cornelis faced the tribune —
arrogant and defiant, contemptuous alike of
Fate and its ministers before whom he found
himself arraigned. A vain and wicked man
had he lived; in vanity and wickedness
unashamed was he like to die.
“Mynheer Supercargo,” said Francis Pel-
sart to the impenitent wretch who stood
before him with bound wrists, “ ’tis needless
to call specific evidence to convict you of
sad and grievous wickednesses. To all men
and women present here are your evil deeds
familiar and notorious. It only remains that
we, the responsible servants of the company,
should formally pass sentence upon you.
There can be no question as to what that
sentence will mean for you. Nevertheless,
if you can think of anything that may be
advanced in extenuation of your conduct in
these islands, we will be pleased to hearken
to it. It is but right that, little as you
deserve it, you should be given opportunity
of such a sort. What have you to say?”
“I have naught to say, save that I have
played a game and lost it,” said the sneering
villain. “I know that I am to die; spare me
your homilies. They make no difference. Get
the business ended. I am weary of the place.”
Pelsart searched the ring of spectators
with his eyes,
“Is there any person who has a good word
to say of this man?” he asked them,
The instant response to his question
startled the Judges. Behind the foremost
ranks of the spectators a woman cried out:
“I have a word to say.”
“Come forward, then, and say it.”
The people fell back, and with downcast
eyes the pretty Kaatje ranged herself beside
the prisoner.
“Now, by the God of Wonders!” gasped
Francis Pelsart, as he recognised her. “Little
Kaatje! What good, in Heaven’s name, can
you have to speak of this man? Of all the
evil he hath done, none can compare with
that which he hath done to you, my poor
child. None —no, none at all! He would
deserve the doom that awaits him were there
naught else against him but his vile wicked-
ness to you. But, speak—what is it you have
to say?”
The girl lifted moist eyes to the bench
of judges. For a moment or two she hesi-
tated before she addressed them with a note
of entreaty in her voice.
“Most honorable gentlemen, I do beseech
you to spare this man’s life. He hath done
wrong, I know, but —but -I would have his
soul. Spare him, and I promise ye that in
the days to come Jerome Cornelis will atone
for his offences. With the help of God will
I make anew man of him—a good man.
He hath his goodnesses, and I can promise
this. I beg ye to be merciful!”
Astounded, they sat and stared at the girl,
so pretty yet so pitiful to those who knew
her dreadful story through the last few
weeks. No sound came from the onlookers,
and all that was to be heard for nearly half
a minute of time was the gentle, rhythmic
crashing of the small surf on the sands, and
the scream of the circling gulls in the sunny
blueness overhead. At last Pelsart spoke.
“Kaatje,” he said huskily, “thou art thy
mother’s daughter, and Christ’s own child!
But it may not be. Jerome Cornelis must
die. My brothers,” he turned half round
to address the others of the council, “I take
it that you are agreed?”
“Agreed, agreed,” the others answered in
a subdued and awestruck fashion. “Take
this man and hang him,” directed Pelsart
to the guards. “Hang him alone, for there
is no man here so evil that he should have
to endure his company in the moment of
death. Kadtje, my child, pray come with
me.”
Cornelis laughed as they led him away.
“Kaatje,” he jeered, “thou art a little fool!”
For that Master Francis Pelsart stepped
after him, took him by the collar of his
scarlet satin coat, and swung him round. His
fist crashed into the sneering face.
“To Hel] with you—to Hell!” he screamed,
almost in an apoplexy.
Swamp Music.
I hear them, past the paddocks, when the
dusk of evening comes,
The near-by clack of castanets, the far-off
muffled drums:
The frogs along the marshes in the black
ducks’ abode
Are drum-druffl-drltmming by the old swamp
road.
A measured march of victory is surely fn
that song,
Though the chorus sounded strange to me,
the drought had held so long;
But the water’s in the swamps again, the
wheat in sweeping aisles
Rolls a lovely, living carpet down the loag
green miles.
The water’s in the swamps again, and over
the lagoon
There’s a broken path of glory from a curved
gold moon.
And the bullfrogs in the .reaches, where the
starlight glimmers cold.
Are drumming out the grey days, drumming
ill the gold.
A long time the swamp road was but a sun-
baked crust,
Fringed with withered waterweed and fine
white dust.
But the fescue grass is tall and green, the
feathery rushes sway
Where the little gypsy, wildflowers pitch their
camps to-day.
And the wild swans are home again, the
crane about the shallows,
And the blue air of afternoon is crossed by
skimming swallows.
And the frogs beneatli the starlight in the
black ducks’ abode
Are drum-drum-drumming down the old
swamp road.
All day I heard the cuckoos sound their
sorrowful strange lyres,
Where che gum-leaves flamed to scarlet with
the old spring fires.
But I never heard the challenge, nor felt
the change till —hark !
I heard the frogs in chorus in the soft spring
dark.
And I like to think at even, when the fret
of day is o’er,
They are drumming out the hard times, to
come again no more;
They are drumming back the good days, the
lightening of the load,
ith their measured midnight chorus down
the old swamp road.
VICTORIA.
KATIILEEN DALZIEL.
Interregnum.
Last nicht, when Tam cam liirplin’ hame,
He was sae fu’ lie couldna stand;
An’ Janet held him up for shame,
Before the neebors, every man.
She ca’d him drucken dog, the whiles
He staiggart up an’ staiggart doun...,
Tam thocht he walked a tlioosand miles
Upon a thoosand legs frae toun!
But sune’s the wine began to wear
He sinkit on his hinder end.
Then cried to Jan, for all to hear,
“John Barleycorn’s your faithfu’ friend,
“Aukl eruikit wife; so baud your tongue.
It is the drappie in ma ee
That maks ye handsome look an’ young,
An’ nae bit like the thing ye be!
“So ye maun let me tali’ ma fill,
Ma fill; or I sail tell ye why—
You’re only juist an angel till
To-morrow’s jugs o’ maut are dry.”
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.


e
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and- highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Bobklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMio|i: & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—'“Chancery House,” 485 Bonrke Street Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,-
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in' its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Bates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,'
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Zhe
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
tlx mercury
by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity;
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
tlu Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
in the
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ENERGETIC, ALERT,
FITI
THE RESULT
OF <SOOD HEALTH
TO be alert, bright eyed
and vigorous, you need
real health.
Constipation is the common foe
of health. Dull eyes, tiredness,
depression, indicate constipation
often unsuspected. (Millions suffer
this way).
It ruins your health, and is the cause
of biliousness, indigestion, headache, and
other troubles of stomach and liver.
Beecham’s Pills are nature’s own correc-
tive for constipation. Purely vegetable—
safe —effective—they quickly put things
right.
BEEGHAMS
PILLS
«IVE YOU HEALTH
!r\^
rz.
A
2$
s-
-r
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies,
es of ‘‘The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier”
xpress” obtainable from.
W. R. SONS,
73-75 'Paterson ’street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
»• . • v — • v>.' . . t
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
thousands subscribe
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
sfj%ulCetCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS ..
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
(V.
B
0°
O< V
l
<s® e .
"v. *<••
*V.
vs 5.
<*V? #


NOT A DROP
THAT ISN’T SCOTCH
°ia^ Sc Ati
You never need be concerned about the quality
of Whisky if you will be guided by the
phrasing on the Johnnie Walker labels
■%
Produce of Scotland.
Bottled under the Supervision
of the Commonwealth Customs.
Therein lies your safeguard as to its origin. It
must be Scotch Whisky if it is labelled as such
and is bottled in bond.
Guaranteed same quality throughout the world.
The greatest safeguard of all! The reputation
of Johnnie Walker demands that it comprise
only the choicest old Highland Whisky,
blended to the established formula that has
made it the largest selling whisky in the world
and of uniform high quality and superlative
flavor wherever you buy it.
Depend upon it —you can depend upon it!
JOHNNIE
WALKER
WHISKY
John Walker & Sons, Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, London and
Kilmarnock.
in
ik
hnie
RecZ ZaS
e
ZS
%
Va
.c°
s
0*
O'
60
&
b*
sssa
SSPPPSi
&■&£>*&■# -mm
m£m ' -xw
W\
u
V
r
%
Hi CH|£
?.Vcr:7«T
a^e, n sv ,„?CH
S Bo B, T|
‘ , :° N
6^iS: N, «9^
Cu
Am c , y °. Jfl Ac u s
Ar a
n,^
RoUc^.f^M^ ;!VrCN ''
«9i
Rcu
9
'907
& n °UT;?*■
r n 6 2y
< L i T
\ f.
%
b
Er
P| Nt
6p,
°^S
PS
SH
Born 1820 -
Stillgoing Strong
