

in ever
%
« »
super
drop-
motor spirit eliminates the dangers
of substitution—of paying for fuel that is pos-
sibly adulterated with inferior petrol or even kerosene.
The motorist who stops at the Union pump SEES and
KNOWS what he pays for —because Union is red —
branded in every drop —-protected from the refinery
to your car.
The “red” in Union indicates qualities that ensure
ultra performance. Quick starting. Sure-fire ignition.
Clean, smooth, full-powered, knockless combustion.
It is pure. It is uniform. A definitely superior spirit —-
distinctive in appearance and dependable in use.
Stop at the UNION pump —SEE
and KNOW what you pay for.
mi
*- ' te
, r.
L 5.
Si
i ,
Pf|:
m
nggrai
V
tIIWMWJUIWIfiWi 'IIV^IX^
Ip
£v.V,\i*». ..
, *v .
. A
wist
*W:t
:W%< -.■:■■
:>>;M*
5 »£ *
ffo
,4'
\ >y ■■
MM
' %
) ' m
1 b 3
m
’ ..<«•.• T
m
I
'h ..
f
;w\ i
111
m-i
< «
BSS
/ \:
D-54
sr
tea
N
non * detonating
SUPER SPIRIT
THE RUNNING MATE OF ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
The Bulletin
Stewed /uiye s.
Vol. 52.-™-No* 2659.
Wednesday, January 28, 1931*
Price 6d.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TTHE New Library Catalogue is now ready,
* ana will be forwarded, with full terms
and particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
freelance
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, pour New Free
Booklet, explaining how tg Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mil Address
5.8.316
LYSAGHT
W ■
B
O
R
AUSTRALIA
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt!
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized Iron you get the world s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
■Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
WORCESTERSHIRE
m
m
THE DINNER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce is mat-
ured like an old
wine. It has a
piquancy that age
alone can impart.
Just a few drops
with the Soup, Fish,
or Meat. Ah ! the
finishing touch to a
good dinner.”
-z
| "7
THE KING’S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA.
T-HF, Committee of the Old Boys| Union
invites competition for the writing of
the words of a Song for the School, to be
sung on such occasions as Commemoration
Day, the Annual Dinner, etc.
The Sqng should be limited to four verses,
or three verses with a refrain, and must suit-
ably treat the tradition and sentiment of the
School, which was founded in 1831.
A prize of £lO will be awarded to the suc-
cessful competitor.
One or more adjudicators will be appointed, i
and the decision of such will be final, but no
award will be made if the adjudicators are
of opinion that no entry- sufficiently covers
the ground.
The copyright in the selected verses must
remain the property of the Union.
Entries close on the thirty-first day of March,
1931, and must be sent in signed with a
nom-de-plume only, but with a covering
envelope containing name and address and
addressed to the Hon. Secretary of the
King’s School Old Boys’ Union, Warwick
Building, Hamilton Street, Sydney.
Any further particulars required will be
given on application to Mr. G. W. Ash, the
President of the Union, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney, or to Mr. F. A. Brodie, the Hon.
Secretary.
It is proposed to have a separate competition
for the Music.
n ci WA,R
need
here's
•uHkjy -
e
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in earl'y years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CUUriS CMEXICANJ
Ukdnut StaJvn.
Removes the grey
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally , posted
direct Q/6), 6d. being postage.
è
é
ê
The .Guarantee of the
French Government*
both as to the authen*
ticicy and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
following statement defies contradiction f
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the -eorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Examine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd , 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.»
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Broadcast
Lawrence's “Hymn to Priapus" in A
Broadcast Anthology of Modern Poetry
(Hogarth; Roycrotf, 6s. 6d.) vsould not
have been broadcast in Australia. Like
many another in this anthology of verse
broadcast in 8.8. C, land, it is a fine brief
poem; but because there is a faint note of
human, int.Lnuuiy in it, it opposes our most
powerful taboo. Wherefore (perhaps) Aius-
tralia appeareth not in such a book as this,
though there are more verses by a South
African, Roy 'Campbell, than by any other
represented poet, and contributors include
two Sitwells, Brooke, Blunden, Armstrong,
Drinkwater, Eliot, Joyce. SockvilJe-West
and Sassoon.
Horse Gad
ē
Mr Co[?]boy Harris
ŵ
Another Horsemon
A cunning stylist, who, however, gets
well away with the artifice, is Winston
Churchill, as met in his clever fragment of
autobiography, My Early Life (Thornton
Butterworth; Dy mocks; 215.). In the
chapter relating las absurdly unbrilliant
entry into Sandhurst —ia duffer, shouldered
m by an infallible “atuffer” —lie pays his
tribute: “No one ever came to grief—
except honorable grief—through riding
horses/’ The book differs from the general
run of its branch of light fiction in that
Churchill has a story to tell; and its clever-
est. element i$ the manner in which he man-
ages, by gradual and progressive strengthen-
ing of his style, to create the illusion that
he is the age which actually he is only in
retrospect Childhood in a political atmo-
sphere ("Mr. Gladstone was a very danger-
ous man who went about rousing people
up, lashiug them into fury so that, they
voted against the Conservatives and turned
rny grandfather out of his place as Lord-
Lieutenant. of Ireland”), schooldays, Sand-
hurst, the Fourth Hussars, service in Cuba,
Indian frontier, Omdurman, war correspond-
ent ifi South Africa, eventually the House
of Commons—lie recaptures it all with
quick convincingness. His description of
his capture bv and escape from the Boers
is good adventure - t uff; his account of
u cavalry charge at Omdurman is refresh-
ing in a manliness that contrasts oddly
with the snivel-aud-c-ntrails mongering of
another war.
Ajrica Again
ww w
w
ŵ w
Now, Australia
ẃ
Divorce, Satire
w
RED PAGE.
The A.M.C.
Volume I of The Official History of the
A AM. Services covers Egypt, Gallipoli,
Palestine and New Guinea. Colonel But-
ler’s admirably written “The Gallipoli
Campaign” occupies nearly two-thirds of
the boolc, and is in every way the most
important section.
As the preface remarks, “apart from the
expedition to New Guinea, Australia was
not responsible for the complete organisa-
tion of any military force”; and to the end,
of course, Australians were attended by
members of the R.A.M.C., nursed by Im-
perial nurses, and sent to Imperial convales-
cent homes. Few A.M.C. officers had had
military experience; they were civilians
who had to fit themselves into the military
scheme as best they could. Facts like these,
with all their implications, have to be
(Red Page continued on page 6.)


The vast stacks and famous service of
Anthony Horderns’ are thrown whole-
heartedly into the greatest Sale Sydney
has ever known. Undoubtedly this is a unique
opportunity to save on every purchase. Abso-
lutely genuine reductions from genuine prices.
17/3 Hearth Rugs, 15/11
Illustrated Below.
Axminster Hearth Rugs, as illustrated, in Persian,
Indian and floral designs, in light, medium or dark
colorings.
Ft. In. Ft. In.
4 10x2 3 Price, 17/3 Sale Price, each, 15/11 j
5 0 x 2 6 Price, 19/6 Sale Price, each, 17/11
6 0 x 3 0 Price, 26/6 Sale Price, each, 24/11 !
Also Mottled Axminster Rugs, with Fringe ends.
Ft. In. Ft. In.
4 6x 2 3 Price, 12/6 Sale Price, each, 10/6
“Truth in Advertising v
ALWAYS
at Anthony Hordern s'.
m
m
HB
m
s
M
I
%
*■<! - «?#"*-
(;i
<u : pumm' 1
# > ■
s
ss
r>*
-fe
S
$
r
«*«
**.
• 11?!
i
:iPb
m
i ***-'
■^tirvF
■
ft
SC
&
ra
n
n
SPIS
ft
I***
Eyi
fcj
tjn
i
ES
£
m
s -fe
: :
K
S*
i
*
Is?
L« *
■
s»
Cl
m
m
m
»S>
NMmE
Sffi
1
fill
.
s<«
PSQS
ft
M
MS
: s i
M
E
ra
«<
;■ *■
«i
•■•••■•
■ ■
M i
»
*
10/- Mats, 6/6
Shown Above.
Wilton Pile Door Mats. East-
ern designs in Fawn, Crimson,
Blue and Rose grounds, 30in.
x 12in. Fringed ends.
Price, each 107-
Sale Price, 6/6
30/- Reversible Rugs, 27/-
Illustrated Above.
“Hordernia” Reversible Rugs—
Ft. In. Ft. In.
3 6xl 9 Price, 11/6
4 0 x 2 3 Price, 17/3
4 10x2 6 Price, 23/6
5 6 x 2 9 Price, 30/-
6 0 x 3 0 Price, 34/6
7 0 x 4 0 Price, 54/6
Sale Price, each, 10/6
Sale Price, each, 15/6
Sale Price, each, 20/6
Sale Price, each, 27/-
Sale Price, each, 31/-
Sale Price, each, 48/6
11/6 Stair Carpet, 10/11
Not Illustrated.
Second Quality Axminster Stair Carpet—
j Width, inches 22£ 27 36
i Prices, per yard .... 11/6 12/3 19/11
| Sale Prices, per yard, 10/11 11/6 17/9
2816 Wilton Carpet, 21/6
Not Illustrated.
Heavy Wilton Pile Carpet. Super quality, extra
fine weave. Fawn or Grey ground. Panel
Persian. 27in. wide Body. Price, per yard, 28/6
Sale Price, per yard 21/6
1 8in. Border. Yard, 21/-. Sale Price, 15/9
32/6 Axminster, 22/6 yd.
Illustrated at Left.
Extra Heavy Long Pile Super Fine* Axminster
Carpet. 27in. wide Body. Price, yard . . 32/6
Sale Price, per yard 22/6
1 8in. wide Border. Yard, 29/6 Sale, 19/-
27in. wide Stair. Yard, 32/6 Sale, 22/6
ass
j
■:
Car-pet Dept., Fourth Floor; these goods are delivered free in city and suburbs only.
57/6 Indian Numdahs, 50/-
Illustrated at Left.
Hand Embroidered Indian Numdahs. Approxi-
mate size, 6ft. x 4ft. Price, each 57/6
Sale Price, each 50/-
Reproduction Persian
Illustrated Below,
Reproduction Persian Carpet, in extra long Pile
Wilton Quality Carpet. No. 1 Quality—
Ft. In. Ft. In £ s. d. £ s. d.
Also Reproduction Persian Rugs, in extra long Pile
Wilton Quality Carpet. No. 1 Quality—
Ft. In. Ft. In.
4 6x 2 3 Price, 57/6 Sale Price, 51/6
6 0x 3 0 Price, 87/6 Sale Price, 77/6
£l2/2/6 Axminsters, £9
Illustrated Below.
British Seamless Axminster Squares, in four distinct
grades. Variety of designs and colorings.
Extra-heavy Quality—
H °r<lem & So “ < Ltd >
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, 0.P.0.


/
'Ss
>'/
M
ENERVATION
y stages
of man's refreshment
K
\
inspißA tion
V
ft
d£ T£RM |NATION
§
h
m
V
aN ticipa tioN
/
fs
&
sr
/
9
is
£CTAT" iO/S|
DEL
(“)
tf.,
V
T\
gkA TIF |CATION
TOOTH’S
a true LAGER
/ Brewed and-Bottled by TOOTH &-Co. LIMITED , Kent Brewery, Sydney •
(voii-vyo 9l^1
V
/Mr
!y>
<?/


•m
w
m
/
m
-v ‘ j/ if
m.
*
\
/
MID- AFTERNOON on a broad verandah. Cocoanut palms
nodding in a South Sea breeze cast moving shadows on a velvet
lawn. A brown-eyed sprite barefooted and bedecked in blossom-leis
glides out of the shade and pauses in the sunshine.
From a low-throated ukulele comes a vibrant strum like a warning
note. Suddenly the echo is caught by the pulsing lilt of steel guitars.
In weird grace the immobile figure slowly swings into the lithesome
movements of the Hawaiian Hula Hula.
The wild ecstasy of the tribal dances of old Hawaii, the sobbing of
their music which tells of winds in forest branches, the moan of surf
on coral shores, plaintive loves confessed to a tropic moon, lend a
glamour to the Paradise Isles which grows with every visit.
To-day, in flower-scented groves, thrilled by the drama of ancient days
enacted in fairyland settings, are many who return year after year,
and so too will it enchant you—arrange to go now.
Special excursion fares now available. First class accommodation from 15/- to £3
per day, including meals. Write for descriptive literature to
Hawaii
A-1931
P-nt.
17.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 88,
G.P.0., Sydney.
remembered when the blame is allotted
for the tragic mistakes that were made.
It is ironical that the War Office should
have selected Egypt as a training-ground
for the A.I.F. “for health reasons.” The
Olympians at Whitehall knew that the rich
went to Cairo for chest troubles in the
winter, but apparently didn’t know that,
the Port Said-Suez-Cairo triangle is about
the most disease-ridden part of the Medi-
terranean littoral in the summer. The
First Anzac Corps experienced the impact
of “a rather serious outbreak of infectious
diseases” shortly after its arrival in Egypt,
and right up to the time when the troops
were shifted from the festering suburbs of
Cairo after the Evacuation, and lodged in
camps on the Canal side of the desert, the
casualties from sickness continued to be
unduly large. One of the many health
lessons taught by the war was that you
can’t train large bodies of men near great
cities—more especially Asiatic cities—and
keep them even approximately fit.
The Landing, and the days that followed,
taught another lesson. The wave of indig-
nation that went through Australia when
accounts first began to leak out of the
primitive conditions aboard the transports
and hospital ships which bore the wounded
to Egypt, and the equally primitive con-
ditions that awaited them there, was more
than justified. Practically no provision had
been made for their reception. Meanwhile,
more and more had to be evacuated, as
they became useless for fighting purposes.
“To a certain extent,” observes the chroni-
cler, in one of those acid epigrams with
which his story is sprinkled, “evacuation
was successful on the military side in pro-
portion as it failed on the humanitarian.”
The “Red Book” lays it down that “a know-
ledge of sanitation is incumbent on every
officer.” Unfortunately, in the early stages
of the war none of the Mediterranean
armies was organised to enable officers to
put any knowledge of sanitation they may
have had into practice. There is a fright-
ful chapter on “Diseases at Gallipoli,” and
another on “The Supreme Effort: Sari
Bair.” The A.M.C. became autonomous
under Colonel Howse, Y.C., at the end of
1915, and he reorganised it at the beginning
of the following year. From now on the
narrative becomes less dramatic and more
technical. It concludes with two long chap-
ters dealing respectively with the activi-
ties of the A.M.C. in England and Aus-
tralia to June, 1916.
Colonel Downes handles the Sinai Cam-
paign. By 1916 the organisation that had
been built up by the brilliant and inde-
fatigable Howse was at the service of the
desert warriors. Transmissible diseases
were under control, field laboratories were
relatively plentiful, infectious diseases were
rare. Not that the M.O.’s were having it all
their own way:—
A general feeling prevailed that the division “was
there to fight,” that sanitation was a “frill,” and as
such was a waste of time in the field. It was only
after H.Q. of No. 3 Section Canal Defences had
received vigorous unfavorable reports on the sanitary
state of the lines in different brigades that an effective
sanitary conscience was created.
Things steadily improved. By Novem-
ber, 1917, “in operations for abdominal
wounds performed within from 12 to 20
hours 40 per cent, of the cases recovered.”
Reference to the death-rate from “abdomi-
nals” in the Gallipoli fighting gives some
idea of the strides made by the A.M.C. in
the interval.
Part 111, by Colonel Maguire and Captain
Cilento (the New Guinea Expedition),
comes as something of an anti-climax after
the thunder and carnage of the previous
sections. The tropical force suffered only 27
deaths during the period 1914-19 inclusive
—a high tribute to the protective measures
taken lay the local P.M.O. The book, which
contains 835 pages and a comprehensive
index, is, like the other war histories, pro-
fusely illustrated with well-reproduced
photographs and maps.
J.B.D.
Plain Talk, Etc.
John Dailey reviews my book (R.P.
22/10/’3O) under the heading “An Oxonian
on Australia.” He says that my “spiritual
home” is in Oxford. How does he know
where my spiritual home is? I have lived
all my life except five years in Australia;
of those five years I have spent two and a
half in Italy and Germany; at present I
am on leave from Adelaide, where I return
in March. The review should have been
headed “An Australian on Australia.”
He says that the chief defect of the book
is the author’s reluctance to admire his
native land, and that a British or foreign
writer would have been more compli-
mentary. That may or may not be so. (Cf.
Siegfried on the United States or New Zea-
land.) But the argument has this much
substance, that nationality gives an author
a right to plain speaking about his country-
men which they would not tolerate in a
foreigner. Compare The Bulletin’s “Plain
English” during the last 10 years—it is far
more downright than any of the criticism
in my book. If the irrelevant objection is
made that my book will be read abroad,
this is also true of The Bulletin. The fact
is, that every patriotic Australian of intelli-
gence has been compelled, in this post-war
age, to criticise without much mercy policies
which were mortgaging Australia’s future
for a generation or more to come.
Mr. Dailey complains that I say nothing
of “Australia’s steady output of supermen,”
of whom Trumper, Macartney and Bradman
are examples. I agree that it is a weakness
of my book that it says nothing at all
about cricket and very little about war. But
the real difference between Mr. Dailey and
me is one of standards. He believes in-
tensely in the world-significance of what
Australia has already done: I believe in the
world-significance of what she must and
shall some day do. I share his admiration
for her achievement in producing a fine
physical type, but I look for a more varied
crop of supermen.
W. K. HANCOCK.
A Satchel of Books
Flying , by Claude Grahame-White
(Chatto and Windus; 12s. 6d. net). A
large book about post-war and other flying,
the rnost remarkable feature of which is that
the Kingsford-Smith hopping from America
to Australia is not mentioned.
More Points of View (Allen and Unwin;
4s. 6d. net). Not such a dazzling collection
as the earlier lot of 8.8. C. “Points of View”
talks, but still holding such contributors as
Belloc, Sir Henry Newbolt, Viscount Grey
of Fallodon, and the Archbishop of York,
and spiced with an intellectual flavor, the
Australian broadcasting substitute for which
is mostly racing results, cooking recipes, jazz
and platitude.
Shell Motor Tours , Victoria (Shell ,Co.;
2s. 6d.). F'or the holiday motorist this
elaborate publication should prove invalu-
able. It tells him how to put up a tent,
how not to get bitten by a snake or a hotel
proprietor, where the best fishing, shooting,
golfing, camping and scenery are to be
obtained, and so forth. A score or so of
maps give detailed information covering the
whole State.
The efficient firm of Travers and Franklin,
of “The Perfect Murder Case,” is again to
the fore in Christopher Bush’s Murder at
Fenwood (Hcinemann; 7s. 6d.)_. On this
occasion the problem to be solved is: How did
Cosmo Revere, an experienced woodman,
come to get killed while cutting down one
of the trees on his estate in the manner of
an amateur? There are some interesting, if
melodramatic, people in this thriller. Not-
ably the Jekyll-and-Hydeish parson, Had-
dowe, who associates with members of the
underworld, uses frightful oaths in an Oxford
accent, and sticks at nothing.
It would be unfair to dismiss Phillip Mac-
donald’s Rynox (Collins; 7s. 6d.) as a first-
rate crime story; it is so much more. F. X.
Benedik —another Hatry, who has built up the
now tottering firm of Rynox—his son, and
his son’s delightful girl, Peter, are real
people, and so are the innumerable minor
characters. Also, the atmosphere of London,
both W. and E.C., and the different London
and country voices are_ caught with a deft-
ness which is rare in this type of work. The
mystery, which is unravelled on novel lines,
concerns the shooting of “F.X.,” as a result
of which Rynox is saved from ruin.
The Life of Rabelais, by Jean Plattard
(Routledge; 15s. net). A trifle too crowded
with the notes and reference of speculation
to be as engaging reading as it might have
been, this first serviceable life of the mighti-
est laugher in literature is nevertheless a
capital book. The author —Professor in the
Faculty of Letters in the University of
Poitiers —admits the meagreness of biographic
detail available, but uses what there is effec-
tually, and supplements it with the provably
autobiographic statements and references in
“Gargantua” and “Pantagruel,” on which
books he has already written a volume and
adds here several fresh chapters. A careful
and complete piece of work.
Charles Clayton and Muriel Wilkins, who
are wealthy Americans belonging to conven-
tional families, live together in Paris. They
despise marriage as an institution which
interferes with mankind’s natural love of
sexual change; and anyhow Charles is mar-
ried already and the possessor of a son.
Such is the theme of Jeannette Gibbs’s Caf6
Noir (Collins). Mrs. Clayton gets a divorce
and marries John Wilkins, who is Muriel’s
father, and young Charles, who is as modern
as any of them, calls on Muriel and holds
forth:—
I don’t see any harm in marriage if you’re sure
you’re not going to change your mind and want to
quit. I don’t blame him for not marrying you at
first. That’s too much risk, maybe. You never
know a person until you live with them. But he’s
crazy about you now, and wouldn’t get out on a
bet. I don’t see why he doesn’t marry you.
So they are married, and the book ends with
Messrs. Clayton and Wilkins having a
friendly drink together. Odd though it may
seem after this resume, Mrs. Gibbs is a
strong supporter of the married state. She
is also a strong supporter of Paris, and
conveys the atmosphere of the studios and
cafes with considerable skill.
Ted Jenkins, hero of The Broken Melody
(N.S.W. Bookstall Co.), becomes a drug
addict at school. His squatter-father is over-
come at the news. “For twenty years I
have planned for you, worked for you, and
the proud name of Jenkins. . . . And while
I do this you, a Jenkins, indulge in the
desire of weaklings, and drag the name of
Jenkins not into the mud, but into the
depths of Hell!” And now comes the scan-
dalised parent’s final pronouncement (“You
could not sink deeper, and you, the last of
the Jenkinses!”), and Ted goes out into the
world in disgrace. He is saved by his vir-
tuosity as a ’cellist. After many tribulations
he reaches London with his instrument and
plavs “The Broken Melody” at the Albert
Hall: —
Then staid London stood on its feet and yelled,
men and women alike. What mattered it if they
had a title to carry, some dignity to show ? It
mattered not n0w.... So the debut of the Unknown
became a triumph.
And so home to a chastened father and a
suitable marriage. One gathers that the
Australian author of this novel is young, in
possession of all his illusions, and affluent—
he is his own printer and publisher. When
he learns something of life by living it he
may write a good book, but he is very short
of humor. This local production is ahead of
most English 7s. 6d. novels in printing, bind-
ing and genei’al appearance.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.L.: “Flat” falls down on its job of being
dramatic. “Reward’s” characters are shadows....
F.F.F.; Too much starch in the dialogue W.E.8.:
“Pawn” doesn’t promise much of a day... .W.M.W.:
To these ears the sentiment sounds false... .Freeman
S. : This seems the season for tropical adventure
yarns. 1 ours is the best of a poor lot: its charac-
ters move like dummies... .8.E.L.: Not a ray of
hope... .Corfu: Better; but you won’t go far with
the short story in Australia till you realise that
in these parts it doesn’t give you room to wander.
. ...G.1.G.: There is no doubt it was a theft, sold
to Archibald as original Fred T.: “Evicted” gets
very close.. . .Josephine On: “Pier” ditto A.S.:
“Harvesting” trite and unimpressive... .A.R.:
“McClosky” doesn’t quite make the grade. No per-
mission is necessary for reprinting your verses else-
where, as long as the source is acknowledged....
H.A.: We’ve heard worse-told yarns than Steve’s,
but it needs better telling... .P.J.H.: Your Muse is
a solid, matter-of-fact old lady.... J.M.C.: “The
Mailman” brought nothing in our line. .. . J.H.: Get
to it with a pruning-knife... .E.P.M.: Ends uncon-
vincingly... .G.H. A.: No merit in it....H.W.: A
tattered pair... .E.S.: You can’t capitalise those
dreams here 11.F.H.: Send it to the “S.M.H.”
E.J.G.: So it’s Jane Austen this time? It was
Charlotte Bronte before.... P.M.: Legacy-that-came-
too-late yarn arrives too often... .A.M.T.: No meat on
either... .W.C.: A trivial episode... .E.D.8.: Flick-
ered out after a page or two J.R.It.: Good atmo-
sphere, but it’s been told before... .W.F.T.: Might
have found a market in the days of the yellowbacks.
. ...E.E.: Can’t notice any improvement since your
last appearance.... C.A.M.: Wobbly as 6.30 p.m
J.O’C.: Comparing Norina or Corinda or even Mary
Ann Kate with dawn, orchards and what not was
worn out in the seventeenth century M.P.W. :
Both slight... .W.E.: C. J. Dennis did that sort
of thing so well that it almost can’t be done again.
. ...M.L.G.: Only goes to prove how monotonous a
word like “thee” can be J.F.: Verse didn’t seem
to find “John’s Greatness” contagious... .A.A.R.:
Idea lost in a fog of words... .8.A.R.: Get
away from that artificial form, and say the good
stuff you have to say without frills E.G.M.S.:
Like our poetic children a trifle more robust....
T. : Regret cannot share your opinion of your-
self as a poet... .R.E.: Not without merit, but
unsuitable, and can’t think where you might place
it D.W.: Letting that theme drop for a while.
... .R.W.C,: You make it ring true enough, but
that does not make verse of it.... Ground F.:
“Butterflies” too harrowing... .The Microbe: You
could have done better with that idea M.W. :
Congratulations on the sentiment, anyway....
L.M.A.: “Hope”-less... .R.J.: One couplet:—
Beauty he dearly loved and bought, he
Died of absinthe before he was forty.
. ...8.D.R.; An echo of a “London Mercury” story.
E.T.: Slovenly... .E.M.: Ghastly... .W.R.: Not in
its present form, but rewritten it might stand a
chance... .T.P.: Better try another s.-p. address.
You want it both ways... .A.E.M.: Bit off the track.
. ...T.McG.: No fancy for that sort of rhyming....
A.E.C.: Well, you have the honor of being first to
use both sides of the paper this week... .F.L.:
Can't recall the last one. Present lot don’t make
the weight. Religious Editor brightened appreciably
at promise to enclose a reviver with the next batch.
.... Bellerive: Bring in your all-rounder:
RECOLLECTIONS OF PROFESSOR MILLER.
Swimmer, sprinter and
Strong wrestler of skill.
Swordsman and boxer
Of the best in a mill.
Enterpriser and performer
In our Australian clime,
Among star athletes
He reigned for some time.
(Next week: “Dave McNamara, celebrated Victorian
footballer.")
. ...J.8.: Treatment beats “The Immigrant”....
N.M.M.: Brightest dirge for years... .G.M.: Why
make him say “luv” for “love” ? How else would
he pronounce it ?.... C. Gic: Room for a fragment
of the orchard epic:—
Fall, fall,
The peaches fall,
Dropping there near the garden wall.
Alas, for man’s endeavor,
He isn’t half so clever.
As the grubs that get them all.
. ...S.S.H.: Better try “The Bubble” on Lang.
It’s heavy, but he’ll float it... . B.AV.: Liked it up
to the second line;, then it flopped... .L.G.P.: Don’t
show your verse to “friends”; it’s disastrous—one
way or the other.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
1.W.: Unimportant subjects badly drawn....
G.M.E.K.: That unspeakable old gag once more !....
A.S.P.; Pick up a few points about perspective
before you try again — .D.L.: What material are
your flappers wearing? It looks like galvanised-iron.
...... W.S.; You let your pen run amok... .M.A.P.:
Oswald Pryor did it better... . K. 8.: A hopeless trio.
... .C.J.: Torn to shreds, as requested... .R.S.D.:
Doesn’t that drunk ever sober up?..,.A.N.: Well,
for a start, he’s not wearing a Digger’s uniform....
G.M.M.: If you must draw, use invisible ink....
J.M.K.: You have a long way to g 0... .G.A.8.:
Untidy... .L.C.G.: Promising... .C.P.S.: The body
of the faintly pencilled flapper seems to be floating
away from her legs... .L.E.J.: Sozzled mariner is
50 fathoms below print level... .A.D.W.T.: A
decrepit visitor. .. .F.M.: They bandied that jest
in Babylon... .E.H.S.: Cheerful but crude....
C.D.M.: Beware of the friends who told you we’d
snap it up....N.5.: Jest about the table manners of
frogs has us baffled... .S.H.D.; The window-pane is
fairly well drawn; that’s the best we can say... .
J.D.; Poor V.W.: Nothing in any of them....
M.E.: He hasn’t got past the copying stage yet....
W.Y.: Whatever you may be cut out for it is not
art... .P.N.8.: Life-saver gets no medal here.


ë
'l
ŵ


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2659.
January 28, 1931.
“JUST A TEENY WEENY LITTLE BIT.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87911.
Victoria: lli-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, fV.C.S.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
id. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE —HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . • • 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8 > 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. • • 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER? .. -.17
THE BURDEN OF INTEREST 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. • • 18
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-011 (with drawings) 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . . . 27
New Serial—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole . • 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) .. ■ • • • 30, 31
RANDWICK ANNIVERSARY MEETING .- 30
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 32
SHADOW SHOAVS 33
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . • • 32, 34
AS WE SAID BEFORE (Phil May drawing) . . 36
COMPLETE STORY—
“THE HARLEQUIN JOKE”—
By Henry G. Lamond . . ■ • 37, 38
VERSE —By Arnold AA'all, J. Holloway,
E. J. Brady . . ... • ■ • • . . 38
HOW MR. THEODORE SAVED
QUEENSLAND!
There is no better window-dresser in
Australian politics than Edward Granville
Theodore, who gave us so superb a demon-
stration of his art 15 months ago when
Federal Labor appointed him its election-
campaign director. It was no prentice hand
he used upon that occasion; it had had
plenty of practice in Queensland. Arriving
in Parliament there in 1909, he found him-
self at the middle of 1915 Treasurer m a
Labor Ministry. The State had been
notorious for its rapid changes of Govern-
ment. Mr. Theodore altered all that, and
held on to office till February, 1925. The
means by which the apparently impossible
was achieved make one of the most interest-
ing chapters in Australian history.
Meantime Mr. Theodore decided that,
as Queensland would be sure to discover
some of his good deeds presently and make
a fuss about them, it might be better to
prepare some little place to which he
could retreat. Coming to Sydney he dis-
covered a gentleman who held a State seat
in the House of Reps, but apparently pre-
ferred a steady job in a pub. At. any rate,
shortly after meeting Mr. Theodore he was
able to buy the pub, a merciful Providence
having guided him to back a certain horse
with a bookmaker whose name he was un-
fortunately never afterwards able to recall.
So Mr. Theodore got a. seat in the National
Parliament.
He had not held it long before he dis-
covered how well the work of creating an
atmosphere favorable to the Wizard from
the North had been done. With him at
the helm a country could hardly go wrong.
Now, this, though ridiculous enough, was
not a matter of much public concern so
long as Mr. Theodore did not put forward
any schemes of his own for the regeneration
of Australia. The moment, however, that
he proposes to experiment with the cur-
rency of the country, it becomes a national
duty to call the great bluff, and prick the
bubble of this remarkable man’s reputation
as a public financier.
He came into office in Queensland in
June, 1915, as Treasurer. The Denham
Government, which he and his colleagues
displaced, had been charged with gross ex-
tiavagance and misuse of public money.
By proceeding on proper lines Mr. T heo-
dore was going to save the State millions
and establish it in prosperity. At that time
the public debt of Queensland was £B2
9s. 2d. per head. Mr. Theodore, the apostle
of economy and sane finance, began to
make almost quarterly visits to the pawn-
shop. In his first year he added just on
£3 per head to the' State’s debt. From
£B2 9s. 2d. in 1915, when he took office,
the debt sprang to £lO9 Bs. 9d. as at June,
1924. In the seven years before Mr. Theo-
dore arrived, the debt had grown £5 10s.
2d. per head; in the nine years of his
misrule—nearly half of them war years—
it grew £24 Os. Id. per head!
Borrowing may be justified if it makes
money for the borrower; that is good
finance. But Mr. Theodore’s borrowing
was such bad finance that the more he
borrowed the more he lost and the heavier
the taxes he had to collect to make good
those losses. This is the Queensland record
of taxes per head of population in Mr.
Theodore’s day:—
1916 .. £229 1921 .. £4 18 1
1917 .. 269 1922 .. 490
] 918 2 11 2 1923 . . 4 4 6
1919 .. 3 19 10 1924 . . 4 9 2
1920 .. 4 11 8
Mr. Theodore’s services to Queensland were
such that in 1924, when he decided to go
south, his State was easily the most heavily
taxed in Australia (figures show taxes per
head of population, 1924): —
Victoria .. £2 15 1 IN. S. Wales .. £3 12 3
Westralia .. 3 6 4 Tasmania ..449
S. Australia.. 310 2 I Queensland .. 4 9 2
For all this extra money which Mr. Theo-
dore extracted from their pockets, the
people of Queensland looked in vain for
any extra service. The money, in fact,
went in political bribery unparalleled in
its. audacity. The railways of Queensland
had been reasonably profitable. Under the
wand of the magician Theodore, they estab-
lished the following amazing record: —
Profit or Loss After Payment of Working
Expenses and Interest.
1914.. Profit £38,163 1920.. Loss £1,087,001
1915.. „ 118,128 1921.. „ 1,581,060
1916.. Loss 417,991 1922.. „ 1,580,207
1917.. ~ 663,020 I 1923. . ~ 1,292,556
1918.. „ 945,372 | 1924.. ~ 1,412,900
1919. . „ 1,323,252 j
It is the most shocking performance ever
put up by any Government, State or
Federal, in Australia.
But again some small excuse might have
been found for it had the public benefited
at all—had there been any increase in
settlement, for example. Instead of that,
the country was steadily drained. Arch-
bishop Duhig, speaking at Miles towards
the end of Mr. Theodore’s long period
of misrule, said that that one little district
bad lost 88 families in 15 years, and that the
State school had then 45 fewer scholars
than it had five years previously. Nor
had the city factories gained. In 1915 there
were 42,079 factory operatives in Queens-
land; in 1924 there were 44,948, a gross
increase in nine years of 2869. In S. Aus-
tralia, with not one-half of Queensland’s
natural advantages, the number increased
from 25,496 to 37,275, a gross increase of
11,779.
The simple fact, of course, is that the
public service was packed and the country
was squeezed dry to maintain it. As at June,
1915, the State’s payroll for the year was
£4,134,689. Nine years later it was
£9,685,634. In 1914-15 the profit on the
State railways after paying wages and
interest was £3 ss. Id. per employee. In
1924 the profit of £3 ss. Id. had been
turned into a loss of £94 os. lOd.—which
explains why the astounding increase of
taxes was necessary.
The story of the service which Mr. Theo-
dore did to Queensland is here only half
told. It would be possible to go on show-
ing, for example, how at the beginning of
his career at the Treasury the cost of living
(foodstuffs and groceries) in Brisbane was
lower than it was in any other city in
Australia, being 13 points under Melbourne,
whereas, at the end of his career at the
Treasury, Brisbane was dearer than Mel-
bourne by 6 points. Possibly sufficient has,
however, been said to suggest that Mr.
Theodore, so far from being a financial
genius, is a financial disaster of the worst
character, who turned a railway profit into
a loss amounting to over £5,867,000 in his
last four years, who had the worst record
of State taxes in Australia, and who, inci-
dentally, still has to answer the charge of
having put thousands of pounds into his
own pockets in the process.
CREDIT: REAL OR BOGUS?
We are still busy trying to find out how two
and two can make five, and three into six
go four times. Some of us see an easy way
in inflation; and when that word becomes
unpopular we turn to credit. Now, this is
the more dangerous propaganda of the two
because it is not so easily combated. Infla-
tion is an utterly bad thing, whereas credit
may be a very good thing. Whether it is
good or bad depends upon who gives it, who
accepts it, and the circumstances under
which it is given or accepted. It has made
fortunes for thousands, and has tided many
more over difficulties; it has also ruined
thousands and prevented other thousands
from making a recovery. There is always
danger in it; and the greater the need of it
the more uncertain it is.
We are in our present difficulties mainly
through credit. Certainly we should be
suffering hard times if we had never made
use of it, because of the fall in the value of
our staples; but we should have tided over
that trouble quite easily but for the credit
which we employed to get into debt to the
extent of over 1100 millions. Those who
are talking about the thing now are recom-
mending it as though it were a new dis-
covery, something that we have never tried
before. As a matter of fact, probably no
other nation in the world has made greater
use of it. It is responsible for almost all
our ills: it is responsible for the fact that
we have now to find over 36 millions a year
in interest and other debt-charges overseas;
it is responsible for the inflation of property
and other values, and for most of our
oppressive mortgages; it is responsible for
our recent prolonged burst of extravagance,
with its mania for t.p. purchases at absurd
prices; it is responsible for the exchange on
London rocketing up to 25 per cent, and
thus "crippling hundreds of Australian indus-
tries which are more or less dependent upon
raw materials from overseas; it is respon-
sible for the banks being drained of their
resources in order to keep Governments
from defaulting, and it is therefore respon-
sible for the banks being unable to
adequately assist in supporting Australia’s
industries. Obviously, credit holds such
enormous possibilities of disaster that it
should be accepted only after the most
careful consideration and then with the
greatest caution.
Our troubles were precipitated by the ex-
haustion of our credit abroad under the then
existing circumstances. Our creditors woke
up at last to the fact that for many years
we had been paying them their interest out
of the proceeds of new loans. Any sane
creditor must sooner or later rebel against
that, since payment would depend upon the
capacity of the borrower to go on borrowing.
So the creditor was right and we were
wrong—how right he was and how wrong we
were is clear from the enormous difficulty
we are having in meeting our interest obliga-
tions. As a. matter of fact, as that difficulty
proves, we had long exhausted our legiti-
mate credit. Yet the matter is now being
put up to us as though our credit is un-
touched, as though somebody had dis-
covered an entirely new source of national
wealth.
Certainly it is rarely possible to say that
a nation has absolutely exhausted its credit.
A man who is notoriously living beyond his
means may reasonably be refused further
credit at every trader’s; but he can restore
it by working harder, loafing less and cut-
ting down his expenditure. This was the
obvious thing for us to do; it was more
than that, it was the only honest thing.
But it was not the palatable thing. It
meant sacrifices; it meant (especially in
view of the fall in prices) a heavy reduction
in costs, and that meant a heavy reduction
in nominal wages, though not necessarily
any reduction at all in real wages. Had
Australia been blessed with a. few enlight-
ened Labor leaders who were prepared to
risk momentary unpopularity in order to
save from disaster the people they are sup-
posed to counsel and guide, they would
have boldly recommended and urged this
only sane course. But either their ignor-
ance, their cowardice, their reckless ambi-
tion or their desire to precipitate a Com-
munist revolution—peaceful or otherwise—•
prevented them. Mr. Theodore and the
group who talk about, “creating credits” by
the tens of millions at least recognise that,
something has to be done. They at least
know that credit must exist before we can
get out of this mess. But instead of restor-
ing credit, they propose to “create” it.
Instead of doing those things which will
produce credit naturally, they propose to
sign a few pieces of paper and pretend that
credit thereby is established; and by that
very process they endanger, if they do not
destroy, all hope of the recovery of the
real thing.
Unless we are to default abroad, we must
have the real thing. No amount of paper
will pay one farthing of that annual debt of
36 millions which we have pledged our-
selves to pay overseas. It is true that if
some of our primary and other producers
were assisted they might be able to
presently increase their output and so aug-
ment our exports. There are two principal
reasons why they cannot get assistance now.
In the first place the banks have been
drained of money to enable the Govern-
ments to meet their obligations, mostly
overseas; in three years they have been
called upon for 40 millions for this purpose.
And in the second place the fear of inflation,
plain or camouflaged, has already robbed
this country of large amounts of capital
which in other circumstances would be
available to the banks, and through them to
their clients. Whatever it might do later,
the release of manufactured credits would
not bring any early reduction of the drain
on the banks, while any monkeying with
the currency would unquestionably prolong
the outflow of capital, adding to the difficul-
ties of the banks and their clients.
And still the establishment of credit is
necessary: The Bulletin can see no other
practicable way out. Rehabilitation, though
it might be more rapid in Australia than
in almost any other country in the world,
is still a slow process; and it is too much to
ask us to put our house completely in order
in a day or a year, especially in view of the
fall in our export staples. The overwhelm-
ing difficulty is with the oversea obligations
for interest and charges, now greatly added
to by the high exchange rates. The creation
of local credits will not help us there. Only
an English loan will do that. Besides
enabling us to square things in London it
will release the banks from their present
necessity of starving private clients in order
to save the country’s reputation; it will
bring the rate of exchange back to normal
and thus relieve those Australian manufac-
turers who are more or less dependent on
overseas raw material; it will stop the
flight of capital which is adding so greatly
to our difficulties. But it will involve
economy in public services and an under-
taking to balance our budgets within, say,
two years; on no other basis is it feasible to
expect that the British Government would
assist us to borrow. We shall have to do this
and reduce our costs of production sooner
or later in any case; for no “creation of
credits” will affect in the smallest degree the
world-prices of those commodities which we
must sell in order to pay our way.
THE FARMER MUST NOT STARVE.
The Commonwealth Dank, invited to make
an advance of 3s. per bushel on this season’s
Australian wheat crop, decided that such a
payment was beyond its power, since the
export value of the grain is a great deal less.
There is only one way in which the pay-
ment could be made—by taxing the com-
munity to make up the difference, or issu-
ing notes to a like amount. For such notes
there would be no backing at all: they
would simply represent a loss made on
sales. It would be plain and deliberate in-
flation, with the inevitable result of fur-
ther reducing the value of every Australian
£. A palliative was possible: the price of
grain for Australian consumption might
have been fixed at 55., thereby giving the
farmer some relief; but as this would have
meant a rise in the price of bread, it was
vetoed by the Federal Labor Caucus, and
the unfortunate farmer is thus compelled to
sell at something under Is. 9d. at his rail-
way siding. It is beyond all question that
except in rare cases Is. 9d. will not give
him a living wage.
This is one of the toughest of our pro-
blems. Russia was formerly among the
world’s great wheat-exporters, but for some
years after the Revolution it was com-
pletely off the market. During this period
every other wheat-growing country increased
its area under cultivation, mechanical im-
provements enormously helping in the pro-
cess. Even without Russia’s return to the
market there was thus a vast increase in
the grain available. In Canada alone, at
the end of the 1929 crop year, the Dominion
pool was holding 44 million bushels un-
sold; and the entire world’s carryover was
estimated at 350 million bushels. Then the
1930 harvest came in; and, though both m
Canada and the United States growers had
been almost implored to curtail their plant-
ings, the crop was the second largest on
record. On top of that Russia entered the
market with an exportable surplus of over
90 million bushels. Further, the Soviet
Government is known to be making great
efforts to regain the position Russia for-
merly held in the world wheat markets.
Taking all these things into account, the
chairman of the U.S. Federal Farm Board
has expressed the “emphatic opinion” that
“the United States should abandon the pro-
duction of wheat for export”; and the head
of the Canadian pool declares that “it now
becomes an absolute necessity for farmers
in all exporting countries, including Canada,
to reduce their acreage.”
What can Australia do about it? The
lamentable fact is that, whereas the U.S.A.
has no foreign debt at all and Canada
hardly any worth mentioning, we have
loaded ourselves up to the neck; and where-
as both those countries have steadily built
up vast secondary industries, we are still
shockingly dependent upon overseas coun-
tries. We can and must remedy the latter
defect; but to lighten the load of our
foreign debt is impossible without doing
things we have declared we will not do.
With a gradual increase in our secondary
industries we may be able presently to
join in the exhortation to the farmer to
grow less wheat; for the present, and
especially in view of the excessively low prices
of wool and our other staples, we simply
cannot afford to do so. Yet it would be a
monstrous thing to say to the farmer:
“Yes, we know you cannot make a decent
living by growing wheat; but you are in-
dispensable to the nation, and you must
bear the burden of our financial sins, even
though you starve in doing it.” The proper
thing, and the only thing which will keep
him on his farm, is to subsidise him in
some wajq until, at any rate, his market
recovers; and one obvious way is to in-
crease the price we pay for so much of
his product as we consume ourselves.
And meantime other things must be
done. His costs must be reduced, especially
his taxes and his haulage charges. That
means economy in the public services. In
many cases his interest burden is also intol-
erable. And secondary industries must be
developed not only that our burden of over-
seas payments may be reduced, enabling us
to cut out some of this unprofitable business,
but to build up for farm products a local
market which we can control. But neither
secondary industries nor anything else of
much value will emerge until we re-estab-
lish confidence; and confidence will not
come until we have Governments with
settled plans for the future. Our present
curse is that we do not know what is going
to happen to-morrow, and can therefore
make no plans of our own.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Curse of the Windbag.
The Labor candidate for Parkes is an organ-
iser from the Trades Hall who was
“selected” in the approved fashion by “a
few of the boys.” He organises for the
Electrical Trades, a union with 5000-odd
members, who in the latest year for which
particulars are given by the Government
Registrar paid £5831 in contributions and
received a whole £241 in benefits, £4815
going down as “other expenditure.” Mr.
Theodore recommends him “as a man of


“RELEASING CREDITS.”
“Messrs. Theodore and Beasley are taking an enthusiastic part in the Parkes campaign, urging the electors to endorse a 'moderate up to
the Caucus by Mr. Anstey. The Prime Minister, though opposed to inflation, will probably be prevailed upon to take no action until after the election.
great fluency,” and fluency, plus a readiness
to vote the ticket at all times, is Power.
Australia is the earthly paradise of persons
with the gift of the gab. “Great fluency”
has brought many a union organiser an
easy job in which the salary was high, the
privileges were many, and there were oppor-
tunities of making a bit—or even a lot—
on the side.
But fluency uninformed by knowledge and
wisdom, or even commonsense, and unre-
strained by a sense of responsibility, can
be a curse to a country. It has been an
unmitigated curse to this country. The
worst of our troubles have been brought
upon us by windbags who sacrificed every
other consideration to the getting of votes.
Windbags increased the public debts of the
States (the States alone) from £397,471,500
in 1919 to £726,406,400 in 1929. Wind-
bags floated State loans to pay the interest
on other State loans and constructed Gov-
ernment railways, along with traffic-stealing
motor roads, so recklessly that the rail-
ways are now eating up tax-revenue at the
rate of £10,000,000 p.a. Other windbags
snuffed out the important export trade in
sheepskins in a night by clapping on an
export duty and then mumbling something
about returning it if it didn’t work. And,
by promising to pay 4s. a bushel for wheat,
snd then washing their hands of the whole
business after messing around muzzily for
months, they have left the farmers in an
appalling plight.
Other windbags again have done Australia
untold harm by overawing the weaker wind-
bags, their colleagues, who had agreed to
9, reduction of Government expenditure and
blackguarding the Bank of England man
who recommended it, and by demanding
inflation at home and default abroad—
“ Default, and be damned,” as Mr. Anstey,
Minister for Health, expressed it. It is
largely because of these particular windbags
that exchange on London has rocketed up
to p.c. and that jmu can buy 5j p.c.
Commonwealth bonds in Melbourne at a
price returning 10 z p.c. But in Labor-
candidate Martin they seem to have an
apt pupil. Young Mr. Martin mentions the
millions of deposits in the banks, and what
might be done with them. “I stand for
the immediate extension of credit under
control,” he says. Under control by the
politicians, of course. Australia has stood
enough from the politicians, and more than
enough. God help it if it ever lets them
get their clumsy hands on bank funds and
the currency!
The Opposition candidate for Parkes is
Major Marr. He, too, was “selected” by a
handful of more or less obscure persons,
called “a consultative committee” or some-
thing like that; and Australia will never be
delivered from machine politics until these
impudent frauds on the people are made
unlawful. Mr. Marr was a member of the
Bruce Ministry, which, is no great recom-
mendation. But he had a creditable war
record, and was industrious as member for
Parkes from 1919 till 1929. And he does
not stand for inflating the currency, or
monkeying with the people’s deposits in
banks, or telling the overseas creditor to
whistle for his money—in short, for making
a bad position a thousand times worse.
4.
Work and Wages.
The most recent changes in the cost of
living and in wage rates show how severely
N. S. Wales is handicapped in the industrial
struggle. The Federal Arbitration Court
last week unanimously ordered that wages
under the various awards before it should
be reduced by 10 per cent. Added to that,
and following upon a fall in the cost of
living, there was a readjustment of the basic
wage. The two changes make the basic
wage £3 16s. 6d. in Sydney, £3 10s. 3d.
in Melbourne, and, lowest of all, £3 Os. 9d.
in Brisbane. This means that the labor
cost of a job, judged by the basic wage, is
now to be 26 per cent, more in Sydney than
in Brisbane.
If the workers of Sydney were any better
off for this handicap upon the industry of
N. S. Wales —if work done by them cost
more because their standard of living was
higher— The Bulletin could find little to
complain about. But actually they are not
the gainers at all, because the cost of living
is 27 per cent, more in Sydney than in
Brisbane. So, though the basic wage in
Sydney is £3 16s. 6d. per week, the worker
of Brisbane, where the basic wage is only
£3 Os. 9d., is slightly the better off of the
two. And that apart altogether from the
fact that, on account of the higher cost of
production in Sydney, work naturally passes
that capital by, and thus adds to its unem-
ployment.
The figures show again how cruelly its
Government is dealing with N. S. Wales,
and particularly with those very workpeople
whom it is supposed to have in its special
keeping.
As You Were in India.
The London conference between the repre-
sentatives of most of the castes, classes and
religions of India and the delegates of
Britain has ended in the expected washout.
The round-table discussion, called to find
a way of settling some measure of self-
government on the interminable tangle of
antagonistic folk who make up India’s vast
population, early resolved itself into a tri-
angular duel between Hindu, Moslem and
Sikh. The situation was complicated by the
attitude of the Native States. Independent
under the British suzerainty, these are
variously Hindu, Moslem and Sikh in
religion, with the added complication that
many of the rulers in the Hindu states
are of lower caste than others above whom
they rank in the matter of a salute of
guns. Yet, fast in the bond of their semi-
independence, the Indian Native States
formed a fourth party to supplement the
original tangle. The insistence of this fourth
party on the continuance of British suze-
rainty has gone far to bring about the
failure of the conference. The Moslems—
and the Sikhs in lesser degree—have also
seen their safety in British control. Only
the Hindu element, and that the compara-
tively trifling section of India’s vast popu-
lation which has been educated beyond its
cranial capacity, has insisted fatuously, on
the deliverance of the control of India into
its own hands. To the Moslem, the Sikh
and the native princes the very idea pro-
vokes derision.
Unhappily, the nebulous pronouncement
of the British Government through the
mouth of Ramsay MacDonald added to
the confusion in which the conference
ended. The British Prime Minister wasted
a great opportunity to nail down Moslem
or Hindu —the really important antagonists
in the Indian ring. His sitting on the fence
will be received with contempt in India,
where the strong man is as much appre-
ciated as the other sort is despised.
The end of it all seems to be that the
Sahib in India will again have to shoulder
his old job of protecting India’s inhabi-
tants from themselves. It has always been
a rather ghastly job, and has not been made
easier by the intrusion of politicians who
imagine that the principles obtaining in
Manchester or Glasgow are equally binding
in Amritsar or Bombay.
Room for the Leper!
Probably there never was another institu-
tion which had such a “good press” as
leprosy. The whole printed word seems
always to have been part of a conspiracy
to make man shudder at the very mention
of the name. The Bible harrowed us with
hair-raising descriptions of the disease and
what followed its discovery. (“And the
leper in whom the plague is, his clothes shall
be rent, and his head bare, and he shall
put a covering upon his upper lip and
shall cry ‘Unclean, unclean!’ ”) Ten thousand
budding Alexander Watsons have declaimed
at ten thousand “speech days” on the same
theme. And at least once a year some
Australian newspaper, tired of talking of
the sins of politicians and a little weary even
of high life in flats, turns gratefully to the
lazaret, and pours out its best adjectives
on the perfectly thrilling horrors within.
In Sydney we are particularly fortunate.
Here for over 20 years we have nursed a
story, calculated to catch almost any
passer’s eye if suitably heralded on the con-
tents bill, about a be-u-tiful society woman
who bought an Oriental scarf (or fur, if it is
told in winter), and, wearing it to her wed-
ding (or her daughter’s wedding), contracted
the dread disease, and now, still tended by
her daughter (or mother, if Mothers’ Day
is near), lives out her hopeless life, shut off
from For color effect a few Chinese,
swathed in lint, are introduced; and whether
we remember to mention that they are
“featureless” or not, they are always a
creepy and therefore priceless exhibit.
Now, leprosy is a shocking disease; no
doubt; yet in fact it is a mere kinder-
garten pupil in-the school of infection com-
pared with a dozen other far less popular
diseases. . Among the hundreds of doctors,
nurses and attendants who throughout the
world are engaged in caring for lepers,
instances of infection are practically negli-
gible. The rarity of the disease is the best
proof of its comparative non-mfectiousness.
At the end of 1929 there were, all told, m
Australia 20 cases at Sydney, 64 at Peel
Island (Q.), 16 in Westralia and 23 in North
Australia. In that year the total deaths in
Australia were four. True, known sufferers
are segregated. But the development of
the disease is so gradual that there is
hardly a sufferer, who has not carried it
among his fellows for months, in many
instances years, before diagnosis and detec-
tion. And no longer is the disease hopeless,
if it ever was; maybe there is no absolute
cure (the chaulmoogra oil treatment, usually
referred to by the newspapers in their more
cheerful moments as something new, has
been practised certainly for more than a
hundred years), but in a large proportion of
the cases the disease becomes quiescent and
non-infectious. The patient can therefore
be discharged; and, though he is required
to present himself for periodical examina-
tion, at a recent date it was reported by the
Sydney authorities that no discharged
patient had ever been readmitted.
It seems ungracious to leave the subject
without waving a farewell line at the be-u-
--tiful lady of the silk scarf (or fur coat,
according to season), member of a well-
known Sydney family, who, attended by her
loving daughter (mother), is waiting for
a happy release from the living death of
the charnel house at Long Bay. The lady
is ever interesting, and, from the point of
view of the sensational press, all the more
so because she will never die, never having
lived. She was first officially declared a
myth over 20 years ago; and she remains
a myth to this day. At a recent date there
were five female patients in the N.S.W.
lazaret; and not one of them came from
Sydney.
Still, though the beautiful myth will
doubtless live through countless columns
more, it might nevertheless be suggested to
the vendors of newspaper sensation that
these outbursts can be veiy cruel, not only
to the patients themselves and their rela-
tions and friends, but to their nurses and
attendants, who find themselves more or
less socially ostracised after the publica-
tion of every such absurd story.
+
Burdens on Industry.
Some time ago The Bulletin commented
on the folly of insisting on the payment
of primage duty and sales tax on imported
stud stock, the result in some cases being
to double the original cost. The increased
exchange has added to the importer’s bur-
den, and the result has been that several
orders have been cancelled in Britain, and
it is certain there will be no more until
the barrier is lifted in some way.
The cessation of the import of stud cattle
in particular will have a serious effect upon
our beef and dairy herds, whose improve-
ment by the introduction of new strains is
becoming increasingly important. It is one
of numerous cases in which unintelligent
administration is damming back Australia’s
recoveiy.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon- JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: <7. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
c
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged case provided free with
every razor.
e
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths —fin. and Jin.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
: V;
iWM
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
Fits any blade razor f, f, f inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AIFKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Unlike the talkers at Canberra, the
Queensland Ministers have faithfully
observed the Melbourne agreement, and it
is a moral certainty that their State will
be the first to balance its Budget. Returns
for six months show an improved trend in
overseas trading and Government finance,
notwithstanding the drop in value of wool,
the exchange racket and the outlay on unem-
ployment relief. Departmental expenditure
has been cut down so thoroughly that there
was a decrease of £494,901 on the figures for
the first six months of 1929-30. The esti-
mated reduction for the twelvemonth was
£473,000.
Short history of Lang’s unemployed-relief
measures, written in the past tense: —
There were inevitable abuses attendant on hastily
improvised schemes. It was discovered that the
men working on the public roads were paid more
than those in private employment, so that the State
itseli to some extent aggravated the trouble it had
tried to cure. It was found, too, that some of the
people sold the food for money.
It is an absolutely true account of what is
going on in N. S. Wales, but it is taken from
a letter of Lord John Russell, reproduced
in a recent biography, referring to the Irish
famine of 1547.
Theodore, always ready to agree with the
top dog, is leading the present hymn of
hate against the banks, which are accused
of falling down on their job. Their job, it
is said, i.s to “issue credits.” And that is
perfectly true. But with a qualification—
every credit must have a string to it, so
that the bank may pull it back. This is
necessary, of course, because 19-20ths of
THE CHEAP-JACK IS STILL AT IT.
“Here, you — you’d give me a vote for this
beautiful 18-carat watch, jewelled in
every hole and warranted for 28 years,
wouldn’t you?"
“Me! Why, you’re the same bloke that
sold me the 14-day clock 15 months ago,
and it only took three weeks to prove
it was a brummy!”
the money lent doesn’t belong to the bank,
and has to be itself paid back some time.
Therefore, when giving credit the bank sees
that the money goes into something of sub-
stantial value, convertible into cash. The
inflationists overlook the string, and that is
why an inflated currency always shrinks in
value —there isn’t anything tied to the other
end. n
The financial situation becomes more filled
with incomprehensible terminology. The
present attitude of persons who want to
play tricks w T ith the monetary system is that
they don’t aim at the inflation of the paper
currency, and that anybody who says they
do is a stranger to the truth. What they
seek is to stop the unhappy deflation, which,
they say, has been pursuing its subterranean
way for some time, and acting a.s a canker
on the damask cheek of prosperity. The
meaning of deflation is explained in many
ways, and left unexplained in as many or
even more. It is possible that it would be
a good thing to drop both “flations” and
concentrate on getting public expenditure
down to the point where it will go inside
the public revenue. The making of ends
meet by more work and less luxury may be
called “oblation” or “conflagration” or any-
thing else, but it is at least a matter that
can De put in few words, and the dullest
mind can understand it.
In the tangled problem of wheat the Com-
monwealth Bank has cleared up matters by
dropping deflation and inflation and flatu-
lence and all the rest, and going straight to
the point. It can’t pay the farmer 4s. or
even 3s. a bushel f.o.b. for wheat which is
bringing only 2s. 64d. in Melbourne, but it
is willing to pay 2s. 4d. on that basis, and
more if the price of wheat or flour for local
consumption is increased. And it is agreeable
that Scullin or Theodore should provide
something more on his own account if he
has the money—not the inflation —about
him.
Some people paid
as much as £3O p.c.
last week to get
their money out of
Australia, and men
who have to import
raw material had to
bid higher in order
to get money to the
other side. This is
such an intolerable
burden on Austra-
lian industry and
the removal of capi-
tal out of Australia
will so impede our
recovery that the
practice will have to
be stopped somehow.
It will not be easy;
but if a short Fed-
eral Act was passed
requiring every bank
doing business in
Australia to enter
into a bond, say, of
£50,000, not to pay
out any Australian
funds in London
except on production
of shipping docu-
ments or an order
from an Australian
Government, the
wheels of the present
panic might be
spragged. Obviously
it is no use putting up premiums; the
higher they climb the more panic-stricken
some people get.
It was while Monk, assistant secretary of
Melb. Trades H'all, was trying to freeze the
blood of his colleagues on the Vic. unemploy-
ment board by demanding Federal-award
rates for relief works that the Federal Arbi-
tration Court reduced wages 10 per cent. The
effect, together with that of the quar-
terly cost-of-living adjustment, was to
bring down the sacrosanct A.W.U. 145.-a-
-day award to a rate below the 12s. lid. a
day offered by the Hogan Government and
refused by a few hundred men. The Leg.
Council managers who at the conference
between the two Houses' insisted upon mini-
mum-wage clauses for five sections of the
State did more for the relief workers than
they bargained for. Hogan knew what he
was about when he accepted the compromise;
he must have sniffed the decision of Deth-
ridge, Beeby and Drake-Brockman.
Lang when electioneering gave the pre-
posterous assurance that he would get the
loan money he required without the aid of
the Loan Council. As soon as he became
Premier he applied to the Loan Council, the
same as other Premiers do, for money. In
Parliament he denied making any such appli-
cation. Bowled out by the publication of
his letter, and a motion of censure being
due, he used his position to take first place
with a censure of his own on the ex-Premier
and ex-Treasurer for alleged statements, not
The Two Smacks of Macquarie-street in
another of their turns.
defined, about the State’s credit last year.
What the big and docile Labor majority
gained by passing a censure on the minority
on a charge that it had never heard of till
that moment no one knows, and no one save
the present-day Lang would have wallowed
in such a mass of absurdities.
Federal Arbitration Judges Dethridge,
Beeby and Drakc-Brockman have ordered a
10 p.c. wage reduction in industries to which
their awards apply, and simultaneously the
Commonwealth basic wage will drop 3s. to
ss. 6d. a week, according to States, in con-
sequence of Wickens’s quarterly review of
retail prices. Mr. Scullin protests that tin'
judgment “reduces the standard of living and
the purchasing power of the employees,’ but
it need not do so to any extent if lus Gov-
ernment promptly repeals measures which
are retarding the urgently necessary fall in
H.C.L. —the primage duty, for one thing, and
THE FAMOUS CANBERRA CANTATA.
the tea tax, and the sales tax, which should
never have been introduced except as a sub-
stitute for income tax. In this_ way also,
without any hardship to the beneficiaries, his
Government could relieve industry from
much of the tremendous burden of the social
services, especially old-age and invalid pen-
sions, which are expected to cost 11 millions
this year. Anyway, the reduction which the
Priminister denounces will admit of full-time
work —not sandshifting—being found for
many of the multitude now rationed and
the greater multitude on the dole —-their
standard of living has slumped tragically
since it became impossible to employ them
at boom-time rates.
John Thomas Lang was a quiet, ordinary
sort of man when he was cashier in the
N.S.W. Cabinets of Storey and Dooley. No
one imagined then that he would become the
unaccountable individual he is now —angry
and coarsely uncivil about nothing at the
shortest notice, hunted by imaginary enemies,
haunted and misrepresented by imaginary
persecutors, and worried -because the skull
of Conspiracy always has its eye—or, rather,
its empty and fleshless eye-socket—fixed upon
him. Historians tell how Caesars and others
who were once young and full of promise
were unable to stand the intoxication of
power and became eaten up with suspicion
and disagreeable, or even dangerous, to all
around them. A very small measure of
power is sufficient to spoil a small size in
Caesars.
Federal Labor, which found another half-
million the other day for pick-and-shovel
work —the States and municipalities are
already feverishly supplying, it—is sending the
two submarines back to Britain on the score
of economy. That reduces the Australian
Navy to two cruisers and a destroyer, to-
gether with a seaplane-carrier which cannot
fight warships. These Labor politicians
used to boast that they had created the
R.A.N. If allowed their own way they will
end by wiping it out, and describing the
operation as “a blow to the capitalistic sys-
tem” or something like that.
Young Mr. Martin, the union organiser
who is running for Parkes, says the banks
had 110 millions on deposit in 1929 and 106
millions in 1930, yet they advanced only
110 millions in 1930 as against 122 millions
in 1929—“ which shows that industry has
been robbed of eight millions.” The facts, are
that N. S. Wales deposits in banks other
than the Commonwealth Bank were 112 mil-
lions for the Sept, quarter of 1929 and 107
millions 19 months later, a fall of five mil-
lions. Meantime advances fell from 118 mil-
lions to 111 millions, a shrinkage of seven
millions; so the shrinkage of advances was
two millions more than that of deposits. Thus
far, young Mr. Martin wasn’t ridiculously
incorrect: he was about quarter right, anyway,
But what young Mr. Martin didn’t say, pro-
bably because he was too little acquainted
with the subject to know, was that the
Commonwealth Bank had been pressed to
lend more to the Government, and to do it
it had to borrow five millions more from
the “ordinary” banks. Maybe industry was
robbed, at any rate, of five millions, but the
thief was the Labor Government, not the
banks.
Maoriland is not throwing anything away.
Of course it is possible to send money from
Auckland or Wellington to London or Syd :
ney, but it isn’t easy. Representatives of
Australian industries were recently advised
to get busy, ship their products off to M.L.,
and remit the proceeds to Australia: it was
pointed out that £lOO lodged in M.L. would
buy about £ll5 in Australia, and that this
£l5 premium would more than exceed some
M.L. lines of customs duty. But, as usual,
there is a catch in it. Some old customers
can get money sent from M.L. to London
and a little from M.L. to Australia; but the
Dominion’s larger banks, at any rate, will
not send any money at all for new customers
out of the country at any better terms than
par. It is only Australia, it seems, which
doesn’t mind how much capital escapes.
Sending Labor delegates to Geneva is a
costly business for the taxpayers, _ and it
conspicuously fails to broaden minds or
improve manners. Beasley came back from
the annual pow-wow more conceited and
arrogant and misinformed than ever, and the
same is evidently true of the ill-conditioned
Crofts, who appeared for some of the unions
in the Federal basic-wage case._ iCrofts’s atti-
tude to the Judges was offensive all through
—on one occasion even the mild Dethridge
was provoked into sending for a policeman to
put him out if he wouldn’t sit down —and
when the 10 p.c. reduction was announced
he stridently called for cheers for “the social
revolution” and joined in beefing out the
“Red Flag.” Incidentally, what he called his
address to the Court lasted nearly six
days. Perhaps a country that makes a
fetich of the blatherskite deserves all it gets.
The road for the Australian manufacturer
is being made harder and rougher by the
dumper. Stocks of some old-established
foreign industries have been. piled up _so
high as a result of world-wade depression
that markets are being chased, those coun-
tries being specially favored where there is
a chance of giving a small local competing
industry a death-blow. During the past
seven years a first-rate Australian felt-hat
industry has been built up; almost every
season saw a slightly better quality of goods
produced, until in the last few years the
highest Australian lids could compete with
the world’s best. Hats are still being bought
in large numbers ; but the market has been
so flooded with Italian and other goods, at
about one-third of the old prices, that several
Australian factories are closed and the
largest of them all is on quarter time. The
prohibited list obviously wants another line
added to it.
While Anstey and Beasley and Theodore
and dozens of other Labor spouters are split-
ting the welkin with sterile demands for
the reduction of interest, Moore, of Queens-
land, has come out with an offer to cut
grazing-selection rents 25 p.c. and extend
pastoral leases conditionally on the banks
and pastoral finance cos. lowering their in-
terest charges from 8' p.c. to 6 p.c. During
YOUNG MAN FROM CAPRICORNIA : “You might
have made a three-hour speech and
wound up by referring the matter to
a Royal Commission. And you simply
go and say Queensland won’t do it!”
the same week Moore told Lairg (startling
that gentleman into unwonted silence) that
N. S. Wales could go bung if it liked, but
would not be allowed to. drag the other
parties to the Loan Council into bankruptcy;
and his reply to Federal Minister Forde, who
had asked him to appoint a “tribunal” to
fix wages and working hours in the cotton
industry, was that the woods were already
full of “tribunals,” and “Queensland is not
going to do it.” Moore is not playing the
game of politics as Labor windbags under-
stand it. He doesn’t talk, talk, talk, and
make talk a substitute for action.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Blanky”: When a bench of magistrates
includes both sexes it sometimes leads to
an embarrassing situation. At Sandringham
(Vic.) a woman was among the J’s.P. when
an obscene-language charge came up. The first
two witnesses put down in writing what they
had heard, and passed the result to the’
Bench. Each time the skirted magistrate
discreetly ignored the evidence. Unfortu-
nately, the third witness was a blind man
who could not write; the lady and a few oi
her sex in the courtroom hurriedly left while
he said his piece.
WHEN HIS LUCK CHANGED.
MISS LASTHOPE : “Do you really think I am different to all the
other girls?”
BILL ( caught ): “I do —they refused me.”
“FY7”: The cabled news that a woman
who was wanted on a poisoning charge had
been discovered as a cook in an English
household reminds me. Years ago a most
respectable-looking woman came to a Barcoo
station from a Rockhampton registry office
as cook. She proved a treasure, and her
fame went abroad in the land. One day a
friend from the south turned up, and at
lunch went into ecstasies over a curry, of
which he had two or three helpings. Later,
while reposing on the verandah, he caught
sight of the cook, who had come into the
dining-room. “Good God!” he said. “What’s
that Avoman doing here? I saw her tried in
Rockhampton six months ago for poisoning
her husband, and I thought she was lucky
to get off.” There was silence for a moment.
Then someone spoke up: “She’s the cook
who made that curry you fancied so much.”
Just there the guest faded abruptly out of
the picture, and he came back looking pale
and shaken. He resisted all invitations to
stay longer, departing next morning. Cookie
stayed on. Artists of her calibre were rare
on the Barcoo in those days.
“M.G.S.” : The Hogan Gov-
ernment’s bill imposing fright-
ful penalties on bush despoilers
is a curious instance of how
communities can take entirely
different routes to arrive at the
same objective. It was mainly
the belief in the sacredness of
trees and their powers for
working evil on frail humanity
that resulted in the preserva-
tion of the beautiful forests of
Europe. Many of the stately
groves which provide shelter
for lovers to-day outside Euro-
pean villages have had an un-
interrupted career as natural
cathedrals or respected demons
from earliest antiquity. If the
religion of the first settlers in
Australia had included a belief
in tree spirits, malignant and
beneficent, country townships
would not be such melancholy,
deserts; and dirt, dust and
sand would not be such inevit-
able ingredients of a Malice
housewife’s cooking. The force
behind Mr. Hogan’s bill is sup-
posed to be the aesthetic sense
of the public. Unfortunately
everybody has a different idea
of what constitutes aesthetic
beauty. Recently the Sorrento
(Vic.) progress association
destroyed a magnificent grove
of trees in the main street and
put in its place a succession of
drab grass plots, each embel-
lished with a water-tap and a
pretentious lamp-post, the idea
for the ensemble being ob-
viously cribbed from a Holly-
wood picture.
“Foie Gras”: Sydney Ambassadors, which
has closed down “for an indefinite period,”
was the only attempt Australia has ever
made to show the world a dance restaurant
equal to London’s best, Stewart Dawson
gave Tlieo Marks carte blanche to design the
most splendiferous place he could imagine;
and a costly ventilating system had to be
included, as the ballroom was underground.
Then a majordomo and head waiter were
imported—They resembled characters in a Le
Queux novel—as also was a chef with the
highest Parisian references. The opening
night revealed an amazing spectacle of
sophisticated luxury. As a wit said: “If
he’d only imported the guests it would have
been perfect.” The slump began almost im-
mediately. The tall, spare majordomo. who
looked like a duke ought to look, left inside
a month. Romano, the head waiter, opened
a restaurant of his own. A sundae shop
was started at one of the gilded entrances.
It became a resort of outer suburbanites.
There was a story that Stewart Dhwson
originated the Ambassadors to give a lesson
to a fashionable restaurant at which one of
his sons had been slighted. First and last,
it must have cost him the best part of a
quarter of a million.
* * * *
“Upson Downes”: I read the other day
about several prosecutions in Melbourne of
persons charged with practising subtle craft
(fortune - telling),
and doubted if the
police couldn’t find
something better to
do than harass these
gifted women. I
was a bit sceptical
about them until I
went myself for a
reading. The little
lady I saw told me
I had great physical
courage united to an
indomitable will.
“Brave you are to
the extent of reck-
lessness,” she said.
“You fight with your
back to the wall and
fear no man. But
you have neverthe-
less immense self-
control.” (My job
is selling pie-dishes
and patent tin-open-
ers.) “It is regret-
table,” she continued,
“that there are not
more men like you.
Generous and charit-
able to a fault, yet
too modest to desire
the praise of your
fellow - men. You
have the hig h-
minded principles of
a philanthropist, a
lofty and statesman-
like conception of
public affairs, and a
singularly keen and
powerful intellect
which enables you
to curb your own
passions and exer-
cise a phenomenal influence upon those who
have the privilege of meeting you day by
day.” I realised in a flash that it was no
fake after all.
* * He
“Adelaide”: Decided by an Adelaide Court
that it is offensive behavior, and worth a
month, for a speaker at a public meeting to
re l e £ ,|° a policeman present as “a convicted
thief. The policeman told the Court that
he had been “concerned in a court case”
as a lad; but the P.M. said, “I do not
intend to take notice of a conviction against
a boy of 15, made 12 years ago.”
* * * *
“Old Timer”: London “Weekly Dispatch”
published this gem last month: —
It would be advisable if the church authorities
prohibited the publication of parish magazines, as
clergymen very often make them a means to broad-
cast very uncharitable, unpleasant, and sometimes
unprovable reflections on their parishioners.
Similarly, it would be all to the good if
Premier Lang and ex-Premier Bavin of N.
S. Wales were prohibited from snarling at
each other. No parish magazine could be
so paltry. Like clerics, they are what is
A COMMON SEASIDE MALADY.
THE LIFESAVER: “I’m sorry you think I’m conceited.”
THE BEACH SIREN: “Well, no, I wouldn’t say that; but
I think you suffer a little from ‘I’ strain.”
known as “good men”; that is, both are
strong on religion, irreproachable in their
domestic lives, and honest in their private
financial dealings. Many N.S.W. Premiers
have been anything but good : Parkes, Robert-
son and Alexander Stuart, to cite only three.
Parkes never paid his debts if he could
help it, never went near a church, used
appalling language and coined some lurid
smoking-room yarns that still live; but he
was a most Christian Parliamentarian. So
were Stuart, Robertson (a sad scamp, like so
DOUBTS ABOUT IT.
THE SHEPHERD: “I’m sorry to hear you had an accident on the way down. Was your
car insured?”
THE SHEEP: “Well, I'm puzzled about that. I’ve just been reading the policy to try
to find out.”
many old men with profuse whiskers), Mar-
tin and others. Unchristianity in word and
deed is almost a monopoly of fervent Chris-
tians—-prohibitionists, temperance advocates,
anti-gamblers, opponents of divorce and birth
control, and educational reformers. Such
people don’t know how to fight with a grin;
and that is the whole trouble with Lang
and Bavin, who, like most holy men, make
many little jokes but are completely without
humor. The old-time scapegraces fought like
the Devil, but they fairly bubbled with
humor —the sort that sterilises hate—and
the atmosphere of the Assembly was the
sweeter for it.
% % % %
“Morita”: The depression has gi\en music,
real and alleged, a grip on Sydney such as
it never had before. In the by-ways aud
arcades orchestras that would grace any
theatre ply their enforced trade, leaving the
footpaths to the droves of singers, whistlers,
gramophone experts, banjoists, mouth-organ-
ists, manipulators of home-made violins and
the rest. The most barefaced strum at man-
dolines or wheeze out of mouth-organs. And
at least one persevering wight has tackled the
bagpipes, to secure a respite from which
harassed shopkeepers have often been' known
to part up.
sH H; 4s
“Whitehall”: Odd that while Australian
men, in and out of cities, young and old,
have plenty of initiative, Australian women
have little or none. They are the world’s
most slavish imitators, and they nearly
always get their copies wrong. Sydney and
Melbourne beaches are crowded just now
with grotesque females in shorts, elaborate
pyjamas, enormous sombreros and tiny linen
caps as worn by Uncle Sam’s tars. These
sensational fashions derive from Hollywood,
via the films, or the imported ballyhoo
weeklies that live on them, and the star
mannequins of that part of the world can
carry them off. Our girls can’t; or, rather,
the ones that go in for them can’t. It is
the same amongst the local lasses who make
a hobby of intellectualism; they always
import the wrong article. If amateurs want
a play with which to impress their friends
they select an English play, and preferably
one in which the leading characters A are
society people. There are plenty of Aus-
tralian plays containing characters that local
maidens could handle convincingly, but they
insist on portraying peeresses and the _ like
with ripe Australian accents. Australia is
the only country in the world, so far as I
know—and I have seen a lot of the world —
in which a considerable number of females
try to talk like the inhabitants of other
countries. Our leisured women imitate the
voices of governors’ wives, and so on; and
many typists, shophands and such reproduce
the gestures and manner of speech of such
movie stars as Clara Bow to the best of
their ability. And it’s no good telling me
that this is one of the signs of the
degenerate times. I first noticed it 30 years
ago.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: The Digger who could put
down “member of the police force” on Ms
enlistment form generally avoided getting
into the M.-P. brigade—at least that was
my experience. Five ex-Johns were with
our batch of reinforcements; all were
specially asked to join the “Jacks” and
flatly refused. Perhaps the Johns reckoned
the war entitled them to immunity from
anything resembling their ordinary work. I
remember the retort of a Sydney cop to- an
abusive prisoner who told him that he was
“only an adjectival policeman, and a police-
man’s only a man’s bootlace.” “I’m a police-
man, all right,” said the other; “but, any-
way, I wasn’t a Jack when I was in the
A.1.F.” What was conveyed, of course, was
that the arrested one had done all his ser-
vice with the red badge on his arm.
* * * *
“Crossed Pens”: A recent paragraph stated
that Frank Anstey, the Federal Minister
for Health, worked his passage to London
“before the mast” during the war. That is
not so. Anstey left for England in March,
1918. W. M. Hughes was one of the few
who knew of Anstey’s intentions, and he
assisted him by directing the commander of
the transport Barunga that no one except
the chief officer and the purser was to know
that Anstey was on board. The Labor
M.H.R. presented himself at the purser’s
office, and was signed on the ship’s articles
as “assistant purser”—remuneration, Is. per
month—for a voyage to London via New
York. To his inquiry as tp what were his
duties he was told that he must attend at
the office daily at 9 a.m. and alter the
calendar to the correct date. This he did,
and at the conclusion of the voyage received
a first-class discharge. I was the purser.
# $ * *
“ITarold Ilardupp”: The curious triteness,
not to say bathos, of so many “death mes-
sages” was exemplified in a note which
read: “Don’t keep dinner for me; I have
gone to face my Maker at the Gap.” The
police, being informed of the. letter, watched
the fashionable suicide resort, but the in-
tending self-destroyer had thought better
of it. He was caught next day by a search-
ing policeman as he was entering a restau-
rant—possibly to make up for the dinner
which wasn’t to be kept for him. A divorce
case yielded another memorable effort:
“Farewell! To-night I die—because of you !
You are a female murderess. You have
already murdered my soul and last night you
took sixpence from my pocket.” The author
of this pathetic indictment had remained
sufficiently alive to be served with the divorce
papers.
* * if
“Doodlakine”: Larkin ville, Westralia's
newest alluvial field, where a nugget valued
at over £6OOO was lately unearthed, is seven
miles north of Widgiemooltha, a place that
received a lot of press attention in the roar-
ing ’nineties. There was much difference of
opinion about the spelling, and finally
F. C. B. Vosper, who was running the “Cooi-
gardie Miner” at the time, announced that
he wasn’t going to pay comps overtime for
setting up useless letters, and that in future
the field would be “Wijimula.” The com-
munity met him half-way by shortening it to
“Widgie,” but with the lapse of years it
seems to have got back to its original length
again.
* * * sit
“Tarry Rope”: The latest in the way of
floating cities, a 73,000-ton Cunarder, is
to be fitted up with a church “in the best
traditions of English ecclesiastical art.”
This is surely an indication of the growing
irreligion of to-day; in the old days the
whole ship became a church for the appointed
services, and attendance was compulsory.
It is on record that a Bristol captain once
stood his trial for the murder of a seaman
who had jibbed at attending devotions.
Thereat the skipper punched him so hard
that the man fell overboard and inconsider-
ately sank. The defence was that the
defiance of any lawful command was mutiny,
and a jury endorsed it with a verdict of
acquittal.
I THINK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I think that old Parnassus’ slopes
Were ne’er so steep for climbing
As now, for any bard who hopes
To earn his bread by rhyming.
I think, when grim depression flays
And lack of rhino scourges,
There’s little scope for lightsome lays
And no demand for dirges.
I think for odes you’ll find no theme,
For sonnets no suggestions
In what economists esteem
To-day’s most burning questions.
I think not “Bellerive’s” self could sing
(In fierce poetic rages
Or pensive mood) of rationing
And what the basic wage is.
I think I’d like to see them hang,
Who’ve got us such a mull in;
I shudder at the name of Lang,
I burn with scorn for Scullin.
And lyric fancies that might make
The world a trifle blither
My agitated brain forsake
Whene’er I think of either.
I think our pound—though, I confess,
Just why I’ve not a notion —
Is down, to fifteen bob or less
The other side the ocean.
I think my Pegasus would need
A devil of a flanking
Ere I could write, or you would read,
A ballad upon banking.
I think a shilling slug is tough
On ev’ry quid you’re earning,
And incontestably enough
To make a song concerning.
But such a harp as mine, you’ll grant,
Is scarce the apparatus....
I think inflation offers scant
Material for afflatus.
I think that old and risky game
Of “flying kites” —you’ve read it’s
The spendthrift’s way—is much the same
When called “releasing credits.”
I think that when a fellow’s rich
He well may ride in chaises—
Or limousines, no matter which—
But when misfortune queers his pitch
He needs must walk —like blazes!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“The Ghoul”: In one of Melbourne’s smart
restaurants I overheard a waiter say to
another, with the air of one imparting a
confidence, as he went through the service
door, “He’s eaten it.” Seldom have I inter-
cepted a remark which opened up wider fields
to the imagination.
* * * *
“Mudurup” : For some unexplained reason
Christmastime generally sees more shocking
crimes perpetrated in Australia than any
other period of the year, and last month fur-
nished the usual feast of horrors. The outsize
in domestic slaughterings occurred near
Bruce Rock (W.A.), where a farmer began
operations by strangling his 18-year-old farm-
hand, and then stringing him up to make
it appear that the youth had hanged him-
self. The slayer then murdered his wife and
baby and sought to fasten the crime on his
previous victim. At first glance the story
seemed to have a certain verisimilitude, but
it soon began to fall to pieces under investi-
gation, and when suspicion turned in his
own direction the bereaved husband com-
pleted the grisly business by blowing him-
self to pieces with gelignite. There were
some life-insurance considerations mixed up
with the killings, apparently, as well 'as
downright craziness.
❖ * *
“Ellenvale”: A pawnshop in Brunswick-
street, Fitzroy (Vic.),
displays in foot-high
letters the cheerful
information, “I
lenda da plu r r y
monies.” I didn’t
go inside, hut it
looks as if Binghi
and Antonio have
gone into partner-
ship.
THE EMPTY CRADLE AGAIN.
“Say, Mum, I wish you’d got me a new brother or sister or something for Christmas.
I’m fair sick of mucking about with the cat."
“Douglas”: The Isle of Man saw an
ancient ceremonial the other day when the
Governor exercised his right, held under the
feudal lord of the Isle, the Earl of Derby,
to appoint the High Admiral of the Manx
herring fleet. The office is as old as Manx
history, and that is very old. Herrings are
the chief food and the staple product ot
the Isle, and the admiral has the important
duty of leading the fleet to sea and super-
intending the industry generally. . lor this
he gets £lO a year, while the vice-admiral
has to be content with a fiver. So inter-
twined is the herring with Manx social and
cultural life that the oath sworn by the
Deemsters requires them to administer the
law as straiglitly as “the .backbone of the
herring doth lie in the middle of the fash.
* * * *
“Pussyboot” : U.S. President Hoover, who
stands against the repeal or revision of the
prohibition laws, although six of the . eleven
Commissioners who have been investigating
the Eighteenth Amendment favored some
modification thereof, is doubtless a Dry by
conviction as well as expediency. In fact,
one of the very few things that are remem-
bered of Hoover on the Westralian gold-
fields, where he spent two or three years in
the late ’nineties, is that he “never touched
it.” Probably his predecessor, Coolidge,
found a liquorless W hite House just as con-
genial ; it is difficult to imagine a man with
such a name as Calvin looking, tolerantly
on hard cider, let alone cocktails.. There
were different stories about Harding, the
short-lived ruler of the nation who followed
Woodrow Wilson. But so many amazing
stories have -been printed about Harding since
his decease that it would be dangerous to
accept any of them.
s>: :j: * *
“Lamu”: Neither Naples nor Funchal
is in the running with the of India
when it comes to beggars (B. 3/12/’3O).
On the Elphinstone Bridge at Delhi (known
to the British garrison as
“Gali ke Bhikharian” —
“Way of Beggars”) I have
often seen mendicants sitting
shoulder to shoulder on both
sides of the road for a . dis-
tance of 150 yards. Limb-
less beggars with raw and
diseased stumps, beggars
with festering sores, gibber-
ing beggars, whining beg-
gars, moaning beggars—
a parade of the living
dead. Yet I don’t know that
we can afford to pity Asia.
After all it has compara-
tively few able-bodied beg-
gars, while we have comparatively few dis-
abled ones.
* * # *
“Coif”: London’s Old Bailey saw a very
rare piece of judicial process the other day
—the empanelling of a jury of matrons to
investigate the claim of a woman convicted
of a capital offence that she was pregnant.
Such a jury was common enough in the
hanging days of a hundred years ago, and if
the verdict was in the affirmative the unfor-
tunate creature was temporarily reprieved,
though the gallows invariably claimed her
after the birth of the child. The ghastly
business was taken so much as a matter of
course that even the super-genteel poetaster
Kirke White saw nothing incongruous in
inditing “The Lullaby of a Female Convict
to her Child on the Night Before Her
Execution.”
* * # *
“Silentio”: In these liard-up days the
motorist needs a sealed tank to stop the
“milker” of petrol. A favorite spot to tap
the juice is some shady place in which a party
leaves the car for a picnic or ramble in
a near-by gully. The thief, with a small
length of rubber piping and
a can, simply siphons the
supply out without aiiy
noise or fuss. The more con-
siderate leave you enough
to get to the nearest
garage; others don’t. I
had to walk three miles
and hump a tin back the
last time my tank was
milked.
“Lex” : A Sydney “News” photographer
set out recently to photograph one of the
railway officials against his will: —
In stalking Mr. Goode for a fortnight, an “Evening
News” cameraman experienced all the thrills of big-
game hunting.
First the quarry was there, hut presto! Next
minute he was gone. But always the cameraman
was on the track.
It was no Goode —until to-day.
At 8.15 a.m., as Mr. Goode stepped from his front
■ gate, the cameraman took a shot, ,
' Mr. Goode was annoyed. “V ll give you in charge,
and for two pins”
Apart from the indecency of this practice,
which, like so many other poisonous local
stunts, has been imported from the U.S.A.,
it'is illegal. The law is that one who pays
for his photograph to be taken owns the
copyright, while if the photograph is taken
free the copyright belongs to the photo-
grapher. But consent to publish only accom-
panies consent to be photographed. Our
tabloid papers habitually photograph people
for publication without permission, just as
private detectives habitually burgle the
houses of suspected philanderers in .search
of divorce-court evidence; and the first of
these law-breakers who is proceeded against
by a victim is going to get the shock of his
CONFIDENTIALLY, OF COURSE.
“Vera’s awfully worried about her husband’s health.”
“Yes, poor girl—is he quite well again?”
life. Lord Darling, during one of the last
cases tried -by him at the Old Bailey, re-
ferred to a newspaper application to be
allowed to photograph the parties and wit-
nesses as “monstrous,” and said that if it
was done those responsible would be sent
to gaol. He was concerned chiefly, of course,
with the possibility of a breach of the peace,
and that is the danger here. For every one
citizen with the restraint to go to law when
photographed against his will there are pro-
bably a dozen who would assault the photo-
grapher —and all the more violently, as they
would know that no Court would convict
for such an offence.
:i: * * *
“H.T.”: A famous pastoralist’s manager
attended a sale at Angaston (S.A.) and
bought about 1100 sheep. Of these he gave
140 to a drover to deliver to the boss’s stock
paddocks at Penfield, about 30 miles away.
Immediately afterwards he left for Tasmania
without notifying Penfield. The drover
arrived there and put the sheep in the pad-
dock, nobody being about. The famous pas-
toralist, on his weekly tour of inspection,
came across these animals, and, jumping to
the conclusion that local farmers were run-
ning' sheep on his property, turned the
woollies out on the road. After they had
been at large a week or two the district
council had them pounded. In the end it
cost the owner £4 to get possession of his
own sheep again.
;j; £ ifi
“G.F.R.” : The agreeable custom of shout-
ing for the bar dies hard in country dis-
tricts, but it has its pitfalls. A well-known
Sydney architect and his friend wandered
into a South Maitland (N.S.W.) pub the
other day. Only a few loungers were in
sight when the architect called for drinks
all round the huge rectangular bar. The
publican was a bit diffident about taking
the order, but the visitor insisted. “It’s
free, boys,” Bung thereupon announced. At
that some 20 unemployed miners, who had
been sitting on the floor hidden by the bar
listening to race results that came
through a wireless set at the other end of
the room, rose with enthusiasm, and the
architect presently received half a crown
as change from his own pound note. _ The
irony of it was that he himiself had designed
the bar, the shape of which proved so
expensive to him.
-■!; # :S *
“H.A.L.”: In that excellent story “The
Man Who Was Not Afraid” (B. 14/1/’3l)
it is recorded that “the revolver had spoken
almost noiselessly. It was fitted with a
silencer.” Actually a revolver or pistol fitted
with a silencer is far from noiseless. When
fired in the open the report is deadened to
a heavy “phutt” like that of a backfire in
a car exhaust; in a closed building the
sound becomes a jarring thud as if a case
were being dropped. A silencer, being a
bulky object, liable to catch in pocket linings,
has never been popular with gunmen. _ The
only effective silent weapon I know is the
compressed air pistol, and that is little used
after the first two or three shots. These
exhaust the compressed air, and re-charging
is a lengthy business.
* si: si:
“ Jarrah Joe”: The scare occasioned in
Britain by the report, an unfounded one,
that the Prince of Wales had been involved
in a railway accident in France set people
recalling the narrow squeak Edward the
Next had in the swampy south-west of West-
ralia when the train in which he was
travelling left the rails and two coaches
were overturned. The distinguished tra-
veller got no more than a shaking and
nobody sustained any injuries worth speaking
of: a sigh of relief went up from all over
the State when the first exaggerated reports
were contradicted. The next sigh, almost
as loud, came from the temperance people
on its being recorded that the Prince’s
first words, after the rescue party had
pulled him to his feet, were an eager
inquiry whether the whisky-bottle had
been smashed and an expression of profound
gratification when it was found to be intact.
It was the one item which lent a human-
interest touch to the account of the derail-
ment, but some heads were sadly shaken,
some worthy people sorely perturbed over it.
The Prince has had many a worse spill in
the hunting-field than he received in his one
experience of a railway accident.
/ * * * *
“Esters”: The inability of Australian
“ports,” however excellent they are in their
own way (B. 14/l/ol), to measure up to
the genuine stuff from the Alto Douro vine-
yards is due to differences in manufacture
and blending. Port proper is made,; from a
combination of several varieties of grapes—
about a dozen are cultivated for the pur-
pose. These grapes are crushed by foot
trampling, and not machine-pressed, as in
Australia. The most characteristic feature
of true port, and one by which it may always
be distinguished from any other wine of the
type, is the “dry finish” it leaves on the
palate. This is due to the introduction of
the Alverelhao grape, which has a peculiar
acidity of its own. All other red wines of
the port types leave a sweet and sticky after-
flavor, which infallibly determines then-
origin.
:{: ❖ *
“C.A.8.”: At the festivities which fol-
lowed a marriage at Bourke (N.S.W.) the
other day the wedding cake was cut with
a dirk, used—so tradition insists—at Ban-
nockburn, the wielder being a member of
the McLeod clan. The weapon is a family
heirloom, having since the battle been handed
down to the oldest son.
* * * *
“Double Express”: The long-talked-of
game-shooting expedition to Arnhem Land,
in the far N.T., which is being organised
by the Commonwealth Railways, will be an
accomplished fact by Juno. Arrangements
have been made with a leading buffalo-hunter
in the Territory, who will find horses, etc.,
and a team of abos. for skinning and prepar-
ing trophies. Even the most blase big-game
shooter will find a new thrill in dropping
buffaloes on the gallop from horseback. In
India and Africa the buffalo is stalked and
shot on foot. The country is full of other
game, from crocodiles to kangaroos, and
ducks, geese and bustards are plentiful. In
the barramundi, with which the rivers abound,
the tourists will meet a rare fighting fish, and
one which can give first-class sport if sought
with fine tackle and a spinning bait.
* * *
“Ex-Englishman” : “Whitehall” and others
have been dealing with London’s improved
sobriety. And what about the failing which
the charwoman in “Rookery Nook” delicately
calls “the other”? On a recent visit there,l
spoke to a policeman in the Strand on the
marked absence of nocturnal prowlers. ‘ Yes,
he said, “you won’t be troubled, sir” (I took
“troubled” as a compliment), “till you get
west of Wellington-street”; as one might say
“above Martin Place” in Sydney, or “east of
Swanston-street” in Melbourne. Certainly
the notorious old open-air market —it is not
too strong a word —in Piccadilly is cleaned
up; and the shameless “works of art” shops
that catered for vice more furtive have van-
ished with Holyw-ell-street.
»!; *
“Oman” • The famous Arab stud at Crab-
bett Park (B. 17/12/’3O) wasn’t such an
expensive hobby as “Nejd" seems to think.
Blunt was able to do what few other men
since Doughty have done, to secure brood
mares of the purest desert breed in addition
to the stallions, which are not nearly so
hard to come by. The produce of the stud,
into which some of the best lines of English
thoroughbred blood were skilfully worked, was
sold, not only in Europe, but in India and
even in Arabia itself. It is doubtful if a
stud of similar quality could now be got
together anywhere else in the world. Arabia
itself would certainly have to be toothcombed
to find its equal. Lady Wentworth, who
inherited it, desired to sell the stud as a
whole, but as it was worth a minimum ol
half a million, that was found to be impos-
sible.
=1: * * *
“Mosshag”: There is a sort of poetic jus-
tice in the cabled announcement that the
tomb of the infamous Earl of Both well, third
husband of Mary Queen of Scots and the
instigator of the murder of Ins predecessoi.
has been' rifled. The earl was buried in the
abbey church of Favanvelje, Denmark and the,
sacrilege was instigated by the tradition or < .
rich store of jewels having been deposited
in the coffin. Head of a famous Bordei
clan, James Hepburn was one of the most
accomplished ruffians and robbers of his time
He took to piracy on the high seas when
Scotland grew too hot to hold him and . .
in a Danish prison. The thieves m this
instance drew a blank. Probably som _ ,
Bothwell’s Border relations had anticipated
them.
THE BEER-DRINKER'S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The New Beer is Here. Have You Tried It?”
— Announcement, with variations, on scores of Sydney
pubs.
The New Beer, the New Beer,
It’s sparkling, clear and cold.
The hue is amber, right enough,
The glint is that of gold.
There’s barrels of the latest brew
A-waiting to be sold.
But the New Beer, the New Beer,
It isn’t like the Old.
The stingo that our fathers sank,
Beyond a shade of doubt,
It made them feel exactly as
They should have felt without.
The brown October into which
A fellow dipped his snout,
That was the stuff to curl your hair
And make your whiskers sprout.
The treble X of other days,
It hummed like spinning-tops.
It helped to build an Empire up
(Along with steaks and chops).
Who needed rum? Of usquebagh
Who craved his forty drops
When there was body in the malt
And soul was in the- hops?
The New Beer, .the New Beer,
Its lure abroad is told;
On many a caravansary
You see its virtues scrolled.
They froth it out in brimming pots
And tankards manifold.
But the New Beer, the New Beer,
It isn’t like the Old.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


/L
A BRITISH
Lt
MANY LABOUR-
the “RENRUT”
pump with\\
SAVING FEATURES\\
QUADRUPLE
One of the “super” productions
of Britain’s leading pneumatic
engineers, the “RENRUT” Quad-
ruple is the finest hand-pump made
for motor tyres. This pump works
on a patented quadruple-compres-
sion principle which delivers a
larger quantity of air with very
little effort. It has a push-on
connector, instantly adjustable to
any valve-size, and an accurate
pressure gauge can be supplied
fitted on the pump to order.
There is no other hand-pump that
will last as long and give such con-
tinuous efficient service as the
“RENRUT” Quadruple.
Price, 60/- (with gauge 6/- extra).
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENG.
If unable to obtain, write to out
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
*■
11
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE
UNSWEETENED.
In all parts of the world
“Montserrat” finds its
place. It is Nature’s great
drink —cooling, invigor-
ating and health-giving.
Bottled by Schweppes Limited.
Obtainable all Grocers.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some February birthdays :
Colonel Brinsmead (aviation), 48, and N.S.W’.
Minister Dunn, 54, on 2nd ; Rev. Wallace Deane,
M.A., B.D. (Syd.), Methodist minister and author,
53, on 3rd; Peter Whitington (S. Aus. former
Commissioner of Audit), 86, on 4th; L. E. Bennett
(Master of Wesley Coll., Syd.), 53, on sth; Richard
Linton (founder of Big Brother movement in Aus.), 53,
on 7th; Dr. A. B. Walkom (gen. sec of Australasian
Science Ass’n), 42, on Bth; Q. Premier A. E. Moore,
■ 55, Allan Wilkie, 53, and Squadron-Leader Kingsford
Smith, A.F.C., 34, on 9th; Robert Garran (Federal
Solicitor-General), 64, on 10th; John M. Chanter,
ex-M.H.R., 86, on 11th; knight Albert J. Gould
(Syd., formerly' Pres, of Federal Senate), 84, Prof.
Carslaw (Syd.), 61, Prof. Ewart (Melb.), 59, and
Major-Gen. Rosenthal, 66, on 12th ; Archbishop Kelly,
81, and Frederick Chapman (Vic. National Museum),
67, on 13th ; Edward Lucas (S.A.’s former Agent-
General), 74, and his successor, J. L. Price, now
M. 49, on 14th; Geo. Black, M.L.C., of
N. (an early Bulletin sub-editor), 77, on loth;
Justice McTiernan (High Court), 39, on 16tli;
“Banjo” Paterson, 67, Bishop Shiel (Rockhampton),
58, and Dr. L. Keith Ward (Director of Mines
Dept., S. Aus.), 52, on 17th; Justice Macrossan
(Q.), 50, on 20th; H. I. fohen, K.C. (Vic.), 59,
and Judge Drake-Brockman, 47, on 21st; Justice
Starke (High Court), 60, on 22nd; Norman Lindsay,
52, and novelist Jas. M. Walsh, 34, on 23rd; W.
A. Selle (Registrar of Sydney Uni.), 48, on 24th;
artist Percy Leason, 42, Staniforth Smith (late
Lands Commissioner, Papua), 62, Customs Comp-
troller-General Ernest Hall, 60, Capt. H. S. Hudd,
M.C., M.P. (S. Aus.), 50, and S. Aus. Under-
Treasurer R. R. Stuckey, 50, on 25th; Professor
Mungo MacCallum (Syd.), 77, and S. Aus. Agent-
Gen. Barwell, 54, on 26th; medico-knight James
Barrett (Melb.), 69, on 27th.
Frank Duffy, the new Chief Justice of
the High Court, has had only 19 birthday
parties in his long life of 78 years; he was
born on Feb. 29. There never was a, more
popular man at the Victorian Bar: in his
best days there he positively sparkled. Most
of the Duffys (old Charles Gavan had a mob
of them) were literary, and Frank had dad’s
flair for the picturesque phrase. It was
Charles Gavan who, at a welcoming ban-
quet in Victoria on his arrival in 1855, de-
clared he was “an Irish rebel to the back-
bone and spinal marrow.” Curiously enough,
Chief Justice DUFFY.
he had been interested in Australian Consti-
tutions before lie came this way: be made
ar>tn „ o-nnd «nonr-lin<s in the House of
Commof s od wh?n eCl the N.S/W. and* Vic.
r i nn«atitntinn<3 wort* °*oin2r tliroiisrli. Fr&nk
w “ ' H . fow of the Duffy hoys
born in Ireland; but he wasn’t three when
they left for Australia. Of his predecessors
Griffith was born in Wales, Knox in Sydney,
Tenues in Melbourne I ike George Reid, he
was a Treasury clerk for a while. He has
been a High Court Judge for 17 years.
Burly and genial Frank Burke, Speaker
in the N.SAV. Assembly, inherited his flair
for politics from his father, Michael Burke,
M.L. A. for Tam worth (N.S.W.), m the
’eighties. Frank, born in 1876, came to Syd-
ney in his teens and picked up a job m the
old “Evening News” office in Market-street.
Later he went further down the street to
tap a cash register in Roberts’s hotel in its
days one of the city’s landmarks —and
eventually became the manager. A change
of fortune forced him to seek work as a
“trammy,” and he wore that uniform until
the big 1908 strike; since then he has been
tea canvasser, inspector under the N.S.W.
Necessary Commodities Commission and in-
spector for the Commonwealth Prices Com-
mission. He was one of the large batch of
Mr. Speaker BURKE, of the N.S.W.
Assembly.
new Labor members swept into Parliament
in 1917 after the conscription split, defeat-
ing Bob Hollis, who had represented New-
town for 13 years. Three years later, when
proportional representation merged New-
town in the Botany five-member seat, Burke
was one of the four Labor men who were
sent to Macquarie-street. He remained one
of Botany’s five until Newtown reverted
to a single-seat electorate in 1927, and lias
continued to represent that solid industrial
centre. A popular member, he garnishes his
hard-hitting speeches with rough-and-ready
humor.
On January 22, 1893, Isaac Isaacs
was named Solicitor-General in the J. B.
Patterson (Vic.) Ministry; on the same
date, 38 years later, he was sworn in
as Governor-General of the Commonwealth.
He is third on the list of Vic. Executive
Councillors, the two in front of him being
the octogenarian 11. R. Williams, enrolled in
1880, and Speaker Alec Peacock, who dates
back to 1890. He and Agar Wynne are the
only survivors of the Patterson Ministry.
From a barrister :
Gavan Duffy, as Federal C.J., will please all the
bars. Despite his 78 years his brain is as clear as
ever, and he has all the other essential qualities,
including an old-fashioned courtesy which hasn’t
been too common on the High Court Bench in the
past. Like most Irish boys of his class and period,
he was educated at Stony hurst, the great Jesuit
public school in Lancashire. He is a keen sportsman
who knows a lot about horses, and has been seen
ai Sydney Stadium since he became a Judge. And
he might be seen there again. He has plenty of
dignity, but no false pride.
Of the four survivors of the first Turner
Government (Vic.) of 1894-99 three were in
evidence at the swearing-in of the new G.-G.
They were Isaacs himself, Alec Peacock and
Robert Best, who has deserted politics to
chase costs. The fourth, octogenarian Harry
Williams, was absent. Isaacs is 75, Best
a year younger and Peacock 69.
Among the visitors to the State teachers’
conference in Melbourne last week was C. A.
Topp, a notable public servant in liis time.
More than 50 years ago he was an inspector
in the Education Department. Then he be-
came successively chairman of the Health
Board, permanent head of the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department and Public Service Com-
missioner. It was C.A.T. who planned the
first Vic. electorates for the Reps. The
veteran, now 84, retired 19 years ago.
Of the 36 Labor members returned to the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly at the 1891
elections —the first big influx of Laborites
into an Australian Parliament —two remain
in active politics: George Black, State
M. and Arthur Rae, N.S.W. Federal
Senator. Black got in for West Syd-
ney and Rae for Namoi. When “Jupp”
Gardiner was defeated for the Senate at the
1925 Federal election Black held the honor
alone, but Rae managed a come-back in
1929. Included among the 36 were Jimmy
McGowen, who lived to be Premier of
N. and Joe Cook, who became a Prime
Minister.
John Bell Condliffe, born in Melbourne 40
years ago, graduate of Canterbury College,
Christchurch (M.L.) and for some years
Prof, of Pol. Econ. in that seat of learning,
has just been allotted the job of writing the
annual' survey of the world’s affairs for the
Economic and Financial Section of the
League of Nations. Condliffe has been sec-
retary of the Institute of Pacific Relations,
and he is still research director of the insti-
tute, though he has temporarily accepted an
offer of the chair of International Relations
at Michigan Uni. He is the fourth Maori-
lander to join the L. of N. staff. The others
are J. V. Wilson, of Christchurch; J. H.
Chapman, of Wellington; and E. Harston,
of Napier.
Dead in Hobart, I). M. Davie, inspector
of schools in the Tasmanian Education
Department for 22 years. A keen militia-
man, he left for the Big Row as a major in
the original 26th Battalion, and served on
Gallipoli and .in France, where he was.
severely wounded. Back to the front in
1917, he was given command of the 22nd
Battalion, and did work at Bullecourt which
brought him the Belgian Croix de Guerre
and the Order of Leopold.
The late William Urquhart was one of
a succession of penal administrators who
did notable work in N. S. Wales. During
more than 40 years of service he governed
at one time or another several of the prin-
cipal gaols, and was Comptroller-General
from 1922 until his retirement a little over
four years ago. An able and humane
man. there must have been not a few
of his former charges who regretted his pass-
ing as much as the scores of colleagues who
stood by his graveside in Waverley ceme-
tery. He was a vice-president of the High-
land Society of N.S.W. and an authority on
Gaelic history and literature, speaking the
ancient language fluently. He leaves two
daughters, one of whom, Jessie Urquhart, is
well known in Australian literary circles
Just had an 80th birthday in Adelaide,
Col. James Rowell, a fine old citizen who
has always been prominent in the Agricul-
tural Society and in military ‘work. As a
soldier, he had his one real chance 30 years
back, when he commanded the S. Aus. Bush-
men’s Contingent in S’Africa. The veteran’s
poor health prevented him attending various
receptions and presentations that had been
planned.
Major Marr, who is to have another shot
at Parkes, didn’t have a fair go at last
general election; he was away on an official
job when it occurred, and couldn’t get back
until the poll was finished and McTiernan
declared the winner. It won’t be like that
this time. Marr has enormous personal
popularity in the district; he was born and
Major MARR, non-inflationist candidate
for Parkes.
brought up in it. As a youngster he entered
the public service, was one of the brightest
things in the electrical engineer’s branch of
the Postal Department, and when the big
wireless station at Pennant Hills was pro-
jected he was the man chosen to build it.
At the war lie won the M.O. and the D.S.O.
and had a couple of mentions in dispatches.
A bronze bust of Dr. Maloney, M.H.R.,
executed by a student at Melbourne Working
Men’s College, is to be placed in Vic. Par-
liamentary library. Maloney was in the
Vie. Assembly for 14 years before entering
the Reps., and will complete 42 years as an
M.P. on March 28.
HERBERT BROOKES, the Australian
Commissioner in the U.S.A., who has
thrown up the job and returned to
Australia because he did not think the
country was getting value for the
money. (The illustration is a caricature
in clay, modelled for The Bulletin by
Kitty Russell-Jackson.)
One of the last of the Papuan old-timers,
Will Christie, panned his last prospect re-
cently. He and his brothers have been well
known among the ’weight-chasing fraternity
in the far north of Queensland and Papua for
30 years past. They were prominent in most
of the later Papuan rushes; Will Christie
will always be remembered as the developer
of the big Laloki copper-mines in the Central
Division. Recently he took a trip to his
native Scotland in search of health. It
proved fruitless, and he returned to Papua
with just time enough to bid farewell to
old friends.
Chief Sec. Tunneclifife (Vic.) takes poli-
tical life more philosophically than comrade
Hogan, who looks a very worried man these
days. Tunnecliffe has had longer experi-
ence and far more ups and downs than Pre-
mier Ned. Displaced from West Melbourne
on the redistribution of seats in 1904, he had
an unsuccessful shot at the Senate. Later
lie seemed to have a safe nook at Eaglehawk
as an Assemblyman till Dunstan (now
deputy-leader of the Cocky party) should-
ered him out in 1920. A year later Colling-
wood provided him with the safest seat he
has occupied during his career. Hogan beat
Tunnecliffe for the Labor party leadership
nearly five years ago.
Federal Arbitration Court Judge Drake-
Broekman comes of a Westralian family
which has been well in the public eye for
many a year. Born at Busseltou 46 years
ago, he grew up to be a barrister; he left
Australia at the start of the war a company
commander, and returned at its close a
brigadier-general with a D.S.O. and a C.B.
His war service helped him into the Senate,
where he sat for. six years before receiving
his present appointment. A younger brother
was a Rhodes Scholar of more than _ ordi-
nary distinction; he secured a commission
soon after leaving Oxford, and after the
war was a Judge in the Mandated Territm-y
of New Guinea for four years before settling
down to his profession in Perth. A sister
is the Moulden lady, of Adelaide, whose first
husband was Westralia’s Winthrop Hackett.
A rank and file Laborite, who as a depu-
tationist was pitching into Vic. Premier
Hogan the other day for not doing more for
the unemployedj threatened to oppose him
for pre-selection next time “if nobody else
would.” Hogan, who had been patient dur-
ing the harangue, cut in here with : “Well,
keep the rest of your oration till you come
out against me,” which rather disconcerted
the orator. Hogan doesn’t neglect Warren -
heip. He slipped away after the Loan
Council finished to attend the annual meet-
ing of the Gordon branch of the A.L.P.
The way to fill up the empty spaces was
indicated the other day when Mrs. Charles
Elton, sen., of Bombala (N.S.W.), was
entertained by 400 relatives. They in-
cluded 15 sons and daughters, 89 grand-
children, 109 great-grandchildren, 3 great-
great-grandchildren and 2 sisters, aged 89
and 97. The .old lady herself, who was the
third white child born in the Bombala dis-
trict, when the clans of Binghi peopled the
surroundings for hundreds of miles, i.s 92.


“SANTWILL
—a Cool Summer
Work Shirt.
The ideal work shirt, made of
very strong sandy-colored twill
shirting, guaranteed a fast
color. Two breast pockets, with
flaps to button. Cool and com-
fortable.
PRICE, each .... 7/9
Three for 22/6.
Send your order to desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Street, Brisbane
The “ Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
* 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Gartrell, White, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.(B p.c.) Ord. serves, serves.*
1928. . 29,833 4800 10 p.c’. = 14,000 11,033 20,731
1929.. 23,383 4800 10 „ „ 14,000' 4,583 25,314
1930.. 23,936 5071 9 „ „ 12,740 6,125 31,439
*Subject to goodwill ( £46,618), but not including
depreciation reserve ( £58,234).
Taking over an established bakery busi-
ness in 1917, this co. lias largely extended
its operations. With goodwill at £46,638 in
the accounts, earnings were backward for
some years, but on an increasing turnover
ord. distributions rose from 5 p.c. in 1925
to 71 p.c. in 1926, and then 8 p.c. in 1927.
That term 60,000 of the 200,000 ords. were
converted into 8 p.c. cum. prefs., and the
scrip was thereafter listed. In 1928 10
p.c. was paid comfortably on the ords.; next
year the same rate was paid, but not so
comfortably, and in the term to July 4 last
the final distribution was lowered to 8 p.c.,
making 9 p.c. for the year.
The co. does an extensive business, both
wholesale and retail. Competition has lately
grown keener, but the co. seems to have main-
tained its sales ; exes, appear to have been the
trouble. Gross earnings (£153,916) increased
£6914 last year—at the beginning of the
term trade was particularly bright. But
exes. (£129,979, including taxation and de-
preciation) were £6361 heavier, and thus
the net result (£23,936) was ’ only £553
better. The increase in outgo was mainly
due. to heavier plant and rolling-stock
maintenance charges, and cartage. These
items, which ran into £44,524 last year, were
£8987 heavier; the axe was successfully
used on nearly every other form of outgo.
General reserves (£31,439) are £15,179
short of the goodwill item, but there is a
depreciation reserve (£58,234), which in-
creased £3806 during the year. The depre-
ciation allowance as shown in p. and 1.
account w’as £3287; the difference is un-
explained, _ and suggests that depreciation
reserve might be a provision in excess of
other visible p. and 1. allowances.
In 1928 land was purchased near Belmore
for the erection of a modern factory; this
has been completed since the close of
accounts, and the equipment is said to be
of the most up-to-date kind. These develop-
ments are reflected in balance-sheet figures:—
1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . . . £200,000 £200,000 £215,769
Mortgages . . . . 11,295 11,295 11,295
Overdraft . . . . 22,732 15,190 34,287
Other liabilities .. 17,422 24,188 18,908
Freeholds and leaseholds 118,206 121,057 142,514
Plant, etc 102,388 107,430 117,683
Investments . . .. 7,518 7,518 7,518
Stock 29,996 28,208 26,689
Debtors 34,774 34,265 44,421
Cash, etc 1,381 2,419 1,532
During the two years to July 4 last, the
outlay on freehold, buildings, etc., has been
£24,308, and £15,295 on plant, etc. T® help
finance the cost, 35,000 new ords. and 15,00(1
prefs. were issued in 1929, and £15,768 had
been paid on them at this last balance day.
la addition, the co. has called upon outsiders
for £13,041, making total liabilities £64,490.
The more or less liquid surplus, £8152, in-
cluding stocks (£26,659) and debtors
(£44.421, up £10,156 last year), was £6550
lighter than two years ago. Since the close
of accounts the ss. uncalled on the prefs.
lias been got in.
Much depends upon whether sufficient
depreciation has been allowed on plant, etc.
The position in this regard is not quite
clear, but it does not appear to have been
neglected. Assuming that the depreciation
reserve no more than covers asset wastage
(and it may contain some genuine profit),
the net tangible backing for the prefs. is a
shade over £3, and for the ords. 17s. Bd.
The latter have an active market at 145., at
which figure the return is 11.4 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. At 18s. the prefs. show
a return of 8.9 p.c.
Pacific Forests, Ltd. (Maoriland).
Shareholders alone finance, control and
stand, to win the profits or shoulder the losses
of this Maoriland afforestation enterprise. In
that respect it is almost unique amongst the
host of forestry cos. that have mopped up a
very large amount of speculators’ money
throughout the Commonwealth during the
last ten years. In most cases the capital for
financing these projects has been supplied by
bondholders, with a small body of share-
holders in the background holding the reins
and feeding on profits from bond sales, com-
missions, management charges, etc., irrespec-
tive of whether the actual tree-growing busi-
ness is a success or a failure.
The co. was formed in July, 1925, and it
bought 12,700 acres of land at £3 ss. an
acre in the Rotorua district. There were no
promoters’ or similar shares. In three years
174,297 £1 shares had been placed, and at
October 7. 1930, subscriptions had risen to
248,087. Brokerage at 10 p.c. on the face-
value of the scrip ran off with £24,809, and
other preliminary exes, absorbed £5333; alto-
gether, that was equal to 12.1 p.c. on sub-
scribed capital, or 20.5 p.c. on the amount
(£147,336) paid up at October 7 last.
In October, J92S, a subsidiary, the Wara-
tah Pulp and Paper Co., Ltd., was formed
to acquire and plant an adjoining block
(3823 acres.) Of the co.’s £lOO,OOO of paid
capital, £99,970 is held by Pacific Forests,
which appears to be much in excess of the
book value of the assets handed over as con-
sideration. At any rate, the 99,970 fully-
paids appear at only £29,455 in the holding
co.’s balance-sheet.
Each co. has now fully planted its hold-
ing, making altogether over 10 million seed-
lings, mostly Pinus radiata. Expenditure of
the Pacific co. only is disclosed; for the five
years to October last, salaries, other adminis-
tration exes., interest, rates, etc., had run
off with £21,696, an average of £4339 a year.
The freehold appeared at cost (£41,940);
roads and firebreaks, £2017; plantation,
£20,942 (up £8073 over the last two years) ;
buildings, plant, etc., £3510. Liquids
amounted to £4377, and the co. owed £3185.
Forfeited shares reserve figured at £3558.
To see the programme to the harvesting
stage there is £100,751 of capital at call.
Total expenditure on the Pacific block to
October 7, including cost of land, had aver-
aged £9 10s. an acre. It is estimated by the
directors that the final cost will not exceed
£l5 an acre. That allows for a total outlay
of £69,850 (£6985 p.a.) over the next ten
years. With more economy in overhead, and
provided the forest escapes serious damage
from fire, weather, etc., it might be hoped
that the co. will do better. The more econo-
mical the management is in administration,
the more capital there should be at the end
of the period to finance pulping or marketing.
The co. estimates that the trees will be
ready for pulping in 1940, “and divs. should
be paid commencing that year and every other
year.” On a net return of £225 from an acre
of timber, divs. of 100 p.c. p.a. on shares are
spoken of. After each crop is taken off, the
ground is to be replanted.
AH that, of course, depends on the timber
yielding £225 an acre, or a bit less than 10s.
per tree. The “Wild Cat,” having mislaid
its prophet’s shoes, cannot follow the direc-
tors that far into the future. But it does
wish a few 100 p.c. divs. were being paid
now. Still, these shareholders appear
to be getting a fair run for their money. If
they are not it is their own fault.
0.T., Ltd. (Vic.).
Nominal
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1923.. 15,358 8.3 p.e. = 11,133 4,335 43,041
1924.. 13,107 6.6 „ „ 8,907 4,200 47,241
1925.. 20,039 10 „ „ 13,360 6,679 53,920
1926.. 42,277 20 „ ~ 26,720 15,557 69,477
1927.. 38,438 20 „ „ 26,720 11,718 81,195
Written off, £5500 .. .. 75,695
Prefs. Ords.
8 p.c. 20 p.c.
1928.. 36,427 2000 26,720 7,707 83,402
Written off, £2OOO .. . . 81,402
Shares in other cos. written up
£133,598 and that amount capi-
talised .. .. .. .. 81,402
Surplus on sale London busi-
ness, £228,989 . . . . 310,391
10 p.c.
1929.. 29,563 2000 26,720 843 311,234
Taxation on sale of London busi-
ness, £5OOO 306,234
Reserve for depreciation of invest-
ments, £6OOO . . . . . . 300,234
1930.. 11,681 2000 Nil 9,681 309,915
With the sale of the London business at
a profit of £362,587 in 1929, the co lost
its chief revenue-producing asset. The income
from this source was mainly responsible for
the handsome divs. in the past; profits from
the London money-spinner averaged £43,291
over the four years to September 30, 1928.
With the stoppage of these juicy contribu-
tions profits were bound to slump, but the
drop has been more than was expected.
An abnormally cool summer greatly
affected Australian turnover, but the worst
factor was the reduced spending of the
public. Few luxuries are more easily dis-
pensed with than soft drinks, and all cor-
dial manufacturers have suffered. In Novem-
ber the chairman reported that sales were
still falling, competition was keener, and
that further reductions in prices had been
made. The effect of all these things up to
June 30 is shown in the following table, Aus-
tralian trading operations registering a loss
of £4037 :
, , .. 1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Australian —
Net trading
profit .. £4,065 £13,348 £10,167 £4,037*
Dividends, etc. 42 2,979 3,523 15,801
Foreign—
Dividends . . 10,000 30,000 24,723 4,916
*Loss.
Thus the year’s net profit as per accounts,
after allowing for the loss, was £16,680;
but £3OOO earmarked for depreciation, £lOOO
set aside for taxation and £lOOO provided for
bad debts reduced the figure to £11,681 net.
After allowing for the prefs., that was
equal to only 3.6 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal, so no ord. div. was paid. The bulk of
the income came from interest on fixed
deposits, mortgages, etc. (£293,000), repre-
senting the investment of part of the con-
sideration from Kia Ora, Ltd., London.
It is rather unfortunate that the proceeds
were not left in London. The intention was
to re-invest this money in the trade again,
but because of the unsettled times the direc-
tors “decline to accept the responsibility,”
and £146,098, representing half the paid-up
pref. and ord. capital, has been returned in
cash. In 1928 ord. capital had been doubled
by the issue of bonus shares provided by
writing up the London investment, so the
position now is that old shareholders in O.T.
are having their original capital returned
to them intact, but still have an interest in
the business equal to their former holding.
Balance-sheet figures do not show up the
co.’s position clearly. Shares in other cos., at
cost, £45,086, include a holding in an Ameri-
can subsidiary, and how that co. is pro-
gressing is not obvious, though for some
years its results were disappointing. But
the co. in 1929 refused an offer of 2,000,000
dollars for its Australian and other busi-
nesses not included in the English sale, which
suggested that the board was confident of
the future under normal conditions. A
paper-cup manufacturing venture (Austra-
lian Containers, Ltd., nominal capital
£250,000), in which O.T. has a half-interesl,
is reported to be making encouraging head-
way. This investment was responsible for
a jump of £24,556 in shares in other cos.,
etc. (£45,086), last year; the book value
of the item, however, the board has since
thought fit to write down by £6OOO
1924. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £133,599 £140,387 £292,197 £292,197
Sundry creditors 27,930 21,922 39,303 9,647
Premises . . 18,380 22,722 28,202 67,421
Plant, etc. . . 19,500 27,947 35,745 42,834
Shares, etc. . . 47,455 63,389 20,530 45,086
Sundry debtors 41,270 56,749 56,254 36,742
Stock . . 26,534 40,523 63,121 62,346
Dash, etc. .. 5,842 4 2 693 412,740 312,665
Part of the surplus cash has gone into free-
holds, etc. (up £39,219). Whether all that
is due to the erection of the new Sydney
factory is not clear; the co. may have
become landlord to the Container Co.
The old premises were in the books at much
below their actual worth; besides the
I’rahran factory there is the Sydney branch,
Melbourne caseworks, and a bottle-factory
at Port Melbourne. The more or less
liquid surplus (including stocks, £62,346)
was £90,706 lighter at £402,106.
Goodwill, trade-marks, bottles, etc., figure
in the accounts at £59,864, and in the past
the item has been well worth its book value.
Reserves in the table .are subject to this
item. The outlook for divs. from trading
during the current year is anything but
cheerful; nevertheless, the co. has an ener-
getic and experienced management, and any
improvement in trade should be reflected in
the co.’s accounts. Allowing for the return
of capital, which took place on January 19,
the 133,598 consolidated pound ords. are
covered by £2 16s. in net tangibles, over
£1 18s. of it in surplus liquids. Before the
10s. per share was returned sellers were ask-
ing only 235. for the old £1 shares.
Carroll-Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
Written
June, Loss. r Dividends . Off. Deficit.
£ Pref. Ord. £ £ £
1924.. 2,955 64 p.e. 64 p.c. = 6,048 17,430
Add preliminary exes,, £531 .. .. 17,961
Profit.
1925.. 13,417 64 p.e. 64 p.c. = 6,968 11,512
Reserves.
1926.. 39,831 174 „ 30 „ ~20,000 8250 69
1927.. 17,821 124 „ 16§ „ ~13,333 4000 557
1928.. 20,830 124 ~ 16f „ ~13,333 3000 5,054
1929.. 15,548 124 „ 16t „ ~13,333 4000 3,269
1930.. 19,096 124 „ 16f ~ ~13,333 4000 5,032
This is a rare instance of a picture-showing
co. which makes its figures public. In
nearly every other case the combines keep
the affairs of their subsidiaries dark; but,
though the Union Theatres group has a
large say in the running of this concern, it
does not own all the scrip.
The co. owns and runs the Prince Edward
Theatre in Sydney, and notwithstanding the
over-building of talkie-palaces during the
last two years, with reduced allowances for
amusement in the family budget, besides a
tightening grip on the local hiring and show-
ing business by the big American film-
interests, the co. did very well during the
year to June 30 last. The trade is in so
few hands that nothing drastic has been
necessary in the way of reducing prices—
at least, not at the big theatres. The Prince
Edward management usually selects a film
capable of drawing houses for more than
the average season, and there seems to be
little doubt that the reputation thus estab-
lished has been largely responsible for the
steadiness about the co.’s earnings.
“Throughout the year business has been
satisfactorily maintained,” the report says.
Profit from the theatre (£11),096) improved
£3548 during the term ; and, as in the pre-
vious year, £4OOO (shown as written off in
the table) was provided for depreciation,
£lOOO of which was in respect of talkie
equipment (making £2500 so set aside since
the change over from the silents). Depre-
ciation reserve now figures at £13,746. The
usual divs. were paid, and £1763 was left
for reserves (£5032).
The, co. was formed in 1920, primarily
to build the Prince Edward Theatre, which
commenced earning in 1924. There was no
goodwill to weigh down the earning power of
capital, and preliminary exes, were com-
mendably small—£BBl6 -in 1924, since wiped
out altogether. The fatness of the 1926
profits was due' to a surplus of £24,619 on
the sale of the Victoria Arcade. The disposal
of this property enabled the board to reduce
the mortgage from £161,793 to £60,350, at
which figure it still stands.
In the next table the theatre appears at
cost; including equipment it stands at
£190,075: —
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £99,971 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Mortgages . . 161,793 60,350 60,350 60,350
Sundry creditors 8,839 610 4,084 8,023
Property, equip-
ment, etc... 262,145 174,584 179,967 190,075
Debtors . . 1,969 436 626 828
Cash, etc. . . 4,977 14,577 11,439 10,332
The increase is nearly all due to the installa-
tion of an air-conditioning plant. Outgoings
on refurnishings and renewals appear to have
been charged against revenue. Much depends
upon whether these allowances and the de-
preciation reserve adequately cover wear and
obsolescence, but the directors’, policy would
suggest that they do. Liquids (£11,159)
were £906 lighter; the floating debt (£8023)
was £3939 heavier.
Capital is £loo,ooo—£Bo,ooo prefs. and
£20,000 ords., the latter originally held by
E. J. and Dan Carroll and Harry Musgrove,
Something like half these ords. were bought
by the Union Theatres group in 1928. The
prefs., which are the only class of scrip
listed, have interest in them enhanced by
their participating rights. Besides having
priority as to capital they share in surplus
assets. Also, they are entitled to a cumula-
tive 10 p.c., after which the ords. get 10 p.e.,
and the remaining profit, whether distributed
or not, belongs 60' p.c. to the prefs. and 40
p.c. to the ords.
Last quotes for the prefs. were around
215., at which price the return is 12 p.c. on
a 12i p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to £1 6s. 2d. in net tangibles, and last year’s
earnings were over twice their minimum div.
requirements.
West Australian Finance, Ltd.
Towards
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Sept., Preliminary exes., £13,413 .. . . 13,413
1927.. 2152 7+ p.c. = 1947 205 13,208
Added preliminary exes., £1736 .. 14,944
1928.. 5018 7$ p.c. = 5081 15,007
1929.. 8704 8i „ „ 6546 2158 12,849
1930.. 7674 61 „ „ 4687 2987 9,862
This Westralian motor finance co. set up
in business in Perth in October, 1926. It
offered the public 150,000 shares, to be called
to 10s.; they were all taken up by the end
of the second year, and though a few were
later forfeited, they were resold. Prelimi-
nary exes, and brokerage ran off with
£15,149 altogether. A heavy item: it usually
is where shares are not called up in full, and
brokerage is paid on the face value of the
scrip.
During its first 111 months the co. netted
£2152, and, notwithstanding the load of in-
tangibles, all but £205 of this was handed out
in a7l p.c. div. In the next term £5OlB was
earned, but the 71 p.c. distribution called for £63
more than that, and the intangibles mounted
to £15,007 net. The result for 1929 was
the most satisfactory thus far; profit, after
allowing for taxation, was 11.6 p.c. on capi-
tal. In the term to September 30 last, after
allowing for taxation (£1354), the net result
(£7674) slipped £lO3O, but still it was 10.2
p.c. on capital. It was a commendable per-
formance, considering the burden of intan-
gibles (20 p.c. of paid capital) and the risky
nature of motor finance, particularly in times
like the present. If book debts are worth
what they are said to be, shareholders might
well be satisfied with results. An interim
at the rate of p.c. was paid, but at the
final balance the rate was reduced to 5 p.c.,
making 6J p.c. for the year. A larger sum
(£2987) thus remained in the business to
offset intangibles (now £9862 net).
The jump in 1929 earnings was mainly due
to extended operations; the co. was trading
(Continued on page 16.)


\
& ,
; \
/
i I
r*:
, \
: &
- \
X
mmmm
hBS
WWX'JvI-a/ .v.
k
X v.7*pf»>
THREE MORE
and beffer
Once you’ve smoked
"Country Life,"once you’ve
enjoyed the cool even-burn-
ing Virginia tobacco of
these firmly - rolled cork-
tipped cigarettes, you’ll
realize why these three
men, just three of many,
are so eager for the satis-
fying smoke the well-known
tin provides.
23
for |/6
15 for V~
and in tins of
50 and 100
cLi^TRy
T G S
'P'NI-
Made in your Own Country at
the Garden Factory—Raleigh
Park—by W. D. &H. O. Wills
(Aust.) Ltd.
COUNTRY
ẁ
ẃ


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
In comparing Pioneer Wood Pipe with metal pipe,
many interesting facts are revealed. Pioneer Wood
Pipe weighs considerably less, and, because it is
non-corrosive, has a longer effective life. It costs
only about half as much, and this low first-cost is
perpetuated in low handling, freighting and instal-
lation charges. Any type of liquid can be safely
carried in Pioneer Wood Pipe—even the strongest
acids or alkalies, without harm. Write for interesting
data of installations. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Iho Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting their Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETDAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and Reserves total £1,120,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment by which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £39,023,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. Y. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
on more borrowed money tlian usual. Last
were curtailed, creditors
(±39,939) being £9720 lower, and advances,
etc. (£108,007) were reduced £8497:
„.. 1927. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £60,287 £74,756 £74,928 £75,000
Liabilities .. • 15,018 49,659 39,939
Advances, bool?
debts, etc. .. 52,651* 78,194 116,504 108,007
Sundry assets . . 48 50 267 263
*lncludes cash.
In theory, the more borrowed money that
can be put out at a profit, the greater the
returns for shareholders. But just at pre-
sent there isn’t much money to be borrowed,
and the lending has to be done on sound
securities if serious loss is to be avoided.
On the other hand, trading on shareholders’
funds alone, until substantial reserves have
been built up, you don’t make so much money,
as a rule, but when bad times come you
can sleep better.
The co.’s. 10s.-paids are backed by net
tangibles- with a book value of Bs. 9d., all
of it in advances, etc.
Kelsall and Kemp (Tasmania), Ltd.
Towards
r — Dividends Re-
Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
June, 9753
1928.. 12,027 4373* Nil 7654 2099
1929.. 1,410 Nil Nil 1410 689
Loss.
1930.. 3,710 Nil Nil 4399
*lncludes arrears to March, 1922.
The co. was formed in 1920 as an offshoot
of Kelsall and Kemp, Ltd., the big flannel
and woollen-piecegoods manufacturers, of
Rochdale, England. Part of the ords. as
well as the prefs. are held by the public.
For its first five years the co. did no good
for itself, and though earnings showed a
healthy improvement in 1927-28, results have
again fallen away, trading to June 30 last
showing a loss of £3710.
This co. mainly manufactures flannels,
blankets, etc. Four years ago the Austra-
lian mills were unable to supply the demand
for these textiles, and, with profits at last
beginning to show up, Kelsall and Kemp
installed additional plant. So did most other
woollen cos., and the position to-day is that
the plant capacity of the industry is much
in excess of trade requirements. When wool
prices began to soar there was a slump in
the demand for blankets, flannels and other
textiles containing a big percentage of wool.
Blankets for the time being were superseded
in public favor by cheap imported down
quilts, and substitutes for flannel wore sought.
With w’ool at its present low levels, a revival
of the trade might be looked for, but the
lower purchasing power of the public is
being keenly felt.
The fall in wool prices called for a re-
adjustment in stock values, and the loss here
was considerable. The item (£32,791) is
£5Bll low r er in the balance-sheet:—
I QOQ IQ9Q IQQfi
Pref. capital . . .. £40,45*7 £40,54*7 £40,54*7
Ord. capital . . . . 93,064 93,064 93,064
Overdraft . . . . . . 547 1,440
Sundry creditors . . . . 3,073 2,267 3,825
Parent’s advances .. . . 39,167 34,260 36,747
Freeholds 63,087 61,889 61,155
Plant 59,481 55,621 53,527
Stocks 47,245 38,602 32,791
Debtors 7,861 14,955 18,432
Cash, etc 2,238 150 3,879
The outside debt (£40,572, including £36,747
owing to Kelsall and Kemp, England) was
£2605 heavier; the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£14,530) was £l2lO lower. Debtors
(£18,432) show a growth of £10,571 over
the last two years. Fixed assets (£114,682)
show a reduction of £7866 since 1928, indi-
cating that depreciation has not been
neglected. This provision for wear and tear,
etc., has been full, the chairman says, and
much depends on that.
Prospects for the current year are doubt-
ful. Stocks are claimed to have been taken
in on a sound basis. The prohibitive tariff
and the high exchange rate should give Aus-
tralian manufacturei’s practically a free
hand in the local market, but whether that
will fully compensate for the reduced spend-
ing of the public is another matter. The
Kelsall and Kemp co. is trying to create a
market for fancy flannels and flannel tweeds
in order to keep its plant occupied. Results
so far are reported to be encouraging.
The pref. divs. are substantially in arrears,
and the ords. appear to have gone hungry
.since the co.’s inception. The pref. distri-
bution in 1928 included that year’s charge,
and arrears up to March, 1922, after which
the rate rose from 6 p.c. to 8 p.c. Sellers
recently asked 11s. 6d. for the prefs. and
4s. for the ords., but little business seems
to have been done at those prices.
Last week saw a definite move in Mel-
bourne and Sydney to inaugurate under
private enterprise a scheme to encourage
gold-seeking. Meetings called in both cities
by the respective Lord Mayors were well
attended by representative men; a committee
was appointed in each instance, and in-
structed to co-operate in the formation of a
Gold Search Association. It is proposed to
form a limited co. with a capital of £50,000
in five million shilling shares. These will
not be profit-bearing, the co.’s object being
to search for new goldfields and the develop-
ment of those already in existence for
national benefit. Some months ago Queens-
land launched a similar scheme on a smaller
basis, and it was enthusiastically supported
by all and sundry. The present movement
is headed by 11. W. Gepp, late of the Federal
Development and Migration Commission,
which should satisfy most people of the
scheme’s lone ficles and practicability. The
discovery of the great Westralian fields
helped to bring Australia quickly to its feet
after the 1893 crash, and a similar road to
salvation to-day might not be beyond the
bounds of possibility.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: If London reports are
correct, Queensland is shortly to see some
large-scale prospecting on the Palmer and
adjoining North Queensland fields. L. F. de
Sachse, a well-known mining man in the
North some years ago, told an interviewer
that lie and others were trying to raise a
prospecting and development co. with a capi-
tal of a million. The intention is to apply
for large leases under the recently-amended
mining laws. The special objective of the
company is the testing of the theory
that valuable gold-bearing formations lie
under the sandstone blanket which covers
much of the Palmer country. It is proposed
to do this by drilling, and here the Queens-
land Government, which has several plants
available, is expected to assist. The scheme
is an ambitious one, especially as regards
the amount of capital required. Still, if
anything is to be done in the way of fresh
gold discoveries of importance, large-scale
operations _ show most promise. Surface
scratching is. a fluky business at best, and
the drill, which has so assisted prospecting
and development at Mt. Isa and other fields,
has much to recommend it.
* * * * •
With the advent of the guinea-an-ounce
premium and the gold bonus, Westralia’s
past gold-mining records are being searched
in the hope that something worth having-
will be found among the many voided leases.
Years ago, when Jack Scaddan was Minister,
the Mines Department compiled a list or
cancelled areas which had produced gold,
and the list showed over 4000 with a total
yield of nearly four million ounces from
about four and a half million tons. Every
field in the State was represented on the list.
* * * *
“W’gabba”: For Queensland, which pro-
duced almost 700,0000 z. of fine gold in 12
months only 30 years ago, the low-water
mark reached in 1929 of 94760 z. is a retro-
gression that reflects little credit generally
on either mining methods, scientific investi-
gation or organised prospecting. Yet not for
years has there appeared a better prospect of
Queensland’s partial recovery in gold produc-
tion. That it synchronises with a high
premium and the promised distribution of a
bonus should render the recovery easier.
Mt. Coolon mines, which have been taken
over by a strong financial organisation,
should very shortly greatly increase its out-
put. It is capable of large-scale operations.
On top of this is a new discovery near Rock-
hampton which is stated to be the most sig-
nificant made in the State since Mt. Coolon,
to which type of deposit it adheres in many
ways. J. H. Reid indicates that it has possi-
bilities of proving very large, although prob-
ably low grade. He gives values averaging
lOdwts. over an exposed outcrop 3ft. to Bft.
wide and 210 ft. long, and strongly urges
active development with a layout for eco-
nomic mining methods. Capital is needed
behind the prospectors to prevent their being
forced to rush a small battery on to the best
ore on the cap of the lode in order to keep
going. Reid regards as a working hypothesis
that the deposit is of magmatic origin, and so
may be very large, though not likely to be
of spectacular values.
It is not likely to increase the State’s
yield during 1931, but if all goes well may
swell that of 1932. The Palmer R. dredging
enterprise may help the recovery this year.
It is on the verge of production, but results
are yet uncertain. To complete the picture
the concessions granted in North Queensland
to English capitalists may help out in a year
or two on the Hodgkinson and Etheridge
fields. The Oaks is a field worth probing
where mass production can be entertained.
* * * *
“M.G.”: S.A. Oil Wells Co., formed in
1915 and pioneer in Australia of the modern
search for petroleum, has just made a con-
tract with an Australian firm of oil refiners
to buy its production at Lakes Entrance
(Vic.). Up to date six holes have been
drilled by this co., and in only one has no
oil been found. The other five holes are
yielding from a few gallons up to 200 gal-
lons a day. More boreholes in the vicinity
of the pumping wells are projected. A pipe
line will be laid about a mile long to the
wharf at Lakes Entrance, whence it will be
skipped by steamer to the Melbourne refi-
nery, there to be converted into tractor dis-
tillate, lubricating oil and bitumen. There
are about 3000 gallons of the crude oil ready
at the field.
* * * *
Latest information concerning Hanlon’s
Reward in the Jervois Ranges is that work
on the three shafts is proceeding steadily.
One had reached water level at 96ft. and a
crosscut is now 3fift. into the lode without
the walls being met on either side. Ore
from this shaft has been systematically
sampled, the average assay showing ldwt. 9
1-6 ga-ains gold, 20oz. 3dwt. l|gr. silver,
9.6250 z. copper and 4.650 z. lead. Engineer
Thebon and R. J. Winters, the co.’s geolo-
gist, have given it as their opinion that the
show is a copper-mine with values slightly
over 10 per cent, in bulk. This, considering
the evident width and depth of the lode, is
regarded as most satisfactory. Directors con-
sider development has now proceeded far
enough to warrant investigation by mining
interests willing to invest capital for the
erection of the necessary works.
* * * *
At Wiluna’s meeting chairman F. H.
Hamilton estimated, according to figures
received from the manager, that down to a
depth of S2oft. in the co.’s southern leases
seven years’ supply of ore should be avail-
able on the basis of 500,000 tons
annually, and that the working profit
would be 10s. a ton. Production was ex-
pected to start in March, and a few months
after that the co. expected to treat 40,000
tons a month, producing a working profit of
£240,000 a year. After allowing for interest,
depreciation, overhead charges and repay-
ment of Government loan at the rate of
£50,000 per annum, this should result in a
surplus of about £120,000. After repayment
of the Government loan the surplus should
be £190,000 per annum, and on treating
50,000 tons per month it should increase by
a further £60,000 per annum. When the
recent issue of 10 per cent, notes had been
converted into ordinary shares a further
£30,000 would be added to the surplus by
the saving of interest. The value of the co.’s
northern leases was also stressed.
❖ sie H* *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is Australian .Trust, Trading and
Investments, Limited, recognised as a thor-
oughly sound and reliable co., in which an
investment is a pretty safe thing? (2) Is
it so sound and reliable that it is quite safe
for a man to do his banking with it? —
1035.
This co. issued a prospectus at Adelaide
on April 15, 1930. The stated objects were
(1) to carry on an investment trust busi-
ness, (2) to purchase a controlling interest
in Peeks, Ltd., and (3) to do credit order,
deposit bank and mortgage co. business. It
is said that the Peeks purchase “means that
satisfactory income is immediately assured
for that portion of the capital required.”
Peeks, which owns Lister House, “is a
thriving and prosperous business,” which
has not made a loss in any year in 15 years.
What its position is, what it owes on mort-
gage or otherwise, or what is to be paid for
the shares is not disclosed by the prospectus.
The document concerns itself chiefly with
describing how vei’y successful investment
trust cos. ought to be. Their prospects are,
however, governed almost entirely by the
knowledge and experience of the people wdio
run them. Our Adelaide office has been
unable to obtain copies of three balance-
sheets issued. “The secretary informed us,”
it reports, “that the next balance-sheet would
disclose a much improved position, that it
would be ready in two weeks’ time and
that it could be made available to us.” The
co. has been canvassing in North Queens-
land ; the questions submitted suggest the
nature of the business sought. In view of
the failure to get past balance-sheets, in
view also of the silence of the prospectus
about so many things, investors had better
wait till the next balance-sheet is available.
The co. is not listed on the Adelaide
Exchange.
(1) Has the rate of exchange at any time
during the past 12 months been pegged?
(2) Do the banks control the rate of ex-
change, if not, by whom is it controlled?
(3) If a certain quantity of wool at time
of shipment teas worth £lOO, but during
transit the rate of exchange rises 5 per
cent., would that amount of wool pay off
as much of our debt as before the alteration
in the rate of exchange? —l3l3.
(1) Strictly speaking, no. A rate was
“carded.” or agreed to, by the banks.
(2) By supply and demand. For the
last few weeks it has been controlled
by panic-stricken, people who have been
prepared to pay almost anything to
get their money out of this country. (3)
Presumably foreign debt is meant. Jones,
an English buyer, pays £1250 for wool in
Australia. That means he pays £lOCtO in
London (allowing for a 25 p.c. exchange
rate). The wool was worth £lOOO English
when he bought it; and a rise in the exchange
rate will not affect the worth of the wool —
except, of course, in Australia. Or if a man
sends wool for sale in London and the
exchange rises while it is on its way, the
rise will not affect what he gets for his
wool in London: it will only increase the
premium he can get on the transfer of the
money to Australia.
Australian banks’ reserve capital and
reserve funds run into millions. How are
they invested? Could they not be utilised
in making advances ? —1324.
Reserve capital is not in the hands of the
banks, and can be called up from the share-
holders only in the event of liquidation;
that is, it is for the final protection of
depositors and other creditors, and meantime
is to be left where the misfortunes of the
bank cannot touch it. Reserve funds are
made up of (1) undivided profits, and (2)
premiums on new share issues. Except in
very rare cases they are not invested separ-
ately but are used in the business, being
lent on overdraft, etc. At its last balance
the great Bank of N. S. Wales had £6,150,000
of reserve funds, besides £335,677 of un-
appropriated profits. Yet all the coin and
bullion it had, according to the last quar-
terly averages, was £261,806, along with
£2,683,941 of notes and cash at the Com-
monwealth Bank; this was all the unused
money it had among upwards of 550 branches.
And at that time it owed £35,299,116 on
deposit, over 11 millions of it at call.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.H.W.A.: Depends on what risks you are
prepared to take. If safety is important leave it
where it is for a while... .G.R.E.: The agreement is
with the North, South and Zinc Corp. only. They
have resumed work. . . .R.J.A.: Inflation might not
affect the value of land; but in Germany after the
inflation the Government imposed a 124 per cent,
mortgage. Still, even so, it seems one of the safest
forms of property apart from Government securities,
which we still believe to be the safest... .M. 5.0.:
Leave it alone H.J.G.: The Bulletin last year
suggested the possibility of such a currency,. but
details have not been woi’ked out. Sir Otto gave
it no encouragement.... Another Old Digger: Yes,
that’s all right. But tell us how the banks are
to get money to lend at 4-1 per cent, when the
Governments are paying 6 per cent, for loans.
They obviously can only lend what they can borrow.
. ...A.T.L.: Can’t see how the prize can compensate
for the risk... .W.W.W.: But that channel is blocked.
ẅ


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
One Industry that Isn’t Suffering
Dear Bulletin, —There are two alterna-
tives, and two only, if Australia is to pull
through. The one is a sudden rise in prices
for primary products; the other is a very
substantial cut in interest charges. The
former alternative seems beyond all hope;
there remains only the latter. Certainly
a curb must be placed on Government extra-
vagance, and wages must be reduced, but
nothing that could be done would benefit the
indispensable cocky like a reduction of
interest charges. It would mean all the
difference between inevitable ruin and a con-
tinuance of the struggle to thousands of soil
tenders. And who is to replace these great
Australian battlers if they are to go to the
wall?
It might be maintained that the rate of
interest cannot be drastically reduced with-
out disaster; but why? Certainly the banks
cannot be called upon to reduce interest until
the returns received by bondholders and
moneylenders generally are reduced propor-
tionately. “But this is repudiation!” some-
one will howl aghast. Quite so ; it is repudia-
tion ; but to repudiate a hideous injustice is
something for which no one need apologise.
And it is a hideous injustice that the money-
lender should receive a higher actual return
than ever before while active participants in
the burden of industry near starvation.
Moreover, looking at the matter from the
moneylender’s viewpoint, is it not better for
him to sacrifice a portion of his interest than
to put his security in grave danger by in-
sisting on his legal pound of flesh? Not only
is the sheltered status of the moneylender
a fundamental hindrance to our economic
rehabilitation, but there are psychological
repercussions involving our social system in
danger. The definite growth of Communism
in Australia during the last year was largely
due to this very spectacle of the money-
lender’s security. Even to the most moderate
man this spectacle invites dangerous ques-
tions concerning the justice of our social
•system.—Yours sincerely, T. Jasper.
Voluntary Reduction of Interest
Dear Bulletin, —Here’s my proposition.
A large part of our national liability is due
to Australian citizens; folk who, however
thrifty and hard-faring they may have been,
have at least done so well in this country
that they have been able to lay something
aside for a rainy day. Couldn’t they consent
to a suspension or reduction of interest pay-
ments until the clouds roll by? It would
be a great help in balancing our budgets and
would have much influence, too, on our
credit abroad. I’d even be in favor of making
fat old birds who have always sat back
safely and invested their money in gilt-
edged securities yield something compulsorily,
if they wouldn’t do it voluntarily. Maori-
land did that in 1916, with very pronounced
success.—Yours etc., Belgian-Born.
The Burden of Interest
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. Tranter (Associ-
ated Banks chairman) urges wage reduction
at once, and says interest will follow “in due
course.” In the same issue half a dozen
Australian professors of economics put up
both wage reduction and interest reduction
as two essentials to recovery. That eminent
accountant Geo. Mason Allard says interest
reduction must be frankly faced.
Now, what would be the effect of reducing
interest by, say, 15 per cent, of whatever
present rates may be, effective immediately
and simultaneously with a, say, 15 per cent,
wage reduction? Labor may agree the more
readily to a sacrifice if Capital shows its
immediate willingness to co-operate.
I think I see all the advantages to the
community arising out of a lower scale of
interest. The joint reductions would prob-
ably affect purchasing power very little. An
impetus would be given to industry. The
effect overseas would be tremendous, improv-
ing Australia’s credit status and opening the
way to readjustment of the overseas portion
of our national debt. On the domestic por-
tion, Governments would pay about
£4.500,000 less per annum.
Banks would pay less interest and receive
less; but as advances exceed fixed deposits
they would seem to become embarrassed.
Would this be actually so? How would new
mortgages be affected?
I feel that there are difficulties in the
way of an arbitrary reduction of interest;
but certainly the subject ought to be dis-
cussed. —Yours, R. Crosser.
Interest and the Farmer
Dear Bulletin, —Is there any fundamen-
tal obstacle in the way of reducing interest
rates? That is a question which thousands
of us want answered. I have studied the
views of financial experts and find many
advocating reduction and many the other
way.
Putting aside theories and generalisations
—which is about as far as we have reached —
let us get to that rock bottom we hear about
and never see. We men on the land are
alleged to be the backbone of Australia and
the producers of new wealth. Grant that
we are, what’s going to happen when we
crash? Will not everybody else be mixed up
in the debris? Crash we must if prices of
wool, wheat, meat, etc., do not quickly appre-
ciate. and there’s nothing to indicate they
will; or we can battle on somehow if pro-
duction costs (including interest) come down
pari passu wdtli world’s parity values.
Admittedly wages—or, rather, what we are
getting for them —are high; but why single
out Bill Bowyangs or even Percy T. Pay-
ment to make a “sacrifice” of wages or
salary and at the same time overlook a re-
quest to, say, the A.M.P. to voluntarily
accept a lesser rate of interest on Govern-
ment bonds, or Moses Isaacstein (money-
lender) to “sacrifice” some of his interest?
Why look forward to a reduction of freights
and fares from a railway service saddled
with an annual interest bill of £15.000,000
or thereabouts? Why build up false hopes of
any appreciable lessening of taxation when
.Tacky Government has to try to find nearly
£60,000.000 every year to pay interest alone?
I fail to see how any of these things can
be done until the problem of interest rates
is seriously tackled, y.alues of pastoral and
agricultural lands are shrinking as a result
of low prices and high interest rates; in
many hundreds of instances the interest
cannot be paid and becomes a further charge
on the land; the time must come, and
quickly too, when the financial companies,
banks and private investors will have mighty
poor security for their mortgages and ad-
vances, and any attempt to realise would
precipitate a financial smash ; it might take
a generation to clean up the wreckage.
My contention is that a lowering of
interest rates would bring about a corres-
ponding increase in land values, making for
sounder security and giving the poor devil
of an occupier a chance of retrieving his
position; it would increase production by
lowering taxation and transport charges;
perhaps wages, too, and the costs of the im-
plements of production. As matters now
stand there must be diminished production
(I’m one of thousands at the end of their
tether), with nothing but national bank-
ruptcy staring us in the face. I fail to
understand why a reduction of interest
should be described as repudiation any more
than a man who has to “arrange” with his
creditors, or a company forced to reduce its
capital, can be accused of the evil deed. It’s
up to us to face facts, however disagreeable
they may be, to think out a process of “de-
bunking” to remove the amount of “bunk”
that has grown up around finance. Will you
give us a lead? —Yours, Valerin.
Inflation as a False Promise.
Dear Bulletin, — Most of the talk about
inflation is irrelevant as applied to the
Parkes by-election. The Scullin Govern-
ment can’t inflate without doing things to
the Commonwealth Bank that the present
Senate would never allow; and capitalistic
Left Wingers, such as Mr. Theodore, would
be panic-stricken if they believed anything
like inflation was coming while their money
was in the country. But it is a pretty good
gag for vote-getting purposes: Parkes and
many other N. S. Wales seats were won
from the Nationalists at last Federal elec-
tions by promises similar to those which are
being made now by Messrs. Theodore, Beas-
ley, Eldridge, etc., in connection with “re-
leased credits.” Unemployment was to be
ended then by wiping out the Arbitration
Court; it is to be ended now by wiping out
the currency, so to speak.
If Mr. Martin is returned he will explain
to his constituents that lie would have rc-
The Golden Eagle Nugget, 1135oz. 15dwt, ( 1123oz. fine), found at Larkinville (W.A.),
in old ground, by James J. Laroombe. For its gold contents it is worth nearly
£5000, and more for exhibition purposes. It is 26in. long, 11¾sin, wide and up
to 3in. thick.
leased credits and made the workers rich
if a bowelless legal system hadn’t stood in
his way, just as Mr. Theodore said, after
his win last year, that he would have opened
the northern mines in 14 days if the law had
let him.
The Nationalist would probably do better
in Parkes, which is much less disposed to
be duped than it was 15 months. ago, if he
denounced his opponent’s promises of infla-
tion, not as a menace, but as three parts hum-
bug. And in the present circumstances he
could say so without prejudice to the claim
that inflation, whatever name it travels
under, will be ruinous if it ever does come.
—Yours etc., Lex.
English War-time Currency Notes
Dear Bulletin,-— “J. B. Garfunkle” (B.
14/1/’3l) is quite wrong. Britain did finance
her internal needs during the war with the
aid of currency notes. British Treasury
notes were not issued against securities ( i.e .,
if the term “securities” has its ordinary mean-
ing) . It is not correct to say that “every
British Treasury £1 note had a backing of
205.” The report of the Committee on Cur-
rency and Foreign Exchange appointed by
the British. Government after the war (of
which Lord Cunliife, then Governor of the
Bank of England, was chairman) shows that
the only backing that the British Treasury
£1 note had was an entry in the ledger of
the Bank of England. As the committee
pointed out in its first interim report: “The
unlimited issue of currency notes in exchange
for credits at the Bank of England is at once
a consequence and an essential condition of
the methods which the Government have
found necessary to adopt in order to meet
their war expenditure.” That report also
shows that “the Treasury undertook to issue
such notes through the Bank of England
to bankers as and when required, up to
a maximum limit not exceeding for any
bank 20 per cent, of its liabilities on cur-
rent and deposit accounts.” The report also
says: “Contractors are obliged to draw
cheques against their accounts in order to
discharge their wages bill It is to pro-
vide this currency that the continually grow-
ing issues of currency notes have been made.”
Yours, 11. C. Briekley, F.F.1.A., F.I.C.A.
The Cost of Distribution
Dear B., —There have been too many in-
stances of old-established lines disappearing
from the market altogether simply because
price-cutting made it impossible for the
manufacturer to sell to his distributors.
The principal cause of this price-cutting
is the abnormally high trade discount usu-
ally given to retailers. The retail selling
price of the goods is loaded to allow of a
discount of anything up to 50 per cent, on
many lines, and in some cases more than
60 per cent. These are no wild statements,
but come within my own experience as a
retail storekeeper. Naturally, having such
a margin to play with, the retailer is tempted
to cut the selling price to gain more busi-
ness. He can well afford to do it, —provided
nobody else follows suit. Unfortunately some-
body invariably does, and as often as not the
mad business goes on, with every retailer
trying to undersell his competitors, until
there is no profit left.
Australian mahufacturers and importers
except in the case of some old and conser-
vative houses make the mistake of (1)
fixing high prices and giving huge discounts
to induce retailers to take up their lines,
and (2) marketing their lines through too
many wholesale distributors. In some cases
there are five distributors in Sydney for a
line which could be better handled by two.
The danger is that the wholesale distribu-
tors. all fighting for the retailers’ business
in the same line, offer bigger discounts as the
inducement for an order. There are usually
signed agreements between the distributors
to prevent this sort of thing, but everyone
knows that if the honesty of the general busi-
ness community were to be judged by the
way in which those agreements are honored
it would be found sadly wanting.
A very great deal has been said and writ-
ten of late about the cost of production. It
would be a change and probably more help-
ful to attend a little to the cost of distribu-
tion. The cost in Australia of getting the
manufactured or imported article to the con-
sumer is nothing short of scandalous: I
could give actual instances of well-known
articles in my own line of business which
cost ss. 6d. to laud and which retail at
275. 6d., and that 275. 6d. is a legally fixed
price. To add anything' from 300 to
500 per cent, to landed cost is common
practice. The case referred to above is
particularly scandalous, for the article is of
foreign manufacture, made by cheap child
and female labor.
Meanwhile we retailers continue to moan
about bad business, and finally file our
schedules because we cannot escape from
the vicious circle which tries to make the
consumer pay 20s. for an article which could
be profitably sold for 10s. —Yours, Knigtit.
False Political Prospectuses
Dear Bulletin, —Any escape from our
troubles looks doubtful until we can suffici-
ently educate the elector or put a curb on
election promises. The first seems impossible,
so let us explore the possibilities of the
second.
Modern company legislation has restrained
the promoter who promises 50 per cent, divi-
dends to the widow and orphan. Is it not
possible for similar laws to be applied to the
issue of party policies involving the expendi-
ture of money?
It could be decreed for a start that all
proposals for new legislation include the esti-
mated. cost to the State, together with par-
ticulars of how such cost is to be raised or
saved, and that these estimates be certified
to by some qualified expert'; that where loan
moneys are to be raised the proposed method
of collecting interest and sinking fund be
shown; also, that every party be compelled to
publish and exhibit detailed financial state-
ments of the fruits of its previous terms
of office, together with a list of all previous
election promises, their result, and net cost
to the country:-—Yours, R. G. G.
Currency and a Gold Backing
Dear Bulletin,^ — I write as a manufac-
turer. In normal times my co. employs an
average staff of 50 hands. To-day the staff
comprises one lucky man and a boy. I have
positive proof that our goods are in demand.
Definite orders have been made out in our
name for some weeks. But the directors
of the buying firms will not sign. “No
funds available.”
But that is only half our troubles. Fixed
overheads keep mounting up; book debts are
getting harder, some 'impossible, to collect.
We are rapidly approaching a position where
if we do get some decent orders we will not
be in a position to finance the wages and
material, and this despite the fact that our
creditors are covered by book assets of more
than five to one.
If the facts could be gleaned, the number
of firms similarly situated would be stagger-
ing to those who have not the responsibility
of trying to keep the ship of business afloat.
I see no danger in the issue of some form
of emergency currency to supplement the
present gold-backed note issue. I suggest that
the Loan Council is the body to control it.
So long as we live within our incomes—
in other words, so long as we buy only
what we can make ourselves and leave our
exports to meet our commitments overseas —
there is no real need for gold backing to
internal currency. Our gold can be put to
better use, could even be placed on deposit
in the Bank of England. It would at least
earn half a million or so interest, and be
just as much use to us as it is now; perhaps
more so, as it would help inspire the neces-
sary confidence overseas to permit the
renewal of our maturing debts. —Yours truly,
J. H. W.
Australia Will Be Theirs.
Dear Bulletin, —Is it really fair to blame
the Communist for everything which is being-
done in the present-day campaign to wreck
Australia financially, morally and otherwise?
Cutthroatski and Co. are, of course, doing
their very best, and there is no doubt as to
the earnestness of their purpose; but their
trouble is that they are too one-eyed in their
anxiety to see the torturings and shootings
begin. A far greater risk comes from a
much brainier type of criminal, without
whose clever and purposeful activities Cut-
throatski’s good work would never extend
beyond the hearing radius of his oratorical
butter-box.
For months past every hopeful evidence of
returning sanity has been followed by a murk
of oversea publicity voicing failure and lack
of serious intention. Australian securities
in London and New York have been relent-
lessly and steadily pushed down under an
unremitting flood of talk of inflation and
repudiation. Any indication of recovery is
countered by a fresh set of ominous hints
from Australia designed to scare off the
investor. The fallen value of the Aus-
tralian pound is kept clearly and steadily in
the public eye abroad. Mr. Scullin’s brave
words in England do not appear in the least
likely to be followed by brave deeds in Aus-
tralia. The Federal Government is as far off
as ever from keeping faith over the Confer-
ence resolutions. And Mr. Lang is brutally
cynical in word and action, caring nothing
for his promises to the crowd which put him
in, and openly stating his vindictive inten-
tions towards those who opposed him.
To anyone who has seen the process of
nation-wrecking in action elsewhere, it all
suggests that what may be politely termed
the international financier type of brain is
very much at work on Australia’s affairs
to-day. It is far too clever to reveal itself
by any public appearance or action. It lias
no special desire for bloodshed or revolu-
tion, save as a means to an end, but to
gain that end it will stick at nothing. It
is strong, clear of vision, unhampered by
love of country, fear, pity, or mercy, far-
sighted, infinitely tenacious. It is a type,
not an individual, and the war gave it vast
experience in nation-looting for its own
advantage. Defenceless, casual, immensely
rich, politician-ridden Australia lies ready
to its hand. All. that is necessary is to
depreciate currency sufficiently to cripple
industries until resulting unemployment cul-
minates in widespread civil disturbances and
bloodshed, to close the world’s markets for
a while and let us stew in our own juice until
we howl for help. Then the international
gang will clean up the profits, and Australia
Will Be Theirs. If Cutthroatski and the
other local agents through which the job
has been done won't be satisfied with their
pay, they can easily enough be shot during
a temporary return of the civil disturbances.
—Yours etc.. Michael Monsoon.
Birth Control
Dear Bulletin,- —There is no- denying that
the greed of man is the cause of all the
misery on this earth, and as an example of
that greed the mere suggestion of birth
control is the most outrageous.
Marriage is a man-made law. Woman
had no sa-y in its making. Woman is the
only female on this earth that is not the
master of the male. At one period she was.
What caused the alteration?
Nature cannot be improved upon or altered.
If altered it must return to the original
state when freed from the master hand.
The 300-egg hen is a good illustration. In
her natural state she will lay a small number
of eggs once or perhaps twice a year, hatch
out her brood and rear her little family.
Science (the greed of man) has altered her
to the most wondrous machine on this earth,
capable in 12 months of producing five
or six times her own weight of food from her
own body, increasing in weight herself and
yet incapable of becoming a mother. Free
her from man’s rule and she will gradually
return to the command of Nature and become
a respectable mother.
So it would be with woman. If animals in
the past had followed the law of birth control
as advocated by sensual man, is it possible
to imagine that the respective species would
to-day be in a healthy position and show no
sign of deterioration? Nature commands the
male of every species to perform his duty
when occasion offers. With man the duty
has been abortioned until it has become a
vice; and it must be the duty of woman to
eliminate the vice—to cause man to return
to the correct command of Nature —in order
to give justice to future generations. The
sterilisation of defectives is overdue and
is the only cure. —Yours, A. W. Hayes.
“The Rush of the Rats”
Dear Bulletin,—-You state only one side
of the question in “The Rush of the Rats.’
Family considerations are apt to cloud
national ones, and if a man feels that the
only chance of preserving enough money for
his dependants and himself is to get it safely
out of the grasp of our legislative robbers,
then he wall try any means to do so. The
gibe of the rats leaving the sinking ship is
an old one, and, like many aphorisms, will
not bear analysis. Surely it shows wisdom
on the part of any rat to leave a sinking
.ship; anyhow, superior man generally fol-
lows him as promptly as possible; he also
saves what lie can of liis belongings.
Until signs of sanity return to our poli-
tical rulers, and until confidence in them is
restored, and until taxpayers organise and
have some control over the distribution of
taxes, insisting on Governmental economy
and abolition of privileges for civil servants,
unionists and political hangers-on, then I,
a struggling professional man, will send the
little capital I have to a place where it.
will be safe; and even at a cost of 25 per
cent, it still looks worth while. —Yours,
M. P. S.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) “Lilac Time”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “On the Spot”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “Sons o’ Guns”
Comedy “The First Mrs. Fraser”
Tivoli “The Film Girl”
State Movies and Talkies
“Topsy Turvy,” the new revue presented
by Ernest C. Rolls at Sydney St. James on
Saturday, is interesting for sundry reasons.
One that even a dramatic critic might stretch
a point and consider in these times—though
actually it is not his pigeon at all—is that
the show is finding jobs for the best part of
half a thousand mummers, doorkeepers and
what not. On its forerunner, “Puss in Boots,”
Mr. Rolls claims to have paid out more than
f5OOO in four weeks.
The fact that Mr. Rolls is like that is
another of “Topsy Turvy’s” revelations. As
present writer has remarked more than
twice, Mr. Rolls has something like an
obsession for giving the public not what it
wants but •at least four times as much as
it wants. When he ran in double harness
with Marlowe at the Empire he once staged
a show, with Heaven knows how many
Grand Spectacles in it, that was still going
strong when The Bulletin grabbed its
hat at midnight after watching about four
hours of hectic display. The present revue
NOEL BOYD, helping Ethel Morrison, who has been
a brilliant success in “The First Mrs. Fraser” at
Melbourne Comedy.
isn’t quite as crowded as that, but it has its
moments. It runs to two Parts, with a total
off 30 episodes, and into at least one of them
there is packed almost everything in the way
of variety from ragtime to opera, and. from
lavishly-dressed persons to the barest, beau-
ties seen in these parts since the last gi’oup
of Art Society prize-winning nudes. -
The show as a whole runs the same gamut.
It owns a brace of rattling good singers in
John Priora and May Craven—especially
May, a deliciously slender and young and
good-looking lady, who does things with her
voice which suggest that the mountainous
proportions of the average ladies of voice
may result almost as much from a passion
for buttered scones as from necessity. The
spectacle of these two —both apparently
trained to the Italian opera tradition —
trying to waggle their hips what time they
jazz up Rigoletto is a choice commentary on
what good singers may have to come at in
times of depression, and also a spectacle not
to be lightly missed.
The capitals in the bill are reserved for
Jennie Benson and Stan Foley. Miss Benson
was a topping boy in “Puss in Boots,” and
perhaps this Showman might have remem-
bered her more gratefully from the present
piece if she had refrained from dropping into
a caf6 in Montmarte, adorned in a wig the
color of boiled carrots and wearing a sack-
like dress the color of a boiled Fascist, to
sing a song with the refrain “But don’t
tell him what happened to me,” of which
nothing more severe will be said here than
that it is the worst spasm of melan-
choly sentimentality since A 1 Jolson made
the world a more wretched place to live in.
Slush is not Miss Benson’s long suit. She
is a character actress of considerable merit,
and at least she made some amends in a
number of such roles. As a singer of senti-
mental ditties she is a washerwoman, but
as a washerwoman she is quite O.K.
Ditto can be written of the other headliner,
Stan Foley, except that (thank Heaven!) he
doesn’t come at sobbery. He is a young
fellow, said to have been picked up in West
Queensland, and his appearance doesn’t belie
the publicity. Present writer has met him
hundreds of times in the bush. He is one
of those funny coves who yet have something
plaintive about them, and who, in that mix-
ture, go to prove that those who dismiss
Steele Rudd as a mere adventurer in buf-
foonery don’t know their country as well as
they might. Foley gives the impression of
being a quite artless comedian, but his char-
acter acting proves him to be a very artful
young man who might be capable of reaching
some high spots in his job. He has the
handy gift of wearing women’s clothes as
if they belong, and his dial isn’t so hard
that he can’t make the masquerade convinc-
ing,.
Another good comedy man, though he
gets little to do, is Leonard Stephens.
Mabel Gibson is a bright and grace-
ful addition, and other good ones in a
show that seems to have scores in it are
Arthur Clarke, a hefty and personable young
man, Bertie Wright and Reg Hawthorne.
Hector St. Clair was largely mentioned in
the programme, but for some reason or other
failed to appear. It may have been in his
absence that Mr. Rolls himself personally
conducted the orchestra in some highly-
colored numbers given from decorated pews
on the stage. At least Mr. Rolls was as good
in that job as Hector would have been,
though in his conducting Mr. Rolls gives the
impression that he knows all the bits to do
but is not quite so sure when to do them.
The revue, of course, has its bevies of those
answers to a baldhead’s prayer, chorus girls.
They seem to be numbered by the dozen, and
wear so little and look so well in it that if
they are so clad on the score of economy the
depression is not without its good points.
When the offering was inspected on
Saturday afternoon it was a highly
jumbled performance, due, allegedly, to the
sudden withdrawal of the aforesaid Hector,
but it looked as if it could easily shake down
to being a good anaesthetic for putting the
kibosh on a couple of surplus hours.
* * X
Another breezy entertainment of the same
brand- let loose on Saturday was “Hot and
Strong,” at the Opera House. The title
for “Topsy Turvy” had some warrant in a
setting of Sydney upside down, with Lang,
Bavin and the rest of them doing their best
to keep it so ; but Nat Phillips, probably drew
his title out of a hat. Which, of course,
doesn’t matter a hang in revue. Nat’s show,
on the other hand, didn’t
suffer from any Hectorish
upset, It never does. He has
been holding the Opera House
front for months now, and,
though he mostly changes his
bill weekly, the public has yet
to see him put on a dress
rehearsal in lieu of a perfor-
mance. When his show comes
on, lightweight stuff and all
as it is, it runs without a
hitch. He is a better artist,
too, than was ever apparent
when he was in partnership
with the divine (or should one
say the Tilly Devine?) Mo.
Nat’s forte is what is known
in the Irish Free State as
“codology.” He can get hold
of an audience and kid to it
with nice judgment. He can
even tell it when to applaud
him, and it will do it to a
woman.
The Opera bill is not so
lavish as the other spread, but
it’s more compact, and in
many places just as tasty.
The people who dish it up
must be a pretty happy fam-
ily ; they stay the same from
month to month. Joe Law-
man is the only addition. The
others Keith Connelly,
Heather Jones, Angela Par-
selles, Dan Weldon and the
rest of them—seem to be as
fixed as Nat is himself. Satur-
day’s change will be to “Ace
High,” which will no doubt
be as much like its predeces-
sors as should be expected in
a respectable family.
Melbourne’s only new offering of the week,
“The Film Girl,” at the Tiv., was in the
same vein as the above. It is musicomedy,
and, apart from a crude bit of rough stuff
enacted in a hammock, is a bright and airy
show, capitally staged and dressed. Minnie
Love and Athol Tier got a reception for an
eccentric dance that held up the show until
the footwork was repeated. Gaston Mer-
vale, Fred Bluett (in the straight r6le of
a raisin king, adorned with top-hat and
spats), Colin Crane, Byrl Walkley and
Norali O’Malley all give performances that
don’t do the show any serious damage.
* * *
Those interested have till Friday night to
inspect some of the best acting Sydney has
had on offer for a long time; in fact, this
Showman will risk the anger of the old hands
by suggesting that the Criterion has never
had better acting than the best by Bradley
during the just-ending season of comedy.
The co. is a pretty polished one throughout,
but Bradley is easily its star; and though
he is not billed as a star, he is a whole celes-
tial paddockful of planets to the average
actor who gets that honor. The piece the
co. is now appearing in is not the best it has
had on offer,‘but is bright enough, and the
handling does wonders with it. The little co.
moves on to Melbourne.
Its place will be taken on Saturday by
Frank Harvey in the Edgar Wallace piece—
reputed to be one of Edgar’s 39 best —’“On
the Spot,” a tale of Ker-ime. Same day the
Firm drags “Lilac Time” out of the bottom
drawer, shakes the dust off it and gives it
a run at Her Majesty’s. It should come
to playgoers as a comparatively fresh offer-
ing. It was not produced in Sydney last
year.
* * *
The latest to join the slender ranks of
concert platform invaders for this year is
Clara Butt. She will arrive in March and
with Ivennerley Rumford will give two con-
certs in Brisbane, three in Sydney, ditto
Melbourne and two in Adelaide. They are
at present on the Asiatic run.
FAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Who was George Rignold, whose name appears
so frequently in Bulletin Poverty Point pars?
—l3l.” — Query to the Service Page.
Who was George Rignold? Who, you ask
me, who?
Odsbodikins ! Geewliillikins ! Great Scott!
But yesterday he gave the Stage its cue.
Can there be one to-day who knew him
not?
How oft, the yelling super horde to stem,
Has he declaimed in clamant, vibrant
tones:
“The evil that men do lives after them,
The good is oft interred with their bones.”
Nor good nor evil is remembered now:
“Clancarty” “Joseph” Mephistophe-
les” —
“King Henry,” with the spotlight on his
brow—•
, “Paolo Macari” —“Antony”—“De Guise.”
A hundred heroes centred in one man,
Our limelit, Handsome George, the drama’s
king,
Who made each cheering god the partisan
Of that fine art which makes the play the
thing.
And now this shallow query, who was he?
A gallant man, on that all are agreed.
But let him be; he heeds not you nor me;
Othello’s occupation’s gone indeed.
VICTORIA.
NORMAN CAMPRELL.
Poverty Point
w
who alone were imagined as
patronising 1, Soccer football;
2, motor-bicycles; 3, the
cinema. Almost recent is the
picture of one such abusing a
superior person who had
laughed at a film thriller: “If
yer can’t appreciate a good
picksher yerself, let them as is
does!” “Punch” has at last
decided to take seriously the
art of the screen (as distinct
from its gossip), and has put
on no less a person than E.
Y. Lucas, as critic. But to
this day one can. contrast the
stranglehold that the talking
picture has on the cheaper
papers with its comparative
absence from “Tatler,”
“Sketch” and. the others that
appeal mainly to the rich.
“ Jesmond” : The movie com-
panies are already making
provision, at the expense of
the exhibitor, for any extra
duties, etc., which may be im-
posed on films or supplies, and
at the same time they are tak-
ing an extra turn in the
stranglehold on him. Re-
cently I signed a contract,
and to-day I received a re-
quest to sign three new clauses
which they want inserted in
the agreement. By these I
have to stand any increase in
duty, etc. (unless the Legis-
lature lays it down that I
must not do so), I have not
to charge less than a fixed
minimum for admission, and
I have to give them power
to terminate the agreement at
30 days’ notice, and this with-
out prejudicing their right to recover
any moneys due or to sue for any
breach. It means that if they find they
cannot balance the ledger they cut the. loss
and cancel my agreement, but if I cannot
balance I must carry on or suffer for breach
of contract. If I rebel I get no films and
must close down!
“O. Kay”: Hollywood lately wanted a
Scotland Yard detective. A London mummer
was rejected on the ground that he didn’t
have a Scotch accent.
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : After three months
the midget-golf craze looks like crashing in
London. Courses which were installed at
underground railway entrances have closed
down, and in one Piccadilly course attend-
ances have dropped from 3000 to a few hun-
dreds daily—mostly Americans. While it
lasted promoters made a fortune. Paris
never took kindly to the absurdity. I played
a game there last week, but the only French
people I saw were the chic lady caddies and
those who gazed open-mouthed at Americans
propelling balls through drain-pipes and
motor tyres.
“Cine Ma”: Legitimate actors do not
trouble to hide their opinion that cinema
actors are below the salt even if they get
more caviare without it; nevertheless acting
for the screen is in a very essential point a
far less degrading occupation than acting for
the stage. After a cinema actor has done
his final performance once, he is finished
with it. The machine then takes on the dirty
work of providing encores for ever and ever,
Sikh, Patlian, Chinaman and Hottentot
audiences everlasting. The stage actor has
to do his own dirty work —and very dirty, or
at any rate intolerably boring, it must be.
If he fetches the public with a particular
interpretation, he has to repeat it for the
term of his natural life, if necessary, and
it is usually for his histrionic vices rather
than his virtues that he does fetch the
public. Leon Gordon used to boast that he
had played Witzel over 1000 times.
“Elderly Infant”; There isn’t a man or
woman of my age who is able to go to the
piano for consolation at the end of a day
who doesn’t hold the memory of Teresa Car-
reno as something like a magic dream. I’ve
heard her play on a badly-tuned upright in
a small town and on a concert-grand in a
big city. I’ve heard all the rest of them
that came to Australasia —’Paderewski,
Leonard BorWick (most lovable of players),
•Backhaus, Moisiewitch, Levitsky, Percy
Grainger, and I’ve had a chat to most of
them. I’ve even heard John Philip Sousa
working out anew march with one finger on
an average pub piano. But to get back to
Carreno —-she passed over in 1917 —I had
the privilege of a talk with her during her
Maoriland tour. Not only that, but she
played for me Schumann’s “Traumerei” and
that sad, mad little dance of Schubert’s that
is catalogued among the “Moments Musical.”
She had arms Sandow might have envied,
out she never merely hit the notes. Her
own idea of it was to press them and squeeze
them, but she could make them roar like
young lions if she wanted to. And when
she sat up to play the “Waldstein” or the
“Appassionata” her hearers got not only a
notion of how nearly the heavens can be
approached but an impression that Beethoven
is easy to play. Also they carried
away a vision of a superlatively great lady.
Her memory was infallible, and on her
tours she packed no music. She took liber-
ties with the scores occasionally. She got
as near a grin and a chuckle as she could
compass when she told her friends that after
she had played a Grieg concerto in Berlin
a little white-haired man came up and shyly
shook her hand. He said “I think putting
that last movement into octaves was a great
improvement.” “I think so, too,” said
Madam in her most imperious manner; “do
you know the composition?” “Yes,” said
the little man. “I’m Grieg.”
“Bill O’C.”: The Hollywooden idea of
pew-er English appears to be to stretch one
syllable into two and two into three. The
tutors appee-yell to their pupils: “Don’t
say ‘talik,’ say ‘taw-uk’ ” ; and taw-uk they
painfully do. Oddly enough it goes in step
with the Yank tendency to slide three syl-
lables into two and two into one when
tongue and palate encounter certain peculia;
obstacles, so we get “Amurka,” “surp”
(syrup), “murr” (mirror), “lil” (little),
“prahbly,” “turr” (terror), etc. Hence
there are results like this: “Come right
into my bood-waw-er,” says one lady to
another; “have a lil cahk-tay-ull and taw-uk
to me while I do my hay-er at the murr ”
SADIE GALE, principal boy of “The House That Jack
Built,” which has had, a good run at Melbourne Royal.
I noticed the same peculiarity when, in
Bootleggerland recently, friendly people
spoke careful and refined English for my
benefit. Also in confirmation I find this
couplet by a well-known verse-writer in the
rather particular American “Life”: —
No ribboned sire (si-er) this pup fathered;
A fact that leaves him quite unbothered.
The rhyme is also a 100 per cent, guarantee
of literary origin.
“Say Bo” : There is no mystery about how
pictures like “Africa Speaks” are made. The
usual method is to erect a substantial block-
house near a waterhole frequented by beasts
of prey. The building is left untenanted
for months until the animals get so used to
it that they play about and over it as if it
were a pile of rocks. It is then an easy matter
to obtain the requisite shots of lions and
lionesses gambolling about, especially if . a
telephoto lens is used. Subsequently pic-
tures of the valiant camera men sitting in
the open apparently within a few feet of the
savage beasts are made, and the continuity
expert does the rest.
“Craiser”: The appalling inanity _of
most of the Yankee shorts has moved British
producers to see what they can do. Fred
Karno’s engaging sketches of the ’alls are
shortly to be filmed by the Gainsborough
crowd. It was in one of Karno’s skits that
Chaplin made his first fleslianblood debut.
“L. de R.”: “Africa Speaks” is a fine
travelogue, but the pretence of the producers
that it was made for scientific purposes is
humorous. The same sort of bunk is pro-
pagated "by such American institutions as
the “National Geographic” magazine. I
should hesitate to trust such statements of
the monologist of “Africa Speaks” as that
the expedition was the first to cross Equa-
torial Africa from west to east. But they go
down with the average movie fan, whose
powers of observation and deduction are so
acute that five out of six people I interro-
gated hadn’t noticed that Iloefler could not
have photographed a full half of the film
because he is actually depicted sitting in it
at his instrument.
“C. Ma”: There have been scores of
rumors about a wider and broader screen,
the new development being prognosticated
as another “revolution” in the “art” of the
cinema. The latest device is the “Realife,” of
which Sam Burger, of Loew’s, has brought
details to Australia. “Realife” film is pro-
duced merely by slipping a small steel mat
in the light box of the ordinary projector,
yet it enables the picture to be increased
to the size of a house. Moreover, it gives
stereoscopic effect. Add color and you get
“real life” all complete. The good people
who chatter about these wonderful new
machines know as much about the true
nature of realism in art as a camel knows
about surgery. Movement did not add one
jot of reality to the old still photograph;
vocalisation did not make the motion pic-
ture any more real; color brings it no closer
to life, and a screen as wide as the Sahara
and as deep as a well v T ill not necessarily
improve matters one whit. As proof of
that, Charlie Chaplin’s silent movies were
considerably more “real” than the best of
the talkies that have been produced to date,
and a self-portrait by Rembrandt is infinitely
more alive than the most vigorous of Charlie’s
caperings on the screen. What the moving-
picture industry needs is not more machinery
but more art.


NO TIME FOR MUSIC.
"Mr. Lang again suspended the work of the N.S.W. Parliament yesterday to make an attack upon Mr. Bavin. On this occasion he proposed a vote of censure on
the Leader of the Opposition for remarks he was alleged to have made during the election campaign concerning Mr. Lang and the Savings Bank.”
LABOR VOTER (down below): “I like the Emperor’s tune all right, but I wish he’d stop it for a bit and do something about the fire.”


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
II
m
fffii
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals ..
Double Room and Meals ..
Single Room and Breakfast
Double Room and Breakfast
Day. Week.
25/- 168/-
45/- 300/-
15/- 100/-
27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
11
to
9>
m
y’r.'>
B
T
The Super “Fx & R” Watch
In all our experience of 85 years we know
of no better watch value than that repre-
sented in the Super Fx & R. It is specially
designed to stand up to Australian con-
ditions, and to maintain its accuracy and
reliability under all reasonable circum-
stances.
In spite of its solid construction, it is
a most attractive timepiece suitable
for use in town or country.
Sponsored by Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
and guaranteed by them for I 0 years, and
kept in order free of charge, breakages
excepted, for 12 months.
Gent.’s Open Face Oxidised
Steel Super Fx & R Watch,
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 Hunter Street.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 1076=
Send jor Illustrated isooklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: Jacky came up to the home-
stead one morning rvearing on one foot a
white cricketing boot and on the other a
HIS KINDNESS WOULDN’T BE FORGOTTEN.
THE SHEPHERD: “I fear, my friend, that you are taking the
wrong road. Let me put you on the right one.”
THE TANKED PRRSON (heading for the pub): “Thanksh awfully,
old (hic) man; and when we get there I’ll pay for the
drinksh.”
tan leather shoe. The boss eyed the foot-
wear with amusement. “They’re odd boots
you’re wearing. Jaeky,” he remarked. “Not
odd, boss,” said Jacky, looking at his feet.
“Same’s any other boots.” “I mean they're
not mates, Jacky,” explained the boss. “Too
right, they’re mates,” replied Jacky. “Where
one goes other pfeller he goes too.”
“Wandi”: A peculiarity of
some of the little geckos is that
they drop their tails when
attacked or frightened. One
flick, and the brittle appendage
is off, and it wriggles and twists
about in the liveliest manner for
some time, thus holding the
enemy’s attention while the late
owner escapes. A new tail
grows very quickly, but some-
times in a distorted shape, and
occasionally two and even
three tails sprout from the old
stump. Many of the lizards
have lumps on their tails, as if
the trailers had been tied in
knots. Geckos are found under
bark and among rocks, where
they hide during the day. At
night-time they wander abroad,
feeding on insects and worms.
There used to be a legend in
parts of the bush that the tail-
drOpper returned as soon as
danger had passed and stuck the
extremity on again.
:j: ;l:
“Gumblegubbin”: If a tax
were imposed on cats —an
avenue that lias been overlooked
—it would have the whole-
hearted support of thousands of
people who are pestered nightly
by their neighbors’ feline bush-
rangers. The difficulty would
be to establish ownership, for
the cat is a burglarious beast
that prowls everywhere, even
over the housetops. The
R.A.0.U., which is now seeking
to combat the nuisance, pro-
poses that the marauders should
be licensed. The special com-
plaint of the ornithologists is
the great harm that cats do
among birds, especially cats
that have gone bush—and mobs
go bush every year. The super-
stition that killing a cat brings
seven years’ bad luck accounts
for so many being turned adrift
or purposely lost. In some pas-
toral districts dozens have been
dropped on the runs to deal with
the rabbit. It is asked that
these should be proclaimed
noxious animals. To the pes-
tered citizen every cat that
doesn’t stay continuously within
its own compound is a noxious animal
*** * '
“Up Top”: The wild
sow grunted uneasily as
she sniffed her scamper-
ing piebalds and blacks
and whites. There were
only eight of them. One
was missing. She
squealed in frightened
doubt as if mistrusting
her eyes; then nosed
the jungle loam and ran
swiftly back upon her
tracks. Propping sud-
denly, she was bumped
by the trotting piglets
as with nostrils dis-
tended she smelt the
missing progeny. She
peered over a precipi-
tous bank that bordered
a scrub-clad ravine.
There he was, the ninth
piglet, squealing up
from a ledge imme-
diately he twigged his
mother’s snout. In
snorting relief she
wheeled and charged her
inquisitive brood back
from the depth. Sink-
ing on her haunches she
carefully worked her
forequarters over the
edge. She might just
do it, but if she slipped !
Straining hard down,
she just touched noses
with him. Carefully she
coaxed him up till she
could fasten her teeth
in his hide, then strug-
gli n g backward she
puffed and heaved and
dragged herself back
clear from the edge.
She lay gasping while
the piglets romped and
squeaked around their
rescued brother. Then
she staggered up,
snatched the errant one
by the scruff of the
neck and, eyes blazing,
shook him until the jungle rang with his
squeals.
* # * *
“Lexia”: At Redfern (Sydney) recently a
member of a family as old as any the Con-
tinent can boast took a stroll abroad, and
immediately, because of his antiquated attire,
attracted the unwelcome attentions of a
INCONSTANCY.
“You’ve lost him, Warragul — he’s got off the hook again.”
“Yes! Mine tinkit some dese plurry fish don’t know their own minds.”
horde of youngsters, who jeered and booed
until the sensitive gentleman sought surcease
in flight. He ran into a/ policeman, who
attempted to- arrest him, but he escaped. The
policeman pursued and caught him, and after
a brief struggle the person of ancient lineage
sat down peacefully in the middle of the
road. Then, crowning indignity, a piece of
cord was brought to tie the captive’s legs,
and he lost his temper and kicked a cop in
the tummy. He .was then hauled in an un-
dignified manner to the Redfern dungeon.
It must be said, however, in justice to the
police, that they bore no animus against
their quarry once , they had him in their
net. Indeed, they scoured the district, late
though' it was, to get him a titbit for his
supper. No —the gentleman wasn’t drunk.
H'e was just an emu, and charges of obstruct-
ing the traffic, riotous behavior, resisting
arrest, assaulting a constable and damaging
his uniform, and travelling in a manner
dangerous to the public, which might have
been brought against him, will not be pro-
ceeded with. After the arrestee had been
regaled on a hearty supper of rusty nails and
a broken cup, he lay down to rest, but
waking ravenous at midnight he pecked ail
the nickel-plating off a constable’s motor-
cycle. So they sent him to Taronga Park
Zoo.
* $ * *
“Marker”: “Dai R.” is wrong about the
use of budda for fencing-posts (B. 17/12/’3O)
in the Dandaloo, Tottenham, Tullamore,
Fifield and Trundle districts of N. S. Wales.
For two very good reasons it is not used.
It is highly * inflammable, and pieces of a
size suitable for fencing posts are as rare
as sovereigns. Timbers mainly used in these
districts for fencing posts are pine, iron-
bark and yarran. The last-named “Dai 1t.,”
perhaps, has mistaken for budda.
* * * *
“Wang”: The new hand told Dad that he
had served in the Navy. A couple of morn-
ings later he was set to sawing wood near
the house. When Dad came round about
noon the tar, with little to show for the
time he had spent, was watching Mary
hanging out washing. “My word.” he said
enthusiastically, “Mary’s a trim little
craft!” Dad looked at him. “As a sailor
jer oughter know tli’ signal she’s hangin’
out.” he said. The other looked surprised.
“What signal’s she liangin’ out?” he asked.
“England expects ev’ry man t’ do his duty,”
boomed Dad; “an’ so do I! An’, another
craft’ll be along here mis evenin’ —Mary’«
bloke. He ain’t been ter sea. but he’s got
a fist like a batterin’-ram. One hit _ from
him, an’ you’ll go down with all hands.”
* * x *
“Piecrust”: “It’s ther best way to run
these things,” Dad Woolbales commented,
after reading that' Poland and Russia had
sent contributions to the exhibition of Persian
art. “It reminds me of our district exhibit
at the last Wooliwooli Show. Me uncle over
in W.A. sent us a bonzer sample of wheat;
Jimmy Brown got some apples from his aunt
in Tassy; me sister’s young man from over
the border brought up a dray-load of pump-
kins, and Mum went all the way to Mel-
bourne for the jams an’ jel'ies. We nearly
scooped the pool that year, and we would
have won everything, only me brother in
Queensland was late in sending down his
prize bull.”
* sN * *
“Philm”: Dave, married not so very long,
hjid driven 10 miles through the night, and
10 miles back with the doctor. Now 7 he was
marching up and down outside the little
bedroom, his suspense increased by the un-
accustomed ordeal of waiting and listening.
At last the doctor emerged. “Congratula-
tions, old man,” he smiled, “it’s a girl.” Dave
breathed a sigh of relief. “I’m glad it’s a
girl,” he murmured. “She’ll never ’ave to go
through a coupler ’ours like I’ve jest ’ad!”
* * * *
“Pick”: The rains of autumn and winter
usually spread a shallow 7 expanse of water
over the plain that once w r as the bed of Lake
George (N.S.W.). At once it is plentifully
stocked with grown roach and codfish. They
come from the w r aterholes of Turalla, Deep
Creek and the bottomless ponds of Wjndera-
deen. One of Nature’s tragedies is staged
later when the succeeding summer dries up
the area, and the fish are banked off from
the creeks by the sandbars. It is banquet
time for all the fisher birds of the region,
and a widening fringe of whitened frames
soon margins the receding waters. The fish
schools wander distractedly in the shallow
slush', 'and to escape the feathered foes hover-
ing above bore frantically into the ooze of
the puddle, but they are ceaselessly attacked
by ever-increasing hordes of enemies, and no
means of escape is open to them. Some-
times though, when firmly clawed by an
eagle, a big acrobatic cod gets, one back.
With a mighty plunge and a mid-air twist
he sprawls his clinging foe into the mud, and
it is a much surprised and bedraggled bird
that flounders dejectedly ashore.
THE OLD MAN’S BOOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It’s easy work to arsk a gal if you may buy
the ring,”
Dave. “Proposin’ to ’er dad is quite
another thing.
An’ I recall jest ’ow I felt w’en I set out
one day
To arsk Bill ’lggs if I could ’ave ’is daughter,
name o’ May.
“ 'E met me at the garden gate an’ glared at
me an’ said:
‘ ’Angin’ around this time o’ day—you must
be orf yer ’ead.
’Ain’tchcr got any work to do? Well, I
’ave any’ow;
I dunno ’ow yer live at all the way y’re
loafin’ now.’
“Ter make the story short, ole man, I said
me piece at last.
An’ then I found that ole Bill ’lggs could
foot it pretty fast.
I beat ’im to the bound’ry fence by barely
’arf a yard,
But not before ’e’d raised ’is boot an’ landed
good an’ ’ard.
“’E wore a nine. It ’urt me then —the
mem’i’y ’urts me yet.
It taught a flamin’ lesson, too, I’m ’anged
if I’ll forget.
So, matey, if your girl’s ole man is big an’
wild an’ red.
Don’t arsk ’im fer ’is daughter’s ’and until
’e’s gorn to bed.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
A Meal & Room
for every,
taste /
V
©
Whether your first demand
be for comfort or for economy,
the Grosvenor meets it. 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all doors. Fire-
proof. Meals a la carte
from 1/6. £3/10/- weekly.
Bed and breakfast from 6/6.
Guosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
e
ANNOUNCING, P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNE.SS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and.
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and tlie special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes ,and T pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars "to
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Cha Head Office-Tr' KeUy ' M ’ B - B - S * Managing Director: H. Fell.
N.S W C ° r - ner , Bllzabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
___ • . gents. Farmers & Graziers Co-operative Grain Insurance and J
=s=v. Agency Co., Ltd. a—
PSffi
rlrnrr'- 1 m i <B *i'^
WIN. FOWLES
(of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne)
hands you a garage
for nothing
A large adjacent garage, free of
charge, is another service Car-
lyon’s Hotel offers you in addi-
tion to what is recognised as
Australia’s greatest refined hotel
values. Tariff: Single Rooms
from 4/6 per day; double from
7/6. All meals optional in tea- (
rooms or cafe at competitive
pricies. Inclusive, from 11/0
daily; or 70/- weekly. Right
opposite Spencer Street station
—no taxi fares for train travel-
lers. Please write for detailed
tariff card.
SHE HAD NO SUSPICIONS.
DETECTIVE: “Did you have any idea the woman next door contemplated suicide when
she borrowed your rat poison?"
NEIGHBOR: “No, she led me to believe it was only for her husband.”
“Swan”: The sea is full of curious beasts
that man rarely sees, even if his occasions
take him down to the deep waters. One of
these turned up the other day at Cottesloe,
near Perth, in the shape of the verv rare
and beautiful oar-fish, a specimen of which
was washed up on the beach dead. The
find was first described as an authentic speci-
men of the long-sought sea serpent, but was
soon identified. The oar-fish grows up to
40 feet long, and as the body of one that
size would be only 15 inches deep and six
inches thick, there is some excuse for the
finder’s mistake. The most peculiar fea-
ture of the fish, from w r hich it takes its
name, are the two “oars” —really the pec-
toral fins. These have a smooth slender
shaft, varying in length with the size of
the fish, and end in tw’o flat paddles. The
queer animal lives only in very deep water,
and is rarely discovered alive. The Cott'es-
loe specimen had been cut in two, probably
by a shark, yet the portion that came to
land w T as over nine feet long.
* * * *
“Hamer” : Parramatta is about to lose one
of Australia’s most ancient imported plants,
since the Mexican cactus which was planted
beside the wall of the
old troop station and
has since reached a
great size is threat-
ened. The troop-
station was demol-
, islied in 1846 and a
hospital erected in its
place; and in 1901
this was superseded
by a more modern
building, but in both
instances the bit of
old wall against which
the plant was growing
was incorporated in
the new building. Now
a new children’s ward
is to be built and the
ancient plant will
have to go. Parra-
matta boasts another
very old vegetable in-
habitant in a grape-
vine which has twined
its main trunk around
the banisters in the
upper storey of the
Bank of N.S.M. building. The veteran still
grows grapes.
* * * *
“Avon” : A recent newspaper report that
Norway claims rights in Antarctica because
she has a bigger interest in that part of
the world than any other nation prompts
me to suggest that Maoriland and Aus-
tralia have been neglecting a valuable asset
m their own “sphere of influence,” as it were.
“ e squareheads weren’t the pioneers of
whaling in southern waters. It was men
with names like Smith and Jones and
O’Callaghan (not forgetting McTavish and
Fengelly) who sloshed through those cold
seas in the ’forties, ’fifties and ’sixties in
ships, brigs and brigantines, and made the
AN ARCHAIC JOKE.
IRATE NOAH: “What’s all this noise, when a man wants to go to sleep?”
ELEPHANT: “Oh, just a bit of a joke! We put the two porcupines in the lions’ bed.”
shores of Fernland malodorous with their
blubber-boiling operations. They were,
according to all accounts, a riotous,
desperate lot of ruffians, but they garnered
a rich harvest from the ocean, and it’s a
pity their line has no succession. Maoriland
by situation and tradition should be a sea-
faring nation. At least one boy in ten
there, would like to be a sailor, but oppor-
tunities in that direction have been few.
Scattered around the shores of such quiet
and deserted harbors as Akaroa are the
cast-iron three-legged pots of the whalers
of old. . Akaroa is a haven in which all
the navies of the world and at least half
the mercantile marine could safely anchor
en masse, and why it shouldn’t be revived
as a whaling base before the Scandies have
exterminated the whole family of Cetacea
is one of those things no fellow can under-
stand.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Quite close to Sydney there is
a real happy hunting ground for the bush
naturalist. Little Bay, within half a dozen
miles of the G.P.0., has most of the birds,
animals, reptiles and flora that one would
expect to find only many miles from the
thickly populated areas. Within the grounds
of the Coast Hospital I have seen rabbits,
hares,, opossums, snakes of various kinds,
including the death-adder and the tiger,
goannas. lizards, foxes, jackasses, gulls, mag-
pies, willy-wagtails, kingfishers and many of
the smaller birds. They are not pets but are
living in the bush in their natural state.
* * *
“Untong”: It is only lately that pelicans
have become scarce on the chain of lakes on
the N.S.W. coast in the vicinity of Sydney
and Newcastle. In places they have grown
remarkably tame and fearless of man, and
it is largely due to this misplaced confidence
that they have decreased so rapidly. They
became so tame at . Port Stephens that they
used to form a circle round every fishing
net that was hauled and extract a free feed,
but as their attention was almost entirely
confined to the small fry the fishermen didn’t
mind much. These birds are expert gliders,
skimming the surface of the water, without
flapping a wing, for many hundreds of yards.
* * * #
“Fernie”: Gone to her last moorings is a
ship that had a lot to do with M.L. politics
—the little steamer Tutanekai. She has
had a varied experience. First they used
her for. cable-laying—the job for which she
was built. Then for many years she carted
provisions to all the lighthouses of the Pig
Islands. Seddon, who liked n bit of pomp
and grandeur, made her the royal barge for
Governors, and travelled on her himself
whenever he had to go from island to island.
There was a period—the Liberal team
was getting a bit restive —when the “Govern-
ment yacht,” as she was then termed, w T as
used to restore South Island members to
the bosoms of their families at the week-
ends, free of fare. Many a political plot
has been hatched ki the small steamer’s
cabins. She carried King George and Queen
Mary, in the days when they were Duke and
Duchess of York, and has on her passenger
register Edward P. and the present Yorks.
For me she is eternally associated w'ith
Seddon. I can see him now, leaning back
on the rail, looking like a combination of
mastiff and Mount Everest, emitting grunts
and monosyllables as I tried to interview
him on a subject lie didn’t want to discuss.
A week later, having found out in the mean-
time which’ way the cat was going to jump,
he spoke on that subject for five solid hours
and I, for my sins, had to report him.
* * * *
“Polycarp” : The spine at the end of the
death-adder’s tail has been the cause of
more arguments in the bush than politics.
I’ve heard it called a poisonous sting (wdth
proofs) and a kind of foot or purchase to
help the fat reptile along (ocular evidence) ;
and one old-timer reckoned that it was used
for gutting bush rats, as the adder, like most
dogs, liked rats but always discarded the
insides. What is it for, anyway? My own view
is that, like man’s own atrophied tail or his
appendix, it has no use at all. Those who
wax eloquent on the subject always speak as
if this so-called spine were a hard and sharp
spur-like bone. I’ve always examined the
thing whenever I’ve swatted an adder, and
in every case it was nothing but a soft,
blunt ending which could not have any use.
Same for the nail-tailed wallaby.
“Mac Ifopus”: For its size, the Speck con-
tains some remarkably isolated tracts of
country. A small party of us went last
winter on a ’roo-hunting expedition to the
south-west, our field of operations being
about 100 miles from Hobart. We failed to
find one person who had ever got through the
intervening rough country with pack-horses,
so we took to the sea as a matter of neces-
sity. After diligent search we found a fisher-
man prepared to drop us at Port Davey and
return for our remains later on—for 30
quid! He earned his money. That little
strip of sea took our large fishing-boat over
three weeks to cover. On returning for us
later on she escaped the dangerous rocks of
the southern coast by the narrowest squeak
in her career, and, with the wind the other
way, took five days to bring us home. Dur-
ing two months’ sojourn in the south-west we
found no huts, beaten tracks, rabbits, gold-
scratchers, hoardings or beer-bottles, or any
other sign of civilisation save drowned ships.
SHEARING TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s excitement at the station when the
shearing gang is there,
A scurry in the shed and in the yards;
There s a dust-cloud in the morning and a
clamor everywhere,
At night a rowdy racket over cards.
But it sore upsets the reg’lars, who must dash
from place to place,
And who have to camp at night-time on
the run
To get the flocks in early and to rush them
through the race
For the pleasure of the drummer and the
gun.
They seem to move in humble style beside
the shearer mob,
Who do not care a button for the boss.
Ihe staid old station-hands must turn to
any kind of job—
No laggard, at the shearing gathers moss.
The old routine is altered, and their living
ways are strange,
Five rouseabouts have mounted to a score;
In everything about them there has come a
sudden change,
The homestead isn’t homelike any more.
The shearing is a gay time for the populace
around.
Who muster when the news has gone
abroad:
They come to see the ringer on the ringer’s
battleground
And ponder o’er the tallies on the board.
But the station-hands are eager for the day
the shed cuts out,
The end of all the rushing to and fro.
I hey 11 see the bales departing with the
woolshed rouseabout
Bight gladly, and the shearers pack and go,
’Tis then the reg’lars, who have known the
seasons on the run
From summer unto summer pass away,
Can smoke their pipes in peace once more
when daytime toil is done
And slumber where no noisy fellows play.
Tis then they go to “Mother’s” for a
pleasant hour or two—
Old “Mother” at the shanty by the track,
\\ ho looks for them at week-ends, as most
shanty mothers do,
Until the shearing gang comes jogging
back.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis
and keep it there. In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.
«
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE
SMOKE-OH!
THEY’RE OFF!
“King Alfonso is preparing for exile.” —News
item.
When European news I read
Of Bolshie plots and such-like things —
Ah! then I realise, indeed,
That racing is the sport of kings.
* ¥
“Interesting Sight: Gulls Hold Trial: Accused
Executed. ” — Sydney “Guardian.”
Evidently the bad gull of the family.
* #
“It would take something tremendous —say the
destruction of the world—to deflect Mr. Lang from
his proposals.”
The hills may melt into the sea,
The earth be shifted off its axis,
But ’tis a moral certainty
That Lang will keep us on our taxes.
* *
“Chats on Leading Union Organisers.” —Labor
paper.
Or, more tersely, “Parasites on Parasites.”
* ¥
AN EXCESSIVE FINE.
“He was fined £lO for earless driving.”— “S.
M. Herald.”
Too severe altogether. Compare it with
the case of my friend Binks. He would
have been set up for the day by his hearty
breakfast of bacon and eggs if there had
been eggs and lie hadn’t been out of bacon.
Provided, of course, that he had had a fry-
ing-pan to cook with, and always assuming
the gas hadn’t been cut off. So he had
nine whiskies instead; and in the afternoon
TAKING THE SWEET WITH THE
BITTER.
“ ’As your ’usband got a job yet, dear?”
“Yes, but it’s ’ard work, an’ is killin’ ’ im;
but thank Gawd it’s permanint.”
had reached the glorious stage of making
non-stop ’plane flights while sitting on a
kerbstone in Pitt-street. Then, suddenly, he
rode an elephant furiously through the
traffic, found out it wasn’t a hippo., after all,
and came to in the Central. And all the -
S.M. said was, “10s.”
li. M.
# ¥
“Although the saw-fish had started the fight, he
was glad to get away from the shark.” — -“Sun,”
To pursue the story, “The shark presented
his bill of costs.”
* *
“Tea has done move damage than alcohol.”
— “Brewers’ Journal.”
Another case of the spot calling the kettle
black.
* *
“August Dend, who died in Brussels recently,
wrote a book to prove that the world would end
in 1930.” — “5. M. Herald.”
And still it goes on—world without Dend.
¥ *
“Hey diddle, diddle!” the Treasurer cried,
“Here is a pastime I’d like to see tried:
Let each departmentalist gently relax
And try to think out a completely neiv tax.”
DENIAi.
I’ve heard that money talks: on that
The experts one and all agree.
I only tvish to say out flat
It very seldom talks to me.
The Constant Bankrupt.
* *
“Paper can be used effectively to keep people
warm.”
It can. A 30-day p.n. can keep some
people in a sweat for a month.
“ON THE VOICES.”
Being a few 7 excerpts from a debate in an
Australian Trades Hall.
“Aye ban tink dot’s a great idea: Aye
ban”.. .“Blimey, there isn’t arf enough notes
to go aralind nar!”. .. .“Ay, choom, we he
be’ind it, by g00m”.... “They’ve the same
throuble in ould Oireland, and
divil a”.... “Garn, wotcher
thinkin’ of? Up to a ’undred
millions, I sez”.... “Say, bo,
what’s this goddarn”....
“Donner und blitzcn, blenty
notes iss the thing, aindt it’’
.... “Dinna fash yersel’ mon,
it’s all verra”
S. W. K.
WHAT HE’D PROBABLY COME TO.
“What were your poor husband’s political views?”
“Well, of course, he was a thorough-going Nationalist before he died; but I’m afraid
he’s a red-hot Bolshevik by now.”
EXPERT’S WARNING.
Said the expert in physical jerks,
To over-inflate never works.
You take it from me, as you darned well
must,
The more your inflation the bigger your bust.
* *
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
“Vy, my boy, you’re getting yourself all burnt.”
“Veil, uncle, I’ve only got myself left to burn.”
“Although hundreds of men are prospecting almost
all over Victoria, no strikes of importance have so
far been made.”— “Age.”
Better wait till the Parkes shindy is over
and then send for Jock Garden.
* *
“Heirs are being sought for the estate of
Frederick Mudd, of Sheffield, who left £26,000.
— “Lloyd's Weekly.”
If, by attested papers, I could prove
My right to take this fortune at its flood
I’d rush it. But I’m in the same old groove —
My name is Mud, because it isn’t Mudd.
VALENTINE’S DAY.
“To-morrow,” remarked my wife pointedly,
“will be Valentine’s Day.”
There was nothing else for it. I went out,
amassed a quid (eight half-crowns in 27
nips) and spent the proceeds on an artistic
card, an ornate present and beer —the last-
named being for myself. The wife was
delighted.
“I’m glad to know you have some money,”
she said. “As I told you, it’s Valentine’s Day
to-morrow.”
“Exactly. That’s why I bought the
presents.”
“What’s the joke, Percy?”
“Jolly St. Valentine” I began.
“St. Valentine ! You idiot! I’m talking
about Valentine and Co., the cash-order
people, whose collector is calling to-morrow
for thirty shillings. I’ve put him off twice
already”
Well, anyhow, I had the beer.
P. P.
DIRGE.
“There is so much wealth in Tibet that it could
wipe off Australia’s debt by handing over the
lump sum of £1,800,000,000 in gold.”— Rev. R.
Cunningham.
I’m told
That there’s so much gold
In Tibet
That the Lamas could pay
Any day
The whole of our national debt.
But they won't pay a shilling —
On that I am willing
Tibet.
R. R.
JIM AND TED: A POLITICAL FABLE.
There was Once a Prince Named Jim, who
made a Companionate Marriage with the
Wealthy Princess Laboria.
They lived at Trades Hall,
surrounded, by Union Bosses,
Spruikers or M’s.P., and
Underground Engineers,
Scotch and Scandinavian.
Jim was a Dull Consort. He
suffered from a Respectability
Complex. “Keep your Good
Name,” he used to say. “Pay
your Debts. Avoid the Im-
ported Drug Inflashun, which
has Destroyed Billions of
Addicts in Europe.”
Now Another Prince —Ted
by Name —bad long Had his
Eye on Laboria, and he
Offered her a Much More
Thrilling Life. “There’s no
need for Foreign Drugs,” he
would say Insinuatingly, “but
a Nice Paper Cocktail would
do you a World of Good. Why
not Try one made according
to my Controlled Recipe?”
Friends told Jim what was
Going On. “He’ll Cut You
Out,” they said. “She’s a
fickle Girl, and Always Was.
Look at Poor Billy, who loved
Her for Years, and now
she Won’t Speak to Ilim.” And then they
sang Prince Jim tile Beautiful Old Song,
“Rule of the Labor Road.”
Remember this' Truth, proved in Many a Fight,
Or your Spin at the Hall won’t be Long :■
While you Edge to the Left you are Bound to Be
Right,
If you move to the Right you are Wrong.
But Jim was Incorrigible. He went on
Abusing Drugs and Cocktails ; and Princess
Laboria found the Society of Optimistic, Con-
vivial Ted more and more Congenial. One
Day the Young Princeling, Beestly, called
on Jim and Said Curtly, “You have Joined
the Great Majority.” “What do you Mean?”
asked Jim. For Answer he was Handed a
List of Shelved Premiers in which His Own
Name Figured.
Moral. —Keep to the Left.
10-2-4.
PACIFICATION.
“The shots (if any) were fired to pacify the
woman.”— Plea in Sydney wife-shooting case.
“Gimme a beer,” said
Puffkins, who looked hot
and worried. Then, “Ah,
these women !” he groaned to
the bar in general.
“The wife bin at ’er
tricks again?” asked Gooble
sympathetically.
“Too right. Just because
she ’appened to come ’ome
and find me with that piece
from next door.”
“Nagged yer, I suppose?”
“Yes. Of course I donged
’er one with the iron.”
“I expect that pacified
her.”
“Not a bit. She didn’t
even quieten down when _ I
touched off a lot of gelignite
I chanced ter ’ave ’andy and
wrecked her sitting-room.”
“It's ’ard ter know ’ow to
treat some women,” sympa-
thised his mate.
“ 'Ard!” exploded Puff-
kins. “Well, after that I
emptied me shooters at ’er
—not meanin’ ter kill, of
course. No good. D’rectly
I run out of ammoonition
she comes from be’ind the
kitchen-dresser, an’ at me
again. Ter soothe ’er down
properly I ’ad ter get the
axe.”
“I bet the axe shut ’er
up.”
“Well, yes,” admitted
Puffkins. “She’s dead. But,
cripes, it takes a lot ter
pacify some women !”
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
NOT PROVEN.
“Miss Preston Stanley requests us to retract the
announcement of what she describes as her ‘alleged
engagement to Mr. Crawford Vaughan,’ which
appeared in our issue of January 12. First-hand
information of the engagement was supplied us by
a relative of the lady in question, who, when told
of her request last night, expressed amazement.”
—“Labor Daily.”
Our special investigator, Mr. Nosey, eyed
the girl suspiciously. “Do you or do you not
love him?” he asked sternly.
“Certainly not.”
“Now answer me this, and remember that
anything you say may be taken down and
published later. Have you or have you not
.shared gas-boxes with him?”
“To the best of my knowledge, no.”
“No hedging. Yes or no?”
“No.”
“When did you last kiss him?
Answer yes or no.”
“I absolutely”
“Answer the question.”
“No.”
“Now I want you, for your
own sake, to be very careful in
replying to my next question.
Where vane you on Friday of last
week at 10.45 p.m. ?”
“At home.”
“You’re prepared to make a statutory
declaration to that effect?”
“I am.”
“That being so, and pending further in-
quiries, we are prepared to give you the
benefit of the doubt, and contradict the story
of your engagement. With reservations, of
course. You are discharged.”
BLOGGS.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AN AUTOMATIC
CUP-FORMING MACHINE.
'THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 665/21 is prepared to" negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
METHOD OF AND PRESS FOR MULTI-
COLOR PRINTING IN INTAGLIO.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 11354/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS IN A MULTIPLE
AUTOMATIC-FOLDING MACHINE.
“THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 5422/22 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS IN A SANITARY-
PAPER CUP.
'IpHE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 263/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS IN A METHOD OF
AND APPARATUS FOR FORMING
RECEPTACLES.
TTIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 5420/22 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A HOLDER AND
METHOD OF TRANSFERRING
STACKED SUNDAE CUPS FROM CUP-
STACKING MACHINES INTO CARTONS.
'TTIE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 11543/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
WEIGHING DEVICES.
T"T4E Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 5496/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
S3r*
il£W
/
Baby has the right
idea—he wants
Cntienra Talcum
after his daily bath!
Fragrant ntiseptic *».Refreshing
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
You cannot realise what joy and comfort the keen rigid edge of
a Probak blade can bring to your shaving unless you put a
Probak in your own razor. Test for yourself how it glides like
silk through the stubble on your own chin. Learn by actual
experience how it goes on giving you the same velvety close shave
day after day. Probak blades are guaranteed. They never vary,
for they are made from continuous ribbons of steel, ground, honed,
finished in one unbroken operation. Five blades 1 /9, ten blades 3/6.
probak blades fit all two-
edged razors make
shaving just like
wiping your face
V
PR
BAR
BLADES
Made and Guaranteed by The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207 City Road, London, Eng.
Managing Agents for Australia;
PHIPSQN & COMPANY; LIMITED, 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
For old type
or new.
.iiK „ *
H. NUMsanwrai
SBP* 1
%
%
CfiC
r.
;o
o
o
NOW
19
FOR FIVE
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Aileron”: What must be the record for
long-distance quick transport followed on the
coronation ceremonies of the Emperor of
Abyssinia. Ten minutes after the finish, air-
man Lawrence Hope left Addis Ababa in his
’plane; he was at Croydon aerodrome five
days later, having covered the trip in five
1000-mile hops. As soon as he had landed
some of the films were rushed to the South-
ampton boat express and shipped on the
Mauretania for America. That means that
films of an event which had taken place
8000 miles away—as the spools travelled-
must have been showing in New York 10
days later at the most.
“Morimoto”: One of the brigade comman-
ders in China’s Nationalist armv is the
widow Chang, who embarked on a military
career as the head of a gang of bandits after
her husband, a respectable provincial mer-
chant, had been murdered by another gang.
Her army swelled to 3000 desperadoes and
she became sufficiently important for the
Christian marshal Feng to enlist her in his
crusade on behalf of Soviet Russia. The lady
displayed a talent for Napoleonic strategy,
capturing many large cities and winning
several pitched battles in which modern
weapons were employed by both sides. After
Feng was eliminated the Government took her
and her followers over and made her a regu-
lar officer. She employs a large number of
women and has a propaganda corps of young
females who go ahead and promise a new
Heaven on earth to the subject population
of the enemy general, much in the manner
of Premier Lang during an election. The
Celestial Boadicea is affectionately known
as “Big Feet” owing to her extremities not
being bound.
“Si Anu” : One of the beliefs which have
withstood the march of the Ford into the
jungles of Malaya concerns the ability of
certain men to turn themselves at will into
tigers and prey upon their neighbors’ cattle,
or even on their own kind. A Malay school-
master, who during his working hours teaches
a curriculum as modern as any in an Aus-
tralian school, has told me a multitude _ of
stories touching on this belief. One recipe
for turning oneself into a were-tiger is to
take a yellow sarong with black stripes and,
grasping the hem firmly with one’s toes,
slowly stretch it over one’s body up to the
head. Then with a growl the bundle rises
on all fours, a tail grows out at one end, and
in a few seconds a lord of the jungle leaps
into the lalang grass and disappears. In the
sparsely-populated north-east corner of Java
tigers are so prevalent that high enclosures
are built round the kampongs, and nobody
ventures out at night. Until recently in
one of these kampongs dwelt one Yusuf, a
well-to-do but inoffensive villager, whose
chief claim to distinction was that on a visit
to Surabaya he had indulged in the luxury
of having some teeth stopped with gold by
a European dentist. Hence he w r as nick-
named Gigi Mas, or Goldtooth. Nothing
had ever been alleged against Goldtooth
except a habit of keeping very much to him-
self, until an excited peasant returned from
the jungle and announced that he had seen
a tiger in a trap, and that when it snarled
at him he had distinctly caught the glint of
gold. The villagers hastened to the trap, to
find that the animal had escaped. When
they returned they met Goldtooth going down
to the near-by kali for his morning bath. He
promptly changed his mind and started to
walk back, but a suspicious fellow-citizen
tore the baju from his back, disclosing a
torso covered with scratches, bruises and
cuts. The chase that followed ended on the
headman’s verandah, where Goldtooth kept
sanctuary until he could be handed over to
the nearest Dutch authority. He was wise
enough never to return.
“Manana” : There are few enough thrones
left in Europe nowadays, and none that
looks less secure than that of Alfonso XIII.,
the spirited monarch who (according to an
unsuccessful Spanish insurrectionary) has
purchased a fine estate in England as a pro-
vision against pressing contingencies. Still
threatened kings often reign long, and
Alfonso, who has already had 44 years of
it, probably hopes that luck will stick to him.
Certainly nothing lias helped him more than
being a sovereign from the moment of his
birth, for the Spaniards are essentially a
chivalrous people, and his defenceless plight
and that of his mother was his best protec-
tion during many turbulent years. Whal
period a careful insurance company would
estimate as a fair thing before Spain goes
republican is another question.
Dear Bulletin, —Another thing Canada
has learnt from the United States is the
commercial value of publicity—call it brag-
ging or bally-hoo if you will. One Vancouver
newspaper now runs a daily feature entitled
“This Canada,” dealing with the resources
of the country. Its contemporary runs a
full-page feature in its Sunday issue entitled
“Canada, the Giant.” Boosting articles in
general are far more numerous than in the
Australian press. After Canada’s Primin-
ister Bennett imposed his new tariff rates
British Columbia business men circularised
hundreds of English and foreign concerns
pointing out the certain development of tin-
province and the advantages of erecting fae
tories there. In the shops, the streets and
the cinemas Canada’s progress and prospects
are driven home. Unemployment and any
drop in trade is given as little publicity as
possible. Recently the Canadian Govern-
ment published in every leading newspaper
in the Dominion a full-page advertisement
urging Canadian women to buy only Can
adian goods. This was followed a week
later by half-page advertisements asking
retailers to stock only local products. Can-
adians have not the same reasonless preju
dice against local goods that exists in Aus
tralia. Many Canucks, basing their opiniom-
on cabled reports from the Commonwealth,
believe that Australia is a land of industrial
troubles and droughts. More boost, both a
home and abroad, might help Australia i?i
her fight against present adversity.—E. W. 1.
(Vancouver, 8.C.)


&
ucv
<4l
You owe it to yourself to collect the
interest that is your due.
Form that most profitable of all habits—
the bank habit—by making regular deposits
in the Primary Producers Bank, where
interest is paid on all monies.
Have a Bank Account —Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Head Office: 12 Martin Place, Svdney.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London.
MARCH
FEBRUARY
JANUARY
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY
e
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
mm
London Office:
95 Gresham Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND CA-Z J BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association Tm
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOULNE
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIBE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
COUNTRY KILLING AND THE GULLS.
The scheme of country killing of stock and
the forwarding of the chilled or frozen car-
cases to the seaboard for consumption or
export, in lieu of the present wasteful and
expensive method of hauling all meat alive
to a central abattoirs in Sydney, has gained
impetus. Recently J. B. Cramsie, chairman
of the Metropolitan Meat Industries Board
of N.5.W.., was invited by the promoters of
the scheme to visit Armidale, the centre of
the movement, to investigate the proposal
put forward by the Australian Graziers’ Meat
Co. He has announced himself as whole-
heartedly in favor of it, and will attend the
meeting of graziers from all parts of N.S.W.
at Armidale on January 30 which is to
inaugurate the new system.
D. Shand, who successfully carried out a
country killing campaign during the recent
strike at Homebush Abattoirs, has suggested
that £12,000 will be enough to start the
parent plant at Armidale, this to be fol-
lowed by others in different districts of N. S.
Wales. The advantages of several separated
plants in place of a centralised one is obvi-
ous. Each would serve its own district, with
corresponding economy in transport costs and
maintenance of condition in the stock.
.Country killing and preserving promise to
benefit, not only the man with stock to sell
for slaughter and the consumer at home and
abroad, but the grazing industry from top
to bottom.
The studmaster who depends on the flock-
master to buy his product—since the export
gate is closed at present—must benefit, be-
cause the flockinaster will buy fresh blood
to replenish the strains he has sold to the
wool and carcase grower, who will be able
to cull out and sell on satisfactory terms. As
matters stand at present, it too often hap-
pens that the third party can find no market
for his culls. He is left with the alternative
of cutting their throats, as one unfortunate
N.S.W. grazier did the other day, or else
retaining them in his paddocks to eat valu-
able grass for which they never can make
adequate return in wool or meat, while, since
he is forced to breed from the ewes, the
standard of his sheep falls away. Under
these circumstances, he buys no new blood
from the floekmaster. The latter also finds
himself at a dead-end and with no market
for his breeding sheep cuts out the stud-
sheep breeder in his turn. No one does any
business and the quality of stock suffers all
round.
The problem of the day is, of course, the
culled ewes. Unsaleable at Homebush, they
are not worth the cost of rail transport.
Queensland has been faced with the same
difficulty, the impossibility of sending the
stock the long rail journeys at a profit
having resulted in many stations being
glutted with unsaleable sheep.
Under the proposed system of district kill-
ing and treatment plants dotted about
N.S.W. it is obvious the travelling costs for
stock destined for the district abattoirs
would be heavily cut. At these plants stock
which could not be sent to Homebush at a
profit could be disposed of, under the most
unfavorable conditions, at a price which
gave some return on the original outlay in
place of a loss. The culls would be cleared
and there would, be money forthcoming to
stock up with new blood from the flock-
master. He, in his turn, would have cash
wherewith to go to the studmaster and re-
plenish his strains, which brings us round
again to the beginning of the cycle.
With country killing, the stock mostly de-
livered to the treatment plant from short
distances, and with none of the wastage and
loss entailed by interminable train journeys,
the public would benefit enormously. The
meat, brought in carcase in cooling or re-
frigerated cars, would inevitably be superior
to that dragged alive a thousand miles to
Homebush and there slaughtered after stand-
ing a day or two, or perhaps over a week-
end, in the saleyards without food. The
prime sorts for the export trade, especially
the fat lambs which are going to bulk so
big in the Australian meat output of the
future, would bo shipped in first-class condi-
tion from the cars which brought them to
(he ship’s side from the country plants. The
effect of improved quality and turn-out on
the British markets would undoubtedly be
followed by an increased demand for the
Australian article, which, while it can vie
with the best of its competitors to-day, is
nob yet being presented in anything like the
style it deserves.
BALANCING THE RATION.
“J.W.W.” : Balancing the ration for live-
stock is as important as balancing budgets;
indeed, it helps the latter operation. If
we can, by scientific feeding, produce 50 per
cent, more beef, lamb, pork or butter than
we used to produce, and this extra amount
figures in our list of exports, then the fact
is driven home.
Experiments in the Swan Hill (Vic.) dis-
trict, as well as in many others, have proved
that we can enormously increase our lucerne
yield on irrigation country, and better grad-
ing of land and judicious use of super, to
improve quantity, quality and palatability
are requisites; the next thing to explore
is the best means of using this increased
yield to produce the highest results, and to
'do this we must arrive at a balance in the
feeding.
It is not long since that lucerne by itself
was believed by most of us to be a sufficiently-
balanced food, either for fattening stock or
for milch cows. How much valuable fodder
was wasted through this erroneous notion
it would be hard to estimate. The fact
that cattle will break out of an all-lucerne
paddock, perhaps with a high young stand,
and go into a field of common native grass
or rye grass does not indicate the way-
wardness of the beasts, but the. imperious
urge of nature for a balance in diet.
One of our largest fatteners tolls me that
in years past he tried the all-lucerne plan
of grazing but found he did not make his
animals prime, nor did they fatten fast
enough to be as profitable as he expected.
Since the autumn before last he has used
mixed grasses—lucerne predominating, Wim-
mera rye grass next and strawberry sub. and
red clover in quantities according to the
special needs of his land—determined by
prior experimentation. His results have
been so satisfactory that he computes his
gain at 50 per cent, over former methods.
He can now make his beef prime, and it
attracts brisk competition in a market that
once passed it by.
DRY-PICKLING OF SEED WHEAT
DEFENDED.
“Grey Box”: Contrary to F. Maddox’s
experience (B. 7/l/’3l), I have found that
in my district —Binya (N.S.W.) —the dry-
pickling of seed-wheat with copper carbonate
is much superior as a preventive of bunt to
the bluestone treatment. The increasing-
popularity of dry-pickling bears this out. 1
have used the bluestone solution, carefully
weighing and measuring the ingredients and
timing the immersion, as well as skimming
off all bunt balls, but the crop always con-
tained enough bunt for an odd one or two
to be visible in the open bags. But in four
years’ experience with the dusting method
I have not found a single ball. I have
always graded and didn’t change my practice
in that or other respects after switching from
bluestone to dry sulphate. Grading or seed
selection alone, as I have proved, will not
prevent bunt.
Dry-pickled wheat is much safer to sow
on a dry seed-bed than that which has been
wetted, and will germinate quicker and
better. Its vitality is not affected. If seed
wheat is dry-pickled when brought from the
paddock it is immune from weevil and is
not so likely to be interfered with by birds
or mice as when stacked untreated till seed-
ing time, as is the case where the wet-pickling
method is used.
SHEEP-FARMING IN N. S. WALES.
A Bulletin reader has asked the Service
Department what area of land in N. S.
Wales would be required to lamb down 3000
ewes, and fatten the lambs under natural
grazing conditions, year in and year. out.
So far as this paper knows,, there is no
such country in the State. Wagga is pro-
bably as reliable as anywhere, and a failure
can 'be looked for there about one year in
four on an average. Fat lambs require
flush feeding, and this can only be supplied
by top-dressing pastures and planting clovers
and grasses, or by growing lucerne or other
crops. Land capable of fattening lambs
under natural conditions should be used to
the fullest advantage, and be cultivated and
cropped. The price such land would com-
mand would make this an economic neces-
Also an opinion is asked as to the highest
price per acre, with wool and lambs at to-
day’s prices, that could be paid to enable
the venture to return 7 per cent, on capital
invested.
Wool and lambs do not go together, hat
lambs must be bred from crossbred ewes,
and crossbred wool to-day is nearly worth-
less. bringing only from 4d. to 6d. per lb. In
good times, sheep-to-the-acre country was
worth about £4 15s. per acre, and could sel-
dom be bought for that price in N. S. Wales.
The wool from a sheep could be put down
as worth about 10s., and the lamb would
return about 255. A crossbred fleece of
01b. is worth 3s. to-day, and a good lamb will
bring only 9s. With an SO per cent, lamb-
ing this means about Bs. per ewe for the
lamb with deductions for freight, etc., so
that Os. per ewe is about the best that can
be looked for, on paper, for both wool and
lamb. It does not seem possible to net any-
thing like 7 per cent, at present prices of
land, lambs and wool.
A third question is whether the present
is an opportune time to commence a grazing
business. For cattle or pigs, possibly it is,
but for sheep—no. No one can forecast
what the position in the sheep industry will
be in five or ten vears’ time, but there is
likely to be a swing towards good times
for the sheep-farmer, just as there has been
for the cattleman, and as there is almost
certainly going to be for the man who breeds
good draught-horses. There is an overseas
market for fat lambs, and Australia should
get a share of it when equipped to breed
a uniform type of fat iamb which will be
recognised overseas as Australian and first-
class. If we fail to reach this standard we
cannot hope for much consideration from the
overseas buyer.
SHEEP ON SMALL FARMS.
“Booraby”: For the mutton alone, every
farm should have a few woollies. Thirty
ewes and a ram, with an 80 per cent, lamb
ing, would provide a killing sheep about
every fortnight. They are no trouble to
keep, and can be grazed a good part of
the year in the cultivation paddock. When
the wheat, oats, maize or potatoes have been
harvested, there is a considerable quantity
of good feed on the ground on which sheep
thrive, much of it weeds that would other-
wise be useless. While other crops are grow-
ing, very little time is required to erect
hurdles, or shift them from one place to
another. The sheep are useful in keeping
down troublesome weeds and grasses; they
also clean up the stubble fields, especially
where hay has been cut.
A N.S.W. farmer who had a large patch
of herbs as a side-line used to turn a few
sheep into the crop when it needed weeding.
The animals fed between the rows, . eating
thistles and other growths, but drawing the
line at marjoram and thyme. At the same
time they helped to manure the ground.
The shearing of a small flock doesn't re-
quire a special shed or yard. An ordinary
barn meets all requirements ; eve ; n the cow-
bails can be used. If the floor is rough, it
can be covered with tarpaulin. In some
places a number of small owners make up a
big enough mob between them for a gang of
shearers in a central shed; but, as a rule,
the small flock is shorn at home. A selector’s
daughter who had two pet sheep, which had
been given to her as motherless lambs by a
passing drover, shore them with a pair of
scissors and sent the wool away by parcels
post. Dad laughed at the shearing and the
method of sending the clip to market, but
when a cheque came along he sat up and
thought seriously. Next year the selection
had a small flock.
RESTING THE DAIRY COW.
“Hatter”: Exhaustive trials have shown
that for a cow to do her best by the bucket
she must be dried off for six to eight weeks
before calving. The reason is twofold ; (1) it
is necessary for her to put on weight and
store nourishment to balance, the coming
strain during the flush of the milking season ;
(2) certain changes should occur in the cells
of the milk gland which are hindered in
their development by the secretion of milk.
According to statistical records these
changes are effected in six weeks. However
highly a cow may be fed, if she is milked
up to within a week of calving her next
lactation yield will be 14 per cent, less
than it would have been with six
weeks’ interval. Each week's rest reduces
the loss by about three per cent., and after
six weeks there is no change worth con-
sidering. A heavy milker’, rested for three
weeks only, would thus lose about 25 gal-
lons of milk in the year; on the other hand,
an interval of more than eight weeks is
wasteful of time and leads to even heavier
losses.
Experiments in feeding dry cows go to
prove that good feeding increases the yield
rather by staving off the fall in production
than by increasing the maximum output.
This depends more upon other factors, such
as the actual size of the glands and udder.
High feeding after calving does, however,
have the effect of increasing the daily yield
as well as prolonging the period of high
lactation. A high-production cow, on the
other hand, even on a bare maintenance
ration, will not diminish her yield to any
great extent until she has denuded her own
system to the point of scarcely being able
to stand.
Some of our farmers, under the impression
that any sort of roughage is good enough for
dry cows, often turn them into scrub where
they subsist on a semi-starvation ration. It
is at this time that they should be putting
on condition for the next milking periqd,
and such practices lead to loss.
MAIZE IN THE PIG RATION.
Experiments were recently made at
Hawkesbury Agricultural College, N. S.
Wales, with maize as part of a ration for
pigs. Three lots, each of 11 pigs, were
chosen for the experiment, and each in-
cluded Tamwortlis, Berkshires and cross-
breds. The ration was different in the case
of each lot, the maize being combined with
various other foods. Rest results were
obtained with the lot fed on a ration that
commenced (when the pigs were at an aver-
age weight of 4841 b.) with I.llb. maize, 41b.
separated milk and fib. green wheat. _ This
was increased in ratio to the increase in the
weight of the pigs. The maize was fed dry
and the rest of the stuff in combination, ail
given as one feed in the morning. After a
month the green wheat ran out and was
replaced with lucerne of the same weight.
Fresh water and coal cinders were acces-
sible to the pigs at all times.
In four months the average weight of
these pigs increased to 1781 b. The- total cost
of their food was £2 17s. r 6d., and it cost
5.33 d. for every pound in weight gained. The
average value of the pigs when the experi-
ment commenced was assessed at 155.. and
when sold they averaged £4 55., showing a
profit of £35 12s. 6d., not counting labor costs
and overhead. That works out at a gross
profit of 9s. Sd. for every 1001 b. of weight
gained.
THE CASE FOR OFFICIAL HERD-
TESTING.
“R. E. Ward”: Let me take issue with
“U. Murray” (B. 31/12/’3O) on. the subject
of herd-testing. It is not expensive to the
farmer in N. S. Wales, costing him only
2s. per cow annually. The tester does not
milk the cows, as “U. Murray” would lead
one to think, and I don’t find him a nuisance
-—I look forward to his monthly visit as a
hieak in the monotony of a rather grey life.
I cannot agree with him that a farmer who
used improvised methods of testing would
know practically as much at the end of the
season as those who had their cows tested
by an official. The official testers are well
trained, and if sometimes there are discrep-
ancies between their reports and the factory
returns, that may not, and probably is not,
the fault of the tester. I keep records and 1
find that the difference between the herd-
tester’s butterfat figures and the returns
from the factory works out at about 2J per
cent., one way or the other.
Most progressive dairy-farmers now realise
the value of herd testing, hut there, are still
some who argue that testing does not give a
true record of the cow’s capacity to produce
butterfat, because under ordinary conditions
cows do not produce as much as if they
received all the food they needed. Those
who advocate herd-testing do not attach
very much importance to that phase of the
question, for there are not many dairy-
farmers who expect to be able to give their
cows all the feed they could consume right
through the year.
The chief advantages of herd-testing are
that it is the only method of estimating the
producing ability of each cow, enables the
cow-cocky to check the results of various
systems of feeding, and is an invaluable
guide to breeding.
COVER CROPS FOR CITRUS
ORCHARDS.
“E 5” : Progressive citrus orchardists supply
their groves with a large amount of nitrogen
in the form of sulphate of ammonia. Nitro-
gen being such, an important element in the
food of citrus trees, many orchardists when
planting cover crops choose peas, beans and
other legumes under the impression that
these nitrogen-fixing plants will extract
nitrogen from the air and put it in the
ground in nodules on their roots as well as
providing the green stuff to be ploughed
under.
Recent experiments abroad have shown
that legumes only draw nitrogen from the
air when they cannot obtain their require-
ments more easily from the soil. If they
are growing on very poor land they do
fix nitrogen from the air and improve the
soil; but when growing on a good orchard
plot already well fertilised with sulphate
of ammonia, they take up nitrogen from the
soil, thus competing with, the trees for their
food.
When peas and beans are turned under
just before they mature they change quickly
into plant food, being high in nitrogen .con-
tent, but growers of experience are coming
to the opinion that a greater bulk of green
(Continued on page 26.)


Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
456 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
ptfc fECT
R fc?OSE
o E *
HOURS
A
% W.
Phil May Drawing
“ The History of Botany Bay ”
Stand and Deliver.
was printed by “The Bulletin”
during Phil May’s brief residence
in Australia, and the incompar-
able artist was commissioned to
illustrate it. The result was a
series of drawings thoroughly
characteristic of the artist and
signed by him. Twelve of these
original drawings are now offered
to the public. The set, along
with an extract from “The His-
tory of Botany Bay” relative to
each drawing, will be offered
until Feb. 21 at 30 guineas.
If the complete set is not pur-
chased by Feb. 21 individua.l
drawings will thereafter be sold
at the prices set out hereunder.
Applications for the single draw-
ings are invited, and, if the
set is not sold complete, will be
dealt with in the order in which
they are received.
The drawings are for the most
part about 4in. x sin.; and several
of them carry titles written on
them by J. F. Archibald. Their
titles and prices are as follows: —
“The Man They Could Not Hang”
“Gaoler and Convict”
“The Interposition of Providence”
“A Sailor Turnkey”
“Macquarie’s Demoniac Architect”
“Judge Barron Field”
“Governor Brisbane”
“Engaging a Servant”
“Stand and Deliver”
“What Governor BoUrke DU” . . . .
“News Versus Nooze”
“A Measure of Decision”
Guineas.
21
2
. 3
2i
2
. 4
. 3i
. 4|
. 4
. 4
. 5
. 4
. 2
. 2
Phil May drawings now com-
mand a high figure throughout
the world, and because of their
limited number are bound to
further increase in value. The
present is a unique opportunity
to secure an example of the
famous artist’s work.
In addition to the 12 signed
originals there are two, The
Majesty of the Law” and ‘ Feed-
ing the Creature,” which, though
unsigned, carry the certificate of
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. that
they are the original drawings of
Phil May. They are offered at
2\ guineas each.
è
“The History of Botany Bay,” which was reprinted from “The Bulletin,’
and included the drawings, is long out of print. The extracts from the letter
press which accompany the drawings add to their value. For example
K 3
Y\
l
Jr
A Sailor Turnkey.
ŵ
ẁ


é
CHANDLER’S
Chain and Tripod
HARROW
The Harrow which will do
ALL your job s—both
Pasture and Cultivation .
The only Harrow made in
Australia with renewable
teeth .
Chandler’s Harrow is the most up-
to-date and effective Harrow made.
Other makes of Harrows wear quickly
on front row of tripods, but the
CHANDLER HARROW, with inter-
changeable tripods, enables you to get
three times longer life.
The Spring Steel Teeth are renewable,
and can be varied in length from
2fin., 3in. to 3fin.
Chain and Tripod Harrows.
3 Rows.
6ft. wide—
£lo 5 0
7ft. wide—
£ll 15 0
Bft. wide—
£l3 10 0
9ft. Wide—
£ls 10 0
Depth complete—
6ft. 9in.
4 Rows.
£l2 15 0
£l5 0 0
£l6 15 0
£l9 5 0
7ft. lOin.
The other reasonable prices will be
sent on application.
Manufactured by
CHAIRS
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
ê
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Orescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
FIRE FIGHTING,
PUMPING AND SPRAYING
ë
AH prices
F.O.R.
Melb.
One of these powerful Double-
acting “AJAX” Pumps will be
a reliable defence against fires.
Even in a small blaze it may
save many times its cost.
After (and during) the danger
season it may be used for
numerous other jobs, such as
ordinary pumping, spraying,
etc.
The heavy suction hose goes
into a tank mounted on a
truck. By means of the long
handle and the cog gearhead
the Pump can be worked with
surprising ease.
Price,
£6JIS!
without
Hose.
The Steel air chamber causes the water to be
delivered with great pressure. Pressure, of
course, is a big factor in the efficient extin-
guishing of fires.
Special nozzle fitted to hose enables the
operator to have a powerful jet, a heavy
soaking spray, or a gentle mist, at will-
Suction Hose, l£
2/9 per foot.
Delivery Hose, i
7d. per foot.
Delivery Hose, f
Bd. per foot.
inch,
inch,
inch,
ersons
rropncfanj limited
Established JS6O.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
stuff could be more easily, cheaply aixd
quickly obtained in most soils by the use
of rape, cereals or eveix some quick-growing
winter weed as cover crops.
PREPARING APPLES FOR EXPORT.
“Ivooroora”: Fruit packed in a prema-
ture state leads to shrivelling and slackness
in the cases, especially if it is held too
long before or after sliipping. The color
will be faulty, and there is a liability to
bitter pit, breakdown, fungal rots and len-
ticel blotcli. Breakdown may be caused by
water core in the fruit when picked, as
well as by bitter pit. Split core in fruit
when picked is likely to result in mould
and subsequent rotting, while over-maturity
may lead to Jonathan spot in varieties
susceptible to this trouble. Over-maturity
also increases the likelihood of damage by
bruising, with the fungal rots which usually
follow, especially when stored.
Every care must be taken to avoid bruis-
ing during picking and packing opex-ations;
grading should be for color as well as for
size, and to ensui-e even maturity several
pickings should be made. Corrugated straw-
boards can be used to advantage on top,
bottom and sides of the cases, and cases of
good appearance should be used. Packing
must be full without being overcrowded.
Slack packing will lead to bruising and
damage by fungal rots, as well as causing
dissatisfaction on account of light-weight
cases. No immature or second-grade fruit
should be packed.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How can I destroy earwigs that are eat-
ing cabbages? —9sl.
.Grind very stale bread to a powder in a
mincing machine, and add loz. of Paris green
or |oz. of arsenic to each pound of bread.
The addition of a little honey makes the
bait more attractive. Water is added slowly
with constant stirring, until a stiff dough is
formed which can be broken up in the fingers.
The bait should be scattered bi-oadcast in
small fragments over the infested ground,
just about dusk. The insects take the
bait more readily on warm evenings. Domes-
tic animals or poultry should not be allowed
access to places where "poison is laid, but
if it is impossible to exclude them the bait
can be placed in tins or boxes perforated
with holes just large enough to admit the
earwigs.
What is the best way to combat the peach-
tip moth? —9o2.
No effective control has been discovered.
Control methods are: (1) Cxxtting off and
burning the infested tips in early summer,
(2) baixdaging and (3) destruction of in-
fested fruit and general orchard sanitation.
While the first method is not usually applic-
able to large orchards, it can be readily used
on small areas, and the first brood very
much reduced. It is important that the tips
should be cut off 6in. to Sin. from the end
as soon as the first sign of wilting appears.
If the tips are left till they commence to
wither it will be found that the caterpillars
have quitted them. Bandages similar to those
used for codlin moths should be fastened
round the trunks before the middle of
October and examined at intervals of not
more than 10 days up to the end of Feb.,
and the larvae or pupae found in them killed.
A final examination of the bandages should
be made during June or July. Large num-
bers of larvax and pupae may be destroyed in
this way. Infested fruit should be picked
up every few days and destroyed by boiling,
burning, or burying in a pit with an insect-
proof cover, as desci-ibed in a pamphlet
obtainable from N.S.W. Agriculture Dept.
Quinces are frequently severely attacked
towards the end of summer, and the peach-
tip moth is always more abundant where
this fruit is grown. Peach-growers with a
few quince-trees of no great valxxe are advised
to destroy them. Where quinces are grown
commercially, particular care should be taken
to bandage carefully. All loose or rough
bark under which the lai-vse may pupate
should, as far as possible, be removed, and
the number of stems arising from the ground
limited to as few as possible to facilitate
bandaging. Goniozus antipodum, Gambus
stokesii, and other small wasps parasite the
peach-tip moth larvae very freely, and pi*o-
bably play a lai’ge part in the control of
this pest.
I am a Barmedman (N.S.W.) farmer
and intend taking up poultry-farming as a
side-line. (1) How should eggs be packed
for the Sydney market? (2) Where can.
crates, fillers, etc., be procured? (3) How
should eggs be graded? (4) Can eggs be sold
privately or must they go through the Egg
Board? (5) How often should eggs be for-
warded per week to Sydney? (6) Is there
an Egg Board in Vic. and how do N.S.W.
eggs sell in Vic.? (7) Any literature on
the marketing of eggs? (8) Would it be
profitable to consign poultry to the Sydney
market? (9) Where can poultry crates be
obtained and how should they be sent? —
822.
(1) In packing eggs for Sydney market
use stardard-size cases of 30-doz. or 15-doz.
capacity. Fillers and flats are used for pack-
ing eggs in to keep them from breaking.
The fillers consist of three dozen cells of a
size suitable to hold one egg in each cell, and
the flats are plain sheets of strawboard
which go between the fillers wliqn they are
placed in the cases. (2) Producers’ Distri-
buting Society, Quay-street; Anthony Hor-
dern and Sons and the City Manufacturing
Co. —all Sydney.- (3) The" eggs should be
graded into three groups, viz.: Ist grade
should contain no egg less than lfoz. and
must average 240 z. to the doz.; 2nd grade,
eggs between lfoz. and l^oz.; 3rd grade,
beiow lloz. (4) Eggs can be sent to any
agent or liiay be sold privately in Sydney
as desired, but all eggs sold in the County
of Cumberland and tlie Shires of Wollon-
dilly and Nattai must be stamped “New
South Wales.” (5) Eggs collected regularly
and kept under proper conditions could be
marketed twice a week. (6) No board. The
price is usually considerably below N. S.
Wales rates. (7) Free pamphlet from N.S.W.
Agriculture Dept. (8) Poultry being sent by
rail over such a long distance would not realise
as much in the Sydney market as the locally-
produced birds, as they lose condition in
transit. (9) Government crates can be
obtained on application to the local station-
master. You pay freight and a deposit on
the crate, refunded when it is returned.
Crates accommodate from seven to eight pairs
of heavy breeds and eight to nine pairs of
light breeds.
(1) How to prevent red scale of citrus
trees? (2) How to make vinegar from peach
pulp and peelings? —lo29.
(1) Spray with a miscible white oil at
the rate of lgal. to 40gal. of water. Oil
is obtainable from Australian Fruit and Pro-
duce Co., Batliurst-street, Sydney. (2) Con-
sult Cruess’s “Commercial Fruit and Vege-
table Products” which can be seen at the
library of the N.S.W. Agriculture Dept.
How can I prevent red meat-ants from
killing a kurrajong-tree? They infest the
tree in thousands, and already the bottom
branches are dead/ and the leaves have fallen
off?— 1006.
The Entomologist, N.S.W. Agriculture
Dept., suggests that a band of tree tangle-
foot smeared around the trunk at about a
foot above the ground and about a foot wide
may prevent the ants from running up the
trunk. It will be necessary to see that no
grass stalks, branches, etc., are in contact
with the ground to form a bridge across
which the ants could run. Failing this,
locate the nest and pour down each main
opening 3oz. of carbon bisulphide, after
which the openings should be covered over
with a spadeful of moist earth. But be
careful—the gas is very inflammable and
explosive.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bar K.”: If sheep become foundered
after grazing on wheat, drench with two
heaped tablespoons of bicarbonate of soda
dissolved in \ pint water. Two hours latex-
drench with % pint raw linseed oil to which
has been added ten drops of turpentine. Take
the sheep off the wheat crop, and starve for
three or four days. Allow plenty of water
and a little straw. This treatment must be
applied early to be effective.
“Bendee” : To cure cows of itch, take loz.
of sodium fluoride per head of stock and
apply with a tin shaker to the affected parts,
afterwards rubbing it in with the hands. Itch
is due to lice, and makes its appearance in
the winter and early spring months.
“Ivooroora”: A deficiency of mineral
matter in the feed will sometimes cause dairy
stock to chew pieces of stick and bark. To
ovex-come this sxxpply a lick of one part
coarse salt to two parts sweet ground bone-
meal. Place this near the watering places
in troughs, and to make it more palatable
add a little linseed mCal and crushed oats.
“Mulyan”: A liandy cliickeix feeder can
be made of four legs and eight light
rails a couple of feet high and aboxxt
tift. square. Cover the sides with wire-
netting, with the bottom about Sin. off the
ground) and make the top in the form of a
lid, covered with any material that will keep
out rain. When food is dropped on the
ground inside this cover, the chicks can
run under the wire-netting, which blocks
the bigger fowls, and eat their fill in com-
fort. Water should also be placed in it.
The feeder, being light and handy, can be
shifted about and placed in any convenient
position. Besides protecting chickens at
feeding time, it forms a shelter in wet
weather and a haven to run to when hawks
are about.
“Mcß.”: A compost heap or pit is a
valuable acquisition to the farm, especially
to the small fanner who goes in for heavy
top-dressings of stable manure and often has
to remove quantities of trash from his land
to enable another crop to be grown. Almost
any vegetable mattei*, i-efuse from the house
or garbage tip, stable manure, and other
organic waste may be added to the heap. If
the habit of carting all such refuse to the
heap is developed the result will be a much
tidier farm and it is surprising lxow this
heap will grow and what a quantity of
valuable top-dressing it will produce. The
heating of the heap during fermentation will
usually desti-oy the seeds of pest weeds
which may be present in the rubbish carted
to it.
“Wilt”: Wimmera rye grass will thrive
almost anywhere that barley grass flourishes,
and, being more nutritious and palatable,
should be established wherever possible. To
secui’e a pure stand, 101 b. to 151 b. of seed
per acre should be drilled in prepared land,
together with lewt. super., in the autumn or
early winter. Being an anixual, it seeds
itself and once estdblished becomes a per-
manency. Another method of sowing this grass
is to drill in 21b. of seed per acre with a
cereal crop which is to be harvested for
grain. The seed is light, and is blown out
of the tail of the harvester and well dis-
ti-ibxxted in the field. In good years Wim-
mera grass will grow like a cei-eal and makes
first-class hay.
“iC.A.B.”: An original but effective fire-
break is used by a Mudgee farmer. A 40ft.
strip on each side of every fence is top-
dressed, which bi*ings a growth of succulent
green grass, on which the sheep feed until
not a blade is left. Besides being a fire-
break it is cheaper than ploughing; the
sheep are fatter and in better condition than
would otherwise be the case, and no portion
of the holding is rendered useless. The
method has stood the test of years.
“Science III,”: If you find a Bathurst
burr bush gone to seed don’t cut it if you
are unable to burn it or otherwise dispose
of it immediately ; if you do it will roll all
over the paddock distributing seeds wholesaic.
Leave it where it is.
“Gwalior”: A glance over the selling ,\oors
of any of the garden-truck markets discloses
a preponderance of rubbish. The reason for
this is the growers’ demand for cheap seed.
If growers specialised in one or two varieties
at the outside and sent oixly first-quality
prodxxce to the market they would obtain
much bigger returns. For instance, melons
on the Brisbane market just now are real-
ising from 3s. to 20s. per doz., and the same
dispai-ity applies to almost all lines of vege-
tables. The difference in growing costs is
only a very few pence,


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Englishman (27), Sydney, seven years’ rural exp.
Canada and Australia, handy, w'an.ts work in
country.—lo6l.
Scotsman (30), Sydney, ex-guardsman, wants job
town or country. Refs. —1067.
Promoters subsidised school, N.S.W., require ser-
vices of middle-aged lady as teacher, £7O p.a. and
board. Full particulars as to character and educa-
tional qualifications required.—losl.
Accountant and cost-accountant, Sydney, seeks
position city or country, any clerical capacity, 18
years’ commercial exp. Highest refs. —1060. ’
Lady, Hazelbrook (N.S.W.), refined home, know-
ledge nursing, would like care of delicate girl, 3
to 7 years of age.—lo 69.
Englishman, Sydney, well educated, varied com-
mercial, literary and scholastic exp., seeks position
anywhere, secretary, tutor or office • assistant.—lo 96.
Man and wife, Sydney—man, joiner, capable of
all repairs, paperhanging, painting, etc. ; wife, all
ordinary duties—want position as caretakers. Refs.
—llOO.
Englishman (28), Vic. public school, four years
England stud and general farming, six years Aus-
tralia general farming, can manage horses and
tractors, wants exp. on sheep or cattle station,
N.S.W. or Q’land.—-1108.
Established trading concern in Islands has open-
ing for young man with small capital, preferably
the owner of a motor-boat of 2 to 3 tons capacity.
—1165. „
\oung man (24), N.S.W., with exp. killing and
dressing- sheep and book-keeping, wants job on
station anywhere.—ll 62.
Man (40), Vic.; educated, book-keeping and
survey exp., computer, tutor, go anywhere, wants
position.—ll 39.
Single man (22), M.L. Uni. graduate, journalistic
exp., wants secretarial or literary position anywhere.
Refs. —1126.
Young nurse, N.S.W., would take charge of invalid
or young children on ocean voyage anywhere. Six
years’ hospital exp.—lls9.
Man (50), Vic., active, wants job as cook-
housekeeper in bachelor establishment, country. Can
milk, kill and grow vegetables.—llB6.
Active man (60), Q’land, wants position on
station, Q’land. Can do painting, carpentering,
general repairs, gardening and storekeeping. Refs.
—1194.
G.P.S. old boy, Sydney, wants to get in touch
with another G.P.S. boy, age 17-18, willing to work
his way on a 500 miles walking tour.—llo4.
To purchase back numbers of any journals dealing
with psychology and psycho-analysis. Also “Psyche
and Eras,” vol. II; “American- Bookman” for
March, 1927; and “Printers’ Ink” (U.S.A.) for
March, 1926. State price.—1086.
To buy cinema films, standard, short subjects
only—scenics and the like.—loB2.
To buy books dealing with short story waiting.
—1195.
To buy maps or books concerning early N. S.
Wales.—llB2.
To buy “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” 14th edition,
India paper preferred; also “These Eventful Years,”
two volumes.—ll 42.
Typed copy of story “The Bear and the Dog,” by
Edward Dyson, or publication in which it appeared.
—1129.
To correspond with readers interested in philo-
sophy and ethics, with a view of founding a philo-
sophical club in Sydney.—llo7.
Whereabouts of Ernst Fredrick Rettke. Sister
at Parrakie (S.A.) inquiring.—1127.
To hear from Jack White, late A.1.F., who was
at Christchurch V.A.D. Hospital, England,, in 1918.
(To Anderson Rodger, No. 2 Pendle-street, Box Hill,
Ell, Victoria.)
Information Sought.
(1) Will the N.S. W. moratorium affect
people that are buying sewing -machines on
the hire-purchase system? (2) Must the
company go to the Court before taking the
machine from a purchaser? —loos.
(1) Yes, the Act applies to hire-purchase
agreements relating to goods. (2) The Court
may re-adjust the amount of the instalments
to be paid and postpone payment; also
the vendor cannot repossess himself of the
goods without its leave.
Does the N.S.W. moratorium apply to
guaranteed accounts in banks or to a number
of persons who hare signed a guarantee to
enable another business or organisation to
carry on? —996.
A mortgagor, under the Act, “includes any
person who has guaranteed the payment of
any money, the payment of which is secured
by a mortgage or the performance by the
mortgagor of any covenant, condition,” etc.,
but does not extend beyond this.
(1 ) If a limited company is formed with
its registered office situated in Canberra to
take, over land, buildings and goodwill of a
business at present operating in the Federal
Territory, is stamp duty payable on the capi-
tal or conveyance of the property or any
subsequent transfer of shares? (2) If such
a company were formed and portion of the
vendors’ property and goodwill were in
N.S.W. and portion in the Federal Territory,
would stamp duty be payable? (3) Is it
necessary to furnish the annual list of mem-
bers and summary of capital of a limited
company after holding the statutory general
meeting, or only after holding of subsequent
annual general meetings? —lo26.
(1) In the absence of a Federal Com-
panies Act the co. could not be formed in
Canberra, but cos. incorporated or registered
in any State are judicially recognised there
and may trade within the Territory. No
stamp duty is payable to the Federal Gov-
ernment on capital, conveyance or transfer.
(2) The Federal portion would not be sub-
ject to Federal stamp duty, but the State
portion would be subject to its duty. (3)
The Companies Act (N.S.W.) provides that
“every company shall make, once at least
in every year, a list of all persons who, on
the fourteenth day succeeding the day on
which the ordinary general meeting, or, if
there is more than one, the first ordinary gen-
eral meeting, is held, are members of the
company.”
(1) Is a tailor in N. S. Wales obliged to
pay the 2$ per cent, sales tax on the
finished article? In the case of a suit sold
at £8 Bs. the cloth would cost £3 55., labor
£3 10s., buttons, lining and sundries 20s.
Cost price £7 15s. A sales tax of 4s. would
reduce profit to 9s. (2 ) Is there any' remis-
sion of the sales tax if the cloth is manu-
factured in Australia? If so, what is it? —
495.
The tailor would be required to register
as a manufacturer and pay tax upon the
actual sales of suits made to order, unless
his sales are exclusively retail and his total
turnover is not more than £lOOO p.a. There
is no rebate of tax in respect of cloth manu-
factured in Australia, but the tailor who
purchases that cloth with a view to making
it up into suits is entitled to quote his certi-
ficate when purchasing or importing the
cloth, and to obtain it free of sales tax. As
set out above, tax is then payable upon the
actual sales of the completed article. Get
in touch with the Taxation Dept, and obtain
forms of registration.
Has Australia tried (1) Communism? (2)
Socialism? Results in each case?— llo3.
(1) The best-known practical trial of
Communism made by Australians was carried
out in Paraguay, S. America, to which a
party of enthusiasts sailed in the Royal Tar
under the leadership of William Lane in
the early ’nineties. Lane was a journalist,
editor or the Brisbane “Worker,” and a man
of high ideals. But the high ideals soon came
into conflict with human frailties, and the
community split, one section moving on to
Cosme. Neither lot did any good; some
of them were helped back to Australia;
a few, throwing Communism overboard, hung
on to part of the area which the Govern-
ment had granted them, and have eked out
a wretched existence. The Bulletin con-
tinues to hear occasionally from the rem-
nants. (2) The railways of Australia are
an experiment in socialism. So were Mr.
Theodore’s cattle stations and the Mungana
and other mines and smelting enterprises,
and the N.S.W. fish-shops.
(1) What does it cost to upkeep the
League of Nations? (2) Has the League of
Nations justified its existence, and, if so, in
what manner?— lo9s.
(1) The estimate for 1928-29 was
£1,080,000. (2) It has already been instru-
mental in preventing a number of little wars
which might have grown into large ones ; has
created a Permanent Court at The Hague to
arbitrate on international disputes; has
helped with the financial restoration of
various war-ravaged nations, and is coping
with the problem of disarmament. Also it
continually strives to ameliorate social con-
ditions in backward countries, and to abolish
traffic in slaves and in illicit drugs.
A man dies, making provision in his will
that upon the death of his wife three sons
are to equally share £lOOO. Can one of the
sons, without the knowledge and/or consent
of other beneficiaries, legally transfer his
interest in the estate to an outside party? —
1112.
The beneficiary may sell his rights and
assign all his title and interest. Usually an
insurance policy on the life of the assignor
is taken to cover the risk of his premature
death. The consent of the other beneficiaries
is not, as a rule, required.
When the Australians captured New
Britain a prisoner was ordered, under a
threat that othci'wise he would be shot, to
call upon his comrades to surrender. Was
not this action a breach of the rules of war?
—1039.
S. S. Mackenzie, author of “The Aus-
tralians at Rabaul,” says: “In the employ-
ment of a prisoner in this manner, under a
threat, a breach of the rules of war appears
to have been unwittingly committed. This
was more liable to happen, through ignor-
ance, in the early days of the war than
later, when the Australian military authori-
ties had supplied all officers with pamphlets
defining the rules with regard to prisoners,
and when lectures had been given and orders
issued on these subjects.”
(1) What will the Sydney Harbor bridge
cost? (2) How is the money being raised
to pay for it? —698.
(1) The contract price for the main bridge
and steel approaches is £4,217,721, plus such
sum as may be required to pay increases
in, rates of wages. It has been estimated
that total cost will be £6,000,000. (2)
By loan. Two-thirds of the capital cost : is
to be debited to the Railway Commissioners,
and one-third is to be repaid by a levy at the
rate of id. in the pound of unimproved capi-
tal value of land in the city of Sydney and
eight North Shore municipalities and shires.
Please supply winding details for a set of
short-ivave coils covering a range of from 38
to 30 metres approx.; the formers are of two-
inch BakeHte tubing mounted on four-pin
valve bases. The receiver employs a screen-
grid stage and .00025 MF tuning condensers.
—9BB.
Aerial and RF grid coils, each four turns of
No. 20 SWG enamel-wire wound on the same
former and spaced |in. apart. Reaction coil,
four or five turns of No. 2S SWG enamel-
wire ; detector grid coil, four turns of No. 20
SWG wire. Both coils are wound on same
former and spaced fin. apart. Should the
receiver fail to oscillate, reverse the two
leads to reaction coil.
Ford cars are advertised as British Empire
products. 1 want to know more about it.
(1) Where is the iron ore processed? (2)
Where are the cylinder blocks cast and
bored? (3) What proportion of the cost
of the car marketed in this country stays
in Australia? (4) What proportion stays in
the Empire? —lo9o.
(1) and (2) Canada. (3) and (4) The
latest estimate we have from the Ford Co.
of Australia (Jan. 14) is 71.34 per cent, for
Australia and 95.67 per cent, for the Empire.
All save a very few chassis and motor parts
of cars shipped to Australia are made at
Windsor, Ontario, and bodies are built at
the co.’s works at Geelong (Vic.). The per-
centages quoted include freight, duty and
selling costs.
Briefly, what do (1) the Nationalist
party in South Africa and (2) the South
African party stand for? (3) Does the
Labor party influence South African politics
to any extent, and which of the two domi-
nant parties does it favor? —1185.
(1) The Nationalist party stands for the
Dutch population of South Africa; a section
of it preaches ultimate secession from the
Empire and the re-establishment of an inde-
pendent South Africa. (2) The South
African party stands for the whole of the
British Afrikander population, with adher-
ence to the Empire as its watchword. (3)
Labor, a minority party, has kept the
Nationalists in power for some years past by
coalescing with them. Though entirely Brit-
ish in sentiment and outlook it is content
to share the spoils of office with the party
it supports.
For what reason are certain little honey-
eating perching birds known as “miners”?
Do they burrow in any way? —ll7s.
They were apparently so named by early
settlers in Tasmania from the resemblance
of their noisy calls to those of the birds
known as “minas” or “mynas” in India. These
are members of the starling family, and one
of them, the common Indian myna, has since
been introduced into Australia. For the
Australian bird the spelling “miner” seems
to have priority. Probably the spelling of
the Indian name was not known to the early
settlers. The suggestion that the name was
given because the birds were common in the
mining districts is obviously incorrect, since
Backhouse found it in use in 1832, many
years before gold was discovered. They do
not burrow.
My rose bushes (especially the climbers)
are affected with a white scale, and the
leaves are yellow and falling. Treatment?
—1145.
To get rid of the scale, wash the stems
with soap and water to which have been added
a few drops of Black Leaf 40. A small
brush attached to a stick is the best scrubber.
Yellow leaves are often caused by' red spider
or caterpillars, and a spraying of arsenate
of lead (according to trade formula) will get
rid of them. If the yellow leaves are gath-
ered from the rose bushes and burnt you will
make doubly sure of getting rid of the pests.
After the treatment mulch the roses with old
manure or work a little superphosphate
about the base of the plants.
Some of my pot plants are dying and
others appear to be sick. Cause and cure? —
1153.
May be due to unsuitable soil or treat-
ment. Re-potting may save them. Mix
together three parts loam, one part each of
sand, leaf mould and cow manure and let
it settle. Wash the pots thoroughly, then
place crocks or stones in the bottom of them
for drainage. Put soil in the pots (sufficient
to allow the roots of the plants to be covered),
then pack the soil around the roots. Water
lightly and keep the pots in a shaded position
until the plants are established. Don’t use
chemical fertilisers. To keep worms or
pests from entering the plants through the
drainage get-away, put ware gauze beneath
the pots.
What is the native cherry like? Has it
any uses? Is it similar to the ordinary
cherry-tree? —llBo.
It is a small tree or large shrub, resemb-
ling the European cypress, ranging from
Q’land to W.A. The diminutive flowers are
arranged in clusters on short spikes; the
fruit—very few of which mature —is a glo-
bular nut seated on a short stalk; this stalk
enlarges, turns red and becomes edible, thus
giving rise to the popular but incorrect
notion that it is a sort of cherry with the
stone outside. The leaves are minute scales.
The bark yields a percentage of tannic acid.
The close-grained, handsome wood is used for
gun-stocks, tool-handles and furniture, and
by the aborigines of the Yarra Valley for
spear-throwers. Being a parasite on larger
trees it is difficult to propagate.
I have some rock-lily plants that are not
flourishing. What's the best method of cul-
tivation ? —lO2B.
They should be grown on sandstone, from
which' they gather sustenance. Cover the
stone with a thin layer of rotted bush soil
or decayed ferns, spread out the roots of the
lilies on the stone and then cover the roots
well with more soil. The best position is
an open easterly aspect with little shade; but
when grown in a fernery or bush-house very
few flowers and an abundance of foliage is
generally the result. Light watering should
be given in such quantity that the soil does
not remain sodden. If your plants have
been given this attention, examine them for
disease, insects or fungus, in which case a
light dusting of tobacco dust will do good.
Ten years ago I had my weatherboard
house painted ■with a wood-preserving oil
preparation containing tar. I am now de-
sirous of painting the house white with oil
paint. llow can I neutralise the tar?-— 964.
A coat of shellac could be applied to act
as a sealer, after which painting in the ordi-
nary manner could be carried out. Even
so, the shellac will in time crack, thus let-
ting the tar through. There are paints manu-
factured on a bituminous base which could
be used, but the shades in which these are
usually produced are not suitable for house
painting, being intended more for the finish-
ing of roofs covered with ruberoid, etc. Better
give it another coat of the original prepara-
tion.
What reward did Sir Isaac Newton receive
for his services to science? I have heard that
he died in poverty and obscurity. —lls4.
Apart from what was in those days a
very fair income derived from his various
treatises, which in his lifetime were world-
famous, he was in his latter years Contractor
for Coinage, and made not far short of
£1,000,000 out of it.
Brief Answers.
J.A.N.: Use “a” before words in which
the “h” is sounded, and “an” before words in
which it is silent... .R.E.C.: (1) Write Federal
Taxation Office, Brisbane. (2) Get in touch with
Patents Office, Brisbane. (3) G. E. Crane and Sons
and S. T. Leigh and Co.—both of Sydney... .P.P.:
Yes, the pyramids of Egypt cast shadows when-
ever the sun is at a lower angle than their sides.
. ...V.P.8.: (1) Yes. (2) and (3) Write to the
Director of Recruiting, War Office, Whitehall,
London, S.W’.l J.K.: K. Phibil, Box 368655,
G.P.0., Sydney, is a buyer of snake, shark, croco-
dile and iguana skins... .G.C.: Leave them alone.
. ...C.M.: (1) The N.S.W. Government Astronomer
advises that an enormous amount of computation
would be necessary to reply, as the almanac is pre-
pared only to 1932. From memory, he doubts
whether a total eclipse has occurred in Sydney
within the history of astronomy in N.S.W. (2)
Yes. See Ezra viii, 27; 2 Timothy iv, 1t....
E.J. J.: Write Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street;
or Royal Aus. Historical Society, Education Build-
ings, Bridge-street—both Sydney... .S.M.: Complete
list is given in “The Aus. and N.Z. Waiters’ and
Artists’ Year Book” (2s. 6d.)... .P.M.: Anyone
who practises it could teach you. It is rapidly
dying out, however, and has become an eccentricity
of seamen and the lower and criminal classes... .
L.C.C.: The duration of the journey from Sydney is
34 days. A steamer leaving Sydney at 3 p.m. on
Friday arrives at Auckland or Wellington about
7 a.m. on the following Tuesday... .A.E.A.: It
would require a great deal of calculation and re-
search. Perhaps the Chief Dairy Inspector of your
State agriculture department would assist you to
arrive at exact figures... .F.S.: For a start take
a course of English ; read masters of English prose,
such as Stevenson, Lamb, Macaulay, Hazlitt, Thack-
eray, etc., and bombard newspapers with stories,
articles and pars, about subjects with which you
are conversant.....l. W. A.: (1) Michael Joseph’s
“Short Story Writing for Profit” (65.), N. C.
Fowler’s “The Art of Story Writing” (65.), B. C.
Williams’s “A Handbook on Story Writing” (13s.
6d.). (2) Try Dymock or Angus and Robertson —-
both Sydney... .1.P.: E. Barrington is Mrs. L.
Adams Beck. She is the daughter of late Admiral
John Moresby and grand-daughter of late Admiral
of the Fleet Sir Fairfax Moresby. She has lived
many years in the East and has travelled in Little
Tibet... .A.P.T.: It fell on a Wednesday... .A.A.Iv.:
Neither the legacy nor the amount of damages
received is subject to tax....H.R.: “The Crimson
Cocoanut” was written by lan Hay. A copy can
be obtained from Will Andrade, Central Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney, who holds Australian perform-
ing rights... .E.H.S.: Fred Hagen, Oxford Chambers,
Phillip-street; J. H. Smyth, Ltd., 121 a Castlereagh-
street —both Sydney... .J.J.K.: Write to the Colonial
Secretary, Kingston, Jamaica, W T est Indies....
A.H.M.: See Galton’s “Hereditary Genius,” “Human
Faculty” and “Essays in Eugenics”; Wheethams’s
“Introduction to Eugenics”; Davenport’s “Heredity
in Relation to Eugenics” ; and Schuster’s “Eugenics.”
. ...T.J.W.: Get in touch with the A.W.U. or the
Dept. of Labor, Brisbane.... S.C.: Try Mick
Simmons, Ltd., George-street, Sydney... .E.D.: A.
Hoettie, 264 Latrobe-street, Melbourne. There are
no Sydney agents... .P.A.S.: (1) Home Secretary’s
Dept., Brisbane. (2) Any leading tanner. .. .L.K.K.:
The seven wonders of the world are generally
enumerated as follows: The Pyramids, the Hanging
Gardens of Babylon, the Tomb of Mausolus, the
Temple of Diana at Ephesus, the Colossus of Rhodes,
the Statue of Jupiter by Phidias, and the Pharos
(lighthouse) of Alexandria. .. .W.S.S.: Suggest you
call upon the Taxidermist at the Australian
Museum, Sydney... .J.M.: (1) No, but there should
be a minimum distance from centre of ground to
boundary of 70 yards. (2) Cannot understand what
ij required. (3) Approximately 90 yards from
centre of ground to boundary fence in all direc-
tions. (4) N 0... .L.A.S.: Yes. Mareussen Brothers,
28 Martin-place, Sydney.... M.H.: You would be en-
titled to earn an amount not exceeding 10s. per
week without reduction of pension. This amount
is exclusive of the allowance for rent... . J.A.S.:
A man may not marry his sister’s daughter, but
the table of affinity, which is the authority in
such matters, does not exclude the daughter of a
half sister and legislation has not affected this in
either State... .D.C.H.: Write Secretary, Air Board,
Defence Dept., Melbourne... .W. 8.: Can’t say where
his father was bom. Files of Brisbane newspapers
might tell you. The son died in London, January
12, 1907.., .W.S.G.: In the absence of a reser-
vation in the Crown lease giving adjoining property
holders a right to enter the leased land for access
to the river, such entry would constitute a trespass.
Best course is to come to an agreement with your
neighbor that for a reasonable payment you should
have the right you require. Might be as well to
write to the Lands Department stating the facts....
N.J.A.: Harold Parker, the sculptor, was born at
Aylesbury (England) in 1873. He was brought to
Brisbane at the age of three and studied wood-
carving and modelling at the local technical college.
He returned to England when he was 23....
K.M.: Stanley Bruce and W. M. Hughes are members
of the Privy Council; so are Isaac Isaacs and Adrian
Knox. .. .R.E.N.: (1) Some of the earlier ones sold
here did give trouble, due, it is generally considered,
ta faulty assembly. Would suggest an inspection of
differential before purchase. (2) No. Suggest,
however, for any light used car the use of only
high-grade oil, same to be changed periodically
and not added to .J.G.: “Tommy” Dodd was a
Londoner and a product of the 1889-90 maritime
strike. He was fined for libelling the banks. His
history is buried in old newspaper files... .C.H.: The
French note has no intrinsic value, but it might
interest a collector... .G.E.8.: Many types of butter
boxes have been patented in the Commonwealth at
various times. Particulars can be obtained only by
search of patent records, which is a job for a patent
attorney. The procedure in applying for a patent
is the lodging in the Patent Office, Melbourne, of an
application on the prescribed form, together with
specification and drawings and the payment of a
fee. Y T our best course is to consult, say, Griffith,
Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos House, Ybrk-street,
Sydney... .J.D.: (1) 443 Barkly-street, St. Kilda.
(2) Three days. Berriman was shot October 8,
1923, and Murray was arrested October 11. (3)
Senior Detective Clugston.. . .W.M.1.: A person in
order to be eligible to receive an invalid pension
must be totally and permanently incapacitated for
all work. Make application for a pension on the
prescribed form, which may be obtained from the
local post office, nearest Registrar of Pensions, or
the Deputy Commissioner of Pensions, Sydney. A
medical certificate must be submitted with the
application. .. .L.E.C.: Write J. D. Malone, Aus-
tralian-made Motor-car and Aeroplane Co., Ltd., 16
Hunter-street, Sydney F. 8.: Bidding is not com-
pulsory at any stage, but a player who has declined
to bid on a hand cannot subsequently bid
W.P.: It cannot be taught by correspondence. There
is no institute in London recognised by the medical
authorities here C.J.H.: Get in touch with the
American Consul, 17 O’Connell-street, Sydney
(Many others mailed.)


ASK THE MAN
WHO’S BEEN THERE—
And he will tell you that the finest holiday
he ever had was at /Vlt. Buffalo National
Park—Victoria’s “Garden of the Gods.”
Wide-flung views of mountain and valley, a great granite plateau with tre-
mendous precipitous walls, deep ravines and yawning cliffs, clear mountain
streams and deep, placid lakes—these are some of the features which cause
those who have once visited Mt. Buffalo to return there year after year.
Excepting the Christmas period, when rather higher rates
operate, the tariff at The Chalet during the summer
and autumn is only 15/- per day for weekly vacationists.
Book at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney, or
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or else get in touch direct with the manager of
The Chalet.
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail ”
. BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The “Daily Mail
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation —
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from;—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London : R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Bant on, N. S.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains.
There, soon after the discovery of the
rich western plains in 1813, Jeremiah
Gilbert took up a large holding and
established a family, resisting tempta-
tion to join in the later gold rush out
of which Banton grew. In 1905 Dr.
Gherardi, an Italian political exile,
attends at the. birth of the latest
Gilbert descendant in Banton, and
is slightly puzzled by the fact that
the mother, though belonging to
that well-to-do clan, had, been
given only the poor nursing assist-
ance that Banton had to offer.
He concludes that this is in accord
with the people of the district, who
belong there and will not leave; and
takes consolation from the thought
that he at any rate will not stay there
very long.
Chapter 11.
(1)
THIS must be the house, Leo decided;
this tumble-down shanty, sprawling
like a misshapen animal at the base
of the hill. He had chosen to walk rather
than drive, the day being fine and cool,
with a faint wind stirring the leaves of
the trees to murmurous contact and bend-
ing the grasses to its restless will.
On a near-by slope a man was ploughing,
the reddish-brown earth unrolling like a
weaver’s cloth from his slow labor. Idly
Leo observed him, reluctant to enter the
cottage. A dog, nosing in the wake of the
plough, was lured to sudden and frantic
chase by a groundlark; the intermittent
shouts of the man floated on the air, but
the horses plodded on, apathetic, undis-
turbed, following the furrow.
There was something soothing in that
slow, undeviating progress. As Leo watched
he found his mind emptying of the thoughts
which had disturbed it during this long
walk. He had lived a life, pounding along
the ill-made road, so preoccupied that he
scarcely noticed when he stumbled into
ruts or strayed from his route, and had
found himself at the end of the journey
disordered by emotions. And that was
wrong. The sick woman in the cottage was
not concerned with his private conflicts
but had need of undivided attention.
With an effort he turned his eyes from
the slope and went towards the gate which
hung from its hinges. From the place there
rose a thick, not unpleasant smell, a blend-
ing of manure and freshly-trampled earth
and sweating animals; a primitive, over-
powering compound.
“Bad, bad!” he muttered, surmising the
condition in which he would find his
patient.
There were gaps in the plank walls of the
cottage, and the tin roof, V-shaped, descend-
ing to a flat projection over the verandah,
was held down by heaped stones and old
iron. The rough brick chimney was crumb-
ling, showing yawning fissures, and tattered
hessian hung where doors should have been.
Propped against one sagging wall were a
sulky and an old tip-dray, cluttered with
tools and harness. Two white cows, walking
rump to rump, came round the side of the
cottage and stared with soft eyes at Leo,
who had paused, momentarily interested,
on the narrow path. Abortive attempts at
a garden showed in two bare plots neatly
bordered with white stones; a stunted ger-
anium-bush splashed with red blooms lolled
against the verandah-post, and an arum-lily
planted in a rusted biscuit-tin strove for
life.
Still unobserved, he went round the side
of the cottage and the back, with its hotch-
potch of fOwlruns, cowbails and ramshackle
sheds, was spread for his gaze. Some hens
were fighting with great flapping of wings
over a tin dish, and watching them were two
children; one, a boy, squatting serious and
intent on his haunches, the other, a girl,
perambulating in a half-formed dance, her
single woollen garment held high above her
naked little body. As she danced she sang,
a wordless song, its limited melody broken
now and then by shrill imitation of the
squawking fowls.
Seeing him, both children grew still, star-
ing with wide eyes. Then the girl, recover-
ing first, dashed with excited screams across
the yard and through the doorway. Ey the
time he had gained the verandah a man
was lifting the flapping hessian curtain.
“You send for me? Doctor Gherardi?”
Leo inquired abruptly in his imperfect
English. “Some boy brought a message.
Your wife—she is sick?”
“Yair, that’s right, Doc. The missus’s bin
took bad. She ain’t been too well fer a
week or more, and she got worse larst
night.”
He stood aside for Leo to enter. He was
a huge, loose-limbed young fellow. As he
drawled out his explanations you would
have thought he was careless of any ver-
dict, but there was a snap to the way he
clenched his tobacco-stained teeth on the
stem of his pipe, and his bearded chin quiv-
ered slightly.
A little at a loss he bulked in the door-
way while Leo bent over the woman who
lay on the bed in the inner room. Except
for a muttered command to the children
who hung around his legs, he made no com-
ment during the examination; but when
Leo straightened he spoke.
“Is she bad, Doc.?”
At his question the'woman opened her
eyes, uncovering her fear. Gherardi smiled
down at her, a swift flash of brilliantly
white teeth. His smile, radiant and kind,
seemed to reassure the woman, and her
eyelids drooped again.
“How long has she been bad, you say?”
“Well, she never let on. I been pretty
busy, out in the paddocks all day. I never
knew she were bad until yesterday. Ex-
cept she said she had a headache.” His
voice filtered away uneasily. In some
vague way he felt culpable. That doctor’s
eyes seemed to go right through a fellow.
But he seemed to know his job. You felt
that things would be all right.
“Yes, yes,” said Leo impatiently. “But
try to tell me. When did she first complain
of pain?” In swift staccato sentences he
strove to elicit information. His dynamic
personality, his harsh, compelling voice,
were as the beating of wings in the little
room. And as he grew more voluble he
was almost incomprehensible to the man.
The woman opened her eyes. “I been
feeling bad for two weeks,” she said with
difficulty. “I told you, Jim, that night after
the picnic. I had a terrible headache.”
“Ah!” said Leo. Subduing his voice, he
questioned the woman gently. His fingers
on the thin wrist were kind.
“Come with me,” he said when he had
learned all he wished to know, and he went
past the husband into the outer room. “It
is typhoid. She must go to the hospital.
You have the sulkj'?”
A sea of protest surged through the man’s
frightened soul.
“No,” he said.
“She must go. If she stay here she may
die.”
Fear struck at the man like a whiplash.
He flinched.
“No,” he said sullenly.
“You will let her die?”
“No! And that’s why she’s not goin’ to
no ’ospital. I seen too many go up there
and git carried out.” His own words had
evoked an intolerable picture. “She
ain’t she won’t she can’t.”
The room for all its poverty showed a
voiceless yearning for beauty! A cluster of
wax fruits under a glass cover, a picture-
frame of gummed shells, a china shepherd-
ess, some wild flowers in a broken jug. The
comfortless room was clean, the red cloth
on the table unspotted. Strange conflict:
the tattered hessian, the gaping planks, and
a jug of fresh-gathered wild flowers!
How should he convince this man? How
could he break through his rugged wall of
prejudice, prejudice he was finding too
common in the little town. His months
among these people had shown him there
were many among the poorer, more igno-
rant farmers and townsfolk who regarded
the hospital with fear and aversion. And it
was, he thought with a sinking heart, very
inefficient. Twenty-five years behind the
times—but nothing could be gained by re-
membering that now. This woman must
be removed; the man’s timidity and repug-
nance overcome.
But how?
You could not threaten, compel by force.
He had learned that during his years in
Australia. You could not treat these people
as you would treat the peasants in Italy.
He had made that mistake in the beginning,
once, twice. But not now. You could not
oppose their resistance with autocracy.
These people listened to you. Unless you
went too far they would not fight you;
but by passivity they would vanquish you
unless you won them by methods com-
patible with their independence.
An immense weariness assailed him. Had
he come to this? He, Leo Gherardi, praying
by the gods, to be permitted to save the life
of this negligible farmer’s wife! Pleading
for a chance to exercise his skill, laying his
brilliance at the feet of this man who
spurned it in sullen obstinacy.
“Stay quiet a moment!” he rasped, and
at his words the other fell silent.
“How,” began Leo casually, “are things
with you? You had good crops last year?
You made plenty money?”
Disconcerted by this seeming irrelevancy,
the man lumbered awkwardly on the new
train of thought.
“No,” he said heavily after a time, “larst
year were pretty bad. Nobody round here
got a full crop. The dry spring beat us.
We missed a couple of good showers they
got in other parts of the district. No. I
lost heavy larst year.” He seemed to droop.
His whole figure appeared oppressed by the
weight of worry which threatened to crush
his spirit.
“I was doin’ pretty well up till then,”
he said, sensing sympathy in this otherwise
uncomprehended listener. “I been here
five year. I paid a bit off the place in
1903. We had a good year. But these larst
two years pulled me down. I gotter pay
the interest this month, and Gawd knows
I ain’t got it! The store’s stickin’ to me.
I reckon we’d be about starvin’ if it weren’t
fer old Butler. He sticks to us farmers.”
As he spoke an idea had entered his head,
an idea which flattered him by its cunning.
In a vague way he realised that this fellow
would be wanting payment for curing May.
Perhaps, if he made things appear bad
enough this fellow would cure May for
nothing. He hadn’t sent any bill to the
O’Briens for Mick’s leg. A whining note
crept into his voice.
“Lord bless yer, Doc I s’pose, if the
truth’s said, I’m as near finished as any man
in the country. But if I git any sort of luck
this year I kin pull up. An’ I’ll pay me
debts.”
In his muddled head ran a single, crystal-
clear vein of reasoning. . Make out that
things were hard, but not impossible. Let
him feel he would get paid some day, but
not now.
A little intoxicated by his own worth, he
was rambling on, to be halted by a low
moan from the inner room. It pricked the
rising bubble of his elation, turned him
dumb, beast-frightened again, a child look-
ing meekly to Leo for a removal of the
dark thing which crept into his house.
“Well,” said Leo with abrupt command.
“You have no money. You cannot pay a
nurse. Two nurses. This woman must be
watched night and day. She must have the
proper food. You understand? If ne-
glected, she—will die. Understand?” His
immense vitality made the words like blows.
“This disease is contagious. You may get
it. Your children may get it. Who will
look after her? She must go to the hos-
pital. I promise she will be well cared for.
Now, what are you going to do about it?”
(2)
A child’s thin wailing cry followed him
down the road, a high sustained cry, oddly
disturbing Well, he had other things to
think about besides a child’s cry. Children
soon stop crying, soon forget their hurts.
He must telephone the matron to have
the isolation-hut in readiness. That hut!
The matron was a good woman, but a bad
nurse. Would he ever be able to convince
her that the hut should be always ready,
and not, when unoccupied, used as a
lumber-room, a rubbish-heap?
At the thought his anger mounted.
“Some day,” he said, “I will kill that
woman. When she looks at me like a
sheep and says ‘I know, Doctor, I know;
but what can I do?’ What can she do?
What I tell her! But that she will never do! ”
Then his rage left him, and, leaving him,
seemed to drain away all his strength. As
he sank to rest on a stump beside the road-
way he knew that his anger was not directed
against the poor woman whom he had so
foully abused, but had a wider objective:
himself, the recklessness which had so
twisted his life. He cursed Fate, which had
led him by splendid paths into this trap-
had led him. to this sleepy hamlet at the
end of a bypath.
He was about a mile from the town.
From where he sat he could see its whole
straggling area. The rays of the setting sun
struck fire from the iron roofs. The roads
debouching from Main-street were like rib-
bons waving wind-tossed from a maypole.
They curved over rise, dipped into decli-
vity, and meandered carelessly out of sight.
The town was formless, undesigned,, built
up with little more shape than that given
by the situation of the goldmines which had
provoked its foundation. A thin straggle of
dwellings, like aimless arms, still stretched
from the main bulk to the various leads,
denying compactness, and streets tramped
out by the miners led nowhere save to
a few humpies, shafts and mullock-heaps.
Rightly the town should never hawe been
built on that site. The nearest river was
thirty miles away. There was no local
water conservation. The inhabitants relied
on rain catchment for their supply. And
often, in dry years, the corrugated-iron
tanks, unlovely adornment of every house,
were empty and the water-cart, a primitive
vehicle, made many journeys from the
springs five miles away to supply the town.
In the thirty-five years since the passing
of the gold boom, progress had been slow,
at times almost imperceptible. Yet there
had been progress. Here and there bark
roofs had given way to iron. The shifting
foundations of the little place had been
cemented by the opening up of the district
by agriculturists, and the district had begun
to be known for its wheat. Five months
ago a flourmill had joined its significant
voice to the quiet murmur of the town’s
trade and commerce.
Leo stood up. With a passionate gesture
he flung out his hands towards the scene,
as though to push it from his sight. Then
his hands fell again limply to his side, his
body sagged. This, then, was where a
glorious Fate had led him! To this barren,
unbeautiful, alien little town, which,
crouched behind the barricade of its hills,
did little more than hear the thundering
wheels of the chariot progress as it made its
way along the highways of the world!
(3) . . ;
He saw the little town of Campli, m the
province of Teramo, on the Adriatic side
of middle Italy, where he had been born.
Campli between two rivers, encradled by
mountains—the Mounts of the Flowers
they had been called. In winter the moun-
tains seemed higher. They towered, snow-
covered, reaching white fingers to the
leaden skies. In winter the jutting crags,
the trembling slopes were playground for
the winds which, with wild voice, screamed
and howled from the dark abyss, and tore
with menacing shriek along each crack and
cranny.
E<ut in the spring the mountains turned
soft and beautiful and kind. Wild flowers
blazed on the slopes, rioted in the gullies,
clothed and covered with beauty all harsh
and rugged forms. The fragrance from a
million blossoms was wafted down the
valley. The voice of the wind gave way to
the murmur of innumerable bees.


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
frfe pattern
every week
YOUREYES
The penalty of neglect may mean that cruel affliction—
partial or total blindness. When the eyes become tender,
the lids swollen or redness develops, apply ROSE’S EYE
LOTION instantly. This will check the trouble and pre-
vent much pain and suffering. ROSE’S EYE LOTION is
outstanding in the treatment of all affections of the Eyes so
common in the hot arid parts of Australia, and nothing could
be more safe for the Eyes of young children. Be on your
guard when purchasing. The so-called “just as good” is not as
good. Say you must have ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION —the original and genuine.
at all High-class Pharmacies and Stores.
as
ẃ
ẅ
Yet, he thought, "with a slight uplift of
heart, he was breaking down some of those
barriers; he was beginning to understand.
This afternoon, now, he had not done too
badly. The man had been ignorant, obstin-
ate, frightened, yet he had prevailed upon
him, as one of his own kind might have done.
He was less depressed when he turned
into the street which led to his house; an
unpretentious house, brick with iron roofing,
its enclosing verandahs overhung with pine
and pepper trees. One must live in the
present, if one were to live at all, he
thought. There was work to be done here.
Not such work as one might have been
doing in Tizzoni’s laboratory; unspectacu-
lar, monotonous work; drudgery; but good
work. If you could say at the end of a day
“I have saved that man pain or that
woman’s life,” you could feel a little proud.
Useful work.
(4)
He could hear coming from his house
the sound of a piano, and high above it
his wife’s voice, glorious, full throated. The
dark street seemed lighted by sound, en-
livened by a tumbling cascade of melody,
which rose and fell, rose again until it
seemed to quiver upwards through the night
to the first pricking star.
Swiftly he relapsed into his mental sick-
ness. His heart grew heavy. Poor little
Teresa! He had forgotten her during these
hours of memory, forgotten her agony so
much greater than his own, forgotten her
soul, lost in the strange darkness of this
strange country, her failure to find in her
exile any gleam of light.
He unlatched the gate and went pound-
ing up the gravelled path. On either side
of him was wilderness, a graveyard of a
garden. Subconsciously he thought that he
must get a gardener from somewhere. It
was bad, this unkemptness. But the know-
ledge of transiency prevented such creation
as a garden. Where the heart was not inter-
ested, the mind went to sleep. To build,
one required a sense of permanency. How
much potential achievement had been
aborted'by the words “We won’t be staying
here”? ' But the garden must be attended,
even if one were only staying for another
year. It was bad for business. A man’s
house and its order could reflect his mind
and its order. The town was growing, there
was room for more than one doctor. But
more work, no competition, meant more
money, swifter release. When he had gone
let other men come; a dozen if they wished,
if the town grew big enough. But he was
not interested in the growth of the town.
He would not, God willing, see it much
longer than it was.
The red lamp glowed behind him on the
iron arch over the gate. The glass door
of the hallway showed a faint yellow illu-
mination, an oasis in the black bulk of the
house. An errant wind stirred the pine-
trees and they beat, flail-like, on the iron
roof.
Suddenly the music within the house
ceased. A high full note, exquisite, sus-
tained, broke and fell raggedly into a
moan; a few intolerable discordant crashes
on the piano, wild emotion translated by
frenzied fingers, the bang of the lid, the
sound of hurrying feet, a door shut then
silence.
He let himself into the house, hung his
hat absently on the hallstand. Everything
was quiet. Softly he approached the door
of the bedroom which gave on to the hall,
and, putting his ear to it, heard the sound
of low sobbing.
He sighed, placed his hand on the door-
knob, when a sudden surge of anger made
him turn and stride down the hall. It was
not fair, he thought violently. By the gods,
it was not fair! Their life was tragic
enough, but. she did nothing to mitigate
that tragedy. Nothing! Things need not
have been so bad except for her stubborn-
ness. She could, if she wished, take it as
an adventure, a temporary excursion, which
it was. But she rebelled all the time,
seethed with revolt, cried and moaned and
reviled him when she was not passionately
pleading.
It was not just! She had wanted to
come with him. He hadn’t wanted to bring
her. He had tried to avoid bringing her,
had tried to tell her what it would mean,
though he had scarcely known himself what
this exile would mean.
His fatigue, his fears, his bitterness found
its culmination in a tearing intensity of rage.
w


Legal Notice.
'J’O the Children of first cousins of Thomas Caldbeck
deceased and particularly to —
(a) The Grandchildren of John Sawyer Isaac
Sawyer, Frederick Sawyer and Rachel Gale (nee
Sawyer)
(b) The Children of Peter Sawyer
(c) Thomas Block and Susan Armstrong (nee
Block).
Pursuant to an Order of the High Court of
Justice Saorstat Eireann made in the matter of the
Estate of Thomas Caldbeck deceased Lewis Goodbody
and Another Plaintiffs and Joseph M. McClure
Defendant all persons claiming to be children of the
first cousins of the said Thomas Caldbeck late of
161 North Circular Road Dublin living at the
date of his death on the Bth day of February 1930
and particularly
(a) The Grandchildren of John Sawyer Isaac
Sawyer Frederick Sawyer and Rachel Gale (nee
Sawyer) children of a Thomas Sawyer who resided
at Munnagh in the Queen’s County Ireland in or
about the years 1790 to 1810. (b) The children of
Peter Sawyer (a grandson of said Thomas Sawyer)
born in the Queen’s County Ireland believed to have
gone to America about 50 years ago. (c) Thomas
Block and Susan Armstrong {nee Block) both children
of Annie Block {nee Lalor) who was married about
1845 are on or before the 25th day of March
1931 to come in and prove their claims at the
Central Office at the Courts of Justice The Castle
Dublin or in default thereof they will be peremp-
tovilv excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Friday the 27th day of March 1931 at eleven o’clock
of the forenoon at tlie Examiner’s Office High Court
of Justice Dublin Castle is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims. Dated this 11th
day of December 1930. JOHN HEALY, Examiner.
A. & L. GOODBODY, Solicitors, 24 Dame Street,
Dublin.
Legal Notice.
QAORSTAT EIREANN. CIRCUIT COURTS.
SOUTH-WESTERN CIRCUIT No. 7.
COUNTY OF CLARE.
EQUITY SUIT NO. 1014.
Between MICHAEL HINCHY of Cappanageera
Lissycasey in the County of Clare Ireland Farmer
administrator of the personal estate and effects of
Daniel Griffy late of Turnpike Ennis in the
County of Clare Ireland Retired Excise Officer
Deceased Plaintiff. .
And HONOR SEXTON of Lissycasey in the County
of Clave Defendant.
ADVERTISEMENT FOR NEXT OF KIN OF DANIEL
GRIFFY DECEASED.
Pursuant to a Decree of his Lordship the Circuit
Court Judge of the County of Clare made in the
above suit on the 21st day of February 1930 all
persons claiming to be next of kin of Daniel Griffy
late of Turnpike Ennis in the County of Clare Ire-
land Retired Excise Officer who died in or about
the month of December 1927 are on or before the
28th day of April 1931 to lodge with the County
Registrar for the County of Clare Court House
Ennis a statement in writing of their claims as
such next of kin with particulars of their relation-
ship to the deceased and are also required to
attend before said Registrar at the Court House
Ennis by themselves or their Solicitors on the 30th
day of April 1931 with all necessary proofs and
documentary and other evidence in support of their
claims.
Dated this 15th day of December 1930.
MICHAEL KILLEEN,
County Registrar for the County of Clare.
KERIN & HICKMAN, Solicitors having Carriage,
Ennis.
GAVAN DUFFY & KING, 125 Queen Street, Melb.
Solicitors and Agents for the said Kerin & Hickman.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 9 of 1931.
Between CHARLES HECTOR ATKINS Petitioner
And ETTIE ATKINS (formerly Ettie Lewis)
Respondent.
To ETTIE ATKINS late of Jarrett Street Leich-
hardt near Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Charles Hector
Atkins has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a Dissolution
of Marriage on the grounds that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted him and with-
out any such cause or excuse left him continuously
so deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the eighth day
of April One thousand nine hundred and thirty-one
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this 13th day of January, 1931.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. J. L. LAY,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . , 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1234 of 1930.
Between RUBY ANDERSON Petitioner
And GEORGE ANDERSON Respondent.
To GEORGE ANDERSON late of Wollongong in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Ruby Anderson lias
commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion during three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the Tenth day of
April one thousand nine hundred and thirty-one and
in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
Dated the Thirteenth day of January, a.d. 1931.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
BRAYE & MALCOLMSON, Eldon Chambers, 92b
Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales, Solicitors
, for the abovenamed Petitioner.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who w.ill
quote you price for the original.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
History repeated itself in the William
Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley; for the
second successive year Greenline started at
5 to 4 on and suffered defeat. In 1930 he
went under to Figure, another Sydney can-
didate; this time iiis colors were lowered by
Mystic Peak, owned and trained locally by
P. B. Quinlan. Mystic Peak captured the
V.R.C. Cantala Stakes in November, and,
meeting Leslie Barnett’s Newmarket Handi-
cap hero on 91b. better than weight-for-age
terms, would have been at shorter odds than
7 to 1 but for a training mishap on the
previous Thursday, when he crashed into a
hurdle and fell while at exercise.
Moonee Valley punters rightly estimated
that there was little to choose between
Greenline and Wise Force, the latter (like
Mystic Peak) being unpenalised. Dempsey,
who has lost the riding of Wise Force, rode
Greenline, and Jim Accola, who trains Wise
Force, gave the mount on the Queensland
stallion to his young relative Daniels.
Dempsey’s methods and light touch on the
reins used to suit Wise Force, but he may
not be a thoroughly satisfactory substitute
for Jim Pike as rider of Greenline. After
shaking off the early pacemaker, Carradale,
these two horses had the race to themselves
until Ashley Reed brought Mystic Peak from
the rear and, cleverly engineering an open-
ing on the rails, settled the leaders with one
short paralysing run. Bulletin scribe
admits the galloping ability of Mystic Peak,
but is convinced that the best horse did not
win. Reed outwitted his rivals in the
saddle, Dempsey and Daniels having engaged
in a cut-throat struggle. The time was 2sec.
slower than Heroic’s course record for six
furlongs, lmin. 12isec., established in the
same event, four years ago. Greenline and
Wise Force, however, were flat out for the
last half-mile.
Nauru, raced on lease by the Victorian
amateur rider Claude Grice, was backed
down to flimsy odds for the Tweedside Trial
Hurdle, and when he romped home book-
makers waxed sarcastic concerning the dis-
plays given by some other candidates. Coun-
cillor (by Valais), penalised 91b. for winning
at Geelong, almost turned himself inside out
at some of the obstacles. Dependability at
jumping cannot be easily acquired, as was
illustrated also by Wakerife and Wirrate.
Punters planked their Nauru spoils on C. B.
Ivellow’s filly Gallantic for the Niddrie
Handicap. The daughter of Heroic had 9.10
up, and she scraped home by a mere half-
head from Solex (Drake —Imputation), who
had 3st. less to carry. Neville Percival,
rider of Solex, lodged a protest, alleging that
Duncan had struck his mount over the head ;
but the stewards ruled against him.
Lord Essex, who belongs to Jack Holt
but is raced on lease by Claude Goodfellow,
the Flemington trainer, was made a hot pot
for the Caldermeade Handicap. His dam
claims relationship with Heroic, which pro-
bably accounts for Holt having acquired the
gelding as a yearling. It was an afternoon
of thrilling finishes. Lord Essex led into
the straight, but was pipped on the post
by little Taras, a solid third favorite, owned
by F. E. Gobbold, of Queensland. Garrulity,
a Magpie filly, returned her backers 20 to 1
by crediting A. T. Creswick with a division
of the Warrook Highweight Handicap. Her
trainer, Hudson, lias been in comparative
obscurity for some time, but will be remem-
bered as having prepared Fujisan for his
A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap success in 1925.
Cecil Godby and his followers plunged on
Uriah Keep for the other division, but the
Rossendale colt began slowly and could not
gain a place. The honors went to Yalgoglin,
by Fleuriste, who followed home his stable-
mate Rostrum in the A.J.S. Epsom Handicap
of 1922.
if * * *
For Epsom on Saturday:—
Epsom Handicap : Elarby; next, Lampra.
Tliree-year-old Handicap : Santorb ; next,
Ermine.
* 4! * *
A while ago Casque d’Or was reckoned
the unluckiest horse in Sydney, his habit of
running seconds being as heartbreaking as
that of T.M.S. in other years. But, as not
infrequently happens in such cases, a change
of stables has brought a change of fortune;
the black Rossendale gelding’s last five
starts have been productive of three wins,
the most important of which was achieved
in the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes at Randwick
on Saturday. Six to one was always avail-
able, and better could be got in places,
Panola (9 to 2), Waugoola (6 to 1), Bini
Boy (7 to 1) and Auda (8 to 1) being
backed with some spirit. Drawn on the
extreme outside, Casque d’Or was enabled
to move in a bit by the misbehavior of
Credence and Ruffler. He jumped away
smartly, and only Caravel Boy, Bim Boy,
Carnella and Beckwith were in front of
him as the field moved into the straight. A
fast run took him past them in a very short
space, and the result was virtually decided
a furlong from home. Sir Chrystopher (14
to 1), the second horse, was nearly three
lengths behind the black at the end of the
“six” (run in lmin. ; Ranworth (25
to 1), who just beat Panola for third place,
was another length and a half away; Car-
nella, Venetian Lady, Gay Ballerina and
Bim Boy were next.
Casque d’Or, who had seemed a good thing
to this Page, is owned by a lady, Mrs.
Gollan, and was ridden by Pratt. Jim
Barden is the successful trainer. Venetian
Lady won the Challenge Stakes and the Don-
caster in the same year, and so did Don
Moon. Casque d’Or may possibly follow
suit, for he is well up to weight, has shown
that he can get a mile, and doesn’t mind
heavy going.
There are some pretty good two-year-olds
about this season. Financial, a filly by
QUITE SATISFACTORY.
HOST (trying to fix a friendly handicap): “Suppose I stand you one hole in the match?”
GUEST (just arrived from America) : “I’ll say it; guess the nineteenth ’ll do me.”
Paper Money—Rebekah, is one; favorite
(at 5 to 2) for the first division of tlie
Widden Handicap on the score of successes
at Warwick Farm and Moorefield, she made
it “three in a row” in most impressive style,
galloping the five furlongs in lmin. 2sec.
William Kelso’s Suntan (backed from
twelves to sevens) took 2Jsee. longer in
winning the second division, but he wasn’t
pushed. Financial is owned by Pat Osborne,
and so is John Buchan, who, “just in off
the grass,” as a disgusted punter expressed
it, surprised the stable and everyone else
by romping home in the Paddington Handi-
cap from Gemlight, Halifax and Nolens
Volens, who deadheated for third. The
erratic English horse gave the ring a
“skinner,” his nominal quote being 20 to 1;
tote speckers collected £2O 12s. for 10s.
One more indication that a straightout tote
at Randwick, even with 121 per cent, and
fractions deducted, would make the pomp of
McSbortodds ridiculous.
J. S. Brunton’s Magpie filly Carry On
was another who won at a long price—l 4 to 1.
Her race was the Bondi Handicap for three-
year-olds, and she beat a big field so con-
vincingly—though the promising Queensland-
bred Sun Eagle was also doing well at the
finish —that she naturally became favorite
for the Adrian Knox Stakes, held on the
Monday, especially as Ilomedale had broken
down. In the Stakes she was a close second
to the greatly-improved Tantrum (6 to 1).
Though he had had to be eased in his
work because of a mishap, Valparaiso was a
3-to-l favorite for the January Handicap.
He got to the front early, and made a gal-
lant effort to stay there, but after shaking
off the persistent Royal Smile, from Queens-
land, was unable to do likewise to Exact
(10 to 1), albeit well clear of the third
horse, Don Moon (12 to 1). New Sweet
was a good fourth, and Dalston, who had
made up a lot of ground, was just behind
her. It. looked a good Anniversary Handicap
trial on Dalston’s part, especially as Bartle
did not punch him out when there was no
hope of catching the leaders.
The Anniversary Handicap proved a
decent proposition for Ikey. Pratt had an-
other win in steering home Inducement (12
to 1), who, regaining form at last, showed
well all through the mile and a half spin, and
landed the bacon from the fast-finishing
Voleuse, also a 12-to-l shot. Star d’Or
at 6’s filled the third place, and the very fair
time of 2min. 32sec. was recorded for the
journey. Western Lass broke down, and a
couple of well-backed ones in Dalston and
Valparaiso might well have done so for all
the showing they made. Inducement had
beaten only two home in the January Han-
dicap.
* ’ *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes: Valentino; next, Pro
Note.
Three-year-old Handicap: Frontier; next,
Lucky Dane.
Flying Handicap: Carnella; next, Beau
Dennis.
Moorefield Handicap: Cavedweller or
Black Douglas; next, Attente.
Hurstville Mile: Staroff; next, Cave-
dweller or My Talisman.
é


Gert : "What's nmrohg with it how ?"
sert; " Im trvihq to find out’’
GiEPt-. "Aho you calu 't cm? !”
sert:"Oh nothing, so pouts
A=> THAT v
The Ins and Outs
South Africa, after holding the upper hand
throughout the first two Tests against Eng-
land, narrowly averted a crash in the third,
just managing to make a draw of it with two
wickets in hand. The game was played on
grass at Durban, and, with some help from
the pitch, the Notts left-hander Voce proved
a stiff proposition for the home side, taking
5 for 58 in the first innings of 177. Eng-
land closed its score with only one man
gone (Wyatt 54) for 223, of which Ham-
mond made 136 n.o. South Africa’s early bats
men collapsed in the second knock and it
looked like an innings win for England.
Taylor came to the rescue however, with a
sterling 64 not out —his 50th innings against
English bowling—and with the help of Cat-
teral played out time. J. C. White and
Hammond got the wickets on this occasion.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The third Test match between
Australia and the West Indies in Brisbane
ended in another hollow victory for the
home side, which won by an innings and 217
runs. Once more nearly all the tourists
were helpless against the slow bowling, Grim-
mett taking 9 for 144 in the match and
Oxenham 6 for 76. Headley, however,
played a classic shot for 102 n.o. in his
side’s first innings of 193. The fourth
Test will not be played until the second
week in February, at Melbourne. It is to
be hoped that the selectors decide this time
to give some of the big guns a rest and
include a few of the promising newcomers
in the Australian side.
* * * *
“Third Man” : Bradman continues to add
to his collection of records. His 223 against
the West Indies in Brisbane is his fourth
double-century in Test cricket, a feat never
approached by any other batsman and not
likely to be for many a year. Further, it is
the highest Test score by an Australian in
this country. Syd Gregory was the first, to
pass the second hundred, in an Australian
Test when he made 201 in Sydney in 1894.
That stood until Victor Trumper topped it
with 214 at Adelaide 16 years later. Jack
Ryder has also hoisted the. double century
with 201 n.o. at Adelaide against Gilligan’s
side.
* * * *
“Math”: Performances are interesting in
view of the squabble between “S.T.S.” and
“Lansdowne” in recent Bulletins over
Giffen and Noble. Giffen started his Test
qareer at Melbourne on Dec. 31, 1881, and
ended at Kennington Oval (Eng.) in August,
1896; Noble began at Melbourne on Jan.
1. 1898, and ended at The Oval (Eng.) on
Aug. 11, 1909. They met different players
on different kind of wickets and conditions.
In cold averages this was the result of their
loss of perspiration :
Batting.
Giffen: 31 matches, 53 innings, 161 highest score,
0 not out, 1238 runs —average 23.35.
Noble: 39 matches, 63 innings, 133 highest score,
6 not outs, 1905 runs —average 30.72.
Bowling.
Giffen: 1277.1 overs, 6325 balls, 434 maidens,
2791 runs, 103 wickets —average 27.09.
Noble: 1169.1 overs, 6845 balls, 353 maidens,
2850 runs, 115 wickets —average 24.78.
One can’t help siding with Plum Warner
that the better all-rounder was M.A.N., who
dropped out of big cricket much earlier than
his ability warranted.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : The N.S.W. country cricket
week in Sydney cost £6OO, and didn’t reveal
any talent worth 6d. It is asking too much
of the countrymen to come fresh, as most
of them do, from concrete wickets and make
runs on turf pitches. The Iredale Shield,
which goes to the ultimate winner of the
tourney, was retained by Southern Districts,
which just scratched home from Riderina
by a point. The winners averaged 20.54
runs per wicket for their matches, while
the runners-up recorded 25.84, but had more
runs scored against them than South. It
is probable that next season will see some
change in the present system. Possibly it
will take the form of a touring metropoli-
tan team in the country, meeting each .centre
in turn. The present inter-district week in
Sydney is hardly justified by results.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally” : For the next few years the
Australian community is booked up to be so
busy with cricket as to have little time for
anything else. As soon as the West Indians
have departed, preparations to receive the
South Africans next season will be begun.
The season after that we shall be entertain-
ing another English side, and when this
departs it will be tailed up by the next Aus-
tralian Eleven. Things promise to be as
brisk on the other side of the equator. The
Maorilanders will be in Britain by May, and
India will be there the following year, with
South Africa as the next course for John
Bull. Altogether a crowded outlook.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: There was a curious cricket
happening in England lately. Two air-force
teams were playing and 103 runs w T ere
wanted by the batting side, which had
nine wickets down and a hopeless “rabbit”
as last man in. This man survived the
over, and never got a knock again until
the innings ended. His partner scored a
single at the end of every over to get the
strike and managed to keep going until the
partnership had yielded 92 —all made by
one man. Then, within 11 runs of victory,
the lone batsman was caught for 194. He
deserved better luck.
Racquet and Bawl
“Toowong”: The Queenslanders playing
in the N.S.W. championships have been re-
aligned since last season. Then and previ-
ously E. F. Moon and R. O. Cummings
played together in the doubles, and a for-
midable pair they were for anyone to tackle.
This time the twins seem to have parted
brass rags, as they say in the navy. Moon
is playing with a junior in H. W. Doctor,
while Cummings has linked up with the
N.S.W. colt Donohoe. Many are wonder-
ing whether the rumpus over Cummings’s
rating has anything to do with the change
of partners. Though Moon was a Davis Cup
selection and Australian champion to boot,
Cummings’s name appeared at the top of the
Queensland list. ,
“Cash Amateur”: Henri Codiet’s defec-
tion to the professional ranks will be a tre-
mendous knock to French tennis, and one
can see Jacques Bonhomme’s grip on the
Davis Cup visibly slipping. The trouble
is there is ho one to replace him among the
young brigade. No reasons are _ given for
his change of heart, but it is possible he has
had some difference with the French authori-
ties over the amateur status. Cochet runs a
sporting-goods business, specialising, of
course, in tennis gear, and authority in
America and Europe looks very sourly on
that sort of thing in an amateur player.
In Australia it seems to be the natural end
of every lilywhite as soon as he wakes to
find himself famous.
* * *
“Cut Shot”: The American national cham-
pionships, little noted in Australia, served to
ram home the fact that in this game the
first service is all important. America has
long specialised on this aspect of the game,
and seems to be exploiting it to the utmost.
Tilden held his ground for some years as
the outstanding exponent of what is called
a severe service. To its great pace and
deadly accuracy he owes most of his suc-
cess. In the American battle for the title
he was beaten at his own game by Doeg.
This lad is, like our own Norman Brookes,
a lefthander, but he relies more on sheer
power and pace than the great Australian.
With Cochet and Borotra out, the Davis Cup
looks a moral for America. Doeg will be
backed by Shields, also ,a mighty good man on
the first shot and one of the best at the net.
There are half a dozen others,, and the
American selectors will have a hard job
picking out the other couple for the Yank
side.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: The Victorian golfing
community seems a lot more progressive
than its opposite number in Sydney. Nearly
all the established clubs in Victoria have
been overhauling their courses within the
past year or two and making them more
sporting. Metropolitan, Commonwealth and
Riversdale among the leading clubs have
spent a lot of thought and money on improv-
ing their links out of the “mug golf” class
to which so many Australian clubs are con-
tent to belong. This year will see the open-
ing of the'new Royal Melbourne course at
Sandringham, which will give the old club
two# courses between which its members can
choose. Laid out by the famous golf archi-
tect Dr. Mackenzie, it promises to try the
resources of the best of Australian golfers.
* * * *
“Gregory Terrace”: Queensland’s first
municipal 'golf course, that at Victoria Park
in Brisbane, is to be opened in April after
an agitation extending over years. The
links are quite close to the city proper, and
the area has all the requisites for a sporting-
course. The charge for a round will be
Is. 6d., and the council, which opposed the
making of the course so long, will realise
before many months are past what a money-
making proposition an institution of this
kind can be to a municipality if capably con-
trolled and run. The council, too, will have
a chance to earn undying fame and the grati-
tude of many if it decides to refuse admis-
sion to the course of anyone who cannot
pass an elementary examination in the eti-
quette of the game—the rules do not matter
so much. Ignorance, oafishness and supreme
indifference to the feelings of others have
made the otherwise excellent Moore Park
course in Sydney a place to be avoided by
the sophisticated golfer.
* * # *
“Divot Digger” : N.S.W. golfers will hence-
forth have to carry the burden of an addi-
tional tax, and one which does not emanate
from the State Government. The founda-
tion of the N.S.W. Golf Council, which will
in future control the game within the State,
means that a fund will have to be estab-
lished to enable the new organisation to
function. The council draws its authority
from the two leading metropolitan clubs,
Royal Sydney and Australian —they are to
throw £75 each into the hat —the suburban
district and the country golf associations.
The suburbanites are to contribute £2OO and
the country clubs £l5O. That means
contributions from all members, in addi-
tion to membership and green fees. The
country members elected —there was a pro-
viso that two of these should be members
of the Royal Sydney and the Australian
clubs respectively—are T. Playfair, of the
big Rose Bay organisation, and I. Harrison,
of the Kensington show. In addition, O.
Dangar and W. Rumble will sit on the
council as unalloyed country representatives.
* * * *
“Hotham”: That scheme for sending an
Australian professional golfer to Britain for
the open championship (B. 21/1/’3l) has
been launched. The choice will be determined
by a competition for which all members of
the Professional Golfers’. Association in the
various States will be eligible. The qualify-
ing rounds will consist of 72 holes stroke
play; Westralian professionals will qualify
at Adelaide, and the Tasmanians at Mel-
bourne. The leading player in each State
will take part in the final of 72 holes of
stroke play in Melbourne. The ultimate
winner gets a cup, a first-class return fare
to Britain, and a complete set of clubs.
* * * *
“Matilda” : Something unusual in the way
of golf clubs was opened in Sydney last week
by the State Minister for Local Government,
W. J. McKell —the Unemployed G.C.. Fairly
playable, if rough, links have been fixed up
at Beaconsfield, which is in the Botany
district, and it is hoped that many of the
luckless members will be able to find a
better measure of recreation than that
afforded by padding about the streets on the
lookout for the job that is always out of
sight. If the experiment does no more than
to interest the chap who likes to refer to
himself as the working man in a game whicn
is not only a sport but a fine character-
builder, it will not have been attempted in
vain. In Britain and America the wage-
earner accepts golf as one of his habitual
relaxations; here the game which had its
origin among the Scottish “working classes”
is apt to be scouted as a privilege of the
capitalist.
“The Me Haggis”; An esteemed contem-
porary golf expert has recently written down
some sound reflections on the reasons actuat-
ing the golfer when he loses his temper. His
idea is that whereas the cricketer, for in-
stance,, makes his mistakes so rapidly that
he has no time for introspection—l wonder
if the writer has ever been given out l.b.w. ?
the golfer has plenty of time to brood in
secret over the sins of omission and com-
mission which he may have committed. Of
course there are many golfers who carry
the burden of the foozle at the 18th tee —
always provocative of excitement with the
golfer’s Ultima Thule within view—home to
bed with them. But better I think to take
on the philosophy of a friend with whom
I started a round last week. We both had
a late lunch in town. He had the honor
and sent the ball a couple of feet after a
couple of complete misses. I followed, my
effort dislodging the pill from the tee and
that’s all. My mate regarded me with
admiration in his glazed eyes. “Hell,” lie
said —he was once in the A.1.F., poor devil!
—“theresli goin’ t’ be no beg pardons about
this blanky go.”
Car and Cycle
“Whizz” : The Australian Grand Prix on
Phillip Island (Vic.), which lias become
such a popular event since its inauguration
by the Victorian Light Car Club some years
ago, will be held on March 23. On this occa-
sion it will be a handicap event, the system
adopted being a time allowance based on
cylinder capacity of the engine and esti-
mates of the speed of the car and the skill of
the driver. The race will be over a 200-
mile run round the now well-known Si-
mile road circuit, and in addition to the usual
prizes there will be a special one of £lOO
for the fastest time. W. Thompson, of
N.S.W., lifted the race last year with a
supercharged 11.9-h.p. Bugatti.
* * *
“Two Bits”: The heart of the Daytona
Beach authorities has softened towards
Malcolm Campbell (B. 21/1/’3l) evidently,
for it is reported that they are now offering
to pay £BOO down and not a c»mt more.
Since tne actual cost of the attempt and the
preparations for it will come close to £3OOO
Campbell is like the German’s dog when he
was shot, “nod 'too darn bleased.” However
he has sailed for the States, after announc-
ing that if he could not get a fair spin there
he would come on to Maoriland to try his
luck on the Ninety-mile Beach. If he does
have a go at Daytona, it will be between
February 2 and 16, those being the dates
fixed by the local folk, subject to his
approval.
jjc *B* ♦
“Tenakoe” :* The proper name of that M.L.
beach whereon Wizard Smith proposes to
go for the world’s speed record is not
“Waitaia” (B. 14/1/’3l) but “Kaiatia.”
Maoriland is getting all warmed up—this
has no reference to the Rotorua country —
over the coming attempt. The M.L. end of
the De Havilland interests has already in-
stalled an air service to the famous beach
with a landing ground right alongside the
track. The train trip from Auckland to
tlie beach takes about a day, but the ’plane
service cuts, this down to about an hour
and a half.
“Cairns” : Queensland motorists have been
experimenting for some time with a mixture
of petrol and alcohol, the proportion of the
latter added being 15 per cent. It has recently
been suggested to the Federal Sugar Com-
mission that the sugar industry would be
assisted if motor-drivers were compelled
to irse this mixture. The stuff works
satisfactorily, but, owinsr to the exces-
sive heat engendered, special engine adjust-
ments are necessary, while the carburetter
and fuel-feed system also require special
treatment. If the sugar alcohol can be pro-
duced cheaply enough to bring the price of
the mixed fuel below that of petrol, motorists
generally will not he long in adopting it.
* * * ’i=
“Old Q.” : There will be a lot of people
to dispute that statement (B. 21/1/’3l)
that Frank Arthur is the best dirt-track
motor-cycle rider in the world. A man
who has proved his superior in England is
Victor Huxley, another Queenslander, who
has been an outstanding success in the
game for several seasons on the other side.
Last year he picked up over £5OOO in the
last six months of riding, and he captained
the Australian team in the five test
matches against England. In Australia on
holiday, he returns to England to ride tor
International Speedways next season under
a gilt-edged contract,
*.* * *
“Sprocket”: A pusli-bikc ride that was
really worth while, since it illustrates the
value of this, method of transport in a coun-
try where there still remain some far-flung
distances which are impervious to the motor-
car, was that Jack Lions, of Sydney, who
journeyed to Perth and back, with sundiy
divagations from the beaten track. _ To
cyclists, the interesting aspect of his trip is
that Lions rode a racing bike shod with rac-
ing tyres the whole 7000-odd. miles. He took
things easily certainly—his ride was planned
with the intention of visiting relatives m
Perth, with whom he stayed for a while —no
attempt to break records being thought of.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: The American athletes now in
Maoriland may appear in Australia after all,
the Yankee authorities having given them
permission to return home by way of Japan.
If it can be arranged the trio will reach
Sydney about the third week in March and
remain for a few days before leaving for
Japan. Though they will not have much time
to find their land legs, it is intended to
arrange a special meeting, with the visitors
and Jim Carlton as the star attractions.
# * * *
“Mega”: That par. (B. 14/1/’3l) describ-
ing George Simpson as the star of the
American team now in Maoriland hardly does
his team mates, Kiser, of Washington Uni-
versity, and Harlow Rothert, of Stanford
Uni., justice. Kiser is one of the best
mile and half-mile runners in the States,
while Rothert is rated the greatest all-round
exponent of the field-game section of athletics
in America to-day. Nevertheless, Simpson
is a wonder, and all the more so since he
started out in life as a rickety kid suffering
from the effects of spinal meningitis. He
was watched and nursed back to normality,
and to-day weighs list. 61b. with a stature
of sft. lL}in. —no weakling on those meas-
urements.
* * * *
“Hoist”: N. S. Wales was rather for-
tunate to retain the Northcote Cup
for 6-metre restricted yachts in the
series of races with the Victorian chal-
lenger on Port Jackson. lolaire kept
the trophy by winning two of the three
races sailed. She was admirably suited
by the light wind conditions, which in both
instances resolved the races at times into
drifting matches. The Victorian Toogoo-
loowoo was designed in Britain by the famous
firm of Fife, and is of an altogether different
model from that obtaining in Australia. In the
bit of wind she got in the second race she
easily beat the defender, and some days later
in the ocean race for the Basin Cup showed
that she is a flier in a stiff breeze, finishing
a close second to the winner, Rawhiti.
He H: * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia is feeling
gloomy over the fact that there will be no
race this year for the Griffith Cup for speed
boats, an inter-State event on which the
Wlieatfielders have a solid mortgage. A. G.
and E. S. Rymill hold the pot, and have
done so for some time with a flying craft
entitled Tortoise 11. There is no boat in
South Australia able to pace it with Tor-
toise 11., and there is little likelihood of
entries from other States. Eagle and Cen-
tury Tire, the two N.S.W. representatives
last year, are both out of commission, and
Victoria does not affect the skimming-dish
sport save in a desultory fashion.
:}c ❖ $
“Stand Off”: The Rugby international
between England and Wales at Twickenham
ended in a draw (11-11) after a hair-raising
match. Wales led 11-8 half a minute before
time, when Black, the South African Rhodes
Scholar who was in Australia with the Brit-
ish team last year, goaled with a long penalty
kick.


A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Randwick on Saturday was rather dull
and drab. Under a lowering sky this Letter
caught a glimpse of a lady in a golden-brown
macintosh worn above a beige lace frock,
and mentally registered Adi’ian Knox’s wife
and a fair unknown whose frocks were
fashioned alike and might have been cut
out of the one bit of black and white
materials. It saw Enid Hull in a royal-blue
dress; Mrs. Colin Stephen, in hot-looking
black; Philippa Stephen, in cool floral shan-
tung; Mrs. Harold Vale and Mrs. W. 11.
Mackay, of Scone, both in black and white
smartness ; a small woman completely folded
in a grey squirrel coat, and Dr. Weston
Maher’s attractive wife clad in navy and
white. Then it watched Financial leap into
first place, bought a ticket from a gentleman
who appeared to have a poor opinion of Belle
Trees, climbed into the cheapest make of taxi
in the rank, and coming into town went
gay on two ice-cream sodas and a packet of
peppermints.
That creature of faery Anna Pavlova, that
exquisite exotic dancer with the impenetrable
gaze who caught the imagination of Sydney
from the moment when, as the fairy doll, she
rippled down the steps of .the toyshop to
lead the ball among her neighbors on the
shelves, will skim across our vision no more.
Curiously, you were always conscious of a
cold, starlit night, the streets perhaps crusted
with a little frost, beyond the pageant warm
with vivid color. It was in the presentation
of the Quixote ballet that Pavlova’s per-
sonality appealed most to this writer. And
now this thistledown of moonlight and music,
as delicate in motion as a trembling leaf, is
lying, stilled' for ever, her gold tissue frock
already crumbling within the walls of her
black coffin.
Among homing travellers are the Manning
lady and daughters Edith and Felicia. Mrs.
Tommy Marks is another hastening back to
the simple joys of her own land. The Pyers
Mostyn couple, on the other hand, are
returning to England by way of Asia,
and in April Mrs. Cleaver takes her blonde
beauty, her mauve cushions and her memories
of a friendly home-coming back to an Eng-
lish spring.
Poor Dame Nellie Melba is having a re-
currence of her former illness. She had
thought herself completely well, and had
come up to Sydney to stay with her sister,
Mrs. Box. Instead she has found herself
tucked away in St. Vincent’s private hospital.
The Society of Women Writers shared
its midday snack with a bunch of Maori-
landers last week. One was journalist Amy
Kane, who is on the staff of the “Dominion”
and also a pillar of Wellington’s Pioneer
Club. With her were her mother and Mar-
garet Magill, who was Enzed’s envoy to the
conference qf the Federated Teachers in
Adelaide. Margaret was a bit Rosa Dart-
leish about schoolboy apparel in Australia.
Here they go clothed in high collars,
stockings and knee-length knickers, whereas
the young Maorilander walks with knees
bare, the minimum of sock and no collar.
Whaffor? The answer is an easy one. On
the other side of the Tasman they’re mostly
Scotch or Irish, Now every Highland daddy
wants his laddie (when he stops growing
and the measurements won’t have to be
altered) to swing a kilt; and how can a
laddie swing a kilt even on State occasions
if his shins and his kneecaps aren’t hardened
to the wuthering blast? So the Scots school-
boy bares his brawn and muscle to the gale,
and the Irish father won’t let his son show
less hardihood: “If the son of a McTavish
can walk about half naked, then the son of
an O’Brien can do the same.”
Padre Clive .Yarrington’s stronghold, St.
Clement’s in Mosman, saw the prettiest wed-
ding of last week. Joyce Holden, a belle of
Bradley’s Head, was the bride and Ray
Snelling, of Cronulla, the bridegroom. Joyce,
a souffle of white satin and Brussels lace
served with wondrous lilies, was handed up
the aisle by her father, and followed by four
’maids in trailing pink laces with mauve
velvet ribauds, pink and mauve hats, and
armsful of pink tiger-lilies. Little Joan
Prior, her cheeks as pink as her bouffant
tulle frock, made both a pretty and efficient
flower girl. There were three groomsmen
and best-man Harry Gilkes to arm the ’maids
down the' church, so altogether the procession
was highly impressive. Afterwards the Ken
Priors’ home on Bradley’s Head housed the
revelry. Here arches of pink roses and rosy
electrics created the right atmosphere for
hostess Mrs. Ken Prior’s mignonette green
chiffons and lace.
“Mother, I do think Muriel and I are
very nice to you,” remarked Hildegarde,
aged ten, the other day after she came from
a party. “Oh, indeed,” said her mother,
“and how do you make that out?” “Well,
we always speak nicely to you. We never
scream out at you, or tell you to shut up,
like Jane does to her mother.” “No,” replied
Hildegarde’s mamma grimly, “and you’d
better not try.” Then, after a pause, “Surely
you don’t think it’s right of Jane to speak
that way to her parents?” “Oh, no,” agreed
Hildegarde. “I don’t think it’s right, but I
do admire her nerve!”
Dropping a briny tear or two, the girls
they’ve left behind them Avaved good-bye to
the gallant sailors of the R.A.N. last week.
What we lose in the way of neat brass-bound
males the Apple Isle gains. Admiral Evans
and his lady have taken the Ashbolts’ house
overlooking the Derwent, and there Thelma
McMaster. of Dalkeith, Cassilis, will be their
guest. Richard and Broke Evans had the joy
of travelling with their father on the flagship,
but Mrs. Evans was conveyed by a mere
merchantman, the Zealandia. Aboard her
went a regular contingent of sailors’ wives,
among them Mrs. Feakes, Mrs. Oscar Ire-
land and the wife of Captain Holbrook, of
the Canberra.
Satin and tulle and magnolias with a dash
of orange-blossom went to the make-up of
Beryl Earnshaw’s wedding outfit. Lionel
McFadyen claimed his Darling Point girl for
keeps at the Scots’ Church on Church Ilill
last week, and ’maids Alison Smith, Dorothy
Tait and Connie Bryen, in spreading frocks
of pink, blue and mauve organdie and clutch-
ing old-time posies, added their color to the
procession. The Garden Club was the centre
of congratulations; here Mrs. Earnshaw, in
black laces surrounded by pink and gold tiger-
lilies, did the honors.
Rear-Admiral Hyde’s wife came back to
Sydney from London to visit her mother,
Mrs. Malcolm Robertson, of Manly. Now
she’s bewailing her luck that she didn’t wait
till later in the year, for since she arrived she
has had a cable telling her that her husband
will be coming to Australia about August.
The Admiral, who left his job of boss of
the R.A.N. two years ago to go to England,
where he has been in command of the Third
Battle Squadron of the Atlantic Fleet, will
probably on his return be stationed in Mel-
bourne.
Eric Mareo, the composer, who has re-
turned to Sydney after 20 years’ absence to
write an opera with an Australian setting
and atmosphere, is best known in Italy,
though he has a large following these days
in Germany. He was in London when his
wife died, and it is one of the reasons he
never wants to go back there. He has
brought a tall, smart flapper daughter and
a small son with him, and they will be sent
to school here. He is a brother of Billy
Curtis, K.C., who is himself, of course, a
passionate music-lover.
Australian writers should gladly say “How
d’you do?” to Mrs. F. Danvers Power,
founder of the Circle of Australian Readers
among her own friends. She watches for all
books by Australian writers (whether science,
poetry or ro-
mance), reads
the work, and
sends her
opinion of it,
and particu-
lars as to its
title and price,
to each mem-
ber. Some of
the members
are far afield.
A few weeks
ago, the lady
forwarded a
book for just-
beginning
mothers to a
doctor on the
Katie rine
(N.T.). Mrs.
Power is her-
self a writer.
Years ago for
her own family she wrote a book about the
insects of Australia and called it “Little
Brothers.” Three years ago in. England she
wrote a similar work on English insect life,
which was published by Pearson. Her writ-
ings include a book named “Mother and
Child,” and two volumes of verse. The latest
book, printed by a private press at the
author’s own expense, has already more than
paid for itself.
A billiard-table green suit pinched in at
the waist and flaring to a cheeky little basque
was being O.K.’d by Jo O’Keeffe when this
Letter called on David Jones’s new models
last week. The basques are going to be
popular with the young and slim ; and so is
the Russian blouse. This occurs in the two-
piece, or when it is simulated by means of
cleverly placed bands of fur on marocain and
flat crepe frocks. This Russian effect is
always finished off with a high throat tie
of pony-skin or Persian lamb. For morning
and afternoon, tweeds, supple as velvet, and
black cloth or velvet suits will be the cor-
rect wear. The tweeds are made with three-
quarter length coats and are mostly snow-
flecked. With the black suits white satin
or white crepe tunics are invariably worn.
The tunic seems to have completely ousted
the blouse of last year, and the side- and
front-pleated skirt is more in evidence than
the wrap-over. Muffs are back, and coat-
collars are nearly as high as the crown of
one’s head. Cuffs are like gauntlets; pony-
skin and Persian lamb appear sleekly on the
most expensive. A black velvet suit that
had a high standing collar, like a goiffred
frill, on its slightly fitting hip-length coat
looked both gallant and romantic. The
length for daytime skirts is about 10 inches
from the ground, and sleeves, particularly
the cuffs, are of immense importance. One
black day dress had a puffed cuff of ribbon
bands in every shade of the rainbow. Almost
every third frock in this private show w*as
black. Black and turquoise is the newest
combination for evening, but the turquoise
seemed confined to the neckline. Black and
white was repeated over and over again, but
never grew monotonous. _ The cowl effect
seems übiquitous on the highest-priced even-
ing frocks, such cowls being sometimes in
front, but mostly flopping in grace between
the shoulders. One black flat crepe garment
was fitting to just above the knees and then
flowed into the fulness of many pleats. These
pleats are flat, so that the slim look continues
right to the ankle. About its neck hung a
sort of horse-collar or lei of doubled-knitted
silver thread. A long, slinky black panne
velvet had the back of its bodice gathered
lengthwise, and the result was a butterfly-
wing effect. Nothing is simple this year,
however artless it may look. Pleats, tucks,
tiny flat tiers, eyelet holes, fringe and braid
are all worked into the frock for formal
occasions. After six o’clock these must be
ankle-length all round, and every one has a
hemline of great circumference.
The City Girls’ Amateur Sports Associa-
tion is running a popular Sports Girl com-
petition. Last week, to aid the funds. 500
sports girls danced at the Paddington Town
Hall; and these being hard-up times many
of them arrived, not by car, or taxi, but by
lorry. There are about 40 entrants for the
popularity stakes, and they were introduced
to the assemblage by organising secretary
Miss E. M. Mallard.
Scotchbyterians rejoiced in a real heather-
mixture romance when Thelma Lawrence
and Padre William A. S. Anderson were
made one in St. Stephen’s kirk. Both bride
and ’groom have been- actively connected with
the work of their church; the lady resigned
her position in the church offices to take
up matrimony, while the padre, is the general
secretary of the Presbyterian Church of New
South Wales. Knight McC. Anderson stood
by his brother at the altar, while Mrs. E. C.
Drew did like service for her sister. Toasts
at the Mary Elizabeth.
May Richardson, formerly the popular
sister at the Karitane Centre, became Mrs.
Gerald Morrice, of Murranumbla station,
Dalgety, during the week-end. Canon
Begbie and Padre A. G. Cutts tied the knot
in St. Stephen’s, Chats wood. Small niece
Gwen Amery showered rose petals on the
proceedings, and bride’s sister Doris ’maided
in fluttering pink chiffons. The reception at
the Chatswood Town Hall was presided over
by Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Richardson, and as
the last speech faded away the just-marrieds
departed for a honeymoon in Tasmania.
A note from London mentions the illness of
Lady Milbanke, who was Sheila Chisholm be-
fore her first marriage to Lord Loughborough.
She is considered one of the best-looking and
best-dressed women in London, though up to
date she had not taken to powdering her
hair with silver dust. This is the latest
craze, and probably popular, plump actress
Sophie Tucker has something to do with it.
At the Butler’s Panfry, this Letter’s girl
friend saw a slim creature in a sort of fairy-
queen robe of silver gauze, and her flaxen
hair was dusted over with silver, giving a
hoar-frost effect. A diamond-and-emerald
butterfly was perched on her narrow left
shoulder-strap. It was here, too, that a
dinner table on which coal-black candles
replaced the festive red was first seen. These
were set in Georgian silver candlesticks and
stood on strips of mirror. With the lighting
of the wick, the candle seemed to fade to
nothingness and the flames flicked like so
many fireflies. The woman who goes pleasur-
ing in London nowadays, no matter what
the temperature, wears the flimsiest of even-
ing frocks, because all the theatres, restau-
rants and cabarets are centrally heated, and
heavy materials would be unbearable.
Gordon Weston has added another achieve-
ment to an astonishing career. Though 50
or thereabouts he recently joined the Inner
Temple and passed the London Bar exam.,
which is by no means easy these days, tak-
ing honors in Constitutional Law. He
doesn’t mean to practise; it just struck him
that he would like to have the run of the
Temple, where he has many friends, and in
particular of the celebrated Temple dining-
hall. He became a doctor in much the same
casual spirit at the age of 30. He served on
the Ypres front and in Mesopotamia in the
R.F.C., and revisited Sydney with his
attractive and immensely wealthy wife some
years ago. Two of his sisters —Mrs. Neville
Dangar and Mrs. Charles Young—live in
Australia, and a third, who was Ernest
Watt’s first wife, is in, London.
Here’s a story of the good old days when
this city maintained a full-sized orchestra,
with Henry Verbrugghen in charge. An
admirer had sent Mr. Verbrugghen a magni-
ficent Indian gong, and the director was
keen on using it with Ills forces. He decided
to produce a Tschaikowsky work in the
final movement of which a telling moment
was the striking of one stroke on the gong.
A man was engaged specially to step for-
ward and deliver the blow. He was trained
to a nicety, and in rehearsal never failed
to go forward on his musical cue. Came
the great night, came the thrilling moment
which the entire audience had been led to
await. The gongster stepped forward, stag-
gered, tripped, knocked three wood winds
out of action, and fell headlong, having failed
to bang the gong at all.
On 'the fourth of February Mrs. W. H.
Mackay will feel a proud woman, for it is
mainly through her activities that the New-
castle seaside home for out-back mothers and
children will
open its doors.
The Newcastle
cottage-by-the-
sea is a Coun-
try Women’s
Assoc iation
venture, and
will be run on
much the same
lines as Keera
House. Mrs.
Matt Sawyer,
State presi-
dent of the
C. W. A., i s
booked to do
the opening,
and all C. W.
Associates who
can are fac-
ing north for
the occasion.
Mrs. Mackay,
whose home is
Tinagroo, Scone, is a member of the C.W.A.
central executive. At present she is in town,
and her address is the Queen’s Club.
In the R.S.P.C.A. rooms plans are well
in hand for the yearly “Be Kind to Animals
Week.” This starts on February 28 with
a gymkhana at Earl Park, Arncliffe. March
1 will be Humane Sunday, and on March
5 dog-lovers will make pilgrimage to the
Dogs’ Home at Waterloo.
Vena Ann Levy, of Bondi, is among the
newly-engaged. The young man is Alan
Davis, of Bellevue Hill. Twin-sister Edna
flies a five-diamond “keep off” signal; her
betrothed is W. Freeman.
This Letter draws the deduction that the
women are facing the threatened social cata-
clysm with much more courage than the men.
The attitude of the sex seems to be: “We
don’t believe things are going to be devas-
tating, and even if our cars and houses and
jewels and money go, well, we’ll just have to
start all over again.” One or two women
whose husbands have been hard hit in busi-
ness are looking happier and younger than
for years past. For in the searchlight of
adversity their husbands can now find their
way home before midnight, and have come to
realise that a wife can also be a friend, and
the family circle is a much more comfortable
seat for middle age than is a sports roadster
built for two.
After nearly nine years of good work, the
Children’s Hospital Cafe has closed its
doors. It has been responsible for handing
over more than fiO.OOO to the Royal Alexan-
dra Hospital, but with changing times came
falling off in custom, and its black-cat chairs
failed to charm the superstitious as of old.
The capable and untiring Mrs. Howard
Harrison, who had managed the cafe for so
long, deserves the fullest credit, and there
will be regret over the stroke of ill-fortune
that has terminated her work.
Our Little Sister at Brisbane writes: —
Keen interest was shown in the Test match against
the West Indies. The spectators included Chief
Justice Blair, the Mayor and several Cabinet Mini-
sters, also ex-Judges Shand and MacNaughton.
Society was well represented and flapperdom focussed
admiring eyes on Don Bradman.
The Lutwyche Methodist Church saw the wedding
of F. Hodgson, of Beaudesert, and Hazel, daughter
of the Sydney Bowchers of Kedron. The bride was
in ivory crepe de Chine with a tulle veil and carried
a bouquet of roses, carnations and stephanotis.
Sidonia Bowcher and Marjory Hodgson ’maided in
honey color. The gold-room at the Carlton saw
the feasting.
For Flora Luck, who is going to England this
month to marry N. E. M. Raymond, several wedding
teas have been given. For Mollie and Jean Tynan,
who are leaving for the Cold Country by the Ormonde,
Kathleen Searle had a card party at her home at
Eagle Junction. For Jean Smart, Toowoomba, Beryl
and Eunice Fitz had a pre-wedding tea amid pink
rosea and golden zinnias. For popular Thelma
Robertson, another bride-to-be, Betty Landsdown gave
a party in the gold-room at the Carlton.
An octogenarian half-caste, one Jimmy Allen, who
had been all his life with members of the Collins
family, has gone west at Mundoolan. He was quite
a figure in the district, where he represented all
that was left of the Wangerriburra tribe, who once
hunted across the valleys of the Coomera, Canungra
and Logan rivers. At one time he ran the mail
from Boulia to Winton. In 1913 Sir William
Macgregor asked him to compile a grammar on the
language of his tribe; this was printed last year
in the report of the Director of Aborigines.
Joseph Edward, only son of the J. E. Vances, of
Maryborough, took to wife at St. Sebastian’s Helena
Cecilia, daughter of the J. M. Broes, Yeronga. The
bride, who is a graduate of Arts, was frocked
in ivory satin and carried white tuberoses and
stephanotis. Her father gave her away and Mollie
Broe ’maided in apricot. The reception was at the
bride’s home and the ’moon rises at National Park.
The pair will live at Atherton, N.Q.
At the opening of the Coorparoo Ladies’ Bowling
Club, Mesdames I. M. Thomson and R. M. King
received the guests. Mrs. Thomson laid the mat and
Mrs. Longman, M.L.A., threw up the jack; Mrs.
H. Twamley sending out the first bowl. Roses
and daisies decked the club-house verandah for
tea ; Mrs. M. McCarthy and R. Vincent made music
and Irene Longman made a speech. At night there
was an informal dance of old-time waltzes inter-
mingled with modern steps and a concert programme.
And a line from Perth :
The only welcome invitations in midsummer are
lifts to the beach. Youth and beauty, having stoi-
cally gone through the preliminaries of blistered
legs and disports its sun-tan on surf
boards at Scarborough and on the sands at Cottesloe
from mid-day on Saturdays till midnight on Sun-
days. Prawns are scarce this year, and many
picnickers relying for sustenance on that succulent
crustacean have gone hungry in consequence. The
crab family, too, heed the counsel of Old Whiskers
and do their side-stepping only in deep water.
Forty-two competitors dived into Crawley Bay
for the Swim Through Perth. The sea breeze played
hide-and-seek among the clouds on the horizon and
a hot easterly puffed choppy waves into the faces of
the swimmers. An athletic junior, W. De Lacy,
was the winner; Dot Ilowson, victor in 1929, was
the only girl entrant. Chief Secretary Norbert
Keenan presented the booty, which included the
“Sunday Times” cup.
One morning last week Kathleen Walsh and
Kevin Sullivan knelt at the marble altar rail in
St. Mary’s Cathedral for a marriage blessing, fol-
lowed by a nuptial mass. White roses, marguerites
and watsonias bloomed upon the altar and in the
bouquet carried by the all-white bride. Hand
embroidery and appliqued true-lovers’ knots made
shadowy patterns among the folds of white chiffons
of the wedding gown. A long tulle veil held off
the brow with apple-blossom buds swept in a cascade
upon the floor. Bride’s sister Alice was the only
’maid. Her frock of lemon-tinted organdie had
tulle insertions in the cape and an ecru lace bow
nestled on the brim of her straw hat. Luncheon
for relatives and a few very intimate friends was
spread at Mr. J. P. Walsh’s house in West Perth.
Mr. Sullivan has a home ready for his bride in
Deloraine, Tasmania.
Pippin Carew-Reid has answered Dr. Bill Wood-
house in the affirmative.
Few couples have had such happenings packed
into their lives as Dr. and Mrs. Cordon, who live
at Cottesloe Beach; the doctor has charge of the
Baptist tabernacle there. He is 86 and was born in
England of French parentage. Asi a young man he
sold himself into and managed to escape from
slavery. After his conversion he married and went
as a missionary to China. Later he met Stanley
and was with the expedition which searched for and
found Livingstone in Africa. He spent 32 years
preaching in Liverpool and 10 in the U.S,A. A
shipwreck off the coast of Newfoundland and expul-
sion from Ireland are among other episodes in his
life story. Mrs. Cordon has been a sympathetic
and courageous companion in many of his adventures.
There was a good rally for the Kylie Music
Club’s first afternoon of 1931. A creeping rose
design enlivened Mrs. W. H. Vincent’s navy georg-
ettes and her music-room was resplendent with
luscious roses and a sole tiger-lily. The star of
the afternoon was Ronnie Lake, sometime of Loretto,
who is now on holidays from Melbourne Con.
In addition to the solo numbers the youthful pianist
played a Handel-Brahms theme variation with the
assistance of Ariel Seeligson. David Powell, Doreen
Bray, Alice Mallon and Alfred Moorley were other
contributors.
And this is from Darwin: —
The engagement is announced of Eileen Noonan
and John Patrick Keeghan, local manager of the
E., S. and A. Bank.
On Christmas Eve Edith Miller married Eric
NcNab, of the police force. Of the company which sat
down to the wedding feast practically all, including
the padre and the bride’s father, who is at Point
Charles lighthouse, had done their bit in th.e Great
War. The ’groom’s parents live at Toowoomba.
John Bernhard, late of the Sportsmen’s Arms
at the Katherine, and known to every traveller along
the road, has succumbed to malarial fever. He was
in the Territory for 20 years.
The New Year was merrily footed in at the
Returned Soldiers’ dance. Recent hops have seen
a surplus of boys over girls, with the result that
wallflowers are unknown in Darwin.
Dr. Saleh, who has acted as relieving hospital
doctor at Darwin for the last six months, has
moved on south. A keen footballer and golfer in his
hard-earned leisure from hospital work, he made
many friends.
Captain Matthews, the latest visitor to drop
down out of the sky upon us, was given a royal
time in Darwin.


“Some Common Spiders of the Sydney District,” by Anthony Musgrave.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
The Museum Quarterly Journal for the Lover of Nature.
January-March Number Now on Sale.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS:
Some Common Spiders of the Sydney District
Nature Rambles at Trial Bay
Sea Slugs
The External Structure of Birds
Ants, Cows and Cowsheds
Trilobites i
Anthony Musgrave
A. Musgrave and G. P. Whitley
Joyce K. Allen
K. A. Hindwood
K. C. McKeown
Dr. Chas. Anderson
Volume IV. Part 5. Obtainable from the Museum and Leading Booksellers.
Annual Subscription 4/4 posted.
Single Copies 1/1 „
Positions Vacant.
A WELL-ESTABLISHED AFFORESTATION COMPANY (the largest in Australia)
INVITES APPLICATIONS FROM SALESMEN who are prepared to sell on whole-
some methods. Staff positions available for experienced men with good selling
record. (The General Manager will shortly be touring from Adelaide
to Sydney, and is prepared to interview applicants en route.)
Address letters, giving full details of past experience (which
will be treated confidentially), to
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PERPETUAL FORESTS LIMITED, BOWMAN BUILDINGS,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
Missing Friends.
Re ABDOOL HOOSSAlN—Deceased.
INFORMATION is required concerning the
1 whereabouts of MARY ISABELL BATES
and her daughter ISABELL BATES, at
one time residents of Einasleigh and George-
town, Queensland, and lately of Edgecliff,
Sydney.
E. DANAHER,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Cairns, Queensland.
\Y/ILL ARCHIE RICHARD WILLIAM
W (DICK) MILES, of Quidenham and
Cambridge, believed to have begun apple-
farming in New Zealand in 1909-10, or his
friends, please communicate his (Miles’s)
address and circumstances to TOM
MARYON-WILSON, Bath Club, London.
Proved accurate information worth two
pounds.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
TRUSTEES’ REPORT
South Australian Perpetual Forests Limited
TO THE BONDHOLDERS OF SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.—
In the three previous Reports the reasons
for the formation of the Trusteeship have
been referred to. It is hardly necessary to
repeat them again beyond stating that the
Trustees’ duties are twofold. The first is
to assure ourselves that all moneys which
the Company has undertaken to place in our
hands for the security of the Bondholders
are regularly paid and to invest them safely,
and further to assure ourselves that the
company’s financial position is satisfactory.
We certify that these Trust Moneys have
been regularly received by us, together with
the necessary certificates duly signed by the
company’s auditors (Messrs. Neill, Neill
and Burgess, Chartered Accountants) and
have been invested in Government Securities.
With regard to the financial position of
the Company, we arranged with Mr. Coun-
sell, of Messrs. Couns'ell, Booth and Hunwick,
Chartered Accountants (Consulting Auditors
to the Trustees), to examine the Company’s
accounts on our behalf.
The second part of our duties is to see
that the forestry work of the Company is
properly carried out. In accordance with our
obligations under the Trust Deed we visited
the plantations during November, 1930.
The growth of the timber since our last
visit is very satisfactory. Many of the four-
year-old trees were 20 feet high, and several
of the trunks had a diameter of six inches,
while the more recent plantations show a
corresponding rapid growth and healthy con-
dition.
The climate and soil conditions of the
planted area undoubtedly contribute largely
to the rapid growth, but it must be said
that the Company, by its thorough business
methods and organisation, has taken advan-
tage of every favorable local condition to
improve the position for the Bondholder.
1926 PLANTING—NANGWARRY
BLOCK, LOT 1.
Three years ago the trees in this area were
small, the highest being 3 feet. The growth
since then has been remarkable. The tallest
trees are now 20 feet, with a circumference of
IS inches, and the plantation throughout
shows good average growth.
1927 PLANTING—NANGWARRY
BLOCKS, LOTS 2 to 4.
This area is showing up well, and com-
pares favorably with the more advanced plan-
tations ; on one portion some of the trees
planted on ploughed land are 13 to 15 feet
high.
1928 PLANTING—NANGWARRY
BLOCKS, LOTS 5-12 and 23-43.
This is a much larger area than the earlier
planting, and the inspection occupied a
considerable time. A steel post has been
placed at the north-west corner of each
section with the identifying number of each
block corresponding to the number on the
surveyor’s plan with which we were provided.
This made checking easier. All that need
be said concerning this area is that it is quite
equal to the other areas at their correspond-
ing year of growth.
1929 PLANTING—NANGWARRY
> BLOCK, LOTS 13 to 22.
The trees in this section looked particu-
larly well, and it will be interesting to note
their growth in twelve months’ time.
1930 PLANTING—GAMBIER BLOCK,
LOTS 1 to 6, 9 to 13, and 16 to 19.
During our visit last year preparatory
work was in full swing, and the staff was
felling and clearing ready for this season's
planting. This area of 1929 acres, we are
informed, is the largest planting ever under-
taken under one control, and the work
appears to have been conducted in a thor-
oughly workmanlike manner. Of the 1-J
million trees very few misses could be found,
and the plants were vigorous and healthy in
color.
1931 GAMBIER EXT., LOTS 7 and 8;
NANGWARRY EXT., LOTS 43-51.
Felling operations have been finished,
roads set out, fencing practically completed,
and nurseries established.
The Company’s commitments for the sale
of Bonds require that the whole of this area
shall be planted during the forthcoming season.
NURSERIES.
An illustration of the methods adopted by
the Company is shown in their nursery work.
Preparation is made for approximately twice
the number of seedlings required, the idea
being that only the highest grade of seedlings
shall be planted. The advantage of this is
twofold:—
1. The planting is more satisfactory, in
that a better “take” is obtained.
2. By careful selection of seedlings a more
even growth of trees is obtained.
The nurseries are extensive, and prepara-
tion is being made for approximately 44
million trees.
SUMMARY.
During our inspection we had the advan-
tage of the advice and guidance of Messrs.
Wm. Angus, B.Sc., and G. R. Cowell, 8.A.,
B.Sc., the technical advisors of the company.
Their joint report, which has been handed to
us, expresses their unqualified satisfaction
with the operation of the Company.
We have also received a copy of the
Annual Report of the General Manager (Mr.
Charles 11. Homes) and Mr. A. J. Ilem-
rnings, Forestry Superintendent.
In conclusion, we consider the business of
the Company is ably controlled by Directors,
who are well-known Adelaide business men,
supported by a very capable and energetic
manager and efficient staff. The volume of
business passing is sufficient evidence as to
the popularity of what in our opinion is a
sound investment.
A. E. H. EVANS, F.C.A. (Aust.).
G. GLEN LEGOE.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
To Messrs. A. E. H. Evans and G. Glen Legoe,
Trustees for the Bondholders of the South Australian Per-
petual Forests Ltd., Adelaide.
Dear Sirs,
As your consulting accountants I have perused the Books,
Account and the Balance Sheet of the South Australian Perpetual
Forests Limited and have pleasure in setting out my report as at
31st October, 1930.
After inspection of the Company’s Books, and having made
all necessary inquiries from Mr. K. W. Neill, Chartered Accountant,
of Messrs. Neill, Neill and Burgess (the Company’s auditors), I
cel tify that the method of book-keeping is in my opinion good,
arid maintained at a high standard of efficiency.
I am satisfied that all necessary provision is made to ensure
the trustees being in a position to ascertain all necessary informa-
tion concerning the Company’s operations, and I am further satis-
fied that in my opinion the Company has made ample financial
provision to carry out the obligations to the Bondholders in its
entirety.
Yours faithfully,
JAMES CO UN SELL.
Counsell, Booth and Hunwick, Consulting Accountants.
November 29, 1930.
REPORT BY THE OFFICIAL TECHNICAL ADVISORS.
MR. WM. ANGUS, B.Sc., and G. R. COWELL, 8.A., B.Sc.,
ON FORESTRY WORK ON THE PLANTATIONS OF
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN PERPETUAL FORESTS LIMITED,
NANGWARRY, NANGWARRY EXTENSION, GAMBIER
AND GAMBIER EXTENSION.
The general condition of the Plantations indicates good work-
manship and supervision.
The earlier planted areas are now well established and show
satisfactory growth.
The Blocks planted in 1930 are well laid out. The young
plants look healthy and give promise of a high percentage of
success.
The Nurseries at Nangwarry and Mount Gambier are placed
in close proximity to the areas to be planted next season. They
look particularly healthy, showing uniformity in germination
and size.
The thriving condition of the Plantations and the general
organisation of the work reflect credit on the Superintendent, Mr.
A. J. Hemmings.
G. R. COWELL, 8.A., B.Sc.
WILLIAM ANGUS. B.Sc.
BALANCE SHEET as at 31st October, 1930.
LIABILITIES.
Capital: 75,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each,
25,000 8 per cent. Cumulative Preference
Shares of £1 each .. .. .. £lOO,OOO 0 0
Shares Unissued: —
Ordinary .. .. ..£38,218 0 0
Preference .. .. .. 22,590 0 0
60,808 0 0
£39,192 0 0
Less: Uncalled capital .. £5,128 5 0
Calls in arrears .. .. 838 15 0
5,967 0 0
Bank of Adelaide ..
Balance outstanding on Land Purchases
Commitment Account (being estimated alloca-
tions for completing Office and Forestry
Expenses in terms of Bond Contracts).. £76,117 19 7
Ordinary Outstandings . . .. .. 649 0 4
Sundry Creditors
Provision for Damage to Plantations (contra) ..
Profit and Loss Account: —
£33,225 0 0
2,551 6 6
8,860 0 0
76,766 19 11
750 7 7
7,393 15 0
6,582 10 7
£136,129 19 7
ASSETS.
Land (Portion pledged to Bondholders is
Contra Commitments)
Buildings, Plant, Office Equipment, etc. ..
Less Depreciation
Sundry Debtors
Amount outstanding A/c Bondholders . .
Funds in hands of Trustees for Bondholders
Cash in Hand
Establishment Account
Less: Written Off ..
Reserve Forestry Area (Contra) ..
allowed for in
£25,129 11 6
. . £3985 11 0
429 11 2
3,555 19 10
350 8 8
86,052 16 10
7,546 3 2
4O 10 0
. . £5819 7 11
358 13 4
5,460 14 7
7,393 15 0
We have examined the Books and Vouchers of the above Company and,
subject to the correctness of the General Manager’s estimate for future
expenditure, we certify that, in our opinion, the above Balance Sheet is
properly drawn up so as to show the true position of the Company on the
31st October, 1930. The Trustees for Bondholders have certified to the funds
in their hands and we have verified the Land Titles.
(Signed) NEILL, NEILL & BURGESS,
Chartered Accountants (Australia),
Auditors.
Adelaide: 24th November, 1930.
£136,129 19 7
SHADOW SHOWS.
Fox Movietone’s “The Big Trail,” which
arrived at Sydney Plaza, on Wednesday, has
a love story, some lurid villainy and plenty
of comic stuff, mostly supplied by El Bren-
del; but the spectacle’s the thing. Nothing
like this picture of one of the most mar-
vellous treks in history has been put on a
screen before. The pioneers assemble at
the jumping-off place—thousands of them,
with tens of thousands of animals. They
move off, the women and children in waggons
the men riding or walking alongside; rivers
are forded, precipices descended, deserts
crossed, forests cut down to make a path
for them; floods, hostile Indians and snow
storms are defeated, and at last they arrive
in the promised western land.
To make illusion perfect the horses and
cattle should have lost condition after a few
hundred miles at 10 miles a day. They are
never seen grazing, and there is no sign of
a commissariat service. When one remembers
that 90 per cent, of the problems even of a
small column on the march are hound up
with care of the animals and food supplies
for the humans it seems strange that the
director of “The Big Trail” should have
almost ignored such matters. The character-
acting is magnificent. Some of the old men
are replicas in appearance, habits, nerve
and resource of ancients who may be met in
our own backblocks to this day. But the
gem of the cast is Marguerite Churchill,
as the heroine. She clothes her beauty, and
does her hair after the crude fashion of a
country girl of half a century ago—perhaps
the first time that a Hollywood lass has
made such a sacrifice to the verities—and
her voice and manner are in the primitive'
picture all the time.
* ¥ *
Paramount’s “Animal Crackers,” at Syd-
ney Prince Edward, is one of the funniest
shows the writer has seen of its demented
sort. Contrast is the essence of such in-
sanity, so the disreputable brothers function
in palatial surroundings. Their hostess is
an amiable millionairess who remains help-
ful and polite however trying the circum-
stances, and her friends take the astonishing
strangers seriously also. Groucho Marx is
a lying explorer from Africa named Captain
Spaulding, and Zeppo, the only unfunny
brother, is his secretary; Harpo is a dumb
professor, and Chico is Signor Ravelli, an
Italian. A painting disappears, and all join
in the search for it. Groucho describes his
adventures in the jungle, and persuades
Harpo to play the song about the Irish
chiropodist; Harpo and Chico play bridge
with two ladies on idiotic lines; the picture
is stolen and re-stolen by the brothers and
Mrs. Rittenhouse’s butler; the professor is
arrested but satisfies the police of his
honesty, and at that moment knives and
forks start dropping to the floor from his
capacious pockets. Old stuff, but it never
palls if the right technique is applied to it,
and the technique of the Marx brethren is
superb.
The Australian Bob Grieg does brilliantly
as the butler, and his articulation is a
delight. Kathryn Reece also shines. The
sentiment is attended to by Lillian Roth ancf
Hal Thompson, who have the rare advantage
of looking as juvenile as the story makes
them out to be.
* * *
“The Case of Sergeant Grischa,” which
was pre-shown in Sydney by R.K.0., is not
likely to thrill the multitude as “Journey’s
End” did. There are no tears in it; only
nausea. The English play made war pitiful
but inspiring; it sent audiences home with
their martial illusions intact. “Grischa”
was written by a man without illusions, and
his outlook, together with much of his dia-
logue, has been transferred to the film. It
is a deadly criticism of war, because it
shows how all military machines work. Every
soldier will recognise the “heads”; their
exposure is marvellously well done. Leyland
Hodgson paints a deft picture of the stal-
wart who gets a cushy job through nepotism.
Alec Francis is one of those kindly, rather
futile, generals who strive to mitigate the
harshness of their fellow base-wallahs —an-
other type that every soldier has met. Jean
Hersholt is splendid as a court-martial
specialist. The best, however, where all are
good is Gustav von Seyffertitz as G.O.C. the
Eastern Front. He has managed to blend
in precise proportions those ingredients of
flashness, stupidity and arrogance which
combine in every country to produce the
“professional officer type.”
Chester Morris is the Russian sergeant
who escapes from a German prison camp,
tries to get home on bogus papers, is. con-
demned to death as a spy, reprieved and
then condemned again and shot. He is
sound, and might be something more with-
out Betty Compson. In Zweig’s book Babka
is a stolid, flat-faced, sweaty daughter of
the soil; Miss Compson makes her an emo-
tional Hollywood flapper in fancy dress. As
a companion of refugees in a Polish forest
she is grotesque. The film might have been
more satisfactory without any love interest;
nothing could give it an appeal to sentimen-
talists anyhow.
¥ ¥ ¥
Fox’s “Sea Wolf,” which emitted its ini-
tial howl in Australia at Sydney Regent, is
a blood-stained animal full to the fangs
of unconscious humor. Milton Sills seems
to have modelled his interpretation of “Wolf”
Larsen, the terror of the Seven Seas, on
Captain Hook. He brags resonantly about
his courage, soul, brain and other assets
which few adventurers drag into colloquial
conversation. Jane Keith is equally droll
as Lorna, the lovely girl who attracts
“Wolf’s” lustful eye while she is plying her
ancient trade in a Hakodate dive, and who
joins his ship because Allen Rand (played
by Raymond Hackett) is one of the crew.
The skipper gratifies his sadistic passion for
bashing and murdering his subordinates to
the full, but doesn’t compel Lorna to
yield to him. He doesn’t really try; he
is too busy talking about his uncon-
querable soul and love of literature. In
any case she is all spirituality and dainty
feminism. Her pretty frocks never get
crumpled ; her permanent wave remains un-
affected by the sea air, and, after days of
exposure in an open boat, she modestly
remembers not to show too much leg when
climbing to safety. You couldn’t be un-
gentlemanly with a girl like that.


linden
Royal ?
ToH.M.
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
-5 H am pack*
Reims
-
"MERCURY" BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Prank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: LILAC TIME
(Commencing next Saturday).
CRITERION: ON THE SPOT
(Commencing next Saturday).
T C. WILLIAMSON, L T D.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SON’S O’ GUNS
(Commencing Saturday, January 31).
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE FILM GIRL,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
Broken Hill is in High Spirits.
No Labor disputes there.
New agreement fixed for this year.
Exchange position all in our favor.
Minimum wage £4/10/- a week, and to stay
7/6 above the State basic wage right on.
Please address all the people through “The
Barrier Miner” if you have anything to sell.
Mine workers, business men, settlers,
All read “THE BARRIER MINER” every day.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
LONG LIFE
*
„ Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
hephistq
Rl the popular
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. A C. HATtDT MUTH, of “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame.
London Office —29, Kingsway, W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUGALL, P. O. Box 165, SYDNEY,
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] [?] for [?]
Buckley [?]Nu [?]
B[?]
On Thursday afternoon the ninth
Goveimor-General of the Commonwealth and
the first Australian-born ope was sworn-in by
his. erstwhile colleague Justice Gavan Duffy
(now to succeed him as C.J. of the High
Court) in the Leg. Council Chamber. The
after-reception took place in the Queen’s Hall
and there was tea-drinking in the new dining-
room, built mostly from the money given by
the Commonwealth Government as recom-
pense for its 25 years’ occupation.
Once more the State coach was taken from
its wrappings, and polished up for the carry-
ing of the new G.-G. to and from Parliament
House. This carriage, which dates from the
days when Lord Hopetoun was Governor-
General, has carried the Prince of Wales and
the Duke and Duchess of York. Sergeant
J. E. Goddard, who held the reins in
Lord Hopetoun’s day and since, again occu-
pied the coachman’s seat last week.
Prior to the swearing-in ceremony the
Governor-General and his lady lunched at
Government House with Lord Somers. Then,
accompanied by General Blarney and Cap-
tain Bracegirdle, thgy left by car for Alexan-
dra-avenue. There a guard of Light Horse
with red and white pennons fluttering, an
escort of mounted police and the State car-
riage awaited them. The crowd cheered as
they took their seats in the vehicle. First
stop was made at the Town Hall, where an
address of welcome was read by the Lud
Mayor. There was a big crowd on Parlia-
ment House steps to watch the arrival of
the new Ex., who looked very distinguished in
his Windsor uniform and white-featliercd
cocked hat. On the dais in the Leg. Council
Chamber were Priminister Scullin and the
representatives of Navy, Army and Air Force.
The wife of the Governor-General was in
a chiffon gown patterned in grey, black,
white and lime-green, and fashioned in cape
mode. Her large black hat was banded with
black velvet and she wore a long necklace
of crystal. Mrs. David Cohen, her daughter,
was a guest with her husband and
son. Satin of dark ficelle tint formed her
frock, which was topped by a bright blue
straw hat and a necklet of lapis lazuli.
Knight Frank Clarke and his lady were
mere, she in black. The Russell Clarkes
were also present, she wearing magpie rai-
ment. General Brand accompanied his
wife, whose printed silk gown was in tints
of brown. Major-General H. E. Elliott and
Mrs. Elliott, John Quick and his lady and
Robert Best and his lady were in the throng.
Captain Benson, R.N., was also accompanied
by his wife, who wore a black velvet toque
above a gown of wine-colored georgette and
lace. Mrs. W. Angliss sported chocolate-
brown georgette with a shiny straw hat. Jus-
tice Gavan Duffy’s lady wore black.
The Bible used in the ceremony was his-
toric, for 30 yqars ago Isaac Alfred Isaacs
took the oath upon it when sworn in as Vic.
Attorney-General. It contains the signature
of King George, then Duke of York. After
paying -calls on Lord Somers and knight
William Irvine, the newly-made Exes.
returned to their home at Macedon with the
Union Jack fluttering on the bonnet of their
motor-car.
Sorrento was thronged with golfers for the
annual open competitions at the week-end.
This was the twenty-first of such happenings
staged by the Sorrento Golf Club, and entries
totalled 800. Players put up at Portsea and
other near-by resorts. On the opening day
a chill strong breeze handicapped players
somewhat, but Saturday was warmer and
calmer. Smart jumper suits and berets were
sported by most of the women competitors,
among whom were Mrs. Keith Tolhurst, Miss
M. Staughton (N.S.W.), Miss R, Bayles
and Susie and Shirley Tolhurst.
In Hugh D. Mclntosh’s Tivoli production
of “The Film Girl” on Saturday Minnie
Love, who was given a great reception, enters
in Spanish attire of black with innumerable
gold-edged frills upon the hooped skirts. A
black lace mantilla completes the effect. She
leads a ballet of shapely girls, whose amber
.satin fringed garments are topped by rose
velvet hats. Byrl Walkley has several allur-
ing gowns; one petal flounced in shades from
primrose to lemon. She wears a middy’s
uniform. Nellie Barnes, Peggy Ross and
Norah O’Malley sport some smart frocks.
The final curtain falls upon a wedding man-
nequin parade with six brides in varied array
of white and silver, and their attendant maids
in frocks of black-and-white.
Starring at the Comedy is Ethel Morri-
son, who takes the name-rdle in “The First
Mrs. Fraser.”
Miss Morri-
son, who hails
from Maori-
land, made her
first appear-
ance here in
Gilbert and
Sullivan comic
operas. She
was in the
chorus at the
Savoy before
Gilbert’s re-
tirement, and
she w r as in
Marie Tem-
pest's company
when that fine
actress was in
Australia.
Broothorn
made the por-
trait.
At a gymkhana at Hartley, Frankston,
home of Mrs. Herbert Embling, proceeds of
which went to the children’s orthopaedic hos-
pital, many of the contestants were pupils of
Mrs. Embling’s riding school. The wind
blew cool from the sea, so the onlookers
were comfortable. Many patrons provided
themselves with camp stools, and others sat
in motor-cars. Mrs. Norman Brookes,
Cynthia Collins and others of the Frank-
ston auxiliary of the hospital served after-
noon tea in a marquee, and there were ice-
cream and sweets stalls in a shady arbor.
Mrs. Saengar and Gertrude Rennie were the
chief helpers. Knight George Fairbairn pre-
sented the victors with ribbons. He was
accompanied by his lady, whose beige siik
frock was topped by a green hat. The Lud
Mayor and Mrs. Luxton were with them;
the Mayoress wearing green and white
spotted crtipe de Chine and blending mil-
linery. Mary Luxton won the prize for
equestrianship in the “under 12” class. Many
youngsters competed in the riding events, ail
wearing the last word in riding togs—baggy
breeches, khaki or colored shirts with ties,
and stitched linen hats or velvet hunting-
caps. A couple of small boys sported topees.
Among these young folk were the three little
daughters of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bright,
whose grown-up daughter, Mary, also a
splendid rider, assisted Mrs. and Miss
Embling in arranging the programme. Among
the adults who distinguished themselves in
the competitions were Marie Mackinnon,
Hylda McCardel and Mrs. Hickey. Among
the onlookers were Mrs. James Grice, Mrs.
Claude Grice, Mrs. Fred Grimwade, Mrs.
Askin Foster, Mr. and Mrs. Percy Black-
bourn, Mrs. W. R. Burston, Mrs. E. M.
Pearce and her married daughter Mrs. Staf-
ford, Mrs. 11. J. Manson, Mrs. Dan Taylor,
Mrs. Forbes McKenzie and Mrs. Cartwright
and her daughter Isabel.
Deep cream satin, Brussels lace and pearls
figured in the attire of Madge Kathleen, only
daughter of the Arthur Lindsays, when she
“stood up,” as the Scots have it, with Thomas
T. Colquhoun at St. James’s Church, Ivan-
hoe. Two ’maids, who blended in their filmy
gowns tints of early autumn in green, beige
and coral-pink; attended the bride.
A bride of the week was Gertrude Helen,
daughter of Mrs. H. W. Marshall, of Kew,
who took for better or worse Captain George
McGowan, M.C., of the Apple Isle. White
satin, limerick lace and water-lilies made a
charming wedding array. Shirley Campbell
bridesmaided in white chiffon- flowered in
rose-red to match her straw millinery.
The headmaster of Trinity Grammar
School, Kew, Frank Shann, has returned to
Melbourne with his bride, who was Miss
Chrystabel Parnell, of Perth.
Mrs. Otto Yuncken, of Auburn, put on the
kettle at the week-end to say good-bye to
Mrs. William Coultas, who _ has been her
guest for a few weeks, and is returning to
her husband’s plantation in Ceylon. Mrs.
Coultas met her husband while on a holiday
trip to Europe last year, and their marriage
took place in London.
Captain H. N. Boyle, A.S.C., and his
family have returned from India, where he
has been putting in two years at Quetta. Mrs.
Boyle’s sister, Mary Condon, who has been
away for about a year, accompanied them.
They are the guests of Mrs. P. J. Condon
before going to reside permanently in Sydney.
Contralto Isabel Biddell is one of the song-
birds winging their way back to Australia
after study in Europe. Miss Biddell intends
to take up her position on the teaching staff
of the Uni. Conservatorium next month.
Archbishop Head and Mrs. Head viewed
“The First Mrs. Fraser” at the Comedy, and
established a precedent by going behind the
scenes and meeting members of the company.
King’s Theatre, opened in 1908 and owned
by the Firm, caught fire the other evening.
The stage and a lot of props and costumes
were burnt. The theatre has been closed
since the production of “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” which by all accounts was a flat
failure.
Major J. H. Montague, formerly secretary
of the Portland Club of London, who helped to
frame the rules of bridge, recently visited
this city. He has formed the opinion that
Australian women play the game better than
the men. Explanation is easy—they have
a lot more practice.
After their tour of South Africa, Great
Britain and the Continent, six members of
the. Australian women’s hockey team and
their manager, Mrs. Davy, were greeted by
the president of the W.H.C. Mrs. E. F.
Herring and members of the executive enter-
tained the players at dinner at the Old
Grammarians’ Club.
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Brookes are home
again after their 19 months in the U.S.A.
Mrs. Brookes found on her arrival at
Winwick that all her friends and co-
workers in philanthropic activities had said
their greeting in flowers. While in the land
of the Stars and Stripes Mrs. Brookes
shared her husband’s work, undertaking
secretarial duties in addition to many social
obligations. Also she found time to investi-
gate, the management of hospitals and to look
into social-welfare methods.
Pianist Edward Cahill has been rather at
a loose end since the death of singer George
Brooke, with whom he was associated for
many harmonious years. In London these
musicians were much in demand at private
social entertainments, and, though Melbun
isn’t Lunnon and 1931 isn’t a bit like 1929,
Mr. Cahill pursues the policy of the old firm.
Early in February he will give a recital in
Mrs. Harry Emmerton’s ballroom at Raveloe,
South Yarra, in a setting of rare Oriental
embroideries, tapestries, ivories, jade, china
and antiques.
Alan McCulloch, who tots up figures in the
Commonwealth Bank, spends his spare
moments in etching. His engraving “Sirocco”
has been purchased by the National Gallery.
This is Dorothy E. Mattingley, Mus.Bae.,
who commenced her musical studies as a
pupil of Ada
Freeman,
teacher of
Nancy Weir.
Miss Matting-
ley won a
piano forte
s c h o larship
that took her
to the Albert-
street C o n.,
and later she
went to the
Uni. Co n.,
where she
studied with
Edward Coll
for five years
and acquired
her degree.
The portrait is
from the Dick-
inson-Monteath
studio.
The Rodney Segraves, who have been in
Australia for some months, mostly as the
guests of the lady’s parents, the Oscar Lem-
prieres, of East St. Kilda, are returning to
their home in England. They are travelling
by way of South Africa, making a halt of
some weeks there. Mr. Segrave is a brother
of the late Sir Henry Segrave, breaker of
speed records on land and sea.
The Red Cross Society sends out an early
SOS for warm pullover sweaters for in-
valided and necessitous ex-soldiers. Direc-
tions for knitting can be obtained at the
society’s headquarters in Latrobc-street.
An artist who has taken up mural deco-
ration is Violet Teague, who collaborated
with Dora Wilson in the producing of the
living presentations of pictures of Old
Masters at the Arts and Crafts Society’s
show of last year. Miss Teague is doing a
number of panels for the Pioneers’ Church
at Mt. Eliza, Frankston.
Ethel and Queenie Sloman, of St. Kilda,
have returned after three years of foreign
travel. They set out by way of Java and
went through- India ; then they saw most
parts of Europe, and motored over much of
England and Scotland.
For the Arts and Crafts Society’s depot
in Little Collins-street, Michael O’Connell
has evolved an arresting exterior, with sym-
bols on a yellow background, and a blue
door. An attractive feature of wares now
for sale is a selection of woven hearthrugs,
patterned on Indian designs in vivid red,
brown and white. Also there are some very
attractive. raffia hats.
From Adelaide :
Our police burst upon the public the other morning
in all the glory of long double-breasted white coats
and white helmets. It is the first effort that has
ever been made officially to temper the heat to the
constabulary. So far it has been a mild summer,
with only one day over the century.
So many of the social lights are staying in the
hills at present that the opportunity was taken to
hold a fSte—it was in aid of the Church of England
—in the grounds of Mr. and Mrs. Dudley
Turner’s summer residence at Mount Lofty. Stalls
were arranged in the garden beneath the trees, and
the afternoon tea was on the grass tennis court.
Mrs. Bruce Rudall and her daughter, Mrs. Lavington
Bonython, presided over the tea, while Mesdames
Frank Irwin and P. Lawrence were in charge of
strawberries and cream.
Mi. Justice M. Napier has gone to Robe, where
his wife and sons have been holidaying. Judge
Drake-Brockman’s daughter Mary is in Adelaide on a
visit to her aunt, the Moulded lady, at North Adelaide.
The F. W. Porters and their boys are putting in
the Christmas vacation at Mount Breckan, Victor
Harbor. Others who have taken their young folk
down there for the holidays include the Sydney
Rymills, the A. L. Taylors, the F. Simpsons and
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Trott. Dr. and Mrs. Edgar
Brown have returned to North Adelaide from Kan-
garoo Island.
Archibald Strong, who died while Professor of
English at Adelaide University, has left an estate,
mainly in Victoria, of £14,000.
From Hobart: —-
Mainland delegates to the Conference of the
National Council of Women, headed by Mrs. Muscio,
have invaded the Speck in force. Our islet’s
own representatives are Mrs. Henry Dobson, Mrs.
Stourton, Mrs. Snowdon Hay, Mrs. Monds, Mrs.
Piesse, J.P., and Mrs. Banks-Smith. Work and play
made the week a busy one.
A blustery, but not unpleasant, day marked
the T.A.J.C. Cup meeting at Elwick. The Cup was
carried off by G. C. Headlands Darpuna, Tasmanian-
owned and -trained. Chairman Lindsay Miller and
the committee entertained a big crowd at tea.
Dressing was patchy, as is always the case in
doubtful weather; summer turn-outs are apt to look
a bit exotic under our variable skies. Mrs. Sam
Cox came with her mother, Mrs. T. Lyons. The
Frank Gummows, Mrs. Miller (Vic.), Mrs. H. Forster
(Vic.), Mr. and Mrs. Francis Foster, the James
Murrays, Dr. and Mrs. Sprent, the W. B. Prop-
stings, the Russell Ibbotts, the H. C. Ikins, Mrs.
Flexmore, Miss M. Davern, the A. J. Millers and
Sybil Lyons were among the throng.
Norah Shoobridge and Joan Boyd were the young
organisers of the successful dance in . aid of the
Mothercraft Home, at the Continental. Bridge
tables for older folk were set out in the lounge
rooms, while the youngsters, many of them privi-
leged as being “home for the holidays,” enjoyed
themselves in the ballroom. Marcus Trappen’s
orchestra made lively music; supper, supplied by
Mrs. Duncan, was served in the CafA
Invitations for two important dances had gone
out before the official news came that the Fleet
is to observe Court mourning for the Duchess of
Fife until February 4. The functions have been
postponed.
A popular Launceston engagement just announced
is that of Phyllis May, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
H. Loucadon-Wells, to Daniel, only son of Mr.
Lance Archer, Tolarno, St. Leonards.
Clive Lord, director of our Museum, is keenly
appreciative of a gift from a generous citizen who
wishes to remain anonymous for the present. It
takes the form of a group of Tasmanian aborigines,
to be modelled for the Historical Room. The
work is in the hands of E. J. Dicks, of Melbourne,
who is doing the female figure from the skeleton
of Truganini, the last of the race in Tasmania.
Very successfully accomplished was the first
transport of passengers by air from Melbourne to
the Western Junction aerodrome. Commodore
Kingsford Smith reported the passage as a perfect
one, and the nine passengers were enthusiastic over
the comfort of the three-hours’ flight.
A quiet wedding was that of Margaret, elder
daughter of the H. R. Gardners, Relbia, to W.
Greer, Aropa Plantation, Kiepa, New Guinea. The
knot was tied in the C. of E. at Franklin village,
only immediate relatives being bidden. The couple
are old friends, lately re-met.
Talented little Betty Hood, of the clever pencil
and brush, leaves by the Barrabool in March to study
Art in the Big Smoke. Peggy Crane, who has a
matrimonial date with Rev. Cecil Muschamp, goes
with her.


Bank of Now Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,260
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World, Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE Q.FFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COI.LINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of • Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
ê
135:6.
SThe Brisbane Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier dp
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
Che Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-strfeet,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agent: H. C. GRKLLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
Übe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com*
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion’' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin'
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
A/OMATHE WORLD
AiS
Hon
pa£»
EWY©KK
OW to the real business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings a|nd plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
Jourthe Pacific Islands
I Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
:
?
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday
land! For rest, for play, for thrilling new
experiences.... colorful native life and customs,
quaint tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and
flowers, coral lagoons. . . .outrigger canoeing,
morning dips in cool jade-green waters. And
always you return from exotic delights to the
palatial modern comfort of the
S.S. MATARAM.
Next Sailing, February 18, March 31, 1931.
Write for Leaflet No. 52/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
Ask for
the “B. P. Magazine,’
1/- per copy.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ë
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
ē
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ĕ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Sired, Sydney.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, Londonj
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
'T'HERE is no anxiety for the
traveller who places himself in
the care of Canadian Pacific of-
ficials those courteous, capable
men and women who seem to know
instinctively what to do for each
traveller’s comfort and peace of
mind.
Travel the Canadian Pacific route
to Canada, United States and
Europe to escape worry, fuss and
lost time. Free illustrated litera-
ture from
i mw
j m
2>
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
ė
Jhe
T)c
nd
ble
ep
St
ectf'ic
jorch
L ' G HTi n
ESs
DA^KM t
* • In alt
d °ng er C ° Un Wes»L
°4**Na&* l 'cmT
:>^<C
■ The *AY. {
! nc T °r C h fh
6 ®o m of ° Ws
° 015. a * c
W ' i: b ? lliQr >t
•y.
y. •
o//
'n-
m o^es
°We,
Ray,- " er -
r i@s
'9ht s
O.
V^c
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.5.A. ~
. K 3 '
ę
DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEM
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
*
ě
ŵ
ẁ


AS WE SAID DEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A Townsville (Q.) philanthropist who
always domes down handsomely in time of
need recently presented a black gin up there
with a bustle. The lady looked over the
instrument for some time in order to get the
hang of it, and then tied it round her neck
with the roots hanging down her back.
Finally, she planted her piccaninny comfort-
ably on the new perch, and when last seen
she was strolling down the main street sing-
ing “Gor save ’long a grashy Queen.”
The other day one Mahoney, a very new-
chum Irishman, was arraigned before Judge
Casey (Vic.) for serious assault, consisting
in Mr. Mahoney’s having fractured the
skull of one Morris with a block of road
metal. The provocation given by Morris
appeared to be that lie had scornfully
alluded to Mr. Mahoney as a recent arrival.
Mr. Mahoney pleaded guilty, but added:
“Well, your riverence, Oi don’t know phwat
kind av heads these colonials have—they
can’t be anny thicker than aig-shell. Why,
HEART V. STOMACH.
WIFE: "Now, this is the third time I’ve caught you in the kitchen
talking to the cook.”
HUSBAND: “Well, yes—I believe it is.”
WIFE: “Well, the very next time I catch you talking to the cook
I’ll discharge her and do the cooking myself.” [26/5/’88.]
in Oireland ye can pelt a man from day-
light till dark and the divil a scratch you’d
find on him if he was anny sort of av a man
at all, at all.” This story was being retailed
to a lot of the Koroit bojys, one of whom
said: “Begorra, thin, Mahoney was right.
Why, I moind an eliction toiine when the
O’Meallys got hold av one av the Ryans, and
all ye could see of Ryan was a bit av his
ear poking out av the mud.” “And was
Ryan killed?” “Killed be damned! No,
he was pounded fair into the mud, I tell
you, and all you could see "was the pint av
his ear, and when the O’Meallys got off
him he got out av the mud and gev him-
self a shake like a dog and said: ‘Come on,
you divils, I’m ready for yez!’ Ye see, him
bein’ in the mud gave him time to draw his
breath.”
Years ago there was a little graveyard in
a lonely spot near the Victorian border, and
half a dozen monuments related how the
underneath was speared by the blacks in for-
gotten years, and how he died. It was a poor,
hungry, lopsided, insolvent little cemetery,
and it mouldered away till there was only
one stone left. Then old Bugg took up the
adjoining run, and scragged the last lone
“In Memoriam” and turned it into a grind-
stone. It is still in use, and day by day
“Sacred to the Memory of” goes whizz-
ing rounds and axes and knives are sharpened
on the virtues of the deceased. “Erected by
his sorrowing wife” has long since been
ground to dust; “Blessed are they that sleep
in the Lord” was chipped away when the
old stone was rooted up and devoted to its
new service, but still that “Sacred to the
Memory of” whirls about with a monotonous
buzz from morning to night. If this should
catch the eye of old Bugg, perhaps he will
take the hint and give the relic a rest. If
he doesn’t, the chances are that he may find
the owner whizzing round in the next world,
and that he may want his tombstone and
Bugg won’t be able to give it to him.
Many romantic improbabilities are said to
have eventuated in the early days of Sydney.
One story, which bears the unmistakable
mark of the insurance-agent, is that, on one
remote occasion, a sailor was confined in the
Cumberland-street lockup, which was an airy,
superficial structure built of palings. His
mates —resenting his imprisonment—armed
themselves with a coil of rope, which they
fastened round the legal shed, and, with one
long, strong yo-heave-ho, they lifted the entire
gaol from off the misdemeanant, and carried
him away in triumph.
A swell has come to grief in a little town
in Northern Queensland. He had a dad who
supported the Government strongly, and
through the old gentleman’s influence he got
an appointment as mail contractor. But
though he was paid for carrying the mails,
the Postal Department kindly allowed him to
entrust the work to the gold-warden's
orderly, and that unhappy wretch had to ride
his Government moke to death without any
advance of pay, while the contractor went
clucking round
town and acted as
chief dude of the
district. The order-
ly presently got
“full up” of this
and resigned,
whereupon the con-
tractor applied for
and got his billet
—at £4 per week
-—and carried the
bags himself. He
also got weary of
it, however, and
appointed a deputy
at £3 a week to do
the work, while he
appropriated the
other £1 and his
salary as contrac-
tor as well, and
got a third billet
to take charge of
a neighboring sta-
tion. Things were
now going on as
pleasantly as the
flowers that bloom
in the spring, but
unhappily a new
gold-warden came
up who knew not
Joseph, and his
first inquiry was
for his orderly.
II earing that
gentleman was on
a .station some
miles away, he
poured fourth a
dusty storm of
curses and sent a
message that
brought the emi-
nent orderly in at
a gallop to report
himself. He did
so, and was just
settling down for
a pleasant chat
when the warden
rose up in his
wrath and ordered
him tp go and
shovel that muck
out of the back yard. The man with
the three billets was so flabbergasted
that he obeyed without question, and when he
had finished the job he meekly started split-
ting wood at the order of his tyrant, and
toiled at that till he was ordered to leave
off and rub down the warden’s horse. He
has been kept hard at work ever since, and
he says the civil service isn’t any place for
a gentleman, don’tcherknow.
Dear Bulletin, —Melb. waxworks man
Kreitmayer has an affecting story of wifely
devotion. A gentleman had been hanged, and
Kreity took a cast of him, and duly placed
the figure, dressed in his actual clothes,
among the horrors. One day a little woman
visited the show, and identified the figure.
“It’s ’im!” she said; “it’s ’im!” The
attendant asked her if she had known the
original, and the little woman answered
that the original had been her husband until
his little trouble with the police. “However
he could a-come to do it, an’ me keepin’ ’im
so neat and clean, I don’t know,” the widow
continued. “An’ that’s a fearful dirty shirt
Vs got on now—would you let me put a
clean shirt on ’im once or twice er week?"
She was referred to Kreitmayer, secured his
consent, and for months after that the widow
visited the show twice a week and changed
the corpse’s shirt. If was her way of putting
flowers on his grave. But after a year the
visits stopped. She was “doing up” the shirts
of “another bloke.” — The Reckless.
The emu is an uncertain bird which sits
down awful hard on the bread-basket of
the human race when its dander is elevated
and its wild Australian monkey is up, and
a man who now resides in bed at Silver-
ton (N.S.W.) is prepared to swear to this
fact before a duly qualified commissioner for
taking affidavits in the colony. He was out
on the plains with another man, who is also
prepared to swear to it, and they caught
sight of a tall hen bird meditating along
with a lanky young one kicking up a dust
in the rear. Some demon of incarnate fool-
ishness fixed upon the man who is now in
bed, and after a long stern chase he arrested
the young bird by the tail.
He probably thought at the
moment that he had done a
smart thing, but he sud-
denly became aware that the
baleful eye of the elderiy
fowl was fixed upon him, and
after one glance into that
glowing orb he took his prize
by the legs and lighted out
for sweet freedom beyond.
The next thing he was aware
of was a demoniac welt on
the skull, and it seemed as
if a steam-hammer was fol-
lowing him in close pursuit.
He let go the chicken, winen
fled screaming, and then the
old bird kicked him up in
the air and as he came down
it kicked him up again. A
wild rough-and-tumble fol-
lowed. Sometimes the man
was on top, but generally he
wasn’t, and when he wasn't
on top the emu was. They
dodged round and round
each other and screamed.
When the man thought he
was close enough to let out
with his left the emu kicked
up a dust and blinded him,
and then, before he knew
where he was or where he
hoped to be if he could only
get away, the bird got one
of its legs round his neck
and was laying on to him
with its tail. Once or twice
the man got in a blow on
the jaw which made his
opponent wink, but the
instant he stepped back to
avoid the return he fell over
the chicken, which came and
sat down behind him every
time, and then a wild-look-
ing thing like a feather-
duster gone mad would rush
on him in a whirl of legs and
wings and take a mouthful
of his hair. By the end of
the third round the man
hadn’t any clothes on, and,
in the course of two rounds
more, the bird went away
with his boots. Finally, it
left him sitting on a thorny shrub, and stalked
away, and he was too sick to follow. He
got home at a slow pace, and lie testifies
that the emu is not a desirable addition to a
quiet family. It has too little regard for
the human feelings, and is given to unjusti-
fiable violence over matters which should
properly be settled by arbitration. Also, the
rapidity with which it does things is pain-
ful, and even aggravating.
Consider the Langtry how she grew. She
toiled not, neither did she spin, but Solo-
mon in all his glory wasn’t a patch on her
in the matter of clothes, and now she has
gone in for a dress made mostly of bats’
wings, with a whole dead, stuffed bat at
the bosom, and a bat to wear on her head
and bats’ claws on her slippers. There are
also wings to the garment and wire fixings
to flap them with when wanted. [lO/3/’SB.]
Tom Pavey, the Melbourne attorney, tells
a queer yarn about a prisoner he was once
defending for perjury. When the trial came
on before “Old Moley,” Tom went round to
the dock and thus addresed his client: “When
they call the jury, look at the men before
they go into the box, and sing out ‘Challenge’
if you think they’d have an animus against
you.” “What’s that, Guvnor?” demanded
the criminal. “An ill-feeling—a ‘down’ on
you,” explained Thomas. “Can’t I chal-
lenge the Judge, Guvnor; he may have an
annymus agin me,” explained the prisoner.
“I’ve been up before him eight or nine times.
The last time he gimme three years for half-
brainin’ a trap.”
The ways of Providence are past finding
out, and the tracks of old Bill Wisdom, of
Kimberley, arc equally inscrutable. When
the rush commenced to the new field, Bill
was one of those who followed the stony
road to the interior, and with him marched
a couple of newchums in tight check pants
and astonishment at the strange sights of
the dark continent. The open-mouthed bewil-
derment of this outlandish pair amused Bill,
and his strong tobacco and tremendous oaths,
also his fathomless knowledge of the ways
of the local kangaroo, filled them with a
sense of awe. One hot day the trio pitched
their camp beside a new-made grave on a
branch of the Bow River, and when they
had filled up with a considerable chunk
of the last-killed wallaby, and Bill
had picked his teeth and blasphemed
numerously and lit a pipe, they all strolled
over to look at the last resting-place of the
deceased. There was a head-board above
it made from the end of a gin-case, and
an inscription set forth that the dust below
was “sacred to the memory of John Kerr,
aged 22, died of rheumatiz, rest in peace.”
The newchums shed a tear over the defunct
pioneer, and spoke in whispers of his un-
timely fate, while Bill fell heavily over the
tombstone and rose cursing, and lay down
to smoke another pipe. When he had mas-
tered his emotion and swallowed enough
nicotine to poison a horse, he delivered him-
self thus: “Lookey ’ere, I knowed that ’ere
Jack Kerr. I knowed the galoot a dashed
long time, and I’m going to dig him up and
’ave a look at him.” The newchums weie
horrified. One of them tried to exorcise Bill
as if he had been an evil spirit as he dug
frenziedly at the grave, and the other eom-
menced reciting the burial service, with
scraps of the marriage and baptismal services
interspersed, and a few remarks suitable for
the visitation of the sick, also prayers for
rain, and the petition for the Royal family
was put in here and there when everything
else failed him. But old Bill solemnly delved
away, and when at last he struck the coffin
they formally gave him their curse and re-
tired to a distance. Filled with silent horror
they watched the profane William nearly
breaking his back as he hauled out a long
deal box, and when he shivered it open
with his pick they asked why the heavens
didn't fall and crush this loathsome _ body-
snatcher. Then a wild whoop split the
REV. DR. GARRAN.
[For many years he was editor of the “S. M. Herald.” Later
he was the Conciliation Commissioner under the first Industrial
Disputes Settlement law in N. S. Wales.] [31/8/’89.]
sultry atmosphere, Bill’s old felt hat went
20 feet in the air, and the owner turned
three somersaults and a back-spring, and
hauled out a bottle of Dublin stout. “It’s
beer!” he shouted; “sacred to the memory
of beer! Half a ton of gory likker! Balm
in Gilead ain’t a blessed circumstance to
this ! Corn in Ejip ain’t nowhere! Whoo-op!
Come in, ye soft-headed, prayin’ galoots, an’
have a drink!” An hour later Bill was
spread on the desert sands, clutching a
bottle, but unconscious. Twenty more dig-
gers came along during the day, and they
also became unconscious, and the two new-
chums did their first drunk—and an awful
drunk it was. After that, Bill religiously
disinterred every buried object he came
across, and many a decaying dog and spectral
horse he led to a sudden resurrection. But,
alas ! he found no more beer. Later on, in
Hall’s Gully, he came upon a half-filled
shaft, and, starting to investigate for more
interred liquor, he brought to light a Swedish
digger with his head caved in. The German
who had planted him there was afterwards
hanged at Perth, and Bill now holds the
opinion that his keen scent for hidden grog
is a divine “instink,” implanted in him that
he may bring the wicked to justice.
Dear Bulletin, — Re “tight places.” A
workless miner at Eaglehawk some years
ago thought to pick up the run of stone in
a certain abandoned shaft, and, without tell-
ing anyone of liis intentions, proceeded to
explore the old workings. He had delved
in the adjoining mine, but had never been
in the one he was now going to fossick.
Climbing down to the 400-feet level, candle
in hand, he explored crosscuts and drives
and scrambled down winzes; but, in jumping
a bit of a “lump” the jolt put his candle out,
and to his dismay he found he hadn’t a
match to relight it. As an old miner he
should have told his wife where he was
going, in case of accident; and, of course,
he was to blame for not seeing to his
“strikes” ere going down. It is to his credit
that he did not lose his presence of mind.
That, as he afterwards said, would have
meant death for certain. Crawling on hands
and knees, and keeping straight ahead, he
went the fearful journey slowly but surely
down the pass, through the drives out in the
crosscuts, in a darkness that could be felt,
and in an hour he reached the shaft —to
see the small circle of light 400 feet over-
head. To this day I have never seen him
strike a match if anyone was striking one
to light a pipe, or if a fire was handy.
“Matches are precious, my lad, I can tell
you.”— Willow Tea.
Lord Tennyson’s lot is not altogether
happy. In the course of a kindly and appre-
ciative letter to Mr. John Farrell, of Queau-
beyan (N.S.W.), congratulating that gentle-
man on the success of his volume, “How He
Died,” the Laureate says: “It is not much
that I can read now, for I have entirely lost
the use of my right eye, as far as reading
goes, and the left one is slowly darkening.
And every morning of my life come by post
from all parts of the world poems—reams
of them —with requests that I should pro-
nounce upon their merits, and hardly ever
a book of prose; and I cannot live, like John
the Baptist, on wild honey.” [lB/6/’B7.]
BECAUSE.
I did not love her for her land,
Her pelf, and pedigree;
The wealth within her lily hand
Had ne’er a charm for me;
’Twas not because her teeth were pearls,
Each ear a dainty shell;
’Twas not because her rippling curls
In waves of ebon fell;
’Twas not because the words she breathed
Could soul and sense beguile;
’Twas not because her face she wreathed
In many a dimpling smile;
’Twas not because her eyes were clear
As some pellucid pool;
’Twas not for these I held her dear
And loved her regal rule;
’Twas only just (come, lend your ear)
Because I was a fool!
QUEENSLAND.
P. LUFTIG.
MY PHILOSOPHY.
Scan not this world with any cynic eye.
But while you live remember you will die;
Make ev’ry moment happy e’er it go,
Nor count the cost—for death pays all yon
owe.
P. G. B.


K
n m
v \\.
Sr
M"
sfc
Jf
t*x\'
f F
« l
m
■
*.'■
m
HAPPY
MAORI LIFE
amid the Mss
and roar of
thermal mantels
gEE Rotorua if you would see Maori life m its original
picturesque state. Amid the steam and hiss of boiling
pools and spouting geysers the placid happy-go-lucky Maori
life goes on. Whares are built over hissing steam vents.
Food is cooked in boiling pools. Little brown children
tumble in and out of the warm water and dive for coins, and
Maori men and girls are always ready to act as guides
through the wonderful thermal valleys, and to tell uncanny
tales of Nature’s marvellous way.
Come to
NEW ZEALAND
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to —N.Z
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
? lease send me illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand.
Name
Address
5.8.4 A
jorrt
DIFFERENT Holiday
Government Tourist Bureau, Martin Place,
Sydney; 59 William Street, Melbourne; Queen
Street, Brisbane: and all Travel Agencies.
be in
NEW
ZEALAND
4A
The Harlequin Joke.
HENRY G. LAMOND
TELLS A STORY OF THE OPALFIELDS
A FTER many years I met Jim Forrest
/ \ i n the streets of the city. He was big,
grizzled, the same happy-go-lucky and
whimsical Jim. We adjourned through the
nearest swing door, and there, with one foot
resting on the rail erected for our benefit by
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Froth-Blowers, we foregathered as is the
way with old mates of the pick and shovel.
A dozen times Jim a ked me how the world
used me, and accused me of getting fat.
Six times he asked me if I remembered Joe
Stafford and the pot of opal he opened at
Pinkilla; Bill Delaney and the snide he
tried to work on Jack Lloyd; Hughie
Mclvor, Bill Trumpton, Jim Turner, Jack
Barry and others of the fields. Three times
he tossed a casual order over his shoulder
to Hebe, and then he moved an adjourn-
ment.
“There’s a table in the next room,” said
he, “and chairs to put beside it. There’s a
bell on the table to summon assistance if
we’ve got the strength to touch the button.”
“I saw Dick Weinhardt the other day,” I
remarked.
“Weinhardt! Him that used to buy on the
field? What’s he doing now?”
“He’s a steward on one of the coastal
boats.”
“ Serv es the cow right!” Jim grunted.
‘The last time I saw him he was buying
drinks for Let-Go Charlie, trying to get Let-
Go drunk quick so as he could slip away
without gettin’ hurt.”
“Let-Go, eh! Where’s he these days, Jim?”
“He ain’t Let-Go none no more now,”
Jim observed oracularly. “He’s Mister
Charles Fresham, wearin’ an Esquire an’
a J.P. after his name, an’ a black hat and
a frock coat on himself. He come in for a
lot of money just about the time Weinhardt
got the sack. A maiden aunt of his was
predeceased by her pet poodle, and Let-Go
was next in the line of descent. Now he's
got a paunch an’ a motor-car, three chins
an’ social ambitions. He’d sue you for
breacli-of-promise if you called him Let-Go
now, an’ he’s the sort that figures in the
papers as ‘Our esteemed fellow-citizen Mr.
I’resham.’ It was through him that Wein-
hardt got fired, and I was there when the
gun went off.”
“Tell me,” I commanded, pressing my index
finger on the button of the bell.
“It was like this,” Jim commenced. “Me
aii Let-Go 'was opalling out from Red
Knob, between Coraki and Wetlands, on
" arbreccan station. Let-Go was gettin’
nothin’. I was makin’ tucker an’ a bit. One
day I called him up out of his hole, an’
while we’re sittin’ for dinner we started
comparing notes on our misspent lives.
In the course of it I happened to ask him
how he come for to be named ‘Let-Go.’ ”
“ ‘Because I dam’ well deserve it,’ he
snapped. ‘I give it to meself, an’ others cot-
toned to it and fixed it. I always let go
too early. I’m one of them fellows that’s
born to make mistakes. If I let go a
balloon. it lyould rise. If I held on to a
submarine it would sink. That’s me.’
“ Tm listenin’,’ says I, not offerin’ any
advice and just takin’ what was cornin’ to
me durin’ the dinner hour.
I stated off jackerooing on a station,’
says Let-Go. ‘Of course there was a girl.
There always is. She promised to wait till
i d a home to offer her. I promised to work
till the sweat run out of me boots. I got to
be head-overseer just about the time the
perspiration had reached me ankles. Then,
ot course, I was lookin’ for a management
an orange blossoms. But a man don’t wake
up an find one of them things in his socks
on a Christmas morning. I reckoned I’d
spur things a bit. I bought a few horses
and started dealing.
Three weeks after I’d severed me con-
nection with the station the manager got
the sack. The overseer what was appointed
in my place got his job! That was me first
slip.
“ jj orses was g e tti n > j n condition
“t to the market dropped an’ dropped,
gettin down so low there wasn’t no market
m view to the naked eye. I sold the horses
tor a ,good bit less than I gave for ’em,
wastin me time an’ the expense of gettin’
em m condition. Three days later the
market rose. A month after that the price
was morehi twice what I’d paid for the
brutes. That was me second miss, and by
that time the sweat was beginnin’ to splash
about the uppers of me boots.
“ the girl was waiting, saying she
knew I d show trumps in the end. I got
busy again. I got. in with a mob of sheep
on shares. The nineteen-five drought come
on. The sheep were dying. Me money was
run out. Things looked pretty blue. I sold
my share for what I could get for ’em, losing
all me dough. . Ten days later it rained. I
got two and six for my ewes. A fortnight
later they were sold for .seventeen and six!
By that time I was wearin’ bowyangs
to keep the sweat from runnin’ into me
socks, an’ me slips had developed to a
regular slide. I wrote the girl, tellin’ her
our little romance was busted. I said
1 d found another girl an’ I didn’t love her
no more. God forgive me for tellin’ lies!
Inside a month the girl come in for a wad
of money, married another fellow, and she’s
kfcen luckshery ever since.
“ ‘That’s the way things has been with
me all the time. Let-Go! Blast it, I ain’t
got the pluck to catch hold! But if I had
noother chance I’ll bet things’d shape
different. Ive got a spec, in me mind’s
eye now. With five hundred quid she’s a
winnei. \\ ith seven-fifty she’s a certainty.
1 n i u 1 1 a thousand I’d never
look back. Then me an’ the girl would be
set tor ever and ever, amen, world without
end anymore. That’s me, Let-Go Charlie,
m £ ad another chance I’d be known
aS « ,p° “‘ Fast —take nay tip for that lot.’
. at , I thought you said the girl was
married, I chips in. ‘Who’s this other
female you talk about, or is the first one
a widow?’
“ I t°ld y° u before,’ Let-Go says weary-
l:ke, ‘that there always is a <rirl. This one
am t the original. This is a new an’ later
model. Why d’you think I’m opallin’ on
the Jundah Fields? You don’t think I’m
here for me health, do you? An’ I can tell
you it ain’t for to gather no experience.
I m here to gather five hundred if I can. Then
it s me for the girl, an’ the girl for me,
one in two, an’ two in one, perfect an’
invis’ble, an’ all that sort of stuff, an’ a
white man’s life with me coat on till I’m
trumped. If only I struck it good I d
climb out of that hole an’ leave the Let-Go
there as a memory, an’ the man who’d
come up would be known as H'old-Fast as
the name not given him by his godfathers
an’ his godmothers in his baptism.’
"Well, after this yarn Charlie an’ me
takes up the white man’s burden once more
and goes down our holes in the ground. I
was diggin’ away in one corner of the shaft.
You know what an opaller’s like? He wants
to sink his pick to the eyes; but lie’s fright-
ened all the time to drive too hard for fear
he’ll break somethin’. I was thumpin’ away
in one corner, just openin’ up a pocket of
bluebottle that might lead to band. I was
in sandstone, an’ I didn’t care whether it
come pipe, matrix or pinfire. Charlie was
always blatherin’ about harlequin. Every
opaller dreams of harlequin. Not one in ten
thousand gets it. But there’s no harm in
dreamin’, and I’d just lifted out a specimen
that wanted a better light than was in the
shaft. I climbed up on top to see what it
was. It was nothing! I’d just slung it
aside, an’ I was startin’ down me hole in
the ground again, thinkin’ about poor old
Let-Go, when there’s a wild eruption from
his hole.
“Let-Go shot out, hit the ground, fell,
scrambled to his feet, an’ then he starts run-
nm’ for me, yellin’ as he came! He was
still draggin’ his shovel as he ran. an’ he
was blind, deaf and senseless to all around
him. He just run like a scared emu, holdin’
something in his hand an' yellin’ for me-.
“ ‘Hey!’ I called him when he come close
enough to hear. He was as white as a sheet,
shivering like a half-set blancmange, an’
his eyes was poppin’ clean out of his head.
When I hailed him he wheeled like a shying
horse and come to me.
“ ‘Jim,’ says he in a shaky whisper, ‘l’ve
got it!’
“ ‘You look as if it’s got you,’ says I. ‘ls
it the lost treasure of the Incas or the
trouser button you missed last Monday
what’s bit you?’
“ ‘Look!’ says he, gettin’ a strangle-hold
over his emotions and breathin’ through his
nose an’ mouth at the same time. ‘Look,
Jim! I’ve got it! It’s harlequin, Jim!
Harlequin, I tell you! I struck a pocket
of band—good stuff—an’ the next thing I
know I’m cleanin’ a, bit of harlequin. You
can have the band, Jim. I don’t want it.
For God’s sake, tell me I’m not mad ! Look,
J'm ! It’s harlequin !’
“I let the poor rooster crow for a bit,
thinkin’ it would do him good to flap his
wings. He’s got something clenched in his
left hand, won’t let go of the shove] with
his right, an’ he dances a can-can with varia-
tions all about the mouth of the shaft. After
a bit I eases him enough to get rid of the
shovel; but he’s not openin’ up with the
other. He only has one song to sing, an’
he does that as a chorus, over an’ over
again: ‘lt’s harlequin, Jim! Harlequin, I
tell you!’ he’s warblin’.
“After a bit, when the sweat’s rollin’
down him a flood stream, an’ he begins to go
shaky at the knees, I gets the stone away
from him. I holds it back in the crook of
me elbow, facing the sun, an’ takes one
glimpse at it. It’s a piece about as big as
half a crown, an’, the most perfect thing ever
I seen in this life, barrin’ a dream I had
after a heavy supper of pork-pies when I
was a kid. It was round, an’ smooth, an
shiny. It was as calm as a Methodist min-
ister s Sunday dinner, and as fiery as a
chorus-girls’ picnic. It had all the rain-
bows in the world plaited together in cross
and diamond plait, wall an’ crown. It was
a movin’ picture of sixteen shootin’ stars
caught in the tail of Halley’s Comet, an’
it was the sun rising over the hills on a
perfect day with a girl readin’ poetry an’
chewin’ caramels at the same time. It made
a man think of choir-boys and ballet-girls,
organs an’ jazz bands, a Sunday afternoon
with your maiden aunt an’ a joyride in a
balloon all at once. An’ right there, on the
left as I was lookin’ at it, was one of them
crooked L’s with two strokes through its
waistline, meanin’ money, an’ about four
figures to the right of it. I turned it over
for flaws. There was none. It was the one
perfect and glorious stone.
“ ‘Charlie, old boy,’ says I, handin’ the
stone back to him, ‘you’ve done it 1’
“ ‘lt’s the real thing, Jim!’ he gasps. ‘lt’s
worth a king’s ransom. It’s harlequin, isn’t
“ ‘lt’s harlequin right enough,’ I corro-
borates. ‘I ain’t used to associatin’ with
royalty, so I don’t know what a king fetches
these days in the open market. But if I
had that stone I'd want the right an’ left
bower, joker an’ queen thrown in for good
measure before I swapped it for a king.
Fetch it down to the camp an’ we’ll give
it a rub on the carborundum. You better
let me carry it. You ain’t fit to be trusted
with a baby even in your present foolish
state.’
“We took the stone to the camp and
rubbed it on the wheel. It was perfect. I
wouldn’t let Charlie handle the thing—he
wasn’t in a fit state to give himself so much
as a drink.
(Continued on next page.)


! - ** A
■ .
k-i • 8 f
m- s ■; ,
Mm
mm
i i
X X > «<<•>>
II
mem
■
M 1
wmm
The bronze lions of the Art Insti-
tute look across Michigan Avenue’s
traffic to the soaring towers of the
business side of the boulevard.
Michigan Avenue
... a city boulevard
facing an inland sea
THERE’S no other street like it this
beautiful Michigan Avenue in Chicago.
On one side, sky-scrapers filled with exclu-
sive clubs, fine hotels, theatres, delightful
shops. And on the other, the apparently
limitless waters of Lake Michigan. Along the
lake shore rise the classic Art Institute, Field
Museum and Shedd Aquarium.
When you go to England, Michigan Avenue
is right along your shortest, fastest route
“back home”! Let us give you an itinerary ,
by fast Matson liner from Sydney to San
Francisco, then by varied railway routes to
Salt Lake City, Los Angeles, Chicago, New
York. Our handsome literature is free on
request.
Write to Dept. M 36
AMERICAN RAHWAY TRAVEL
and INFORMATION RIJREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Telephone: B 7981-3
WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
r
A
i>
r
M |
WjKOPPER WAD BULLET
T«»0*
§fM£2l3
WffiTmsnk
KOPPER KLAD BULLET
STAYN /LESS
è
é
ê
ë
WINCHESTER 7 REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN-iCONN., U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Rifles-— they
are made for each other. TKete's a Winchester Rifle and there s
Winchester Ammunition for evafv *22 caliber shooting purpose.
“ ‘Now,’ says I, ‘you go back to that hole
to-morrow, Let-Go, an’ you might get an-
other. With two like them you’ll be the opal
king of Australia.’
“ ‘No,’ says he, speakin’ determined. ‘One’s
enough for me. Lightnin’ don’t strike twice
in the .same place. You can have all that’s
in the hole. There’s some good band in
there. I’ve finished! I’m made, Jim! I’m
made!’ an’ off he starts babblin’ again.
“ ‘Very well,’ says I, takin’ me seat on
the bench an’ assumin’ me best judicial
manner. ‘We’ll go straight into Jundah.
Dick Weinhardt ought to be along, any day,
an’ lie’s the best buyer on the river. He
represents Vandemann and Blumberger, of
Amsterdam, an’ he buys for export direct.’
“ ‘We’ll go,’ says Charlie, speaking the
first sane English he’d erupted since he found
the stone.
“We went. Dick gets down off the coach
from Windorah just as we hit town, an’ he
hails me and Charlie.
“ ‘Well, Let-Go,’ he calls, speakin’ slow
and careful, like them Dutchmen do. ‘I
suppose you have some stones, for me this
time, hey? You always were going to get me
the good stones, and this time I expect them
of you. Huh?’ Dick always liked to have
a joke.
“‘I haven’t nothin’ worth while for a
buyer like you, Dick,’ says Charlie, mourn-
ful like. ‘lf you send out Herr Vandemann
or Monsoor Blumberberger, I might do busi-
ness with them. It’s the big buyers for my
bit of mud.’
“Dick laughs and invites us in to have a
drink. We has it. Then Dick fixes him-
self in his buying office and calls for me an
Charlie to enter.
“ ‘Well, Mr. Let-Go,’ he booms, speakin’
from behind a single candle in the. darkened
room, ‘let me have one look at this Kooh-i-
-noor of yours. What you have for me this
time?’
“Charlie unrolls his rag and puts his
stone on the cloth in front of Dick. ‘Price
that, will you?’ he says.. .‘Tell me am I
wastin’ time carryin’ it, or is it worth any-
thing?’
“Dick picks up the stone, holds it back
under his arm, an’ looks at it. Then he
stiffened, gasped, sucked in his breath, and
turned the stone over terrible careful.
“Were you this stone get?’ he snaps
quick mixin’ his words like them Dutchmen
do when they get excited. ‘Tell me that,
quick! Vere you it get?’
“ ‘ls it worth anythin’ ?’ Charlie asks
quietly.
“ ‘lt is a good stone, Charlie,’ says Dick.
‘I do not try to deceive you. I write my
price on this bit of paper, see, and the
whole I put in this drawer, locking it and
giving you the key to carry. That is all fair.
Now we go to the light till I give you this
letter you may read.’
“We go out and Weinhardt hands me an’
Charlie a letter. It’s headed from his firm
in Amsterdam, an’ it’s addressed to R<
Weinhardt, Esq., Jundah, Queensland, Aus-
tralia. We reads it:
“ ‘This is to direct you that, owing to
the fact we are now able to produce syn-
thetic opal in our own laboratories, of any
design or size, it is unnecessary for us
further to purchase crude opal. You will
therefore cease buying immediately and make
provision to return here at your earliest
convenience.’
“I read it an’ felt sick. Charlie read it
and nearly dropped. Weinhardt called all
hands in for a drink. I felt I needed one.
Charlie walked away on his own. We went
into the bar.
“ ‘The drinks are on me, Mr. Public-
House,’ Dick booms. ‘When I have a joke
I am prepared to pay for it always. And
this is the best joke ever I experience. Let-
Go Charlie has a stone —oh, the most glor-
ious harlequin of which there is not, there
can never be, an equal. You know me for
an honest buyer. I tell you, at twelve hun-
dred pounds I am prepared to purchase that
stone most wonderful. Twelve hundred
pounds—that is my price. But, oh!
such a stone! When Let-Go showed me
the stone I gave him this letter to read. It
is a fake. It is one I wrote myself to have
my own joke. And Charlie —oh, the poor
Let-Go!—he took it in one bite. We will
have another, boys. The drinks are mine,
Mr. Public-House.’
“While we’re swallowin’ another, Charlie
staggered into the room. He was white and
flabby, an’ he shook like a foundered horse.
“ ‘You said you can make opal,’ he says
to Weinhardt, ‘and so my stone’s no good.
Very well, I’ll give it to you. I’ll make you
a present of it. It’s all yours, and yours
alone.’
“ ‘Vat you say?’ Weinhardt snaps. ‘You
to me this stone give? Mind, I hold you to
that Sharlie! You a present to me make?
It is goot! I take it! The stone is mine!
We the witnesses have. Give me the stone.’
“Charlie reeled and nearly fell, leanin’
against me while he held his shut fist out to
Weinhardt.
“ ‘l’m known as Let-Go,’ he says, weak
an’ tired-like. ‘This time I deserve the
name. First, though, I want to give Mr.
Weinhardt a pattern for his opal-makers to
copy. Here you are, Deutscher,’ he goes on.
‘Here’s the stone that’s worth nothin’. She’s
yours for ever and ever, world without end,
amen.’
“As he spoke he opened his hand to
Weinhardt an’ turned to the publican. ‘l’ve
got a few bob left,’ says he. ‘Fill ’em up,
Mr. Public-House, an’ I’ll make a fresh
.start in life. There’s your stone, Dick.’
“On the palm of Charlie’s hand there lay
a mess like powdered glass, twinklin’ and
winkin’, an ’in one corner there was a chip
that flashed a rainbow of green an’ scarlet-
all that was left of the perfect harlequin !”
“And —and —and” I commenced, anx-
ious to know more.
“When Charlie sobered up,” Jim said
briefly, “there was the letter about his
diseased aunt what had disinherited a
poodle.”
Frontiers.
So softly fades the light
That you can never say,
“Now it is night. ...
Now it is day.”
So faint the sundering line
That we shall hardly tell
Whether we are in Heaven....
MAORILAND.
Or in Hell.
ARNOLD WALL.
Moods.
The glow is dying,
The flame is shed,
Grey ash is lying
Where reigned the red.
Here is life’s reaping
Under my hand—
A little heaping
Of stars and—sand :
Laughter-petals,
A broken rose,
A crown of nettles,
And next....who knows?
11.
Dawn comes, bringing
The world’s desire;
The seas are singing,
The skies are fire.
Ah, faith that falters!
The dew-stars burn
On broken altars
In forest-fern.
Now we’re together,
And dawn comes true
In lyric weather
Of pagan blue,
A song in season
Were fitly spun,
Yourself the reason
And rhyme in one.
Lips petal-crinkled—
Are these not themes
For lays lute-tinkled
And sun-drenched dreams
Of Eldorados,
Which are your eyes?
But jade-green shadows
And jacinth skies
And long seas swinging,
Dead Love-come-true,
Are singing and singing
My song to you.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Bennadore.
In day dreams now I ride again
As then we rode along the plain
That skirts the stunted coastal trees
Ensalted by these windy seas,
Whose sunlit spring tides sometimes pour
Across the sands of Bennadore,
The golden sands of Bennadore.
The scarlet banksias, burning bright
In floral flame, glowed left and right;
Swift gannets wheeled ; clear called a thrush;
With sickle beaks from bottle-brush
Bright lioneybirds reaped sweet reward ;
And high in air an eagle soared,
No fleck of cloud in all his blue.
The wooing waves with wet mouths drew
Soft sucking kisses from the sand.
Through all that joy of sea and land
To mar its hymn of hope and peace
No note discordant found release.
The morn was yet a budding flower;
We rested by Ram Head an hour....
He rests by far Gallipoli,
That brave bush mate who rode with me.
Nor hears he more, who loved so well,
The stockwhip or the cattle-bell,
Or any song of bush or shore
That glads the road to Bennadore,
The bridle-track to Bennadore!
Where frail ferns trembled by a pool
Of rock-held water, sweet and cool,
Our roving camp was duly made,
Our blankets on the dry grass laid,
Ere wistful Dusk with eyes of grey
Trod shyly at the heels of Day.
When her pale roses, drooping, died,
The Lily of the Night a pride
Of light from burnished petals tall
Threw like a burnous over all.
And crept the silvered surf once more
Across the sands of Bennadore,
The moonlit sands of Bennadore.
'Twas then your tale, oh, heart of gold!
You, musing by our campfire told;
A human tale that brought to mind
The bitter thought that love is blind.
And now, and now, God knows, I feel
She was not worth your soul of steel.
Be that as may, you found your rest
Where sleep the bravest and the best;
And with you sleeps the vain desire
Confessed beside a dying fire
Upon a night that now to me
Seems filled, alas! with destiny.
Aye, Mate of Mine, Gallipoli
Is lone and far away to be;
You ne’er will ride the track again
That winds across the breezy plain,
Nor hear the springtide crooning o’er
The moonlit sands of Bennadore,
The silver sands of Bennadore.
Armistice Day, ’3O.
B. J. BEADY.


e
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westmghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featjierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“Chancery' House,” 485 liourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
______
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the.
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501,
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
National Advertisers
Wish to Cover South
è
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register, the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. S. MELBOURNE.—
Thompson, “Lit- J. N. Bednall,
Oar House,” 30 The Herald Office,
Carrington street. Flinders street.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Holbart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Clk JVdvertis«r
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements,
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lsd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
> N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4,
Do You Know?
The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ENERGETIC ALERT,
THE RESULT
OP fiOOD HEALTH
e*
>\
r* TV
TO be alert, bright eyed
and vigorous, you need
real health.
Constipation is the common foe
of health. Dull eyes, tiredness,
depression, indicate constipation
often unsuspected. (Millions suffer
this way).
It ruins your health, and is the cause
of biliousness, indigestion, headache, and
other troubles of stomach and liver.
Beecham’s Pills are nature’s own correc-
tive for constipation. Purely vegetable—
safe—effective—they quickly put things
fight.
PIUS
AIVE YOU HEALTH
&
%
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-76 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins. Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin**
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose &
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
é
S«O e
0°
1>
2
(. s ® e
e
a
.••vVVf^
• * .• ’ <^> ce olV-


ê
