

HjS
cJfoL
RW fCMCC
HINGED JOINT
ẁ
The Fence
K wi ill the
Perfect
Joint
ension v-uYvc
■i ?A 'is
/ '"'"I 'Z f f
Nv
■Mm mMto
Hi v/7t
Ri/W
w l, \
/LS?
.
>\r
✓
Fire Proof,
Purr Proof,
Stock Proof. £.
Weatherproof
ECONOMY is the watchword that is being sounded
everywhere m these times of financial stress.
Fencing costs are a big item to the man on the land
-—how foolish, how economically unsound to go on
erecting the old-fashioned, obsolete type of post and
wire fence! In a few years the whole cost of labor
and materials will have to be met again. THE
WARATAH FENCE, “HINGED JOINT,” LASTS A
LIFETIME.
Summer is on the way—bringing with it bush fires.
If fires sweep your paddocks, will they lay low miles
' of fencing because you are still using wooden posts?
Erect a WARATAH “Hinged Joint” Fence with
B.H.P. Star Steel Posts, and damage or destruction
by fire is an impossibility.
The post-and-wire fence does not offer absolute
security. Stock can spread the wires of an ordinary
In the event of the wires being
distorted from pressure by a beast
or other cause, immediately the
strain is removed the fence reverts
to its original erect position.
fence, as the droppers are many feet apart. This
cannot happen with the “Hinged Joint Waratah
Fence, which has pickets or droppers every 12
inches (6 inches on Pig Fences).
Again what about resistance to weather and
extremes of climate? All wire in the Waratah Fence
is made from B.H.P. steel and is heavily and evenly
galvanised with pure electrolytic zinc by the hot
process. Thus long life is assured with no dangei o
rust. The Waratah “tension curve” gives the fence
greater resilience and prevents the possibility of the
line wires fracturing during frost.
Made in three types: Special Heavy
p ence __Tyeasy High Tensile bence-
Standard Fence. Special fences are avail-
able for: Cattle, Sheep (2 styles), Lambs
and Pigs. Write for illustrated booklet.
MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Makers also of the following fencing materials: “Waratah” Wire Netting,
“Waratah” Barbed Wire, and the famous “Waratah” B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
Sold by leading Merchants and Distributors throughout Australia.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA FROM B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL.
z until
M
&
U
The Qnlti “HINGED JOINT "/Fence made in Aml-ra^
The Bulletin
ŵ
Vol. 52.—N0. 2656.
Wednesday, January 7, 1931.
Price 6d. 2si BCT 193!
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ibrary Catalogue is now ready,
rdfu, with full terms
on application to
ARCADE, LTD.,
Street, Sydney.
ẅ
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Ml) Name ....
Mu Address i.
..J..
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE^
4 _*>
THE YACHTING
PARTY
Host Holbrook Says:
“Yo ho and a bottle
of sauce! Aye, the sea
air makes the appetite
keen and my Wor-
cestershire Sauce adds
a zest to the snack
partaken on board.
Always keep a bottle
in the locker.”
mmmm
ii
mM
12
Mm
»
IrilS
S&7:
m ma Wm %
M M -**'*■ -i
">3? '..
y
o
E
B
N
t
res
a
u
f
rsr
nd
Cq
ma
m
w
NATURE is a stern taskmistress if
you disregard her. The first
command is to keep a clean
open system so that disease cannot get
a foothold. Constipation is a deadly
menace. Reasonable exercise and the
help of Figsen at the slightest sign of
constipation will keep your system
working cleanly and well. Figsen, the
gentle laxative, is a splendid precau-
tion against eliminative troubles, does
not purge or gripe nor does it create
the “medicine habit.” No unpleasant
after effects. Equally effective for
adults and children. Pleasant to take
and absolutely effective.
FIGSEN
There is a Nya.l
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
o
A
(
%
* h>
\
Close to shopping and
theatre districts, yet situate
in exclusiveneighbourhood.
Two minutes from Royal
Albert Hall. Overlooking
Royal Parks. Central heat*
ing, running water and tele*
phone in every bedroom.
Private bathrooms, self-
contained suites, garage.
Inclusive daily, weekly or
monthly terms.
Telegrams: “Improvisor,” Kensington*
* in the social heart of the first city
of the world’
under same direction.
Brighton
ROYAL
CRESCENT
atn HOTEL
GRAND PUMP
ROOM HOTEL
*
'
r /
w'i-h'tW-
v&’ : 4'). ■•' s
b\-.
■■
Jhe JKaxk ef,
Good VaJtui!
The * Blackbird ’ Self-filler represents
the best value which money can offer
in low-priced fountain pens. It is
made for hard work and has a
reputation second only to the ‘ Swan.’
Fitted with a I4ct. gold iridium-
pointed nib, strong vulcanite holder,
and reliable feed, this pen will
give years of faultless service.
For all Pens use ‘ Swan ’ Ink.
From
9/-
inward*
kAUC
li
NS
FOUNT
OF STATIONERS & JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents & Repair
Service Depot:
Fi [IPSON & COMPAN x'. L,r ,
IBx, Clarence Stree t.
Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Purple Banana
Tti$ above portrait, like the p.urple banana
of any current still-life show, might be
faulted on strictly physical grounds. But
these artists are soulful people, and when
they do a purple banana I, for one, accept
it that they have seen through the fruit to
the soul within. The accessories I make ifo
objection to, except that the beer 5 mug has
a lid to it—an inartistic obstruction. But
at the worst Aria’s portrait is that of a
bloke who enjoys reading, not that of a
professional critic, or reformer, or one of
those beings called Highbrow, whose other
name is Sniff. In its spirit is offered this
attempt to* give some idea of the kind
and merit of a selecQhst of books from each
week’s mailbag. For a start —
A Very Big Book
I don’t think anyone will dispute that
description of The Problem of the Twentieth
Century, by David Davies (Benn; 21s. net),
whatever may be thought'of the opinion
that it is an important book as well. It
might even be ruled out as a book alto-
gether, at any rate* by those who share the
suburban garrison doctrine that no book is
a book that is not also a missile. It weighs
21b. 12oz. But for all its weight and the
seeming dryness of its topic it is an out-
standing book in its class. The “problem”
is 6 the peace a world fought a war for, the
peace which some believe can be ensured by
fiction propaganda, the League of Nations,
or some such panacea as that of Wells, who
would abolish nationalism, the basis of the
world as we know it. Davies, a lawyer with
a sense of humor, contends that peace can
»llow only in the wake of justice, and that
istice cannot be secured without a pro-
sion of sanctions. “In 'Roman Law the
anct.ion’ was that portion of the law which
stermined the penalty for infringeinent.”
1 other words, it is little use any such
ndy as the League of Nations deciding
hat is justice without the means of on-
>rcjng its decisions.' The League is 1 fairly
merally accepted as a bright new’ idea;
>avies gives instances of attempts at
milar things dating from the Greeks. All
ave been abandoned, and a frightening
umber of vital decisions of the latest
?ague have been allow r ed to lapse or have
een torn up. A convention to supervise
rade in arms, signed in 1925 by 35 States,
ad, in November, 1929, been ratified by
nly six. A protocol for the prohibition of
he use of gas was signed by 38 States
nd ratified by 13, and the military policy
f every nation to-day is based on the
ssumption that gas will be used in the next
The writer is not unhopeful of peace,
>ut is contemptuous of our methods of
ecuring it.
Contempt, with Trimmings
Equally contemptuous of the same shilly-
hallying is the cx-Bulletin artist in some
>f the cartoons in The Best of Low (Cape;
is. net). Low, however, does not confine
limself to that “problem.” His book
imounts to a survey of pretty well every-
thing worth surveying in contemporary
iocial and political England, reaching out,
is in the “peace” cartoons, to embrace the
world. But even when he comments upon
some matter of English party politics he
invests the topic with universal values.
Bis “Jix Family Goes into Committee”
ipplies to any epidemic of fussiness over
public morals; his censorship tilts have just
is much bite in a country’ that has had the
honor of banning “All Quiet” as in one that
banned “The Well of Loneliness”; and his
tilt at Baldwin allowing nature to take its
course instead of enforcing a policy stabs
deep where letting nature take its course
has been the sugared beginning and the
bitter end of political policy for years. The
addenda by “Lynx,” which is Low’s other
aame seem to me to improve upon the draw-
ings, which are great entertainment for those
who seek nothing more in books, and the
more for those who seek it. 1 The cartoonist
who can afford to miss the technical lessons
Low has on offer —not to mention the lay-
man who can afford to miss the laughs—is
far too Olympian for a pygmy world.
An Old Flame
Masefield —in a cartoon drawn when
Bridges’s successor was under discussion Low
has him and Kipling ' standing apart as
‘beings of maturer years and different clay”
from Walter de la Mare, Wolfe, Edith Sit-
well, Drinkwater and Noyes—breaks the
Dost-laureateship ice in The Wanderer
fHeinemann; 8s. 6d. net). It is a curious
•>rose-ancLverse story of the sailer of the
title-name. Mase-
field has written of
her before: she is
the vessel that set
out on her first
voyage from Liver-
pool so much a
thing of beauty that
Men hurried to watch her as slowly she headed for sea,
At bidding extending her loitering length of delight.
“Her pinnacled splendor moved westward
among the grey gulls,” only to be stripped
from her when, the tug’s towrope breaking,
she was caught unprepared “with seas roar-
ing out from wind roaring and wind in
the shrouds shrieking.” “Most of the
.seamen were drunken and lying asleep”;
the “swinging main skysail” killed her
captain; but she survived, to be run into
and sunk in the end after a strangely,
though not altogether peculiarly, unhappy
life. Masefield describes her after the first
disaster in a typical passage:—
In the morning of Sunday, the 25th October, in
fine bright weather, she left her anchorage, an image
of such glory and beauty in desolation as I shall
never forget. Her broken spars had been secured in
the swifters of the lower rigging. The rags of her
sails fluttering from her yards gleamed in the sun.
I have seen much beauty, but she was the most beauti-
ful thing. She was sp splendid and so distresst;
she was also moving as though she were alive.
The slender book is eked out with a Masque
of Liverpool,
I am the English sea-queen; I am she
Who made the English wealthy by the sea... .
a stirring fugue through which Masefield’s
old trumpeting rings with a young vigor.
A Little More Salt
There is more of the sea—and shipwreck,
too —in Rich and Strange (Harrap; Dy-
mocks; 7s. 6d.), wherein Dale Collins tries
a 'bold experiment, and, to my mind, does
not bring it off. He may have felt that a
story of a couple who suddenly get £3000
delivered to them by the postman on con-
dition that they spend it on a world trip
w T ould need some strong link to tether it
to this incredulous globe. Anyway, he intro-
duces on to the page himself, the author,
Dale Collins. “I think you’ll like this book,
dear,” says Emily; Chapter I; opening sen-
tence. .. .“bj" someone called Dale Collins.”
“Never heard of him,” says Fred. “Nor I,”
replies Emily. “Quite good, the same.”
Dale Collins enters the tale again towards
the end, in a reunion with Emily and
Fred, who had travelled on the same boat
with him to Singapore: indeed, Emily trod
on his toe in a fancy-dress dance. To
one reader at least this attempt to lend
verisimilitude to an engaging bit of light
I fiction is almost disastrous. It is a pretty
full story—the conditional windfall, Fred’s
affair with a bogus princess, the shipwreck
in which Fred and Emily are trapped in a
locked cabin and deserted, their rescue, and
then the news that, like the Brewster mil-
lions, the £3000 was merely part of their for-
tune, and, having spent it according to
directions, they are now entitled to the rest.
But the author’s stepping on to the page
only makes it taller. It amounts to a mis-
conception of what constitutes literary
reality. However, while the author is absent
he is at his best and breeziest, though he has
still to write that novel which he often
seems on the verge of writing.
Billiards, Gypsies, etc.
Walter Lindrum’s Billiards (Methuen; 6s.
net), with a few others, can be dismissed
briefly here. Its mission is to raise amateurs
to the 1000-break status, and the writing
is jolly well done. Lindrum, by the way,
began when he was nine, practised six hours
a day and made a hundred break when he
was 12. His isn’t merely a textbook; it
is an inspiration. Another good one of
special appeal is Virginia Woolf’s A Room,
of One’s Own (Hogarth; 5s. net), just added
to her uniform edition. It is a plea fox-
woman to be herself in writing. She asserts
that the emotion in such writers as Kipling
and Galsworthy is incomprehensible to
women, which is revealing, because, of
coui-se, no self-respecting male would admit
that the emotion of Jane was incompi-ehen-
sible to him! The publication of The Wind
on the Heath (Chatto and Windus; 7s. 6d.
net) must bring anthologies within at least
a few hundx-ed of the Edgar Wallace main.
Tn'it John Sampson masses exti-acts from
Borrow (prince of ’em all; also, appreciator
of the earth’s raciest smells) and dozens of
other writers who have touched upon gyp-
sies. It’s rather a forced gi-owth. Robert
Lynd’s latest lot of essays, It’s a Fine
World (Methuen; 5s. net) and Eden Phill-
potts’s Cherry Gambol and Other Stories
(Hutchinson; 7s. 6d. net), ai-e two othei-s
this sampler has dipped into and found
tasty.
RED PAGE.
Babbitt (Australia, Unlimited)
John Dailey’s latest novel, Only the Mom-
my (Long; Dymocks; ,7s. 6d.), is the first
full-length portrait of the Australian Bab-
bitt. Mr. Dallev has bv no means slavishly
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


w
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our assurance and your guarantee.
“jUMBUfC
ŵ
m
'4>
»I
m'
r
sgig
/,
x\
(D
Lightweight Vests from 7/6
Lightweight, naturaj shade, guaranteed unshrinkable.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 48
Undershirts, short sleeves, 7/6 7/9 8/3 9/- 9/9 10/6 12/6
Underpants, to ankle .. . 8/6 8/9 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/6 13/6
Trunk Drawers, 12in. leg, 8/- 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3 11/3
Mediumweight Athletic Vests. 5/-
Cream shade. Athletic style; no sleeves.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices 5/- 5/3 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/3
“Jumbuk” Silk and Wool Underwear
(All Men’s Wear, Ground Floor, George Street. We pay carriage .)
Summer and Winter, Woollen Underwear (or wool with a slight
strengthening of cotton) is the finest you can wear —and the
finest underwear made in Australia is “Jumbuk.” The beautiful
wool used in its manufacture comes from our finest sheep, so
when you buy “Jumbuk” you materially aid Australia’s greatest
industry. jg
for Men and
for Women
“Jumbuk” Is Best, Because:
1— It is an All-Australian product.
2 It is guaranteed unshrinkable.
3 It is remarkably low in price,
quality considered.
r
i,
m
All-Wool Vests from 8/9
“Jumbuk” lightweight Vests of woven all wool. With high neck and
short sleeves. In natural shade. W. 8/9, OS. 9/6, XOS. 10/6
With high neck and long sleeves. W. 9/6, OS. 10/6, XOS. 10/11
Mediumweight Cream Vests with high neck and short sleeves. All
Wool. Prices W. 8/9, OS. 9/6, XOS. 10/6
With high neck, long sleeves. W. 9/6, OS. 10/6, XOS. 10/11
Woven Wool and Cotton Vests in natural shade or cream, medium-
weight. With high neck and short sleeves. W. 7/11, OS. 8/6, XOS. 9/3
All-Wool Woven Vests with V-neck and no sleeves. Crochet edge.
A fine “Jumbuk” product. Prices W. 6/6, OS. 7/6
Woven Wool Combinations in Cream or Natural. Mediumweight—
high neck, short sleeves. SW. 13/9, W. 14/3, OS. 15/3, XOS. 16/11
Wool and Cotton Combinations—-a lightweight in natural shade only.
High neck, short sleeves. SW. 10/9, W. 11/3, OS. 11/9, XOS. 12/11
C Women’s Underwear, Third Floor. We pay carnage.)
ss>
“JUMBUK” is obtainable only at
ẁ
Anthony Hordern s
’Phone: M 2/ f Ol
Day and night.
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


\ fire dii| - a good road - a perfect lurch
Off on the week-end run into the sunshine and
surf of the seaside, or to some charming spot in
the bush. In the hamper, among other good things,
the familiar, brightly-labelled can of REX-PYE -
choicest meat in jelly, handy to carry, every morsel
delicious, enjoyed by every member of the party.
REX-PYE is the finest meat in the world.
r *>>r ,v
'
RKe
if i ll
In 8 os., 12 os., and 16 os. cans
Be sure you ask for REX-PYE
ẃ


DAGENITE BATTERIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 15 6
6 VOLT 15 PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Fit a “Dagenite”—Save Sales Tax.
w
m
ŵ
Type 3GHXI3.
The Battery which knows its job—and does it,
GENEROUS AND CONTINUOUS POWER.
national
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
London and Sydney.
Amalgamating Peto & Radford and Hart Accumulator Co., Ltd.
Representative - - - JOHN ARNOLD
386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl.
imitated Sinclair Lewis. He is too good an
observer not to have seen the essential
difference between the American and Aus-
tralian species of the genus go-getter. The
American Babbitt has a sublime belief in
himself. He holds to his faith in the prin-
ciple of Service with the simplicity of an
early Christian performing his rites in the
catacombs of Rome. He is so unconscious
of any standards other than his own that
he is capable of the most astounding buf-
fooneries. (Mencken has put some of them
on record.) He forms weird cults with an
impressive regalia, calls himself an Elk, a
Kiwanis or something of the sort, and is
not afraid to publicly identify himself with
the Divine scheme of things. Social success
is his sole criterion of aristocracy, and if he
is a snob he is only such in regard to the
various degrees of achievement within his
own caste.
The Australian Babbitt, on the other hand,
as Mr. Dailey makes more or less clear, is
a trifle ashamed of himself.. He is not quite
so sure that he has the Divine blessing on
his somewhat shady operations in real estate.
He forms clubs on the American model,
but he has not yet acquired the courage or
the innocence to go as far as his American
prototype. No president of an Australian
Bloatary club has yet publicly announced
that “Christ was the first Bloatarian.” The
Australian Babbitt has not yet emancipated
himself from the English tie. His snobbery
consists in a respect for standards other
than those of his own class—in short, for
the standards of a now non-existent English
aristocracy. The justification he hankers
after is recognition from Government House.
His noblest aim is to acquire the code of
behavior ruling at the most exclusive clubs,
where the unconscious vulgarity of the
American go-getter is as much anathema as
it is in the most aristocratic of London
clubs.
Mr. Dailey’s hero, Richard Lome, is
a representative specimen of his class and period.
His father, an undergardener at Government House,
Sydney, had had him educated on lines which would
have seemed fantastic to the Kentish village where
generations of Lornes had been reared. It was the
old mans ambition to see his boy in a black coat,
and at 17 Richard had entered the office of Fenwick,
George and Price, solicitors and notaries public, as
a clerk. As Richard grew older he began to notice
things in the man who had been his idol as a child.
The immense disfigured hands, the unkempt beard,
the plodding peasant’s walk, the Kentish burr, and,
worst of all, the Kentish laborer’s habit of touching
the forelock in the presence of the gentry. He
tried not to show his shame, but was not always
successful.
Richard starts by buying and selling
houses in a small way, acquires the where-
withal for larger operations and ends by be-
coming an immensely rich man. The story
covers the period of the ’nineties, the
struggle for Federation, the rise of Trades
Unionism and the entrance of Australia into
the Great War. To all of these events
Richard reacts like the congenital Tory and
mob man that he is. Mr. Dailey strives to
depict his hero in a sympathetic light, but
the eventual broadening of Richard’s mind
through experience fails quite to convince
as it is intended to do. His repentance
is merely that of the man who has arrived.
He has learnt to wear a white tie with tails
and a black tie with a dinner coat (or is
it the other way about?) and that you
never drink port with fish (or is it with
meat?), and so he can afford to feel tolerant
towards the people Who Don’t Know. But
is it a very interesting achievement after
all? For himself, the present writer sneak-
ingly feels a greater admiration for the
naturalness and unsophistication of the
American barbarian.
Mr. Dailey has done a good piece of
pioneering work. The main lines of his
principal figure have been well realised
against a background which includes such
diversified matter as Australian finance, the
questions of Protection and Freetrade, an
illicit love affair and a survey of the
Anglicised Australian abroad. Some of the
pen pictures are extremely sharp. Here is
a vignette of a couple of Australian farmers:
The brothers had never been out of Australia, and
they only went to Sydney for a race meeting or show.
They were stout, slow men, with hard, round bellies
and small, hairy hands, browned and thickened by
work and exposure. Good shots, good horsemen. And
they knew all about sheep. They believed, unshakably,
in the effeminacy of city men, and in the infamous
morals of city girls. Inflamed by stories of the
advances made by city girls to bushmen, thev had
tried'many times to get to Sydney alone. But they
had always been frustrated by their wives, who had
been born in the district and shared their views of
cities. For years, the brothers had suffered from
what a later generation was to know as “repressions.”
They would never experience the disgraceful joys
which a man who went to a city, on his own, was
practically unable to escape. Their old women,’their
missuses, knew too much, blast ’em!
The knowledge that these pleasures were being
enjoyed by their inferiors; that city girls, for lack
of more virile game, were continually bursting into
the bedrooms of lily-livered lawyers, merchants and
such-like, maddened the brothers. They detested citv
men.
Mr. Dailey is often a realist like that.
F.S.
Maoriland, Her Poets!
Instead of writing this, it would be better
for anyone who loves the music of words
and knows the terrain to concpntrntp
upon putting something of the quint-
essence (or even .001 of an essence) of
Maoriland into sonnet, rondeau or pantoum
or even—if the taste of the day permits such
a thing—into simple quatrains. Such things
have been done in days gone by, clumsily
perhaps, but with a little warm thrill of
affection that atoned for imperfection. The
writers represented in Quentin Pope’s antho-
logy of contemporary verse by Maorilanders
—he includes that dear soul David McKee
Wright, whose body lived in Sydney and
whose mind roved with the Dark Rosaleen
—don’t seem to have got much from the
soil. There is in Kowhai Gold (Dent; 6s.
net) a lot of Sitwell and soda and a strong
strain of Rossetti and rubbish. Jessie Mac-
kay’s “Noosing of the Sun-god” (the Maori,
like Egypt of old, acclaims the name of Ra
.and perpetuates solar myths that were old
when Nineveh was young) gets in blank
verse something of the spirit of the Maori
orator; and Eileen Duggan transcribes a
Maori lullaby—but the real thing in both
cases is something no lady could put into
English unless she were very modern.
O. N. Gillespie, in “The Sheep Stealer,”
paints a little picture which would fit any
country where there are jumbucks available
for collection, but one can forgive anything
to a writer who can make a rhyme like this:
Sing a song of washing-up—shining clean plates
Chattering together like a crowd of old mates;
Buxom cups and saucers and little white bowls
Purely and demurely bright like little girl-souls.
Then there’s Katherine Mansfield—but
she never found much inspiration in her
native land, and the excerpts from her work
chosen by Mr. Pope are more distinguished
for naivete and precocious preciousness than
anything else. Una Currie, in “The Trees,”
sings wistfully and about,
the pines—every exiled Maorilander has
memories of those black groves of the
imported insignis. Mona Tracey’s “Akaroa”
is a pretty vignette, but it is the old French
flavor that inspires her. Alan Mulgan shows
his talent for apt phrasing in “Dead Timber”
and “Soldier Settlement,” and Boyce Bow-
den in “Silverstream” uses a brave rhythm.
Poor Dick Harris, most dauntless of pessi-
mists, might have been better represented
than by his Sancho Panza rondel and “Ships
that Pass.” Robin Hyde, a minor Chopin
of verse, touches here and there the trailing
clouds of glory in songs about love and its
aftermaths. Bartlett Adamson and Will
Lawson achieve a style nearly as vigorous
as that of Kipling in the very characteristic
examples of their verse that have been
chosen, and B. E. Baughan’s piece from
“Shingle Short,” is a fine example of the
colloquial style. The neatest thing in the
book is Frank Morton’s naughty triolet.
But, O Dear Lord! These Maorilanders
for the most part don’t know that they live
in a land that isn’t primrose-bordered and
slum-slimed England; that teems with things
known to no other country and moved
such a stern administrator as Grey and such
a keen politician as Domett to lyrical exer-
cises which, to put it bluntly, haven’t been
excelled as expressions of what Maoriland
means to its white residents by any of the
offspring of the pioneer colonists. Fern-
land’s poets of to-day are incurably artificial.
One reason for that, possibly, is that the
incipient Lawsons and Daleys of the
Dominion were strangled at birth.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
A Satchel of Books
Bagatelle, by George Preedy (Bodley
Head; 7s. 6d. net). The author has im-
proved out of sight since he wrote “General
Crack.” In this collection of historical short
stories —trifles, as he calls them —his touch
is surer than before and lighter, and his
selection and management of situation and
character much more convincing. All his
figures and events are high lights, but what
worth while in actual history is not?
London Promenade, by W. Gaunt (Studio ;
255. net). London through the eyes of an
artist with a sense of humor. It is a toss-
up which are the more diverting—his black-
and-white and color glimpses of odd spots
about the city or his word pictures of them
and their frequenters. It is a more super-
ficial London than the one you meet in Priest-
ley’s “Angel Pavement” or in , “Imperial
Palace,” but to one reader at least it is a
more attractive place—the London that is
seen, enjoyed and remembered.
A. D. Devine, author of Sea Loot
(Methuen), takes as his hero a gallant sailor-
man with a grudge against the British Mer-
cantile Marine. The smaller shipping com-
panies, it appears, starve and under-pay their
employees. Scandalised by this state of
affairs, John steals a destroyer, aboard which
Gwennol, who loves him, has stowed away,
and proceeds to rob the wealthy passengers
of liners like the Campania. He brings off
a couple of extremely profitable coups with
the assistance of some faithful colleagues,
and then sinks the destroyer and retires
from the piracy business to live respectably
ever after with Gwennol. A ridiculous plot,
but it is merely a peg on which the writer
hands a series of exciting and obviously first-
hand descriptions of life aboard a small ship
in the North Atlantic.
Claudia, by Arnold Zweig (Seeker; Rob-
ertson and Mullins). The author of that
fine war book “The Case of Sergeant Gris-
cha” here turns to the lists of love. Grisclia
was a simple Russian peasant caught in the
inhuman convolutions of the Prussian war
machine. Claudia is an extremely com-
plicated piece of human machinery brought
face to face by marriage with the biologi-
cal realities. With great delicacy and
subtlety and using the indirect method ot
narration, Zweig strips the veils of culture
and convention from her and finally gets
down to the elemental woman. Incidentally,
he makes an even finer and very much
solider figure of her husband, the German
doctor. Not the least merit of the book is
the cleverness of its handling of topics,
which manipulated by coarser fingers, would
set the gentlemen at the Australian Customs
roaring with moral indignation. As Zweig
handles them it is highly doubtful whether
the censors would know what he was talk-
ing about. The least convincing chapter is
that dealing with Klaus Manth, a great
painter and etcher. The average novelist’s
ideas on art are usually as ridiculous as
his ideas on medicine, and though Zweig is
far from being an average novelist; he
shares his conceptions of painting with the
scenario-writers of Hollywood.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. tio liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted •
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
P-J.E.: Please don’t think you were
slighted because you were unanswered. We try to
answer those questions which raise new points, or
points which appear to have been insufficiently
stressed Abe: Don’t send stamps for return of
“letters to the editor.’’ We can’t undertake to return
MSS. of letters or paragraphs. Keep a copy....
R.M.W.C.: Yes, but you’d still have to collect the
money in taxes, etc.; so there’s no saving there....
J.A.H. : Queer thing, there’s an epidemic of police-
men saved by crooks. And none of ’em rings true....
G.E.: Not quite the weight 8.A.H.: A cow of a
yarn—always wandering John P.: Well, first, he
wouldn’t be allowed to plead that way.... Ino: Flat.
. ...N.A.W.: “Peace at All Costs.” Not at any
price R.H.E.: Fails chiefly because it is only a
rhymed list. You’ll need to study the craft hard.
J.J.I.: Some merit in it, but well off this
market Amos: Doesn’t hold together. . . .I.M.McC.:
Juvenile... .L.J.F.: Parts of it excellent, but not the
whole. . . .8.L.V.: Here’s hoping with y0u....
M.M.G.8.: Would need the strength of 10 to carry
that refrain. .. .John H.: You fall into some quaint
rhyme lapses 0.F.: No sting in “The Dragon”
G.M.: Claim for pars. “Kitty” is a bit thin
Bellerive: Pathetic chapter in the great sporting
serial:—
A CELEBRATED JOCKEY.
Among jockeys of yore
Whom toed the scales,
A great rider of skill—
Was Tommy Hales.
A thorough horseman—
And judge of pace,
Victory he’d achieve—
In a eventful race.
Alas, short was he’s span,
Grim death did pursue
Early he bid our
Living world adieu.
(Next: Celebrated Oarsmen of the Past.)
.... W.H.H.T.: Unlike Fifi, can’t say we “like you
too much”.. . .W.G.: Don’t want dreams. .. .J.V.L.:
Too improbable E.R.R.: Weighed in light
S.P.L.: It doesn’t amuse K.R.C.: Description of
cannibal’s meal put us off our counter lunch....
W.A.G.: Patent it as a cure for insomnia....
L.M.M.: Commonplace A.A.8.: If that’s the worst,
send us the others; if it’s the best, don’t... .W.E.8.:
A dull and foggy yarn. .. .L.R.: Poor. ... W.P.:
Neither earn 3 a cheque. .. .R.A.M.: Try it elsewhere.
....G.M.: It wasn’t the absence of local color that
was objected to; it was the plot G.C.: Slum-street
Donnybrook not worth describing. .. .H.D.J.: Arid
.... J.P.: Unreal. . . .A.C.W.: You had a chance to
surprise and interest, but missed it W.H.T.: No-
thing fresh in that folklore yarn M.S.L.: Twelve
thousand miles off our beat.... W.E.G.: Not enough
in either... .L.8.W.: “A Man with a Future” hasn’t
a hope.... J.J.D.: You had nothing to say... .Ground
F.: Now the act’s out:—
Ah, Christmas is over, thank Heaven,
And we’re into the New Year.
I only had six or seven,
And went home without any fear.
I opened my bagful of presents,
And said, “Here you are Darling and little one.”
But, alas, things were not then so pleasant—
Someone else’s bag in which was only a bottle of
rum!
... .No. 841: “Minus”—agreed... .H.P.: So many
have tried that taek that there’s a permanent furrow
in the water G.H.J.: Old stuff A.J.H.: No
dramatic interest F.W.M.: Both tame yarns
Stranger: Bight enough in the main, but on the
singsong side.... Freeman S.: The Chinatown effort
went very close... .M.E.D.: Scores a week write
about being “through with the city of its sky-
scrapers ta11”... .H.W.: Terrific picture of his eternal
judgment put the editor right off his haggis....
E. : Unconvincing... .8.T.: Don’t try to cover so
much ground... .0.W.H.: It was a relief to get rid
of the remittance man J.M.H.: Rubbish... .W. 8.:
Doesn’t ring true M.F.: Feeble C.C.H.: You
dawdle too much on the way.... S.R.T.: “Truth’s”
reply still fits the case.... J.C.A.: Read all poems
about the bridge with hope, so far unjustified. ...
L.G.: Better than most, but far too thin. .. .C.L.F.:
“Motor” verse is now suffering from backfire....
F. : “They Are Not Dead.” Wrong... .McQ.: Of
its kind, poor. .. .11. J.: Two lines:—
The beautifulest thing to hear
Is the sound of bubbly and frothy beer.
Reached the Religious Editor at 5.55. Rest of the
poem forgotten in the rush.... X. Ray: Sorry to hear
it was written by 11-year-old daughter; but they get
over it.... 841: “Australia has six States in all.”
Try it on the “Herald” news columns. .. .5.0. F.:
Lawson said that, except for one word. Suggest
Pelmamsm. ... J.M.C.: Rather late, but still: —
The turkey was burnt to a cinder,
The pudding could never be weighed;
With a cook like that on the dinner
Thank the Stars beer’s already made.
. ...N.P.: “The Co-operative Pub” is fair enough as
an ideal. .. .C.C.F.: It occurs in Act I of James
Sheridan Knowles’s “The Hunchback,” the correct
version being “What merit to be dropped on fortune’s
hill? The honor is to Siount it”... .A.W.N.: J: J.
Hildi# was born at Toowoomba (Q.), July 23, 1881,
and died at Hornsby (N.S.W.) on April 10, 1916.
Couldn’t value picture without inspection.... S.N.:
Jacob Epstein, the sculptor, was born in New York,
1880, of Russian-Polish parents.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.: Jokes intended for this paper shouldn’t read
like a 20-minute vaudeville turn. .. .F.S.: Couldn’t
manage the last lap. .. . E.W.G.8.: Still yawning
over it.... E.S.W.: Don’t give up yet awhile....
T.M.: You’re starting the New Year badly... .M. 8.:
With study there is a chance for you... .G.M.E.:
“Inviting Trouble”- —you were when you put that on
paper.,. .R.N.: How do you expect the thing to re-
produce?. .. .R. 8.: Nothing to be conceited about....
T.M. (Bowral) : Firmer line needed... .G.S.: You
can lead a child to an inkbottle but you can’t make
him draw.. . .R.E.J.: A lumpy effort... .C.D.: Could
smell that old fishing joke before it crossed the
threshold... .V.J.: You must have had a Merry
Christmas. .. .F.P.: You will be sending us illustrated
In Memoriam verses next... .C.A.A.: Ballroom group
needs rearranging. .. .M.A.: Sort of thing one might
win in a penny raffle. .. .0.5.: Lacks gaiety.


w
ŵ
* ' :
“asSSEo-.
** iSk.
Wk :
mm
m
ms
m
'-■■S-'s':
\ m
■
gHH
sSm: ■
■
I-
M
*
i
m
m
j*7*
i:-m
shuh
1
ri
mm
■ a
<
8B?
;
S
■
■
*p
ifipsis®*
jAWnr*
7


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2656.
January 7, 1931.
THE FOLLIES OF 1931—AN ENTIRELY NEW SHOW.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to an y address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
0 months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs. •
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Sd. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE —HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8 > 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . • • • 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) 13
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 14, 16
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 17
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. • • 18
A SCOT’S DAY OUT—Wi’ a drap o’ Frith’s
Black-an’-White . ■ • • ■ • . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) • ■ 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
SHADOW SHOWS 27
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . • • 28
SPORTING (illustrated) 31, 32
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . 34, 36
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 36
AS WE SAID BEFORE (drawing by G. R.
Ashton) .. . • • • • ■ .. 38
SERIAL, “BREAK O’ DAY”—
By John Crisp 40, 41, 42
COMPLETE STORY—
“JOHN SMITH,” by J. H. M. Abbott . . 29, 42
VERSE —By E. J. Brady, Roderic Quinn . . 20, 42
WHEN SCULLIN COMES HOME.
When the confidence man goes out on his
job he doesn’t wear a cap inscribed with his
occupation. If he is very well known > in
the game he doesn’t even make an appear-
ance : he employs either a dupe or a con-
federate. So it is with the Bolsheviks or
Communists. They do as little as possible
in the open. Their organisation indeed goes
to the length of disarming suspicion by-
encouraging hopeless Communist candi-
dates to run for hopeless seats; and when
the hopeless candidate scores 20 votes in
a poll of 10,000, and the stupid press draws
attention to the weakness of the Com-
munists, the organisation smiles behind the
smoke-screen thus created and goes on
with its work.
There is a pile of circumstantial evidence
that the organisation is active, in Australia
behind these screens. On what other pos-
sible ground can the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment’s action in putting a ban on rationing
of employment be explained? There is not
the shadow of doubt that it will mean
more unemployment, far more unemploy-
ment, at a time when the country has more
people out of work than it ever had before;
when, on account of low prices, country
interests find it impossible to absorb labor;
and when the loan market has run dry and
loan works are consequently held up
everywhere. Minister for Labor Baddeley,
apparently an honest man but dull, con-
fronted with the probable consequences,
said he would be an ass to put the law in
operation if it would throw people out; and
he suspended its operation for a few days.
Then, of course, the power behind the
machine got to work, and the ban was
quickly let loose. Baddeley isn’t the type
to be taken behind the screens. And he
didn’t perceive that, while the ban means
unemployment, it also means taxation, and,
as you can hear from a hundred soap-boxes,
"taxation is the great leveller.” So men
and women are being forced out of their
jobs by the hundred to bring Communism
a step nearer.
The same thing is happening in the Fed-
eral sphere. For some time past a move-
ment for a “certain amount of inflation”
has been quietly but determinedly cul-
tivated ; and a great deal of manoeuvring has
been done to force the Commonwealth Bank
into a position where it must consent to
inflation—or, rather, further inflation; for
there is a good deal of it already. No-
body knows better than the mostly-foreign
Communist wirepullers what inflation, prop-
erly handled, means: it means robbing the
mortgagee and the bank depositor and to
some extent the investor in public securi-
ties, as well as in preference shares, of both
capital and interest. It serves exactly the
same purpose as taxation: it is a gx-eat
leveller, reducing the debts of the debtor
and the possessions of the creditor, if it
doesn’t wipe both out altogether.
There is a steady influence at work also
to smash our credit in London and else-
where : in this connection it is at least cui’ious
that the direct representative of the Left
Wing in the Federal Cabinet heaved the
most enthusiastic curses at Sir Otto Nie-
meyer, the Bank of England director whose
mission it was to re-establish our credit in
London. The latest development of the
plan has been in connection with the rate
of foreign exchange. What the Communist
wirepullers who are seeking collapse and
chaos know is that every 5 per cent, increase
in the rate means £1,800,000 added to our
annual bill for overseas interest and charges,
and that if we had to pay 20 p.c. to get our
money to London our foreign interest bill
would spring £7,200,000 a year. They be-
lieve that this would impose an impossible
burden upon us, and that, in the default
and chaos which would ensue, those who
have something would be penalised for the
benefit of those who have nothing, and the
millennium would be so brought a step
nearer. Simultaneously on various pretexts
salaries and wages in the Public Service
are being either increased or maintained,
and every suggestion of economy is resisted,
the result being to load Australian produc-
tion with such charges that it will be
diminished, and diminished production and
export inevitably means default.
That the Communists have not been able
to make even greater progress during the
past six months—though Heaven knows
they have made enough!—has been due
very largely to (1) the misfortune through
which Theodore was deposed from the
deputy-leadership of the Federal Labor
party; (2) the unsuspected fighting qualities
of Lyons; (3) the obstinacy of the Com-
monwealth Bank board, which controls
currency; and (4) —though this is not yet
quite clear—the counter-manoeuvring of the
associated banks to prevent national disaster
being achieved through a rise in the exchange
rate. The stage had been well set;
along with Scullin, Brennan and Parker
Moloney had been got rid of for a few
months. Now these gentlemen are hurrying
back to face a movement for their per-
manent exclusion; and there is a suggestion
of a compromise—Mr. Scullin and his
friends in Cabinet, it is said, might agree
to a “little inflation,” for example. There
is no room here for compromise. There
can be no fusion, it has been agreed, be-
tween Labor and Communism, and there
can be no honest association between Labor
and those who, though not declared Com-
munists, are doing the Communists’ work
under various disguises and pretexts, and
are all the more dangerous for their lack of
sincerity.
GAMBLING AND LOTTERIES.
There are a few acts which, by almost uni-
versal consent, have in probably all ages
been regarded as sins—murder, for example.
But there are many more acts which only
the circumstances of the time or place have
caused to be put in the category. People
still living can remember when the use of
anaesthetics, especially in childbirth, was
regarded as an attempt to defeat the Divine
will, and therefore a sin; and Sir James
Young Simpson had to vigorously defend his
employment of chloroform to mitigate
human suffering. People not so old have
had to listen to homilies on the sin of danc-
ing, and even to this day there are clergy-
men who, if they use tobacco at all, do it
only in semi-secrecy.
It all suggests that, even though we may
be prepared to accept as sins those acts
which are included in that category in Holy
Writ, we are not at all bound to accept
those which men in other times and circum-
stances have added to the list of prohibi-
tions. We not only are entitled, but as in-
telligent beings are required, to consider
every case in the light of our own time and
circumstances.
The subject has been made one of more
or less immediate importance by the action
of the N. S. Wales Council of Churches in
denouncing the proposal of the Lang Gov-
ernment to establish a lottery for the benefit
of the State's hospitals, which are sadly in
need of funds. The need is admitted; but
gambling is declared to be an offence
against religion, and the encouragement of
gambling something which no Christian
community ought to tolerate. What are the
facts? Must gambling be a vice?
Those who denounce the whole business
take care that the word “gambling” shall
not have any narrow meaning. Every pro-
cess in which chance enters is a “gamble."
They will not allow any way of escape by
admitting that a lottery is something less
noxious. To them a game of chance is a
gamble, call it what you will. But why
admit that a lottery is necessarily a game
at all? It may be a very serious matter—
as it was when, there being two candidates
for the apostleship vacant through the back-
sliding of Judas, lots were drawn and the
prize fell to Matthias. But it was not a
money prize; and that may make a differ-
ence. In the modern lottery, it is said,
those who participate put up a sum of
money, and the winner takes the lot: he
not only benefits at the expense of others
but gets something that he does not work
for. All of which is true. But is there
anything inherently vicious in one bene-
fiting at the expense of others?
Nobody will nowadays deny the good
services of the friendly society. Two men
may join such a bodj r on the same day.
One may pay into it for years and not draw
a penny; the other may have to go ‘ on
the lodge” within a month, and nobody
suggests that he is getting anything that
he is not entitled to though not he but
others worked for it. The life assurance
office, though it was viewed with some mis-
givings in its earliest days, is universally
admitted now to be an altogether admirable
institution. No pulpit would venture to
denounce it. Yet to this extent it is a
lottery: a man who may have paid in but
a single premium may, merely by dying,
command as much as another who, holding
a non-profit policy, has paid in 50 premiums.
The whole basis of the life policy is that
the fortunate pay for the unfortunate; and
the world, religious and irreligious alike,
so far from disapproving, declares this to
be a proof of our advancing civilisation.
True, in the life office the dependents of
all who contribute to the funds will bene-
fit if the payments are continued long
enough. Bait that is not an essential feature
of the insurance plan, distinguishing it from
the lottery. Fire or accident assurance is
just as warmly approved as life assurance,
notwithstanding that only the few derive
any benefits at all.
There is, however, one difference between
these systems of assurance and the lottery;
in the former case a man is providing
against loss, and in the other he is looking
for gain. And that does seem important;
it may indeed be the prime factor in decid-
ing whether a man may rightly invest in
a lottery ticket or not. If he is hard up
he may rightly insure against fire or acci-
dent for the protection of his creditors or
Of his family; in the same circumstances
he may not invest in a lottery ticket be-
cause he has no right to risk money required
to pay his creditors or feed and clothe his
family. The man who can satisfy those re-
quirements and see a few shillings over
may be foolish not to put them in the
savings bank. But if, knowing how little
those shillings will amount to at the end of
a working lifetime, he agrees to pool part
of his periodical savings with the savings
of thousands of others, so that a few at least
of them may be lifted into Easy-street,
who can say that he is doing wrong? Thou-
sands of other men, after making what sure
provision they can for the future, put small
sums into highly speculative mining shares,
well knowing that they may lose the lot,
but with the remote chance of “a gooa
win”; and nobody condemns them.
Generally, no doubt, lotteries and every
other form of gambling are an economic
waste. Yet they may not be wholly a
waste. The experienced bank manager in
a farming district will discourage any in-
clination of his client to sell wheat a few
bags now and a few bags then, because he
knows how prone people are to fritter away
small payments; and it is quite probable
that more good will be done with 10,000
five-shillings in one hand than with twice
the amount in 10,000 hands. All the same,
the lottery and most other forms of gamb-
ling are, directly, wholly unproductive, and
they call for the services of a certain num-
ber of parasites living upon the producers.
Only to the extent that they build up funds
with which industrial and other good is
done, are they tolerable. In certain cir-
cumstances they may be even desirable.
But the number of those who may rightly
join in them is limited.
One other thing may be said in favor
of the lottery in the shape in which it was
proposed to operate it in N. S. Wales. One
may invest in it, and get the entirely legiti-
mate thrill which a >vin implies, without
mixing with undesirables or encouraging the
growth of an army of parasites outside the
actual operation of the lottery. And from
the Church point of view especially that
looks important; for there seems to be
little doubt that half the sins against which
our grandfathers were warned were de-
nounced not so much because there was
harm in the things themselves as because
of the associations which they encouraged
—dancing and: smoking have been men-
tioned already. From this point of view the
lottery has marked merits—so marked that
the day may come when, instead of lumping
it with every undesirable form of gambling,
the Churches may allow it to occupy a niche
not far below some forms of insurance.
IS PROLONGATION OF LIFE WORTH
WHILE?
Man's desire to lengthen his days beyond
the allotted span is as old as the hills. The
Philosopher’s stone did it in ancient times,
and primitive Kadayans still do it, or think
they do it, in the jungles of Borneo by
swallowing a mixture compounded of the
bones of the slow loris and the feet of fowls.
Prof. Eugen Steinach, of Vienna, does it
by “Rejuvenation through Experimental
Revivifying of the Senescent Puberty
Glands,” to quote his own interesting pro-
spectus. I saw a particularly revolting
film recently in Australia describing the
process in detail, and it was pathetic to
notice the absorbed interest with which re-
tired grocers, elderly spinsters and other
travellers towards the Styx who had never
devoted half enough of their years to the
pursuit of instinctive happiness followed
the proceedings on the screen in the hope of
discovering the key to the door opening
on more years of frustration and discon-
tent. It is said that M. Steinach has had
considerable success with his system in a
strictly material sense, though one of his
most notable achievements was found dead
in bed on the morning of the day he
was billed to deliver a lecture on “How
I Was Made Twenty Years Younger by
Eugen Steinach.” What Steinach and Vor-
onoff are after is to make old people live
longer lives when what is really needed is
to live better ones.
It does not require any expert know-
ledge to perceive that the extra prolonga-
tion of existence on this planet is of very
dubious worth. The creative individual and
the individual capable of instinctive happi-
ness are the only ones that matter; the
others merely aggravate the problem of the
food supply and swell the bankrolls of the
movie mandarins. The person with a cap-
acity for instinctive happiness is very rare,
with half humanity turned into mechanised
infantry and enlisted in the war to make
the world safe for production for produc-
tion’s sake. Also he is getting rarer, and
that is largely because we are all thinking,
like Voronoff, in terms of quantity instead
of quality. The creative individual, i.e.,
the artist, still exists in holes and corners,
and if civilisation is to be preserved he
must be considered; but is prolongation of
life of any value to him? He may live to
a great age, and you might double his life,
physically speaking; but artistically he re-
mains a shortlived organism. His nervous
system, or whatever it is forms the physical
medium for the production of his works of
art, resembles an accumulator battery. It
is constantly—possibly a million times a
minute—being charged by contact with the
world about it to enormous tension and
constantly being discharged in expres-
sion. After a certain fairly definite period
there comes a time when the plates begin to
get sulphated, bits of the composition flake
off and form short circuits at the bottom
of the jar, and the battery generally loses
its potential. Then the owner begins to
get concerned about his soul and the dis-
agreeable possibilities of Hell, with conse-
quences paralysing to his art.
The fact that Shakspeare voluntarily
and early departed to Stratford suggests
that his mind was so richly endowed with
self-knowledge that he perceived the
approach of the inevitable and forestalled
it by retiring. The early demise of Beet-
hoven is usually deplored, but who knows,
if he continued to compose, whether the
growing tendency towards abstraction in his
work would not have finally brought him
back to the chaos from which all art origin-
ally emerges. Newton discovered the bi-
nomial theorem before he was 24, but if
he had been rejuvenated at 85 it might
only have been to add a sequel to his
“Observations on the Prophecies of Daniel
and the Apocalypse of St. John.” Tol-
stoy is a conspicuous example of a
genius who had the misfortune to go on
living after his battery had run down and
his sure, sensuous touch with reality had
gone, though “Hadji Murad” is a flash in
the pan which may be quoted as an excep-
tion to the rule. Taking the most primi-
tive organism of all, Casanova, he would
have been happier dead at 45, though litera-
ture was richer by the subsequent 40 years
of puling boredom which moved him to
write his reminiscences.
The expectation of life in Shakspeare s
day was 25, and nowadays it is 65 or there-
abouts; but we don’t produce 2i times as
many Shakspeares. We don’t even produce
2\ times as many happy individuals ' cap-
able of amusing themselves and of being
active without injuring their neighbors.
Altogether, rejuvenation and prolongation
of life do not give much hope of a mil-
lennium, though they might assist in the
absorption of new Fords and radios.
PAWANG.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Inflation and Mortgages.
The inflationists have been holding out
tempting baits to the landholder, and some
who are carrying heavy mortgages have
visioned splendid possibilities in the pro-
cess. They see the foreign markets offering
prices so low that there are poor prospects
of paying wages and other charges on the
scale demanded; and they see in inflation a
chance of reducing their interest burden,
at any rate. They know all or part of what
happened in Germany: the landholder there
paid off his mortgages with a currency
so inflated that a debt on a farm was often
got rid of by the sale of a few acres; in
the end, in fact, the mortgage was practi-
cally valueless, just as a fixed deposit was,
or a Government bond or a pension.
But the landowner did not escape quite
as easily as that. In many cases, especially
where the mortgage was recent or had been
renewed recently, it was payable in gold
or in the equivalent of gold; and there are
few German mortgages that are not now
expressed that way. But. even where that
was not so, the Government, seeing that the
landowner had escaped from his debt,
promptly imposed a new one: automatically
all landed property was loaded with a Gov-
ernment mortgage to the extent of 12 -r
per cent, of its value. For this, of course,
the owner got no direct return at all; it
was an annual tax amounting to the interest
on one-eighth of the value of his property,
and the value of the property was depreci-
ated by this fixed charge. There is very
little doubt that if the Australian land-
owner did throw off part of his mortgages
as a result of note inflation, the Govern-
ment would follow the German plan and
load him up again.
Australia differs from Germany in one
important detail. Germany had no foreign
debt, properly so called. There were large
foreign investments in German stocks, but


try.” But ask for money, especially in N.
S. Wales, to carry on an industrial under-
taking and you will get about lOd.
The gentlemen who are always calling for
“credits” and who say that' the banks and
others are strangling the country might
get a hint from this. Money isn’t nearly as
scarce as we sometimes think. Though Gov-
ernments have bled the banks heavily,
advances can still be made sparingly; and
outside the banks there is a good deal of
money. But men will not invest it in enter-
prises which involve the employment of
much labor. It isn’t money or credit that
the country lacks so much as confidence
that labor will give a payable return for
what is spent upon it.
*
The Redhill-Port Augusta Railway.
Ceawford Vaughan, a former Premier of
S. Aus., writes from Adelaide:—
The haste with which the Federal Government
rushed through the bill for the construction of the
Redhill-Port Augusta line calls for some explanation.
The local press stated that the report of the S.A.
Railways Commission had been sent on to Mr. Fenton
by S.A. Premier Hill. The details of that report
have not yet been disclosed, but it is believed that
it will endorse the opinion of the S.A. Standing
Railways Committee of 1919. This showed the line
would involve a permanent loss to S.A. of £82,000 a
year. The Minister for Customs, in pressing for the
expenditure of nearly £750,000 on the work in these
stressful times, estimated a surplus of £6500, but
that estimate is over-optimistic, and in any case is
only arrived at by robbing existing State lines of
revenue derived at present from the Central Australian
and Transcontinental. This State is in no position
to stand an added burden on its taxpayers—which
may amount to nearly £lOO,OOO a year—in order
to provide additional convenience to a handful of
East-West travellers. And why is the report of the
Commission not revealed to the public?
If work for the unemployed must be found by
railway construction, the bridging of the gap of
550 miles on the North-South Transcontinental would
not only not rob State railways or duplicate railway
facilities, but would, as you suggest (December 24),
offer the only feasible means of unlocking to white
settlement the 330,000,000 acres that comprise tho
N. Territory. It would incidentally open up a
new trade route to the East, the markets of which
are now attracting the attention of the world.
r*
Disadvantages of Being a Husfoand.
Dear B., —Mr. Wragge’s letter (B. 24/12/’3O)
those investments had been made in Ger-
many, and the foreign creditor was thus
wiped out along with the local creditor.
Australia, on the other hand, has floated
large loans abroad, and principal and inter-
est are payable in gold. No matter what
the £ Australian may be worth, we have to
pay in sterling. Our heaviest mortgage is
thus not to be reduced by anything short
of a rearrangement. Inflation will not
get rid of the smallest part of it.
♦
Deposits and Advances.
As “F.A.Q.” sees it:—
You always have a good word for the banks.
Well, if you put yourself in the position of the
poor sweating primary producer, who is being dunned
by the local branch manager to reduce his account
(apparently from some hidden source of wealth which
he has planted down on the bank of the creek), you
would realise that the banks are very apt to put in
the boot on the slightest provocation these days.
I am a cocky and have an overdraft, and every
time I get within earshot of the bank I am hauled
in to the sweating-pen and told to reduce it.' Natur-
ally I come home in a worse sweat than before and
truck another couple of trucks of sheep oil' to be
sold in the worst market for many years, and the
resulting proceeds are hardly worth paying in. I
am left with the overdraft almost. as big as before,
and two trucks less sheep to grow wool or breed
lambs. I am worse off than before. Then I pick
up the paper and see that the bank I deal with has
subscribed £600,000 to the recent Government loan.
That has been happening all over the country, and
the producers are being left high and dry without
any stock. And without stock they might just as
well put up the shutters.
What’s the idea, and who is to benefit by that
sort of thing ? The only answer I can see is—
nobody.
From appearances we are being bled that the
bank may supply the money to the Government, so
that they will not default on pay day in the civil
service, etc. Well, if it is good business to bleed
the primary producer so. that the civil service can
be kept on fruit-salad and asparagus, no more cocky
life for me; all suggestions about growing more
wheat will fall on my blind side.
The heads of the banks must be doing this with
their eyes wide open, so will you please tell why ?
Another point I am foggy on. As the primary
producer is the only man who can haul Australia
out of the mullock, why not leave him alone with
his stock, etc., and cut off the supply of overdraft
to the Government, and let them default if they
won’t cut their expenses down? Instead, the other
policy seems to be the one they favor: that is, starve
the primary producer and fatten up the politicians,
civil servants and all the rest of the useless non-
producing junk hanging around the place.
Again, what for?
The shocking thing about this is that it
is nearly all true. Nearly, but not quite
all. For the case is much more complicated
than “F.A.Q.” and thousands of other
farmers seem to think. These things have
to be taken into account: —
Banks, so far as The Bulletin knows, don’t favor
the policy of starving the; primary producer and
fattening the politician and the public service. But
banks are not supreme. No one of them wanted to
subscribe 600 thousand pence, let alone 600 thousand
pounds, to the recent loan. No one of them, it •is
safe to say, subscribed one farthing more than it
thought was necessary to make a success of the loan.
Credit is a very sensitive thing and the banks live
on credit.
The shareholders of the Bank of N. S. Wales have
just under 14 millions of their own money in the
business; the outside public has 63 millions. A bank
is bound to hold a good deal of cash; many of its
deposits are at call. Generally, therefore, the advances
are made not with the banks’ money, but with the
public’s money. At the present moment the advances
are exceptionally heavy; as at June, 1929, just
before the tide turned. in Australia, there were in
all Australian banks £946 of advances to every
£lOOO of deposits. In September last, there were
£1054 of advances to every £lOOO of deposits.
Advances are controlled by deposits. If deposits
shrink, there is absolutely nothing for it but to call
in advances. That is not the fault of the bank;
if it is the fault of anybody, it is obviously the
fault of the depositor.
The depositor, for his part, reacts to outside in-
fluences—political and other. Just at present he is
re-acting violently to the talk of inflation, including
the “unpegging’’ of the foreign exchange rates. He
knows what happened to the depositor in every other
country which has practised inflation ; the depositor has
been paid out with inflated money and has been robbed
in most cases of the greater part of his principal. The
Advisory Council, representing pastoral, manufactur-
ing and other interests, recommends the Government
to let exchange take its own course. No doubt, if
that advice is taken, the producer will get more in
Australian money for his products. But the more
he gets—in other words, the greater the fall there
is in the value of Australian money—the stronger
will be the movement to withdraw deposits from
Australian banks, and the more imperative will it
then be for banks to get in advances.
■ ♦
“Minnies.”
We are told that what this country needs
is money, and that if somebody or other
would “create credits” or “release credits”
prosperity would soon be restored and the
garden be all abloom again. Bankers,
of course, are the greatest offenders: these
perverse creatures stand all day behind
counters waiting for people to bring in
money; and the moment it is on the
counter they pounce on it and lock it away.
So there is none available »to do all the
things that would be done if only the
people could pay for them.
And yet during the past three months
thousands of miniature golf courses have
been built in Australia; in a single Sydney
suburban street there are said to be seven-
teen. Some of these rinks have called for
the destruction of shops and houses; the
sites of many have been taken on long
lease; and the actual preparation of the
course may cost anything from a hundred
to a thousand pounds.
Where is the shortage of money, then?
Where is all this need for “creating” and
“releasing” credits?
The simple explanation is that a man
can run a “minnie” with the help of a small
boy and a girl at the turnstile. Therefore
money by the hundred thousand has been
available for this new and useless “indus-
is an illustration
of the difficulties
of being a lawyer.
It is quite true
that the High
Court in Brown
v. Holloway de-
cided that a hus-
band was not
liable for his
wife’s torts, but
it would be very
unsafe to ad-
vise a husband
that way now.
The High Court
ex pres s 1 y dis-
sented from the
majority in Cue-
nod v. Leslie,
which it was
quite entitled to
do, as that was
the decision of
the Court of
Appeal only, a
Court whi c h,
though its de-
cisions cany very
great weight with
Australian
Judges, is only
of equal autho-
rity with the High
Court. But the
position has
altered. In 1925
the House of
Lords, in Ed-
wards v. Porter,
decided that the
Court of Appeal
in Cuenod v.
Leslie was cor-
rect, and that a
husband is still
liable to be sued
for his wife’s
torts committed
during coverture.
The decision of
the High Court
in Brown v. Hol-
loway will cer-
tainly have to be
reconsidered, and
a s the High
Court has already
said that it is
bound in judicial
courtesy by the
decisions of the
House of Lords,
there is no doubt
that it will be
overruled.
It is not with-
out interest to
note that Vic-
toria, S.A. and
Tas. have settled
the question by
legisla tio n. In
N. S. Wales we
haven’t, and are
not likely to—
unless, of course,
the Government
can see an opportunity of setting- up an-
other board or department to deal with it.
Meanwhile anyone who wants to test the
question is sure of a lot of fun, and his
advisers of a lot of money.—Faithfully
yours, Fitzwilliam.
♦
The Talkies.
A phenomenon of the past year was the
advance made by the talkies in quality
and prestige. Their mechanism went as
far in those 12 months as that of the motor-
engine did in twice as many years; and sound-
registration, which two years ago was gro-
tesque, has got so near nature that the
Fox-Movietone voice of a finished talker
like G. B. Shaw produces an illusion that
the great man is present in the flesh. On
the artistic side they have advanced, too.
Vulgar and idiotic productions predominate
as they did in the palmy days of the drama.
But against them may be set many beauti-
ful and inspiring shows. “Disraeli” (done
in the U.S.A. by British players), “Atlantic”
(all-British), “Holiday” (all-American),
“Journey’s End,” “Grumpy,” “Tom Sawyer’’
and a dozen others almost as meritorious
have been brought to Australia.
The privilege of seeing supremely good
acting used to be monopolised by the well-
to-do in a few great cities. Australia never
saw the front-rankers, as a rule, or, if it did,
had to wait till they were past their prime.
The talkies have put the poor of the Back-
blocks on the same plane as the rich of
London; furthermore, they are showing the
Backblocks better, in the sense of more
naturalistic, acting than London ever saw
in the pre-talkie era. In “Manslaughter,”
a recent American talkie that was shown
here, a girl is tried for killing a policeman
with her car. On a stage her face would have
been contorted with remorse, terror and
other extravagant emotions which accused
persons pever show in court. In the film a
subsidiary picture shows the tumult in her
mind—the smash, the dying man, the curs-
ing crowd—while she sits stonyfaced, as in
life; and art is the gainer.
In addition to doing away with over-
playing, the best of the talkies have casts
that no theatre on earth could afford, and
the acting in the worst of them is better
than in the best of the old-time bellow-
drama. Talkies with a criminal or erotic
appeal may have done harm; on the other
hand, travel pictures like those of Mawson
and Byrd, and the topical gazettes, are doing
good spiritually and culturally. As a N. S.
Wales teacher said the other day: “The
children of this generation are brighter and
more receptive, and the talkies are respon-
sible.”
Australia has been importing most of its
books for over a century, and it is still
importing all its cars and films. It should
be producing all three as America is. But
above all it should be producing talkies;
and, for preference, Australian ones. They
are the bagmen of the nations.
* —
The New Exchange Rate.
The Bank of N. S. Wales celebrated the
week-end by announcing that it will give
£ll5 Australian for £lOO English and will
sell at £ll5 7s. 6d. Australian for £lOO Eng-
lish. For some weeks past the selling rate
has been nominally “pegged” at £lO9, but as
much as £ll4 10s. has been paid, and that
for large amounts. Three things are appa-
rently aimed at: (1) a-further reduction of
imports, which, of course ; would leave more
of our wool and wheat money available for
meeting our national interest-bill; (2) the
stoppage of shipments of money out of
Australia (there is no doubt that hundreds
of thousands of pounds have lately been got
out of the country); (3) to give the primary
producer a better chance. To what extent
these desiderata will be achieved it is too
early yet to say. E<ut it is not too early
to say that serious consideration ought to
be given to the creation of an authority—
mainly, of course, banking—which would
take over all exchange and, if necessary,
ration it; and that cannot be done effect-
ively without giving more or less control
also over all exports. Admittedly that is a
large order; but the export of money must
be stopped, if such a thing can be man-
aged.
AND FOLLY AT THE HELM.
" Mr . Lang would like to have avoided a return to the 44-hour week just at present, but feels compelled
to carry out election promises."—Sydney newspaper.
LANG: "Of course, gentlemen, the boat will probably sink; but I promised you a good picnic, so we’ll get
all this stuff on board.”


. ..
m
m
1
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING.
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will .be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
11. E. BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
r~
n
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE
UNSWEETENED.
In all parts of the world
“Montserrat” finds its
place. It is Nature’s great
drink —cooling, invigor-
ating and health-giving.
Bottled by Schweppes Limited.
Obtainable all Grocers.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Anstey, who knows just enough about
figures and finance to be mischieyous, lias
been pointing out that France owed Britain
650 millions, and in 62 years, under an
agreement with J. Bull, will have paid 1850
millions and be then free of debt, whereas
Australia, though it owes only 525 millions
to Britain, will have paid 1500 millions in
62 years, and will still owe the 525 millions.
Well, in the first place, it will not do any-
thing of the sort, because of the National
Sinking Fund, of which, apparently, this
Minister of the Crown never heard ; and in
the second place, if Anstey is suggesting that
we should get a concession too, lie might
explain who is to grant it. In the case of
France it was the British Government which
lent the money; in the case of Australia it
is tens of thousands of individuals who have
lent it, and there is no authority on earth
to speak for them.
Now it is Dick Keane, of Bendigo, who
is said to be waiting for his leader with
the biggest slitick. One account has it that
THE RECEPTION COMMITTEE.
COMRADE DICK: “Scullin’s late in arrowin’.
I do hope nothing’s happened to the
poor mahn.”
Keane will be Prime Minister before the end
of the month. How these Labor bhoys do
love one another!
Had the price of wheat kept above four
shillings, Westralia, with a 50-million-
bushel harvest, would be feeling fairly com-
fortable ; as it is. developments in other in-
dustries are improving the outlook. The
value of the gold won last year was
£1,768,623, the best result since 1926; with
Wiluna reaching the production stage and
Lake View and Star, among other companies,
spending £300,000 on additions to plant, a
further substantial increase is certain this
year. Moreover, the export of sleepers to
South Africa, a highly profitable trade in
other years, is about to be renewed. A
£50,000 order for jarrah sleepers, the first
since 1927, lias been received from Johannes-
burg.
Having got into recess, the Vic. Hogan
Government is seemingly safe for another
six months, but if there is a Federal
Labor split a State Labor fracture
may' follow. Hogan was treated very un-
ceremoniously by a section of his Caucus
when he came back from the conference with
the Uppish House quintette. How long
he will stand cheek from left-wingers depends
on developments. If Soullin is squeezed out,
and doesn’t take it lying down, he will have
Hogan as a backer, whatever the conse-
quences to the State Premier.
Thomas Waddell, M.L.C., who was Pre-
mier of N. S. Wales for 11 weeks in 1904,
suggests, as other impracticable old gentle-
men have done, that the State should sell its
railways. Last year, when the working week
was 48 hours, these railways achieved a
deficit of £3,556,300, and their losses for the
five preceding years are returned at
£4,403,800. They are controlled, as to wages
arid working hours, by State and Federal
arbitration Judges and State politicians; the
reigning group of windbags has just re.in-
troduced the 44-hour week, and proudly
announces that it will pay 48-hour rates for
44 hours’ toil. Where are buyers to be
sought for outside Bedlam?
Tas. Labor-member Woods, who once pro-
posed the abolition of the bicameral system
and was beaten by 27 to 7 (the Assembly
was then a 35-member job), has had another
shy at the same target from a new angle.
He moved for a convention to draw up a
new constitution providing for a one-llouse
Parliament “combining the legislative intelli-
gence of both existing Chambers,” said con-
stitution to be submitted to a referendum at
the election in May or June. The motion
was negatived—ayes 14, noes 15 —but the
vote may stand as an indication of what
may happen in the near future.
Frank Anstey, Minister for
Flatulence, is still carrying
round his plate of hot-air
wrapped in paper and calling
it sausages. He still talks of
a mysterious thing called
“credits,” which, it seems, Gov-
ernments can “create.” Actu-
ally all that a Government can
do in the way of creation is to
pledge its people’s future earn-
ings ; that is to say, it can bor-
row on its note more easily
than the individual can, because
the individual can only tax him-
self in order to pay, whereas
the State can tax the whole
community.
The American post-war say-
ing, “There’s too much politics
in business and not enough busi-
ness in politics,” is dismally
applicable to N. S. Wales these
days. In Sydney thousands of
shop hands have lost their part-
time jobs because the State
Labor Government, has banned
“rationing” in private employ-
ment, though retaining it in its
own departments; in the coun-
try wheat is piling up at sidings with-
out buyers because the Federal Labor
Government “guaranteed” 3s. a bushel
and made no provision for paying it. Truly
the depression has found the Australian poli-
tician out. He had only one idea in his
thick head, borrowing, and borrowing being
no longer possible he simply doesn’t know
what to do.
A Queensland engineer, writing in the
“Courier,” attributes his State’s chronic
railway deficits largely to extravagant ex-
penditure on motor speedways, particularly
concrete roads costing £20,000 a mile, and
bitumen at £lO,OOO to £12,000. The Main
Roads Commissioner indignantly replies that
his roads average £3330 a mile and only
£72 for maintenance. A comparison of his
costs with those of the N.S.W. Main Roads
Board would be interesting. That concern
modestly admits that it has spent “over
£177,000” on 11 miles of the new Cowpas-
tures-road, of which “nearly eight miles has
been paved with concrete,” and claims that
if, as is estimated, “400 commercial motor
vehicles pass over the route daily the. total
saving will be nearly £ll,OOO a year.’ Its
troubles about Cleary’s railways !
Lang, the genius who knew where he could
borrow millions —60 millions was often men-
tioned —and who declared that the Loan
Council was only a hindrance, has just begged
that Council, for the love o’ Mike, to get
a million or two for him. And because the
plain facts of the matter were that the trad-
ing banks are drained dry, and the N.S.W.
public service was in grave danger of having
to go without its pay, the Loan Council
agreed to issue 11 million of debentures.
Apparently the Commonwealth Bank is
“For the love o' Mike, give us hart a
pint, and don’t tell me boss about it.”
carrying the baby : it lias issued another mil-
lion of notes, and among its assets it has,
besides an extra million of debentures, an
extra million of short-term loans. Which
looks as if the poor old Commonwealth Bank
Cow has been milked of two millions alto-
gether.
The man who went mad at Bondi Junc-
tion, Sydney, and butchered two very gallant
policemen, losing his own life in the end,
was a super-sensitive crank of long stand-
ing. His trouble dated back to the begin-
ing of the war; he tried hard to enlist, but
was rejected on account of varicose veins.
Failure to serve would have been no dis-
grace to a man of military age in conscrip-
tionist countries, but in Australia it ex-
posed' him to the suspicion of being a
shirker. Other men grew fat on the. dis-
grace, but this odd exception went slowly
mad on it, and ended by killing policemen
“And you call this a sausage!”
under the impression that they were Ger-
mans. He never got over the fact that
some busybodies sent him white feathers as
a comment on his supposed backwardness.
The senders being anonymous, he hadn’t the
satisfaction of knocking them out.
In Sept., 1929, when Australia began to
wake up to the fact that it had been, a fool,
cur tptal note issue was 41 millions. At
the end of that year it had climbed to 45
millions, and the inflationists were squeezing
the bank to issue naore. The board, how-
ever, resisted .stubbornly throughout 1930,
and at the end of Nov. the issue was still
45 millions. Then, however, Christmas trade
was made the excuse for another hard
squeeze, and that and the hunger of N.S.W.
Premier Lang produced a jump of three
millions. And that is a good deal worse
than it looks, because during 1929 we lost
over four millions of our gold, and since
then almost another three millions. To-day
we have less than 32 p.c. of our notes cov-
ered by gold, whereas when 1929 opened we
had 45.79 p.c. Thus the strong tendency has
been towards inflation : and if anybody can
see what good it has done Australian labor
and industry he’s got wonderful eyesight.
Advice to Lang from the “Labor Daily,”
“the official organ of the Labor movement”:
High Finance... .has partially hamstrung the
Government by getting a Court to prohibit the bill
abolishing the Legislative Council being presented for
Royal Assent. Actually a State Supreme Court has
denied Parliament the right to legislate!. ... What
a Government should do in the circumstances is to
abolish, or at least suspend for the time being, a
Court that defies its efforts to obey the will of the
people.
It would be rather difficult to dismiss, or
even suspend, Judges who, as the book puts
it, “hold office until they reach a prescribed
retiring age, subject only to good behavior,
as determined by Parliament”; but if the
thing could be done a substitute would be
necessary, and then comrades with unsatis-
fied ambitious could be provided for. There
would be thrilling possibilities in a class-
conscious Supreme Court, with Jock Garden
as Chief Justice and Bondy Hoare, Donald
Grant, Jake Johanson, Emil Voigt, Ryan
the Moscow pilgrim, and ex-Aldermen Burke
and Green, of the Sydney City Council, as
puisne Judges.
Davidson, the N.S.W. Minister of Works,
boasted the other day that he had hounded
all the Rotjibury men out of his department,
in which laboring jobs were found for them
after the Bavin Government had tried its
clumsy hand at running a coalmine. Ely,
the Assistant Minister of Labor, thereupon
announced that he intended abolishing the
Government Bureau and “instituting
a system by which union officials will supply
labor.” This means that the Rothbury
miners and non-unionists in general (includ-
ing ruined farmers and professional men)
will get no Government relief work, though
it is being financed by a tax of a shilling
in the pound on Laborites and non-Laborites
alike. Not that all this tax-money, which
goes into the Treasury direct, will be spent
on relief work. A lot of it will be required
to defray the cost of the 44-hour week on
the railways and tramways, which, working
on a 48-hour basis, lost £3,941,000 last year.
A lot more will be needed to fulfil the Labor
election promise that the civil servants
would get their boom-time salaries back. This
one-eyed mob will have a taxpayers’ strike
on its hands if it doesn’t look out.
A new ordinance under the North Aus-
tralia Act 1926 enacts that the issue of
a pearling license is conditional on proof
being furnished that no alien is owner or
part-owner of the vessel, or is entitled to any
share, or interest in it, “interest” including
mortgage or security for an advance paid.
This represents yet another futile attempt
on the part of the authorities to prevent
the all-powerful Japanese diver from ruling
the Australian pearling trade. For many
years at Broome and Thursday Island Japs
have monopolised the dress divers’ jobs, and
the little man has measures of his own for
ensuring that a contract between himself
and the ostensible owner of the lugger, though
not in writing or made before witnesses, will
be carried out. The only sure remedy would
be to cut out alien divers altogether ; and our
old friend International Complications might
have a few words to say about that.
To keep a source of perks from drying up
the Vic. Railways Standing Committee may
have some works other than railways
referred to it for inquiry and report. They
are not likely to be undertaken if recom-
mended, but ‘they will provide a colorable
excuse for continuing the perks. Perks are
what these committees are for.
Up to date N. S. Wales has supplied
five Prime Ministers, as against Victoria’s
three and Queensland’s one. When Queens-
land pulled off the blue ribbon Fisher
was lucky; he was accepted more as
a compromise between rival Labor claim-
ants than on his own merits. West-
ralia came near to getting in line for
the distinction when, after Deakin’s retire-
ment, Forrest was beaten by Cook for the
party headship by one vote only, and that
the vote of his old chief. But it may be
doubted if Forrest would ever have been per-
mitted to rise above Opposition leadership ,
N.S.W. and Vic. would have seen to that.
Neither S. Aus. nor the Speck has ever
looked like furnishing a Prime Minister.
The old hands were not far wrong: they
said strikes were no good because you could
only get what you wanted by striking when
you could get it without striking. Apart
from the coalminers’ strike at West Mait-
land, there was not a single Australian dis-
pute of importance during 1930; and the
Maitland madness was left over from 1929.
“Come an’ ’ave — hie—a pint or two more!"
Everywhere the explanation is the same;
unions have got no funds, and their members
are earning so little that they can’t run
the risk of earning less. In 1929 the nearer
tc the neck a man was filled the surer he
was that he wanted a pint or two more;
now he can’t have a drink because he s
thirsty.
“Griffith Moses” : About 17 times a week
some individual or group catches the public
ear with an assurance that if State Parlia-
ments were wiped out everything would be
perfect. Australia has too many debts, trade-
union secretaries, arbitration courts and
strikes, but compared with other Federations
it has remarkably few subordinate legisla-
tures. There are half a dozen in all, or
about one for each million people and for
each half-million square miles. Switzerland
has one State Government to every. 160,000
people, or one to every 640 square miles. The
U.S.A. has a State Government to 2,200,000
inhabitants, or one to 62,000 square miles.
Other Federations, such as Germany,. Brazil
and Argentina, have minor differences in their
State administration, but there isn’t one of
them where a crowd of uncouth crooks (to
quote a memorable remark by Premier
Dooley, of N.S.W.) and professional destroy-
ers tries to fool the people with the assurance
that if State Governments are obliterated all
the financial wreckage they have created will
come right.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clarence Cafeteria”: I cannot sit down
anywhere in Melbourne to-day for a
cup of tea and a chat with a male
friend without attempts being made to
distract my attention, disturb my com-
plexes and disarrange my repressions by
females arrayed in somebody or other’s
next-to-nothing bathing costumes parading
round me. Let me say right away that I
have grown beyond the reach of this form
of appeal, being a dramatic critic. More-
over I find myself in profound disagreement
with the manufacturers of bathing-suits as to
what constitutes feminine beauty. The
female clothes-horses follow a convention of
physical charm which leaves me cold. Also
TAKING TIME BY THE FORELOCK.
“You seem to be making yourself very friendly with old Giltedge, Tommy. What’s on?”
“Well, honest — l’m after his divorce business; he’s getting married next week.”
their walk is frankly ridiculous. As they
are obviously unhappily aware of the
absurd figure they are cutting, they make
me feel sad and uncomfortable in equal
measure. But the scheme evidently pays its
promoters, ,so the only hope of deliver-
ance lies in it being carried to such
extremes that there will be a revolution
amongst the tea-drinkers. Let us have man-
nequin parades of thin ladies made fat by
Blowso’s Corpulento; of fat ladies made
thin by Professor Ilavabeer’s Perspiration-
less Reduction System ; of politicians arrayed
in their election promises, and so forth.
Then some maddened tea-drinker may mur-
der a mannequin and city life may recapture
some of its old amenity.
*i» »i” V . ❖
“Oxmead”: A recent paragraph about
Henry Lawson condemning the phrase
“viewed from another angle” as being quite
indefensible sets me thinking of the queer,
often arbitrary, likes and dislik-s of men
with ten times as much know-
ledge of the English language
as Henry ever had, and per-
haps 50 times as much as he
would ever have claimed.
Forty years ago and even later
the split infinitive was the pet
horror of London editors;
nowadays nobody cares tup-
pence whether the adverb goes
between the “to” and the verb
or at either end. The most
gifted professor I have ever
known in Australia told me,
years ago, with a groan that
nothing pained him more in
our modern journalese than
to see an adjective qualified
with “more or less” —which is
the extreme of silliness, if you
come to think of it—except to
note that the real meaning of
Shakspeare’s lines “It is a
custom more honored in the
breach than in the observ-
ance” is utterly misunderstood
by nine writers out of tan who
quote it. And there rises be-
fore me the gaunt figure and
accusing finder of a West-
tralian literary precisian—lie
was an ex-convict but it hadn’t
impaired his scholarship—who
looked in at our newspaper
office at Geraldton to ask
severely why we allowed in
print such a term as “roads
board” (the district had a
round dozen of such bodies).
“What should it be?” I asked
him. “Road board,” he told
me almost compassionatelv:
“you don’t speak of a rails-
way, do you, or a billiards
board?” I had no answer
then, and I haven’t one now.
but the rural authority of
Westralia continues to be a
roads board.
“Orokolo”: Not only is the Papuan a
dramatist (B. 31/12/’80), but he is often
a composer of some distinction, among his
own people, at least. Some tribes have
always been noted for their musical ability.
Natives from other districts used to travel
long distances to learn new musical com-
positions, and, since these were strictly copy-
righted, had to pay royalties for using them.
One of Sir William Macgregor’s earliest
reports tells how he arrived among a tribe
in the Gulf of Papua just in time to pre-
vent them taking the warpath against a
neighboring people. Inquiry showed that
the latter had pirated a recent masterpiece
belonging to the first lot, a bit of sharp
practice that demanded blood. Sir William
appointed himself arbitrator, and the
quarrel was settled on the pirates agree-
ing to pay a pig down and a royalty of so
many cocoanuts and yams for each' public
performance.
“C.Q.”: Vie. State Ministry has a new
white elephant on its hands in the shape of
Federal Government House, which dominates
Melbourne from the Domain. The huge
building, which is an overgrown version of
the boom palaces scattered about Toorak
and Kew, was commenced in 1871, and took
five years to complete; the outlay was
£175,000, including the furnishings. To build
the place to-day would cost at least half as
much again. The first occupant was Sir George
Ferguson Bowen and, although the State’s
population at the time was less than a quar-
ter of a million, he moved into larger
premises than those of the Viceroy of India
SUFFICIENT REASON.
“Every time I meet that Johnny he tries to kiss me.”
“Well, why don’t you keep out of his way, then?”
“Yes, but he couldn’t try then.”
and the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. Those
were spacious days. The first Governor-
General to put his feet up on the carved
mantelpiece was Lord Ilopetoun, who
often expressed a longing for a smaller and
less draughty residence. The Federal Gov-
ernment’s lease still has eight years to run
but an arrangement has been made whereby
it reverts to the State. A grandiose scheme
for turning the thing into a national art gal-
lery has been pigeonholed, and instead the
ground floor will be known in future as the
Melbourne Girls’ High School. The high school
had been previously located in Spring-street,
but had been repeatedly reported dangerously
infirm. The girls will now do their lessons
in some of the stateliest apartments in
Australia, supervised by portraits of kings,
princes and queens; and their playground
will be one of the loveliest gardens in the
State. Looking after it took ten gardeners
ail their time.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The most-stolen-car prize
goes to an expensive coupe owned by
Melbourne optician H. E. Coles. Five hours
after it had been delivered brand-new into
the owner’s hands it was spirited away. It
was recovered, but a month or two later it
was snapped up from in front of the Con-
tinental Hotel, Sorrento. The. police found
it at Rye, and Mr. Coles started off to claim
his property. When he got there it had
vanished again. It was recovered in a state
of premature decay later on the Same day.
* * * *
“Avon”: A story that might have sug-
gested all sorts of horrors to Poe is buried
under the debris of a burnt farmhouse in
the Pahiatua district of the North Island
of Maoriland. One of the leading citizens
of the locality was J. B. Westlake, who was
reputed to be a millionaire. He owned
various farms, and one that, he had let out.
on shares at Himitangi was frequently visited
by him. Often he stayed there at night,
aiid to preserve his privacy on such occa-
sions he had chocks nailed on all the win-
dows so that they could not be raised more
than a few inches. One night when he
was staying there the place was burned
down, and he, the married couple who were
share-farming the place _ and the English
immigrant youth who assisted them were all
reduced to cinders. Raking amid the embers
policemen found a shotgun, and one of the
four skulls recovered had splashes of lead
along the occiput. But what happened is
still a mystery. The skulls could not be
identified. Westlake left a widow and off-
spring, but he willed most of his money
to the Salvation Army.
“Q.C.”: Methods of solving a depression
in these days may he more humanitarian,
but I have my douhts. Business had crashed
to such an extent that the only other tenant
of the building in wffiich I worked was the
notorious moneylender, David Henry. I was
driven at last to seek fresh fields myself.
There were whole suburbs practically
deserted. In some a single caretaker looked
after an entire street. I negotiated with
one of these and bought a five-roomed w.b.
house, which I transported to Diamond
Creek, 20 miles out. The whole transaction,
including the price of the house, cost me £25
and I built a chimney with bricks which were
delivered for 28s. a thousand from Bruns-
wick. Here I sat down and waited for things
to right themselves, supporting my family
with a cow, some pigs, poultry and a vege-
table patch. There was gold in the hills;
and instead of getting soft hanging about the
city waiting for sand-shifting jobs, men
began to drift out to Diamond Creek. Over
200 knocked out a living fossicking. One
struck a rich pocket and found £3OOO in a
few weeks ; but if a man cleared five shil-
lings a week he could live. Gradually
business revived in the city and the miners
got letters to say that their old jobs were
waiting for them at the desk or in the
timber-yard, and within three years almost
the whole crowd was gone. It was a better
life while it lasted than that of the present
assisted unemployed. Saturday night saw
a general shivoo, and the entertainments
organised by the miners in the local hall were
worth the journey from Melbourne to listen
to. The money earned at Diamond Creek
helped other men to keep their jobs,, whereas
taxation to keep men doing nothing only
puts more out of work.
% sjc ❖ #
“Strict Veg.”: The present wave of pessi-
mism is beginning to affect the fortune-tellers.
One of the sisterhood recently informed a
client in Melbourne that she was surrounded
by confusion, and within five weeks she
would undergo a serious operation. Also her
present marriage was destined to be more
unhappy than her first one, and her dog
would be poisoned. The customer was au
unmarried policewoman f
* * * *
“Lamu”: “Chikko” was the nickname of
our youngest subaltern, feesk from an Eng-
lish public school, and nf seemed to round
off our list of officers’ sobriquets fittingly.
Others were “Doughie,” “Kippers,” “Crip-
pen,” “Ding-Dong,” “Tito” and “Scruff.’
Their owners, realising that nicknames are
inevitable and generally tokens of affection,
were perfectly resigned. “Chikko,” however,
was new to it all, and one day bleated to
his company commander, “I say, sir, the
men call me ‘Chikko’ behind my bally back.
What?” “Well, what of it?” asked the
other. “They call me ‘Crippen,’ and Ive
committed no murders!”
* * * *
“Mells”: After complaining to his wife
that his weekly wage of 30 shillings was in-
sufficient to exist upon in comfort, a Gorman
steelworker secured a place in the cables tne
other day by putting on his best clothes,
lighting a cigar and leaping into a huge
crucible of molten metal. Somehow this
sort of studied theatricalism seams raoie
French than German, though most nations
can show an occasional example of it. iheie
used to be a story of an impoverished Eng-
lish nobleman who, reduced to his last
sovereign, dined on turkey and champagne,
purchased an expensive Havana and took a
cab to the workhouse. Possibly,, however,
the subject of one of Sam Weller s stories,
the gentleman who demonstrated Ins beiiei
in the wholesomeness of muffins by devour-
ing several dozen and then blowing his
brains out, had more in common with tnt
German. One doubts if many suicides pu
on. their best clothes for the final ac ,
although there is the case of a Sydney mu-
derer of a couple of generations ago wh
last request, which was granted, was that
might be hanged in a dress-suit.
* * * *
“Mat”: Among my next-door neighbors
is a pretty little Jewess, aged nine. D „
suppose you had any Christmas P uc ;, ” t
I said to her on Boxing Day in an at I
at facetiousness. “Oh, yes, we did; we 1
it up just the same as you do. i n u
how I got the sixpence, too, if you P™ ;
to be quiet about it,’ she added. I PE »
myself to secrecy. “When mother
mixing the pudding,” she confided, she, <
‘one sixpence will do these hard times,
slipped it in. Then she had to go to ti
door, and I nicked it.” “Werent. you af
of being found out?” I asked. How c °
I be?” she demanded. “I kept the sixp. _
until Christmas dinner, and slipped A ,
my mouth with the pudding. Then I
it out and said, ‘l’m the lucky
have stopped puzzling my brains about
Jews grow rich.
EVERY LITTLE HELPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The price of a copy of Federal ‘Hansard’ has
been raised from twopence to fourpence.”
’Tis true, too true, we haven’t got
Our Budget balanced, but he lies
Malignantly who says we’ve not
Attempted to economise.
If proof were needed, here it is :
“Hansard,” in market phrase, has “riz.”
We met with ways and means designed
To save four millions or so ;
Such was the purpose in our mind,
But Caucus fiercely thundered No;
And their collective angry frown
Decided us to knuckle down.
“Hands off the civil servant’s screw,”
They ukased. So we broke our words,
Our plighted words, and ate them, too,
We older, less assertive birds.
Sans Jimmy Scullin’s leadership
They had us underneath the whip.
We failed to save four million pound;
We yielded there perforce, we grant,
But on another point they found
Us absolutely adamant;
Which shows, in spite of all they say,
The session wasn’t thrown away.
To set finances square we met.
Alas ! it might not be ; but still
If all we sought we could not get
At least we’ve shown we have the will
To make all classes pay the price
That waits, and share in sacrifice.
Then, brothers who would “Hansard” con,
Think that ’tis in a worthy cause
A higher figure’s set upon
The words of those who make the laws.
How many buy it, we’ll allow,
We do not know, but anyhow
To meet the times it’s fourpence now.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Milly Soak”: The glass eye of to-day
grows harder and harder to detect; I fancy
it is often beyond detection unless you should
see the wearer asleep. Time was when
almost any makeshift served. Old O. K.
Jakes, who was Mayor of Cue in the roar-
ing days of the Westralian goldfields, had a
synthetic optic of which he was genuinely
proud. One afternoon the city dads fared
out into the bush to select a site for a sani-
tary depbt, O.K. leading the cavalcade on
horseback. The prad was fresh, and bucked
off his Worship, dislodging the artificial eye
in a thick patch of scrub. A picture in-
delibly stamped on my memory is that of
six or eight councillors and a couple of jour-
nalists on hands and knees searching despe-
rately for the Mayor’s missing eye. They
never found it. “I’ll have to .send to Adel-
aide to get it replaced; it’ll take months,”
said Cue’s first citizen ruefully. Neverthe-
less, two days later, the Mayor appeared with
a new eye that looked little less convincing
than the lost one. A local publican was
given no end of credit for having rigged up
the substitute with the glass stopper out of
a lemonade bottle, artfully tinted to match
the remaining organ of vision. I have an
idea it lasted the wearer for the rest of his
life.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: Odd that man, who is only
able to get the better of animals by mechan-
ism, should distrust it so. The gun, the
steam-engine, the motor-car and dozens of
other devices began by being loathed and
despised, and, after nearly a quarter of a
century, the pictures are only just getting
into polite society, at any rate in Australia.
I can remember when the mere mention of
motor-cars evoked floods of vituperation
from elderly horse-lovers all over the world.
London “Sporting Times,” which now has
a motor section, used to print articles prov-
ing that inside ten years stink-waggons
ALWAYS A CATCH IN IT.
“Marry me and I’ll settle my ten-thousand-pound life assurance
on you.”
“Yes—hut what if you don’t die?”
would be deader than velocipedes. I saw a
similar prophecy in the “Era” on the sub-
ject of the films at a time when London
Tivoli, which had been Britain’s principal
’all for half a century, was on the point
of going- over to the new art. The car, which
is now the vehicle of the Australian demo-
cracy, began by being detested by the poor in
the Commonwealth. W. H. Kelly, M.P.
(“Willie-motor” Kelly), was considerably
handicapped as a Federal politician by the
fact that he had owned a car as early as
1905. The pictures, on the other hand, were
beloved by the humble from the start, and
spurned by the superior. Not so in London
and Paris. The first good word I ever heard
for the silents was at the Chelsea Arts Club
in 1907, and the rich of Britain and the
Continent were the first to acclaim the
talkies. The rich of Australia —years behind
the rest of the world, as usual —are
beginning, at long last, to admit that there
may be something in them; but an uneasy
suspicion that they may not be the right
thing remains.
* He H*.
“Squint”: Science is steadily and surely
wiping leprosy off the map, after it had been
regarded as hopelessly incurable for thou-
sands of years. Queensland’s lazaret on Peel
Island in Moreton Bay has recently dis-
charged five men—three of them Europeans
—as cured, and they are not the first to go
out with a clean bill of health. It is over
20 years since the injection of alepol,
a variation of the chaulmoogra-oil system,
was begun in Queensland, but the treatment
is - necessarily long and tedious, with a
further period of testing to follow before
the final verdict can be pronounced. Similar
successes with the same medicinal agent have
been recorded all over the world, a very
important, though not absolutely essential,
factor being early treatment. It is worth
noting, by the way, that in the Middle Ages
the recognised treatment was a diet of raw
pork. Possibly the idea was to force the
patient to forget his leprosy in the throes of
indigestion.
t. * * * •
“Wandi”: The picnicking habit enables
hundreds of people to make a very fair in-
come by selling water. Every regular resort
has at least one establishment where hot
water is dispensed at 3d. or 4d. a quart —
sometimes as much as 6d. —and billycans and
teapots are loaned at their full value. They
sell water day and night, winter and sum-
mer ; they sell it when it’s raining. At one
fashionable park the other day I found two
joints doing a roaring trade, though there
was a little creek of wholesome running
water within 10 yards. But those water-
vendors knew their business. The surround-
ing area had been carefully cleaned up be-
fore the holiday, not a dry stick or twig
being left that might boil a picnicker’s billy-
can. I searched for half a mile, even looked
iu the trees, then bought water from the
monopolist.
* * * *
“Centurion” : The cables are giving a lot
of space to an “insurrection” in Burma,
though it is doubtfully anything more than
an outbreak of the “Dacoity” to which the
Burman has been addicted for ages. British
and Indian troops have had a long experience
of this form of unrest ever since the un-
lamented Theebaw was pushed out. Small
commandoes come into being all over the coun-
try under so-called “Bohs,” sometimes minor
chieftains but just as often self-elected gang
leaders. Well-armed with dah and Snider,
and with heavily stockaded villages like
Kipling’s Lungtungpen, these bands are
liable to give an infinity of trouble. Signi-
ficant is the statement that the leading push
wears a cross as a badge. This shows, not
any affinity to Christianity, but that the
insurgents, like their predecessors, intend to
utilise crucifixion in dealing with their
enemies. This has always been a popular
practice with the Burmese, though the impal-
ing stake of bamboo is, perhaps, an equal
favorite in the betting.
* * * *
“SSchno'rrer”: Cabled that the Spanish
Government has sanctioned the re-establish-
ment of the first
Jewish synagogue
since the Chosen
were expelled from
the country 438
years ago. Up to
then Jews had been
better treated in
Spain than else-
where in Europe,
and their culture
had reached a high
standard; to be a
Shcphardic Jew, a
descendant of those
who left Spain
rather than submit
to conversion, is a
matter of pride still.
It was the wealth
and power of the
Jews that led to
their undoing in
Spain; it excited
envy and popular-
ised religious perse-
cution. Many estab-
-lis he d prosperous
communities els e-
where; others stayed
to suffer at the
stake: a third class
accepted a nominal
conversion but sec-
re 11 y maintained
Jewish rites. The
descendants of these
are known as the
Maranos; with the
relaxation of the
laws against Juda-
ism. about ten years
ago, they petitioned
British Jewry for
teachers to instruct
them in various mat-
ters of ceremonial
and ritual, mostly
forgotten in spite of
the traditional
observances. The
application was
somewhat coldly re-
ceived, for the ortho-
dox do not believe in
proselytism, and the Maranos were held
to have been put outside the congrega-
tion of Israel by the action of their own
ancestors.
* * * *
“Pulau Ann”: Recent references to the
early history of the Ross family of Cocos
omit mention of the remarkable Alexander
Hare. Hare was one of those congenital
empire-builders who, for some reason, pro-
bably psychological, just fail to build their
empires and hence get lost to fame. He was
brilliant, gifted and had great personal
cliarm. Wherever he went he took a harem
with him which was the scandal and the
envy of his neighbors in “the East.” During
the British occupation of Java, Raffles made
him Resident of Bandjermasin in Borneo,
where he set out to establish a colony.on a
grand scale. He was allowed to recruit his
colonists in the streets of Java and he did
it by methods indistinguishable from those
of the press-gang, several of the most
eminent citizens of Surabaya finding them-
selves involuntary partners in Hare’s dream
of high emprise. Ross joined Hare at
Bandjermasin as harbormaster, and when
the Dutch Bast Indies were handed back to
Holland, the two decided to transfer else-
where their ambitions and their human stock-
in-trade. Cocos was selected and Ross went
to England to complete his arrangements.
When lie returned he found H'are installed at
Cocos surrounded by his harem and rapidly
“I do hate going to -parties with Ma!”
“Takes you home rather early, I suppose?”
“No. Sends me.”
sinkirtg into a drug-soaked caricature of an
Oriental potentate. Party politics soon
divided the pair. Hare wanted annexation
by the Dutch, Ross preferred Britain. Hare’s
power collapsed when Neh Basir, a Malay
of considerable character, led his people over
to Ross’s island. Hare gradually sank into
impotence, his court musicians departed, his
liarem eloped, his courtiers in fancy-dress
disintegrated, the last of his slaves deserted
him, and he died in Singapore, ten years
after his arrival on Cocos. It was the dour,
deliberate Ross who won.
* * * *
“Caterer’s Boy” : The schools which have
the public’s pocket to dip into are the only
ones whose heads haven’t got corrugated
brows. Especially are the big boarding
schools in difficulties; and there lias been a
vigorous deflation of charges in the hope of
holding some of those pupils whose sires
have said that they can’t possibly pay the old
bills any longer. One big Sydney school,
being 120 short of normal and 150 short
of being comfortably full, has sent out
several of its teachers as! commercial travel-
lers; and these are now vigorously comb-
ing N. S. Wales country districts for pupils,
offering bed, board and teaching for what
works out at about 255. a week when spread
over the year. Perhaps the unhappiest
group of men in all Australia are college
teachers. For years that go back beyond
numbering they were disgracefully sweated,
Then their pay moved along so rapidly that
some of them were lifted off their feet. The
idea of being put back on the old short,
shabby commons is almost too much to bear,
* * * *
“Cap’n Flint”: For the hundredth time,
probably, an expedition is to be fitted out
to search for the treasure buried on Cocos
Island by one Benito, after the Peruvians
had rebelled against Spain. The story is
that the authorities in charge of the great
cathedral at Lima, the treasures of which
in gold, silver and precious stones were
famous throughout the civilised world,
stripped the church of everything valuable
and shipped the precious cargo to a port in
Mexico, still loyal to the Church. Benito, as
master of the vessel, found out the value of
his cargo. What happened after is not
clear, though there is little doubt but that,
after disposing of the custodians of the
treasure, he buried if on Cocos Island—not,
by the way, the cable station group in the
Indian Ocean, but a tiny flyspeck some 700
miles south-west of Panama. Since then
the place has been rooted over from end
to end, but if anything has been found it has
been kept dark. The latest adventurer is Mai-
colm Campbell, the racing motorist, who
had an unsuccessful try some years ago.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Japan is not the only Asiatic
country with an unadvertised caste problem
(B. 10/12/’3O). Although Ceylon is asking
for democratic institutions at the Indian
Conference she has a large community called
Rodiyas who are refused the most elemen-
tary social rights and privileges. The ortho-
dox name for them means “filth” and their
villages are elegantly referred to as “dung-
hills.” Actually they are an unusually fine
race of striking physical beauty, but 1000
years ago a hunter belonging to the family,
whose duty it was to provide the King of
Ceylon with fresh venison, had a bad day.
To supplement the temporary game shortage
fie killed one of his own children and served
her up at the royal table. The king and
court liked the dish, so the hunter con
tinued the practice, obtaining further sup-
plies by stealth from other families. The
fraud was discovered when a woman who
had lost her child came to complain to the
king and was served with a curry in which
she recognised a finger-ring of her offspring,
The resultant scandal ended in the Rodiyas
being permanently outcast. It is hard to
say how much genuine history there is in
the above narrative, but so ingrained is the
horror of the Rodiyas that it used to be a
State punishment to order a disgraced noble-
man to marry one of them ; and in the early
days of British rule there was a regulation
forbidding the women to wear clothes above
the waist. The prejudice is as strong as
ever, despite radio broadcasting and votes
for women.
* * * *
“Jeames” : “J.II.T.’s” par. (B. 24/12/’3O)
in which he says that “it is more than doubt-
ful if Britain has 500 millionaires or anything
like that number,” and that my estimates on
the subject are “merely surmiss” is—merely
surmise. My conclusions were based on the
statistical review for the TJ.K. which is
published annually by the Board of Trade,
Year by year between 500 and 000 Britons
are returned as having incomes exceeding
150,000 p.a., which represents 5 per cent, on
£1,000,000. In 1928 the number was 502.
There has been a small decrease every year
since then, but the millionaires still consider-
ably exceed 500. My other statements were
equally well founded. That Lord Rothcr-
mere, for example, is a £15,000,000 man. was
vouched for the other day in the London
“Express,” which is owned by the Carmelite
House magnate’s journalistic rival but per-
sonal friend, Lord Beaverbrook.
* * * *
“Court Brief”: Who questions the Law's
occasional asininity? A young M.L. clerk
was run down and severely injured by a
motorist travelling at an excessive speed on
the wrong side. He sued, and got a verdict
for £lOOO damages. However, about a year
before the defendant had assigned Ms estate
to creditors, notice of assignment being served
upon the insurance company which covered
him under a comprehensive policy. The co.
paid into court almost the whole amount of
the judgment. Plaintiff “charged” these
moneys in the legal phrase, but in an action
against the charging order it has been
held that the claim for indemnity vested in
the defendant at the time of the accident
and that the plaintiff’s judgment consequently
goes to the creditors. As the youth
received his injuries after the date of the
assignment, he could not even squeeze in
amongst the unsecured creditors!
* * * *
“Jimmy G.” i What about a tax on waist V
I know how to spell and I mean it—
w-a-i-s-t; otherwise g-i-r-t-h. Some folks are
born fat; others slim ; but nobody ever .got
fat by working hard. The “schedule” I
suggest is 30in. for men; 30in. for women,
Under or up to that you are tax-free. For
every inch over you pay a shilling a week,
Tax collection is simple. You stroll into
the Taxation Office on Friday. A clerk (a
female one in the case of ladies) puts a
tape measure round you, shows you the
place where the circuit ended, and says
“19s. 6d.,” or whatever the case may be. You
walk out muttering “every day and in every
way my middle must grow smaller and
smaller. I must eat less; drink less; work
harder; think more strenuously.” Time
comes when, slim and beautiful as a Greek
(or Roman) god (or goddess), you gallop
along for measurement and the clerk says
“Sir (or Madam), we owe you ninepence
on the schedule; but yesterday, the country’s
debts having all been paid off, the Treasurer
decided that we must pay £lO on the penny.
Oblige us by accepting this nice little bag
containing 90 gold sovereigns.”
ROSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s a habit she has, being human—
And, candidly, now and again
Eve’s daughter is sometimes a woman,
Not always my Lady Disdain!
She is subtle and sweet, one discovers,
And I would we were one who are twain,
For her lovers are ever her lovers
While roses remain.
She smiles in the star-haunted shadow,
Young loveliness, vivid as pain,
Of a garden that grows Eldorado
And circles a castle in Spain.
We’re in love, but, alas! one discovers
That our dreams are invalid and vain;
My debts have been paid like a lover’s
While Rose’s remain.
One thought from the depths of depression
Steals sweet as a star after rain.
Though the bailiffs have taken possession,
And my budget’s unbalanced again;
Though life, one so often discovers,
Is a tangled and intricate skein,
Yet ever my lips are a lover’s
While Rose’s remain.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


WHAT WILL 1931 BRING YOU?
In the coming year great things may happen to Australia.
Thousands of men now affluent are likely to find themselves poor.
A few may make much money ou of national disaster.
How will the future shape itself?
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” attempts to answer this question in the
is now on sale. Price H- per single copy; 22/6 per annum, post free.
January number, which
PERSONAL
ITEMS
S. Aus. kept its 94th birthday the other
day at Glenelg, where Hindmarsh landed
from H'.M.S. Bulfalo. The original arrivals
have faded out lately, and for the big gather-
ing of pioneers the response was made by
Jonathan Hawkes, a comparative modern of
1848.
Professor Walter Murdoch, of the West-
ralian Uni., _ recently singled out for praise
as Australia’s finest essayist, has the pawky
wit that seems to come natural to one whose
father was a Free Church minister in Scot-
land. Before he left Melbourne for Perth
he wrote leaders for the “Argus.” This led
to a Perth weekly, many years ago, attribut-
ing to him the authorship of the Saturday
literary editorials in the “West 'Australian.”
The professor was quick to disclaim the
distinction; he explained that he didn't
know whether it was a compliment or not,
because lie never read leaders, adding that
it was inconceivable that anyone who had
ever written such things for pay should
peruse them for pleasure. This gave the
corrected editor a chance to recall the pro-
bably apocryphal story of liow Shakspeare,
when a company of strolling players sought
to stage “Hamlet” at Stratford, was one
of the first to sign a petition to the mayor
asking him to prevent immoral exhibitions
in the borough. Murdoch has issued several
anthologies and a life of Alfred Deakin, of
whom he was an almost passionate admirer.
Walter James, Westralia’s debonair and
evergreen K.C., moves up to the K.C.M.G.
rung on the ladder of knighthood, after hav-
ing been a K.B. for 23 years. It is nearly
29 years since he won the Premiership of
his native State. To James fell the rather
rare distinction of being appointed Agent-
General by his political opponents, West-
ralia’s first Labor Government having no man
who wanted the job and being only too
pleased to get such an antagonist.out of the
way. In the event they builded better than
they knew, for James never returned to poli-
tics ; he made one attempt, and, having
failed, betook himself to his profession again.
He was one of the framers of the Common-
wealth Constitution, and is one of the few
survivors.
HARRY KNEE BONE, president of the
Labor party. He earns his crust on
the literary staff of Adelaide “Adver-
tiser.”
“10-2-4”: According to Sydney “Sun” :
Dr. Evatt, K.C., and Mr. McTiernan must each
face an outlay of £250 to £3oo—the cost of a
robe of scarlet and ermine and full-bottomed wig.
J* J? a custom that goes back to the Judges of
n uliam the Conqueror.
The compulsory purchase of these elaborate
garments is, like “fees of honor” for peerages,
a relic of the days when the Crown got an
immense amount of money “on the side.”
All peerages and most Judgeships used to be
paid for directly or indirectly before Henry
> 111. s time, and the recipients had to come
across with innumerable perquisites, which
the Crown shared with its servants. Lord
Palmerston was the first to refuse to pay a
fee of honor, so far as is generally known.
When he was given his K.G. he declined to
pay for the hanging of his Garter banner in
St. George’s Chapel—approximately £3oo—
on being told that the banner wouldn ? t
go up said it was immaterial, as he never
went to either church or chapel. Cord Byng
of Vimy, a poor man, was the first to make a
public protest against the exorbitant fees
charged for a peerage. His viscounty would
have cost him £7OO if the Treasury hadn’t
waived its claims in the matter. A. J.
Balfour, who, though an extremely rich man,
was Scotch, refused quietly but firmly to
pay for any of his honors, and the waiving
of them cost the Crown £2235. No doubt
the new High Court Judges will pay for
their robes, but they -would be perfectly
justified in refusing. Court robe-makers used
to benefit by such things once, but it is hard
to see what good purpose they serve nowa-
days.
SHAILER WESTON.
Thomas Shatter
Weston, president
of the Maoriland
Employers’ Fed-
eration, was
named after his
father, a Christ-
churc h barrister
who was never seen
in anything less
dignified than a
top hat. Thomas
Shatter is a law-
yer, too, senior
partner in one of
Wellington’s most
eminent and re-
spectable legal
firms. At Canter-
bury College he
graduated with
first-class honors
in pol. econ., and
his annual addresses
to his federation are
models of literary
grace and scholarly
thought. He has
served on various
Royal Commis-
sions, and when
not lecturing the
nation on its
shortcomings is a
genial and friendly
sort of citizen, with
a strong sense of
humor.
Frank Clarke, as President of the Vic.
Upper House, will have to face the electors
of Melbourne South in June. There is not
much, doubt that he will get in again,
nor is he likely to have any rival for
the chair. Once having selected a
suitable. President, the Leg. Council sel-
dom shifts him so long as he wishes to
stay. In his spare time Clarke helps
to run the National Bank and a few invest-
ment companies as a director. He got a
share of the property of his dad, the late
Baronet William Clarke.
“Rue Royale”: Joffre, who got the credit
for stopping the Boclie at the Marne, and
Gallieni, who really did it, prepared for
death in the same way. Joffre received the
last .sacraments, and then sent for his favo-
rite barber and was shaved; Gallieni, who
was dying of cancer, when told the end was
near had a haircut and shave, made his last
confession, was given the sacrament, and
just had time to say good-bye to a few rela-
tions and friends when he died. It empha-
sises the orderly and businesslike nature of
their minds. If Joffre, who, like Foch, was a
man of saintly life, had a serious sin on liis
conscience, it would have been in connection
with his treatment of Gallieni. Gallieni, the
genius, shelved by intrigue as G.O.C. Paris,
was the first to see that the time had come
to attack the oncoming Germans. Joffre.
phlegmatic, unimaginative, “the national
sedative,” as Liddell Hart called him,
couldn’t see it. French was absent from his
H.Q. with a pretty lady when Gallieni rushed
there, and French’s staff officers, says Hart,
refused to take the unsoldierly-looking French-
man in comic leggings seriously. So Gallieni
rushed his taxicab army into the breach on
his own authority, and made Joffre a mar-
shal. Joffre was a mediocrity, as his work at
Verdun and on the Somme showed, but he
wap unshakably imperturbable, and that
meant much in France at the time. His
jealousy of Gallieni was one of the few dark
spots in a fine nature. Gallieni, loyal to the
end to his superior officer, never made the
shadow of a claim to any of Joffre’s glory.
The truth didn’t begin to leak out till years
after the Armistice.
George Whitecross Paton, the new Pro-
fessor of Jurisprudence at Melb. Uni., is a
son of the manse; both his grandfather and
his father were well-known missionaries.
The father, who toiled for years among the
natives of the New Hebrides, is now Pres-
byterian minister at Deepdene. The pro-
fessor is only 27. He went to Oxford as
a Rhodes scholar in 1926, and took first-class
honors in jurisprudence.
Walter Paget, one of the pioneers of the
Queensland sugar-growing industry, has gone
over the hill at 7G. He was a Lon-
doner who came to Queensland young, and
was one of the early planters at Mackay.
In 1901 the electorate of Mackay sent him
to Parliament and kept him there until he
retired in 1915. lie held Cabinet rank for
seven years as Minister for Agriculture, anu
later for Railways, after having been chief
Whip of the Philp party. Blindness lay
heavy on his closing years, though no sign
of the affliction ever showed in his quiet and
equable temperament.
E. A. Smith, dead in Brisbane at 76, had
a more varied career than most. A Repton
boy, he passed into the army, but was pre-
vented by ill health from taking up his com-
mission, and came to Australia to acquire
‘■colonial experience” with the Weiuholts of
Jondaryan. Later, he tried horse-breeding
on the Darling Downs, but found bad seasons
and low prices too much for him. A keen
follower of the turf, he became a racing jour-
nalist, and in the “Queenslander,” as
“Pegasus,” soon built up a reputation as an
able and knowledgeable writer. For ten years
Smith was secretary of the Queensland
National Agricultural Association, and at
one time owned and raced many good horses
in Brisbane. This phase was followed by a
term as stock inspector under the Queensland
Government, and on his retirement he took
to the pen again. He was a noted authority
on blood horses, and had the Bruce-Lowe
system at his tongue’s tip.
B. Dunstan, Queensland’s Chief Geologist
for 28 years, has retired ; L. C. Ball, a Sydney
University graduate who gained his practical
experience at Broken Hill, succeeds him. As
a maker of geological maps, the retiring chief
has few equals anywhere, and some of his
work in this direction, especially the mapping
of the Gympie and Croydon goldfields, has
been of great service to the State, which is
also indebted to him for the investigation
of the Bowen coalfields and the Anakie sap-
phire deposits. His life work was the com-
pilation of the Queensland Mineral Index,
which took him 11 years to -complete. His
report on the Mt. Isa field, which he had
investigated by ground and aerial survey—
the latter the first of its kind in Australia—
was largely instrumental in inducing the
Government to build the railway to the now-
famous silver-lead field.
Frederick Phillips, who has been appointed
Government Printer for Queensland, is a Lon-
doner of 6.‘> years who has spent two-thirds
of his life in the G. P. Office. He served his
apprenticeship there, and two years ago took
charge of the composing branch. Away
from work, he is a noted horticulturist and
judge at flower shows.
Jim Johnston, part of the Labor flood
which swept into the N.SAV Assembly in
1891, died last week at Balmain, where he
had lived practically all his life, and which
lie represented in his one brief burst of glory.
There are not many left of his day. George
Black, one of West Sydney’s four; Joe Car-
ruthers, who was already well set in Can-
terbury; and Tom Waddell, first elected for
Bourke in ’S7, are still in Parliament, but
in the Leg. Council. Arthur Rae, nowadays
a Labor Senator, got in for Murrumbidgee
that year, but never managed to do it again.
Hugh Connell, the man whose brow is fur-
rowed with care, is Chairman of Committees
in the N.S.W. Assembly; for years he has
been chairman of the Parliamentary Labor
party. Up Newcastle way he is mostly
Major Connell; and he is an M.C. (with
bar) and a D.S.O. into the bargain. Pro-
bably he would never have been even a plain
N.S.W. CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES.
Labor member if he hadn’t gone to Broken
Hill: he was sent there as a schoolteacher,
and if you’re young when you go to Broken
Hill they catch you and make a red-hot
Labor gospeller of you nine times out of
ten. But you don’t want to stay too long or
they disillusion you as well.
Edmund Jowett was 73 yesterday—which
probably explains why this. generation of
newspaper readers doesn’t know him half as
well as its fathers did. For besides being able
to talk Edmund Jowett could use a pen
for more than signing cheques, and in the
’nineties he poured out letters and pam-
phlets and a book or two, nearly all about
EDMUND JOWETT.
economics. But lie spoke too soon, when
few were ready to listen. He was a very
successful squatter and did a great deal for
the Australian woolgrower; his holdings were
mostly in Queensland, though when he made
his one break into Parliamentary life it was
as M.H.R. for the Grampians (Vic.).
Died the other day at 70, Pat McGarry,
the rugged and obdurate Labor candidate'
of 1904 who was sent to the Murrumbidgee
“to keep him quiet,” and surprised everybody
by winning the seat and holding it for 16
years, the last three as a Nationalist. In
the N.S.W. Assembly he was expected to be
a joke but wasn’t, except when he wished
to be. His best asset was political nous.
“How do you get on, Pat,” somebody asked,
“when you’re asked what you consider to be
a living area in a place?” “Aisy,” was the
reply; “I find out how much land they have
and then say a little more than that.” lie
made some money in suburban land deals,
and finished rather well-to-do. Both daugh-
ters are B.A.’s, and budding barrister Kath-
leen is appointed executrix with Simon
Ilickey, M.L.C., a friend of Labor days.
The late Lord Melchett, better known as
Sir Alfred Mond, had many activities. Three
years ago he became interested in Zionism,
and went to Palestine to inspect its pro-
giess; as a result, he invested substantially
in various Jewish enterprises there. At a
time when the wealthiest British Jews were
cold on the subject the support of so notable
an industrialist counted for much. He came
of German-Jewish stock. His father settled
in England as a science teacher. His know-
ledge of chemistry and chemicals was of the
utmost service to his adopted country dur-
ing the war.
Dead in an Adelaide hospital, at 67,
Samuel Nicker, Victorian-born but long
ago a market gardener for the Arltunga
(S.A.) goldfields. He formed a liking for
life in Centralia, and at the beginning of
the century took up 500 square miles at
Mount Stuart, reputed the very middle of
the continent. On this Glen Maggie station
he spent the rest of his life.
Frank Lyster, whose death in England has
just Jjeen reported, will be remembered with
affection in Brisbane, where he was born,
and where his parents spent a good deal of
their lives. He was for a time at Brisbane
Grammar; going to England, he joined the
Sappers. Picked out young by Kitchener, he
became an outstanding authority on Egyptian
irrigation. Australian Light Horsemen should
bless his memory, since he was the designer
and supervisor of the freshwater pipe-line
that followed close on their heels from the
Suez Canal to Gaza. In Queensland, N.S.W.
and South Australia, his father, the late
Colonel Lyster, was one of the outstanding
personalities of the splendid training system
which made the A.I.F. possible—-he was,
at one time or another, commandant in all
three States.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company's capital
and its ever-increasing assurance I unds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Buildings, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO BELTING
BUYERS
„ . , . months, we are compelled to advise all
Owing; to disagreeable confusion during the last founded in 1858 by the late John
buyers of Leather Belting that this, the ongina. f ous Pioneer Guaranteed Leather Belting and
Charles Ludovvici, is the sole manufactuiei of tlle ... -mother Belting Company with a similar
Industrial Leathers, and is in no way connected with anotner
surname. inferiority, has won the confidence of Aus-
Pioneer Belting, through its dependability genmL supenomy,
tralian and New Zealand engineers. For safety specify
tlian and New Zealand engineers, ro. » m.irn TIMC
PIONEER WATERPROOF LEATHER BELTING.
PIONEE
leather
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE fBSS
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
Queensland Agents: HOEY, FRY, LTD., Edward Street, Brisbane.
insure: with the
I
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 ] 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
E,. S. and A. Bank.
Net
Busi- Profits on
ness Old De- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
10 p.c.
1921 262,976 4519 128,807 22,500 1,445,541
1922 330,474 7064 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 . . 1,619,240
124 p.c.
1923 395,348 6004 178,494 50,000 , 1,792,098
1924 467,502 8002 187,500 67,500 2,012,602
Premiums on shares, £302,331 . . 2,314,933
Transferred to capital, £300,000 . . 2,014,933
1925 505,981 2500 243,750 65,000 2,214,664
1926 522,308 750 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 . . 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 295,313 95,000 2,926,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 . . 3,305,646
1928 588,769 63 375,000 148,500 3,370,978
1929 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
With surplus earnings visibly £3,405,477,
and the use of £1,872,906 of perpetual stocks
(a reminder of the ’nineties), costing the
co. only a wink over 31? p.c., the E., S. and
A. is obviously well equipped to earn a
high rate of return on its £3,000,000 of
share capital. Indeed, to pay a 124 p.c.
div. total funds at June 30 last (capital,
reserves and perpetual stocks combined) had
to turn in only 44 p.c. clear, whereas the
profit claimed was 6.3 p.c. on these funds.
On the share capital alone it was 17.7 p.c.
as against 19.7, 19.6, 23.1 and 25.9 p.c. back
to 1925. Still conditions arc such that ‘‘a
124 p.c. div. can hardly be expected for the
current term,” the chairman says. The
market, anticipating a cut, eased its bids for
the £5 shares paid to £3 from £7 to £5 ss.
over the last 12 months. The return at
the lower figure is 5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
The contraction of £58,527 in last year's
net earnings was due to a growth of £26,842
in taxation (£227,081) and a drop of £32J_66
in the admitted gross profit (£1,587,758),
which was written after providing for con-
tingencies, and the allowance is likely to
have been more than usual in the circum-
stances. Incidentally, until the last of the
old 41 p.c. deferred stocks was cleared off the
books a couple of years ago, portion of each
year’s net profit was used in buying up this
paper. In this and other ways no less than
£860,000 is known to have been whisked
away to inner reserves over the last decade,
mainly by writing down the book value of
premises.
The loss of income following the collapse
of prices for our staples and the stoppage
of overseas borrowing has sent capital
values toppling and lightened turnovers
generally, resulting in a wholesale deflation
of trading profits—the position has become
most acute in the primary industries —quick
growth in unemployment and a host of other
problems. Cries are heard that the banks
are responsible for this. Nothing is further
from the truth so far as the banks here are
concerned. Excluding the Bank of New
Zealand, the others,in the association have
increased their aggregate advances from 89.2
pc of their total deposits for the March
quarter of 1929 to 104 p.c. for the September
quarter of 1930, thus partly filling the gap
caused by the drop in prices, etc. I hey
drew upon liquids for the purpose.
The fact is that the various Governments,
by leaning so heavily as they have done
upon the banks, have gobbled up much of
the credit that ought to have been available
to see hard-pressed productive industries
through a difficult period of readjustment.
Now that deposits are shrinking the call for
the reduction of overdrafts can be expected
to grow louder. That is to say, we are m
for a period of very tight money, amongst
other things; and many traders may have
to work down their stocks and book debts
in order to reduce their liabilities, thus cur-
tailing their activities. The need for the
banks to tighten up on Government advances
i* obvious. The alternative would almost
certainly lead to a degree of inflation which
would progressively consume the working
capital of industry and thus bring about a
complete collapse.
The shortage of Australian funds in Lon-
don has created an acute position in the
exchange market, and a further increase in
the buying and selling rates on that centre
seems likely. Bank earnings from this
source will be lighter, the primary producer
will benefit, and importers, including im-
porters of essential raw materials, will
suffer.
To meet a contraction of £3,452,802 _ in
deposits and of £1,007,786 in the bills
figures, the E., S. and A. drew upon
liquids for £3,660,558 and reduced its
advances by £719,471 last year :
Liabilities.
1926. 1929. 1930.
Notes .. .. £1.128 £1,083 £1,062
Bills, etc. . . 2,393,680 2,891,325 1,883,539
Deposits at in-
terest . . 15,538,685 21,152,099 20,165,727
Free deposits. . 12,379,946 12,582,397 10,115,967
Total . . £30,313,439 £36,626,904 £32,166,295
Assets.
Liquids • • £14,947,252 £14,916,631 £11,256,073
Advances . . 21,542,691 29,587,339 28,867,868
Premises •. 762,684 758,641 735,798
Total . . £37,252,627 £45,262,611 £40,859,739
When the books closed advances were 95.3
p.c. of the deposits as against 78.7 p.c. two
years earlier. Liquids were 34.9 p.c. of the
total liabilities to the public compared with
40.7 p.c. at June 30. 1929; and the bank was
holding only £3 17s. Id. of the public s
money for every pound of its own, including
the debenture stock.
Queensland Probate Insurance Co.
Ordinary Life Department.
Excess
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Income. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Promoters’ shares, preliminary exes., etc. 26,385
1923.. 7,319 Nil 12,888 31,954
Added establishment account, £10,149.. 42,103
1924.. 8,434 600 8,530 42,799
Added establishment account, £9892.. 52,691
1925.. 15,036 19 13,924 1093 5.1,59 S
Added establishment account, £14,386.. 65,984
1926.. 22,027 3909 15,211 2907 63,077
Added establishment account, £3452.. 66,529
1927.. 27,333 1394 19,807 6132 60,397
Added establishment account, £lBO.. 60,577
Transfer from Accident Dept., £3000.. 57,577
1928.. 38,536 2451 28,872 7213 50,364
Added establishment account, £4997 . . 55,361
1929.. 43,153 3587 28,393 11,173 44,188
Forfeited shares £397 .. .. •• 43,791
1930.. 48,902 4897 33,172 10,833 32,958
This youngster—it set up in 1922 —is
struggling to develop a premium income
adequate to support £153,128 of share capi-
tal, of which £79,035 had been gobbled in
establishment, etc., charges at Sept. 80.
There are 25,890 fully-paid 10s. 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 562,701 10s. ords. called to ss.
7375 shares were forfeited during the year,
and the £397 paid up thereon was struck
off the establishment account, reducing it to
the figure stated.
Following changes in the control half a
dozen years ago the figures turned in the
right direction, but excessive competition,
which means high costs, amongst other
things, has kept progress in check. Whether
the excess of incomings over _ outgoings has
yet overtaken the growth in liabilities under
policies will not be known definitely until
after the close of next accounts, when tne
actuary makes his overhaul. The co.
specialises in probate insurance, a form of
policy-writing in which a high percentage of
renewals and early policy maturities can be
expected. And since probate premiums aie
usually a bit finer than the rates on other
classes of policies, the business has to be
written at low cost before the co. can
advance beyond the stage of mere solvency
to bonus-earning capacity. Divs. are no-
where in sight. . ■ ~
The surprising feature is that for the 12
months to Sept. 30 last the co. was able lo
put £102,305 more new business on the
books than for the previous term:
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Policies . . 325 894 1,159 1,473
Assuring . . £105,045 £501,073 £476,341 £578,646
"premiums 4’,121 13,488 12,436 16,214
R premiums.. 3,560 20,041 25,393 27,354
Exes, made off with 76.1 p.c. the net
premiums compared with 75, 86.1 and BJ.I
p.c. for the three preceding years. Assuming
that new business is 10 times more expen-
sive than old, the year’s first premiums
were gathered at a cost of 175 p.c. as against
197 p.c. five years ago. Thus three years
premiums have to be gathered befoie
anything worth mentioning can be put by
against the inevitable day when policies
become claims.
Assuming that the life fund covers the
liabilities under policies, or nearly so, there
is a satisfactory margin of security im-
policy-holders, whose protection is m this
form. - 1923 1929 1930
Government securities.. £13,681 £72,577 £63,334
Mortgages, etc. • • -
Loans on policies .. 9^473
Book debts .. •• 6,751 14,844 25,473
Cash, etc 1-746 5,126 5,448
Equipment, etc. .. 3,181 7,745 8,19 a
Freeholds • • • • ~ “00 9,2
Total tangible assets .. £25,359 £116,454 £126,805
Sundry creditors . . 2,932 1,973 0,730
Net tangible assets .. £22,427 £114,481 £l 2^’ f
Life fund . • • • Nil 30,244 46,077
Paid capital .. .. 54,326 153,520 153,123
In addition they could see £141,172 of un-
called capital at Sept. 30. The grease
book debts practically absorbed last year a
surplus. Government securities were draw
upon to buy a floor m the Q.I -I. buildi
Brisbane, on the owner-tenant priucipie.
In the accident branch, which .includes
a small fire business, things have move
in this way :
Accident Department.
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Surplus, serves
1923.. 163 10 98 55 5o
1924.. 119 33 64 22 ™
1.925. . 96 15 53 28 10^
1926.. 1,236 HI 306 819
ir»o'7 oco i 097 1021 3200 41-y
1927.. 5,85 d - LU * J y 1109
Written off establishment account, £3OOO. . i -
1928.. 11,528 4,371 3894 3263 4392
1929.. 25,980 19,712 Soil
1930.. 16,441 17,033 3652 4244 905
Unemployment and lighter pay-sheets were
mainly responsible for the slip in income.
The loss reduced the net result of the last
eight years’ operations to a net profit ot
£3905.
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
,—Dividends —, Nomi-
jjet Oi'ds. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves. serves.
1923.. 50,997 60,000 32,271 343,875
1924.. 170,131 81,877 60,000 28,204 372,129
1925.. 243,554 97,400 60,000 86,156 408,283
Loss on Grenfell-street plant, £321,737 136,546
1926.. 307,208 119,482 60,000 127.726 264,-.-,
1927.. 338,879 134,952 60,000 143,927 408,199
1928.. 320,260 155,857 60,000 104,403 512.602
1929.. 366,261 166,406 60,000 139,800 602,407
Written off plant, £99,398 • • •• 503,009
1930. . 344,518 172,500 60,000 112,018 665,077
♦lncludes provision for debenture sinking fund.
The stoppage on the northern N. S. Wales
coalfields put an extra £35,000 on to this
co.’s coal bill over the last couple of years.
But £15,700 of it was recovered from the
consumer, so, despite a shrinkage oi bj p.c-
in the fiumber of Kelvins sold last yeai,
gross revenue was only £5134 lighter:
1922. 1929. 1930.
Gross revenue .. . . £372,466 £839,156 £834,022
Operating exes. & taxes 215,924 388,431 389,809
Net revenue .. • * £156,542 £450,725 £444,213
There was little change in exes. But after
deducting the debenture interest (±94,UdIL
which was £16,203 heavier, striking ±B4O-.
off the cost of new debenture issues and making
minor adjustments there was a slip ot
£21,743 in the final figure (£344.518). It
includes a net addition of ±30,550 to the
debenture sinking funds ; still, allowing for
this, it was comfortably in excess ot the
usual div. requirements.
Coal supplies from Newcastle have been
renewed at “a substantial reduction m
price, the chairman says. Part of the sav-
ings in this respect will be offset by increased
taxation, by the extra cost of remitting
money to London, where much of the deben-
ture stock is held, and possibly by a small
rise in production costs per unit it sales tall
sharply. Nevertheless, now that lowering
the cost of living has become a public neces-
sity, the 12 p.c. div. on the halt-million ot
ord. capital attracts attention. Most of the
scrip, however, was issued at a premium,
which makes the 12 p.c. worth 9i to the major-
ity of shareholders. If the div. was reduced
to 9 p.c.,, the saving would amount to
only l-20d. per Kelvin sold last year, when
the average rate of interest and dividend
paid by the co. on its debenture (±1,689,891 ).
preference (£2,500,000) and ordinary capi-
tal combined was 6.9 p.c., which is not exces-
sive. Excluding sinking fund contributions,
but including debenture interest, the year s
net result was 8.7 p.c. on the combined capi-
The improved financial results which have
followed the extension of the co.’s mams
have been due largely to increased efficiency
of the plant. Old machines are constantly
being scrapped and modern ones installed.
Last year two 5000-k.w. generators were
sold in order to make, room for new ones,
bought in England. Since the board makes
no specific provision for depreciation, reserves
amounting to £99,398 were rubbed out to cover
the loss on the sale; they were similarly
bitten into for no less than £321, iol
five years ago. Hence reserves are
described as nominal in the table, and tor
that reason the “Wild Cat’ will not swear
that the profit figures are all they look
eit More than half the amount received from
the issue of £400,000 worth oL new deben-
ture stock during the year (£150,000 of it
was taken up in London at p.c. at £9-_ ,
was held in cash when the books closed .
1922. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . £1,250, 000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
530,130 1,335.6,1 M5.,801
Other liabilities . . 125,155 81,514 111,560
‘•SBK ‘illilo
Rook debts . . 54,418 146,188 165,970
Cash & investments 83,708 170,133 406,732
The year’s outlay on the main undertaking
was £256,157, of which £99,398 was written
off, leaving the net growth m book value at
£156,758. The current year’s capital expen-
diture is to be confined to new services, etc,
and no new share or debenture issue is con-
templated.
To reduce clerical work in connection
with scrip transfers, the various classes of
shares were recently converted into stock,
carrying exactly the same risrlits as the shares.
At August 31 each pound of pref. capital
had a net tangible backing of 40s. 10d., mostly
in plant, and the year’s profit was approxi-
mately twice the annual div. require-
ments. At current prices they return the
investor from 64 p.c. to 7 p.c. Uncertain
about the 12 p.c, div., the market has short-
ened its bid for the ords. from 40s. to 26s.
over the last 12 months. At the lower figure
the return would be 7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. The backing for the ords. and pre-
ferred ords. is 30s. 7d. in net tangibles.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 15,721 10 p.c. = 12,500 3,221 32,678
1921.. 13,089 8 „ ,, 10,000 3,089 35,767
1922.. 18,183 12 „ ,,16,983 1,200 36,967
1923.. 24.155 12J „ ,,18,750 5,405 42,372
1924.. 26,228 15 ,, ,, 23,853 2,375 44,747
1925.. 36,620 174 „ „ 33,162 3,458 48,205
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 . . 23,205
1926.. 44',813 174 p.c. = 39,404 5,409 28,614
1927.. 54,548 174 „ ,,46,294 8,254 36,868
1928.. 29,972 10 „ „ 29,063 909 37,777
1929.. 51,511 124 „ ,, 39,488 12,023 49,800
1930.. 34,027 74 „ ,,25,397 8,630 58,430
To provide for further expansion this very
successful Victorian-controlled manufac-
turer of canned-foods and condiments got in
another £25,000 of share capital early in the
last term, raising the total to £350.000. But
the contraction in spending checked the
growth in turnover which was expected to
follow on the heels of import prohibitions
and tariff increases. Also unequal competi-
tion from Government-subsidised factories,
which are run at a loss, chewed into earn-
ings, as it did a couple of years ago.
Thus for the second time since the slump
of 1921 the growth of the figures has been
checked. This next comparison shows what
has happened: —
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1913 .. £36,848 £21,832 £2,293
1915 . . 44,164 28,601 2,246
1920 .. 65,811 44,256 5,833
1926 .. 147,391 90,437 12,311
1927 .. 173,464 105,773 13,176
1928 .. 150,044 107,619 12,544
1929 . . 180,982 114,990 14,625
1930 . . 148,787 110,194 10,919
Moreover, the demands of the taxgatlierer
made exes, difficult to restrain ; but £3706
less was struck oft for depreciation, so, after
£6353 had been dropped from somewhere
into general reserves (now £44,274), the net
result was a satisfactory 10 p.c. on average
capital compared with 16.3, 10.3, 20.6 and
19.9 p.c. back to 1926.
The policy has been to distribute profits
as they were earned, so five points were
knocked off the div,, reducing it to 74 p.c.
The co. lias not paid less than that since
it set up 20 years ago, when it took over
a proprietary of the same name for £100,000
(in scrip), including something for good-
will. The intangible and the fixed assets are
still lumped in one untidy entry; hence the
nominal label on the reserves in the table.
The co.’s success has been due largely
to the support of Moran and Cato, an ener-
getic firm of inter-State retailers, and the
connection should mean much in regard to
the future. Earnings, however, are likely
to be on a lower scale than of recent years ;
results will largely depend upon the course
of competition and of overhead.
While additions to fixed assets have been
financed mainly by the introduction of fresh
share capital, the co. has lately gone a bit
into debt in order to carry heavier stocks
and book debts, a s the next table shows
1921. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Capital . . £125,000 £250,000 £325,000 £350,000
Creditors, . '
deposits, etc. 64,105 53,905 102,341 150,187
Property, plant „„„
and goodwill 79,958 153,067 219,314 241,039
Stock . . . . 92,839 87,987 198,379 261,088
Debtors and „„„
■ bills . . 55,813 100,783 98,771 76,880
Cash, invest- „ . „
ments, etc.. . 6,263 30,086 166 5,007
The falling off in sales last year is reflected
in the growth of £62,709 in the stock figures,
a drop of £21,891 in debtors’ balances and
the addition of £47,846 to the amount com-
ing to various creditors. Still the unorp or
less liquid surplus (£192,788, including
stocks) was only £2187 lighter than at the
previous balance. Since the books closed
stocks have been worked dotvn and the
debt reduced. Plant is thoroughly efficient,
but it needs to be kept fully employed to
earn the best results.
The pound shares, which fetched 52s. on
the market three years ago, are now priced
at 23s The return at the lower figure is
6.5 p.c! on a 74 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to 23s. 4d. in net tangibles.
(Continued on page 16.)


J)
-y
m.
m
m
m
;t
mm
feft
mm
&
% urn
m
♦>*•<:**
Godfrey Phillips (Australia)
Proprietary ltd., successors
to Godfrey Phillips ltd.,England
are in possession of the exact
formulae by which Army Club,
Greys and Be Uesihe have
a! may sheen made ~,,,,,,
Both firms unconditionally
guarantee that the original
Imported English quality, the
perfect blending of fine
Virginia tobaccos will be
steadfastly maintained at
the new prices /// ///// // I ft
IDhkfieoer blend you prefer,
now 9 for for ft
Australia
J¥OW
Produces
the finest
Cigarettes
HERE
r
r ■
rr:
r~-
w**m
fis
Ms
'iTli*i 11: unii miii 1111111
m.
m
HI
r
mm
m
£3l
■■■? *
: : ••''• i
mm
if;
j: i: : -.
sfe
r
=rrr
jr*f~ r
i i
p'Sfe
,\W.N
s 1
m
iM
vTr- ...
!¥Sx
m, 3*
m*
1
1


Watch Your
Step J
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
JANUARY NUMBER NOW
ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Because Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-corrosive, it
gives longer, more economical and equally efficient
service, when compared with any other type of
conduit. These facts —when considered with its initial
low cost and ease and cheapness of handling and
laying—provide the reason why Pioneer Wood Pipe
is to-day recognised as the ideal conduit for water
supply or any undertaking calling for the use of
piping. Fullest particulars on request to the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Foots-
eray, Victoria. — Advt.
Tilling-Stevens Motors, Ltd.
Maidstone, England.
24. 3. 5/6-TON GEAR-DRIVEN 30 PASSENGER “EXPRESS”
2 ’ * ' MOTOR CHASSIS.
Specially Suitable for Transportation of Cattle, Sheep, Horses, etc.
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES:—
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-I2 Parramattaßoad.Camperdown, Sydney
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital ar.d Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass't Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Truth ' and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
r — -Dividends ,
T f Prefs.—.
June, Profits. 9 p.c. 8 p.e. Ords. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1926 4‘^ 26 i’ 645 4616 p - c ' =15 > 938 73,375
prelim, exes., £2227 .. .. 75,602
1927 ;'n iO ,’ 216 6790 464 12$ p.c. =21,250 63,850
Added prelim, exes., £9O .. 63 940
1.928. » 44 * HO 7516 6985 12$ p.c. =22,770 59*571
Establishment exes., £9466 .. .. 69 037
1929 * • 63,272 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 72,765
' ded establishment account, £lOBl .. 73,846
1930.. 26,298 9000 8000 5 p.c. = 10,000 74,548
*Nine months.
Tile Australian portion of the newspaper
business carried on ffrst by John Norton and
then by John’s trustees was taken over by
the present co. as from Sept. 30, 1925; the
Maoriland business was later sold to a sepa-
rate co. "Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.,
paid £170,000 in ords. and £50,000 in cash
U s whack of the undertaking, including
x.75,(T00 for goodwill. The public put up
£75,000 in 9 p.e. cum, prefs. to finance the
cash payment to the vendor.
The prospectus certified to average profits
of £30„T55 p.a. for the four years to 1925;
with the help of thfe new capital, better
results were shown during the new co.’s
first three years. Then extensive additions
were made to plant at Sydney headquarters
and branch offices in the capital cities, and
another 25,000 9 p.c. prefs., 29,993 ords.
and 100,000 8 p.c. 2nd prefs. were issued in
1927. That advanced paid capital to its
present figure—£4oo,ooo.
Over the last couple of years profits have
been slipping. Other papers have trespassed
on what was originally “Truth’s” field, and
though one of these in particular did no good
for itself, it probably collared some of
“Truth’s” circulation. In addition, the cost
of removal to new premises, special deprecia-
tion of plant, loss on the sale df the co.’s
former Brisbane property, and more recently
the slump in advertising have affected earn-
ings. Pm of the losses were capitalised
£94(36 in 1929 and a further £lOBl in the
last ferm.
Last ' year’s net earnings, including
returns from the “Sportsman,” inter-
state editions, rents, etc., were £11,538
lower at £36,639. That was before provid-
ing for taxation and other adjustments; the
final result (£26,298) was £6974 lighter than
in 1929. Over the last two years the slip
amounts to £14,842. Last year’s effort was
enly 4.6 p.c. on average ord. capital com-
pared with 8.1, 15 and 19.4 p.c. back to
1927. The ord. distribution was further
reduced to 5 p.c. Those figures clearly show
the uncertain value of newspaper good-
will and the difficulty of forecasting future
earnings.
Over the last two years total dividends
have been in excess of disclosed net earnings.
At last balance there was an excess of £2666
of liabilities over liquids (not including in-
vestments) as against a liquid surplus of
£3073 at the end of the previous term: —
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Pref. capital.. £75,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord. capital.. 170,007 200,000 200,000 200,000
Mortgage .. 42,746
Other liabilities 14,320 10,809 100,844 41,191
Freeholds, etc. 41,567 131,520 171,853 168,845
Plant, etc. . . 85,367 156,620 180,059 176,397
Investments .. —•- 7,500
Stocks . . 25,407 27,2*89 47,405 22,398
Debtors . . 35,527 42,977 53,930 54,485
Cash, etc. .. 22,723 30,585 3,582 4,408
Last year the book value of fixed assets showed
a drop of £6670; whether that all represents
writings off is not clear—some of the pro-
perty may have been disposed of. A new
item —investments (£7500) —appears in the
latest sheet. Stocks (£22,398) were down
£25,007. Since the close of accounts in-
creased duty, primage and exchange rates
have added to the cost of paper supplies.
The ords. are all held privately. The first
prefs. are backed by £3 ss. Id. in net tan-
gibles, and the seconds by £2 ss. Id. Last
year’s earnings were nearly three times the
requirements of the firsts, and the seconds
were covered twice over. The former are
priced around par; for the seconds 19s. was
recently asked, without attracting buyers.
Exchange
On Monday last the Bank, of N. S. Wales
took the bit in its teeth and lifted its buying
rate for telegraphic transfers on London to
£ll5 Australian for each £lOO in London.
At the same time its selling rate was raised
to £ll5 7s. 6d. Australian for each £lOO re-
quired in London. This is the increase
referred to as likely in the review of the E.,
S. and A. Bank’s accounts.
No doubt the Wales was actuated by a
desire to help many of its clients —more
than half its £60,000,000-odd of advances at
Sept. 30 were in connection with primary
industries. The raising of the rates, how-
ever, will greatly increase the cost of the
overseas debt interest payments, and will
not make the funding of over £45,000,000 of
floating debt in London any easier. It will
also indiscriminatingly increase the cost
of importing, so importers of essential raw
materials will be hit equally with traders in
luxury lines. More may be heard of the
matter when all the members of the asso-
ciated banks meet in a day or two.
Australian Sinking Funds
(,Transferred from, the Service Department.)
Mr. Hogan, Premier of Vic., refers to “the
establishment of a sinking fund which icill
redeem in 58 years the whole of the Gom-
monwealth and State debts existing at June,
1927.” Was this fund established? What
has it done? — S. H. G.
The National Debt Sinking Fund was
created in 1928.
Under a Federal Act of that year and
subsequent Acts the Treasurer is required to
pay in various moneys for the extinction of
Commonwealth debt; among others, li mil-
lion (approximately $ p.c. of the unrecover-
able debt at June 30, ’23) ; | p.c. of the net
debt created ; half of the net profits of the
Commonwealth Bank; and reparations
money received from Germany.
For the redemption of States’ debts, under
the Financial Agreement Validation Act
(1929), various payments have to be made
into the same fund, including these: For
58 years from l/7/’27, on the net debt of
each State as at June 30, 1927, ss. p.c. p.a.
from State revenue, 2s. 6d. p.c. p.a. from Com-
monwealth revenue. For 53 years on each
loan raised after l/7/’27 (other, of course,
than conversion loans), ss. p.c. p.a. out of
State revenue and ss. p.c. p.a. out of Com-
monwealth revenue.
Towards the extinction of Commonwealth
debt, to 30/6/’3O, 32 millions had been
received; and 14 millions had been redeemed
from revenue direct; total, 46 millions.
Towards extinction of State debts nearly
8 millions were applied from 1925 onwards;
in the earlier years the contributions were
very small, but they amounted to £3,292,037
in the year 1929-30.
The money is used either to purchase Gov-
ernment stock or to repay debt as it
matures ; a couple of millions were applied
when a recent loan fell due, thus reducing
to 2S millions the sum then asked for from
the public. But it has to be remembered
that the debt is not actually reduced at all
if there is a revenue deficit equal to or in
excess of the sinking fund contribution.
Dr. Woolnough, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s geological adviser, has been
making a tour of the oilfields of the U.S,A.
and part of S. America, and has formed two
opinions: first, that “there is every reason
for optimism as to the oil search in this
country,” if it is done properly ; second, that
in the oil search “Australian technique is
far behind that regarded as current practice
in the U.S.A.” In his very brief preliminary
report he produces, of course, no evidence in
support; but he cites two very heartening
facts: (1) that Venezuela, a few years ago
bankrupt, discovered oil in commercial quan-
tities and to-day is “one of the very few
prosperous countries in the world”; (2)
Argentina, having discovered a domestic
supply, “pays less than half the price for
pietrol demanded of us.” The latter fact —
assuming it to be a fact—while it should
stimulate search for flowing oil, which may
or may not exist, cert’ainly ought to encourage
the exploitation of the oil shales, about
whose existence in large quantities there is
no shadow of doubt whatever.
* * :Jc *
Following successful tests of the Murdoch
copper extraction process, carried out at the
Chillagoe State smelters, the Queensland
Government has granted a subsidy on a £ for
£ basis up to £3OOO to Cloncurry Copper,
Ltd. The co., which holds the Queensland
rtghts to the process, recently took over the
old Vulcan mine, near Cloncurry. The
deposit, which outcrops, carries a light over-
burden, and more than quarter of a million
tons of ore, assaying 5 p.c. copper, is avail-
able for open cutting. Plant capable of
treating 3000 tons of copper per annum is
being installed, and is scheduled to begin
work next month. All-in costs are put at
£39 per ton.
Treatment will consist of dry-crushing the
stone to -|in. or iin. mesh, then leaching
it with lime, sulphur and salt solution in
concrete vats, the copper being precipitated
by the addition of milk of lime. In this way
it is claimed that 97 p.c. of the copper (90
p.c. pure) is extracted in 24 hours. The
London spot price for the standard metal is
now £45 18s. 9d., and, of course, there is
the premium in the exchange market, which
was pushed up to £l5 7s. 6d. p.c. by the Bank
of N. S. Wales on Monday last. The results
obtained by the co. will be watched with
interest.
* * *
Tanami Gold Mines gave a two years’
option to London, expecting that the pro-
perty would he developed. The optionees
issued the prospectus of a £250,000 company
to work the property, but the financial situa-
tion in London hung the matter up, as it
did in this country when certain Australian
interests, including the Baillieu-Robinson
group, were asked to take over the option.
The mine was then worked on tribute, and
has been thus able to earn enough to keep
the wheels moving. The mine supply of i
water is now assured. Crushing is in pro-
gress, the agreement being that the tributors
pay the co. p.e. of the gold won, free of
expense or charge. This should enable
Tanami to carry on until a working co. can
be formed, or the tributors hand back the
mine.
Ms * * *
The annual summary of the. N. S. Wales
Under-Secretary for Mines shows that the
State’s coal production for 1930 is expected
t'o be 600,000 tons less than in 1929. The
Broken Hill mines produced within 2000
tons of the ore raised during the previous
year. Over 3000 prospectors took advantage
of the Weaver scheme ; nothing in the way
of large finds was reported, but many of the
parties managed to make better than tucker,
and a few did well. Tin mining was worst
hit of all, most of the New England dredges
having shut down.
* * t'fi *
The latest of the many gold finds which
have cropped up in N.S.W. since the hard
times revived prospecting is reported from
Splitters’ Creek, outside Tumut, which is sur-
rounded by famous old-time alluvial and
reefing fields. The find was made by the
Putland Bros., who have a shaft down some
60ft. The reef is described as two feet thick
and carrying a strong vein of almost pure
gold, which sounds unusual. However, the
brethren have already banked some £5OO of
good specimen stuff in Tumut, while other
parties have been striking rich leaders closer
to the surface, with occasional slugs. A
small rush has set in, but it is probable that
the deposits are only a localised patch, passed
over in the days when all the district was
gone over with a fine toothcomb.
:]:
Victorian Minister of Mines J. P. Jones
has issued a warning against the shepherd-
ing of leases and lease applications on the
Lakes Entrance oilfield, where 95 oilmining
leases have been granted and 322 applica-
tions lodged for leases. Nineteen holes have
been sunk; gas or oil was proved in 15
of them. Valuable exploratory work is being
done, and dona fide prospecting companies
are being helped by the Mines Department.
* M: * *
Westralian mineowners intend to get all
they can out of the gold bonus and premium
on gold. Wiluna, which had borrowed money
from the Golden Horseshoe, is raising addi-
tional capital to extend its treatment mill.
Associated Northern is getting ready to
resume operations at Ora Banda. Lake
View and Star is installing an oil flotation
plant, capable of dealing with 30,000 tons
a month. Princess Royal is preparing to put
the Royal Plush at Westonia on the pro-
ducing list. Mutooroo Junction has taken a
new thing near Burracoppin on appro., and
Empire Extended is sending a prospecting
party to look at some country north of
Wiluna. Other cos., large and small, are
inclined to gfve an old mine here and there
a trial, and a number of areas have been
reserved on various fields in the hope of
forming one big London corporation to
handle the lot.
* * -e *
Attempts to liquidate or to transform the
co. into a mining and investment trust
having failed, Associated Northern Blocks,
Ltd. (W.A.), will carry on as formerly.
The gold bonus will probably mean that a
vigorous effort will be made to work the
co.’s Ora Banda property.
M-- * M= *
A report that the School of Mines was to
have its activities curtailed, and be brought
under the direction o-f the Education De-
partment, caused a hullabaloo in Kalgoorlie
the other day. But the excitement was
allayed by the assurance of Minister for
Mines Jack Scaddan that any change con-
templated would not impair the efficiency
of the school. Since its inception in 1901
it has turned out many mining men of ex-
ceptional ability, a number of whom hold
big jobs in other parts of the world.
Ms M= * *
The Tasmanian Government has granted
a loan of £3500 to the Magnet silver-mine
on the north-west coast. The Magnet has been
a big producer of silver, but since the col-
lapse of the price for the metal tributors
have been carrying on. It is now proposed
to instal another electrical plant.
if * * *
Though the Tin Producers’ Association has
succeeded in preventing a quantity of
tin from reaching the market, thus probably
making the fall in price more gradual, it
has failed to achieve its main object, and
production continues in excess of consump-
tion. It will have to be reduced to well
below the level of consumption, and any
scheme of curtailment must be drastic,
says F. Main, who is a director of
several large Anglo-M'alayan tin-dredging
concerns. He calculates that if the Chinese
are exempt from the scheme, as heretofore,
the remaining producers would have to cur-
tail tlieir 1929 output figures by at least 50
p c during 1931 to rectify the position within
-jV months. If the Chinese are brought
into the scheme, which would mean Govern-
ment control, all would have to cut their
1929 figures by 30 p.c. Rather than curtail
to this extent many producers will close down
until the price of the metal enables them to
reopen.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
The Batik of N. S. Wales, it is announced,
has £6,316,927 of reserves. What are they?
How could I assure myself of their existence
and value f — B3oa.
Reserves are built up chiefly in two ways:
(1) by holding on to some of the current
profits (that is, not paying away all the
profit made in the term for which the divi-
dend is paid) ; and (2) by putting by the
premium sometimes charged on new issues
of shares. Rarely, however, are these re-
serves held separate: nearly always they
are used in the business, and the only way
you could assure yourself that the B.N.S.W.
has the reserves it claims would be by valu-
ing all its assets everywhere, then deducting
its liabilities to outsiders (depositors, etc.)
and the amount of its share capital. The
surplus would be its true reserves.
What is virgin platina? Value per ounce,
and ivhere could I buy it? What is virgin
gold?— B37.
Virgin platina (more commonly called
platinum) is the metal found in the alluvial
state, separated from its matrix. Present
value about £5 ss. to £5 10s. per ounce.
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney,
deals in it. Virgin gold, similarly, is gold
found in alluvial.
A goldsceker informs me that he has dis-
covered gold on a freehold property of mine
in Victoria, and that he intends to open a
mine there. What are my rights and what
steps should I take to protect my interests? —
828.
You are entitled to compensation for
any damage done; the amount of such com-
pensation is usually agreed upon mutually.
If the parties are unable to come to terms,
the warden may fix what sum shall be paid.
Payment made, the miner may go ahead. He
should, of course, hold a mining title ; that is
to say, either a miner’s right claim registered
under the mining bylaws or a lease issued
under the Mines Act, 1928.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
1.X.L.: It’s a good, honest venture that
thoroughly deserves success. Whether it will succeed
depends largely on management, which has yet to
prove itself... .A. T.L.: Emphatically a gamble....
Dux: Don’t know it; it was never a listed stock.
Better write to the liquidator.
* * * *


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
THE VICTIM OF HABIT.
“Mr. Scullin is highly respected in the movement, but if he persists in defying the demands of the Caucus, he will immediately be confronted with a move to
depose him from his position.”
MATE: “There’s nothing personal about this, Cap. It’s just a way we have in the movement.”
Australian Tobacco Prospects
It is not altogether easy to get a definite
verdict on the quality of Australian-°rown
tobacco. One group of experts says R is
so impregnated with eucalyptus from the
soil that it is inevitably low-grade • another
contends that it is a first-class weed,’and only
prejudice bars a wider use. Still another
says that, while inferior in itself, it is use-
ful for blending. An official report on the
tobacco grown about Mareeba in the hills
behind Cairns in North Queensland is the
latest addition to the list. This says that
the stuff, while different from American
leaf and that grown elsewhere in Australia,
is mild and agreeable’’ and may be found
useful in blending with other Australian
and American leaf. That fat-headed plati-
tude induces a question a s to whether
Australia should not begin to grow her own
individual tobaccos and namS them after
the districts they are grown in, as is the case
- hl
Madras, Manila, Sumatra and Cuba, to take
! 0 »r far-apart instances. Virginian tobacco
haS ■ from
universal Virrininn tvno t p ing , as ,, a
i th - Ugh W°
have been fiSo. d H th f r R • We
universal iHl* } S
cnnntrv - tie
Wp roSf in!? o Ll oZ i en ’i, a dlfferin s'
\ merinon t r, k e £ e ’, to< b to
wramiPrVffion °/ t! 16 . Cl #
, L fn f n 1 4 us ‘ ralia ’ l ud S ed
need + bo e( f ua -f bo the best Sumatra,
son S at (N.Q.) years
’ and the seed came from the mountains
I apua, where type still persists in spite
or introduced trade.
Pacific Islands Trade
The collapse of the copra market has hit
the Pacific Islands heavily. In the Solo-
mons, where copra is practically the only
product, many of the planters have been
ruined and the traders are in much the same
ease. Papua, which combines copra and
rubber production, has been hit with both
barrels, for the state of the market for
rubber is worse than that for copra. As far
as the Solomons go, the burden has been
lightened a little by the lifting of the 12s. 6d.
per ton export tax collected bv the Adminis-
tration of the Western Pacific. Little in
the way of development goes on in the Solo-
mons, but in Papua, where a fairly extensive
programme of road making, public works
and other utilities has been carried on for
years, everything of that sort has been
hung up until better times. Only in New
Guinea, developed by the Germans years ago
with the aid of a huge Government subsidy,
is there any sign of prosperity, and most of
this can be laid to the credit of the goldfields,
It is interesting to note that the copra slump
has been debited to the recent tremendous
output of whale oil made possible by modern
whaling methods. It was cocoanut oil which
originally pushed the old-fashioned whaling
industry off the commercial map. Now the
latter’s turn has come again.
q j | j' l . >pc Pall
Record Long-d,stance Phone Call
„. Wha t is claimed to be the record long-
instance telephone call for business purposes
occurred recently when W. R. Campbell,
president of the Ford Co., in Canada, spoke
W II C. ..French general manager of the
lord Co. in Australia, at Geelong (Vic.),
The voices were carried a total distance of
6>B2( j + mi !f'“. laa ? telephone from
Canada to New York City, by Beam radio to
the north of Scotland, by land 'phone to
London > by Beam radio to Sydney, and by
l and wire to Geelong. It was 9.15 Thursday
morning in Canada when the call was made;
at _ Geelong it was already 12.15 a.m. on
Friday.
An operator in New York who listened to
Mr. Campbell’s voice coming back from Gee-
long, a total distance of approximately
33,000 miles, reported that it was “clear as
n bell.”
Fixing Prices of Proprietary Lines
T Fannie”* “T-irl-nhurra” rR
a/12/’3O) N that the J biS-
7eg7is A manufactureand that the mfice
ess , s - manutactuie, and tnat tnc price
whlch the mei ; ehaat sells the goods
?? Wh ”°
“St° he should dictate?” The argument ts
n „ nmmnn nrip T know • but it is all wrona-
I >istdbiitron is’iust as Tmnortant to the manu-
“as
important, since without distribution there
could be no manufacturing), and any method
which promises either to improve or to injure
distribution must be his concern,
That price-cutting competition might de-
velop in motor tyres if restrictions were
removed is not necessarily an indication that
the discounts are too great. It might merely
be another case of cut-throat competition, the
-weaker distributors going to the wall, with
attendant train of failures and bad debts,
one very serious cost of distribution so fre-
quently overlooked and usually much higher
j n trades where unrestricted price competi-
tion holds sway.
There are plenty of inefficient traders,
large and small, but the small trader is not
necessarily less efficient than his larger neigh-
bor. Several years of observation have con-
vinced me that the average margin of gross
Profit obtained by the small trader is usu
ally smaller than that of the larger store, and
bis overhead is also less. What passes for
efficiency in large emporiums is frequently
aggressiveness and push,
Price differentiation for similar-quantity
purchases cannot be justified on ethical
grounds, although it undoubtedly exists to
a large extent.
It ls a^so ver y questionable if the very
great differences in price for quantity pur-
chases are justifiable In a modern factory
where goods are regularly produced in quail-
titles, the difference in cost of handling a
small or large order is very small; certainly
ti°t anything like the. amount represented by
the reduction in price, so that the small
tinder or his customers really pay for the
nu’gc trader s bargains.
Cut-price proprietary lines are frequently
l j sed a s baits to sell more profitable goods,
A .manufacturer may well object to his lines
b ® n l g . as . e 4 , F . .I s Purpose since other
traders interest is lost once a line has been
111 r•. v , , ~
~ */ - 1C 1S to P ro P°riy served, wide
distribution is necessary, and it is probable
that this can be better obtained by the
maintenance of a reasonable price, so that
the buyer may always know what he or she
will have to pay, which is one of the surest
ways to build public confidence
Incidentally, I notice that Thf Rttttftin
has its price printed on the co 4 appa-
: ready an attempt at price maintenance.
Taxing the Inventor
“G.A.U.”: The previous Federal Govern-
ment introduced a bill for the purpose of
taxing applicants for patents and patentees
generally. The bill was detected in time, and,
faced with obstruction at the end of a ses-
sion, the Government withdrew it.
The Patent and Trade-mark offices have
always been under one administration. The
late Government turned to the Trade-marks
office and nearly doubled the fees payable,
upon applications for trade-mark registration.
As this could be done by regulation, no Par-
liamentary bill was necessary. The new
scale of trade-mark fees was applied, without
notice, to pending, as well as new applications.
The increased revenue was expected to be
sufficient to cover deficits in both the patent
and trade-mark offices.
It was well recognised at the time that
the late Government, notwithstanding the
trade-mark increases, was still determined to
tax patentees if it could possibly do so. The
present Government has, in effect, not only
revived the frustrated effort of its predecessor
but has forced a bill through three readings
in both Houses of Parliament in one week.
The bill is to take effect on a date to
be proclaimed, and provides for increasing
the Government filing fee upon a complete
application for patent from fl to £3 and for
a new filing fee of £2 upon a complete
specification filed subsequent to a nrovisional
specification. The Government acceptance fee,
£2, and sealing fee, £5, remain unchanged.
The total Government fees for obtaining a
patent will therefore be £lO instead of £B. In
Britain these fees amount to £5.
At present a tax of £5, called a renewal
fee, is payable at the end of the seventh
year of an Australian patent, which lapses
unless the tax is paid. The new taxation
will commence at the end of the fifth year
and will be spread out over the balance of
the term of the patent. If a patentee
manages to maintain his patent for its full
term, under the new taxation he will pay
£3B 10s. in annuities, in addition to the
initial £lO, being an increase of £33 10s. in
taxes and an extra £2 initial fee.
The reasons given in Parliament for the
increased fees are the cost of examining prior
patent specifications by departmental exam-
iners. The departmental search gives no in-
dication of the validity of a patent and is
irrelevant in regard to infringement. Several
industrial countries do not search prior
patents, France for example.
The Patent Office is almost as important
to the nation as a public library. The classi-
fied files of printed patent specifications in
its own library and in public libraries are
constantly consulted, and provide a valuable
addition to the technical knowledge of the
country not otherwise obtainable. Money
spent in this direction is well spent, but it
is wholly unfair to make the inventor pay the
bill, and it is equally foolish to curtail by
high fees the number of inventions, given to
the public.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
It is claimed that England has now more
money (£2,000,000,000') in its hanks than
it ever had before. How do you reconcile
this fact with prevailing financial depres-
sion, poverty and unemployment? —B6o.
Here again we have that vague and mis-
leading word “money”—there is “more
money than ever there was.” The total of
deposits, capital, reserves and all other items
would, it is true, amount to not far short.of
2000 millions. But that is not money. The
“Times” Trade Review of the banking year
(28/6/’3O) showed that cash in hand of 10
of the great London clearing banks as at
the end of April was 190 millions, which with
one exception was the smallest total. for
many years. Colossal deposits don’t indi-
cate prosperity; more often they indicate
boom conditions and grossly inflated values,
the precursor of a smash. In Australia, the
banks’ deposits and other liabilities to the
public ran up from 127 millions in 1886 to
175 millions early in 1891. But the increase
wasn’t money; it was only froth, and most
of it was presently blown away.
£48,000 recently was added to Q’land’s
interest bill because of a rise in exchange.
Who will gather this nice plum? . Can any
portion of it be recovered by taxation? —B7o.
It is not necessarily a plum at all. Our
£ isn’t a real £ any longer; and in order to
buy real £’s to pay overseas interest, we had
to hand out an extra 48,000 of our £’s. The
overseas bondholder didn’t gain at all; he
got only what we had contracted to pay.
The people who may have gained are those
who produced goods in Australia for sale
abroad, and find that for their £lOO in Lon-
don they get about £ll5 in Australia, the
Australian £ being, as we have said, now
worth' less than a £ English. But whether
and to what extent this producer actually
benefits depends on several things: (1)
Whether the actual shipper gives him the
advantage of the premium on exchange,
(2) whether the producer pays more in
Australian money for the things he has to
buy (the Australian £ being worth less than
it was, as we have seen) ; (3) whether Gov-
ernments are not taking more from him than
he gains, in order to counterbalance other
people’s losses —takes it in the shape of
unemployment relief taxes, for example.
Ordinarily the creditor suffers and the
debtor gains by inflation (and this high
premium on exchange is one sign of infla-
tion) ; but there is always liable to be some-
body standing behind the debtor and taking
liis gains from him. The somebody is, ot
course, usually the Government.
# ❖ * ❖
The Hardtmuths, who make the Koh-i-
-noor lead pencils, had an interesting relic
in their hands lately. Thirty years ago the
Arctic explorer Andree was lost, and the
frozen north kept the secret of what became
of him until the other day. Then his body
was found, thoroughly well-preserved in its
cold storage, and alongside it the diary
which he had .tried to keep going till the
very end and the H’ardtmuth pencil with
which he had written it. The writing, by
the way, was still decipherable.
* * * *
“Bullionist”: It has been estimated that
since 1900, out of a total world-production
of £2,248,000,000 worth of gold, India swal-
lowed up £355,000,000 worth. The world s
known store of gold, which includes the
reserves of Indian banks, amounts (I must
admit this is a very sketchy estimate) to
£50.000,000,000. White men who have lived
in Hindustan and been admitted, in some
degree to the confidence of native kings,
moneylenders and traders, say they wouldn't
be surprised to learn that these gentlemen
have stowed away in their stockings at least
that much. Certainly the hidden stores are
enormous. If India, impatient under the
British yoke, should hit upon the notion ot
using her vast gold reserves in the worlds
money markets, the time might come, judg-
ing by recent experiences, when wool will
be about ss. per lb. and wheat Bs. a bushel,
all, of course, because of the new flood of
gold in the world’s currency.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Turned Up”
Criterion “Eliza Comes t 0 stay »
hIATE Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The House that Jack Built”
Comedy “The First Mrs. Fraser”
“Tod Hole”
State Movies and Talkies
«
A Scots’ Day Oot
The seasonal panto, outbreak reached its
apex at the Sydney Showground on New
Year’s Day.
No offence intended. Indeed, that is not
this Showman’s idea at all. It is merely
the opinion of a disgruntled person who in-
“Seasonal panto, outbreak.”
sisted on coming along to see, as he said,
what it was like for himself.
It wasn’t much good for himself. Not
content with referring to the Highland
Gathering as panto., he went on to say that
he would have classed it as musical comedy
only for the absence of one leading in-
gredient of that form of entertainment.
“Listen to the noise!” he said when the
dulcet tones of the pipes were first heard,
soothing the crowd five miles away. Later,
inspecting at close range a party of pipers
practising in the Fat Steers shed and an-
other in the shed used at show-time for Ayr-’
shires and Aberdeen Anguses, he remarked
that he 'wouldn’t “like to live near anyone
learning to play one of those things,” but
he seemed to get relief from the thought that
you don’t learn to play the bagpipes ; that
you simply can either play them or you can’t
play them; that they’re like poetry and beer
—you must be born with the gift.
He further pertinently -wanted to know 7
why Scotchmen should have a Day of their
own. “Why not a Day for Australians?”
he said; an unnecessary comparison, because,
as he very well knew, Australians had
“Practising in the Fat Steers shed.”
nationally commemorated the New Year
season only the evening before by going
out got up as their indigenous Red Indians
and making whoopee at the Town Hall. He
had to admit that two Highlanders who
walked leisuredly across the ground—sporrans
bouncing on knees, dirks in socks, kilts
swaying, cockades jaunty—looked like “the
King of England and his brother,” and he
went on to say that it was wonderful what
an effective fancy-dress could be made out
of odds and ends like a skirt, a junk of
sheepskin with five or six paint brushes
hanging on it, shoes with metal buckles, a
cap with birds’ feathers in it, spats and a
shoulder thistle carved out of a dead marine.
Having got into the ground, where
quartettes of girls were dancing on tall plat-
forms, with the judges, carried away by the
glorious music, irresistibly dancing with them,
he had the ill manners to assert that Scotch
dancing was first invented during a cock-
roach plague in Inverness, tie pointed out
sarcastically that this dancing was so grip-
pingly interesting that all the hundreds of
other competitors whilst waiting their turn
got underneath the platform, where they could
only hear it. By way of further illustration of
this ungracious point he approached an idle
competitor and remarked, “D’ye ken, lassie,
why ye an’ yeer fellow-compeetitorrs are nae
obsarvin’ the dancing?” “What’s crawling
on you?” demanded the competitor. “If you
call me lassie I’ll knock your flamin’ block
off!”
Happily at this moment two other Scots-
men were noticed hurriedly crossing the
ground in the direction of the exit gate.
There was no. doubt about their haste. The
waggle o’ their kilts was causing a draught,
and they wmre conversing eaimestly. The dis-
parager of the Day pricked up his ears. His
eyes sparkled. “I know where they’re going,”
he said. “They’re going to have what they call
a wee drappit whusky. Come on!”" Follow-
ing them, he had to admit that the Scots
are undoubtedly a magnificent race. “Look
at the shoulders and legs on ’em !” he cried,
like the ranks of Tuscany applauding Mac-
aulay’s poetry. The two Scots, on near-
ing the stand, cast secretive and significant
looks about them. Then they stepped on to
the stairway which goes up the back of the
Show’ground grandstand and climbed nimbly
to where, three-quarters of the way up, a
fine view could be had of the Test match
in the adjoining cricket ground, and was
being had by hundreds.
Disparager stared incredulously over their
shoulders for a moment before remarking in
the appropriate language, “Rrrrr! So it’s
cr uckct, is it? D’ye ken who's that brrrrun-
ette mon bowlin’?” “Cripes,” said one of
the Scots, ignoring the question, “old Braddy
must be out! I wonder did Constantine get
him?.... That’s Kippy and Ponsford....
Oh, a beaut! Snapped it up a treat!
What a snorter!” “Bonzer catch,” agreed
the other Scot. “What about blowin’ the
froth off a beer?”
It was a somewhat
sullen disparager who
went shortly down the
free view after them,
but he bucked up a
little when a pipe band
struck up the well-
known Scots air, “Be-
lieve me if all ' those
endearing young
charms.” The proceed-
ings became more and
more national with the
commencement of push-
bike • races, three-mile
walking, and high-jump-
ing. A display by fire-
brigades rounded off the
sports of their country,
after which there was
nothing to do but go
home, passing on the
way out a gentleman
sleeping peacefully on
the grass under che
benign influence of
haggis-bite, and another proving the will
power of a great race by resolutely passing
a contraption in the outer grounds labelled,
“Hot Water Free.” There were also a gentle-
man on a box talking in a language called
garlic, and a mixed crowd of 14 or 15 around
him listening intently to a neighboring brass
band, sundry pipe bands marching and play-
ing to and fro, several isolated pipers enjoy-
ing their own solitary efforts in the lanes
among the windmills and machinery sheds,
the spasmodic thudding of the caber, and
the massive loud-speakers in the ring
announcing that Scotland is the land where
the bluebell grows and other horticultural
information.
But climbing on to a tram this dis-
parager of what the “S. M. Herald” has
so accurately called “the land north of the
Tweed” had to admit that the audience of
10,000-odd was getting its money’s worth.
“Which,” he added, “is, of course, saying
a lot.”
* * *
The panto, plague at present raging in
Melbourne resembles previous epidemics in
all respects, including the references to booze,
wife-beating husbands, and current polities.
“Old Mother Hubbard,” the Fuller enter-
prise at the Bijou, has been declared black,
since declared white, and as a matter of
fact is the very lightest shade of blue. As
Mother Hubbard, Belt Ray supplies the
usual ration of fallabout and there is a
pretty ballet of mice who dance in the
empty cupboard of the Dame. “The Old
Woman Who Lived in a Shoe” is at the
Flayhouse. Incidentally, the footwear is
a boot. There is a charming little show o’
mornings at the Tivoli called, for no parti-
cular reason, “Mickey the Mouse.”
* * * ,
"“Puss in Boots” at the St. James and
“Beauty and the Beast” at the Opera keep
up the end of panto, in Sydney. A feature
of the Opera show advertisements is “Don
Bradman’s Brilliant Song Hit, ‘Every Day
is a Rainbow Day for Me.’ ” Whether Don
wrote the words or the music or both, or
approved of the effort in the capacity of
batting critic, isn’t stated. Last night
(Tuesday) was hailed as the “Great Don
Bradman Night: the Famous Cricketer Will
Appear in Person,” in which case he could
not very well avoid hearing his song. A
pity, but these things happen.
For the rest, both pantos, are breezy
offerings with plenty in ’em for the young-
sters and oldsters.
* * *
The _ latest programme at Melbourne
Tivoli is “Top Hole.” This is not neces-
sarily The Bulletin’s opinion of the piece,
but the title of Hugh D. Mclntosh’s new
venture into musicomedy. It is the usual
slender story interrupted on every possible
and impossible occasion by avalanches of
handsome girls. According to the manage-
ment the girls were all selected for their
beauty by John Longstaff and W. B.
Mclnnes, and there isn’t one who wouldn’t
qualify for the Archibald prize. Beryl Walk-
ley, Colin Crane, Beatrice Day and Gaston
Mervale are the principals and they play
their parts with unusual seriousness, con-
sidering the said parts’ inherent foolishness.
Nevertheless, the trifle is being reverently
received by two crowded houses a day. Athol
“Proving the will-power of a great race.”
Tier plays opposite Peggy Ross in the cus-
tomary low-comedy- reflection of the leading
love affair’. Minnie Love is not in the oast
but interpolates her popular impersonations
without doing serious violence to the plot.
It is possible on a night full of rain or
brimstone to go along to Sydney Cri. and
find a very good crowd of worshippers at the
shrine of acting. Frank Bradley, Copelin
and Agnes Doyle are still responding well
to the plaudits, and the main offering, “Eliza
Comes to Stay,” is surprisingly bearable on
a second view. On the other hand, the sur-
prise element is so important to the curtain-
raiser one-acter that the piece creaks' the
second time it’s seen.
The other Williamson front has Gus
Bluett back in the musicomedy “Turned
Up,” Gus having got over the illness that led
to a recasting. It was a flat show without
him, which may be why, even with him, it
is due to come off next week.
# * *
After having ,given Sydney a few years of
entertainment based mainly on folklore,
the Rayner girls of the T.O.Y. will take
their Theatre of Youth on caravan tour a
month or so hence. N.S.W., Yic. and S.A.
are the chosen countries; after that the
enterprise will go abroad.
* * #
Once practically every offering by Sydney
Playbox was of an unusual type, unlikely to
be seen elsewhere. Nowadays the Play-
boxers, either because they are courting a
more timid and genteel class of client or
because the Macdougallites are losing their
ardor for dynamic drama, are turning to
tame little plays with as much kick in them
as a dead worm. They wound up their
1930 season, for instance, with Maxwell
Anderson’s “Saturday’s Children,” a picture
of a young married couple’s cat-and-dog exist-
ence in a modern flat —all right for the sort
of audience J.C.W. goes after these days, but
thin stuff for those who like a little body
in it. Brenda Gray and John Anden put
in some good work, though the Anden was
inclined to rant. Hessel Morrison and Jack
Lloyd were effective. The play will be re-
vived this month. Moyna Martin produced.
Poverty Point
“Lord Luvus”: Arthur Stigant, who
dames for “The House that Jack Built” at
Melb. Royal, performed the same service for
the Royal, Manchester, when Carrie Moore
was the Boy in 1906. Wilkie Bard was in
the sdme performance.
“■Cauboy”: Gertrude Boswell, who is
Chloe in the latest resurrection of “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin” at Melbourne King’s, has
suffered much in the causie of public enter-
tainment. She was the “boy” who was
“Underneath the platform, where they could
only hear it.”
tortured in Wilson Barrett's first production
of “The Sign of the Cross.” She was also
the much-enduring Mammy of Guy Bates
Post’s “The Nigger,” the bellowdrama into
which a stubborn safety curtain put an un-
advertised interval of 40 minutes at the
Royal in 1920.
“L. de R.” : Whereas in previous twelve-
months anything up to a dozen world-famous
virtuosi have descended on Australia only
three are threatened for 1931, and there is
considerable doubt about them. Toti Dal
Monte and her husband, tenor Lamonto, both
of whom were here with the last Melba
gr’opera co., are said to be prepared to pay
us a call, but confirmation is still awaited
from the Taits. Fritz Hart is in possession
of a letter from Dinh Gilly stating that that
famous Parisian director’ is prepared to
bring an opera co. to Australia if he is suffi-
ciently backed. Clara Butt, w T ho is touring
Asia, has let it be known that she
may sing “The Keys of Heaven” in this
country on her way to S’Africa. But pro-
bably none of these intimations amounts to
more than managerial kiteflying in view of
the present state of affairs.
“Say Bo” : The theatrical press agent kicks
up such an uproar about imported actors like
William whose roles could
equally well be taken by a child of 12, that
the more significant achievements of local
histrions like Norman Wister are apt to be
forgotten. Wister, who is the George Plarris
of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” now at Melb. King’s,
played Mat Burke, the Irish stoker, in the
Firm’s production of “Anna Christie” ; Pro-
fessor Higgins in Gregan McMahon’s recent
presentation of “Pygmalion,” and Signor
Ponza in Pirandello’s “Right You Are” at
the Bijou. One also remembers him for his
striking character studies in “New Brooms”
with Leona Hogarth, “When Knights Were
Bold” at the Palace and “Getting Married.”
Any one of these performances was superior,
artistically speaking, to Faversham’s exhibi-
tion in, say, “Lord and Lady Algy.”
“Hamfat” : Frank Bradley, now at Sydney
Cri., first faced the footlights when Charles
Arnold, in Adelaide with “Hans the Boat-
man,” looked for a choir boy to sing a
song. Bradley got the job without asking
his pai*ents’ consent; they went to see the
play, and saw him well in it. “Hans”
wms probably the best money-spinner ever
produced in Australia (putting expensive
spectacles like “Rose Marie” aside). Arnold
boasted that after a bumper season in Syd-
ney he made £6OO per week clear profit with
it on a country tour ; and he did as well in
other States. And that was at a time be-
fore the breaking of the Big Drought, when
matters theatrical were deader than they
are to-day.
“Elderly Infant”: The other day I was
in an office where they use a radio for busi-
ness purposes. Over the air came music,
“Cast secretive and
significant looks about
them.”
talk about the
uses of day-old
chicks, stock-
exchange quota-
tions, cricket
scores, and then
an announcement
that “Mark Ham-
bourg will play”
What it
was he was going
to play I didn’t
hear, because the
manager snapped
off the switch
with such venom-
ou s suddenness
that I said “I
didn’t know any-
one could hate
the great slam-
banger like that.”
“I don’t hate
him,” he replied,
“but I’m work-
ing, and I can’t
do two things at
once.” That was
a neat compli-
ment to a pianist
who always com-
manded complete
attention. There is grace in a pianis-
simo so delicate that it sounds like
the rustle of a zephyr in a bed of
violets; there is a peace that passes all
understanding in a legato that links note to
note like the cooing of lovers lingering over
a gate; but there is also majesty in a fortis-
simo. _ Because Hambourg (like Rubinstein
and Liszt, if the legends be true) lets himself
go when he reaches a climax, it has become a
cliche of criticism to say that he lacks
artistic restraint. Being young and brave
I once asked Herr Hambourg how hard it
was possible to wallop a piano without
wrecking it. He looked meditative —and a
little sad. “Many times,” he said, “I haf
broke a hammer; so neffer now do I my
full physique exert. Strings of such strong
si eel are maidt, Sandow couldt not breag
them.” And then his eye twinkled: “Bot I
haff mit tuners moch trouble.” I’m sorry
1 didn’t hear what he had to play, though
it was only going to be the poor remnanc
left after straining through a gramophone
and a radio set.
“Second Heavy”: I met a seasoned old
actor in Sydney lately, Charles Keegan, whom
I hadn’t seen since Taylor-Carrington’s day,
when he was leading man. While mosl
of the touring crowds kept to the railway,
the Taylor-Carrington people went out, even
to Tibooburra, by road. I’ve seen ’em in
Wilcannia when Edmund Resch was selling
ginger-beer there and pushing a handcart.
Tom Heney, afterwards editor of the “S. M.
Herald,” was helping the local rag along.
S. E. Braddon was bookkeeping in a local
store. Another Braddon, nephew of novelist
Miss Braddon, was there, and Fred Trollope,
nephew of Anthony, and Edward Bulwer
Lytton Dickens. The population was 800
and there were 22 pubs.
“Shoot, Darn Yuh”: “Bassoon” (B.
3/12/’3O) says that the film version ol
Norman Lindsay’s “Redheap” will not be
issued under a different name and that the
elements in the story which the censors
objected to will not be excised. My authoritj
for stating the opposite was an interview
with Mr. Tliring, the prospective producer.
If Mr. Lindsay is going to follow G. B.
Shaw and insist on the picture being
an uncompromising mirror of the book,
then I say with confidence that it
will never be allowed to appear on anj
Australian screen. I could mention half a
dozen incidents in “Redheap” the like of
which have never been dealt with —at least
not in the same way—by that infantile off-
spring of the arts the cinema. “Bassoon”
wrongly assumes that I have never read
the book, and he is fantastically wrong when
he asserts that the sexual is not its most
important element. As for the humor, I
found it a trifle old-fashioned. The tailor
who was for ever measuring the objects in
his sitting-room is quite Dickensian.
“C. 8.” : George Gee, who grinned his waj
through a multitude of musicomedies in Aus-
tralia, has gone in for producing. He is
staging farces successfully in Lunnon.
“Under the benign influence of haggis-bite."
“Canboy” : According to a London report
Florence Austral has had her tonsils re-
moved and her voice is more remarkable
than ever. I can vouch for it. The opera-
tion had the same effect on me. The only
trouble is that the enlargement of the pass-
ages is apt to turn a tenor into a basso.
This is the real explanation of an alleged
miracle which occurred to a foreign singer
engaged for a tenor role in a musical
comedy. Leaving America as a tenor
he arrived in Sydney a basso, or almost so.
Anyhow, he was found to be quite unsuitable
for the part. His mystified employers cabled
to New York to know what their agent was
doing, but he was equally amazed. All was
made clear when the singer explained that
the organs had been giving him trouble, so
ha stepped off at Honolulu, and had them
removed.


v.
n< — *2- ~ 1
.jcl m r
r ~ j ' %
!T^J
Yi
Vr/*?
xv
.x>
: - '>,
(
'WSk
v
;jj l )
i
1 Mi:
Vi
<;
m\i
x-CV
r
iifrßimr
iiWu:
aid nii#;i - •
kH
■HAMPION RESERVE
PORT
f BOTTLED by THE MAKERS ?
VHOMAS HARDY &SONS LIMITED^
i MELBOURNE &
l AUSTRALIAN WlNl e EV ;| ™
PINT 6 FLUID ozs;
*2
js
Fortunate Tintara
OLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms • 200 Baths
fvfl
•' -I
f!
;»:•:
iij' ■
IMiilj
jp* l
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
NOT accidentally
has “The Aus-
tralia” gained a name
that is world-famous
It remains but for
you yourself to enjoy
the proffered luxury
and comfort, the
cuisine, the atmos-
phere, and, of course,
the new Reduced
“Room Only”
Rates.
w
Thc Australia Hotcl
aiijil "tutty ri tiv rag
Single Room —
from 12/- per day
Double Room —
from 22/6 per day
Telegraphic Address’.
“Austraotel, Sydney.”-
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
ABORIGINALITIES
“H.P.W.”: Trelawney, our cat, returned
from his nightly hunt one morning carrying
a fine young hare, nearly as big as himself.
Not requiring it for immediate consump-
tion, he cast round for a safe deposit, and
finally stowed it behind a bench of flower-
pots on the verandah, and went off for his
day’s slumber. A household meat shortage
developed that day, and somebody said,
“What about Trelawney’s hare?” On in-
spection it was pronounced quite all right,
and it was roasted for dinner. Towards sun-
down Trelawney aroused himself, and after a
wash and a polish and a few yowls to
wind himself up, set out on his nightly
prowl. lie had just jumped the garden
gate when it occurred to him that he had
an untouched reserve fund behind the flower-
pots, so he jumped back again and went
straight to the spot. After a minute he
emerged, looking very dissatisfied, marched
across to me, and - in protesting and indig-
nant tones said “M-i-a-o-w!” (which we
translated as “Where’s me hare?”) He
got the bones.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: There were mythical
terrors besides the bunyip
that made Binghi shun
certain parts of his towri.
Wyan Mountain, in the
Richmond River district,
was the reputed home of
a hairy man of gigantic
proportions and ferocious
nature. He attacked any-
body who ventured alone
into his precincts. The
black stockmen talked
about him every muster-
ing time, and none of
them cared to ride near
the sprawling hump of
rocks and scrub. In the
same locality, according
to native tradition, there
was a deadly red snake
that only the swiftest
blackfellow could outrun.
“Very saucy feller that
snake,” the oldest liar on
the station informed me.
“S’pose you look at him
crossways he come after
you like hell.” The
scares had one good re-
sult : the place was practi-
cally a sanctuary for birds
and animals, for Binghi
never followed anything
that took refuge there.
❖ Jjc
“Clox”: We were telling each other the
sad (with glad patches) story of our lives,
an operation that cannot be satisfactorily
conducted unless one gets one’s instep over
a stout brass rail, when in wandered old
John Jinks. John has been one of the pillars
of our oldest drysaltery establishment for so
long that it’s no wonder he has a thirst. He
contributed his testimony as to how he got
his job. “I went into the place at one in
the afternoon. I saw the manager. He looked
at me. He said ‘Maybe there's a job for
you. Maybe not. Call back at two.’ So I
TIME TO GET A NEW MODEL.
DOCTOR: “Your wife’s completely run down; she needs a change.”
MOTORIST: “Look here, Doctor—I could buy a brand-new wife for what it costs to keep
this one in repair.”
went back at two. He said ‘All right,” and I
started work at two and I’ve been there for
50 years—but I’ve got an afternoon off
to-day.” Now what can y»u do with a man
like that?
GO ALONE.
JOCK: “Always talkin’ tae yersel'.”
MACK: “Well, it no costs so much when ye hae a dreenk.”
“Wang” : Dad was trying to impress the
parson with the methodical way in which he
managed the farm. “Yes, sir,” he said,
“things go like clockwork in this place.”
“And you are the key that keeps the clock
wound up,” said his visitor brightly. “Too
right, I am,” agreed Dad. The parson
turned to young Bill, who was scowling over
his homework. “And you, young man,” he
remarked pleasantly, “I take it, you, ’too,
are part of the clock.” “Yes,” Bill growled,
without any show of enthusiasm; “I’m the
alarm.” “The alarm?” echoed the parson.
“Yes, the alarm,” answered Bill; “yer. can
hear me goin’ off at four ev’ry mornin’ —
'■fter th’ cows.”
*f* H» H*
“Sea Nomad” : The sea around the Great
Barrier Reef is the breeding-ground of clouds
of scum, which float in acre-wide patches.
These rolling oilily in the lazy waves are
seaweeds. A shipmate of mine was a micro-
scope enthusiast, and -he showed me under
the lens drops of the scum—whole forests of
plants, growing limbs and vinery and folding
leaves of magic delicacy combined with atoms
of dancing animal life of wondrous colors —
wriggly, spiral and star-shaped things.
Funny thing about that conglomeration of
vegetable and animal life is that the whole
acre or so of slime can move concertedly—
wriggle ahead, glide back or move sideways
like a vast flat snake. Fish feed on the
stuff avidly, and it might supply nutriment
for humans for all I know.
* * * *
“Up North”: Young Eric and Jack Con-
nell, two Maryborough (Q.) lads who re-
cently were tortured all night by sandflies on
lsland, had a taste of an experience
that has driven some men mad. My mate
and I went temporarily crazy after a week
of the pests on the lonely Howick Group.
The insects arose 'in the night like a cloud
of poison gas. Within minutes all bare
parts of our bodies were burning as if
scalded. The weather was suffocating, heat-
ing up for a nor’-west typhoon. We en-
dured that night crouched in blankets with
our heads over a mangrove smoke. At dawn
we rushed for the sea. All that long day
was hell, for whenever we bobbed from the
water our eyes, nostrils and ears were filled
with the' flies. In the two following days
we fired the grass on two tiny hills, and lived
in the smoke, following it about like mos-
quito-tortured horses. When the grass was
burnt out we lathered our faces with mau-
grove mud, but the stinking stuff was bard
on our eyes. Our bodies were masses of
burning itch long before the big blow came.
“FY7” : It isn’t often one sees cash pro-
duced at stock sales or any other form of
dealing in Western Queensland, save race-
course betting. Everything is paid by cheque,
the other fellow’s as often as your own. That
is why several strong men had to be revived
with stronger waters after Winchcombe, Car-
son had held a sheep sale at Longreach
lately. A grizzled ancient who did not
seem to be known to most of the crowd at
the sale was called on to pay for 1400
wethers. Instead of pulling the usual book
of slips from his pocket and writing out the
draft, he yanked up a huge woollen sock
of the kind familiar in legend. Diving into
this, he paid out in notes and silver, and, re-
pouching the depository, departed into the
wilderness with his newly-acquired flock.
•-I: * * *
“Nakhoda”: One of the most unflowerlike
flowers in the Borneo jungle is the rafflesia,
named after the founder of Singapore. It
measures up to three feet across, grows
straight out of the ground from a subter-
ranean stalk, and its color patterns —livid
blotches and stains of purple and dull red,
sad brown and gangrenous green—are all
reminiscent of a corpse. Some of the sinister-
looking blooms are almost black, and the
enormous side petals hang down like the
moustaches of some monstrous giant buried
in the earth up to his ears. In keeping with
its appearance, the rafflesia is fertilised, not
by gentle moths and gay butterflies and bees,
but by repulsive-looking beetles and carrion-
consuming flies. The unopened bud is no
larger than a walnut, but it grows at in-
credible speed, reaching adolescence in a few
days, when, it often weighs 15 pounds, while
its nectary will contain 12 pints. It becomes
superannuated with equal rapidity, decays
into an obscene mass and lies across your
path like a putrid swamp. If you inadver-
tently put your foot in the mess you have
done what was expected of you. You
promptly go to the nearest root of cissus vine
and wipe off the muck, and in it are the
rafflesia’s progeny, which grow parasiticaily
on the cissus vine.
THE BUSH RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rain upon an iron roof is noisy and
loquacious;
The rain on weathered shingle takes a
manner much more gracious ;
And on a roof of stringybark, au older
rhythm striking,
It drones of mid-colonial days, a ditty to
our liking.
But best we love that rain remote, the
steady bush rain streaming
Adown a tentfly in the night, a/bunk and
snugly dreaming.
On slippered feet it seems to tread, a dark
and daring maiden
Who coyly creeps o’er padded leaves to keep
a tryst in Aiden.
By winds of reminiscence led, through dark-
ened she-oaks gliding,
Or in the dripping bloodwoods’ shade from
sudden moonbeams hiding.
This witch-maid, in a silver chain of fancies
fond and pleasant,
Re-weds old dream to young desire, enlink-
ing past and present.
And if to-morrow we must turn with swollen
creeks to battle,
Or sodden scrub and wet bush ride to seek
elusive cattle,
No matter what ©ur broody luck, in darkness
nesting, hatches—
The packhorse lost, the dog gone lame, or,
worst of all, f wet matches —
Still steadily, just overhead, the sky-maid
keeps refraining:
“Now - what’s - the - use -of - worrying?” and
“What’s-the i good-com plaining ?”
The rain upon an iron roof beats like a
blacksmith’s hammer;
The rain that slithers down the slates will
ne’er our dreams englamor;
We hear unmoved the muffled sound on sooty
tiles suburban
Of moistures swept o’er chimney-tops and
tall sky-scrapers urban.
Of all the rains of all the world their varied
message calling,
We love the best our bushland rain upon the
tentfly falling.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


Ti»is
Fellow
Needs
Meat
'Mf'
♦.... For his size the English Bull is
the strongest of all dogs, but he can’t
thrive on bread and milk. He needs
—and must have—a meat ration.
KEN-L-RATION—the Dog Food Supreme—
is full of clean red meat. It consists of grain,
fresh vegetables, red meat (and plenty of it)
and just the right proportion of cod liver oil.
Buy a tin today. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W,C. SCHWAB, P.O, Box 1821, Melbourne
r&RR£BE£
Price 10/6
Correct
tyre
pressure
always.
unique flat reading surface gives
greater accuracy
THE IMPROVED
•W IML Il'il'HUV L U
RismeT
i/niWcn/
Universal
TYRE TESTER
Tyres inflated to the correct standard pressure
•wear evenly, give more non-skid miles, and
save you time, trouble and money. Use an all-
British KISMET Tyre Tester regularly—its
unique FLAT reading surface gives dead accu-
rate pressure at a glance. Balloon, Standard
or Giant. Balloon, calibrated in lib. units up to
431 b. Standard up to 771 b., and Giant up to
1351 b. respectively. Patentees and Sole Manu-
facturers: WILLIAM TURNER AND BRO.,
LTD., EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD. ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain, write to our Factory Repre-
sentative: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71,
Melbourne.
m
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea (
Dansant S
’Phone
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/*
M 4131.
“J.L.F.” ; In a Tas. district where dairy-
factory managers keep a stern watch over
the quality of the cream supplied, the testers
make frequent comments on consignments.
Recently a supplier found on his ticket:
“Tastes of antiseptic. Are you using any-
thing on the _cows’ teats?” Having con-
scientiously tried to improve his grade for
some time, he was stung to retort: “Yes.
Our hands. If you know of anything better
send it along.”
NOW, WHICH WON?
“My dog went to the Show and got two Firsts and a Second and
was Highly Commended.”
“Well, my dog ’e stayed home and got two fights and a feed
and was highly delighted.”
“Silentio”: Curious to know if a couple
of magpies that nested in a tree near my
home were the same couple that visited us
annually, I trapped them in a closed yard
where they often fed, slipping a tiny pigeon
ring on each bird. I notice the lady is iden-
tical this year, but either she’s a widow or
this year’s mate is the co-re., for he bears
no ring.
* * * *
“Cygnis Insignis” : Thomas Elder’s claim to
a niche in Australia’s temple of fame rests
on many services to his country more utili-
tarian than the importation of the Crystal
Palace orchid exhibit (B. 3/12/’3O). Among
other things, Elder brought from Ivurrachee
(India) during 1866 121 camels, an event
which marked the dawn of a new epoch in
Australia’s internal exploration and develop-
ment. Characteristic of their importer’s
thoroughness, the animals consisted of three
distinct breeds. The Mekrana, a fast-riding
camel; the common camel of Western India,
a utility sort for riding and baggage; and
the draught camel, a hairy beast from Khan-
dahar, a fine, strong, thick-set animal 10ft.
high, with a capacity for carrying heavy
loads.
% . * :Js
“Yarri”: Slippery Ned, a western team-
ster, wanted to water his bullocks in
HIS WORSHIP WAS
MISINFORMED.
MAGISTRATE: “And then, so I
understand, you came to
high words?”
THE LADY: “’Igh, yer Worship? Why, the words that woman used to me was that
low you wouldn't have used 'em to yer own missus, y’ Worship!”
Squatter Skinflint’s paddock, but had been
refused permission. There was a long, wide
dam not far from the fence, hidden behind a
low, stony hill, and the next water on the
road was more than a day’s stage ahead.
Ned after dark sent his mate into the
paddock with a bell. The jingler was sounded
only here and there, a single deep note that
was not easy to trace. While the. look-out
rode around one end of the reservoir in quest
of the supposed bullock, Slippery quietly
watered the team at the other end.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Nakhoda”: The situation at Melbourne
Zoo would be amusing if it were not so
fraught with bitter irony. There is no
money in the Treasury even for keeping the
human population of the State in the style
to w'hich it has been
accustomed, let alone
the Java tiger, the
Indian python and
the African rhino-
ceros. Consequently
Director Wilkie is
throwm upon his own
resources, and attend-
ances having fallen
off those resources
are inadequate. A
zoo in times of de-
pression is a sadden-
ing spectacle. In any
case moving pictures
like “Simba” and
“Africa Speaks” have
rendered zoos not
merely superfluous
but reactionary. If
those films teach
anything it is the
contrast between
animals in their free
state and the same
miserable beasts in
captivity. What boy
will get a kick out
of looking between
bars at Lizzie, the
lonesome lion at
Royal Park, after
having seen an
African native appa-
rently killed and
devoured by one in celluloid? The sensible
thing to do would be to release all those
animals that can acclimatise themselves
without harming the country and take the
Lysena, the leopard and all those not needed
for scientific purposes for a trip to the
lethal chamber at the Lost Dogs’ Home.
* * * *
“Solomonoo” (Tulagi) : Before his con-
tamination by white brother began the
native w r as desireless of things outside
nature. Bikes, motor-bikes, Rolls Royces,
aeroplanes and other things that tear at the
innards of the paleface left him stone-cold.
He lived healthily on the simple foods grown
in his gardens and on the bounty of the
reefs and rivers, and his cooking was done
with nature’s utensils, principally by wrap-
ping the food in leaves and placing it under
heated stones. I have never seen a native
suffering from constipation. He never
smoked until we introduced tobacco: nor does
he drink other than wdien he is thirsty, and
then only water Or fruit juices. His dress
is of the scantiest and healthiest, but to our
everlasting shame a section of us are teach-
ing him to dress as we do. His morals are
superior to ours, particularly amongst those
who wear no clothes at all. He once did
a bit of tribal scrapping, but it was as the
flapping of the wings of a dove compared
with our frightfulnesses. As for individual
differences. I have seen but one which was
as bloodthirsty as looks, shadow-sparring and
a misplaced collection of our choicest swear
words could make it. No bottles, sandbags,
loaded-sticks, revolvers or any of our little
persuaders were used, despite the fact that
the argument was over a lady to whom
neither had any right, but who, in a manner
which rather out-distances the best expected
cf her white sister placed in similar cir-
cumstances, promptly settled the disturbance
by eloping with—both. Take the other
case of the native who hauled a trader before
the magistrate and had him fined a pound
for damage done, and then, perfectly satis-
fied, gave him copra to pay the fine; thus
cementing business relations stronger thau
ever. Or, again, the “eternal triangle” case
where the intruder was given a month,
whereupon the whole village, including the
aggrieved husband, clubbed together £3O to
give the magistrate to let him go free. They
had taken him to court, yes! But they did
not want him punished; all that they wanted
was that the “Gobman” (Government)
should tell him that such things are not done.
They love w T orking together and helping each
other in gardens, house-building, shell-fishing,'
canoe-making and copra-cooking. Even I, a
trader and “contaminator,” experienced their
generosity. I went to bed worrying over a
large heap of cocoanuts I had on hand
because of not enough labor to get them
cooked before the steamer arrived. I woke
to find that in the night the whole village
had turned out, and had stealthily skinned
the heap by way of giving me a pleasant sur-
prise. The brown chap, if left alone, does
not borrow money, and so has no need to
borrow more to pay back and no need to pay
instalments on instalments. To sum up, com-
passion, peace on earth, simplicity, health,
wealth and happiness—are all his. Tell me,
you -wise men who have delved deep into the
’ologies and ’osophies, who is the heathen
and sinner?
* * *
“Bad Australian” : A sturdy, independent
old battler who travelled up and down the
Broken River (Vic.), from Shepparton to
Mansfield was Nellie Doyle. She wasn’t an
educated lady, but she had an eloquent
tongue. She came out to Sydney in the
early days, “free an; single, darlint, an’ so
long ago that th’ Divil himself only knows
whin—annyways, I marri’d Doyle, an’ b’lieve
me or b’lieve me not I wor th’ first wdioite
woman that iver kem over frum th’ Sydney
soide t’ th’ Port Phillip counthry, where th’
poor mahn doied on me.” Nellie was always
accompanied by a pack of nondescript mon-
grels, and these, with a few fishing-lines and
an occasional ration from a settler, provided
her with means of subsistence. She camped
in the open or in some abandoned hut or
hollow tree, although there was not a settler
on the river who would have refused her
the shelter of a shed or barn. The dogs
shared her food and helped to keep her
warm on cold nights, and whenever there was
a litter of pups too young to travel she car-
ried them in the battered old billy that she
used for brewing her tea.
* * * *
„ “ Jeanong”: “Polycarp’s” assertion that
snakes don’t slime their prey before swal-
lowing” will excite contentions remarks, but
is perfectly right. A greater authority than
r Stradling, F.Z.S., says, “A snake
finds difficulty in swallowing an animal or
bird against the direction of the hairs or
feathers—therefore the head is nearly always
the first part swallowed. It does not lick
its prey all over, as popularly believed. The
victim is drawn down by an alternating
motion of the snake’s jaws, the teeth in
which, all pointing backwards, force it slowly
down.” Observation, shows that the delicate
forked tongue of a snake cannot spread
slime over a large extent, though, in swal-
lowing, mucus is freely exuded to assist in
the prey slipping down. Probably the
slimy look of the ’possum or kitten extracted
from a dead snake is the foundation for a
widespread misconception.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: Live frogs have often been
got out of solid rock, but a more curious
find was made by two miners while sinking
a shaft at White Cliffs (N.S.W.). This
was a colony of large black ants, imprisoned
in rock 30ft. below the surface. There was
no inlet to their prison, and how long they
had lived there was impossible to say. They
died soon after being exposed to the air.
When splitting timber in the bush I have
found ants imprisoned in little hollow knobs
in gumtrees into which there was no sign of
a passage. Apparently they had gone into
camp there while there was a tiny opening
into the cavity, and that had closed, and
sapwood and bark had grown over it. Black
ants nestle down anywhere when night or
bad weather overtakes them far from home,
and they remain inactive until the sun warms
them again. The prisoners in the tree were
clustered into a little black ball, with no
room to move, but on being liberated they
seemed active enough, and soon disappeared.
In some instances they might be imprisoned
in wood by the oozing and hardening of
gum around the small entrance, and this
would subsequently be consolidated by the
overgrowing of wood and bark. The mystery
is how they sustain life during imprisonment.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: The emu is widely
blamed for spreading prickly-pear, and for
that reason is treated with hostility in many
places. But there doesn’t appear to be as
much definite evidence against it as there
is against the horse and cow. Pear grows
readily from the leaf, and bits of leaves are
trailed abroad by the quadrupeds’ tails; also,
the seeds are carried between their hoofs.
Some Queensland graziers hold that the emu
does more good than harm in pear country.
Instead of spreading the spinous curse, the
bird destroys tons of seed by eating the fruit.
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
“My word, Mary, he looks a regular little
Napoleon.”
“No, Missie. Father belongin’ ’im his name
Jimmy th’ Rooster!”
The seeds are ground up in the powerful
gizzard, and only one per cent, passes through
in a condition to germinate. The emu’s pro-
pensity for swallowing all sorts of hard sub-
stances, including nails, rivets, bits of iron,
and pieces of broken glass, is well known,
and those things form a grinding mill that
lets very little through in the form it was
swallowed.
BACK AGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the farms around the country there’s a
host of busy brooms
Sweeping out the dust of years from feed-
ing bins,
bile from long-neglected stables and from
r musty harness-rooms
fihey are carting out the empty petrol-tins.
All the litter must be shifted, and there’s
other work ahead ;
They must patch up broken swingle-bar
and chain.
Crops are ready now for cutting and the
tractor’s in the shed,
For they’re trying out the horses once
again.
The old man wags a busy chin,
His faded eyes aglow.
He’s ready now to rub it in,
And chuckles, “Told yer so !
Them tractor things may be all right,
With fancy cuts for grain.
When times are bad and money tight
It’s yoke ’em up again.”
At a gallop ’cross the paddocks they have
brought the workers home,
Rolling fat, with dusty hides and streaming
• tails.
There’s a job in store for someone with the
brush and currycomb,
And a trip to town for rasp and shoeing
nails.
All the pulley wheels are missing, so they’re
yoking them abreast,
Though it’s doubtful if the bars will stand
a strain ;
But the price of petrol’s risen, and the
tractor gets a rest,
For they’re trying out the horses once
again.
So drop a link or two on Bess,
And fix her forehead-band ;
There’ll be a most unholy mess
If she gets out of hand.
It gives a thrill once more to feel
Old Captain on the rein.
Who wants to grip a steering-wheel?
We’ve yoked ’em up again.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


fiennonb
%oM
BRISBANE
Thp centre of Queen s ton c/s
' d/sf/ngu/shed Soc/o/ Life.
_\\\
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central BS2I1 —6 Lines.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
NX PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £528,671
(Including over £283,237 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acre*
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembia Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Everv bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
SMOKE-OH!
“About a dozen men were in the surf at the time
and at least 15 of them helped in the rescue.” •
—“Sun.”
Known in surf circles ns a breaker’s dozen.
AND FOUND WANTING.
“I am afraid in these days it becomes increasingly necessary to remind some of the
flock that even the very hairs of our head are numbered.”
“The man was drunk but undaunted. He faced the
situation coolly.”— “Sun.”
He did not faint or turn to flee;
Nerved by the contents of the vat,
Cool as a cucumber teas he-
A pickled cucumber at that.
“Statistics show that motor-cars are decreasing.”
— “Argus.”
Even so tliev still run into large numbers.
* *
“An epidemic on poultry farms near Melbourne has
caused the death of 5000 fowls.” — “Herald.”
It had spread all over Australia by
Christmas, when hundreds of thousands of
panicky birds completely lost their heads.
¥
“A cheap breakfast has always . been Britain’s
fetish.” — “Sun.”
Unlike Australia’s, which has always been
a chop breakfast.
“Pigs do well in the Wollongong district.”
—News item.
It’s the same all down the Sowth Coast.
* *
GONE, BUT NOT FORGOTTEN.
“Before he shot himself he wrote a letter asking
me to give his wife £5. I was annoyed.” _
— Police-court witness.
He read the missive appealing;
It icas more than he could stand.
Nothing’s worse to a man of feeling
Than the touch of a vanished hand.
“An official of the Australian ®as Light. Company
stated to-day that during the past two months approxi-
mately 900 houses had, been disconnected from the
gas supply.”— “Sun.”
Just Australia’s luck that there wasn’t a
single Parliament House among them.
* *
NURSERY RIIYME—mi VERSION.
Jlush-a-bye , baby, on the tree-toy,
Where daddy’s aeroplane fell with a flop;
Mummy to-day a new lesson has got —
Never go flying when daddy is shot.
Some horses win, some run unfit
And lose, pursued by language terse;
Figuratively putting it,
They run for bettor or for curse.
* *
“He turned pail with fright.”— “News.”
But didn’t kick the bucket, let us hope.
“Monkey brand!” sneered Mr. Latebird's
wife at 3 a.m. Jan. 2. He had been trying
soft-soap on her.
“The committees of the N.S.W. bowling clubs
are too Tory.”— “Referee.”
Tliev need some Whigs on the greens.
*
BLESSING IN DISGUISE.
“Unfortunately the Great Wurlitzer went out of
commission at this theatre on Boxing Night.’’
—“News.”
’.Twas a Gala Night at the Behemoth —
The Premiere of “Passion’s Yell.”
The Treasurer beamed as he viewed the
crowdj
Said the Arts Dept. Manager, “Well,
“If the Head Projectionist’s work is right,
And the Asst. House Manager doesn’t get
tight,
We ought to do fairly well to-night.”
Then a Staff Capt. broke the spell.
“Pm sorry,” he said with a grave salute,
“But tell you the worst I must.
The Personality Hostess states
That this evening’s show is dust.
The Director of Orchestra says the same; _
Sound Monitors, Hall Chiefs are white with
shame;
Sir —and curses be on the man to blame. —
The Great Wurlitzer’s bust!”
The Chief Electrician and Tech. Direct.
Emitted a sound like a sob —
And 7ioio a Major in Admiral’s clothes,
Which he ivore to impress the mob,
Reeled back in a most unsailorly way
As he heard the Supreme House Governor
say,
“Pm glad that to-night it won't boom and
bray.
If you’d said it was dead I’d have cried,
‘ Ilooray, ’
And added, ‘A d d good job!’”
10-2-4.
ONE DARK AND STORMY NIGHT.
The ship of State was on the rocks. It
was a dirty night at sea, and no one was
more at sea than Captain Jack Lang. Wave
after wave of depression battered her, and
a heavy swell was running. This was A. C.
Willis, on his way to London and the
Agency-General.
“Dash it!” ejaculated the skipper.
“Hard and fast on the rocks, and I
promised to t<ike her through to the
Sandwich (and Beerl Islands! I’ll do me
Labor ticket over this job.” He turned'
savagely on. an underground engineer. “How
mhny revolutions are we getting ?”
“I dunno, but Jock Garden’s in charge
down there!”
“Can’t they raise any steam?”
“Steam! Dammit, Boss, we can’t even
raise the wind !”
“Has the compass been boxed?”
“It has. Boxed and pinched. The bailiff
removed it last night on a County Court
order.”
“Go and tell the cook to get tea.”
“He left last night. Reckoned hewasn’t
wanted on a ship that had no dough.”
“Hell! Tell Sparks to send up an SOS.”
“He’s gone, too. Reckoned there were
too many wirepullers aboard already.”
“Enough, fool! Throw out a bottle mes-
sage that I’m going down with the ship.”
“Why waste a good bottle? Everybody
knows it already!”
D. McM.
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
Strange if the State should make me pay
This wages tax each week!
It calls to 'mind the painful day
When everything seemed bleak
For those I owed. A gloomy ring
They sat my lawyer round
And learned that I proposed to spring
A shilling in the pound,.
D.
REVIEWS OF REVIEWS.
(THE AUTHORS TALK BACK.)
Henry Bakblox. —In Another Dull Bush
Yarn (“Daily Whimper,” “J.R.” lias
the infernal hide to question the accuracy of
my novel “The Sheep Stealers,” which deals
with life in Western N. S. Wales, where I
was born and bred. “J.R.” is, of course, young
Joe Robinson, who was put on to book-review-
ing after falling down on his job in the
shipping section. He can’t write, knows no
more of the bush than he does_ of shipping
(having spent most of his life in Burwood)
and hasn’t been farther west than Parra-
matta. The printing of the article is worthy
of the literary style. To cite but one example,
the name of my heroine is given as “Etaoin
Shrdlu!”
Algernon Highbrow.—The anonymous
critic who, under the heading A Grammarian
at Sea (“The Owl,” 6d.), discusses my mag-
num opus “Wegener on Nexus-Substantives”
is a complete ignoramus. With idiot cunning
he has put together several hundred words
which may conceivably trap
the illiterate into imagining
that he knows something of
the subject, but no reader of
discernment will be deceived.
In para. I he confuses a pre-
dicative-noun with an adjec-
tive ; a few lines later he spells
the illustrious name of Gabe-
lentz with three “a’s,” and in
his final sentence he is guilty
of a mistake in grammar which
would earn a schoolboy a
sound flogging—and rightly so.
Let the Editor of “The Owl'’
confer a blessing on the sacred
cause of Culture bv transfer-
ring this man to a position for
which he is equipped on the
mental side —say, garbage-
shifting.
War Caricatured (“Evening
Moan,” is the title
chosen by Claude Weeknese
for his attack on my novel
“Four Years of It.” What I
wrnuld like to know is by what
authority “Stinker” Weeknese,
with whom I was at school,
dares to write about war. Bags
of white feathers from Empire
Girls and yards of patriotic
oratory from Empire Men
failed to get him to the last
war, and to my personal know-
ledge he has never been to any
other. In the circumstances
it is not surprising to find that
lie thinks Dickebuscli is on the
Somme. There is clear evid-
ence that he didn’t bother to
read more than a page or so of
my book—not that the waster
could have understood it if he bad had the
decency to do his duty in the matter.
MAX F.
THE DOMESTIC ECONOMIST.
(Making one penny do the work of two, if not four,
is the problem that faces most of us these days. Head
how a clever little housewife helped hubby to get
into his bank manager’s good books.)
“Wliat an—er —extraordinary armchair !”
cried Winnie, and pushed the shaky-looking
object experimentally with her foot.
“Yes,” cried Moronia proudly. “I made
it for Tom as a surprise. He says we have
to save money, and this is one of my con-
tributions to the campaign. I sold the
grubby old leather armchair that he liked so
much —got a whole 30s. for it. To make
this I simply took an old beer-barrel that
the local hotelkeeper let me have cheap
(it’s rotten in places), knocked out a few of
the staves, tacked then crosswise to make a
seat and covered the whole with a piece of
that lovely chintz they’re selling at Rag-
tackem’s for 7-|d. a yard on account of the
moths being in it.”
“I see there’s a new shade on his reading-
lamp—if it is a shade.”
“Another surprise! I took an old copy
of . the '‘S'. M; Herald,’ decorated it, as you
see, in a jazz design of pink, blue and purple
with “Opak” paint (only 6d. a quart), and
gummed it . round some wire I picked up in
the street. And I got a whole shilling for
that ugly green shade of his! Now come
upstairs and see the pearls that I’m going
to make him buy me for being such a saving-
little wife.”
BLOGGS.
WHY LET FILM-STARS MONOPOLISE
THE BALLYHOO?
(Some Suggestions for Enabling Local Idols
to increase Their Popularity.)
A Trades Hall St. Anthony. —Not gener-
ally known that Jack Strikestarter is n
OH, WOMAN, WOMAN!
"But, dear, we can’t afford taxis everywhere.
The bank’s overdrawn.”
“Yes, so you’re always telling me But
why don’t you find another bank —
they’re not all overdrawn, are they?”
woman-hater. Yes, girls, it’s fascinatingly
true. “Friends tell me I’m not exactly
abhorrent to the fair sex,” smiled Handsorqe
Jack. “I’ve had the glad eye more times
than I can count while organising for the
Revolution. But 1 always pass coldly by
humming ’The Lips that Touch Lipstick
Shall Never Touch Mine.’ Tell my public
for me that I live for my art alone that,
and any money there may be in it.”
All of which must add terrifically to the
already strong appeal of this Prince of
Mischief-makers. Now, girls, how about get-
ting busy arid making Handsome alter the
habits of'a lifetime? . ~
Introducing the Mein Behind the Js at.
Machine. —Buddies, meet Hon. Ed. Milyuns,
the Financial Star. We’d like to take you
behind the scenes, show you where Ed. keeps
his securities, let you hear Archdale, putting
the hard word on him before an election, note
the bargaining that goes, on, perhaps pick up
a wrinkle or two that will be useful when
your own ship comes home, and the wife
starts to sool you into the 1v.8.E. market. But
Ed. won’t have it, so you’ll just have to take
our word for it all. Oh boy, Ed. s just
the greatest li’l producer ever. He’s helped
to put on Nat. shows for years—and he
still lives! Casting is his strong point; lies
Floor-Colonel of the Selection Staff at
National House.
He Lives for Empire. —ln the recent cata-
clysm which gave the world of Art “VS hat
Price Glory!” and “The Two Black Crows,”
certain Australians volunteered to, if neces-
sary, die for the Empire. Eustace Bunkum,
M.P., played a wiser part; he decided, the
instant the first gun boomed, to live for the
Empire. Bunkum fans, whose, name is
legion, and the company with which his life
is insured, will be glad to know that nothing
will induce him to alter this policy in the
future. Signed photos, of Rear-Admiral
Bunkum, as he was throughout the wav
years, in the uniform in which he used _to
attend Parliament, may be had at concession
rates by constituents.
D.J.


BLACK & WHITE
0/U l&uUc t
/
■
= i
■I
■
ill
HI
■
$
■
■
■
: ■
■
■I
■■. A
■
m
■
ax -
i
llli
m
U 1
HS
El * * ?
wJmw ~ ill j
-Sri
HUH
■
* IB
;
■.
■
1
■ SBi
m
m ;
-A; ■ f |
‘ wiM HSSISiiI ™:.. ~ *
Si
■
..:■■•
■
: ■
JiCcc&Ar £ White U) the tebt
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter S Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety I-U9 9
Detonators
Cartridges
Head Office
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company's offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing pirector.
ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
In the Centre of things!
w
Located on Adelaide’s
finest boulevard, the
Grosvenor is handy
to theatres, shopping
centres, and public
buildings. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all
rooms. Yale lochs on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
SHOULD WE GRADE WHEAT?
“T.J.A.F.”; Hugh Pye, of Dookie College
(Vic.), after William Farrer Australia’s
greatest wheat-breeder, told me years ago that
liis objective was to . evolve varieties of high
milling quality, because quality is the main
factor in arriving at the market price. Values
for wool, butter, meat and fruit are based
on quality and are graded for export; why
isn’t it done with wheat? A director of a
chain of British mills informed me that if
Australian wheat were graded, 30 per cent,
instead of 10 per cent, would be used in the
United Kingdom for blending purposes.
The f.a.q. standard, arrived at by weigh-
ing a composite sample prepared by mixing
samples from the principal wheat areas of a
State, is primitive and crude. While this
system is retained what inducement is there
for farmers to grow a high-quality wheat?
The only people to benefit are the millers and
bakers. From a 1501 b. sack of Pye’s Minister
a baker can get 15 loaves more than from
a sack of low-strength flour. At one time
N.S.W, millers used to pay 3d. to 6d. per
bushel extra for Minister, but I doubt if they
do now. The f.a.q. system encourages the
production of wheats which “fill the bag”
to the exclusion of those of high milling
quality, so that the work of experimentalists
is not properly recognised. Australia will
have to fight hard to keep its grip on over-
seas markets, so that a system of grading
for quality is imperative.
Another advantage of grading would be
the removal of impurities. There is warrant
for the protest of British millers against the
proportion of rubbish in our wheat. In the
days of the stripper and winnower samples
were excellent; to-day with the “get-it-off-
quick” machines it’s a case of “all in”—
cracked grain, chaff, black oats, weed seeds
arid the like. I asked a miller in London
what he considered the percentage of foreign
matter in our wheat. “Not less than 2 per
cent.,” he replied. On an export of
120,000,000 bushels this means 10,000 tons
of rubbish on which we pay cartage, railage
and cargo rates ; say. £2 per ton. Naturally
the buyer can be depended on to protect
himself by allowing a liberal margin for
“impurities.”
OUR SURPLUS WHEAT.
“Hatter”: Since it is very evident that
wheat sold as grain will be at a low price
for the next 18 months or so, Australia must
consider how far the crop can be economi-
cally converted into more saleable products.
There is a research organisation in the U.S.A.
which attempts to establish a statistical basis
for predicting the average price of farm
produce for the coming year. Eighteen
months ago it issued a warning to farmers
to restrict wheat sowings. From the same
quarter has come the very interesting pre-
diction that in the immediate future there
will be a shortage of beef.
Were it possible to convert our grain into
well-matured baby beef exportable at 18
months it would be an immeasurably better
proposition than any storage scheme. Wheat,
as a rule, is not used for fodder because (1)
it is too expensive, and (2) it becomes pasty
when chewed, which renders it distasteful to
animals. This is less noticeable when it
is fed in a sloppy condition, so that coarsely-
ground wdieat may be given, mixed with lin-
seed, to calves, or fed to pigs in the propor-
tion of quarter of the cereal ration. A
larger proportion tends to pastiness. This
difficulty might, however, be overcome by flak-
ing it, fn the same way that maize is flaked.
The process consists of steaming the grain,
rolling it into thin flakes and drying it. The
difference in price between flaked maize and
maize meal on the London market is only
£1 ss. per ton, and the flaked article has
both a higher nutritive value and greater
digestibility in return for the increase in
price. Applied to wheat the advantages
would be even more marked.
Both wheat and oats are a well-balanced
ration for general purposes, and both have
the same nutritive value of 7 to 3 ; that is
to say, each contains 7lb. of starch to lib.
of protein. Wheat is a slightly more con-
centrated food.
A 6cwt. steer to be fattened for baby
beef requires about 171 b. of dry matter, in-
cluding (roughly) 91b. of starch and 11!b.
of protein, per day for quick growth. On
good, short pasture all requirements would
be fulfilled, but when pasture is scarce some
good straw and from 61b. to 121 b. of wheat,
according to the quantity of grass, would give
the necessary pound per day increase in
weight. Although certain early-maturing
breeds of cattle are preferable for baby beef,
with proper feeding an excellent product
can be turned out from all strains. It must
be borne in mind that cereals are deficient
in minerals, and these must be added to the
ration.
Wheat is particularly suitable for poultry,
arid this industry has the great advantage
of giving a quick return; but it is important
to watch the market. With cheap grain a
healthy export trade in canned chicken for
Asia might be built up. The last canned
chicken I bought in Australia was “packed
in Java.”
How best to use our land requires the
most careful consideration. To rear all our
calves and to sow fodder crops suited to
the climate is the course which appeals to
me, and so does the economic possibility of
improving the palatability of wheat by
flaking.
“DUSTED” MINERS AS WHEAT-
GROWERS.
“Wodgil” : A little more than 20 years ago
the Westralian Government of the period
put about a hundred wharf laborers from
Fremantle on the land at Yorkrakine, then
one of the. outlying parts of the wheat belt.
They nearly all took to the life and York-
rakine prospered. Another Government two
or three years ago, with Yorkrakine in mind,
established a farm settlement in the South
Yilgarn district. This project was very
severely criticised, for South Yilgarn is one
of the driest places in the wheat belt; more-
over the settlers were “dusted” miners from
the goldfields. One of the critics was W. H.
Frfce, who stood for the Yilgarn constituency
at the State election, and who, in his own
words, “during his perambulations through
the district earlier in the year gave voice to
his fears for the future of the settlement.”
He now tells the “Primary Producer,” refer-
ring to the wheat harvest, that “it looks as
if this settlement will go near to breaking
the State record.”
Describing a round of visits to the ex-miners’
holdings, Mr. Price says: “We first called
at Crowley’s place, where a good team of
horses was busy hauling a harvester through
a 10-bag crop of Nabawa. A crop averaging
12 bags to the acre had just been completed.”
At Davey’s, “a tractor and large harvester
were fast collecting and dropping bags at
both ends of the paddock; his yield was also
10 and 12 bags to the acre. Mrs. Davey
showed us a small paddock of a quarter of
an acre from which they stripped five bags
of wheat.” At Gatley’s, “the son had charge
of the harvester while father and daughter
were busy with other things such as bag sew-
ing, etc. Here we saw standing crops of
Gluyas stripping seven to eight bags and a
crop of Nabawa that should yield nine to
ten bags. Two bags of oats sown yielded
7S bags.” At Trembatli’s, “a crop of Gluyas
was one of the picked crops of the district,
expected to yield over 12 bags to the
acre.” At Anderson’s, the visitors found
“the man who has produced the heaviest
yield off a given area—up to 15 bags to the
acre. As stripping is not yet complete,
others are hopeful of wresting this honor
from him.”
The ex-miners’ settlement is supervised
by G. L. Sutton, the permanent head of the
Agricultural Department, and the Agricul-
tural Bank trustees, and there is a local
officer. Though the land is cheap (it costs
only a few shillings per acre, payable over
a long term of years) it is capable, with
thorough farming methods, of growing excel-
lent wheat crops; and these methods are
insisted upon. According to Mr. Price
“the settlement showed an average yield of
over eight bags to the acre.” It is a thou-
sand pities that this splendid result should
coincide with the tumble in the price of
wheat; even so it is a message of hope to
Australia in a troubled time.
CONTROL OF BUNT.
F. Maddox (Gerogery, N.S.W.) : I have
always proved bluestone capable of doing
anything that any other bunticide can
or’ will do. Therefore to give the
credit to any other bunticide for the
decrease in bunt is absurd. Any de-
crease in bunt is the result of better
agricultural knowledge in the selection of
seed and careful treatment gained through
the Department of Agriculture; under
exactly the same circumstances the same
results would be achieved with bluestone
if formalin or dry copper carbonate had
never been discovered.
As to bluestone treatment being detri-
mental to yielding, let me cite two examples.
At the Albury competitions in 1928 one of
the two bluestone-treated entries (there were
only two against 12 treated with dry copper
carbonate) gave the heaviest yield and got
first prize. At the Balldale competitions,
1930, bluestone-treated gave an estimated
yield of five bushels more than the others.
THE RISE OF FREE GALLIPOLI.
“Lowan”: Victoria put 4,792,000 acres
under wheat in 1930; the Wimmera’s share
was 1,179,800 acres —24.62 per cent. It 'is
a striking fact that 2,680,393 acres in Vic-
toria and 587,460 acres in the Wimmera
were sown with varieties originated at the
Werribee Research Farm, principally Free
Gallipoli and Ranee.
Free Gallipoli is a mid-season variety, and
is adaptable to a wide range of conditions.
Six years ago it was practically unheard of
in the Wimmera, which was the stronghold
of Federation ; to-day it is the most exten-
sively grown variety in the Wimmera and
the State. In 1926 Federation was sown
on 591,637 acres in the Wimmera (73.8
p.c.), and Free Gallipoli on 10,158 acres
(1.3 p.c.) ; in 1930 the figures were: Free
Gallipoli. 509,283 acres (43.2 p.c.) ; Federa-
tion, 351,245 acres (29.8 p.c.). For the
State the figures were 1,654,560 acres of
Free Gallipoli and 667,669 acres of Federa-
tion.
Free Gallipoli arose as a selection from a
crossbred wheat, Gallipoli, the parents of
which were Clubhoad and Yandilla King.
Gallipoli was brought to Victoria from South
Aus. by Dr. A. E. V. Richardson in 1912.
At Werribee it yielded better than Federa-
tion, but failed to breed true to type. It
took years of careful experiments to evolve
Free Gallipoli—so called because of its free
stripping qualities—which in 16 tests at
Werribee has outyielded Federation by four
bushels per acre.
DIPPING WITH ARSENICAL
MIXTURES.
“W.D.Mc.”: What is needed to combat
the blowfly is a preparation that will render
siieep immune from the pest. My own
experience, extending over many years, is
that careful and thorough dipping with an
arsenical-powder dip affords the. greatest
measure of protection. A great many people
are careless in their dipping operations.
Nothing should be left to chance.
The water in the dip should be carefully
measured. A 100-gallon tank is the best for
the purpose, and the quantities should be
marked on a measuring stick or board.
Then the powder should be mixed and allowed
to stand overnight so that the lumps may
be dissolved and an even strength obtained.
For this I recommend 5- or 10-gallon oil-
drums, painted inside with tar or cement
to prevent the arsenic eating' holes in the
drum. When the dip is poured into the
bath it should be well stirred in so that it
may mix evenly, and at every stoppage in
dipping operations it should be well stirred
before resumption. The swim should be at
least 40ft. in length—6oft. is not too much.
This ensures complete immersion, and the
sheep should be immersed twice completely.
When adding more water, measure it—don’t
guess, as is frequently done.
The dip should be cleaned out at least once
a season, and every effort should be made to
keep it as clean as possible. All the dip com-
ing back from the draining pens should be
strained before re-entering. One packet of
dip is enough for 100 sheep, so the cost is
low.
If I were in a bad fly area I would delay
dipping as long as possible so that there
would be plenty of wool to retain the dip,
and I would dip twice a year, if necessary,
or crutch and jet with arsenical powder. If
these operations are carried out as they
should be done, accurately and carefully, I am
sure the fly trouble will be greatly lessened,
and it is the cheapest method that I know
of.
COPING WITH' BATHURST BURR.
“Jumbuck”: Bathurst burr has not been
bad in N. S. Wales during the past two
years. In many places previously infested
it has scarcely appeared owing to the absence
of sufficient summer rains to germinate the
hard seed. We are getting a lot of rain
this summer, so we had better be careful.
It is absurd to think that because the burr
has not shown up for a couple of seasons
it will not appear again when con-
ditions are favorable. The seed null lie
dormant in the ground for many years.
Where burr is scarce cutting the plant
before it comes into seed is the best method
of getting rid of the pest. Care should be
taken to cut before the seed is formed; if
this cannot be done, burn, as a half-grown
seed will probably mature and germinate
if left unburnt. In north-western N. S.
Wales, wdiere a very large area requires little
or no clearing, cultivating with the spring-
tooth cultivator is, I have found, the best
and cheapest way of coping with the burr
where infestation.' is bad. At the worst one
can destroy the burr for nothing in this
way, and there is also the chance of making
something worth while out of the crop. The
burr seed appears to germinate much more
freely on land that has been cultivated, so
that many more seedlings can be destroyed
at the second cultivation. If there should
be a good fall of rain after harvest millions
of seed will germinate and the young plants
can be destroyed when the stubble is burnt.
THE WINKERS.
“Booraby” : In harnessing a horse, whether
for sulky, cart or plough, no part of the
equipment calls for more careful adjustment
than the winkers. Yet they are often put on
the horse as carelessly as an open bridle, not a
thought being given to the comfort of the
animal beyond seeing that the cheek straps
are the proper length and the throat strap
is not too tight or too loose.
If the winker presses or flaps against the
eyes, or is so close that the eyelid beats
against the leather, it is very irritating to
the horse, and the constant’ discomfort is
almost certain to lead to trouble. With a
Proper and comfortable fit, the full round of
the eyes should show clearly to the observer
standing out in front of the horse. While
the object of the “blinkers” is to prevent the
animal, especially if he is at all nervous,
from seeing things at the side and behind
that might startle him, and to induce him
to attend and to trust more to the voice of
the driver, there should be no impediment
whatever in the way of his seeing straight
ahead. If he is compelled to keep his eyes
half-closed, or to look with one eye, he
cannot be expected to work as satisfactorily
as when free of such annoyances. When fit-
ting a pair of winkers to different-sized
heads, a common practice is to shorten or
lengthen them at one buckle, whereas it may
be necessary to alter a hole both at the top
and bottom.
On a road one meets horses with all sorts
of ill-fitting winkers. Some are old and
worn, and the “blinkers” stand out wide
from the eyes, so that they do not answ r er
the purpose for which they are used; this
has caused many a horse that was thought
to be reliable to bolt. Others are loose,
and flap to and fro like dogs’ ears—a con-
stant irritation to the horse. An odd one
has a piece of string across the front, or to
the headband, to keep the winkers from drop-
ping back or hanging wide of the horse's
head; and often, when they are drawn in
too closely, the wearer peers at things as
if he were shortsighted.
On a farm the heavy winkers of the
draught-horses are made to serve as long as
they will hold together. Some of them are
repaired with greenliide, bootlaces, rivets,
twine, rope and tying wire. The repairs may
be done neatly enough, but the part that
goes over the eyes gets the least attention,
and is usually out of position. That part
should be looked to first, and its fit tested
from a front view before the horse is
smarted to work.
THE PAPER MULCH CRITICISED.
“Paul C.”: I cannot advise farmers in
dry parts to adopt “S. Quire’s” pltfn of
growing vegetables by spreading newspapers
held down by a network of wires over the
beds (B. 17/12/’3O). If they feel that they
must try a small plot, let them test it along-
side another covered with an ordinary dust
mulch, working the surface soil very fine
and keeping it stirred at intervals of every
few days. When conservation of moisture
in farms and gardens by means of the paper
mulch was boomed in the U.S.A., mainly by
paper mills, I had a shot at it with these
results:—
(1) When a dry spell set in the paper
mulch failed to retain moisture in the soil,
which cracked beneath it. (2) The paper
prevented working of the ground among
the vegetables; that would have helped to
keep it from cracking, and so kept back
some of the moisture that was lost. (3)
The paper acted as a harbor and a breeding
ground for insect pests. On an adjoining
cabbage-patch covered with a fine, frequently
raked dust mulch, none of those objections
was observed and the yield was much better
—proof that the dust mulch kept more mois-
ture in the soil.
Whatever good the paper mulch may be in
areas where showery conditions prevail. I
am convinced that it will not stand the acid
in dry areas. This paper-mulch fad reminds
me of the former U.S.A. craze for “scientific
dry-farming,” as the agricultural college pro-
fessors called it. A group of theSf* professors
bought 0000 acres in a place called Dog
Valley and set out to show the world what
scientific dry-farming really wais. They
crept back to their colleges long ago, and
desolation settled on the place.
“Wilt”: The paper mulch for the vege-
table garden has been tried by the U.S.A.
Agricultural Department and by authorities
in Hawaii and N. S- Wales; none recom-
mends it. You really need black prepared
(Continued on page 26.)


CLOTHES FOR MEN
ŵ
AND THEIR SONS.
FOR SUMMER
WEAR
V----
\ V
Y I W 0/
n/j
'/Q/j
U/ye “SANTWILL”
AN ideal Work Shirt for summer wear, the
“Santwill” has been specially designed for
outdoor wear. The material is light yet strong,
and is selected because it will not bleach or
PRICE,
EACH,
7/9
show the dirt. “Albatross” make, from a
strong, sandy twill shirting, with two breast pockets,
with flaps to button. Cool, comfortable and
serviceable.
Three for 22/6
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
And a “STURDY” Work Boot
The “STURDY.” A Black Satin Calf Cossack Work Boot, with
exceptionally good wearing qualities. Built with strong double
standard screwed soles. Reinforced backs and watertight
tongues, A robust boot for all weathers. All s:
Price, per pair
18/6
Send your order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH and TOWNSVILLE.
:
mM,
■
L-
v< {>
&
i r
<&*
O/ \
.
m
■
~
®SB
1
fe»
c.
$
$
-
ma
I R
I*r F* !V <3 L„ l
:
OTEt
km
A S S
NT BAR
WJ rn
f i e s
a a
OOMS
m
m
50
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
THE PATRIOT
iPjRECTLMEDiyMJg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCHFFE.
2 HUNTER STREET.
Spectacular
Sprinklers
i.
Travelling Type.
Stationary Type.
The best thing yet for the thorough watering of Golf Courses, Fair-
ways and Putting Greens, Large Lawns, Orchards, Lucerne Fields,
etc. With the Spectacular there is no flooding in parts nor puddling,
and the watering is effected with but slight attention.
Descriptive Folder Post Free on request.
Revolv/aic Arm
Rotary head
Packing Ring
Base or Plug
Stand Pipe
The
MARSH
Rain Maker.
A popular Watering Device for Bowling
Greens, Lawns, etc., which covers a large
area with a rain-like spray. The rotary speed
of the sprinkler arms can be altered to suit
requirements, and the spray may be regu-
lated by the adjustable sleeves.
Descriptive Folder Post Free on request.
We also make many types of Garden Sprinklers, Sprinkler Stands
and all kinds of Hose Fittings.
For these and all Garden Tools, see our Garden Requisites
Catalogue.
*lllllllllllllllllllll%
JOHN
&SON
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
32 4-3 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


»>'■ (
• ‘ "
Right width as well
as length
That’s assured. . . .this Abbey black
velour calf shoe is made in four
fittings, narrow, medium, wide and
extra-wide, for every full and half
size.
Glossy, supple, low-cut at ankle,
stoutly soled, curved for the instep
arch, it offers thoroughgoing com-
fort without any strain or tightness.
“Breaking-in” becomes a thing of the
past, and extra wear is guaranteed.
ORDER BY POST.
Specify width as well as length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
Black Velour Calf, 42 / -
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 210
CHANDLER’S
Chain and Tripod
HARROW
The Harrow which will do
ALL your job s —both
Pasture and Cultivation.
The only Harrow made in
Australia with renewable
teeth.
Chandler’s Harrow is the most up-
to-date and effective Harrow made.
Other makes of Harrows wear quickly
on front row of tripods, but the
CHANDLER HARROW, with inter-
changeable tripods, enables you to get
three times longer life.
The Spring Steel Teeth are renewable,
and can be varied in length from
2fin., 3in. to 3fin.
Chain and Tripod Harrows.
3 Rows.
6ft. wide—
£lo 5 0
7ft. wide—
£ll 15 0
Bft. wide—
£l3 10 0
9ft. Wide—
£ls 10 0
Depth complete—
6ft. 9in.
4 Rows.
£l2 15 0
£l5 0 0
£l6 15 0
£l9 5 0
7ft. lOin.
The other reasonable prices will be
sent on application.
Manufactured by
jll 111
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
FIRE FIGHTING.
PUMPING AND SPRAYING
i
:
vtmmmimmM
All prices
F.O.R.
Melb.
One of these powerful Double-
acting “AJAX” Pumps will be
a reliable defence against fires.
Even in a small blaze it may
save many times its cost.
After (and during) the danger
season it may be used for
numerous other jobs, such as
ordinary pumping, spraying,
etc.
The heavy suction hose goes
into a tank mounted on a
truck. By means of the long
handle and the cog gearhead
the Pump can be worked with
surprising ease.
Price,
£6/15
without
Hose.
The Steel air chamber causes the water to be
delivered with great pressure. Pressure, of
course, is a big factor in the efficient extin-
guishing of fires.
Special nozzle fitted to hose enables the
operator to have a powerful jet, a heavy
soaking spray, or a gentle mist, at will.
Suction Hose, li inch,
2/9 per foot.
Delivery Hose, J inch,
7d. per foot.
Delivery Hose, J inch,
Bd. per foot.
Proprietary limited
Established 1860.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
116-130 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
paper, which costs about £3O to the acre;
tlien the ground has to be first graded and
otherwise prepared, and a ridge of soil
placed over the edges of the paper. Wet
weather causes breaks in the paper, and
weeds soon appear, and cannot be treated
effectively without further damaging the
remaining covering. Reducing the soil tem-
perature is a decided disadvantage to crop
growth, and the paper mulch will have the
effect of reducing bacterial activity owing
to the absence of soil aeration, and not
increasing it, as stated by “S. Quire.” The
labor of preparing the bed, laying the paper
and keeping it in repair is greater than the
labor of cultivating the soil in the ordinary
way. But the greatest disadvantage is the
risk of promoting injurious moulds, which
arc so largely responsible for soil sourness.
SLIPPING HARVESTER BELTS.
“Ligny Thilloy”: It is a mistake to use
belt sticks or other sticky substances on
harvester belts. Dust is collected and the
belt becomes caked and hard; an
hour it is slipping worse than ever. Keep
leather belts soft. Protect them from the
sun when idle, and at least once a week
during harvest dress them liberally with oil.
Steel pulleys ' should be covered with
leather, undressed side out, or (better still)
rubber. An old Dodge tyre will neatly fit
the main flywheel of the big E harvester, and
when fitted the main belt can be run quite
slack, greatly reducing the draft of the
machine. When covering a smaller pulley
with a piece of tyre, the ends should be
clamped to the pulley with light plates of
brass or galvanised-iron and roofing bolts;
the rubber will not then tear away.
THROWING CATTLE.
“M;W.B.”: A simple' way of throwing a
beast. Get a thin rope and pass one end
round the neck, tying with the knot on top.
With the rest of the rope, make a half-hitch
just behind the front legs, around the girth
and again round the loins. Be sure and
have the connecting ropes between the top
of the neck and the half-hitches running
along the spine.
Now stand directly behind the animal and
pull gently straight over the tail with the
slack end of the rope. You will be sur-
prised how easily it comes down. With a
certain pressure kept on the rope the animal
is at your mercy.
LEAVE THE SAPLINGS.
“Orel”: “Buckwong” (B. 10/T2/’3O) is
right; don’t burn grass on steep hillsides.
Personally I would not burn dead litter or
rubbish either, except where it is a danger
to a netting fence. It is not uncommon to
see steep hills with every stick picked up
and burnt and the sides mostly small water-
courses. The rush of water during a heavy
thunderstorm washes off the surface soil and
helps to improve somebody’s river flats many
miles away.
On steep country burn the large timber
and rabbit harborage but leave all the sap-
lings that fall across the slopes—they help
to hold the soil and break the rush of water.
Erosion on hillsides does not start until the
timber is killed out and most of the damage
is done before the grass gets thickly rooted.
In a good season the grass roots will hold
the soil, but unless there are saplings a
storm after a dry time can move a lot of soil
downhill.
FOUL AIR IN A WELL.
“Bendee”: If “Mulgo” (B. 17/12/’3O)
finds that his candle will not burn at the
bottom of the well, lie may purify the shaft
temporarily by tipping down a blazing mass
of bushes sprinkled with kerosene. The
draught caused before the foul air extin-
guishes the flames will usually clean up a
shaft to a depth of 40 feet or so, provided
the air is not too bad.
To keep the shaft clear while working for
any length of time, an air-shoot is the most
effective method. Buy as many yards of
cheap calico as the well is deep, and stitch
it up to form a long trouser leg. At the
top end have a sail about six feet square
set on a light frame, so that it can be
swung round to catch any breeze. The
calico funnel or leg is let down the shaft,
and the sail directs the wind down it to the
bottom. It is only on very calm days that
this air-shoot will not work .
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Prospects for pineapple-growers in
sFiji? (2) Any recent developments in the in-
dustry? (3) Price of land and capital
required? (4) Acreage required, and pro-
bable net return per acre? (5) Where
could I obtain literature re cultivation? —
9484.
(1) Good wdiere land is within easy reach
of a cannery. Canneries receive their sup-
plies from their own estates and Indian
tenant farmers. (2) Two canneries have
recently been established, and their output
is readily disposed of. The Hawaiian Pine-
apple Co. may start a third. (3) Land is
obtainable on lease at from 2s. to 10s. per
acre, dependent on locality. The cost of
establishing an acre of pineapples and main-
taining until fruiting time (12 to 18 months)
is about £4O. (4) £5 and upwards per acre.
(5) From the Q’land and N. S. Wales Agri-
culture Departments.
I have four fig-trees about six years old
and ten feet high. The last two years the
fruit has fallen off when fully grown but
not ripe. Cause and the remedy? —s64.
Probably they are not properly pollinised.
Suckers should be obtained from varieties of
figs growing in the locality which are carry-
ing successful crops. These could be planted
in place of the non-bearing trees.
What is summer grass? Is it good for
stock and trill it smother lalang? —Bo4.
Digitaria sanguinalis is a weed that
spreads very rapidly, and is of little value
for fodder. It might smother lalang, but the
cure would be worse than the disease.
(1) A re exhaust gases from a tractor
heavier than air? (2) Are they injurious
to health when breathed in a confined space?
If so, in what way are they injurious? —74o.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. The fumes induce
asphyxiation, resulting from carbon-monox-
ide poisoning. Warnings of this condition
are a severe headache, nausea, and drowsi-
ness.
An unemployed South Aus. youth with
some knowledge has an opportunity of going
in for duck-farming. Is it worth his while?
—BBl.
It is doubtful; the market for duck-eggs
is limited. The prospects are much more
favorable for ordinary poultry-farming. Let
the lad apply to the Department of Agri-
culture and he will get full information on
the subject.
Some of my young fowls, hatched . early
m August, are going suddenly lame in one
leg, afterwards becoming affected in both
and unable to stand. Cause and cure?— sB4.
This is a case of paralysis. There is no
preventive and no cure.
(1) What qualifications are required to
obtain a position as herd-tester in N.S.WJ
(2) Salary? (3) Many vacancies? (4) When
do vacancies occur? (5) Where can I get
a book about, the Babcock tester ?—660. _
(1) Good character and personality,
ability to enrol new members and retain old
ones, and also to carry out satisfactorily tne
Babcock test and advise members how to
use same to effect improvements in their
herds and yields. (2) £3 9s. 6d. weekly, with
hoard and lodging on farms. (3) and (4)
No vacancies. Each district has a waiting
list. (5) Bulletin No. 161, N.S.W. Agri-
culture Dept.; Government Printer, Sydney
(Is.).
HINTS FOB THE FARM.
“Cola”: A lot of suffering and loss of
condition could be avoided by keeping a care-
ful watch among the lambs in autumn. Spear
grass and other seeds find their way into
the eyes then; they can be removed with
the fingers at first, but if neglected work in
until even tweezers are useless. Then the
lambs become mopey and may die, or the
eagles and foxes may get them.
“E.H.M.”: If you have to use the disc
plough in wet ground, shoe its wheels with
old motor-bike tyres to prevent them sinking
into it.
“Tridit”: Protect a horse’s eyes and he
will not worry much about other parts of
his anatomy. To make cheap and effective
nets, take a chaffbag (one with a good open
mesh) and cut out a piece about 20 inches
square; tie the: top side of this to the brow-
band of the winkers and, when Dobbin is
harnessed up, tuck the sides under and
round the cheek-straps. This is better than
the leather net* which horses soon destroy
by rubbing their heads against the winkers
and collars of the other horses in the team.
A draught horse can see sufficiently well
through a light piece of hessian to be put
at any work.
Veterinary-officer Wardle, of the Vic.
Department of Agriculture, recommends the
following treatment for sand in horses, com-
mon in the Mallee and the coastal parts of
South Westralia. Prepare the horse by
feeding three small bran mashes —one each
at morning, midday and evening. First thing
on the following morning give a drench con-
sisting of lib. honey stirred into 1 to 1?
pint of warmed fresh milk. Feed lightly
on damped bran and chaff, and then follow
with a mixture of bicarbonate of soda, 60z.;
sublimated sulphur, 60z.; bitartrate of
potash, 30z.; powdered nux vomica, ljoz.
Mix and divide into 12 powders ; give one
in damped feed morning and evening for six
days. Also on the second day, a drench of
one pint of liquid paraffin may be given,
and towards the end of the week’s treat-
ment another milk-and-honey drench.
“Kooroora”: Mangels should not be fed
to pigs straight from the field, but should
be allowed to wilt for a few days and then
given in conjunction with some grain feed.
Still a better method is to remove the tops
and roots and stack the mangels in heaps,
with a vent-pipe let into the middle of each
heap. The heaps are then covered, first
with straw and then with earth, and are
allowed to remain for some weeks before
using.
“Bar Iv.”: Warts may be removed from
cows’ teats by bathing after each milking
with warm water to which a bit of washing-
soda has been added. The teats should then
be dried and a little olive oil rubbed in. One
part salicylic acid to seven parts collodion
applied for a few days may also remove
warts. If these methods are unsuccessful,
the warts -with necks may be snipped off, or
a ligature of silk or fine waxed thread tied
round them and a caustic pencil applied.
Care must be taken not to let the pencil
touch any of the surrounding healthy skin.
“Biro”: Don’t throw away prunings from
trees and hedges. Placed among the
tomatoes the branching sprays support the
fruit and keep it from being a dead weight
on the vines. The lighter branches are
capital for placing among French beans,
and the runners will make good use of the
small twigs. Cucumbers are all the better
for supports of this kind, too; there would
not be so many shrivelled cucumbers if the
vines were supported in dry weather. I
have used these ready-made stakes to support
peas and found the crop free from the grubs
which attack pods lying upon the ground.
“E.H.M.”: My par. regarding the identn
fication of bunchy-top (B. 24/12/ 30)
should have read that the dark-green dot
which' is the first indication appears on the
midrib of the middle leaf 28 days _ after
“infection,” and that in a few days it will
have developed into a line about “fin.” long.
[Well, why in thunder didn’t you take the
trouble to write plainly?—B.]
“Panurge”: A painter’s blow-lamp is as
indispensable on the farm as a set of taps
and dies. It can be used for shifting obsti-
nate nuts, small straightening _ jobs on the
implements, heating the solderine iron and
burning off grass and rushes.
“Bumpkin”: Vic. poultry-breeders are
alarmed at an outbreak of Newcastle disease,
which has swept away thousands of birds
near Melbourne. One farmer who has just
started lost his entire stock worth ±2oo. By
an unfortunate coincidence, the epidemic
svnehronised with an inter-fetate egg-laying,
competition. Over 1200 stud birds are sit-
ting on their nests at Woodside, Croydon,
and their anxious owners are scattered ali
over Australia and Maoriland. Elaborate
precautions are being taken do protect tllie
stock, which are valued at £oo,ooo. It is
as hard to get into Woodside to-day as
out of a wartime internrrrnt camp.


EOTHEN
f f 128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
k GARAGE
[nclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
-*» Central 528
PAYING GUESTS Mr., parker
M
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
, , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-p*r day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Wim
CHOIC
CIGAR
D
1
EACH
0
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made ot rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome. ... .and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
RAIG AND AITRE N,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Whitest
Purest
Best
These are not idle words, they are hacked by the
largest Gin Distillers in the World and guaranteed
by a reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded
for over 150 years! Gordon’s Gin is produced in
London, England, by the original process of
distillation from the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of GORDON and
have been handed down through generations ! It
is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has the largest
sale at Home and throughout the World, having
no rival for Purity or Qualitv
w
ŵ
Guaranteed Distilled
in London, England ♦
1 -I
Krt r '^ :
Wl
/A
I /0
Gordons
drygin
DISTILLERY,
LOMDON,
| DISTILUEO AMO BOTTLED •*< IONPOM
I tan out RAY, GORDON &CS L T -P
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKT,
©IN
The Heart of a
Good Cocktail
.t
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
SHADOW SHOWS.
The weakest part of “Romance',” at Sydney
Plaza, comes at the beginning. Harry, a
bounding New York society lad, calls on
Bishop Armstrong, his Errand-dad, bashes his
hat on the head of the ancient butler who
opens the door, and blows unceremoniously
into the presence, tie is thinking of marry-
ing an actress, and wants his relative’s
advice. The bishop can speak as an expert,
half a century earlier he nearly married
naughty Rita Cavallini. Gavin Gordon
doesn’t talk or look like an octogenarian, and
Elliott Nugent' doesn’t talk or look like a
member of the' bishop’s class. However, we
are soon rid of both of them by a flash-back
to the days when Tom Armstrong was an
impressionable young rector.
Greta Garbo looks lovely as the singer
whom the parson meets at a party given by
her protector, Cornelius Van Tuyl; but it is
hard to swallow her story that she comes
from Italy. No Italian ever talked like her.
This critic remarked after seeing her in
“Anna Christie” that she would never get
away with a part calling for an agreeable
voice, and it is her voice that is the trouble
in “Romance.” It is an imitation voice,
with the warmth and color flattened out of
it in an attempt to camouflage the harsh
vowel sounds of Sweden. She doesn’t convey
the infatuation of a woman of the world for
an inexperienced youth either. Compare her
with the schoolmaster’s wife in “Young
Woodley.” Certainly Gavin Gordon is a
severe trial. Pie is handsome in a tall, virile
style, and he articulates well in a booming
parsonical manner, but his Tom Armstrong
is as righteous as a Sunday-school teacher,
and of the mental age of 12 or less. What
with her artificiality and liis moronic inno-
cence, their frequent passages together are
not easy to sit through. The other mummers
are superb ; particularly Lewis Stone as the
polished libertine, Van Tuyl, and Clara.
Blandwick as Miss Armstrong.
Laurel and Hardy, the funniest of all
slap-stick artists, appear in a new farce in
the first part at the Plaza. They are pan-
tomimists pure and simple, and, as in the
case of all the great masters, such as Chap-
lin, Robey and the late Dan Leno (whom
Laurel resembles in voice and ways), their
methods don’t vary much. “Hog Wild” is
the name of their new medium of expression,
and it suits them.
# * *
“Whoopee,” at Sydney State, is a great
show. It is a vast improvement in most
respects on the stage performance which
Sydney saw at'the Grand Opera House. For
one thing the dialogue is snappier and more
intelligent, and for another the leading
comedian is Eddie Cantor, who never battles
for his effects and always gets them. The
part of the hypochondriac Williams, who
visits the U.S.A.’s Wild West in search of
health, gives him plenty of chances to
register wide-eyed misery, a line for which
he has a flair. However, he can comede from
any angle, and the producers have shown
their appreciation of it by giving him a wide
variety of work to do. Paul Gregory, who
has a fine voice and isn’t much of an actor,
is the hero, and Eleanor Hunt, who hasn’t
much of a voice but is a delightful little
actress, is the heroine,. The whole picture is
in technicolor, and for the first time in the
writer’s experience effects are got which
create an illusion of genuine light and life.
In this respect “Whoopee” is as far ahead of
“Sally,” which was shown at the State, as
‘ Sally” was ahead of one of the previous
year’s talkies. The ballets are beautiful, and
the sound-recording is very nearly perfect.
The Ufa trayel-picture “Ancient Java” is
also being screened at the State. As an
effort in imaginative photography it loses
anything in its line which has been un-
wound here up to the present.
# ¥ *
Paramount’s “The Spoilers,” which had
a premiere recently at Sydney Capitol,
belongs to the genus melodrama, but unlike
the old style of entertainment its characters
are human beings. It is based on Rex
Beach story of the roaring days at Nome,
Alaska. All the old props are there—inno-
cent heroine, villain with designs on her,
complications over legal documents, adven-
turess with matrimonial designs on hero,
scenes of violence, and eventual triumph of
virtue—but the cast is so fine that the pro-
ceedings are made to appear plausible. Kay
Johnson is the persecuted maiden who goes
on her travels with valuable papers in her
cabin trunk. She looks a bona, fide tourist,
and has a charm of voice and manner that is
rare amongst globe-trotting spinsters. The
long piece would be worth sitting through
for the sake of Harry Green alone: and the
same may be said of Betty Compson (vil-
iainess), Slim Summerville (villain’s off-
sider), Gary Cooper (hero) and William
Boyd, who has a prolonged fight with him.
The fight is the only entirely incredible
feature of a show in which even the horses
are used as real horses and not for insensate
gallopings up and down mountains.
The excitement apart, “The Spoilers”
rescues a bizarre bit of history from the
rubbish-bin, and it is a travel gazette of
the first water. One moves among the
flumes through which the gold is washed,
past the hutments of the miners, down their
crazy streets, and into their shops and banks.
The landing of stores from pontoons battered
by the Behring Sea surf is a sermon in
itself on the hardships of those days.
# ¥ #
“Dixiana,” at Sydney Royal, is a part-
color musical comedy set in Louisiana a cen-
tury ago. Bebe Daniels, as a circus girl, and
her fellow-artists Wheeler and Woolsey are
invited by Everett Marshall, son of a birth-
proud planter, to the ancestral home. But
Ralf Harolde. of the local gambling saloon,
wants Bebe himself, and he is one who sticks
at practically nothing to gain his foul ends.
The flimsy plot is helped out by some very
line singing by Miss Daniels arid Mr. Mar-
shall. much industrious waggery by Wheeler
and Woolsey, and a pyrotechnic color dis-
play at the end. The sound projection was at
fault on the first night, but when that trouble
has been rectified “Dixiana” should please
those who like music which is rather trivial
and humor which is rather forced.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. „ , . . ,
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one. subject. . .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Englishman, 31, three years’ Canadian farm exp.,
handy with tools; wants j0b.—751.
Laundress, Sydney, quick worker, has Monday and
Tuesday vacant. Refs. —753.
Strong woman, Sydney, with boy of 13, wants
position as cook or laundress. Refs. —754.
Electrical and general engineer, Sydney, 16 years’
exp., wants job bn station.—7s2.
Middle-aged returned soldier, Sydney, seeks work
as houseman, attendant, indoor service, etc. ; can fence,
cook, paint, cement paths, keep books. —794.
Young lady (19), N.S.W., domesticated, good cook,
wants position in country.—7B9.
Young lady, Yic., exp. office and sales, wants job
anywhere. Would teach shorthand and typing on
station, type manuscript, etc. Refs.-- —770.
To buy book containing Caroline Morton’s poem
“Bingen on the Rhine.” —775.
Words of poem telling how Dan Murphy’s brindle
cow won a steeplechase.—7BB.
To buy “Memories of General Joseph Holt,” vol. 2
(London, 1838). —984.
Words and source of verse containing line “They
let the golden sliprails down for poor old Corney
8i11.”—787.
To correspond with readers more than casually
acquainted with the art of Botticelli, Fra Angelico,
Mantegna, Signorelli and the early Dutch painters.
(To J. H. Dudley, P. 0., Einasleigh, N.Q.)
Words of verse entitled “Gates,” which humorously
describes the opening and shutting of gates during
a trip through a country district. —829.
To buy pitman bar for Hornby No. 4 mowing
machine, 1912 model, new or secondhand. —824.
To get in touch with ex-members of the 22nd
Batt. (A.1.F.). (To F. C. Russell, secretary, 22nd
Batt. Assoc., 11 Raleigh-street, Windsor, Yic.)
To buy secondhand books dealing with the war.
—BOO.
To buy copy of book “The Black Prophet.”—Bsl.
Information Sought.
In case of inflation would not the ore-pro-
ducer (tin, copper, etc.) be badly hit?
Would he not have to pay Australian inflated
costs, and accept European non-infiated
prices? —79s.
No; as a matter of fact he might be one
of the gainers. He would be paid in
European money; but in theory, at any rate,
that money would be translated into Aus-
tralian money. Thus at the present moment
the Australian w T oolgroy» T er is supposed _to
be getting 8 p.c. or 9 p.c. more in Australian
money than he would get if he were paid in
European money; though it is true he finds
it difficult sometimes to believe it. What
he certainly has to do is to pay a good
deal more for all services and purchases in
Australia than he would have to pay in
Europe; so even the producer’s benefit from
inflation is problematical. The only man who
is dead sure of benefiting is the man who
hasn’t paid his debts. He will escape more
or less of them, according to the extent ot
the inflation.
Particulars of Australian cicadas? —808.
There are about 150 species. They belong
to the sub-order Homoptera of the order
Ilemiptera, which includes hoppers, plant
lice, scale insects and other insects with
jointed sucking'bcaks, two pairs of wings and
six three-jointed legs. Common cicadas are
a vivid green and a black, the “double-
drummer” ; but colors vary. Though their
life cycle has not been fully investigated
scientifically, a recent bush council decided
that eggs are laid in slits in tree branches.
On hatching the grubs fall to earth and
burrow. In this stage they are creamy white
with syrup-colored heads. In from three
years to five years they are metamorphosed
into six-legged" insects encased in light-brown
shells which crawl out of their holes and ascend
tree trunks. There they wait for their armor
to crack along the back; then they slowly
emerge in their final shape except that wings
are crumpled. These unfolding and drying,
thev fly off to make the bush, if males, shrnt
with their skirling. Their life then lasts
about a fortnight, during which they live on
sap.
What sort of musical instrument as the
zither, and how is it played? —Bl7.
It is an instrument consisting of a shallow
sound-chest with ribs having tlw outline o±
a flattened jug. In the centre of the sound-
board is a hole, and the finger-board with
frets lies along the straight side of the zither
in front of the performer. The number ot
the string's varies, but 36, 3S and 42 are the
most usual. Over the finger-board are
five strings known as violin, on which
the melody is played. The five melody
strings are stopped with the thumb and
fingers of the left hand and plucked with
the thumb of the right hand, which usually
has a thumb ring with plectrum. Nos 1
and 2 are steel strings; 3 of brass, and 4
and 5 of spun wire; the bass is played with
fingers of the right hand, and in order to
facilitate the fingering the strings are tuned
in fourths and fifths. Most of the other
strings from the sixth are of gut. All the
strings lie horizontally across the sound-
board, being fastened to adjustable pms.
(1) I have a five valve all-electric receiver
using 4-volt indirectly-heated valves in the
first four stages. Can I change them for
valves of a different type? (2) Can this
receiver be used in the country where 116
volts (d.c.) is available? (3) Can 1 replace
my present cone speaker with a dynamic? —
S 5 (( 1 ) Yes, if the present valves are replaced
by some having the same characteristics as
regards impedence, filament current and volt-
age, and if the valve electrodes tei-
ruinate on the same pins. We do not recom-
mend such a change. (2) No. (S'* Yes, but
under certain conditions an output trans-
former may be necessary to couple the
speaker to the last valve.
How is'the condition of a wireless valve
tested?■ —855. .
The plate emission is checked by placing
a milliammeter in the plate circuit and
applying the correct value of plate and bias
voltage to the plate and grid respectively.
The plate current reading as indicated oy
the meter is then observed and compared
with the characteristic curve or instructions
supplied with the valve. Thus, if 150 volts
be applied to the plate of a certain power
valve, a reading of about 15 m/ amps, should
be indicated, with a negative bias of 4o
volts. If the reading is much under 10, the
valve is losing its emission. Many dealers
will test customers’ valves free of charge:
Best way to clean a foul pipe ? —64o.
Clear the nicotine out of the stem with
a steam jet or a feather and put the pipe
away for a few weeks, prefciably untiei
ground, till it sweetens.
I have a “ sleep-out ” lined with three-ply
wood. This is unpainted and it is inclined
to buckle and crack. TVhat is the best treat-
ment?-—-801. . ..
A couple of coats of good paint will pre-
vent it buckling further.
My roses and geraniums arc affected with
a disease which makes the leaves yellow.
What is the trouble and remedy? —Bo2.
This rust disease can be checked by spray-
ing with Black Leaf 40 (summer strength,
* pint to 50 gallons of water). First pick
off all the leaves and burn them; then apply
the spray, making sure to get well under the
leaves and on the stem~bases. Sometimes
red spider mites are found with this disease,
in which case spray with lime-sulphur (lib.
in 50 gallons of water). Do not water the
plants overhead for at least foui' days attei
treatment;
I have been given two dozen tubevous
begonias. Which is the best way to treat
them —(1) for the open garden, (2) the
bushhouse ? —Bl6.
(1) For the open garden, choose a semi-
shaded position. Sprout the tubers in sluil-
low pans or boxes filled with light sou,
making certain that the crowns are not
covered. Make the beds rich with old rotted
cow manure; plant the tubers and water
copiously. When the growth shows cover
the beds with straw or grass. (2) l#r the
bush-house, plant the tubers in 4in. pots, the
soil being made from loam, leaf-mould, a
little rotted manure and sand. Liquid
manure can be applied when the flower-heads
form, and a regular overhead watering witn
a rose spray will help the plants wonder-
fully. It is necessary that the treatment ot
begonias be attended to at once to get flow-
ers in the autumn.
Cl ) When were Maori War pensions insti-
tuted in M.L.? (2) Total paid? (3)
Annual value of pension? (4)_ Present
number of pensioners? (5) Qualifications?
(6) Is receipt a bar to old-age pension?—
80S
(1) 1912. (2) £562,718. (3) £49 p.a.
(4) 259. (5) He must have resided in M.L.
for the 10 years immediately preceding the
date of his application. He must not have
been imprisoned during the. same period for
any offence punishable by imprisonment for
two years; must not have deserted or failed
to provide for his wife and children, and
must be of good moral character and sober
habits. (6) No.
What is meant by the initiative, referen-
dum and recall? —67B.
These are devices intended to limit anil
control the powers of representative
assemblies. The initiative permits a certain
percentage of voters in an electorate (the
proportion is defined by law) to compel the
legislature to consider proposals brought for-
ward by the group. The referendum is a
submission of legislative proposals to a poll
of the whole of an electorate; provision
is made for it in the Commonwealth Con-
stitution (in regard to constitutional
matters), in the laws of many American
States, and in the federal laws of Switzer-
land. The recall is the right of the majority
of electors in an electorate to depose by
petition or referendum at any time a member
who has lost their confidence, or of the
electors of a country to put a Government
out of office by similar means.
(1) In the making of cinema films is a
negative made first and a positive printed
from it, or is there a process in which the
film used in taking the scenes is, when
developed, ready for projection? (2) Is only
one film made of each drama? (3) Are
films insured against destruction? —525.
(1) For commercial purposes a negative
film is made in every case, because tne
number of positive copies that can be made
from it is practically unlimited.. In the case
of amateur work with the 16m.m. film a
reversal process of development is used which
produces a positive on the original film. (2)
There may be as many as six cameras at
work on an elaborate production, and the
negative from which the final film is printed
may contain sections from all of them. But
as thev must necessarily work from different
viewpoints there can be no question of dupli-
cation. The producer selects what he thinks
is the best from each. (3) Yes. All films,
negative or positive, are insured against such
risks as may arise during production and
distribution.
(11 Population and national debt of the
Irish Free State? (2) Value of imports
and exports? (3) Has she her
and navy? (4) What part does De \ alera
play in Irish politics? (5) Is De Valera a
Spaniard? —67s. . .
(1) At the 1926 census the population
was 2,971,992. National debt at March 31,
1929, was £23,496,300. (2) 1928: Imports,
£59,852,122; exports, £45,590,842. (3) She
maintains a voluntary enlisted army whose
strength (1929-30) was between 6000 and
7000. In accordance with the treaty between
Great Britain and Ireland her naval defence
is undertaken by the British Navy. (4)
He is the leader of the Fianna Fail (the
reconstructed Sinn Fein party),. which is
in opposition. (5) He w r as born in Ireland.
His father, Vivian de Valera, was_ a
Spaniard; his mother, Kate Coll, an Irish-
woman.
(1) Population of Western Samoa and the
numbers of the various races there? (2;
Capital? (3) Is German currency still used 1
(4) Can one reach there direct from Sydney
and how long would it take? (5) Fares to
Samoa? —758.
(1.) At April 1, 1929, 44.355. Samoans,
40,408; Europeans and lialf-castes, 2804;
Chinese, 999; Melanesians and Polynesians,
147. (2) Apia. (3) It has been replaced
by sterling in the form of Samoan Treasury
notes issued under the authority of the M.L.
Government. (4) No direct connection. Pas-
sengers are transhipped at Auckland. 1 ull
sailing time, 17 days, to which must be added
waiting time in Auckland. (('5) hirst,
£36 55.; second, £22.
(1) What exams, must be passed to be-
come an analytical chemist in Melbourne?
(2) What subjects are compulsory? (3)
How long apprenticeship? (4) What, salary
might be expected after qualifying? (5)
Would you advise me to take it up ? —792.
(1) if diploma at University is sought,
four-year course and passes in chemistry
and natural philosophy. Working Men’s
College, Melbourne, also provides four-year
course. After first year student can enter
employment as junior chemist, and finish
course at night-school. (2) No apprentice-
ship. (3) Basic wage, up to £8 or £lO.
(4) Not unless you have exceptional apti-
tude.
In the “Commonwealth Year Book”
{No. 6) it is stated that during recent
years there has been a falling-off in the
number and strength of southerly bursters,
“the reason for which is not yet understood,
but it is suspected that the gradual exten-
sion of the agricultural and pastoral indus-
tries to the interior of the country may be
one of the causes of the change,” For what
reason would the extension of those industries
influence the decline? —530.
The southerly burster is a natural re-
sponse to high temperatures inland. With
the cultivation in recent years of vast areas
(especially the wheat belt), considerably
more rain is conserved, and it is more uni-
formly distributed, which may be the cause
of the change mentioned.
(1) What are the chief sources in Q’land
of (a) ammonia, (b) carbon dioxide, (c)
sodium chloride. (2) Can common salt be
obtained commercially from sea water? (3)
Chief products of coal? —9035.
(1) (a) Ammonia liquor recovered as a
by-product at the Brisbane gasworks; (b)
none being produced commercially; (c) pro-
duced from sea water by evaporation at
Bowen. (2) Yes. (3) Coke, gas, ammonium
sulphate, tar and benzol. From tar, by dis-
tillation, there are derived benzol, toluol,
creosote, phenol, cresolT xylenol, naphthaline,
anthracene and pitch.
(1) How did Tonga become a kingdom?
(2) Place of residence of the Royal family?
(3) Are the Tongans wealthy? (4) What is
the status of the Queen? (s)_ Is English
spoken in the royal domain? —766.
(1) The kingdom was put on an official
basis by the late Rev. Shirley Baker, who
drafted a Constitution in 1862. This was
amplified later, but is still the basis of
Tonga’s administration. It converted a
feudal savage chief, lord over a nation, of
serfs, to a royalty reigning on modern lines
over a freed community. In 1900 the group
was declared a British protectorate. (2)
Nukualofa. (3) Sound financially; fine
copra trade. There is usually a consider-
able annual surplus. (4) Queen Salote has
the status of a reigning monarch under Brit-
ish protection. (5) Yes; it is the official
language.
How did the sugar industry in Australia
originate? —7Bs.
In 1823 Thomas Scott made 70 tons of
sugar at Port Macquarie (N.S.W.), then a
convict settlement two years old. Interest
lapsed, and not until 1847 were experiments
resumed —in the Brisbane valley, Moreton
Bay district. M. Buhot was the first to
manufacture from Q’land-grown cane, which
he obtained from the Brisbane Botanic
Gardens. Louis Hope put the industry on
a commercial basis. In 1862*63, in the More-
ton Bav district, he had 20 acres under cane ;
he introduced Kanaka labor in 1864. That
year the Q’land Acclimatisation Soc. began
importing new cane varieties, and sugar cos.
were formed in Brisbane, Maryborough and
at Mackay, where John Spiller planted the
first cane. In 1865 141 acres were under
cane. Louis Hope received a land grant in
1867 for his work. In Q’land in 1869, 5000
acres were growing cane, and there were
28 mills.
(1) In what way is it possible to become
officer of a P. and O. liner without first
becoming an ordinary sailor. (2) What are
the wages of an officer on those boats. (3)
Ham long does one sign on for? (4) At
what age can one start? (5) How long does
it take to rise to officer's rank? (6) Where
should I write to get fuller information? —
619. . . ..
(1) and (4) By serving an apprenticeship
as a cadet, commencing at 16 or 17. (2)
Minimum £ll 10s., maximum £33 10s., per
month. (3) Articles contract for a round
voyage from London to destination (whether
in Australia or China) and return. (5)
Usually five years. (6) P. and O. Co., 122
Leadenhall-street, London E.C.2.
How can I identify the spotted diamond-
bird, and what are its habits? —720.
It is small, active and colored black and
buff, patched with red and yellow, and with
little white spots. Its loud monotonous call, re-
sembling “sleep, baby,” is heard throughout
southern Australia. It lives on insects. Tun-
nelling into a bank, it builds a domed nest
of grass or bark strips; there four or five
white eggs are laid.
Brief Answers.
Tessie: Australia has no general opinion,
on either subject. A few thousand Australians have
diverse opinions on both. Official report, it is hoped,
will be available in about four months. .. .A. 8.0.:
The blindness probably is due to paralysis of the
optic nerve. Give a dose of laxative medicine, and
follow with half-teaspoon doses of syrup of iodide
of iron three times daily. Give in a little water and
discontinue if the dog shows signs of depression, bad
appetite or discharge of tears... .S.S.: The motto on
Hobart’s coat-of-arms, “Sic Fortis Hobartia Crevit,”
means “Thus did Hobart grow strong” A.W.8.:
If you have the receipts you can demand the
return of the truck. .. .R.M.G.: According to Dr. Li.
J. Tillyard, their life-cycle is shorter than that of the
American 17-year cicada. .. .L.J.G.: Jerusalem corn,
although of comparatively dwarf habit, yields a quan-
tity of good feed and withstands drought. It produces
large heads of grain which is nearly flat and pure
white... .G.M.G.: Write N.S.W. Bottle Co., Ltd., Bul-
warra-road, Ultimo, Sydney... .V.G.: Vie. unemploy-
ment relief tax is payable on incomes derived from
sources other than salary and wages.. . .E.D.: The esti-
mated population of North America is 146 millions and
of South America 64 millions... .C.C.: (1) and (2)
No. .. .W.M.: (1) The Registrar of the Institute of
Incorporated Secretaries, 19 Bligh-street, Sydney, will
post you a syllabus on application. (2) Plenty of
reliable coaching colleges. Can’t recommend any
individual one. Consult advertising columns of
“S. M. Herald” and make your choice. .. .E.R.A.: The
British Empire has a total area of 13,355,426 square
miles and a population of 449,583,000. .. . C.T.A.: (1)
The Fences Act (Vic.) makes no provision in that
respect. (2) No L. 5.0.: Potts Point, Sydney, takes
its name from J. 11. Potts, an accountant in the Bank
of N.S.W., who purchased in 1822 from John Wylde,
Judge Advocate, six and a half acres at the extreme
point. . . .A.A. : The two principal model Douglas
machines are rated at 3.48 and 5.96 h.p. respectively.
The r.p.m. at 30 miles per hour would be roughly 2000
to 2200, depending on the gear ratio used. The power
developed by the 3-h.p. machine would be approxi-
mately 6 b.h.p. and that of the more powerful
machine about 10 b.h.p J.T.: (1) Particulars
regarding qualification necessary, date of exams., etc.,
obtainable from Local Government Department, Syd-
ney. (2) At any of the leading business colleges.
. ...J.C.E.: From Secretary, House Association of
N.S.W., 33 Macquarie-place, Sydney.... T.S.M. : (1)
Adamson, Way, Irving, Corrigan. (2) Yes. Houses
are, Prep., Waugh, Draper, Powell. (3) None....
L.J.: Director, Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney, will be pleased to put you in touch with
buyers.... H. 8.: The exception sometimes taken to
following sympathy with for instead of with is
groundless; the Oxford-English Dictionary even puts
for before with as the normal construction... .5.J.8.:
L’Estrange (“The Australian Blondin”) crossed
Middle Harbor, Sydney, on a tight rope stretched
from cliff to cliff on March 29, 1877. The length
of the rope was 1420 ft., and its height above the
water 341 ft A.M.H.: “Indoor Games and Amuse-
ments,” by O. S. Percival (2s. 6d.) ; “Children’s
Games and How to Arrange Them,” by D. C. Minter
(4s. 6d.) ; “The Jolly Book of New Games,” by W.
D. Vincent (7s. 6d.) —Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
G.R.C.B.: Inquire at Tas. Govt. Tourist Bureau,
34 Martin-place, Sydney... .F.0.D.: The Gregan Mc-
Mahon Play Co. opened at the Sydney Palace on
September 1, 1928, with Barrie’s “Dear Brutus,”
following with “Bird in Hand,” “Lap of the Gods, ’
“The Pigeon” and “Rutherford and Son”. . . . N.H.:
Section 55, Commonwealth Post and Telegraph Act
stipulates that any mail matter addressed to an
adjudged bankrupt or insolvent shall be delivered
to the official receiver, if so directed by order
of the Court, until a date specified in such order.
S.H. : Funk and Wagnalls, 354 Fourth-avenue,
New York K. 11.: (1) Two magneto-’phones, £lO
10s. Half mile of telephone wire, £2 ; two lengths
being required. Instructions are supplied with the
equipment. (2) New Systems Telephones, 280 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney T.E.: (1) Copyright Office,
Martin-place, Sydney. (2) ss. (3) Curtis Brown,
Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London,
W.C.2 F.H.: Sheep-dip should not be used as a
hair restorer T.D.: Write N.S.W. Agriculture
Department, Sydney A.C.1.: Dr. Ralph Noble, 143
Macquarie-street, Sydney... .L.R.P.: A member
of the Senate vacates his seat by handing his written
resignation to the President, and a member of the
House of Reps, by handing his resignation to the
Speaker. A member of the N.S.W. Leg. Council
must resign his seat before contesting a seat in the
Leg. Assembly H.A.M.: The bark is sold either
chopped into short lengths of a few inches or ground.
The grade of chopped bark is usually judged by its
thickness, and this principally determines its market
value. There is no method by which one can tell the
specific origin of hark (with the exception of Acacia
dealbata ) once it is ground. In N.S.W. the bark is
usually ground by the tanners, but where there is
sufficient organisation it is treated by the bark
merchants M.E.M.: Write to the Registrar, Divorce
Court, London J.R.S.M.: The rule is that where
a cheque is made payable at a place other than
where the money became due, the drawer adds
exchange, if any F.C.S.L.: Write Copyright
Office, Customs Department, Queen-street, Brisbane.
A.B. J.: (1) Up-to-date, Factor, Satisfaction,
Brownell, Manhattan and Snowflake all have various
hues of purple flowers. Carmen and Early Rose
have white flowers. (2) Up-to-date and Factor are
synonomous.... E.J. J.: We replied to you by letter
which was returned marked “Addressee Unknown.”
Send us your full postal address... .H.J.: Cost of
manufacture of bricks per 1000 at the State Brick-
works, Homebush (Sydney), during year ending June
30, 1930, was £2 14s. 2d.; sale price per 1000 was:
Seconds, £2 13s. 6d. ; commons, £2 18s. 6d. ; face,
£5 2s W.Y.: For the five years ending December,
1928, South African exports exceeded imports by
£40,608,680 D.W.: Write Secretary, Historical
Society, Education Building, Bridge-street, Sydney
F.W.: Write to Stock and Brands Branch, Agriculture
Department, Sydney T.J.U.: Specimen sent is a
cigar-befetle (Lasioderma serricorne), which attacks
tobacco, stored meals, dried plants, certain kinds of
leather and various dried products C.Y.: Com-
municate with Signor Foli, 14 Govdon-street, Brightcn-
■ le-Sands, Sydney P.A.S.: Motor-cars taken out of
Australia for touring purposes, if returned within
two years of date of exportation, are not liable
to customs duty. Full particulars irrni Customs
Department, Circular Quay, Sydney... .J.S.: It should
contain the price paid and carry a duty stamp;
otherwise you might have trouble if the matter went
to court. .. .L.J.S.: The acceptance, unconditionally,
of the composition would bar any further demand.
. ...W.W.R: A fitter’s apprenticeship cannot be
served on steamers, but must be completed in
engineering shops on shore. No premium is charged
on signing the indenture, and applicants should not
be over 16. The apprenticeship period is five years,
the wages being: First year, 17s, 6d. ; second, 235.;
third, 375. ; fourth, 555. ; fifth, 70s. per week.
Application should be addressed to any of the larger
engineering firms, most of whom employ a number
of (Many others mailed.)


ou
Y
PROMINENT
UNDERTAKINGS
Select
BATTERIES
And Dry Cells
Magnificent tributes to the Quality, Reliability, Efficiency and' Long
Life are paid to Diamond Batteries by their choice on the part of the
following:—
Mawson’s Expedition to the South Pole
(For Scientific Apparatus)
Postmaster-GeneraFs Department
Victorian Police Department
(For Patrol Cars)
Defence Department
Army, Navy and Air Force
Victorian Railways
N.S.W. Railways
Lighthouse Branch
Leading Broadcasting Stations
And Equipment.
"Diamonds” are called upon in this work to meet most exacting
conditions, and are giving amazing service.
Diamonds” Guarantee the Same Outstanding
Performance in Your Radio Set
There are 40 or so entirely distinct types of Diamond Batteries, Dry
Cells and Torch Units to meet every conceivable Radio or Electrical
demand. Whatever your need, “Diamonds” can supply it. The
following are recent notable additions to the "Diamond” range:
Triple Capacity
45 Vo,t 0/1 If*
“B” Batteries
The Triple Capacities are the Batteries
country set users have long been waiting
for. FILLED WITH ENDURANCE—un-
flagging service up to the very end of
their long life—they enable country lis-
teners to reach out to their long distances
undisturbed by the heavy drain imposed
on their “B” Batteries —and the price is
only 24/6.
Other types to meet less heavy conditions.
Heavy Duty and Light Duty, both well
equipped to do their particular work.
■x 2 Volt Flat
Torch Refills
i/-
3 Volt “Junior” Round'
Torch Refill, 9d.
The efficiency of your Torch can go no
further than the quality of its refills.
Don’t put up with poor, foggy illumina-
tion —sudden fading—-but slip in “Dia-
monds” and enjoy a brighter, better light
over a longer burning period.
Other types, including the Standard Round
at Bd. and the Intermediate Round at
enable you to instal Diamonds in
every Standard Torch Case, Round or Flat.
ŵ
Catalogue Free
of All Diamond
Batteries and
Dry Cells.
a
OBTAINABLE AT ALL RADIO DEALERS
Direct Factory Distributors:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY,
Ground Floor, Whitehall.
Bank Place, Melbourne, Cl. ’Phone: F 4952.
Interstate Representatives:
N.S.W.: REG ROSE & COMPANY SYDNEY
S.A.: NEWTON McLAREN, LTD ADELAIDE
LOUIS COEN (S.A.), LTD ADELAIDE
A. G. HEALING, LTD ADELAIDE
QUEENSLAND: J. B. CHANDLER BRISBANE
W.A.: CARLYLE & COMPANY PERTH
TASMANIA: W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD LAUNCESTON
OLIVER & OLIVER PTY., LTD HOBART
W-McF.
John Smith.
ẁ
J.H.M. ABBOTT
ẅ
w
YETH,” said Mr. Pilkington elegantly
taking snuff, “I weally don’t think
that, in hitli own particular thphere,
John Thmith ith to be ecthelled. Pothitively
the man’th a geniuth. He weally ith.”
“But look here, Brummell,” objected
Ensign Calder, “ ’tis all very well of you
to praise the fellow up and laud him to the
skies, but the fact remains that he’s a very
great blackguard. One of the worst sort.
He ought to be in an iron gang at the Coal
River, if he got his deserts; the bestial
ruffian. Why the Commissary permits you
to employ him -beats me altogether. ’Tis
not that he can be ignorant of his record.
Tis notorious ! What do you think of the
fellow, Pansy ?”
Lieutenant Gregory Wicks, R.N., waved
the stem of liis churchwarden in the air
with an expression of disgust in his face.
“An unspeakable ruffian. A gross, de-
graded creature, without a spark of decency.
I could willingly flog the hound myself.
There’s no describing the horrid iniquity of
the filthy gallows-bird. It astounds me that
Brummell should have him about the place.”
“I’U admit the man’th all that you tliay
he ith,” responded Mr. Pilkington to this
chorus of abuse, “but he’tli thomething elthe
bethideth. The fellow’th got bwainth, and
knowth how to uthe ’em. 111 all Bond
Thtweet there’th not a better tailor than
John Thmith—not one. He ith abtliolutely
unique, and I count mythelf fortunate in
having dithcovered him at Pawamatta. Why,
look here, my dear ladth, can either of you
behold thethe clothe I’m wearing, and not
agwee with me that he’th almotlit the motht
wonderful perthon in the colony?”
He stood up and posed before them. They
were seated in casy-chairs upon the veran-
dah of Mr. Pilkington’s residence on the
Rocks, drinking their after-dinner wine, and
the blue background of Port Jackson, stretch-
ing in evening sunlight from Benelong
Point to South Head made a setting against
which the trim and immaculate figure of the
young dandy was displayed to the utmost
advantage. He was clothed in a suit of
brownish material that fitted his athletic
form like a glove, and was clearly the
product of a sartorial genius altogether to
he unexpected in New South Wales in the
year 1817. Mr. Calder nodded as he sipped
liis port, and even that rough mariner Mr.
Wicks appeared to be impressed.
Mr. Pilkington sat down again and toyed
with a lace-edged cambric handkerchief of
snowy whiteness. After a sip at his wine-
glass he enlightened them as to his discovery
of the perfect artist about whose talents
with scissors and needle he had been seek-
ing to inspire his friends.
“Quite a chantlie, it wath —an ecthtwa-
ordinarwy bit of good fortune. I’d dwiven out
to dine with Parthan Marthden on Thun-
day about a month ago, and wath’ weturning
from Pawamatta in the evening, a little
before dark, when a fellow thtuck me up
near Clay Cweek and demanded that I tliould
thtand and deliver. Oh, well, you know,
I couldn’t do that, tho I jumped over the
dashboard of the gig, and thpwead him out
with a clean left. Lord ! When the beggar
wath lying there, unconthiouth, it thtwuck
me I’d never theen a beathtlier-looking fellow
in my life. Horwible to look at, he watli!
Like one of thothe monkeyth you thee at
the Cape of Good Hope. However, I tied
him up, hand and foot, and dwove him into
town, intending to hand him over to Mr.
D’Arthy Wentworth’th polith. It wath get-
ting late in the evening, however, tho I
dwove thtwaiglit home, and then dithcovered
that the confounded fellow’th jaw wath
bwoken. Tho there wath nothing for it
but to put him to bed and thend for Dr.
Hathtingth. I mutht have hit him pwetty
hard.”
“And d’ye mean to say you actually
nursed the brute here until he got better?”
asked Mr, Calder.
“Oh, well, you thee,” replied Mr. Pilking-
ton, a little apologetically, “after knocking
the man out tho badly ’twould hardly have
been kind to turn him awmy. Would it
now? ’Twould have been too bad!
Oh, yeth—l let him thtay till he wath all
wight again. To tell you the twuth. I wath
fathinated by the fellow’th uglineth. And
I dithcovered, moreover, what a vewy
wemarkable artitht he wath. Quite, ath
I’ve thaid, by chanthe.”
“How was that, Brummell?” asked Mr.
Wicks. “How did you find out his talents?”
“He thpoke to me . one day—begging
pardon for little pwetlmmption—about the
clothe I wath wearwing. You know that
dwab affair I got from England, about thixth
month ago? An ectlipenthive enough cotli-
tume, I atthure you, made by Turton, of
Thaville-wow. He pointed out thundvvy
faultth in itth cut—and, gad, the fellow wath
wight! It wath all wong. He offered to
alter it, and made a thplendid job of it. At
outlie i wecognised the artithtic inthtineth
of the man. Tho I got him to make me
thith thuit I’m wearwing—and you can thee
how he’th done that. Immediately I wecog-
nithed ’twould be a public benefaction if I
put him in the way of making clothe for
the quality of Thydney—that ’twould be a
thin for him to be employed in an iron
gang. A blathphemouth thin! Tho I per-
thuaded Governor Macquarwie to gwant him
a conditional pardon, and then I thet him
up in a thyop of hith own in Hunter-thtweet.
I conthider that I have wondered the colony
a thervithe. Don’t you think tho? I mutht
beg you, my good fellowth, to let John Thmith
take your meathurtli.”
“Oh. you be , Brummell!” protested
Mr. Wicks. “Why, damme, here’s your pro-
digy coming in the gate now! Heaven help
us —what a mug!”
Up the path' leading to the verandah steps
from the little gate in the wicket fence sur-
rounding Mr. Pilkington’s garden shuffled a
strange caricature of manhood. Hi s face
was the loathsome indication of a foul and
putrid soul. His long, pendulous arms gave
him the look of a baboon.
Pie slouched up to the foot of the steps
and touched his hat to Mr. Pilkington.
“Good evening, Thmith,” said that gentle-
man, even with a sort of respect in his tone.
“Thethe are the gentlemen I mentioned to
you ath being tho thadly in need of your
betht attention.”
* * * *
It was a wet and stormy evening—a south-
erly wind driving cold, pelting rain in their
faces, as Messrs. Calder and Wicks turned
the corner of Pitt and Hunter streets into
the latter muddy thoroughfare, making their
way from Sydney Cove towards the Military
Barracks in George-street. All the after-
noon Mr. Wicks had entertained Ensign
Calder aboard H.M.S. Emu, moored off the
new Fort Macquarie, and now Mr. Calder
was about to reciprocate with a similar
degree of hospitality in the mess of H.M.
46th Regiment of Foot. They wrapped their
cloaks about them and hurried up the slope,
anxious to come into warmth and shelter out
of the bleak coldness of the night.
Almost they had turned into George-street
and the long barrack wall loomed darkly
on the other side of the roadway, -when, with
startled exclamations, they came to a simul-
taneous and sudden halt. A piercing shrill
scream that repeated itself twice —more
faintly _ the third time—clamored out above
the whistling and howling of the chill wind.
It was so startling in the quality of its
agony as to make them shiver.
“Good God !” exclaimed Mr. Wicks.
“Someone’s being murdered! “Where the
devil did it come from?”
“Back a little way—this side of the road
—three or four doors down. Saints! Did
you ever hear anything like it?”
“Come, then. We must see what’s the
matter. Come along, Patrick.”
They turned back down the street, scan-
ning the cottages that stood dimly in their
little gardens behind picket- and paling-
fences. They .seemed to be silent and asleep
—Sydney was abed early in 1817—but in
one of them a slit of light or two made
lines of yellow radiance beneath the lower
ends of the wooden shutters that closed the
window’s.
“This must have been the place,” whis-
pered Mr. Wicks. They stood and gazed
at the squat, thatched, one-storeyed shanty
that showed the light. A low, grumbling
murmur _ and a pitiful whimpering, which
an occasional lull in the howling of the wind
enabled them to hear, came out of the little
house. There was something sinister in the
appearance of the place.
“Did ye hear somethink, gemmen?”
croaked a hoarse voice beside them with
startling • suddenness. “Lumme, I thort I
’card a screech or somethink.”
They became aw 7 are of an elderly person
in a eaped cloak of the sort worn by the
constabulary of the period, and of a dim
radiance that made the front of the house
a little more visible, shining out of a lan-
tern he carried in one hand. In the other
was an immense wooden watchman’s rattle.
“What was the noise, Constable?” Mr.
Calder asked. '
“I dunno, sir—why, ’tis young Mr. Calder
o’ tli’ battalion, ain’t it? I dunno, Mi-.’
Calder. I but jest a-heard it, as you’ gem-
men went by—from th’ corner yonder. ’Twas
a w’oman, I’m a-thinkin’.”
“It sounded like a woman’s scream,” said
Mr. Wicks. “We’d better go and knock.
There might be something bad amiss. Oh,
hell—there it is again!”
A bellow of rage came from within, and
then the same falsetto shriek of fear and
suffering they had heard before.
“Stiffen me, I mils’ see hinto this ’ere!”
grunted the old policeman. “I’ll call for
’el]i.”
He whirled his right arm about his head,
so that the light from the shaken lantern
in the other hand danced wildly about the
little garden and the front of the house, and
the fearful and hideous clamor of the rattle
echoed above the wind, filling all the valley
of the Tank Stream with its rapid clacking
sound. Mr. Wicks grabbed his arm.
“Oh, dammit, stop that infernal row!
Here, Patrick, let’s break down the door.
.Come on. You keep quiet, and come with
us,” he cried to the constable. “Don’t make
that —— hullabaloo again, or I’ll take the
infernal contrivance from you. Come, we’ll
bust in the front door.”
The young sailor pushed open the little
gate, and, charging up the pathway, hurled
himself against the door, which went down
immediately. The others followed after Mr.
Wicks, and stood in the open doorway, gap-
ing with amazement at the strange scene
revealed to them.
Inside the single room that, with a skil-
lion at the back, was all the accommodation
the little, dwelling afforded, a woman was
strapped across a tough and greasy table, face
downwards, and entirely nude. Her feet were
on the ground, and her naked body was
bent at a right-angle at the hips over the
edge of the table. A rope crossed her waist
tightly, and her wrists were secured with
cords to the table’s legs at the end furthest
from the door. Similarly, her ankles were
attached to those at the nearer end. Back
a little from her, shirtless and naked from
the waist, his hideous countenance distorted
even beyond its ordinary wont, and wearing
only a pair of knee-breeches, stood the revolt’-
ing figure of John Smith, the tailor, who
slavered into the fringe of reddish hair below
his chin, and glared at the intruders with a
stare of mingled ferocity and lunacy. His
hairy chest heaved with excitement, and at
the end of his long, ape-like right arm a
huge fist grasped a knotted scourge of whip-
cord that was stained with blood.
“Good God!” gasped Mr. Wicks
“He’s been flogging her!” cried Ensign
Calder.
“ ’Tis Polly Simpkins,” grunted the
astounded constable. “A woman o’ th’ town
y’r honors. But, what does it mean, for th ;
love o’ Mike!” ’
{Continued on page 42.)


f i V
/At?"
f?~Z
° %J
J <32
r/L
5%
<£> £>
»1!
a
e>;
S>' O I
A
sr ~«*
«i*C?
-
=:
&
G*
'l^77
'fe *■■£■
' w/r^m
-f X
e>r£
y i, my/y/J/M
•ys
\~ M
'-47^
(^K>
3»>
•**>
3ci
*7? W/
, ? 7
3>
«•:=
A 3
A y 3 M3a^;
iiwni
r/^ti
V'S^
AQ 03«i-J-]OS
dxa
■’■-a
rxm
iH
fli 111 M li i’ ii ■
r
id
p|M
ir%J
iri!t
!!///
jii«a
!\\S,
Lilt
111 nil 111
HI Hi
t*o
i
IliMI
H3M3
IBS
i! !
m
\m
1
1
!%
ill


REPAIRS.
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
The Famous Hollis 12-gauge Guns
specially made for me to suit Australian
Conditions.
Hollis “Foxey” Hammer Model, £l3
Hollis Special Hammerless
Model £2l
Specifications for both Guns: 30- or 32-inch
Barrels, both full choke, chambered for 3in.
cartridges, high file cut rib, treble wedge
fast crossbolt (hammer model side clips),
selected English walnut stock, weight 7slb, to
81b. each. POST FREE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith. Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Market Street).
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
ẃ
Food
teauk Make.
The restful food
When digestion and nerves
are deranged, Benger’s Food is
both soothing and satisfying.
A cupful taken at bedtime is
comforting and sleep inducing.
Every case needing digestive help is
a case jor Benger’s Food.
Dr.
Write for booklet to;—BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGKR’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: TURNED UP
CRITERION:
ELIZA COMES TO STAY.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME—
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
MUSICAL COMEDY,
TOP HOLE.
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorite*.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With the Villiers, the Summer Cup and
the Carrington won by horses from his
stables, E. F. Walker, most successful of
Randwick trainers, was confidently expected
to add Tatt.’s Club Cup to liis collection.
He started Pavilion as well as Dalston, and
the latter firmed from threes to 7 to. 4, the
mare being at sevens. As in the Summer
Cup Jeypore (5 to 1) made all the running
and Dalston ranged alongside him at the
entrance to the straight; but this time it
was Jeypore who came on, while Dalston
faded out after a brief fight. Either he is
a quitter or he did too well in the stable
(and too little on the track) between Box-
ing Day and New Year’s Day. Spearman
(5 to 1) was the only horse to throw out
a challenge to Jeypore. He had got into
a bit of trouble near the five-furlong post,
and he came home well, but Cook’s momit
held him safe over the last furlong; Voleuse
(14 to 1) pleased the A.J.C. chairman by
running third. Star d’Or was a good fourth;
Pavilion failed to stay.
Jeypore is trained by K. Duggan for H.
H. Miskell. He is a great favorite with the
Sydney public, especially the ladies who go
punting, for he is a thorough little gentle-
man in appearance and action, and no gamer
bit of horseflesh was ever saddled up. By
Highfield—Broncurry, he is still only five
years old, and it is doubtful if the best has
been seen of him yet; he belongs to a.
family that improves with age. He goes up
from Bst. 81b. to 9st. 61b. in the Anniversary
Handicap on Jan. 26, and is certain of good
support if he starts.
Valparaiso was taken out of the Cup
and reserved for the Alfred H'ill Handicap,
a nine-furlongs race ; therein Pat Nailon,
who trains Fuji San’s brother and Spearman,
showed good judgment. The backing of
Gesto (from sixes to 5 to 2) and of Wau-
goola (fours) enabled the Valparaiso .party
to get 7 to 1 for their money. Valparaiso
got in front after they had travelled six
furlongs or so and stayed there, unavailingly
pursued by Waugoola—his third second in
three starts.
On paper the January Handicap at War-
wick Farm looked rather like a consolation
prize for the owner of Gesto, but when it
was seen that an apprentice had the mount
instead of Pike the big chestnut was in no
great request. Rowan Berry raced along-
side him for a few furlongs, and both went
wide entering the straight, by which time
Gesto had had enough. Old Don Moon, who
was favorite at threes, slipped through on
the rails and had a handy win from little
Bosmina and Antiochus. If ever a race-
horse earned his oats, Don Moon has.
Casque d’Or, backed from fives to threes,
got the best of a very exciting contest in
the Sefton Handicap; Killarney was only
half a head behind him, and Erbie (£4 os* 6d.
for 10s. on the tote) was little more than
that distance away. It was a day of close
finishes; Valentino (9 to 2) and Bonawe
(7 to 1) dead-heated in the Farm Stakes,
and so did Traymobile and Gemlight (each
4 to 1) in the Berala Handicap. Valentino
w-as placed second on protest for interfer-
ence.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday :
Maiden Welter : Amanullah ; next, Goora-
bul.
Flying Welter: Coolmint; next, Just Gold.
Park Stakes: Gallant Top; next, Lady
Cannes.
Nursery Handicap: Irish Eyes.
Canterbury Handicap: Zeeland; next,
Tressilian.
Welter: Leisure Hour; next, Staroff.
* * * *
J. M. Niall made no mistake when he
bought Umbertana (Salatis —Quillion),
though he had to go to four figures to get
him. Having won twice in the Niall colors,
and with the conquering Duncan in the
saddle, Umbertana was always favorite for
the Standish Handicap at Flemington on
New Year’s Day. It was possible to get
fours, but 7 to 2 was the closing price;
there was also strong support for First
Arrow, Clarius, lOU and Strogoff. From
the centre of the field Duncan manoeuvred
Umbertana to the favored position on the
outer rail. Binna (15 to 1) showed a lot
of pace, but Umbertana disposed of him over
the last bit; Blematic (12 to 1) finished
strongly, but could not quite reach Binna.
There was great cheering for Umbertana and
the-jockey; the time was lmin. 121 sec.
Hellenist found 9st. 121 b. too much for
him in the Bagot Handicap. Heroic’s half-
brother Cimbrian (10 to 1) shot to the
front a furlong from home and was well
clear at the finish from Pinnacle (14 to 1)
and the Queenslander In Petto (8 to 1) ;
Hellenist was fourth. Cimbrian, who was
ridden by Phillips, carried 9st. 21b.; he
failed last year with 9st., but was a tired
horse then after his severe spring campaign,
in which he beat Cathmar in the V.R.C.
Carnival Handicap and Lineage in the Wil-
liamstown Cup.
With Flemington on Thursday, Mentone
on Friday and Aspendale Park on Saturday,
Melbourne had more than enough racing in
the latter part of the week. Duncan rode a
winner at each meeting—Prince Dayton (7 to
4) in the Mentone Purse and Walter Scott
(evens) in the Aspendale Purse; he has
recovered all his old following. Golden
Arrow (3 to 1) exhibited pace in the
Three-year-old Handicap at Aspendale. By
Whittier —Princess Aura, he ought to be
able to gallop.
* * * *
The second day of the Q.T.C. meeting at
Ascot saw High Gold (High Force—Gold
Frock) and Great Idea (Rivoli —High Idea)
win again. High Gold (5 to 4) was hard
put to it to concede 221 b. to Loughneagh in
the Two-year-old Handicap, but Great Idea
(5 to 2) made hacks of his opponents in
the Newmarket Handicap, in which Trainer
was backed confidently but had to put up
■with second place. The youngster is owned
by L. Dahl and E. F. (not E. G.) Theodore;
Rivoli’s son, by Mrs. J. 11. S. Barnes, wife
of the breeder.
* * * *
Ante-post betting has received an inglori-
ous advertisement in Perth. On the last day
of the old year it was reported that The
Dimmer had gone, wrong, and his price for
the Perth .Cup drifted from fours to 25 to
1, with no takers. In Perth, as in Brisbane,
publication of prices is permitted, and a lot
of people must have gone to the pretty
W.A.T.C. course on Thursday expecting that
the erstwhile favorite would be withdrawn.
On the contrary he remained in, was backed
from forlorn-hope odds to 7 to 1, and had
the race at his mercy when the field had
gone a mile and a half, leading from that
point to the judge’s box, at which he was
RUNNING LATE.
CHIEF: “Wasting time, old chap If you’d brought a few new hazards for our minnie
golf course we might have done business.”
four lengths ahead of Serbury, the second
horse beating the favorite, Knight Com-
mander, by half a neck. The Dimmer tra-
versed the two miles in 3min. 29|sec. Rid-
den by Cooper, he is now owned by W.
Morris, who bought him cheap in Sydney
from the now-reinstated Tindall. Tindall
must be accounted desperately unfortunate
to have had to dispose of two such money-
spinners as Tregilla and The Dimmer.
The tote divs. are commended to the
notice of the N. S. Wales Government,
which talks foolishly of having the 60-20-20
machine converted into a “concession”
betting implement, which would be even less
attractive. The Dimmer divs. for 10s. were
£4 19s. and £2 6s. —just on 9 to 1 s.o. and
better than 7 to 2 for a place. Backers of
Knight Commander, 3 to 1 in the ring, got
£1 4s. for 10s. —nearly 6 to 4. You can
never show a profit on a horse at 3 to 1
by backing him each way at Randwick.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Nine days after his unlucky mill with
Ambrose Palmer at Sydney Stadium, Jack
Haines was still seriously ill in St. Vincent’s
Hospital. His friends deny a printed report
that he was palpably unfit to fight the young
Victorian ; they say he never shaped better in
his training.
* * * *
Emilio Bernasconi has had two fights in
Sydney, and there won’t be a third. Haines
made him pull off his gloves in seven rounds,
and now Herman Bundren has stopped him
in 90 seconds. Each weighed list. 6flb.,
and they looked well matched till an Ameri-
can right uppercut crashed against the
Italian chin. The police saved Emilie from
annihilation.
* * * *
Rus Critcher (lOst. 411 b.) carried too
many guns for “Young Sam” Langford (lOst.
711 b.) at Leichhardt. When Wally Han-
cock conquered Langford it was said that
the black would do better next time, but his
form against Critcher was poor. The youth
from the South Coast was an easy winner
on points.
The Ins and Outs
The West Indians sadly disappointed in
their second Test against Australia in Syd-
ney. Their start was promising, Jackson,
Kippax, Bradman and McCabe going cheaply
for 140—at one period three were out for
69. Ponsford (183) and Woodfull (58)
changed the complexion of the game. By
stonewalling they wore down the originally
good bowling of the Buccaneers, and
the innings closed for the not very
wonderful score of 369. Slow-bowler Scott
had the best average with 4 for 66. Griffith
sent down a lot of very good fast stuff, while
his fielding, with that of most of his mates,
was first-class. Disaster came with the
appearance of Grimmett at the bowling-
crease. As at Adelaide, the visitors were
literally helpless against him, and fell to
pieces for 107. Fairfax was successful with
3 for 19, but the googlie man, with 4 for 54,
gave the impression of doing what he liked
with the opposition. Thoroughly gravelled,
the unhappyHslanders were stacked up against
Hurwood (4-22) and Ironmonger (3-13) in
their follow-on, and were dismissed for 90 —
victory for Australia by an innings and 172.
South Australia’s tussle with Victoria in
Melbourne was a dull affair. South Aus.
opened with a painful 275, Victor Richardson
(64), Nitschke (43) and Waite (44) getting
among the runs, while Blackic (6-70)
rattled the sticks to some purpose. Victoria
got a good lead with 386, to which the colt
Oakley, in Sydney with the Victorian second
eleven recently, threw in a stylish 108.
L. P. O’Brien again made good with 75,
the veteran Carlton taking 4 for 91, and Lee
5 for 106. In their second essay South
Australia lost five for 205 (Hack 85 n. 0.).
* * * *
The English side in Africa got a shock in
the second Test played on grass wickets at
Newlands, near Capetown. The Afrikanders
closed with 8 down for 513. The veteran H.
W. Taylor, one of the greatest batsmen South
Africa has produced, made 117, his 7th Test
century. Transvaaler Bruce Mitchell came
along with 123, while Seidle, of Natal, also
in the veteran class, top-scored with 141.
Tate and Leyland, witli 3 wickets each,
made the best showing with the ball. Eng-
land opened well, close on 300 going up for
the first four wickets; Hammond, Wyatt and
Leyland all scored solidly, while Hen dr an
ran to 93 before the Greek, Balaskas, bowled
him. The last half-dozen men did little
and the innings closed for 350, Bell, Mc-
Millan, Vincent and Balaskas cutting up
the wickets. Following on, England had
26 on without loss at stumps at the week-
end, Hammond and Wyatt being not out.
* * *
Save for half an hour on the opening day,
the Victoria-N.S.W. match in Melbourne was
confined to the fourth day by bad weather.
Victoria carried on from 3 for 30 to a total
of 185, to which Ponsford contributed a
stubborn 109 n.o. Fairfax was the most
successful N.S.W. bowler, with 4 for 41.
Blackie and Ironmonger rattled out six of
the visitors before stumps, Jackson, with
52 n. 0., being the only man to shape like a
batsman.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Bradman has had £5O
cut off his final payment from the Board of
Control. It is an absurd decision; still there
is no harm in reminding this lad,. still on
the threshold of life, that the man who deli
berately flouts a contract made in due form
is practically marked for the rest of his
commercial life. The Bowral youngster is
by far too good a fellow to have a brand
like that stuck on him.
* * * *
Charley Turner (“C.T.8.”) turned in his
job in the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank
last week after many years of service. The
famous bowler, a little bit thicker round the
middle since the days when he was known
as “The Terror” and North of England
mothers used to quiet rebellious children
with the sound of his name, is 68. The
writer, who saw both him and George
Lohmann in their prime, and then Syd
Barnes later, has lain awake at nights try-
ing to make out which was the greatest spin
bowler of the trio —Spofforth belonged to an
earlier day. On a wicket that was getting
dry and crumbly eleven Victor Trumpets
would not have knocked up 50 runs against
“C.T.8.” He was always formidable, what-
ever the conditions, and must-rank with the
best half-dozen bowlers of all time.
$ sfc
“Aigburth”: A perennial matter for com-
plaint among Australian cricket scribes is
the tendency of British county or other
clubs to lure away Australian cricketers. As
a matter of fact, there has been compara-
tively little of it done. In the past men like
Ferris and Sammy Woods found conditions
attractive enough, and in later days others,
such as the late Frank O’Keefe and E. A.
McDonald, have been satisfied to take the
cash and let the credit go. There is another
tale to tell to-day. The Australian amateur
cricketer of any note can now command in
his homeland such a thundering lot of cash
for his services or the use of his name that
no county in England can afford to come into •
the market. Perhaps that is why my old
county of Lancashire has hung out the
notice “None but Native-born Need Apply.”
For years the county of the Red Rose has
been the biggest buyer of “colonials.” It
will in future open its cricket gates only to
the sons of the soil.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”; Maoriland is hurt because
Australia cannot find time to send over an
Australian cricket side to try out the All
Blacks who intend to adventure in
Britain again. With the West Indians,
the Sheffield season, and the commitments
of the South African tour next year,
Australia can hardly be blamed. The
idea of sending an Australian team to the
Shivery Isles was nothing more or less than
a journalistic stunt, which the Board of Con-
trol never even thought of.
(Continued on next page.)


Bert: "Its starting -to rain again."
Gert; "There goes another
vnucket, Bert.”
Bert: "what a. wretched da,v
t=OR CRICKET I "
G\ ERt: "But 'NHKT A BEAimRUL.
DAY POR DUCKS l "
The Ins and Outs
“Bramall Lane” : Tom Howard, treasurer
for the Australian Eleven, has raised a bitter
howl in liis report on the last tour because
the Yorkshiremen got a bit the better
of the deal with him over the Australian
matches in the county which claims a fly
and a flea and a bacon flitch as its coat of
arms. It appears that whenever an Austra-
lian side, or any other extra cricket attrac-
tion, comes along, Yorkshire reduces the
membership rates, with the result that many
people who might have bunged in a few bob
to Tom’s sock save what they call “t’ brass”
thereabout. While sympathising with Mr.
Howard, I must say, as one of Yorkshire
extraction, that he was “looking for it” to
take on that crowd on a genial sympathy
basis. They are a dear lot—to any who have
to deal with them.
;|C * * *
“Kaikoura” ; Here in Christchurch (M.L.),
where we pride ourselves on being
essentially English, we have been faced with
the doleful fact that we don’t part up
enough' brass for cricket. We certainly
get a lot of money from football, and that we
hang on to it at all costs is equally noto-
rious—ask the N.S.W. Rugby Union. _ I
have, however, a circular before me asking
me to take up any amount of £12,000, the
capital of New Zealand Cricket, Ltd., which
is to finance the tour of the All Blacks
in Britain. It is a really sporting-
scheme, and I hope my bank manager,
who is rather a stuffy sort of pig these days,
will see eye to eye with me in the matter.
* * * *
“’Gabba”: A lot of the old hands like
myself in Queensland are wondering how the
rumpus between the Queensland . cricket
selectors and the team sent south is going
to end. The officials tried to.order the selection
of teams in faraway Victoria and South Aus-
tralia. This attitude, though attempted pre-
viously, is against all canons of cricket law,
and the captain of the touring side justifiably
insisted on his right to pick the particular-
eleven which seemed to him most fitted to
play. There is no doubt but that the
Bananalanders, who had shown such fine
form in Queensland and N.S.W., were
affected in the Victorian and South Aus-
tralian matches by* the string vigorously
lugged from headquarters. The coterie re-
sponsible is the same which kicked Leo
O'Connor out of the Queensland side and
prevented Ron. Oxenham from going to
England.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Don’t let us forget George
Giffen while we are heartily praising Grim-
mett’s fine bag of 212 wickets —and he has
not finished yet —as a record for S.A. in
Shield matches, beating the 209 of Ernest
Jones about 30 years ago. Further, of course,
Giffen was a better bat, if possible, than
bowler. One Victorian match at least he
won practically single-handed; and nobody
is likely ever again to pull off his double
of heading both sets of averages on an Eng-
land tour.
* * *
The December number of the N.S.W.
Cricket Association’s coaching magazine is
as full of interest as its successors. There
is nothing quite so instructive in cricket
literature known to The Bulletin. Its
contributors include most of the great
players who have made Australian cricket
history, and the article on spin bowling in
the current number by R. J. A. Massie, the
lefthand fast bowler whose cricket career
was terminated by war injuries, is worth the
attention of every youngster with bowling
ambitions. The mag. has already . made
friends overseas. In last month’s mail w r as
a cheque from R. A. Young, sportsmaster
at Eton, for a year’s subscription. R.A. will
be remembered as the Sussex, batsman-
wicketkeeper who was in Australia with the
Marylebone team of 1907-08.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: N.S.W. tennis heads
have added several new and pleasing items
to the list of attractions for the State cham-
pionships which kick off on January 24.
Chief among these are the so-called “plates ’
for players beaten in the first rounds of the
men’s and women’s singles championships.
The title is ill-chosen, perhaps. It recalls
—to the writer, at least—those races
for derelict old prads of no account at all
which used to adorn Australian racing pro-
grammes, but which have long been elimi-
nated, though they still survive in Britain.
They were known as selling plates, and the
sort of nag that usually appeared in them
w-as colloquially referred to as a “plater.”
A feature of these events was that the win-
ner had to be sold by auction. I don’t know
whether this applies at Rushcutters Bay, but
I think I’ll take my cheque-book out on the
off-chance. My experience is that the pret-
tier the girl, the worse the player, so there
should be some likely sorts among the platers.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: The British tennis team
touring India had a tough fight of it in
the main tourney of their tour, the Calcutta
championships. Some of the native-born
players showed great aptitude, notably Sher
Singh, of Delhi, and Nazir Kapur, of Allaha-
bnd, who knocked out Austin and Oliffe, pro-
claimed as England’s best doubles, pair, in
the semi-finals, winning three straight sets.
Austin was equal to taking the singles, in
which he had to beat his team-mate, E. D.
Andrews, of Maoriland, whom many will
remember as winning the N.S.W. junior
championship in Sydney some years ago.
Andrews, who went to Cambridge from M.L.,
seems now to be definitely domiciled in
Britain. In the mixed doubles, an Anglo-
Indian pair, Brooke Edwards and Jenny
Sandison —the latter rated as the Indian
Helen Wills —swept the board.
* * * *
“Corinda” : Moon, who holds the. singles
championship, intends to defend his title
at the Australian meeting which begins
in Sydney on February 27. The Bananaland
farmer was a disappointment on the overseas
trip, but an accident early in the tour may
have accounted for this. Since his return,
Queensland critics consider he h'as improved
out of sight, while he has acquired several
new and effective shots. Curiously enough,
Moon has never been able to do his best
in Sydney. Most of his triumphs, including
the championship, have had Melbourne for
their venue.
% # * *
In an excellent little book on tennis, pro-
duced in Melbourne by the Lothian Press
and “foreworded” by Norman Brookes, Pat-
ricia Dawson, who some time ago took up
the career of a professional tennis coach in
Yarraville, tells a story of Suzanne Lenglen
which throws an interesting light on what
is referred to, usually, as the ‘‘tennis tem-
perament.” Patricia was watching Suzanne
in France and noted that she continually
“footfaulted.” The spectator mentioned this
to one of the club officials and he agreed
with her, adding that everyone knew the lady
did it, but no one was game to pull her
up. One unfortunate who did so was
always referred to for the remainder of his
stricken days as “the brave umpire,” but
he got no more jobs while Suzanne was any-
where in the neighborhood.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: An interesting annual golf
tourney in Victoria is that between the
mostly unlionored and unsung officials who
are occasionally referred to as “green-
keepers.” Mostly these folk are only remem-
bered when some prominent club identity
goes bung on his putting. Then there is
a complaint to the committee, and the un-
happy greenkeeper is carpeted. The writer
knew one whose club was famous for its
greens. The misguided individuals who ran the
club consented to a movie publicity stunt,
which involved pictures of a dozen or so
buxom wenches who had finished well up
in a “Beauty” competition. The mob was
turned on to the home green, and since all
of them wore five-inch French heels while
going through a pathetic imitation of putt-
ing, the last end of that green was worse
than it was before it was carved out of
the primeval scrub. The last I saw of the
poor fellow was when he shook hands with
me at Spencer-street station and announced
his intention of going to Geelong. Peace
to his ashes. (N.B. —I quite forgot to say
that this year’s match in Melbourne was won
by George Mullin, of Albert Park, who
just headed Campbell, *f Dandenong, on
the 36th green.)
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Not often is golf played
in a snowstorm in Australia, but . it
happened when the Paton Cup was being
played for at Kosciusko (N.S.W.) last week.
The pot was won by R. Hayes with a card
of 84, the runner-up being . G. Patterson,
4 strokes behind. Bogey is 78, so the
winner’s performance under the circum-
stances was not so dusty. Patterson, by the
way, turned the tables on the winner of
the cup in a one club 18 holes bogey-handi-
cap match, finishing three up on his
opponent.
* * * *
“Huon”: When Jock Robertson won the
Australian professional championship last
year mainland golfers wondered who the
Tasmanian Scot was—few of them had
ever heard of him. That he is no mug at
the game was shown by his_ defeat of the
formidable Len Nettlefold in the Tassy
Summer Cup tourney played at King-
ston Beach. The event was a stroke play
one over 36 holes, and when Ncttlcfold came
home after the first round with a card of
70 he looked home and dried. Three down
on the morning round, Robertson stuck
grimly to his 'task and finished the nfternoon
with a 70. Nettlefold took 76 this time,
leaving his professional opponent winner by
3. The two 70’s, by the way, are course
records.
# * * *
“Iconoclast” : Melbourne is looking forward
to a threatened outbreak of the golfing com-
plex. It is to be known as the “National Golt
Week” and will consist in the exhibition at
Melbourne Town Hall for a week from Feb-
ruary 27 of everythin? pertaining to the ob-
session. Sports-goods dealers, professional
players, and anyone else likely to assist the
movement are invited to co-operate. As one
who is a golfer of considerable experience and
indifferent performance and is, in addition, a
retired cavalry sergeant-major, I am offer-
ing my services. I anticipate my lectures
on the correct phraseology on Ollendorfian
lines for a round of 18 holes should draw
good houses. They will be for men only,
of course—associates barred.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: The march of science
has struck a fell blow at one of the world’s
most democratic institutions—the golf
caddie. A Birmingham engineer—l refuse
him the privilege of publishing his name —
has invented a mechanical club-bearer
mounted on caterpillar wheels and driven
by an electric motor. This rolls round the
course alongside its master, carries the clubs,
drops balls when a button is pressed and
automatically records the score. It also
cleans muddy balls and shoes with a revolv-
ing brush and—the only decent thing that can
be said about it—has a receptacle wherein
bottles and glasses may be stowed. It lacks,
however, the capacity which has made the
human caddie famous for “putting a man in
his place.” There are a million instances,
but I like best the story of a bishop who
was reproving a subordinate. “Wretched
young man,” he said, “remember there is
One before whom even I am but a crushed
worm.” “Of course, m’lord,” said the other,
understandingly. “That caddie of yours is
certainly the limit.”
* * 3: *
“Sturt”: Rufus Stewart, the S.A. golf
pro., on his own links at Ivooyonga, has
played a round in the dark in the amazing
score of 77. (He was allowed a torchlight
to be shone on the ball as he made each
stroke.) He did several threes, found a
bunker only once, never lost a ball and was
home in well under two hours.
Car and Cycle
“Nunc Dimittis”: Motoring has taken on
a new horror for the pedestrian, if a re-
ported English invention may be credited.
This is a loud-speaker fitted to a car
whereby the driver can make his voice
audible some hundreds of yards away in
order to warn pedestrians. It will not be
popular, I venture to forecast. The motorist
will ignore any invention calculated to spoil
his casualty average. The pedestrian, accus-
tomed to being momentarily cursed by a
fleeting driver who has barely missed run-
ning him down, will not welcome a device
which will expose him to the unpleasantness
of being pursued for miles by withering
invective.
* * * *
“Boots, Boots”: Yankeeland, which is
always thinking up something new and
strange, has evolved a scheme which permits
the pedestrian to do his own motor-trafiic-
controlling. An electric installation controlled
by a push-button is placed on the lamp-
posts on each street corner. Those wishing
to cross the street alive press this button.
A horn hoots by day and a yellow light
shines by night, and until these warnings
pass—presumably when the footslogger
reaches the other side of the street —all
motor and wheeled traffic of any sort must
stand to attention. The scheme may work
all right in dry America. In this country,
at the present season, the drunk who likes
to turn out the fire brigades and perform
analogous festive stunts would have the time
of his life with the new contraption.
:-C ❖ ❖ $
“Differential”: Why such speed experts
as Malcolm Campbell insist on making their
attempts on speed records on the Day-
tona Beach track (B. 31/12/’3O) beats the
writer. The utterly unsuitable run has
already been responsible for killing three
drivers, and there are no compensations in
the way of big gates, or even adequate ex-
penses, as Kaye Don found to his sorrow
when lie had a shy last vear. The notorious
beach is boomed all over the earth by the
local city authorities, who derive a huge
revenue from the attendances at the periodi-
cal attempts on the records. That is its only
recommendation, yet beaches like that at
Waitaia in Maoriland, and dried lake-beds
like Perkolili in Westralia, infinitely
superior racing tracks, are unhonored —prin-
cipally because they are unsung. It pays
to advertise, all right.
* * * *
“Whizz” : Dirt-track cycling is not nearly
as dangerous as it looks, but its casualty
list grows. The latest name added to
the roll is that of G. C. Hibberd,
killed the other night at Wentworth
Oval in Sydney. Hibberd made a name
for himself in the days of the Maroubra
speedway, and later followed the dirt-
track boom to England, where he rode with
considerable success. He was only back
from the Cold Country a few weeks before
Fate called him off the track.
“Hotham”: It was hoped that Australia
would be able to put a complete team of four
into the field for the next Tour de France .
That being out of the question, “L’Auto,”
the French trade journal which promotes the
famous road race, has arranged that Hubert
Opperman and “Fatty” Lamb shall take
part in the Tour and in other European
road races, and they will leave Fremantle
on February 2. How they will be placed
in the big race is uncertain at present. It
is probable that they will be components of.
a scratch team, but as one of their probable
partners is the formidable Nicholas Frantz,
who is utilised as a “fill up” by the pro-
moters and has already won the individual
prize on several occasions, they should lose
little by this. The pair will ride at the Sum-
mer Velodrome in Paris in a six-day race.
One of their objectives is the Paris-Brest-
Paris race of 700 miles, which is held every
10 years. It is a one-stage go, with no
stoppages, and is the greatest cycling endur-
ance race in the world.
Miscellaneous
“Queensh Prawn” : The silent but deadly
struggle for the Australian chess champion-
ship which is raging in Melbourne at time
of writing recalls a novel match in which I
officiated as line umpire or something in the
long ago. The board was the black and
white squares of the hall linoleum, and the
pieces were bottles of assorted drinks. Beer
stood for the pawns, sherry for the knights,
burgundy for the rooks, hock for the bishops
and fizz for the kings and queens. One of
the conditions -was that as soon as a player
took a piece he had to drink it. There was
some fuss when one player sacrificed two
pawns and a bishop for a rook, but on his
explaining that burgundy was his pet tipple
his finesse was applauded. I am rather hazy
about the details of the rest of the play, but
I can recall that about 4 a.m. the match
ended in disorder, when it was discovered
that one of the officials' had pinched the
white king’s rook and emptied the black
queen. Who it was has never been made
clear, though my head next morning gave
me an idea.
* * * *
“Splash” : So far Australia has _ escaped
the endurance-swim idiocy which originated,
like miniature golf and prohibition, in
America. Now some misguided individuals
in Manly (N.S.W.) have put up a £5OO
purse for an event of the kind which is to
to be perpetrated on January 24. The affair
will be a go-as-you-please job, any sort of
swimming or floating being permitted. The
six competitors remaining longest in the
water will share in the £5OO, the winner’s
end being £3OO. In America most of the
successful competitors have been women
with what naval architects -would call
“excessive displacement.” In spite of the
craze for the girlish figure, there are quite
a few females about Sydney—as a visit to
any golf links will show —who are, to all
appearances, unsinkable. Any entry of this
type will carry my money on Jan. 24.
$ * * $
“Bumpk”: I don’t envy the lady who
proposes to swim Cook Strait (M.L.).
The current at the best of times is terrific,
and there is nothing in the English Channel
to compare with the Terawhiti Rip, into
which yachts attempting the crossing appear
to be drawn with the inevitability of ancient
galleons into the maelstrom. The Rip is
simply a tremendously steep jobble set up
by a heavy flow over shallow ground. I
once spent seven hours in it and lost my
reputation for never having been seasick in a
sailing boat. The worst feature of the cur-
rents is their incalculability. The direction
may change from day to day and even from
hour to hour, so no great advantage can be
obtained even from the most intensive study
of their habits. From whichever side the
start is made difficulties will present them-
selves at the landing. With a falling tide
the great sounds belch their accumulations
of water into the sea like a storm-water
channel in a cloudburst. Only a high-powered
launch can make way against it. A sailing
boat may spend half a day beating to and
fro waiting for the slack, and a swimmer
would not have an earthly. Most of the
coast about the entrances is rocky, and a
heavy sea breaks on it.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The extraordinary deci-
sion of the N.S.W. amateur swimming heads
to invite the American professional, Johnny
Weissmuller, to give exhibitions in Australia
has met with the rebuff it deserved, Weiss-
muller having declined to come to this coun-
try. The idea of engaging a known profes-
sional —the Australian swimming authorities
have entertained plenty who were surrepti-
tiously so —to swim in public and lecture
for the benefit of the amateur coffers is un-
precedented. He was not to be hired as an
instructor, which would have put the matter
on a seemly footing, but as a gate-drawing
attraction. Anything more opposed to the
traditions of amateur sport is hard to
envisage.


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Woman Be Beautiful, 2/10 ; Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 2/11; Cocktails and How to Mix Them,
3/10; Safe Marriage, by Ettie A. Rout, 5/5; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 2/11; Wise
Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/10; The Wrinkle Book, by Elinor Glyn, 4/-; Aust. Nuts
and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Lawn Tennis, by Suzanne Lenglen, 4/-; Foulsham’s
Letter Writer, 3/3; The Letter Writer’s Handbook, 5/10 ; Cocktails, 2/9; Recitations for Boys
and Girls, by Alice Hasluck, 5/6 ; More Recitations for Boys and Girls, by Alice Hasluck, 5/6 ;
Elocution and Gesture, by Alice Hasluck, 3/11; Recitations for Ladies, by Alice Hasluck, 5/6;
Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for Boys and Girls, 3/4; Ten Best Card Games for Two, by
B. Dalton, M.A., 1/3 ; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A., 2/10; Official Rules of Card
Games, “Hoyle Up-to-date,” 2/-; Chambers’s Etymological Dictionary, 3/4 ; Popular Card Games
and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/3; 50 Best Conjuring Tricks, by Charles Crayford, 1/3;
The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/3; Foulsham’s Best- Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery
of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; The Handyman, Home Jobs and Repairs, 1/-; Minor Ills and
Ailments and How to Treat Them, 1/-; Draughts and Dominoes, 1/-; Chess, 1/-; Poultry Keeping
for Profit and Pleasure, 1/-; Billiards, 1/-; Life After Death, 2/6; Practical Hypnotism, 3/3;
Practical Palmistry (illustrated), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand Reading
Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/-; Chess and Draughts and How to Play, by A. Belasco, 1/3 ;
12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/3 ; Best 100 Puzzles Solved and Answered, by
Tom King, 1/3 ; Good Stories and Jokes, by Charles Roberts, 1/3 ; Sex and Disease, by Storer, 8/1;
Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; How Shall I Word It? 2/8; The
New Ford, by E. T. Brown, 4/4; All About Photography, by P. R. Salmon, F.R.P.S., 4/1; “The
Bulletin” Reciter, 2/2; First Aid to the Injured, 2/3; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8;
Hands, and How to Read Them, 2/9 ; How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4 f- ; The Correct Guide
to Letter Writing, 5/8; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/6; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing
for Amateurs, 1/6; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/6; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/6;
Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; Stories from the Operas, by Gladys Davidson, 6/2;
Dictionary of Modern English Usage, by H. Fowler, 11/4 ; Doctor at Home and Nurse’s Guide,
by Geo. Black, 8/3; The Health Book, by R. S. Copeland, M.D., 14/11; Contraception, by
Marie C. Stopes, 22/7; Mayes Aust. Builders and Contractors Price Book (Illustrated), 15/10;
Bookstall Gem Dictionary, 2/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Farmers’ Handbook, sth Edition,
13/4; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/5; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 10/8;
Pruning, 3/10; Boot Mending for the Amateur, by S. H. Lane, 1/3; Painting, Ironwork, Steel
and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/3; Oxford School Atlas for Aust. and New Zealand, 4/-; The
Candy Cook Book, by Alice Bradley, 9/3; More About How to Draw in Pen and Ink, by H.
Furniss, 6/11; Consult Me, 4/4; Every Woman’s Enquire Within, 1/7; Horse Buying, and
Management, 2/8; Zangig’s New Complete Palmistry, 2/4; The Collie, 2/10; Every Man His
Own Mechanic, 8/2; Good Manners, by Lady Kitty Vincent, 8/2; Enquire Within, 4/5 ; Wonder
Book of Knowledge, 12/5; What to Draw and How to Draw It. 4/2; Poultry Farming in N.S.W.,
by James Hadlington, 4/10 ; Owner Driver’s Handbook, by Edward T. Brown, 5/11; Painting and
Decorating, by Audel, 13/10; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/2 ; Polishes and Stains for
Woods, 2/7 ; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 8/2 ; Labor Saving Hints and Ideas for the
Home, 3/2; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches add Toasts, 3/-; How to Drive a Car, 4/1;
Aust. Enquire Within, 3/2; Novelty Evenings, 2/5; Manners and Rules of Good Society, 5/8;
Home Made Toys for Girls and Boys, 3/6; Boys’ Book of Carpentry and Electricity, 3/6; Modern
Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/11; Enduring Passion,
by Marie Stopes, 6/7; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 6/7; Sex and the Young, by. Marie
Stopes, 4/2; Parenthood —A Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 3/4; The Sex Factor in
Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/7; “Bulletin” Book of Humorous Verse, 1/3.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPT.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
< .a
LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,P00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
j lDvrcctovs *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYEVRST.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory, Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Wa
i
Commences To-morrow
£4/19/6 to £5/10/- SUITS
w
to MEASURE
43/18/9
The greatest Sale in Mur-
doch history! This remar-
kable offer consists of ail
wool Worsteds in Fawns,
Browns, Blues, Greys, Navys
etc. Latest popular Tweeds
and pure Indigo Dye Serges.
Faultlessly tailored to your
measures for . . . £3/18/9
£ 5/15/ * to £6/6/-
Suits to Measure
£41151-
£6/10/- to £7/7/-
Suits to Measure
*5/15/-
Send for Patterns (FREE!)
Murdoch’s Ltd.. Sydney.
Desk — R.
Dear Sirs,
Kindly lorward me, without obligation, complete range of Suiting patterns
of the above 5 Sale Specials.
NAME-
ADDRESS.
Some from Thousands!
Usually
22/6
63/-
31/11
55/-
Men’s “Snap Brim’’ Pure Fur
Felt Hats, Silk lined.
Men’s Two-piece Sports
Suits. Latest Tweeds.
Boys’ Dark Grey Tweed
Cotswold Suits. Extra
knickers.
Spalding’s genuine “Regent’’
Tennis Racquets. High-grade
gut.
SALE
17/11
45/-
23/10
27/6
POSTAGE paid to your door. Kindly address all
letters to Desk “R,” Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
MuirdcHC
GEORGESS SYDNEY
✓


4UBJJB/#
leAoa/
jiapuft •
Vintage 1920.
Tom
Kind
GeorsseV
CHAMPAGNE
Charleslleidsieck
M
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHamPACHC
Charleslleidsiccv
REIMS
**%** K I J/ i****
Wdses?
MERCURY" BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
REDUCED TARIFFS:
Single Room only
Single Room only, with Private Bath . . • •
Room and Breakfast
Inclusive Tariff
Inclusive Tariff, with Private Bath • • • • •
Private Suites quoted on
Luncheon 3/6 or a la carte.
Meals served in rooms,
... from 10/- per day
. . . from 15/- per day
... from 12/6 per person
. . . from 20/- per day
. . . from 27/6 per day
application.
Dinner 5/-
1/- extra.
THE WENTWORTH PALM COURT LINKS
Open from 11 a.m. till midnight—lB Holes for 11/-
Golf and Morning Tea or Coffee 1/-
Golf and Afternoon Tea &
DANCING EVERY EVENING AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS.
S'/?© WENTWORTH HOTEL
CHURCH
HILL SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “MUM,” SYDNEY.
They safeguard all apparel and household
linen Neat. Distinctive and Fadeless.
| j c&.& C )YlllLcunA- \
The Prices are Moderate. ,
12 doz. 7/6; 6 doz. 5/-; 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
I Oi I rA CU Australian
J. Ck J. v»>/\Orl Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melb.
MARK YOUR
LINEN in the
MODERN WAY
“A Few Stitches
& They ’re On. ’’
TnaMEs
Actual Size
Style No. 6
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
There have never been more New Year's
Eve dances and flutters than on the night
that ushered in 1931. The city rocked and
swayed to the cymbal, the drum and the
saxophone. “If 1930 thinks it has the
laugh of us, we’ll show it,” Sydney seemed
to be saying, and it smiled a bit more widely
and took one more drink, with the firm con-
viction it was helping the depression to lift.
The Ambassadors and Romano’s were
crowded. Ex-students of Domremy a
jubilation at Hordern Brothers’ cafe. The
Parents and Friends’ Association of Scots
College crowded out the Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation’s clubrooms at Rushcutter’s Bay,
and Rainaud’s Cafe was kept moving from
midnight to dawn by chemist Eddie Samuels s
party for the Hospice for the Dying. The
Yacht Club at Ivirribilli blazed against the
velvet of the night like.a string of jewels.
For the first time in its history it was set
for a New Year’s Eve dance, and the mem-
bers rushed the idea with their ears back.
The Wentworth on Church Hill had a hectic
night, over 500 dancers deciding to cross the
divide between 1930 and 1931 on its familiar
floor. At midnight, a great golden egg was
gaily escorted to the middle of the ballroom,
and when opened it revealed a tiny baby
from St. Margaret’s. As a symbol of the
new year the youngster went big. He was
the picture of peace and contentment.
Sydney .is about to lose one of its most
brilliant scholars. Dr. Pat Murray, son of
the Hubert Murray who governs up in Papua,
has lately been awarded the Smithson Re-
search Fellowship. Pat makes a steady diet
of fellowships; he has been for the past
year working on a Rockefeller endowment
at Cambridge. The Smithson was open to
all members of the British Empire under 35
years of age—in any of the natural sciences.
Now, instead of returning to Sydney Uni.,
Dr. Pat must take up permanent residence
by the Cam. Marjorie, his wife, a B.Sc.
all on her own, is voyaging Sydneywards
early in the New Year to collect mother and
father, the T. G. Holland pair, of Lindfield,
and take them back to peaceful Cambridge.
Marjorie is an only child. Mary, Mrs.
Pinliey, will be the only one of Hubert Mur-
ray’s family remaining in Sydney; Terence,
the eldest, has for long made his home in
Britain. He married Philippa, niece of
Kitchener.
The tragic death of A. A. Mackins re-
moves from the Sydney millinery trade one
of its best-known figures. The tall, slim
man with the white hair was a member of
a firm which has been long established in
George-street. About two years ago a slice
of a shop elegantly panelled in grey, its
lights reflected from graceful French lustres,
was opened in Castlereagh-street. Into this
A. A. Mackins poured the expression of his
taste, innate and acquired. It was always
good taste, and through long handling ct
the works of the masters of the millinery
art he could tell from a glance at a bow, at
the curve of a hat-brim, in which of the
French, English or American studios the
model had-had its birth. Hats were to him
what pictures are to the artist or books to
the literary. Incidentally, the dead mail
was a great reader, and one of the friends
who will grieve for him is the Adelaide-born
Professor Brose, of Christ Church, Oxford.
Sydney listened to one of the few jokes
of this turkey-and-ham season. One of the
most influential of the city’s £ s. despots is
a Jew; and to him went a well-known poli-
tician begging him, if the Treasury ran
short, to see that the public servants had at
least enough money to happily celebrate
Christ’s birth.
Guido Maggia was the name of a bride-
groom who last week sought benefit of St.
Mary’s. It sounds like Naples in blue moon-
light, though in fact the young man hails
from Melbourne, as also do his best man, Gil-
bert Power, and Brian and Douglas Virtue,
who assisted. The bride was Mabel Bowyer,
of Cremorne, and she was arrayed in white
satin, tulle and lily of the valley. Three
’maids in lilac tulles gemmy with rhinestones
completed the procession.
The plan of the Whoopee Ball, even as
the plan of everything else in 1930, got mis-
laid, and the first thing the writer saw was
Don Finley rushing about looking a s dis-
tracted as this State’s Premier should look
but doesn’t. Don was one of the organisers
of this dance in aid of Prince Alfred’s, and
when hundreds stood clamorous to burst
through the guard of Town Hall attendants
to the joys beyond, Don, who is the soul of
order, would have liked everything to run
satin smooth, instead of which tables were
swooped upon, regardless of lien, in a jovial
but insistent whoopee manner. By 10 o’clock,
however, 1500 were seated around the con-
\ ivial bottle, and by half-past 11 a doorman
declared, as he mopped a dripping brow, that
there were about 2000 within the main hall
and crowded around tables in the vestibule.
Tall economist John Gunn, who was somehow
tangled up in the arrangements, stood smil-
ingly aloof from the tumult and the strife,
but pretty Mrs. Harold Yale chatted to
irate table-seekers, disarming younger-set-
ters and sergeants of police with the same
brand of smile. The police officer wasn t
present to make whoopee, or trouble of any
kind. He just looked in in the interests of
a calm and peaceable New Year.
In the corridors at an early hour were a
welter of girls in Indian headdresses and
full squaw outfits, men slicing up huge tur-
keys in preparation for supper, boys look-
ing eagerly for mislaid partners, and more
girls busily pushing numbered coupons into
the box which by a lucky turn might trans-
form any one of them into a “millionairess
for a day,” the big stunt of the gargantuan
New Year’s Eve party. Mrs. W. Arnott,
her white hair reminiscent of the Pompa-
dour age, was a pictorial entity at the
official table, where, supported by her un-
official brother, Mayoress Hilda Marks, in
black velvet, made her final bow as the city’s
official hostess. Near by sat Mrs. John
Gunn, Mrs. Lewis Packer, Mrs. C. A. Cotton
and Mrs. J. Lee, all weavers of the night s
entertainment. The George Fitzpatrick
couple brought a party of St. Margaret s
hospital brass-liats, and here sat May Shee-
han, looking like an understudy to film-
star Norma Shearer. Despite the heat
Maorilander Mrs. Eric Baume looked as
cool as a spring morning on Lake Wakatipu ;
and at midnight the whole company sang in
loud and determined voices “Happy Days
Are Here Again.” If 1931 doesn’t take
the hint he’ll be sacked at the end of 12
months.
In many of the large business houses, the
girl clerks, instead of giving one another the
usual little “Merry Christmas” parcel, put
the amount into a common fund and handed
the total over for the benefit of unemployed
women office workers. In one firm the
cheque amounted to £2O. Mrs. Lindsay,
president of the Typists’ Association, tells
that over £6O came into the fund for the
benefit of jobless girls at Christmas time.
There’s a shop, too, at 325 George-street
stocked with feminine-appeal articles made
by fingers denied a machine on which to earn
their daily bread. The assistants m the
shop are unemployed typists, who are work-
ing on a commission basis.
Marjorie Hambridge has said farewell to
Sydney Con.; she takes her fiddle to Lon-
don by the s.s. Port Denison on January 20.
After six
years’ work at
the Con., un-
der Charles
Boult and
later Gerald
Walenn, she
mastered the
A.Mus.A. and
advanced
exams. Her
progress with
the violin dur-
ing the past
year has been
described by
Gerald Walenn
as “astonish-
ing.” Acting
on his advice,
the h a r d-
' working young
student goes
to the Royal
Academy, Lon-
don, and later to the Continent. Mrs. Frank
Hambridge is also a passenger by the Port
Denison to the land of her birth. Having
seen Marjorie properly dug in, Mrs. Ham-
bridge will return to Sydney towards the
end of the year. The photo of Marjorie here-
with is by Judith Fletcher. .
Sweethearts of 50 years ago, James
McPherson and Mrs. M. E. Brown —he a
widower, she twice a widow since then —
took up their old romance not long since.
They found that under the dust of time the
.colors were just as bright and tender as in
the beginning, so they were quietly married,
though he is a great-grandfather and she the
grandmother of nine young Australians. The
new Mrs. McPherson, by the way, was born
65 years ago in a cottage in the Botanic
Gardens, where her father was one of the
gardening staff. The pair will make their
home at Bundeena.
Our Australian hockey girls will probably
feel as flat as a punctured tyre when
they return to their native heath. They
-will be met with lugubrious talk about
depression, on top of which their social
calendar will seem woefully empty. As
well as being greatly admired for their
team work, the girls made a good
impression wherever they went. They had
an impromptu and thrilling presentation to
the King and Queen at Buckingham Palace,
the Ryrie lady staged a party for them at her
home, and Lord Decies gave them a dinner
at the Piccadilly Hotel. The Lord Provost
of Edinburgh and the Clarkes of cotton fame
were other distinguished hosts. Tory \\ lcks,
captain of the team, and organiser Mrs.
F. J. Davy, of the warm smile and the
peach-like complexion, are returning home
well pleased.
It’s an ill wind that blows nobody any
good. The busy woman now finds shopping
a much more exhilarating business than in
the pre-depression days. Her mere entry
into a department is the signal for the
prompt advance of salesgirl or salesman, and
the attention shown to the shopper is of
a more amiable and intelligent variety than
aforetime. All sort of inducements, too,
are put forward to lure custom. One large
shop supplied poultry to Christmas pur-
chasers. A suburbanite who had bought £45
worth of furniture was presented with a
marvellous turkey; another man who had
ordered an ice-chest got a duck. One sup-
poses if you bought a roller-blind you got an
olive or two.
The girl with the interesting face is Eileen
McGrath, Sydney’s brilliant girl sculptor.
Heir work lias
strength as
well as grace,
and her ex-
hibits in the
Society of
Artists’ shows
are always
surrounded by
a crowd of
admirers. She
was the run-
ner-up for the
last Society of
Artists’ tr a-
velling scholar-
s h i p, but
since that just
slipped through
her fingers she
is working
hard to save
money to pay
for her own
studies abroad. In the meantime, when not
a student in liis technical-school classes,
Eileen is Rayner Hoff’s assistant in his pri-
vate studio. She dreams of a day when
some big civic or national commission will
come her way, but keeps her hand in with
any commercial modelling that offers. Her
brother is Raymond McGrath, the young
architect who went to with a
scholarship from Sydney Uni., and has since
acquired fame witli his remodelling of
Finella, the home of Mansefield Forbes, a
Cambridge don.
There are quite a few good, “or maybe
bad,” Australians wandering about England
(writes a chum from London), spending the
money of their liard-up country at the rate
of 17s. in the £l, and hobnobbing with
social celebrities at the Cafe de Paris, which
is one of the places where Royalty. dances,
more or less incognito, with theatrical and
literary lights at the Cafe Anglais and the
Ivy Restaurant. Here on one night the
scribe foregathered with Noel Coward, Edgar
Wallace, Oscar Asclie and Natalie Moya.
Natalie is now with the Irish Players at
the Criterion in “The Playboy of the Wes-
tern World.” Margaret Bannerman, looking
lovely and the last word in sex appeal, is in
a new Edgar AVallace. The play is not
making the usual Edgar AVallaee appeal,
though it needn’t worry him, as he got £4OOO
out of the big Irish sweepstake. The musical
comedy, “Follow a Star,” by Douglas Fur-
ber and Dion Titheradge, is going well at
the Winter Garden. Of all the visiting Pre-
miers, Priminster Scullin was the most popu-
lar with everybody, from 11.R.11. to the
society flapper. London, declares this wan-
dering Australian, is only for plutocrats and
beggars. The first can buy everything they
want, the second can beg most things. A
street in London is something to get out of,
like a ragiug storm; to cross it one needs
youth and vigor. Hence one seldom sees the
old in the streets. The only aged that ven-
ture abroad unattended are the derelicts, and
they generally finish in the casualty-room
or the morgue.
The attenuated woman is no longer a cull.
The hoyish figure and the exotic heroine, with
her suggestion of fierce midnights and fam-
ished morrows, has been shown the door, not
only by England but by Europe generally.
Evelyn Laye has done much to bring this
about. She made a hit, both in London and
America, as the heroine in “Bitter Sweet.”
Her triumph is looked upon as above that
of an actress or a beauty. She is regarded
as a symptom, the vanguard of the post-war
age of comeliness. Her beauty is essentially
pre-war, as are her dresses; from her rounded
chin to her rounded hips she is all feminine.
Off again in April to the other end of
the earth, particularly Central Europe, goes
Elsie Segaert, of Manly, taking with her a
group of eager tourists. The tour this year,
will start with Italy and Switzerland, and'
then take in Southern Germany, Austria and
Czechoslovakia.
The death of ex-Policeman Ford, whose
duty it was once to "harry the surf-bathers at
Bondi, caused a now elderly Waverley lady,
Mrs. Rose Bonney, to turn up her scrap
album. One day nearly 40 years ago this
lady did a desperate deed. Incited _by a
challenge, she drove along the old military
road which skirted the wilderness of Bondi
beach in a closed victoria, and scuttled down
to the beach, where she discarded the heavy
cloak in which she was wrapped. And then,
in that sack-like garment in which it was
considered meet that women should bathe in
those days, she plunged into the breakers—
about six inches of them. To-day it doesn t
sound very thrilling; but it was sufficient
then for a Sunday paper to give nearly a
full page to the incident, heading it
“Beauteous Blonde Bather at Bondi,’ and
to create such a sensation generally that
Rose was asked to resign from the choir of
the church to which she belonged. Included
in the lady’s press cuttings are the report
of the proceedings in the Paddington Police
Court, where Delohery, S.M., bound her over
to be of good behavior, a reported outburst
of a clergyman, prompted by the happening,
on the growing immodesty of women, and an
approving par. from The Bulletin. Mrs.
Bonney recalls that even a year afterwards
it was suggested that her husband was a
brave man to marry a girl who had been
guilty of such a shameless act.
Sydney Ure Smith, just back from a week
in Melbourne, reports that Melba is free of
the last boil and carbuncle. The songbird
really had a time nearly as bad as the patri-
arch Job, about the only place the irrita-
tions didn’t attack being the Voice, los-
sibly the majesty of that awed them. Melba
endured her tribulations in Coornbe Cottage,
where now, reduced in weight by pounds, but
looking remarkably fit, she holds her usual
court.
OVERHEARD.
Fair Picnicker: “Oh, look, there’s our favorite
waiter among the trees.”
Her Companion: “Collecting gum-tips, no doubt!”
A few lines from Brisbane: —
There was a carpet of green on the Ascot lawns at
the Q.T.C.’s holiday meeting. The Governor and
Lady Goodwin entertained a party to afternoon tea,
her Ex. wearing dove-grey and coral-patterned floral
chiffon and a wide-brimmed hat of rose beige. Mrs.
Cecil Palmer, who was in the vice-regal box with
Mrs. E. K. Tully, wore cherry and brown mariette
with a mastic and black hat. Mrs. Tulley’s delf-
blue and white frock was worn with a navy and
white braided straw.
Mrs. Harry Mort was in white summer lawn
’broidered in blue-green and red; Mrs. C. P.
Buchanan chose spring green and brown; Jean
Buchanan wore striped rose beige milanese; Cecily
Cadell Garrick’s Canton crepe was trimmed with
Bulgar ’broideries. Premier Moore, Brigadier-General
and Mrs. E. M. Ralph, the A. B. Rowleys, the R.
H. Levines (Sydney), Professor Cumbrae Stewart
and son Denis, Ewald. Gross, Charles Dearden and
H. Spanjer were on the lawn.
Mount Ryde homestead saw the wedding of Colin
Barrett and Betty Avery. Lilies and bamboo and
a large white and pink bell decked the marquee for
the ceremony. The bride was given away in white
satin and Honiton-lace veil by her father; she
carried white roses and pale pink carnations. Joan
Barton and Joan Avery (the bride’s cousin) ’maided
in pink georgette with large crin. hats, and carried
bouquets. Peggy and John Hanrick were train-
bearers. Brisbane and Sydney see the ’moon. ,
Crowds flocked to Southport for the holidays. The
Grand Hotel started the chain of Christmas and New
Yea? dances. At the Pacific there were a number of
dinner parties, with a mistletoe bough at the entrance
to the lounge. At the Grand, Father Christmas came
into the dining-room laden with bon-bons for the
guests and a jazz orchestra played.
At St. Mark’s, Clayfield, Louis Irvine Perel married
Jessie Catherine Lawrence. The bride was given
away by her brother-in-law, Alan Long, in bridal
satin and veil of hand-broidered silk tulle. She
carried a sheaf of pink and white roses. Ethel Perel
and Olga Warner ’maided in pink and blue respec-
tively. William Miller best-manned and William
McCann was groomsman. The honeymoon will be
spent in Sydney and the Mountains.
Children from the various homes and orphanages
were given a holiday treat by E. Lane, of the Tivoli,
and a bag of sweets met each small fist. At
Creinorne the Tivoli Follies, with Frith, Sherman and
Nell Fleming, have decided to dig in, also to reduce
prices. Hector St. Clair is still a big draw.
On New Year’s Eve the tower of the City Hall
bloomed with rosy light and twelve o’clock was
allowed to strike. Lennons helped the Creche and
Kindergarten with a function and the Wintergarden
Theatre shared in a Whoopee evening. The Whoopee
ballet gave an Indian dance. Dorothy Rudder and
Frank Perrel sang and Gregory Ivanoff and his
orchestra played “In a Persian Market.” Brock and
Thompson from the Tivoli danced.
Many friends of Miss M. A. Ogg gathered at the
Lyceum on the 31st December to farewell her on
her retirement from public life. A monogrammed
silver toilet set, an illuminated address and a wallet
with a cheque in it were among the tokens of appre-
ciation. For 27 years Miss Ogg has worked with the
Queensland AVomen’s League. She said that the
dream of her life was realised when Irene Longman
got in for the Bulimba electorate.


Sale of Selected “Bulletin” Drawing
A Chance to Get One for 15/-
GEORGE LAMBERT.
8. U.
When a Lady Makes the Pace” . . 40 0
“School Is In” 60 0
“The Stockmen” 40 0
“Portrait of Arthur Adams”
(as illustrated) .... Fifteen Guineas
“Giddy Giddy Gout” 40 0
“Girl Logic” 40 0
FRANK P. MAHONY.
•i s- **•
*Up to Specifications” 20 0
“Racing Abbreviations” 25 0
“As Per Agreement”—an excellent
Mahony horse drawing .... 25 0
w
OSWALD PRYOR.
“The Way of It” 25 0
“Any Port in a Storm” 20 0
“A Good Year’s Work” 30 0
“Another Optimist” 20 0
"And His Riverence Didn’t Know” 20 0
NESSIE TINDALL.
s. d -
A Common Complaint” 20 0
GEOFF. LITCHFIELD.
S. d.
“Willing to Try” 20 0
“Brains in Crime” 20 0
B. E. MINNS.
< s. <3.
Wanted, a Paying Guest” 30 0
Abo. Studies—
“ The Monarchist” 20 0
“Cash and Carry” 20 0
“Long, Long Ago” 20 0
For over 50 years the best drawings made in Australia
have come to “The Bulletin,” and a collection of a
hundred of the choicest examples of this country’s black-
and-white art is now offered for sale.
Though the prices at which they have been marked are
exceedingly low, “The Bulletin” makes a large offer in
addition. To every purchaser of a drawing who sends a
12 months’ subscription to “The Bulletin” or the “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” a rebate of 25 per cent, on the price of
the drawing will be made. To every subscriber who
sends a renewal order, a rebate of 33 1-3 per cent,
will be made.
Thus a reader who sends a 12 months’ subscription to
either “Bulletin” or “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” can buy a
picture marked at 20/- for 1 5/-; and a present subscriber if he sends a renewal can get a 30/- drawing for 20/-.
Readers who send two years’ subscription can get a 25 per cent, rebate on the price of one drawing and a 33 1-3
per cent, rebate on the price of a second drawing; or they can get a rebate of 58 1-3 per cent, off a single
drawing, making the price of a 20/- drawing 8/6.
Of course you can buy without sending any subscription; and you will still get something worth a good deal
more than the price you will pay.
Following is a list of the drawings included in this unique offer:—
cS
“HOP.”
s. d.
"A Touch of Nature” 25 0
‘‘A Cheerful Bridal Tour” 25 0
‘‘Ask the Driver” 20 0
‘‘Dishing Parkes” 30 0
The New Literature” 20 0
Encouraging” (as illustrated) . . 20 0
The “Heathen in His Blindness”
Series—
“ln Anticipation” 20 0
“Posthumous Consolation” .... 20 0
“A Fragment” 20 0
LIONEL LINDSAY.
s. d.
“A Reasonable Objective” 20 0
DAVID LOW.
s. d.
“W. M. Hughes’s Tariff Wall” .... 40 0
Woodrow, the Balancer, and the
Fourteen Points” (as illustrated) 40 0
“Strenuous Times for Cartoonists” 40 0
“Times Are Changed” . . 30 0
“Willing” (as illustrated) 20 0
“The Final Appearance” ........ 20 0
G. K. TOWNSHEND.
“Not Like Bradman.”—A golfing
subject 20 0
“Safety First” 20 0
“Gilded Meals, Too” 30 0
PERCY LEASON.
A I". I*. S '
An Apt Pupil 20 0
“The Evolution of Home” 45 0
“Billy the Sport.”—Another Billy
Hughes Series of six in one
drawing 40 0
‘Trying to be Funny” 40 0
‘Finding Things Out for Himself” 30 0
‘When Crowns Go by Ballot” .... 30 0
COLIN COLAHAN.
~ s. d.
French Polish 20 0
‘Not in the Least Particular” .... 20 0
‘The Wine and the Wit” 35 0
‘Defined” 20 0
‘No Spoil Sport” 25 0
DENNIS CONNELLY.
s. d.
‘No Excuse for It At AH” ....... 20 0
‘Cabby Gets a Tip” 20 0
‘He Knew It Wasn’t Smith’s Fault” 20 0
NORMAN LINDSAY,
s. d.
"The Subscription Habit” 25 0
Real Courtesy” 25 0
“Under Compulsion” 40 0
“A Few Suggestions by Our Suicide
Expert” 40 0
"The New Order” ............ 30 0
“A Lack of Sentiment 25 0
D. H. SOUTER.
s. d.
“Fact and Fiction” 25 0
When the Southerly Came Up” . . 20 0
“The Indirect Method” 20 0
“In Strict Confidence” 25 0
“You Must Keep Your Balance” . . 25 0
“Included in the Award” 20 0
TED SCORFIELD.
s. d.
“Right Turn” 20 0
“Confession” 20 0
“A Prodigious Success” 20 0
“Unexpected Philanthropy” . . .* ; . 25 0
“It Might Come Off Once” 30 0
“Reassuring Him” (as illustrated) 25 0
BERTHA BENNET BURLEIGH.
s. d.
“The New Rule” 20 0
“Jimmy’s Done For” 20 0
“Opportunities Ample” 25 0
“After the Quarrel” ........... 20 0
“The Treasure” 30 0
“The Humbug” 30 0
“In the Reign of King Jazz” .... 20 0
PERCY LINDSAY.
8. d.
“Inhuman Almost” 20 0
“A Matter of Figures” 25 0
“The Homing Dove” 25 0
“Trade Measurements” 20 0
“Taint” 20 0
ALF VINCENT.
8. d.
“His Panacea” 20 0
“The Iron Cross” 40 0
“Followers Supplied” 30 0
“The Accident” 20 0
“The Mission Woman” 25 0
AMBROSE DYSON.
s. d.
“Consolation” 20 0
“In Push Society” I 20 0
“In Push Society” II 20 0
“In Push Society” 111 20 0
“Excluded” . 35 0
“With View to Above” 25 0
C. H. PERCIVAL.
s. d.
“The Flapper Knows” 25 0
‘‘Natural History Problems” .... 20 0
“Great Changes” . 20 0
“The Martyr” 25 0
BETTY PATERSON.
s.
“Confidences” 20 0
“Something New Ahead” 20 0
“Judging by Appearances” 20 0
“Any Soil, Any Climate” 20 0
"They Ought to Be Marked” .... 25 0
f 7
1
t n
BERT LEVY.
‘‘Quite Unsuitable” (as illustrated) 25 0
‘‘French Laundry” 20 0
ESTHER PATERSON.
<• s. d.
“Exclusively His Domain” 25 0
“Considerate Child” 20 0
“Biding His Time” 20 0
RUBY LINDSAY.
tt s. d.
“Standing Forth” (as illustrated) 30 0
“Fully Covered” 30 0
“No Disqualifications” 42 0
“Indiscriminate Youth" 35 Q
“His Wife Had One Too” 40 0
£
m
m
mm
v ...
I
m
RECRUITS WAf#
F*r,Hlk F 0&
countr
These and other drawings are now on view at The Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
The drawings, which are mostly unmounted and unframed, will be
free, on receipt of remittance. To addresses outside Australia, 8d
sent, securely packed, to any address in Australia, post
must be added to cover cost of packing and postage.


Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Rising in the grey dawn, this Chatterer
set out for Portsea, and throughout the 6S
miles or so of the journey rain fell steadily.
From St. Kilda, along the shores of Port
Phillip, the wild white horses galloped
mightily. At Frankston two Spartan bathers
were seen, but at Dromana and Rosebud the
beaches were deserted. Campers gathered
under clumps of tea-tree scrub beneath sodden
canvas looked a forlorn and miserable com-
pany. Portsea dripped a dreary welcome. In
the place where usually, at this season,
hundreds of cars are parked with mud-
guards touching, not one was to be seen.
One lone bather, here depicted, was heroic-
“One lone bather made her preparations to
enter the sea."
ally preparing to enter the cold, opal-
escent sea by the pier where one launch
gently tossed. Portsea, on the bay side,
has water of the clarity of the green
crystal. Now and then volunteers attending
the training camp at the barracks on the
rise passed to and fro. In the two hotels
most of the older guests played bridsre beside
the fire and the younger ones studied the
latest dance steps. On the golf links a
solitary figure in plus-fours braved the
elements. He who favored neither cards nor
bridge whiled away , the hours listening in,
as he dozed to the moaning of the waves,
per 3LO. Many of the men caught colds,
not being prepared in the matter of apparel
for such uncouth weather. The women did
better. They had jumper suits of winter
weight and cosy berets.
Portsea has departed from its Christmas-
tide custom, inasmuch as it is not full.
Many houses are without tenants, and
the hotels and boarding-houses don’t have
to make up beds on billiard-tables or in
baths. A charming home that last Chi’ist-
mas was let for £2O a week is occupied this
season at £7. Among the visitors are Lud
Mayor Luxton and his wife and family.
Harrison Moore and his lady are staying
with Gilbert a’Beckett at Dalgeny, an im-
pressive battlemented stone mansion. The
Frank Stogdales have a house; the Albion
Walkelys, Arthur Hobbs and R- M. Cuth-
bertsons are at the Nepean Hotel. Many
of Melbourne’s moneyed folk have established
vacation homes in the next-door township
of Sorrento. Among these are the Plammond
Cleggs, who have a house-party; Mr. and
Mrs. Leslie Stuart, Major and Mrs. Geoffrey
Walker, and the Donald Swansons and their
family.
Cowes, on Phillip Island, which is in
Westernport Bay and is not much over two
hours’ journey from Melbourne, was found
to be well populated with visitors. To get
“Penguins and seals are suspected of steal-
ing ‘gob’ caps, and wearing them at parties
of their own."
there you motor or take train to Stony
Point, after which there’s a six-mile steamer
trip. A flourishing trade is done in crayfish
at Stony Point, the chaps who wear their
bones outside being kept alive, when the
haul is heavy, in huge pyramidal wooden
crates that float in the water suspended from
the long pier. A podgy pony draws a trolley
laden with passengers’' luggage and other
freight (not forgetting the lobsters) along
the jetty; the steamers —there _ are trips
to the island twice a day at this season- -
are the Alvina, which, by a coincidence,
comes from Cowes, England, and the Narra-
f>een, formerly on the Sydney-Manly service.
Since most folk who possess cars take them
to the island the decks are a bit cluttered up.
Pliillip Island (area, 38 sq. m.; pop., vari-
able) is, when it isn’t raining, a joy to the
holiday-maker. The beaches are safe —no
shark has nibbled on them at even the ten-
derest toe —and on the southern part facing
Bass Strait there is good sport for the
surfers, board-equipped or otherwise. Perched
on the brink of rugged cliffs is an 18-hole
golf course, six miles from the township.
The place is a sanctuary tor native bear's,
penguins, mutton-birds and seals. Koalas
peer from the gum-trees at the humans they
have no need to fear. Some of them are
tame enough to venture into houses; on
a recent evening one was discovered in a
kitchen refreshing himself from the milk-jug.
On a cloudy night when the wind blew
freezingly over the Strait, the Chatterer
wrapped in a rug, waited the home-coming
to their rookeries of the mutton-birds. At
sunrise they go off upon their lawful occa-
sions, returning at dark to their burrows
in the sandhills. A single, bird came in
ahead of the column, and a little later there
were thousands of arrivals. Occasionally a
bird would wriggle into a wrong address, and
would be instantly heaved out if there
happened to be there a lady who was baton-
ing an egg. These birds, as soon as their
babies are able to fly, migrate, no one knows
whither, and they return in November, pre-
ceded by a fatigue party which clears up
their abodes in readiness.
The breeding-ground of the penguins is
near the mutton-birds’ territory and at sun-
set they waddle home to bed. Eight thou-
sand is the tally of the seal population on
the mud-colored flat rocks where Bass Strait
impinges on Westernport Bay : The seals
ran be glimpsed from the Nobbies, the head-
lands of the bay, but the Chatterer went
out in a launch and got a close view of
the squirming, barking brown creatures,
some of whom gambolled round the boat.
The sea was a bit rough and the odor or
seal —but here a veil must be drawn. Gob
caps, introduced to Australia by the sailors
of the ’Murcan fleet, are fashionable head-
wear among the holiday-makers, and the
penguins and seals are getting so tame and
sophisticated that they _ are suspected ot
stealing the darned things and wearing
them at parties of their own. Sea-serpents
are off this year, scared by the rubber con-
traptions put into the water by juvenile
bathers.
Another means of transit to Phillip Island
is a daily aeroplane service from Melbourne,
an enterprise of a Cowes resident, A. ix. ±.
Sambell, who is president of the shire coun-
cil and runs a model farm at. Ventnor. Local
government arrived on the island a couple
of years ago, and a council of nine now
rules. One of its present problems is the
control of midget golf, which is spreading
and multiplying all over the place. Cowes
used to be a quiet spot, suitable for
persons with frayed nerves, but now that
racing motorists and owners of 40 m.p.h.
“Dozing to the moaning of the waves
through SLO.”
speed-boats have discovered it to be. an ideal
place for practice it can’t be advertised from
that angle.
The summer trippers are a source of
mingled admiration and amusement to the
thousand or so residents. Eyes opened
widely when a maiden strolled the beach in
a suit that consisted of black satin trousers
with cream silk shirt and an enormous hat.
Pyjama suits are universal wear on the
beaches for promenading and sun-basking.
This season’s models have long coats on
Chinese lines, in plain silk or cotton fabrics
with piping in contrasting shades, and shady
linen hats in tones to match are worn. Tne
men conservatively stick to flannels, but the
more daring of them, as already mentioned,
sport the pork-pie nut-cover of the Yankee
jack tar. Children wear replicas of their
elders’ beach attire; they frolic in the waves
with rubber floats in weird animal shapes,
and paddle in the safe waters in gaily-
colored canoes. Nights are filled in with
dancing and bridge. One of the merriest
parties of the season was a fancy-cap hop
at the Isle of Wight Hotel, where there were
170 guests. A Watteau hat was declared
the prettiest, and a miss whose shingled
locks were crowned with a pink and white
birthday cake with lighted candles. was an
easy winner on the score of originality. Dr.
and Mrs. Grinrod, of Mordialloc, were among
the dancers. Miss Gilman Jones is the guest
of Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Livingston Booth, and
the G. A. Rowells, of Canterbury, are domi-
ciled in their own bungalow. Major-General
Brand and his daughter Lorna are staying
at Erehwon, which used to be patronised by
the Stradbrokes. Mr. and Mrs. W. Thomson
Moore are also there. Dulcie and Ena
Hallett are among the visitors.
Anything and everything in the way of
transport was commissioned for outings on
New Year’s Day, for the weather promised
well and the warmth called family parties
to the sea. All kinds of vehicles carried
bunches of children, who were perched on
lorries, snuggled into limousines, or packed
in pantechnicons. Most of the girls took
with them brightly-colored parasols that
no doubt had come per Santa Claus on
Christmas Day. On New Year’s Eve two
picture theatres put on midnight shows, but
the churches have given up the old-world
custom of tolling the old year out and the
new year in. At the Peninsula golf club
at Frankston there was a dinner and a
dance at which the Stanley Bruces were
guests, she wearing a figured silk frock. The
club’s president. E. R. Russell, who is
retiring after holding office for three years,
was there to listen to some complimentary
remarks made by the captain, E. J. Hamil-
ton. Black lace garbed Mrs. Russell; and
Mrs. S. McKay, whose husband is a vice-
president of the club, wore black taffeta
with a flared skirt.
Barwon Heads, where, besides surf and
river, there are golf links, has drawn a full
measure of holiday patronage. Geelongites
divide their favor between that resort and
Lome. Among sojourners at Barwon Heads
are Mrs. Norman Falkiner and her family,
Mrs R. G. Casey and the Hugh Bullivants,
of N.S.W.
A gymkhana and dance at Ranelagn
House, Frankston, during the holidays
brought in some monetary aid to the Min-
ton Boys’ Home. A tennis tournament was
a side-line attraction, but competitions with
a hunting flavor were the mainstay of the
programme. Lorna Embling, who hunts and
teaches riding, entered a team that carried
off the honors of a hand-in-hand race on
horseback. Among those at the sports_ and
hop were J. McComas, the hon. orgaaiisei ,
Mrs. McComas, the Ivan Gutmanns, Aorme
and Cynthia Collins and Dr. and Mrs. H.
Duustan.
Save for a sprinkle or two of rain in the
afternoon, the New Year’s Day race-meeting
at Flemington was enjoyable enough. The
hill and the flat were well populated.
Women were delighted with the concession
of grandstand tickets at half-price. Dressing
was mostly a matter of figured chiffons and
other diaphanous materials. Huge floral
groupings of the sort formerly confined to
cretonnes are coming into vogue, with cubist
geometrical effects that make conservative
oldsters gasp.
Mrs. George Blackwood sported a black
and white crepe de Chine frock and shiny
black straw hat. Mrs. Ben Chaffey’s grey
and magpie toned ninon gown was topped by
a large hat. With her was her niece, Betli
Bell, from Mildura, in chiffon mingling tints
of amber and pink. Mrs. D. P. Mackey,
who was with her mother, Mrs. Hallett, wore
an ensemble of beige georgette and lace.
Ella Guthrie, in black and green; Mrs.
Stanley Hammond; Mr. and. Mrs. James
Furves; Mrs. Bruce Mead, in black and
white; the Roger Thomsons, and the Dauch-
lan Mackinnons were there. Mr. and Mrs.
James Robertson came from Barwon Heads,
and from Geelong arrived the R. R. Vincents
and their daughter Sammie, who had pink
and blue ribbon on her biscuit-straw hat,
matching the sprays of blossoms on ner
ninon gown. Mrs. J.
H. Moss topped a
pale-pink georgette
gown with a shady
chip-straw hat in
pastel hues. Mrs.
Russell Gabb, Mrs.
Richard Linton and
Doris Moffatt, the
last-named in green
and white, patrolled
the lawn; also Mrs.
Harry Gullett, in
cherry-red.
Mr. and Mr s.
James Alston are set-
tled at their seaside
home at Mount
Martha, and the B.
M. Pearces have
occupied their home
at this resort. Mrs.
Alfred Deakin is
summering at Point
Lonsdale, her daughter, Mrs. T. W. White,
being among her guests.
At St. Paul’s Doreen, eldest daughter of
Dr. C. A. Jarman and Mrs. Jarman, of
Launceston, was linked to A. Kent Broad-
head, elder son of the A. K. Broadlieads,
of Greta Main, N. S. Wales. The bride’s
father, who is city organist of Launceston,
gave a short recital on the cathedral organ
prior to the arrival of the wedding party.
Pale pink faintly gleamed beneath the bridal
gown of white satin with cascades of white
tulle. Beryl and Lorraine Jarman were
attendant ’maids in flowered chiffon frocks
that blended pink and green tints, with
harmonising millinery. There were after-
rejoicings at the Wattle tea-rooms.
News of a serious accident in the hunting
field to her sister, Lady Apsley, caused Lady
Somers to pack her trunks and embark for
London in. the Chitral. Lord and Lady
Apsley, in the days when they were Mr. and
Mrs. Alan James, had a first-hand experience
of life on the land in Westralia, and wrote
a book about it.
During the week tennis enthusiasts have
flocked daily to the South Yarra courts,
where the Christmas tournament was held.
Rain postponed the start for a couple of
days, but once the
rain cleared off
the weather con-
ditions were de-
lightful for on-
lookers and
players. Elaine
and Cynthia
Brookes were
participants, and
their dad, Nor-
man Brookes, was
also seen in
action. White silk,
linen or washing
satin was worn
by most of the
p'rls, with stitched
linen or silk hats
of a bigger size
than was popular
last season.
Women patrons
of the turf re-
ceived an unex-
pected Christmas
box from the
V.R.C. and the
V.A.T.C. in the
form of a 50 per
cent, reduction in
the adm i s s ion
Typical Cowes sheik.
charge to the stands. The surprise was sprung
at the charity meeting at Caulfield, but there
was a fly in the ointment. Now that there is
a tax of sixpence on betting-tickets, the
punter has to raise the main to ten shillings
or pay ss. 6d. for ss. worth of odds.
After the New Year the Arts and Crafts
Society will transfer its stock to 366 Little
Collins-street.
Our Adelaide “Little Sister” writes
Tha Christmas holidays, with the exception of a
day or two, were on the wintry side, so much so that
those who spent the vacation in the Hills had to
resort to fires. Nevertheless, our local beaches did
better business than they had done for years, many
hundreds who left the city for previous Christmases
contenting themselves with daily trips to the seaside.
The attendance was quite good at the holiday race
meetings, and the weather provided variety. On
Boxing Day coats and furs were worn; on Monday,
floral chiffons; New Year’s Day saw us back <-0
winter wear. At the two meetings of the Port
Adelaide R.C. at Cheltenham Dr. A. V. Benson
“Sea-serpents are off this year.”
(chairman) and his wife entertained at afternoon-tea.
At the S.A.J.C. meeting at Morphettville on New
Year’s Day, Mr. Whitmore Carr was assisted by Mrs.
S. J. Jacobs as acting hostess.
The Mayor and Mayoress (Mr. and Mrs. C. R. J.
Glover) entertained aldermen, councillors and their
wives and a few others on New Year’s Eve. From
10-30 p.m. moving pictures of Australia were screened
in the Mayoress’s reception room, those of the pearl-
fishing on Thursday Island being specially interest-
ing. Just before midnight the party went up on
the balcony and the Mayor addressed the crowd in
the street.
At Mount Osmond Country Club the members held
a cheery party. It was preceded by a series of dinner
parties at the Hotel Kichmond. Dr. and Mrs. J.
O'Brien, Mr. and Mrs. C. Craven, and Mr. and Mrs.
J. H. Morish were the amusement committee respon-
sible for the arrangements. Government House was
represented by Captain C. H. Williamson, Lieutenant
H. F. Kobertson-Aikman, and Mr. T. E. Barr Smith,
junior. Mrs. O’Brien had a stall with every sort of
carnival novelties; and an orchestra supplied the
music. The New Year was welcomed with a fanfare
of trumpets and “Auld Lang Syne.”
Mrs. Kenneth Duffield, who has been touring with
her husband and his theatrical venture for some
months, left Brisbane to spend the Christmas holidays
with friends on Kangaroo Island. At the last moment
she was obliged to make a quick trip to Perth to
catch the Mooltan for London, where her father has
been ill for some weeks.
The Kidman lady, accompanied by her grand-
daughter Miss J. I. Reid, left by the Chitral on a
trip to Colombo.
A festive gathering was held at SCL on New Year’s
Eve. It was hardly a bal masque, as projected, for
only half a dozen people turned up in fancy dress,
but it was a genuinely topsy-turvey evening. Well-
known vocalists gave recitations and elocutionists
burst into song, not always with artistic results; but
everyone was happy.
Adelaide lawyers, after beating the law students
at tennis, disposed of them at cricket. Villeneuve
Smith, K.C., went in (and out) first for the Wigs.
As often happens in such events, the match was
rather a one-man show, C. C. Brebner scoring 7G
and taking 7 wickets for 64 for the winners.
And from Hobart; —
Weddings helped to diversify the series of fare-
well parties before Christmas. The Gibson-Loney
and Shone-Strutt unions both interested a big circle.
Wesley Church, Melville-street, was the scene of the
affair in which Jean Florence, only chick of the P.
J. Strutts, St. George’s-terrace, and Claude Edward
Shone played the leading parts. The bride’s dress
of ivory French moire, cut in straight, severe lines,
was worn with a full veil of ivory tulle falling from
a coronet of orange blossoms. A bouquet of madonna
lilies was carried. The two ’maids, Stella Shone and
Marie Sansom, were in periwinkle blue georgette,
with bandeaux of pink roses on their heads. Mar-
guerite Saunders, the small trainbearer, was dressed
in Kate Greenaway style. The reception was held
at Mrs. Lamprill’s, Westerley.
Moira Loney walked down the aisle of St. John's
Presbyterian Church as Mrs. Neil Gibson in an
attractive mediaeval gown of heavy ivory satin, long-
sleeved, with a lace veil caught with orange blossoms
and a sheaf of eucharist lilies to complete the effect.
Kathleen Loney and Mimie Gibson ’maided in ankle-
length frocks of colored georgette, worn with large-
brimmed yellow hats; their bouquets were of shaded
blue delphiniums. The festivities were held at the
Imperial.
Mrs. T. H. Vincent, daughter of one of Hutchins
School’s former heads, the Rev. H. H. Anderson,
who has been well known in the world of teaching
for some years, has been appointed headmistress of
St. Gabriel’s Collegiate School, Canberra.
Running closely the number of farewells, private
and public, which sped the O’Gradys from among
us were those tendered to the W. Cummins couple,
who are leaving Hobart for Brisbane, where Mr.
Cummins will be general manager of the “Daily
Telegraph.” The Mayor, his old colleagues in the
“Mercury” office, the Chamber of Commerce, the
Rotary Club and many other societies vied with
one another in their parting tributes to an energetic
and useful citizen.
Tourists and visitors are beginning to show up
in the Speck. The Tom Roberts couple (Sydney),
Mrs. Sam Cox and her two children, the Frank
Gummows, the P. McCuteheons, the Mellors, the
J. T. Thompsons and the Weedon lady are among
arrivals.
Mary Corran leaves her music pupils and is off
to London, partly for a holiday and partly to
study the latest methods of teaching. She expects
to be away for two years.
The Launceston Players’ Reading Circle wound
up its year’s work by giving A. A. Milne’s “Romantic
Age” and Barrie’s “Shall We Join the Ladies?”
before good attendances.
Chief Justice Nicholls becomes Lieut.-Governor for
an indefinite period. But he has no use for Govern-
ment House, thank you, so the spiders will play
hidey-hoop around the noble legs of the Louis XIV.
furniture until further notice.


Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from persons, etc., insuring with any
Insurance Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State of New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27 has been
applied, in _ respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1930.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1931, subject to a penalty not exceeding fl
per day for every day of default.
Note.— Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
27th November, 1930.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-27.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December, 1930, within
the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act
1909-27 applies, less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsur-
ance to any other insurance companies con-
tributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1931, subject to a penalty not exceeding Five
pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
27th November, 1930.
f sf HAIR
» KD
here!
why -
w
Grey Hair is always talcen to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfcCUlvris CM EX/CAN)
WouCnu.t Stain.
THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
ŵ
your
mirror
reflect
rough,
pimply
skin?
fSb-
p3\
THEN USE
Cuticura
and have a clear skin!
Anoint the affected parts with Cuti-
cura Ointment . . .Wash off in a few
minutes with Cuticura Soap and hot
water and continue bathing. Pimples,
rashes and all forms of skin troubles
quickly yield to this treatment.
Ointment Is. and 2s. Soap Is. Talcum Is, 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
WHAT A ROUSING CHRISTMAS
IT HAS BEEN AT BROKEN HILL!
Now, A HAPPY NEW YEAR to
Everybody is what
‘THE BARRIER MINER’ wants to see.
Down with the Croaker and up with the
Joker for 1931.
Keep the Flag Flying jn “The Barrier Miner,"
the Great Newspaper for the Woolgrowers.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN ROTARY
REFRIGERATORS.
’T’HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 17,798/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney. (Box 2133 L,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
START THE NEW YEAR
WITH A SAVINGS ACCOUNT
and improve your financial position
as the weeks go by
B ( making regular deposits to an ac-
count in this Bank you will place your-
self on the road to financial security.
You will be able to meet emergencies
and to provide for future opportunities.
One Shilling will open an Account.
4% Interest paid up to £l,OOO.
GOVERNMENT
ẁ
SAYINGS BANK
OF N.S.W.
192 Branches; 644 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
I -W:
V
r
Jm*
m
m mm
> -f
m
tosm
$
*1
Ml
£ t s
:i hi
iSMR
■
iii!
WBHB
H
• *
! 5 Sf J 1
MHK
*
' -
i.K'TE
WOOw j
m ■
mm
m
ENO
>5
-;' *:,C« «vy.
ijliv jhj- «*&*■*
H IIM n... Mmi
II
Warm, glowing beauty depends upon
perfect health, and a sparkling drink of
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” first thing every morn-
ing on rising is a simple and agreeable
way to health* Eno dispels cloudiness
of skin and improves the circulation by
gently stimulating the system so that
daily waste and poisons are dismissed
from the body, safely, naturally, and
thoroughly* The outward signs of vital
beauty naturally follow—clear radiant
skin—shining eyes —alert mind and
vigorous body*
Follow the lead of countless wise women all
over the world —ensure health and beauty by
the daily use of Eno’s “ Fruit Salt.”
In two sizes at chemists and stores .
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Sales exigents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE 6c CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Missing Friends.
DASSINGTIIWAIGHTE.—Wanted, known
present whereabouts of ALICE MARY
BASSINGTHWAIGHTE, widow of Essing-
ton Atkinson Bassingthwaighte, late of Bris-
bane, last heard of seven or eight years ago
at Tweed Heads, New South Wales. Please
communicate with QUEENSLAND TRUS-
TEES, LIMITED, Brisbane.
RICHARD JOSEPH RYAN.
NYONE having information concerning
the present whereabouts or death of the
above named, last heard of in Australia, is
requested to communicate with the under-
signed.
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
A LECK CAPEBREAD, born in London
1868, and late of Penge, Kent, England.
Last heard of in 1895. Believed to be in
Australia. Anyone knowing his whereabouts
please communicate with JIM COOPER,
Home Hill, North Queensland.
Clear, Pure,
Brilliant Radio
Reception —
or a pale travesty ?
Much depends
on your Battery
POWER, volume, purity of
reception are possible only
if your battery is efficient.
Exide Longer Life Radio Bat-
teries give a steady, even flow
of current that will operate
your radio at peak efficiency
for long periods.
They are guaranteed to give
their full rated ampere-hours
capacity, and sustain their volt-
age throughout the whole time
of discharge.
Obtainable from Exide Service
Stations throughout Australia.
The Longer Life*
RADIO BATTERY
State Distributors :
NEW SOUTH WALES : Exide Battery
Service (Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd.),
Hunt and Commonwealth Streets, Sydney,
also Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Limited,
39 York Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s
Bridge, 2 Maffra Street, South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : Exide Battery Service
gj.) Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane ;
tanley St., Sth. Brisbane ; Sturt St., T’ville.
S. AUSTRALIA : Unbehaun & Johnstone
Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : M. J. Bateman
Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan St., Perth.
TASMANIA : Medhurst & Sons Pty, Ltd,.
141 Collins Street, Hobart, and 59 Brisbane
Street, Launceston.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


Secunty for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834.
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
460 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
' AT RATES TO 5 % PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
' No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June' 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
• "■■•■■■■ '■ -■ • ? 4 • ' v v *• ■ < . r >
CAPITAL PAID UP . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL . . £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
mm
M
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
JISKSMsT
AUCKLAND*'N.Z. . (Acc.‘ 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S.; and Auto. Ass’fls’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
A
Light Delivery Vans
Used Daily Need
Essential Lubricants
Proper lubrication eliminates 90% of
possible breakdowns. Keep the bear-
ings thoroughly lubricated, with
clean, solidified oil and you elimi-
nate wear and tear.
The ALEMITE Systems of Lub-
rication force into the bearings
under thousands of pounds of
pressure, ALEMITE lubri-
cant, and force out, at the
same time, old, gritty,
worn-out grease, leaving
the bearing perfectly
clean and properly
lubricated.
15,000,000 motor ve-
hicles are “ Alemited”
every 500 miles.
I
Full particulars from:
What Ale-
mite-ing Does
for Any Motor
Vehicle
1. BEARINGS: Gen-
uine Alemite High
Pressure Lubricant forc-
ed into every vital chas-
sis bearing with Alemite
equipment. Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and
transmission thoroughly flush-
ed out by a special Alemite pro-
cess. New Alemite Gear Lubri-
cant forced in. Every 2,500 miles.
3. SP|RING|S. Given an Alemite
Graphite Spring Bath. They are
sprayed with special Alemite Graphite
Penetrating Oil every 500 miles.
Eliminates squeajks and makes car
run smoother.
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives: j \
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. ...... 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . . 53S Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G. P. O. 496, E. Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION, Chicago, U.S.A.
Cable Address: ALMIT -Chicago
ALEMITE
A Mite of Alemite Is Worth a Ton oS Gritty Grease
AS WE SAID BEFOR
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Gladstone’s assured income is £25,000 a
year. [5/l/’94.]
Robert Louis Stevenson is credited with
having smoked 400 cigarettes daily.
The ertswhile proprietor of a Sydney
express-messenger-dispatch concern of over
30 years ago tells a story which should serve
as a special warning to all women with a
past, and to diary-keepers in particular. In
the waste of the city there resided a mys-
terious single lady with her alleged nephew,
a little boy, wlio used to mind the house
whenever “auntie” went out. She was very
reserved, had few visitors, and, never mixing
with her neighbors, was generally unpopular
with the female contingent around. One
afternoon some express-messenger boys de-
livered a drapers’ cir-
cular from house to
house in her street,
much to the admira-
tion of the young-
ster, who resolved to
emulate their style
and speed. When
the aunt came home
that evening nearly
every woman was at
her gate and passed
some remarkable
scathing observation
as she went by.
“Your little so.n lias
just gone home,”
volunteered one lady.
“Your own loving
pet,” tittered a bony
female from her
verandah. “ ‘When
you last kissed me,
darling, I swore
nothing should part
us,’” shouted a
giddy miss as she
ran in and slammed
thp door. “Howfs
Georgie?” inquired
another. Reaching
home at last with
rage and bewilder-
ment in her . heart,
she discovered a hor-
rible thing. Tli e
youngster had re-
moved a packet of
old letters from a
chest of drawers
and carefully de-
posited an epistle
under the door of
every householder in
the street. He hadn’t
missed one. It,was
the most conscientious non-professional deli-
very on record.
It is related of a certain N.S.W. railway
magnate that returning home one ' night m
the tram he noticed that the windows divid-
ing the smoking carriage were covered with
dust. He said sharply to the conductor,
“You don’t keep your carriages very clean
on this suburb!” The guard, somewhat put
out after a long day’s work, and not recog-
nising the magnate, answered sharply, ‘ Mind
your own business.” When the magnate and
his friends got out, those who remained in
the carriage were chuckling every time the
guard passed. At last this aroused his atten-
tion, and he asked what they were laughing
at. They pointed to the window, on the pane
of which the magnate had traced with his
finger in the dust, “Blank, Commissioner for
Railways.”
A few years ago there lived in Waverley
a middle-aged man who was totally blind.
He was a tobacconist, and liis shop was the
resort of most of the sporting residents, for
“Old Crad” was a sporting encyclopaedia.
He attended all Randwick and suburban
meetings, and at times even went as far as
the Hawkcsbury. For a long time he laid
the odds on the Flat or in the St. Leger
reserves at these places, with the assistance
of a mate, Crad carrying the bag and shout-
ing the odds while the mate did the booking.
He was able to pick a sovereign or any other
coin out of a handful, and _ give correct
change. After hearing the weights for any
big event read over a couple of times he
could invariably tell you any horse’s handi-
cap without a mistake, He could describe,
a race, how it was run, what led at such
a point, where the favorite was at the turn,
hoW he was going, and whether the jock.
was sitting still or riding—in fact, he could
give a most minute description of the race
from start to finish, and of how it was won
and lost. “When I seen Tommy Hales sitting
still on Abercorn at the turn, and Mat
Harris riding Melos, I knew it was all over”
—and so on. When the interprovincial yacht
races were being sailed here a man walked
j n t 0 his shop one night and happened to
mention that he had witnessed the race from
Bellevue Hill. “Ah !” said old Grad, “I wisli
someone had called for me. There’s nothing
1 like to see so much as a good yacht race -”
~
The cycling woman, whom even the ■ bus
liorses shy at as she jig-jags over the loose
metal with her skirts hanging like a couple
of chaffbags and her - body bent over the
steering-gear as if she was in training for a
hunchback—-the cycling woman has at last
encompassed us [writes Sappho Smith].
Ladies’ cycling clubs are established in Syd-
ney and Melbourne—the Sydney collection
being captained by .'Mrs. Maddocks, the
lady who wheeled to Melbourne, but whom
the doctor sent back by steamboat; while
Mrs. Brentnall, pioneer wheelwoman of ,Vic-
toria, is to be high priestess 'of the Melbourne
club. I saw one lady—she looked like a
monkey on a grindstone- wheeling for dear
life on the South Head-road the other day,
and as the horse I was driving fairly danced
with horror at the spectacle I couldn t dielp
wondering how the landscape will look when
BEASTLY AWKWARD.
MASIHER ( abstractedly ): “Confound it! I can’t, for the life of
me, recollect whether 1 was to meet Margaret in Ehza-
beth-street or Elizabeth in Margaret-street. [26/10/’89.]
it is peppered with cycle-ladies, with yellow-
ish or snow-white faces and hollow eyes,
straining up the. hills or coming flying down
them with their Australian feet twined
lovingly over the handle in the masculine
style. Now that ladies’ clubs have started,
the situation is hopeless. Women, larrikins
and dingoes all feel courageous only when
running in a pack, and the establishment of
clubs will put grit into every backward
wheelwomari who has hitherto restricted her
prowess to garden paths. Knickerbockers
come next —;though why, in these hard times,
a women should exhibit.her legs for nothing
when theatre managers pay salaries for the
very same thing, is a puzzle to me.
Many years ago when the original nigger
was plentiful, a man of God wrestled with a
section of the Burrumbeet tribe near Bal-
larat, striving to guide them into the narrow
way that leadeth to the calm for evermore.
One dunder-headed old chief he was very
hopeful of, and drilled gospel into him from
early morn till dewy eve. One day the holy
man invited some friends connected with
mission work to come out and report pro-
gress. They went, and the regenerated
blackfellow-nobleman, Bible in hand, was
trotted forth for inspection. One among
the visitors, to try his faith, said, “Look-a
here, Sam, I give you bottle of rum for
your Bible.” Sam clung to the book and shook
his head. -Tavo bottles were offered, and
Sam’s mouth dripped like a crushed water-
melon. At last a bright idea struck lnm.
Starting forward he dragged a skinny lubra
out and said eagerly, “Here, look! Fetch um
rum ! I give my gin—fine feller —here,
here!” But they wouldn’t deal, and it
wasn’t long ere Sam was roaming the nearest
town trying to trade off the same Bible for
a sixpenny drink.
UNDAUNTED.
I came from the town
To my darling this morning;
She coldly looked down
When I came from the town,
And passed with a frown
My blandishments scorning.
I came from the town
To my darling this morning.
She left me alone
To reflect at my leisure;
With wrath in her tone
She left me alone,
My darling, my own,
In haughty displeasure,
She left me alone
To reflect at my leisure.
Don’t think I sdiall die
In despair at your door, dear;
For. to tell the truth, I
(Who you fancy may die)
Such rebuffs can defy,
For I’ve had ’em before, dear.
Don’t think I shall die
In despair at your door, dear.
P. LUFTIG.


Bank of New Zealand
Established, 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Batik has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
ẃ
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances;
Marine Risks
- - £1,000,000
[effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
to succeed*
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
509
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
ẅ
1846.
®he (Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland—the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in^
®he (Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney*
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
HAWAI I
THUS
SIUNNIEIR
LUJD [Q|\
Hi
JSs
4vnH-
MBS
n ms
m
Hawaii. .Waikiki Beach, .picturesque
people ., festivals.. sunshine and palms
. . . Queen Island of the South Seas,
Hawaii draws visitors from every land.
I mam
m
S
a. **
Canadian Australasian
EXCURSIONS
Hawaii, Via Aiu> Zealand and Suva.
AORANGI
Sailing FEBRUARY 5
Book with Union Steam Ship Company,
Sydney—Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Mg
tcs
BURNS PHILP TOURS
V
THE
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
£Bl
GARDEN OF THE EAST
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS. PHILP &.C°L T - D
7 BRIDGE: ST, SYDNELY, AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED IS 17.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
w
w
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world,
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail ”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The “Daily Mail”
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
!1 The mlnTTfr” T HE .?, ULLETIN ” taEes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate ,rates.
*Ulysses . . 15,000 tons, Jan. 19, ’3l
tEuripides 15,000 „ Feb. 17, ’3l
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Mar. 13, ’3l
JCeramic . . 18,500 „ Mch. 24, ’3l
*First class only. fFirst and third class.
1 Cabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32-
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’ConneH Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
MAH
TQ
cM
ro«*
A pictorial
guide to
America
FASCINATINC this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. r,33 >
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
RIJREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.


ASK THE MAN
WHO’S BEEN THERE—
And he will tell you that the finest holiday
he ever had was at Mt. Buffalo National '
Park—Victoria’s “Garden of the Gods.”
Wide-flung views of mountain and valley, a great grange, plateau with tre-
mendous precipitous walls, deep ravines and yawning cliffs, clear m °
streams and deep, placid lakes-these are some of the features which cause
those who have once visited Mt. Buffalo to return there year after year.
Excepting the Christmas period, when rather higher rates
operate, the tariff at The Chalet during the summer
and autumn is only 15/- per day for weekly vacationists.
Book at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU Martin Place, Sydney or
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or else get in touch direct with the manager of
The Chalet.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
BREAK O'DAY
BY JOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scorfield
PART 111.
Chapter I.
IT was the beginning of the year 1887.
Although sheep still grazed on the
mountain sides of rough Raeburn, no one
depended on them for a livelihood; and it
had been so for nearly two years. Large
and ugly buildings had been erected in the
gully where the dwelling had formerly stood,
and heavy machinery was at work all day
crushing the heavy cream-colored stone,
whose nature had mystified the Macalisters
and their predecessor’s, and to whose pre-
sence the aridity of Raeburn was attributed.
Raeburn was the property of Malcolm
Caesar Macalister, who was deriving a
princely income from the sale of the crushed
stone. Malcolm had spent four years at
the Boys’ High School in Moana, where
he won a scholarship which had given him
three years at the Moana University. His
vacations he spent a.t Raeburn helping his
father and mother to keep the stubborn
place up to the mark. As the years passed
it had become apparent to him that, of all
the vocations that he might enter, two at
least made no appeal to him—the ministry
and politics. His mind could not give it-
self to conjecture. It demanded the proofs.
At High School he was the delight of the
mathematical and science masters, while
those who were responsible for his know-
ledge of languages had wondered why all
the fuss was made about young Macalister.
At the University he had set about quali-
fying for a science degree.
If the trend of their son’s mind was a
disappointment to Jessie, for whom there
could be but one reason for education, and
that the pulpit, it was a heart-break to
Allan, who had always considered that his
son was born for the special purpose of
carrying on the political work that he him-
self had begun. What was all this talk
about geological formations and strata and
what not? And all this trouble as to
whether this statement or that was mathe-
matically correct? Where was all that stuff
going to get Malcolm Csesar? He might
just as well be a schoolmaster or even a
parson —the latter for preference, as that at
least would have pleased Jessie.
So well did Allan abide by his resolve
made in 1877 to give undivided attention
to the farm until the last debt was paid, that
he was a free man by the beginning of 1883.
The seasons had been in his favor; but the
good seasons did not persist, so that by
the end of 1885 he was again burdened with
debt. During these six years of close atten-
tion to the farm he did not lose his place
as the leader of the Land League, though
his journeyings were severely curtailed.
Moreover, there was less call for his urg-
ings. While the good seasons lasted, the
people were content to reap their harvests,
and if they thought about the Government
their thoughts were benign. But when times
again became bad, they were willing to listen
to any project that was put forward to
better their lot.
Thus by 1886 Allan found himself again
hand and foot with the Radicals, who now
called themselves Liberals and were be-
coming allied with a new party called
Labor, which was being evolved from the
of tradesmen known as Unions.
The Libetal-Labor party was organising
throughout the colony to make at the 1887
elections an effective stand against the
powers of Conservatism, and already Allan
had been chosen as the party candidate for
the Rewa-Rewa electorate. Throughout the
year 1885 he divided his time and energy
between trying to double the blades of
grass on arid Raeburn and helping to build
up the fighting organisation of his political
party. And then, like a bolt from the
blue, his son’s love of the natural sciences
was the means of discovering to him that
Raeburn, although the poorest farm in three
counties, was the richest mine in the colony!
Chapter 11.
At twenty years of age Malcolm ardently
desired several things, the chief of which
were to garner a great knowledge of the
natural sciences, to be able to make enough
money to lessen the burden that bore so
heavily on his parents, to take Lin Rich-
mond in his arms and kiss her and keep
her in his arms for ever, and to be the owner
one day of the winner of the Moana Cup.
He stood exactly six feet and was well knit.
He was pleasantly featured—the brow
broad, the eyebrows thick and straight above
a pair of thoughtful brown eyes. Several
things he could not understand; among
them why his father should worry himself
about the politics of a class of people who
did not appear to know their own minds
from one month to another, and who
seemed to be happy enough as they were;
why also he should be expected to consider
the Richmonds as enemies.
Three things he could do outstandingly
well—box, ride a horse in a steeplechase,
and tackle mathematical problems. During
the autumn vacation of 1885 he was un-
expectedly given the chance to show what
he could do with a steeplechaser. Sir
Alfred’s horse Flying Scud was favorite for
the Moana Steeplechase, but the horseman
who schooled him had met with an accident.
Corney McCabe, the old trainer, in his
extremity asked Malcolm to continue the
necessary work, and Malcolm willingly
agreed to do it until the rider was better.
It was while thus engaged that Malcolm
met Lin one morning at sunrise. She was
seated on a young thoroughbred chestnut,
her father’s gift to her on her seventeenth
birthday. The horse and the girl and the
sunrise provided for him his first disturbing
picture. What a wonderful world it was
that could hold so much grace and beauty!
He was unconscious that the sparkle of
the blue eyes beneath the golden oriflamme
of hair was not entirely unconnected with
himself—his lithe form, his fresh manly face,
his long shapely legs astride the silk-coated
aristocrat, the steeplechase favorite. She
had ridden straight up to where he had
reined-in his mount preparatory to beginning
the round.
“Good morning, Mr. Macalister,” she
said, blushing and smiling. “How good of
you to help old Corney out of his trouble!
He has been desperate since Danny got
hurt.”
“Danny can take his time in recovering,
Miss Richmond,” Malcolm laughed. “It
has been the ambition of my life to ride
a horse like this. Will you give me your
company over the fences, Miss Richmond?”
“That’s what we’re here for, aren’t we,
Johnny? My horse’s name is Johnny
Horner. I called him that because he likes
fruit. Flying Scud goes better with com-
pany and Johnny Horner loves the spin.
Shall we start?”
When Malcolm mounted his own horse
to ride home he was in the rare position
of a mortal who had attained almost his
heart’s desire. As he cantered through the
pines that led across country to Raeburn,
he burst into song:
“Maxwelton’s braes are bonnie,
Where early ja’s the dew,
And it’s there that Annie Laurie
Gave me her 'promise true.”
Malcolm said not a word to his parents
of his visits to the Hermitage stables, and he
wondered what would happen when his
father found out that he was helping his
arch-enemies to win the big steeplechase.
Of one thing he was certain: Wild horses
could not keep him away from the private
course so long as his services were re-
quired there. He hoped, too, that Danny’s
injuries would not respond too readily to
treatment. There was a fortnight to go
before the race day, and three weeks before
the end of his vacation. Think of it! If
Danny’s wounds did the right thing and
did not mend, he might meet, talk to and
ride with his golden lady at sunrise every
morning for ten mornings at least!
All that day he was quiet and preoccupied.
He was wondering how he could make
himself desirable in her eyes. But there
was nothing he could do about it. She
was perfection, and he felt imperfect and
unfinished in the light of her.
Next morning he was up before dawn.
He could not lie in his bed any longer and
run the risk of over-sleeping. He had passed
a dreadful night, waking every hour after
a nightmare. The nightmare was always
the same. He had slept in, and missed the
appointment.
It was just as well that he rose early, as
his preparations were long and- meticulous.
What with polishing his leggings and boots,
cleaning his saddle and bridle, mending his
whip, grooming his horse —a free-goer but
rough in the coat —leaving nothing undone
whose doing would seem to make him less
unworthy of what he expected to meet again
on Sir Alfred Richmond’s private course —
the sunrise!
It all wonderfully happened again as on
the first morning. He had ridden to the
stable, where Corney McCabe was saddling
the big steeplechaser. He had mounted
and ridden to the track, feeling the good
horse between his knees, and moving m
unison with the thoroughbred’s action
which the animal so much approved that
old Corney declared “Flying Scud never
lepped better than yisterday wid you on his
back, Malcolm, and I can see how ’tis.
’Tis a born rider you are, and ’tis the horse
that knows it.”
But Malcolm had gone awkward all over,
for' the sun was rising over the mountain,
and straight ahead, coming swiftly to him,
were the golden chestnut and the golden
lady. The course had become a sylvan
glade, and the tang of the air like wine.
Together the horses strode the turf and
flew the fences, and because of the nearness
of her he suffered poignant ecstasies.
They rode back to the stables. The hour
had passed. He must live through inter-
minable hours till the sunrise came again,
his solace the memory of rippling laughter
and her shattering sweetness.
Again he was impelled to tell the pines
that
“Her brow is like the snow-drift,
Her throat is like the swan,
Her face it is the fairest
That e’er the sun shone on.
That e’er the sun shone on,
And”
There was a lady in his path, and coming
towards him. He reined-in his horse and
took off his cap. Lady Richmond, tall,
commanding, her grey eyes steadily upon
him!
Malcolm was well acquainted with her
appearance, but she had never spoken to
him. It was evident she was about to speak
to him now.
“Good morning, sir.”
“Good morning, Lady Richmond.” Mal-
colm dismounted.
“My daughter tells me you are helping
Corney McCabe to prepare Flying Scud
for the steeplechase.”
“Ye 3, Lady Richmond, and I like the job.”
Malcolm stood easily before her, tall pines
about them. No more satisfying specimen
of early manhood could have been vouch-
safed to one who had eyes to see. The
clean, true product of a clean country.
Past he had none; without background,
without traditions. His soul shone clear
through his eyes. He had no reckonings
to square. He had inherited the earth when
it was new. His world was young; his
country unstained by history. He was
youth!—the supple strength, the clean-cut
features, the clear tanned skin, the level eyes
that could sweep unfearingly the distant
horizons. Standing there, smiling at her in
all his careless beauty, so entirely wholesome
did he appear in her eyes that the defences
with which she habitually wrapped herself
about to encounter her fellow r creatures were
put away from her as useless encumbrances.
“Your name is Malcolm, I understand,
and you are Allan Macalister’s son ?
“Yes, m’lady.”
“Does your father know you are training
Sir Alfred’s horse?”
“I haven’t told him, Lady Richmond.
“If he learns what you are doing he
might not be pleased. However, it is very
good of you. Sir Alfred has set his heart
on winning the Moana Steeplechase.
“If Danny is not better by race day,
would you give me the mount?”
Lady Richmond looked at him curiously,
her brows arched in surprised admiration.
“Would you, Malcolm, ride a Hermitage
horse in public?”
“It would be wonderful to have the
chance. I have ridden three times in
steeplechases—twice against professionals—
but I haven’t had a win yet. Of course I
have never yet ridden a horse as good as
Flying Scud.”
“I understand that you attend the Uni-
versity. Are you going in for politics?
“No, I’m not. I don’t like politics. Ive
told father that. I am working to get a
science degree and I want to make money.
Lady Richmond extended her hand to
him. “I am glad to have met you.” She
paused; then added: “Malcolm, if you think
at any time I can be of any help to you,
please don’t fail to come and see me.”
“Thank you very much, Lady Richmond.
Good-bye.” .
Malcolm rode off saying to himself, W ell
that’s fine! Go to see her if I want help!
What was it she said? ‘lf you want help
please don’t fail to come and see me.’ And
what did I say? ‘Thank you very much.
Coward! Of course I want help—her help.
Why didn’t I answer straight out, ‘Thank
you, Lady Richmond; you can help me now
if you like—to your beautiful daughters
hand?’ I wonder what would have hap-
pened if I had said that?”
Chapter 111.
Young Macalister had returned to the
University after the vacation to take up
his work for the final examination for the
degree of Bachelor of Science. He felt that
he could not by any possibility get plucked,
because the world was his. He had ridden
Flying Scud in the Moana Steeplechase,
and had won it hands down. He could have
wished that the race had not been so easy,
the circumstances being such that, by the
rules of the game, as interpreted in the best
racing romances, Flying Scud should have
met with most diabolical interference at
the hands of the villainous rider of the
third favorite, and victory should have been
snatched by him, Malcolm Macalister, only
at the post. But such was not the case.
As he rode back to the saddling paddock he
had felt ashamed of his tame performance.
He had jumped out at the fall of the flag
and had never been headed.
Lin was there with Lady Richmond, who
seldom attended a race meeting, but on this
occasion had been so importuned by her
tyi’annical daughter that she was little better
than kidnapped to the course.
She had been most gracious to him, and
Sir Alfred had written to him from Wel-
lington a warm letter of thanks for what he
had done for the Hermitage stable.
But, these things were subsidiary to and
inconsequential beside the fact that Lin
loved him and had told him so. Not only
had the last three weeks of his vacation
been the most wonderful of his short life;
he could not well see that the future could
possibly hold for him another such period
so filled with golden moments. He could
sit now in his little bedroom in the cheap
students’ boarding-house near the Univer-
sity, and tick off in his memory every
moment he had passed breathing the same
air as golden Lin; how it had seemed to
become necessary to the preparation of
Flying Scud that the horse should be re-
turned later by a quarter of an hour each
succeeding day to his stable; and finally
how old Corney McCabe, the trainer, had
made of himself a benignant old gentleman.
When only three more morning gallops were
left to them, Corney had cryptically said,


Tried
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair*
In bottles, of
C h e m i sts,
Stores and
H a i r dressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD,,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.f.67.
1931.
Resolve to open a Savings Bank account! Save a little each week—
or each month and employ the Commonwealth Savings Bank as your
safe and patient assistant.
The man with a Savings Account is not only happier, for the possession
of some ready-money resources—he is stimulated to increase these
resources, to his ultimate great benefit.
If you do not open a general Savings Account, at least start a Purpose
Account-—one in which you save for a specific purpose during a definite
period of time. Provide by easy degrees for a payment at a selected
date or ror the discharge of a future obligation.
satisfaction 631 9ppr ° ac^es * can make it one of progress and
inrnoramltb Savinas M of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
after he had legged him into the saddle:
“Malcolm, has it occurred to you that ’tis
a good thing Flying Scud is not going in
for a walking race? It do seem that the
freer he goes in his gallops the slower he
walks home. Have you noticed that at all,
young man?”
“I can’t say I have, Corney.”
“Well, I have. An’ ’tis very strange. I’ll
tell you now. The first three or four rides
you had, the horse was back in the stable
within a quarter of an hour of leaving the
course. But bedad! as the mornings wint
by and the horse was getting to the top of
his form as a lepper and galloper, he would
be taking longer and longer to do that
walk; until yisterday morning it took him
exactly fifty-one minutes by the watch that’s
in me pocket! ’Tis a wonder to me that
Miss Linley didn’t mention the slowness of
the walking to ye, she being a great one to
notice everything about the horses, and
being widout her breakfast as she was.”
“I didn’t notice, Corney.”
“That’s why I mintioned it, Malcolm. I
didn’t think you would. Now I’ll tell you
what I want you to do. Give the horse only
walking exercise this morning and to-morrow
morning. Do you understand? No gallop-
in’ at all. Go where you like. Here is Miss
Linley coming now. All right, be off wid
you and I don’t want to see you for an hour
and a half.”
“Lin,” said Malcolm as soon as they were
out of the trainer’s hearing, “Old Corney
has been telling me that Flying Scud is be-
coming a very slow walker. Have you
noticed it?”
“No, Malcolm, I have not.”
“Neither have I. But he says it took us
fifty-one minutes to go from the course to
the stable yesterday morning.”
Linley looked across at Malcolm under
her lashes, but it was evident that he was
wholly serious.
“What funny ideas that man gets into his
head! But, of course, he is getting very
old. Only two more mornings, Malcolm.”
“Will you be sorry, Lin, when—when the
race is over, and there are no more morn-
ing rides?” Flying Scud stepped nearer to
the chestnut.
“Yes, Malcolm, I shall; and, what’s more,
I am going to be sorrier when you go back
to the University. I’ll have no one to ride
with except Danny, and he is always grumpy
to me. I’ve told mother how much I like
you.”
“What did she say?”
“Well, strangely enough, she said nothing,
but she gave me such a queer look. Aren’t
old people funny?” Lin tossed back her
hair and laughed at him. “Let’s have a
gallop.”
“Steady! Steady!” cautioned Malcolm.
“My instructions are walking exercise only
this morning, and I mustn’t go back for an
hour and a half.”
“Oh, isn’t that splendid! I believe gal-
lops do make the time seem shorter. You
and I are always going to be friends, aren’t
we, Malcolm? And when you don’t have to
go to Moana any more, we’ll go for picnics
and stay away all day.” Flying Scud stepped
closer still. “Malcolm, why are your parents
and mine not friendly?”
“Politics, Lin.”
“Well, aren’t old people funny, Malcolm?
Mother’s awfully keen on politics, but I
don’t think Daddy is, although he is in
Parliament. Doesn’t your father vote for
my daddy?”
“That’s just one of the few things I’m
sure about, Lin.”
“What is, Malcolm?”
“That my father doesn’t vote for your
daddy.”
“Well, I’ll tell you what I’m sure of,”
rippled Lin.
“Yes?”
“That I’m going to call you ‘Male’ for
short. You’ve had the cheek to call me Lin
for days and days, and, besides, ‘Malcolm’
sounds like a man with bushy whiskers and
a big stick.” The horses pricked their ears
to miss nothing of the pleasant notes of
laughter and a tui high on the branch of a
rimu-tree mingled his molten notes with
theirs.
Much to old Comey’s surprise, at the end
of an hour and a half they had returned to
the stable, where Malcolm, having delivered
Flying Scud to his keeper, had mounted his
hack and was about to go his lonely wa.y
home when a messenger from the house
informed him that Lady Richmond wished
to see him. That had given him another
quarter of an hour in the company of Lin—
a just reward for his prompt return.
Malcolm was one of the very few who
experienced no misgivings when requested
to step into the presence of Lady Richmond.
Their personalities were so much in agree-
ment that each could be thoughtfully silent
in the other’s presence. With Lin—no!
Tenterhooks all the time! He wanted to
squeeze her all up, but daren’t. The sweet-
est and most exasperating sprite that ever
eluded the guards of Heaven!
“Malcolm,” her Ladyship had said, “are
you still the daring young gentleman who
once told me he would like nothing better
than to ride Flying Scud in the Steeple-
chase?”
“That would be great, your Ladyship.”
“Good. Danny is better, as you know,
but I’ve decided, on McCabe’s recommenda-
tion, to give the mount to our gentleman
rider. What have you been doing for that
old fox? He says that you and Flying Scud
move all of a piece.”
“I’ll do my very best, Lady Richmond.
I think he is a great horse.”
“Very well. That’s settled. By the way,
have you told your father yet what you are
doing?”
“Not yet, Ma’am.”
“Will you tell him?”
“After the race.”
“Why not before?”
“Well, your Ladyship, he is very busy
at • present with politics, and I think it
wouldn’t do to interrupt him. Besides, he
takes no interest in horseracing.”
“I see. I am glad you haven’t your
father’s passion for politics, Malcolm. I
hope Lin has not bothered you too much
“‘Male, it’s all over. This is the last morning.'”
with her chatter. I know she worried Danny.
He complained about it. Like her father,
she is crazy about horses. If you like, I’ll
tell her not to”
“No, no, Lady Richmond. Lin doesn’t
worry me at all. In fact, I—I”
“Well?”
“Well, Flying Scud likes her to be with
me.”
Malcolm’s hot ears drummed, so that he
barely caught her Ladyship’s comment:
“Oh! he does, does he?”
The last morning of Flying Scud’s prepa-
ration had held the eternal moment when
Lin had said, as they curbed the horses’
mad desire to get back to the stables:
“Male, it’s all over. This is the last
morning. Male, don’t go home by the short
cut through the pines. If you go the long
way, I’ll come with you to the boundary
fence.”
Yes. The boundaiy fence in the gully,
where one saw nothing but yellow tussocks
and glassy-eyed sheep. Parnassus and
Olympus; sylvan glades and fairy dells
thrown in.
That gully of tussocks and sheep as seen
from the boundary fence was God’s own
spot. That’s where Male kissed Lin.
Chapter IV.
Malcolm Macalister’s pet subject in read-
ing for his science degree was geology. It
was thus that he learnt of the existence of
a stone called scheelite, from which tungstic
acid was extracted, this acid being used,
when obtainable, by the makers of arma-
ments for the hardening of gunmetal and
other purposes.
The written ‘description of the stone
brought to Malcolm’s mind something with
which he was very familiar—the outcrop of
cream-colored rocks and pebbles that
occurred on the most arid parts of Raeburn.
Could it be possible that Raeburn was not
really a farm at all, but a mine? He wrote
to his father telling him what he had dis-
covered.
He wrote as if the feeling between his
father and him were normal, which had not
been the case since Allan learned that he
had ridden the Hermitaee horse in the
Moana Steeplechase. There had been no
quarrel; the shock to Allan had been such
as not to admit of expression. Malcolm had
told him the extent of his connection with
the Richmonds—all excepting certain things
that had passed between himself and Lin.
He had attempted to justify himself, and
had tried to make his father appreciate
his point of view—which showed how young
Malcolm was, to imagine that there could
be any justification for stepping between a
Highlander and his feud! Thereafter his
father had treated him with studied polite-
ness—as if he were a strange person whose
presence must be tolerated. Jessie had
watched and said nothing. She believed in
both. As for Malcolm himself, he was con-
scious that his mental outlook was very
different from that of his father and that it
was likely enough that the day would come
when they would have little in common.
At the week-end Malcolm followed his
letter to Raeburn. He could not rest till
he had settled the question as to whether
the Raeburn stone was scheelite or not. He
examined the stone and the formations in
the light of what he had read, and arrived
at the conclusion that, if the stone was not
scheelite, then that desirable mineral had
a double. But when he tried to interest
Allan in the discovery, all he got was, “If
the stone is of any value to you, you are
welcome to it. To me it’s nothing but an
eyesore.”
Malcolm returned to Moana with some
samples, but could get little information
there to either confirm or alter his own
opinion. He did learn, however, that the
largest user of the acid was Krupp, in
Germany. He then did the practical thing
and exhibited some business acumen in do-
ing it, by taking no one into his confidence.
He sent samples to Krupp with an explana-
tory letter, and awaited the verdict.
The reply came in November, 1885, on
the last day of his examination. The
samples were excellent specimens of schee-
lite, of which Krupp was willing to take any
quantity, paying the market value, which
during the last five years had fluctuated
between £lOO and £l5O per ton for such
stone crushed and treated, and between £BO
and £l3O for stone broken into small nug-
gets. The market value at the time of
writing Was £l3O for the former and £llO
for the latter. The letter gave instructions
concerning the mining of the stone and
packing and forwarding, and wound up on
an enthusiastic note of congratulation that
such a discovery should have been made in
New Zealand.
Next evening Malcolm arrived from
Moana and produced the letter to his father,
(Continued on next page.)


THAT RHEUMATISM
RID YOURSELF OF THE TERRIBLE
PAIN THIS SIMPLE, EASY WAY
Rubbing does not always ease pain. Doctors will tell you
that massage or rubbing, wrongly applied, may prove seriously
harmful. How many thousands of sufferers from swollen,
painful joints and aching muscles know only too well the
waste of time and money spent in rubbing ointments into the
skin ? You must realise that chronic pains in the back, limbs
or joints are caused by poisons in the blood which irritate the
nerves. You might just as well polish the stove to cure a
smoky chimney as to rub the outside of the body to cure a
deep-seated, internal blood trouble which starts at the kidneys.
HOW TO END YOUR PAIN
QUICKLY AND FOR EVER
Go to your chemist —ask for a supply of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. You can ask him how good the prescription
is from which this remedy is made. He knows and can advise
you. Take two De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills at night,
one before mealtimes. In twenty-four hours you will see and
know they are doing you good, and if you will only persevere
you will obtain complete relief. Whilst De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills will, from the very first dose, help you, it is only
fair to us that you should give them a REGULAR day-by-day
trial. For over forty years they have been curing chronic
sufferers, many bed-ridden, many in agony for years. There
is no secret about this successful remedy, but there is a
definite guarantee. These two facts, which have made De Witt s
Kidney and Bladder Pills famous the world over, will prevent
you accepting any substitute.
AAv\ \ \, 1J I / lllil/////////A'sls / '*>sk_<,
BDeWITTS
f
Sr
m
k
An Honest
and Reliable Remedy
There is no mystery about De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills —it is a
straightforward remedy which your
chemist can honestly recommend to you.
Purchase from him a 3/6 bottle —take the
pills according to the instructions. Per-
severe and you will be cured to stay cured.
Do not be put off with any substitute.
If you want health, ask for and see you
get De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
—the remedy with the guarantee.
FOLLOW THE EXAMPLE OF
THIS ONE-TIME SUFFERER
Writing from 182, Layton Street,
Camperdown, N.S. IV., Mrs. Newman
says : ‘‘ A friend gave me a sample of
De Witt’s Pills and they did my Rheu-
matism so much good that I got a full-
size bottle from the chemist which
proved sufficient to banish the pain that
had tortured me for many years. ”
De WITT’S PILLS
are invaluable in all cases of
RHEUMATISM
WEAK KIDNEYS
JOINT PAINS
LUMBAGO
SCIATICA
BACKACHE
CYSTITIS
GRAVEL
STONE
NEURITIS
and all
Kidney and Bladder Troubles
The helpless creature whimpered and
moaned, as they stared at her in stupefied
amazement, and the hideous. brute standing
near the corner of the table goggled and
gaped and grinned at them. Greasy, matted
hair hung down over his low forehead. Short
legs supported, in a bent and bandy fashion,
an immense, round-bellied trunk. He had
the aspect of a gorilla.
“Ye villain!” cried the constable.
“What’s th’ beast been at?”
Mr. Wicks’s face was red with anger.
“I’ll teach you, you swine—l’ll teach you!”
The young naval officer leapt across the
space that separated him from the horrible
object confronting them, and his clenched fist
thudded into that appalling countenance;
then jumped upon him, hands clutching at his
throat.
“Kill him, Gregory! Kill the ,!”
shouted Mr. Calder furiously dancing behind
the naked woman.
❖ ❖ ❖ Hs
Mr. Pilkington, sleeping on his verandah,
owing to the hotness of the summer night—
some two months after the tailoring business
conducted by John Smith, witli his financial
backing, had come to its dramatic end —was
suddenly aware someone was moving
stealthily towards him. And then realisation
came to him in a startling and violent
fashion, as sudden as unexpected. He re-
ceived a tremendous blow in the chest, felt
a searing pain in his left shoulder, and heard
something that was like the snarl of a wild
beast. A heavy weight pressed him down,
and he became thoroughly awake, and
acutely conscious of danger.
“Great Thcott!” he gasped, as he struggled
beneath some heavy, stinking body that had
imposed itself upon him.
He was a strong, athletic young man, who
took a keen delight in keeping his muscles
fit, and in hard condition. The sudden con-
sciousness of great peril found his sub-con-
sciousness prepared for it. With a mighty
heave of legs and back, he threw the weight
from his chest, and bounded off the camp-bed
on which he had been sleeping. A burly form
fell away from him, and he heard some hard
object drop with a rattle behind the bed.
Almost instantly, his attacker had closed
with him again, and he found himself in-
volved in a strenuous struggle with some
powerfully built person who seemed to be
trying to get a grip on his throat. A crush-
ing arm encircled his back, the other tore
at his own arms endeavoring to shield his
windpipe from attack. A knobby leg crooked
itself about one of his own sinewy limbs. In
this fierce grapple, he and his antagonist
swayed about the stone floor of the verandah.
Grunts and gasps burst from both their
straining chests. And then Mr. Pilkington
felt a heavy blow on the back of his head,
saw stars and dancing lights that suddenly
obliterated themselves in deep blackness, and
knew nothing more about anything until he
heard his servant, William Larkins, shout:
“Ah, would yer!”
He sat up, feeling dizzy and sick, stag
gered to his feet, and became conscious of
Larkins and a lantern. He felt himself
swaying a little, and subsided on the tumbled
bed.
“What ith it, Larkinth?” he inquired.
“What the devil’th happened, and wlio’th
tliith fellow? Gad, he’th a powerful wuffian!
What wath he after?”
“Gawblessus, sir, I think th’ swine tried
to knife ye. Look, he’s stabbed you in the
shoulder. Wait till I get some rags,, and stop
th’ bleedin’.”
Mr. Pilkington checked him, as he turned
to enter the house, with an uplifted liaud.
“A moment, William. Who ith the fellow
lying there? Ith he dead? Tell me what
happened.”
“I was asleep in th’ back ferandy, y’r
honor, ivken I was suddenly woke up be a
fearful rumpus out ’ere w’ere you was a-
sleepin’. So I grabs th’ first thing comes
’andy—’twas a wooden pail, as was standin'
be the back door—an’ runs along tli’ passage-
way. First of all, I couldn’t make out w’ich
was you an’ w’ich was ’im. ’Twas very
dark, an’ me lieyes was full o’ sleep. At
fast I could see y’r honor, you bein’ th’ taller,
and I makes a swing at ’is ’ead wi’ th’
bucket; but I’ll be d—d if y’r honor didn’t
stumble in th’ way of it, and got it on the
nob. But I got ’ini next time, an’ made a
proper job of it. ’E’s on’y jest come to. I
’card ’im stir a few moments ago, so I
kicked ’im in tli’ jam, an’ put ’im to sleep
again. D’ye know who it is, sir? Th’ hugly
cow t”
“Who ith it Larkinth?”
“ >Tis that feller Smith th’ tailor, sir—
>im ye set up i n th’ shop in ’Unter-street, as
Mr. Calder an’ Mr. Wicks give th’ dressin’-
doW n t 0 for a -beatin of Polly Simpkins. ’E
got a floggin’, an’s been in gaol since. Wot
» e wants to come after you for beats me,
though. If ’twas the other gemmen I could
understand—but you! Why, you ain’t done
nothink to th’ dog but kindness! That’ll
show ye'”
“ Itll be badly hurt? Dwag him inthide,
william, and let’th exthamine him.”
With scant gentleness William Larkins
lugged the recumbent form of Mr. Smith into
the front room and ligll tod the lamp.
l(r v, „ „„„„
, P. k ’ n ? y a , u 11 w ■ ?, av Vn!f JtP° ! y cU?'
kaa< ?’
I U doubtful whether you haven t kilLd the
f " li°°. k h l r<e ’ y<3ud > tlibp romid to
Dr Hathtingth. Give him my complimentth,
and wequetht him to come! hger imme-
uiately. We don t want the fellow dying on
°F. h /ft Bc qaick ’ William—l m
keßl P iett y ,^ ar »°ae-
. Good God, man, said bluff old Dr. Hast-
mgs, a little later, as he straightened his
broad back after a careful examination of
the mess that had been made of John Smith s
ill-favored headpiece— what on earth did
you hit him with, Larkins? ’ _
I Jest tapped him, like, wi’ th bucket,
Doctor. Did I ’urt ’im? I m sorry if I ’urt im.
“A tap! Dammit, if you and hit him any
harder you’d have driven his skull into his
thorax. Well, lie’s dead, at any rate, loull
inform the police, I suppose, Pilkington? ho
hurry until the morning. 1 know this
fellow. He’s infernally well dead. Larkins
should be suitably rewarded for ridding the
community of such a brute. I understand
you’d taken an interest in him, Pilkington t
Set him up in business, and so forth. Well,
he was a clever tailor. Made me a suit, a
couple of months ago, that’s the best I’ve
ever had. But a monstrous, perverted ruffian.
Aye, he’s better dead.”
“What, my dear Doctor,” asked Mr. I il-
kington, after staring thoughtfully at the
uulovely corpse of John Smith, _as it lay
huddled upon the sofa in his dining-room—
“what, pway, ith the exthplanation of thith
fellow’th ecthtwaordinarwy methodtli of
tweating women? What thatithfaction could
the fellow have dewived fwom beating that
unfortunate Polly Thimpkinth tho unmerthi-
fully? Doubtleth, it watli a pwactithe of
the fellow’tli?”
“Oh, ’twas his practice, right enough,
grunted Dr. Hastings. “More than one of
these poor creatures has come to my dispen-
sary for liniments and ointment after enjoy-
ing John Smith’s hospitality and patronage
for a night. Have you ever heard of that
delightful French character the Marquis do
Sade? That’s the explanation. John Smith
was tailor, in Paris, to the interesting Mar-
quis, and obviously a disciple. So you see,
my dear Pilkingtou, your patronage lias been
worthily bestowed,” lauglied the burly
doctor, quizzically. “But ’tis hard he should
blame you for his misfortunes.”
“Oh !” murmured Mr. Pilkington, Here,
Larkinth, wemove thith offal. Put him m
the woodshed. I shall weward you, my
good William with ten guineath. You’ve done
a good night’th work!”
who was* immersed in correspondence con-
cerning the proposed alliance between the
Liberal party and the workers’ unions. The
news sent Allan into a brown study and a
silence that he did not break until the
following day at dinner.
“Malcolm Crnsar,” he said, “you did well
keeping secret your correspondence with the
German folk. We have the place leased as
a sheep farm. Mining is not allowed by
the lease. Nothing may be removed. We
must exercise the option to purchase; but
where the money is coming from I don’t
know. The price is £2500, £750 down and
the balance on mortgage, but in this case
the whole cash would be better. As a sheep
farm Raeburn in these bad times is not
worth more than £1750. Now the point is,
you can’t get the whole of the purchase
money without showing Krupp’s letter, and
who can you show it to who has the money
and would not take a mean advantage of
our poverty?”
“Well, Father”
“Wait a minute, my boy, till I tell you
what I have in mind, and for a beginning
I must say this. You are for me a shining
example of the saying, ‘Man proposes, but
God disposes.’ From the day of your
birth I had intended to bring you up and
educate you for one end only—to fit you to
take your place as a leader in the great
movement that I began. The movement to
segregate the land. It has been willed
otherwiso, to my bitter disappointment. But
I am not going to stand in your light; you
will have your chance to go your own
way. Therefore I think it only just and
fair, as it is your knowledge that has brought
this wonderful good fortune to us, that you
take charge of the business from now on,
and run it your own way. As you probably
know, I care nothing for wealth, but I
detest debt. Your mother and I would do
well enough on a small place that’s easy
to work. We must have a farm of some
kind. What I propose, then, is that you
raise the money to purchase Raeburn, the
deeds of the place to be made out in your
name, and that you pay me one-quarter of
the nett earnings of the mine, which I’ll
devote in the first place to the purchase of
another place. I would wish to have no-
thing to do with the mine. I don’t under-
stand it. Providence seems to be deter-
mined that you and I shall lead separate
lives, so we might as well make the best of
it. But I might tell you that this turn in
our fortunes takes nothing from the bitter-
ness that is in me when I see you in your
early manhood without one spark of enthu-
siasm for the only thing I have at heart;
and when I find that my enemies have be-
come your friends, I am quite prepared to
learn at any time that my friends have be-
come your enemies. There now, and carry
on in your own way.”
“But, Pa,” said Jessie, “has Malcolm
Csesar not done well in finding the stone to
be valuable?”
“That’s all right, lassie. No one could
have a word to say against that; but there
are principles worth more than valuable
stone.”
“I’m sure I don’t understand at all,” mur-
mured Jessie, resuming her knitting. “What
with one thing and another. ’
(To be continued next week.)
Whither?
Whither shall we go to-day,
We who have no work to do?
Roll our swags and gaily stray,
I and you.
Clear the sky is, clear and pure,
Sweet the scent of flower and soil;
Earth to-day is resting sure
From its toil.
Resting, though it still must roll
Round and round and round the sun,
Ever till a destined goal
It has won.
Basking under golden gleams,
Downward shed o’er mile and mile,
Sea and land a-dream it seems
For awhile.
Bade by earth to rest a space
On this day of glow and gleam,
Let us seek some quiet place,
And there dream.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


mm
:::
■
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 4 1 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co,
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHI'RCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington..
Victorian Office House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A
“THE AGE”
Established 185. i.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the*
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per, cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 9.'» per cent, of the home deliveries i
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
. and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
National Advertisers
Who Wish to Cover South Australia
$
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register, the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
ẁ
the mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper m the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches (121
miles), Deloraine (MO miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
publishers,
qe 97. 99 Macquarie Street,
’ Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable * H ° bart -
F. L. -J^i^o^lQ^street^aWynyard^^qiwrer 6 '
80 Carrington j-
Argus
Melbourne Office!
Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Che Jldwcrliscr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
m Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.-W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, SO Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7068.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Bilildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
ẃ
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 <3eorge Street, Sydney.
mm
i
r
*
✓
>
s*
TT.
£
?, %
I
A>> .'»
!T»* •
ft
»*»
To be in
perfect trim /
Without health you lose a great deal of
interest in life.
Constipation is the cause of most poor
health. People suffer headaches, bilious-
ness, indigestion, without thinking that
the cause is constipation.
If you suspect this to be the cause of your
poor health —buy a box of Beecham’s Pills.
This medicine is famous for its thorough
action and possesses in a remarkable measure
the power to assist the stomach, liver and
bowels to work in-harmony.
BEECHAMS
. PIUS
** Worth a
Quinea a Box "
MIRROR OF CONFIDENCE
The Examiner, Launceston’s only daily,
was established 89 years ago. It has
become the trusted Family Newspaper
in Northern Tasmania—it is the reliable
Advertising Medium for the North.
As this Graph indicates, the advertising
in The Examiner has been steadily in-
creasing. The unstippled portions show
the increases year by year. They are the
Mirror of Confidence that reflects the
reliability of The Examiner as an Ad-
vertising Medium.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising
ẅ
Rates obtainable trom
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
M. S.
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street.
MELBOURNE.
W. G. DOUGAN,
Kembla Bwilding,
Margaret Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin**
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from *
for which 1 enclose £
NAME ...
ADDRESS *•••
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/*
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/«
y-
(v.
*>•
Y>
0°
• •'
• * At) 0 " 15,
*


\
4
Thousands
of Motorists
were masked
%*
re
ff
p
/./
/ /
rlfti
yy,<--y
&
* / %S\\\
ry w
-\\t
v'/
S'
. of replies
An impartial and independent organisation wrote to
thousands of Australian Motor Car, Truck and Bus Owners
throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth.
“Which Tyre do you prefer?” they asked. Back came the re-
plies: “ Goodyear ” —“Goodyear”-—“GOODYEAR.” More than
45% of these tyre users said they prefer Goodyear Tyres.
-This freely-given and entirely unbiased response repre-
sents the opinion of thousands of Australian motor vehicle
owners, and to these are joined millions more —the greater
preference for Goodyear Tyres wherever tyres are sold: for,
not only in Australia , but the whole world over , more people
ride on Goodyear Tyres than on any other make.
It seems to us that this fact conclusively answers every
question of tyre quality, performance, value, service and price.
GOOD
Goodyear Tyres are made in Australia
EAR
and cost no more than any other make.
0-5.
