

•"1
i Ktyr.K
iijJrgj. ' -r'.f
\ , S'A 1
IM
tilii@il
aw»:l
1 , \rm
■ m
' f r y^-sBK
;'
a$L
Sfc
Eiilliliip:
$
-
Be
-“O
lr
:
■iiiiii
lllfj
in
V’>- ■' ~''i: .
mimSm;
flffy " -. r :.j- > ~' If 1
ail 'iiHyiSsn'i !,■ •
flgggl
HUP’ •■•
Sis HI
j
/ ■ ■■ : I
/ iBH|
if ill
fli-iag
oc
liil • L
,s *»**.
■ ■s.Vi'j* it
PP-:lipl
' 8
■ 1 ■
—-»..«-L ;.gtilS3iaMHgW
; ! ■ i
HWH
fBBH
.
■ ■ ■■■:;■!:■:
z%^%s/gom
: 111
IfSSPI ; -
/ . :l ; : '"" ■ ', ■ ■ .
I . :■»= ■ -.-ili ,L. -,-■ V- 1 ' i ■'- - J ..\ ■■
few:«
' 'il3i
j,"; ■ j
■llifiliMli
H
W OMO£
RFUI
WHISKy
The Bulletin
Whites l!)ixif&yt^cun^i m./Ifyjuo.
Vol. 52.—N0. 2675.
Wednesday, May 20, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


(~\UR Now Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars pdst free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Tmi
iiLULI
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, .Melbourne.
Please, send, without obligation,, your New Fret
lGpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331
L.YSAGHT
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specifjr
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported-
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEOROE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. • • • • • • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
Londok Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout tbf
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy,’ write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
niRFf.T MEDIUM TS WOMEN
AND
Sydn
SBANE READS IT.
C. HINCHCLIFJTE,
R STREET.
HONOLULU
The “Crossroads of
the Pacific 7 '
is only 13 Days
from Australia !
ert
A thrilling moment on the famous Waialae Golf Course, Honolulu .
TT A WATT —a tropical paradise of warm, golden
beaches, rugged purple hills, jungles of
tangled colour — is only 13 days from Sydney by
the swift Matson route .
Gay, cosmopolitan .Honolulu offers you an ideal
holiday—golf, tennis, riding, swimming, fish-
ing—every kind of pleasure.
The Matson route takes you to Fiji, Samoa,
Honolulu, then San Francisco —gateway to
America’s amazing scenery.
Perfect accommodation, cuisine, service, wide
deck space, exciting deck sports. Go "home”
now by this fastest, coolest route —only 29 days
to London.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
ATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone B 7981-3
ert
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Green Memory
The authors of A House Is Built have
unquestionably done it again. Their second
story of early Sydney, Green Memory
(Harrap; Dymocks; 7s. 6d. net), has not
the range of the first Bulletin Novel Com-
petition winner, but in one reader’s opinion,
at least, it is better written. There is
a new deftness, a finer economy, only
slightly but perhaps sufficiently indicated
in such character touches as these: —
With her always drifted her daughter May, a
pretty, languid girl who seemed rather to be sucked
aloyig in the wind of her mother’s passage than to
move with any volition of her own....
Gerald was right when he said you would know
Uncle Aubrey was a clergyman even in his bath....
Near by his eldest daughter, Millicent, whispered
and laughed behind her fan with May; she was the
eldest of six daughters, and her gaiety rang a little
false as she watched her mother scan the ballroom
for possible partners.
The authors —it seems necessary to speak
of them as authors, though they use the
joint pseudonym M. Barnard Eldershaw —
have here wholly bridged the difference
between mere- description and creation.
They have but to touch upon the people for
the scene to become visible, and vice verso,.
Thus the tragedy of the Havens- —the sui-
cide of their father, from which the story
springs—is most poignant when one of the
girls, Charlotte, looks at the garden shortly
afterwards:—
The garden was getting out of hand, there was
an imperceptible litter, a faint suggestion of license.
Their garden had been civilised, and now the wild-
wood was calling it back. A curious thought came
into her brain with the hot, faintly plangent exhala-
tion of the earth. The hand of life had opened
slowly, negligently uncurled its fingers, and they
and their garden, and ail that they had, had fallen
out, scattered, into an outer world.
A minor curiosity of the authors’ manner
is the way they go back now and then and
live in the scene they have set:—
No carriage sounds quite like the first to arrive
at a party; there is a crisp hollowness about the
sound, a snapping of tensions in every revolution of
the wheel.
Yet when they go on to continue the story
in the past tense the change is not noticed
with any shock. As they do it, this ming-
ling becomes a clever device for conjuring
up a clearly-visible past. Their story is
no mere thing of physical aspects. The
theme is deep and perennial. Lucy, the
girl who, after the death of her father;
attempts to mould the family nearer to her
prideful heart’s desire, only to have them
slip out of her hands and nearly her happi-
ness with them, gets close to being a snob,
but rises to heights of superb womanhood.
And the novel, as a novel, rises with her.
It is a beautiful piece of literature.
Another Good One
I may be wrong, but I believe Vagabonds,
by Knut Hamsun (Cassell ; Roycroft; 12s.),
is even better than Growth of the Soil.
There is growth here, too: these people,
especially the oddly-assorted friends, Ede-
vart and August-, grow as surely, steadily,
visibly over the years as young trees. They
are all primitive; but Hamsun has the
eyes to sep that, for all their apparent trans-
parency, they are creatures of complexity,
flaring up in their quick tempers, loving like
good-natured animals, nursing their petty
gauds and baubles, cheating as children
would, and acting as generously as happy
drunks. Edevart is a capital study of his
type, a decent, dull, homely fellow, as loyal
as a dog, proud in the possession of a good
watch, or a coat, a gold ring or a friend
like August—that childlike liar who takes
nobody in but Edevart, but whom Edevart
knows for the rare fellow he is. August
has travelled; he has waded, literally, in
gold; whole boxes of treasure were given
to him by the King of Burma; he speaks
several languages; wonder of wonders to
this Norwegian fishing hamlet, he plays
music! He is worth knowing, August;
though this is not the boisterous August,
the August who had'a hundred ideas for
making money, shady and otherwise, and
brought some of them off, or the August
going on a burst at the fairs; it is the
August of near the end, rather down on
his luck:—
But, even so, August was no man to sit and twiddle
his thumbs, and so one day he set to work making a
mail-box. He painted it blood red, got Joakim to
letter it with the word “Mail,” and with, that hung
it up outside the store, proud as the deuce of his
work. The villagers wondered what he war going
to do with a mail-box without a post ofiiee, but
August asked why, if there were mail-boxes outside
all the country stores in Australia, there shouldn’t
be one here, too?
Well,' well, he was a wild sort of chap, wasn’t
he? Ay, and that he had been all the days of his
life; not even a mortal knife thrust in the briast
could tame him. But August was, after all, Bolden’s
one and only August and round-the-world traveller,
and it wasn’t so bad to have him around. Why
had the village girls taken him so seriously those
many years ago when
he had first returned
home ? —and later not
at all ? Perhaps because
he had never been able
to offer them sure sup-
port. Ay, but who in
the whole parish could
have offered them that,
when you came down to a fine point ? As it,
now was, the girls could flirt with him to their
hearts’ content and vow their undying love, and
there sat August weaponless, withdrawn into himself
and smiling.
A grand fellow, August. A grand novel
altogether.
More Primitives
Those Norwegian fisherfolk of Hamsun’s
are primitive enough, but they are advanced
humans to the Lapps, as described in the
arresting Turi’s Book oj Lapland, by
Johan Turi (Cape; Roycroft; 7s. 6d. net).
Association of these peoples comes in an-
other way: the Lapps shrink from their
Norwegian neighbors, regarding them as
oppressors, but not struggling against them,
merely giving back before superior powers.
Old Turi’s book came into existence in
something the same way as did Trader
Horn’s: a Danish woman, Emilie Demant
Hatt, went to Lapland and shared his hut
and cooked for him while he wrote it.
Mostly it is concerned with reindeer, since
Turi’s world rests on their shoulders. His
poets praise women—for looking after the
reindeer. The girls’ songs praise the young
men—for being fleet enough to chase rein-
deer. The hunters—Turi himself is one —
wage war against the wolves —for killing
the reindeeer. His people’s bitterness is
that alien settlers have pushed so far north
that there is no moss left for the reindeer
to eat.
Really the Lapps have almost the same nature as
reindeer. Both of them migrate north and south, in
the way - they are used to migrating, and both of
them are a little shy, and because of this shyness
they have been driven away from everywhere.
About wolf-hunting on skis:—
When you are on skis, you kill a wolf like this.
Vou ski after it when the snow is deep and will
bear skis, if you are an active and clever Lapp.
And when you have caught him up, you hit him
with the ski-staff on the head.
Which seems a most dignified way of killing
a wolf. But
when a wolf seizes hold of a man’s arm, the man
must thrust his hand into the wolf’s jaws, right
down his throat, and then squeeze the lowest part
of his gullet, and then the wolf cannot bite, and
with the other hand the man must strike with his
knife, and then there is no danger.
Which is perhaps not so dignified, and as for
the danger, that seems also a father open
question. I like as well as anything ip a
strangely engaging book the chapter en-
titled, “How to catch a bear by making
him drunk.” Once get him on a bender and
Bruin is easy. Even if he has “grown sober
again without being killed, then he often
comes back for more.” There is no men-
tion of whether the bears make New Year
resolutions; but there is almost everything
else, from Lapp childbirth to Lapp death,
all told with a frankness that is as dis-
arming as it is bracing.
Germany To-day
Another arrestingly-pictured portion of
Europe is the Germany that forms a back-
cloth to Wyndham Lewis’s explanation of
Adolf Hitler and his National Socialist
movement, in Hitler (Chatto and Windus;
6s. net). According to this writer, literally
thousands of Hitlerists (who are not per-
mitted, either by external or their own
internal' authority, to carry weapons) have
been killed and wounded in affrays, during
the last 12 months, in all parts of Germany.
His Berlin is another Chicago, with politics
instead of bootlegging as the main motive
for his sort of thing:—
Patrol waggons packed with armed police hurry
from spot to spot from dusk to daybreak, bludgeon-
ing, shooting and arresting; armed bands of one
sort and another are usually on the move as well,
and more or less seriously clashing.
And [he says elsewhere] there is no part of
Germany from which news does not come daily. of
street-battles. So it is a civil war of sorts that
is in progress from the Alps to the North Sea.
But Wyndham Lewis believes there is a
good chance of all this being altered at the
polling-booths. The Hitlerists have already
had one striking victory on that uncertain
battlefield. He expects them to have a
greater one; believes Hitler is the man who
will one day give Germany back her soul.
RED PAGE.
Oscar Walters
Shrapnel Green and Other Verses, by
Oscar Walters, is a tastefully turned out
little brochure containing perhaps the pick
of the war-time verses contributed by the
author to The Bulletin during the last
four or five years. Issued by the Perth
branch of the R.S.L., the proceeds to be
devoted to the alleviation of distress, it is
a sterling shilling’s-worth.
Oscar Walters, now on the staff of the
Westralian “Worker,” was attached to the
W.A. section of the Third Field Company
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—PIain Statements of Facts.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Invest in Goods.
Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Autumn Sale pro-
vides the finest opportunity to secure first-class
merchandise at reduced prices.
Economical buying is to-day the soundest form
of investment, and now is the time to buy,
for prices will surely rise.
iii will £/ttduniiLj> .
■
m
dm.
i
m
Wr
m
m.
Bargains —every one
ard the quality guaranteed
3
s*
\
We wish-to reduce our stocks of Leadless Porcelain Enamelled Baths, and are offering a limited quantity
with very slight imperfections which in no way will affect their appearance or reliability.
Leadless Porcelain Baths, £5/15/-
These baths -are? guaranteed free fr>om lead, arsenic and antimonjs and are therefore non-poisonous.
Leadless enamelled baths provide a surface of great hardness and strength. Rolled-edge style, as
illustrated. Size, sft. 6in. Complete with plug and washer. These Leadless Porcelain Enamelled Baths
are made in our own factory. Anthony Horderns’ Exceptional .Value 1 £5/15/-
(Packing for country 5/- extra.)
25/- NOW 21/-
First-quality Reinforced Cement Laundry Tubs—
two compartments. Made specially for Anthony
Horderns’. Don’t miss this bargain. Price, 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . .... v . .. . 21/-
(Packing 5/- extra.)
42/6 NOW 38/6
These Galvanised-iron Baths are made by Anthony
Horderns’ in their own factory from the best
materials procurable. Approximate sizes sft. and
sft. 6in. Price 42/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 38/6
£5/15/- NOW £57/6
The “Uni” English Pedestal Basin.
Guaranteed to give lifelong service.
A limited quantity only—buy now.
Size 22in. x 1 6in.
First quality £5/15/-
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price £5/7/6
Taps 8/6 each extra.
(Packing 5/- extra.)
22/6 NOW 20/-
First-quality Kitchen Sinks, leadless porcelain enam-
elled finish. Made in Anthony Horderns’ own
factory. Without overflow. Cap and lining extra.
Size, 1 sin. x 1 1 -|in. Price, 22/6. Sale Price, 20/-
Size, 1 Bin. x I 1 |in. Price, 23/9. Sale Price, 21/6
Size, 2 1 in. x 1 3in. Price, 27/-. Sale Price, 24/3
27 1- NOW 24 1-
Galvanised Chip Heater,
painted aluminium color.
Made in our own factory.
Fitted with cast top plate.
ret
’Phone: M24QI
Day and Night.
Anthony Horderns'
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


•■'il'l Whiter from
beneath your overcoat
&
,«2
Yr
A
Mi
2,6
r-s-
-&
fit
><t
? /
&-> r
■>A
2 /•
S
0i
m
m
*5~
.’-i* m
> -/■
* Mi
7
W.
m
£
.iftf-
t'd?
1-t
•'.A
VKc
*
BS
r .0
■>fj
s**
sy
M
'~O
■V-'*
} *•>'
'h
I-
'*V*
y i
-m
■#
•^>A*
■
i
■
X
■
m
0/r
m
$Qv*C &*
• CRVICE
';C
Overcoats, fires, radiators—
they provide a mere super-
ficial warmth. You must
combat the chills of Winter
the logical way—from inside.
Standard Stout builds rich
blood and feeds the body
tissues to enable you to with-
stand the cold.
It is a delightful drink—com-
bining delicious flavor with
rare food value.
It sets a standard for all stouts.
TOOHEYS
STANDARD
STOUT


ert
ert
A Message
to Men Over Forty!
Youth Regained!
Throw off the shackles of advancing age! Step
back info youth! COLOSEPTIC will rejuvenate
you— -make you virile and vigorous, COLOSEP-
TEC rekindles the energies and pSeasures of
youth . . . makes every organ act as Nature
intended.
HIDDEN CONSTIPATION.
In these days of modern foods
and lack of regular exercise,
particles of decaying waste, not
properly evacuated, become en-
crusted in the creases of the
colon. This waste accumulates
and harbours disease-breeding
germs and poisons which enter
the system and pollute the
blood. Result is self-poisoning
( autoxima ), caused through
hidden constipation, the origin
of lassitude, headaches, back-
aches and stomach troubles.
RETURN OF YOUTH !
By washing away the germ-
laden mass COLOSEPTIC
promptly rids you of self-
poisoning. Cently, without
griping, it dissolves the en-
crusted waste from the colon
and passes it out of the body.
It banishes poisonous matter
from the system. With pure,
healthy blood pulsating through
your veins, you feel the return
of youthful vim and vigour.
THROB WITH ENERGY.
With COLOSEPTIC natural im-
pulses are renewed arteries
become supple. Your skin be-
comes fresh and clear. Weak-
ness is replaced by strength of
body and mind. You throb with
energy thrill with increased
power. For over fifteen years
COLOSEPTIC has helped thou-
sands to glorious health and
physical fitness. Start now and
join them to-day. Fill in and
post the coupon and send for
the Special Demonstration Jar.
CUT OUT AND MAIL TO-DAY
Regular Full-size Jars, 5/7-J
Ail Chemist's and Stores
To Goloseptic Co. Ltd.
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.VV.
I am anxious to try COLOSEPTIC. Will you
please send me a Special 1/- Demonstration Jar
and your free booklet, which tells how COLO-
SEPTIC renews the energies of youth. I enclose
stamps or Postal Notes to the value of 1/-.
NAME i
ADDRESS
Engineers. Before the war he was a goldfields
prospector and miner. The same talent
and quiet observation which have enabled
him to give, in other verses, vivid little
glimpses into the old life he knew on the
track, in the out-back settlements, round
the alluvial patches, have here been applied
to vignetting the more indelible impressions
which he brought back with him irom
Gallipoli and France.
As a craftsman there is a strong follow-
ing of Henry Lawson in Walters. His forte
and his merit lie in the easy swing of his
verse and the simple directness ol his
diction. Perhaps he never goes very deep,
but few could draw a more telling picture in
the shortest and homeliest of good Saxon
words. There is his appeal, a wider one
than many a man with all the equipment
that scholarship can give will ever make.
Here is one piece, characteristic of many
for the feeling that runs through it: —
WINTER IN FRANCE.
It does not matter to you or me that the trees are
bare again
In France, and the fields we used to know are sodden
beneath the rain.
The sunken roads may be deep in mud, and the
cobbles with slush be grey,
But that winter is coming again to France is nothing
to us to-day.
We have not to tramp o’er those seeping fields, for
our last long tramp is done,
And never again will I hear you pray for a glimpse
of Australian sun.
Against the gloom of the winter sky the elms may
be stark and bare,
But .you will not know that the autumn’s dead, and
I no longer care.
A cold rain falls on the fields of France, and the
mud on the roads is deep,
But neither the rain nor the cold, old man, shall
ever disturb your sleep.
And though o’er the place where they laid you down
the winds with the dead leaves play,
That winter is coming again to France is nothing
to us to-day.
Something of Lawson’s easy bush phil-
osophy is in him, too, and the tinge of
pessimism beneath the tolerance. Withal
there is the frequent dash of humor. One
Sunday morning on Gallipoli Joe had been
telling “Bill and me” about the 10 years’
war in Troy, not far away, and the causes
that led to it:—
But Bill, ’e didn’t think a scrap could start
An’ last ten years about a blanky tart....
But Joe again insisted it was so—
“ All ’Elen’s doin’ ” —’e’d read a lot, ’ad Joe.
Then Bill ’e said ’e couldn’t see no sense
In that at all, not meanin’ no offence
To Joe an’ all the stuff that ’e ’ad read:
“But where’s the sense in any war?” Joe said.
“Did you blokes ever ’ave a look for it?”
An’ none of us said nothin’ for a bit.
An’ then the flamin’ sergeant came an’ blew
Us up and told us off for fattigew,
An’ so we found no answer to it; yet
Maybe we got as near as any get
When we sat talkin’, Joe and Bill an’ me,
One Sunday mornin’ on Gallipoli.
He has the knack of making all his
figures as lifelike as his verses are human.
“Mea Culpa”
I realise, after reading “F.S.’s” confession
of faith (R.P. 13/5/’3l), that I have wronged
him and I want to apologise.
After all, I did no more, originally, than
refer to the crankiness of his idol Bertrand
Russell. The “Times Literary Supplement”
just to hand refers to Russell’s “perversity,”
a stronger word than “crankiness.” Yet it
clearly respects him. However muddy-
minded his convictions seem to Philistines
like the editor of the “Times” he has the
courage of them. Unlike the miserable
Wilkes, who boasted “I was never a Wilkes-
ite,” Russell has always been a Russellite.
He made his own children attend his
Infants’ School (they were the only pupils,
latterly), in which theft, revolutionary
socialism, the practice of the “natural
vices,” anti-Godism, the wisdom of en-
couraging the free circulation of obscene
pictures, etc., were inculcated; and caused
them to become pariahs. During the war
he preached pacifism (the law calls it
sedition in war-time) and went to gaol.
To amend Kipling:—•
If quod be the price of perversity,
Lord God he ha’ paid in full!
I am ashamed to say that I suspected
“F.S.” of being a bogus Russellite till I
read his burning words:—
War, the most hopeless and futile of human insti-
tutions The duty of every intelligent person to
work for peace, not victory,... It is normal for a
child to steal.... The acquisitive instinct Send
pornographic postcards to their hearts’ content.
Old stuff, of course. You can hear it all
any fine Sunday in the Domain from an
emotional young woman who, I understand,
acquired her culture in Nijni-Novgorod.
But it rings true in “F.S.’s” case, and
enables me, with a stab of remorse for my
unkind and doubting words, to picture him
—probably the only practising Russellite
we have—in the highbrow privacy of his
home. The children are gathered round,
and he is instructing them, like some
Marxian Fagin, in one of the modern
equivalents of the “kinchin lay.” “Be
acquisitive, boys and girls,” he advises.
“Don’t bother about the police, and remem-
ber Comrade Pinchkl’s motto, ‘Dishonesty
is the Best Policy.’ ” Or the lesson for the
day is “The Virtues of the Natural Vices,”
with a few Port Said photographs on the
blackboard to clarify the exposition. Such
is the family life of a consistent Australian
intellectual, and very inspiring it is.
And now let me own up. My suburb is
alive (or should I say dead?) with alleged
Russel lites who are afraid to practise a
single one of the Master’s doctrines. “F.S.”
would be amazed at their impudent hypoc-
risy. They are pacifists when a big war
is safely over, but when one is on they
grab soft jobs, and shout patriotic objurga-
tions at those who won’t work for victory.
They deride lowbrows like myself who
whack kids for stealing and prosecute kids
who steal from them. They barrack for
uncontrolled pornography, and allow noth-
ing naughtier than a reproduction of “The
Maiden’s Prayer” in their own droring-
rooms. I am aware that these posturers
humbug no one but themselves, but they
irritate me. And I actually took “F.S.” for
one of them! What a stupid mistake, to be
sure!
JEAMES.
A Satchel of Books
The Second Republic and Napoleon 111.,
by Rene Arnaud (Heinemann; 12s. 6d. net).
A striking- contribution to the publisher's
National History of France, opening with
the acclaiming of the Provisional Government
by the mob in 1848 and ending with the crash
a few years later. The writer’s vigor
matches the subject. His book is as attrac-
tive as general reading as for its special
content. There is no attempt at light writ-
ing ; sheer objective force keeps the pot
boiling.
The Paisley Shawl, by Frederick Niven
(Collins; 7s. 6d. net), is one of the oldest of
stories skilfully recast. Hilda, journalist
and poe.tess, tries to lure Peter, the novelist,
from his wife, Helen, whom he loves, and
at one stage nearly gets him to commit
himself. However, he is saved, and there-
after plays Joseph to her Mrs. Potiphar
with tactful ease. None of the characters
matters but these three, and the reader is
made to understand them as though he had
known them. They are worth knowing, and
the pictures of Edinburgh and its streets
and people are charming.
The central figure of Elfinstorm, by A. M.
Westwood (Hurst and Blackett; 7s. bd. net)
is Vivienne—half French by birth and wholly
so in temperament and idiom. Enter Thorne
Harland, a large, young American business
magnate with a “hard tawny stare.” He
wins the irresponsible child, but she bolts
on the wedding day and has many troubles
and humiliations in India, where she gets a
job as a maid. Then, on p. 287 —-
Under her eyelashes she looked up at him. So
big and forbearing! Beside his large quiet they
all—herself, Dennis, Sheila and Margot—became
small —ineffectual—like difficult children.
“What say, Viva—shall we take the nest boat
home?”
You know the rest.
There is nothing in the least rampant
about the hero of Stephen McKenna’s Der-
moids Rampant (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.
net). Terence Dermott, who tells of the
rise of his family from Irish poverty to Eng-
lish wealth and importance inside three
generations, is a phenomenally sexless young
man. Over and over again naughty Lady
Rhoda offers him marriage, or alternatively
that, without which in his grandfather’s day
a girl were better dead. He loves but rebuffs
her. At last she relinquishes the chase. “So
I .shall inarry Charlie,” she tells him in the
epilogue, “and keep you as my friend, my
intellectual lover.” A sequel is indicated
—“Dermotts Statant” —and readers of this
book will probably buy it. The Dermotts,
who are Hibernian Forsytes, are interesting
folk on the up-grade, apd they should be more
so when they have definitely arrived. And
then there is Mr. McKenna’s charming style
■ —prose which hovers often on the edge of
poetry—and his close acquaintance with
modern British politics.
Down Kendall’s Glen, by M. E. Sotzen-
back, appears to have been published by the
author. It is an unpretentious Australian
story of the love of Febby for Teddy, who
has been taken on as a hand by her farmer
father in ignorance of the fact that he is the
only son of a wealthy and devastatingly
proud Darling Point family. The reaction
of Febby’s father to Teddy’s request for her
hand is discouraging
“Marry yer fat auntie!” roared Dad, mad with
indignation. “This bloke is given a home here, gets
looked after like a prize cattle pup, and so help
me the first thing he does to repay us is to want to
take our loveliest girl, and drag her down where
he was hisself afore he came here.”
After an unworthy attempt by Mrs. Sum-
mers, Teddy’s mother, to buy Febby off with
£25, the families foregather, and there is a
bush wedding, which is fully reported in the
“Gosford Times.” The ceremony over, a
visit is paid to Kendall’s Glen, where Teddy’s
father proves himself an aesthete as well as
a man of heart and character:—
Mr. Summers voiced the wish of the whole party
when he said “It is to be hoped that the Shire
Council will see to it that this cherished spot is
not allowed to be overrun with vandals.”
And a Little Verse
SO THE WEEK GOES.
Pale Tuesday digs dead Monday’s grave;
Gruff Wednesday does the like
For Tuesday; while another knave,
Called Thursday, trims the dyke
’Gainst Wednesday must relapse to clay.
And Friday turns the clod
For Thursday; while hot Saturday
Prepares the charnel sod
To swallow Friday’s wasting strength;
And Sunday cuts a shelf
Where Saturday may stretch his length—
Then tumble in himself.
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
OPIUM SONG.
She was of fire and ivory,
Of ivory beside the sea;
And all a poppy’s lambent fire
Had touched her lips with red desire.
Of fire and wreathed ivory,
She sate beside the silver sea.
Of opal smoke and dregless wine,
The singing seas had named her mine;
Of captured light and mystic dreams,
Of philtre draughts and lily gleams.
Of opal smoke and poisoned wine—
The sobbing waves had breathed her mine.
Her hair had snared the pallid moon
And fitful gleams of yellow noon.
And all my soul was burning bright
Unto her eyes’ celestial light.
Her hair had snared the yellow moon
And wanton lights of highest noon.
And she was moulded fleetingly '
B side a phantom silver sea.
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Answers to Correspondents.
A 0 notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Simon L.; Only these days’ scarcity of
space kept “His Own” out Freeman S.: Reads
well till it reaches its weak end... .P.F.S.: Loose
thinking and tangled writing—and the good Lord
knows we can’t say much worse about any con-
tribution than that.... Old’n: Too late; they’ve got
a poss*ie elsewhere.... G.C.: “Imagine the kitchen of
a small boarding-house.” Too busy.-... S.W.: “Song
in the Wind” suffers from wind in the song....
Fred E.: If you must write about spring, wait till
you ve seen one or two. .. .L.L.L.: That’s what the
Religious Editor said... .0.8. T.: Shallow as a plate
of boarding-house broth. .. . W.A.: Imitation Omar,
apparently written with a cat’s tail dipped in lemon-
juice... .D.D.: One stanza pretty good; 18 p00r....
Elsie R.: Frankly, then, it’s weak and wobbly....
8.L.V.: you ought to do better; you have rhyme
and a certain amount of reason. .*. .L.S.U.: Brave
basket, here's a nice “Groaning Tree” for you !....
Dog Strap: Don’t care for verses that need apologies
to dead poets. Too risky. They might come back
and throw stones on the roof F.H.: Not here,
but you should be able to place it.... Leamington:
Clever yarn, that. The Religious Editor almost
laughed when he first heard it.. . ..J.B.McA.: Vehicle
good, but you just sit in it N.B. (E. Melb.) :
Bumps all to billy-o E.R.T.: Tame as a political
red herring.... S.M.E.: Diet yourself on poetry for
a while.... Veriria: Your muse hasn't much in com-
mon with your eagle... .C.M.N.: “Are the poets
all dead?” Very often Zip: Trouble with the
morning-after brand of verse is that it mostly seems
so dated... .C.E.8.L.: Neat little twists, but it
takes more than that to open the caslibox
Price L.: A case where “1” stands for nil
T.F.N.: Dull as a flapper’s diary A.E.M.: Have
had enough Russell, thanks A. J.F.: Fragment of
social criticism reveals acute penetration:—
Some ladies wear costly silks
And undies trimmed with laces;
They spend a fortune on make-up
But rarely wash their faces.
... .F.H.: Unfortunately, one of the several who claim
to have designed that bridge did but lately “proudly
thwart the hungry seas.” He did it on a liner....
A.M.E.: Your long suit appears to be punctuation.
. ...J.1.: You might do something in time.,.. 816:
About as satisfying as a jockey’s breakfast....
J.A.C.: “An effort” seems to describe it... .E.V.8.:
At least, your “May” is not the usual echo of its
English namesake. But the local touch, though
necessary, isn’t quite enough.... C.L.A. (enclosing
verses): “It is wonderful what the depression will
bring one to!” It is much more wonderful what
the depression will bring to one.... Robt. Light-
weight: Apt pen-name.... P.M.: “Horizon” is
limited... .Edmund N.: You’ve left nothing out, but
it’s a wearying list. .. . J.T.: Further proof that poetry
never comes from the “swim-or-sink style of the
amateur.” It is an art, and a darned particular
0ne....C.A.: All rather vapid. .. .C.D.: On those
samples you’d better let your 17 years double them-
selves... .Peter Piper: Sony, no. Merit can be the
only passport to publication.... 0.K.: Must judge on
what is submitted. You might do better, but really
that is up to you. ... 1.L.M.: The war has been
attacked from so many poetical points that only
absolute brainwaves have any hope n0w....M.F.: Say-
ing “Life is a cheat” six times doesn’t help it....
L.W.: Pretty enough of its kind, but we like ’em
to say more... .F.X.McM.: Began well, but the fall
was heavy. ... A.J.8.: “The" Lizard” has doubled on
its tracks. .. .J.R.H.: “Dad’s Week-end,” easily your
best to date, knocked hard at the sacred d00r....
John M.: W.p.b Jacko: Backo... .C.M.A.: Most
original note was the hero dressed in “navel blue.”
. ...S.N.R.: Too much verbiage in an otherwise tip-
top Red Page item.... Ployed Unem: If only bards
would leave that “If” to Kipling! Bellerive: On
to the bounding billows:—
YACHTING.
A cruise in a yacht
When the weather is line,
Down the rippling bay,
Is recreation sublime.
Gliding and tossing
O’er the wavelets blue
Till the shadowy shore
Doth wane from view,
With wings unfurled,
Gallant and free,
Trailed by white gulls
Of the frothy sea.
(Next: “A Famous Scotch Wrestler.”)
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.K.8.: Not enlisting vnoden soldiers at
present... .T.M.: A bit better... .J.M.: Have seen
your nudes; now try drawing butter-boxes....
P.N.: Trivial.... Anon: Office bard is compos-
ing a hymn of hate to it 1.Q.: “Comic Cuts”
stuff... .F.0.D.: It wouldn’t reproduce we 11....
A.8.H.: Optimistic, aren’t you?... ,H,8.: Can’t tell
from copies; let us have a look at some of your
own work. .. .M.T.: Did you get the gag from
grand-dad’s scrapbook? J.W.E.: As funny as a
photograph of the last eclipse of the sun... .C.J.C.:
Forget them... .N.C.: Indian ink or a darker shade
of pencil, please!... .L.W.8.: Considering them as
suggestions. . . .H.G.: What a harsh line !. .. . W.G.M. :
You were three weeks late with the idea... .R.H.:
No. ... J.E.S.: With lessons you might make good.
.... H.J.8.: Not very successful in handling your
solids.


m
m
\\
a
■■
'ill
r-
m hi
%
.
.
*
V.U:
K
... . ■:
m
. .
1
r'h :■ k- S. V:'
9L \
MHi
■■'V.- '■■Vi
. -:
■MH SSISilg ■'" 11111 fciii ? ittiill iiiiil
■
' i. ■ ->v ■■., ■ V'.
iSCws*
:;-
.
■
:
m
MR
M
V-'
■
m
m
, : 1 ; v
11
R
H
Mi™
■■■■■
• ■
H 1
11 ■ •
■ : ’r.- ' ■■■ ■ ■-■ v”': ' ;
\' ■;■.*
■
: mmm§
■ MB
■ : 111 ‘lll
•• :1,-:
a
0 0 0
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2675.
May 20, 1931.
A COLD RECEPTION.
“Mr. Scullin’s proposal that all parties should meet in conference on a strictly non-party basis for at least one week has been coldly received in the House.”
PEACE: “I wonder if they really want me!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s - i 0 months, 12s. 6d.;
J months, 7s.
To any address Oveiiseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, los. ‘id.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: Sd.
THE CALL FOR GIBSON!
One good thing lias at last come out of
Canberra. In the House of Representa-
tives on Thursday the Prime Minister sug-
gested that, for one week at least, Parlia-
ment should resolve itself into a conference
to consider the grave situation of Australia,
and discuss remedies, “away from the ordi-
nary atmosphere of Government and Oppo-
. sition.” I~ Tne conference-, he said, might
"choose* its own chairman and draw up its
own rules and business-paper; budget
figures and all pertinent information asked
for would be placed before it, and heads
and other officers of departments could
be called in if any sub-committee or mem-
ber wished to consult them. He would
prefer that there should be no decisions,
for that would be restoring the party
spirit; nor would the Government agree
beforehand to surrender its present policy,
but it would be prepared to consider sug-
gestions “as good, or better, or nearly as
good.” This is fair enough; for if divi-
sions were taken in the ordinary Parlia-
mentary way, the Government, with only
34 available Representatives and five Sena-
tors, would be hopelessly outvoted every
time.
It is easy to sneer at the Prime Minis-
ter’s proposal, and there has been a great
deal of sneering, together with insinua-
tions that he has set a trap for the other
side in the sight of the wary fowl. The
Bulletin, however, sees no reason to doubt
his sincerity. And it gives him full
credit, too, for acting without reference to
the party executive, which, for once, he did
not consult. It is surely something gained
when the leader of a Labor Government
gets away from the bad old tradition that
he must take his orders from the party
bosses, and have no truck with other parties
(since all knowledge and wisdom and virtue
reside in his own), and consider no interest
but that of the trade-unionists, who are the
producers of all wealth and are waging a
class war. At any rate, the leaders of the
Opposition parties will incur a very grave
responsibility if they reject
Gfers. La t Itanicanri o t do it without
gi'OSS'Sn'consistency (though he is entitled
to point out that the somewhat similar
proposal he made in a generous spirit was
turned down), nor Mr. Lyons without stul-
tifying the All for Australia League.
V And then there is Senator Pearce, tlvf
leader of the Opposition in the Senate.
If he has his way there will be no suspen-
sion of hostilities for a single sitting. Judg-
ing by his references to “tearing the Gov-
ernment from office” and “the need for put-
ting our measures into effect,” he has per-
suaded himself that the country is yearning
to have him back in office. Nothing could
be farther from the truth. Mr. Pearce was
a member of Governments which in ten
post-war years (1919-29) increased or suf-
fered the increase of the Australian public
debt from £705,405,000 to £1,104,028,000.
although by threatening to suspend the
per capita payments they could have vetoed
State loans. Mr. Pearce was one of a shift-
less lot of Ministers who, with an annual
interest bill of 25 millions and upwards
payable overseas, let imports exceed ex-
ports without lifting a finger to redress the
balance—the excess amounted to £14,000,000
in 1922-23, £21,000,000 in ’23-24, £9,500,000
in ’26-27 and £4,700,000 in ’27-28. Some of
the Scullidores’ financial ideas are foolish
and dangerous, but they might never have
been seriously proposed if the Administra-
tions in which Mr. Pearce figured had not
allowed the country to drift to the verge
of disaster, and left it unable to borrow
,when disaster came. N
hold this conference,” Mr. Scullin
says, “and fight our battles out at another
time and in another place.” By all means
let the politicians hold their conference,
but let them go further, and arrange a
treaty of peace, and invite the chairman of
the Commonwealth Bank to lead an emer-
gency Ministry, representative of all parties
and of no parties, until this Parliament
expires by effluxion of time. A general
election this year would be a costly
and bitter business; it would hopelessly
divide the people into two or more camps,
and it is of the first importance that they
should cease to be divided. Further sac-
rifices are certain to be demanded of the
taxpayers and the public servants; they
would be accepted far more willingly than
would otherwise be the case if the victims
had Robert Gibson's assurance that they
were necessary. Courage, impartiality and
special knowledge are demanded of the Prime
Minister these days; Robert Gibson has
shown that he possesses all three, and the
people have shown that they regard him
with a confidence which they give to no
party politician. In a sense our fate is
in the hands of our overseas creditors. They
require some guarantee that we will not
default, or repudiate, or issue inconvertible
paper, and that we will make an honest-
effort to put our house in order. What
better guarantee could they get than the
appointment of Robert Gibson as head of
an emergency Ministry until the emer-
gency has passed?
PRODUCE, PRODUCE, PRODUCE!
How much longer is this hopeless drift to
go on? Nobody knows exactly how many
unemployed we have in Australia, but it is
believed to be something over 300,000, and
the number is being added to every week.
These 300,000 could earn a living just as
well as any 300,000 who at present are doing
it. They have precisely the same needs as
those who are employed; on the average, no
doubt, they have about the same knowledge
and strength and other qualities called for
in supplying those needs. If we suddenly
transported our 300,000 to some Pacific
Island, and told them that with a little
temporary help they must keep themselves,
they would have a pretty tough time for a
while; but they would do it. They would
comb the sea for fish; they would plant
every edible thing they could get hold of;
and when those jobs were out of the way
they would start cobbling boots and doing
odd jobs for one another. What we must
realise is that there is identically the same
work for our 300,000 as for every 300,000
—the work of feeding themselves and cloth-
ing and housing themselves.
And we are doing practically not a thing
to get them on to that job. On the con-
trary, we are doing a thousand things to pre-
vent them getting on to the job. In the
first place we are handing out a dole, and
thereby encouraging thousands of men to
be satisfied with idleness. Through this
dole we are stifling the voice of protest and
appeal, and are thus making things easy
for incompetent Ministers and ineffective
Parliaments. At the same time, through this
dole system, we are making it possible for
Labor politicians and Trades Hall officials
to maintain a pretence of “preserving the
standard of living of the workers.” In plain
words, they are eliminating the competition
which would certainly mean reduced wages
■per hour by compelling tens of thousands
of less fortunate workers and their families
to subsist either on the dole or on some
other form of public or private charity.
And that is not all. This dole system is
reducing our national powers of recovery,
and making utter collapse and chaos quite
possible things. For those 300,000 people,
whether they are actually on the dole or
not, have to be fed—and clothed and housed
in a fashion. Staggering taxation is there-
fore being collected: thousands of taxpayers
are being called upon to pay this year
from 50 to 100 per cent, of all they can
possibly earn in the twelvemonth. Money
which in the ordinary course would be
available for investment—for starting or
extending enterprises—has been and is
being used up in the maintenance of this
vast army of non-producers. We are con-
sualiing our reserves of financial strength
fdnd energy; and everybody knows how
Vow recovery is when that happens.
''‘Meantime Parliaments meet and wrangle
and discuss bills about a hundred things
that it is a tragedy to even waste time
talking about in our present circumstances.
And the essential facts are so conspicu-
ous and so plain. The dole with or with-
out unemployed relief work cannot get
us anywhere. Only production can do that.
But we shall, it seems, never organise that
unless we have a small Council to Restore
the National Prosperity.
SALVATION BY HOT AIR.
It is doubtful whether, in the history of the
whole world, inflation was ever before put
to the people as a desirable peace-time
policy. It is true that there is not complete
agreement among the Scullidores as to
whether it ought to be frankly called infla-
tion; a few of them even profess to believe
, that it really is not inflation. But among
the rank and file there appears to be no
'doubt at all: they believe not only that
what Theodore proposes is inflation, but
that inflation is a good thing. After all,
ffiis not hard to understand why. During
last few years a high standard of living,
s Sppd/wages and short working hours have
been the rule. The pay has at le.ast doubled
within 20 years; and it is explained, quite
correctly, that this has been due to a tre-
mendous increase in the market prices of
wool, wheat and other staple products, com-
bined with a great borrowing boom. The
working man is told that we have now
entered upon a period of deflation: that the
boom is over; that prices have fallen; that
wages will have to fall, too, and many of the
pleasant practices of the old time of bogus
prosperity be abandoned for ever. “If this
is the result of deflation,” he replies, “defla-
tion is no good to us. Give us inflation and
high wages and good times generally.”
That is the demand which is facing Aus-
tralia to-day; and the appalling danger
ahead of us is that official Labor lacks
sometimes the intelligence to see it and
at other times the pluck to oppose it.
It is quite true that inflation means
nominally high wages. It means this, be-
cause it means that we are getting more
than we earn. It has not necessarily any-
thing to do with the currency. A man
strikes a patch of gold in a reef. Imme-
diately a score of claims are pegged out on
a score of other reefs. On the strength of
the one find thousands are paid for claims,
hundreds for town sites. That is inflation.
A new district is opened up by rail. That
season wheat is 6s. a bushel and the crops
are good. That wheat rarely is 6s. and that
the district is in a dry belt is forgotten or
not ascertained; and raw farms sell at £6
to £8 an acre. That is inflation. In neither
instance has the currency been interfered
with. Inflation is, in fact, simply the pro-
cess of pumping hot air into something.
When the hot-air merchant gets to work
somebody benefits for a time. Occasionally
the working man gets his cut. On that
dud mining field, boomed to the skies on
the strength of a pocket of gold in a single
claim, scores of potholes are put down, a
few shafts are sunk. But for every pound
the working miner carries away from the
field the speculator carries away ten. And
it leads to nothing. A few hundreds or
thousands of people are the poorer for
the money they put into the wild-cats, and
the digger is on the track again. Ask him
then his opinion of the hot-air merchant,
and he will call him a boodler who ought
to be hunted off the earth.
The desire for easy money possesses most
of us at some time or other, and it is this
that makes the task of the boomster easy.
In the form of a go-getter the hot-air mer-
chant travels the country and sells time-
payment bonds and allotments worth
honestly one-twentieth of what he gets for
them. Smith buys shares for 15s. and
sells them at 18s. and makes 3s. profit, and
Brown buys them at 18s. and hopes to do
the same. And if the supply of hot air
lasts he realises his hope, and Jones takes
them at 21s. Smith and Brown are both
elated; they have money to burn; they
buy more shares, and, expecting to do the
same with them, purchase a motor-car on
the instalment plan. Then somebody gets
an idea that things have gone far enough.
The desire to buy dies and the desire to
sell sets in; the non-professional hot-air
merchants—more numerous than the profes-
sional—begin to blow cold; and deflation
is on its way.
That there should be these cycles, these
waves of hot air and cold air, these booms
and depressions, involving all trade and
industry, is, of course, to be deeply re-
gretted. Some day, though they may not
be entirely prevented, human nature being
what it is, their ill-effects may be lessened:
half the economists of the world are at this
moment at work on the problem. But
it is world-wide, and Australia can do noth-
ing of itself to prevent the mischief. None
but an entirely self-contained country can,
and Australia is less self-contained than
most. It depends on its export of raw pro-
ducts to purchase a vast quantity of foreign
goods which are still necessary to its daily
life, and to pay interest on the foreign
money with which it has constructed rail-
ways, tramways, harbors, water and sewerage
works and a score of other things which
Labor has insisted shall be State-owned.
We must sell these raw products for what
they will bring in foreign markets: all our
hot air will not put up those prices one
farthing.
As we have seen, inflation has not neces-
sarily anything to do directly with the cur-
rency at all. It can be produced by borrow-
ing for works that do not pay their way.
It can be produced by Governments spend-
ing above their incomes—that. is, by per-
sistent deficits, made good by temporary or
other loans. We have been passing through
a period of inflation, though it was masked
so long as we could go on borrowing abroad
to make good our deficits—just as the man
who is living beyond his means can go on
doing it so long as his credit lasts. The
suggestion is that by guarded inflation we
can extend our credit. That is quite true;
and there are thousands of farmers and
others who need more credit. But that is
not the object which the Scullidores aim
at. They want credit extended, not to
enable these people to produce in order to
compete in the world’s markets, but to
maintain wages and other conditions which
were only possible because those markets
were booming. A man wants to rent a
house. In one street there are two which
were bought when the hot-air merchant
was doing his worst. To-day one owner has
forgotten the hot air and asks a rent fixed
on the real Value. The other owner still
tries to let his house on its hot-air value.
Whose house will the man take? And
what hope has Australia of selling its goods
produced on the old hot-air basis when it
has to compete with countries which have
deflated?
Inflation, then, is hot air; and hot air
never did the working man any good. It
is the policy of the speculator, the boodler.
It may give the working man a little bogus
prosperity for a while, but it leaves him
stranded in the end. It is responsible for
the present hundreds of thousands of unem-
ployed in Australia. It has reduced the
value of the Australian pound to about 15s.
If it should be applied to the currency it
will rob every man who has made any pro-
vision for the future, Germany tried it.
It reduced millions to penury and made
millionaires of the few who knew how to
take advantage of their chances. Professor
Moritz Bonn traces all that in his ‘‘Effects
of Currency Inflation.” It turned business
into “a sort of gambling.” It destroyed the
nation’s exports “because owing to the rise
in the cost of production prices abroad are
no longer remunerative.” It “created trade
monopolies.” And, instead of putting up
wages, “during the period of inflation wages
in Germany have been considerably below
wages in countries competing with her
industrially, the margin between the dif-
ferent levels being much greater than in
pre-war days.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tarifls and the Farmer.
The manufacturers of N. S. Wales have,
through their Chamber, made a timely re-
statement of their creed. Things are not
as they were with Australia. We are not a
self-contained country and cannot hope soon
to be. No country with a large overseas
debt can; and we have a colossal overseas
debt of £ll9 per head of population. Our
interest and charges on this debt amount
now to 36 millions a year. Our gold pro-
duction has shrunk to less than two millions
a year; and what we cannot pay in gold
we must pay in goods. Even, then, though
we could produce all our merchandise
requirements in Australia —our petrol and
our rubber, our tea and our silk —we should
still have to be a considerable exporter of
staple products. Those products must be
sold in competition with the world; and
the question is how can it be done. It is
with this problem in front of it that the
Chamber of Manufactures re-states its
creed.
There are three possible ways of meeting
the difficulty:—
(1) We can do it by repudiating the whole or
part of the external debt or the interest thereon.
Rogues will take this way first. Honest men will
put it by as a last resort.
(2) We can throw the whole burden of keen
foreign competition on the actual producer of the
goods. That is to say, we may maintain the wages
ancl conditions of the city worker, and persist in
extravagance in the public services, and make the
farmer pay for it. We have been doing that for
years. For every sort of machine and for every sort
of service which the farmer has had to buy he has
had to pay the Australian high-standard price; for
everything he has had to sell abroad, he has got
the world’s low-standard price. In consequence he
has never made a decent wage save when markets
have been exceptionally high, and to-day probably
half of his class is insolvent.
(3) By economies in government and reduction
of other costs, wherever possible, we can lessen the
outgoings of the primary producer, and with the
aid of the protected local market enable him to at
least come nearer making a decent living, even
though much of his selling has to be done in foreign
markets.
The Bulletin has for a long while been
offering these as the only alternatives. It
has the satisfaction now of seeing the
Chamber of Manufactures frankly admit
that the primary producer who produces for
export is indispensable, and that he must
be kept on the job, even though some others
of us suffer in the process.
But there is no suggestion of making the
Customs tariff ineffective in order to accom-
plish this purpose. The Freetrader argues
that if these duties were swept away his
costs would be so lowered that he might
be able to compete comfortably. That may
be true; but the secondary industry cer-
tainly could not live and, important as the
primary producer is, the secondary man is
worth a thought, too. For one thing, he
can provide the primary man with the
handiest possible market; for another, he is
a salutary check upon the foreign machinery
merchant, etc., who without that check
is liable to squeeze the last ounce out of
his victim.
It may be admitted at once that there
are tariff lines which are absurdly high.
They have followed high costs: as costs
have risen the duties have been pushed
higher and higher. “High tariffs,” the
Chamber says, “are the result of high costs
and not the cause of them.” But they do
enable high costs to be maintained; and
that is the point at which the Freetrader
breaks away with: “Therefore abolish the
tariff.” The tariff is, however, far too valu-
able to be sacrificed in that offhand way.
We must seek other alternatives; and one
is quite obvious —the reduction of costs,
along with which a reduction of the tariff
may run without doing any harm to any-
body. How those costs can be reduced the
Chamber merely suggests: “While the exist-
ing high nominal wages and restrictive con-
ditions imposed by the Arbitration Acts and
other Government legislation continue, so
long will high tariffs have to remain if
industry is to carry on.”
* :
Scullin’s Attack on Parliament.
“We can produce as many regulations as the
Senate can disallow, and we will keep on producing
them.”— Prime Minister Scullin.
The Government made regulations provid-
ing for preference to unionists on the water-
froilt, and the Senate disallowed them.
The Government then made other regula-
tions to the like effect and did not lay
them before the Senate; but, reaching that
House on the motion of an Opposition
member, they, too, were disallow'ed. The
Courts were then asked to say whether
the Senate’s disallowance was good in law;
and last week the High Court decided, by
majority, that it was. Thereupon the Prime


Minister made the observation quoted above
as the text of these remarks.
Justice Starke, one of the majority Judges,
put the matter pointedly:—
Tlie Government’s procedure was entirely subver-
sive of the control of Parliament over regulations,
which it is the main object of section 10 of the Acts
Interpretation Act to preserve.
Four centuries ago England was ruled
entirely by regulations. Parliaments and
the Courts were ignored. The Act 31 of
Henry VIII., which empowered the execu-
tive to run the country, was repealed in the
following reign, and, though a somewhat
similar tyranny was revived under the
Stuarts, it has never operated to the same
degree in an autonomous British community
since.
But Australia is now threatened with a
Star Chamber from an unexpected source.
Labor’s trend here is obviously in the direc-
tion of the supersession of democracy, as
expressed in bi-cameral Parliaments, by
Trades Halls functioning through Govern-
ment rescripts and ordinances. There is a
crazy kind of logic in it—the same kind
as is to be found in the Lang Plan. Bilking
electors is not materially different from
bilking creditors.
The unscrupulous Bacon supported the
royal prerogative in his day on the ground
that it was necessary to protect the plebs
against, the predatory rich; and Labor
Bacons are using the same specious plea in
favor of a Trades Hall prerogative. But it
is as opposed to the spirit of the Australian
people as a permanent existence under
martial law would be—martial law being a
condition of affairs under which the ordi-
nary laws are suspended. Dicey (“The Rule
of Law”) put the alternative in a nutshell:
Parliament is supreme legislator, and from the
moment Parliament has uttered its will as lawgiver
that will becomes subject to the interpretation put
upon it by the Judges of the land.
No modern British community has repudi-
ated that democratic principle, and it will
be a dark day for our freedom if an Aus-
tralian Labor Government is allowed to
do it.
*
O Tempora, O Andy!
Cecil Mann goes to law: —
The case, gentlemen, is one of me versus the
Honorable and Well-beloved Mr. Andrew Lysaght in
a matter of defamation of my right big toe.
Tlie facts are that I was sauntering along Bottle-
avenue, Botany, in the State of New South Wales,
on Sunday, May 17, 1981, when a certain heavy
object, descending from a passing car, fell upon and
wilfully defamed the aforesaid big toe. The object,
gentlemen, I carried to my place of residence in
Mother Hooley’s apartments in Bottle-avenue, Botany,
and there found it to be “A bill to amend the
law with respect to the administration of justice
and certain other matters,” etc. Now, gentlemen,
this “A bill,” etc., is an object which, I understand,
the aforesaid Honorable and Well-beloved Mr. Andrew
Lysaght caused to be presented to Parliament in
order that, by and with the approval of the Trades
Hall, it might become law ; and I appear before you
to claim compensation from him for the damage
done.
I would remind you, gentlemen, that the point at
issue has nothing whatever to do with the effect
the aforesaid bill, should it become law, may have
upon the status of the Honorable and Well-beloved
Mr. Andrew Lysaght (hereinafter called Andy) in
the profession which he professes. Therefore, this
item (short title 16, page 17) need not delay you:
“Subject to the rights of precedence of his
Majesty’s Attorney-General and Solicitor-General and
his Majesty’s counsel, a barrister and solicitor shall
take precedence amongst barristers and solicitors
as follows:
“Where he was called to the Bar or admitted as a
solicitor prior to the commencement of this Act,
in accordance with the date of his first call or admis-
sion in New South Wales; and
“Where he was admitted as a barrister and
solicitor after the commencement of this Act, in
accordance with the date of his admission.”
I cannot see, gentlemen, that the fact that Andy
(hitherto called the Honorable and Well-beloved
Mr. Andrew Lysaght) was, as a solicitor, a senior
of the seniors, and is now and lately has been, as
a barrister, a junior of the juniors, has any direct
relation to that confounded defamation of my big
toe. It may be true, I admit, that he was admitted
as a solicitor 40 years or so ago; it may be equally
true that his call to the Bar dates from compara-
tively recent times; and it obviously is true that,
though now, begging a political accident, he is a
painfully junior person among those qualified to call
themselves barrister, and may or may not be subject
to snubs from the aristocracy of his kind, he will be,
if this bill becomes law, senior to pretty well all
of them and qualified to snub any of those who may
or may not have hitherto snubbed him.
But this, I repeat, has nothing to do with my
big toe. Nor need you delay, I would suggest, to
read short title 21 (p. 19) of the bill aforesaid: —
“Notwithstanding anything enacted prior to this
Act to the contrary, any solicitor or barrister and
solicitor of five years’ standing shall be eligible to
be appointed a Judge of the Supreme Court or
District Court or to any other judicial office.”
I might say in passing, gentlemen, that I under-
stand the practice hitherto has been to make such
appointments from the ranks of senior members of
the Bar, whose seniority, it is of course unneces-
sary to add, was not reckoned from, say, the date
of admission (if any) to practise the wiles and arts
of the junior branch of this illustrious profession
in some country town. The proposed change, I
suppose, might be the cause of light and airy hilarity
among those irresponsible fellows the law clerks ; it
might inspire Syd Beck and Stiffy to perpetrate one
of those legal scenes for which they are deservedly
notorious; or it might produce in our midst another
Gilbert to write another “Trial by Jury,” in which
the learned Judge, instead of passing down amatory
notes to the fair plaintiff, would look thoughtfully
from his high shelf at some beardless counsel barely
out of his pilehers, and remark with due decorum
and gravity, “There but for the grace of God goes
the Judge.”
But with all deference, gentlemen, I would submit
that even the contrivance of such assured depression-
chasers as those should not for one moment tempt
you to overlook the grave matter before you, the
aforesaid wanton, indeed dastardly, defamation of
my big toe. That, gentlemen, is the question, and
I would humbly implore you to stick to it. I
would suggest, for instance, that there is no need for
you to read pages 61, 62 and 63 of the aforesaid
bill, which hold merely a welter of clauses intended
to resolve doubts concerning a previous effort of
Andy’s—to wit, the Moratorium Act —though I might
have your leave to mention, in passing, that such
a welter would seem to suggest that the aforesaid
previous effort of Andy’s must have been a fair
target for shooting peas through. Again, gentlemen,
I feel sure it would not be seemly on the part of
either you or myself to give expression to whatever
feelings might be engendered by any titillation of
the diaphragm resulting, directly or indirectly, from
a too-curious perusal of page 66 of the bill afore-
said, whereon Andy gets the bit out of his teeth
and lets himself go in the following round terms: —
“A seditious enterprise is an enterprise which is
undertaken in order to the carrying cut of a seditious
intention.
“Seditious words are words expressive of a sedi-
tious intention.
“The term ‘seditious writing’ includes anything
intended to be read and any sign or visible repre-
sentation which is expressive of a seditious inten-
tion.’’
It might, of course, be mentioned, by way of
further elucidating these knotty points, that, by
the same method of arriving at definitions, a four-
penny hunger is fourpence carried with the express
intention of hunger, and that an all-day sucker is a
lolly designed to be eaten by any normal-toothed
boy at the steady rate of eight an hour. I trust,
gentlemen, that the matter is now perfectly clear
to you.
And now, gentlemen, I would pass on to a
matter, mentioned in this same bill, over which I
should like you to pause as long as possible. I refer
to Schedule: Part 1 (p. 75), wherein Andy sets
forth the hereinafter operative Barristers’ Award
Rates. Let me say that I am, in this matter of
the defamation of my big toe, claiming, as I over-
looked telling you before, compensation in the sum
of £5OOl. Now, gentlemen, if it should be your
opinion that the defamation of my big toe entitles
me to recover compensation in the full amount
claimed, I will have to pay my barrister, under the
new award, the sum of £4O. The bill lays down
that “when the amount recovered exceeds £lO but
does not exceed £3O” the fees payable on brief for
plaintiff—that is to say, -for the whole guts of the
work put into the job by my legal advisers—
shall be three guineas; and, under this new Bar-
risters’ Award, the fees mount on a graduated scale,
according to the amount claimed, until, as I have
said, the fees in my claim, provided I recover the
full £5OOl, shall be £4O, I shall not trouble you
to regard the solemn fact that if the amount recov-
ered does not exceed £lO, no fees whatever are pro-
vided for, nor shall 1 ask you to weigh whether or
not Andy, in making the fees dependent upon the
amount that you may chance to decide upon, is
introducing a gamble, comparable with crown and
anchor, housie-housie, two-up and under and over,
into the practice of a profession hitherto associated
with such amusements in an entirely different
respect. But I would direct your attention, gentle-
men, to the following clause of the aforesaid schedule
in the bill of Andy’s:—
“If the plaintiff does not succeed in his action,
the amount of the fee payable on the brief for
the plaintiff shall be based on the above scale,
having regard to the amount claimed by the plain-
tiff.”
As I remarked, gentlemen, I have claimed £5OOl
compensation for the defamation of my big toe.
If, in your opinion, I am entitled to recover £5OOl,
well and good: I pay, under the new Ba rristers’
Award, £4O. If, in your opinion, I am entitled
to recover £ll, I pay, for the hire of an exactly
similar quantity of labor, £3. If, in your opinion,
I am entitled to nothing—that is to say, if I do not
succeed in my action; to put it in more homely
words, gentlemen, if my counsel runs dead, or the
opposing party gets a battery to work on its counsel,
or if the breakfast egg of my counsel has been, as
they say, tampered with (i.e., doped)—if, as a result
of any such contingencies, gentlemen, I lose the
case, I still pay £4O, the fee on losing being fixed
according to scale, “having regard to the amount
claimed
Now, gentlemen, it is up to you. Within the
meaning of the Act (if any), has, or has not, my
big toe been wilfully defamed? And how much are
you asking me to cough up—£4o or £4O?
• *
The N.S.W. State Savings Bank.
There is a movement afoot to stop the
absorption of the N.S.W. State Savings
Bank by the Commonwealth Bank, and to
reconstruct it instead.
Prima facie absorption is the right
thing. Competition is valuable because
it keeps the trader from putting too much
of the profit in his own pocket. But there
can be no such gain in this case, inasmuch
as there is no private pocket for the money
to be put into. Both banks, State and Com-
monwealth, are without share capital (other
than that which the Commonwealth Bank
has put by out of surplus earnings), so that,
there being no dividends to pay, all the net
earnings of both banks belong to the deposi-
tors. If it costs more to run two banks
than it does to run one, and the one can
earn as much as the two, the State deposi-
tors would be merely robbing themselves
by stopping the absorption.
There might, however, be some reason in
suggesting that, instead of handing the State
bank over to the Commonwealth, it should
be made available to a public co. Down to
a few years ago Australia knew only the
mutual life office, without shareholders, and
controlled entirely by policy-holders. In
theory it was the perfect arrangement.
Then came a co. whose shareholders put
up a certain amount of capital; they under-
took to guarantee the policies and to
manage the business, taking for themselves
a maximum of 20 p.c. of the profits. In
theory the policy-holders lost this 20 per
cent.; in practice they probably gained
much more because of (1) the guarantee,
and (2) the energy and care which were
put into the business by people who had
a direct interest in making profits. Cer-
tainly there is no doubt that the competi-
tion (for this was real competition) did
the mutual offices a great deal of good. And
competition with a savings bank owned and
managed by a public co. would probably do
the State-owned and State-managed banks
as much good.
And. anyway, why should the State
guarantee a-savings bank? For only one
reason —because the Government has or
hopes to have the run of the till. Of
course it will be denied emphatically that
any Government has any control over any
savings bank. It was denied with extra
emphasis that the Government had any
control over the Savings Bank of N. S.
Wales. But if it did not have any control
over the Commissioners—if they w r ere
entirely free agents—then they have far
more to answer for than the public is
willing to believe they had.
It may be that in this case the position
is not so good that the bank may choose
its own way of salvation. If it could,
and if such a thing w T ere possible, purchase
of the whole undertaking by a public co.,
with adequate capital, would be the best
thing that, could happen. The next best is
absorption by the Commonwealth Bank,
whose board, though by no means in the
position of complete independence it should
be, is at any rate moderately well protected
against the inroads of impecunious Trea-
surers.
.—
The Politician and Transport.
The desire of our Governments to
secure all traffic for the railways is entirely
good. Australia has put no less than 312
millions into their construction and equip-
ment, apart altogether from the defence
lines in the hands of the Commonwealth,
and in 1926-29 inclusive—that is to say,
in the. last four years of our supposed
prosperity—they made a total loss of
£21,723.300. Something certainly ought to
be done about it.
In N. S. Wales Mr. Lang undertook to
grapple with the tragedy so far as his own
State is concerned by giving the railways
and tramways an actual monopoly of the
carrying business. Now, the theory of
public monopoly of public utilities is as
sound as ever it was. It would be quite
ridiculous for the public not to carry its
own mails, for example, and save the profit
which Private Enterprise would require,
The object, we thus see, is entirely practical
and utilitarian: it is to save the public’s
money, to reduce its expenses. If public
ownership and control of public utilities
does not save the public’s money, does not
cut down its expenses, then it has no place
in any political platform.
The truth, of course, is that the poli-
tician has corrupted this, as he has cor-
rupted almost every other thing he has
touched. He has in order to capture votes
heaped, up in every State a muddle of non-
payable lines; he has bloated the railway and
tramway services; he has reduced working
hours and increased pay in construction,
maintenance and operation. The result
to-day is that freight and charges are so
outrageous that Private Enterprise has to
be chased off the field, otherwise it would
capture more than half of the business.
These public utilities are thus employed,
not to save the public’s money, but as
means for extorting excessive charges for
the services they undertake; and these
excessive charges are only made necessary
because' the politician wants to be a good
fellow with those upon whose votes he
depends.
So long as the charges are greater than
they need be; so long as one superfluous
employee is retained; so long as one unneces-
sary and unprofitable line is kept open,
so long as one loafer is harbored in the
service, so long will a Government have no
right to claim a monopoly for the State
services. If it makes that claim without
first cleaning up and clearing out the
service, it can only be assumed that it does
so in order that it may the better rook
the public, passing on the proceeds to its
friends the public employees in return for
votes.
• ♦
Governors’ Powers.
Dear Bulletin,— ln the consideration of
this important question, it seems to me that
sufficient emphasis has not been laid on
the clear distinction that exists between
the right of the King to dissolve Parlia-
ment and the right of the Governor of
N. S. Wales to do the same thing.
The King’s right to dissolve Parliament
would be by virtue of his prerogative;
that is, by virtue of the residue of dis-
cretionary or arbitrary power that still
remains with him. The question as to what
residue of power still remains with the
King would be difficult to define; but it is
nevertheless real.
There can be no question as to our
Governor’s power to dissolve Parliament,
for Sec. 10 of our State Constitution Act
1902 (No. 32 of 1902) provides, amongst
other things:—
He [the Governor] may also prorogue the Legisla-
tive Council and Assembly, and dissolve the said
Assembly by proclamation or otherwise whenever
he deems it expedient.
The Governor, therefore, is the sole
arbiter in deciding whether or not the
Assembly should be dissolved; nothing can
abrogate that statutory right or derogate
from it whilst the above section stands.
That in exercising any statutory discretion
the Governor cannot act capriciouslv with-
out getting into trouble goes without
saying; but that does not get away from
the fact that any statutory act of his would
have the force of law, and could not be
successfully challenged at law. —Yours
truly, Countryman.
*
Let’s Mix the Breed!
The perennial person who flips through
Australia as the Devil went through Ath-
lone, and advises as he goes, cropped up
again the other day. One Dunscomb, a
banker in Chicago. His solution of our
troubles is the importation of cheap labor
—preferably colored, but, anyway, cheap,
the cheaper the •better.
Not so long ago Mr. Dunscomb’s country,
waking to the fact that it had a huge
home market, fenced that market in with
what was then the world’s record protec-
tive tariff, in order to build up home indus-
trial production. It was then faced with
the fact that it had to produce more
cheaply than its established overseas rivals,
even though these were handicapped by the
tariff. Then began the large-scale importa-
tion of the very cheap worker (this quite
apart from the genuine settler-immigrant
who opened up the West) which has turned
a once Anglo-Saxon nation into the poly-
glot, poly-racial mixture which is America
to-day. The Irish were the first to come.
They labored on the great trans-continents I
railways, and then turned their attention to
the brand of politics which is the national
forte and is so familiar to the Australian
of to-day. The Italians followed, and after
a period of usefulness as donkey-workers,
went back to trading pursuits. The manu-
facturing industries clamored for more
cheap-labor fodder. The answer was the
rush of millions of the scum of Middle and
Eastern Europe, and the canning, steel,
mining and other industries which depended
for their prosperity on what were practi-
cally slave-workers waxed in fatness.
At last it was realised that the broth
was producing strange ferments. Too late
the tide of helot immigration was dammed.
The pot was brimming and needed no
further ingredients from outside. The
lid came with prohibition.
To-day America, in spite of her many
splendid attributes, stands self-confessed
before the rest of the world as the most
corrupt and criminal country in civilisa-
tion. In all America there is no centre
which has such an evil repute for political
and municipal corruption and for homicidal
crime as the Chicago from which our coun-
seller, Mr. Dunscomb, is, apparently, not
ashamed to hail. The city has reached its
bad eminence for no other reason than
the policy of wholesale importation of cheap
workers of any breed or description which
Mr. Dunscomb, following fEsop’s tailless
fox, now urges on Australia.
Some of the British Dominions, to their
sorrow, have followed the gospel preached :
by the evangelist from Chicago. Fiji and
South Africa are instances too familiar to
dwell on. Australia, so far, has suffered
little in this regard save for the unrestricted
importation of hordes of cheap and nasty
political propagandists and the unholy crew
that always follows in their train. The
breed is Australia’s greatest danger to-day,
spawning its like as did the American
invasion from the dregs of the older lands.
That this country should add to these
present afflictions by adding the outcasts
of the submerged populations of Europe or
Asia to their numbers is not to be
thought of.
♦
Should M’s.P. be Privileged Detainers?
In framing his Defamation Bill his
Majesty’s Attorney-General for N. S. Wales
failed to provide members of Parliament
with immunity from prosecution; and this
has been made one of the bases of attack.
But why should he? Why should an hon.
member be a privileged liar and slanderer?
Instead of being privileged, should he not
be under special restraints, since more
serious consequences may flow from the
lying and slanderous statements of dis-
honorable members than from those of
other people?
The real reason why so many members
claim immunity is that they know to what
depths Parliament can fall under our party
system. They know, in the first place,
that under that system members are not
expected to hug the truth. If they can be.
more effective by hedging, if they can make
the worse appear the better reason, if they
can invent a lie which will damage an
opponent when truth is not available for
the purpose, they know what the party
machine requires of them.
Can we seriously hope for any great
things from a Chamber so constituted? We
are surrounded by difficulties and dangers
which have produced a sea of misery
already and threaten to overwhelm us alto-
gether. Yet here is a group of men play-
ing with words, making only a shadowy
pretence of doing business, divided into
camps, each camp striving to score off the
other, posturing to the public; the whole
proceedings heavy with patent and trans-
parent insincerity—a circus of old per-
formers, doing their weary stunts; of clowns
making their worn jests; of old hacks trot-
ting around the ring to show off their paces;
a Punch-and-Judy show thrown in now and
then to make the onlookers believe .the
indignation and the virtuous anger are the
real Mackay!
Perhaps, after all, Andy Lysaght, his
Majesty’s Attorney-General, has made a
mistake. It might be absurd to apply a.
serious law of defamation to such a.
Chamber.


Leipzig Trade Fair
The Greatest and Most Cosmopolitan of all
Trade Fairs (Twice Yearly).
Visitors will not experience tlie slightest difficulty with the Language,
Matters of Freight, Duties or Banking. The Organisers of the
Leipzig Trade Fair are always on hand to help, courteously and
efficiently, on all questions pertaining to purchasing and business
negotiation.
TEXTILE, ENGINEERING AND
BUILDING FAIRS commence august 30.
The W.E.Z. Organisation will gladly supply you with names, addresses
and full particulars of reputable German Export Houses.
“Summer in Germany is the Perfection of the Beautiful.”
Inquiries cordially invited and full information given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcai'd Lund & Co., Post Office Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
DIAMOND WATCHES
£26.
£22.
m
765
We have I lie finest selection and best value
Diamond Watches in the Commonwealth they
are guaranteed accurate timekeepers, and we wi
he pleased to forward a selection on approval
Write for fulffr"
ill us t r died
catalogue.
on approval.
ret
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
QUEEN STREE"
, ...
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINT
Slang has never explained—not that ex-
planation is necessary—why he paid the
Americans their interest and tried to “scale”
the British: but fools rushed in where
agents feared to tread. According to Sena-
tor liac, the New York bill was met and the
London one dishonored because the former
fell due at the end of March and the Lang
“plan” didn’t operate till April 1. A.-G.
Willis’s version is that “N. S. Wales had
only enough money to pay the New York
bondholders.” Would any other liar like to
have a turn?
A commission ought to be appointed to
find out who is to blame for the N.S.W.
Savings Bank smash; a Supreme Court
Judge—or Starke or Dixon of the High
Court —ought to be in charge of it.; and the
job ought to be done quickly. Ex-Treasurer
Stevens has made charges which throw so
much responsibility on Lang for the most
widespread financial disaster in Australia’s
history that if he is an innocent man he will
welcome the commission.
When Lyons first appeared in Parliament
as leader .of an anti-inflation party
he received a heated reception from
the Ministry. Attorney-General Brennan
in particular almost burst with rage.
If he had completed the process he would
have established a precedent, for no Attorney-
General ever burst in public before. Last
week the Ministry assumed a more placid
expression. Seullin proposed that Parliament
TIRED OLE BIRD: “And I really believe
they’ll shoo me away!”
should adjourn form week or two and meet,
not as a Parliament but as a crowd of
friendly citizens, without bias or recrimina-
tion or cuss language or party feeling, also
without roaring at one another or making
formal speeches, and talk things over. Lyons
asked for time to consult his party. “But
don’t you lead it?” was the not unnatural
inquiry of Curtin, from Fremantle.
Queensland continues to deal with its un-
employment problem in forthright fashion.
From May 11 the Government’s intermittent-
relief-work scheme supplanted the ration-
issue system in every coastal town from
Brisbane to Cairns. It will provide for
1000 persons outside the capital itself;
local authorities will handle the machinery.
All the work is being paid for from the fund
raised by the unemployment-relief tax, the
£119,000 previded by a special vote having
been exhausted.
The Address-in-Reply debate in Vic.
Assembly occupied less than six hours, so the
Hogans cannot accuse Nats, and Cockies of
wasting time. Opposition criticism of the
Moratorium Bill, if unfriendly, was very
much to the point; it was directed mainly at
the clauses for postponing payment of house-
rent. It looks as if there will have to be a
compromise on this measure after the Uppish
House has pommelled it.
The swing-away from Labor presents the
MePhee-Lees with the biggest majority held
by any Tas. Administration since the adop-
tion of the Hare-i Clark voting system 22
years ago. The 30 Assembly seats have been
divided by the electors thus: McPliee-Lee,
19; Tlieogilvie, 10 ; Independent (Ben Wat-
kins), 1. Even in the latter end of the war
period Labor managed to hold on to 12 of
tiie 15 seats which had enabled the Earle
Government (Wliitsitt permitting) to carry
on in 1914-16.
Being in a hole through increase of un-
employment, British Finance Minister
Snowden is putting a tax on land. British
income-tax now takes 4s. 6d. in the £ of
the money received from land, and local
rates on land and houses amount to
£159,000,000 a year in England alone; it is
reckoned, however, that the new impost, will
appeal to the toiling masses. The worried
and eccentric little financier would do more
for them, and get much more prompt and
reliable cash relief, if he did a little exten-
sion of the tariff (he exacts only
£119,000,000 in customs revenue), but there
is no arguing with a Freetrade fanatic who
is in terror of his soul.
Even Lang’s Attor-
ney-General Lysaglit,
rather a stickler for
form, has been guilty
of one of those tricks
which have brought
p arty government
into contempt. lie
had carried the first
reading of his tre-
mendous Law Re-
form Bill, and not an
Opposition member
had seen it. Then he
moved the second
r e a d i n g, looked
around, saw the
House was pretty
empty, sat down
without making the
long explanatory
speech which the
case called for —and.
nobody rising to pur-
sue the debate, for
the simple reason
that nobody had had
a chance to study
the bill, the second
reading was actually
carried. If Lysaglit
weren’t so much in
earnest One would
suspect that it was
an invitation to the
Council to throw
out the half-digested thing when it reaches
that Chamber, if it ever does.
If liis Ex. of N. S. Wales is still in doubt
as to whether he ought to send his Ministers
to the country, he might consult the chair-
man of the Commonwealth Bank. Not
about politics—Gibson probably wouldn’t
talk politics even to oblige a Governor. But
Sir Philip might ask what effect the con-
tinuance of Lang in office is likely to have
on the absorption of the State Savings Bank.
On nearly 30 millions of the depositors’
money Lang may refuse to pay more than
3 per cent, and about. 10 millions besides is
in the mists (most of this is money which
should have been repaid by the Government,
but wasn’t) ; and so long as Lang is Treas-
urer and can “scale” this money, the Com-
monwealth Bank isn’t likely to put
depositors out of their misery.
The metal trades in Sydney are sicker
than most; and an inquiry lias just been
made to find out why. The results are
startling. The hourly rate of pay for vari-
ous kinds of labor is as much as 44 per cent,
higher in Sydney than in Melbourne; and
in the case of carters and drivers it is just
on 47 per cent, higher. The Melbourne rate
per week is £3 9s. 9d. for 48 hours; the
Sydney rate is £4 13s. 6d. for 44 hours.
Naturally industry is clearing out of Sydney
“Hungry, my good woman? Nonsense!
How can you be? Why, I gave your
husband such a large award that no
employer could possibly pay it.”
as fast as it. can pack up. “Good old Piddo”
and his tribe have furnished N. S. Wales
with some beautiful awards. What they
can’t do is to find work under those awards.
They are the world’s best at filling men’s
heads with nonsense and the world’s worst
at filling their bellies with food.
It is the close season for Royal Commis-
sions in Vic., but “boards of inquiry” are
making their appearance. One is to report
whether the annual expenditure on educa-
tion (upwards of three millions) is exces-
sive ; the other to find out what are the real
profits of the State coalmine at Wonthaggi.
The education board is to get £250 for pre-
liminary expenses. The Parliamentary Rail-
way Standing Committee, which absorbs
£2OOO a year in fees and exes., and the
Assembly Committee of Public Accounts,
which divides £350, independently of its sec-
retary’s salary, could do the State a service
by suspending operations for a year or two.
Towards the end of a week through which
others walked fanning themselves, Seullin
knocked icicles off his topknot and read an
“Moved, it is understood, by Labor journalists, Caucus has signified
that it has grave doubts about N.S.W. Attorney-General Lysaght’s bill
prescribing 12 months’ imprisonment or a fine of £100, or both, for
publication of ‘defamatory statements,’ and two years or £500, or both,
for making unfounded statements as to the policy of the Government or
the conduct of any member of the Executive Council.”
“Hey, you blokes ’ll have to- go easy! You’ll hit us if you don’t
look out.”
icy communication from the Council of the
Association of Accountants of Australia.
The council declared itself “appalled” at the
drift, in the finances or aghast at the Gov-
ernment’s ineptitude, and finally protested
against the Commonwealth being loaded with
a Treasurer who had been “held by a Royal
Commission to be guilty of dishonesty and
fraud.” And all poor Seullin could have
squeaked had he been quite frank in reply
was that he had a better job than he ever
hoped to score again, and how in blithering
blazes was he to keep it if he did the ter-
rible things they wanted him to do? The
politician’s job is, in short, the largest curse
that hangs round Australia’s neck in its
struggle to save itself. It will have to be
all-but abolished.
Much nonsense has been talked about the
N.S.W. Law Reform Bill —inevitable non-
sense in view of the delay in circulating it.
The Bulletin got, a deal of well-meant
sympathy because the measure had been
“made retrospective”—obviously to punish
somebody for saying that Lang was a liar
and a defaulter, among other things. He is
more than that, but he is no fool. Actually
what he makes the bill say is that certain
comments, etc, on Ministers are punishable
whether the thing commented upon occurred
before or after the passing of the Act. But
it doesn’t make an old comment an offence
if it wasn’t an offence when it was pub-
lished.
Assistant-Minister Webber added a feather
to his cap by settling the meatworkers’
strike, in Melbourne. Slaughtermen and
their laborers revoted against a wages board
determination reducing pay from £6 to
£5 3s. 6d. a week, in addition to a cost-of-
living reduction of 2s. a week. The only con-
cession made was to let the 2s. slide for
the current quarter. About £5OOO was lost
in wages; nearly half would have been saved
if Webber’s first offer, which was not quite
understood owing to over-condensation in
the dailies, had been accepted.
Ely, one of Slang’s Ministers, recently
confessed that 25 per cent, of the N.S.W.
dole money or i.ts equivalent in rations (they
cost £1,343,100 in 10 months) was going
to impostors. A lot of the impostors con-
gregate in South Coast coal towns and ham-
lets, where avowed Communists are numer-
ous, as are also new arrivals who can hardly
speak the English language. Police super-
vision of ration issues is objected to by these
gentry, and at Bulli last week the dole was
declared “black,” the relief depot was
picketed and a sergeant and two constables
were laid out —the sergeant with a hammer.
So the police have been withdrawn from the
relief depots, and their “callous actions at
Bulli and Port Kembla” are to be "inquired
into.” The Government protests that it is
not Communist, but when Communists
hector it it exhibits a yellow streak as broad
as a shark’s back.
When Lang had finished expounding how
he was going to put all forms of insurance
on a safer footing by taking care of a lot
of tile insurance institutions’ money (for-
cibly dragging it from them, in fact), he
was asked by Dan Levy whether the pro-
ceeds would go into general revenue or into
a special deposit account. Lang assured
Dan that it will go into a special deposit
account. But supposing a few nuiupn
pounds’ worth of insurance cheques drill
into the account, the man in charge must
do something with them. He cant just sit
and look at them all the year round, indue -
ing Sundays. So. he will probably ask the
man in charge of the Treasury if he'can give
him N.S.W. Treasury bills for them so that
they will be earning interest, and the man
at the Treasury would be an uncivil and
disobliging cuss if he didn’t comply, especi-
ally if he is the same man all the time.
Then the deposit money will be in a specia
deposit account as promised, assuming tna
N.S.W. Treasury bills are money, and the
Government will have the spending ot it ioi
current expenses at the same time, J-heo-
retically money can’t be in two places at
once, but in this way it can at least profess
to be. It can set up an alibi, in fact..
The Queensland Law Society has formu-
lated a set of new rules calculated to make
the dubious Gent One take a bend on his
cable. Most important is a regulation that
no solicitor or conveyancer shall employ
in his business a person who has been con-
victed of an indictable offence, or been struck
off the rolls or suspended. This rule will
strike at the root ot an evil all too common
throughout, the lower branch of the pro-
fession. Many a clever rogue who has
taken the knock has resumed a fat living as
a clerk in the office of some practitioner to
whom his particular abilities are likely to
prove profitable. Another long-needed regu-
lation compels solicitors to keep propel
books of account in respect of all money
going through their hands, whether trust
moneys or not, including duplicate receipt-
books.
Frank Clarke, President of Vic. Uppish
House, will have to fight for his Mel-
bourne South seat on June 6; P. _J-
Cleary, a Laborite, has come out against
him. But Clarke lias as little cause
for apprehension as Bill Beckett has in
Melbourne North, where the Minister of
Health is being opposed by Olney, of the
XJ.A.P. —first of the line. Most of the spice
of the Plush Chambali polling will be sup-
plied in Melbourne, where Eugene Gorman is
standing against 11. I. Cohen; both are
K.C.’s. There will be ten or a dozen con-
tests, but changes in personnel will be few.
Edgar, Goudie and five others are pretty
sure of walkovers.
Andy Lysaglit isn’t so original either.
Forty-odd years ago there was a proposal
before the N.S.W. Parliament to amalgamate
the two branches of the legal profession;
“Hops” suggested Coat of Anns for the
Law “Amalgams.”
and, though it was eventually thrown out
as likely to do more, harm than good, “Hop"
had already designed for the amalgamated
profession a coat of arms. It is still avail-
able —with Tiie Bulletin’s compliments.
From the centre of the disturbance: —
A good deal of insectarianism was in evidence in
the Tas. election campaign. The islet was flooded
with unsigned and imprintless circulars setting forth
that the Pope hoped the new Ministry would be
as loyal to Holy Church as the Federal concern,
whose motto was Ourselves Alone. Whether the
idea was to promote panic among Protestants or
resentment among Catholics, or both, the author of
the circular must have gloated over the results:
(1) The defeated Labor members, with one exception,
are Protestants; (2) the successful Labor can-
didates, with one exception, are R.C.’s. ; (3) there
is no 11. C. among the conquerors. For Australia’s
sake it is to be hoped that this sort of thing will be
promptly banned, for it is sheer foolishness at any
time in any circumstances. We have troubles enough
or our own, without importing them.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“R. Volt”: A Melbourne radio announcer
was gabbling his way through the evening’s
press cables. Concluding some remarks about
the latest developments in Spain, he went on :
“Some feeling has been caused by the sugges-
tion that the King’s head should be removed."
Then he paused to re-arrange liis notes, while
thousands of old ladies, faithful to mon-
archical tradition, clutched their receivers in
suspense. Then the voice proceeded, '‘from
Australian stamps,” and the thousands of
old ladies breathed again.
“Jaeko”: After all, Jay Peas haven’t a
monopoly of ignorance. In Sydney the other
day a Supreme Court, jury retired to con-
sider their verdict, The foreman was mak-
ing a few remarks upon the evidence, when
a meek-iooking little colleague interrupted
him. “Excuse me, sir,” he said, “but what
is a plaintiff?”
“Agent’s Clerk”: Queerest thing about
this knock-out, from our point of view, is
that hardly anybody blackguards us. In
previous dull times (I date back to the
earliest ’nineties) we’ve listened every day
to blistering opinions about blithering land-
lords. These days we hear plenty hard tales
and a few hard words, but nothing to scorch
SUSPICIOUS.
“Can you tell me where Muriel gets all her jewellery from?"
"Goodness only knows!”
“H’m — I’ll bet goodness has nothing to do with it.”
the paint. As a matter of fact, the landlord
class has been behaving very well, as a
whole, They can’t see daylight ahead, but
they can see that “riot and civil commotion”
are possibilities, and most of them dread
empty premises; there’s a saying in our
office: “Nothing breaks a window like a
broken window.” Of course we tell the
new tenant who gets a 50 per cent, cut in
rent “For Heaven’s sake don’t mention the
figure to the other tenants”—l’m talking
now of flats. But the pledge of silence is
exacted not always because we don’t want
the others to know how little, say, Smith is
paying; it’s oftoner because we don’t want
Smith to find out how much less some others
are paying. Yet it’s the person who has
put liis money into equities we’re sorriest
for. Here’s a woman who two or three
years ago thought she was worth about
£60,000. Her husband had been a builder
and had built and borrowed, and soon after
he died her valuations showed well over
£60,000 of a margin. Her rents to-day won’t
pay 70 per cent, of her interest; and she
knows she is penniless. Now and again
startling figures are made public about even
some well-known Sydney city property. The
State Theatre and Shopping Block, for in-
stance. That lot is valued at just under the
million (980-odd thousand). Last year it
had to call on the guarantors (Union
Theatres) for over 16 thousand to pay the
few preference shares their 8 per cent, divi-
dend, and the ordinary shares (half a mil-
lion) have not had a hite.
“Sariba” : Kingsford Smith returned from
his mail-carrying flight with a derry on Akyab.
where he had to wait for the ’plane coming
from Britain. For three days his party had
nothing to eat there hut bananas, eggs and
fish. I can sympathise with him, with regard
to the first, anyhow. Once, when in pursuit
of two Papuan murderers, I had to wait
until their friends consented to surrender
them. It was high in the mountains and •
far from civilisation, and the usual proce-
dure of quartering police and self on the
offending village had to be resorted to. There
was no game and no fish, and we soon had
to fall back on the two local staples, sweet
potatoes and bananas. It was three weary
weeks before the inhabitants decided it was
better to surrender their friends than be
eaten out of house and home. On the way
back to the coast I shot and ate my first
and only flying-fox; it tasted as the
quails in the desert must have done to the
host of Moses. From that day to this, the
very smell of bananas makes my gorge rise,
and, as for sweet potatoes —yah !
“Isbaragi”: The major of our squadron
in Palestine had the reputation of being
“windy.” IPe also had a wound stripe on
his sleeve. A reinstoushmont asked an
old hand when the major got his wound.
“On the Peninsula,” snapped the other. “We
were lowerin’ him into his dugout one night
when the rope broke. So did the old cow’s
leg.”
“Philm” : The depression makes itself felt
in strange ways. Handling a large amount
of silver each day, I was puzzled for a while
over the number of florins that had tiny
holes at the top filled in with silver or other
composition. Then I realised that they
were all Canberra two-bobs, and had been
taken off brooches to be returned to more
practical purposes. It's a pity the same
can't be done with more expensive Canberra
products.
“Clarence Cafeteria” : The. desire to sup-
press something or anything being endemic
in Melbourne, there is a movement to abolish
the mysterious gents, and ladies who drift
about between the teacups at most of the
cafes telling patrons that they are going
on long voyages, or will meet tall dark men
and have 10 children, and sinister things
like that. The objection raised is that this
sort of misinformation has dangers for weak-
minded people, and a case is mentioned where
domestic happiness was ruined by the
inspired ravings of one of these sibyls.
People as weak-minded as that oughtn’t to
frequent cafes. If an act to suppress for-
tune-tellers included the shoddy politicians
who predict that if they are elected to Par-
liament there will be a new Heaven and a
new earth, I would unhesitatingly support it.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : In one respect they really were
better times 50 years ago. The South Aus.
census of 1881 showed that Adelaide
and all the corporate towns together
held only one-third of the then colony’s
population, whereas now the metro-
politan area alone has more than one-
lialf. Incidentally, it is amusing to
note that even then there was boring-
for-oil on the Goorong, and that then,
as now, “indications were good.”
“Habitual Gambler”: “The easiest prey
of our confidence men have always been
Australians,” said a Scotland Yard ’tec to a
Sydney “Sun” representative last week.
“Australians lose 75 per cent, of their per-
spicacity immediately they leave Australia.”
It is as explicable as it is true. No crook
worth his salt tries to make a living in
Australia. It is too small socially, and
there is no leisured class with money. A result
is that thousands of well-to-do Australians
spend half their lives without so much as
thinking of the possibility of being taken
down by strangers—a contingency which is
never far from the thoughts of wealthy
English folk, and accounts for much of
their reserve when travelling. The average
Australian tourist is leading an idle life for
the first time for years; he is lonely ; he has
never heard of anyone, say, cheating at
cards in his suburb ; he is probably a fair
card-player according to suburban stand-
ards. (There is no game on earth, by the
way, at which the rabbit is so liable to
imagine himself a tiger as cards.) Inevit-
ably, he falls for the first wrong ’un who
lays eyes on him. The golden rule for all
travellers can be expressed in three words:
Never play high. The minute you meet a
SHAKSPEARE REVISED.
(SCENE: Particularly blasted heath near Forres. Thunder and lightning. Enter Lady
Macbeth bearing a taper.)
MACBETH : “Pit yon caundle oot, wanmaun. Dae ye no ken that ye shudna waste
God's gaid lightning!”
stranger who suggests any kind of big
gamble you can safely bet 100 to 1 that he
is a sharper. Another thing on which it is
safe to bet is that the innocent who has been
taken down by a crook has been first in-
duced to believe that he has a good chance
of besting the crook. It. is the essence of
the game, and is one of the reasons why the
police have no sympathy for mugs.
“Night Owl” : Sydney Domain by night gets
its full share of newspaper publicity these
times, with illustrations to supplement the
letterpress. It’s a congested area just now, of
course, but despite popular impressions there
are long periods when it is an almost empty
one. Some years ago a Melbourne weekly
commissioned a well-known Sydney jour-
nalist to select a fine night and give the
Domain a write-up. He prowled about for
scweral hours before and after midnight,
returning again conscientiously at daybreak,
but the article was never written. He told
me that he encountered only four or five
campers-out, and though he had thoughtfully
furnished himself with a bottle of whisky
to serve as an introduction to a request for
a talk, he couldn’t get enough copy for a
paragraph. But that was in the piping
days of 1924.
“Bangemall”: One result of all these
vacant European thrones will be world-wide
plots for the return of exiled monarchs or
claimants to unworn crowns for years to
come. Even in Sydney there are “White”
Russians, who meet in secret to demonstrate
their loyalty to some alleged “Czar” located
in France, and doubtless it is the same with
the diehard monarchists of other nationali-
ties. They don’t talk much to outsiders, pre-
sumably holding that there may be spies lurk-
ing around and that their sentiments might
prejudice them in business. A Greek tobac-
conist. after some conversation on the poli-
tics of Ms native land, confided to me the
other day that he was an out-and-out royal-
ist, but he dropped his voice to a whisper
as he did so. It didn’t seem as if the admis-
sion was a dangerous one to make in George -
street, but lie was taking no chances.
“Nallan”: Mention of the bonfires that
blazed along the shores of Sydney Harbor
when Ralph Darling, most unpopular of
early N.S.W. Governors, took his departure
(B. 13/5/’3l) recalls that at least one Aus-
tralian figurehead has been burned in effigy
in comparatively modern times. This was
Frederick Broome, who was generally at
odds with someone, and who concluded a
hot dispute with the then Chief Justice of
Westralia in 1887 by summarily “interdict-
ing” that functionary. Whereupon a Perth
public meeting demanded the recall of
Broome, and for an additional gesture “a
torchlight procession was formed and his
Excellency burnt in effigy.” Broome sur-
vived the insult, however, and served his full
term and a bit over. Afterwards he went
to Trinidad, to meet worse calumny, one
embittered newspaper declaring that after
a dinner at Government House his Excel-
lency was in the habit of going round the
table and pouring back into the decanters
the heeltaps of wine from the guests’ glasses.
Broome quoted the statement on his return
to England as an example of the license the
West Indian press permitted itself when a
Governor’s methods has made him un-
popular.
❖ * $ i
“X.S.”: Melbourne has had a demon-
stration of elderly male and young feminine
nerve which should put it in good heart, in
view of the increasing amplitude of the
crime wave. Mrs. Turnbull, a young mar-
ried woman, and 11. Hellweg, her father,
heard noises inside their shoe factory in the
dead of night. Creeping out, of their resi-
dence, which stands in the back yard, they
discovered two thieves in the act of driving
off in a motor-lorry loaded with £350 worth
of their best stock. Dad had hastily donned
an overcoat. As the vehicle approached
he jumped into the glare of the headlights
and dramatically thrust his hand in a
pocket to draw the shooting-iron that wasn’t
there. To give a convincing touch to such a
picture of illusory armed force was difficult
in the circumstances, hut Mrs. Turnbull rose
to the occasion. Although she knew her
fa'ther had no gun, she screamed hysterically,
“Don’t shoot them, father! Don’t shoot’
them!” The next moment the nightgowned
pair were gratified with the spectacle of the
two desperadoes dashing for safety on foot
and with their hands in the air.
“Whitehall”: Archbishop Mannix said
recently:—
In Sydney and Melbourne the people are getting
something like the wretched Cockney accent.
And Professor (of English) Holme, of Sydney
Uni., and Dr. Prescott, headmaster of New-
ington, agreed, while the headmaster of Syd-
ney Grammar added that when he came
bank after three years at Oxford he was
“horrified by the Sydney accent.” All these
educationists talk optimistically of eradicat-
ing the thing, but in the same breath virtu-
ally admit it is ineradicable. Said Dr.
Prescott:—
Children drift into the Cockney accent very easily.
Schoolmasters are doing what they can to check it,
but in this they are frustrated to a large extent by
the children when they get away from proper super-
vision.
It wouldn’t matter if the schoolmasters
gained complete control; 90 per cent, of
them have Australian accents themselves.
In fact, the English-speaking world has
two accents which are in the air, and are
universal and incurable; American and
Australian. The basis of ours is Cockney,
and that is the basis of the accent
you hear oftencst in M.L., S. Africa and
other Dominions; and the basis of .the Ameri-
can accent is the Bowery, variations on which
are to be heard from New York to San
Francisco, all over Canada, and in any part
of China, Japan or S. America where the
natives have learned English from Yanks.
Young Australians, like young people else-
where, are assimilating a few U.S.A. phrases
and intonations from the talkies, but without
prejudice to the national accent, which may
be heard at its fruitiest from Judges, Sena-
tors, Ministers of the Crown and members of
the best clubs, as well as from workers
educated in State schools. Here is the essen-
tial difference between the American and Aus-
tralian accents and those of all other coun-
tries. In Zummerset, Pairthshire, Corrk.
you can place a speaker culturally _by bis
accent in 99 cases out of 100; in Noo
York, Adulyde or Sydnee you can’t. Which
is a very good thing on the whole. What
Australians should strive for is not a dif-
ferent pronunciation but clearer articula-
tion. We slur too many words.
A BALLAD OF SNAKINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The snaky-like figure that is supposed to lurk
beneath every woman’s velvet, tweed or chiffon.”
— Woman’s Letter (IS. 13/5/’3l).
Sonia, I cannot say I greatly care
What changing fashions or your sudden
whim
Make it imperative for you to wear
To keep, as one might phrase it, in the
swim.
Dross, an you will, to look demurely prim
Or catch the eye whene’er you board a ’bus,
But never let the legend old grow dim
That underneath your clothes you’re sinuous.
If dress-improvers make your form more
fair —
Bustles, I fancy, was the synonym—
Let’s back to days when things like these
were there
Alike for short or tall, for plump or slim.
If beach pyjamas make you feel more trim
Nobody nowadays will make a fuss,
But never let your raiment hint the grim
Suspicion that you are not sinuous.
Don anything you fancy or you dare
To make an envious her or thrill a him,
But don’t disturb the old tradition rare
Of curves and bends o’er which no eye
may skim.
Think of the girl whom poets sing with
vim,
Invariably indicated thus.
Whom sculptors fashion and whom
artists limn.
When was she ever aught but sinuous V
When Mother Eve, magnificently bare,
Loitered in Eden apples to discuss,
1 wonder if it helped the Serpent’s snare,
The fascination of the sinuous.
fv'.SAV.
IFORD.


“I. Spillbeans”: There was another earth-
quake in the Sydney “Sun” office the other
day, and when the casualties were counted
four out of seven directors were found to have
resigned. It looks like a party division, and
really was, Hugh Denison leading the one mob
and Campbell Jones the other. Of course
everybody blames everybody else for the
mess the co. lias got into (Associated News
£ shares are down to half a crown), and
each clique is sure the other is far too much
of an ass to ever get the concern out of it.
Finally the Campbell Jones faction told the
Hugh Denison wing to fly off into the desert
for three months at. least and give the others
a chance to do something; and the Hugh
Denison wing flapped back a message in
effect that it had far too much respect for
what would be left behind to trust it to
the Campbell Jones faction. Whereupon the
C.J. lot retired from the board in a body,
though C.J. himself will remain for a year
(if he is wanted) as managing editor. In
the first year after Denison and liis friends
took over the old “Star” and made a “Sun” of
QUITE TRUE.
MRS. NEWBRIDE : “Now, Mrs. Gummit, if I give, you a day’s work every week I hope
you’ll try to make your husband happier. He says, you know, he lives a dogs
life.”
MRS. GDMMIT : “Yes’m, and so he does—growls all day and sleeps be the fire 'arf
the night.”
it, it looked as though the bad luck it seemed
to have been born with bad not been included
in the purchase. The “Star" was launched
to get a hearing for Protection in Sydney;
but all its years were lean. Addressing one
annual meeting of shareholders, before whom
the usual hungry balance-sheet bad been
put, the general manager told them cheer-
fully of tens of thousands of pounds worth
of paper in stock and all paid for. Caine
an anxious voice from a back seat: “For
Gawd’s sake, Mr. Chairman, get him to sell
it before lie prints on it and spoils it.”
❖ sjc ❖ *
“K. 8.”: When the victim of a recent
Sydney robbery mentioned that one of his
assailants had “a Woolloomooloo accent”
some of the newspapers were sceptical as
to whether such a thing is identifiable.
But [ have heard an even finer
distinction drawn. Years ago I
had a job at a paper-shop in
Surry Hills, kept by a former
railway navvy who enjoyed some
reputation as a bruiser. One day
a beetle-browed person swaggered
in and demanded a sporting
paper, “and damn quick too.” In
a local resident such a pleasantry
would scarcely have been noticed,
much less resented, but this cus-
tomer was not local. The boss
went over tlie counter in one
piece, and the tough was on liis
ear in the gutter in ten seconds.
“Redfern bloke,” my employer
explained, rubbing his hands —
“can’t stand the cows.” “You
know him then?” I asked. “Never
seen ’im before. Tell he ’is
voice.” I left it at that.
:j: :j: %
“Baron M.” : A recent London
“Sphere” features the adventur-
ous career of a lady explorer and
scientist, Miss Jill Cossley-Batt.
Miss Cossley-Batt is off to renew
acquaintance with a mysterious
tribe in the Himalayas who in-
habit caves at an altitude of
14,000 feet, have had no contact
with civilisation worth mention-
ing, speak the ancient Chaldean
language and lead a simple vege-
tarian existence. The lady, it
seems, looked in on them in 1921,
breaking into tlieir isolation of
centuries, and ascertained, among
other tilings, that the natives
never wrinkle or become grey, that 120
to 150 years is. reckoned a fair life-
time, and that the women remain cap-
able of child-bearing even after 75.
It sounds more like Rider Haggard than
cold ethnology, but some of the explorer’s
previous exploits are little less arresting.
After the war she wandered round the
world, “was the first white woman to enter
the Kalahari desert, where she hobnobbed
with cannibals, and worked her way to Aus-
tralia, crossing the vast continent alone on
horseback.” Does anyone in these parts
recall Miss Gossley-Batt?
* * * *
“Plus 20%”: It was a break in the mon-
otonous routine of pursuit of Costs when
there came to our office one A, in partner-
ship with B as joint lessee of a racehorse.
A supplied the cash and B trained the horse.
The animal had been raced at suburban
meetings, and A’s complaint was that B
had furnished him with incorrect informa-
tion as to its condition, and would not dis-
close to his partner when it was “dead,”
with the consequence that he (A) suffered
material damage to his pocket by backing it
at the wrong time. When advised that a
Court of Equity would most certainly not
grant an injunction to compel his partner
to give him what he called “a square deal,
our client left with a very poor opinion of
the law.
“Feng-Shui” : The trouble in Burma illus-
trates that when a conquering race become':
a conquered one it is always Fable to break
out periodically in a violent manner. Bur-
mese imperialism is at the moment mislaid,
but for seven centuries, and possibly longer, it
absorbed the entire energies of the nation,
Siamese historians mention Burmese armies
of 900,000, with horses, elephants and port-
able armadas. The history of Cambodia is
a dreary chronicle of successive Burmese
invasions. The crowning achievement of
MITIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES.
CURATE: “May I take your photo? I’d like to hang it on my wall to let the Devil
see what I’m up against.”
the Burmese arms was the capture and
destruction of the magnificent capital of
Siam, Ayutia, in 1767, with the assistance
of English and Portuguese free adventurers.
The grass still grows over the ruins of the
city. Another outlet for the Burman’s
repressions used to be the court, where a
king was always liable to bury the royal
family alive in a fit of indigestion. . As a
substitute for this rich and varied life the
Burman now has tlie American pictures, but
the relief is probably only partial.
“T.C.C.”: The stained-glass swing doors
that opened into the music-saloon of
the Riverina (B. 29/4/’3l) are now adorn-
ing a new hotel near Mallacoota on the
Prince’s Highway. The elaborately-carved
companion stairs that led to the dining-
saloon may be seen, here, too; they carry
you to the upper rooms, and the general
effect is decidedly pleasing. Both were pur-
chased in the usual way from the ship-
breakers.
* * * *
“L. 8.1.”: In his book attacking lan
Hamilton for conducting liis Dardanelles
campaign from the customary base outside
the fighting zone (B. 6/5/’3l), Colonel Head
makes the extraordinary assertion that
some of the opposition generals were
in the habit of “rushing at the head of
their men into action.”. One of the
hotheads mentioned is Liman von San-
ders, and another is Kemal Pasha, an
officer of comparatively low rank when
the row on the Peninsula began. What-
ever happened on Gallipoli, many Aus-
tralians can testify to the ability .to
“rush at the bead of their men” which
Kemal and Von Sanders displayed in
Palestine. Kemal unwound such a
good sprint that he was far aliead of
his shattered forces in the middle of
Anatolia by the time Allenby reached
Damascus. ' Liman did his record early
one morning from the north end of
Nazareth while Cliauvel’s mounted men
were galloping into the other. He
was in his pyjamas and a
fast car, and by the way be
was going when last sighted
should have been in Constan-
tinople for lunch.
* *
“Pelican”: Cabled that the
publication of Prince von
Billow’s lon g-e xpected
memoirs has been suspended
in England, owing to a threat
by the Earl of Lonsdale to
sue the publishers for libel.
Lonsdale was an intimate
friend of the Kaiser, as well
as of King Edward, and the
ex-Chancelior of Germany
doubtless had many interest-
ing tales to tell of the pic-
turesque peer, who is really
a throw-back to the famous
bucks of the Regency. In
bis younger days Lonsdale,
now 74, was a noted four-in-
hand whip, delighting to dress
like a professional coachman
and to act the part in other
ways. A keen boxer himself
then, lie continued the patron-
age of the Ring until quite
recent years, and his catholic
interest in the lighter forms
of the drama and its votaries has been
only equalled by liis regard for the coster-
mongering community, of which he is the
acknowledged Maecenas. No man in Britain
or the Dominions ever wore a shinier hat,
sported a more splendiferous buttonhole, or
puffed at a vaster cigar.
* * * *
“D.”: Pathetic item from the “Labor
Daily”:—
The honor of having commanded the first steamer
to reach Sydney direct from Venice must go to
Captain Camp, master of the British freighter
Aldington Court, which has arrived here.
And to think that Venice v r as the centre
of Europe's India trade and the most
important port in the world 1000 years ago,
when what is now 7 the Port of London was
held by marshmen ! The Venetians have made
repeated attempts to bring back to their city
in the sea. some of the glamor which it en-
joyed till the night when, as V inwood Reade
says, “the \ enetian ambassador sat down and
wrote to his masters that he had seen vessels
enter Lisbon harbor laden with spices and
with India drugs -proof that Vasco da
Gama had rounded the Cape and that V enice
was ruined. I witnessed one of them mj self,
years ago. when thej persuaded the 1. and U.
people to run two liners, the Isis and Osiris,
between Port Said and the Queen of the
Adriatic. The civic fathers gave the Isis
a wonderful welcome, and there was opti-
mistic talk at the banquet which followed
at Danielli’s of the renascence of Venice.
But the liners were soon taken off the profit-
less run, and Venice stagnated again commer-
cially as it has done for four centuries. It
is not on the road to anywhere now, and
that is the worst thing that can happen to
a port.
“R.V.”: A move is afoot in Victoria to
include in the Shrine of Remembrance, now
nearing completion in the Melbourne
Domain, some form of memorial to the horses
that gave their lives in the Great W ar. This
sentiment has found expression in other
parts of the world, and not only with regard
to horses —in Japan there is a famous mem-
orial to some seagulls which warned villagers
of the approach of a tidal wave. But a war-
horse tribute is in a different class. lor
one thing, the horses that were gassed and
disembowelled in France were not volun-
teers. It is bad enough that humanity
should have to settle its differences by whole-
sale slaughter of men and animals; to pre-
tend that the animals had anything but an
unwilling part in the business is shoddy
sentiment.
* * *
“G.F.R.” : Country doctors are experienc-
ing a lean time, for no professional men
have to wait longer for their money, but
their lives are brightened by occasional in-
stances of considerateness. One northern
N.S.W. medico, called out. of bed after mid-
night recently, finished his treatment of a
new patient to be assured: “Of course, Dr.
Blank" —the rival practitioner —“is our
doctor. But, seeing as we haven’t a hope of
paying anything just now, we thought it
wouldn’t be fair to pull him out of bed. ’
* * * *
“Deuceace”: Details of an action for dam-
ages brought by a trainer who had been
warned off the turf got into the cables
the other day, mainly, it would seem,
because the King’s son-in-law, the Earl of
Ilarewood, was called as a witness in Ins
capacity of a turf steward. The testimony
given was to the effect that placing a man
on the warned-off list implies that he is
unfit to associate with gentlemen on race-
courses ; and the jury decided that it the
plaintiff's character was damaged at all by
such a stigma it was only to the extent ol
one farthing. The, Jockey .Club has
placed the ban on some highly-placed
offenders in its time. Some 45 years ago a
marquis fell under its displeasure, and attei
the bolt fell liis only means of seeing a W*
race was to climb on to the roof of a hansom
cab outside the course. It was an undigni-
fied nose for a nobleman who was a patron
of several livings, and who could have taken
his seat in the House of Lords without lei
or hindrance, but during the few remaining
years of his life the marquis, a determined
punter, had to adapt himself to it.
**- - * *
“Craiser”: Melbourne magistrates are no-
thing if not romantic. Freeman, P.M., was
recently confronted by a young man charged
will having been on the roof of the Theatre
Royal without excuse. The youth deponed
that he was a. dish-washer with a mania foi
music, and that not being able to get into
the gallery for a Gilbert and Sullivan pei-
formance he had prowled round the build-
ing until he reached the stage door. Maddened
bv the strains of the overture, he final >
climbed up the fire-escape on to the roof.
The music grew’ louder, and finding a man-
hole he pulled off the lid and secreted him-
self inside. He stated further that lie had
a voice, and dreamed nightlj of thnll
ing vast audiences at La Scala or the Met -
politan as Rodolfo or Lohengrin. Touched
bv the plea, ancf ignoring the fact thai
approximately 500,000 young men and
maidens in Australia have precisely the sain.,
urge, the beak let him off. It was the
vouth’s lucky day, for as soon as the Firm
heard of his exploit it gave him a free
pass to the seven-and-sixpenny seats for tin
remainder of the season.
MY COUNTRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Charlie Chaplin, interviewed by a French news-
paper, condemned patriotism as a form of insanity.
How could it be said that he owed anything to
England, where he had starved and slaved when a
young man for a few shillings a week?”
My country? Nay, I look on it askance.
Though my initial bleat was uttered there
It never gave me the remotest chance
Of furnishing into a millionaire
By mere ability to slide and prance
Across a stage with custard in my hair,
And in my eyes that blank vacuity
That half the ■world has gladly paid to see.
My country? The suggestion gets my goat.
Why, London never sensed the lure that
hides
Beneath a skimpily exiguous coat
And generously-fashioned flapping strides.
It missed the feats of footwork that denote
Sheer artistry, and lots of things besides
That more discriminating Uncle Sam
Appraised aright—to make me what I am.
My country ! And. a starveling mummer’s
f6G
Was all the birthright there I could
obtain..
Ah, well! Columbus, spurned by Italy,
Sailed off to find America for Spain.
A close analogy you’ll doubtless see,
And history may draw, between us twain.
Another world that Middle Ages guy
Gave to humanity—and haven’t I?
My country! Granted that it gave me birth,
Should I be blamed that gratitude I lack,
Seeing it failed to realise my worth
Nor sought to stay me when I turned my
back?
Take it from me, of all the lands on earth,
The very best is where you made your
jack.
The # one that gives the ha’pence, not the
* kicks.
Wliat do I owe to England? Nix, sir, nix.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THRIFT PROFIT
Opportunities for profitable investment are many and varied,
but in almost all cases call for a lump sum of money in advance.
Deposits made with a Savings Bank, however, return a profit
in a way that few investments provide, for sums of from 1/-
upwards are accepted and may be deposited as often as is
desired, while the balance earns interest from the first pound.
Every Post Office in Australia is a Commonwealth Savings
Bank Agency, and there are full Branches in the principal towns.
Cbmmoirwcaltl) Savinas link of Hustralfo
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.')
IP ' 1
10
4
wuttum?#'
A MAN’S WATCH
N eat—Reliable —Sturdy
It is a far cry from the now obsolete key-wound
watches to the excellent watches that are
designed to-day. For 85 years Fairfax and
Roberts have offered the very latest and most
reliable watches to their customers. The model
illustrated is made by one of the most famous
Swiss makers, and represents wonderful value.
Reliable, fully jewelled lever
Wristlet Watch, in heavy silver
case shaped to the wrist
631-
Warranted for 15 years and kept in order free of charge,
breakages excepted, for one year.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Paul Doumer replaces Gaston Doumergue
as President of the French Republic. It
causes one to wonder if the wearers of two
names so close together in an alphabetical
list were ever before successively elected
to one of the world’s biggest jobs. In “Who’s
Who,” which contains some 50,000 bio-
graphies, Doumer and Doumergue come next
to one another.
Tasmania’s new Parliament will be chiefly
remarkable for the number of old Parliamen-
tarians who won’t be there. Among the
Labor discards are farmer James Belton,
Minister in four Labor Governments and
continuous as an Assemblyman since 1909;
ex-dairy-farmer George Becker, sometime
Chairman of Committees and Minister in
two Labor Governments; journalist Walter
Woods (“John Drayman”), mentioned in
The Bulletin’s Jubilee number as having
been “in and out of Tas. Parliament, and
in and out of the Speaker’s chair since
1906” ; Labor Whip Cosgrove, member of
three Parliaments; and orcliardist Shoo-
bridge, the Speck’s recognised authority
on irrigation. Among Nats, posted as
missing arc ex-civil servant Jack Piggott,
manager of the ITuon Co-op. Fruitgrowers’
Association, with a dozen years’ Parlia-
mentary service and lately Chairman of
Committees; Percy Best, a sporting farmer
from Deloraine; and returned-soldier Harry
Thompson, who lias sat picturesquely for
Bass for six years.
Though they split the voting at the elec-
tions. Brisbane’s new anti-Labor aldermen
voted solidly for one of their section, J. W.
Greene, as Mayor. Greene represents Wyn-
num, a seaside district on Moreton Bay. Il'e
lias a solid hold there with all parties, and
has been local mayor several times, lie is
a Brisbane builder and a returned soldier.
Monty Grover is to be editor of the
“World,” Sydney’s new evening paper, to
be produced in the premises and with the
plant bought nearly 20 years ago by the
A.W.U. when it had a morning daily in
mind. No man has had more experience in
launching and building up new city papers.
Melbourne-trained, Grover was brought to
MONTY GROVER.
Sydney to resurrect the “Sun” after a new
crowd had bought it (it was then the
“Star”) ; and he made a great success of
the job. Later lie was sent to Melbourne
when the “Sun” decided to storm the south-
ern citadel; and against tremendous odds
lie did almost - as Well there. It was
Grover who wrote “Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
the Bulletin serial which gave so brilliant
a picture of newspaper life.
James Davies, who died at Malvern last
week, had served the commercial travellers
for half a century and there was no man to
whom they owed so much. A native of Dayles-
ford, lie entered the C.T.A. of Yic. as a
junior clerk when he was 16 years of age.
rose to be secretary and used his organising
powers to such good account that when the
United C.T.A. of Australia was formed in
1895 he was appointed general secretary; he
held the billet to his death. He saw the
C.T.A. grow from small beginnings to an
organisation of 15,000 members, with busi-
ness and club facilities excelled in no part
of the world. And he helped to make a
success of all its activities, including the
patriotic and charitable work of the war
and post-war yeays.
John Quick probably started it. As a
boy lie worked on a mine at Bendigo, studied
shorthand, got a job on a local paper,
made use of his opportunities to study
1 a w, took
bis LL.D. de-
gree, entered
Pari iament
and finished
up as a Judge.
What he did
many other
Bendigo boys
thought of do-
ing, an d a
few attempted.
But no family
went quite as
far as the
B r e n n ans.
Their father
was a shire
clerk and a
friend of J. G.
Edwards. of
the “Indepen-
d e n t.” II e
gave those of
them w h o
wanted it a
start in his
office: to-day
Frank Bren-
nan is Fed-
eral Attorney-
Genera 1;
To m, his
brot. h e r, a
Iv.C. and well-
known lawyer
in the crimi-
nal courts, is
the new Sena-
tor (vice
“P o m p e y”
Elliott) on the
N a t i onalist
T. C. BRENNAN, K.C.,
the new Senator.
side; another brother is Melbourne’s best-
known law reporter; a fourth is an “Argus”
leader-writer; and Anna, a sister, is Frank’s
law partner and an occasional Bulletin
Red Page contributor. Hopelessly divided
in polities, one thing they have in common
is a lively sense of public duty.
It fell to Yic. Premier Hogan to announce
that Thomas Cornelius Brennan had been
elected a Commonwealth Senator. The
pair first encountered one another 18 years
ago, two of four candidates for Warrenheip.
Hogan scraped in on the preferential voting
system and has held the seat ever since.
Brennan lost his deposit.
Before the recent Tas. elections Joe Lyons
could claim the record poll in primary votes
—he got 4709 in Wilmot in 1928. Thomas
Butler has beaten it by scoring 5846
first preferences in Darwin. Butler, a Reform
League candidate, is a railway and road
contractor, whose only previous experience
of public life was acquired in a municipal
council over 20 years ago.
It took 15 years for a bnllet to kill Albert
Nelson Reid, a 53rd Bait, man who was
shot through the spine at Fleurbaix. The
injury would have settled most men on the
spot; but Reid lay in a shellhole for 24
hours and astonished the doctors by con-
tinuing to live. After years of treatment
in hospital he left with liis legs completely
paralysed, but able to propel himself about
on wheels. He acted as secretary to the
Graythwaite (N.S.W.) Soldiers’ Associa-
tion, and remained a cheerful personality
right up to his death last week.
Brigadier-General Sydney Christian, dead
in Sydney at 64, served with the
Field Artillery during the Boer War, and
was in command of the Royal Australian
F.A. in N.S.W. when the Great War began.
He commanded the Ist Artillery Brigade on
Gallipoli, and took the sth Divisional Artil-
lery from Egypt to France, winning a
C.M.G. and the Cross of the Legion of Honor
before he was invalided home in 1917. He
retired a year later. He was born at Ten-
terfield (N.S.W.) ; a brother, Colonel John
Christian, is on the Indian medical staff.
Dead at Seppeltsfield (S.A.), at 85, the
head of the big winery that gave the place
its name. Benno Seppelt came to Australia
as a child, helped his father to plant a vine-
yard and was its manager at 21. Since then
lie has been helped by nine sons and four
daughters to build up a name for the
family products that extends beyond Aus-
tralia.
“ J.D.” : The first time I heard of Benno
Seppelt was in Paris House, Sydney, 25 years
ago. J. F. Archibald produced a bottle of
Chablis which he declared to be as good as
anything that could be got in France at the
price, and speaking as one who had just
arrived from Paris I agreed. It was the fash-
ion to sneer at Australia’s light wines then,
just as it is now the fashion to sneer at the
heavy wines. Seppelt, sen., having done a lot
to kill the local prejudice against the one
class of refreshment, was helping materially
to get Australian ports and sherries into the
best houses and clubs when he passed on.
Archibald was interested in the Seppelts
apart from their wines. The founder of the
family fortunes was a Frenchman who
fought as an n.c.o. under Napoleon, and
Archibald claimed to be of French descent
himself. The Seppelts migrated to Ger-
many in the nineteenth century, and arrived
in S. Aus. by way of Brazil in 1842.
_ Lawyer and soldier and keen athlete in
his day was Captain Leslie Seaborn, who
died in Sydney last week, at 54. Admitted
as a solicitor in 1906, he helped to organise
the Sportsmen’s Battalion in 1915. and saw
the war through with the 18th Battalion,
winning the M.C. When the Armistice
enabled the A.I.F. to turn from war to sport
Seaborn was in immediate request, managing
and playing with the Rugby Union team of
Diggers which toured the U.K. —as a young
man he had been a Sydney Uni. and inter-
state representative on the football field. He
was always closely associated with returned-
soldier activities.
E. A. Cullen, who retires from his job as
chief engineer of Queensland’s harbors and
rivers at the end of this year, will leave a
fine record of achievement behind him. Though
he benefited by the wisdom of his predecessors
in building the retaining walls in the lower
reaches of the Brisbane River so that it
might do its own channel-deepening, he did
much to give the capital a great river port.
The whole course of the stream has been
made easier by the cutting back of bends,
until to-day the largest cargo boats can
unload in the heart of the city, while
20,000-ton passenger liners berth lower down
the river in positions more convenient for
passengers than those available _at most
Sydney wharves. Cullen has been invited to
visit Napier (MX.) and advise as to harbor
conditions there.
The news that Constable has published
“Jorroeks on Fishing,” by the Rev. Gordon
Tidy, will interest the Rev. Gordon’s many
friends in N.S.W. He was a curate in
Bathurst prior to the war. He had been
in an English cavalry regiment before tak-
ing Anglican orders, and Bathurst voted
him an odd blend of culture, sportsmanship
and spirituality. He had the name of being
the best fisherman in western N.S.W. 20
years ago and he was a fine horseman. He
contributed regularly to Tiie Buixetin —
chiefly on bookish subjects—and he had a
glittering wit. He is now rector of a parish
in Gloucestershire.
Another of Papua’s old-timers in the
person of W. J. (“Jack”) Dean said bama-
huta to this world recently, and went to
trade on the Jasper Sea in the Elysian equiva-
lent of copra. Few men knew more of
Papua’s reef-strewn water-frontage than the
old captain; there wasn’t his equal in the
handling of small sailing-craft in the broken
seas and off the big river bars of the Gulf
of Papua.
Pianist MARK HAMBOURG arrives in
Australia.
Marcus Hinrieliseii, who died in Brisbane
last week, aged 92, served in the Danish
army. He was one of Alexandra’s, body-
guard, when she left her country to wed the
future King Edward in 1863. He arrived in
Moreton Bay a year later and eventually
settled at Clifton, Darling Downs.
It was in the fitness of things that Alfred
Stephen Henry should follow late Country
party sec. Pollock as M.L.A. for the
Northern Rivers, Henry having served his
articles in Pollock’s office. Born up _ north,
the son of a doctor who can’t be still and
lias a good descriptive pen, young Henry,
after leaving King’s, had to do a bit of
A. S. HENRY, NSW. Assembly’s newest
member.
wandering too, and went on his journeys
before the mast; much later, after getting
into the legal collar, he joined his father in
loitering about the Mediterranean —including
Spain and Northern Africa —and through
America; before that he had been to France
with the field ambulance.
“Morehead” : The skeleton novel mentioned
in a recent issue as being in the family cup-
board of R. J. Stuart-'Robertson, Labor
M.L.A., was comprehensively entitled “A
Woman” (“A tale of Australian Life in the
early ’Fifties”), and was published at the
Cobar (N.S.W.) “Leader” office about 30
years ago. The author at that time was
secretary of the local School of Arts, and it
was announced in the preface that the pros-
pective profits from the book would be devoted
to “a fund to enable the Cobar School of
Arts to erect a building of its. own.” The
Bulletin reviewer of the period said that
there was a good deal of crude capacity in
the novel and' that “with training and prac-
tice the author might write tolerable fiction."
Captain T. T. Hugo, Maoriland’s Inspector
of Fire Brigades, has just retired after
fighting fires in the Quaky Isles since 1899.
He is now on a visit to Australia, where
he spent two years in the interior, surveying
and well-sinking, in his youth. One of his
jobs was surveying the Broken Hill railway
line. In 1884 he joined the Adelaide fire
brigade, and later became district officer at
Port Augusta. Port Pirio, Port Adelaide and
North Adelaide successively.
Dr. Stanley Read, dead in Queensland at
02, came of old Victorian pioneering stock,
his grandfather having overlanded from Syd-
ney along Major Mitchell’s track to the
Wangaratta country a century ago. Graduat-
ing in medicine at Melbourne University,
the doctor put in a term at Rockhampton hos-
pital, returning to liis native State to take
up private practice at Eaglehawk and H’ors-
ham. He retired some years ago and spent
his closing days on a property he had pur-
chased at Clifton on the Darling Downs.
The Bar of N. S. Wales has two nautical
men in its ranks. F. P. Evans, a former
commander of the ill-fated Tahiti and some-
time marine superintendent in London for* the
Union Co., was admitted 10 years ago, and
has appeared in many shipping cases. B. J.
McGrath is a recent addition. He resigned
his commission, as instructor lieutenant-
commander, R.A.N.- —he was for a term on
the old Australia —to enter the legal profes-
sion, for which he had earlier qualified.
T. J. Roseby, who is about to retire after 43
years’ service with the Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board —the last 16 as secretary-
is a son of John Roseby, who represented
Slioalhaven in two N.S.W. Parliaments half
a century ago. His grandfather was Thomas
Roseby, a monumental mason, who .settled
in Sydney in 1840. T. J. Roseby has the
history of Sydney water and sewerage works
at his fingers’ ends, and has written a book
on the subject.
W. J. Skewes, the retiring Federal Public
Service Commissioner, began as a junior
clerk in Vic. Education Department 42 years
ago. He found promotion slow, and after a
dozen years made a fresh start in the. Com-
monwealth Public Service Commissioner’s
office as fourth-class clerk. Rung by rungGie
mounted this ladder to the top and £2500
a year.


ert
The
“BONSER”
Stockwhip.
Specially Selected.
Hand - plaited
kangaroo, eight
strand, with a
beautiful eight-
feet thong. The
handle is steel-lined and cov-
ered with eight-plait. Price,
21/-
18/6
Boys’ size, six feet long ....
Send, your order to Desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
(JOttPIONEER/jOTfc
r r /Jleatherv V ,
Nothing Takes the Place of
Leather
For Power Transmission Belting.
Tests made under actual working conditions on all
types of drives have demonstrated the superiority
of leather belting. Pioneer, best of all Leather
Belting, ensures longer service, eliminates costly
breakdowns, and, because it is stretchless, full power
transmission is assured throughout its long life.
Every Pioneer Belt carries our guarantee of free
replacement should any defect in quality of materia!
or workmanship develop.
PIONEER Leather Belting
Manufactured by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
J. C. Ludowici & Son., Ltd.,
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne.
West Australia:
Mr. Horace Summers,
0-11 Howard Street, Perth.
AGENTS:
Queensland:
Hoey Fry, Ltd.,
170 Edward Street,
Brisbane.
Tasmania:
Chas. Davis, Ltd.,
60 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
South Australia:
J. McKell & Sons,
129 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
New Zealand:
G. W. Arnold, Ltd.,
A.M.P. Chambers, Wellington.
Public Notice.
■\Y/E desire to announce that Mr. H. R.
VV HUNGERFORD, whose name was men-
tioned in last week’s Bulletin in connection
with the liquidation of W. F. Wollaston and
Co., has no connection and has never been
connected with the firm of Hungerford.
Spooner and Co., the partners of which
firm are Cyril Hungerford and Eric Sydney
Spooner.
HUNGERFORD, SPOONER AND CO.,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Ed
h
ert
Craig & Aitken
■Wholesale
sydney N.5.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
ended preciation
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ *> £ £
1921 .. 781,418 495,625 1,375,029 1,517,130
Capital returned, £1,625,000.
Cash bonus. £203,125.
1922 .. 665,190 446,875 1,593,344 1,585,874
f 498,590 325,000 ? ?
Fiji and M.L. co. in process of liquidation;
1923 J no accounts issued, and profits and reserves
j not disclosed. Capital returned, £1,625,000.
I Cash bonus to shareholders from Fiji
(liquidation, £325.000.
f Reserves capitalised, £650,000
1924 i Reserves capitalised, £1,625,000
l 673,639 446,875 1,153,480 1,140,177
1925 .. 760,653 548,437 1,365,696 1,305,857
1926 .. 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 .. 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 . . 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 . . 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
Doubt of the future sent this co.’s £2O
shares toppling from £5B to £3O in the market
during the 12 months to September, 1930.
Then, when it was realised that the sugar
embargo would be renewed without disturb-
ing the local selling price, buyers got more
confidence, and the figure advanced to £4l
12s. 6d. at last week-end. The chairman’s
comforting assurance that “as in the crisis of
1893 the co.’s business had not been much
affected by financial troubles in Australia,”
and dispatch of the usual 21 p.c. bonus with
the 10 p.c. div., also helped. The return at
£4l 12s. (id. is 6 p.c. on the basis of a 121
p.c. distribution.
Earnings are derived from refining and
milling in Australia, growing and milling in
Fiji, refining in Maoriland, and from a wad
of investments outside the industry. Under
agreement with the Queensland Government
the co. is allowed £1 13s. 7d. a ton for
refining (£1), financing (6s. 7d.) and selling
(75.) a lion’s share of the Australian crop.
The net return from this allowance accounts
for about two-thirds of the co.’s Australian
profits, which were declared to be £531,120 for
the 12 months to Sept. 30, 1929. Since then
the source of earnings has not been disclosed
in the sheet.
Fluctuations in profits are due mainly to
variations in seasonal and world market con-
ditions, which affect the returns from milling
and growing. Because of a heavy fall in
world prices, refractory juices and another
hurricane in Fiji, the board wrote last year’s
net result £176,006 short of the 1930 figure.
That was after £205.257 had been dropped
into the depreciation fund (£2,395,141),
which is pro! tbly genuine profit. So the
margin between earnings and distributions
was not nearly so narrow as the bare p. and
1. figures suggested.
Finances are snug, as they always have
been:—-
Refineries —Australia and Maoriland .. £2,989,983
Sugar mills and plant, etc.—
Commonwealth . . • • . • 2,427,281
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve) .. 1,366,655
Ocean steamers .. .. . • .. 100,000
Distillery .. .. .. .. •• 120,376
Office premises . . . . . • .. 56,011
Stocks and some book debts . ■ • • 2,752,305
Other book debts, investments, etc. . . 2,124.060
Cash, deposits, etc. . . . . ■ • 2,953,395
£14,890,072
Inabilities —
Sundry creditors ..£1,697,346
Suspense accounts .. 3,017,197
Final div. 1931 .. 365,625
5,080,168
£9,809,904
For many years the practice has been to
pay for all additions to fixed assets out of
earnings, and then from the same source to
write down these assets severely. It helps
to explain the handsome returns, on capital.
What catches the e.te is the fine store of
liquids:—
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’3o. Mar.,’3l.
Liquid assets .. £6,031,381 £7,251,775 £7,829,766
Liabilities . . 4,142,304 4,326,307 4,714,543
Liquid surplus . . £1,889,077 £2,925,468 £3,115,223
Liabilities at March 31 include £3,017,197
in suspense accounts ; some of this is pro-
vision for contingencies, and probably true
profit. Even without that, shareholders are
£1,226,146 better off than they were four
years ago, notwithstanding the erection of a
new refinery at Perth meanwhile.
Under existing conditions it would be diffi-
cult for the co. to win other than good
returns. Locally the price of sugar comes
up for review again in 1933 and the main-
tenance of the present selling price of sugar
in Australia cannot be depended on. Mean-
time, however, the world price is expected
to improve following an agreement amongst
the principal producers to ration exports.
Also British and Canadian preferences
remain ; they are in the nature of a bonus
on our export surplus.
Automobile Finance Co. (Melb.)
To Re- De-
Profit. Dividends. serves, licit.
£ £ £
1924.. 244 Nil 244 4,964
Added preliminary exes., £7594.. 12,558
1925*. 2,679 Nil , 2679 9,879
Forfeited shares, £lO .. .. 9,869
Pref. Ord. £
1926.. 14,565 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 9,746 4819 5,050
Reserves.
1927.. 19,651 8 „ 8 „ ~ 13,131 6520 1,470
1928.. 20,616 8 ~ 8 „ ~ 13,480 7136 8,606
1929.. 18,731 8 „ 8 „ ~ 13,480 5251 13,857
1930.. 7,596 8 „ 4 „ „ 7,728 13,725
*l3 months.
The scattering of loan funds brought a crop
of these finance cos. into the field, and there
was a scramble for paper, much of which
has since turned out not to be worth 20s.
in the £. Mainly because of this the cos.
have been unable to live up to their gaudy
prospectuses; indeed, many have burnt their
fingers, and the market has lost whatever
love it had for this class of business. For
the investor one of the lessons to be learnt
is the importance of management. Oppor-
tunity for judgment in this respect has been
somewhat limited, but a pretty fair idea
of the quality of the control can be had
from a survey of accounts.
Automobile Finance made an unpromising
start seven years ago. But soon there were
changes, original plans were recast, the
business was extended to. other States on a
commission basis, and a subsidiary. General
Investment and Discount Pty., Ltd., was
formed to handle t.-p. business other , than
automobiles. The business appears to have
been since tended with care.
Last year events complicated the debts
problem, and. allowing for unaccrued in-
terest, there was a slip of £11,987 in gross
profits (£24,927). After reserving an extra
£2OOO for bad debts (£6000) there was little
change in exes. The prefs. took £4OOO, so
the ords. had to be content with 4 p.c., paid
half-way through the term; and then a
trifle more profit was distributed than was
claimed. No div. was received from the
pup, whose net earnings (£3368 in 1929)
dropped to £6O, due mainly to larger pro-
vision for contingencies.
Here is the position as the parent’s
balance-sheet figures show it:—
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £79,741 £168,573 £168,573 £168;545
Overdraft .. 9,521 68,236 78,056 73,430
Sundry creditors 1,406 7,259 9,325 4,908
Plant, etc. .. 946 1,348 700 500
Shares in other
cos... .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Book debts .. 89,133 245,879 274,838 249,692
Investments, etc. 10 1,538
Book debts are all represented by hire-pur-
chase agreements; really mortgages on
future incomes, which are not the assets
they were a few years ago. They exceeded
the debt by £171,354 at the close of accounts ;
a slip of £16,103 during the year.
The pound ords., paid to 10s., fetch ss.
in the market. They are covered by net
tangibles with a book value of 21s. lid.
per pound of paid capital. The net tangible
cover for the fully paid 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
(24,700 of them) is £7 7s. 7d. They are
not listed.
Primary Producers Bank
Net Premium
Profit. Reserves. Reserve.
1924 .. £975 £976 £33,393
1925 . . 3124 4,100 79,603
1926 .. 3592 7,692 82,349
1927 .. 5204 12,896 78,630
• 1928 .. 5637 18,533 72,010
1929 .. 7073 25,606 .65,004
1930 .. 2828 28,434 61,706
1931 . . 990 29,424 61,706
It has been a hard fight and an expensive
one. Still, the co. has done good work, and
it has both feet firmly on the ground. Share
selling began in 1923 and practically ceased
four years later, much attention being given
to country interests, which need all the assist-
ance they can get at the moment. The
expenditure on establishment, etc., which
stopped a year or so ago, ran off with
£430,906; that is assuming that the full
premium of £1 was received on the shares
issued. However, there was still £61,706 in
the premium reserve at Feb. 28 —this is to
be earmarked for contingencies—so the cost
of establishment has not interfered with the
soundness of the financial structure, which
general-manager Moffatt, who died in 1929,
did much to cement.
The meagreness of profits throughout the
boom years suggest that the figures have
been written with care, though, of course,
the net estimates have been all along, and still
are, largely a matter of guesswork. Last
year’s earnings were affected by a reduction
in the volume of business. After all charges
had been met and provision made for bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies,
the net result was put at £990, or £lB3B
less than for the previous year, when the
premium reserve appears to have been
drawn upon for £3308. Taking this into
account there was really an improvement of
£1470 in last year’s result. Another factor
which lias affected profit earning is that the co.
pays 2 p.c. on customers’ current accounts.
Banking is not the lucrative business that,
some people would have us think it is. Until
substantial reserves have been accumulated
nothing much in the way of returns need
be looked for from this institution. Results
will largely depend upon whether the pro-
vision for contingencies proves to be
adequate.
The fixed and free deposits are not
separated in the sheet. The year’s contrac-
tion in the two combined was £411,882; it
was a common experience. This, the
growth of the business over the last half-
dozen years, and other , things are seen in
the next comparison of balance-sheet figures :
1925. 1930. 1931.
Subscribed capital . . 2,090,041 2,463,082 2,463,082
Paid capital . . . . 268,759 438,803 439,402
Deposits .. .. 937,369 1,895,727 1,483,845
Bills payable, etc. . . 138,665 89,386 88,007
Coin and notes . . 35;958 47,419 37,891
Money at short call.. 227,100 192,000 92,000
Balances due by other
banks . . . . 181,726 80,780 87,891
Commonwealth bonds 55,936 213,344 145,678
Remittances in transit 170,020 59,850 12,627
Advances, etc. .. 750,401 1,804,559 1,592,318
Furniture and fittings 7,358 17,007 15,850
Premises .. . . 99,097 118,188
To meet the withdrawals and add £19,091 to
the book value of premises, advances were
reduced by £212,241, short call money was
drawn upon for £lOO,OOO and Commonwealth
bonds for £67,666. Advances were thus
107.3 p.c. of the deposits at Feb. 28 as
against 95.1 p.c. a year earlier, and liquids
dropped back to 24.5 p.c. of the liabilities
to the public compared with 30.5 p.c. and
33.9 p.c. at the two preceding balances. Still,
the co. was holding only £2 19s. 3d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its own.
A low proportion of outside money tends
to limit, the profits, of course.; but, then, it
tends to also limit the risks in proportion
to share capital. The £1,155,825 of deposits,
etc., not covered by liquids were secured
by advances, premises, etc., with a
book value of £1,726,356, and those who
are not shareholders could see £1.970,470 of
uncalled and £53,210 of unpaid capital
besides.
There are 492,612 £5 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 22 ords. of £1 each. The prefs., issued
at a premium of £l, are called to £l. Of
course, the preference rights do not amount
to anything one way or another ; these share-
holders merely owe themselves the unpaid
divs.
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd. (Syd.)
t Dividends , Towards
Dec., Profits. Pref. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £
1927.'. 16,717 16,717 Nil 4,649
1928.. 13,815 27,557 Nil 18,391
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £6505.. 11,886
1929.. 23,850 27,980 Nil' 16,016
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £16,032 1 19 nQ7
1930.. 15,887 28,000 Nil ) ’
This Sydney offshoot of Union Theatres,
Ltd., was formed in December, 1928, to put
up the State Theatre and a shopping block
of 11 floors on the old “Evening News’’ site
in Market-street. This and an adjoining
property, fronting George-street, were taken
over from the parent for £273,500 (cost)
£128,500 in ords., and the transfer of a mort-
gage covered the balance. To help finance
erection and equipment of the building, the
public was offered and snapped 350,000 8
p.c. cum. prefs. These are guaranteed as to
capital and dividend by Union Theatres and
Australasian Films, jointly and severally.
Union was to take a further 47,000 ords.
for cash, or more if required. Gross earn-
ings were figured at £66,920 —theatre,
£26,000; shops, etc., £40,920 —and exes, at
£35,562, leaving £31,358 net, or £3358 more
than the annual pref. requirements.
Estimates, however, quickly got astray.
The building, fittings, etc., expected to cost
£397,000. had run off with over £707,000 at
Dec. 31 last, thus raising the book value of
the property to £980,849. Here is the posi-
tion as balance-sheet figures show it: —
1Q97 1998 1999 1930
Pref. capital. . £245,425 £347,500 £350,000 £350,000
Orel. ~ . . 128,500 128,500 128,500 500,000
Mortgages . . 145,000 145,000 145,000 145,000
Sundry creditors 87,333 38,493 23,578 27,362
Union Theatres - 374,588 —-
Land & build-
ings. . . 328,296 582,633 969,880 980,849
Book debts,
cash, etc... 283,058 72,368 49,771 43,415
To meet the additional outlay Union had
advanced £374,588 at Dec. 31, 1929. Last
year £371,500 of this debt was funded by
the issue of ord. scrip, raising Union’s total
holding to a round half-million. When the
books last closed the floating debt was well
covered by more-or-less liquids.
The contractor was off the job in Novem-
ber, 1929; but the theatre, leased to Union,
was opened in the previous June, and the
shop rents began to come in a couple ot
months later. At the end of December
nearly half the 75,000-odd square feet of
letting space was taken. The year’s gross
profit from the new building and the George-
street property was £39,391; the net result
was £23,850, and Union sent along £6005
under its guarantee.
Since then the outlook has changed com-
pletely. City shop and office space has be-
come a drug on the market, and there has
been a wholesale reduction of rentals. Thus
gross profits for the 12 months to Dec. 31
last were £42,564. Exes. (£26,677) were
£11,136 heavier, and the net result was 1.6
p.c. on the book value of the property at the
close of accounts. So, to enable the co. to
pay its pref. div. and strike £930 off preli-
minary exes, (reducing them to £2789),
Union, as guarantor, contributed £10,032.
Even then the -p. and 1. account was left
£9308 in debit.
As for the current term results will largely
depend upon the co.’s success in letting the
rest of the premises at satisfactory rentals.
Union and the Films co. do not broadcast
their figures, so exactly what there is be-
hind their guarantee can only be guessed at.
Neither co. paid a div. last year. The market
allows for contingencies by pricing the In-
vestment co.’s profs, at 11s. So long as
they continue to get a full meal, the return
at that figure is 14.5 p.c. or 7.2 p.c. if their
plate is only half filled. Apart from the
guarantee, the book value of the backing
is £2 7s. lid. in net tangibles.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
•£ ££, £ £*
1921.. 2,373 Nil Nil Nil 17,611
1922.. 4,237 10 p.c. = 2500 4,307 500 14,541
1923.. 10,872 10 „ „ 2500 6,880 16,033
1924.. 12,171 10 „ „ 3750 7,434 17,020
Profit from sale of assets, £8742.. 25,762
Building depreciation reserve taken
in, £6OOO .. 31,762
1925.. 10,983 10 p.c. = 3750 6,972 32,023
1926.. 16,387 10 „ „ 6823 7,864 33,723
1927.. 21,738 10 „ „ 7500 10,578 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 „ „ .7500 11,251 —• 41,036
1929.. 24,146 10 „ „ 9981 10,548 44,653
1930.. 7,489 7 „ „ 7000 Nil 45,142
1931.. 10,598 7 „ „ 7000 1,233 47,507
For the first dozen years divs. averaged 5.8
p.c. For the next eight (to March 31, 1929)
high prices enabled a steady 10 p.c. to be
paid, while clients, who are mostly share-
holders, received £65,834 in rebates (30 p.c.
of wool and 15 p.c. of livestock and produce
charges) and more than one-fifth of the net
earnings remained in the business. Then
came the break in prices: wool fell to pre-
war levels, costs were stubborn, and profits
for the 12 months to March 31, 1930, were
less than one-third of the previous year’s.
B>o three points ware knocked off the div..
reducing it to 7 p.c., and no rebates were
made on consignments.
Meanwhile the business stepped along in
this way :—-
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1912 .. 32,046 319,316 14,208 £19,212
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 49,158
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1927 .. 80.157 334,162 20,035 83.969
1929 . . 82,562 286.196 15,165 91,392
1930 .. 88,707 392,371 14,632 73,581
1931 .. 87,232 389,065 14,286 70,132
The co. started the last term with 20,071
bales in the store, a, further 66.161 (8156
less than in the previous term) were received,
and there were 5472 to be disposed of when the
books closed. Sales and shipments (81,760
bales) were 13,124 heavier. So. although-the
Sydney average per bale for the 10 months
to April 30 (£ll Bs. 3d.) was £2 4s. Sd.
lighter than for the corresponding period of
the previous season, and sheep and cattle
prices were down, the slip in gross profits
(£70,132) was only £3449. Exes. (£59,534)
were pulled back £6558, and the net result
was enough to repeat the 7 p.c. div., rebate
10 p.c. of the wool commissions and leave
£2365 for reserves. Deducting bonuses to
consignors the balance of the year’s net
earnings was 9.5 p.c. on capital compared
with 7.4, 13.6, 14.8 and 14.8 p.c. back to
1927. The present rate of div. is by no
means secure.
Balance-sheet movements are encouraging:
1923. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £25,142 £75,124 £100,124 £100.124
Mortgages .. 22,290
Other liabilities 15,117 79,317 197,232 63,791
Freeholds . . 52,305 103,240 146,523 146,523
Plant, shares in
other cos.,
etc. . . 5,566 7,505 19,322 10,210
Public sec’ties 3,000
Debtors & cash 28,211 96,232 186,453 64,689
At the close of accounts in 1930 the co, was
leaning heavily on outsiders to finance the
carry-over, but as the wool was sold the
position changed. Thus debtors’ balances
and cash were reduced £121,764, and
£133,441 and wiped off the debt. The
improvement in the financial position was
(Continued on page 16.)


FOR nearly half a
century the name
"Woodbine*' has been
famous. Everyone knows it as
England’s low-priced quality
cigarette. And now, when
many smokers are seeking
an enjoyable cigarette at the
lowest possible price, this
grand old name brings them
a brand-new blend of finest
Virginia tobaccos in CORK-
TIPPED cigarettes at Austra-
lia’s lowest price “11 for 6d.
That’s real value. See for
yourself.
Zool for
the green
and brown
packet.
V)
O
U CORK TIPPED
CIGARETTES
6
Made in Your Own Country at
The Garden Factory—Raleigh
Park—by W. D. &H. O t Wills
(Aust.) LtqL


The Savings Bank
Suspension.
On April 23 the Government
Savings Bank of N.S.W. sus-
pended payments.
Are any of the other banks
likely to do the same?
Can this drift in the public
accounts be stopped?
Is inflation inevitable; if so,
who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to
come through with the best
results?
These, and many other prob-
lems of vital interest, are dis-
cussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
FOR MAY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 21-
PEK ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors.- —Have you on idea worth patenting?
Griffith Hassel ' and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.— Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
os for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
H: * * *
A considerable saving in first cost and subsequent
savings in upkeep and maintenance costs provide
reasons for the growing demand for Pioneer Wood
Pipe for practically all classes of liquid conveyance.
The service rendered by this modern wood conduit is
thoroughly efficient. Pioneer Wood Pipe is light,
strong and durable, it does not rust and is unaffected
by extremes of heat and cold, or by electrolysis.
Send for illustrated literature to the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 ho Standard oi Quality throughout tho Empire.
IWonobe!
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Make a Will
and appoint as your Executor a corporate
body which for forty-four years has acted in
the capacity of Executor, Administrator,
Trustee, Attorney, etc., which can never die
or leave the country, and which offers the
utmost security for the funds of your Estate,
viz., Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION £ 40,540,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18 ' 2 *
Directors— James Love, Esq (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart Esq M J. Ilyan, Esq.
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly. Esq., C.M.u.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N * J-f^^theWoridthis
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the \ona, zma
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geenral bankin B bu nes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
Head
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Office: Dalton House, 115 ***** Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor jS'g- l }s t o I ]e te 8
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stack ,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled - w Ag ® nt^oWN Pr General Manager™^
£11,077; more or less liquids exceeding
liabilities by £B9B at March 31.
The backing for the pound shares is
295. 2d. in net tangibles, practically all in
freeholds, etc. The scrip is not listed.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane)
Net Towards
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1928.. 3,710 lOp.c. = 3312 398 29,515
1929.. 12,234 10 „ „ 8250 ' 3984 25,531
Goodwill sold to associate co., £5000.. 20,531
Nominal
Reserves.
Taxation and depreciation reserves in-
cluded, £34,280 13,749
1930.. 15,992 5 p.c. = 7537 8455 22,204
Unexplained additions, £7598 .. 29,802
1931.. 0000 Nil • 6000 35,808
Encouraged by the rapid growth of the trade
and the fine results won during the boom
years, Peters’s co. in Sydney decided to
extend its ice-cream interests to other
States. Thus this Brisbane co. was formed in
1927. It took over the Arctic Co.’s business
and put up a new factory, which began earn-
ing in November, 1928; then two opposition
concerns were bought for £20,000-odd, another
fastory was built at Rockhampton, and the
co.’s rights in N.Q. were sold for £5OOO in
scrip. This amount was struck off the
£28,000 originally paid for goodwill, rights,
etc., reducing the intangibles to £23,000.
At the start it looked like a 10 p.c. pro-
position. But just as the co. was getting
into its stride the boom burst, and the
earnings of this and other Peters . cos. con-
tracted. Hence the div. was cut in halves,
reducing it to 5 p.c. for the 12 months to
March 31, 1930. East year the slip in the
profit claimed was £9980; the £6006 netted
was but 3.3 p.c. on average capital compared
with 10.6 p.c. and 14.8 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms ; it was not. enough to pay a div.
That was after £7598 net was dropped into
the general, depreciation and tax reserve,
raising it to £52,802. Some of this may be
genuine profit; the lot was over 5.2 p.c. of the
book value of plant, equipment, etc., at
March 31.
The next table shows the financial struc-
ture :—•
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Old Co.
Paid capital .. £10,621 £110,836 £179,154 £180,086
Liabilities . . 2,475 33,829 38,103 32,122
Freeholds . . Nil 63,689 95,560 101,928
Plant, etc. . . 7,092 6.3,647 103,812 101,123
Investments . . 25,289 33,431
Stock . . 1,471 3,147 8,595 5,217
Book debts .. 1,351 5,484 13,447 5,946
Cash, etc. . . 3,121 467 325 370
The year’s surplus earnings, including the
allowance for depreciation, etc., the reduc-
tion in book debts and stocks, and £5496
tacked on to the overdraft (£21,952) enabled
the board to clip £11,477 off the amount
coming to creditors (£10,170), add £6368
to the freehold item and £8142 to the book
value of investments —the composition of the
portfolio is not disclosed. Including invest-
ments, the more or less liquid surplus
(£12,842) improved £3289.
Of the 212,586 £1 shares 82,586 are fully
paid, and the balance paid to 15s. For the
contribs. 11s. is asked : they fetched 255. 6d.
two years ago. The fully-paids are priced at
15s. 6d. ; the return at that figure would be
6.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The net tan-
gible backing amounts to 245. per pound of
paid capital.
The Gold Bonus
The gold bonus has been fixed till 1940
at £1 per ounce in Australian currency for
production in excess of 451,4320 z. fine gold
per annum, which is the average Australian
i nil put for the three years to the end of 1930.
The figure for the 12 months to that date was
466,4350 z. If the output for 1931 reaches
000.0000 z., the bounty would aggregate
£148,568. This would be payable on the
entire output, and worth approximately ss.
per ounce to all registered producers, irrespec-
tive of whether their individual recoveries had
increased or not. The actual size of the
bounty for 1931 will depend largely upon
the success achieved by Wiluna and Lake
View and Star. Gold-producers who intend
to claim the bounty should apply to the
Collector of Customs in their own State to
be registered under the Gold Bounty Act.
The normal price paid by the Mint for
standard gold of 22 carat fineness is
£3 17s. 10Jd. per ounce. The rate of pre-
mium now payable on gold in Australia is
fixed by the Commonwealth Bank at the
ruling telegraphic transfer selling price, Aus-
tralia on London, less the estimated cost of
remitting the gold to London, at present
about 255. p.c. In accordance with this
arrangement the price paid by the Mint
works out as follows :
loz. standard gold—Mint price .. . . £3 17 10J
Present premium at £3O 10s. per cent.,
less cost of remittance .. .. . . 1 2 91
Total immediate price per ounce £5 0 7-J
Gold of higher or lower fineness is paid for
at proportional rates according to assay. In
addition registered producers will receive a
final payment in terms of the Gold Bounty
Act, as already explained.
N.S.W. Shale Deposits
Broken Hill is interested in the northern
as well as the southern end of the N. S.
Wales shale deposits, and a small but tre-
mendously energetic co. has made, a start
on the exploration of the Baerami-Widden
properties, which lie almost 100 miles from
the better-known Wolgan-Capertee forma-
tions to the south. The Shale Commission,
which can draw on the £lOO,OOO put aside
by the Commonwealth Government for the
assistance of coalminers put out of a job,
has granted the South Baerami —mostly
owned at Broken Hill —£5000 to test that
property on a £-for-£ basis, and 30-odd
men are now at work there. The co., which
will presently join forces with the Widden-
Baerami co., has made the development of
a million tons of shale its objective before
considering the erection of retorts. It has,
however, secured rights over what it be-
lieves to be a greatly-improved technical
equipment.
The position of Australian trading banks
is even better in one respect than the figures
in “What of the Other Banks?” last week
showed. Total deposits of all trading banks
(excluding Commonwealth Bank) at the
end of 1930 were 316 millions, of which only
102 millions, or 32 p.c., was “not bearing
interest” ; the balance, 68 p.c., consisted of
fixed deposits.
* :!s $ =l=
Federal Minister for Markets Parker
MaToney has been talking about, the possi-
bility of controlling the Australian osmiri-
dium output, and of organising marketing
methods so as to give Tasmanian producers
better and more stable prices for the metal.
His receiit investigations in London showed
that the stuff is hawked in casual fashion,
and often sold at catch prices. In. March,
when the London price for Tasmanian con-
signments was about £l5 an ounce, a parcel
of 50 ounces was thrown on the market.
This and other things depressed the price,
which is now around £lO per ounce. It
might be raised by pooling and rationing
supplies; but Queensland came a cropper
over her gem-pool scheme, and the present
international attempt at regimentation of
tin production with a view to stabilising the
price of the metal has not yet been suc-
cessful.
* * * *
Dr. Muehl, the German expert who re-
cently inspected Radium and Rare Earths’
property at Olary (S. Aus.),. says that,
owing to heavy costs and poor ilmenite con-
tent, the ore cannot be profitably treated for
the production o'f titanium white. African
and Indian ilmenite can be landed in Mel-
bourne for less than the co.’s rutile. Last
week chairman Roberts proposed that the
co. should put up the shutters; but a share-
holder announced that he knew of a. secret
process for recovering titanium oxide, so
the meeting was adjourned to allow the
directors to investigate the claim. The co.
has no liquids; there is £l7lO coming to
creditors.
* :>! * *
A crushing of 200 tons of stone from a
winze sunk on the old Sterling reef, . near
Bruthen (Vic.), yielded 4400 z. gold. The
winze was deepened a further 40ft., and
values were maintained, but work had to
be stopped owing to bad air and water. The
reef is 4ft. wide. With assistance from the
Mines Department it is proposed to extend
the old tunnel a further 240 ft.; it was put
in at the bottom of the hill for 600 ft. in the
hope of cutting the lode.
* * * *
Westralian gold producers see nothing
wrong with the high rate of exchange. Since
March last year it has put £258,606 in their
pockets, and some are doing good work with
the windfall. Lake View and Star is
using it to assist in erecting new plant,
while South Kalgurli has been helped to the
dividend list. That is because wages which
previously came out of capital now come
out of the bonus. Labor will benefit most.
Great Boulder Prop.’s figures for April
give a good idea of the value of the gold
premium to producers. Total expenditure
for the month was £22,426; value of bullion
recovered, £21,563. This calls for a premium
of over £6OOO, thus completely altei-ing
the complexion of things.
sis * * sis
Sons of Gwalia’s bold developmental and
prospecting policy has placed the co. in the
forefront of W.A. mines in the matter of
additions to ore reserves. The work has been
paid for out of revenue; had this practice
been common in earlier days, the general out-
look for mining in the West might be brighter
than it is to-day.
sic * * *
From Fraser’s mine, Southern Gross
(W.A.), to the old Exchange pub is a
track over which Deeming, and thousands
of others since, often made a trip during
working hours for a surreptitious pint. Little
did they suspect that rich specimen ore was
underfoot. The new find is an east and
west quartz vein, 12in. wide, near the con-
tact of the granite and greenstone, which is
a favorable feature.
W.A. prospectors have recently made good
strikes at points far apart. One Miller
dollied 300 oz. from a contact at Goongarrie,
and expects to get IOOOoz. by the time he has
cleaned out the pocket. More slugs have
been found at Larkinville, while good strikes
have been made at Kalgoorlie north end,
Mt. Magnet and half a mile n.-w. of a South-
ern Cross pub.
* * * *
There is hope for Kimberley Options’
show at Edjudina (W.A.) yet. The 100 ft.
level has been driven on for 90ft., and the
lode there is 30in. wide and valued at. 200 s.
per ton.
* * * *
Griffen Coal Mining Co. reckoned it would
not be happy until it got an investigation into
the W.A. coal industry. Now it is sorry
that it asked for it. Commissioner Dr. H.
Herman recommended that the price charged
by the co. to Government railways—l9s.
per ton for 400 tons monthly—be reduced
to 15s. 9d. Because he was recalled to Yal-
lourn, Herman had no time to report on
the other collieries, but may do so later.
* # * :H
“Spare Towkay”: Australian tin-dredging
cos. operating in eastern Asia got a set-
back when the price of the metal recently
crashed to a trifle oyer £lO2 a ton ; it means
that the mines will have to take something
less than half that from the smelters for
their ore. The price is the lowest for 30
years, and many cos. which have been fight-
ing on in hope of a permanent rise will now
have to stop work. Despite the restriction
scheme, which began in March, visible sup-
plies of tin are higher than ever, though just
where they have come from no one professes
to know. It looks as if production and
storage were far in advance of estimates
for some time past.
* •-!: #
Tongkah Compound, one of the oldest
Australian tin-dredging concerns operating
in Malaya, reports a profit of £42,867 for
the 12 months to Sept. 30 compared with
£92,799 for the previous year. A 3s. 6d.
div. (£43,494) was paid, making total dis-
tributions to date £399,011. The original
property, at Puket, was worked from 1911
to 1920. Then the present area at Mantin-
Setul was acquired; it is worked by two
dredges, and recoveries have been well up
to expectations. The co. has large holdings
in four subsidiaries-*-Tongkahs 2,3, 4 and
5.; the first of these has proved very profit-
able.
❖ ift :J:
H. R. Hungerford, the original liquidator
of W. F. (Wollaston, Ltd. (B. 13/5/’3l), is
not the Hungerford of Hungerford, Spooner
and Co., Sydney.
* * * $
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What sort of an investment arc
Hempland bonds? (2) Where does the 7 p.c.
paid to bondholders for the first four years
come from? (3) What are the chances of
bondholders receiving “30 p.c. or more” on
their investment ? —3550.
(1) Highly speculative. In 1928 Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Investments Co.
offered the public 1219 acres near Auck-
land for £68,177 (£64 10s. an acre) in bonds
of £2l 10s. each. For this price the co.
was to buy the land (offered it for £13,500,
or £ll an acre), plant it with flax, care for
the crop to maturity, erect a mill and make
a profit for itself; all by the end of 1931.
A co. is then to be formed and the bonds
converted into shares; the Investments Co.
is to sell the mill, paid for out of bond-
holders’ money, to the new 00. at cost. (2)
As a guarantee of good faith the co. was
to deposit £5 7s. 6d. of each bond, when
fully paid, with the N.S.W. Public Trustee.
This fund belongs to the co. on completion
of its job; meantime returns from its invest-
ment, after deducting trustees’ exes., pro-
vide part of the 7 p.c. paid on the bonds;
the co. finds the difference. (3) Remote.
Prospectus figures were based on hemp sell-
ing at £2B to £3O per ton; it. is now around
£2l 10s. in London. The obvious danger in
these bond-financed ventures is over-capitalis-
ation. The bondholders, not the promot-
ing organisations, shoulder most of the risks.
Would my money be safer in a N.Z bank
than in an Australian ? —3448.
For the moment it might be. But it will
cost you over 20 p.c. to get your money to
Maoriland —if you can do it. In other words,
you will have to feel that £4 in N.Z. is
worth more than £5 in Australia before you
would be justified in making the change.
(1) What consideration was given by
Tujoh Tin, N.L., in return for £7OOO de-
posited with it? (2) What consideration by
Tinsongkhla Tin for the deposit of £10.000?
(3) Are these advances by Tongkah Com-
pound legal? (4) How can shareholders
prevent money being so used? (5) Would
directors be liable to make good any loss? —
3253.
(1) and (2) The usual liens. (3)
Depends upon the co.’s memorandum and
articles, which, presumably, the directors
have consulted. (4) Elect new directors.
(5) Not unless there was proof of more than
ordinary disregard of the shareholders
interests.
1 read that 2000 persons in whose names
were issued priority wool and share certifi-
cates in Bawra have not claimed the money
available on them. (1) What are these cer-
tificates? (2) Bawra’s address r —3450
(1) Bawra (British Australian Wool
Realisation Association) was formed in 1921
“to market in conjunction with current clips
carry-over wool acquired by the British Gov-
ernment during the war/" the intention being
to stabilise the market, which, in view of the
large carry-over, had been demoralised as soon
as auctions of current clip resumed. Each
supplier of Australian wool under the British
Government purchase scheme was allotted
negotiable documents in proportion to the
appraised value of wool which he had con-
tributed. The “negotiable documents were
the “wool and share certificates” now men-
tioned. (2) Bawra’s address is 040 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
XYZ: (1) Isa office is in Sydney.
(2) Month at most .T.11.M.: Write and ask them
what the surrender value is. If you don’t get a
satisfactory answer, let us know.... Inquirer: Quite
safe, though bonus prospects poor C.T.S.: Don’t
think you’ve any hope of selling; but the bonds
are apparently forfeitable without penalty... .C.D.8.:
(1) Very doubtful; last balance-sheet not available.
(2) A gamble. (3) Data insufficient... .C.0.R.:
We’d take the public security every time
M.E.0.: They couldn’t be listed with transfer thus
restricted. Balance-sheets are not published....
A.Z.: Don’t see anything for you to worry about.. ..
W.C.11.: (1) When the post-war bubble burst the
franc was written down from 25.225 to 124.21 to
the £ English. The old German mark was simply
abandoned and a new gold mark substituted. (2)
None recently. (3) See Service Dept.... .C.H.D.:
“Prospecting for Gold,” by lon L. Idriess; Angus
and Robertson, Sydney; ss. 2d. (post free)....
R.F.W.: Not much; but depends entirely upon the
circumstances. Any law firm would advise y0u....
Ilorgil: (!) Yes. (2) The “Wild Cat” does not
prophesy market prices. (3) and (4) Profits would
be earned in sterling and dividends would be paid
at the declared rate plus exchange. This should
enhance the value of the scrip in Australian cur-
rency. Dividends, however, must be regarded as a
part return of capital, based on the estimated life
of the mine..


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
GOVERNMENT BY PROCLAMATION.
“We can produce as many regulations as the Senate can disallow, and we will go on producing them.” —Prime Minister Sculln.
AGGRIEVED SHADE OF HENRY VIII.: “And to think they’ve been calling me a tyrant all these years for acting like a modern democrat!”
A Programme for Prosperity
Dear Bulletin— How to do it? Close
down our worst railway propositions and
reduce other railway services commensurate
with business offering. Reintroduce the
48-hour week and Saturday morning work in
the civil service. Reduce hands in this
and the railway service to a number suffi-
cient- to do the work, using the Superannua-
tion Acts (amended) for the purpose. Scrap
our terribly expensive industrial arbitration
machinery, for a time at least, and take
the highly paid parasitical union secretaries
and others from off the backs of the workers.
Review all salaries in the light of altered
conditions, including those of the judiciary,
who were exempted under some Salaries
Reduction Acts. (The Judges can look
after themselves all right. Several of them
have their daughters acting for them as
associates at £6 per week.) Search the public
service for sinecure jobs and abolish them.
Gus Kelly, N.S.W. Labor M.L.A., recently
found a Director of Public Works at £3OOO
per annum, although there are no public
works. One of many around Parliament
Houses is sergeant-at-arms—the chucker-
out. “Hansard” itself might be abolished with
no one the wiser-—or unwise for that matter.
On the Federal side there is the gold
reserve and the note issue. The gold reserve
in the bank’s vaults will never be brought
into circulation; therefore, I suggest that
some dark night, unknown, to anyone, these
millions be taken out and quietly shipped
to England to meet pressing claims, the only
condition being that Theodore and Lang
have nothing to do with the job. Disraeli
did something like that in respect to Suez
Canal shares. —Yours, Simple SiMt)N.
Conflict and its Cure
Dear Bulletin, —The cure of all this
long conflict must come from some scheme
which shows a more equal distribution of
wealth. Wage fixing is absurd. Arbitration,
as at. present legalised and operated, is a
screaming farce. Without goodwill and
hard work industry will languish and die,
and we with it, both capitalist and laborer.
All the violent schemes for reorganising
industry on the socialistic plan are for the
most part pipe dreams, while the idea of
Soviet rule is not only abhorrent but im-
practicable. The worker can rest assured
that under Soviet rule he would exchange
a more or less tolerant master for a monster
with an iron heel, under which lie would be
well and truly ground.
The new idea in industry must partake of
a full-field vision of the needs and. aspira-
tions of the worker. Each worker in any
industry should have a share in the profits
of the industry—a basic wage, and a reason-
able share in the profits.
Employers complain that their employees
are overpaid. That depends a lot on what
they do. The money itself is not too much
for reasonable comfort, but the amount of
work done is far below a reasonable stan-
dard. Most businesses arc over-staffed. If
the worker had a share of the profits over
and above a reasonable dividend, he would
do more, show more enterprise. The restric-
tion of hours and of output per hour is a
fatal business, leading downhill. Employers
, on their side are too secretive, too majestic,
and too greedy: they should take their em-
ployees into their confidence.—Yours, E.
Moodie- H'eddle.
Medical Exams, for M’s.P.
Rear Bulletin, — Recent events indicate
that candidates for Parliament should be
required to furnish medical evidence as to
their state of health. At the moment there
are in the public life of Australia men
showing signs of grave mental impairment.
One is unable to attend his duties at Can-
berra owing to. the effects of a paralytic
stroke —a condition generally associated with
cerebral irritatiqn. Another depicts a glaring
example of the ravages of the spirochaete
pallida by the exhibition of such symptoms
as grandiose ideas, unbounded egoism,
effrontery and paranoic tendency—all indi-
cative of an early stage of dementia para-
lytica. There are other instances where the
“sweet reasonableness” so essential for good
government is entirely absent. Might these
cases not be due to some grave malady or
latent infection? —Yours, C. Sandig.
Let’s Earn Our Dole!
Dear Bulletin,— As I have been on the
■‘dole” for 10 months, I believe I am quali-
fied to say that the present system is rotten
and that 90 per cent, of recipients think
the . same. No genuine Aussie relishes
charity, and that is all the dole is; yet every
week we must line up and produce our
“identification” paper.
The local council is broke, and so are a
lot of other councils. Is there anything to
prevent the Government donating my labor
to the local council? Eight hours’ work of
some sort ought t 0 cut out my 18s. Id., and
I would willingly do it. True, the Govern-
ment wouldn’t show any saving on this
scheme, but the local governments would,
and recipients of the dole would feel they
were working for their crust.
Don’t delay: the dole is getting into the
unemployed’s blood and killing their interest
in life in general, which is great food for
trouble. —Yours etc., Cecil Jah.
Income-tax Absurdities
Dear B., —The Bulletin suggestion that
income reinvested should receive preferential
treatment by taxing authorities is eminently
sound. The same problem could be attacked
nearer its source by the repeal of Section 21
of the Federal Act, under which cos. are
compelled to either distribute two-thirds of
their profits or be taxed on any proportion
undistributed an amount eq'ual to that for
which their shareholders would be liable
had it been distributed. Had the object
of Section 21 been to discourage cos. pro-
viding for more production and more employ-
ment, it couldn't have been better framed.
The second step in encouraging the reten-
tion of capital in industry should be to
follow the lead of the U.S Internal Revenue
Department, based on extremely sound logic,
and forthwith stop the indefensible practice
of declaring share dividends to be income.
A share in an enterprise cannot be income.
Assume that a man or a group of men estab-
lish a business which flourishes, that they
work on small salaries and pay themselves
extremely conservative dividends, and capi-
talise all remaining profits, thus success-
fully expanding the business and perhaps
providing employment for many times their
original staff. Under existing conditions
they will have been taxed almost as heavily
as though they had drawn every available
shilling of profit, and either spent it or
shipped it out of the country entirely. And
if they should in the existing depression lose
half, or all, of the profits thus capitalised,
they will have paid one of the world’s
heaviest income taxes on something that
never was income at all. but only a share
in a venture. —Yours faithfully, Fairplay.
Village Settlements
Dear B. —In 1894 2000 acres of plain
country four miles from Eehuca was surveyed
in 20-acre blocks, and 100 young working
men and their families settled thereon. By
dint of hard work —and these men took on
anything, both away from and on their little
farms—and by using every penny they could
spare to buy cows (cows first always),
poultry, pigs, horses and implements, the
settlement gradually prospered. Later the
coming of irrigation enabled them to give up
the outside work altogether and attend solely
to dairy-farming, with conspicuous success.
Of course, all were not successful; but this
little settlement was the means of absorbing
many families on the land, and, more than
that, it gave the majority of boys and girls
who grew up there a genuine love for the
life. Many of the sons of the original
settlers are now farming in various parts of
Australia, and their daughters are wives of
men similarly circumstanced.
Are there any valid reasons why similar
schemes should not be tried to-day ? Yours,
Country Bed.
Do More Ringbarking
Dear Bulletin,— Much of Queensland’s
sheep country is second-class red mulga or
green timber. This grows a wool of good
quality and soft handling, but is very light
carrying country (one sheep to 5-10 acres).
The same land wdien ringbarked will carry
twice as many. Also a light fall of rain
will make a shoot where it wouldn’t on
green-timbered country.
Why not send relief-workers out here to
help make the country carry more sheep?
If the grazier were allowed to repay the
Government, say, in five years, with interest
added, the demand for men would absorb
thousands; for a nlace of 20.000 acres, green
timber, running 3000 sheep and barely pay-
ing expenses, with 5000 acres ringbarked
could support 1000 extra sheep; and the
4000 sheep would not cost any more to look
after than 3000. —Yours, Mulga Grub.
Let the Girls Stay Home
Dear B., —One of the chief causes of the
trade depression is the inability of the popu-
lation to purchase the products of the coun-
try. Thus our markets are overloaded with
goods which the people want but cannot
afford to buy. This condition has been
largely contributed to by the post-war craze
for female labor. Thousands of women of
marriageable age have been employed at work
hitherto performed by men who have been
thrown out of regular employment and con-
demned to take any dead-end job offering.
The wages paid to these young women have
usually been 30 per cent, to 40 per cent,
below the rate of male labor, and have been
mostly spent on imported clothing, etc., and
have assisted to impoverish us.
The employers have been shortsighted
indeed ; each has been trying to get the cheap-
est labor possible, _ while vainly hoping that
trade would remain brisk with money flow-
ing freely. It is time business men realised
that their best and most reliable customers
are tlie young married people bringing up
families.—Yours, Angora.
Wasted Time af School
Dear B., —My daughter lately went
through the ordeal known as “February
inter” in Melbourne, and I have since perused
her exam, questions. In the language sec-
tion I find that several tongues are listed.
Two of the languages are dead, while others
are living; but the method of handling the
quick is the same as that used for handling
the defunct. That is to say, it is obviously
not intended that a student should acquire
proficiency in speaking, writing, reading or
thinking in any of the languages.
Under these circumstances it seems super-
fluous for there to be so many languages to
choose from, with the consequent expense
entailed by different textbooks, dictionaries,
etc. I therefore suggest that all these
languages be cast out of the curriculum and
Momp substituted. In Momp all the verbs
are irregular, genders follow no discernible
rule, the method of forming plurals is incon-
ceivably complicated, but not more so than
are the tenses, comparatives and definite and
indefinite articles. Momp is not a dead
language, because it never existed. Nobody
speaks it to-day and nobody ever has spoken
it. If my method of teaching it is adopted
nobody ever will speak it, so the educational
aims of the examiners will be achieved in
all particulars.
Momp, in short, is my own invention, and
is especially designed to give the examiners
the opportunity for asking the maximum of
silly questions. That they are adepts at
this form of pedagogic athletics is evidenced
by the French examination paper. You
might pass it with honors and not be able to
ask your way to a talkie. I know a bit
about languages. I learnt Dutch and Malay
once. In a few months I was able to read,
write and converse with fair proficiency in
both languages, and I didn’t know a scrap
of the grammar of either. I learnt them as
a Dutch or a Malay child learns them—by
common, everyday exercise. In fact, in the
way that everybody, even a University
examiner, learns at least one language, and
that the one in which he acquires the most
proficiency. My daughter;, being a female, is
probably not much injured by our education
system, which seems to be aimed at culti-
vating the feminine or memory type of mind,
the mind which places complete faith in
authority and tradition, whether in the
sphere of politics, religion or living. But
our sons are obliged to submit to the same
system. The result is seen in the spectacle
presented at the moment of a country
divided into herds, all obediently yelling the
slogans provided for them by their particular
play-leaders. The independent thinker has
as much chance of being heard effectively as
a really educated child has of passing a
“February inter.”—Yours, Pawang.
Payment of Members
Dear Bulletin, —Payment of members
has created a vicious class of professional
politicians who make security of tenure and
pay their chief aim, the votes of their con-
stituents at the next election being more
important than the solvency of the nation.
Payment of members should be reduced to
(1) payment for the time actually occupied
in attending Parliamentary sessions, and (2)
their travelling expenses to and from Parlia-
ment. —Yours etc., Eoward T. Miles.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Love Race”
Criterion “The Spot on the Sun”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “lolanthe”
Comedy “The Calendar”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
State .. Movies and Talkies
♦
Prom a Theatrical Iconoclast: —
A friend who lias been a Gilbert and
Sullivan addict for 40 years invited me
to a performance of “The Pirates of Pen-
zance,” at Melbourne Royal. He said it
was part of my education to be able to com-
pare the Works of the Giants of the Past
with those of the Pygmies of the Present.
Well, it struck me he was looking at the
giants through a magnifying-glass, and that
if he ever took the trouble to look at the
pygmies it must be through the small end of
the telescope. I felt that if anyone had had
the courage to stand up in the stalls and
say “This music is tinpot, it is all
hard edges, it is just a very obvious melody
and a very obvious accompaniment,” half
the audience would have felt quite relieved
and said to themselves: “That’s just what
I’ve been thinking for quite a long time;
let’s go home.”
If he had followed up his initial success
by remarking further: “This isn’t very
funny. In fact, it is rather dull. If the
MARY HOT HAM, of the
current Gilbert and Sullivan
outbreak at Melbourne
Royal.
leading com-
edian has to
work so hard
to get his
laughs, surely
lie must have
very poor
material to
iperate on,”
the same half
of the audi-
ence, would
have cried
“B r a v o!”
while the
iconoclast was
being hurried
to the door
by the chuck-
ers-out. Per-
sonally, the
humor did
not strike me
as being a
comment on
any life, we
know at all,
and in that
sense wasn’t
a patch on
Stiffy and Mo, though when it was
written it was no doubt quite as good
as, if not better than, Stiffy and Mo.
With the exception of one song, the music
struck me as rumtitum, and the fran-
tic applause it received wqg, it seemed to me,
due partly to social snobbery demonstrating
its superiority over the lowly lovers of jazz
and partly the expression of arrested musi-
cal development. Compare the harmonic
line of Sullivan with that of “The Marriage
of Figaro” or “Don Giovanni” or even of
George Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” and
you may see what I mean.
Not that G. and S. opera has no merits —
it has, but they are exaggerated out of all
focus by the popular attitude of uncritical
awe. Everything has -to be according -to
precedent, so when John-. Ralston sang’part
of the rather dull Constabulary chorus ‘in
Scotch, ~tlie ,foyer ; afterwards was full of
elderly men.and women clasping their,brows,
shaking their 1 fists'.and • yelling for the mis-
creant’s blood. Even the scenery'has to be
traditional. The backcloth used in “The
Gondoliers” was said to'be 40 years old arid
certainly looked it. The staging of “The
Pirates” didn’t show blazing intelligence.
Most of the effects were lost through bright
costumes being confounded with equally
bright backgrounds. As for the emotional
content of the play, there wasn’t any. It
was all as nice ana genteel and devoid of
real feeling as London “Punch” or the
“Argus” Saturday supplement. G. and S.
are lucky in always being supplied with .mag-
nificent casts. They must have shouted
themselves ambrosial pots on learning that
the present revival is in the hands of such
people as Menzies, Stroud, Ralston, Darn-
ton and Manning, and the Misses Bremner,
llotham, Harding. Ramsay and Gill.
* * #
In 1914 Great Britain became involved
in war With Germany and called on her
Dominions for _ aid. Australia sent one
low-comedy Irish sergeant, one comic
American Jew, one rough Digger with
a heart of gold and one villain from “On Our
Selection,” plus a stiff and self-conscious
captain to command the lot. This army
was landed in France, and immediately be-
came involved in civil war over the posses-
sion of a French girl of a flirtatious turn
of mind. The villain from “On Our Selec-
tion” was winning all along the line when
the Digger with the heart of gold punched
him on the nose; whereupon the stiff and
self-eonscious captain marched off with the
prize. lie was on the point of consolidating
his gains when the bugles blew for an
advance against the enemy, and the low-
comedy sergeant, the American Jew and the
rest of the Australian army were reluctantly
obliged to depart. The “On Our Selection”
villain, however, was able to slip out of the
ranks, enter the French girl’s house, knock
down her aged father and drag her into her
bedroom with intent. The Digger with the
heart of gold also dropped out, and, enter-
ing the bedroom, shot the villain through
his traitorous chest; and the stiff and self-
conscious captain burst into the house just in
time to perceive the Digger emerging from
the girl’s boudoir. With that genius for not
listening to explanations which may have
distinguished officers of the A.I.F. but cer-
tainly distinguishes all heroes of romantic
melodrama, the captain refused to accept the
Digger’s version of the affair and rushed off
to the hottest part of the firing-line with
a broken heart. The German resistance
finally broken, the stiff and self-conscious
captain turned up at his sister’s home iii
Toorak, where to his astonishment he met
the low-comedy Irish sergeant, the Digger
with the heart of gold and the French girl
over whom the most important engagement
in the annals of the A.I.F. had been fought.
He thereupon accepted the true story of the
bedroom incident, exonerated the Digger
with the heart of gold and took the French
girl to his arms.
The above is called “Roses of Picardy, ’
and can be studied at the Bijou Theatre,
Melbourne. It is being related by Frank
Neil and co. with every attention to detail.
It isn’t necessary to say much about the
Firm’s new musicomedy offering, “The Love
Race.” The piece belongs to a well-defined
branch of its kind of theatrics —the “Follow
Through” branch—and if you like that sort
of entertainment you’ll certainly like “The
Love Race.” It is staged with all the Firm’s
attention to background and support. There
are plenty of color, the usual run of gags, a
fair supply of song and a good issue of
dance. The front: rank of the attack is a
decidedly solid lot; it includes Bluett, Frith,
Elsie Prince, Leo Franklyn, Josie Melville
and Frank Leighton. Whose fault it is may
be an open question, but when The Bulle-
tin inspected the piece on Saturday this
jolly good team was acting together with
about as much unity as so many Labor poli-
ticians. They couldn’t hit it off at all; so
much so that Leighton, a comparative
youngster, came out one or two laps ahead
of his much more experienced brethren. The
others did their customary bits well enough,
but they did ’em individually. Leighton is
improving rapidly. He is beginning_to look
comfortable on the stage, is becoming a
better dancer, and is generally heading for
the Cyril Ritchard class. Josie; Melville
comes through as sweetly as ever.
Levitzki, replying to the luncheon hope of
a local musical light that the visitor would
not play the sort of things that every
visiting musician played, said, in effect, that
he would not only play what he liked playing
but would play what he thought his audi-
ences would like him to play. Publicity
may have been acting on that hint when it
advertised as the star item for the first of
last week’s concerts a rendering of the “Blue
Danube.” Nevertheless, a large audience
listened with evident delight to that offering,
which came at the end of a bill ranging from
Chopin delicacies to the “Heroic” Polonaise.
Levitzki has not so far attempted anything
quite in the Backhaus ambition, but he has
played what he has played delightfully.
He seems to make his music take control of
his instrument. There are no mechanics
about it. It rises and hovers.
On Saturday his main offering was the
“Waldstein” sonata, with more Chopin bits
for the principal support. A matinee
to-morrow (Thursday) rounds off the season.
V
Nat Phillips and Syd Beck continue to
head the longest-run troupe Sydney has had
for a day or two. They pack the Opera
House regularly on Saturday nights, and
the pickings during the week are not to
be sneezed at. Their latest 1 addition is
another comedian, Ron Shand, who has had
several years in revue in Maoriland.
* * *
Edna Burke, a Sydney pianist just returned
from study, abroad, in a recital at. Sydney
Con. Hall proved herself a neat and competent
executant. She played Chopin very grace-
fully and showed originality by including a
Haydn sonata in her programme. Phyllis
Campbell’s pretty composition “Orchards in
Spring” was charmingly presented. • ,
*¥* & •
The visitor to Melbourne Tivoli will' find
the historic building wearing a new face
,or a coat of fresh paint on the old. He
‘will; if 1 he is an observant'-person, also : note
that the bust of Harry Rickards has been
dragged out-of its'hiding-place, dusted and
set in a place of honor, with a gold wreath
over its head. He will, also note . that the
new programme_in many respects bears a
striking' resemblance ] to; the old—unless, 1 of
course, he had the prescience to stay away
from the old. Also' he 'will'detect some new
acts, all good of their kind. The Golden
Spartans are, as the programme says, mag-
nificently proportioned Australians, and a
theatregoer with an artistic eye could put
JANETTE GILMORE,
starring in the new Sydney
St. James show on Saturday.
up with some
of their tab-
-lea u x far
longer than
the stage man-
ager - allows.
John Prior a,
Elsie P e'e r-
-less, Lilian
Gibson 'and
Alfred Cum-
in i n g h am,
figuring as
the Metropoli-
tan quartette,
serve rump-
steak and
other choice
cuts from
some of the
more popular
grand operas
in excellent
style; while
the whimsical
St. Cla i r,
clever Lily
Moore and
Henry and
Blossom, a comedy couple - of eminence
in the English broadcasting world, help to
make up a' programme that suggests that
Tiv. vaudeville will - have a fresh kick in it
as soon as the new Muller management gets
into it.s stride,
* * *
Drama, near-drama and musical melange
are running to improved business in Mel-
bourne, so much so that the Firm announces
the signing of a £9OOO contract for supplying
the burnt-out King’s with a new set of
insides. One feature that distinguished the
old King’s from its contemporaries was its
d.-c. seats. These possessed the peculiar
faculty of making a noise like a dynamite
explosion when sat upon, however cautiously.
It was therefore possible • for latecomers to
attract the attention of the entire house;
which is what latecomers like. If the Firm
abolishes this feature it will be necessary to
supply habitual unpunctuals with means for
making their own disturbance, such as bombs
or police rattles; otherwise the King’s will
lose an important section of its patrons.
The Palette,
Harold Latham, an English Harold Her-
bert, has been showing water-colors at the
Sedon Galleries, Melbourne. The similarity
of his work, both in quality and viewpoint,
to the Australian’s is remarkable, though the
show is of uneven merit. A study of the
Grand Canal, Venice, is full of charm and
sincerity. Lord Somers- having bought a
couple, a fash of red spots broke out, vice-
regal judgment in matters of art being
regarded as infallible in Melbourne.
“M.G.5.”.: The news that artists were
liable to sales tax moved?numerous members
of the painting profession to public protest.
Arthur Streeton, the “Argus” critic, weighed
ADA REEVE, acting
soundly as ever in “The
Spot on the Sun” at Sydney
Criterion.
in with a spirit-
ed call to his
brother brush-
wielders to
take an inter-
est in politics,
combine be-
fore the next
general elec-
tion and help
-to elect a Gov-
ernment of
• “honesty, ■ ex-
perience and
intelligence.”
The romantic
notion behind
the protest is,
i of course, that
in normal
times artists
are less prac-
tical than or-
dinary people,
but ...since 1 Mr.
,Streeton is
protesting only
against a
per cent, tax
on his earn-
ings, and not on behalf of any prin-
ciple of art, he isn’t doing anything
different from a galvanised-iron merchant
who complains of budget items that' affect
his business. As a matter of’•fact, with
a few notable exceptions, our artist’s, especi-
ally our Victorian artists, are active < poli-
ticians. When they are not painting they
are busily engaged making „ their path
smpoth to the public, flattering such impor-
tant sources of their revenues as national
gallery authorities and crushin'g. the competi-
tion of members of rival art ..schools. Some
even go the length of accepting jobs as art
critics oil daily newspapers. ;
Pearl Sheldon, a versatile artist who while
on the other side of the globe had pictures
accepted by the Royal Academy and the
Paris Salon,, shows at Horderns’ Galleries in
Sydney many water-colors and a‘few oils.
Tlie brush work in the latter: is . broad and
effective, scenes from rural England being
very prettily depicted. The most" effective
of the water-colors are interiors, in the com-
position of some of which cleverness is dis-
played. Slovenly drawing discourages close
study of these pieces, but they look nice a
long way off.
The Society of Artists has a show .of
close on 200 pictures and statuettes at
David Jones’s restaurant annex. There are
no prices in the catalogue, the idea- being
that prospective . purchasers may make ,an
offer for anything hung. The general standard
of the exhibits, is high, but the show is
absolutely - dominated.by M. J. McNally's-not-
very-largeX •. water’rcolor, . “Cook’s River
Bridge,”; a'masterly!.essay in color with a
splendid sky. Percy Lindsay’s “Cottage .at
Berry’s Bay”, and “Changing Skies’,’—oils
that lqok,;,like water-colors —Gwen Barrin-
ger’s bridge drawing,“The Frame” and-her
still-life.. “Little.. Elephants,” and Gladys
O.w.en’s “Waterfront,-Balmain,” are the next
most J striking, things, in •a , meritorious col-
lection.’, , ,Y.„ ’• ** ; - ‘
“The Lure of • Melbourne” is the title of
an exhibition of 52 views by Dora Wilson
at the Fine Arts in Exhibition-street. The
show repeats the fact, known to most ob-
servers, that the architecture of the city
is commonplace, and the contrast between
the dwellings of the early settlers de-
picted by Miss Wilson with examples of
modern business buildings indicates that
things are getting worse. There is
only one factor that can make the work
of local architects alluring and that is atmo-
sphere—the more the better. On a misty
autumn evening Collins-street can be as
lovely as any poet’s dream. Miss Wilson
catches -hints of this transforming, atmo-
sphere in “The First, Lights,” “Tranquil
Afternoon,” and others; but for the most
part her work is too topographical to be
kind to the Queen City of the South.
“C.M.”: I have every sympathy for the
society portrait-painter who sent a nainted
photograph to the Royal Academy. Much
more unconscionable frauds, openly executed,
pass without adverse comment in the London
and Continental art world daily. The sen-
sation of the last season I was in Paris was
a Dutchman who painted with the condi-
ments on his breakfast-table. H’e was out-
generailed by an Armenian who framed a
real bucket of whitewash and succeeded in
getting it hung in one of the minor’ salons
as an example of true realism. A Spaniard
lately gained i respectful attention by paint-
ing his pictures blindfold. A'sculptor in the
city that knew Rodin made a matador on a
deviscerated horse out of galvanised-iron and
drain-pipes, submitted it. as a joke to an ex-
hibition, and was staggered to learn that the
critics ‘ had made a genius’ of him over-
night: r He received so many ‘ requests from
galleries all over Europe for a loan of the
work that he instructed his valet to take
it to pieces and number each section, and
he used to send it by post to the applicants.
He finally took the public’s opinion so
seriously that he has since specialised in
drainpipe statuary. A show that aroused
much interest and has influenced many
moderns consisted of work by inmates of a
mental home. The views on art of many
of our Australian critics indicate that a
really enterprising artist could reproduce
these triumphs'in this country.
The usual ’ parade of Elderly Masters
wdiich makes the annual exhibition of the
Vie. Artists’ Society a harvest home of ortho-
dox scholasticism is this year relieved by
some promising efforts from the artistic
kindergarten.' Of such is “Pines, San
Remo,” a water-color sketch by E. B. Hef-
fernan, a self-taught painter. There is
nothing much in it except the absence of
the influence of a school such as is to be seen
in the portrait of Mrs. A. H. Johnston by
Nancy Guest, a product of the Nat. Gallery,
who won a travelling scholarship and shows
in a painful fashion the numbing effect of
that celebrated academy. V. Murray Griffin
has painted himself in an atmosphere which
somewhat smacks of the aquarium, but- is
otherwise a clever bit of portraiture. Ber-
nard Hall’s “Lieutenant Drew” is a finished
example of the same academic tradition and
is as moribund as P. Hurry’s study of a
silver-haired old man is alive and kicking.
In 30A, “The Goulburn River, Jamison.”
John Rowell has painted Nature against the
sun with more than his usual variety. Hots
H.eysen weighs in with some photographic
flowers and a topographically interesting
picture of “Parched Hills of the North,” m
wliich the sheep are indissolubly gummed to
the landscape. George Belljs extremely,
green “Gate in the Wood” looks like a St.
Patrick’s Day memorial. The examples of
Paul Montford’s sculpture do not encourage
the hope that the statuary of the War Memo-
rial, of which he has the contract, is going to
make Melbourne world-famous as the home
of a new ?age' of Pericles. Maud Walsoe's
“Native:; Bear”"is a quaint little animal. On
the whble, the’ selectors have improved their
■sta‘ndards;in most departments.
S.A.* Society of Arts’ autumn show was
unusually good. There were much competi-
tion .for the so-called still-life ; prize, and the
walls were a blaze of highly-colored flowers.
Jessamine' Buxton and George Wliinnen shone
here, and vyoung Nora Heysen (daughter of
Hans H.) got the honor of a purchase
for: the Art Gallery of: Si A. Also purchased
‘.was an architectural detail by James Ferries,
who began his career . with ambitious mys-
teries in the styleTof Blake, but has now.
after study in England, developed a style that
redlly impresses. And the Art Gallery took
an etching by Dora Whitford.
“F.S:” : Interviewed in Paris over the
recent controversy, in Melbourne anent the
removal : of his picture “The Peasant of
Pace” from the Nat. Gallery, Meldrum dis-
missed the matter with the remark that Aus-
tralia “had no art .criticism apart from per-
sonality.” H‘e might have added that an
i equal fault of Australian criticism is that
it is •often ill-informed. In the course of
his series in the “Herald” on “What to
See in the National Gallery,” Blamire Young,
a strong anti-Meldrumite, recently reproduced
“The. Portrait of an Officer” and learnedly
discussed the deficiencies of its author,
“Romney,” whom he described as “the most
illiterate of men.” Romney may not have
been ablo. to write gracefully about pictures,
,but, at any, rate, he'would not have made
the mistake of attributing to himself a work
by Gainsborough!
Randall Davies’s first purchases for the
Felton Bequest are a disappointing lot. The
Frank Holl, depicting a woman and a child
weeping over the loss of their bread wanner,
is a convincing demonstration that a Royal
Academician of 50 years ago could make
wmod, cloth; plaster and human hair all look
DOROTHY GILL, another
of the Gilsullivan party at
Melbourne Royal.
like plasticene
before that
material was
invented.
“Glasgow,” by
Madeline
Green, is an
oil study of
two women in
which prob-
lems of light
a nd s ha d e
h.a v e been
car e f u 11 y
avoided, pos-
sibly because
the artist
found them
d i sconcerting.
“H a r emlicli”
is a flower
study by
Countess Gab-
riella Fabori-
eotti on which
paint has
been plastered
with an aris-
tocratic dis-
regard for the consequences. Neverthe-
less. it carries fairly well at the right
distance arid is the best of the quartet.
“China Clay, South Devon,” by Cecil Hunt,
is a feeble and commonplace water-
color for the price of which the gallery
could have acquired four magnificent land-
scapes by the local (and unrepresented)
Clarice Beckett, any one of which would
have made the whole four of Mr. Davies’s
selection look silly. Mr. Davies’s first effort
has served to make the National Gallery
seem more provincial than ever.
Miss Jo Sweatman’s show of 77 oils _at
Melbourne Athenaeum was a demonstration
to a very painstaking and capable painter s
nassion for facts. The difference between
the lady’s pictures and Nature is the differ-
ence between an encyclopaedia and a novel.
All the facts are in Miss Sweatman s pic-
tures and yet somehow they don’t tell you
anything. The'exhibition of the,late George
Lambert’s drawings at" the Sedon Galleries,
on the other hand, tells you quite a lot. lhey
consist in facts used to make brilliant con-
versation. In,the same room are a couple of
.small" pencil sketches by a returned soldier
named C. Williams, who is not a professional
artist They are very delicate and subtle,
and tell you quite a lot about the Sydney
Harbor Bridge—the beauty of it when seen
through the transforming smoke haze, which
is not the least interesting fact about it.
“Silver Fern”: Charlie Lawrence was on
the boards for years before he took to radio.
He spent six years in America. The first
theatrical agent he saw there asked him what
line he was playing. Lawrence said: “In
Australia I played everything—lead juvenile
lead, heavy and character. Well, re-
marked the agent, “go home and decide
which of the lot you d like to be, and come
back and tell me.” Lawrence spent the
night thinking it out. In the morning he
said to the agent. “I am a heavy lead. A
heavy lead he remained —for one must
specialise in Dollarland.


hi
m
f
£l5OO A WEEK
GEI
TENOR POISED
'SIIAL SENSA'fON
[“Sun” Special)
J
LONDON,
In d i
Brought to London at a salary o f
£l5OO a week, to play in the opera
fedora” at Covent Garden, Richard
ber, German tenor, has received
cclaim of critics for his extra-
successful debut.
ilson, the Austra-
The
cence of artistry
Although he sang mostlym German,
he was frequently encored, and, after
the .fall of the curtain, received such
a tumultuous ovation that he was
forced to sing again the most popular
aria. ,
His appearance is regarded as the
greatest musical sensation since
Chaliapin’s debut.
will
le alarmed lo sina in.
'OUT home lo -morrow
SUPPOSE Richard Tauber called at
your home this evening, willing to
sing to you. What would you do?
You’d switch off the radio, call in the
neighbors, ring up the local newspaper
and mark the day in red letters in your
diary.
Richard Tauber cannot very well visit
you. But he sends you his voice. Not
just the “ghost” of his voice, but the
full golden tones, the heart-stirring fire
of the man himself.
The magic of the Parlophone Records
is a Parlophone secret — vitalisation .
The personality, the living Spirit of the
artist, is captured when Parlophone
records music or the spoken word. The
realism is astounding!
Invite the world’s greatest artists right
into your home—artists whom only
Parlophone can introduce to you. Your
nearest music-dealer will gladly give
you fresh Parlophone thrills.
r>
“THE LEGEND OP KLEINSACH”
and “HOFFMAN’S ARIA,” from
“THE TALES OF HOFFMAN.”
No. AR. 1032. Price, 8/0.
Schubert’s Great Songs,
“THE WANDERER” and
“AM MEER.”
AR. 1015. Price, 8/6.
“O, MAIDEN, MY MAIDEN,”
and “HEDGEROSES,” from
“FREDERICA.”
AR. 1033. Price, 8/6.
“SCHONER GIGOLO” and
“LISTENING TO THE VIOLIN.”
AR. 131. Price, 0/-
“AY-AY-AY” and
“O SOLE MIO.”
AR. 1028. Price, 8/0.
“DRINK YOUR HEALTH, DEAR,
WITH ME” and
“MAY 1 ASK YOU FOR THE
NEXT TANGO?"
AR, 138. Price, 6/-
rt
RECORDINGS
ASK YOUR NEAREST DEALER i-OR NEW COMPLETE BROCHURE OF RICHARD TAUBER’S VITALISED RECORDINGS.


Ihe Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,C00,000.
£A p JTAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
Rpfppvr rAmTAi 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
ri iar/m-o a JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
H°n JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-Genera] the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
EDWAR™RITCHre L K^6x V D -’ MLC " ° WEN ESM ° ND FR,END '
, ,r- General Manager: J. R. DRYHZJRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
n , London Bircliin Lane. Lombard Street. E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
tederal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ui
the world.
r. a i- 1" °* A 6 2 nd Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
ert
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner El ; zabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. a§
ABORIGINALITIES
ANOTHER FIDUCIARY ISSUE
FARMHAND: "What do you get for hoeing old Skinflint’s corn, Jackie?”
JACKIE: "Only plurry sore hands, mine tinkit.”
"FY7”: A happening which should be
interesting to all lovers of our wild life is
reported from Western Queensland, “where
rhe pigs root up the sunset,” as the old gag
Inis it. One of the Qantas mail ’planes
Hew over a station which had not been pre-
viously visited. The good-natured pilot
dropped a copy of that morning’s Brisbane
"Courier.” The usual flock of brown hawks
was hovering over the station killing-yards,
and all went, unanimously for the descending
journal. Scraps of paper flew in all direc-
tions, but the advent of a human with ;i
shotgun settled matters and the papei was
recovered minus only one sheet The people
on the run are still debating as to what was
on the missing sheet when the carrion kites
went for it. Opinions are pretty well divided
between a report of the Brisbane pony races
or details of the latest divorce.
' Ilori" Maori humor has a flavoi all its
own. Take this well-loved legend for a
sample. Paerata, of the Ngati-Maniapoto tribe,
dwelt on the banks of the Mokau Itiver. lie
was a merry fellow, far famed for his
joviality and good humor. One day he was
gathering shellfish on the river bank when
a stranger hailed him from the opposite
shore. Paerata walked to his whare, deposited
the shellfish, and ordered his wife to pre-
pare an oven, as a visitor was coming. Then
he leisurely paddled liis canoe across, and
brought the stranger over. The newcomer
was entertained with joke and talc while the
waliine heated the oven, and the guest in-
wardly congratulated himself over the merry
company into which he had been adopted;
and all the time the oven was heating. "Just
a little while now,” said Paerata, “the cook-
ing stones must by this time be hot.” And,
with his ever-smiling face, he rose to his
feet and passed behind the stranger. The
ne.\t instant his tomahawk crashed through
the latter’s skull. Paerata had sprung his
choicest joke. He dined well that day, and
for many days afterwards. li'is wife had
the shellfish.
“Dampcourse”. Every month at Manly
beach, Sydney, the tide deposits 70 tons of
seaweed. One weed-remover has been trying
to get ahead of it. but there are too many
tons and too few days. The Royal Com-
mission on Seaweed Extinction has come to
the rescue with a method of attacking this
pest at its roots. All that need be done is
to catch catfish and
attach a tin of car-
bide to the tail of
each. The fish arc
then liberated and
make for the weed
banks. On arrival
there a time fuse
tips the carbide into
the sea and ignites
the gas, the weed
being burned off in
situ. The catfish
have entered into the
spirit of the thing,
and now return for
tin after tin. As a
subsidiary method of
control, the Com-
mission recommends
the encouragement
of Rugby football,
the idea being to
stimulate the de-
mand for iodine to
an extent that will
make it practicable
to establish an
iodine - from - sea-
weed industry.
“Purple P, rig a-
dier": When I was
Resident at Bicripa
the hereditary ruler
of that beau-
tiful island, the
Nag wag Tunda. a
nice young man who
had been educated
at a Yankee univer-
sity, decided to make
Bicripa a republic
instead of an abso-
lute monarchy, and
he was vastly
pleased when his
fait h fu 1 subjects
unanimously elected
lam president. The
political 1i n c o f
cleavage lay between
Hie yam-cultivators and the goat-propagators,
and being a yammite by birth and tradition
Innda chose ins Cabinet accordingly. But
the goatites were strong in the House of
Representatives and the Opposition was so
spirited that Tunda’s efforts to make his
country solvent, industrious and respected-
it was the reverse of those things—-were
sorely hampered. Even his own Ministers
were undependable. He came to me with
his troubles. I propose a tax so that
we can pay our
debts, and the goat-
ites say I'm the tool
of foreign bloodsuck-
ers,” he complained
bitterly. “To please
them I refuse’ to pay
debts, and the yam-
mites say I am ruin-
ing the country. The
law that goats must
be dipped for tick
has brought Bieripa
to the verge of civil
war, and the yam-
grading office was
burnt down last
night. I offer a
coalition and they
say I have no prin-
ciples ; I offer to
resign and they say
I am a cocktail. If
I am consistent they
say I'm a bad tem-
pered mule; if I’m
not they say I’m a
twister. What has
come over my
people?” “They’re
just playing politics,
Mr. President,” says
I, “and politics are
the same all the
world over.” “Is
that so?” says he.
“Well, I’m sick of
them or it, and
dashed tired of the
yammites, and bally
well disgusted with
the goatites, and fed
up with Bieripa.
T h e presidential
yacht sails to-mor-
row for parts un-
known, containing
me and all that’s left
in the treasury.” So
he departed, and the
last I heard of him
he was a tobacco-
nist at Kultripundri, running a starting-price
book and doing well. Bicripa now has a new
Nagwag and no dam’ republican foolery, and
is perfectly disreputable and happy.
“First Anzac”: The show grave in the
Fort Lincoln (S.A.) cemetery is marked by
a fine marble monument to the memory of
Frank Howson. a boy of 12. killed while
THIS WASTEFUL AGE.
MRS. TREPOLLOCK : "Fancy, Faather, payin’ shillin’ t’ have child’s
head ’zamined. What's mawther of it doin’ she caan't buy
small-tooth comb herself?”
fiefending liis home nearly 60 years ago. The
Ilowson family, living four miles out of the
settlement, had scattered for work on the
different parts of their holding, leaving
Frank in charge of the homestead. In their
absence the blacks came down and surrounded
the house, in which the kid barricaded him-
self. Spears were thrown, some of them
with firebrand attachments, and the boy, real-
ising that the niggers were bent on robbing
the station, loaded the only gun in the house,
and made play with it. He maintained a
steady fire on the attackers and held them
off through the better part of the long and
lonely day. Shortly before the return of
his brothers, a spear wounded him seriously,
but lie stuck to his gun, and fired whenever a
black head showed in range. The well-armed
family party dispersed the blacks, and the
badly-wounded holder of the fort was got
to the Port with all speed, but died before
medical assistance was available. H'e was
buried, and forgotten for nearly 50 years.
Then the oldest inhabitant recalled the
story, a fund was raised and the marble
testimonial to his pluck was erected.
“Palanda” : The recent departure of 150
camels from Alice Springs for Mt. Oxide, in
N. Queensland, where they will carry ore, is
an indication that the water-storing beast
is coming in for a new lease of usefulness
in this country. In recent years the motor-
truck has done practically all the transport
work in the interior, but the steady increase
in running costs is forcing it off the road.
Now the Afghans are busy mending pack-
saddles and rounding up camels which were
allowed to go bush during the slack times.
An average bullock-camel will carry 6cwt.
comfortably, and though he does only one
mile to a truck’s ten he has a useful life,
at least five times that of a truck, and costs
nothing to run beyond occasional repairs to
a pack or a shilling or two for ropes.
“Angus” : The method of rabbit destruc-
tion _ described by “Homfrey Beale” (B.
8/4/’3l) was tried 30 years ago around Hay
and other parts of the Riverina, where it
was customary to tar brown paper, crumple
it up, and poke it into the warrens, covering
it over with a little loose soil. The idea
looked all right, but it didn’t work, because
every warren has a blind alley or dead end
which terminates within a few inches of the
surface. As soon as the shrewd little bun-
nies found all exits barred by the mysterious
paper they went to the dead end and in a
few minutes scratched their way out. Watch
any man digging out rabbits. When the
last of the passages remains, you will see
his dog walk away several yards, sniff the
ground, and then sit down and w r ait. H'e can
hear the scratching underground where
bunny is frantically digging his way to
escape in the blind alley.
OUR FAUNA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
■‘Dr. Cedric Barnes, of Brisbane, who is taking a
post graduate course at the University of Minnesota
(U S.A■), told a Minneapolis newspajn that the Aus-
tralian dingo is an animal correspondi:, g to the .were
wolf of European tradition. Travelling always at
night, mostly singly, it attacks sheep and cattle
iind solitary travellers alike, sinking- its fang: into
(lie throat of its victim and draining the blood from
the body like a vampire bat
"Our fauna? Yes, they’re a curious trib. ’’
Said the doc. to the Minnesota scribe
As the pencil twirled. “You may tell the
world
Of that in your Yankee lingo.
What with monstrous bunyips and jackeroos
And oozlum birds, there’s no end to choose
But kindly note that to get one’s goat
The worst of them all’s the dmg<
“When the nightfall comes abroad they
roam,
The terror of those who are fat from home
And in cars must bump or their drums must
hump
Or ride through the bushland sectors.
Many and many’s the near-escape
I’ve had from these beings in bestial shape
Whose days may be spent in Parliament
Or are possibly tax-collectors.
“They fare them forth in the midnight hours,
Transformed by the same black magic powers
Whereby the were-wolves struck such fear
r And cause enough, by jingo!
The boldest busliman well may quail
And the hardiest prospector turn pale
A hen there slinks and creeps through the
scrub, and leaps
At Ids human mark, the dingo.
' Yes. we’ve mountain devils, you bet your
boots.
And fierce bungarras and bandicoots ;
Some make a fuss of the platypus
As our champion aberration.
But to make your heart go pit-a-pat,
A thing lialf-wolf. balf-vamphv bat..''
Said the doc. to the spry reporter guy,
“That surely whips creation.
"God send, while the fearsome beast endures,
Our land shall never go dry as yours.
For inches three of O.V.G.
Or a pint of humming stingo,
Something with body and zip and kn k
None of your liooteh would do the trick—
He needs, it’s found, to bring him round.
The man who has dodged a dingo."
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
I*®?**
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6 bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in teaioom or
cafe. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 6»/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is’ in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
Patents.
WIRE SPRING-MAKING MACHINE.
-THE Proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 13345/28 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
COMBINED HARVESTER, THRESHER
AND SEPARATOR.
’"T’H'E Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 22694/25 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a. license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Parents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN COMPRESSORS.
r p I HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 2141/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN EXPANSION
VALVE.
yil'E Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 2144/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a, license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Patents.
FLAT PAPER CUP FORMING MACHINE.
'J’HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 17590/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN DOOR AND
LATCH CONSTRUCTIONS.
Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 1910/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
“The Lamb” : How little they know Aus-
tralia who only Australia know! A novel
by Joseph Delmont. published in Germany,
contains the following illuminating passages:
“Ignaz, Harry and Teddy travelled through
the Kimberley district on horseback like a
party of adventurers, followed by six pack-
animals and two Javanese servants. They
passed through palm forests hundreds of
years old. Thousands of parrots filled the
air with their cries. Tree-kangaroos fled
in alarm, and at night Tasmanian wolves
slunk round the camp uttering their hideous
howls. The pretty water nymphs or dragon-
flies showed no fear, came down from the
trees, approached the. men and even took
food from their outstretched hands.” There
is a strike, which is finally settled by the
acumen of the hero. In its early stages,
however, “the police were in a difficult posi-
tion, for the starving men thought it neces-
sary to resort to force to gain their ends.
Troops were sent from New Zealand to
reinforce the local garrisons. The calling in
of armed force, and especially of colored
soldiers, . excited the masses, and gave rise
to bloodshed.” Ignaz attains the giddy
eminence of membership of the Brisbane
Chamber of Commerce, as well as being
made “managing director of the Queensland
railway.” He made it pay handsomely, too,
but alas! this is fiction.
H: * * *
“Veritas”: In a party with which I
invaded the area north of Alice Springs
was a camera fiend who snapped _ every-
thing he could, from giant anthills to
dwarf palm-trees. Near Wyckliffe a
buck and gin emerged from the scrub
with the usual appeal for tuck-out and to-
bacco, and were marked down as targets
to be shot at. The man had on a single gar-
ment, a cast-off coat. The woman was
STEALING HIS THUNDER.
THE NEW ARRIVAL: “That old feller seemed bored when I told him about the floods
we used to have at Gundagai.”
ST. PETER: “He would be. That’s Noah.”
dressed in a sort of pull-over that hung to
her bony shoulders. Asked to strip, she shook
herself out of the rag and was photograpned.
:!: * *
“M.L.C.” : The sea-serpent is no longer a
myth.* Several well-authenticated instances
of the appearance at sea of a snake-like
creature with a chestnut mane, like that of
a horse, are quoted by Lieut.-Commander
Gould in his recent book on the subject, and
now the U.S.A. forestry officials report the
discovery in Alaska of a skeleton, with por-
tion of the flesh adhering, of a sinuous animal
just under 49ft. long. The body measured
24ft., tail 14ft., neck 6ft. and head 4ft. 11m.
A pair of flappers 3ft. 4in. long completed the
ensemble.
* * x *
“Strangways”: Ever see a colt that was
reared by a cow? When we were
coming south with, stock the mother
of the youngster died, and after much
difficulty we persuaded a recently be-
reaved cow to take it on. In a week the
most cordial maternal and filial relations
were established, and the colt throve, waxed
fat —and kicked. He developed into a fore-
foot kicker and was about as safe as dyna-
mite at either end. In fact he grew up a
regular cow.
* * * x
“W.” : The queerest plant I know of grows
in New Britain. It is known as the “clock
plant,” the name being derived from the
sun’s action on the leaves. These are trefoil
in arrangement, a large central frond extend-
ing forward, with two small ones pointing
sideways at the base. When the sun shines
on them the large leaf moves upwards and
downwards, going its full length every 45
minutes. The small leaves move to and from
the large one, completing the distance for-
ward and back in the same time.
x x x *
“Kariah” : Australia’s leading inflationist
is the porcupine fish, which is notable also
for the strength of its jaws. These fish are
among the great, curses the oyster-farmer, has
to contend with. Particularly active in the
colder months, they destroy hundreds of bags
of full-grown oysters unless the racks arc
covered with wire netting. When captured
the pore.-fish blows himself out
to the size of a football and sharp
spikes protrude all over him. In
this swollen condition he .will
stay alive for a considerable time,
and if thrown back into the
water will float about on the
surface until everything is all clear. Then
with a series of loud, hollow-sounding belches
he deflates himself and swims away.
* x * *
“X.N.0.”: The answer to a recent Ser-
vice Department query says “a ship under
power does not lean to any appreciable
extent when the helm is shifted.” That
requires some qualification. If the vessel
is travelling at high speed there is a momen-
tary but distinct tendency for the ship to
list to port when the helm is.put hard-a-
starboard, or vice versa. This is caused by
the resistance of the water to tlie sudden
motion to port of the rudder, which is near
the level of the keel, acting as if the keel
bad received a slight pull to starboard. At
high speeds in ships with fine lines, such
as cruisers or destroyers, I have often seen
a sudden hard-over helm cause knives, forks,
glasses, etc., to fall off a table.
* * * ••!:
“C.A.”: “Possum” Lassetter, whose re-
mains were found in the Peterman Ranges,
Central Australia, last month, is another
added to the long list of men who have
attempted to discover the lost needle in the
vast haystack of the Territory. A member
of the C. A. Gold Exploration Syndi-
cate, Lassetter had given it out that 30
years ago he found a rich gold-bearing out-
crop somewhere west of Alice Springs. He
died of starvation in the effort to rediscover
it. Stories of reefs found and lost in that
enormous expanse of country are numerous,
but in no instance has the finder been able
to relocate his strike. The outstanding case
THESE INCONSIDERATE PEDESTRIANS!
OBKIIJER (to victim, who has been knocked down by car) : “Look what you've done,
man! You’ve made the poor little girl cry.”
is that of Jimmy Wickham, who showed very
rich specimen stuff to Captain Mans-
bridge, R.M. at Wyndliam, three years ago.
Many men, including Wickham, have tried
to rediscover the reef, but it has not been
found. The last man to go in search of it
went across from the Alice to Hall’s Creek
without finding anything. On the return
journey he perished of thirst and desert fever.
:|c :,k ❖
“Paul C.”: To support “B. Sting,” _ and
for the information of “Bad Australian,” let
me say that Black Brother can find bees’
nests by following the honey-laden insects.
Binghi provides against collision with
obstacles by taking Mary with him. Having
sighted his bee, he never takes his eye off
it. Mary sprints after him and the bee like
a scalded cat; her business is to watch
out for fallen logs, stumps, rocks, etc., im-
mediately in front of her husband. Just
when lie is at “taking-off” distance, she emits
a yell, and at each yell, even if the obstacle
is only a foot high, Binghi leaps into
the atmosphere, still keeping his eye on the
bee. Should the nest be so far away that
the pursuer is outdistanced, he waits, know-
ing that other bees will come that way from
the waterhole from which he flushed his first
quarry.
❖ ❖ * *
“Poosey”: I’m a Melbourne cat and not
directly concerned, but I view with
alarm the cabled report that members of my
race in the M.L. Postal Department are to
feel the economy axe. There is to be a 10
per cent, cut in their salaries. That means
that all those poor cats will have to live
on. will be just a bare eightpence a week
and any mice they can catch. It is time
someone rose up and did something. Who
knows whose turn it will be next? As it is,
we can scarcely keep body and voice to-
gether. And the mice! Have you ever seen a
Public Service mouse? I ignore them my-
self. They are not the same as mother used
to catch. Maybe they are relatives of this
fiduciary issue we have been hearing about.
Anyhow they are darned hard to swallow.
Oh, well, if we get. our salaries docked
we will just have to keep our tails up and
pretend we like it.
* * # *
“Palanda”: A fat book could be written
on the art of gold-prospecting, but here are
the rudiments of the game, as far as N.S.W.
and Vic. are concerned. The tools are
a pick, a shovel, a dolly-pot, a dolly
(usually an old drill), a sieve and a pros-
pector’s dish. Select a creek in the vicinity
of hilly country, sink a hole through the silt
till the bed is reached, take about a couple
of pounds of dirt from the bottom of the
hole and place in the dish. If inclined to
be muddy wash with successive lots of water
until the water remains clear. Pick out
large stones, taking care that any dirt adher-
ing is left. To pan off, the dish is held
in both hands, one on either side ; the part
which is rippled is furthest. from the body.
There should be sufficient water to enable
the dirt to be thoroughly agitated. The
dish should then be moved with a circular
motion, causing the contents to swirl
round. Gradually tilt it away from
you and change the motion from swirling
to shaking from left to right. Still tilting
the dish away, give a few shakes towards
and away from you, then a few more from
left to right. Any gold should now be at the
bottom or very near it, and the dirt should be
very near the rim. During these opera-
tions some of the water has been lost. Pour
off the remainder and rake off the top layer
of dirt, say, a third of what is in the dish.
The remainder should be panned off about
three more times, taking a smaller amount,
off the top each time. When about a heaped
tablespoon of dirt remains add a small
quantity of water, tilt the dish away from
you and shake, to make sure the gold is at
the bottom. Now tilt the dish towards you,
and at the same time give a slight shake
away from you. This will cause the top
layer of dirt, which is the lighter, to come
towards the centre of the dish, while the
heavier underlayer will stop at the edge.
Now very, very gently, swill the water round
the edge of the dish, gradually washing the
dirt away. If any gold is there it will
remain behind in the form of little yellow
specks (or big ones, if you are lucky). If
they look yellow from any angle you may
be sure they are gold. Sometimes the colors
are so small that a newchum cannot see
them until they are pointed out. Assuming
that your luck is in, and that there
are colors, the next thing is to find
where they came from. Work your
way up the creek, washing dishes _at
intervals, and examining any tributaries.
As you get nearer to the. place whence the
gold was shed or is shedding, the stuff gets
coarser. At. last you come to a point above
which there is no gold. Now examine the
hills on either side of the creek, washing
dishes of dirt here and there. If no trace
is to be found it is possible that the gold
was shed from a reef or mullocky leader
which has since weathered away. Any out-
crops of rock or any reef showing should
be examined and samples taken. These
should be dollied to dust, put through a
sieve and panned off, about a quarter of a
pound of stone at a time. If you were born
lucky you may find a reef and make a
fortune. . «
St St St *
“Badger” : In 30 years’ experience in the
Tassie bush I happened on only one kooka-
burra on the n.-e. coast. He was the sur-
vivor of a pair imported by a coast settler
and turned loose. This jackie had adopted
a small flock of sheep as his companions.
Many other flocks roamed the surrounding
country, but wherever this particular one
was shifted to there would the exile be
found. Don’t ask me why.
HE MISSED THE OVERLAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Joe wrote to me from Turkey Creek that he
was pulling out
To cross into Macdonnell range, at Finke’s
or thereabout.
“There’s water on the track,” he said, “and
feed is something grand,
And going will be easy once I strike the
Overland.”
But desert ways are hard to walk, and many
months went, by,
And well I know the waterlioles ’tween West
and East were dry. .
The demons of the wastes had spoiled the
programme Joe had planned.
He w'ent out by the Overhead.... He’d
missed the Overland.
N.S.W.
X2.


temm.m
&/>e
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged ease provided free with
every razor.
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths —fin. and Jin.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
m
7VA
■ l/M
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
Fits any blade razor f, I, ? inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
v * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marleet, from:
Che Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
'Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for,
your copy.
Write to Dept. M 49,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
SECOND GIRLHOOD.
Cut out that sympathetic “Ah!”
Don’t moan about, her “greying brow”j
1 011 need, not mourn for grandmamma —
She is a gay-haired grannie now!
¥ ¥
Bavin would like to crack Hardy.
¥ ¥
Premier Lang is all the rage amongst
N.S.W. State Savings Bank depositors just
now.
¥ ¥
A Sydney statistician has arrived at the
hoarded wealth of N.S.W. from the state-
ments of those who had “£5OO in the Sav-
ings Bank when it shut down.” The
amount is £1,741,450,500 14s. 4d.
HARD TO WEAN.
My ma-in-law excused her son,
My anger fierce to throttle.
“He's only a great big kid,” said she,
And I really felt half-inclined to agree —
He’s certainly still on the bottle.
Gertie Gay.
¥ ¥
THE NEEDED TOUCH.
The former Mayor of Ivatoomba and his
friend the energetic Blue Mountains shire
councillor, had completed their visit to the
Eternal City. They had entered it by the
Via Aurelia, near the Vatican, at 10.15 a.m.
sharp, and now at 11.7 a.m. they were
crossing the Ponte 1 .uugo cn route for
N aplcs.
“Very nice indeed,” said the ex-Mayor
warmly. “It's a credit to his Worship and
aldermen, but”—and his face clouded —
“there’s something missing.”
“I know what you’re thinking of,” said the
councillor. “Stop the car.”
Two minutes later the resourceful official
was nailing to a roadside oak a pleasing sign:
“Farewell Rome. A Good Rexona Town.”
10-2-4.
¥ ¥
“No nation can find a royal road to prosperity.”
— Mussolini.
It explains why Fascism fell back on the
castor-oil road.
¥ ¥
POETIC JUSTICE.
“The constable caught accused in the act of
stealing a jug. Sentence, 14 days without the
option.”
He laid a predatory paw
Upon the fug, intent to win it,
But felt the long arm of the Law —
He took the jug, and now he’s in HR
¥ ¥
The Australian Navy is fast disappearing.
Our only destroyer in active commission is
Mr. Lang.
¥ ¥
DIPLOMA OF SYDNEY JOURNALISM.
Specimen Question and Answer.
Q.: Miss Binks has been given leave to
intervene in Huggins v. Huggins and Hooch.
Handle it according to the formula of (1)
“The Daily Soother,” (2) Susan Dea th adder
in “The Weekly Exposure,” (31 chief
feature-writer of “The Sabbath Moraliser.”
A.: (1) Yesterday the Judge in Divorce
gave Miss Ermyntrude Binks leave to inter-
vene in the suit of ITuggins v. Huggins and
Hooch.
(2) As I forecasted, Ermie Binks has been
dragged into the Huggins bust-up. She was
at Romano’s with her latest, Ikey Mangel-
stein, when the papers were served on her,
and they do say she chucked
them at Pat Limelight, of
Limelight and Calcium, who
had brought them along in
person, plus a stiff gin-and-
tonic for good measure. Some-
one ought to tell Ikey, by the
way, even if he is a Mangle-
stein, that when a meal's fin-
ished it’s over. As it is he
doesn’t really begin to dine
till he gets that rolled gold
toothpick of his out at the end
of the feast. Ermie has a
movable denture and rarely
bothers to wash, but is other-
wise quite a nice creature.
Bill Huggins says he means
to marry the Spanish widow
and take her for a honeymoon
in his motor-boat when all is
over, which is rough on Ermie,
not to mention Ikey. But
motor-boat sailors don’t care.
Society Divorce.
Startling and Exclusive Facts
Gleaned by our Special
Commissioner.
(3) The rift in the matri-
monial lute of Mrs. Sarah
Jane Huggins and William
Henry Huggins, popular club-
ite, plutocrat and man-about-
town, appears, alas! to he
irreparable, and the long arm
of tlie Law has been summon-
ed to the grim arbitrament.
Tlie Huggins mansion (photo
inset), which has long been
famed for its recherche par-
ties, attended by Sydney’s
bluest - blooded exclusives,
stands in its own imposing grounds on
a clay sub-soil and commands extensive
and picturesque views of our ’Arbor.
Built as it is regardless of expense in
the fashionable Stucco-Gothic style, with
a Moorish motif about the roof, and a front
porch imported direct from Hollywood, where
it was originally designed for a film mag-
nate now in gaol, “Goolie-Goolie,” Bellevue
Hill, has been rightly acclaimed one of the
Commonwealth’s architectural gems. The
Huggins collection of antique furniture, com-
prising pieces which the great galleries of
Europe would bid for in vain had they the
temerity to bid at all, is famed beyond the
confines of the Mother State. Indeed, illus-
trations of the refined Huggins bedroom suite
in best grey maple have appeared in “The
Home.” Miss Ermytrude Binks, who, in
conjunction with Mr. Il'uggins. is being
charged with misconduct by her erstwhile
friend, Mrs. Huggins, is a society favorite,
Government House' habituee and dazzling
belle of the Junoesque or heavyweight type.
Winner of one of the earlier “Daily Guar-
dian” beauty competitions, well-dowered with
this world’s goods, and tipping the scale at
close on 14 stone, she has.long been the envy
of her myriad friends. • A: strong Bar lias
been retained, and,
provided nothing un-
toward happens in
the way of a settle-
ment, our countless
readers may rely on
being supplied with
the fullest details of
this deplorable affair
immediately any de-
tails are available,
which, we regret to
say, is not the case
at present.
Bloggs.
HOME SAVINGS
BANKS.
Government Sav-
ings Banks being
apparently not as
reliable as we
thought, other depo-
sitories must bo
evolved. The sock
or teapot favored by
grandma is no longer
modish, partly be-
cause the art of
darning has been lost,
partly because bottled
beer has replaced tea
in many homes.
Where the family
fortune is modest a
round matchbox will
meet all require-
ments. This can be
left about negligent-
ly without awaken-
ing the cupidity of
burglars.
One can hardly re-
commend a loose
floor-board as a
home bank, though
the system is favored
by aldermen and
politicians who win
unexpected fortunes
at the races. It is bet-
ter to wrap the cash
HOPEFUL.
PODGER: “Who the devil’s ringing me up at this infernal hour of
the morning!”
LIL: “Pa, it’s Percy, I expect. He told me he wouldn’t sleep till
he found out if you’d let us get married. Pa, you’ll speak
nicely to him, won’t you?”
in love letters written to your wife before
marriage. These are unlikely to be disturbed.
In anticipation of everyone having a great
deal of money if Labor remains in power,
I have been at great pains to work out
details of the O’iCohen Fiduciary Combined
Homo and Savings Bank. This, the most
ingenious device since the Lang Plan, will
consist of a light framework thickly
thatched on walls and ceilings with fiduciary
notes, so arranged that you will simply pull
them off, following the key plan, as you want
them. Each key plan will be different, and
each structure so arranged that any un-
authorised tampering will immediately
cause the engulfment of the culprit in the
collapse of the whole building. As a guar-
antee of the effectiveness of this part of the
home bank, I am placing its design in the
hands of a well-known builder of War Ser-
vice Homes.
Angus O’Cohen.
¥ ¥
“To swear at the cold does no good.”— “Sun,.”
Far better get under a good eiderdown
and blank it.
¥ ¥
THE lIUMANITA RTA N.
My neighbor's cats cause a hellish din,
Rut I never make comments curt,
Much less heave missiles of wood or tin,
Lest their felines I might hurt,
T. W. S.
“Expensive carpets are now almost unsaleable.
— “Sun.”
D — rugs on the market, as it were.
¥ ¥
“Justices of the Peace, like other people, are
liable to be deceived.” — “Sun,”
Hence “day P.'s."
THE PHILOSOPHIC LOVER.
My latest girl has jilted me,
But still I hope she’s happy.
I wish her all felicity,
Both her and her new chappie,
And trust they’ll cling like lovers true,
As close as twins from Siam.
I hope they’re pleased, indeed I do —
Because I’m certain I am!
PIECRUST.
LIFE.
1. Man is nearly driven mad by shouting
of boss in daytime, nagging of wife and
barking of dogs at night, milkcarfs every
morning and pianola over road playing
“Peace, Perfect Peace,” every evening.
2. Goaded to action, takes ticket in
“Golden Gush” .sweep, of which first prize
is £5OOO.
3. Spends six weeks thinking of quiet
holiday he will take in midst of desert when
prize materialises.
4. Receives urgent ’phone message from
wife intimating that he has won prize.
IN FRESH WATER PREFERRED.
FIRST EXPLORER: “Lost, lost in the limitless wastes of
the desert! But you must keep your spirits up!”
SECOND DITTO: “I can’t! It’s awful! I feel like drowning
meself!”
5. Bushes home and finds that fifth prize,
a splendid pianola, has just been delivered,
and that youngest daughter is learning
“Peace, Perfect Peace.”
PIECRUST.
HARVEST.
Before the reign of Lang and eo., I very
often needed dough. Those days are
fled! The dole is here, to help me save
my funds for beer. The moratorium’s kindly
sway keeps baffled creditors at bay. Tu
lack a job is quite the thing, and if I need
some cash 1 fling the blame 0% the depres-
sion—and the most hard-hearted under-
stand! Touched by a fellow-feeling, men
give sympathy, and now and then (“I may
yet want a bob myself”) part freely with
their hard-earned pelf.
In fact, it’s harvest time with me. And
now, to fill my cup with glee (though many
a man the fact deplores), the Savings Bank
has closed its doors.
“It’s pretty stiff,” I say with heat, “when
I have all these bills to meet, that this
d —d bank, by shutting down, should keep
from me my every crown. Of course, it's
safe; but how I hate to ask the tradesmen
all to wait!” This timely and emphatic fic-
tion has so far saved me from eviction;
the grocer ticks up tea and cheese; the
butcher, too, accepts the wheeze ; and, on
the nod, stray pubs yield beer. I float new
credit there and here.
My teeth made sharp in times of ease, I
am a king in days like these. For whilst 1
wander wide and free, there’s no depresh
depressing me !
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


Our Secondary Industries
State their Case
Lowered Cosh of Production and Distribution
would Benefit the Whole Community
The Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales has given
earnest consideration to the economic and financial position of
Australia to-day, and desires to make the following pronouncement:
1. AUSTRALIA’S principal wealth is produced from
the soil. Her Secondary Industries have reached
a stage of development which makes them a vital
factor to be considered in determining the future
national policy. To ensure Australia’s progress
as a nation, both Primary and Secondary Industries
are essential. Any policy affecting both should
be determined from the point of view of its effect
on the whole community.
2. AUSTRALIA is in the grip of a serious economic
and financial depression, and the only way to
restore industry and prosperity is by a reduction
of costs to which all sections of the community
should contribute an equitable share, and also by
the restoration of confidence which will be
achieved by the Governments living within their
means and honoring their obligations. When the
reduction of costs has been achieved and confi-
dence restored, those at present unemployed will
be absorbed in the various branches of productive
activity.
3. FUNDAMENTAL POLICIES of Australia must
be the stabilisation of the man on the land and the
provision and maintenance of an effective tariff on
industries efficiently equipped for local conditions
to ensure the Australian market to Australian pro-
ducers, both Primary and Secondary, thus provid-
ing employment for our own people and a local
market for as much of our products as possible.
4. COSTS OF PRODUCTION and distribution in
Australia must be reduced, and provided that effec-
tive tariff protection is maintained our definite
policy is that sales prices will be equitably lowered
as costs of production are reduced.
5. REDUCTIONS IN TARIFF in Australia without
reductions in cost would mean the closing down of
many Primary and Secondary Industries, and
would cause a corresponding increase in taxation
in some form or another in order to maintain the
additional unemployed.
High tariffs are the result of high
costs, and not the cause of them.
When costs of production are reduced, tariffs may
be equitably reduced also.
While the existing high nominal wages and re-
strictive conditions imposed by the Arbitration
Acts and other Governmental legislation con-
tinue, so long will high tariffs have to remain if
Industry is to carry on.
6. WE DO NOT SUPPORT the imposition of
Super Tariffs or Embargoes except as a legislative
means of correcting extreme adverse trade
balances, and they should not be continued after
such adverse balances have been adjusted.
7. AUSTRALIA must continue to make every
effort to balance her external trade. The position
in this respect is still very unsatisfactory. Our
exports for this year expressed in English
currency will not exceed 60 millions. Our imports
even at a reduced volume will amount to 54
millions. The sum of 36 millions is required to pay
Governmental annual interest abroad. 1 he defici-
ency therefore will be 30 millions. It must be
recognised that an effective tariff is a determining
factor in correcting the external trade balance.
8. WE BELIEVE that the permanent establish-
ment of suitable Secondary Industries will lead
to an influx of capital, thereby assisting to reduce
interest rates and an increase in population, thus
affording a greater local market for all producers.
9. WE BELIEVE that to effect the rehabilitation
of Australia it is necessary to restore to all classes
the right of opportunity to obtain, with a
minimum of parliamentary and legal interfer-
ence, the reward for their efforts to which they
are justly entitled.
10. THE PROSPERITY of the Primary Industries
is of paramount importance for the well-being of
Australia. Lower costs of all products and ser-
vices will enable the Primary Industries to sell
their products on a satisfactory basis, and will
permit many Mining and Secondary Industries
to supply overseas markets. Thus, greater con-
tinuity of employment will be provided for those
engaged in Industries, and the national wealth
will be substantially increased. Lower costs
will reduce the cost of living, and also give the
actual wages and earnings of all classes a greater
purchasing power.
Authorised by H. B. SEVIER, President the Chamber of Manufactures of N.S.W., Sydney.


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in the State that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVE WHILE YOU SPEND
That sounds a bit difficult, but it is really quite simple if you
open a current account with our bank. You see, all the time
you are spending, your balance is earning you interest—just
as though your money was in a deposit account.
And you won’t spend so much if you make a habit of paying
by cheque. Have a bank account—and keep it growing!
note: our new address
Wi' have moved our headquarters into the new, impressive and
central building known as the P. P. Bank Chambers. Pitt
Street. Every modern convenience is afforded for the trans-
action of banking and the comfort of our clients.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
P. P. BANK CHAMBERS,
105 PITT STREET (near Hunter Street),
BANK
SYDNEY.
MONEY-SAVING FAMILY
COUGH MIXTURE RECIPE.
Here's a wonderful money-saving recipe
for a family cough mixture that is equally
good for children and adults, and is far
bettor than any made-up cough mixture you
could buy. Order from your chemist or
store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
Heenzo. Add the Heenzo to sweetened water,
according to the easy directions on the
bottle, and you will have a supply equal to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual
ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost
ui) to £l. Heenzo does NOT contain any
poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can
be given with perfect safety to the youngest
baby. You will be delighted with the speedy
way HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the
i host, and banishes coughs, colds, croup,
influenza, bronchitis and whooping cough.
Always have Heenzo ready in the home for
the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton
of cure. 45
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINEED
MEAL
the action of super.
“It. Iv. Deca” : Super, consists mainly of
moisture, gypsum and a phosphate of lime
(calcium ) which is soluble iu water. When
it is applied to the soil, whether by broad-
casting or through the drill, the soluble
phosphate reacts more or less with the
soil particles, in the presence of ample water,
to form an insoluble compound. It is due
to this reaction (called reversion) that super,
does not move in the soil to any aporeci-
able extent, sandy soils excepted. Broad-
casting- therefore fixes the super, at or
near the surface, whereas in the ease of the
drill the fixation takes place some inches
lower down. Certain, ferruginous soils, very
friable and red or chocolate in color, form,
with super., a most inactive reverted phos-
phate, whereas the multicolored clay loams,
the loams and limestone soils give a reverted
phosphate which is more or less available.
Super, will give the crop the greatest
assistance during germination and early
stages of growth prior to reversion. The
assistance the crop receives subsequently
from the insoluble reverted super, (phos-
phate) will depend largely upon the type of
soil, but may be assumed to be steady, though
small; it is solely due to the solvent action
of soil, water and/or the acid secreted by
the plants' roots. The availability of the
reverted phosphate will be greatest in the
case of limestone soils and loams and least in
the red ironstone soils, where the reverted
phosphate consists entirely of the insoluble
inactive iron phosphate.
Let us picture then the kick-off the young
wheat plant receives from the first showers
after germination, due to the soluble phos-
phoric acid of the super, prior to reversion.
Then we have steady consistent growth
under ideal conditions to maturity. During
this period some quantity but not all of
the reverted super, is utilised. Proof that
appreciable amounts of the reverted phos-
phate are carried over may readily be seen
from the intensified growth along the drill
rows on the stubble the following season.
If it were possible or economical to pick
up the drill rows for a subsequent crop it
would be advisable to reduce the super,
dressing without, fear of seriously impair-
ing the average yield, but as the plan is as
uneconomical as it is impracticable, the
usual amount of starter phosphoric acid
is necessary.
Following recent heavy dressings of super,
(lewt. to 2cwt.), the major portion of which
still exists in the soil in the insoluble con-
dition, it would appear that a s<>lb. dressing
of super, per acre is the best plan under
existing conditions, and tliht a little is better
than none at all.
’WARE MICE!
“J.W.W.”: Iu parts of north-west Vic.
and the Riverina, especially where the last
crop was not harvested, mice are living on
the wheat which is lying on the ground.
When this supply fails the pest will attack
the newly-sown wheat in near-by paddocks.
Mice have a bad habit of eating along the
lines of wheat left by the drill. The best
way to counter this is by cross-harrowing,
which breaks up the rows, throwing the
mice into confusion. They don’t like grop-
ing for the grain in the dark. Some of the
stacks in railway yards art' affected, but
not .seriously yet.
Haystacks are in danger, except those
built on blocks capped with pieces of tin.
In the districts mentioned any not so treated
should be rebuilt on blocks if the hay is
to be kept for long. Cap each block with
tin so that no mice can get into the
stack. A horizontal sheet-iron fence can
be made mouse-proof if all the parts of the
timber framework are placed on the inside,
but this is not so effective as building the
stack on blocks. Mice always first infest
and breed in the top of the .stack. Where green
lucerne is available it is a good practice
to cap the oaten stacks with it. This checks
them at the start; they do not take kindly
to a stack with a lucerne top. Lucerne,
having no grain in jt, is useless to mice as
a food.
WITEAT VARIETIES IN WEKTRALIA.
“W escocky : It is interesting to note how
different wheat varieties shaped in those
Westralian crop competitions (B. 6/5/’3l).
Smith and Sons, of Bruce Rock, gained
highest honors with a plot of Gluclub,
which yielded 43 bushels per acre. The Bruce
Rock team of farmers won the State cham-
pionship ; all planted Gluclub. With returns
ranging from 36 f<> 43 bushels, Gluclub filled
live of the first 11 places. Nabawa came
second and fourth ; Yandilla King also filled
two places. The other varieties tried were
Major and Queen Fan. Out of 165 entries 64
competitors planted Nabawa, 24 Gluyas
Early, 12 Yandilla King, 10 each Merrediu
and Gluclub. On percentage of entries Glu-
club did far the best. Still, the success of
Gluclub may be regarded as a mixed blessing.
Though a splendid yielder it is a poor milling
wheat, and overseas millers are not going to
be satisfied with a sample that local millers
reject.
At the Government experimental farms
trials were conducted with many well-known
varieties. In the May and June plantings
on heavy soils, Noongaar attained the high-
est percentage. It: failed badly at the Won-
gan Hills light-lands farm and also at Chap-
man, where 1856 points of rain fell during
the growing period; but at Dampawak (743
points) it returned 225 per cent, compared
with Nabawa’s 100 per cent. Undoubtedly
Noongaar is Westralia’s premier drought-
resister: At Wongan Hills Bencubbin beat
Nabawa in the April plantings by 32 per-
cent. and in the May plantings by 24 per
cent. Bencubbin. a recently bred mid-
season variety, is hailed as Nabawa’s suc-
cessor, having surpassed that general
favorite’s returns for both the 1029 and
1930 harvests.
Harking back to the State competi-
tions, 82 per cent, of the entrants
seeded before the middle of May, though the
times of planting ranged from early April
until late July—this was owing to the wide
range of rainfall in Westralia. The rate of
seed varied from 221 b. to 751 b.; the average
was 481 b. The fertiliser average was 971 b.;
it varied from 481 b. to 1801 b. The majority
of the competitors applied between 801 b.
and 1001 b. Those who gained first and
second places planted 461 b. and 431 b. of
seed respectively and applied 931 b. and 1201 b.
of super.
COUCH OR KNOT GRASS.
“Hugh Robin’’; I agree with much of
what “Buekwong” (B. 22/4/’3l) writes in
his contribution on couch grass. However,
its value is as a summer fodder, pure and
simple, and even then its nutritive qualities
are not such as to give Strawberry a bilious
attack. In the Ovens Valley, north-eastern
Vic., this grass has taken possession of
rich alluvia] flats. It is not a payable pro-
position on high-class land, the area of
which is all too limited. Alluvial soils
which show £6O to £l5O per acre under
hops and tobacco are far too good to see
covered with couch.
The -late-summer dews make it a matter
of impossibility to burn couch. The only
remedy, if destruction is sought, is the
road plough in the autumn, with subsequent
cross-ploughings, scarifying and harrowing;
but it is going to'take two or three years
and some money.
RAIN AND PASTURE.
“Chemico”: Investigators who have been
striving, by means of soil and pasture analy-
sis, to discover the cause of a malnutrition
disease prevalent among sheep in the Waira-
rapa district in the North, Island of M.L.
have proved that there is an important con-
nection between rainfall and the phosphoric
acid and nitrogen content of pasture. The
soil has been proved to be deficient: in phos-
phoric acid, and the administration to the
stock of salt licks containing bonedust or
Nauru phosphate and the top-dressing of
the pastures with phosphate have been recom-
mended as means of curing tin- , condition
caused by the soil deficiency. Gf more
general application, however, is the discovery
that the phosphoric acid and nitrogen con-
tent of pasture is directly proportional to
the amount of rainfall. The percentage is
highest in the spring, following the winter
rains, and falls to a marked degree in
summer and autumn.
As the proportion of these protein-form-
ing constituents rises the lime percentage in
the pasture decreases. This was tested in
various conditions of soil and rainfall and
found to be universally applicable. The
practical advantages to be derived from this
observation, of course, will depend upon tin-
devising of methods to maintain at its high
spring standard all (lie year round the
nutritive value of tin- pasture—methods
which, of course, must be adjusted to suit
varying conditions of soil and climate.
COWS ON CLOVER.
“Paul C.”: After the bounteous rams we
have had in N. S. Wales abundance of clover
may be expected during the winter in locali-
ties where it grows. To guard against hoven
or bloat dairymen and others should be
careful not to put hungry cows on rich
clover and leave them there. They should
not be left longer than 20 minutes for a
start; the period may be lengthened from day
to day, till they become used to the feed.
They should be kept off clover while it is
wet with dew or rain.
Should a beast become “blown,” if a gag is
put in its mouth and its head is pulled up it
will usually belch the gas off. If this fails,
give it a drench of an ounce each of ginger
and baking soda in a pint bottle of warm
water; repeat in an hour’s time if neces-
sary. Sometimes the case is too far gone
for either remedy to answer; then it is neces-
sary to tap the beast. If the proper instru-
ment, a trocar, with its tube or cannula, is
not at hand, the clean blade of a pocket-
knife will do. The puncture should be made
on the left side at a point at equal distances
from the hip joint, the edge of the loin bones
and the last rib. If the knife is driven in
there the gas will escape when the knife is
withdrawn. That done, if it is a dairy cow
or a quiet beast that can be handled, give a
drench of a tablespoon of turpentine in a
pint and a half of linseed oil. But preven-
tion is better than cure.
WHITE CURL-G RUBS.
“6Q..T.” : The N.S.W. Government entomo-
logists have been considering tne increased
activities of the white curl-grub in its various
destructive forms. One species is well known
to Sydney suburban gardeners. It is often
miscalled a glow-worm, and there is an
equally mistaken belief that the grubs are
the larvae of the cicada. In fact, they
develop into the “king” or “Christmas”
beetle. These large white grubs are com-
paratively harmless, but of the smaller
varieties there are at least three in N. S.
Wales which cause such damage as to call
for serious attention.
In recent years these destructive small
grubs have made their appearance in the
greens of golf links around Sydney and on
the mountains. Working in colonies, they
eat through the stem of the grass, just at
its junction with the roots, killing out great
patches. Eradication is difficult, but experi-
ments carried out in America to combat a
similar pest have led to a treatment which
has proved fairly effective. Five pounds of
lead arsenate is mixed with one bushel of
fine sieved soil or sand, which is sufficient
to treat 1000 square feet of lawn. Mixture
and plot to be treated are divided into an
even number of heaps and squares respec-
tively ; one heap of poison is applied to
each square of lawn, and raked over evenly
and thoroughly. This treatment is carried
out in three applications at six-monthly
intervals, and should render the treated soil
immune to the pest for about five years.
Another form of the curl-grub appears in
the districts between Robertson and Young
(N.S.W.). It lives in upright tunnels and
comes out to feed on the natural pastures,
drawing the blades of grass down into the
tunnels to be consumed at leisure. This
variety will attack almost any natural pas-
ture grass, and does considerable damage to
grass lands.
Probably the most menacing of all the
types is that which attacks the roots of
wheat and oat crops. This grub, like the
others, is always curled in form, about fin.
in length, and has a yellowish-white body
with legs of a slightly darker yellow. The
brown head is small, and the body is sparsely
covered with hairs the same color as the
head. So far it has caused serious damage
in red-soil country only, although it has
been found in harmless quantities in grey
and white soils. In its early stages it lives
on decaying vegetable matter in the ground,
but by July or August it is ready to attack
the young roots of wheat or oat crops.
Numbers of grubs are to be found in scat-
tered patches, as many as 40 being counted
to the square foot. They eat the original
young roots,, and all fresh root fibre as it
appears, until the plant dies. Damage s<>
far has- been confined to patches and strips
in a crop—neighboring crops are often un-
affected —but owing to rapid increase in
recent years it is urgent that some control
measures should be adopted or .some parasite
or natural enemy discovered. When the
grubs have passed from the larvae stage the
beetles may in the afternoon be seen coming
out; of the ground in thousands, returning
to their underground haunts towards night-
fall. This habit directs another line of
thought, a.s a time when (he beetles might
be attacked. Treatment of infested soils
with insoluble arsenicals is another means
by which these destructive insects might be
controlled.
PRUNING DECIDUOUS FRUIT TREES.
"Disc Harrow : Tlipse 14 points for prun-
ing deciduous fruit trees (B. 6/5/’81) are
accurate in the main, but most growers I
know in southern Vic. would question No. <1
(“Lightly-pruned trees have stockier and
stronger trunks and branches than heavily-
pruned trees”) and No. 8 (“To encouragt
growth in a weak limb, prune it lightly”).
Let me quote observations made on neigh-
boring orchards, where there was no differ-
ence in the soil.
On the first place, a patch of Croftrms
and Jonathans was purposely left unpruned
for two years—the “lightest pruning” on?
could imagine—and cut timidly in other
years. They have grown up the most
straggly and weak examples I know of, and
at the first bearing broken limbs and split
trunks were rife. Several were split so
badly that they had to be dug out. A severe
programme of cutting-back is now being
adopted at each pruning, and they are gradu-
ally strengthening up. On the adjoining
orchard the trees were cut hard, were well
supplied with manure (though the others
were not starved), and are now the best
examples of vigorous growth in the dis-
trict. These trees range up to 36 main
leaders, and though planted 20 feet apart
meet to form a tunnel in the fruiting season.
With regard to the other point, the rule
I have always followed is to go easy on the
strong-growing tree, as hard cutting merely
sends it still more to wood, but to deal
severely with the weakling tree or limb. A
free which has the “die-backs,” for instance,
needs vigorous cutting well beneath the
point of dying, and in some cases may need
the leaders to be sawn off almost at the
crown. I cited a case in The Bulletin
of a mau with a patch of weakening trees
that seemed so far gone that he hacked the
leaders back with an axe. They grew and
bore so well after that that lie is grieving
lie didn’t do it neatly with a saw.
Generalisations in the pruning game are
out of place. Each tree must be studied on
its merits and given absolutely individual
treatment. The man who believes in coaxing
strength and forcing weakness will, however,
find himself right in the majority of cases.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is it advisable to give salt to sheep
running on .scrub country? (2) Does it
make an important difference? (3) Is a
10c.c. dose of carbon tetrachloride recom-
mended for tapeworm in sheep? (4) Is
same dose suitable for internal sheep para-
sites in general? —3o63.
(1) Always advisable. It acts as a general
tonic. In the majority of cases it is best
combined with bonemeal or some other form
of phosphate, as pliosphatic insufficiency is
very common in coastal and scrub country.
(2) Makes no noticeable difference in the
appearance of the animal, but a combined
lick improves growth, wool and quality of
meat and leads to early maturity. (3) Not
recommended. Better results are likely to
be obtained by an arsenite of soda-bluestone
drench, or by bluestone. (4) Too heavy a
dose for internal parasites, lc.c. for. fluke
and 2c.c. for stomach worm ( Hiernonchu.s
contortus) is recommended.
Will subterranean clover grow in southern
Q'land within 25 miles of the coast? —2656.
Not unless there is a regular autumn and
winter rainfall and suitable soil. In very
few localities within 25 miles of the coast
are these conditions fulfilled.
(1) For how many cows is the installa-
tion of milking machines profitable? (2)
How are co-operative butter factories
financed, and how much capital is required
to start one? —3ooB., •
(1) Plants are now available for the
milking of herds of 20 cows. They are very
efficient and reasonable in price. (2) They
usually are financed by shareholders. Finan-
cial assistance is sometimes obtained from
agents appointed to sell the produce of the
factory. Capital for a factory to turn out
about five tons of butter per week would be
approximately £7OOO.
(1) Will myall-trees groiv from seed in
the black soil of Vic.? (2) If so, when is
best time to soto? (3) Will rabbits or
hares eat the young trees? —3371.
(1) Myall grows on heavy black and clay
soils which in wet weather may be subject
to flooding, but it is doubtful whether the
climatic conditions of Vic. would be suitable
for its development. It should be easy to
propagate from seed. (2) In winter. (3)
Very probably. The leaves are a favorite
fodder with sheep and cattle.
(1) How can a fertile egg be distinguished
from one that is not fertile? (2) What age
must a rooster be before starting to breed
from? (3) Best book on poultry-keeping for
V orth Queensland? —3089.
(1) Various devices are used, all on the
principle of shielding the eggs from any
light other than that which will pass through
the egg. In a fertile egg, after from five to
seven days’ incubation, a small spider-like
formation will be observed. This is the
embryo. An infertile egg will appear abso-
lutely clear. (2) Nine to ten months.
Younger birds can be used, but unless there
are special circumstances it is not recom-
mended. (3) Write to Q’land Agriculture
Department for free leaflets.
(1) How much floor space should be
allowed each fowl in housing for laying?
(Continued on page 26.)


Do not blame overwork and
worry when all the time
unsuspected
constipation is
poisoning you
Constipation in itself is rarely a
hospital case. It is an habitual
and distressing state of interna!
congestion. A great many people
are living half-powered lives as a
result of it. Harsh purgatives
merely aggravate and cannot
cure. It is the great virtue of
Enos "Fruit Salt" that while it
keeps your "foodways" from get-
ting into this clogged and poison-
ed state, it does so with due
regard to the delicacy of the
human mechanism. By the natural
process known to doctors as
"osmosis," Eno retains in the
food-canal the necessary fluid
:
iiiii
wmm
nil
m
mm
HPS
mmmmm
to dilute and dismiss all poisonous
waste promptly and com-
pletely. Impure mineral salts,
harsh aperients, and crude purga-
tives are all harmful to you. Take
Eno first thing every morning
—and only Eno.
95he 'words &no and "tfruit Salt” are registered trademarks. Sales gents: jfofo ZKarold <3. {Ritchie & Go. £td Sydney
ert
S&*? 8
X
• nun
m
lied time
is Benger time
A Doctor says "Benger’s
Food is the finest thing to
go to bed on. Very soothing
and sleep inducing.”
ert
Food
for Infants,
Invalids and the Aged
If you suffer from the unrest of ivealc
digestion, Benger’s Booklet will help
you. Post free from Benger’s Food, Ltd.,
350, George Street, Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers :
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, England.
A.259T0
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE LOVE RACE.
CRITERION: THE SPOT ON THE SUN.
Last Eight Nights.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
4 Direction Hugo Larsen.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6, at 8.
Also JUNE 9, 11 and 13.
The Colossal Musical Attraction of 1931.
HUGO LARSEN AND CO.
present
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA,
the joint appearance of
MARK HAMBOURG,
THE GREAT RUSSIAN MASTER PIANIST.
“There is no greater player of Beethoven to-day.”—-
“Evening Standard/’ London.
And
PETER DAWSON,
THE WORLD’S MOST POPULAR SINGER.
Ten Million of His Records Have Been Sold.
PRELIMINARY BOOKING.
Applications for Reserved Seats (price, 7/6, plus
tax, total 8/9) are now being received at Nicholsons.
CT. JAMES’S HALL, PHILLIP STREET,
° SYDNEY
(Under Distinguished Patronage).
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, MAY 21 and 22, at S p.m.
Production by a Professional Company of a whimsical
Three-act Farce,
WHAT’S IN A NAME,
By ROBERT OGILVIE BLACKMAN (Bankruptcy
Division, Supreme Court, N.S.W. —“Mid-Channel” of
The Bulletin.)
Prices: 4/-, 2/7, 2/- and 1/-, including tax.
Plan at Palings.
T C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: lOLANTHE.
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE CALENDAR,
With FRANK HARVEY and brilliant company.
Commencing 23rd May.
TTTVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Ptv., Ltd.
RETURNING OVERSEAS CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
Missing Friends.
IF JOHN DENNIS LOWREY and CECIL
1 CHARLES LOWREY, who are believed
to be in Queensland, will communicate with
the undersigned they will hear something
to their advantage.
CORNWALL, ANDERSON & STODART,
Solicitors,
440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
I ILY GAY or DEVES (or LEAVES)'
daughter of the late Frederick Henry
Gay, or anyone knowing her whereabouts,
is requested to communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
CHOULD this meet the eye of Mr. J. R.
WOOLLETT, _ late of Queensland, will
he please communicate with M. 0., address
care of Bulletin Office, Adelaide Street.
Brisbane, in matter of something to his
benefit.
■"THOMAS WILLIAMSON, late of York.
England, last heard of at Nimcgee,
N.S.W., in 1896. Will any person having
anv information regarding the above please
communicate with J. S. BLOOMFIELD,
Solicitor, 84 William Street, Melbourne.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“ Enter the Queen,” at Sydney Plaza, has
the bad luck to be subsidiary to the star
picture, so the critics have ignored it. It
has even been ignored by the management;
the names of the performers don’t appear
on the programme. Yet it is one of the
funniest all-English comedies that have been
unreeled in Australia. The fatuous-looking
hero with the Eton-and-Oxford voice is dis-
covered in his London flat after a binge. He
doesn’t know he has got engaged to a nice
girl. the previous night till she calls and
reminds him of the episode. The scene
changes to his parents’ place in the country.
Lady Bunter. his mother, a formidable
woman who has ground her husband, Sir
Horace, beneath her heel for 30-odd years,
is off to London' on a mission connected with
the engagement. For the first time in his
arduous married life Sir Horace faces the
joyous prospect of 24 hours on his own.
Enter the butler, who is easily the most
amusing one this critic has seen on a screen.
He is a shortish, dapper man with a turned-
up nose and a turned-down mouth; an
embodiment of deferential superciliousness.
He and his master proceed to get blind
together, but lie never ceases to be a perfect
butler, pulling himself up sternly when, be-
mused by alcohol, he is tempted to rest his arm
on the back of Sir Horace’s armchair. He has
some glorious business when Lady Bunter
unexpectedly returns with the girl and the
girl's mother, and he is obliged, though badly
under the weather, to open the front door,
engage them in conversation, and usher
them inside. The average stage or screen
drunk is a tedious nuisance who relies for
his laughs on stunts which have done ser-
vice for centuries. The inebriate under
review is different. He doesn’t even hiccup,
and the only intimation you get that his legs
have gone is an almost imperceptible sway-
ing from the heels; yet there is no mis-
taking his lamentable plight. Groat work.
The Queen (of Moravia in the Balkans)
enters while the brandy is beintr punished,
but she hasn’t much to do with the subse-
quent proceedings, which end when the hero
folds the girl in his arms.
# * *
The chief current offering at Sydney
Regent is Cecil de Mille's “Madame Satan.”
It is preposterously unreal, but a mint of
money has been spent on it, and it has
streaks of imagination and humor. The act-
ing is poor to middling. Reginald Denny
is supposed to be fed up wuth his wife, Kay
Johnson. Her genteel frigidity contrasts
unfavorably with the licentiousness of
Trixie, over-played by Lillian Roth. Denny
and Roland Young (who portrays Jimmy
Wade, millionaire, and is, as usual, him-
self) do a tedious drunk act as a prelimi-
nary. They fall up and down stairs, knock
things over, stand dressed under a shower,
and perform other stock antics, with the
result that Kay Johnson, looking as wdl-
lowy and supercilious as a giraffe in her
Paris frocking, gets utterly discouraged and
leaves the home “to regain her husband s
io VO .” Mr. Wade’s hal masqut on a Zep-
pelin anchored to a tower on the outskirts
and
Zeppelins? Probably not
on ordhmrv ones but this variety is non-
.fl m,’’ ,• , ; t .. .Unvoted
“Sg', t X e d"wS iL* Jolm“
and the retllero find themselves
«***. Th « Ml ignominy of Trixie's char-
acter now appears. Miss Johnson gives
, tlie c^ eat H re o , lle owa p^ a H. iat ®b :® u i
J eaps bowling with terror in it, and is. .
later dangling absurdly from the weather-
Y an ? °t a skyscraper. The brtia 'S
.flin
hands float to safety except Reginald
P eany ’ who diy as into a nver and emerges
to become a good husband. The insanity is
well worth seem | foi * lts ick Photography.
, r r , ~, ~,, ~ T , T ~ .
. M.-G.-M. s Men Cal] It Love, the fiist
l!\ ctl ’ ro Regent, m almost as incred-
as De Mille affair. The characteis
a / e . a . m .dlionaires, or thereabouts, and
P n hobby. .s.adultory. Adolphe
Menjou, looking rathei tiled and eldeily in
?P ,ta of hls resplendent clothes is the lead-
mg home-wrecker. The husband of the lady
IS J cr at P l 6, /• ko . l , a ,\ s
ady aad Norman p°® ter * ke husband)
has a sweetie, and Adolphe rather unsport-
mgly truss to get Miss Hyams on the rebound
hy giving the fact away. Howevei lie fails,
am l yO V- ag Pf°P^ e a [ e , r/united. The
basic absurdity of the plot is that it con-
cems a social upit m which all-round mari-
mfidelity is taken for granted. As the
Ibsen character said, ‘"mob things don t
happen. Lhe Juanesque Menjou appeals
ln a lovable light in the end because he
doesnt run away with the wife on realising
that she doesn t want to rim away with him.
AT „ r.. ~ , . „
Melbourne view of a film which has
already been damned m Sydney:
My impression of Pshaw’s first talkie,
“How He Lied to Her Husband,” is that it
was the best house-emptier Melbourne State
has ever had. After a few minutes of the
dramatist’s circumlocutions regular patrons
were getting- up all over the theatre and
making for the exits as if the Devil were on
their tails. I sat the thing through, but I
couldn’t help feeling that the seekers of 100
per cent, entertainment were right, m this
case, at any rate. As far as human values
go, all I got from the screen was a dry
rattle, as if a number of desiccated skeletons
were engaged in fisticuffs. It is true that
what the average film addict laps up so
uncritically is an insult to adult intelligence,
hut so were these dusty symbols of -Pshaw s
nimble puritanical wit. The usual film
fare is mush., but it is mush, which grapples
in its own inarticulate ana romantic way
with the realities of life. In How He
Lied Pshaw is merely giving his mhibi-
tions a day off by slandering the tender pas-
sign,- making it ridiculous by the usual
Pshaw method—he puts the most sublime
expressions of love in the mouth of a foolish
poet incapable of any emotion except of the
most literary kind. Everything was in the
playwright’s favor. It would be hard to find
a better Shavian cast than Robert Harris,
as the poet; Yera Lennox, as,the wife; and.
as the husband, the inimitable Edmund
Gwenn, known previously in the flesh in Aus-
tralia ; - and the British International pro-
ducer was at his best. But the result only
served to raise forebodings as to the rest of
the Pshaw canons, most of which have less
action and much more verbosity. If G.B.S.
had been as good an artist as Charlie
Chaplin he would never have allowed his
social propaganda to be screened.
* * *
“Mr. Lemon of Orange” (Fox), shown
recently at Sydney Regent, is a worth-while
farce. An engaging feature is that it cods
much that earnest film-fans hold sacred.
The stahry hinges on an ancient theme —
two characters who are alike in appearance
but the antithesis of each other in all disc.
As Mr. Lemon, El Brendel might have
stepped out of a German fairy tale, and
the illusion is helped by his Nordic accent.
He is a grown-up child, as anxious to play
with anybody as a dog is to go for a walk,
and as proud as a child of his infantile con-
juring tricks. Silent McGee, his physical
double, is an efficient bootlegger and gun-
man. The action mainly consists of a series
of situations in which Lemon is taken for
McGee, and vice versa. Thus McGee’s
ruffians are bogged with a lorry load of illicit
liquor. Lemon blows along and they ask for
instructions. He tells them to ring up
police headquarters for a tow. “What a
man!” gasp the thugs as Lemon passes
on —“nobody but the Chief would have dared
to do a thing like that.” Again Lemon
floats into a night club where hi-jackers are
waiting to kill McGee. A diverting charac-
ter here is a gunman who has been detailed
to bump off five persons, including a lady
who is seated next to him. H’e says “You’ve
got six minutes to live, sister,” and then
bursts into tears, and explains that the
cruel heads are working him overtime, though
his baby is sick with whooping-cough and
crying for her daddy to come home. “I
won’t be long, sweet,” he tells his wife over
the telephone. Fifi Dorsay is the leading-
lady. and fits her part as well as she usually
does, and there are no weak spots in the
rest of the cast.
Who is to-day responsible for Lang’s
repudiations, the continuous Theodore
disgrace and the incapacity of the Gov-
ernors to take action?
These questions are fully answered in
last Saturday’s “Barrier Miner,” the
Great Daily Newspaper of Broken Hill
and the Far West.


Here is utmost
pliancy!
Extremely supple.... light in
weight.... with no toecap and
having an upper that follows
the instep arch in such a way
chat all tightness or strain is
eliminated. . . this Abbey Shoe
is ideal for comfort. The sides
are low-cut and snug-fitting. . .
the sole specially tough despite
its flexibility. And, prices have
been reduced.
Three widths per size.
ORDER BY POST: Both full and
half sizes available—each in narrow,
medium or wide fitting. Specify
width and length. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin), or a convenient
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf . . 38/6
Black Box Calf 36/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 223.
RAVOYAC
Th
Vo
be
op
67
ctn
Torch
* ,r > all
dan 9er i C ° Unfr ‘es „ a
LIG "r h '
wi^oZ°9^t: n
b iCTo^ R ,Z°' Hec
irS&K***
VA
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
~ CHICAGO U.S.A. ...
K 3
farmers ...
RurauTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
■ Notes Etc All in „
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES 62
HARDY’S
TINTARA WINES
Ihe Champion Reserve (Gold
Label) qualities, in particular, pos-
sess that perfect balance for which
a connoisseur always seeks.
Extracted from the rich grapes grown
on the chosen vineyards of South
Australia, they are “crisp” (not-
withstanding their great age),
rich in flavor and have an
exquisite bouquet.
That Hardy’s place wines of
such high quality before the
public at such very moderate
prices sets their competitors
furiously to think.
Obtainable from all botch and licensed
stores specialising in the distribution
of the higher grades of wines.
WmM
5,
:, .
it
*>SL::
ii
m
m
P
m
s 'm
MM
11
W'XM
■•V
■
S: ;
Sr
HARDYS WINES OF TINTARAS
BEAR IN MIND
ONE IS SOLD
EVERY TWO MINUTES
“Ideal” Boilers are used die world over and one is sold every two
minutes of the working day. They are British, and are manufactured
in Hull, England, by the National Radiator Co.
14 »
*IDUI
“IDEAL” Hot Water Boilers
are for the supply of hot water continuously for baths, sculleries,
kitchens and for many trade processes, in an efficient manner
at a lower rate than other systems.
“Ideal” Boilers burn coke, are simple in operation, and raise
50 gallons of hot water from 91b. of coke.
A HOT BATH FOR A PENNY.
Where water is colored by foreign matter, rustproof boilers are
supplied, preventing “rusty” water.
Reduce your expenses—inquire to-day.
“Ideal” Radiators used in conjunction with “Ideal” Boilers
heat average-sized rooms for 24 hours for about twopence.
Write or call for free booklet.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
(2) Gan dry masli by means of hopper be
fed to birds in lieu of wet mash all the year
round without impairing laying? (3) If wet
mash is necessary, what proportion of green
feed should be given? (4) Quantities of
mash and wheat required per day for 100
birds? —3o74.
(1) Throe sq. ft. per bird for semi-inten-
sive method; 4 sq. ft. for all intensive. (2)
It can be fed all the year round in hoppers,
but wet masli is preferable for egg-prod in-
ti on. (3) Forty per cent, in winter to 60
per cent, in summer. (4) Bran, 31b. 20z.;
pollard, 61 lb.; meatmeal, lib.; wheat, 12-Jlb.
Is it possible to tell how many males and
how many females there will be in a setting
of folds' eggs?— 3oB3.
No, but under normal conditions eggs
usually hatch approximately equal propor-
tions of both sexes.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Alfalfa”; After trying many ways of
ploughing up old lucerne beds, I find the
best is with the single-furrow mouldboard.
1 use a steel share; riveted to it is a piece
of an old plough disc, flattened, with the
edge in front of the share and extending
out to the side a little so as to cut the
full slice taken. If this misses any roots
the ploughman is to blame. With three
horses one can keep moving and do eight or
nine acres a wfeek.
“Gordo Blanco”: I have grazed pigs for
years. The best fence, and the simplest to
erect, is the latest-pattern woven wire ring-
lock fence. Posts 12ft. apart; back wire
run along ground with the other stuff bound
to it at intervals of 3ft.; 2 bails Gin. apart
above woven-wire portion, Staple wire as
low as possible to ground with a doubled
piece of No. 8 gal. wire, run through a hole
bored at right angles to the fence and
clipped back on the post. If it is necessary
to make fence more secure, staple the wire
to short stakes in centre of panels.
“Wooriner” : Tell “Bendee” (B. 29/4/’3l)
that the Large White run on lucerne to an
automatic feeder does not scald on my place
(northern Vic.). Remarks to the effect that a
pig makes a good porker but a poor baconer,
or the contrary, explain why so little pork
is eaten per capita in Australia. Butchers
buy the overfat, “shouldery” Berks and
wonder why their customers say pork is too
rich. The leaner Large White is far better
pork than its fatter friend.
“Kurrajong” : Before burning a dead tree
make sure that its hollows contain no kurra-
jongs. Incidentally, hollow trees are the best
places in which to plant young kurrajongs,
which in stocked country are all too few. The
roots descend to the ground, and, when large
enough, split the dead trunks.
“Bendee”: Heavily-stocked country is apt
to become infested with worms, especially
when deficient in lime. The most practical
remedy is constant cultivation with grass
harrows. Breaking up the stools and letting
the air into the soil will do much to cleanse
it, while frequent movement of stock from
one paddock to another reduces the extent of
infestation and increases the resisting powers
of the stock. The higher the nutritional value
of the pasture, the healthier and sturdier
should be the. animals. Just as cultivation and
rotation will eradicate many diseases of
crops, so will rotational grazing and culti-
vation of pastures destroy the spores of
many stock diseases.
“L’Fou”: If any dairy-farmer has cattle
destitute of shelter this winter let him put
up the ugly makeshift “Dai R.” (B.
29/4/’3l) advises; but for his country’s sake
let him set about planting a permanent
shelter that isn’t a hardship to look at. The
ideal is a group of dense-leafed trees —there
are dozens to choose from—with an angle
of close hedge on the side of the prevailing
winds. Shelter is as necessary as fencing.
If the field may sometimes be cultivated
afforest a corner; if hilly, choose a rise for
your arbor work; if very flat, try to drain
the camping site —the trees themselves will
help in this. A temporary tin and bough
shelter will keep you patching and remaking
every year; a living breakwind will appre-
ciate year by year, will probably be good
after the planter is in his grave, and will
yield a good return in timber and fuel.
“Trifolium”; The most useful implement
on a coastal dairy farm is the harrow. Har-
rowing increases carrying capacity, because
(1) it spreads animal droppings ; (2) it tears
away old matted growth, allowing fresh
young grass to take its place; (3) it pro-
duces a level sward free from high and low
patches, which helps to produce maximum
growth, (4) it removes tussock-like patches
of coarse grass which continually increase
in size and collect dust, thus decreasing the
area of useful feed; (5) it secures better
aeration of soil and increases the beneficial
effects of top-dressing.
“ J.A.S.”: Oats are good for fowls, but the
husk is an objection. This can be overcome
by sprouting the oats prior to feeding: the
sprouting process also serves for greenfeed.
Put oats in a bucket and soak overnight (in
cold weather it assists rapid germination to
use lukewarm water). Next morning spread
out on a concrete floor, or in trays, about an
inch deep. Keep moist for several days (still
using warm water in cold weather), and
when the green shoots have attained a
growth of about one inch feed them to the
hens. A good plan is to have seven trays
(wood or galvanised-iron ) placed one on top
of the other, and sprout just enough for one
day’s feeding in each tray, refilling the empty
tray each day with grain soaked the pre-
vious night. Wheat and other cereals arc
also improved by sprouting.
“Frigid” : There is a new variety of bush
nut growing along the Tweed (N.S.W.) ; it
has a shell so thin that it can be opened
with a penknife. The rich flavor and other
qualities of the hard-shelled sort are main-
tained. “Azac” (B. 6/5/’3l) errs when
he says that not one Australian in a hun-
dred has tasted this nutritious nut. Grocers
and fruiterers add it to their pound boxes
of mixed nuts. We are actually importing
our bush nut from the U.S.A., where it is
grown from seed obtained from Queensland.
After being cracked in a machine which
handles three a second, the kernels find a
ready market at nearly three times the best
price offering here.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Digger, exp. gardener, will give part-time services
for board in Brisbane. Refs. —3302.
Young man (26), Melb. pub. school boy, farming
and clerical exp., wants job anywhere. Refs. —3295.
Young man (28), N.S.W., single, car-, tractor-
and engine-driver and mechanic, wants work. —3328.
Married couple, boy 10, husband exp. station-
hand, wife ex-schoolteacher, cook or general, want
position, West N.S.W. preferred. Refs. —3361.
Lady, Sydney, pharmacy exp., desires position of
trust in medical rooms, part' or whole time. —3275.
Elderly Scotch lady, travelled extensively in the
East, will give services in return for fare or part
fare to England. Refs. —3280.
Lady (N.S.W.) accustomed to tropics wants posi-
tion as nursery governess or companion-help any-
where. New Guinea preferred.—3237.
To buy early books relating to Australia, MX. or
Pacific Islands.—3239.
To buy novel “Ex-Wife.” —3274.
To buy a Campbell prospector’s box. —3282.
To buy A. G. Hales’s “Ginger and McGlusky” and
“Adventures of Signor McGlusky.”—32BB.
Price for printing negative from cinema film.
—3244.
Words of verses “Store Cattle from Nelangie.”—
3236.
Words of Brunton Stephens’s verses “The Headless
Trooper” and “Ode to a Gin.”—323l.
Words of recitation “Devil May Care.” —3238.
Address of Margaret Blackburn, late of Humphrey
Bishop Co., Q’land.’ —3245.
Whereabouts of Miss Ross Ohlson. —3294.
To purchase in Sydney a hand spinning-wheel for
fine wool. —3327.
To buy, secondhand, Winston Churchill’s “World
Crisis,” 4 vols. —3340.
Will any backblocks girl exchange books or
illustrated weeklies with M.L. backblocks reader ?
3352.
Words of Kipling’s “If.” —3330.
Words of humorous poem “How Many Legs Has a
Caterpillar Got?”; also to buy copy of Romain
Rolland’s “Clerambault.” —3336.
Information Sought.
(1) Is the scouring of wool with petrol
or other spirit entirely covered by 'patents
or only the machinery? (2) A brief out-
line of the process? (3) Any disadvantages?
(4) Chief advantages over soap and water?
(5) Boolcs on the subject? —3l7o.
(1) Probably limited to machinery. (2)
It is known as the “Solvent” system. The
wool to be treated is fed into vertical tiers
or digesters. These can be hermetically
sealed. Naphtha is then introduced through
a pipe leading into the top of the digester.
Considerable pressure develops from the gas
formed, and the spirit is forced through the
wool, carrying with it a large proportion
of the greasy constituents. Generally three
flushings are required to obtain cleanliness.
Only rinsing to remove foreign mineral mat-
ter is then necessary in the case of free
wools. This rinsing is carried out with
warm water in the ordinary scouring bowl.
(3) Difficulty of handling the highly inflam-
mable agents, together with cost outside of
U.S.A. (4) The properties of the wool-fibre
are better preserved. As less working of
wool takes place the staple formation is
retained to a greater degree, and, conse-
quently, the fibres do not entangle, rope or
mat. (5) Communicate with the director,
Arlington Mills, Lawrence, Mass. (U.S.A.),
where this method is used.
How is ginger root prepared for use?
Are there different varieties of the plant?
—2832.
The only variety cultivated is Zingiber
officinale. The dried root has a pungent
aromatic odor, and oil of ginger is obtained
by distilling it. Ginger oil and also the
alcoholic extract are used for flavoring
beverages. In some countries the roots,
when fully mature, are dug up, washed, and
the fresh, tender parts cooked in syrup.
Is the country outside Sydney free from
taxation as regards the harbor bridge? —3l6o.
One-tliird of the cost is being met by a
special rate imposed on shires and munici-
palities in the neighborhood of the bridge.
The remainder is debited to the railways,
and met out of loan funds, being thus, in-
directly, a tax charge on the whole State.
(1) Wliat sort of a place is Nauru, and is
there much cultivation earned out there?
(2) What is the system of land tenure and
is there much land available? (3) How is
the climate? —324o.
(1) It is an oval-shaped atoll about 12
miles in circumference, with an area of 5400
acres, of which approximately four-fifths is
phosphate-bearing. A portion of the island is
fertile, and it is there that the native
Nauruans have established themselves, (2)
With the exception of small allotments held
by the Government and missions, the whole
of the island is owned by individual natives.
(3) Hot, but not unpleasant, the average
shade temperature ranging between 72 and
95 degrees Fahr., and the average humidity
between 70 and 80. The average rainfall is
120 in., but droughts occasionally occur.
(1) Ages between which recruits are
accepted in the voluntary military forces?
(2) Period of service? (3) Amount of
training per year?.- —3243.
(1) 18 to 40. (2) The first period of
enlistment is for three years, and on its com-
pletion a member of the forces may re-
engage for successive periods of one year
until he reaches the age for retirement (48
years). (3) 16 days per annum (including
eight days of continuous training in camp).
(T) Imports into Australia of manufac-
tured tobacco , cigars and cigarettes? (2)
Quantity of tobacco,, cigars and cigarettes
manufactured locally? (3) Quantities of
Australian and imported leaf used in local
manufacture? —3246.
(1) For year ending June 00, 1929,
1,070,2511 b. manufactured tobacco, 108,6921 b.
cigars, and 1,019,5141 b. cigarettes. (2)
15,667,9001 b. manufactured tobacco, 338,8731 b.
cigars, and 5,357,7821 b. cigarettes. (3) Aus-
tralian leaf, 978,0301 b. ; imported leaf,
15,157,689ib.
(1) What is the population of the North-
ern Territory? (2) Length of the Adelaide-
Darwin telegraph line? (3) When was it
completed? (4) Cost? (5) When did, the
Commonwealth take the N.T. over? —3255.
(1) At the end of 1929 it Avas estimated
to be 4470, exclusive of abos. (2) 2230
miles. (3) August 22, 1872. (4) Close on
£500,000. (5) January 1, 1911.
How can the basking shark be identified,
andwhat are its habits?- —3260. .
It is a very large variety, attaining to a
length of 35 feet. Its teeth are small and
numerous —about 200 in each row. The gill
openings are of unusually large size. The
fish feeds on minute floating animals. It
derives its vernacular name from a habit of
floating almost motionless near the surface
of the sea.
Has the advance of settlement materially
affected the climate of Australia? —3252.
The period is too short and the extent of
settlement too small to make the effect on the
climate of the continent, measurable. Small
local changes have been recorded. lor
example, the mean temperature of Sydney
shows a rise of two-tenths of a degree during
the last 20 years, a change probably brought
about by the great increase of buildings in
the city and suburbs. Again, low-lying lands
On the North Coast of N.S.W., which origin-
ally were seldom subject to frosts, liaA'e, with
the denudation of the surrounding hills,
originally thickly forested, experienced annual
visitations, the cold air of the high lands
now flowing unchecked down the sides of the
hills to the lower lands.
(1) Can a non-shareholder inspect the
share register of a N.B.W. company at the
co.’s registered office? (2) In the event of
the officers of the co. refusing has the person
wishing to inspect any redress? —3248.
(1) Yes, on payment of one shilling. (2)
Yes. .Under Section 239 (4), N.S.W. Coin-
panics Act, fines are prescribed. In addition
to these penalties any Judge, sitting in
Chambers, may order the co. to offer its
register for inspection.
How to set slide-valves (common *‘D”
type) of a compound steam-engine? —3l4B.
Remove cover of valve chest and set
engine on head-end dead centre. Measure
lead which valve has on that end. If valve
covers port, mark position of valve and turn
engine forward until edge of valve is in line
with edge of port, and measure distance by
which port was overlapped by valve. Turn
engine forward until crank end dead centre
is reached and measure lead in same manner.
If leads are equal and of required amount
no further adjustments are required, If
leads are equal but of wrong amount move
eccentric forward to give more lead, back-
ward to give less. If leads are unequal,
equalise them by changing length of valve
rod Take half the difference between leads
and change length, of rod by this amount,
lengthening if head-end lead is larger and
shortening if crank-end lead is larger.
What is the significance of the ceremony
of “breaking the flag,” sometimes performed
on Ansae Day? What is its origin?—- 6262.
At sea flags are hoisted m a tight roll
with the halyards so arranged that a pull
permits the flag to break out. The practice
originated in the old sailing days when the
intricate rigging interfered with flags and
signals if allowed to fly open during hoisting.
(1) Value of prise won by Ross Smith
on Ms flight to Australia, and conditions
under which it was awarded? (2) When
did he leave England, and how long did it
take for him to reach here? (3) Distance
covered? —3370.
£lO.OOO. It was offered by the Common-
wealth Government to the first Australian
airman who should reach Australia by air
from England; the flight to be accomplished
within 720 consecutive hours in a ’plane
wholly constructed within the British
Empire and manned by an all-Australian
crew. The offer remained opened to Decem-
ber, 1920. (2j Left London November 12,
1919, arrived Darwin December 10; flying
time, 135 hours. (3) 11,340 miles.
Are the native-cat and tiger-cat destruc-
tive? —3273.
Yes, especially to fowls and rabbits,
but their numbers greatly diminished in the
last 20 years. In many districts they
formerly frequented they have ceased to
exist.
Cause and cure of (1) dying off of snap-
dragons, (2) mildew in roses? —3269.
(1) Too much water and lack of drainage
is the cause. Dig a trench along the side
of the plants to carry off moisture, and
give the soil a dressing of lime to sweeten
it. (2) With many roses this disease is
hereditary. Spray rvitli a mixture of lime-
sulphur or dust with fine sulphur while the
dew is on the foliage in the early morning.
Wood, ashes worked into the soil in winter
is a preventive.
Recipe for cement for attaching electric-
light globes to metal collars ? —2752.
For small jobs, plaster of Paris mixed with
white of egg or with white-lead paint is used.
(1) Where can 1 purchase parts to build
a 90 -volt wet B battei'y? (2) Cost? (3)
Is construction difficult? —-3205.
(1) Siemens (Aust.). 257 Clarence-street,
Sydney. (2) About 90s. The cost of re-
charging is very low. (3) Not particularly,
but you would be better advised to buy Sie-
mens's H.T. sack cells ready-made. The
cost is very little more, and the battery will
retain its efficiency longer than a home-,
made one.
How to treat rust in geraniums? —3264.
Mix one ounce of potassium sulphate in a
kerosene-tin of water, emulsify with soft
soap, and spray the leaves, particularly the
backs.
My garden is surrounded by a tall privet
hedge, the roots of which are interfering with
the growth of the flowers. How can this be
preventedf —3267.
Dig a trench about 18in. from the base
of the privet and chop the side-roots with an
axe or mattock, then put in a piece of stout
galvanised-iron. This will stop the root-
growth. In the trench stack spare stones or
rubbish to drain the flower-bed. Don’t plant
flowers close to the privet; the shade ham-
pers growth.
(1) How long does it take to get a deci-
sion of the Tariff Board ? (2) lam inter-
ested in a certain application for an increase
in duty on electrical goods. 'How long should '
that take? —2752.
(11 The function of the Tariff Board is
to inquire into and submit reports to the
Minister on matters referred to it. The Min-
ister decides, not the .board. (2) The board s
report on the subject has been furnished to
the Minister —that’s all that can be said.
/ am a land surveyor with a little capital,
health and industry, no job and no hope of
getting one at my profession. What can I
do? —3305.
Poultry farming, perhaps. There is no
fortune in it, but an active, industrious man,
buying well and selling well, and with all
the help the Agricultural Departments will
give him, ought to make a living at it.
(1) How can I obtain commissions to
translate foreign books into English? (2)
How are translators paid? —.3030.
(1) No chances of that sort are likely to
come the way of a resident in Australia.
The translator has to see the work through
the press, and most translations are published
in London. (2) Terms vary, but the best we
have heard of wasn’t tempting.
(1) What is meant by “supercharging
as applied to racing cars? (2) Where is
the supercharger attached? (3) What is its
effect on power output? —33oo.
(1) In engines not supercharged the
gases are forced into the cylinders by atmo-
spheric pressure, which is not sufficient to
completely fill the cylinder with the engine
running at high speeds owing to the inertia
of the mixture. In a supercharged engine
a Roots blower creates a pressure of 51b.
to 101 b. per square inch, resulting in an
increase in the quantity of gas entering
the cylinders. (2) Best location is between
carburetter and cylinder. (3) In normal
engines power falls off at very high speeds.
The supercharger allows a greater power out-
put at these speeds.
(1) Is the bark of the mallet (E. occi-
dentalis) of W.A. used for tanning? (2)
What Australian State exports most tanning
bark? (3) Textbooks on tanning and leather,
dressing? —3372.
(1) It is not extensively used in
Australian tanneries, but is exported to
Europe (Germany has been an exten-
sive buyer), where it is used for pro-
ducing a tannin extract. (2) S.A. (3)
If. R. Proctor’s “Principles of Leather Manu-
facture” and “Leather Industries Labora-
tory Book”; M. C. Lamb’s “Leather Dress-
ing” and “Chrome Tanning” ; J. T. Wood’s
“Puering, Bating and Drenching of Skins” ;
A. S. Jones’s “Sheep and Its Skin” ; A. Wil-
son’s “Chemistry of Tanning”; and W. E.
Austin’s “Fur Dressing and Fur Dyeing.”
(1) What qualifications should a young
fellow have to make good on a plantation in
New Guinea where there are a few cattle?
(2) Are there many cattle in the Mandated
Territory? How’s the pasture? —337S.
He should be physically sound and able to
stand up to hot weather. A knowledge of
stock and agriculture, rough carpentry,
motors and boat-building is necessary. Also
he should be able to handle natives. (2)
There is little natural pasture in the Terri-
tory, but the coeoanut plantations are now
of a sufficient area to maintain numerous
livestock, the stock being depastured on in-
digenous grasses growing between the trees.
In 1929 there were 952 horses, 13,817
cattle, 1695 sheep.
What is meant by (1) “frequency,” and
(2) “amplitude distortion” in wireless re-
ceiving sets ? —3381.
(1) This is the unequal amplification of
the various audio frequencies. Under-
emphasis of deep bass and high treble notes
are amongst the results. It can be com-
pensated for to a certain extent by using
band-pass filters in the radio stages and a
properly designed low-frequency amplifier
and speaker. Whilst no receiver is entirely
free from frequency distortion, it is more
pronounced in sets employing inferior parts.
(2) This is due largely to the overloading
of the various components, especially in the
last audio stage. It may be reduced by
employing valves and transformers suitable
to the power supply.
How were wireless signals received prior
to the advent of the crystal and valve? —
3385.
One of the earliest detectors of wireless
signals was the coherer, discovered by
Hughes in 1878 and developed by Branly in
1890. It consisted of a sealed glass
tube inside of which were two metal elec-
trodes. The small space between them was
filled with silver and nickel filings. The
filings were rendered conductive by the in-
coming signals but required a slight mechani-
cal shock to restore them to their original
state. Other means of detecting wireless
signals in the early days were by the elec-
trolytic detector and the magnetic detector.
The latter, invented by Marconi in 1902,
was employed for many years on ships.
Dates of previous economic crises in Aus-
tralia, causes, etc.? —3368.
1842-45: Opinions differ as to causes, but
Governor Gipps attributed it entirely to
over-speculation and the facility with which
people without means got credit. (Bank
of Australia and Royal of Australia liqui-
dated.) 1893-94: Due to over-borrowing,
too easy credit and inflation. (In all 23
banks, some of them of mushroom growth,
suspended.)
Brief Answers.
W.B. : It depends on how they were
“plucked out” and who did it. Electrolysis is
considered best and safest, but the operator
must be highly skilled. See a skin specialist.
. ...A.H.S.: “Roofcote” is manufactured by
G. Ward, 9 Bligh-street, Sydney G:H.B.: Aus-
tralian Authors’ Publishing Co., 62 New South
Head-road, Vaucluse. ... R.W.: Publication of infor-
mation concerning sweeps conducted outside N.S.W.
is prohibited by 1aw....H.A.: (1) Yes. (2) Broken
Hill Co., Newcastle (N.S.W.) ; Australian Iron and
Steel, Ltd., 58 Margaret-street O. T. Lempriere
and Co., 23-25 Macfquarie-place; and Louis Burkard,
250 Pitt-street—all Sydney... .M.C.: Get in touch
with the American Trade Commissioner, Sydney.
....S.T.F.: “Forest Insects and Timber Borers,” by
W. W. Froggatt, obtainable from Forestry Com-
mission of N.S.W., Sydney. .. .N-C.F.: Write M. H.
Gale, sec. Y.A.L., 418 George-street. .. - A.M.D.: Know
of no book dealing particularly with Australian ferns
and their culture. Smith’s “British and Exotic Ferns”
deals with ferns generally W.A.E.: Try Angus and
Robertson, or Dymocks—both Sydney... .P.D.: Hook
and Matthews left London on June 30, 1930, and
crashed between Akyab and Rangoon, Burma, on
July 6, Hook dying later from injuries and exhaus-
tion 5.11.G.R.: A pamphlet on rabbit poisoning
.can be obtained from the Agriculture Department,
Melbourne. ... R. J.: It could be imported for you. Lon-
don price, £1 Is W.S.: N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board
consists of three members elected by producers and
two nominated by the Government. Its operations
commenced on May 27, 1929. .. . J.F.F.: Try G. E. 0.
Craft, Ingleburn; or K. J. D. Ross, William-street,
Brookvale (N.S.W.) R.W.F.: The secondary of an
old audio transformer would not be suitable for a
smoothing choke, as it will not handle the current.
The correct value for the choke is 25 or 30 heibrys
centre-topped. They may be purchased from any
radio-dealer 11. G.: If the land is well drained,
sweet-peas should be well watered at the roots once
a week in dry weather, and the tops syringed or
sprayed every two or three days to keep down tlirips
and red spider 8.J.: (1) The Sydney Cup was
established in 1866. (2) The A.J.C. dates back to 1828.
... . V.A.L.M.: Cannot undertake to make compari-
sons between different brands of paints. ..
A.E.H.: No reliable figures have been published....
C.F. • See B. Nile’s “Black Haiti,”' W. B. Seabrook’s
“The Magic Island” and H. P. Davis’s “Black
Democracy” L.N.: The words, “All my real and
personal .estate, of whatsoever kind,” embrace the
whole of your worldly possessions M.M.L.: Write
Asst. Paymaster-General, Supreme Court Pay Office,
London; give details and ask for instructions....
J.P.: See Hurst and Heaton’s “Painters’ Colors, Oils
and Varnishes”.... D.S.: (1) Write to the Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Ultimo, Sydney, and
ask for Bulletin No. 12 (price Is.). (2) Plants for
experimental purposes can be obtained from the Direc-
tor, Botanic Gardens, Sydney... .R.C.: You could
apply to Patent Office, Melbourne, but better consult
a patent attorney... .J.A.P.: Price ss. 4d. (post
free), Angus and Robertson... .W.J.G.: Repeat
your inquiry, stating size of room, width
of flooring-boards, distance apart of floor-
joists and age of f100r.... G.H.M.: (1) A fidelity
bond for £5OO from an insurance co. must be lodged
at the court nearest to proposed place of business
14 days before dealt with. (2) The provisions of
the Act must be observed. .. .S.R. (1) Practically
none, unless you are experienced in some branch
of tropical agriculture. (2) No. (3) Get in touch
with Canadian Gov. Trade Agent, Sydney M.L.:
Can’t decide on the brief facts given P.H.W.:
No. Recruiting has been temporarily suspended....
J. 11.5.: Depends on size. Melbourne University
Engineering School has apparatus. .. .S.D.M.L.: (1)
Hobart. (2) The co. is in liquidation. (3) No.
J.O.: Federal Pastoral Shearing Co., 245 George-
street ; Graziers’ Co-op., 23 Macquarie-street; Mcr-
riwa Co., 255 a George-street—all Sydney. .. J.M.C.: See
Part 7 “N.S.W. Statistical Register,” also the annual
report of the Lands Department. . . .C.M.: Write C.
Weaver, lion, sec., Australian Numismatic Society, 11
Cavlisle-street. Leichhardt, Sydney R.M.: Write
Arthur Mitchell, - hon. sec., Opportune Club, 335
George-street, Sydney.. . .E.F.P.: If the water is the
natural surface flow, not diverted from its course by
your neighbors and thus causing you special injury,
you have no ground of action. The municipal engineer
might suggest a means of drainage. .. .W.J.8.: (1)
and (2) An executor may renounce probate but can-
not appoint anyone. The remaining executor, if
any, could take out probate. If he is sole executor
and renounces, the estate could be administered
“with the will annexed.” (3) He incurs no respon-
sibility beyond the faithful discharge of his office.
L.J.B.: The members of the committed jointly
and severally are responsible for the payment of
prizes offered. .. . C.W)S.: Outlook hopeless foi an
unknown novice breeder. Long-established kennels
with excellent reputations are not making ends
meet... .M.F.: Braidwood and the Menindie P. P.
Boards (N.S.W.) are paying bonus for eaglehawks.
Braidwood pays 2s. 6d. per head... .L.S.M.: In Vic.
and W.A. the Torrens statutes are called Transfer
of I,and Acts; in the remaining States they are
called Real Property Acts. Apart from differences of
nomenclature and minor differences of substance, the
statutes are practically identical.... P.G.: Catherine
Helen Spence died at Norwood (S.A.) on April 3,
1910. Her autobiography was finished by Jeanne F.
Young, and appeared serially in “Register” (Adelaide)
same year C.R.F.: The N.S.W. Moratorium
Act does not apply to ‘‘any mortgage to secure the
repayment of a loan to one of its members by a
Starr Bowkett society”.... F.J.: “Meccano Magazine”
(monthly, 6d.), published in England.... A.M.: See
the “.Woman’s Mirror” (24/3/’3l) ... .W.R.S.: Write
E. S. Sorenson, 66 Sydenham-road, Marrickville... .
11. J.: Tell us the official diagnosis. “Creeping para-
lysis” is too vague T.E.W.: Blood transfusion is
not used for your complaint.... A.W, ; Myriad is
generally used of a great but indefinite number.
Leading jewellers will buy small parcels of sapphires.
.. . .St.A.C.: You may not distrain for rent in N.S.W.,
but you can sue for the amount due as a debt.
Also, after service of notice to quit you may take
proceedings in the police court to have tenant ejected.
See the Clerk of Petty Sessions M.: The artificial
freezing of a lake for skating purposes is not prac-
ticable. .. .A.E.H.: (1) Don’t know what Australian
railways are worth; according to latest figures, avail-
able, their cost was 309 millions (State) and 14
millions (Federal). (2) Matter of opinion
A.A.8.: The Collaroy stud was dispersed in 1927,
the bulk of the sheep going to Q’land. N. Jones,
New Armatree, Armatreef (N.S.W.), has a Collaroy
flock 8.F.: (1) Minimum fare, Brisbane to Wel-
lington, M.L., £9 11s. 6d. if travelling from Sydney
to Wellington per Huddart-Parker vessel. (2) No
possibility of working a passage. (3) No fixed rate,
and little prospect of employment Reader: The
N.S.W. Explosives Act totally prohibits the manu-
facture of any explosive for use, except in a licensed
factory... .N.E.C. : (1) Muskett’s “Illustrated Aus-
tralian Medical Guide” (635.), Black’s “Medical
Dictionary” (225. 6d.), Cassell’s “Family Doctor”
(10s. 6d.). (2) Sewell’s “Dog’s Medical Dictionary.”
R.11.C.: Only method of computing cubic
measurement of packing cases is to multiply length,
height and breadth together... (Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J. HARDIE
the girl to her thoughts; but when a man
has been driving a coach over the same
route year in and year out, every twist of
the road, every stump, every rock, reminds
him of some incident, some yarn he heard
just there. Gradually he came to realise
that the girl’s attitude of indifference was
not deliberate. There was something wrong
here! And, like a doctor on a puzzling
case, he searched around, turning the con-
versation deftly here and there in an en-
deavor to gain her interest, or force her
to betray something to aid his diagnosis.
Once he raised a spark of life in the quiet
eyes, and the listless figure sat slimly erect
while he passed over the handful of reins
and cleared some obstruction from his pipe.
He nodded approvingly as she swung the
team clear of an encroaching anthill, and
resolved to repeat the experiment.
B’ar ahead of them rose a cloud of dust
which resolved itself into a long strung-out
mob of cattle—reds, whites and roans —big,
long-horned bullocks in prime condition,
plodding carefully along the stony track.
“Grassmere fats going to the meatworks,”
commented Harry, taking over the reins.
A lithe young horseman appeared from
nowhere and turned the unwilling leaders
on to the rough slope, then cleared a track
through the mob, the long stockwhip bang-
ing and cracking all round his horse—both
of them fully conscious of their gallery and
making the most of it.
The coach slowed up to pass the time of
day with the big, bronzed drover, quiet and
slow of speech, putting the usual questions
about grass and water on the track ahead
of him.
“Not so good as the Corella mob Ken
Craig took in,” observed Harry, flicking the
long whip at a leader. “Never met Ken,
have you?” he queried, turning suddenly
on the girl; then, as quickly correcting
himself: “No! ’Course not! Still, you’ll
see him when you get to Corella, if we don’t
pass him on the road. Good fellow, Ken!”
he mused reminiscently.
The girl vouchsafed no reply, and Harry
continued unconcerned: “He useter go bush
if they was any strange women about—not
that they get many on Corella—but I hear
he’s gettin’ over it. First time I struck
him—few years back—he was on the biggest
bend I ever saw in Carinda. They cleaned
out Ryan’s of every drop. I got a wire
from Ryan to load as much as I could cany
back. By that time he had had a couple
of days to sober up, and before I got in
with the fresh supply he cleared out. That’s
when he went to Corella, and we never saw
him for two year after that!”
Harry, intent on his yarn and the horses,
missed the scornful twist of the fine mouth.
Margaret Kennedy was making a mental
note that one person to be specially avoided
on Corella was Ken Craig.
When Harry halted the wet-flanked team
to change horses for the last time that day,
his keen glance took in the pathetic droop
of the mouth and the weariness of spirit
showing through the tired eyes, and he
revised his early opinion of his passenger.
“She’s like a well-bred filly—game as a
meat-ant, but badly handled, till her spirit’s
near broke.”
A crashing jar against the dashboard
brought Margaret out of her musing with a
start. Recovering quickly, she strove to
appear indifferent to the efforts of a colt
to kick her foot-rest sky-high. Harry, aided
by a limping youth, was harnessing up the
fresh team below her in a cloud of dust
and muttered imprecations. A wild-eyed,
flat-sided chestnut was giving trouble. After
running wild in the ranges for years he
steadfastly refused to submit to this in-
dignity, and resolutely fought all attempts
at discipline with all the vicious tricks in
his extensive repertoire.
At last Hany clambered, dusty and per-
spiring, to the box, sorted out the handful
of reins and threw a swift glance over the
horses.
“Right, Bill.”
The chestnut swung round to face the
coach, was dragged back on his haunches,
half choked, as the team jumped into the
collar, and they were off.
Harry appeared his natural self, but he
would have preferred these two snags on a
safer section. However—no use growling
now!
With his eyes on the horses he set out
to capture the attention of his passenger.
She was game—he had early realised that
—but she did not know they were on the
worst bit of road on the trip. He glanced
sideways at the delicate profile.
“This time to-morrow you’ll be looking
out for the Corella buggy.”
Margaret removed her glance from the
horses at the hint of challenge in Harry’s
voice.
“Do you think they’ll come out to meet
us?”
The long whip cracked lazily over the off
wheeler.. “Sure to! Any time I get a real
nice girl to show off to Carinda it’s a monte
CHAPTER I.
THE heavy, lumbering coach swung
sharply round the projecting shoulder
of a hill, the near-side horse’s hoofs
scratching frantically at the edge of the
narrow mountain track, dislodging a shower
of pebbles that sailed through fifty feet of
space before pinging sharply on the red
rocks below.
Harry, the mailman, shot a quick glance
at his passenger as he threw his weight on
the brake; but his expression was a trifle
disappointed as it returned to the five
horses plunging down the abrupt, rocky
descent.
The slim figure in breeches and soft
white shirt, answering the sudden sway of
the laden thoroughbrace, glanced quickly
but with apparent indifference at the sheer
drop beneath. From the high perched box
neither wheels nor roadway were visible—
one side of the coach appeared to be sail-
ing through space, high above the bouider-
strewn bed of a diy mountain torrent. The
glance shifted ahead over the dusty, sweat-
ing horses, and down the steep, winding
descent; then a slim hand rose wearily to
tuck a vagrant wisp of brown hair under
the wide felt hat, and the girl relapsed into
the apathy that had held her throughout
the trip.
Harry felt vaguely annoyed. In twenty
years he had carried some queer passengers
on his weekly ran from the railway’s
western terminus to the edge of the Never-
Never. His first impressions of Margaret
Kennedy were not highly favorable: “One
o’ them stuck-up squatter’s daughters from
down below!”
His keen cross-examination, artfully
blended through the endless stream of talk,
failed to elicit any satisfactory basis of
mutual interest on which to build further
conversation—failed even to raise in the
girl any interest in her surroundings.
He had collected her and her belongings
from the eastern mail four days ago. Tom
Donaldson, who was to have met his
daughter’s school friend, was alternately
nursing and cursing a broken ankle back
home at Corella—these big cattlemen fall
heavily.
At any, other time Margaret Kennedy
would have found a keen enjoyment in the
complete newness of this strange country,
with its bizarre shapes and gaunt rugged-
ness, that would have triumphed over the
discomforts of the blazing sun, the pestering
flies and the suffocating clouds of red dust.
But day after day of protracted travel—
storm-tossed on a gyrating steamer; baked
in the comfortless, smothering oven of a
railway carriage crawling leisurely across
the monotonous sun-bleached downs of
northern Queensland, days spent on the
lofty seat of a coach bumping over the
most execrable track in all Australia—these
things had robbed her wearied body of all
its young vitality.
Her mind, sick and even more weary with
unbanishable memories, distorted her out-
look, and the girl sank into an apathy from
which she dimly ventured a vague “Yes”
or “No” to Harry’s continuous flow of con-
versation, indifferently hoping that the
monosyllabic replies arrived on their proper
occasions.
Born and bred among the green-grassed
hills of southern New South Wales, with
its stately trees, running streams. fringed
with shady willows, and compact little pad-
docks, its comfortable homesteads of stone
and brick nestling among neat orchards and
patches of vivid green cultivation, she could
not convince herself that this was part of
the same continent.
The green of her southern countryside
was replaced by red in this new world. Each
morning the red ball of the sun glinted
balefully on the ragged mountain tops
standing like an irregular row of broken,
bloodstained teeth. A choking red dust
rose behind the heavy vehicle and curled
in a smothering cloud over the two figures
on the high seat. The few scattered men
they met, fossickers, kangaroo-shooters,
picturesque with cartridge belt at waist and
rifle on thigh, or brawny men in ore-stained
flannels and bowyanged trousers from some
copper show—all bore a tinge of the pre-
vailing color.
The raw, red soil was bare of grass, and
the road—more like the dry bed of a rocky
creek—wound its precarious way across
dusty flats, round steep hills rising sharply
above the wheels, a precipitous gully under
them as they rattled madly across the stony
bed of a dry creek; stark, bare, rocky, red
slopes with patches of low, stunted, dull
olive-leaved trees, or a fantastic tree of
gnarled branches ending in tufts of long
spikes, like a mis-shapen, twisted dwarf of
a fir-tree. Sometimes an odd patch of rank,
yellow grass presumed among the gidya.
The fantastic shapes of white-ant hills rose
from the red soil, some mere mounds, others
with fluted pinnacles like a cathedral, never
two alike; and between them, like huge
pincushions, grew clumps of spinifex.
Had there been other passengers, Harry
would have concentrated on them and left
someone will come out and take her off
me.”
Margaret smiled quietly. She was look-
ing forward to meeting Peggy Donaldson
with a growing keenness she would not
acknowledge. She felt she had been travel-
ling for an age. She was too weary, men-
tally and physically, to enjoy things. All
she wanted was peace, rest, and someone
to whom she could open the pent-up feel-
ings within her.
Harry broke a long silence by jabbing
ahead with the whip, pointing to a moving
speck: “Looks like the Corella plant!” he
barked, adding presently half to himself,
“Good on you, boy! Hold them there!”
What Margaret saw then was a slim
white-clad figure on a big black horse shoot
ahead of the little mob of horses; a stock-
whip swung high and the horses veered off
into a pocket before its rifle-like crack
floated back to them.
As they approached, her eyes lingered on
a slim youth sitting cheerfully unconcerned
on the sidling, swerving black that was in
obvious terror of the rumbling juggernaut.
Spotless white moleskins, white shirt, a vivid
handkerchief loosely knotted round the
neck; under the hat, the dark features of a
young aboriginal held a wide, shy smile
exposing a perfect row of flashing, teeth.
Above the rattle of the wheels Harry
shouted, “Where’s Ken?”
A dark hand pointed diagonally ahead.
The long whip waved acknowledgment and
a cloud of red dust swallowed the retinue..
“That’s young Jerry—Ken’s boy!”
The girl raised inquiring eyes. “His boy?”
“Yeh. Blackboy!” Harry laughed diyly.
“No, Ken ain’t married—far’s I know. Any-
how, Jerry’s pure abo. Damn good boy,
too!”
Harry broke off to address the chestnut,
who for the last half-mile had been trying
to plant his heels in the ribs of his mate.
“Ken’s gone ahead to pick a camp—over
the shortcut. Chances are we’ll miss him.
Anyhow you’ll see him at Corella.” He
grinned slyly.
“If he has got over his shyness,” the girl
added, and changed the subject. “Don’t
you ever discuss anything besides horses
and cattle—and when it’s going to rain?”
“Yeh! Sometimes. But there ain’t much
else worth talking about. Horses, f’r in-
stance—if it wasn’t for horses, where would
this country be? There would be no cattle
stations and the blacks would still be
running round these hills with a bundle of
spears. No, there’s nothing like a real good
horse—bar a better one,” he added senten-
tiously; “and once a man gets horsesense
you can always start a yam with him with-
out waitin’ to be interjooced!
“Even the kids out here talk horse,” he
rambled on. “They know every brand for
miles—you can hear ’em coming from
school, one fellow arguing that the Corella
horses are better after cattle than the Ard-
wells, the other kid reckoning an Ardwell
horse’ll make circles round anything on Cor-
ella. They know what station has the worst
buckjumpers; and when it.comes to riders,
these kids can tell you more about the time
Joe Taylor rode Centipede than Joe knows
about it himself. The horse' always comes
first. There was young Johnny Nelson, last
Picnics. His dad goes messin’ around the
Grassmere horses an’ one of ’em lays him
out. Young Johnny goes tearin’ off. 'Hi
Mum!’ he yells, 'come and see the bonzer
grey mare that’s kicked Dad!’ ”
Margaret’s low clear laugh made him feel
he had succeeded in his purpose. There
was barely wheel-room on the rough
boulder-strewn track, and all of Harry’s
consummate skill was needed to counteract
the insidious efforts of the two outlaws in
his team. The whip flicked at the still-
fighting chestnut to add force to a few select
phrases anent his ancestry.
The girl’s eyes swept the rugged country
ahead, then came to rest on the chestnut.
“Isn’t that horse ever going to act sensibly?”
she asked in a dubious tone.
“Oh, he’ll come round some day,” Harry
responded airily. “Jack Myers gave him to
me to take the rough edge off him—git up
you slab-sided cow! To see him now you
might reckon he’s all rough edge! I will
admit he’s mean, and as cunning as a bagful
of snakes, but horses are like men—l never
struck one yet that didn’t have something
good about him!”
Margaret gripped. tightly on the low rail
as they swung round a sharp comer, and a
glance at the road ahead did not alleviate
her misgivings in spite of her faith in Harry.
The rough tortuous track slid rapidly down-
wards like a raw red scar along the face of
a high ridge—only the narrow track, full of
deep holes and ruts, and encroached on by
huge rocks and anthills! On the right the
hillside dropped sheer to the boulder-strewn
bed of a dry mountain torrent; to the left
rose the steep barren slope dotted with
stunted timber and slashed by innumerable
deep gullies.
It all happened in an instant!
The chestnut threw himself outwards; the
coach,, travelling fast downhill, lurched to a
sickening crack and dipped till the girl s
arms, clinging frantically to the rail, were
almost dragged out of the sockets. She had
a vision of Harry disappearing like a stone
over the side; then she was alone on a
crippled, bumping juggernaut of a, coach
lurching on three wheels and driving the
wheel horses to a frenzy. Hell-for-leather
they raced'down that awful slope, only the
pace keeping the coach from turning oyer.
In a daze, she dragged herself to the right
side. Useless! The brake lever was swing-
ing loosely, rattling mockingly. The reins
trailed inaccessibly below among the gallop-
ing hoofs!
The pace was terrific, and the white-faced
girl wondered when the crash would come.
If they went over the side... . she sickened
at a glance at the cruel sharp rocks below.
Her only chance was to jump to the left-
a slim chance with the rocking gait of the
crippled vehicle.
She shot a quick glance ahead. If they
could only last to that dip the slight rise
might steady them.
Then she became aware of something—
from the corner of an eye a swift-moving
blur—racing down the mountain side just
ahead. She stared breathlessly, fascinated,
her eyes riveted on that flying figure of
man and horse, sliding, jumping, hurtling
down a slope fit only for goats.
Would he be in time? What could he
do when he did reach them? What hope
could one horseman have of stopping their
mad career?
Now he was above her. She could sec
the stones fly under the horse’s feet. A
ye 11.... impossible to hear above the shriek-
ing, grinding clatter.
They had reached the dip and she looked
wildly for a spot to jump, when above the
din came a quick report. Another !
The near leader plunged and fell, pulling
the others towards the bank. Their momen-
tum dragged the dead weight a few yards;
then the leaders swung hard into the bank,
the wheelers plunging madly, as the stag-
gering coach crashed down on them.
Looking numbly down with staring ejms
on the reeking chaos of struggling horse-
flesh, Margaret became conscious of the
man, now on foot, struggling at the heads
of the leaders.
Compelling grey eyes flashed at her,
sitting frozen to immobility; and above the
fiendish gasping and struggling of the horses
a voice barked, “Get off that box and
give a hand!”
In a dream she found herself on the
ground at the horses’ heads, where a stream
of withering, lurid, biting language wh.s
pouring on the plunging horses, their mad-
dened minds still aflame, the smell of fresh
blood maddening them still further.
She found a wrenching bit in one hand,
the screwed-up ear of a horse in the other,
and blindly obeyed the command to hang
on. She was thrown off her feet—struggled
—threw her weight against the horse’s, while
the figure stepped back amid threshing hoofs
and was at her side again.
A knife flashed. “Grab that next one!”
She threw herself at a sweat-streaked head
while the just-released horse reared above
her, was jerked quickly back, tied to a
scrubby tree and the man was into the
welter again.
A wild leap, the snap of a collar-strap,
and she was hurled to the ground as the
dark shape of the horse loomed over her
and galloped madly up the road, traces
banging behind. She felt herself plucked
from the ground, set' on her feet and left
staggering as the evil-eyed chestnut threw
round to strain after his mate.
Oblivious to fear, to everything, she
joined the man fighting like a demon.
Again she steeled herself for the plunge as
she took the twitched ear. But this time
there was no plunge. The wheelers, smashed
back on themselves by force of blows, were
yielding to the biting language that still
withered them in steady bursts.
The chestnut cleared, was dragged out,
his flat sides heaving, red nostrils wide, and
eyes white and staring—one hind leg swing-
ing sadly.
“Tie him up!” She obeyed the peremp-
tory. order with unconscious alacrity.
The wheelers gave less trouble—the har-
ness was hopelessly mixed and had to be
cut. The last one, a big brown mare,
lifted a dust-caked head from behind the
dead leader, pawed the ground convulsively
with her fore feet, then dropped her head
with a groan.
The pallid-faced girl turned to the sweat-
ing, dust-grimed figure. “We’ll get these
horses up the road. This mare’s bapk’s
broken. I’ll have to shoot her and the chest-
nut.” He moved to his saddle-horse—a
splendid big bay, standing over the drag-
ging reins, head low, flanks still heaving—
and returned, a long blue barrel drooping
from his hand.
“What a'bloody mess!”
She dragged a horse away, tied it wearily
to a stump up the road, then buried her
head in the tangled mane to hide a crazy
world that was beginning to sway like a
drunken coach and to tilt alarmingly at the
edges. /
The spent horse jumped convulsively at
each of the dull reports. Her hands twisted
desperately in the sweat-sodden mane—she
felt she must hold on. Then a merciful
black cloud swayed over her, and the snort-
ing horse, jumped back from the figure
crumpling at his feet.
(To, pe continued next week.)


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
ert
THINK OP
SCHUTE,
BELL&O Ltd.
If you have
Woo! 8l Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Your skin will be (dear
and
Healthy
e u^ r a
PURITY
V-
If you take good care of it. Make a
habit of using CUTICURA SOAP
regularly for every day use. Apply
CUTICURA OINTMENT occa-
sionally if you are troubled with
blemishes, rashes and pimples.
Regular use of these well known
CUTICURA PREPARATIONS
does much to keep the skin in
good condition.
Soap le. Ointment ]s. and2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
« ■< }>
-----
My c fy/peeplrock
is my favorite frock. It is pretty, and mummy s
friends say it is dainty and durable. But I like
it because it has lasted longer than my other
frocks, and when I play it doesn’t seem to get
dirty so very quickly. My “80-Peep” Frock
has been washed ever so many times and it
still looks like a new one—isn’t that nice?
“80-PEEP” PRINT is 36 inches wide and is obtainable in a large
number of styles, designs and colorings.
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS AND STORES.
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline” —the equal to silk.
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write:
Mr. H. G. RANDELL, The Grace Building, York Street, Sydney.
99
it
fjyfUtorml
"Looks good—
is good'.'
for Childrens Wear :
G'Wcmcc?
Jabric
Q
ti\ i.
sdh
X
t
£L\
uL
9
10
4
5
Each Day
He Starts Them
On Their Way
A LL over the world...mill*
ions of people rely on Big
Ben to wake them every morn-
ing.
Big Ben, or any other clock
with the nameWestclox on the
dial, assures you of dependable,
punctual timekeeping.
Every Westclox is precision
built to give more years of use.
Prices from 9/6 to 26/6
BROWN & BUREAU Ltd., Distributors for Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Brisbane.
Western Clock Company, La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
No Escape —Final Instalment
BY TELIA ERGOLE.
Chapter XI ( Continued ).
(6)
ONE day Olwen said, “If we intend to
put John on the land, there’s no
reason why we shouldn’t secure some
now. Prices aren’t going to fall any lower,
and they’ll probably be higher.”
“But what is the use now?” her husband
answered. “John won’t be ready for the
land for years. What can I do with it?”
She had been turning the matter over
in her mind for weeks and had not men-
tioned it until, as was her general way,
her ideas were clear and orderly. “But
listen, Leo. You know that man Curtis
who was in to see you the other day about
his soldier’s pension?”
“Yes.”
“Well, he can’t go on working, can lie?”
“I don’t think so. He should never have
gone on the land.”
“No, but listen. I was talking to him
and he as much as told me he was quit-
ting. You know his block’s along the Gun-
dibbie-road, adjoining Uncle Ralph’s place.
Now there’s no reason why we shouldn’t
secure that land. You’ve been a soldier,
you could certainly get it. There’s five
hundred acres, all cultivable ground. I’ve
been talking to Uncle Ralph and he said
he’d be willing to let the boys share-farm
it for you. It will be quite manageable
with them next door.”
Leo debated the question.
“With any luck in seasons your money
will bring you in more than you get from
your present investments. Why don’t you
take a chance? This is known to be a
fairly safe district now, and prices aren’t
going any lower. And, Leo, remember, too,
you won’t be able to work always and when
you stop working your income stops. If
you had a property you’d feel safe, and
now is the time to get it.”
“I would like to own some land,” Leo
said slowly.
He was a little excited, a prey to strange
feelings. He wanted to be alone, and
making some excuse he left Olwen and
shut himself in his surgery. His mild
excitement became a definite emotion. The
purchase of land meant more than a finan-
cial transaction, more than provision for
his family and his old age. He knew it
meant an ultimate surrender, an identify-
ing himself once and for all with the place
from which for all these years he had kept
his inmost mind aloof.
Restlessly he got up from his desk and
paced the room. “It is the end,” he said
aloud. Curiously, he felt no pain of revolt.
He went across to the window and looked
down the deserted street, with its dusty
surfaoe, its drowsy wind-swayed pepper-
trees.
At the end of an hour he was neither glad
nor sorry, but acquiescent, and through his
acquiescence ran a. faint thread of relief.
The work of Leo Gherardi had never been
accomplished, but he would buy this land,
would become part of this place. In his
small way he would carry on the work begun
by Gilbert over half a century ago. With a
slight sense of shock he found that he was
dreaming as Gilbert might have dreamed
A little weary of his thoughts he went
out into the garden, which was wilting from
the hot day; drooping, dusty, thirsting. But
the tap which he turned over the can
trickled only a few drops. He went round to
the back of the house and ran water from
the tank. While he filled and refilled, the
old idea of a wat T e / su P.P ]y lor
;md he knew it cou]d bc done .
Suddenly, as he stopped, hot and flushed
f rom his exertions, he felt a curious strength.
H could do something for this town,
A man gh b the fence hailed him.
„ Nice eve i ing Doctor.”
j eQ wag thrugt from his preoccupation,
JSfesbitt. Yes, it’s a nice evening,
j „
“Your garden’s standing up to the dry
sped all right ' 1 gave Up the attempfc long
had d fo the fence and lean ed
h is elbows on the gate rails.
. know . We should do
somethin this problem of the water,
ten thinking seriously of it for
time .” He found in the moment of
utter g ice that the idea was firm . 0 f long
had not SUS p e cted it.
u , . . „,i , „ / r r
y ? u "{' ? 10 uu J n ?’4irp'lv nmnn?
and see what could be done? feu ely among
%f,, hdls . there are some valley-spnngs
suP T ab |/: f ol l leteeu?ll-
- Nesbltt . lollf l d the gate-post and
d^ w n a T P ack T et . fl ?“ n, V tt
W ?ll, 1 don t know. I don t know as any-
one s mu ,f thought to a loca resei-
voir. We’ve all more or less though that
some day we d come m on the Burrmjuck
c ,, . t T
But that will take fifty years! Have
you ever calculated how much it would cost
bring the watei heie fiom Buiiinjic .
B is going to take millions, and thos
™ llllons are not *°“ g to + be i( ?T . e^’
ou can sure that Banton will not lav
water under a State scheme m our litc-
Bn/®'
I reckon you re right m that. Nesbitt
was interested.
‘ And a local scheme now would not pre-
elude the larger scheme later, Leo pursue .
a town like this impounded watei wil
always be an asset.
“It wouldn t hurt to go mtoAhe matter
anyhow, Nesbitt said thoughtfully,
wouldn’t cost us anything but time,
could spare it—how about you.
* dme y, Be had time. He had the rest,
° f f lde . for this, for things like this,
that time he might fulfil something,
mai>k f e years that they might not drift ’
aia lvr S n T ,„ ~ , ,
; Well > 111 te " >' ou wllat wc n " lst
<io
He gathered up the closely-written pages
and leaned back in his chan to peiuse them.
“Dear Sir (he had written),- / have been
urging, as I urge now, the people of Banton
f or ie l ast eighteen months to st™ve for
a water supply from the Wantabadgery
Springs. I have thought, studied ana
searched for a long time and I have made
myself familiar with the details of both the
State and the local schemes. My friends
and I have interviewed the Minister for
Works, and have pestered the Works• De-
partment personally and by letter until the
gentlemen involved must be sick and tired,
of Banton and its water supply. If I state
now that the Wantabadgery scheme is the
only possible water scheme for the town
within reasonable access in point of time,
1 state a fact.
“Of course our children will turn their
eyes toivards a greater State water under-
taking. It may be Burrinjuck or some
other scheme more stupendous to water the
whole of this waterless tableland,. More
than one plan will be an accomplished fact
in 30 years. But that does not mean the
money spent now in our local reservoir will
be wasted. In a place like this impounded
water is always an asset.
“We have suffered long enough from
water famine. Where are our parks, our
gardens, our swimming-baths? We have not
even a laundry or an iceworks! If the
rain fails us, we bathe in a dish of water!
Last month the hospital relied on contri-
butions of water from any who had water to
spare! The time has passed when we can
be content with the primitive water-carrying.
If we are content, then we shoxdd be
ashamed of ourselves. If the people of this
town do not vote in favor of a local supply,
at the referendum on Saturday, it will prove
they are content with the water-cart, that
they are content to remain for the rest of
their lives primitive, static. But I have
no doubts as to how the people will vote.
Because I am so sure of their attitude I
decided to seek election at the forthcoming
municipal poll, so that I may strive to have
the Wantabadgery water started this year.
“With the will of the people behind
me, I shall, if effort can do it, unfailingly
complete this work, which will in turn open
up other work to be done for the town,
which the town must do, if it is to ever
progress.”
Having finished reading and pinned the
sheets carefully, he went in search of Olwen,
and found her sorting the mail. She smiled
at him absently. They were good comrades,
after twelve years of marriage.
“What’s that you’ve got?”
“A letter for the 'Champion.’ Will you
correct for me? I wrote hurriedly and there
may be mistakes. And will you tell John to
bring to Harbody? He wants it this after-
noon.”
“Yes, I’ll fix it. You’re not leaving any-
thing to chance, are you, Leo? You’ve
drummed at the people until I think you’ve
got them hypnotised. You needn’t worry
about the way the referendum will go!”
“I’m not worrying. What letters for me?”
“Only uninteresting ones. Nothing from
Dino. I suppose the poor boy’s up to his
eyes in work.”
Leo’s glance kindled. “He’s a worker, is
Dino! He will do big things, Olwen, that
boy. Thank God I can afford to let him
equip himself thoroughly.”
“You know, Leo, last year when Dino told
you he wanted to go abroad to study after
he was through, I felt I’d been mean, urging
to buy land. But I couldn’t tell we were
going to have a bad season. If we could
only get good rain now! I rang Bob a
while ago. He said things are looking-
fine so far.”
“Oh, we’ll have our turn. We’ve been
a bit unlucky so far, but even so I’m not
sorry”....
His eyes were strangely distant and she
looked at him with curiosity. She wondered
what thought had brought that distant look
to his eyes, and knew that she would never
know.
The End.
The Classic.
My nugget of gold,
So weighty and rare,
Dropped from my hold,
Fell to earth and lay there,
Unprized, unseen,
Forgotten clean
While the breast-feather of a wren
Floated long in the sight of men.
M AURII.AXI).
ARNOLD WALL.


AN INTERNATIONAL BILLIARDS MATCH
Farmer’s announce the sporting event of years! Tinder
vice-regal patronage, and in the presence of his Excel-
lency Sir Philip Game and Lady Game
Walter Lindrum
Australia's Wizard.
ert
Tom Newman
Eng land's Gha mpion.
Y
Applications for season tickets (accompanied by remittances) will
be received by the Booking Manager, Farmer’s or Nicholson’s, up
to and including May 23. VICE-REGAL RESERVE, 11 evening
sessions, £6/6./-; 22 afternoon and night sessions, £lO/10/-;
GENERAL. RESERVE, 11 evening sessions. £4/10/-; 22 afternoon
and night sessions, £B. All prices include tax.
Applications will also be received for preferential bookings for
any session between June 3 and 15. Vice-regal Reserve, 12/6 ;
General Reserve, 10/-, inclusive of tax. Ordinary box plan opens
at Farmer’s and at Nicholson’s, May 25.
JUNE 3 TO 15,
IN FARMER’S “BLAXLAND” GALLERIES
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
‘National” horses were under the acid at
Moonee Valley. Secretary A. V. Hiskens
some months ago bought Kentle from the
V.R.C. chairman, and entrusted his prepara-
tion to Dan Coleman. The chestnut was
produced for the Brunswick Steeplechase;
but, although expected by the owner to do
well, he started at 25 to 1 and ran last.
Kentle landed the G. N. Hurdle of 1929,
when trained by S. W. Biggins. Excuse
can be found for Rakwool’s inability to con-
cede Tetcott nearly 3st. in the Brunswick
Steeple. It was the big fellow’s first public
outing over solid fences. He took several of
them awkwardly, and the hot pace set by
Tetcott compelled H'owson to shove his
mount along before balance was properly
regained.
If the display of Rakwool left something
to be desired, nothing but praise can be
accorded Catkin for his Banya Hurdle vic-
tory. Catkin was making his debut over
the battens, and punters did not pay serious
regard to his candidature. Nibbled at in
parts of the ring, the Maoriland-bred geld-
ing shortened from long odds to 12 to 1.
Arcadius ended up in a point better demand
than the original favorite, Kendler. This
pair appeared to have the race to themselves
at the home turn, but Kendler petered
out. If the rider of Arcadius had then
“gone for his life” he probably would have
won. Coming from a long way back, Cat-
kin scored by a neck. lie belongs to and is
trained by J. T. Hayes, who won over
brush obstacles with Affirm a week before.
Catkin w r as bought by Hayes recently for
300gns. at the dispersal sale of horses sent
up by C. Ruwolt, for whom H. W. Gabell
trained. Two seasons ago Catkin ran third
in the Auckland Cup, was fourth in the
Doncaster Handicap and won the A.J.C.
City Handicap. In Melbourne outings on
Sert: “Whats the matter, Bert?”
Bert: *Got a rotten head ache?
a
(Sert: You SHOULD TAKE SOME
EXERCISE. CHOP SOME WOOD.”
Bert: " Its mot a sputting*
headache ''
the flat he was most undependable. Gabell
schooled him over hurdles, and was naturally
disappointed when Ruwolt decided to give
up racing. Hayes might easily land the two
Nationals with this fellow and Affirm.
King Mart, another thoroughbred of
Dominion origin, credited Hayes with the
Iveera Welter. Because he had 10.2 in the
saddle, he was only mildly supported at
8 to 1. Neangar being a 2 to 1 favorite.
After being third at the half-mile, Neangar
beat a retreat and was almost last to finish.
King Mart smothered his rivals over the
concluding furlong, and scored handsomely
from Rex Aurantic (14 to 1) and Sinetrc
(50 to 1). Arthur Wise, who piloted Catkin
in the Hurdle Race, was associated with
King Mart’s victory. F. J. Mitchell, whose
father won a Doncaster Handicap and Caul-
field Cup in long-ago days with Cremorne,
imported King Mart and Sir Roy from
across the Tasman; he sold King Mart to
Jock Holmes and Sir Roy to C. T. Godby.
“Ticli” Wilson won the first division of
the Two- and Three-year-old Handicap on
Golden Lullaby and the second section on
Pembroke. Each started at 11 to 2. Golden
Lullaby is held on lease from Jack Holt by
W. Foulsham, who in 1916 got Eurobin
home in the Doncaster and Kandos in the
St. Leger on the same afternoon. Pembroke
is a three-year-old by Limerick’s sire and
carries the colors of Tindall, who is begin-
ning to experience better luck as, an owner-
trainer in Melbourne. Much money went
west over Indian Force in Pembroke’s race.
The son of High Force was having a close
tussle with Frank Dempsey’s mount, Deben-
ture, when Pembroke swooped down and won
most impressively.
Ivoolparoo. winner of the, Warrnambool
Cup at the beginning of the month, shared
favoritism with Greencloth for the middle-
distance Nonga Handicap. They finished
just outside the money. Hasta. a Spearhead
mare in Bradfield’s stable, led all the way
and stalled off a late challenge from Lineage
by a head. Gesto, recently purchased by
p. B. Quinlan, accepted for Hasta’s race
but did not start. Backers did not take a
single trick, and had the mortification to see
an 8-to-l chance squeeze home by a neck in
the concluding event. Greasepaint, the
trouble-maker in this case, hails from Swan
Hill. As a two-year-old he was trained by
Jack Holt for Mrs. C. B. Kellow.
* * * *
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Kororoit Hurdle : Arcadius ; next Kendler.
Bay View Handicap: Sir Roy, next, Mon-
diago. •
❖ '** V
Sydney people who go racing mainly for
recreation welcomed the return to Randwiek,
with its straightout and place totes. And
they supported these machines so consistently
on Saturday that the takings showed an
advance of nearly £6OOO compared with the
corresponding meeting last year-—remarkable
for the times. There were many empty book-
makers’ stands, and there would be more still
if punters were furnished with the doubles
tote which has made such a stir in Perth and
Adelaide. The equal division of place divi-
dends is particularly appreciated by those
who are content with small profits and quick
returns. On Saturday Stately, 2 to 1 in the
ring, was even money for a place, and a ticket
on Greensea (fours and 9 to 2) yielded
nearly 2 to 1.
And the s.o. tote once more bvat McShort-
odds. Anchor, winner of the Flying Handi-
cap, _ was called at 10 to 1 before the
barrier rose, though the price was shorter
beforehand; the machine paid £7 11s. 6d.
for 10s. A punter presenting a £1 ticket to
McShortodds would have been handed
£9 18s. (supposing lie got 10 to 1) ; at the
tote window a £1 ticket would have been
worth £l5 3s. It was a great price, con-
sidering that in his two previous starts
Anchor had romped home in a race at Rand-
wick and had run a very close (and, as
many people thought, an unlucky) second
at Rosehill to Prince Verderer —who on
this occasion was third, Camargo separating
the pair, Chemosh was favorite, but he does
not seem to be a Randwiek horse, and Tom
Pinch may also do better oii suburban
courses where the straight is less trying.
The tote also proved its superiority—as
far as non-professionals are concerned, any-
way—in the betting on the James Barnes
Stakes. A pound on Voleuse at 8 to 1,
the best price offered, would have produced
£8 2s. net, the tax being 10 per cent.; the
tote return was £lO, though Government
and club take 12| per cent, and fractions of
sixpences. Colin Stephen’s faith in his
bonny little Magpie mare was justified at
last, for, urged on by Reynolds, she beat
Gibsontea —another good little horse but
with not quite the staying power of Voleuse
—by sheer gameness. Troilus joined in to
make an exciting finish of it; New Sweet,
falling in the straight, interfered with some
of the others.
Greensea made a very fine attempt to
win the Welter Handicap all the way with
10s t. Blb. on his back. He just failed to
give 271 b. to Vigne (8 to 1), a horse that
has been carefully nursed by Jim Barden.
Pratt rode three winners—Stately (Tatt.’s
Stakes), Repere (Two-year-old Handicap)
and Vigne.
•!• 'i* V 'i*
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Legislator; next, King
Crow.
Moorefield Handicap: Attar; next Flin-
ders.
Rockdale Mile : Roley ; next, Tortoni.
“Hotham”: That doubles-tote infection
(B. 13/5/’3l) has already spread from
Westralia and South Australia to Victoria,
though Victoria has not yet been able to
get its first straight-out machine going. The
divvies quoted in Tiie Bulletin as having
been paid at Adelaide have set all the punt-
ers’ mouths a-watering, and there have been
eager inquiries as to when the V.R.C. and
associated clubs are going to supplement the
tote system at present being set up with the
money-spinning device of the double go.
A. V. Kewney, the V.R.G. secretary, voiced
the official position the other day. His club
and others have been impressed with the
possibilities of the double tote. But it
seems a fair thing that the Victorian punt-
ers should be first instructed in the mys-
teries of the single-bet system; when they
are broken in a chance to have a fly at the
double will be given them.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The 12,000 enthusiasts present (they paid
£1730 altogether) did not always approve
of the Ambrose Palmer (11.10)-Herman
Bundren (11.6) fight at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday, the back benchers chanting the
count at Bundren’s often lethargic work.
Palmer tried his hardest, and the Victorian’s
forcefulness won all the way. Bundren may
have left most of his punching power in the
gymnasium. He can probably battle better
than many think. Still, Palmer fought too
fast for the Kansan in all of the 15 rounds.
There were no knockdowns, and at the
finish neither showed marks of having been
in a strenuous scrap.
* * * *
Maori footballer-fighter Ted Pickrang was
not pugnacious enough for George Cook at
Leichhardt (N.S.W.) on Friday, and the
globe-trotter (Cook has appeared in more
countries than anyone pushing leather for a
living) won in 11 rounds. Pickrang (14.0)
is bigger, speedier and younger than Cook
(13.6), and the brown boxer’s fast fighting
in the opening rounds made him look a
winner. Then Cook started connecting with
lusty lefts, and Pickrang sought the canvas.
After several repetitions Cook was crowned.
Footbrawl
Melbourne’s big game of the day on Satur-
day was the clash of the Geelong and Mel-
bourne clubs. It drew 20,000 people and a
gate of £493. the finish being well worth the
money The seasiders were the slower to
start, but only a point separated them at the
Jcifet. clicUigG. Artei tlidt it Weis hard and fast,
with point matching point The locate got the
lead but a great mark by Evans followed by a
greater kick, gave Geelong the advantage,
Then Mdbournes ex-South Aus forward,
Margiticli, took a shot and the ball rolled
through fin unguarded goal Melbourne, 8<
points; Geelong, S 3 At \ ictoria Park
South Melbourne put it all over Colling-
wood up to half-time and led 45-21; after
that the locals hopped in and by lemon-
time, m a specially fast and open game, they
were within four points. The last quarter
saw Collingwood add b goals to South s o,
and when the bell rang, Collingwood had
won 94-<o. Other games encled as expected—
Carlton 126 to. Esseinlon s 44; Richmond
94 to Footscray s 52; Fitzroy 88 to North
Melbourne s 48. Hawthorn made a game
effort against St. Kilda, on the latter s
ground, and with a little more devil at the
finish might have prevailed As it was they
scored 68 points to St. Kilda s 72.
* * * *
“Swing th’ Boot”: The Rugby League
inter-State season opens with three games
against Queensland in Sydney on June 6, 8
and 13. The first and third will be played
on the Sports Ground, while the mid-week
fixture will be at the Agricultural arena,
The return visit will be made in June; two
games with Queensland at Brisbane on June
27 and July 4, with additional matches
against Brisbane and Toowoomba on July
1 and 6. For the first time for years
a match against Ipswich, about the strong-
est supporter of the League in Queensland
nowadays, will not be played. A timid sug-
gestion by the Bananalanders that they
should be permitted to pay their guests 15s.
per day allowance in lieu of the customary
quid was thrown out with contumely by thc
Ma State authorities.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby League followers had a
treat in the big game between South Sydney
and Eastern Suburbs at the Sports Ground,
the old rivals unwinding a game of rare
pace and brilliancy which was in doubt up
to the final toot, when Easts found them-
selves winners by 15-10 (3 tries 3 goals to
2 tries 2 goals), South Sydney retained the
five pack, yet had the better of the scrums.
It was Easts’ pace and finish which won the
day, and the scores about represent the dif-
ference between the teams. Conspicuous
among the winners was full-back Ilong,
vastly improved since the beginning of the
season. Pope, at half, and Stehr and Pearce,
in the forwards, are candidates for inter-
state caps on the form shown. Harris was
the pick of South’s back division; Tre-
weeke was again the most effective Southern
forward. At North Sydney the local
men beat Newtown 7-3, showing excellent
combination in the first half, when all their
points were scored. St. George at last shook
off its hoodoo and headed Balmain 10-9. Uni.
made Western Suburbs travel at Pratten
Park. The premiers won 24-17; they only
warmed up in the last 20 minutes, when 19
points were tacked on.
* * * *
“Nark”: The N.S.W. Rugby League has
been greatly moved in its bowels this season
by the departure on coaching jobs to the
country of many of its star metropolitan
players. By way of getting even with the
offenders for this ingratitude, it has resolved
that none, of the deserters shall be invited
to play with country teams in Sydney during
country week. It seems rather rough on the
ostracised players, who will thus lose their
chance of consideration for the inter-State
games against Queensland, especially as most
of them were forced to go out back in default
of finding employment in the city.
* * * *
After one or two narrow shaves earlier
in the season, Randwiek took its first defeat
in the Rugby Union grade games, the pre-
miers going down 20-24 to Western Suburbs
at the Sydney Cricket Ground. Wests
scored four tries, Cant converting all of
them, while fullback Storey landed a field
goal. Randwiek crossed the line thrice,
adding two conversions and a penalty goal
by Towers. Fullback Westfield, in his turn,
contributed a. field goal, completing an
unusual coincidence. The game was remark-
able for the winners’ ascendancy in the
first half, the forwards benefiting from poor
handling by the Randwiek backs and run-
ning up 19 points to 5. Randwiek made a
fine recovery in the second spell. At Hurst-
ville, St. George gave Manly a good spin,
Manly winning an attractive match 15-8.
Eastern Suburbs held University well on the
Grammar School ground and finished ahead
with 18 points to 8, Kennedy showing ster-
ling form on the Uni. wing. At Manly,
Northern Suburbs surprised by downing
Drummoyne 17-9.
The N.S.W. Rugby Union side to tour
Queensland contains plenty of new blood,
many of the old stars having dropped out
this season. Alec Ross is, of course, full-
back, but Towers is unavailable for the
centre, and has been replaced by Young, of
Northern Suburbs, while Shirt, of Western
Suburbs, is another stranger to the big
stuff. Syd Malcolm will' captain the team
from the pivot position, and has a good
forward side in front. Outstanding new-
comers here are Wentworth, recently re-
turned from England; Perrin, the giant
Northern Suburbs lock; and McKeown, of
Western Suburbs. St. George is the only
grade club not represented.
* =l= >l= *
“Roughie”: There has been considerable
irritation among Rugby Union supporters in
Sydney of late at the continuance by the
Union authorities of the benevolent attitude
towards transgressors of the rules which
marked their attitude last year. Trouble over
evasion, or apparent evasion, of the residen-
tial qualification has again been too much
in evidence, and in one recent instance led
to an unseemly fracas between the two clubs
involved when they met on the field. Play-
ers sent off for foul or rough play have also
been too leniently dealt with, and mistaken
softness of that kind is also a reflection on
the umpire responsible for reporting offend-
ers. Amateur umpires are hard enough to
get as it is.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The Maorilaud Rugby Union,
having returned to the old laws, is seeking
reform in other directions, and is so fired
with zeal that it has warned all affiliated
unions to insist on wing-forwards adhering
strictly to the rules. The answer is that
with the rules strictly enforced the wing-
forward of the M.L. brand could not con-
tinue to exist. M.L. might just as well follow
the example of N.S.W. in the long ago—
Queensland never permitted the winger in
domestic football —and wipe the nuisance off
the football map. The favorite M.L. defence
that the winger is no different from the
breakaway forward of to-day won't hold
water. The breakaway at least leans against
the scrum and gives a plausible imitation
of keeping on side until the ball is out.
The wing-forward ignores all that, and
standing out in the open often has a tussle
with the opposing scrum-half as to wdio shall
gather the lieel-out. If any doubt me, con-
sider the number of free kicks for wing- for-
ward offside given whenever the All Blacks
meet outside teams.


LEARN TO PLAY
GOLF
SCIENTIFICALLY
FROM
AUSTRALIA’S OPEN CHAMPION
~ FRANK EYRE
I will make you a finished golfer
So great has been tlic demand from
golfers' and those desiring to learn the
correct game that I have, after many
months’ work, completed niy 1931 postal
golfing course. Now every golfer through-
out Australasia has a wonderful oppor-
tunity. They can rest assured that 1 can
teach them just as if they were standing
in front of me.
During my many years’ experience in the
golfing world 1 have introduced many
new strokes. I GUARANTEE TO
TEACH YOU EVERY STROKE JUST
AS IF I WERE STANDING IN
FRONT OF YOU. I have guided and
taught many of the leading golfers in
Australia to-day, and I guarantee to
improve your game 50%.
My Scientific Method*
will give you absolute mastery of the
game. Even if you have never previously
had a golf stick in your hands it makes
no difference to me. My methods are too
good, too sure, too time-tested, too deeply
woven into my 10 years’ experience and
success as an instructor to fail.
My golfing course is profusely illustrated.
Every stroke is explained thoroughly, and
many valuable ideas are placed before
you.
YOU CAN REST ASSURED THAT I
CAN TEACH YOU JUST AS IF YOU
WERE STANDING IN FRONT OF ME.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO
is to take up my course by mail and do wliat it tells you to do for 12 weeks. Then
the elusive art of golf will no longer be a mystery to you. I will teach you perfection
in every stroke, with perfection will come confidence, and with confidence will come
the extreme pleasure which only those golfers who have mastered the game cam feel-
You will know more about the real science of golf than most other people who are chiefly
self taught, and have never had the advantage of expert coaching from a recognised expert.
FREE
To every student taking up my 1931
Postal Golfing Course I am giving free—
ONE Hand-made Steel-shafted Frank
Eyre Golf Club.
ONE Golf Drive Perfector. The finest
captive ball appliance ever used.
Write To-day for
Full Particulars
Cut out coupon in
this advertisement,
sign it and post to
me to-day. By return
mail you will receive
full details regarding
this much-talked-of
golfing course.
[COUPON]
16
FRANK EYRE,
BATHURST HOUSE,
209 a CASTLEREAGH STREET.
SYDNEY.
DEAR FRANK EYRE, —Kindly send me full particulars regarding
your 1931 Postal Golfing Course. This does not commit me in any
way. I enclose 2d. stamp to help in postage.
NAME
ADDRESS •.
TOWN
STATE
FRANK EYRE,
OPEN GOLF CHAMPION OF AUSTRALIA,
whose 1931 Postal Golfing
Course has created a furore
throughout Australia.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian League and its
elder brother the Association have agreed
to sink their differences in the sweet cause
of charity, and will let their best players
meet at the Melbourne Cricket Ground
on June 6. The match will be played under
Australian Football Council rules, and the
umpires, boundary and otherwise, will be
chosen 50-50 from each of the two contending
bodies. There should be a great gate, for there
is sure to be something doing when the pala-
dins of the rival codes get an open go at eacii
other with their urgers to spur them on.
“Norwood”: The South Australian Foot-
ball League has tightened up the annual con-
tract which its umpires have to sign. The
form of application desires the intending
nmp. to state whether or not he is a member
of an umpires’ association or club, and he
must agree not to become a member of any
such organisation without the league’s per-
mission. All this has followed on a long-
drawn-out strafe between the old umpires’
association and the league, which ended in
the latter demanding the extinction of the
association. One or two dicliards have re-
fused to consent, and will get no league jobs.
“Lancaster Park”: After some backing
and filling, the combined M'.L. universities
will take on a N.S.W. tour,' the first game
being down for May 27 against Sydney Uni.
at Sydney. On June 3 the tourists will
meet a combined .side from the Australian
Rugby universities, and will pay a visit to
Orange, winding up the tour with a match
between a team composed of men from the
Sydney and M.L. sides and one from N.S.W.
on June 10. All the games will be played
in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Rangitira”: Dr. Adams, retiring presi-
dent of the M.L. Rugby Union- —he has been
succeeded by Australia’s good friend S. S.
Dean—made a spirited at ack on the insist-
ence of the British Rugby Unions on exclud-
ing Dominion representatives from the Inter-
national Board, which is composed only of
delegates from England, Scotland, Ireland
and Wales. England and Wales are said
to be in favor of Dominion representation,
the other two being the narks. This atti-
tude has long been a sore point with the
overseas unions, and when one considers the
standard of the game in Maoriland, South
Africa and Australia, is rightly resented.
* * *
‘‘Five Ways”: The Queensland Rugby
Union’s trial match between country and
metropolitan teams was won by the city men,
who unexpectedly came out ahead of the
opposition by 11 to 3. Heavy rain had made
the ground very bad, but that did not pre-
vent the game from being fast and open, the
backs taking plenty of chances. Steggall,
the Toowoomba fullback, who wore the
maroon jersey last year, made his marble
good again with a fine game, as did the
flying international McGhie and his fellow-
fighter against the British side, Bonis, the
big lock forward. Carter, a Toowoomba
three-quarter, looks another good pick for the
State against N. S. Wales. Altogether, the
Bananalanders should field a powerful team.
*.* * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. League, which has
spent a lot of money on improvements to
the once-inadequate Sydney Sports Ground,
has resolved to set aside a certain number
of reserved seats for the club and inter-
state matches. Sixpence extra will be
charged for the club games and a bob for:
the bigger stuff. It is a sound idea. Queens-
land Cricket Association first adopted it at
the Exhibition Ground when Brisbane saw
its first Test, and the Rugby Union fol-
lowed suit when the British side was in
the North, the experiment proving a success
in both instances. The N.S.W. Rugby
Union was asked to do the same thing when
the M.L. and British visitors showed on
Sydney Cricket Ground, but concluded the
scheme was impracticable, though stand con-
ditions, etc., were the same there as in
Brisbane.
The Nineteenth Hole
“D.”: Henry Cotton, who led in the first
round of the Dunlop professional golf com-
petition at Southport with 70, is England's
youngest pro. and one of the only two who
are ex-public-scliool boys. The other is his
elder brother, T.H., who works for the
Coulsdon Court club. They are Old Alley-
nians, and on their looks woujd have done as
well as cinema juveniles as they have in the
golfing world. Henry, who is half a dozen
strokes better than his brother, was tipped
as Britain’s next Vardon when he was in
his teens, and he had all the necessary
executive ability. It was his temperament
that stopped him, and it has been stopping
him ever since.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: It must have been particularly
galling to Joe Kirkwood to lose strokes in
the 1500-guinea tournament at Southuort
by hitting a spectator on the leg, temporarily
disabling him. At the big' British golf
matches the spectators form up for every
drive, leaving a narrow lane down the
fairway, and Joe took pride in the fact
that he had never injured anyone, being
accurate or nothing. I saw him partnering
Bobby Jones in a foursome against Tolley
and Wethered on the R.A.C. course near
Epsom in ’27. with a crowd of 5000 follow-
ing the match. The spectators’ habit of
crowding nine or ten deep round each green
when the players got within mashie-dis-
tance exasperated Bobby Jones, and before
approaching the little champion invariably
stumped up to the obstructionists and shooed
them out of his light. Not so Kirkwood.
Whenever the club stewards failed to do
their jobs —and their control over the spec-
tators was feeble from start to finish —
Joseph smiled amiably and approached over
the heads of the crowd. He laid his ball,
dead under this handicap over and over
again. Yes —he and Jones save their long-
driving opponents a terrific hiding.
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : One of the golf experts
who, like myself, occasionally enlighten the
world on the mysteries of the cult has been
commenting on what he calls the fact that
clianging-over from amateurism to profes-
sionalism produces an astounding improve-
ment in form. He professes himself amazed,
and quotes the case of Tommy Armour, the
U.S.A. professional champion. Tommy, he
points out, was a very good amateur, but
by no means among tlie best. Yet when
be changed to the cash side of the game he
was among the money at once. The explana-
tion is simple. Armour is a Scotsman. Did
anyone ever hear of one of my countrymen
who didn’t .slip the wraps when the siller
was to be gained by doing, so?
“Sandringham”: Melbourne has been
witnessing a lot of class golf. The open
event at Kingston Heath’s annual car-
nival included a scratch and handicap go in
one, and there was a strong entry of the
professional element in addition to the ama-
teurs. The scratch event went to the Vic-
torian amateur champion, M. Ryan, who
won the Australian title in 1929. Ryan
was on his' own course, but even then his
rounds of 74, 75 were marked by charac-
teristic length with woods and irons. 11. L.
Williams, of Commonwealth, was second,
two strokes behind the winner, and then
came Ivo Wliitton with 153, a score which
tied him with the top professional, Spicer.
J. Fox, a left-hand stylist from Yarra Yarra,
took the handicap off the 26 mark with a
net card of 143.
“Green Goods”: It is almost tragical to
consider that, so far this season in America,
Walter Hagen has won only 800 dahlars,
while other professionals like Von Elm have
pouched as much as 8000. No wonder one
hears reports that Walter is off his game.
If this sort of thing goes on he will have
to change his 35 dahlars-a-day suite at the
BiLmore Hotel in N’Yark for some humble
shack further down town. Still his country-
men seem to believe in him. He has been
chosen .skipper of the Yank Ryder Cup side
to tackle Britain in America next month.
“Chat Moss” : The most important result of
the earthquake at Manchester was the estab-
lishment of a new golfing problem upon which
St. Andrews will have to whet its wits. Two
golfers were busy on a game when one saw
his putt lipped and the ball left on the
edge of the bole. His opponent, also within
lioling-out distance, was setting himself for
a winning stroke when the earthquake came
along and shook the other man’s pill into
the hole. Of course there were the usual
alarms and excursions, but just how to size
up the happening set the whole club by the
ears. None of the rules seems to apply. Per-
sonally, I am inclined to rely on the old
“act of God” clause which has got so many
parties to a contract out of trouble.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Brooklands track lias been the
scene of some curious accidents, but a new
variety cropped up during the recent inter-
national “Double Twelve” race, so called
because it is run in two shifts of 12 hours
each. One competitor was hitting it im to
some 80 miles when the car in front of him
flung a stone backward from one, of the rear
tyres. The rock hit the driver's mechanic
with such force as to lay him out. in addi-
tion to cutting him badly. The driver
stopped and rendered first-aid to liis mate.
This left him with three miles to complete.
the minimum test, and on restarting the ear
broke down. However the driver and his
wounded cobber refused to be beaten, and
finished the distance pushing their car —
a “baby’’ fortunately.
“Disc Clutch”: Time is no object in an
attempt by two Sydney drivers, Becker and
Penny, to travel the Queensland wilds as
far as Townsville. They took 15 days to
reach Brisbane, managing the 970 miles
covered on 27 gallons of petrol—good going,
for their small car was heavily loaded. At
one stage the car stuck in a sand drift. Bail-
ing to shift her otherwise, the adventurers
sought aid at a near-by station, which sup-
plied two draught-horses. These made short
work of the rescue, and the busliie who
brought them departed without noticeable
comment, whatever he may have thought.
‘‘Methuselah”: The British motor trade
has been interested in a recent car deal.
The owner of a Sunbeam decided after he
had been driving his jigger for 27 years that
he would trade it in as part payment for
a new one. Ilis friends didn't give him
much hope, but the old contraption was in
such excellent fettle that an allowance was
made for it. The happening is eloquent
testimony to the faithfulness of British
material and workmanship.
“Kick Starter”: Fired, no doubt, by the
example of motorists Smith and Harkness,
two well-known Melbourne motor-cyclists,
E. A. Simcock and Allan Bruce, left London
the other day for Budapest, where they will
try. to lower the motor-cycle speed record of
145.09 m.p.h., .put up in the same locality
lately by the German rider Henne. They
will ride over the same ten miles stretch of
road and will be the guests of the Hungarian
Automobile Club. No details of their
machine are to hand, but it has been speci-
ally built for them in England, and has a
supercharged S-h.p. engine.
Miscellaneous
“Bumpk” : Following complaints that the
mass hysteria engendered by the newspapers
was bad for the boys, Melbourne Great
Public School heads moved the annual Ilead-
of-the-River event from Saturday to Friday.
The result this year was a dislocation of the
business of the city far more complete than
that created by the slaughtermen’s strike.
Even on the heats’ day, Thursday, the swarm
of adoring flappers was enough to pack both
sides of the river for a mile or more. If the
schools reallv wanted to remove the fixture
from the list of national carnivals they would
stage it on the lower Yarra. As it is, the
city being handy, more beer is drunk —and
spilt—on the two days than at any other
Australian festival, the Melbourne Cup not
excluded. The truth is that the event is
reckoned a magnificent advertisement for the
schools. Parents are more swayed by the
athletic achievements of these seminaries
than by their scholastic records.
Seventy thousand people saw Melbourne
Grammar win the race by a length and a half
from Wesley College, Xavier being a good
third. The Grammar eight averaged 12st.
411 b than many King’s Cup crews
and it sped over the Henley mile in 4min.
5345ec., a record for the race.
“Bias” : The NVS.W. bowls championships
in Sydney this year saw the wild men from
the great open spaces towel up the townies
in rare style. The singles went to C.
McNeill, of Hamilton, who also won in
1928. Woonona walked off with the rinks
title, while in the “A” pennant final.
Hamilton again scored, beating Aslifield,
winners of the metropolitan championship.
“The Gaffer”: South Africa, which has
produced many fine sprinters, has unearthed
another in D. J. Joubert, a student at Stel-
lenbosch University, near Capetown. A
couple of months ago he equalled the famous
R. E. Walker’s best time for the 100,
9 4-ssec., and capped this early this month
with a spin of 9 2-ssec., tieing the world’s
best by American Frank Wyckoff last year.
Joubert will prove a formidable competitor
for our Jim Carlton at the Los Anveles
Olympiad, but it must be remembered that
James has had to do his running on grass,
while the Afrikander has the benefit of the
cinder tracks that almost every athletics-
cultivating country provides for its cham-
pions. Even then, the Australian has done
9 3-ssec., though it is doubtful whether this
will be allowed to go on the books because
of an alleged drop of several inches in the
track used.
* * * *
The foreign legion has taken charge of
N.S.W. chess during the last couple of
years, and M. E. Goldstein, who tied last
year with G. Koshnitzky —Tie reached Syd-
ney from Russia via China and Brisbane —
is this year’s State champion. He was ver,\
near top of the tree in Britain, and
arrived in Sydney less than two years ago.
Spencer Crakantliorp, who was only half a
point behind the champion, showed lie has
not lost the skill that put him at the head
of affairs for years.
“S.T.S.”: A remarkable cricketer is dead
in Adelaide, Oswald Higginbottom, at 87.
He brought to Australia half a century back
the old tradition of underhand bowling, and
kept it up in second-grade matches till old
age. He was just on 70 when he took all
10 wickets for 19 ; and his innocent-looking
lobs are estimated to have claimed about
6000 victims in all.
*.* * *
“C. 8.” : Lily Copplestone, whom Australia
first saw in Sydney a couple of months ago,
is off to Britain. The Shivery Islands
champion proposes to tackle the Channel
swim and afterwards compete in the 22-mile
marathon in U.S.A. promoted by chewing-
gum magnate Wrigley. Her chances look
bright. She covered 334 miles in Si hours
at Waikato recently under the worst pos-
sible conditions, and made a good job of her
swim down the harbor from North Sydney
to Manly.


Under)
Royal
et
ToH.M
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
HE! Mf
“MERCURY
BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
Perfect beauty
comes to your hair when the
rich, pure nourishment of Row-
land’s Macassar Oil gives it the
beauty of perfect health.
ert
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, WCI
ENGLAND. * ’
J. H. & CO.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 459 of 1931.
BETWEEN ETHEL MABEL AGNES JOHNSON (for-
merly Ethel Mabel Agnes Linklater) Petitioner
and DAVID JOHNSON Respondent.
To DAVID JOHNSON formerly of Riverstone and
Sydney in the said State but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL MABEL
AGNES JOHNSON has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
Dissolution of Marriage on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
thirtieth day of. July one thousand nine hundred
and thirty-one and in the event of your not doin'*
so within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitors free of
charge.
Dated this thirtieth day of April one thousand
nine hundred and thirty-one.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce
HAROLD T. MORGAN & MORGAN,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
W HAIR
<0 " EE °
HERE&
•umy-
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPCrfle/rCs (.Mexican)
Walnut fflavrt
♦-REMOVES THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melboume.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
et
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
All social Bellevue Hill turned up at.
Kandwick on Saturday to see Colin
Stephen’s mare Violeuse win the James
Barnes Stakes. There were plenty of Knoxes
and Stephens about the A.J.C.’s equivalent
of the Royal Enclosure, but hardly any
country folk —no Osbornes, no Whites, no
Falkiners that this Letter could see—and
the vice-regalities were in Canberra as
guests of Governor-General Isaacs. Some
of the Stephen following got tens about
Voleuse, though her owner sternly warned
all and sundry against risking large sums on
her. This chairman of the A.J.C. is unique
in many respects. He probably knows more
about thoroughbreds than any of his pre-
decessors (at any rate, that is what present-
day trainers say) ; he is out and away the
best horseman who has held the job, and
he is the only one who has bred a near-
champion, which all agree that the variable
Voleuse is on her day, while holding office.
The best people still go racing, regarding
it as a sort, of demonstration of loyalty, but
service in one form or another to those who
are down on their luck is far more fashion-
able. That accounted in part for the big
muster at Toe H’s sixth birthday festival
at the Royal Empire Society’s rooms on
Saturday night. Assailants of the movement
which originated when a subaltern who em-
bodied self-sacrifice was killed in France
claim that it is “militaristic.”. That it isn’t
a glance at those who are behind it in this
capital should be enough to prove to the
most Communistic of critics. The local
president, Justice Harvey, delivered the chief
address. He is the gentlest of men; one
whose melodious tenor singing voice delighted
hundreds of drawing-rooms years ago. The
indefatigably public-spirited Kelso King,
who also took part in the proceedings, is
equally mild in manner and spirit. The
real objection to Toe H is that it stands
for the elimination of class hostility, and it
is certainly doing a lot in that direction.
Gladys Owen and the energetic helpers
associated with her on the Unemployed
Fund are doing even more. They have been
astonished by the patience, even in many
cases cheeriness, of those who through no
fault of their own need help. Amongst
them are professional men and their wives,
business people of all descriptions, and many
others who in the past never knew what it
was to want. Also, of course, thousands of
those who inevitably suffer immediately the
economic machine goes wrong. They show
no resentment, and certainly nothing that
can be construed into class resentment. On
the contrary, common difficulties are bring-
ing the classes together as they have not
been brought together since the war. Only
those who have seen the depression at close
quarters are able to realise just how piti-
able the lot of some of its victims is. There
are hospitals in which the newly-born babies
are being wrapped in paper to keep them
warm. There are literally no clothes for
them!
Wool Week has come, gone and succeeded.
One of the mitigating features of the slump
is that it has turned the eyes and affections
of thousands in the direction of our own
products. Wool is a case in point. When
synthetic silk was pouring in nice girls
wore it and often got repellent colds when
a drop in the temperature came along. Now
many of them are being forcibly converted
to the merits of woollies, and are discover-
ing that they like them. “There’s Nothing
like Leather” is still the watchword of the
trade in England, though saddlery and har-
ness-making businesses have gone west by
the thousand since motoring arrived; and
“Thefe’s Nothing like Wool” should be a
good watchword for Australia. If our
6,400,000 inhabitants decided that, where
possible, they wouldn’t dress without put-
ting something made of wool on, and wouldn’t
sleep without getting under something of
wool, the ending of the depression might be
appreciably hastened.
In the course of the Wool Week trumpet-
ing nobody seems to have mentioned the
French bed. Don’t you remember it, Digger
—on the rare occasions you had a chance
of enjoying the real thing? There’s scarcely
a home in France whose “best bed” isn’t
provided with a mattress of scoured wool;
and Is. Bd. is quite a low price for a pound
of scoured wool in France. But madame in-
sists upon wool; and madame knows a lot
about comfort. Might not we, too, encourage
its use instead of hanging on to the fugitive
and quite unsatisfactory kapok?
The farewell dance to Rear-Admiral Evans
and his wife at the Wentworth on Friday
was remarkable for two things: the real
affection shown for the guests by the large
crowd, and the absence of representatives
of most of the families who bulked largely
at such functions in pre-war days. Money,
the basis of fashionable life everywhere, is
changing hands. Naturally the naval anti
military elements predominated, the hosts
being members of the United Service Insti-
tution. Brigadier-General Bertie Lloyd, the
veteran Colonel Spain, Brigadier-General
Bennett, of _ the A.F.A., and Brigadier-
General Heritage were there with their
wives; also Captain Feakes, Commander
Garsia, the cheery “Gift”’ and practically
every senior officer in our three-ship navy.
The organisers saw to it that their guests
were greeted with appropriate Service
honors. When the Admiral’s party arrived
three petty officers “piped it over the side”
(of the ballroom) with deafening blasts on
their whistles, and then men of the R.A.A.
trumpeted it along the dancing-floor. Some
civilians in the gathering were the C. M.
Shannons, the medical Eakins, of Darling-
hurst (he isn’t exactly a civilian, by the way,
having been a naval doctor), the Allen Tay-
lors, the Roy Bucklands, the Frank Alberts
and of course the Consul-General for Norway
and Madame Fay. Take him for all in all,
the departing hero of the Broke is the best-
liked sailor Sydney has known, not even
excepting. bluff old Admiral Rawson. A
matter chiefly of his keenness on his job, and
of his blithe, boyish manner.
The Lawrensons, who are staying at the
Australia while they look for a house,
should be acquisitions to Sydney. Mr.
Lawrenson was given a big luncheon
at the Carlton last week in honor
of his arrival to take over the editor-
ship of the Fox-Movietone news-reel pic-
tures, and after knight Victor Wilson, as
local head of the film business, had proposed
his health he made one of those speeches for
which natives of the U.S.A. are famous. He
is a smallish, dapper man with mild eyes
looking through liorn-rimmed glasses, and a
gentle, hesitant manner; but he said all lie
had to say about his mission here, and he
said it with firmness. Peace and goodwill
are the watchwords of his organisation, and
he made it clear that no pictures would be
sent out of the Commonwealth for exhibi-
tion_ abroad that weren’t going to give Aus-
tralia the kind of advt. it wants, and help
draw his country and our Empire together
in bonds of friendship. His wife is an ultra-
smart girl who knows Paris and London
as well as she does her home town.
Those who read John Dailey’s Red Page
article on F. D. Davison’s “Forever Morn-
ing” will be interested to see that the author
looks rather like a screen hero. He is an
Australian by birth, with a wide acquaint-
ance of other lands. He was in the West
Indies when
war broke out,
and got over
to E n g 1 and
below - deck
with a cargo
of horses. In
those early
days most
people thought
the fighting
would be over
in six months.
Mr. Davison
was one of
them ; he fear-
ed that if he
came back to
Australia to
enlist he would
be too late.
That was
where he went
wrong; he got
four full years
pf it—in the British Army. The recruit-
ing sergeant at Liverpool said “Oh, of
course! We will transfer you to the Aus-
tralians when they get to. Europe.” Recruit-
ing sergeants will promise anything—until
the attestation paper is signed. In
America Mr. Davison wrote “The Mag-
pie.” The. verses drifted back to Aus-
tralia, and the Vic. Education Depart-
ment asked permission to include them
in the school reader. The author was by this
time, doing his bit in France, but the per-
mission was duly given and the poem duly
appeared.
Some impressions of the last night of
“The Duchess of Dantzic” at Her Majesty’s
by a movie addict who hadn’t seen a musical
comedy for two years:—
The discovery that my stall, which appeared to
face the stage on the box-plan, only gave a view of
two-thirds of it. The zebra-like make-up of the
comic characters. The-middle-aged Young Napoleon.
The draught down my back; the draught in my
right ear. The ravening revolutionary mob of
eight supers. The preponderance of elderly and old
spectators;. their hilarity at the ancient jokes and
comic business; the ill-disguised scorn of their
children and grandchildren. The unconvincing back-
drops. The gate for the exclusion of revolution-
aries which threatened to fall down when touched.
The over-acting; the under-acting; the rotten act-
ing. The portentously slow tempo. The bored
chorines. Their attractive legs. The weary passing
of the hours. The attempt to sleep, frustrated by
the uncomfortableness of the seat and the draught
mentioned above. The maddening recollection that
the seat had cost 7s.
A motto of the Sydney social world for
half a century or more lias been: “When
boredom flies in at the window the wife
should fly off on a mailboat." The Aus-
tralian colony in London has been largely
recruited by the operation of this conven-
tion, but it is now being depleted by cir-
cumstances which neither wives nor hus-
bands can control. Only the very richest
Australians are able to live in England these
days, _ pay the exchange, in addition to
the higher rate of income tax required of
outlanders in “reciprocating” Dominions. So
hundreds are pouring back to the Common-
wealth and M.L. who would otherwise have
remained in exile for years. The return
of hospitable George Fuller and his family
and _ the probable replacement of General
Ryrie at Australia House have accelerated
the movement. Mr. Willis, our new A.-G.,
has announced that he doesn't mean to—
and the next High Commissioner isn't likely
to have the money to—-entertain. Returned
trippers say that the situation is having a
disastrous effect on many London institu-
tions. _ The British Empire Club in St.
Jumes’s-square, for example; practically
all the members come from the Dominions.
A couple of years ago the British Empire
was one of the most flourishing clubs finan-
cially in the West End. Now it is repre-
sented as having the appearance of a
deserted mausoleum, for the depression is driv-
ing male as well as female expatriates back
to their countries of origin.
Adele Quinn presented that rare thing a
pure oval face to Rene Pardon's camera.
This striking-
looking girl is
one of the
reasons why
“H indie
Wakes,” the
I n d e pendent
Players’ pro-
duction at the
Savoy, is prov-
ing such a suc-
cess. In the
play she is
Beatrice, the
girl with ideals,
who is ready
to sa c r ifice
her happiness
in the pursuit
of them. Adele
has appeared
in the Turret
Theatre in
“The Passion
Flower” and
. Romantic Young Lady,” and has acted
m ohakspearean roles.
, . Brunton dropped an interesting
nmt before her departure last week. She
expects to come back here shortly “for good.”
Sydney will be glad. She has been a popu-
lar idol since she first came on with Bland
! 'olt s melodrama crowds as a stage-mad
kid of 14 or less, and since then she has
foregathered with most of our variegated
grades of society. The late Flo Young,
Dorothy’s only rival in the affections of the
gallery of late years, confined herself as
much as possible to theatrical circles. Dot
Brunton, with or without her chaperone-
mother, has always been equally at home at
one of Dr. Stewart McKay’s parties, at the
place he used to have out Prospect way, or
at a dance on a stage. She is in the cham-
pionship class as what the Americans call a
“mixer.”
Brigadier-General Sydney Christian,
C.M.G., who died last week, aged 64, was
a survivor of the days when soldiering was
a fashionable calling in N. S. Wales. The
days of “Curly” Hutton (whose A.D.C.
young Lieutenant Christian was) ; of Colonel
Mackenzie and smart parties at the Padding-
ton barracks; of Major Airey, Captain
Horace Dangar and contingents of moneyed
artillery officers at Government House func-
tions, and meetings of the departed Sydney
Hunt Club. Sydney Christian tried the
land first, the idea being that he would
eventually run Tenterfield, the family squat-
tage, but he soon tired of the pastoral life
and joined the artillery by way of the
Maitland (Infantry) Regiment. He left with
the Ist Artillery Brigade in 1914, saw ser-
vice on the Peninsula and took the stli
Divvy A.F.A. to France. His wife died
and his health broke down in ’l7. He
returned to Australia to resign from the
service and spend most of his remaining
days at the Australian Club, where he was
extremely popular.
Captain Moodie-Heddle, the popular skip-
per of the s.s. Katoomba, has been notified
by cable of the death in London of an uncle,
Forster Heddle. Uncle Forster married
Millie Traill, eldest daughter of the late
W. H. Traill, one-time editor of The Bul-
letin.
Easily the most retrenchable item on the
Australia House budget, by general con-
sent of Anglo-Australians, is Granville
Ryrie’s house in Ennismore Gardens. It
was a sop thrown to the old warrior during
the extravagant Bruce regime. He hated
the idea of living in London at first, but was
somewhat consoled by the knowledge that
he and his family would be almost next door
to Mrs. Pat Osborne, who is connected
with the Ryrie clan by marriage. (1-E'
brig.’s pretty daughter married Mrs. Pats
grandson.) The Commonwealth has been
paying over £2O a week for the house ever
since, together with the wages of a butler
and other servants.
Skirts for day wear, a girl just back from
England says, are decidedly shorter than
they have been for some time. Foam green,
aquamarine and coral are among the head-
line colors for evening wear. Diamente is
splashed on according to taste, and hand-
painted flowers bloom on many of the best
frocks. Velvets, satin and lace are equally
in favor, and cire net is still in the running.
From Brisbane’s mailbag :
Society plunged into a Pageant of the Nations
at the City Hall to help the Creche and Kindergarten
funds. There were an Olde English Fair, a High-
land Gathering, St. Patrick’s Day in Ireland and a
very interesting Wales, in which a spinning-wheel
200 years old took part. There were a Dutch
episode, Midsummer in Sweden, an Egypt in which
the sacred cow was not forgotten, an American
Cakewalk and France Through the Ages. Also there
were a Russian Court scene, a China scene, a Maori
Haka and various other tableaux. With the Governor
and Lady Goodwin were the Mayor and Mayoress,
the Premier and Mrs Moore, Colonel and Mrs..
Annand, Colonel and Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell.
Some 2000 were present when Sir John Goodwin
officially opened the Mother Patrick Memorial
Children’s Hospital in the grounds of the Mater
Misericord he Hospital, South Brisbane. Archbishop
Duhig said the day had a particular significance,
for it was the seventieth, anniversary of the day
on which the first body of Sisters of Mercy arrived
in Brisbane in 1861.
Christ Church, Childers, saw the wedding of
Desmond Spencer and Norah Mary Lucas. The bride,
who was given away by her father, was in ivory
georgette and lace and tulle veil. Mona and Mildred
Lucas ’maided in turquoise-blue georgette.
Of interest to Darling Downs people was the
marriage of Captain William Wauchope Crellin, Aus-
tralian Staff Corps, Maryborough, to Page Lorraine
Freshney. The bride has lived all her life in
Toowoomba, and the wedding was at St. James’s.
She was given away by her brother Reginald, and
wore ivory satin moire and veil of cut tulle sur-
mounted by a cap of old Limerick lace. Del Fresh-
ney and Alison McPhie were ’maids in leaf-green
chiffon. The best man, Captain King, and the bride-
groom were in uniform. Dr. and Mrs. .Eneas
McDonnell had the feasting at tables set with
pink heather in the garden at Rathdonnell, where
the bride cut the cake with the ’groom’s sword. The
'moon is being spent in Victoria.
Lady Goodwin gathered some 40 members of her
sewing circle together at Government House last
week. Next day she left with the Governor for Rock-
hampton, Capella, Long-reach, Winton, Hughenden
and Townsville.
A letter from the Speck:—
The Cathedral was crowded for the wedding of
Nancy, daughter of Dr. and Mrs Wilfrid Giblin,
to Lieut.-Commander Roy Lethbridge, R.N. The
bride’s graceful slenderness and beautiful coloring
were well shown off by her frock of dead-white
heavy satin. The dress was tightly fitting to below
the hip-line, after which it flowed out in circular
folds; the sleeves were long, tight and slightly
wrinkled. A close bandeau of orange-buds held
the tulle veil closely round the head, whence it fell
in a cloud. Betty Giblin and Molly Eady, the ’maids,
were froeked in ceil-blue chiffon velvet, with pearl
girdles to mark the waistline. The bride’s mother
wore dahlia-red crepe, with short coat and hat in
harmonising shades of red. Relatives and intimate-
friends were welcomed at the Giblins’ house in
Macquarie-street after the ceremony. The pair
left for the Cold Country immediately afterwards.
The sun showed never a. glimpse during the visit
of the B-aden-Powell couple, but this didn’t damp
the ardQr of the Scouts and Guides, who made an
excellent showing at the big rallies, and were highly
commended by “8.-P.” Every minute of the Chief
Scout’s time was taken up with civic receptions,
meetings, “rallies” and luncheons. The pair were
the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Hogg in the north, and
of Mrs. Thomas Hungerford in the south.
Nancy, youngest daughter of the C. W. Grants,
has been admitted to the Victorian Bar. A thesis
on constitutional law written during her Uni. career
gained a gold medal from the Cobden Club of Lon-
don. The little lady is an all-rounder, strong at
tennis and other games.
Newhaven Racing Club had a fine day for its
meeting. President Lance Archer wqs all smiles, and
the dressing was smart if a trifle wintry. Among
the crowd were Mrs. Guy Meredith, the Charlie
Martins, the Frere Youls, Mi's. C. N. Gunn, the
Andrew Raeburns, the T. A. Fields, the W. F.
Archers, Mrs. F. F. Fairthorne, the H. P. Harris-
sons, Mrs. H. B. Archer, Misses Elsie Green, Mary
Gleadow, B. and L. Hall, Dr. and Mrs. G. Clemons,
the Cliff Headlams and Dr. and Mrs. Thompson.
Sandridge, one of the historic northern homes —
it belonged for many years to the Field family—has
changed hands, having been bought by the F. Bow-
lings, of King Island. The fine English trees are
a feature of the property.


Above the clouds the ’plane I guide.
The “cab” behind contains my bride;
Such bird-like speed is sheer delight,
’Tis “Tempus fugit” in its flight! ,
A birdman’s -life and luck for me,
And liberty o’er land and sea—-
For cblds and change of temperature,
Bottle o’ Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. —Advt.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
This year changes were made in regard to
the Head of the River race, which was
held in the second week of May instead of
the first week, with the finals on Friday in-
stead of Saturday. Headmasters imagined
that by the alteration to Friday public
interest would be discouraged and there
would be so much less adulation for the
crews. They didn’t know their Melbourne.
Fully 50,000 lined the Yarra banks
to view the heats, and it wasn’t an
army of out-of-works either. The well-
dressed individuals who paid a shilling
a head to enter the Henley lawns and an-
other to park their cars two deep in a semi-
circle from Alexandra Gardens to Prince’s
Bloggins, the world-
famous stroke, on
Friday afternoon.
The name young
gentleman after
the vacation.
Bridge obviously wouldn’t have known a
dole had it bit them in the leg. Neither
did those on the opposite side of the stream,
who got a buckshee view, look jobless. Every-
where the growing-up boy exploited any
vantage point, and in the free grandstands
provided by leafless trees enthusiasm
mounted high. Empty fruit cases and the
roofs of motor-launches were favored by
many. Schoolboys came in hundreds and
thousands, well primed up by their pastors
and masters with hints on “How a Gentle-
man Should Behave”—advice at once for-
&°tten when it was discovered that in the
neighboring possie were the caps of a rival
school. Said one small lad after the excit-
ing hour, “There’ll be a terrible row when
't>°i *i° after recess. We counted
Blanks’ out twice, and that’s just exactly
one of the things we were told not to do.”
Clustering round the . approaches to
l rince s Bridge was the usual bunch of
sellers of mascots decorated with the com-
peting crews’ colors. There were black cats,
crossed oars, Mickey-the-Mouses and other
emblems, and the ribbon counters of the city
must have been positively sacked to supply
tne yards of ribbon that fluttered from the
mascots and decked the cars. Fair sup-
porters from sister colleges not only sported
their knights’ colors but tucked a Dismal
juesmond or an outsize in kewpies under
tneir arms as well. Berets in school colors
were plentiful, and when a sudden shower
caused umbrellas to be unfurled it was seen
tnat many of these also proclaimed to the
neavens their allegiance to this crew or that.
The Yarra had been .stirred up by a fresh
and was uninvitingly muddy. Overhead the
sun Altered through heavy clouds, and flocks
ot seagulls flew low. But Melbourne didn’t
r e - Graft of all kinds moved close to
ie banks outside the marked course. Shabby
o d rowing-boats dodged smart launches, and
n tew gay canoes flitted about. When human
rungs unaided were unequal to the occasion
young and old resorted to tin or cardboard
megaphones. It was expected that the great
contest of the day would be provided by
Melbourne Grammar and Scotch College; but
scotch caught a crab, and the M.G. romped
lome. Wesley supplied a thrill by beating
Geelong Grammar by half a length, and
-Melbourne Grammar’s navy blue, Wesley’s
purple and gold and Xavier’s red and black
were the colors that had significance in the
finals of Friday.
The crowds on the great day were such
as to make one wonder if there was any
i s ,P °r office in the city that wasn’t
lert to the mercy of burglars. The sun
snone out, and all was merry and bright.
Among the throng moved sedate education-
ists, looking as surprised as hens that have
Hatched out a brood of ducklings. As was
expected, weight told, and Melbourne Gram-
mar won easily. So Major C. O. Fairbairn
handed back to the M.G.S. representatives
he Fairbairn Challenge Cup which the school
Held as the result of last year’s success.
On Friday night the Firm dolled up the
theatre Royal with draperies, festoons of
colored lights and chrysanthemums to cele-
brate the Head of the River race. Great
mounds of bronze and white blossoms bor-
uered the circle and boxes. Oars, twined
1 ' b laurel and college flags, framed the
boxes. Over the proscenium in gold was the
name of this year’s winner, and balloons rose
vr°ru a scats ]n stalls and dress-circle.
Melbourne Grammar crew came escorted
by Lud Mayor Luxton, F. Ewen Lox-
t°n, the headmaster, R. P. Franklin.
• O. Barrett and W. Ricketts, the couch,
sandwiched into the double bill was a screen-
ing of the race. The feminine section of the
audience donned its best bibs and tuckers,
and there was a gay array of lovely frocks
and gorgeous evening coats. Family parties
were to be seen everywhere. Mayoress
Luxton brought her son Tom and daughter
Mary. Others there were Mrs. F. E. Eox-
ton and Alice Loxton, Mrs. Otway Falkiner,
Dr. and Mrs. Rupert Downes and Dr. and
Mrs. J. L. Jona.
The pale bine of Geelong- Grammar was
prominent at the Comedy, where the boat-
race pictures were shown between the acts
of “Loyalties.” In the audience were Mrs.
Colin Fraser, Dr. Constance Ellis and Dr.
and Mrs. McArthur. The colors of Scotch
were lmng out at the Regent, where a big
party of Old Scotch Collegians and their
friends attended, and the warbling of school
songs filled in the interludes. The Old
Xaverians’ Association celebrated with
dance and cabaret at the St. Ivilda Plaza.
The president of the 0.X.A., Dr. J. A.
Clarebrough, and his wife, who was in black
satin, extended a greeting hand.
Wesley adherents had no difficulty in
making up their minds where to go in the
evening, for the Old Wesley Collegians’
Dram. Soc. performed “The Sport of Kings”
at the Playhouse each night, with Jack
Launder, Irene Mitchell, Margaret Reid,
Jack Ilabersbcrger and Alan Nicholson in
leading parts. A curtain-raiser was a dance
by fleet-toed ballerinas. “The Racing Eight,”
whose frilled gold tulle skirts were allied
to tight bodices of purple silk and whose
masculine locks were covered with appro-
priate wigs. In between acts there was
community singing of school songs. Mrs.
Jack Launder and Nell Liley supervised the
effective decoration of the little theatre.
There were few if any dances at private
homes on the great night, but there were
many dinners at Menzies’, the Oriental, Occi-
dental and Windsor, where the decorations
gave the clue to the Alma Mater honored.
Betty Fairhairn welcomed home her brother
Pat after his flight from England at a dinner
at the Australia. A miniature silver ’plane
that trailed the pale blue ribbons of Gee-
long Grammar flew over the table, where
about 24 guests were gathered. The hostess
sported pale pink satin. She later carried
off her party to finish the night with dancing
at the Rex'. Miss Fairbairn’s father was
the donor of the challenge cup.
F. E. Loxton, of Brisbane, was host at
Menzies’ at a dinner to the victorious crew,
of which his son was captain. At the same
hotel knight Arthur Robinson, as president
of the Old Scotch Collegians, entertained
the Scotch eight.
The Moonee Valley Racing Club said
good-bye to the Governor and Lady Somers
with roses at Saturday’s meeting. There
were not many in the garden plots about
the course, and chairman Alister Clark must
have robbed his pleasaunees at Bulla of an
acre or two of Sunny Souths and countless
seedlings to provide the magnificent display
that graced the luncheon tables. On the
ledge across the front of the v.-r. box also
Avere ranged a dozen or so of crystal vases
containing more choicely-perfumed blooms.
At lunch Mr. Clark said his regrets at tin-
departure of the vice-regals, and his Ex.
reciprocated these sentiments. Lady
Somers’s speckled black, grey and white
tweed suit was wo pi with a black felt hat
and pointed fox furs. Mrs. R. T. A.
McDonald, who accompanied her, was a
study in soft beige tones in kasha coat and
skirt and felt mill?nery. Miss Speirs chose
raiment of black and white. Premier Hogan
came with Mrs. Hogan, whose blue and
white spotted frock was covered with a black
coat. Her felt hat was of the vivid hue
of her gown. Mayoress Luxton was there,■
all in black. Mrs. Ben Chaffey had a collar
of ermine on her black cloth suit. Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald was smartly clad in grey
and black tweed made Avith Russian tunic
and bordering of Persian lamb. Others
who watched the racing were Mrs. A. 11.
Lempriere, Mrs. J. B. McArthur, Mrs. A. Y.
Kewney in brown, Mrs. Rogers Thomson iii
all black, Mrs. Norman Robinson in flecked-
green tweed and matching hat, Mr. and Mrs.
H. Schwieger, Dr. and Mrs. J. Merrillees,
she blending cigar brown and amber in her
attire, the Percy Blackbourns and Mrs.
Stuart Ferguson, all in bottle-green. With
Mrs. T. V. Millea were a trio of Sydneyites,
Mrs. John Woods, Kathleen Coen and Beryl
Gilmore.
Lord and Lady Baden-Powell had only a
few hours here last week between their
arrival from the Speck and their departure
for Adelaide, but found time to attend a
SMALL BOY (to Dad, who
was a cox in his day ):
“Cripes, Dad, we’re
doin’ pretty good, but
we’d win if you were
in the steering-seat!”
Town II all
meeting con-
cerning the
Girl Guides.
A f t e rwards
they visited
the Austra-
-lia n Sound
Film’s pr e-
mises and had
a private
screening of
the films of
their tour of
Australia and
M a o r iland.
0. R. Hers-
cliell, the man-
aging direc-
tor, presented
them with a
copy of the
film.
Lady Somers
faced a fare-
well gathering
of 250, arrang-
ed by the
National
Council of
Women at the
Lyceum Club.
Her Ex., who looked particularly nice in
draperies of black chiffon relieved with
a string of jade beads, was accom-
panied by Miss Speir, who wore a ficelle lace
frock topped by a ruby i r elvet coat. Mrs.
I. H. Moss, president of the N.C.W., handed
the guest a posy and a life membership badge,
combined in a brooch with a gold boomerang.
Among those who shook the vice-regal hand
and said good-bye were Mayoress Luxton,
Mrs. G. G. Henderson and her daughter
Lynette, Mrs. Claude Couch man, Mrs. Skene,
Mrs. John Downing, Dr. Edith Barrett and
Miss M. Williamson.
Lady Somers did not forget the newsboys
when saying her farewell. She dropped
into their club one evening, attended by
an aide, and wished them the best of luck.
A bridge party at Mrs. Howard Clark’s
home, South Yarra, in aid of St. Martin’s
Boys’ Home, was hostessed by Mrs. Clark,
in black satin figured in red and beige, and
Mrs. George Ellison and Mrs. Hamilton
Fitts, both smartly tailored in black cloth.
Mamie Clarke, in a suit of hunting green,
assisted by girl friends, sold flowers and
sweets, and served the half-time tea. About
50 players assembled. The Raws lady and
other members of the South Yarra auxiliary
of the institution have given similar aid.
The Malvern Auxiliary backed a card-mix-
ing party at the home of Mrs. F. W. Thring,
Toorak,'Mrs. 11. Sherlock and Theo Syme,
lion, secretarying the affair. The hostess
wore sapphire-blue georgette sprinkled with
pink, and her daughter Lola and a, bunch of
willing workers conducted sales.
The Caulfield Auxiliary of the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital staged a revue, "The Jazz
Parade,” which
drew a big
audience to
the new civic
hall. Douglas
Caddy, assist-
ed by Elsa
Hocking, was
p r oduc e r.
Tli (‘re was a
wedding scene,
bride’s gown
being of white
chiffon with
sparkles, while
h e r ’maids
were filmy in
frocks of green
a n d carried
silver muffs.
The Camber-
well Auxiliary
of the same
hospital gave
a dance at
their town
hall. The
president was
Nell Tiley,
“Educationists looking as
surprised as hens that
have hatched out a brood
of ducklings.”
and the lion, secretary Elaine McPhail.
At the A.W.N. League headquarters the
other night a number of girls who are tak-
ing an interest in politics listened to
addresses by W. Kent Hughes and Mrs.
Claude Couch man, after which the floor was
cleared and members and their friends in-
dulged in jazz. They enjoyed the jazz more
than the politics.
The Old Grammarians’ Association of
Lowther Hall sponsored a dance at the
Embassy, headed by the president, Betty de
Mole, with Alice English as lion sec. The
headmistress of the school, Miss E. Kirk-
hope, was a guest of honor.
At- the suggestion of Mrs. C. Pratt and
Mrs. Gordon Hope, over 30 of the friends
“In the free grand-
stand's enthusiasm
mounted high.”
of Mrs. Cleve Kidd,
who is sailing for
England, met at
dinner at the
Quamby Club to
say good-bye and
give the prospec-
tive traveller a
parting gift. Roses
an d chrysanthe-
mums decked the
tables. Mrs. Pratt
handed a piece of
Sheffield plate to
Mrs. Ividd. whose
white chiffon scin-
tillated with crys-
tal-bead embroid-
ery. Among the
diners were Mrs.
Len Buxton. Mrs.
W. M. Robins,
Mrs. C. Lansell,
Mrs. Clive Steele,
Mrs. Clarence Marriott and Mrs. R. Martin.
Horses and hounds are being exercised in
preparation for the bunting season. This State
lias four packs, but only the Melbourne Hunt
Club’s collection is composed of real fox-
hounds ; the Oaklands and Yarra Glen-Lily-
dale clubs and the Findon Harriers use dogs
of a smaller type.- The Melbourne history of
the sport dates back to 1853, when kangaroos
were in Little Bourkc-street. Among the
earliest followers of hounds were the Mad-
dens and Edward Miller. Baronet Wil-
liam Clarke was another enthusiast, and
many a meet was held at liis home, Deer
Park.
Norman Wood sounded the huntsman’s
horn for the opening meet of the Melbourne
Hunt Club at Cranbourne. Lorna Embling
had a nasty fall when her horse baulked
at a ditch, and she had to be taken to a
private hospital. Some others met. with
spills also, but came off with a mere shaking.
A fox was run to earth.
To the knot-tying of Olive, daughter of
Mrs. A. T. iClark. of Toorak, and Hugh,
elder son of the Herbert Symes, of Kew.
only relatives and a few intimate friends
were bidden. The bride, who was in ivory
satin, had a touch of gold in the orange-bud
wreath to which her tulle veil was attached.
Her sister Denise bridesmaided in vellum-
tinted crepe de Chine. Several pre-wedding
parties were given in the young people’s
honor. Mrs. 11. Syme put on an afternoon-
tea gathering at her home, and her daughter
Maisie was hostess at a dance.
In the Firm’s revival of “lolanthe” at
the Royal, which opened on Saturday, the
fairies are wrapped in satin of soft pastel
tints. Marie Bremner. as Phyllis, wears
Watteau shepherdess attire of pink-flowered
blue taffeta with a small rose-wreathed hat.
Dorothy Gill, as the fairy queen, sports
white and gold draperies and a head-dress
reminiscent of a Wagnerian Valkyrie. Mary
H'otham, as lolanthe, is swathed in white
and silver. Tin- peers made a fine splash
of color with their bright velvet cloaks,
gilded coronets and, court suits of white
satin. In the audience on the first night,
were Mrs. C. N. Finn, who on the stage was
Dolly Castles, Mr. and Mrs. P. Glass, knight
John MacFarland, Mrs. Harry Emmerton,
Dr. C. 8. Sweet, the Frank Tails, Mrs. A.
Scott and Mrs. W. Merry.
Lady Somers had a farewell dinner with
students at the Janet Clarke Hall of Trinity
College on Friday, when the principal, Miss
Joske, gave her greeting. Mrs. R. T. A.
McDonald accompanied her Ex.
A few lines from Perth:—
The Karrakatta Club’s annual ball is always an
event. This year an elaborate supper was mixed
among the -spoil of • flower gardens in several ante-
rooms and dancing was in the main hall. Among
the 16 fledgelings who tried their wings in the grand
march and the lancers was the W. H. Vincents'
second daughter Lesley, who flashed silver lame;
Mary Forrest carried crimson roses against ivory
satins; small frills decked the side panels of Betty
Hayward’s taffetas; Betty Brockman’s ivory satins
melted into a ninon hemline; shell-pink had fol-
lowers in Joan Church, Nancy Allnutt and Betty
Bolton; Marjorie Southwood wore moulded white
romaine; May Oakley’s mesh of tulle fell from a
pointed lace corsage; Jeanette Thompson chose frilly
taffetas and Patricia Flower diaphanous flares of
ninon.
Betty Bridgwood wore a brocaded gown and
sparklets in her hair. Helen Inkpen’s choice was
parchment satins, Winifred Goldstein’s ivory
taffetas, and Phyllis Hoare’s a souffle of georgettes
and a posy of rosebuds. The club’s president, Mrs.
Mervyn Griffith, in love-in-the-mist moire, raised a
welcoming hand, and Mrs. Jim Withnell assisted in
black. Mrs. D. 1). Paton convened the proceedings
in beige laces. Cream romaine clad Mrs. P. Howard.
Mrs. W. 11. Vincent, who organised the debs.’ sets,
wore black heavily embossed ; other devotees of the
midnight shade were Mrs. Alec Lawson, Mrs. F. C.
Dempster and Mrs. C. P. Smith.
Youth and beauty made history at the first St.
George’s College ball, postponed for a fortnight on
account of the death of the Chief Justice. Masses
of chrysanthemums were draped about the wrought-
iron hanging lamps. Miss Campion, who accom-
panied his Ex., wore wood-rose georgettes; Mrs.
Keall, who played hostess for Canon Henn, had a
touch of sunset pink upon her pale blue gown; the
Archbishop’s daughter Mary wore shell-pink georg-
ettes, and Alison Baird was in apricot. Yvonne
Brinkley, Helen Crammond, Joan Newberry, Elinor
Holland, Gwen Saw and Hilda. Drabble were among
the maidens present, and Norman Barrett-Lennard,
John Lavan, Noel Hampshire, Max Noble and Gerald
Ruse were among their partners.
Dr. Georgina Sweet spent a few very busy
days here. Among her fixtures was a public meeting
arranged by the Pan-Pacific Women’s Association in
the McNcss Hall. Here she gave an outline of the
association’s aims and achievements, and the vote
of thanks was formulated by Mrs. Rischbieth and
Mrs. Clapham, who have both appeared as delegates
at past conferences. Mrs. Vallance was in the chair,
and Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere, Dr. Jull, Winnie Hinde,
Mrs. McCulloch and Mrs. Bromilow were present
as the presidents and representatives of various
women’s associations.
A big audience got its money’s worth at the prize-
winners’ concert in the Town Hall after the Musical
Festival, and the contributors of the 21 items had
at last time and inclination to enjoy one another’s
efforts. The adjudicator, Dr. Thomas Wood,
announced that Roy Wood, organist of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, was the winner of the original song
contest.
Adelaide’s postscript:—
The weather for the Adelaide Cup was a mixture
of dust, rain and wind. The lure of betting on
doubles has captured women ever since on the first
day of the meeting four persons each won '£4ll for
SS. ; on Wednesday hundreds of skirted punters stood
in single file at the back of the stand waiting to get
their double. Many never reached the window at
all. Mr. Whitmore Carr entertained a record rally of
guests at afternoon tea. Thesre was nothing out-
standing about the frocking. The elder women
favored black face-cloth coats; the younger ones
were for the most part in flecked tweed and toques
of the same.
The Liquor Trades organised a Cup ball that
attracted a large crowd. Dancers from “The New
Moon” company gave a turn and Mr. M. J. Noonan
presented a gold whip to the rider of Suzumi. The
results went to Adelaide charities.
The Mayoress (Mrs. C. R. J. Glover) gave a
morning tea in her rose-decked reception-room at
the Town Hall to enable Misses Joan and Betty
Rayner to meet numerous guests prior to their
season at the Australia Hall. Mrs. Glover wore a
dark grey silk toilette flecked with red and a
black hat.
The Mayoress entertained Lady Baden-Powell before
she and the Chief Scout left for Westralia
en route for Durban. Mrs. Glover looked particu-
larly well in black brocaded ring velvet, her black
crin hat wreathed with heron feathers. The guest
of honor, who was in Guide uniform, made one of
her : entertaining speeches, praising highly the recent
homecraft exhibition organised by Boy Scouts and
Girl Guides in Adelaide.
Mrs. Alan Dean arrived from India by the Naldera
on a visit to relatives. She is a sister of Mrs. Max
Fotheringham and of Mr. W. G. Duncan, M.L.C.;
Waler-bug’s-eye view of final.
her husband is the youngest son of Brig.-General G.
Dean, of Mount Lofty. Another one-time Adelaide
girl, Mrs. R. Bates, also the wife of an army man
in India, arrived by the same boat.
Memories of Oscar Girard, who lies in West-
terrace cemetery, and of Albert Whelan, who took
his place (unknown to the public and the press)
after the breakdown in Adelaide, come back witli
“The Belle of New York” revival at the Royal.
Don Nicol carries on the old tradition, which
obviously he has received per medium of Leslie Hoi.
land, Lilian Crisp sings sweetly as the Belle, Phil
Smith gets a big reception as the Lunatic (though
there is now too much talk in the tumbler scene),
and Roy Baxter is the best Blinky Bill since Fred
Leslie. The flight of years is oddly marked in the
last scene. The heroine’s dress is intended, and
described, as shocking; but several of her fellow-
guests of to-day are as a matter of ordinary routine
wearing less.
Descendants in Sydney, Brisbane and India, as well
as all about S. Aus., are left by Oswald Higgin-
bottom, master printer, of Adelaide. He came from
Lancashire in 1882, and, living to 87, was manager
for the Scrymgour firm arid then head of Whillas
and Ormiston.


jJuuiQ
lEtiejrmail
and
HAWAII, extend warm hands of
welcome to Australians in the
approaching winter.
Calling en route at Auckland and
Suva, the large modern Canadian-
Australasian liners will commence
their Winter Excursions on May 28.
Special reductions in rates bring this
holiday with its variety and charm
within reach of every vacationist.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday land!
For rest, for play, for thrilling new experiences....
colorful native life and customs, quaint
tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and
flowers, coral lagoons.... outrigger
canoeing, morning dips in cool jade-
green waters. And always you return
from exotic delights to the palatial
modern comfort of the
S.S. MATARAM.
Write for Leaflet No. 52/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
m.
//
*, *’’ r "
mm
Ask for
the ,“B. P. Magazine,”
l/- per copy.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
m
32
et
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, ij ■ P >
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER
PROFESSION?
ert
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession m life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere, write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your ne«
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a Si ivgia
CONCESSION. _ „
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street,
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 50/-
MERCHANTS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Profits
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
rhe Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
he World. Every description of Banking Busines
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Anti-Depression Pills
HAROLD MERCER.
IN THIS CHEERFUL YARN
EXPLAINS HOW HIS
FRIEND BIG GAR FELL INTO A FORTUNE AND OTHER TROUBLES.
GIVING a very good impersonation of a
southerly buster, Biggar burst upon
me in Pitt-street. After knocking
most of the breath out of me by the bang
he planted on my back, he proceeded to take
away the rest by asking me to have a drink.
“Come and have a whisky—have two
whiskies,” was the expansive way he put it.
Then he noticed that I was returning the
smile of Mrs. Biggar.
Her presence there, with the three small
Biggars clustered around her, had awakened
my worst fears. Biggar can be just as
breezily patronising when he wants to
borrow a couple of bob as when he has it
to spend; and many times I had seen Mrs.
Biggar and the family standing like this in
the offing whilst Biggar borrowed the money
for the fares to some new home- —the old one
having outlived its credit, as it were. To-day,
howevex-, the lady’s smile lacked its old
quality of anxiety, almost of pleading. It
looked happy and assured.
For. Biggar to have a drink with me while
his family stood in the street would have
embarrassed him and me. He solved the
problem. I watched him as he crossed the
road to the cakeshop, a small Biggar tucked
under each arm, like a parcel, and’his wife
following with the third. Having dumped
his family, Biggar returned.
“Feeling the depression? What rot! There
isn’t any!” he said, banging down his money
on the bar just as if there wasn't. “Let’s drink
this one up, and have another. I’ve been in
the pictures with the family, and I’m thirsty.”
His money thumped on the counter again.
Someone lias remarked that it is expensive
to mix with millionaires. I have found it so.
The sort I know tell me all about their
latest money-making schemes and then
borrow a bob or so for their fares home and
the sausages or fish or whatever it is that
they want to take with them. “I can’t go
wrong,” shouts this type of plutocrat. “In
another six months I’ll be going home in my
own car. But I’m damned if I know how
to get there, to-night. Have you a couple
of bob that’s doing nothing?” I have known
too many such millionaii-es; known them in
every shape and form, but seldom in the
cashed-up form in which Biggar appeared
to be on this occasion.
“Glad to see you’re doing well,” I said.
“What are you doing it on?”
“Anti-Depression Pills,” was his astonish-
ing reply. “Do you suffer from constipation
of business, bills before the eyes, loss of
trade, pain in the bank account? An Anti-
Depression Pill, taken hourly, will clear those
clouds from the brain, restore that flagging
energy, bring back that waning interest in
life. Anti-Depression Pills can cure all ills.
Each is worth many guineas in the bank.”
“You talk like a patent-medicine advertise-
ment.”
“That’s just what I am!” he shouted.
“Look at me! Am I talking about hard
times, impending bankruptcy, national repu-
diation and disgrace? Certainly not. It's
an ill wind blows nobody any good, and
what you miscall the depi-ession has blown me
a fortune. Anti-Depression Pills ! Try one?”
Fl'e had been waggling a small brown
globule before my eyes. Being suspicious of
all such things, I shook my head; but his
gaze went past me, and, turning, I noticed
that old Dalton, evidently interested in our
conversation, had edged near.
I introduced them. “Would you care to
try one, sir?” Biggar asked.
The ancient iixspected the pill.
“It’s guaranteed to remove the blues, give
you a true perspective of wliat you imagine
to be the depression, and bring back the
confidence which will enable you to put
things right again. Take one.”
Dalton rolled the pill in his hand, then
turned to the barmaid and asked for water.
“Has he got any money?” asked Biggar
in a swift whisper.
“He must have —he never spends any,” I
muttered.
Biggar watched Dalton with interest as he
gulped the pill. “In half an hour you’ll feel
the benefit,” he said. “I’ll guarantee that that
pill will give you a different'outlook on life.”
“You selling them?” asked Dalton, looking,
in spite of his suspicion, as if faith was
already working a miracle.
“Not to-day. This is a sample box. You
see, the pill is not properly on the market
yet, although I’ve sold a few boxes privately.
I’m looking for the capital to launch it in
a big way.”
“Anti-Depression Pills,” mused Dalton,
questioningly.
“That’s the name! Y’see, my theory is that
the depression is as much a matter of the
mind —and the stomach —n.s of economic cir-
cumstances. People need something to tune
them up ; when they get over the run-down
feeling, they’re able to tackle their troubles
better. Look at my landlord! Before taking
those pills he had three of his cottages
empty; now they’re tenanted.”
We laughed.
. “I’m serious,” protested Biggar. “The
pills restored the cheerfulness of his outlook;
helped him to face mattei-s propei’ly. He
came down with his rents, of course; but
he’s happier now with the places occupied
than merely eating- up rates and taxes. He’s
backing me, now, in a small way, and if
he doesn’t come in with the money to market
the pill properly, I’ll get it elsewhere.”
I masked a grin. I could see the landlord,
irritated about his empty cottages, asking
Biggar for his rent and Biggar nutting him
off with a tale of the impending fortune
from his pill. And, having ai’gued the land-
lord into sampling a pill and reducing his
rents, I could see Biggar maldna- a canvass
for tenants in that spasmodically energetic
manner of his, and persuading the man of
rents that the Anti-Depression Pills were
responsible. It was surprising what Biggar
could make you believe when he tried; he
has frequently made me believe that lie
needed my money more than I did.
When I left Biggar had Dalton button-
holed and was talking millions—the usual
millions. x\t Biggars request I dropped in
to the cakeshoi) with a message that he
wouldn’t be long. The family, wallowing
in cakes and ice-cream, didn't seem to
mind lrow long he was. In depression times,
it was good to see them like that.
I never thought Biggar would really impress
Dalton. Perhaps I am unduly sceptical
about millions. But Dalton has had actual
cash to put into enterprises and, no doubt,
has had returns, so he may have grounds
for regarding these things as something more
than delightful fancies. A couple of days
later, when I met him in the same < bar. he
mentioned with .some anxiety, T thought, that
“that friend, of yours, Mr. Biggar,- did not
come into see me.” He had hardly spoken
before Biggar appeared, loud-voiced and
buoyant as ever, followed by Fitzjames.
I knew Dalton would not mention his
disappointment about Biggar’s failure to
keep his promise; he wasn’t that sort of man.
He expected people to chase him and refused
to chase them. It was part of his business
armory. I reproached Biggar myself.
“Ok, I’m sorry, Mr. Dalton. Fact is, Mr.
Fitzjames here, when he heard of my pro-
position, was very keen about it, and we’ve
been going into matters. You didn’t seem
very interested.”
“If you’re fixed, it doesn’t matter,” said
Dalton, with poorly-acted indifference. “I
wanted to know , how you got on, though ;
and, any time you like to look in, I’ll be glad
to see you.”
I winced. Fitzjames looked as if he owned
terraces of houses, but he owned nothing.
Biggar had “rung him in,” evidently to whet
Dalton’s interest, and I had made myself a
party to the confidence trick. Still, if he
could succeed with Dalton, Biggar deserved
all he got. Dalton is a cautious investor,
and I hate cautious investors. But for them,
my millionaires* who never have any money
of their own, could have floated all their
schemes, and I might have floated a few
of my own, and industry would have been
forty or fifty millions better off.
_ A couple of weeks later the Anti-Depres
sion Pills advertising smote the eye every-
.where, and Biggar began to flash round
in a fine new motor-car, a very picture of
anti-depression himself. He occasionally
thumped my back unexpectedly, thumped his
money on a bar counter, thumped down a
couple of whiskies, and thumped away, more
like a southerly buster than ever. And
Dalton wore a fat smile that suggested—
though he seldom mentioned business —that
the-Anti-Depression Pills had done him good.
The world in general took the pills—at
2s. 6d. a box—-with avidity. I met people
who told me they were marvellous. There
were advertisements containing testimonials
from persons who declared that they not
only felt better, but 1 that their businesses
had been improved by them. One was from
an undertaker. Biggar himself claimed that
a Stock Exchange boom was a direct result
of their popularity.
I was glad to see some of the millions
I had so often heard about materialising.
Not until I met Mrs. Biggar one day,’dressed
in unwonted finery, did I realise that there
was a fly in the ointment.
“Poor Tom has lost his head,” she said.
“He goes to the races every week; stays
out all night, losing money over cards. It’s
making me very unhappy. As a friend of
his, I wish you’d have a talk with him —
quietly, of course ; and don’t let him know
that I spoke to you about it. Sometimes
I think I’ll have to get a divorce.”
It seemed grotesque. Here was Mrs.
Biggar, who in adversity had suffered so
much at the hands of the prodigal, and
endured it with smiling cheerfulness, made
wretched by his prosperity! But, of course,
it was impossible to talk to a southerly
buster. He blew about the city shouting
that the depression had been the best thing
that ever struck the country. Biggar always
did look at matters from his point of view.
It surprised me when I met him one day,
boisterous as usual, and heard that he had
sold his interest. It surprised me more
when I learnt that the price was £2OO.
“Two hundred!” I exclaimed. “I thought
it was. a goldmine?”
“So it is,” he said ; “but Dalton’s a mean
old cuss. He started to nag about my spend-
ing too much money—eating up all the pro-
fits in publicity. Let him run the thing as
he likes; the depression won’t, last long
enough anyway for us to make a fortune out
of the mils.”
And then one day Mrs. Biggar came 'to
me, tearful and pleading. She was slightly
incoherent, but it appeared that Biggar
was in trouble and had to appear at tile
court that day. They had been separated,
but when she heard he was in trouble I
It appeared, roughly, that Dalton was I
kicking up a fuss ; vaguely, as I could get th"
information from Mrs. Biggar, the matte: 1
was one of registering a wrong formula.
Outside the court the family was wait-
ing—as the family had so often waited
before. The children ran to meet their
mother; almost at the same time Biggar,
jaunty as ever, issued from the court, talk-
ing with another man, from whom he broke
away to join us, greeting his wife with an
unashamed public hug.
“It’s all right, sweetheart! Only a fine,
and I got my solicitor to pay that.”
“But you got £200,” I suggested.
“Lost every bob at the races.”
“And what was the formula?” I asked.
“Just a dose of alcohol —and the faith
that people swallowed with it,” said Biggar.
“At least that’s what I sold the people. By
the Lord, I could do with a drink. Are
you holding cash?”
“If Mrs. Biggar doesn’t mind,” I said.
She gave a smiling assent.
“Come along then,” he said. “I want to
tell you of a new proposition of mine.
There’s a fortune in it.”
We made our way to the corner pub,
where I knew Biggar would talk to me
about millions and finish by borrowing a
couple of bob. My last impression as we
entered was of' Mrs; Biggar standing with
her children.
She was happy again—happy in -th
knowledge that she was once more a sharer
of her Tom’s haphazard fortunes.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland- EVANS DEAKIN & GO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. _
"THE AGE’’
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
• and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, CL
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Solving the Seeds of Better Business:'
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
A ustralian Represent at i ve:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 1?5241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere-—all over the State, in Town
and Country-—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
the fldwtistr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch. price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W’7058.
Representative in Victoria :
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London pffice: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
,* ' _ i*v r f *•. ,
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph’*
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern i 8
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ALEMITE
ert
Gets In and
Gets Under
Into the very heart of
each bearing and wher-
ever lubrication is vitally
necessary.
Friction is costly in any
motor vehicle. Excessive
friction is avoided by
the use of ALEMITE
Lubricant, forced through the Alemite fittings into
the vital parts by the ALEMITE System of Lubrication
which “cleans as it lubricates.”
Insist on yours cars and lorries being “ALEMITED ”
at least every 500 miles .
ALEMITE CORPORATION * Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMST-Chicago
Full particulars from MB. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd. .
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd.
E. A. MACHIN &CO (Pty),Ltd. .
CORNELL LIMITED ....
. . . Brisbane
. . 894 Hay Street, Perth
535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
. 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
LU BRICANTS * SYSTEMS
OF
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with IMustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
et
Published
Every
Wednesday
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s*j%ulUtCn
Every week since 18S0 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from.
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
vf
b
<K
G°
\C e
s e ’ ? 0*
_„e
S e
Q*'’oO*
•’V*
oS
#•
...->>?*£*
,• * C*' 4‘^


r *
M
Vi
' r \\' ri -<s*s
G v
<'^° CV^>°'a
# 6
&*ss \ &*
v vV
•^v to
#
BOTTLED
guaranteed!
© y f
W^AGILBEV^
-igmr-’
;ss:<£
VO „
7(i
lH '
• v'.ifiS
§}'
sj*
• ,v?. ; v?s?/
. ■ .■v •.'••a
■\'3feiii/•ii-" Vi'UTcV}'4i‘j'"«V'.‘Vi\f»V ;:•
.4
'% >s¥
v sj&pt .
4 lfss
mmm
....
"a
Qualify*
teasuie ■
Confcsnfs -
■CasHe OE UNSWEETENED &
from unrnalhed Corn,and highlynchf&
ah W<S A Gil bey’s Distillery* Has Wic
delicate flavor of hh e Juniper berry
6boM-|es contain approximately one gallon
NET:{PINT 6i 01 S.
PRODUCE OF AUSTRALIA
CasHe OE
UNSWEETENED
GIN
•VySS
JS®-
K'/‘*
Srtusir cmslcS?
“•frttaentefrf,fivfasorof Hygiene and c
•W. * CasHe OE GIN w*
P r< ’p er, X distilled and wh ° e
< "*>E<)in'in,,- "*“6"' VMiH be ftondanexce
•‘"’J os ,h does exEnecf of J^-per
(S, 4n ed) CH«<** 4 A-
• ; . ■.■.>. ■ . . ' • v, \ ■ ■
Don't say Gin— say Gil bey’s
