

m
r
?-
jj
’• •:)
■;
limn—H
mi
a*
"Mi
msm
■
2O.OOOTONNERS
iSICTEWIIMTpII
ATTENTIVE IS^ERVICE- -
spacious de!cms
The Orient Line fleet includes five
20,00Q-tonners: “Orontes,” “Orford,”
“Otranto,” “Oronsay” and “Orama.”
The Bulletin
h/l/vaJ' doza OLun, <&/ ? ft. <f
Vol. 52.— N0. 2703.
Wednesday, December 2, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, KS.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOKS FOR XMAS.
for our 72-page Xmas Catalogue.
Sent, post free, anywhere.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
sramiu
LiUki
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON! .
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,''
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
P/«we send, without obligation, your New Free
Boollet. explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin ‘ ‘
My .Xame .
M” Address
s.r. m ..
BJYSAGHT7
3
O
K
AUSTRALIA.
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Winning Hands
require careful attention. The
first requisite is a pure soap.
Cutfcura Soap used every
time you wash your hands does
much to prevent redness and
roughness caused by daily tasks.
Always dry hands thoroughly.
Assist with Cuticura Oint-
ment if necessary,
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is, 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241,
“THE AGE”
Established 1854 •
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Bpilder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE PATRIOT
I ■DIRECT MEDIUM to women!
AND ALL BRISBANE
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HI
2 HUNTER
S IT.
CLIFFE,
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” it re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEND YOuR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere-— all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE - - - - - 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to wom«;n.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Soul of Germany
ë
A Good Hater
In Elinor Mordaunt’s Full Cirde (Martin
Seeker; Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d.>,
Leverson Hulme is first revealed in bed
with his employer’s wife. His career as a
writer has hardly begun, and he has been
forced to take a secretary’s job. At break-
fast the theatrically imperturbable husband
sacks him:—
“I shall miss our work together,” he heard Mr.
Stoddard say. And then: “But one can’t have things
on the swings and the roundabouts at the same time,
you know. Cynthia will be leaving later. Any time
will do for that—any time to-day, that is. I
wouldn’t see too much of each other, anyhow at
present, if I were you. Later on when you’re
married”
An effective talkie situation, but it isn’t
lifp. Hulme had lived with Lily Tailor, a
coster girl, in his poverty-stricken youth.
He had coveted a microscope, and she had
prostituted herself to buy it for him, and
been thrown over. All through the story,
as he moves from shame to shame, she keeps
recurring like a. soothing and lovely theme
in a. composition of discords. Lil and the
Pekinese Chang, the property of Mrs.
Stoddard—whom Hulme reluctantly marries
after the divorce—are the only vital people
in the book. One loves and the other hates
him to the end. He never comes to life,
though loathing care has been taken with
him; he is too poisonous to be true. And
the other char-
acters,' barring the
two mentioned, are
dummies, dragged
in to show up his
vileness by con-
trast. According to
a cable Somerset Maugham has claimed that
Hulme is intended for him, and has begun
a libel action. There are resemblances be-
tween episodes in the careers of Maugham
and Hulme; both attacked Hardy after
his death, both disliked Hugh Walpole
(Polehue in Full Circle ), and both wrote
best-sellers which annoyed certain residents
of Malaya. But Mrs. Mordaunt kills
Hulme, whereas Maugham is very much
alive, and there are many other discrepan-
cies. The novel rises momentarily to some-
thing like greatness* when* Hulme reaches
his deathbed, for only then does something
like pity enter into it. Lil arrives
.She seemed to have grown into quite a middle-
aged woman; stout and grey-haired, with a full
flood of color in her face, and more than one chin.
When she came across the room, however—stepping
lightly as ever, though she must have weighed
thirteen stone —sat down by his side, put one arm
round his head, took his feverish hand in hers, she
was the same-as-ever Lil, with the same fresh scent
of something that he believed to be known as Windsor
soap about her.
“You can’t go away, Lil,’’ said Hulme, suddenly
and quite unexpectedly to himself—leaning his head
sideways against her broad breast with the tears
running weakly down his face—“you can’t go away
and leave me now I’m dying.’’
“Well, of all the nonsense that ever I heard,
but you always was a cry-baby,” said Lil, rocking
him a little, wiping his eyes with, her own handker-
chief, looking across the bed at the nurse, who
almost imperceptibly nodded her head.
Hulme becomes almost likeable as the end
draws near, but he is hardly dead before
Mrs. Mordaunt’s abhorrence overmasters
her again;—
There may be a place where the mirror is held,
up. But no, it is unlikely that God himself could
be quite so cruel as that: cruel enough to punish
a man by allowing himself to see himself as he
really: was in life.
As everyone else—even his valet and secretary-
saw him.
As a study of a hateful man the book is as
dull as most commination services, but it.
has many touches of insight and beauty,
and it is highly entertaining as a study' of
Mrs. Mordaunt.
RED PAGE.
Our Fuddled Education
In proposing the substitution of Dutch,
Chinese, Japanese and Malay for Latin,
French, German and other languages in our
schools,. “Double Graduate” (B. 7/10/’3l)
unwittingly advances the only argument
in favor of the Latinists. And he
must; be blissfully ignorant' of the nature
of the recommended languages or hp
would not suggest them at all. In
human as against commercial terms, the
only use learning a foreign language has
is to help you to think better in your own.
An Australian who learns Latin, German
or French sufficiently well obtains the key
to a common cultural heritage of the Euro-
pean race. His mention of the commercial
value oi a knowledge of Asiatic languages
shows that all “Double Graduate” expects
from a study of Chinese or Malay is the
bagman’s key, to the Orient. And in any
case the expectation is entirely fallacious.
I have some acquaintance with three of the
languages “D.G.” recommends. The only
one of them which the average Australian
schoolboy could assimilate sufficiently un-
less he specialised would be Malay. I have
read the entire output of the Malayan Par-
nassus, from the “Sejarah Melayu” to the
“Hikayat Abdullah,” and I can assure,
“D.G.” that from a cultural point of view it
isn’t worth a damn. The Malayan equiva-
lents of Plutarch, Herodotus and Pliny are
the dreary records of harem intrigues and
inter-tribal conflicts contained in the first-
named work. The “Hikayat Abdullah” is
superior journalese. The rest is bad imita-
tions of Persian and Indian romance. The
Australian bagman can pick up enough
bazaar Malay to push his wares On his way
up to Singapore, and a bastard lingo it is.
It is regarded contemptuously and only
used in the counting-house by all educated
Orientals, from Chinese to Javanese.
Dutch is in a somewhat different class,
but even the Hollander is obliged to learn
his science in English, French and
German, publish his own scientific researches
in the same tongues and depend for his
literature mainly on translations from Euro-
pean tongues. His own classics are very
limited.
As for Chinese and Japanese, if “D.G.%”
proposal to have them taught in schools
ever becomes an established fact, millions'
of Australian children will live to curse
his name, After 10 years’ studjg of Chinese—
Japanese would be even worse—in the way
languages are taught in Australian schools
a student might be able to enlighten a
rickshaw coolie as to whether he wanted
to go home or to a pub, provided the coolie
spoke the dialect the student had learnt.
He would be able to read and write a couple
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
Horderns'
Hurrah! The Holidays will soon be here!
Better Clothes for Boys
Economically Priced at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
. “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”—AIways at Anthony Horderns’
Anthony
u
■I
Boys’ All - wool Tweed Suits at
Boys’ All-Wool Tweed Suits. Lined throughout,
from neat dark grey tweeds. To fit boys 2 to 1
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair
Well made
years.
... . 14/11
14/11
Boys’ Strong Serviceable Knickers
Boys’ strong and serviceable Knickers. Made from Navy Blue
Melton Cloth. Strongly lined! Two pockets and belt loops.
Anthony Horderns* Price, each 3/11
3111
Boys’ Navy Flannel Blazers at
Boys’ Navy Flannel Blazers. Corded edges and three patch
pockets. Well cut. Made to fit boys 2 to 1 5 years.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 8/11
8111
Boys’ AH«wool Tweed Sports Coats at
Boys Sports Coats! Made of All-Wool Fancy Tweeds, in
smart designs. Belt at back. Patch pockets. Leather buttons.
Available in new shades. Sizes to fit boys 9 to 16 years.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 11/9
( Boys’ Wear, Second Floor. We Pay Carnage.)
1119
Just the things your Boy wants for the Holidays
.
m
W
W \
v :" ■ ■
/
1 Wi
fm
A *■ "i
mM •
m.
\
H
wm
~*w m
f I
Cream Pullovers, 11/=
Boys’ Cream Pullovers for Sports wear.
All-wool ribbed knit, with club stripes
around the V-neck and pockets. Sizes,
chest 26, 28, 30, 32.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
each 11/-, 11/6, 12/6
Sports Shirts, 3/6
Boys’ Sports Shirts, in cream British
Poplin. Made with roll-back collar, and
pocket with blue edging. Size, 1 1 to
1 neck. j
Anthony Horderns’ Price 3/6
Golf Hose at 2/3
Boys- All-wool Golf Hose. Ribbed knit,
with fancy turn-over tops. In Grey, Black
or Marl tonings. Sizes to fit 2-Jin. to
10Jin. foot.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair .... 2/3
Better quality. Price, pair 2/11
Bovs’ Calf Shoes at
ms
8»
Black or Tan Calf Shoes. Genuine welted
soles. Good serviceable leather that will give
maximum service. Sizes 1 to 5.
Anthony Horderns’ Price
16/9
Athletic Singlets, 1/3
Boys Athletic Singlets. Elastic ribbed
knit. Art. Silk bound around neck and
armholes. Sizes, 24in. to 32in. chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . 1/3
Better quality 1/11
Surf
Costumes,
Boys’ All-wool
Cashmere - knit
7/6
Surfing Costumes. Speed-
model shape, with skirt. In
shades of Royal, Navy,
Marone and Fawn, with
contrasting stripes or bar
stripes on chest. Sizes, 26in.
to 32in. chest.
Anthony Horderns’
Price
7/6
Write for a copy
of our Christmas
Gift Catalogue.
Sent post free on
request.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
e


&
m
7700
H
7
7&
jo'**
rc\C
cfrovce
ana
. tf* YW **'
\t' s v J \t vS *£ V mes
SV^l
aoV
'Zs&fr
?rr
è
The Australian and distinctive
Fisk Paste in dainty glass jars.
Ask your grocer for a REX
Savoury Booklet or write to us
for one.
é
Foggitt Jones Pty. Limited
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon
REX MOCK CRAB.
Mix 2 dessertspoons REX Luncheon Cheese with 1
dessertspoon REX Anchovy Sauce, 1 teaspoon mixed
mustard, 1 dessertspoon vinegar, pinch of salt and
pepper, yolk of 1 egg and dessertspoon butter. Mix
all thoroughly and spread thickly on buttered toast or
fried bread. Put into oven for about 7or 10 minutes.
Serve piping hot.
REX MARBLED MEATS.
11b. tin REX-PYE, 1 tin REX Luncheon Tongues,
2 or 3 slices cooked REX Ham or Bacon, 2 hard eggs,
1 dessertspoon lemon juice, 1 dessertspoon sugar,
salt and pepper to taste, 1 teacup vinegar, 1
tablespoon gelatine dissolved in i cup boiling water,
1 pint water. Skin the tongues and chop into fairly
large dice. Cut REX-PYE into dice, also the
ham or bacon and slice the eggs. To the dissolved
gelatine add seasonings, sugar, lemon juice and vinegar
and water, and heat over fire without boiling. Allow
to get cold. Put alternate layers of mixed meats and
egg in a wet mould, and when jelly is beginning to
set, pour over meat, etc., in the mould. Turn out on
lettuce when-firm, garnish with tomato or beetroot and
parsley, and serve with salad and mayonnaise.
REX TOMATO SAUSAGES.
Jib. tin REX-PYE mashed to paste, add pulp of 1
large tomato, 4 cup soft white crumbs, pepper and salt
to taste. Take small pieces and form into sausages
with hands, dip each into little flour, then into egg and
breadcrumbs. Fry in smoking fat until golden brown,
or bake in hot oven on greased tin from 15 to 20
minutes. Serve with bacon rolls or slices of fried
tomato.
REX DEVILLED HAM IN BATTER.
Three tablespoons flour, good pinch salt, 1 teaspoon
baking powder, {■ teaspoon curry powder. Sift these
ingredients into a basin, add enough milk to make into
moist scone dough and beat until perfectly smooth.
Drop in 1 egg and stir thoroughly until batter is free
from lumps. Take 1 tin REX Devilled Ham, cut into
small pieces and add to the batter. Drop small spoonfuls
into deep, smoking fat, cook a delicate brown, drain on
paper, serve at once garnished with parsley.
Still more new
Excellent
Recipes
The following savories and other recipes
are by Isa M. Wylie, well-known Cookery
Instructress. They have been tested at
public demonstrations and found delicious.
REX SALMONELLE TARTLETS.
ilb. flour, 1 heaped tablespoon butter, 1 heaped
dessertspoon REX Salmonelle, pinch salt, \ tea-
spoon baking powder, yolk of egg, 1 dessertspoon
cold water, little pink coloring (added to egg yolk
and water). Sift dry ingredients into a basin,
add butter and REX Salmonelle and work
together with finger-tips. Add yolk of egg, water
and coloring (leaving small quantity for glazing),
and work into a dough. Turn out on a floured
board, knead lightly for a few seconds and roll
out until fairly thin. Cut out with round cutter
and line tartlet tins. Brush over with egg mixture,
prick well with a fork to prevent rising in centre.
Bake in hot oven 10 to 12 minutes, then fill with
Salmonelle mixture, sprinkle with chopped hard
egg and parsley. Serve hot.
REX Salmonelle Mixture: | cup white sauce,
1 heaped teaspoon REX Salmonelle, i cup
cooked, flaked fish, salt and pepper to taste. Add
REX Salmonelle and seasoning to sauce, then
the fish, and mix well. Fill tartlet cases with
the mixture.
REX SALMONELLE A LA VICTOIRE.
Two hard-boiled eggs, little melted butter, salt,
pepper and vinegar to taste, heaped dessertspoon
butter, heaped dessertspoon REX Salmonelle, 1
teaspoon lemon juice, cayenne to taste, little
REX Anchovy Sauce. Cut eggs in slices length-
wise, season with the melted butter, vinegar,
pepper and salt which have been mixed together.
Put butter, REX Salmonelle, lemon juice, cayenne
and REX Anchovy Sauce into a basin and mix
till creamy. Pile on top of the egg slices and
garnish the edges with capers. This may be served
as a savory or as an hors-dceuvres.
REX SALMONELLE PASTRY SANDWICH.
Make some short pastry, roll out until fairly
thin, cut in two, trim edges neatly. Spread one
side with a thick layer of REX Salmonelle and
moisten other side with milk or egg and place
on top of Salmonelle. Press a little to make edges
stick together. Cut into small fancy shapes and
bake in hot oven 10 to 15 minutes. Serve hot
garnished with parsley.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE AMULET.
Dissolve 1 teaspoon butter in saucepan. Beat
2 eggs well. Add 1 good tablespoon milk or
cream, salt and pepper to taste, little chopped
eschalot, (or asparagus tips), | teaspoon mixed
mustard. Put all into melted butter and stir over
fire until it thickens nicely. Spread buttered
crackers with REX Luncheon Cheese, pile egg
mixture on top, put in oven for a few minutes to
make thoroughly hot and serve garnished with
parsley. Hot buttered toast may be used instead
of crackers.
CROUTONS OF REX LUNCHEON CHEESE.
2 dessertspoons REX Luncheon Cheese, 1
tablespoon milk or cream, 1 small teaspoon butter,
cayenne and salt to taste, yolk of egg. Add
cream and butter to REX Luncheon Cheese and
stir over fire until smooth. Add salt and cayenne,
then add yolk of egg and stir over fire until egg
is just cooked. Put mixture •on to hot buttered
toast or fried croutons and serve at once garnished
with parsley.
FRITOT OF REX LORRAINE SAUSAGES.
Cut sausages in two, lengthwise, dip into beaten
egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in smoking fat until
nicely browned. Serve in centre of hot dish with
grilled or fried REX Bacon rolls round them.
Garnish with parsley and serve very hot with
tomato puree.
Tomato Puree: Skin 3 tomatoes, put in
saucepan with 1 teaspoon butter, salt, pepper and
sugar to.taste, 1 bay leaf, and cook gently to a
pulp. Rub through a sieve and serve hot.


-«■ JA
„ v /t
3T/LL JUSWG
75% of
the Goods
they Sell
Hasten Prosperity!
TN buying Australian goods at
Murdoch’s, you are not only
helping Australia but helping
yourself, in that you are saving
three profits the agent's, the
wholesaler’s, and the manufac-
turer.
Murdoch’s take only the distri-
butor’s profit. Spending at Mur-
doch’s means saving, besides pro-
viding employment for great
numbers of Australian workers.
Men’s Suits
From Our Mills
57/e
Fancy Worsted
Sac Suits, ready
for service, in
sizes 3 to 7.
Formerly 75/-.
w
Men’s Shirts
From Our Mills
4/ll
Striped Cam-
bric Golf Shirts
for Men. Collar
to match. For-
merly 6/6.
ŵ
Boys’ Suits
From Our Mills
21/6
Dark Grey and
Brown all wool
Tweed Suits.
Plain knees.
Sizes 4 to 12.
Formerly 25/-.
ẁ
Men’s 10/6 Cotton
Tweed Trousers, 3 to 7
7/11
Men’s 10/6 Canadian
Swimming Costumes . .
7/6
11/6 Men’s Poplin de i
Luxe Pyjamas
7/11
Men's “Cellnet” Cel-
lular Singlets or Trunk
Drawers
3/6
Men’s 42/- Flannel
Sports Suits, 3 to 7. .
32/6
We Pay Freight.
Kindly address letters to Desk ‘R-
Murdochs Ltd
SYDNEY
of hundred characters, about sufficient to
decipher a laundry bill or a ticket in the
Canton lottei’y. I used to roam the streets
of Shanghai with an aged American, one
of its leading sinologues, and he was per-
petually darting away to study placards in
which "his eye had detected characters he
had never come across before. Chinese and
Japanese are special subjects, like Egypt-
ology, and to force them on the “average”
Australian would be to perpetuate the big-
gest joke in education history. Nor would
the commercial advantages be as hoped.
The chief reason why Australian goods
don’t sell in the pasars of the 33 million
Javanese is that they are usually more ex-
pensive and of poorer quality than their
competitors from other lands. Even if an
Australian salesman spoke with the tongue
of a Confucius or in the purest High Malay
he could not get over that.
FENG-SHUL
Modern English Reviewing
The most striking feature of modem
English reviewing is the way it has fallen
into a very few hands. In the blurbs on
book-jackets the same names appear again
and again beneath pronouncements that
have a spurious enthusiasm, though rarely
a penetrating phrase. Nearly every week a
masterpiece is discovered, and all the spot-
lights of publicity are trained upon it. The
book-pages of even such a sober paper as
the “Observer” vibrate with literary adver-
tisements of a type we usually associate
with the moving-pictures or the announce-
ments of bargain-sales.
“The pace is killing,” a publisher said to
me last year. “We are being forced into
bigger and bigger advertisements. No one
reaps much benefit from such loud-speaking,
but everyone is afraid to modulate his own
voice.”
A withdrawal from this loud-speaking con-
test might mean failure or eclipse to a
publisher, especially if his main line is
novels. So his advertisements grow larger,
and he pounces on the juicy epithets of
reviewers. The publisher’s own statement
about a book does not carry much weight,
but he knows that a novel will sell if it is
written about with gusto by Hugh Walpole,
Gerald Gould, Sylvia Lynd and one or two
more.
One or two more ? Well, perhaps there are
a dozen reviewers whose names are known
to the public. They are growing fewer
because of the way the London daily papers
that made signed book-reviews a feature
have been blotted out. The “Morning
Leader” has gone; so have the “Pall Mall
Gazette,” the “Daily News,” the “West-
minster Gazette.” Then there is the ten-
dency of the reviews to merge. The
“Academy” was swallowed up by the
“Nation”; now the “New Statesman” has
digested both. The “New Age” does not
function any longer as a literary review, but
concentrates on economics. Most of these
reviews were supported by subsidy, usually
by people interested in some political policy,
and with the shifting of political values the
motive for keeping them alive has gone.
Thus the people whose names were made
in the heydaj' of English reviewing have
the small ring to themselves. Through their
praise, or the lack of it, a book’s fortune is
made or marred. And since they are mainly
novelists, occupied primarily with their own
work, it is unlikely that they are able to
cast a very discriminating eye on the flood
of fiction that pours from the presses. An
austere view of their task would make it
impossible. How is it possible for busy
novelists to read half a dozen long novels
a week, as they pretend to do? Circum-
stances are likely to canalise their enthusi-
asm for masterpieces.
One of the circumstances that has some
power is that most of these prominent re-
viewers are retained as readers by publish-
ing-houses and book clubs. That is giving
away no secret. And a casual outsider
might be prompted to ask—why? Is it
likely that a critic, already weighed down
by reading piles of published novels, would
devote his time to wading through blurred
manuscripts and giving his considered
opinion of them? Anyone who has tackled
the average novel in manuscript can supply
an answer. So (to put the matter charit-
ably) it is probable that publishing-houses
find it worth while to pay retaining-fees
to these prominent critics in order to bring
directly before their eyes the novels they
want to feature.
Recently Mr. J. C. Squire, who usually
does not review novels in the “Observer.”
took up more than a column of that paper
in praising enthusiastically a new book,
“Hatter's Castle.” He said he had read the
new book “in manuscript,” and that, in
spite of its length, he carried it every-
where till he had finished it. But how
had he acquired the work “in manuscript”?
Through friendship, or through the offices
of a publisher? In either case his praise
should have been a little suspect, but the
effect on the book was to have it taken up
by the British Book Club; also to have it
translated into three or four European
languages, almost as soon as it was pub-
lished in English. So much prestige do
names still carry!
As a matter of fact the book turned out
to be a rather crude production—one quite
unlikely to arouse the enthusiasm of an
independent critic. It is melodramatic in
treatment, heavy in style, and seems to have
been based on George Douglas’s “The House
with the Green Shutters.” Douglas’s book
was a brilliant bit of virtuoso work, keyed
in sardonic vein as an attack on the then
popular kailyard school of Scottish fiction.
It is over 20 years since I read it, but I
still remember it vividly. The old father in
“Hatter’s Castle” is an imitation of
Douglas’s Gourlay, but instead of being
merely strong and brutal he is made a
pathological freak. His family are stock
figures. The sentimentally-conceived elder
daughter is seduced without knowing it:
the younger daughter hangs herself be-
cause she is frightened of her father’s anger
when she fails to pass a school examination.
A dull piece of work, done faithfully
enough, yet without style or tragic power.
Yet such is the force of suggestion that
a popular vogue lias been created for it.
and even for cruder novels like “Red Ike,”
a protege of Hugh Walpole’s. There is a
quasi-literary public that has no strong
tastes of its own, but reads all the advertise-
ments and is extremely open to influence.
It will swallow anything that is recom-
mended in the right quarters: swallow if
without enthusiasm, but also without com-
plaint. It determines the contents of small
libraries and bookshops. It is the public
the publisher has its eye on. for the masses
cannot be reached by book-advertisements,
and the more discriminating readers are
likely to shy off what is being boomed at
the moment.
Reviewing used to be a poor game, a
standby for the countless pale hacks of
Grub-street. Now it has become a rich
monopoly of the few. I have heard stories
of the handsome income Mr. Priestley used
to earn for discovering masterpieces before
he turned to the manufacture of fiction, and
Arnold Bennett’s tips were worth shillings
a line. Yet both the public and the average
writer got a better deal when the anony-
mous hacks had the field.
VANCE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
Kerrell, by “Taffrail” (Hodder and
Stoughton; 7s. 6d.), gives further proof of
iCaptain Taprell Darling’s ability to por-
tray the everyday life of the R.N. in war-
time. No one could have written the descrip-
tion of Jutland but a sailor who fought
there and possessed the highest powers of
observation and expression. There'is a love-
story, but the book would be absorbing with-
out it.
Simple Sailor, by Campbell Lithgow
(Methuen; 7s. Gd.), contains an endearing
old reprobate—a retired admiral—whose
language is frightful. Most of the other
characters express themselves in a manner
calculated to startle any maiden aunt who
buys this realistic R.N. yarn on the strength
of its innocent dust-jacket. A first-class
novel Of its kind by a man who can write
dialogue and tell a story.
Pirates, by James E. Flett, is the second
production of Frank C. Johnson, who set
up as a de luxe publisher the other day in
Sydney. The price is not given. It con-
tains six' hand-printed plates in color, an
introduction by Blamire Young, and a record
of a conversation with a pirate by the
artist:—-
“So long, my friend, you’ve got black on your
face.”
“Keep sober, sir.”
And so they part. The buccaneers and
their beautifnl ships and costumes have been
met before in Australia, but never in such
a luxurious setting. The edition is limited
to 50 copies, signed by Mr. Flett.
The End of Exterritoriality in China, by
Thomas F. Millard (A.B.C. Press, Shang-
hai; price not stated). Millard, who was
formerly editor of an American daily in
Shanghai and is now adviser to the Yellow
Republic, points out that, having failed
to move the Powers by negotiation, the
Chinese Government has denounced the
treaties which grant foreigners the right to
be tried in their own courts by tlieir own
laws. After January, 1932, Chinese citizens
will probably be ordered not to resort to
the foreigners’ courts, which will lead to a
breakdown of trade. He advises the Powers
to face the inevitable and prepare for the
loss of all special privileges in China, in-
cluding the settlement areas. Already
75,000 whites live in China without special
privileges, as against 21,000 with them.
And a Little Verse
ALLIANCE.
Poor hungry white moths
That eat my love’s clothing,
Who says very soon
Ye’ll leave her with nothing;
Here under the moon
I make bold to persuade ye
Ye may eat all her clothes,
So ye leave me, my lady.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
ETCHING.
The sky is twisted round the world, warm
and black.
No star to stain its gentleness, not one cloud-
rack.
This is a night as deep as .death, a murky
pool,
Laced with the oleander scent and the flying-
cool
Of the delicate wind that stirs a pulse in
the heavy night.
I sit a T, d study my wise dull books by candle-
light,
And uk- mint flame plunges like a moth with
wings a-scorch.
Round the bend I saw the flare of a sullen
torch.
This is a night as deep as death, but hark!
a note,
Muted, silver, quavering from a cautious
throat.
Whistling his epithalamium the lover stands.
Holding the reckless flambeau up in knotted
hands.
I turn to my Socratic books, wondering where
he goes,
Under what tangled boughs, under what
ledge of rose?
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
H.P.: This isn't a young man’s debating
club.. . .Colin B.: Too many lines thrown in for the
• sake of their rhymes... .Fergie: Obyious sentiment;
old, old themes.... Petl: You make clear-cut little
pictures; but there’s so little in them.... Ellen B.:
No, they split on the rock of rejection... .Morflo;
What do you wear for an ear ?... .T. Seeby : Suit-
ability doesn’t always settle the matter. Many a thing
we’d like to print we can’t for lack of space. .. .
Raphel: Scored a hit every time: you’re a good critic
of your own stuff, anyway. . . .N.M.: All but. Consider
the two “mays” in last stanza —can’t they be im-
proved?. .. .D.H.O’S.: Like some of “Patrol”; but
the toe stubs painfully on lines like “Last night
they drank of Lethe garbed in the whisky’s guise.”
....Hugh V.: Has a thought, but expressed in the
style of day before yesterday... .AV.A.C.: Another
“Cheer up!” rhyme—generally the most depressing
thing in the day’s job C.E.T.: Attractive im-
agery ; taste good. Hope to welcome you in yet....
T. 5.8.: Well, it may be that all life is freshened
by the fragrance which flows from poetic souls ; we ■
confess we’ve often thought it was stale beer....
Nance: Have charm; but the fabric is very thin....
T.G.: —
Ever echoed flic echo of gladness
That echoed the earth evermore.
To which is added; — ,
All echoes that echo are sadness;
In these ears they shall ech nevermore.
H.E.C.; No, but we like the spirit, even though
we don’t think much of the rhyming of the second
stanza.... J.R.K.: Sea King’s invitation to come down
and play with dead men’s bones declined.... John G.:
Too loose and vague; what’s the use, for instance,
of quoting the total duty collected in Britain ?
And we don’t like post-ottice addresses.... W. S.
Albury: No good whichever way you look at it....
B.C.AV.D.: “Gloom-Chasers’ Anthem” merely served
to deepen ours... .H.W.: No ginger in them....
V.G.W.: Jolty lines and an ineffective ending....
11.L.AY.: Not even the price of a threepenny smoke
or a packet of gaspers in the “Rattler-jumpers’
Chorus”.... T. 8.: Labored string of commonplaces.
... .D.8.0’C.: Not a grain of gold to the t0n....
J.11.D.: You may be a songwriter, but your verse
is villainous.... D.H.O’S.: No market for hunk of
doggerel about “Scarface” Capone,.. .G.S.: Penalty
for punning is six months’ disqualification....
G.V.D.: Innocuous little ditties.... Bellerive: A nice
little autobiographical bit, with some philosophical
reflections to wind up with: —
THE VOYAGE OF LIFE.
There’s a final port in the voyage of life;
I’m battling on to the end.
In my little den I dip the pen,
For posey is still my friend.
The light of hope oft flasbeth out,
And wane like a distant star.
I never rehearse. I pen my verse
On things just as they are.
I wile away monotonous hours;
’Tis a task in our times to thrive—
’Tis a bitter fight to retain the right
To keep yourself alive.
AVliere is the inspiring charm
Among men descending and old,
To add to wealth, though broken in health,
Grapple and grasp for gold?
. ...Mollie S.: Try something with a children’s
page... .Freeman: Somehow you seem often to shatter
illusion in the instant you create it.... E.A.E.: Can
only catch a glimpse of the thought behind it....
Henry 0.: Don’t use words for the mere sake of
filling a line. In line one your bird sings a joyous
song, and in line three does it in “a weird and
plaintive note”.... Molly H.: You didn’t really
mean to rhyme “wooing” and “looming,” did you?
. ...L.8.C.: Already published in “Christian Science
Monitor,” which ought to have known better....
L. 8.: You say what you have to say with no
smother or flurry of words. Keep going... .M.W.8.:
No; but has promise.... Toen: No thought, no pic-
ture, no music. That sounds like a blind and deaf
man’s visit to Cooper's Creek in drought time....
Observer; Plain drive].... J.M.
The bushman of these modern times
Ts quite a different bird
From the buslimah of the olden days,
You take my blooming word.
We will. . . .R. 8.; “Homeward Bound” at rest in the
basket B.II.: Reedy jingle P.J.1.: “The Old
Camp,” with “magpies trolling roundelays” and
“southerlies weaving a rune” fails to waken a thrill.
. ...Dinkum Aussie: Lamentable.... Welter: “Old
Jim” has appeared often enough to be declared an
habitual criminal... .H.A.G.: Can’t get any grist
from “Donovan’s Mi 11”... .D.F.F. and Observer: Very
small beer... .K.C.: As a parody it’s the dead
limit in feebleness.... B.AV.: Bullock-drays are off.
... .A.G.J.: Musical, but nothing more... .E.S.H.:
Too long a beginning ; and then you bury the main
character.... A. M.: Let the next be more plainly
written... .8.M.T.: Improbabilities settled it.
. ...J.F.: Slight. .. .8.C.: Immature.... E.J.R.: It
had to go back.,. . J.R.R.: Subject trivial... .P.C.:
Needs a strong hand to tackle problem stories of
that type.. . .Z.Z.: Crude... .J.H.S.: Will struggle
along without it. . . .F.W.: Blast all faint pencil
“copy”. . . .V.D.L. and It.M.J. : Off our track. .. .J.M. :
Thousands of words too long. . . .A.N.L.: Almost as
many literary errors as there were gunshots... ,E.J.:
Humor smothered in verbiage... .L.T.: December-
May marriage too far-fetched... .F.S.G.: Weren't
gripped by “The Grasp of Death”... .N.L.: Ninety-
nine per cent, of henpecked hubby yarns are dreary.
Yours isn’t one of the one per cent N.F.:
“Fisher’s Ghost” has been overdone. . . .W.S.: Not for
us. .. . J.C.M.K.: Can’t you write about anything but
cows ?... .R.8.W.: The market is glutted at present.
....Walkabout: The home-made article is not
censored; only imported books, etc., are dealt with.
That is why the wildest ravings of the wildest wing
of the Communist party are circulated where they
will do most harm, while Norman Lindsay’s pliilo
sophical books are banned.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
: R.E.F.: Picture of enormous woman riding minia-
ture zebra declined C.H.M.: AVhy have all the
characters a list to port.... V. J.: A mouldy
nialapropism AV.D.: And you call that a horse!
A.C.: A lifebuoy shouldn’t be hard to draw
V.W.: Linework not free enough J.S.A.: Oldest
hair-restorer gag in captivity AV.11.C.: Scratchy.
W.V.L.: Passable joke, but a muddy piece of
wash T.P.: Lad too imitative. Let him try
something of his own H.R.H.: Feeble quip, and
you have heaps to learn about drawing hands
8.C.: Try to stand in the pos e you have given the
shopwalker and see how long you will remain up-
right. .. .T. J.M.: You grew lazy when you came to
the horse.


w
ŵ
i liii
H
biips
m
■
• a*'
iJM
■
: ::
■
■
ipfr* J
i
M
Ik:
311
-ras
jf
:
a
■
s
: V:
$ #
* %r
* «
11
W /
II
' ?
4.J
.
1
w
/i


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2703.
December 2, 1931.
THE END OF THE GAME.
“At the swearing in of the new Lang Plan M’s.L.C., the N.S.W. Governor, Sir Philip Game, said to Alderman Donald Grant, who had held his Excellency up to
ridicule in the Domain and elsewhere, ‘I hope after this you will have a higher opinion of me, and be friends.’”
HIS EX.: “Some of this will stick, Mr. Grant, and of course it makes me look rather undignified in my capacity of King 's representative —but what do I care so long as
I have your love!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box. 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 115-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
WeSTRALIA : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 ss. J 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for soz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE LONG DAY CLOSES.
The Scullin Government took office on
October 22, 1929, with the greatest House of
Reps, majority that any Commonwealth
Administration ever had. Its N.S.W. fol-
lowers alone numbered six more than all the
Nationalists, its Victorian delegation three
more than the Country, party. And before
the twelfth Federal Parliament was two
months old the Government had captured
another seat at a Tasmanian by-election, its
nominal voting strength being increased to
47 in a House of 75 members, excluding the
voteless member from the Northern Terri-
tory. “With a majority like that,” the
triumphant party said, “we ought to be in
for 10 years”; but before the expiration of
10 months it had split into factions, and at
any time during the last eight months the
Government—now almost universally de-
spised for its weakness and unable to patch
up quarrels among the remnant that still
gave it the appearance of support—has been
at the mercy of one of these factions, led
by the former Minister Beasley. This
gentleman and his associates, with the assist-
ance of the former Ministers Lyons and
Fenton and their group, and of the Nation-
alists, the Country party and Messrs.
Hughes and Marks, who were returned as
Independents with Labor support, have now
encompassed the defeat of their recent
comrades; and the Ministerial party is per-
force preparing for an appeal to the electors
on December 19, and gloomily recalling
what electors did to another divided Labor
party in Britain last month.
Australia has seen big majorities dissolve
and parties break up, but it has never wit-
nessed a disintegration as swift and com-
plete as that of the Scullidores. There
has been nothing like it in other parts of
the Empire, either; but of course Canada,
South Africa and Maoriland have never
been blessed with Labor Governments. The
rot really began when Mr. Theodoi-e failed
to honor his undertaking that the northern
N.S.W. coalminers would be back at work,
at pre-strike rates of pay, a fortnight after
the advent of a Labor Government. This
shook the allegiance of James, the member
for Hunter; it shook the faith of the public
in all the Labor election promises, not one
of which was destined to be performed.
Then the Mungana report was issued, and
Mr. Theodore had to leave the already dis-
credited Ministry—he left it on July 9, 1930.
With all his faults, he was far and away
the strongest figure in the Cabinet, arid with-
out him to lean on for advice, and for support
against the! dissatisfied elements in the
party, the Prime Minister —man of feeling
though he is, and orator—cut a miserable
figure. He signed the Niemeyer agreement,
and did not make the slightest attempt to
carry it out; then he, his Attorney-Genex-al
and his Minister of Markets went to Eng-
land, leaving the party leaderless, since Mr.
Theodore was still under a cloud. From
England Mr. Scullin sent copious cable,
■radio and telephone messages to “the boys”
imploring them to behave and remember
that he was trying to float a big loan, and
generally winding up with the words “Bi-en-
nan and Moloney concur.” But “the boys”
were now quite out of hand, and they passed
one startling resolution after another in
flat contempt of “Radio Jim,” as they
began to call him, and of the acquiescent
Brennan and Moloney. Inflationists were
on top one day; then defaulters had their
turn. To prevent a collapse before the
N.S.W. election, the moderates, with Mr.
Lyons at their head, were allowed to go
on with their arrangements for the 1930
conversion loan, to which so many honest
people subscribed believing the assurances
of Ministers that they would get their 6
per cent, interest on the due dates and their
principal back in 1938. They have had a
bitter awakening.
The Prime Minister returned fi-om Eng-
land loanless and convinced.—partly, no
doubt, from what he had heard in London
—that the Government could not get along
without Mr. Theodore. That gentleman
was willing—too willing. Had he.been con-
tent to wait until the Mungana case had been
decided, things might have turned out differ-
ently. He re-entered the Ministry, uncleared,
on Jan. 29, 1931. Mr. Lyons and Mr. Fenton
had left it, disgusted, 18 days befoi-e, the
former to become, with a rapidity unprece-
dented in these matters, leader of the Oppo-
sition. Mr. Beasley, who had been Mr.
Scullin’s understudy* in External Affairs,
was voted out of the Ministry for having
embraced the Lang plan of interest default
and championed the Lang-plan candidate,
Mr. Ward, in the East Sydney by-election,
wherein Mr. Scullin and his faction were
declared “black.” Senator Daly and Mr.
Anstey were voted out on other grounds,
but Mr. Daly was soon forgiven. He and
Mr. Cunningham succeeded Mr. Culley and
Mr. Holloway. Mr. Culley and Mr. Hollo-
way, becoming Assistant Ministers in March,
resigned in June because they objected, or
said they objected, to the so-called
Premiers’ plan, which had been accepted
very reluctantly by a majority of the
Caucus (all that was left of it) when the
Government was on the verge of being
unable to pay pensioners and civil servants.
They remained in the Caucus, as candid
friends of the Government, along with Mr.
Makin, the Speaker, Mr. Yates, the mem-
ber for Adelaide, and Senator Ivneebone,
also opponents of the Premiers’ plan;
Senator Kneebone, who is (or was) presi-
dent of the State A.L.P. executive, improved
the shining hour by declaring that Senators
Daly and O’Halloran, by supporting the
Government that supported the Premiers’
plan, had “automatically placed themselves
outside the movement.”
So this extraordinary crowd floundered on,
blundering from one absurd situation into
another, feeble, unstable, sundered, a mark
for the flouts and jeers of all and sundry.
Australia long ago tired of the costly farce;
it is in a sense fitting that a wretched
wrangle over the distribution of dirt jobs in
Mr. Theodore’s electorate should hav® been
the closing scene.
WHAT DOES LANG AIM AT?
It is always the unknown that is terrifying;
and Lang’s policy is among the unknowns.
It is true we have his Plan; but, as set
out by himself, it is no more than this: —
(1) That the Governments of Australia decide to
pay no further interest to British bondholders until
Britain has dealt with the Australian overseas debts
in the same manner as she settled her own foreign
debt with America.
(2) That in Australia interest on all Government
borrowings be reduced to 3 per cent.
(3) That immediate steps be taken by the Com-
monwealth Government to abandon the gold stan-
dard of currency and set up in its place a currency
based upon the wealth of Australia, to be termed
the goods standard.
Put forward as a policy for Australia, at
a time when over 300,000 people were un-
employed, it was the most inadequate thing
the mind of a Prime Minister ever con-
ceived. The overshadowing problem for
two years past has been how to get this
terrible proportion of our workers back into
employment. The Plan says nothing speci-
fically about it, and any connection between
Plan and problem is remote.
Generally some sort of a case can be
made out for any public platform. We may
believe Freetrade to be a rotten policy,
especially for a young country like Aus-
tralia, yet we can follow the workings of the
Freetrader’s mind: we know what it is he
aims at. So with the single-taxer: he at
least puts all his cards on the table. If
we haven’t the smallest confidence in the
heaven he promises us, at any rate we can
get specifications of the hell we believe we
would be led into, since he tells us exactly
what he proposes and how he proposes to
do it. But beyond this ridiculously inad-
equate Plan, Lang has told us nothing about
what he visualises. Certainly there was his
policy speech before the last general elec-
tion; but how’much of that stands to-day?
“Of this,” Lang said then, “the people can
be assured. The Australian Labor move-
ment would not permit for one moment any
of its leaders to be associated with a policy
of repudiation. The Labor party sets its
face against all repudiation.” Within three
months, having got a majority with which
he could afford to take some risks, Lang
was promulgating a plan to repudiate all
interest to British bondholders except on
terms, and to cut down to 3 p.c. the interest
payable in Australia.
The election policy itself, though in many
respects extravagant and absurd and impos-
sible, was at any rate intelligible: we knew
what the man was aiming at. First of all
there was. going to be a renewal of borrow-
ing overseas. The last Labor Government
had reduced unemployment to 5 p.c., and
what a Labor Government had done a
Labor Government could do. It was in
this connection that the bondholder was
assured that the Labor party would have no
truck with any repudiation, any scaling
down. “It will find the money to complete
all uncompleted public works.” It would
solve the railway problem by “cutting up the
big estates and handing over all the trans-
port services to a monopoly.”
If you vote for Labor it means no Loan Council;
it means no Upper House; it means no financial
agreement; it means a restoration of conditions
existing in 1927 ; it means prosperity not only to
working men but to business men.
No doubt it was the policy of a very igno-
rant person unaware of what had happened
in the world since 1927; but, at any rate,
it was a plain and visible goal to strive
towards.
Then something happened; and nobody
outside a very narrow circle knows what it
was.
Up to that time, as we have seen, the
clear belief of John T. Lang was that he
could borrow money: no doubt he believed
there were millions available in America; and
the potential lenders were assured of the
complete confidence they could put in the
Labor party as borrowers. Upon that foun-
dation a reasonable structure was built, in-
cluding the absorption of unemployed in
loan works, the straightening out of finance,
chiefly through wiping out competition with
railways and trams, and the opening up of
country lands. Whatever it was that hap-
pened completely changed the foundations
of that policy. Suddenly the bondholder,
instead of being a person to be assured,
became a person to be contemned and
robbed; and repudiation, which had been
unthinkable, became two-thirds of the new
Plan.
One of two things must have happened:
either Lang made inquiries and found that
money was not to be picked up by the
million in America, or he was persuaded that
it was a dangerous thing for Labor to trust
to the rich investor. In either case the
bottom was out of his policy. Everything
had depended upon borrowing millions;
with no loan money available the whole
structure, with its pretty picture of employ-
ment for all, would collapse—unless some-
thing could take the place of the Ameri-
can millions. There can be scarcely a doubt
that it was at this moment that the Com-
munist influence began to make itself felt.
From that time there began a complete turn
of the wheel. If capital could not be got
by inspiring confidence in the capitalists, it
could be got by taking from.the capitalists
without winning their confidence. There
is no reason to doubt that up to that time
Lang believed that he would be able to lift
the unemployment tax which Bavin had
imposed. Since that time the scheme has
apparently been to graft the Communist
buds upon the old stock. So we have seen
that every step taken has been, not to lift
the burden of taxation —which during the
election campaign seemed so important—
but to make it heavier and heavier: the
more they could take from those who had,
the better; especially if it was given to
those who did not have.
The policy put up at the general election
was very properly designed, above all
things, to employ the unemployed. Labor,
Lang said, “will attack the grim spectre of
unemployment.” The party offered “a
policy of construction, sound economy and
prudent finance.” It would “preserve em-
ployment for those who have it and provide
it for those who are without it.” After
the Premier’s mysterious conversion an
attempt was made to put on a ss. in the £
unemployment tax, and to reduce salaries
in the public service to £5OO a year, no serious
effort of any kind was made to absorb
the unemployed, payments out of the dole
fund reached seven millions in the year,
and, instead of “sound economy and
prudent finance,” we have had such a riot
of spending without return, that the year is
likely to end with a State deficit of nine
millions.
Now all this, too, can be part of a plan.
Communism may be merely another name for
conscription and slavery, but at least it is a
known policy—its aims are clear enough,
even if its methods are constantly chang-
ing. But even Communism is not confessed.
Lang’s confessed Plan is simply three items
which might possibly suggest the nature of
a policy of which they formed part, but
are no more a complete policy than a pair
of bootlaces and a shirt-stud are a com-
plete dress. Only two things are quite
obvious: (1) that the policy on which the
party reached office has been pulled up by
,the roots; and (2) that, though the ultimate
aim is now not disclosed, the measures which
have been taken and are proposed would
dovetail into a policy of Communism.
Surely the people are entitled to know what
the Governpient’s policy is, what it is that,
it is aiming at. If Communism, well and
good—we shall know what to support, what
to resist. Surely the people are entitled to
know how the Government proposes to get
the unemployed at work. The scheme of
borrowing has been abandoned; and the. dole
leads nowhere. If the idea is to pile up
unemployed until the system crashes under
its own weight—if this is part of the revolu-
tion which Lang says is in progress, though
he did not mention it at the general elec-
tion-well and good; we shall know what to
support and what to resist. But actually we
are being dragged along we do not know
whither; what is behind Lang’s measures we
do not know, we can only guess. Is he
ashamed of his objectives that he will not
name them? Has he so little trust in his
policy that he dare not show us how step
by step it is going to lead us back to
prosperity?
It is always the unknown that is terri-
fying. Confidence—the first thing neces-
sary to bring good times back—is impossible
until we know whither we are being car-
ried, like doomed cats in a bag.
SECESSION.
Dear Bulletin, —You said (4/11/’3l): —
The Westralian Freetraders who run the Secession
movement seek to raise a popular froth for refer-
endum purposes by dissertations about the vast sav-
ings to be effected by “throwing off the Federal
yoke.” There is no sign of any possible saving
unless Westralia repudiates its share of the public
debt, which is unthinkable. And if it carries its
case to London after a successful referendum, the
British Government will probably say that: (1)
The affair is a purely Australian one; (2) A tariff
is no adequate cause for disruption; (3) Unless
British subjects are being maltreated its only
interest in the matter is to make sure that seceded
Westralia doesn’t turn dog on the British bondholders.
Secession is a constitutional, not a political,
reform, and the Dominion League does not
espouse any fiscal policy or political party.
The majority of Westralians are, however,
agreed that secession would enable us to
establish a well-balanced Customs tariff, on
principles similar to that underlying the
tariff of Westralia before Federation. Under
that tariff, mining, agricultural and pas-
toral machinery and equipment were ad-
mitted duty free, and under that tariff, too,
the percentage of factory employees in
Westralia as compared with the whole of
Australia was a half as great again as it is
to-day. Even if there were no sign of any
immediate benefit in the State Budget, it
would matter little. But there would be
an undoubted economic benefit to W est-
ralia, and that is all-important; once having
placed our State trade and commerce on a
proper basis, the State Treasury should
automatically adjust itself.
An analysis of the figures for the year
1929-30 reveals the fact that had West-
ralia been a separate Dominion during that
year it would have been approximately
£2.000,000 better off, and better off to that
extent without any repudiation of our share
of the public debt or other just liabilities.
The attitude of the British Government
upon the presentation of our case after a
successful referendum is, of course, purely
a matter of speculation. You suggest that
the British Government would probably
say that a tariff is no adequate cause for
disruption. But the fact remains that the
gravest disabilities and injustices are suf-
fered by Westralia under the Australian
tariff; that the existence of such disa-
bilities and injustices has been affirmed by
the Royal Commission on the finances of
Westralia as affected by Federation, 1925-
26; the Royal Commission on the Common-
wealth Constitution, 1927-29; the commit-
tee reporting upon the Australian tariff,
1928, and the British Economic Mission,
1928-29. And we who pay, and. pay heavily,
by reason of such disabilities certainly
maintain that the apparent impossibility of
rectifying such disabilities under the Con-
stitution demands that we shall withdraw
from the control of the Federal Govern-
ment and its deliberate fiscal policy.
That our contentions will appeal to
some of the most prominent members of
the British Parliament is evident from the
following extracts from the report of the
Simon Commission, which so strongly
recommended the separation of Burma from
the Government of India:—
The tariff policy of India includes a substantial
customs duty on imported steel, which operates to
protect the Indian steel industry. Burma, however,
requires to import cheap steel for the purposes of
her oil industry and for her general development,
and it cannot be suggested that a tariff on steel
is in the economic interests of Burma considered
as a separate entity. .. . The institution of a policy
of Protection has inevitably brought into strong relief
the contrast in economic interests between Burma
and India. Thus the interests of the two countries
in economic policy have already begun to diverge,
and it is easy to imagine cases where future policy
may make the divergence more considerable still.
Yet Burma’s special interests carry little weight
in the Indian Legislature, in comparison with the
more powerful influence of great business centres in
India, like Bombay or Calcutta.
It need hardly be mentioned that the disa-
bilities of Burma under the tariff of India
pale into insignificance by comparison with
the disabilities of Westralia under the Aus-
tralian tariff.
The British Government would certainly
be interested in seeing that “seceded West-
ralia doesn’t turn dog on the British bond-
holders.” But it would not be difficult for
Westralia to demonstrate our desire and
our ability to stand up to all our obligations
in this direction.
This brings us to the remaining answer
which you suggest would be received from
the Imperial Parliament, namely, “The
affair is a purely Australian one.” It is a
fundamental principle of the British Corn
stitution that there can be no Government
without the consent of the governed. If,
therefore, it were made clear that the people
of Westralia by a large majority had de-
cided upon secession from the Common-
wealth—and the matter would not be car-
ried to the British Parliament unless such
was the case—is it not reasonable to assume
that the British Government would say “The
affair is purely a Westralian one, and if the
people of Westralia have determined to
withdraw, we shall pass the necessary Enab-
ling Act formally approving of such with-
drawal, subject, of course, to such conditions
as will ensure Westralia meeting its just
obligations to all interested parties”?
Finally, may I stress the fact that our
disagreement is with the Federal Parlia-
ment, and not with the people of the East-
ern States? Federation has proved a
failure, and we have every reason to be-
lieve that the people of the Eastern States
are equally dissatisfied with this costly
constitutional super-structure, and are be-
coming as keen as the people of this State
for its abolition.—Yours faithfully, H. K.
Watson, Chairman of the Dominion
League of Western Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Maoriland’s Mild Election.
The issues in the election campaign in
Maoriland are few and they involve still
fewer questions of political principle. The
United-Reform coalition is a coalescence
of two parties that have never made either
Freetrade or Protection a shibboleth or a
heresy, and though its candidates proclaim
themselves as anti-Socialists—there is no
need for them to say they are anti-Com-
munists—there are few of them who would
consider for a second the repealing of those
surviving instalments of State socialism


DOUBLE
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
December 16
The Ordinary Weekly Issue
and the
Christmas Bulletin
in one.
Stories by Katharine Prichard, Vance
Palmer, J. H. M. Abbott, Bernard Cronin,
E. V. Timms and other Best Australian
Writers.
Fifty Drawings by Norman Lindsay,
Scorfield, Leason, Percival, the late Alf
Vincent, Souter, Minns and all the best-
known men.
Poetry by the 20 Best Australian Verse-
writers.
Old Drawings by Phil May, “Hop" and
G. R. Ashton reproduced.
All for Sixpence.
written into the M L. Statute Book by
Ballance, John McKenzie, Reeves and
Seddon. Neither is there much bigotry
among the coalitionists on the matter ot
land tenure and taxation. The tenure con-
troversy was settled years ago. Leasehold
had logic on its side, but freehold had
human nature, which is a darned sight
stronger, and the Labor party m its latest
campaign manifesto has nothing to say
about nationalising the land or anything
else. Its most radical proposal is the estab-
lishment of a State Central Bank with
right of note issue, and it could quote in
support of that, if it wanted to, the emi-
nently respectable precedent of Australia, s
Commonwealth Bank and the adv ice
(hedged however, with some qualifications
not palatable to Mr. Holland and his fol-
lowers) of Sir Otto Niemeyer. For the
rest, tliG Laborites proposG to lift tlio
Dominion out of its troubles by a large
domestic loan, which their opponents cheer-
fully assure them they would have Buck-
ley’s chance of getting, even if they man-
aged to storm the Cabinet benches. The
reintroduction of the graduated land tax
—McKenzie started that in 1906—is the
only other plank that any coalitionist could
not subscribe to, and, of course, the Labor
candidates promise that if their crowd takes
charge unemployment wall vanish and theie
will be full union pay for every willing
worker. The coalitionists dont piomise
that—they promise, in fact, hardly any-
thing—but they can be credited with hoping
for such beautiful things as devoutly as
any of the Labor Parliamentarians.
Up to the time of writing it has been
a very tame election. The intense personal
bitterness and the bandying of charges of
corruption that mark the average Australian
approach to the hustings have no counter-
part in the Maoriland struggle, and the
only meeting at which police intervention
has been necessary was one, in a southern
city, where a mild riot was caused because
a hall was packed with ticketholders —a
dodge Maorilanders “won’t stand for.”
Forbes and Coates, the leaders of the
coalition, are saying remarkably little,
which is not surprising. Up till a few hours
before the merger was forced upon him by
his party, Coates was declaring that Forbes
and his followers were utterly inept and
foolish persons. Forbes, who had invited
the union of forces a year before it hap-
pened, was actuated not by personal pre-
ferences, but by the knowledge, gained in
long Parliamentary experience, that only a
very strong Government can adequately
tackle the unpleasant job of retrenchment.
Retrenchment, and as much retrenchment
as is necessary to balance the national
accounts, is his policy, and it does not take
long speeches to make that clear.
So far as material interests are involved
and clash, the issue is between the farmers
and the town workers. The farmers want
reduced taxation, Freetrade and lower
wages. The town workers want more tariff
protection for the industries they toil in,
stiffer taxation of land, and a guarantee
that the present straitened circumstances of
their country won’t be used as a means of
permanently reducing their status. But
there are many coalition supporters who
sympathise strongly with the town workers’
view, and no matter how large a majority
the Forbes-Coates team may have after
the election, it is not likely to use it
entirely at the dictates of the Farmers’
Union. And if Labor gets the verdict it is
not likely to play any of those fantastic
pranks before high Heaven that make
angels weep when they contemplate politics
in Australia. There is no talk whatever on
the Labor side of repudiation of public
debts, and if any of his candidates pro-
pounded the Lang Plan (if it is humanly
possible to propound it), Holland, lame as
he is, would chase that person over the rim
of the islands with an axe.
♦-
The Quacks.
At June, 1920, Australia’s external debt
represented an average of about £3,800,000
per annum borrowed during a loan period
of 70 years. The addition made between
1920 and 1930 represented an average of
£21,500,000 per annum borrowed oversea
during a period of 10 mad years. The net
earnings from the “works” in which the loans
were “invested” became less and less able
to meet the interest as interest became more
and more, for it was soon a matter of invent-
ing “works,” not because they were wanted,
but because it had become a struggle of
parties to provide employment for more
and more voters. In 1930 there was
£27,600,000 a year payable in interest to
people outside whom no Australian Trea-
surer could tax because they were domiciled
in England and paid their taxes there. •
When the smash arrived it was worse here
than elsewhere because, in addition to the
world-wide depression in ordinary industry,
a peculiarly Australian industry stopped
completely—the building of any old thing
with external loan money. If Australia
had been content with local loans,
with interest paid locally in Australian
paper money and liable to Australian
Federal and State taxation, the position
would have been wholly different.
Now there is a frenzied struggle to ex-
plain the situation. The people who have
been led to believe that they had continuous
jobs on loan works consider themselves
deeply injured. Politicians who bought
votes with public works swear that their
constituents have been shamefully wronged,
and there is a wholesale offering of immedi-
ate and infallible remedies.' ffhese include
secession, communism, land nationalisation,
more imports and less employment, repudi-
ation, worthless paper money, the abolition
of State Governments, and the general
wiping out of civilisation, combined with
double wages.
It is time we ceased humbugging our-
selves. Hard industry and harder economy
are,unpleasant things, no doubt ; but when a
man is a physical wreck through a long
bout of drinking, and when his business is
tottering and his friends are forsaking him,
it is absurd to talk to him about the
advantages of Starr-Bowkett societies, the
juice of six oranges every morning and a
study of Scottish ballads. All these may be
veiy good things; but they are not the things
the occasion demands. We have to crawl
out the way we crawled in. We left off
production because we could live on bor-
rowed money without it. We will have to
get back to production because we cannot
borrow any more. We went slow because
it didn’t matter much what the job cost;
we were paying for it out of somebody
else’s pocket. We’ve got to do the paying
out of our own pocket to-day, and cost
matters tremendously.
Politicians talk of restoring the standard
of 1927. Such talk is not only rubbish; it
is wicked and cruel rubbish. It is like
telling the drink-sodden physical and
nervous wreck to get back to the condition
he was in after perhaps the fourth drink
—to get back to the moment when he felt
as though he owned the world, and had
complete mastery over it. We can’t get
back to 1927 and stay there. The politician
who promises it is a public danger. But
we cannot escape by blaming him. He is,
at his worst, the supreme confidence-man
of our day and generation. The real respon-
sibility lies not with him, but with our-
selves.
■ *
‘‘Fraudulent Insolvency.”
Half a dozen professors and ex-professors of
economics have combined in a declaration
that it is the business of the Commonwealth
Bank to stabilise exchange; and, though
they do not say that the £ should be written
down to 155., they do say:—
A temporary excess of London funds at the open-
ing of the export season threatens to harden the
exchange rate. In the absence of central control
this appreciation may carry it towards par. An
attempt may then be made to stabilise it at a
rate which would involve the country in a policy
of general deflation. .To do so would be to ignore
all the lessons of monetary history of the last ten
years. Australia is now in the position of France
in 1928. She can stabilise her exchange rate at
£l3O, or some figure which, like the new par of
124 francs to the pound sterling adopted by France
in 1928, would undervalue the Australian currency
at the moment. It is easier to restore economic
activity with a currency that is undervalued than
with one that is overvalued.
Well, there is no doubt about that! If we
are in a bad way, we will find recovery easier
if we pay only 15s. in the £. That does not
call for argument. But it is not the last
word to be said on the subject. In the
S’African Assembly the other night, on the
Union’s Finance Emergency Bill, the Minis-
ter for Finance said that “for a solvent
nation to devalue the £ was tantamount to
fraudulent insolvency. The only thing to
justify devaluation,” he added, “would be
a decision of Parliament to follow the way
of the socialists”—meaning, of course, the
Communists.
The gentlemen who profess this very in-
exact science of economics—if indeed, it
is a science at all —ask us to remember
France: “Australia is now in the position of
France in 1928.” Can we really take even
professors and ex-professors of economics
seriously who ask us to believe such a thing
as that? France, ravaged by war, bled
white, thousands of its farms ruined, scores
of its’cities and towns laid waste! Austra-
lia, its territory untouched by war, its farms
and cities prospering as they never had
prospered before under the stimulus of
Imperial purchases of wool, wheat and
metals!
We may devalue our £. We may find
“fraudulent insolvency” easier than by in-
dustry and economy to fight our way back
to our old position. But for Heaven’s sake
don’t let us be hypocrites about it and pro-
fess that it is the only way, and call France
as our witness.
Asiatic Diseases and Aviation.
“Pawang”: Malignant malaria has smitten
Calcutta, which is one of the cities where
Sir Ronald Ross prosecuted the investiga-
tions that led to the trial and conviction
of the anopheles mosquito as the bearer of
one of man’s greatest menaces. The insects
are said to have come now from the Malay
Peninsula, where the disease is endemic and
has been gaining ground since the depres-
sion led to the wholesale closing down of
rubber plantations, over which strict super-
vision had hitherto been kept. When an
urban district is protected from infection
over a long enough period, a generation
grows up which has ceased to be immune,
and the arrival of a single infected insect
is likely to cause a major outbreak; so
that the price of health is constant vigil-
ance. I once lived on an island which had
a high reputation for health, malaria having
been eliminated for over a decade. A man
arrived from Africa suffering from malig-
nant malaria and the population immediately
started being bowled over like ninepins.
The anopheles was ready and. waiting, as
it no doubt is in .parts of Australia where
•malaria is not considered as so much as a
possibility.
There are other diseases in the same
category, and that opens up the question
whether our quarantine authorities, in these
days of aviation, are not living in a fool’s
paradise, due to thinking in terms of sea
carriage. Small-pox having disappeared in
this country, inoculation, although supposed
to be obligatory, has practically become a
dead letter. it would be interesting to
know how many of the present generation
have submitted to be immunised. Prob-
ably a majority of the nation lies wide
open to infection. Aeroplanes land on these
shores from overseas almost every week,
their pilots and passengers, if any, having
been on foreign soil less than eight hours
previously. Most of them have spent the
previous few days hopping across India,
Malaya, Siam and Java, w T here various in-
fectious diseases are always present. The
period of incubation of most of these dis-
eases is less than that of the average sea
journey from foreign ports, so danger of
infection from passengers on ships has
been almost eliminated. But the air
route is another story. People were in-
clined to laugh when the papers printed a
yarn about a Customs official in Darwin
refusing to shake the hand of a just-arrived
air viking until he had been passed by the
doctor; but the Customs man was a well-
meaning patriot, if not quite scientific in
his attitude. He would have been on
sounder ground if he had refused to shake
hands until the airman had spent three
weeks in isolation on the aerodrome. One
of these days an outbreak of small-pox will
occur, and a world-flier will suddenly lose
his popularity.
Local Efforts for Unemployed.
“Trifolium” tells what one district did:—
Early this year (1931) the Ashford Shire Council
(N.S.W.) appointed a sub-committee to investigate
means of solving the local unemployment problem.
After investigation it was decided to form a tobacco-
growing co. Provisional directors and a secretary
(F. T. Satterthwaite) were elected at a public
meeting, and ihe co. became known as Ashford
Tobacco Lands, Ltd. Two hundred acres were bought
from Sinclair Bros., of Fraser Creek station, who
took shares with a considerable pox'tion of the pur-
chase money. The co. has the option of buying a
further 300 acres of good tobacco land from the
same owners.
Tobacco was grown successfully in the Ashford
district 15 to 20 years ago, but when buyers
demanded flue-cured tobacco the growers refused to
go to the expense of erecting barns. Rising wool
prices and falling tobacco prices also discouraged
the farmers. At Texas, 40 miles distant, tobacco
has been grown successfully for 40 years, particularly
during the last five. Fifteen years ago the tobacco
was sold for about 9d. per pound; last year (1930)
the district average was 3s. 6d. Ashford growers
consider that their soils are as good as those at
Texas, and are confident that they can grow good
tobacco.
The co. employs men at £ 2 per week, and in
addition allots them two £1 shares for each week’s
work. Many experienced growers are employed,
whilst all seed-bed work and curing is controlled
by experts. So far no blue mould has appeared in
tiie nurseries. One man manages five acres, and the
co. will plant 150 acres this season. Next year we
hope to double this.
Mr. Satterthwaite (shire engineer) supervises the
irrigation work. Water is pumped from the Severn
and carried by flumes and drains to all parts of the
area. All timber used is cut, sawn and made up
locally, giving employment indirectly to almost as
many men as are actually growing the tobacco.
Many farmers and graziers in the district have been
encouraged to grow tobacco on their own account,
thus employing further labor; it is estimated that
800 acres will be planted this season.
On Making Employment.
A SCHEME for the relief of the unemployed
has been broadcasted by Earle Page, leader
of the importing party in Federal politics.
He proposes that the workless multitude
should be employed burning off fallen timber
and debris from a strip of the eastern coast
of Australia “from Gippsland to Cape York.”
They are also to go in for extensive ring-
barking.
The work is presumably to be paid for.
Certainly the men must be paid, and work
is expensive if the workers have to be
strung out in a line 3000 miles long from
Gippsland to Cape York, and have pro-
visions and tools and sundries dragged to
them in an often roadless country. The
State and Federal Treasurers haven’t the
money, and the landowners haven’t it. The
banks are short, so much of their customers’
money having been commandeered already
by reckless and unscrupulous Treasurers.
It isn’t proposed that the landowner should
do the jobs himself, aided by his two sons,
though the arrangement has been satisfac-
tory and cheap up till now. Instead, he is
to bring regular “unemployed” from a dis-
tance (necessarily an expensive business),
so that some politician may make credit
out of it.
A problem of the future is: Suppose the
' landowner responds to the appeal, and
makes jobs for a lot of amateurs, bringing
them out to the wilderness at great cost,
what will he do with them when he can
get no more money with which to pay
them, and when they have burned and ring-
barked everything in sight? If a new
woollen factory or agricultural machinery
shop is started, the industry may last as
long as people wear woollens or use agricul-
tural machinery. But railway-building and
ring-barking undertakings and the like come
to a dead-end and leave the bulk of the
unemployed where they were.
India Is Cursed with Windbags, Too.
Ip the abortive Indian Round-table Con-
ference in London has done nothing else,
it has at least made it clear that Gandhi,
alleged saint and Mahatma, is a maundering
and conceited poseur puffed up with the
delusion that he is leading the people 1 of
India to complete national independence—
more than likely, also, a deluded tool
in the hands of a coterie which dreams of
loot unlimited in the day when its impossible
aspirations may, by some miracle, be trans-
lated into fact.
One of Gandhi’s most preposterous claims
at the conference, in addition to his obsti-
nate insistence in the face of all argument
on complete independence for India—of
which he has authority to speak from a frac-
tional section only—is for the instant and
complete withdrawal of British troops and
officials. He has admitted that action of
the sort would drench India in blood and
bring the whole national edifice down in
ruin, and the fact that he persists in this
policy while confessing these terrible conse-
quences is proof that the little wits he ever
had are hopelessly addled.
But, after all, it is the British Govern-
ment, and especially the Labor-Liberal ele-
ment, which is to blame for the conditions
which have made the ineffable old pundit
possible. He and his following received a
severe setback when Governors Lloyd and
Willingdon, of Bombay and Madras, some
years ago forced the hand of the Viceroy
and insisted on his arrest and imprisonment.
Had that policy of just firmness been fol-
lowed up, and the officials who have given
their lives to the study and control of
Indian affairs been freed from interference
by bureaucratic theorists in London, the
India problem, so called, would have solved
itself. As it is, the reconditioning that must
come grows a more formidable task every
day.
The Withdrawal of Capital.
When Nestles, the condensed milk people,
began to manufacture in Australia, clients
and executive officers and others were given
a chance to become interested in the busi-
ness. The parent co. threw in 2i millions,
represented by ordinary shares ; Australia
and Maoriland were offered 1,000,000 £1 8
p.c. prefs. The co has been successful beyond
the average; its policy has been progressive,
its management enterprising. At one time
there seemed to be practically no limits to
the trade which such a co. with such an
organisation might do. Apart from the Aus-
tralasian markets there is alongside us an
Asiatic market which is almost un-
touched so far as many of the co.’s products
are concerned—condensed milk, chocolates
and lactogen, for example. Yet tire co..
finding itself with nearly two millions of
“readily liquid assets,” proposes now to
return 1| million to ordinary shareholders
—that is, the interests outside Australia.
In most cases the withdrawal of so much
ordinary capital would weaken the security
of preference capital. Here, however, the
utmost care has been taken to safeguard
the interests of the prefs., whose capital will
for the future be guaranteed by the parent
co. with its surplus assets of seven millions.
The facts appear to be merely that, look
where it will, the co. cannot find in Aus-
tralia opportunities for industrial invest-
ment equal to those which are open in other
countries; therefore it withdraws the funds
for which it cannot find profitable use in this
country.
That a co. with such an organisation, and
with such available markets, should with-
draw capital from Australia ought, to give
us very grave concern. International cos.
of this character don’t lightly take their
money from countries where it can show a
fair profit: they have no prejudices or pre-
ferences. When such money is lost to us it
means that our industrial and political con-
ditions turn the scale against all our natural
advantages. ,


In Craven “A” I always find what I expect
... that extra touch of Quality
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
143 Years* Reputation for Quality
mm.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A furious discussion rages over the merits,
if any, of Lang and Theodore. But why
discuss whether a boot that leaks at the
heel or a shoe that leaks at the toe is the
better? The choice isn’t between Lang and
his little larrikin band from Woolloomooloo
and Surry Hills on the one side and the
shifty Theodore on the other. It is between
a force that will take the situation in hand
in a businesslike way, and do something, and
a divided mob which hasn’t the least idea
what to do and merely robs everybody
within reach to keep things going.
The “reformed” N.S.W. Leg. Council prac-
tically wiped out debts on mortgage the
other night. “If the Government accepts
the amendment,” said Lang’s “Labor Daily,”
“a tremendous burden will be lifted from tens
of thousands of home-buyers and . others.”
This makes it easier to understand the Com-
munist policy of getting rid of uncomfort-
able things in general—wives, for example—•
by merely kicking them out.
The crazy railway strike in North Queens-
land died as quickly as it had started. Moore,
showing a firm front to the Reds, introduced
a bill providing heavy penalties for intimi-
dation and attempts to interfere with the
public safety or convenience, and empowering
the Commissioner to replace strikers with
men willing to work, and to promote those
who remained at their posts, irrespective of
seniority. The Premier pointed out that
hundreds of railwaymen had been kept on
the congested staff for humanitarian rea-
sons, adding that most of those who had
struck would probably never see their billets
again. After this agitators advocating
“solidarity” were trodden in the mud in the
rush to get back on the job.
One quaint incident marked the idiotic
Queensland railway strike. At the Towns-
ville mass meeting which decided to call
it off a letter was read from the lengthsmen
on the Cape River section of the north-
western line, a rather isolated lot; it was
to the effect that they had just heard of
the strike and had gone out in full sympathy.
Like, many others in the same fix, the sym-
pathisers may have to remain out.
SKIPPER: “Well, we’ve kept the ship off the
rocks, Ted.”
MATE: “My oath, we have, Jim; but where’s
she got to?”
In one respect the House of Reps, election
will be a grotesque affair. Redistribution of
seats is years overdue; the Bruce-Pages
ought to have tackled it before they went
to the country in 1928. The Scullidores set
about the business but were never enthu-
siastic—a scientific regrouping would have
cost them several seats —and the defeat of
the Government found the boundary com-
mittees still waiting for instructions. Aus-
tralian electors are a nomadic lot, particu-
larly in the subbubs, and this tendency has
been sharpened by the slump. So when the
rolls are slung together it may be
found that there are three times as many
people in Reid as there are in West Syd-
ney (even two years ago the numbers were
72,717 and 35,553), and twice, as many in
Barton as there are in Cook, which adjoins
it; and that Flinders and Melbourne,
Maranoa and Herbert, Hindmarsh and Grey,
Swan and Kalgoorlie will exhibit disparities
as bad or wmrse. The law provides for equal
electorates, with a margin of one-fifth more
or one-fifth less than the quota. Only in
Tasmania is it likely to be conformed to.
Yic. Upper House treated the Hogans’
second Unemployment Relief Bill with the
contempt it meted out to the first measure.
Thirteen members wanted to maim it in
committee and send it back on crutches, but
15 thought it better to sandbag the thing
straight away. A committee of both Houses
to mould some sort of compromise is now
suggested. Scullin’s defeat, following upon
the political landslide in Britain, has made
Hogan feel darned uncomfortable.
Concannon, Lang’s Minister in the Leg.
Council, characterised the bill removing the
ban on tin-hare betting, the first bit of busi-
ness introduced after Governer Game’s
appointment of the twenty-five, as “a measure
of the utmost importance to the Government” ;
and no doubt it. is, the Government being
what it is. The young gentleman went on
“But, Mr. Lang-planner, what good can the
tin-hares do us?”
“My dear ladies, don’t be selfish. Remem-
ber others must have their turn some-
times.”
to say that “some consider the State lottery
immoral; nevertheless, the people are patron-
ising it, consolidated revenue is being con-
siderably augmented, and the hospitals are
benefiting.” The hospitals are benefiting so
little that they are appealing for the where-
withal to keep open the wards that they
haven’t closed. And the N.S.W. accounts
for four months show a debit balance of
£7,782,000 (the total for the six States is
£14,587,000), as against £5,306,000 for the
corresponding period of 1930-31, when there
was no lottery.
To a “Labor Daily” reporter Mrs. Green,
M.L.C., “spoke feelingly of the lack of
beauty in the lives of the workers. ‘Music,
art and literature,’ she declared, ‘should be
in every home.’ ” After further remarks
in this strain, the -lady “dashed away at
the clanging of the division bell” —to vote
for the re-introduction of betting at tin-
hare joints!
Greg. McGirr, who tried «o hard to oust
Jim Dooley from the N.S.W. Premiership
when he was one of Dooley’s Ministers, says
he is going to stand for East Sydney as a
supporter of Scullin against Ward, who is
a supporter of Lang. Greg’s brother Jim,
whom Greg introduced into politics, is
Lang’s Minister of Loeal Government, and
presumably Jim will be expected to go into
East Sydney and give Greg beans. “The
movement” is always whirling people into
embarrassing positions.
Westralia’s Jimmy Mitchell, stressing the
obvious, says the carrying of his secession
referendum “would not mean secession”; but
“the British Parliament,” he adds, “can
amend the Commonwealth Constitution, ex-
cluding us, if we can prove that injustice
has been done.” Professor Keith, who has
had the honor of being abused by Lang,
and quoted by the G.-G. in giving his
reasons for granting Scullin a dissolution,
allows that the British Parliament has this
power, but points out for Jimmy’s edifica-
tion that recourse to it would be “totally
unconstitutional, and could not be contem-
plated by a British Government unless proof
of the absolute necessity for intervention
could be adduced.” Westralia is a large
place and a referendum would cost at least
£20,000. It would be much more sensible
to spend the money on the unemployed—
like Scullin and Lang, Jimmy, when in hot
pursuit of votes, promised “work for all.”
In one way and another Duncan helped
his idol Hughes to upset the Bruce Gov-
ernment and bring the Scullidores in. He
is to pay for it by losing his job. One of
the N.S.W. Opposition Senators had to be
dropped to make room for Hardy, the
Riverina man, whom the Country party is
nominating according to its arrangement
with the U.A.P. (late Nats.), and the allies
agreed with enthusiasm that it should be
Duncan. When Duncan’s patron heard
about it he said in alarmed accents that he,
W. M. Hughes, had been “ ‘endorsed’ by
Mr. Lyons and Mr. Latham, and they will
‘endorse’ no one else for North Sydney.”
But Mr. Lyons himself hasn’t been “en-
dorsed” by the Nats, in Wilmot, who refuse
to call themselves U.A.P. and demand
assurances that he is no longer a Labor-
socialist.
Curtin, the Labor M.H.R. who has the
queer delusion that he knows something
about finance, has produced a long series of
figures to show that, whereas net profits of
60 industrial cos. had fallen from £2,723,000
in 1929-30 to £1,310,000 in 1930-31, the
assets of Australian banks over liabilities
had moved on from 56 millions to 64 mil-
lions. Curtin demanded to know how
the wicked institutions could do such
things in the worst year in Australian his-
tory. Well, if Curtin has a house worth
£l5OO and owes £5OO on it, his surplus is
£lOOO. If next year he pays off £lOO his
surplus will be £llOO. At least it will be
if Curtin forgets to remember that the pro-
perty has shrunk to £l2OO in value. That,
of course, is just what has happened to the
banks, with the result that they are pro-
bably 50 millions worse off than they were
two years ago, instead of eight millions better
off.
Lang, who wants to drag a lot of un-
willing districts into a Lang-planned Greater
Sydney scheme, had the cool cheek to
announce last week that he would not permit:
the municipal elections in the County of
Cumberland to be held on December 5,
“because the Federal election is to be held
on December 19.” This when the 48 coun-
cils .concerned had made all their arrange-
ments, which are necessarily expensive;
when hundreds of candidates had run up
bills for printing and hall hire; and when
hundreds of unemployed clerks and the like
were looking forward to at least a day’s
work. The outrage can be committed by the
legislative route, but it was questionable as
this Bulletin was being printed whether the
legislation would go through. If it is
attempted by proclamation, some of the
councils may tell the arrogant dictator that
he has exceeded his powers and that they
are going right on.
The Scullidores have lost a seat already,
the mercurial Cusack having decided that he
hasn’t a ghost of a chance of holding Eden-
Monaro. He scraped in two years ago by
a majority of 40 in an effective poll of
39,424, and then had to contend with an
appeal, it being alleged that sturdy fellows
had trooped from Canberra to vote Labor
in Queanbeyan. Perkins, who succeeded the
late Austin Chapman, member since 1901,
in 1926, will have a more or less friendly
fight this time with a Country party man.
It was announced last week as one of the
triumphs of Communism that there are no
unemployed in Russia. No, and there aren’t
in Parramatta Gaol either. Every man
jack of them is found a job.
An A.W.U. official’s graveside eulogy on
Scullin: —
At any rate the people have had an opportunity of
noting that the only party that can govern success-
fully in bad times is Labor.
Witness the fact that it went to pieces
during the war and has done it again during
the depression.
“Mr. Industrial Commissioner Piddington in a
lecture said that there had been no Golden Age in
the past. The Golden Age was to come.”
“But it won’t be long coming, thanks to me
and you, will it, Mr. Piddington?”
Some of Lang’s noisy followers have a
notion —or had till the other day:—that a
sure way of gratifying the Boss is to rail at
the leader of the Opposition. This they
do persistently, justifying themselves in
candid moments by explaining that “Bavin’s
such a nahsty bloke—says such nahsty
things.” He certainly said an exceedingly
nasty thing in the Budget debate, declaring
that “we are rapidly reaching the stage
where dishonesty and a criminal record are
not a disqualification for Government em-
ployment in N. S. Wales ; they appear to be
a positive qualification.” But the Premier
listened to this tremendous indictment un-
moved ; and later, when one Connors, the
leader of the Bavin-baiters, made a news-
paper assertion that Bavin was about to
be deposed the occasion for another sally,
Lang intervened with so pointed a rebuke
that Connors and his boisterous pals were
startled into silence. Lang really seems
to have a sneaking regard for Bavin, though
they are scarcely on speaking terms.
“Each of the new M’s.L.C. was presented to the
Governor and received his congratulations. Sir
Philip and Mr. Donald Grant smilingly conversed
for a few seconds. His Excellency administered the
oath and after each had signed the document he
remarked that they all carried away his best wishes.”
His Ex: “Now remember that you’ve pro-
mised always to be a good worm.”
Vic. Works Minister Jones deserves a
pat on the back for at least one attempt to
deal with unemployment. Some months ago
157 blocks were thrown open in Gippsland;
there were 3000 applicants, and 808 souls
were settled on the areas in three-roomed
cottages, each with a 1000-gallon tank. The
cost was £72 per settler. All those people are
there to-day making good. They' have asked
for only one thing; material for a school
and a teacher —they will put up the building
themselves.
In Sydney a “well-known Labor sup-
porter” has been committed for trial on a
charge of having tried to get a large sum from
a firm of butchers by false pretences. It is
alleged that he approached the firm and told
them they had no chance of getting a license
for boiling-down works renewed unless he
squared a Cabinet Minister. In evidence it
was stated that the accused and the head of
the firm had visited Minister Ely’s house and
that Minister Ely had said to the butcher
“You can talk it over with Barney (the
accused), and any arrangements that are
made will be 0.K.” Minister Ely swears
that the “arrangements” related merely to
the seeing of a deputation.
There is much conversation about the
necessity of coining more silver money be-
cause of “the famine in gold,” as it is called.
The truth is that the world’s stock of gold
is always increasing—the output for 1930
was larger than that for 1922, and nearly
three times as large as that for 1893 —and
there never can be a gold scarcity in the
same sense as a wheat scarcity. Yet a local
famine may set in if, for example, a luxuri-
ous race parts with more than its share for
the purchase of foreign luxuries. Actual
production has little to do with the matter;
France, which does not mine gold, has the
second biggest hoard, and the U.S.A. has
the biggest, though it produces, less than
Westralia did in 1904. When a country has
dissipated the gold reserve in its little allot-
ment there is nothing to be gained by
schemes for issuing a cheap or semi-bogus
coinage, whether silver or nickel or zinc, and
persuading the world to accept it at our
valuation for our convenience.
When J. Bull tried, in his, latest. Free-
trade days, to raise big loans abroad
Yankee bankers told him that he must first
put his finances right, which was the sort
of thing that our Commonwealth Bank
said to Lang. When MacDonald and Snow-
den found that they had fallen so low that
outsiders began to talk to them as if they
were Lang, they decided that it was time
to do something. Not being worms they
naturally would.
A cry from “ J.R.D.” :
Now that the N.S.W. Railway Dept, is in control,
having shooed off road opposition, it is putting the
boot in by increasing freights by anything up to
100 per cent. During the past two years I have
cut expenditure to the bone—the only luxuries my
wife and I retain are our wireless and the library
subscription. Now it looks as if we will have Lo
give up our books, as the rail freight on them
between here and Sydney has been doubled in the
last few weeks. We hear a lot of hot air about
stopping the flow toward the city by making life
in the country more attractive; if this is part of
the scheme I hereby offer to trade my G.S.B. account
for train fare to Sydney and tram-fare to the nearest
dole-offlce for two persons and a black-and-tan dog.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
THE TOP OF THE POLL.
BELLE: “Sometimes I think I like long hair, and other times I’m sure I like it
short What do you think, Billy?”
BILL: “Oh, I’m shingle-minded.”
“D.P.” : The daily-paper roundsman on the
Darlinghurst tram nudged me hard. "Jim
Bludyer,” he said out of the corner of his
mouth, and indicated a man in the next com-
partment. “Who is he?” “Sh-h!....
Underworld king.... A killer. ... Terror ot
the police.” There was nothing noticeable,
about the desperado except his disreputable
clothes, blackish teeth and purplish com-
plexion. and the fact that, though in a non-
smoker, he was chewing a cigarette. “He
seems a bit tight.” 1 remarked, as the
gangster got out half-way up William-street.
“Not he! A steady hand and chilled-steel
courage are his stock-in-trade. Besides he
has his prestige to consider.” I was passing
a pub at 6 p.m. Suddenly a dishevelled
figure shot out. With a shiver I recognised
the killer. And now a terrifying thing hap-
pened. A ginger-haired barman, no longer
young and far from athletic, appeared, and
in apparent ignorance oflus danger shouted
“Gerrout!” as though addressing a dog. I
was on the point of sounding a note of warn-
ing when the gunman made another move, or
rather staggered forward, and the barman
grappled with him. “Out yer go, Jim,” he
said viciously, and pushed Bludyer into a sit-
ting posture in the gutter. There, to my
stupefaction, the gangland king remained,
muttering tearfully and trying to count some
coppers that he had dropped, and a sym-
pathetic child had picked up for him. ». •
Life is like that—just one disillusionment
after another.
“C.Q.” • It isn’t often that a Minister
bothers about inspecting the list of signa-
tures attached to a petition but }lC-
ter of Public Works Jones took the trouble
recently over a document with 2000 names
appended. Amongst other anomalies he
found the moniker of Edward Kelly, o
Glenrowan.” Still, it may have been that
the ghost of the distinguished buslirangei
had an eye to business. The petition con-
cerned an application for the retention ot
a ’bus route.
a. *!» tit *l*
“Mells”: In the pre-gold-
fields era education was none
too extensively diffused in
Westralia. There was probably
no greater proportion of illiter-
ates than might have been
found in remote parts of
Britain, but it was left for
Onslow, C.J., a scholarly and
precise person, to plumb the
depths of ignorance of which a
fellow-human might be capable.
In a libel case before the Su_-
preme Court at Perth in 1895
a young teamster from the
Murchison was called as a wit-
ness. He was a bright and well-
set-up youth, and gave his evi-
dence very clearly, until coun-
sel asked him in what month a
certain event had occurred.
Then he looked puzzled and a
little uncomfortable. “I’ve had
no schooling; I don’t know the
months,” he told the Court. The
C.J. looked over his spectacles
at the witness in incredulous
amazement. “Not know June
from December?” he demanded.
“No, y’r ’Onali,” was the frank
admission. “But I know when
Christmas is,” added the young
man, as if that might be
some extenuation, llow he
knew he did not explain, and
the Court was too dazed to ask
him.
“Cosmos”: Most of the Americans who
have begun pouring into Australia in liners,
goodwill and otherwise, and yachts, large
and small, are not attracted by our bright
eyes so much as by our devaluated £. A
tourist trade is one of the compensations ot
a debased currency. Middle-class Yanks
didn’t avoid England and surge all over
France after the Armistice because they
found France more picturesque and cordial;
though that was the yarn the French spread.
They avoided England because the £ was
standing up to the dollar. In France, with
the franc at a tenth of its pre-war value, they
were demigods. . Now they are deserting
purse-proud France for England, and the
further our £ recedes from its present value
of about 10s. in New York the more of them
we are going to see here. South Americans
also follow the flag in currency, so there
should be an influx of them, and Sydney’s
pony-racing, tin-hares, lotteries, etc., will be
additional attractions to these somewhat
raffish tourists. Foreigners—chiefly from the
TT.S.A. and Argentina—were said to be spend-
ing £200,000,000 a year in France at the
height of its last slump. However, the French
earned every centime of it in national humi-
liation. A* country is like a bankrupt; it
doesn’t realise tlie‘ joys of solvency till it
files its schedule by going in for wholesale
inflation. 1 don’t know any other step
capable of giving some cocksure Aussies of
mv acquaintance an inferiority complex.
■ J * * * *
“X.S.”: An amazing example of the uses
of idle curiosity, a faculty of the human
mind which has been responsible for many
scientific discoveries, turned up in a Mel-
bourne court recently. A man charged
with being found in possession of three
pennies, alleged to have been abstracted from
a gas-meter, was confronted by a woman
who claimed that she had put the coins
in the meter and could identify them. The
Court raised its eyebrows incredulously, but
the lady stuck to her statement, so the
Bench and the police searched their pockets
and produced a dozen coppers. This was
not considered enough, so his Majesty’s mint
was asked to supply another 15. The
allegedly-stolen coins were then mixed with
the others and the 30 divided up into groups
of three. The witness pointed out the
original trinity without the slightest diffi-
culty. To the ordinary unobservant person
this achievement must seem miraculous, but
there are plenty of precedents. When
Galileo was IS he happened to be at a
service in the cathedral of his native town,
and idly watched the lamps swinging from
chains from the high roof. Suddenly he
found himself wondering if their oscillations,
whether long or short, might not occupy the
same time, and, having no better means of
testing the matter, he checked them with
his pulse. Out of this the highly accurate
FAIR WARNING.
FLIGHTY MISSUS: “Don’t be rude—l’ll go where my fancy takes me!”
JEALOUS HUSBAND: “Well, you’d better not let me catch you with him, that’s all.”
pendulum clock was eventually evolved. The
result of the Melbourne landlady’s idle
curiosity was a month’s imprisonment for
the boarder who stole the browns.
* * * #
“Cap’n Flint”: The cables have announced
that Malcolm Campbell is on the verge of
starting for Cocos Island, south-west of
Panama, “to search again for the treasure
supposed to have been hidden there by
pirates.” This is hardly correct, for the
man responsible was a blameless merchant
skipper until temptation proved too much
for him. When Peru shook off the yoke of
Spain in 1822. the clergy of the cathedral
and the many churches in Lima stripped these
of their almost priceless treasures of plate,
jewels and vestments, and loaded them on
board a merchant ship, together with a
large amount of gold and other bullion
belonging to the Royalist party. The inten-
tion was that they should be conveyed to
California, but the captain, Benito, and the
crew massacred the party in charge of the
treasure They are supposed to have buried
it on Cocos Island. Dozens of expeditions
have looked for it, but nobody has had any
luck.
H* # *
“Mug”: Here’s my entry for the Mean
Mendicant competition. He worded me for
an old pair of boots, or “work of any kind
at any price.” I had neither, but gave him
a shilling for a feed, which he looked as if
he needed, and passed him on to a neigh-
bor. She offered him board, lodging and 10s.
a week to do odd jobs about her place till
brighter days dawned. He spent a lot of
time away from the house, and eventually
blew in one afternoon and said that, if she
would advance him £2 10s. to get a suit out
of pawn, he might be able to connect with
something really good. She sparred up, and
he got the job. He has kept her £2 10s..
and she has just received a solicitor’s letter
demanding the difference between what she
paid him and the full basic wage for the
time he was with her, and costs. That is
why members of the unemployed army are
now about as popular as death-adders in my
street.
# * * *
“Cine Ma”: Francis Johnson, the man
who took the blame for inventing the talkies,
has died penniless in Paris.
He made a valiant effort to
establish his claim before the
Sorbonne in 1026, but others
had been at work on the
same idea or modifications
of it and got in before him.
As a matter of fact, no one
person could assert a valid
claim to being the discoverer
of such a complicated piece
of mechanism. The talkie
only became a practical pos-
sibility when the photo-elec-
tric cell, whose resistance
varies with the amount of
light thrown on it, was per-
fected, and the process was
started by men who never
dreamed that they were pro-
viding a medium for Norma
Shearer to daze the ear-
drums of humanity. They
were submarine-cable engi-
neers, and they were trying to
produce an apparatus that
would be more sensitive to
the weak currents that are
pushed through cables than
those then in use. In short,
the first heart throbs re-
corded by tlie talkies were in* the Morse code.
:>c :Ji $
“Aram”: The N.S.W. police have a tough
nut to crack in the charred human bones dis-
covered in the ashes left where a pile of
brushwood and timber had burned itself
out near Bungendore. A squatter, riding
through an outlying part of his run, noticed
the funeral pyre without suspecting at first
what secret it hid, and might have passed
it by but that he caught the gleam of a rifle-
barrel among the debris. Further investi-
gation disclosed the bones and furnished
damning indications of an atrocious crime.
The glow of a huge fire is said to have been
noticed in the neighborhood some weeks before,
but many men have been camping about
these parts for a long time past, some of them
gold-seekers, and there was little to provoke
suspicion in that. The present theory is
that some man slew his mate, possibly, after
a quarrel, and then deliberately cremated
the body, collecting an immense stack of
fuel for the purpose. Examination of the
bones has disclosed that the victim was a
young man of strong physique, and seven
shillings which were sifted from the ashes
suggest that the motive of the crime was not
robbery. But neither the coins nor the
remains of the rifle are likely to furnish any
peg for identification.
* * * *
“Jeff B.”: Four out of the first six
Americans spoken to by a Sydney reporter
on the Malolo demanded to be told why
Australia didn’t advertise its attractions
more. “We never hear of them,” was the
burden of their story. And yet Australia has
an agency in San Francisco whose job is to
whoop up this country’s natural and arti-
ficial attractions for all they are worth. It
is run by a very industrious and enthusias-
tic journalist, whose articles are frequently
featured (for a consideration, doubtless) m
American newspapers. Don’t Americans
read their own press—many of the visitors
are Californians —or is there a tendency to
skip this sort of propaganda, however allur-
ingly presented?
“Larrapinta”: All over the lower north
of S. Aus. can be seen war memorials exactly
similar to those in North Queensland
described by “Gad” (B. 11/11/’3l). The
statues give the idea of having been turned
out by mass-production methods, and
usually within the enclosure at the foot is
a captured enemy field- or machine-gun fast
rusting and weathering to pieces. In a
few townships money has been spent far
more sensibly in laying out a public park,
with a tree planted and dedicated to each
of the men from the district who went west.
Bordertown. down in the south-east, has
done best, of all. On a hill outside the
town stands a well-built and finely-equipped
soldiers’ memorial hospital.
* * *
Harwood Steele (Montreal, Canada)
writes: —•
“Per Jong’s” par. re Strathcona’s Horse (B.
24/6/’3l) calls for some corrections. The regiment,
though classed officially as “Permanent Active
Militia,” is actually one of Canada's two regular
cavalry regiments, and has been trained and run
for years exactly as are the cavalry units of the
British Army. Nor did the regiment hang any
STICKING TO ATHLETICS.
JONES: “Your son doing anything in sports at college?”
BONES: “Well, he’s running through my money!”
of its prisoners in South Africa.. It carried
lariats, and someone with more imagination than
sense started the yarn by assuming it was done
for lynching purposes rather than for catching
horses, dragging out bogged waggons and the like.
My father, Colonel Sam Steele, organised and com-
manded the outfit. I have seen all its South African
records; in the report of the Royal Commission on
the Boer War the Straths are classed as being with-
out superior in any respect, including' discipline,
and are given a snow-white conduct sheet.
DECEMBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now the lush hydrangeas, guided how I know
not, have decided
After weeks of doubting whether to be
greenish-blue or pink;
And there’s similar volitions exercising
politicians
When how votes may best be garnered of
necessity they think.
Now the fruits of earth adorn her, and there s
Christmas round the corner,
Season when goodwill should flourish,
peace enfold us, strife go hang.
Yet, howe’er it irks and dazes, men perforce
must fight like blazes
’Neath the flags of Lyons, Latham, Scullin,
Theodore and Lang.
Now the seaside brings its dramas, heroines
in beach pyjamas,
Young Apollos in the billows whose
anatomy arrests;
Now, across the land’s expanses, ev’ry
cricketer advances
Reasons why we ought to whop the Afri-
kanders in the Tests;
Now through clouds a trifle murky fancy
turns to thoughts of turkey,
Rich red ham from hogs contented, pud-
dings spiced with can de vie;
But before the Yuletide guerdon comes we’ll
have to hump the burden
Of electing as our member Tweedledum
or Tweedledee.
Now the urge becomes acuter for the contents
of a pewter,
And the flapper on her sundae turns an
extra loving eye,
Which assists you to remember that we’ve
entered on December,
Anu should serve as a reminder that
another year is nigh.
And you’ll have a special reason to recall
this festive season
In the years to come. A novelty in Noels
it should rank,
With a hurricane of cursing and reviling and
aspersing
And every hoarding screaming its appeals
to “Vote for Blank.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


"10-2-4”: I couldn’t help hearing their con-
versation as the tram banged citywards. The
principal speaker’s voice Avas extraordinarily
vibrant and hearty. “Wonderful little
woman, the wife!. .. . Marvellous manager !
.... Doesn’t mind how she stints herself....
Stints me too sometimes, I can tell you. H'a!
Ha !. ... But I don’t mind.... It’s in a
good cause.... If you’ll believe me, Mr.
Wilson, Mrs. Johnson ’ud see the kids them-
selves go short before she’d fail to come up
to the scratch week by Aveek.... A sacred
duty—that’s what she calls it” I pic-
tured Mrs. Johnson with a gloAv of admira-
tion. Some family obligation probably. A
widoAved mother perhaps. ITer mother? His
mother? What did it matter? To a wife
like that his mother would be her mother.
Mr. Johnson was speaking again. “In
charity’s sacred cause, that’s what she
always says, Mr. Wilson And I say the
same.... You gotter consider others in this
old world of ours”.... There Avas an inter-
ruption by the conductor, and I was, so to
speak, cut off. What a woman! I reflected.
Why did these blatant men always get them ?
To deny herself, her husband, her very chil-
dren. not for relatives but for necessitous
people whom she didn’t know; perhaps had
FASHION PARADOXES.
“Evening frocks are worn a little shorter, I think.”
“Billy doesn’t mind how short mine are as long as I wear them a little longer.”
n ever even seen! As a work of charity!
Mr. Johnson’s fine voice once more domi-
nated the proceedings. “Five-and-three for
old Whiddon at every draw since the lot-
tery started, and every bob saved from the
housekeeping money. We haven’t copped so
much as a quid prize to date, but when we
do get among the big money—oh boy! Well,
here’s my stop. Keep good. Mr. Wilson.”
“Avon”: Priminister Forbes has had to
escape by the back door from a hall in
Christchurch after an election meeting. The
building had been packed with ticket-
holders half an hour before it opened, and,
as Forbes ought to have remembered, this
is a dodge that the southern city won’t
stand. Massey tried it once. Even among
the ticketed members of the audience there
were sufficient to make him inaudible with
their heckling, and there was worse to
come. I and others reporting the meeting
were standing with our ears close to
Massey’s mouth, so as to miss no pearl of
wisdom, when a huge chunk of road metal
flew through the window and whizzed close
by us. The lads of the Press retired to the
wings, and Massey and his chairman, the
late T. E. Taylor, then Mayor, followed
us two seconds later, driven back by a heavy
bombardment. Then there Avere sounds like
bomb explosions, and almost simultaneously
the front, side and back doors of the hall—
it had formerly been A. B. Worthington’s
“Temple of Truth” —burst open under bat-
tering rams and the mob streamed in.
People fought with forms and chairs, and
at last Taylor closed the meeting and had
the lights put out. Every window in the
hall was broken ; and it had a lot of windows.
It was discovered in the morning that tele-
phone poles had been sawn down to make
battering-rams. But Christchurch always
has taken politics very seriously.
“Antrobus”: I can’t quite understand why
Melbourne’s astronomei-s and engineers are
worrying over the problem of fixing the open-
ing in the Shrine of Remembrance where a
ray from the sun will strike at a certain
hour on a specified day of the year for a
few centuries ahead (B. 25/11/’3l). The
persons who built Stonehenge 4000 years
ago (or whenever it was) probably had
no scientific instruments to help them, yet
they placed their temple in such a position
that on the longest day of the year the first
beam of the sun would fall upon a certain
stone, possibly the sacrificial one. It falls
there still, and there are always people
waiting to see it on Midsummer Day, and
to marvel at the accuracy of the old-timers
Avhose very race and purpose are hidden in
the mists of antiquity. At least it falls
there when there are no obscuring clouds at
sunrise, which happens frequently enough in
Wiltshire to make the all-night vigil a bit
of a gamble. If the Ancient Britons, or
some people who preceded them, could
manage this, anything .demanding calcula-
tions a hundred times as delicate should
present no difficulty noAvadays.
* * *
“C.J.K.” (from Samarai) : “Pila” (B.
14/10/’3l) makes a slight mistake. The
embossed-stamp scheme Ava's suggested by
Rowland Hill and adopted at once, in 1838,
by James Raymond (my maternal grand-
father), who was third, not first, P.M.G.
in N.S.W. England followed the colony’s
example in IS4O.
“Blueskin”: Sydney collectors of
souvenirs were active at the ball on the
Strathnaver. Not only did portable plate
vanish in quantities, but all sorts of
gadgets and attachments that Avere not too
heavy to carry folloAved suit.
Neither in Melbourne nor Bris-
bane was there any complaint of
similar happenings. Probably the
record looting of the kind took
place during the first visit of the
American fleet to Sydney over 20
years ago. On that occasion all sorts of
chei-ished articles were pinched, one of the
prizes being an antique silver punchbowl,
which was the pride and joy of one ship.
“C.Q.”: If it be true, as some experts
insist, that human vitality is highest where
climatic changes are most sudden and violent,
Melbourne should eventually become the in-
dustrial centre of the Commonwealth. On a
recent November day the mercury climbed
to 92 degrees. Citizens abandoned their
Avinter underclothing, the birds sang, the
Block blossomed with sun helmets, and sea-
side councillors predicted the imminent
doAvnfall of the Empire owing to the appear-
ance of backless bathing costumes on' their
beaches. A couple of days later the. tempera-
ture slumped to a mean of 42.5 (it was 27
on Mt. Hotliam), the streets were wffiite with
hailstones, snow lay a foot deep on the
near-by Dandenongs, and a freezing gale
blew in from the Antarctic. Instead of
repairing to the beaches Melbourne motored
up to Donna Buang to make snow men and
the ski club got out its apparatus, for it
was the biggest fall of the season. This
is not the worst the weather can do in
Melbourne. On Nov. 2, 1896, the mercury
lowered itself to 36.5.
“Lao-dah”: If Australian authoress
Elinor Mordaunt actually did put Somerset
Maugham in a novel, as that eminent
writer alleges in his writ, she has a
highly respectable precedent. An American
claims to have discovered in the archives of
the Record Office that the Immortal Bard
was not above this form of literary fisticuffs.
It appears that Shakspeare and his col-
leagues were so bothered by the puritanical
malice of the Mayor and corporation of
London that they moved their show from
Bishopsgate to the Swah Theatre, South-
wark, which was outside the mayoral juris-
diction. That dire threats were uttered by
the evicted actors against their persecutor’s
is suggested by an entry in the rolls of the
Queen’s Bench (1596), which sets forth
that “William Wayte craves surety of the
peace against William Shakspere [and
other persons specified] for fear of death.”
Wayte was a step-son of the sheriff, William
Gardiner, by whose orders the Swan Theatre
was subsequently destroyed, and according
to the American investigator the Bard got
his revenge by putting the portraits of Gar-
diner and Wayte into “Henry IV.” and “The
Merry Wives,” where the pair appear as Jus-
tice Shallow and the “whey-faced Slender.”
If this be so there is nothing in rumor
Mordaunt’s book to compare with Shaks-
peare’s description of Gardiner: “All the
world like a forked radish, with a head
fantastically carved upon it with a knife.”
“Old Q.”: Queensland is probably the only
part of the British Empire where dogs are
permitted to travel on trains as ordinary
passengers, that is,
when ordinary pas-
sengers are per-
mitted to travel.
Certainly on the
regular steam-
drawn trains
sooners still have
to use the special
boxes provided for
them, but in the
many motor-trains
now running on
t h e Queensland
lines there are no
dog-boxes. After
several refusals by
officials to allow
tykes in the cars,
it dawned on the
THE END OF LITIGATION.
“Dad, do they have divorces in Heaven?”
“Don’t think so, son. They can’t get lawyers.”
department that it was turning away good
money. Instructions have been issued
accordingly, and between strikes the bow-
wow, if accompanied by his master or mis-
tress, will receive the same consideration as
any other passenger provided with a ticket.
Hs * si: *
“High Tobyman”: Scotland Yard is con-
sidering the equipment of members of the
C. 1.8. with a tear-gas gun for use against
desperate criminals. This has much the
appearance of a fountain-pen, but fires pel-
lets which dissolve into a cloud of stifling
tear-gas. The elaborate apparatus hardly
seems necessary. Everyone is familiar with
the toy known as the water-pistol, which
emits a jet of water when the butt, which is
the “magazine,” is suddenly pressed. Fill the
butt with liquid ammonia instead of water
and you have a legal weapon, which can be
counted on to spiflicate the toughest' hold-up
man. Though its effects are highly painful
they are only temporary.
“Foocha”: “Bumpkin’s” par on the s.s.
Edina (B. 18/U/’3l) hardly does the old
craft justice. Reference to'“Lloyd’s” shows
that she was built in 1854, not 1877, and
that she carried troops to the Crimean War.
The fact that she sustained little damage
in her numerous collisions w r as largely due
to the excellence of her steel, at one time
reputed to be finer than that of any other
vessel on the Australian coast.
“Mells”: Accommodation for three dif-
ferent classes of railway passengers, in accord-
ance with what they were prepared to pay for
transportation or what .social value they
set on themselves, was a quaint feature in
Britain during most of last century. The
Midland Co. was the first to break away
from the “first, second and third” system
by cutting out the second altogether; other
lines followed suit but very slowly. Aus-
tralia has never had to bother much about
those distinctions, but I have travelled in
one country where there were four classes
on the railways. That was Mauritius, where
blacks to whom every anna was a considera-
tion were packed on the roof. It’s a hot place,
too, but fortunately there aren’t very many
miles of railway. Some Australian States
still stage a pleasant gesture by carrying the
abo. for nothing, as some compensation for
having dispossessed him of liis country.
“No Ball”: Here’s one of the achieve-
ments of the N.S.W. Transport Co-ordina-
tion Board (B. 11/11/’3l). About 6| miles
from Murwillumbah live an old couple, and
five miles further out live two old men, who
have for years past been driven in, free of
charge, by the two local carriers on pension
day. When registering their lorries the
carriers asked where they stood regarding
these old-age pensioners, and were emphati-
cally told that they must not give them a
lift. One of the old men is nearly 90 and
cannot walk the distance; none of the four
can afford to pay fares in the service-car.
Surely this is a case of red tape run wild.
“Gun Runner”: It is interesting to note
that at the late review of the huge army
maintained by the non-militarist . Soviet
Government in Moscow “a parade of 70
Vickers whippet tanks roused immense en-
thusiasm amongst the spectators.” No one
has a deeper and more wholesome respect
for the firm of Vickers than myself. My
first encounter with one of their products
was in South Africa, and resulted in my
riding my old nag back a couple of miles
at a pace which would have left Phar Lap
down the course. When I got back to the
patrol I had been scouting for and my heart
had retreated from my mouth to its normal
position. I asked the man in command what
the devil had happened. Said he “Oh, they
only opened on you with a Vickers-Maxim
pe,m-pom.” “Only!” was my sole comment.
“Pawang”; At the annual convention of
the Vic. W.C.T.U. a lady called attention
to the “blasting influence upon morals
exerted by the filthy habit of tobacco-using;
when acquired early it arouses the passions
and converts pure youth into a veritable
volcano of lust.” The lady is superintendent
of the narcotic department of the W .G.T.U..
and, according to Funk and Wagnall, a nar-
cotic is a substance that causes narcosis, or
stupor, and, figuratively, induces sleep or
dulness, “as a book or sermon.” The ordinary
citizen might well ask how a person can be in
a state of stupor and be a veritable volcano
of lust at one and the same moment. As a
matter of fact, most tobacco-users know
from experience that a moderate indulgence
in the weed, far from arousing tne passions,
induces a feeling of placidity and content-
ment. Immoderate use of a narcotic causes
insensibility, coma and even death. And
nobody but a person full of indignation at
the spectacle of other people enjoying some-
thing she can’t enjoy herself would main-
tain that a comatose individual or a corpse
is a danger to morality.
THEIR ONE SCORE.
REJECTED LOVER: “But you’ve always said
you like men?”
HEARTHLESS CREATURE: “Well, so I do. But
the only thing I like about them is
that they aren’t women!”
This paper hates to miss the extra 6d.,
but in these days it wouldn’t be a fair thing
to exact a bob for the “Christmas Bulle-
tin” and the ordinary issue in one week.
So, this being the day of mergers, the two
numbers will be amalgamated, and the
combined issue sold for the ordinary 6d.
In addition to all the regular weekly fea-
tures there wiU be long short-stories by
Katharine Prichard, Vance Palmer,
J. H. M. Abbott, Bernard Cronin, E. V.
Timms and other specially selected writers;
a couple of pages will be devoted to a
description of “The Bulletin’s” new home:
and there will be drawings by Norman
Lindsay, Scorfield, Percival, Souter,
Leason (a fine humorous page of his
“The Nude Cult Reaches Our Suburb”),
the late Alf Vincent, Bancks and 20 others!
The double number at the single nrice
will be published eu December l|.
THE CHARGE OF THE TWO DOZEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, After the swearing in of Lang’s new batch of
M s.L.C., 24 ■of them (the other Avas absent, sick),
rushed upstairs to the gold pass department, which
is in the same building, and left with the freedom
of the trams and trains of the Commonwealth.”
Forward the Lang Brigade!
Was there a man delayed,
Or eke a woman stayed
For titivating?
Upwards en masse they bowled,
Not needing to be told
The counter where their gold
Passes Avere aa aiting.
Hotfoot aloft they went,
Determined and intent.
’Twas clear a blow they meant
_ To strike for freedom ;
Freedom that bursts the chains
Of fares on trams aiid trains —-
The sort that appertains
To M.L.C.-dom.
A staunchly patriot band,
They swore to serve their land
(By means that Lang has planned)
With high endeavor,
Knowing the job implied
And plainly specified
The good old right to ride
Upon the never.
Forward the union secs.,
With gleeful nods and becks,
Keen eyes and craning necks,
Chirpy as crickets !
No curt command like “Feoz”
Will ever worry these
Again, Avho surge to seize
Their deadheads’ tickets.
O, the wild charge they made!
When shall its memory fade?
What odds though Fame evade,
Elude and cozen,
They’ll have no cause for kicks:
For years that none may fix
Transport is theirs for nix.
Noble two dozen!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Future of the
Market.
This is one of the subjects dis-
cussed in the December “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly.”
‘‘The Monthly” puts the work
of a staff of accountants and
investment specialists at your
disposal.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY
ON SALE SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
w
Members of the BRITISH MEDICAL
ASSOCIATION are granted a special
discount of 20 per cent, under our
Medical Practitioners’ Policy
which covers ALL SICKNESSES and
ALL Personal Accidents.
IMPORTANT FEATURES.
This Policy contains greater benefits, at a lower premium, than those issued by other Companies.
Blood-poisoning contracted through a wound is treated BY US as an accident, and in the event of
Death within 90 days the full capital sum is payable.
Hernia if not post-operative is construed BY US as disablement by accident, provided such Hernia
is contracted and surgically treated during the currency of the Policy.
Write for further particulars to
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association, Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in the principal cities of the Commonwealth and Dominion of New Zealand.
Assets exceed £3,000,000. QEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZOR
Made in ENGLAND.
E
M
P
I
R
E
ŵ
M
O
D
E,
Lr
With 2 Hollow-ground Blades and
Strop in Oak Case.
Positive Self-stropping Model E 7,
14/6 each.
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne;
103 York Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Distributors.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some December birthdays :
Prof. Griffith Taylor, D.Sc. (formerly of Syd. Uni.,
now of Chicago), 51, on Ist; medical knight Stanley
Argyle (Vic. Opposition leader), 64, Dr. A. C. D.
Rivett (Council for Scientific and Industrial Research),
46, artist Jas. Quinn, 61, and knight James D.
Connolly (formerly W.A. Agent-Gen.), 62, on 4th;
Major-Gen. John Gellibrand (Speck), 59, and Dr.
Chas. Anderson (Australian Museum, Syd.), 54, on
sth; Justice Brennan (Q.), 47, on 6th; knight J.
M. Higgins (Bawra), 69, and Bishop Reginald
Stephen (formerly of Newcastle), 71, on 9th;
D’Arcy W. Addison (Speck), 59, on 10th; Bishop
Nutter Thomas (Adel.), 62, on 11th; B. S. Roach
(S.A. Public Library Board), 67, on 12th; Brig.-
Gen. H. A. Goddard (London “Times” Australian
representative), 61, and etcher John Shirlow, 62,
on 13th; W. Warren Kerr (Melb.), 67, on 16th;
Dr. Cecil Purser (Syd.), 69, and artist Elioth
Gruner, 49, on 16th; Llewelyn Atkinson (foimeily
Speck’s M.H.R.), 64, on 18th; Herbert Brookes (ex-
Commissioner-General to U.S.A.), 64, and aviator
Keith Smith, 41, oh 20th; knight Joe Carruthers
(N.S.W.), 74, on 21st; Justice Harvey (N.S.W.),
66, on 22nd; Adelaide’s ex-Gaud Mayor Louis Cohen,
82, on 23rd; author J. 11. M. Abbott, 57, on 26th;
knight G. M. Allard, 65, and Dr. E. E. Anderson (St.
Andrew’s Coll., Syd.), 59, on 28th; knight Kelso
King, 78, on 30th.
Within the last fortnight two young Queens-
landers have made air history. Bert Hinkler,
of Bundaberg, who in 1928 accomplished
the pioneer solo flight from London to Aus-
tralia, in an Avro “Avian,” last week crossed
the South Atlantic from west to east, flying
solo in a De H'avilland “Puss Moth” with
“Gypsy” engine, also a pioneer performance.
Starting from Natal, in Brazil, he covered
2000 miles of ocean in 22 hours and landed
safe a t St. Louis in French West Africa.
The other Queenslander, Victor Roffey, who
hails from Duaringa, flew from New Cale-
donia to Rockhampton, approximately 1000
miles, in 11| hours. Like Hinkler, he flew
a “Moth” with a “Gypsy” motor. He is 23,
and had had only 10 months’ flying experi-
ence when he tackled the flight.
Senator Walter Duncan may rank as the
first casualty of the Federal elections,_ Charles
Hardy having been preferred to him as a
U.A.P. Senatorial candidate for the Ma
State. Duncan began as a Labor stalwart;
_he was vice-president of the Clerks’ Union
and contested the Granville (State) and
Wentworth (Federal) seats unsuccessfully.
He served in the A.1.F., leaving with the
last of Campbell Carmichael’s “Thousand”
CHAS. HARDY, Jun., N.S.W. Senate
Candidate.
(which were never a thousand strong nor
anything like it), and on his return became
a Nationalist soldier candidate for the
Senate. That was in 1919; he won a seat
and was re-elected in 1925. “Chass” Hardy
is the Wagga timber-merchant who leaped
into the public eye as the leader of the
Western movement to shake up politics and,
incidentally, set up new States.
George Pearce and Paddy Lynch have
fought Senatorial elections in Westralia as
brothers-in-arms for a quarter of a century,
which must be a record in F'ederal politics.
Also, though they both switched from Labor
in 1916, they have never found any diffi-
culty in inducing electors to return them.
But, though allies, they are not exactly
inseparable; George lias had all the oysters
which are the reward of successful election-
eering, while Paddy, who has worked just
as hard, has more natural ability and has
sacrificed more, has always had to be content
with the shells; and it is little wonder that
he feels the injustice of it. The pair are
likely to have among their opponents on this
occasion Teddy Needham, who was their
original colleague.
Melbourne City
Council had a rush
of brains to the
head recently, and
reshuffled portfolios
so that committee-
men might have
jobs more in line
with their techni-
cal qualifications
Alderman Stapley.
who is an archi-
tect and bossed
the defunct Town
Planning Commis-
sion, was made
chairman of the
Parks and Gardens
committee, while
his job of chair-
man of the Health
committee was
handed to George
Cuscaden. Cusca-
den is a Collins-
street specialist, a
member of the
Fairfield Infectious
Diseases Hospital
Board and a former
B.M.A. official. He
has done good ser-
vice for the city’s
health for years.
And he had a fine
war-service record,
too. His wife is
a niece of that
Thomas King who
long ago owned
the Adelaide “Ad-
vertiser.”
DR. CUSCADEN,
Knight and Major-
General.
Brigadier Heritage, who has been
appointed Commandant of the Royal
Military College, Superintendent of Army
Schools of Instruction and Base Com-
mandant, N.S.W., by a Government which
is always prating of one man, one job, is
an Australian regular officer with a reputa-
tion as a musketry expert which extends
far outside Australia. Born in Tasmania
in 1877, he served in the South African
War with the Tassies and began the great
clash with Fritz as a member of the New
Guinea Expeditionary Force. Service in
France followed, and after a spell as Com-
mandant in Westralia he took over the
School of Musketry in 1920, surrendering
the post two years later to take charge ot
the Royal Military College, then at Dun-
troon. In 1929 he came to Sydney to
assume the job of Base Commandant,
N.S.W.
Mark B. Young, the N.S.W. Savings Bank
Commissioner who dissented from the amal-
gamation scheme, is not the most mentally
aloof person in the world where the Com-
monwealth Bank is concerned. Young was
one of the first members of the Common-
wealth Bank staff, and became chief inspec-
tor. But presently he found that he couldn’t
get on with other heads or they couldn’t
get on with him, and for the next three
years, from outside the service, he struggled
to get redress of some sort. When his old
friend Jim Scullin (Young had given Jim
his first overdraft) became Priminister, he
thought things would be all right; but,
though he haunted the Commonwealth offices
and wrote acres of memoranda on the sub-
ject of his grievance, nothing was done.
William Alexander Watt, walking down
Collins-street, Melbourne, the other morn-
ing and receiving congratulations on his
60th birthday, looked hardly a day older
than When he threw up the State Pre-
miership to enter Federal politics in 1914.
Watt was in Vic. Assembly for 15 years and
in the Reps for about the same period. Most
offices, except the very highest of all, ea*ne
his way. H'e was Vic. Premier twice,
Federal Treasurer and Acting Priminister,
and finished as Speaker of the Reps.
“Awani”: A. W. Scott, chairman of the
N.S.W. Metropolitan Meat Board, is a
grandson of William Scott, who was one of
the first stockraisers in Australia. In 1815
William came to Sydney from Aberdeen,
and took charge of 25 cows and a bull on
the Cowpastures, Camden. He prospered,
and eventually became one of the biggest
landholders between Bega and Sydney. He
also imported blood horses, and the story
is still told that when 80 years of age he
rode his horse Whisker to victory in a race
at Bungendore, changed his £lO prize into
silver coins and distributed them in largesse
among the crowd.
Alice Grant Rosman, who has just pub-
lished her fifth novel, “Jock the Scot,” can
fairly claim to be the best seller Australia
has produced. For “The Window” she got
£2OOO advance from the American publishers.
Miss Rosman’s first steps on the Inky Way
were via the columns of The Bulletin, bhe
got her literary training from her mother,
one of whose poems, printed in The Bulle-
tin, was lifted by a composer without
acknowledgment and set to music which
Ada Crossiey sang all round the world, l'ne
daughter, seeking a wider field than Adelaide,
eventually lauded in the editorial chair or the
“Grand Magazine” in London, but dropped
that after her first novel was published, since
when she has never looked back. Her books
are easy to read and easy to forget.
Mrs. Mary Ann Dudley, who died recently
at Queanbeyan, must have been one of the
oldest of Canberra natives. She was born
there in 1846, daughter of Joseph Kaye, ot
Klensendorf. The homestead site is now
used by the Canberra Golf Club, and the
clubhouse is all that remains of the original
buildings. Mary Kaye was married to
George Thomas Dudley at St. John s, Can-
berrai in 1875.
Vic.’s oldest Methody shepherd, Rev.
John S. Greer, has preached his last sermon.
Of late years he had lived in retirement at
Armadale. Coming from S. Aus. to
Vie. in the ’seventies, for many years he
was a gaol chaplain and burial-service
minister at Melbourne general cemetery. He
was 93.
Norman Lindsay, whose “Redheap” was
banned in Australia, made such a literary
reputation with it in the U.S.A. that that
country persists in regarding him as a
writer first and an artist afterwards. He
took the MSS. of two novels to the
States. Farrar and Rineheart have grabbed
them both, and Lindsay has contracted to
offer them a third as soon as it is ready.
Tommy Jackson, one of Papua’s oldest
and best-known prospectors, came to a tragic
end while investigating the prospects of the
Tiveri goldfield, in the south-west of the
Possession. He was with a mate in the
dangerous Kukukuku country, and the pair
nightly posted their native laborers as sen-
tries. Going out to relieve the “boy” on
guard, Jackson found him asleep, took the
rifle from him and, returning to the tent,
threw the loaded weapon down on his bunk.
The fall jarred the lock and the weapon
went off, killing him. Jackson went to
Papua some 20 years ago, and for a time
was plume-hunting and cocoanut-growing in
Dutch New Guinea. In Papua he assisted
Walter Goodfellow to collect a number of
birds of paradise for the London Zoo.
Sidney Myer, who gave a lead to Mel-
bourne business men by embarking on a big
addition to his already elephantine em-
porium at the beginning of the depression,
has made another move by offering £lO,OOO
to provide a fortnight’s work, at award rates,
for 1000 married men with families. He has
left the method of expenditure to the a’uthori-
ties, but has suggested the continuation of
the Yarra Boulevard scheme.
Back in the days when Adelaide had
acquired the first ’Varsity School of Music
in Australia, two men were brought from
the Continent to teach stringed instruments
—Vollmar, the ’cello; Heinicke, the violin.
Vollmar presently drifted on to Sydney,
where he died; H'einicke married the daugh-
ter of an old S.A. squatter and_settled down
HEINICKE, of Adelaide.
—quite comfortably till the war made people
remember his long-forgotten nationality. But
they got over that when presently they also
remembered the old man’s great services to
music in Adelaide. And he still renders
them, especially as conductor of the Phil-
harmonic Orchestra, in which capacity
Maegraith has captured him.
Joe Coates was long a commercial traveller
and has the cheerful grin and volubility, of
the typical bagman. A native of Bathurst,
he got his schooling at St. Aloysius’s, North
Sydney. Joining the Labor party at an early
age, he worked hard for it for nearly a score
of years before he was rewarded by the
State Labor Caucus with a seat in the Upper
House —in 1921. In those days the final
selection of Leg. Councillors rested with the
party and not with the Premier, and that
time Coates and Tom Murray topped the
poll. In the House Coates was soon, leading
the Labor opposition there. When Lang was
elected in 1927 it was thought Coates would
JOE F. COATES, M.L.C.
be viee-'president of the Executive Council;
but the post was given to Lang’s friend
“Plum” Willis. As a Minister without port-
folio —he was made that despite Lang’s
opposition—Coates worked tirelessly for two
years; yet when Willis was packed off to
London as Agent-General, the inexperienced
Concannon was pushed into the vacancy.
Following the expulsion by the Graves-
Garden clique of Councillors who had refused
to endorse the Lang plan and who voted
against the 55.-in-the-£ Wage Tax Bill,
Coates and other rebels formed the group
which now holds the balance of power in the
Chamber. Coates is one of the party’s best
platform men, though he is not so good in
the House.
Montague Cohen, Melbourne lawyer and
company director, who passed out in
October, left personal estate of the gross
value of £131,000. Half goes, to the only
child, Col. Harold E. Cohen, M.L.C., and
the income of the other half to the widow
during her lifetime, after which that also
passes to the son.
Queensland will best remember J. G. Edge,
though he lived for the past 12 years in
S. Aus. and has died there at 65. He was
for 30 years on Carrandotta station, behind
Cloncurry, and then managed Warrenda and
other runs for Kidman.
Adelaide’s Public Library Board, which
controls also the Art Gallery and the
Museum, has established a quick-change
system in the presidential chair. Chief
Justice Way and editor Sowden each held
it for about 20 years, but Talbot Smith,
after three years handed it over to Dr. Rogers,
the orchid expert, who after two years has
pressed it upon H. P. Moore, manager
(retired) of the old S.A. Co. Moore’s
former place as vice-president is taken by
Roach, of the Education Department.
William Sheridan, Tas. Labor member
for a couple of decades, died the other day
at 73. He left Galway as a stripling of
19, fought in the Zulu War, drifted to
Australia, thence to Maoriland, where be
did well at the start of the dairying boom
and better as a storekeeper. After an
absence of 22 years Sheridan returned to
Ireland, to find that most of the friends of
his youth had emigrated; he was next heard
of in America trying to induce millionaire
Hearst to start a daily paper in Australia
to back the new Federal Labor party, of
which Chris Watson was leader. Being un-
successful he returned to Australia, .bought
a terrace or two in Hobart, married a Tas-
manian girl, and in 1909. joined pioneer
Walter Woods (now to be a candidate for
the Senate) as Labor member for Denison.
A smart appearance and a delightful brogue
helped him to win a place in seven succes-
sive Parliaments.
This year “The Bulletin” will add its
collection of Christmas stories and verse
to the ordinary issue of Dec. 16, and the
big double number will be issued for the
usual 6d. The stories include a striking
contribution by Katharine S. Prichard and
another by Vance Palmer. In a couple of
extra pages “The Bulletin will try to
give its friends some idea of what its new
home in Sydney is like.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co.
, Dividends
Net Ord. Pref. To Re-' Re-
Sept., Profits. (10 p.c.) (9 p.c.) serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 213,949 160,215 49,500 4,234 182,579
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 235,175 169,167 55,000 11,008 193,587
1923.. 293,373 170,000 55,000 68,373 261,960
1924.. 311,706 171,718 55,000 84,988 346,943
1925.. 367,650 277,647 953 89,050 435,998
1926.. 440,229 310,602 196 129,431 565,429
Assets written up, £736,975 .. 1,302,404
Reserves capitalised, £776,975 .. 525,429
(Hi pip.)
1927.. 509,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
(12) p.c.)
1928.. 590,134 485,622 104,512 740,817
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised . . .. 740,817
1929.. 634,054 539,860 94,194 835,011
(Hi P-c.)
L 930. . 686,392 632,317 54,075 889,086
(8 p.c.)
1931.. 480,829 449.648 > 9 , ISI 01 „, M
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO ) ’ 1
During the three years to the close of
accounts in 1929 £1,262,597 of bonus scrip
was scattered, £1,250,000 paids were put
out in connection with the purchase of
Resells’ business, raising, : capital . to
£5,620,598, and the div. was lifted from 10
p.c. to 12| p.c. But conditions changed
very suddenly, and doubts arose as to
whether the gift-giving had not been too
generous. Last year’s performance sug-
gests that it was not. There was a sharp
drop in turnover, of course, due mainly
to lighter spending, the spread of unem-
ployment and fall in the rental value of
hotel properties. Also, repossessions became
more common. Thus, after providing for
larger trading risks, there was a slip of
£222,182 in gross profits :—-
Profit on Management, Exes.
Brewings, Wages, p.c. Balance
Interest, etc. Excise, etc. Gross. of Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 670,783 499,594 74.4 171,189
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1926.. 1,032,200 591,971 57.3 440,229
1927.. 1,284,738 775,653 60.3 509,085
1928.. 1,387,934 797,800 57.3 590,134
1929.. 1,482,345 848,291 57.2 634,054
1930.. 1,593,798 907,406 56.9 686,392
1931.. 1,260,615 779,786 61.9 480,829
Exes, were got back £127,620, despite sting-
ing increases in .excise, property-income and
other taxes, leaving the net result at 8.5 p.c.
on capital as against 12.2, 14.7, 15.2, 13.1
and 14.1 p.c. back to 1926. So the div. was
dropped to 8 p.c.; but recent bonus issues,
above referred to, make 8 p.c. worth 11.2
p.c. to old holders.
Prospects of the 8 p.c. being maintained
are bright enough, subject, of course, to
political and legislative contingencies. In
this respect the latest shock to returning
confidence was last week’s appointments to
the N. S. Wales Legislative Council. But the
market is prepared to await developments.
The sudden defeat of the Federal Govern-
ment, and its decision to rush to the polls,
gave rise to a feeling of relief, and there
was an all-round sharp rise in share prices.
Tooth’s, after recovering from a slight set-
back, advanced a further Is. 3d., reaching
245. 9d. at last week-end. The shares had
fallen sharply from around that figure to
below par after the taxation and interest
reduction proposals of the May Premiers’
Conference became known, but moved for-
ward with the general advance of prices
which followed the fall in sterling. The
return at 245. 3d. is 6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis; the visible backing is 235. 3d. in
net tangibles, of which 17s. 7d. is represented
by fixed assets and the balance by more or
less liquids.
Last year £218,194 net was added to the
book value of breweries, plant and freeholds.
To what extent, if any, this was due to
repossessions is not disclosed in the published
accounts. The contraction in debtors’ bal-
ances was £176,698, and in the stock figures,
£108,247. Still, the co. is well ribbed finan-
cially :
Assets— 1925 - 193 °- 1931 -
Breweries, etc.. £2,426,241 £4,727,376 £4,945,570
Book debts . . 1,172,258 1,607,263 1,430,565
Stock . . . . 409,451 456,143 347,896
Liquid . . . . 182,522 632,986 625,776
£4,190,472 £7,423,768 £7,349,807
Liabilities.. .. 424,740 553,605 510,550
Net assets .. £3,765,732 £6,870,163 £6,839,257
Thus, when the books closed, liquids alone
(deposits, debentures and Commonwealth
loans) exceeded the debt by £115,226.
For years the co. had been buying and
improving hotel properties out of revenue.
These, the Resch and other purchases, in-
cluding the territories taken over with
Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (Newcastle)
in 1920 and Mahon (Wagga) and Lincoln
(Narrandera) in 1924, have given it a lion’s
share of the trade in N. S, Wales.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1920.. 133,067 15 p.c. = 193,379 57,060 927,716
Additions to reserves, £166,875, ap-
parently mostly war-time tax pro-
visions .. ~ .. .. 1,094,591
1921.. 104,880 Nil 53,050 1,140,421
New plant reserve, £84,094 taken in.. 1,230,615
1922.. 167,119 Nil 43,353 1,354,281
1923. . 237,131 10 p.c.= 128,919 70.412 1,392,081
Transferred to Superannuation Fund,
£22,000.. 1,370.081
1924.. 241,577 10 p.c.= 128,919 51,240 1,431,499
1925. . 237,125 10 .. ~128,919 58,167 1,481,538
Written off mine property, £200,000.. 1,281,538
1926.. 220,487 111 p.c.= 145,034 64,670 1,292,321
1927.. 246,359 lli „ ~ 145,034 53,583 1,340,063
1928.. 261,516 111 „ ~145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 13J „ ~177,265 111,624 1,541,470
1930.. 183,543 18J „ ~241,724 58,354 1,424,935
1931.. 107,866 7* ~ ~103,210 29,810 1,399,781
It was the exchange premium and an all-
round reduction in costs that did the trick
last year. The £1,460,170 invested outside
the business, mainly in the fertiliser indus-
try, didn’t bring in much; the grade of ore
was lower, and electrolytic averaged £44
2s. 2d. per ton in London, where most of the
metal is sold, as against £7O 15s. 9d. and
£B3 Is. 4d. for the two preceding terms.
Thus, despite bigger production, there was a
slip of £93,936 in gross earnings (£587.615).
Exes. (£479,749) were got back £18.259,
and of the £107,866 that was left £29,810
was written off on account of prospecting
and depreciation. So reserves had to be
tapped for £25,154 to give shareholders 7 J p.c.
The outstanding features of the co.’s
activities have been the quickening of pro-
duction and large savings that have followed
completion of the North Lyoll tunnel and
the refinery at Queenstown : —•
Crudes r Assay— ,
Tons. Copper. Silver. Gold.
1929.. 173,268 4.95 p.c. 0.970 z. 0.0190 z.
1930.. 244,535 4.41 „ 0.91 „ 0.020,,
1931.. 292,830 3.77 „ 0.68 „ 0.018,,
Last year’s crudes were mined at an aver-
age cost of 15.055. per ton compared with
16.715. and 18.81 s. for 1930 and 192 J respec-
tively. The drop in the grade was due to
the inclusion of stone from the large low-
grade silicious deposits in the Royal Tharsis
and other leases, treatment of which was
made possible by reduction of" costs.
The capacity of the mill has been lifted
to 1000 tons per day, and that of the refinery
to 13,000 tons per annum, but the additions
were completed too late for the year’s figures
to get the full benefit. However, a higher
grade concentrate was produced, more
copper was recovered, and the output of
blister and the metal was a record
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Blister produced
(tons) .. .. 7,126 7,869 9,898 10,115
Contents:—
Copper (tons) .. 7,060 7,803 9,817 10,033
Silver (oz.) .. 121,456 125,687 187,489 155,976
Gold (oz.) .. 2,360 2,462 3,631 3,834
The cost of mining and treating last year’s
ore (£454,848) was approximately £45 6s.
Bd. per ton of copper produced as against
£46 10s. and £4B 6s. for the two preceding
terms; and the 10 p.c. cut in wages and a
larger output should further reduce the
figure for the current term. Still, the
exchange'premium continues to provide the
profit; at the current carded rate electrolytic
at £4l in London is worth over £53 in
Australian notes. Also the accumulation of
stocks in America, due to the falling off of
domestic consumption, and commencement of
production in Northern Rhodesia make the
future of London prices for the metal very '
uncertain.
Finances are comfortable :
.1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Metals . . £212,555 £280,799 £222,195 £238,363
Book debts . . 240,486 52,335 21,361 34,825
Stocks, etc. .. 391,269 137,579 164,287 170,335
Cash, etc. . . 266,685 11,435 81,757 10,000
£1,110,986 £482,148 £489,600 £453,523
Liabilities .. 160,625 61,539 36,093 80,129
Surplus . . £950,361 £420,609 £453,507 £373,394
Copper stocks were taken in at £4l per ton.
The mine figures at £531,352, and railways,
hydro-electric and other plant at £594,635,
or £61,411 more than at the previous balance.
On Dee. 21 a 6d. div. will be sent out.
But the market thinks the co. can do better,
and prices the pound shares at 245. 6d. The
return at that figure would be 6.5 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis.
Nestle and Anglo-Swiss (Aust.)
, —Dividends—
Pref. Towards
June, Profit. (8 p.c.) Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, £266,924
Preliminary exes., 53,365 .. .. 320,289
1922.. 70,800 60,867 Nil 9,933 310,356
Added preliminary exes., £552 .. 310,908
(34 p.c.)
1923.. 178,740 79,999 87,500 11,241 299,667
Added preliminary exes., £1233 .. 300,900
1924.. 178,476 80,000 87,500 10,976 289,924
1925.. 190,501 ’BO,OOO 87,500 23,001 266,923
1926.. 167,500 80,000 87,500 266,923
1927.. 174,300 80,000 87,500 6,800 260,123
1928.. 168,140 80,000 87,500 640 259,483
1929.. 167,943 80,000 87,500 443 259,040
1930.. 163,026 80,000 87,500 263,514
(2 p.c.)
1931.. 129,431 80,000 50,000 264,083
Soon after Henri Nestle and the Anglo-
Swiss Condensed Milk Co. amalgamated
their businesses at Vevey, Switzerland, * in
1904, their activities spread to all parts of
the world. In 1921 this subsidiary took over
the Australian section for £2,650,000, of
which £2,500,000 was in fully-paid ords. To
provide for further expansion, including the
erection of a chocolate factory at Abbotsford,
Sydney, the public put up a round million
of pref. capital, carrying a cumulative 8 p.c.,
guaranteed by the parent.
When taken over the business was said
to be netting £279,339 p.a., but with one
exception (in 1925) the final profits claimed
have not since got within £lOO,OOO of that
figure. That was because of appropriations
for specific reserves, as the following table
shows:—
Appropriations to Specific Reserves.
t A ~~ \
Doubt-
Net Depreci- ful Tax- Available
Profit. ation. Debts. ation. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 253,740 45,000 5000 25,000 . 178,740
1924.. 262,238 53,000 5000 25,762 178,476
1925.. 278,086 50,000 5000 32,585 190,501
1926.. 280,656 72,500 5000 35,656 167.500
1927.. 287,164 67,500 5000 40,364 174,300
1928.. 290,640 67,500 5000 50,000 168,140
1929.. 295,443 67,500 5000 55,000 167,943
1930.. 290,526 67,500 5000 55,000 163,026
1931.. 251,931 67,500 5000 50,000 129,431
Last year, of course, the co. shared in the
general experience. But over the last five
years the net shrinkage in the book value
of fixed assets tvas £208,324, which, in the
absence of sales, and none have been reported,
suggests that depreciation has been other-
wise well provided for. Moreover, some of
the co.’s factories have not worked to capa-
city of recent years, which may mean that
the call for depreciation was heavier than
usual. At any rate, the board has been
unable to find profitable employment for sur-
plus earnings in the business ; thus £.1,889,154
had accumulated in cash and readily realis-
able securities when the books last closed.
There is little prospect of the money being
needed, so it is proposed to return £1,500,000
of the ord. capital. On the basis of figures
at June 24. and including the depreciation
reserve (£593,000), this would reduce net
tangible cover for the prefs. from £3 17s. lid.
to £2 7s. lid. But the parent has now
agreed to guarantee the Australian co.’s pref.
capital as well as the div. thereon, thus lifting
the net tangible security to £lO 3s. lOd. per
share as at Dec. 31, 1930. Further, the
Australian eo. is to waive its rights in
respect of the statutory cut of 22| p.c. in
pref. divs. under the N.S.W. Interest Reduc-
tion Act, thus ensuring that 8 p.c. instead of
6.2 p.c. is actually paid; the 8 p.c. was more
than. 13 times covered by the parent’s net
earnings (£1,172,568) for the 12 months to
Dec. 31, 1930.
Here is a view of the financial structure
as the Australian co.’s balance-sheet figures
reflect it: —
1926. 1930. 1931.
Ord. capita] .. ;£2,500,000 £2,500,000 £2,500,000
Pref. capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Liabilities .. 376,214 429,461 489,892
Freeholds, plant, etc. 1,610,765 1,443,452 1,402,441
Stocks .. .. 580,480 734,422 621,600
Investments .. 428,272 271,989 271,620
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,400,590 1,931,811 2,156,265
Including stocks and investments, the more
or less liquid surplus sprang £50,838 last
year, reaching £2,559,599 at June 24. The
withdrawal of £1,500 000 from the business
will not embarrass the co.
Following the announcement the market
lifted its bid for the prefs. from 245. 9d. to
255. 9d. At the higher figures the return is
6.2 p.c. on a clear 8 p.c. div.
Southern Cross Assurance.
This young life office was promoted by
Thomas Confoy in 1921. He got £12,500
in 8 p.e. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, and
became managing director :
Ordinary Branch,
> Excess
Outgoings. Deficit.
Promoter’s consideration ..£13,500 £13,500
Other establishment charges .. 38,189 51,689
New share premiums, £31,250.. .. 20,439
Aug., Income. Claims. Expenses.
1922*.. £56,726 £1,357 £87,749 32,380 52,819
Additional establishment charges 10,000 62,819
1923 .. 87,076 5,437 92,173 10,534 73,353
S’African business purchased, £3OOO .. 76,353
. Surplus
June, Income.
1924 f.. 96,060 4,399 91,302 359 75,994
1925 .. 139,778 8,848 110,773 20,157 55,837
1926 .. 180,038 18,781 122,688 38,569 17,268
Funds.
1927 .. 167,379 18,671 123,260 25,448 8,180
1928 .. 183,736 19,475 128,187 36,074 44,254
1929 . . 208,341 33,716 131,785 42,840 87,094
New Era Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £28,314 .. ~ .. 115,408
Added purchase account, £20,068 .. 95,340
1930 . . 223,797 29,911 136,624 57,262 152,602
Australian Group Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £27,003 .. .. .. 179,605
Added purchase account, £13,925 .. 165,680
1931 .. 221,139 40,599 113,733 66,807 232,487
Written off shares, etc., £11,138 . . 221,349
*l9 months. tlO months.
.Early in the last term the small life busi-
ness of the Australian Group and General
was bought at a price equal to 100 p.c. of
the renewal premiums. The exact figure is
not stated, but £13,925 net was added to
the purchase account, raising intangibles to
£233,612 at June 30. Tangible assets equal
in amount to the liabilities tinder policies
(£27,003) came with them. In the previous
term the remains of the New Era’s business
(heavy lapses and excessive costs crippled
it) was taken over for £17,071 net; pre-
mium income involved was over £20,000.
Taking new policies written by the cot
itself into the reckoning, additional busi-
ness with a net annual premium income of
over £135,000 lias been put on the books
during the last two years. Add to this the
premiums gathered in 1929 and you get a
total of more than £295,000. Yet last year’s
premium income was only £201,831. Lapses
and surrenders account for most of the differ-
ence. Of course a heavy drain in this respect is
inevitable in times like the present; the un-
fortunate thing is that these lapses, which
mostly mean a dead loss to the co. as well
as the policy-holder, severely handicap
development of profit-earning capacity.
The amount of new business put on the
books was £588,611 less than for the previous
term: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Proposals accepted 6,540 7,737 5,320
Total of policies.. £1,805,703 £2,112,311 £1,523,700
First premiums .. 55,055 58,954 44,910
Renewal premiums 124,284 147,537 156,922
Interest, rent, etc. 29,002 17,306 19,307
Total income .. 208,341 223,797 221,139
The average per policy (£286) sprang £l3,
and the average premium per cent. (£3
18s. 9d.) dropped 3s. 3d.; a suggestion that
longer-term business was written. Disre-
garding £11,138 struck off the book value of
shareholdings, etc., exes, made off with
56.3 p.c. of the net premiums as against
62.7, 73.4 and 76.1 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding- years. This is encouraging, but the
figures need to drop a lot further yet before
anything w-orth mentioning in the way of
bonuses for policy-holders is likely to show
up. Owing to the heavy lapses it cost 200
p.c. to put the .year’s new policies on the
books as against 185 p.c. in 1930; that is
on the generally accepted basis that new
business is 10 times more costly than old.
Also, returns from investments will be
affected by recent interest-reduction legisla-
tion, including the national debt conversion.
The office assumes that its funds will net
4 p.c.; last year’s £19,308 of interest, etc.,
was 4,7 p.c. on mean funds.
A year ago the actuary reported that
policy-holders were adequately protected.
Their security is in this form: —
1926. 1930. 1931.
Freeholds .. . . £161,370 £190,176 £199,823
Equipment . . . . 17,028 24,492 24,285
Govt, securities .. 109,530 132,980 138,090
Mortgages, etc. .. 14,400- 57,270 76,174
Loans on policies .. 764 11,304 22,194
Shares other cos. .. 10,100 21,154 13,885
Book debts . . .. 64,686 86,775 90,334
Cash 1,224 4,732 12,987
Tangible assets . . £379,102 £528,883 £577,772
Liabilities* .. .. 91,673 74,290 55,622
Net tangible assets .. £287,429 £454,584 £522,150
*Other than under policies.
During the year £82,671 was added to the
life fund, raising it to £447,874 at June 30.
But owing to. the goodwill involved in ■ the
year’s purchase, and the writing-off;, visible
improvement in the book value of net tan-
gibles was only £67,566. Paid capital is
£300,000 in 10s. shares —125,000 8 p.c. prefs.
and 475,000 ords.
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
( —Dividends Komi-
Net Olds. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves. series.
1923.. 143,268 50,997 60,000 32,271 343,875
1924.. 170.131 81.877 60.000 28,254 372.129
1925.. 243,554 97,400 60,000 86,156 458,283
Loss on Orenfell-street plant, £321,737 136,546
1926.. 307,208 119,482 60,000 127.726 264,272
1927.. 338,879 134,952 60,000 143,927 405.199
1928.. 320,260 155,857 60,000 104,403 512,602
1929.. 366,261 160,406 60,000 139,855 652,457
Written off plant, £99,398 .. •• 553,059
1930.. 344,518 172,500 60,000 112,018 665,077
Written off plant, £20,146 .. •• 644,931
84 p.c.
1931.. 354,797 172,500 42,500 139,797 784,728
provision for debenture sinking fund.
The year panned out better than was
expected. Gross revenue was £86,196 lighter,
due to a slight reduction in the price
charged for current and contraction of 14.1
p.c. in the number of kelvins sold. But
resumption of coal supplies from Newcastle
at reduced prices enabled generating costs
(£88,186) to be got back £70,126, and
further savings amounting to £20,668 were
made in the outlay on distribution, repairs,
renewals, etc., leaving the net operating
result £459S ahead of the previous year’s:—
1922. 1930. 1931.
Gross revenue .. .. £372,466 £834,022 £747,826
Operating exes. & taxes 215,924 389,809 299,015
Net revenue .. .. £156,542 £444,213 £448,811
In addition £11,875 dropped from somewhere
into reserves. So, after deducting deben-
ture interest (£98,764) and £7125 spent in
connection with the fresh capital raised in
1930, there was a spring of £10,279 in the
final figure (£354,797). which includes a
net addition of £26,305 to the debenture
sinking- funds. Allowing for this addition
and the pref. divs., enough remained to
show 31 p.c. on the half-million of ord.
capital; yet 34 points were clipped off
the div., reducing it to 84 p.c. And 84
p.c. is worth only 6| p.c. on most of the
paper, which was issued at a premium.
Though improved financial results fol-
lowed upon extension of the co.’s mains
and the installation of new plant, no specific
allowance has been made for depreciation.
Thus last year £20,146 of reserves were
rubbed out to cover the loss on plant scrapped
owing to the change-over from direct to
alternating current in the city area. Dur-
ing the last half-dozen years reserves have
been similarly raided for no less than
£441,281; hence they are labelled nominal
in the table, and for that reason the “Wild
Cat” will not swear that the profit figures
are all they look either.
The year’s outlay on the main undertaking
was £124,432, but £20,146 was struck off,
as already stated, leaving the net growth in
the book value of fixed assets at £104,£.86: —
1922. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Debenture stock .. 530,130 1,689,891 1,686,351
Other liabilities .. 125,155 111,560 46,932
Cost of undertaking 2,078,796 4,847,978 4,952,264
Stores, etc. . . 84,142 156,100 106,272
Book debts .. 54,418 165,970 156,705
Cash & investments 83,708 406,732 411,021
The current year’s capital expenditure will
be confined to such new services as are
required, and no new share or debenture
issues are contemplated.
At Aug. 31 each pound of pref. capital
was covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 435. 4d., mostly plant; and the year's
net profit was over twice their annual
requirements. At current prices they return
6 p.c. or a shade under. The preferred
ords. at 265. 6d. and the ords. at 295. 7d.
return 6 p.c. and 5.7 p.c. respectively on an
8 p.c. and 84 p.c. div. basis.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
Net Dividends To Re-
Profit. All Shares. serves. Deficit.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1924.. 3,857 8 p.c. = 2880 977 717
Reserves.
1925.. 4,312 8 „ „ 2880 1,432 715
Assets revalued; goodwill (£12,677)
written off and general reserve added
to by £3646 .. .. .. .. 17,038
1926.. 6,513 10 p.c. = 3600 2,913 19,951
Unexplained reduction in reserves, £1707.. 18,244
1927.. 15,338 10 p.c. - 3600 11,738 29,982
Reserves capitalised, £9OOO .. 20.982
1928.. 15,496 12) p.c. = 6390 9,106 30,088
1929.. 15,587 124 ~ „ 8490 7,097 37,185
1930.. 9,015 7 „ „ 7000 2,0-15 39,200
Loss.
1931.. 7,619 Nil 31,581
Unable to do any good for itself in the
engineering trade, this co. set to work a few
years ago to develop specialty lines. Com-
petition in the flat business had created an
extraordinary demand for electric-refrigera-
tors ; more capital was got in, earnings
responded and divs. climbed rapidly from
8 p.c. to 12| p.c. But the slump aud acute
position in the building trade have checked
sales, lowered stock values and brought a
larger crop of bad debts than was antici-
pated. Thus a loss of £7619 showed up last
year, and shareholders w-ere passed by. In
the previous term there was enough profit
to show 9 p.c. on average capital as against
22.9, 30.3 and 42.6 p.c. back to 1927. But
these figures are uo guide whatever to the
future; keener competition for smaller busi-
ness at lower prices is pretty certain to
mean modest earnings. Much will depend
upon the co.’s success in developing other
lines.
Having borrowed heavily to finance the
recent growth of the business the; policy for
the last couple of years has been to work
down the more or less liquids and lighten
the debt:—
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £36,000 £BO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Sundry creditors 42,712 112,343 59,265 32,699
Freeholds, etc. 15,926 1 7 „ n „„ .. „„ qM
Plant, etc. . . 3,250 S 37 ’ 7 '’° 38,209 38,384
Stocks, etc. '. . 32.906 85,363 ■ 80,390 69,141
Book debts . . 16,881 78,545 48,413 33,803
Investments, etc. 11,212 33,296 33,452 22,952
At the close of last accounts stocks, etc.,
were £11,249 lighter than they were a
year earlier, debtors’ balances were reduced
by ' £14,610 and investments, - etc., were
drawn, upon for £10,500. Yet only £26,566
was clipped off the outside debt; the year’s
loss and the final div. for the previous term
account for the > balance. Thus the more or
liquid surplus (£93,197, including stocks)
slipped £9793. Ample allowance is said to
have been made for.bad debts and.the fall in
(Continued on page 16.)


AGGREGATE BALANC ESHEET
OF ™ E
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 30th September, 1931
LIABILITIES.
Notes in circu-
lation.. .. £481,455 10 0
Deposits, Accrued
Interest, and
Rebate ..69,388,093 6 4
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held
for Doubtful Debts, and other
Contingencies) ..
Paid-up Capital £7,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. 6,150,000 0 0
Profit and L055£732,163
£732,163 0 5
Less Interim
Dividends to
30th June,
1931
£487,500 0 0
244,663 0 5
£69,869,548 16 4
4,264,757 15 2
13,894,663 0 5
£88,028,969 11 11
Contingent Liabilities— _ „
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra 2,082,457 17 I
£90,111.427 9 6
assets.
Coin, Bullion,
G o vernment
Legal Tender
Notes and
Cash at .
Bankers ..£12,705,234 16 3
Notes of Other
Banks .. 12,196 15 0
Money at short . A
call in London 1,260,000 0 0
Short-dated Treasury Bills—
British and
C o in m o n-
wealth
Investments —
British and
Colonial Gov-
ernment
Securities ..
Municipal and
other Securi-
ties
Due by other
Banks
Bills Receivable
in London
and Remit-
tances i n
transit
8,700,000 0 0
4,090,096 6 0
439,136 0 0
502,841 15 10
3,410,223 14 1
£31,119,729 7 2
Bills Discounted, and Loans and . . q
b,M,S . :: "ffff > ’
£88,028,969 11 11
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, as per
contra
2,082,457 17 7
£90,111,427 9 6
PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931.
Cr.
To Interim Dividends a s under, paid
in terms of Clause 105 of Deed
of Settlement out of the Year’s
Profits: —
For Quarter ended—-
31st Dec., 1930, at 9/- per share
Australian currency
31st ,March, 1931, at 9/- per share
Australian currency
30th June, 1931, at 8/- per share
Australian currency
£168,750
168,750
150,000
0 0
0 0
0 0
£487,500 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt- with as follows.
To Quarter’s Dividend
to 30th Sep-
tember, 1931, at
the rate of 6/- per
share Australian
currency .. .. £112,500 0 0
To Quarter’s Dividend
to 30th Sep-
tember, 1931, at
the rate of 6/- per
share Australian
currency on the
new Share
Capita], £1,280,00(
to be issued in
terms of the
agreement for
amalgamation with
The Australian
Bank of Com-
merce, Ltd. .. 19,200 0 0
To Balance carried
forward
£131,700 0 0
£112,963 0 5
— 244,663 0
5
£732,163 0 5
By Amount from last Account •• £166,9-7 13
, Balance of Year’s Profits after
deducting Rebate on Current
Bills, Interest on Deposits, pay-
ing Income, Land and other
Taxes amounting to £457,821/12/4,
reducing valuation of Bank
Premises, providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and fluctuations
in the value of Investment
Securities, and including re-
coveries from Debts previously
written off as bad .. •• 565,230
6
11
6
£732,163 0 5
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931.
£6,150,000 0 0
By Balance £6,150,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
By Balance .. •• ■. £6,150,000 0 0
A. C. DAVIDSON, General Manager.
j\ D. HOBBS, Chief Accountant.
S. E. LAIDLEY l
VENOUR NATHAN j
Auditors.
Audited, 18th November, 1931.
Alemite
E=====^
1
2^
m
'!nnimnHiiiiiii‘ii
Prevents
Friction
Without proper lubri-
cation friction cannot
be avoided in springs
—differential—gear
box—roller bearings,
etc. All these and
other parts of the
modern motor car
must be kept properly
lubricated if friction
is to be avoided.
The ALEMITE Sys-
tem and ALEMITE Lubricants insure perfect lubrication.
Instruct your garage manager to see that your car is
“ALEMITED” every 500 miles. It is a wise precaution always
to carry with you in the car an Alemite Gun and a tin of
Alemite Lubricant for use when away from garages.
ALEMITE CORPORATION 4 4 Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address* ALMlT*Chicago
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the folloiving Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd. . . • 284 Pitt Stree.,Syd»ey
VTKtoI fw P A L t lE Ltd L,d ‘ * *. ’. ‘ 894 Hay Street, Perth
F T A A’ CO ' <Pty\ Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL UMITED'. y> . • • 122 Pirie Street, Adela.de
v.tHCT.A
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
Australia’s Leading: Windmill
The Powerful
Billabong
Scientific in Design.
Built by Expert Engineers.
Australian
Throughout.
DANKS
MELBOURNE* SYDNEY
MAKERS OF
.^r •* o
- (a. a t>
CS.C?-.-,:-.,;
iuabong Windmills
* Pumps
~ Troughs
Fujminb
W-
ifi®
FTC ETC
IJIggSI^
ABEKTS THROUGHOUT
—AUSTRALIA
Send for our Windmill Catalogue and learn all about this v ery Modem Wmdrmll,
which is made in Our Own Factories, and is backed up with Our Guarantee.
The Catalogue is jully Illustrated, and is Post Free on Request.
Bore Casing and Pipes and Fittings for Irrigation at Lowest Rates.
We make Centrifugal and other Power Pumps, all kinds of Hand Pumps,
Pumping Machinery and Pump Accessories. Also Cattle and other Troughmg.
SroronroiiilCflu
I JOHN L., _ „„
SmnuummuWW UU&"sON *
jm j „*
ior-K.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Double-
Geared
Self-
Oiling
Ball-bearing
Bedplate
HAVE IT DELIVERED
-
fit!
TL
m
BITTER
lACER
Make use of tHIs
regular service-
direct from the
wholesaler at
wholesale prices !
PER DOZ.
15/-
C.O.D.
Delivered free
When planning to entertain, write, call or 'phone
for home delivery of Cascade Tasmanian Ale.
Supplied in lots of I dozen or more, the price is
lower than ever. And, 9d. per dozen is allowed
on empties. Order early ... at Xmas the demand
is greater than can be supplied. That s proof of
the distinctive, mellow richness and sparkling crisp-
ness of Cascade ... judged Australia s finest Ale.
Taste the difference!
TASMANIAN
CASCADE ALE & LAGER.
Distributors:
WALTER CAVILL and COMPANY
379 Sussex St., Sydney. 'Phone M 2214 (3 lines)
COUNTRY DELIVERIES: F.O.R. or F. 0.8., Sydney. Cash with order.
USE
THIS FORM
FOR
COUNTRY
ORDERS.
WALTER CAVILL & CO., 379 Sussex Street., Sydney.
Please forward
I enclose remittance for
NAME
ADDRESS


Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* # * . *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * »&
Consider the enormous advantage that Pioneer Wood
Pipe possesses over metal pipe by reason of the fact
that it is absolutely non-corrosive. This definitely
means that Pioneer Wood Pipe carries a full bore of
water throughout the whole of its life, and does so
on the most economical and satisfactory basis. First
cost, and subsequent costs in connection with freight-
ing, transporting, laying and maintenance are all
on a considerably lower basis when Pioneer Wood
Pipe is used, and its ability to give long efficient
service has been proved over and over again. Full
particulars sent post free on request. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. (near Figtree Bridge) ; and at Footscray,
Victoria. —Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons.
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Wanted. —Experienced Miner, also Mining
Engineer, as working partners join syndicate develop-
ing proved goldmine. Winding machinery erected.
Must be prepared invest £2OO. Hamilton King-
Gold Mining Syndicate, Ebagoolah, via Cooktown,
N.Q. —Advt.
Cam- —
What is Your Capital Value?
EVERY man who earns a salary or wage has a capital value to
his family. Usually it is much larger than he imagines it to be.
If he is providing £6 a week for his family’s keep, he has a
capital value to them of £6OOO, for it would take £6OOO invested at
5 per cent, to give them the income that he is now providing. Most
men, when they realise that, are apt to have a better opinion of
themselves.
4 \
W
mi
■ :., y ,
Here, then, is a
question for each man
to ask himself: “Should
I leave my wife and
family enough capital
to live upon?”
“That,” the average
man will say, “is easily
answered. I couldn’t
do it!”
What, then, can the
average man do?
Will you leave your family
enough capital to live upon?
A man in good health, aged 30, can do much with ten shillings
a week invested in life assurance. He can take out an A.M.P. policy
for £lOOO, payable at death, at an annual cost of £24/1 /8, or less
than 10/- per week. Invested at 5 per cent, that sum would bring
in an income of a pound a week. Not enough, of course, but very
useful to a widow, and, but, wait —he may live for many years, and
A.M.P. policies grow.
A.M.P. bonuses, declared annually, have a way of doubling
the value of a policy in time. The longer a man lives the larger the
value of his policy when it matures.
The wise man takes out as large a policy as he can afford, and
adds to it as his income grows. The wise wife sees that he does it.
There is an A.M.P. booklet that tells how many different ways there
are of providing for a family. Send for it.
Send this Coupon for Booklet
To the AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Just for my private information and without obligation on my part, send me
full particulars of the different ways in which I may assure my life in the A.M.P
These difficult days make a man THINK!
Age Next
Birthday,
stock values; much depends upon that. In-
vestments include holdings in the Melbourne
and Brisbane subsidiaries; but no hint is
given as to how the pups are getting along.
The ords., which fetched 355. (sd. a couple
of years ago, are now priced at ss. 6d. The
prefs. seldom come on to the market. There
are 20,000 of them, 7 p.c. cumulative; they
advance with the ords. beyond that rate and
share in surplus assets. The backing for
all shares is 265. 3d. in net tangibles.
0.T., Ltd. (Vic.).
Nominal
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 15,358 8.3 p.e. = 11,133 4,335 43,041
1924.. 13,107 6.6 „ „ 8,907 4,200 47,241
1925.. 20,039 10 „ „ 13,360 6,679 53,920
1926.. 42,277 20 „ „ 26,720 15,557 69,477
1927.. 38,438 20 „ „ 26,720 11,718 81,195
Written off, £5500 .. .. 75,695
Prefs. Ords.
8 p.e. 20 p.c.
£
1928.. 36,427 2000 26,720 7,707 83,40-2
Written off, £2OOO .. .. 81,402
Shares in other eos. written up
£133,598 and that amount capi-
talised . . .. .. .. 81,402
Surplus on sale London busi-
ness, £228,989 .. .. 310,391
10 p.c.
1929.. 29,563 2000 26,720 843 311,234
Taxation on sale of London busi-
ness, £5OOO .. .. .. 306,234
Reserve for depreciation of invest-
ments, £6OOO .. .. .. 300,234
1930.. 11,681 2000 Nil 9,681 309,915
3J p.c.
1931.. 820 1544 5,010 304,181
This co. sold its London interests, which
were the great money-spinning section of the
business, in 1929 for a profit of £862,587.
The intention was to re-invest the money in
trade, but the outlook became so glum
that' the board decided to return half the
capital, reducing it to £146,098, instead.
This was done early in the last term. Some
£lO,OOO was invested in a new subsidiary for
the manufacture of waxed-paper containers,
and the balance was put out on loans, mort-
gages, etc. In 1928 the ord. capital had been
doubled by the issue of bonus scrip, so old
shareholders have had their original capital
returned in full, and still retain an interest
in the business equal to their former holding.
Net earnings of the London section aver-
aged £43,291 for the four years to Sept.
80, 1928. With the stoppage of juicy con-
tributions from this pool the parent’s profits
were bound to slump ; but the drop has been
greater than was expected. Few luxuries are
more easily dispensed with than soft drinks,
and the weather and competition have had
their effect upon earnings, too. Thus trad-
ing resulted in a loss of £17,803 last year
compared with a loss of £4037 in the nrc-
vious term and profits averaging £12,330 p.a.
for the three years before that. But uie
money invested outside the business brought
in £18,623, so, everything taken into the
reckoning, the year’s net profit was £B2O.
Dividend prospects are bright enough pro-
vided trading can be got on to a profitable
basis again; last year’s returns from invest-
ments were 12.7 p.c. on capital as it now
stands. The co. has introduced several new
line's, and satisfactory profits are anticipated
for the current term. The new subsidiary has
met with a ready sale for its products' and
the factory is being extended. The future of
the scrip as an investment will partly depend
upon the successful development of new
activities.
The co. is splendidly equipped to take
advantage of any opportunity that offers: —-
1924. 1929. ' 1936. 1931.
Paid capital.. £133,599 £292,197 £292,197 £146,098
Sundry creditors 27,930 39,303 9,047 14,165
Premises . . 18,380 28,202 67,421 67,480
Plant, etc.-.. 19,500 35,745 42,834 37,389
Investments, . . ' 47,455 20,530 45,086 236,990
Sundry debtors 41,270 56,254 36,742 26,220
Stock.. .. 26,534 63,121 62,346 50,629
Gash, etc. . . 5,842. 412,740 312,665 2,527
Thus at the close of last accounts the more
or less liquid; surplus (£302,201, including
investments arid stocks) wa5‘£144.991 lighter
than it was a year earlier. That was due
to the return of capital.
After recent sales at 21s. 6d. the ords.
have advanced to 265. 6d. in the market.
At the'higher figure the return would be'
6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover
amounts to 575. 6d. in net tangibles. There
are 12,500 prefs. carrying a cumulative 8
p.c.; they are tightly held.
“Miner”: The ranks of fossickers for the
yellow metal in Maoriland are swelling. Dur-
ing the last nine months 636 mining privileges
and 2023 miners’ rights have been issued.
The first figure is 51 p.c. and the second
991 p.c. greater than for the. corresponding
period of last year. Gold returns for the
last six months show an increase in value
of £lO,OOO per month over the corresponding
half of 1930. Flotation of a £lOO,OOO co. to
work the^cement conglomerate at Lawrence,
Central Otago, is spoken of. Provided the
gold is there in payable quantities, there is
enough material in sight to keep a good-
sized ‘mill‘'going for the rest of this century.
Guinea Gold, an Adelaide show, has done
well for its shareholders, and when Bulolo
Gold Dredging, to whom it sold most of its
properties, begins digging, it should do even
better, for a large block of shares is held
in the dredging co. Furthermore, Bulolo is
expected to take over G. G.’s northern
leases, known as the Bulowatt are®, and that
will mean more shares. Since disposing of
its Bulolo properties the co. has been on
the hunt for new ground in New Guinea and
elsewhere, but has not yet met with any-
thing encouraging. Recently a share inter-
est was acquired in the New Dcloraine, a
South Aus. gold show.
Heartened, probably, by possible, tariff
protection against Japanese, Italian and
other overseas imports, a Sydney group is
contemplating the development of sulphur
deposits in New Guinea. The stuff is abun-
dant enough there, aud there appears to be
a limited market for it in Australia. In
Sicily the sulphur deposits are worked by
machinery, and costs are very low. In the
New Guinea belt Kanaka labor would be
required, and special sanction for its employ-
ment would have to be obtained.
* *
Ivaindi Gold, a Melbourne concern which
hopped into a good patch on Edie Creek,
and sat on it until New Guinea Goldfields
bought it out, has been whacking up the
proceeds. These consisted of 50,000 £1
shares in New Guinea Goldfields, which
have been handed out in the proportion of
25 for one. There is another 5000 to be
scattered when transfer of a lease, now
held up, is completed. . Kaindi shareholders
resolved to carry on the hunt for likely
options. To finance the work, a call of 10s.
per share is suggested.
The alluvial mines on the Batavia River
(N.Q.) are the best producers in Australia,
but cannot be worked during the wet season,
from January to May. During the last four
months Densley and Co. got over 2000 oz. of
gold; Frank Delaney, 300 oz.; Golden
Casket, 2500 z.; Band of Hope, 150 oz. Others
are getting wages in shallow shows. The
richest patches have been struck at about
the 70ft. level, though the Spotted Dog got
pay dirt down to 140 ft. Some of the reefs
sample over 2oz. to the ton; and batteries
are being brought from Croydon and Coen,
The nearest town to the field is Fort
Stewart, 120 miles away. Living is expen-
sive ; flour costs 21s. and sugar 465. a bag,
while tea is 3s. 3d. a lb. and butter 3s. 3d.
* » * *
Aberfoyle Tin (Tas.) has decided to instal
additional plant to remove the wolfram and
arsenical pyrites from the tin concentrates.
A new co. of the same name is to take
over the business. Nominal is £75,000 in
£1 shares, of which 25,000 are participat-
ing prefs. Of these 10,000 were offered and
over-subscribed, and the underwriters take a
further 2500. Also £50,000 in fully-paid
ords. will be issued for a similar amount
of scrip in the old co. When complete, the
mill will have a capacity of 400 tons of
ore per week, and is expected to handle half
that quantity in July next. With the
exchange as it is and tin at £l2O in Lon-
don, satisfactory profits can be earned, the
chairman says.
sis # ft
Silver, the production of which in Aus-
tralia is governed by the output of lead
and zinc, has advanced in the market from
Is. Id. to Is. Bd. during the last three months.
This means a great deal to the Barrier cos.;
the North, South and Zinc Corp. have a
combined production of about 350,0000 z.
monthly; thus the rise is worth over
£lO,OOO per month to them.
* $ sjs
After a good look at Wiluna and its works,
Carl Lindberg, the much-travelled and
shrewd Yankee expert, is making a final
survey of Lake View and Star before his
return to London this month. His reports,
or so much of them as the boards of the two
concerns deem it advisable to release, are
expected to be available early next year.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s treatment process
is being changed over from dry crushing
and roasting to wet milling and flotation;
the work will probably take a couple of
months to complete. Meantime, development
is being rushed ahead to permit larger ton-
nages to be handled.
* *
“O.B.”; The intended departure of Asso-
ciated Northern from Westralia recalls
memories. The co.’s Kalgoorlie show,
originally part of the Associated Gold Mines,
was acquired in the late ’nineties, and the
famous Oroya shoot was found to traverse
the property, from which about two mil-
lions sterling was won in the space of a
few years. Later a visiting expert, Pro-
fessor Liveing, gave shareholders a shock
by declaring that the ore in sight was much
less both in quantity and value than had
been claimed. But further development un-
covered new makes of stone, and the co.
worked successfully until 1913. Then
tributors took a hand; one party won
£171,000 from 41,77 S tons, and others took
out £68,000
* s* $ *
The position of the Westralien Manganese
Co. is becoming desperate. Funds are ex-
hausted, creditors are impatient and deben-
ture-holders are meeting to decide what to do
next. The co. owns a big deposit of man-
ganese, together with 80 miles of railway
from Meekatharra to it. Since supply at a
low price is outdistancing demand overseas,
it is hard to see any profitable future for this
Westralian venture.
* ss <«
Sons of Gwalia has given up searching fox-
gold south of the old Lancefield mine (W.A.).
There is plenty of ore left in the deep
workings, but it is too refractory to pay.
Tanah Biji, a holding and prospecting co.
hatched by Alluvial Tin, shows a loss of
£707 for the 12 months to March 31.
Tanah’s offshoots include Jelapang and the
two Serendahs, the latter now merged in
Rawang Tin Fields. Equipment and devel-
opment of the co.’s new area, known’as Ber-
suntai, has been suspended until the clouds
roll by; the leases are in order and every-
thing is ready for a start. Paid capital is
£lOO,OOO in £1 shares. Principal assets are
holdings of £25,000 in Jelapang, and £80,766
in Rawang Tin Fields. When the books
closed there was£BBso coming to creditors;
liquids amounted to £66.
Asam Kumbang, one of Austral Malay’s
subsidiaries, which produced its full quota
for the quarter ended November 30 by the
middle of last month, will resume digging
this week. Pungah, in Southern Siam, also
stopped one of its derdges as from November
15. Under the Siamese restriction quota,
Pungab’s output has been fixed at 75 tons
of t.o. per month until the end of February
next.
The world’s leading platinum producers
have decided to control output and regulate
sales, and Consolidated Platinums has been
formed in London for the purpose. It will
also endeavor to discover means of extend-
ing. the uses of the metal. Befoi-o the war
Russia turned out about 95 per cent, of
the world’s supply ; but this source dried up
after the revolution, and there was a short-
age until the discovery of large deposits in
the Transvaal, in 1923. The use of the
metal in jewellery helped to steady demand,
though prices, have been uneven. In the
1880’s platinum fetched about £1 per oz.:
just before the war the figure stood at £8 ;
it jumped to £3O in 1919; a recent quote
was £lO per oz.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is the amount of British and
foreign capital invested in the Shell Oil Go.?
(2) Where are the co.’s oil wells? (3) What
taxes are paid hy the Australian subsidiary
which are not passed on to the public? —
7066.
(1) Impossible to say. The Shell organisa-
tion is probably the world’s biggest tangle
of subsidiary and inter-locking companies.
Originally owned by British and Dutch
interests, there is now a considerable Ameri-
can holding; the scrip, of course, is avail-
able to anyone who can buy it on the London
Stock Exchange. (2) U.S.A., Venezuela and
East Indies. (3) Whether the Shell Co.
has foregone any part of its profit margin
in order to ease the price to the public we
cannot say.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.D.G.: (1) Exact area not stated, but
deposits are very extensive. (2) £4,421,911 of
which £356,257 is uncalled; thus paid capital is
£4,065,654, mostly issued in payment for properties
taken over. (3) and (4) 3s. 6d., London; not listed
in Australia. (5) Still in prospecting stage; results
thus far satisfactory. (6) N 0... .G.E.8.: (1) See
Bulletin 15/7/’3l. (2) National Tobacco Corp. of
Australia has not yet harvested its first crop. The
intention is to sell the leaf, flue cured, to the manu-
facturer H.G.8.H.: (1) Rarely on the market;
not listed on any Exchange. Probably worth about
£lB. (2) Not likely to be a serious fa 11... .P.P.P.:
Wound up about 1912.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Chartered Companies or New States
Dear Bulletin, —1 agree with James
Edmond (B. 11/11/’3l) that “a Legislature
on the spot with local knowledge might do
a lot for the top part of Queensland,” but
when he suggests that a local Legislature
could develop the Gulf Country better than
a chartered co. could, I differ. Legisla-
tures, as we know them, have not shown
results of a kind that many would like to
see repeated, and there is no reason to
believe that the addition of another Parlia-
ment would do other than spread further
political blight over country with resources
needing only freedom from governmental
interference to attract to it all the brains
and money necessary for quick development.
There may be something in the contention
that State capitals have contributed towards
land settlement in southern localities, but
it is also certain that these capitals have
built up a collection of non-producers and
parasites who live on the fruits of the man
on the land. Over-capitalisation of land and
crippling taxation to support non-producers
in cities are luxuries which North Queens-
land could very well manage without.
The Cape York Peninsula country would
stand a much better chance of being suc-
cessfully developed if it were handed over
to an independent business concern capable
of planning and carrying out development
in a way that would co-ordinate all neces-
sary production and transport activities. The
latter are functions in which our Legisla-
tures have not featured with conspicuous
success, while private enterprise handled by
the right men has already demonstrated what
might be done on a more extensive scale with
red tape rigidly excluded. —Yours, Carribin.
Is It Inflation?
Dear Bulletin, —The present exchange
position between Australia and England
(the inclusion of other countries confuses
the issue) is that it takes £l3O Australian
to exchange for £lOO English. Therefore
the Australian exporter gets 30 per cent,
more, and the importer pays 30 per cent,
more. That seems to be an even break as
far as the whole community is concerned. But
as nearly all the exports are primary pro-
ducts, the producer of them is advantaged
over the rest of the community. You. call
this “inflation” and assert that “if it is
right, all inflation is right,” and that the
future is nebulous. Is it inflation? I say
it is not. Advantage to producers of ex-
portable goods is one of the .results of
inflation, but it has nothing to do. with the
disease. The cause of inflation is a base
and discredited paper currency which causes
“money to be cheap and goods dear.” At
the present time the Australian £1 note will
purchase 20 per cent, more in Australia
than it would three years ago; therefore
the note has appreciated and the cost of
living reduced. —Yours, 9-2-6.
Christ on the Road
Dear Bulletin, —“Gad” (B. 18/11/’3l)
attacks the Church, the priests and the par-
sons for what he considers to be a callous
disregard for the privations of the bagmen.
I built my home next to a Presbyterian
church in a country town. To a passer-by
it would appear to form part of the church
property. During the past 12 months my
bagmen visitors have outnumbered the
neighbors’ callers by five to one. Why:
Because they think my home is the manse,
and the track has taught the traveller that
nowhere can a better “handout” be obtained
than at the presbytery, manse, rectory or
parsonage. Surely it is not the “dirty piece
of newspaper and piece of stale cake” that
attracts these men. No. It is the generous
meal and kindly word of help and encourage-
ment that, draws them. For many years
I have acted as honorary auditor to
quite a number of organisations—show
assoc., turf club, trotting club, cricket club
and others —and these societies include in
their membership many estimable people;
but not until I open the books of the local
kirk do I find anything in the nature of a
benevolent fund. —Yours, W, H. P.
Dear B., —In Brisbane (I write as one of
the rank and file of the Queensland R.C.
clergy) the local It.C. hostel has distributed
during the last 16 months 186,432 meals
(average 3125 weekly), 2025 men have been
given beds (154 per w r eek) and 795 articles
of clothing supplied—all free. The St. Vin-
cent de Paul Society relieved in 1930 (latest
figures available) 26,480 cases, receipts
were £54,836, expenditure £49,485, manage-
ment expenses nil.
“Gad” bases his generalisations on one or
two unfortunate experiences. Rough, cer-
tainly, but intelligible to anyone who has
had the experiences that have come my way.
Here are two, very recent. (1) Man calls,
wants a feed, 3 p.m. I direct housekeeper
to do the best she can. She slices cold
bacon, butters bread, and makes about a
dozen attractive sandwiches, adds some
cheese, wraps the whole up carefully (this
will impress “Gad”), offers the parcel to
our caller and adds “If you wait a while I’ll
make you a cup of tea.” Caller asks “Ain’t
yer got anything hot?” throws parcel on
ground, and goes away muttering choice
obscenities. (2) Visitor calls at dusk, wants
a pair of boots; hand over a pair nearly
new; they fit and he departs. Next day I
see the boots in a second-hand, dealer’s
window. Such happenings explain—parti-
ally, at any rate —why the. deserving some-
times get turned away while the plausible
rogue often pulls it off.
I regret that “Gad” should have rehashed
the old gibe of the alleged preference of the
clergy for the rich. The genuinely poor do
not talk thus. If w T e have any preference
it is for the straightforward and the cour-
teous, and I will say that the average worker
has naturally an admirable sense of courtesy
and fair play.
There is one feature of cadging money off
the clergy which puzzles me. Why, and by
what standards of Christian manliness or
common decency, do men of a certain type,
who when they are flush treat religion,
charity and clergy with contempt and a
financial boycott, expect any and every
minister of religion to hand over without
question when they are hard up?—Yours,
Daq.
Is Democracy Best?
Dear Bulletin, —Most of the world seems
to have the idea that its one great ambition
should be the preservation of democratic
government. The best-governed parts of our
Empire are the Crown Colonies, where the
administration is autocratic. The happiest
and most contented people I know are the
Siamese, who are ruled by an absolute
monarch. Mussolini, brushing aside all
democratic principles, has saved Italy from
disintegration; but China, in an attempt to
copy our cherished democratic methods, has
been thrown into chaos. The Native States
of India are still fairly sound, but if the
educated democratic ,babu has his way India
will follow China.
Why not let the verdict be according to
the evidence, and admit that democratic
government has been a failure and that the
world is not yet ready for government by
the people?—Yours faithfully, M. F. G. B.
Exploiting the Unemployed
Dear Bulletin, —Yesterday I carried my
swag into this town, and, hearing of a
few days’ work, sought out the prospective
employer. He was one of those fortunate
individuals whom a benevolent Government
provides with a gilt-edged e.asy job. He
w r anted a garage built for his car, and he
offered me (seeing that I was on the track
and therefore destitute) 6s. a day and lunch.
Now, that man was not a struggling cocky,
and obviously he could pay more, so I did
not take the job. Bread in this town is
6d. per loaf and cornedrbeef 7d. per lb. —
which is no cheaper than it was during the
high-wage regime of McCormack and Co.
This is a concrete case of what I consider
ruthless exploiting of the unemployed by
one who, though himself unaffected by the
present crisis, has no qualms about utilis-
ing the unfortunate plight of the worker
for his own miserable ends. I have struck
many cases of this kind. Is it any -wonder
that we unemployed regard suspiciously the
employer who, pleading hard times, offers
us low wages?—Yours, Hugh G.
J. T. Lang
Dear B., —To me it seems Mr. Dang’s
errors lay not so much in his failure to
work for N.S.W.’s good as in his manner
of legislating; leaving himself open to an
Opposition avidly ready to tear and rend on
principle. A tired community of over-taxed,
income-reduced and unemployed people
gladly join in the attack. They have a
victim! When Lang
became Premier none
were better informed
than Bavin and
Stevens of what lay
ahead for the man at
the helm, and none
more than these gentle-
men have harassed
him. All we can re-
member of Bavin is
his 3d. in the £ tax;
but every thinking per-
son must realise that,
had Bavin been re-
turned to power, the
3d. tax would not have
remained so. Perhaps,
under a Bavin Gov-
ernment, taxes would
not have soared quite
so high, but it is
doubtful whether the
workers’ biggest slug
—rent—would h a v e
fallen.
As an Oppositionist
Bavin condemns the
dole, but had he been
returned to power it
is doubtful whether he
could have risen above
all other politicians
and solved the world’s
greatest predicament.
He is more at ease
blaming Lang.
Lang was blamed for
putting four thousand
’busmen out of employ-
ment. 'To-day 243
’buses are operating
feeder services, and
but for the pigheaded-
ness of some owners
the balance of the four
hundred would also- be
in operation. Work-
ers. whether they be
business managers or
navvies, must go where
their calling takes
them, even to the ex-
tent of rooting up
their homes, and the
same rule applies to
’bus proprietors or any
other concern out for
profit. Why blame
Lang?—Yours, J.C.
A Five-year Plan for
Australia.
Dear Bulletin,—
We have a population
of about six millions.
Let us “mobilise” them
for the production of
wealth so that we en-
sure that every man
has work and is ren-
dered capable of main-
taining a decent
standard of living for
himself and his family.
It is in the hands of
the Nationalist party
to provide a channel
through which could
be directed to this end
the very powerful pat-
riotic fervor of Aus-
tralians. We can take
for granted the en-
thusiastic support of
the people to any pro-
posal that would lead
us out and keep us
permanently out of an economic depression.
All that is needed is a vivid, forceful, ener-
getic course, which would appeal to the
imaginations of the people and harness their
enthusiasm and co-operation in the common
good.
The Nationalist party is the obvious body
to put forward such a policy —and see that
it is carried out. My own tentative sug-
gestion is that the party should propose a
Five-Year Plan. This would necessitate a
Federal committee, which would survey our
resources, determine what was to be pro-
duced and how, how the product should be
distributed, and so on.
Something very like this was done during
the war in England, and America particu-
larly. Manufacturers were not allowed to
make what they pleased; they were told
what to make in the national interest;
farmers were not allowed to grow what they
pleased, they were told what to produce for
the nation’s good. We are to-day fighting
a much more insidious enemy than the Cen-
tral Powers. We are fighting the enemies
of civilisation itself: poverty, despair, hope-
lessness, revolution.-—I am, etc., Lionel
Dare.
Let’s Re-employ Some Men
Dear Bulletin, —You ask us to re-employ
100,000 men; but at the present time a
man is hardly likely to incur the expense
of an unnecessary employee unless he gets
something in return. I suggest that tor
every extra hand a man puts on he be
allowed ss. per week rebate on income and
unemployment-relief tax; or, if these sources
of relief become exhausted, he might be
given a bonus of 3s. or 4s. per week per
extra man. The State would not lose, as
it would save on the dole what it lost m
taxes, and both employer and employee
would benefit.—Yours, etc., Hereisone.
Wireless Licenses
Dear Bulletin, —I cannot agree with
“Eureka” (B. 18/11/’3l) that a flat-rate
broadcasting license fee is not good business
practice and that a sliding scale should be
employed, varying between 10s. for a single-
valve set and 355. for a six-valve set. This
would mean that anyone living in the JN.J-.
or N.Q., or in other localities where a sen-
sitive receiver is essential, would have to
pay the maximum license fee, while receivers
located within a radius of 50 miles or
Sydney, for example, could receive all
“locals” on a three-valve set without dis-
tortion or fading, and it is only under ex-
ceptional conditions that the programme is
badly affected by static. Again, how would
he count valves employed in balanced cir-
cuits, automatic volume controls, to It age
regulators and rectifier valves? lours,
Electron.
Adult Suffrage Must Go
Dear B., —No one at the inception of'Fed-
eration ever visualised the strict regimenta-
tion of political parties and the blfter creed
of class hatred which has grown up side by
side with the spread of education. One of
the strong arguments for better educational
facilities was that we would get better
representation by placing Parliament upon
a higher intellectual plane. But I
doubt whether this has happened, and it is
noteworthy that most of the reforms which
aimed at improvement of the conditions or
the workers were passed before adult sui-
frage was adopted, and certainly before this
door of democracy made it possible tor a
Labor Government to enter.
Labor arrived upon the scene and did
really useful work whilst in Opposition 5 but
after it had once tasted office it seemed to
become demoralised and debased, and dropped
overboard many excellent planks which ham-
pered it in the insatiable desire to secure
the loaves and fishes; and so the mad race
of extravagant borrowing and spending laid
the foundation of our present troubles. Mil-
lions were wasted in efforts to purchase and
retain the popular favor, and to-day we
have the pitiable spectacle of Ministers ot
the Crown waiting on the doorstep of trade
unions for orders,; and sitting in conference
with subordinate public servants, to _ ask
whether they may be allowed to readjust
administration costs. Responsible govern-
ment has been shamelessly abandoned.
It may be that Labor’s opponents are not
altogether free from charges of pandering
to sectional interests; but they have been
forced into it by the stern and bitter dis-
cipline of Labor. All these evils, and more,
are directly attributable to the chase after
.the democratic vote, and it becomes pretty
difficult to retain confidence in a system
capable of such abuses, against which
there seems to be no remedy. Parliaments
under a restricted franchise were notably
free from political corruption, which lately
seems to have followed upon the heels of
adult suffrage. There may be a way of
purifying our present system without abolish-
ing or radically amending it, but it is diffi-
cult to see just how this may be done. It
is better to amputate a finger than risk infec-
tion of the entire system. —Yours, J. E. O.
SANTA CLAUS’S NEW CUSTOMERS.
SANTA CLAUS: “But who have I got to give all this money to that you’re stuffing In my hag?"
AUSTRALIAN DADS: “Oh, you’ll give it back to us, of course. And then we’ll think how well off
we are Isn’t that a bright idea?"


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Gilbert and' Sullivan Opera
Criterion (com. Saturday) “Let Us Be Gay”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Sat.) .. “The Maid of the Mountains’’
State Movies and Talkies
—♦
The Addled Eggislators,
or
Spring Street by Night.
A 200 (and more) per cent, talkie.
(Copyright reserved to the 13 Houses of
Parliament.)
[Mr. Thring, of Efftee Films, lias sent out an
urgent call for scenarios on Australian themes with
plenty of action in them, so The Bulletin, always
anxious to assist an indigenous industry, obliges.]
Scene.
A chamber of the Upper House in Mel-
bourne. Time, 10 p.m: A debate on Unem-
ployment Relief is being held. The legislators
are seated in various attitudes of somnolence
in a semi-circle round a table, at which clerks
in full-bottomed wigs are also seated, their
heads buried in their hands. .The President,
in fuller-bottomed wig, is seated on a small
throne, backed by a larger throne, with two
armchairs heavily upholstered on either
flank. He gives the impression of having
been dead slightly longer than the rest.
Above him the Unicorn is threatening to join
the Lion as co-
respondent for har-
ing planted the
horn on his head.
Six reporters are
lying unconscious
in the press gal-
lery. A seventh is
feebly struggling to
sharpen a pencil
with the object of
picking his teeth.
I pretty girl and
a young man, ap-
parently down from
the country, are
s c a-t cd, in the
strangers’ gallery.
When the action
starts they both
show signs 'of ani-
mation, but as
“The President, seated
on a small throne.”
the evening wears on they also gradually
relapse into a comatose state. On the centre
table are various papers, books and other
objects, including an eggeup with an egg
lying beside it.
Scene I.
Fade in to Minister for Public Works.
M. for P. W.: “I give this House a solemn
warning that the Guvverment regards this
question of whether the egg will fit into the
••up as a vital matter, on the answer to
which it is prepared to stand or fall.”
Close-up of M. for P. W. resuming his seat
Fade-out to: —
Scene 11.
Close-up of unofficial Leader of Opposition,
lie removes hands from pockets, slowly lifts
left leg from kneecap of right leg, places
both feet, firmly on floor and gradually rises
to upright position, supported by arm of
bench.
IT. L. of O.: “I rise with the greatest re-
luctance to say what I have to say. No-
body knows better than the honorable mem-
ber wlio has just given us his views that this
Opposition is as anxious as any member of
tlie Guvverment to expedite the business that
is before this House, and there is no need
for me to tell the honorable member that
nobody knows better than the honorable mem-
ber that nobody is more anxious than myself
to expedite the business that is before
the House. The busi-
ness before the House
11
Interjector : “Any-
body but a lunatic can
see that the egg is big-
ger than the cup.”
Close-up of Inter-
jector. On finishing
speaking he has fallen
asleep. Sound effect
of heavy breathing.
Fade-in to TJ. L. of O.
U. L. of O.: “The
honorable member is
entitled to his opinion,
but there is no need
“Anybody but a
goat can see that.”
for me to tell the honorable member that
nobody knows better than the honorable
member that this Opposition is as anxious
as he is himself to settle the question of
whether the egg will fit into the cup. Person-
ally”—
Second Interjector : “If it’s a hen’s egg
it will; if it’s a duck’s egg it won’t. Any
body but a goat can see that!”
Close-up of Bcegnd Interjector. He has
already fallen asleep. Sound effect of snore.
Fade-in to 'll. L. of O.
U. L. of O.: “The honorable member who
has just spoken thinks he has raised an
important point. Is the egg a duck’s egg, or
is it a lien’s egg? Or, to put it more clearly
(and I have no need to tell the honorable
member that nobody is more anxious than
the Opposition to have everything clear and
aboveboard), was the spheroidal body on the
table, containing, the' germ of a new indi-
vidual of a species, formed in the ovary of
a female animal, known as a hen or duck?
riiere is no need for me to remind honor-
able members that this Opposition is as
anxious as. anybody to maintain* the reputa-
tion of this House for never embarking on
ill-considered action. If the object is an
egg—and I do not admit that it is an egg—
may it not. be the egg of a pigeon or an
emu, or even, of a platypus? And what then?
The question, I submit, is not whether the
object is an egg at all, but whether it will
fit. into.... ”
Sound effect of an honorable member of
Government rising to Ms feet. Fade-out from
TJ. L. of O. to close-up of honorable member
rising to his feet.
Honorable member puts tip his hand and
says, “ Please , Teacher, can I leave the room?”
'■ — then, remembering where he is, blushes
deeply, bows 1o President and slowly walks
out of room.
Truck shot of legs of honorable member
walking to the door. Fade-in to U. L. of O.
U. L. OF O: “Whether the egg will fit into
the cup. But, assuming for the sake of
argument, that it is important for this
House to decide whether the object is an
Remembering
where he is,
blushes deeply.
egg or not, it will then
become recumbent —in-
cumbent on this House
to define what is an
egg. There is no need
for me to tell honor-
able members than an
egg is the name given
to the element fur-
nished by the female
fowl, which, when duly
fertilised, is capable of
developing into a neW
organism. Eggs, I
do not need to point
out vary very much in
different animals in the
relative development
of their parts. Every
perfect egg consists
of a vitelline, or outer
membrane, of a yolk,
or vetellus, of a germ vesicle, and of a ger-
minal spot. The egg of the. common or barn-
door hen, for instance, consists. of these parts
and of superadded matters —white or albumen,
shell, etc. —to protect the essential part of
the ovum during development. I point to
the opposite benches' and solemnly, ask honor-
able members, knowing the previous record
of the Guvverment for dishonoring of its
most sacred pledges, are they prepared to
accept the object on the table- as ful-
filling the definition I have supplied? And
even if it does, what has that got to do with
the question of whether the object will fit
into the cup? Nothing whatever. In conclusion,
I wish to say that there is.no need for. me
to point out that nobody is more anxious
than the Opposition to facilitate the busi-
ness of this House, especially when that
business so deeply concerns the prosperity
of. the State.”
U. , L. of O. slowly lowers himself' into his
seat, raises his left leg and lays it across
the kneecap of his right leg, places his hands
in his pockets and falls asleep. Close-up of
U. L. of O. asleep. Sound effect of gentle
snore. Cut to:
Scene 111.
Truck shot of legs of honorable member,
who has previously left chamber, returning.
Legs assume sitting posture, then slowly rise
until they lie along bench. Left hand goes
into trousers pocket. Medium close-up of
honorable member’s head. Right hand is laid
across' brow. There is an expression of relief
upon his face, lie is fast asleep. Fade-out
from sleeping member to Minister for Public
Works. He is also asleep. Bound effects.
Snores, grad-
ually rising
in crescendo *
until their
terrific up-
roar arouses
the sleeper
himself. M.
for P. W.
rises slowly
to his feet.
M. FOB P.
W.: “I have
“If it’s a hen’s-egg, it will.”
listened with ill-concealed amusement to
what the honorable the Unofficial Leader of
the Opposition has said. Despite his pre-
tence of a desire on the part of the Oppo-
sition to help the Guvverment to solve the
grave problems which confront the State,
his endeavor to make party capital out of a
simple question of fact is 'too transparent
to deceive anybody not blind, deaf or a hope-
less imbecile. The problem as to whether
the egg will fit into the cup.... ” Cut to:
Scene IV. .
The Strangers y Gallery. ■ Young man from
country suddenly rising to his feet. Cut to
close-up of his face. It is suffused with an,
expression which is a mixture of indignation,
amusement and disgust.
Y. M. from: C.: “Why the hell don’t you
try putting the blasted ' egg in the dam’
cup!”
Fade-out to full shot of President waking
up.. Shots, of members rising hurriedly to
their feet. Shots of faces of M. for P. W.
and TJ. L. of O registering horrified surprise.
Truck shot 0/ Sergeant-at-arms hurrying to
door: Shot of press gallery with laughing
reporters ■ hastily taking notes. Shot of
reporters hastily talc-
ing notes. Shot of
“Hansard ” reporter
falling in dead faint.
Medium close-up of
girl’s face shining
with delight. Sound
effects. Loud laugh-
ter. Shouts of “Order,
order!” Clatter of
policemens feet on
steps of gallery. Angry
and incoherent cries,
more laughter, scuffl-
ing doors hanging, a
gradual diminution ,of
noise and,: finally, the
Close-up of Honor-
able Member.
slowly-rising ' sound of snoring once more.
Fade-out. >
[The End.]
Gilbert having made some good fun by
inoculating the dragoons with the bacillus of
aestheticism and putting the sport into an
aristocratic setting, Sullivan sought for a
musical antithesis- to the pussiness of the
aesthetes and found it in the operatic method
of Wagner, whose London concerts were a
memory only two or three years old when
“Patience” was .scored. Possibly the use of
the opening “lovesick maidens” melodv as
a recurring theme, twined into the develop-
ment of the play, was lost on the not-very-
musical London that hailed each new G. and
S. production with delight, but the gentle
parody of the gargantuan effects of the
Teuton composer must have afforded Sulli-
van impish satisfaction, particularly as he
made all the tunes a little more sugary tuan
usual to make the parody more ridiculous.
The Firm’s revival of the opera at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday, suffered
slightly from the casting of Ivan Menzjes as
Bunthorne, who should be a large, flabby
person, whereas Menzies is so diminutive
that Evelyn Gardiner as the Lady .Jane was .
able to get a laugh not in the book by pick-
ing him up and abducting. him from the stage.
As a compensation Gregory Stroud was the
ideal Grosvenor, his normal, attitude of calm
superiority fitting the part like a glove. Man-
ning, Smith and Darnton as the dragoon
officers won all the chuckles they were
intended to, and the pleasant voices of the
vivacious Misses Hotham and Bremner were
worthy of the very pretty music which they
sang. The choruses, which musically are the
feature of the piece, were admirably done,
and Andrew MacCunn, who seems to have
an infinite capacity for taking pains, steered
his band through the score without the
minutest deviation from the charted course.
* * *
Vaudeville has crept back to Sydney Boxy,
where a band of clowns, musicians and
supple-limbed lasses under the leadership of
Frank Neil occupy the stage. Hector St.
Clair, not quite as sparkling as of yore, but
still Hector, is one of the mainstays of the
show, George Lloyd,
another clown, raises
laughs, but there is
little spontaneity
about his The
Buckley, Adore, Mat-
thews and Patterson
girls boom and croon
their way through the
latest sentimental dit-
ties. Other vocalists
are Maurice Jaffey,
Dot Brown, Douglas
Mcßae and Bessie
Blake, .the last-named
being associated with
Madge de Hone, at the
piano, and Rebe Kes-
Attitudes of
somnolence.
lova, a lady fiddler. Don Julian, a lightning-
sketch artist, always tricks the audience
with the last stroke. Leon, Leighton and Le
Marr indulge in some intricate dancing, and
for good measure there are the Roxy
Rosebuds, a ballet of eight shapely damsels.
* * *
For reasons not stated Scott Alexander’s
New Sydney Repertory Society presented
last Saturday “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” in modern dress —the mortals at
least; the fairies were costumed according to
tradition.. The result was less successful than
if the co. had gone the whole hog, introduced
cocktails, radio, telephones and motor-cars
and made the thing a burlesque. It was
impossible to take Lysander in a sac . suit,
Demetrius with a double-breaster and cricket-
ing shoes and Hermia and Helen, looking like
a pair of dance-hall belles as seriously as the
producer obviously wanted them to be
accepted. The experiment was made doubly
tedious by the wooden acting of most of the
players. Exceptions were the brightness of
Sally Maxwell as Puck, and Barbara Smith’s
charm in the rOle of Titania. Kenneth
Fowles (Lysander), William Rees (Bottom)
and Crofton Hallam (Duke Theseus) just
occasionally captured the spirit of their
respective parts.
# * #
Four of the five leading Sydney amateur
companies are busy rehearsing their final
1931 offerings—the Playbox has shut up
shop until the new year. The Players’ Club,
which recently suffered a loss in the death
of its producer, James H'atton, will present
the postponed “Badger’s Green,” by R. C.
Sherriff, the author of “Journey’s End,” at
St. James’s Hall to-mdtrow and Friday
nights. A cricket match is a feature of this
play. On_ Saturday, at the Savoy, Doris
Fitton’s Independent
Theatre co, will turn
from “Street Scene” to
the peacefulness of
Barrie’s “A Kiss for
Cinderella.” On Satur-
day week the New
Sydney R6ps. will
appear in another lot
of Grand Guignols at
St. James’s Hall. Car-
rie Tennant’s follow-
ing, now styled the
New Little Theatre,
will occupy the boards
at their new head-
quarters, the Aeolian
Hall, Pitt-street, on
“On finishing
speaking he has
fallen asleep
December 19 in Tom Cushing’s “The Devil
in the Cheese.”
* # *
Leoni Miller, a pianist whom discriminat-
ing Melbourne music-lovers have been watch-
ing- for some time, was given a fareAvell con-
cert at the Town Hall last week prepara-
tory to her taking-off for Europe. , The lady
doesn’t look as if she could ; develop the
necessary horse-power to give, volume to
Liszt’s somewhat noisy Concerto in E flat,
but she did it without losing control of her
instrument. Her part in the - lovely Beet-
hoven Concerto in <3 was equally impressive,
though she occasionally had a difference of
opinion with Prof. Heinze’s orchestra on
the question of tempo. Madame Orff-Sol-
scher laid fresh claims to be a Wagnerian
prima donna of considerable eminence with
“Elizabeth’s Greeting” from “Tannhauser,”
and violinist Constance Ziebell added liquid
refreshment to the somewhat dry entertain-
ment spread by Saint-Saens in “The Deluge.”
Vic. Prof. Orchestra continues what
amounts to a charity campaign at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. Last week a scanty
audience listened to an excellent programme
conducted by Henri Penn. There is no
stint to the organisation’s benevolence; the
entertainment lasted till half-past ten. Louis
Hattenbach’s “Australian Suite” was a-fur-
ther demonstration of that composer’s
musicianly skill. Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Sclier-
herezade” was less notable for the orchestral
work than for the delicate bowing of Stanis-
law de Tarczynski, as leader of the violins.
Elvie Berlyn tackled the solo part of the
first movement of Beethoven’s piano Con-
certo in G, No. 4, with a praiseworthy
attention to detail, if no great grasp of the
general plan.
* * *
The Queensland State and Municipal
Choir and Orchestra’s performance, of, “The
Messiah” was conducted by City ; Organist •
George Sampson, with Archie Day at the
organ. The oratorio was well done, the pick
of the soloists being Nancy Muirhead
(soprano) and ,T. E. England (basso).
V
A Melbourne daily’s headline : “The Theatre.
Looks Up.” Judging by the pieces lately
presented it is looking up the annals of the
past. , ,
The Palette.
A story is told of a very old-established
London publisher who was asked what Quali-
ties were most needed for success as a novel-
ist. He replied, after a moment’s thought,
“industry and a commonplace mind.” The
story comes to mind on surveying close on
200 of Arthur Streeton’s pictures, now tem-
porarily mobilised in Sydney’s National Gal-
lery, but in a way that; compliments tne
artist. .Everyone likes Streeton’s paintings.
Even brothers of the brush, of other schools,
find something ,in practically every canvas
that impels them to murmur to themselves
“That’s damned clever,” and the frankly un-
arty person mentally claims Streeton as
a man after his own heart because
Streeton sees and appreciates things in
a natural, human sort of way that leaves
no doubt in the dullest mind as to
the reason why the picture was made. It
was there, and Streeton liked it and put
it into two dimensions, while preserving very
faithfully the appearance of three. There
are a dozen not-v.ery-big frames that hem in
glimpses of Sydney Harbor just as they
might be seen, or so the observer believes,
from the window of any water-side villa in
the locality, 'in some of these, such as
“The Harbor from ‘Wyoming,’” the lighting
is of the lialf-hour before sunset —gorgeous in
orange and black. The appeal of these tran-
scriptions is as immediate as that of the
scenes from which they were taken. Every-
one in Sydney has seen them, just like that.
The big rural landscapes are so well-known
that little need be said about them. In
almost all the beauty of the scene is obvious
to a child. And when, as in “Blue Vista
from the Sundial,” you not only get the
panorama of vast valleys very nearly as God
made it, but feel that if you stretched out
your hand you would feel the woolly lichen
on the nearest rock, you can’t reasonably
ask much more of a painter. Like every in-
telligent artist, Streeton is a constant ex-
perimenter and delights in technical problems.
H'e found a crop of these in “The Screen.”
a brilliant essay in sheens and textures.
“James Pryde’s Mirror” is another still-
life' study, strung mainly on high lights.
Also there are*roses that you can nearly smell
and some raw chops and eggs and other
kitchen stuff that call commandingly for a
frying-pan. In an old-masterish mood there
are “Corfe Castle” and “Malham Cove."
-Heavy tragedy is here the keynote, and- the
pictures won’t, look just right till time,
has , crows-footed their varnish. Possibly
Streeton’s' distinguishing characteristics—
clarity of purpose and fidelity to nature-
are evidences of inferiority, and he ought to
be painting puce cows with one leg, skies
like omelettes and human beings afflicted
with elephantiasis. But it will be hard to
convince this stiff-necked generation that
such is the case.
At Sydney’s Grosvenor Galleries there is
a show by “a group of decorative artists”
that includes some very successful work in
unconventional styles. In this category
come S. Woodward Smith’s “St. Mark’s in
the Evening” and “Suburban Landscape.
Twilight,” the latter a delightful essay in
color derived from an unpromising subject.
Eileen McGrath, who has to. her credit , some
startingly good sculpture, makes a less im-
pressive showing in water-color. Hans Hey-
sen pictures a bowl crammed with zinnias,
splendidly painted, and Nora Heysen shows
some flower pieces and a study ,of cheese,
bread, eggs, etc., which are praiseworthy.
“Grey Ramparts, Sarca'Valley,” by Douglas
Duridas is an attractive application of the
semi-decorative manner to landscape, and
Gordon' Esling, who affects a neat, impres-
sionism, gets some pleasing effects in severely-
restricted color, -schemes. A feature of the
show is a collection of rugs, cushions and
wall-hangings, by Frank Malouy and Arthur
Murcli, who. collaborate. ‘‘ The designs are
reminiscent of those on ! ancient Grecian
vases. Kenneth MacQueeh has delved again
into the’recesses of his fertile imagination
and brought forth a scene which depicts
the ghosts of several huge mutton-chops
rising from a switchback landscape to a
sky of sliced cucumbers- —possibly a gentle
hint to the Meat Board.
“M.G.S.” : The first of Meldrum’s pupils to
sail through the sacred portals of the Vic.
Nat. Gallery is Colin Colahan. in the shape
of , a still-life for which the Felton Bequest
committee paid 100 guineas. There is only
one still-life in the National collection which
is better, and that is Manet’s “Melon.”
“F.S.” : W. H. Gill, Melbourne's doyen of
art-dealers, had a- bright idea when lie
selected the centenary of Alfred Felton’s
birth for a show of pictures representative
of all Australian schools. It was a brighter
idea than that of J. A. Levey, one of the
Felton Bequest trustees, of perpetuating the
memory of the regally munificent manufactur-
ing chemist by “placing something in the
National Gallery before long to bring his
generosity more prominently before the
public. How can that be done better than
by continuing to buy good pictures? Felton's
money has been spent already to the tune of
£400,000, and, while admitting the presence
of some really good works, one shudders at
the thought of, how much has been wasted
on paintings by dead and forgotten R.A.'s.
The show of etchings and woodcuts by
Australian artists at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, includes among the few prints
not previously published a very effective
aquatint by Lionel Lindsay,. “Tramping for
Tucker,” in which swagmen, in twos and
threes, straggle over a dreary plain towards
the sunset. By the same artist is a wood-
cut, “Depression”—a big black crow, done
with a firmness, delicacy and richness of
tone, that bespeaks mastery of a very diffi-
cult art. In the etchings “The Pipe of
Bacca” and “The Pannikin of Flour” Lind-
say crystallises in a few strokes the spirit
of the track. Brother Norman is represented
by his well-known “Tryst in Arcady,”
“Pan’s Hour” and “A Sentimental Inter-
lude.” The ■ lajit-named has a group of
fountain statuary of a salacity extraordinary
even for Norman. Eliotli Gruner gets his
effects with a sure stroke in “Twilight” and
“Poplars.” Adrian, Feint, a decorative artist
with a quiet taste and a nice sense of pro-
portion, .shows some meritorious woodcut
bookplates,,and Sydney Ure .Smith is repre-
sented by a trio of his beautiful etchings of
old Sydney.


HIGH-CLASS DAIRY MACHINERY
2-unit “New Way” Milker, complete with Engine, 100-gallon British Separator
and 40-gallon Milk Vat, with Strainer and Special Tap; also Friction Clutch,
Driving Pulley and Belting. Erected, £152. Complete with Ready-to-erect
Bails, £174/107-
No Inflations, Vacuum Tank or cavities to collect foul milk.
Cheapest to install, cheapest to run.
Lowest in upkeep. Only half the rubber.
BRITISH
“PRINCESS”
SEPARATOR
Has all the latest im-
provements, Ball
Bearings, Automatic
Lubrication, Rustless
Discs in Self-balanc-
ing Bowl. 100-gal.
“Princess," complete
with 40-gal. Vat with
nickel-plated Tap,
Strainer Cup and
Gauze .. £32/10/-
Easy terms can be
arranged.
Allowance for old
Separator.
ẁ
Mr. R. Middleton,
Oxenford, writes:
Nov. 16, 1931.
“I wish to state here
that I am still using
the ‘Princess’ Sep-
arator, and am well
satisfied with same. I
have used nothing else
than the ‘Princess’
Separator since first I
started dairying 30
years ago.
“I can honestly say
that it is a good
machine, and can
recommend it to any-
one wishing to pur-
chase a Separator.” .
W. A. PRESTON & CO
Dairy Machinery Merchants,
175-179 ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1884.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Dvrector& *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRBT.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
It
AND GIVE
PLEASURE
ost«
m
Pen
n
hvi
"z\\
m
jcbv
PM
s&!*■
mm
mi
sim
D(A)
as never before, “Swan”
Pens provide a wealth of inspira-
tion for really practical gift-making.
Whether you choose a black,mottled
or coloured design, in simple or
ornate pattern, remember that it is
a “Swan” Pen—made, as only a
“Swan”can be—for lifetime service.
Swan
pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLACK OR MOTTLED •• SWANS” from 20/-
COLOURED “ SWANS ” - - from 22/6
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils to match from 8/6. “Blackbird” Pens from 10/-
Of Stationers and Jewellers. Illustrated list post free. Mabie, Todd &
Co., Ltd., Swan House, London, W.l. Factories: London & Liverpool
Managing Agents
and Repair
Service Depot:
Phipson & Co.,
Ltd.,
181, Clarence St.,
Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER*
who will quote you price for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
In Paramount’s “Women Love Once, at
Sydney Regent, Eleanor Boardman repre-
sents one of those wives who are the bane
of divorce-court practitioners. Paul Lukas,
a dud artist, deserts her and their little girl
for a woman of fashion. Geoffrey Iverr,
young, handsome, a millionaire and the soul
of honor and generosity, wants her to marry
him. She prefers to struggle on as a slum
dressmaker. Comes a stage when she decides
to put her husband’s worth to a supreme
test. She faces him loaded with diamonds
borrowed from Kerr, and says, they have
been acquired in the usual manner. His
placid acceptance of the lie goads her to
frenzy. She rushes, blind with grief, into
the street and the child rushes after her.
Movie fans know what happens to children
who start chasing grief-blinded mothers
through the traffic of New York. Marilyn
Knowlden, who plays the child, isn t killed
instantly. She lingers for a while in a gor-
geous hospital where wife, husband and
chivalrous admirer foregather. Just as
Paul is about to go out into the world alone,
humbly conscious at last of failure, profes-
sional and domestic, a Sister steals in and
announces the demise of Marilyn. (‘ It was
her poor little liort.”) So Eleanor and Paul
are reconciled, and we may be sure lived
unhappily ever after. The dialogue is much
more intelligent than the sloppy theme de-
serves, and Miss Boardman gets every ounce
out of her lines. She is a mistress of the
art of conveying emotion by a movement of
the hands, a slight inflection of the voice. In
a part which is nearly all weepful she
doesn’t make a single demand on the Para-
mount lot’s celebrated stock of glycerine,
and she is charming in her lighter moments
—on Kerr’s beautifully photographed yacht,
for example. Lukas is himself again ; which
is to say he gives a restrained, finished per-
formance.
“The Cisco Kid” (Fox), the other. Regent
show, stars Warner Baxter as a florid Dago
bandit, all flashing teeth and oily black curls,
and Edmund Lowe as a genial, brainless
Irish cop. Lowe and colleagues pursue
ineffectually, and Baxter flees, trailing gun-
smoke clouds of glory, till he. reaches a
cattle-ranch whose lovely owner is in finan-
cial difficulties. He nobly robs a bank of the
5000 dollars required by the lady to out her
straight, and Lowe is so edified that
But you probably know O. Henry’s story,
(lonchita Montenegro undulates nud'ely
through the film as a cabaret girl who fell
in love with the Kid the very first time she
saw him shoot up her show.
# * *
Warner Bros.’ “Fifty Million Frenchmen”
is at Sydney Capitol." A millionaire (Wil-
liam Gaxton), seeing the heroine (Claudia
Dell) on a wharf in France, becomes in-
fatuated. His friend ( John Halliday) also
covets her. To handicap his rich rival. Halli-
day bets Gaxton he cannot marry Claudia
within two. weeks if he sets out penniless.
To see that Gaxton carries out these con-
ditions Halliday hires Olsen and Johnson,
low-comedy detectives. Gaxton becomes a
guide ; Olsen and Johnson turn porters ; Hal-
liday gives Claudia a party; she invites
Gaxton. By disguising himself as a conjurer
he surreptitiously gets money from Halliday
and takes Claudia to the races.. On the last
day of the two weeks, Gaxton is kidnapped.
After chasing madly over newly-watered and
newly-tarred roads, pursued by all the 1 an-
sian police, Olsen and Johnson, who have
become his friends, rescue him, and they all
end up in hospital, where Claudia is mar-
ried to Gaxton just in time to win the bet.
Olsen and Johnson overact atrociously, as
they did at Sydney Tivoli.
“Graft” (Universal) is the standard news-
paper talkie recast and rehashed. Regis
Toomey as a dud reporter, looks the part.
He accuses Sue Carol of shooting the Dis-
trict Attorney. She is proved innocent and
Sue and Toomey, forgetting their quarrel,
join in a hunt for the murderer. After a
welter of kidnappings intertwined with civic
graft Toomey and Sue and another girl steal
the murderer from the police and take him
to the newspaper office, thereby getting an
exclusive stahry.
* * #
The British talkie version of “White
Cargo,” now at Sydney St. James, gets
much nearer to life than the stage produc-
tion. The change is due largely to Leslie
Faber’s treatment of the role of Weston,
the taunting embittered plantation super-
intendent. Gordon intrigued the flappers, but
Faber is a much more convincing Weston.
On the other hand, the Tondeleyo of Gypsy
Rhouma, who neither looks nor acts the
part, is not a patch on the chocolate-colored
maiden who was seen here. Other parts
are suitably cast, and on the whole a very
striking picture of Gold Coast life is pre-
sented. There is little to choose.
“Cine Ma”: Shanghai filmateers have no-
thing to learn from Hollywood in the art
of publicity. In the shooting of a picture
rejoicing in the title of “The Red Butter-
fly,” one of the characters was supposed to
have his finger cut off by a rival for a lady’s
hand. A false finger was provided for veri-
similitude, but when the incident was finished
character A found that he still had the false
finger, while character B had one of his
real ones. The injured film star promptly
brought an action against the company,
alleging that the director had deliberately
planned the little misunderstanding, point
being given to the accusation by the fact
that the management had subsequently used
the digit, preserved in spirits, to advertise
the picture.
“Strict Veg.”: How these critics contra-
dict one another when they introduce moral
values into their art judgments! Said the
“Argus” of “The Vice Squad,” an American
picture shown at Melb. Capitol:—
With a theme which is wholly disgusting, this
film is unredeemed by any feature save technical
facility; that it should have reached the screen at
all denotes a grave fault in the elaborate Australian
system of censorship.
Said the “Herald” on the same opus:—
Only a prurient mind could take exception to it.
So where are we?


M
M
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIR
(GERMANY)
Concessions to Australi an Buyers
As a special inducement to Australian Buyers deciding to visit this world-
famed centre of 10,000 exhibitors, the Trade Fair Authorities are offering
a substantial rebate on all travelling expenses to Leipzig. It is worth
your investigation.
SPRING TRADE FAIR, embracing SAMPLES FAIR (Ceramics, Textiles,
China, Glass, Toys), ENGINEERING and BUILDING FAIRS, Commence
March 6, 1932,
Visitors will not experience the slightest difficulty with the language, matters of freight,
duties and banking. The Authorities of the Fair are always at hand to help courteously
and efficiently in business negotiations.
Full details gladlv given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
For Economical Buying—go to Leipzig!
PENNY SENSE
A distinctive feature of Savings Bank service is the fact that it
provides for the smallest beginnings. It is so comprehensive that an
account may be opened by or for any citizen, even from the youngest
child, and no amount is too small to serve as the basis of an account.
The service facilities available are so complete that whereas an initial
deposit of so trifling an amount as one shilling may prove the founda-
tion of a fortune, they offer complete financial independence and con-
venience to the depositor.
By the aid of the Money Box every child may learn the potential value
of every penny, and in the Savings Account every citizen may employ
a most valuable aid to the accumulation of personal means and the
establishment of that peace of mind which follows upon confidence in
the future
(flbmmonwcaltbSavmQsßankof Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
ABORIGINALITIES
“H’amer” : “Ole Jim Brogan was a queer
sorter cove ’oo loved to read the scientific
articles in the papers,” said the man who
was nursing his mug of beer on the pub
bench. “When a wanderin’ musician playin’
a concertina comes round ’e gits an idea.
’E remimbers ’avin’ read about the infloo-
ence of moosic in maltin’ things grow; so
’e ’ires the moosician, beer-money and keep,
LARGE PARTIES.
“Many other Maoris coming over for the tangi?”
“Ac! Ac! Tons of them.”
ter sit on posts at the corners of ’is paddocks
playin’ ‘Silver Threads Among the Gold’
an’ ‘B’lieve Me if Orl Them Endearin’
Young Charms” to the springin’ wheat.
Cripes! It worked! That there wheat grew
as if it liked the moosic an’ thrived on it.
Not only that, but the chooks laid more
eggs an’ the cows gave more milk than
usual. Ole Jim was delighted, an’ e sets
out ter breed a speshul wheat with extra-
moosical ears, so ter speak; an’ next year ’e
gets a troupe of three moosicians, an’ the
year after that a full brass band. The
scheme worked jake. People useter come
from 20 miles or more to see ole Jim’s band
marehin’ round the fields playing to the
wheat ter pack up its troubles in the ole
kit bag, an’ or] that sorter thing. You c’d
see the wheat growin’ as it listened to the
moosic three times a day. But jist as things
was goin’ right there was trouble with the
band. ‘We want union rates.’ they says. ‘You
won’t get ’em,’ says Jim. Jurin’ the strike
it was perthetie ter see the wheat twistin’ its
ears this way an’ that in expectation of the
moosic that didn’t come. Y’see Brogan ’ad
bred a class of wheat that needed moosic as
part of its daily food, an’ although they
sent to the store fer tin-whistles an’ mouf-
organs, the playin’ of the members of ’is
family didn’t do much good. The band took
a ’orrible revenge. The wheat looked up
sprightly when it ’card the sound of instru-
ments again, as the moosicians marched
round Brogan’s farm; but soon it began
ter wilt. Brogan, mad as ’ell, sent fer the
perlice, but the perlice could do nothin' as
long as the moosicians kept movin’, which
they did. In the mornin’ the ole crop was
droopin’ an’ dead. Y’see the wheat ’ad been
bred ter the old-fashioned sorter moosic, an’
the jazz stuff the band put over, in spite,
was too much fer it. It simply lay down an’
died, so ter speak—torchered ter death !”
* & #- *
“.Clerk” : The N.Q. barman surveyed my
punctured hands and face with sympathetic
interest. “I should ’ave told yer about them
flamin’ muskeet ers afore yer went ter bed
lars’ night,” he acknowledged genially. “Not
that it would ’ave made any difference if
yer’d knowed about ’em. Yer can’t stop
’em gittin’ at yer; they’re that thick in
the wet months they can hold yer down
in the bed.” “Whoever slept next , door
to me last night wasn’t worried by
them,” I replied, tenderly massaging my
chin. “He snored like a brass-hand all
night.” The barman jerked a finger at
Bung, who had just lurched on to the veran-
dah in his pyjamas. “That would ’ave been
the boss,” he explained. “They can’t wake
’im. ’E’s so full er whisky when ’e goes ter
bed that fer ’arf the night ’e don’t notice
the muskeeters.” “And the rest of the
night?” I asked. “The muskeeters is so full
they don’t notice ’im!”
* * *
“Cooramin”: Laura station, on Laura
River (Q.), treasures a couple of old dummy
rifles that have a quaint history. The
place was pioneered by the O’Beirnes when
the blacks were bad. Mrs. O’Beirne did her
washing at the river, and meanwhile one of
the family stood guard on top of the bank
with a rifle. One day a mob entered from
the opposite side and looted the place,
Thereafter, on washing days and when the
men were away on the run, two extra sen-
tries were posted at the house, but as there
was only one rifle on the place two of the
lookouts were armed with dummy guns
made wholly of wood. Binghi had too much
respect for the shooting-stick to emerge from
cover while there was one about. The
sentries strode up and down like soldiers,
keeping the dummies on show, and ready
always at the first sign of hostilities to call
up the one effective reinforcement.
* * * *
“Plankton”: An extraordinary life story is
that pf the prawns belonging to the tribe
Peneidca. They are distinguished by a
superfluity of
pincers, having
three pairs of
them, and by
the fact that
the body is
straight a n d
not doubled
under itself, as
with the other
members of the
, o r d e r. O n
emerging from
the eg'g, the in-
fa n t prawn,
like Cyclops,
eyes the world
through a soli-
tary optic. He
cruises round
using his two
pairs of long-
feelers as oars,
assisted by a
smaller pair of
appendages
which later
develop into
mandibles. At
the next stage
four more limbs
are acquired,
the body grows
longer, and two
enormous com-
pou n d eyes
appear, one on
each side of
the head-shield.
The weird ap-
pearance of the
minute creature
is added to in
some species by
an armor of
spines all over
the body. Next
the compound
eyes develop
long stalks, and
a series of
forked limbs, attached to the lower side of the
abdomen, provide more efficient swimming
organs. The final change is marked by the
forked limbs losing one of their prongs and
the disappearance of the original eye.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: I knew a northern
squatter who never destroyed a tree that
was beautiful or likely to be useful—and
they were pretty thick on some parts of his
run. But one day, while riding along a rise
towards the homestead, he chanced to look
up as he drew close to a low, broad-topped
gum; the bridle-track passed under the
spreading branches, and the fine shade they
cast had taken his eye. What he saw aloft,
however, suddenly banished his love of trees.
Perched like crows among the limbs were
20 naked blacks. All were armed, some
sitting and some standing, and every one
as still as an ebony statue. It turned out
later that they were watching the home-
stead on the lookout for a black stockman
who had betrayed some of the bush brigade
for killing calves. Next day orders were
given for the whole of the home paddocks
to be ringbarked.
*l* $ •!'
“Mulgo” : While knocking about the west-
ern parts of Queensland I met several white
men—good sorts—who were mar-
ried to lubras. In their opinion
the black ladies made good wives;
they’d do any sort of work, even
stockriding, and they never nagged.
One day a cattle-buyer called at a
station homestead, and was met by
a fat, well-dressed and bejewelled
lubra who informed him that Mr.
Stockwhip, the manager, was
away. “Is Mrs. Stockwhip at
home?” he asked her. “I’m Mrs.
Stockwhip,” she replied. “You
want to see me?” “Oh, no—not
particularly,” said the surprised
visitor. “I’ll wait at the hut; I
want to see the cook.” When he
got to the hut he found the cook
was also a lubra. Then he sat down to wait
at the stable, where Tarpot, the groom,
helped to while away the time. He was the
manager’s father-in-law.
#■•***
“Trevdee”: Strzelecki (Yic.) is so hilly
that walk a quarter of a mile in any direction
and you have to go 500 ft. to 1000 ft. up or
down. A little more than 50 years ago
soiiie of the gamest men ever bred came
into the district and hewed a way through
the tangled bash, huge tree-ferns and mighty
gums to make their habitations. Times were
hard, prices were low, and transport was
costly, yet they made good. Recently a
slieepbreeder from the Riverina plains paid
a visit to the locality, and as he viewed the
steep hills with their neatly ploughed sides,
and the deep valleys with their dairy herds
and extensive vegetable plots, he bowed his
head with the admiration of one who under-
stands. “By gum,” he said, “those old
LUBRA-CATED.
pioneers had guts!” He was overheard by
one of the local youngsters who had just
climbed up from milking a cow in a pad-
dock 600 ft. below. “Yairs,” he answered;
“seems ter me they was all guts and no
brains!”
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Thursday Island, after 20
years’ effort, has just installed a town elec-
tric-lighting scheme. Jimmy Susu, in the
neighboring Torres Strait islands, views
it with a gloomy eye. “Yes, that ’lectic light
he proper good for that place all right; man
he can look good night-time now, he can
see policeman long way, and he good so you
can’t cut you foot ’long bottle when you
go ’long that street. But what about we?
That thing going spoil our island. Before,
when he got that ’nother kind light, Guv’-
ment give order fur put big stone ’long our
street and paint him white for make hash:
he tell we, ‘You take plenty that gaas
[carbide refuse] ’long T?l.. mix him ’long
w r ater, and paint them stone good for when
big Guv’ment come.’ We do that; we take
plenty gaas all time, make them stone
number one white; every island do that
way now. We put that gaas ’long house,
too —paint them post and wall. But what
we going do now? This ’lectic light he make
all them gaas machine finish; he got noth-
ing gaas soon! I tink more better we buy
some them gaas machine for island now, so
he can make plenty stuff for paint again!”
❖ *
“Med.”: My family lived at Murga-
troyd Manor for some 800 years • it is a
charming old place, though a little out of
repair and definitely lacks mod. con. The
ghosts, of course, are famous. On the night
of the first full moon in May they gather for
mass haunting, disappearing at cock-crow.
This is a rigid rule, and any ghost not so
doing immediately forfeits his amateur status.
There had been no false note for centuries
till the 25th baronet, bronzed and bearded,
brought back with him from Australia Jacky
the kookaburra. On the sreat night Jacky
was sitting on a piece of dead ivy meditating
on the absence of goannas. Reaching some
conclusion he threw back his head and burst
into a peal of arrogant laughter. Such a
masterly cock-crow had never been heard
before in all England. The ghosts w T ere all
of a flutter with fear and vanished with
their job half done. At a seance subsequently
they sent in a dignified protest and unani-
mously resigned. Things should not be
shifted out of their proper environment.
WIMIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wimin’s like Life.
You’re fed wiv things, an’ swears yer
through
AViv orl its sufferin’ an’ strife,
An’ then the sky gets blue.
Next thing you know tlie sun comes out,
An’ the birds sing,
An’ scents o’ flowers is orl about,
An’ clean an’ bright is everything.
An’ straight yerself you tells
That you was mad,
An’ that ole Life wiv orl its little ’ells
Ain’t really bad.
An’ wiv the Sect it's jus’ the same:
Your tart goes cold,
An’ says you’ve only got yerself to blame
’Cos ’er you couldn’t ’old.
She sneers at you,
An’ goes orf wiv some other jay;
An’ you swears you are through:
“AVimin no more for me,” you say.
An’ then a pretty diner smiles,
An’ shows ’er ’ose,
An’ ses she likes yer more by miles
Than any bloke she knows.
She shows she thinks you strong and wise;
She says she knows you’re kind;
You look inter ’er eyes,
An’ straight goes blind
To orl that once yer said yer knew,
To orl that once yer swore.
An’ strewth! before yer know wot’s wrong
wiv you, *
You’re tied up tighter than you was
before.
N.S.W.
ALAN D. MICKLE .


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fu9a
Detonators
Cartridges
QUALCAST” lawn mowers
Model “H” MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
w
Qualcast (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray, W. 12, Melbourne.
SUITABLE FOB ALL LAWNS
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
SPARE PARTS AX WAYS AVAIXABXE
Prices in Capital Cities and principal
Seaport Towns.
12in. Win.
Each/ Each.
Bronze bearings 50/- 53/-
Ball bearings 57/6 59/6
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING
HARDWARE STORES.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1873.
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. :
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
r -[j ■ iOp
Head Office, .
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and tor cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company's offices.
FREDK. LEV?, Managing Director.
“Laloki”: The result of that pourri-
pourri seance in Port Moresby (B.
28/10/’3l) at which medicine men enjoying
great prestige among the surrounding tribes
failed to bring a dead dog to life, should
have been a moral victory for his Ex. But
the Papuan sorcerer is an astute opportun-
ist. The chief pourri-pourri expert suddenly
remembered that the medical officer, invited
to satisfy himself that the dog was dead, had
touched it with his stethoscope. That,
of course, cleared up the mystery of the
dog's refusal to come to life. Every reason-
able native knew at once that the medical
officer had applied a powerful counter
pourri-pourri. It is unfortunately true that
the magicians were given presents of rice
ALWAYS A TRIAL.
“My word, that son o’ yours has got unself in purty fix with that girl at public-
house.”
“’Es, ’e alius was awk’ard young fool. Only last week un broke bran-new axe-handle.”
and flour—a not unusual instance of
official stupidity. If these natives did not
return to their village and exhibit the rice
and flour as proof that the Government
was much impressed with their prowess,
then they’re not the pourri-pourri men I
take them for. They ought to be able to
live on their reputation in ease and
luxury for the rest of their lives.
* - S: *
“Gelt”: One of the belles of
a Papuan hamlet had succumbed
to the ardent love-making of a
Lothario from a neighboring
village. Honor demanded re-
paration, and, old-time warlike
habits having been long dis-
carded, it was decided that a
football game, or “kick cross,’
should be the means of adjust-
ing the matter. Sympathisers
of the opposing parties consti-
tuted teams of about 20 a side.
I was a spectator. The rules,
apparently were based on the
soccer code, and the playing field
was between two lines of huts.
Large trees occupied a goodly
portion of the field, and
Lothario’s side judiciously
planted its goal-posts immedi-
ately behind a huge specimen.
Two players of each team took
up positions deliberately “off-
side” —almost elbowing the
goalkeeper from between his
posts. More than half the time
the ball was outside the line,
disappearing beneath, under and
inside the houses to reappear,
after being dribbled down a
back lane, close to the oppo-
nents’ goal. . One of the goal-
keepers and his full-back had
conventions which they stu-
diously observed. Every time
the ball was played behind the
goal-line it was thrown to the
full-back, who held it until the
whistle blew and then threw it
to the goalkeeper, who kicked
off. Play continued for over
two hours without intermission
and the supporters of Lothario
won with a score of one goal to
nil. Lothario was the umpire.
* * *
“E.S.S.”: “Chloe’s” explanation regarding
the liana that became stretched taut from
tree to tree across a gully, that it is pulled
as the tree adds feet to its upward growth
and may become horizontal (B. 21/10/’3l),
is based on wrong deductions. A tree doesn’t
grow bodily upwards from the root, carrying
its branches higher and higher. There are
trees that were used as fence posts 50 years
ago, and the rails are the same distance from
the ground as when they were put in; and
numerous marks made on small trees by ex-
plorers and surveyors a hundred years ago
have not been carried an inch higher by the
growth of the trees. The upward or forward
growth of any plant is from the terminal bud.
If melon and pumpkin vines grew as “Chloe”
seems to think, they would drag the melons
and pumpkins along the ground. What
causes so much argument on this subject is
the straight-boled gum, with the first limb
50ft. to 100 ft. or more from the ground,
When these trees start their branches are
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
THE MISSUS (angrily): “Mary, wake him up at once. Tell him to sleep somewhere
else.”
MARY (highly amused ): “Orright, Missus. But you winnit pair of gluts [ gloves]!”
only inches high, and the common impi’ession
is that they are carried up by growth. But
look on the ground in any gum forest, and
note the dropped sticks lying about in
hundreds. The butt ends of the sticks are
brittle, easily breaking off in rings; and the
splitter knows where these came from by
the little surface knots in the wood he cuts
from the clean-looking trunk. A pine-tree,
which doesn’t shed limbs, shows its succession
of tops like the rungs of a la.dder. As the
tree increases in girth by successive layers
of sap, so it increases in height each season
by the sap building on the foundation formed
in previous seasons —the terminal bud resting
when the sap is down. Cut off the tip of
the main stem and the tree is permanently
dwarfed.
❖ $ ❖ *
“Mundowie”: To appreciate the value of
finger-posts you need to travel on lonely
roads, uncertain whether you're on the
right way or whether you should have
taken the turning that’s drifting ever
further behind. You appreciate those par-
ticularly that indicate where you can fill
the waterbag. There was a finger-board
placed on a far-western N.S.W. track to point
the way to the only wet spot in a wilderness
where many travellers had perished of thirst.
The casual soul who put it there used only
one nail, and through a withering summer
it mocked the thirsty wayfarer by pointing
straight down at the ground. But perhaps
it was right; not long afterwards a good
flow of artesian water was got in the
locality.
❖ ❖ Jjs :J*
“Bogaduck”: Why do the hundreds of
bagmen “Gad” writes about hug the main
roads, or risk life and limb trying to steal
rides on goods trains? Why not take to the
back tracks, where the folk are not pestered
to death by requests for tucker, and where
there is a far better chance of getting a
job. The only exception to the general
run I have met with in this State (S.A.)
was a lad who travelled by bicycled On
this he canned a 6ft. by 4ft. tent, ground-
sheet, rug, tomahawk, rifle, billy, frying-pan,
hurricane-lamp and a .supply of flour, tea,
sugar, etc., packed in little linen bags, as
well as an oilskin coat and a change of
underclothes. It sounds a lot to pack on
one pushbike, but that’s the way shearers
travelled between sheds in pre-motor days,
often covering 80 miles or more in a day.
This lad has found a job with a farmer out
on a back road, and while it is only of the
“ten bob and keep” type it will carry better
pay when things brighten.
$ :Je
“Nakhoda”: A couple of years ago an
excited traveller came back from the Dutch
East Indies and told London that he had
seen the missing link, alive and apparently
financial: at any rate, he was supporting
a female link and a whole chain of children.
The link was reported to be five feet in
height, with hands reaching to his knees, a
hairy body and a general appearance sug-
gesting close relationship to the Pithecan-
thropus credits , or Java. man. As the locale
was a small island off the coast of Sumatra,
which is next door to Java, the story aroused
the interest of a group of scientific men, in-
cluding our own Prof. Elliot Smith, and an
expedition was actually sent to investigate
. and, if possible, capture a couple of links
to add to the skeletal chain of evidence of
man’s evolution from the monkey. It turned
out that our supposed ancestor was the
Malayan bear, whose footprints are extra-
ordinarily manlike. If the scientists only
knew, “missing-link” stories are the daily
pabulum of every steamer smokeroom and
club verandah in “the islands.” The Orang
pendek, or short, man, is imbedded in
Malayan folklore. In places where the
orang-outang’s curiously childlike cry may
be heard coming from the jungle, he bears
a remarkable resemblance to that animal.
Seized by a eugenical desire to improve the
parental stock, he sometimes descends upon
a village and carries off a likely-looking
maiden to his semi-det. res. in the top of
a tapang-tree. When she has born him
a child he tears her to pieces, which ex-
plains why no woman -who has undergone
this experience has been able to give the
story to science. Another example is the
tailed man of Celebes, who is probably the
waw-waw monkey. The missing-link ex-
pedition could have stayed in the
archipelago following up clues lijic this indefi-
nitely.
=!: * * *
“Runa”: Talk of jellyfish! We were
launching for a month on the Hawkes-
bury one winter, and for the first three
day's we passed through immense shoals of
these creatures, all of the highly ornamental
variety, with long fringed tentacles. They
were of every shade from pale pink to deep
orange, and the effect in the water was of
millions of colored lampshades moving in
the depths. As we worked up the river
towards the fresh water they decreased in
numbers, but lower down the launch at
times literally mowed through masses of
them. The only thing I have seen like it
was a shoal of the ordinary jellyfish, the
colorless, saucer-shaped variety with a touch
of purple, through which we passed for 100
miles along the North Auckland coast.
“R.C.W.”: At Wellsliot station, Ilfra-
combe, Central Queensland, this year 88,000
ewes were jetted in 25 working days. The
highest day’s tally for a double race, with
four men taking turn and turn about, was
5729, and the highest for a single race, two
men doing the jetting, was 3596. Has this
been beaten?
THE SWAGGIE AND THE GOAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By station, town and mining shacks,
Two nomads day by day
Fared out along the camel tracks
To regions far away;
One wore small corks around his hat,
And one a shaggy coat —-
And team and tavern knew by that
The swaggie and the goat.
By many a road tramped lie and she
The runs of shepherd kings,
Nor wished for other company
In all their wanderings;
And here and there, to save a week,
A lumber raft or boat
Conveyed across some flooded creek
The swaggie and the goat.
She shared his bread and -waterbag
When tracks were dry and bare,
And, like a dog, she watched his swag
When he was otherwhere.
In memory still they linger plain,
Though yearly more remote,
That curiously mated twain,
The swaggie and the goat.
They camped by many a tank and dam,
They wandered to and fro:
Where’er he went, like Mary’s lamb,
The goat was sure to go.
E’en to the shanty bar it crept
To slake a parching throat;
And side by side at night they slept,
The swaggie and the goat.
Thus they were found by chance at last,
When luck had passed them by,
Together where the summer’s blast
Had drained the channels dry;
And ’mid the sands where death had won,
The desert dust afloat
Rained down a covering shroud upon
The swaggie and the goat.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


„'ith new
rin^Jksiener^
PRICE- H4XS
wmvMPKunm
iit Queen St. Brisbane
PIAITEDi
KANGAROO,
SKIN BELT
mm
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and fin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
&/>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle _ 21/- each
(Strongly-'made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-dav sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory. 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and fin.
Each
razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . • •. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout tne
world. ,
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
ẁ
A FEMININE DEFINITION.
THE SOLDIER : “I don’t suppose you really know the difference between tactics and
strategy?”
THE GIRL: “Rather! Tactics are the way you get to know a, girl; strategy is the way
you proceed to hug her.”
ẃ
she was still claiming, when I paid my last
visit to the old home at Wormwood Scrubbs
in ’O9, to be a girl of 22.” , .
“Did ’er Grace get away with it.
inquired Willie anxiously.
“What concern is it of yours, Plebeian
TripehoundV” thundered the Count.
“I only arst, Count, because we must
be getting on ourselves. I meantersay,
suppose you was 60 when we begun our
talks, why you wuz all set for the old-age
pension long ago, and as fer me—well, I
won’t never see 90 agen, Count, an’ that’s
dinkum.”
“Liar and slave!” roared the Count.
“What burden of years may be concealed by
the heaped layers of filth that cover your
vile carcase must remain a mystery till they
wash you after death, but I would have you
know that I am in the fortunate position
of the Duchesse, my aunt, Master Meggs,
one of Sydney’s leading society beauties, the
Wandering Jew, and one or two more. I
enjoy perpetual youth. In fact. I only
recently qualified for Mr. Lang’s Child
Endowment grant. Which reminds me—we
are short of beer. Come, Hound, we will hie
us to the Department and collect.”
HIS MISTAKE.
.Tilted ! Reckless bitterness filled Splash-
cm’s soul. He would go back to his old
haunts! Back to the life of profligacy
which he had intended to abandon for Love.
Back to his old haunts! With a despair-
ing laugh he went out into the darkness.
Yet behold him, now! Preaching in the
little chapel. Taking a class at the Sun-
day-school. Handing round tea and cakes
at mothers’ meetings. How has he come
to this ? It’s quite simple, gentle reader.
Splashem had honestly intended to go back
to his old haunts; but he never was strong-
on aspirates, and by a typographical error
he inadvertently went back to his old aunts.
# *
“Communists are being harried from town to
town in Western N.S.W.”
The West has risen! Men of steel
War against Reds are plying.
They loathe the “Red Flag,” yet their zeal
Still keeps the Red Flags flying!
“Man arrested in beds’’
Caught napping, as it were.
* ¥
“Motor cyclists should be medically examined.’’
They are, sooner or later.
A LA GANDHI.
Soul Force in Australian Politics.
Melbourne. —Mr. Theodore left to-day for
London, attired in a thinking-cap of the
kind he has been using of late in Dailey. To
a reporter at the quayside he said: “I am
just a poor mendicant.' My only posses-
sions are this cap, a_ book on
currency inflation and:a bottle
of goanna’s milk.:
Avium. —This being Mr.
Lang’s day of silence, he
spent it dodging enraged depu-
tations from ’bus employees,
G.S.B. depositors and the like.
When saluted by Jock Garden
with the title Mahatma he
broke his vow of silence, and
retorted angrily: “Who’s a—
whatever you said? The
same to you, you blasted
Pommy!”
Canberra. —Addressing the
House on the second reading
of the Politicians’ Extinction
Bill, the Prime Minister said :
“I am only a poor miserable
worm. {Applause.) In fact,
we are all poor miserable
worms. {Dissent.) What
am I doing here? 'What, I
say, have I ever done here?
What, I further say, will I
ever do here? Should we not
extinguish ourselves? Should
we not go out on to Mount
What’s-its-name and dig there
a deep hole in , the ground,
jump in, and pull the earth
over after us? Is it not meet.
Is it not just?’’
Late cable. London. —Mr.
Theodore attended their
Majesties’ garden party this
afternoon dressed in a copy' of
the Mungana report. His
Majesty courteously inquired
of the Federal Treasurer
whether he did not find the
English climate inclement in
such a garb. Mr. Theodore
replied: “iTour Majesty, I am
just a poor mendicant. My
only possessions are this report, a thinking-
cap, a book on currency inflation and a
bottle of goanna’s milk. Besides it’s as hot
as mustard.”
* *
FELL’S FELL FATE.
“Thomas Fell, timbergetter, attributed his insol-
vency to an attempt to buy a house on the instal-
ment plan.” —Evidence in Bankruptcy.
Fell teas a feller; he felled trees.
Fell felt an impulse, it appears,
To buy a dwelling. Poor Fell fell
For the t.-p. plan. Sad to tell,
Fell quickly fell into arrears.
*
“ANNO DOMINI.”
The veteran heaved a sigh. “Too old!”
“Too old!” The tragic phrase rang in his
ears. Idol of the crowds since his debut
in international sport, he had retained his
popularity throughout the years. And now
Time, the Inexorable, was looking askance
at him. Too often had he seen the sport-
ing public’s fickle attitude towards former
favorites. A few more failures, and his
retirement would be urged. Sporting writers
would begin referring to him as an “old-
timer.” He shuddered.
Well, he would have to face it frankly,
and admit that he was getting past his
athletic prime.
Next month (ghastly thought!) he would
be 21 years old !
HAVING IT BOTH WAYS.
“Cease giving these gangsters the cheap, tawdry
publicity they live on. Shorn of any glamor they
are cheap and .vulgar, clinging to the lowest rung
of the human ladder.” —Sydney lueekly.
Editor: “Got that drawing of Razor Liz?”
News Editor: “Yes.”
Ed,: “Star it on the front page, with a
write-up about the guns that Underworld
Men pack and use.... Sydney’s Mystery
Girl... .Madonna beauty... .Lives and
laughs recklessly.... But not all bad just
another of God’s frail Passion-wracked
Children... .A girl-life strangely lit with the
lurid fires of Violence and Sudden Death.
Got the idea?”
N.E.: “Yes.”
Ed.: “No need to mention her cross-eyes
and hare-lip.”
N.E.: “Think I’m mad?”
Ed.: “We’ll want the usual photo, of
Tohnno Pluggem—owner of that Grim Red-
fern Fortress where The Reaper .stalks to the
A FINAL FLUTTER.
WARDER: “You can have anything you like for breakfast
on account of you’re goin’ ter be hanged!”
CONDEMNED MAN : “I think I’ll try mushrooms—l have
always hesitated to eat them for fear of being
poisoned!”
macabre rattle of gun-fire.... Ruthless as
Date itself... .Proud hubby of fair Pansy
that ilk—the radiant Underworld Queen
(with photos, of her car and dogs). And
shove in a photo, of Jummer Pluggem. And
one of Tietacker .Toe —Debonair Tictacker,
who was recently wounded nigh unto death
in one of those mysterious underworld feuds
which periodically excite Australia to frenzy
and shock it to the marrow. You know
the kind of stuff.”
N.E.: “Of course.”
Ed.: “In the middle of the page a Mother
Picture A Gangland Saint The Des-
perado’s Guiding Star... .The Gentle Little
Mother wild through Good and 111 Report,
aye even to the Gallows Foot, stands loyally
by the Reckless Boy she bore in Travail and
reared in Love.” . ,
N.E.: “I’ll get old Annie Pmcher to sit
if she isn’t still in quod.”
Ed,: “Now ask the leader-writer to step
this way. I want something _of an elevated
nature about the immorality of giving
gangsters cheap, tawdry publicity.”
THE FLATTERY OF ART.
“But ought art to flatter a sitter?”
“But art doesn’t flatter a sitter. It gets
hold of his purse and makes that
flatter.”
The early settlers one reveres,
But they’re now far to seelc;
I don’t speak of the pioneers,
But of payers week by week!
MARTYR TO SCIENCE.
ẅ
BEREFT.
Last night I tossed and turned upon my bed;
In misery I twisted to and fro.
(“I liice you as a friend,” she’d lightly said,
But marry you! Oh, goodness gracious,
no !”)
I lay distracted, harrowed by despair,
A lover from Ms loved one’s favor cast —
’Twas fully seven minutes, I declare,
Ere slumber soothed my anguished heart,
at last!
FISTH STORY.
“In the Fish v. Fish case, petitioner admitted he
had once left home because of his wife’s ill-temper
and extravagance. Shortly after his return she had
abruptly deserted, him.” —Melbourne paper. .
Like other flatheads, he was caught;
In love he had his flounder;
For her a lovely plaice he bought,
And in high ’eels he found her.
She proved a snapper in the home,
The perch she filled with racket.
Her ranting caused poor Fish to roam —
He teas no leather jacket.
She took each sprat in her control,
His cash ran through her flipper;
He took her for his cherished sole,
And found she teas —a skipper.


m
X:-m
Mm.
Distributors for the
House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Adelaide.
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd.,
Townsville.
Northern Australian Breweries,
Ltd.,
Cairns.
11 There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
ask for it! ”
(DTctUums
Scots fflhisl^
FARM ACCOUNTS’
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis
and keep it there. In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE


SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTERS
Reduce Harvesting Costs because——
They Get the Maximum Yield of Grain from Difficult Crops.
No matter how badly a crop is down, or how much it is choked with thistles, the Sunshine
Header Harvester will rescue from it the highest possible percentage of grain.
PC iSa
■
ft- ..r
68 :V s' '
m
■
: ; S 3
1
, , .'...
Hi
ill
H
■s
i m
; : ; : y v v
!«1
i
11
B
■
m
V
From the storm-lashed wreck of a crop here
illustrated, Messrs. Cole Bros., of Duri,
N.S.W., took off eight bags of wheat to the
acre with their “Sunshine. “
Moreover, without being treated or graded,
but just as it came from the Header, the
sample won Four First Prizes and Champion-
ships, including the 1931 Championship of
Australia at the Royal Easter Show.
The Sunshine Header Harvester
6ft., Bft. and 10ft. Cut.
The machine that harvests the great bulk
of Australia's annual grain crop.
For work on sandy or very hilly country, or for
rice-harvesting, it can be supplied with a 4-cylinder
petrol engine incorporated to drive the mechanism.
A small team suffices for haulage. The Sunshine
Header Harvester also harvests field-peas, and for
this purpose a special pea-reaping front is attached
to the 6ft. or Bft. machine.
Write for Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue and particulars of Reduced Prices, also particulars of Extended Terms,
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(Sunshine Section)
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street, West, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS: H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (QLD.), LTD., Stanley Street, South Brisbane
Cm
&AAAAM
AAIAA
Graham-Paige offers a variety of body
types, including Roadsters, Cabriolets,
Coupes and Sport Phaetons, on five
chasses, in Sixes and Eights— at a
wide range of prices. All are equipped
with four speeds forward except
Model 612,
&AAMAM-PAl££
has always had
Four Speeds Forward
T HE ; first Graham-Paige ever built off ered the great advantage of four speeds
forward with standard gear shift —now time-proved in the hands of thousands
of owners. A 25% reduction in engine speeds at all road speeds adds a new thrill
to motoring. . . .silent smoothness with flashing acceleration and greater economy.
This outstanding feature, and the many important body and chassis improvements,
are reasons why you should see and drive a Graham-Paige before buying any
motor-car.
3=
St
MODEL 827 FIVE-PASSENGER SEDAN
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.


w
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
VEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate- -then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director; H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner El’zabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
- N.S.W* Agents: Farmers & Graziers* Co-operative Grain Insurance and
* ° Agency Co., Ltd.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
tenable at either
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
providing all tuition fees (if chargeable) and £7O per annum
towards the cost of residence at St. Johns College.
OR
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
providing £4O per annum towards fees, residence, ejc.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made
available under the will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are ir!SU £ ™^ k a
sons to study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements foi Matriculation at the
University of Sydney or of entrance to Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the ca-e ma>
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than 15th
1932, in the case of Bursaries tenable at Hawkesbury Agricultural Gollege.and ot , u
15th February, 1932, in the case of those tenable at the University ot Sydney) and tuithei
particulars may be obtained from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE WAR ON PRICKLY-PEAR.
An impression has somehow arisen in
Queensland that the beneficial work or
Cactoblastis cactorum has suffered a severe
check. This the Prickly-pear Land Com-
mission denies. “The progress made by
this remarkable insect,” the Commission
states in its report for the year to June 30,
“has continued to give the greatest satis-
faction” ; indeed, “the year just closed has
witnessed the greatest advance yet recorded
in the campaign for the eradication of
prickly-pear. Large areas of land formerly
abandoned to the pest are rapidly being
cleared and made available for settlement.
The Commission controls 101,141 square
miles of Queensland, an area larger than
Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It is
not all pear-stricken; the estimate is that
“considerably less than one-third now carries
any pear.” But if you set it down at one-
fourth, the infested area is larger than Den-
mark, Switzerland or Belgium. And cacto-
blastis eggs have been distributed on such a
scale that the insect is pretty well estab-
lished “right throughout the pear-lands.”
Going into details, the report says that
“from Nebo, in the north, to Thallon, on the
southern border, and from Ipswich west to
Charleville, cactoblastis has continued to
spread, increase and destroy pear. _ Between
Dalby and Roma the various liberations
have linked up to such an extent that little
of the original dense pear now remains.
Crops and artificial grasses have been grown
successfully on land which in 1926 was
covered by dense pear; higlily-successful
experiments have been carried out by the
Department of Agriculture in tlie_ growing
of fodder crops among rotted prickly-pear
destroyed by cactoblastis at Palardo, near
Dulacca.” But pear is rarely eradicated in
the first onslaught of cactoblastis, and un-
usually heavy winter rain in 1930, follow-
ing “very great mortality among the cater-
pillars” during the summer, led to wide-
spread regrowth, especially where rotted
pear had been fired. In some parts the
beneficial insect got to work industriously
on the new shoots; in others it will evidently
have to be introduced again.
One difficulty is that “cactoblastis _ is its
own worst enemy. The moths deposit eggs
so thickly that there is an insufficient food-
supply for the developing caterpillars, which
starve to death in untold numbers when
the prickly-pear has been destroyed. Destruc-
tion of the pest cannot be achieved without
serious losses to cactoblastis itself.” It has
also been discovered that cactoblastis does
not eradicate the tiger-pear, or jointed
cactus, which, though not a pest of major
importance, is spreading in some localities.
“Cactoblastis attacks this spiny horror
readily, but, unfortunately, merely destroys
the growth and not the underground butts
and bulbs. The plants possess remarkable
powers of recovery, and in a few months
have grown from ground level to their for-
mer height.” Two Commonwealth scientists
are searching for a tiger-pear parasite in
South America.
WHEAT VARIETIES IN NORTHERN
N. S. WALES.
The northern district is the district of
heaviest rainfall; yet the average in parts
(Moree, etc.) is not above 23in., though it
goes up to 3Sin (Quirindi, etc.). Fifteen
competition crops were judged, and the prizes
went to Nabawa 1, Ford 2, Yandilla King 3.
Of 16 crops (one entry carried two varieties)
there were Nabawa and Ford six each, and
one each Yandilla King, Cleveland, Waratah
and Duri. Nabawa, which took first place,
was also sth ( wq .), 11th, 12tli, 13th and 14th,
while Ford (2nd) was also 4th, stli (wq.) ,
6th, Bth and 9th —a rather better showing on
points than Nabawa. In its six crops
Nabawa averaged a shade over 35 bushels
and Ford a shade under 37 bushels. Nabawa
won its first place in the competition from
Ford by its heavier yield—this was a Gunne-
dah crop; second (Ford) was grown at Tam-
worth; the third (Yandilla King) at
Manilla. On points Ford was slightly better
than Nabawa for freedom from disease; but
Nabawa led easily in the matter of trueness
to type and purity.
FLAG SMUT IN NABAWA.
“Nomad”: In N. -S. Wales this season
there are wheatgrowers who will lose 40 per
cent, of the potential yield of their crops
through flag smut. Many farmers are con-
trolling this disease by the cultivation of
resistant varieties, chiefly Nabawa. Now
comes a report that crops of Nabawa have
been found to be infected with flag smut.
Possibly the infected plants are strangers
of a susceptible variety or varieties in the
crop. These plants may be variants of the true
Nabawa type. Such variants may arise Irom
natural crossing in the variety or from the
much rarer “sporting.”
Nabawa is not exactly immune to flag
smut. Under conditions of soil temperature
and soil moisture extremely favorable to
the development of the fungus, it has been
possible to get an infection of 10 per cent, m
Nabawa. These conditions are seldom
present, but they may have been so in the
crops reported to be infected.
LAMB’S WOOL.
“Sheepo”: The sorting of lamb’s wool
is neglected by many small farmers on the
ground that “it’s not worth while— there s
not enough of the stuff.” It is well worth
while, and the veriest novice can make a pre-
sentable job of it. First, cover the table or
tables with some kind of -sheet, from which
no fibres will issue and mix with the wool.
Never use woolpacks. Get the pickers-up to
use two flat boards. The. belly wool can
be picked up as soon as it is shorn, and
placed in bags or bales hung up for the
purpose along the board.
With the lamb’s fleece on the table, pick
on. the longest-stapled and brightest-looking
pieces, provided the flock is a merino one.
Make this “AA Lambs.” The balance, minus
stains and locks, will be placed in the bin .
to be branded “A Lambs.” If the lambs
are crossbred and the wool is of different
staple, length and quality, the uninitiated
farmer will have a job; but, if there are not
too many of them, class in the same manner
as for merino, except that a third lot may
be necessary. Length of staple and quality
will be the chief consideration. .
If the wool in either case is burry or
seedy, care must be exercised in seeing that
any free wool is kept apart. If the free
wool is not enough for a bale, it should be
put in bags.
A CYCLE OF AGE-MARKS.
“Liss”: There is no occasion to employ
a haphazard method of age-marking sheep,
using any old pliers, which necessitates much
scratching of heads and referring to old
records. A cycle of marks which tells the
age of a sheep at a glance is a simple matter;
it can also be used with advantage on cattle.
Each mark in the cycle stands for a year.
The first year should be represented by a
front notch, placed about one inch from the
lip. This single notch should be moved
round; in the second year it should bo in the
point and in the third year in the back of
the ear. For the next three years there
should be a notch in 'the front of the ear
and one moving round as before, so that the
fourth year shows two front notches, the
fifth year one front and one point, the sixth
year one front and back, and the seventh a
full ear. Then the cycle starts again. There
is no danger of confusing the two-tooths and
the eight-year-olds.
Where it is the practice to join the dry
ewes for a later lambing, the mams are used
at the general marking—say, in the autumn —
and the spring drop of the same year would
be indicated by an additional back notch, low
down on the ear. Thus when the autumn
lambing is the general one, the drop carry-
ing this additional back notch would be some
six months younger than those without; if
the spring drop is the big one the back-
notchers would be the older.
FAT LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“Golightly”: My N.S.W. farm uses two
lambs per week for rations. When slaughter-
ing I carefully record their ages in weeks,
the breed and their cold dressed weight, also
conformation. They are killed onlv when
prime, fat. These records show that the
progeny of a pedigree Dorset Horn ram on
a first crossbred ewe averaged 391 b. dressed
weight at 13 weeks; of a pedigree Dorset
Horn ram on a plain-bodied merino ewe,
391 b. at 18 weeks; of a grade Dorset Horn
ram on a plain-bodied merino ewe, 391 b., at
25 weeks. At this last age the lamb is no
longer a sucker.
In regard to conformation desirable for
export: No. 1 was 100 p.c.- suitable; No. 2,
78 p.c.; No. 3, 20 per cent. These results
have convinced me of the fallacy of mating
impure rams when a farmer’s aim is to pro-
duce fat sucker lambs of the early-mating
type suitable for export.
FARM ECONOMY.
“Bee Knee” : Here are one or two examples
that have come under my notice. A farmer
required a duplicate to replace a broken
part on one of his big machines. The cost
was to be £6 10s., cash down. Not having it,
the farmer went along to the village black-
smith and had the necessary repairs effected
for 12s. 6d. Now he is wondering how
much he wasted in past years in ordering
expensive duplicates while there was still
good work in the old parts. . _
Another man in the same district haun t
the money for a new set of knives for his
binder. He sent his boys round to rake up
all the old knives that were lying round
in the sheds, and he was able to carry out
the season’s work without any further ex-
pense. I know of cases where a farmer’s
wife is paying ninepence a loaf for bread,
when it could be baked at home for about
fourpenee.
How much condensed milk is used on
farms where there is ample room to run
cows ? The car is another source of endless
expense—not when .used .as it should be, but
when the owner travels 10 miles into town
to buy • a pound of butter that could be
made at home, and then possibly has lunch
and a few drinks and incidentals before he
returns home.
Farming is a scientific business these days,
and there is no room for waste of either
time or material.
THRIP.
“Dandelion”: My job has taken me over
the horticultural parts of three States during
the past three months—S. Aus., Vic. and
N. S. Wales—and everywhere I found the
thrip worse than it had, ever been known to
be before. In N. S. Wales and Vic. it will
be responsible for-reducing the apple crop, I
estimate, by rather more than one-half, and
the prune crop by two-thirds; other soft
fruits, like peaches,; will be large sufferers,
though not to the same, extent. Citrus fruit
has apparently not suffered materially. The
blossom (orange particularly) was attacked
in some districts, but without seeming to
affect it. The same thing is noticed about
the cape-weed; the flowers arc * smothered,,
yet) come to no harm. Earlier in the year,
when the plague first descended, upon N. S.
Wales, a Bulletin correspondent suggested
that the little beasts might possibly, be
driven out by a smell of some sort. They will
not in my experience touch the strongly-
scented tomato plant; nor tobacco. They are
rather shy of citrus flowers. They attack
whites worse than coloreds, as a rule; other-
wise one might think that it was because of
their stronger perfume that the reds in roses
fare better than the whites. The habits of
the animals also seem to vary. I have never
seen a cloud of thrip hanging over a garden
in N. S. Wales as I have again and again
in Victoria.
APPLES FOR CIDER.
“Specker”: The delicious cider so popular
in France and England is not obtainable in
Australia because the necessary varieties of
apples are not grown. Good cider requires
a blend of three classes of apples: the sharp
or acid group (such as Pe.armains). the
sweet or low-acid group, and the bitter
sweets, low in acid but rich in tannin.
The culls of cooking and dessert varieties
make a thin cider, containing too much acid
and too little body, and the rate of fermen-
tation is high. They require to be balanced
with an equal quantity of the bitter-sweets
to get good results. It is estimated that
about 10 per cent, of the apple crop can be
classed as “culls.” If a few trees of the
vintage cider fruits were included in the
orchard, these culls could be mixed with
them and utilised to the best advantage,
either by manufacturing cider on the orchard
or by supplying suitable fruit to the cider
factories. Given sufficient apples of each
class a cider of any desired standard of
acidity and astringency can be produced by
blending.
The varieties of the class
specially recommended are Knotted Kernel,
Dabinett and Sweet Alford. The Cider In-
stitute at Long Ashton, Bristol (Eng.),
will advise Australian growers where they
can be obtained. A good medium-light cider
is a drink vex-y suitable to our climate.
MARKETING BANANAS.
“Azac”: It is by no means rare, to find
up to 70 per cent, of the bananas in a case
affected with “black end” —a rotting of the
stem or finger-stalk—on arrival in the Syd-
ney or Melbourne market. This trouble is
responsible for perhaps the greatest direct
loss the banana industry suffers, and in my
opinion is due in a large measure to our
system of marketing in “singles.” Other
banana-producing countries market either on
the bunch or in “hands,” which latter
method has many advantages over our way
of separating the individual fingers from the
hands. The relative merits of the different
systems can be gauged bv the fact that
bunches and hands carry from the British
West Indies and South Africa to London
with less loss" from “black end” than
“singles” carried from the North Coast
(N.S.W.) or Queensland to Sydney or Mel-
bourne.
The explanation is simple. The disease
is caused by any one of a number of organ-
isms infecting the cut, broken or bruised
portions of the main stem of the
bunch, the finger-stalks or the hand
“cushions.” As the causal organism is air-
borne and exists abundantly, the opportuni-
ties for infection are many times greater
than where the bunches are broken or cut
into hands and then divided into singles,
mainly because so much extra handling is
necessary. Each break where the finger is
severed from the hand is a point of almost
certain infection. If the fruit were marketed
in hands instead of singles, the amount of
broken surface and the total amount ot
handling, and thus the possibility of infec-
tion, would be greatly. reduced. Of course,
marketing on the bunch would be better
still, as the only point through which the
organisms could enter would be through the
cut end of the main stalk where it was
severed from the banana plant. Moreover,
experiments carried out at the Imperial Col-
lege of Tropical Agriculture in Trinidad have
proved that smearing the cut surface of the
stem with vaseline is almost 100 per cent,
effective in preventing the rot organisms
from attacking the fruit. This treatment is
hardly practicable except when bananas are
marketed on the bunch; it is certainly im-
possible to utilise the method under our
system of marketing in singles.
Another way in which infection can be
largely prevented is to break, rather than
cut. the fruit off the bunch. Experiments
carried out in Queensland showed a 7 per
cent, infection in bananas carefully broken
from the hunch as. compared; with 15 per
cent, infection when cut. The knife becomes
infected and transfers the disease organisms
to every subsequent stem that is cut.
THE PEAR PRESSURE TEST.
“John A. Tliunn”: Californian tinned
fruit was far. more common, in England than
the Australian article when .1 was abroad
in 1920 —indeed, it was only .on searching
the cheap quarter of Whitechapel that I
could discover any, brand . of Australian
tinned fruit or jam. It was explained to
me that the Australian trade , had’no idea
of packing to make its lines attractive
to the purchaser. Now, after perusing
regulations under the Californian Fruit and
Vegetable Standardisation Act, I awaken to
the fact that we live in the world’s outback.
In the case of Bartlett pears the regula-
tions state: “They shall not be considered
mature unless, at the time of picking, the
color of the skin between the lenticals is
of a noticeably lighter green that that of
the lenticals themselves, and the average
pressure test of not less than ten represen-
tative pears of the lot does not exceed 251 b.
There is a provision that pears showing a
distinctly yellow color at. the time of picking
shall be considered mature, regardless of the
pressure test. Pressure is determined by
means of a tester which measures in pounds
the force required to push a rounded plunger
five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter into
the flesh of the pear to a depth of five-
sixteenths of an inch. The test is applied to
both sides of the fruit at-the widest cross-
section. and at right-angles to the core.
Maturity pressure testers are on the market,
and the latest record the pressure reading
automatically. The instrument resembles a
syringe. .
Apart from packing and get-up the Cali-
fornian system of pressure-testing facili-
tates sending to the factory fruit of the one
even grade as to ripeness. This means
tinned fruit of even texture —not hard and
ropy, caused by the fibre of unripe fruit,
or soft and acidy, the result of processing
fruit which has been picked overripe.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
If roheat reaches a dollar a bushel in
Canada and the U.S.A., as has been predicted,
what would be the equivalent price for which
we ivould be able to sell for export? —6B4o.
Recently, when wheat in Winnipeg was
quoted at 3s. 2id., the f.o.b. quotation in
Sydney was 3s. 7d. per bushel. On this
basis, with American wheat at ss. 3|d.
(present sterling value of the dollar), the
Sydney parity should be ss. lOd.
My best . milker, fat and strong, calved
the other morning, and showed no bad) symp-
toms until about 32 hours after calving,
when she went down, helpless. She made
feeble attempts to rise, but appeared to have
lost the use of her hindquarters. She
seemed to be in great pain, swaying her head
from side to side, groaning and grinding
her teeth, and wet with perspiration. She
died about 24 hours later. (1) What was
the matter with her? (2) How should she
have been treated? (3) What should a post-
mortem have revealed? —6877.
(1) Your description points to milk fever.
(2) The usual treatment consists in in-
flating the udder. This should be car-
ried out by a vet., who. in addition to under-
standing all points connected with antisepsis
(Continued on page 26.)


-415
:
>■
■i
i
m 11
■
■ ■
m
i
l
# -w
Superfine leather
Only calf, kid or patent leather of
certified top quality is used for the
upper of this smart Abbey shoe. Its
sole leather is selected for toughness
and flexibility. . . .guaranteed for
maximum hard wear. The shoe is
square-toed and comfortable. .. .
built on an exclusive Abbey last
that accommodates every curve of
the foot. It is easy-fitting from the
start. . . .you can feel the differ-
ence F
ORDER BY POST
Every half-size is available in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish, (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf 50/-
Glace Kid 507-
Black Box Calf : 47/6
Patent Leather 57/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 257
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
tO SHCCeed' THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL. & O?td.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 4t Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
s*
&
A
ŵ
“EOTHFN” 128 E^ T "'*“
1 1111-ll 332 WakefieW St .
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
i. GARAGE
jjfncliuive Tariff, £4-4-0
PAYING GUESTS m™. parker
it
The Marconi
School
of Wireless
Australia’s oldest and
most successful wire-
less training institute
ANNOUNCES
New and comprehensive
Wireless Instruction
Courses, both Correspon-
dence and Practical.
The School being equipped
with the most modern
wireless transmitting and
receiving apparatus, the
student is able to prac-
tise under actual working
conditions.
Enrolment may now be made
for the following courses:
Radio Engineering
Radio Technique
Radio Operating
Radio Mechanics
Broadcast Studio
Management
Microphone
Technique
Talking Picture
Operating
Start TO-DAY on the road
to success in radio.
Write for the FREE Marconi
School booklet:
“RADIO” .. The Industry
of the Future”
Marconi School
of Wireless
97 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
Conducted under auspices of
Amalgamated Wireless
(A/sia) Ltd.
i^RMERS,..
Rural Topics. Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary l
.. Notes Etc ....All in ..
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES €►?
ESTABLISHED 1817
IBank of Jldn (ffitaks
Established 1817
with which are amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK
and
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE LIMITED
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS
Head Office, 341 George Street, Sydney.
new Safe Deposit Vaults are now available for use bp the Clients
kJ of the Bank and the Public generallp.
The Vaults contain Individual Safes, a Plate Vault and (ompanp Strong
Rooms. The latter facilitp is an innovation designed for the use of a
(ompanp or Corporation, requiring extensive safe accommodation.
Full particulars will be furnished on application. Inspection invited.
A. C. DA VIDSON
General Manager
and asepsis, can determine the extent to
which the gland can be inflated. (3) In
the great majority of cases no post-mortem
lesions would be detected by the layman.
(1) Are our present merino flocks pure?
(2) Was the Lincoln ram ever used with
the merino ewes in the early days to form
our present studs? (3) What studs kept
away from the long wool? (4) Origin of
the Murray stud flocks of 8. Aus.? —6775.
(1), (2) and (3) As far as records show,
the noted merino stud flocks of Australia
have been kept pure. (4) They were
started in 1843, when the late A. B. Murray
took some N.S.W. sheep to Mount Craw-
ford. To these were added some ewes which
John Murray bought from a Mr. McVittie,
of Blumberg. These ewes were in lamb
to a Tasmanian ram. The two bloods were
combined very successfully, and it is stated
that no outside blood has been introduced
since 1843.
What are the prospects of success for
three or four girls taking up land near Syd-
ney for tobacco-growing? —6Bl3.
Poor. Unlikely that an area could be found
combining the necessary soil and climatic
conditions for the production of leaf of a
type suitable for the market. The success-
ful cultivation and curing of the crop calls
for a considerable amount of skill and a fair
outlay for plant, etc., and even in the
recognised tobacco-growing districts the
enterprise is precarious for inexperienced
persons.
(T) Is there any part of Australia where
date-palms can he grown on a commercial
scale? (2) What would he the cost of estab-
lishing a grove? (3) Where could plants he
purchased? (4) Amount and value of date
imports? (5) Any duty? (6) How is drying
done?— 6Bso.
(1) Doubtful. (2) No Australian data
available. Write U.S.A. Department of Agri-
culture, Washington, D.C., for literature on
the subject. (3) These are easily raised
from seeds taken from dates. (4) 1927-28,
8,731,7481 b. valued at £103,361; 1928-29,
9,584.6961 b. valued at £107,196; 1929-30,
10,755,3261 b. valued at £109,036. (5 ) 3d.
per pound. (6) By sun-drying, and dehy-
drating, according to circumstances.
My peach-tree is infested with green aphis,
some tiny brown insects, like small gela-
tine drops, and small black sugar ants. How
can I get tree clean? —6516.
Spray with nicotine sulphate (Black
Leaf 40) mixed in soapy water at a strength
of one part of nicotine extract by volume to
600 parts of water. Give several sprayings,
at intervals of not more than a couple of
days. This should destroy the green and
and brown aphides, and when they are gone
the ants will depart too.
How can ticks be removed from fowls? —
6823.
Spray the fowlhouse once a week with an
emulsion made by boiling lib. of soap in .1
gallon of water. When the soap is absorbed
in the solution, and while still boiling,
remove from fire, and stir in 1 gallon of
kerosene. Then add another 8 gallons of
water to the mixture. All woodwork and
likely hiding-places should be well sprayed
with this solution. For seed tick, dip the
bird in a 2 per cent, solution of formalin.
The dipping may interfere with egg-pro-
duction, and is not recommended as a general
practice. The seed tick leaves the bird after
feeding for a few days, and will be destroyed
by frequent sprayings.
What trees are suitable for planting on
the banks of a stream in N.S.W. which is
flooded with tidal water daily? Will ivillow-
trees, grow on the banks of a salt-water
stream? What distance from salt water
will trees grow? —67ll.
Know of no plants that will grow with
their roots in salt water, except mangroves,
which are not procurable from nurserymen.
If the ground from the high-water mark is
rising, there are several trees that will
thrive in a position near salt water, such as
the M.L. Christmas bush ( Metrosideros
tomentosa), Tas. white oak ( Lagunaria
patersoni), coral tree ( Erythrina indica) ,
flowering cypress ( Tamarix plumosa) and
one of the native she-oaks, Casuarina glauca.
Willows are not recommended.
I have planted 250 sugar-gums in jam-
tins with holes in the bottoms, acting on
the supposition that the tins would rust
before the roots became root-bound. It now
appears that the trees will die before the
roots are free. Any remedy without disturb-
ing plants? Could I accelerate the rusting
of the tins by painting bottoms with strong
solution of lime or caustic soda? —6676.
You can get them out by putting a cut
down the side and across the bottom with
a pair of tin-snips or an old chisel, or you
can cut right round the tin, about half an
inch or so from the bottom, with the house-
hold tm-opener, removing the bottom com-
pletely and planting with the rest of the
tin intact. Nothing is to be gained by paint-
ing with lime or caustic soda.
Can the 4 ld. bounty to be paid on my
wheat crop be claimed by a creditor who has
a judgment against me? If so, could I give
a hen to my storekeeper so that he would
collect the amount I owe him in preference
to the creditor who has obtained judgment?
—6838.
Money in the hands of any officer, Com-
monwealth or State, lying to your credit
but not yet paid over cannot be attached
by the judgment creditor.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
Beady : W hen valuable sheep are un-
loaded hungry from trucks on fresh • clover
couch grass of thistle country, see that
equal quantities of aromatic spirits of
ammonia, turpentine and raw linseed oil
mixed together, are carried by the drover’
If a sheep shows signs of bloat, from half
a tablespoonfnl to half a pint can be given,
the larger dose being administered to a
grown sheep badly bloated. This effects
immediate relief; also the oil acts on the
bowels after distension subsides and helps
to prevent the further formation of gas.
‘Woorinen”: Single-furrow ploughing-in
green manure is sometimes a problem as
regards turning under the volume of green
stuff. A piece of No. 8 wire hitched on
the bridle of the plough and allowed to lie
loose, just long enough to fall short of the
ploughman’s feet, will do the trick. The
earth falling on the wire in the furrow keeps
it taut, and the beans or peas are levelled
over nicely just in front of the ploughshare,
so that every morsel is turned under,
“Kilkivan”: A handy pig-trougli can be
made by cutting off the end of a 40-gal.
kerosene-drum; the rest makes a good
mixing-bin for feed, holding about 1501 b.
Wooden troughs get broken up sooner or
later; the one suggested is durable, and
there is room for three big pigs to feed at
a time. Another type of trough can be
made from a 12-gal. oil drum by cutting
it in halves up botli sides and across one
end. Leave one end not cut, and double
it back over the uncut end; nail a piece of
6x2 along each .side to keep it rigid.
“C.P.”: Pigs are not the only livestock
it is profitable to feed with lucerne pollard
(B. 11/11/’3l). When green stuff is scarce
poultry-farmers add it to the mash in the
proportion of one part bran, two parts wheat
pollard and two parts lucerne pollard. And
the Americans have not a monopoly of this
process of using lucerne hay, as “H.ILW.”
seems to think. For over 10 years I have
been using Victorian-ground lucerne hay.
“Beady” : The best bedding for a horse is
good wheaten hay. Sawdust mixed with it
will prevent the horse eating its bedding.
Wheaten straw has one obvious fault, it
stains, the animal; but bracken fern spread
over it will keep him clean.
“Dobbin”: To treat greasy heel, clip
the hair about the affected part, wash with
soap and water with a little washing soda
added, dry and apply a pad of cotton-wool
soaked in a 5 per cent, solution of zinc
chloride. Repeat for three or four days,
keeping the inflammation bandaged mean-
while. A powder (salicylic acid 1 part,
zinc oxide 6 parts) may be applied on cotton-
wool subsequently. Give a tablespoon of
Fowler’s solution of arsenic mixed in a small
damped feed night and morning for 10 days.
“Dimon” : The best time for dehorning is
when the calf is a- few days old. All that
is necessary then is, to wet the horn buds,
and rub them slightly with a stick of caus-
tic potash, taking care not to touch the
surrounding skin.
“Karaway”: When carrying full buckets
or tubs of water, a floater, made of thin
pine, about 4in. square, will prevent the
water slopping over. An iron hoop off a cask
placed between the handles of two big
buckets, with the carrier walking inside the
hoop, holds them away from the legs and
makes them much easier to carry when full
of water or milk.
“John A. Thunn”: Directions given by
“Esau” (B. 11/11/’3l) for the manufac-
ture of kerosene emulsion on the farm are
quite all right, but I do not agree that it
is the best plant insecticide. Nicotine sul-
phate in white oil emulsion with a dash of
carbolic, is the best insecticide I know 7 . Of
course, you cannot make the stuff on the
farm. All you can do is to blend the
ingredients.
“Beefo”: No good cattleman would give
“.T.K.J.’s” method (B. 4/11/’3l) of branding
calves held against a fence a second thought;
and clipping the hair aw T ay first and smear-
ing the spot with fat savors of a George-
street cow-puncher. Throwing the calf will
always remain a 99.9 p.c. method of brand-
ing. And till someone discovers a method
of marking the hide without the use of a
fire brand, brands will continue to blotch
and growing hair will make many unde-
cipherable during winter months.
“Disc Harrow”: The man who lets things
go till they have to be done will rarely be
successful. I worked for one who let black-
berries get away from him to such an extent
that, when he had to clear it meant a fort-
night when he hadn’t a minute to spare.
Result, a fortnight’s w'ages to be paid. On
the same place the drains along the bottom
headlands were so choked and fallen in that
a. “clear-out” job became virtually the dig-
ging of a new drain. Weeds are best kept
dow 7 n by constant attention, and the little
time necessary under this system can be put
in whenever it is best spared. With all work
well in hand each job can be allowed for
and done at its proper time.
“Dimon”: Another use for tin-opening
keys (B. 11/11/’3l) is to make racks for
holding toothbrushes, small tools, knives and
other articles. They can also be fastened
along the edge of a shelf, with a strong tack
through the eye in the shank; and by bend-
ing the shank they can be nailed in any
position to a wall.
“Tangaloli” : You can lift the engine out
of that car without expensive blocks. Place
car under a strong rafter or beam ; to this
attach two single pulleys about 3ft. apart;
pass one end of a rope, 2-|in. round, through
a pulley and fasten the bight of the rope to
the front. Tie the rope across fairly tight;
carry it backward to the left-hand back
corner of the engine and fasten it there;
then pass the end up through the left-hand
pulley and fasten fairly tight to the engine.
Now 7 get a round stick about 4ft. long, drive
a x 10 nail into it, and bend nail in
a curve parallel with the lie of the stick.
Place the stick horizontally along both ropes
about midway between engine and the beam,
take a short stick as a lever and make a
preliminary twitch with it in the right-
hand rope; cause the left-hand rope to
catch in the bent nail and W 7 ind aw 7 ay. Ropes
must be about the same tautness. When
high enough, the engine can be turned upside-
down, if so required.
“Liss”: There is no need for “W.D.Mc.”
to mention whale oil to me (B. 18/11/’3l) ;
I have tried the smelly stuff, and have
never found it of much use. Castor oil is
cleaner and less likely to cause suppuration.
As for bagging—well, no one can be expected
to take that very seriously. “W.D.Mc.”
makes rather a sweeping assertion when he
says “all ewes should be carefully crutched
before lambing.” A great many graziers
lamb their ew 7 es in the spring; not much
use crutching them, since they are mostly
July-Aug. shorn. As for swabbing, I consider
it a waste of time and material when flies
are bad, and 1 have given it a good trial.
Jetting is a different proposition altogether;
it is as effective as any measure that has
yet been evolved.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants,
Thrifty man with working family required for
small orchard-mixed farm near Sydney, cottage and
cow free, retainer and share in profits. Agricultural
exp. necessary.—699s.
Ship and engine smith (43), N.S.W., metalliferous
and coalmining, sugar mill, oxy-acetylene and
boiler exp., wants employment anywhere. Refs.
6993.
To get in touch with anyone interested in develop-
ing trade with China. —6966.
Digger, suffering war effects and attempting to
earn. a living contributing A.I.F. pars, and articles
to newspapers, appeals to fellow-Diggers to senct
outlines of interesting and amusing war experiences,
particularly concerning Anzac. —7051.
Young man (24), Sydney, completed accountancy
course, wants bookkeeping or office exp.—7o4l.
To hear from persons who can furnish particulars
regarding the McGrath millions. —7060.
To buy a colored illustration of a Cobb and Co.
coach. —6978.
To exchange Priestley’s “Angel Pavement” for
Dunn’s “Experiment with Time.”—6972.
Words of verse containing the lines “Hold her
nozzle agin the bank, Till the last galoot’s ashore.”
—7OlB.
Words of poem “Shellin’ Peas,” by C. H. Souter.
—7020.
Words of verse by C. J. Dennis commencing
“Fellers of Australia, blokes and coves and coots.”
—6998.
Information Sought.
Merits and disadvantages of the Bermuda
rig for small trading vessel? Would it serve
in a vessel which has to earn its keep? Boat
■is >ls tons, and sails well under present yawl
rig. Would cost of conversion to either
cutter or yawl be great? She is due for a
new set of sails. —6941.
As you probably sail short-handed, the
Bermuda rig should be admirable for your
vessel. It requires much loftier masts than
the old-fashioned rig, but does away with
much heavy gear aloft, and needs only
one spar per sail —the boom. Set out a
new sail-plan, paying particular attention
to the head-sails, as these will be mucji longer
in the luff. Reefing is greatly simplified with
the new Marconi tracks on booms and
masts. Marconi sails require to be very well
cut, and you should consult a sailmaker
of experience in the rig. The rig is equally
good in cutter, yawl, ketch or schooner.
I wish to grow a couple of native blue
gum-trees on a Sydney property. Should I
plant seeds or cuttings, and when? Any
special soil needed and how should they be
looked after during growth? —64s2.
Sow seed in a box of light loamy in
August and transplant plants when 6in.
high. For planting out dig ground and
remove all weeds from a circle 3ft. in dia-
meter. Alternatively you could buy seed-
lings in July from Hazelwood Bros., Epping.
Keep the young plants moist, but not wet.
Don’t apply manure.
(1) Method of laying down a garden
lawn; grasses to use and hints on mainten-
ance? (2) When to plant the garden
flowers and whether seeds or bulbs? —6697.
(1) Couch or buffalo grasses are suitable.
Dig over the area, remove weeds and level
off. E’er buffalo lawns plant roots 12in.
apart; couch lawns can be made with seed
(sown in October or November) or turfs.
Plenty of water is essential, especially in the
early stages, and top-dressings should be
given in the spring and autumn. (2) In
August, September and October sow flower
seed for . plants to bloom in the summer
and autumn; in March, April and May put
in seed to provide plants for the following
spring. Bulbs are generally planted from
February to April. Sydney seedsmen will
forward you sowing calendars on application.
(1) If an alternating current continually
changes in value as well as in direction, how
is it measured? (2) What kind of current
is supplied to the Sydney suburbs? (3) Is
direct current suitable for the operation of
an electric radio receiver? —6600.
(1) An “effective value” is computed
as 0.707 of maximum value. If a direct
current of 7.07 amperes heats a given
resistance to a certain temperature and
an alternating current were then applied
to the same resistance, it would require a
maximum value of 10 amperes to raise the
temperature of this resistance to the same
value as formerly. Its effective value as
indicated by the ammeter would be 7.07, but
its maximum value would be 10 amperes.
The effective value of an alternating current
is that which produces the same heating
effect in a resistance as the same value of
direct current. (2) 240 volts, 50 cycles,
alternating. (3) Only if the set is built
specially for direct current operation.
Has Lance Fairfax appeared in Gilbert
and Sullivan operas in Sydney ? —-6708.
Yes. In 1927 he played Pish-Tush (“The
Mikado”), Florian (“Princess Ida”),
Strephon (“lolanthe”), Sir Richard Cliol-
morideley (“The Yeomen”), Bill Bobstay
(“H.M.S. Pinafore”), Samuel (“The
Pirates”), and Giuseppe (“The Gondo-
liers”).
(1) How many Maoris fought in the-
Great War? (2) Did they fight as separate
units or were they scattered throughout the
New Zealand army? (3) Did any Maori
soldier gain the V.C.? —6510.
(1) 2227. As a separate unit they
were at Gallipoli. After the evacuation
they were organised into the N.Z. Pioneer
Battalion and took part with the N.Z.
Division in all operations up to the capture
of Le Quesnoy in November 1918 mainly
in the construction of trenches and works
(at which they excelled), also participating
in raids, etc. (3) No, but 77 of them won
decorations and 39 were mentioned in
dispatches. Casualties amongst them
amounted to nearly 50 per cent, of the
enrolment.
What is the full meaning of the word,
“brace”? Can it be applied to a pair of
wild ducks swimming on the water? —6594.
In essence the word means to hold
together.” It can be used as a synonym for
a pair of any objects, uead or alive.
Annual cost of employees ’ railway passes
in Vic.? —6905. . ,
The official reply is that it is impossible
to compute their cost to the department.
The nose of my kelpie dog has been dry
and cracked round the top edge', of his nos-
trils for some time. Cause and cure.-
6710. . ,
Probably due to a blow. Swab part with
pure peroxide of hydrogen, and afterwards
apply a dressing consisting of storaxol oint-
ment one part, vaseline four parts. Treat
once daily.
How many bullets per minute can a
modern machine-gun fire? What is a
machine-gun’s effective range in distance ana
width? —6469. , ,
Numerous types are in use. The Vickers
fires 250 to 350 rounds per minute. At a
special test one belt was fired at the rate of
550 rounds per minute. Effective range is
800 to 2000 yards; long range, 2000 to 2900
yards. The tripod mounting permits of an
all-round traverse.
What treatments or process does “spark-
ling” wine undergo to make it differ from
“still” wine? —6733. _ •
Selected dry wine is inoculated with a
single-cell yeast culture and at the same time
given a dose of grape sugar upon which the
yeast can work. This wine is bottled, corked
and the cork held in position with an agraffe
or steel clip. After a space of some months,
according to the wine and activity of the
yeast, fermentation commences, resulting in
the sugar being broken by the yeast action
into two parts, CO2 and alcohol. As there
is no egress for the CO2, and as the yeast
persists in working, gas continues to be
created until an internal gas pressure exists
of over 1001 b. to the square inch. The wine
thus becomes naturally charged, assimilat-
ing the gas due to the pressure. _ During
the process a deposit occurs which is ejected
during the disgorging process. The wine is
then liqueured to make it palatable (the
yeast having eliminated all sugar), is corked,
aged for some years in cellars, and then
distributed to the market. For every 100
bottles laid down only 80 reach the public,
and each and every bottle is Handled on at
least 200 individual occasions.
A church in our district (N.S.W.) has
been removed to a new site. Is the vacant
allotment rateable by the municipal council?
—6623.
Yes —unless the land vacated (presuming
it still belongs to a religious body) is “occu-
pied and used in connection with a church or
other building used or occupied for public
worship or solely as a rectory, vicarage,
presbytery, manse or parsonage in connec-
tion with such church or building.”
In the lS7o’s there lay in Hobson’s Bay,
Melbourne, a full-rigged sailing line-of-
battleship named Nelson. What became of
her? —644.9.
She was dismantled and converted into
a coal liulk by sliipbreakers. The last
heard of her (in 1930) was that she had
been at Beauty Point, Tamar River (Tas.),
for many years, and was about to be broken
up.
Recipe for ice-cream to retail in shop? —
6746.
Take 8 quarts milk, 12 eggs, 31b. sugar
and flavoring to taste. Heat the milk, but
do not let it boil. Beat the eggs and sugar
together well, then pour on to them the
hot milk through a strainer. Return the
mixture to the saucepan and stir over a
gentle flame until it thickens, but do not let
it boil. Add the flavoring and allow to
cool. Put into the ice-cream container, stand
in a freezer and stir the mixture for 15
minutes; then cover and allow to freeze in
the usual way.
Which has the greater volume of water
(cubic contents ), Burrinjuck Dam or Sydney
Harbor, including Lane Cove River, Middle
Harbor, Parramatta River, etc.? —667l.
Burrinjuck covers 12,740 acres and has a
capacity of 33,612,000,000 cub. ft. Port
Jackson’s total area is 14,284 acres. Taking
the average depth as 10ft. (it’s probably
more), the capacity is 3,982,150,656,000
cub. ft.
(1) How much was borrowed by the
Commonwealth during the regime of the
Bruce-Page Government? (2) Was this
amount borrowed for the Commonwealth
alone, or for Commonwealth and States
combined? (3) What was the amount bor-
rowed by Queensland during the same term?
—6673.
(1) Taking the nearest ends of financial
years to the Bruce-Page term (Feb., 1923
to Oct., 1929) —June 30, 1923 and 1929’
the amount borrowed was £198,543 000
(2) Commonwealth, £19,113.000; States'
£179,430,000. (3) £25,350,000. ’
I have heard that the War Office has
changed the phonetic alphabet used by field
telephonists during the war • A Ack • P
Pip; M, Emma, etc. If so, for what reason
™lphabet?— 6484 made ‘ What is the new
The reasons for the changes were th-it
some words used did not begin with the
letter question and also a system of
names and words known to everybody would
be more easily recognised than other words
less commonly used. The new phonetic
alphabet is: A, Ack; B, Beer; C, Charlie;
D, Don; E, Edward ; F, Freddie ; G, George ;
H, Harry; I, Ink; J, Johnny; K, King;
L, London; M, Monkey; N, Nuts; O,
Orange ; P, Pip; Q, Queen ; B, Kobert; S,
Sugar; T, Toe; U, Uncle; V, Vic: W, Wil-
liams ; X, X-ray; Y, Yorker; Z, Zebra.
How to remove tar from silk stockings?
—6812.
Wash in hot water containing a little
cloudy ammonia, then immerse in kerosene,
heated to about 140 deg. Fahr. Manipulate
the stains with the finger-tips, and scrape
off as much tar as possible. If the kerosene
cools before the work is completed, heat
it again.
(1) Was the lady in Da Vinci’s ‘'Mona
Lisa” Mona Lisa Gioconda, daughter of
Gherardini? (2) Was the picture presented,
to the Louvre by Francis 1., who bought it?
(3) How was it stolen from the Louvre?
(4) How was it recovered. (5) Is there
any truth in the suggestion that the picture
at present in the Louvre is a copy substi-
tuted after the theft? —6804.
(1) She was the wife of Francesco del
Gioconda. (2) It came into Francis I.’s pos-
session, but how is not known. Leonardo
went to Francis’s court and died there in
1519. (3) There was collaboration between
a Louvre official and an outsider. Cut out
of frame. (4) It was voluntarily .returned.
(5) It is certain that the original was
returned.
What are the conditions of the prize for
a mural painting offered by the Trustees of
the National Art Gallery of N.S. W. ? —-6910.
The Trustees of the National Gallery offer
prizes of £lOO, first, and £5O, second, for a
design illustrating some event during the first
50 years after the settlement of Australia,
The sketches are to be in oil and one-
tenth the size of the space they are to
occupy, which is the lunette above the
Ghiberti Gates in the Gallery; they are
to be delivered on February 1, 1932, and
must include a full-sized detail of one of
the figures or part of the design. Quotation
price to be submitted in a sealed envelope. A
sketch of the lunette is available on appli-
cation to the Gallery.
Under what conditions can a naval supply
assistant, bound for 12 years, resign before
the expiry of his term? —6721.
Purchase of discharge before expiry of
engagement is permitted in cases when it can
be shown there are good reasons for the
application. The amount concerned repre-
sents a proportion of the expense incurred
in training the individual.
I live in Melbourne and wish to learn
drawing in my spare time for my own amuse-
ment. (1) What is the best way of going
about it? (2) Any good courses you can
recommend —correspondence or otherwise?
—7032.
(1) Start by trying to render the appear-
ance of some simple object, such as an apple
or a vase, and then go on to more complex
subjects, such as trees and human beings.
Glance rapidly at an object and then try to
put down as much as you have learnt about
it without looking at it again. One of our
best cartoonists trained himself by that
method. It is a long job, though. (2) Stott’s
Business College, Melbourne, and Smith and
Julius, Sydney, may be of assistance if they
teach the natural method.
(1) What are glyptics? (2) Home they
any value?— 6922.
(1) Engravings on hard stone, such as
gems, rock crystal, precious and semi-precious
stones. (2) Some are priceless and others
of little or no value.
(1) What is the difference in reliefs in
sculpture? (2) When are they used? —6933.
(1) High relief, which is almost detached
from its background, half relief, in which
the figures or objects are presented in half
their natural projection, and low relief, in
which the surface of the projection is not
more than an inch to an inch and a half
at its highest. High relief, in which heavy
black shadows are thrown, is used only on
parts of buildings and architectural monu-
ments that are exposed to full daylight, and
can be seen from a distance. Half relief
is used for interior decorations and easily
accessible places such as the exterior of
vases and the shafts of a column. (2) Low
relief or bas-relief is for work that is to
be placed in a dark position or in a spot
that receives an indirect light.
Method of preserving rubber boots during
the summer ? —6693.
Clean thoroughly with a brush, then wash
in warm water containing a little cloudy
ammonia. Drain and dry in a shady, airy
place; then store in a dark place which is
dry and cool.
How to make a whitewash dressing for
a muslin hag to keep weevils from bacon?- —
5377.
Make a creamy mixture of lime and
water; saturate calico, hessian or clean bag-
ging in this mixture and wrap it round the
ham or bacon after it has been rolled in
oatmeal bran. Stitch the covering closely
round the flesh and hang in a cool place.
Two years ago I paid the local muni-
cipal council £5 to make an earth bridge
over the kerb of the footpath into my pro-
perty for my car. The council has now,
without consulting me, concreted the kerb
and made a new concrete water-table
entrance instead of the old bridge, and has
charged me £2B as my half-share of the cost
of the whole job. Must I pay, and, if
so, am I not entitled to an allowance of
the £5 already paid? —6766.
The N.S.W. Local Government Act pro-
vides that power to recover half the cost of
work opposite a man’s land does not apply
to any “renewal or repair of any paving,
kerbing or guttering in respect of which a
contribution has previously been paid.”
Probably the council will contend that the
bridge to which you refer does not come
within this category, but no harm can be
done by raising the point.
Information Supplied.
How to prevent birds from nesting
beneath a roof? —6639.
First remove nests from eaves, ceilings,
gutterings and spoutings. Screen these
with galvanised bird-cage netting or a mesh
that will not allow birds to enter. Another
method is to suspend large corks in which
gay-colored feathers are stuck. — Frigid.
Brief Answers.
M.M. See the Prothonotary’s Department,
Supreme Court Buildings, King-street, Sydney, pro-
duce the solicitor’s account and ascertain if you
can have it submitted for taxation with any prospect
of success M. 8.: Under the N.S.W. Interest
Reduction Act, an obligation to pay interest is deemed
to be satisfied by “payment of a sum equal to the
amount which would have been payable as interest
if the Act had not been passed, less 4s. 6d. in every
£1 of such amount.” This, seemingly, applies to
your case J.A.M.: (1) The Act applies only in
respect of an obligation to pay interest created before
its commencement. (2) Apparently so. The fact
that the rental exceeds the interest payable does not
affect the matter G.A.F.: Yes. The rate of
interest is reduced by 4s. 6d. in the £1 but not
below 5 per cent. Payment at above rate is a full
discharge of a debtor’s liability to pay interest
G.S.: Impossible to say. You should have put your
agreement in writing and have provided that on the
outgoing of your share partner the Value of the
standing crop should be determined... .E.P.It.: You
could not make the sanitary and garbage rates a
charge against your tenant unless by agreement with
him to do so, the council having made them a
charge on the landlord. .. .C.R.: The Act applies,
one of the many mischiefs it creates being the
opportunity afforded unscrupulous persons, well able
financially to meet their obligations, to take advant-
age of its provisions... .J.A.: Depends on the powers
conferred on all the directors by the articles of
association. As a member of the society you have
a right to peruse them F.F.H.: (1) You cannot
divest yourself of the property in that way without
the acquiescence of the mortgagee; he might, how-
ever, be prepared to meet you. (2) Your notification
has no value. You are still liable for interest
subject to the Moratorium Acts, which allow you, in
effect, two years to pay P.F.: “East Lynne,”
dramatised by Alfred Kemp, was first put on at
the Ilolborn (London), Jan. 16, 1873... .K.D.: First
sitting of Federal Parliament at Canberra opened
May 9, 1927 C.McN.: Mollison flew Australia-
England in 8f days.... D. 1.: W. S. Gilbert died
May 29, 1911, aged 74; Sullivan, Nov. 22, 1900
(58) ; R. D’Oyley Carte, April 3, 1901 (56)
W.8.G.: Oman is an independent State in s.-e.
Arabia, area 82,000 sq. miles. Estimated population
500,000, Chiefly Arabs, but the capital, Muscat,
hardly contains an Arab, being inhabited by Baluchis
and negroes E.S.: Six-handed euchre is not recog-
nised by Hoyle. You can make rules to suit your-
self ... .J.P.: (1) Patent Office, Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne. Patent attorney’s fees are £5 ss. for provi-
sional, £25 for complete patent. (2) Get a patent
attorney to make a search. Cost about £3 3s.
(3) Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Dowling-
street, Waterloo, Sydney. (4) A patent attorney
will charge you £8 Bs. for obtaining registration of
trade-mark, including all Government fees... .8.5.:
Write to the Consuls in Sydney representing the
various republics... .E. 8.: “The Censorship and
Public Morality,” by Lloyd and Gilbert, Angus and
Robertson, 2s. Id. The subject was also fully
debated in the “Red Page” of The Bulletin....
A.R.: Can’t say' without inspection, but even if they
are genuine antiques there is very little market for
them in Australia C. 8.: Queensland Pastoral
Supplies, Ltd., Bowen-street, Brisbane... .J. 8.8.:
Winifred Grey in “The Runaway Girl” wears the same
dress in the second act as she does in scene two
of the first act.. . .S.J.A.: Vineless sweet potato
rooted cuttings can be purchased from Yates and Co.,
at Is. 6d. per dozen or 10s. 6d. per hundred....
5.0.: “L.A.8.” stands for Licentiate of the Associated
Board of the Royal Academy of Music and Royal
College of Music M. J.R.: On your statement you
appear to have a case, but without knowing all the
circumstances on both sides no decisive answer can
be given. Consult a solicitor ... .W.R.11.: An
English firm of record searchers has stated in a
letter to a Sydney resident, printed in the press, that
the claim has no strong basis in fact... .M.E.H.:
Mrs. Ethel Lilian Boynich was born in 1864 and was
author of “Russian Humor,” “Stories from Garstrin,”
“The Gadfly,” “Olive Lathan,” “An Interrupted
Friendship,” etc C.L.F.: (1) The Matrimonial
Causes Acts Amendment Act 1923 (Q.) provides
that it shall be lawful for a wife to present a
petition to the Court for dissolution of her marriage,
on the ground of her husband’s desertion without
cause continuously for five years or upwards....
J. 8.8.: In the event of the bequest to X lapsing,
his share would fall into the general estate and be
dealt with as the will provided for any residue.
If no such provision was made, then, in view of the
intestacy, the money would probably go to the
next of kin.... W.W.: If the transaction was a
mortgage, or its deemed equivalent, “an agreement
for sale and purchase of land and improvements,”
you might be able to get some relief under the
Purchasers of Homes Relief Act 1930. (2) Applica-
tion should be made to the police magistrate at the
Magistrates’ Court nearest to your residence. This
Act is not applicable to leases.,. .H. 5.8.: The Pur-
chasers of Homes Relief Act 1930 (Q) provides
that an agreement for the sale and purchase of land
and improvements constituting- a home shall be
deemed to be a mortgage, and if detrimentally affected
by conditions arising from unemployment a pur-
chaser may apply to a Magistrates’ Court for relief.
The magistrate may then, if he is satisfied, grant
relief by extending the period of repayment, funding
arrears of instalments and in other directions. See
the clerk of the local Magistrates’ Court, if you
cannot come to an agreement with the vendor....
C. J.C.: A directory is published by the Country
Press Co-operative Co., 5 Barrack-street, Sydney,
which should suit your purpose E.H.: You do not
make yourself very clear. If you refer to the
quotation of literary material, common courtesy and
the copyright law demand that you should acknow-
ledge the source. .. .G.J.L.: Write Director, The
British Museum, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.1....
M. : “Primer of Logic,” by Jevons (3s. 3d. posted),
and “The Practice of Auto-suggestion by the Method
of Emile Coue,” by Brooks (6s. 3d.), posted—Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .C.K.C.: There is no direct
authority in May, but it stands to reason that two
irreconcilable motions should not run concurrently.
The later motion should have rescinded or amended
the former one... .A-D.E.: Write W. C. Penfold and
Co., 88 Pitt-street., Sydney E.C.M.: Write Dalgety
and Co., Bent-street, Sydney.... A. 8.: Electors en-
rolled Commonwealth elections, Oct. 12, 1929:
N. 1,387,552; Vic., 1,023,294 ; Q’land, 479,914;
S.A., 322,747; W.A., 212,984; Tas., 116,459;
total, 3,542,950. Members of House of Reps, accord-
ing to States: N.S.W., 28; Vic., 20; Q’land, 10;
S.A., 7 ; W.A., 5 ; Tas., 5. An additional member
without voting power represents the Northern
Territory. Each State is represented in the Senate
by six members...-A.J.C.: They are Indian or red-
whiskered bulbuls, Otocompsa emeriti, and were
introduced into Australia and accidentally liberated
about 20 years ago. Since that time the species
has become fairly common in Sydney. They eat
both insects and fruit and are considered to be
destructive W.ILJ.: The war poems of Leon
Gellert, Edwin Gerard, H. W. Pryce and William
Baylebridge, should suit the purpose. Also you
might read David McKee Wright’s “Gallipoli”....
(Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
Synopsis : During the absence of Jim
Huntley, Resident Magistrate of
Aikoroa, Papua, on sick leave, the
natives get out of hand. Returning,
Huntley gives them twelve days to
pay their taxes. Going on to Nataroa
Plantation he delivers a letter to*
the dipsomaniacal owner, Charlie
Durrant, on whom Huntley suspects
Roger Calvert, trader, is battening. It
is from Marian, Durrant’s young
daughter, whom Huntley met on ship-
board and has fallen in love with. It
tells her father that, as he had always
put her off when she wrote of return-
ing from ‘•Mown south,” where she had
been brought up, she is paying him a
surprise visit. This news plunges
Durrant, who had “gone native,” into
despairing remorse. Bringing him to
the residency, Huntley grimly fights to
reclaim him for Marian's sake.
Marian arrives from Baramata, but
Huntley has Durrant sober, and she
does not suspect his terrible weak-
ness. She too, stays at the residency,
the dilapidated house at Nataroa
having been burnt down—secretly by
Huntley’s orders. The twelve days
passing, Huntley with Gibara only
quell the natives. The tax is then
collected by Huntley’s young assistant,
Freddie Chisholm, with whom Huntley
believes Marian is in love. Huntley
warns Calvert he knows but cannot
prove that he and Maragi, the sor-
cerer, caused the native outbreak.
Marian meets Calvert; she dislikes
him. Telling Calvert to keep away
from her, Huntley is dumbfounded to
learn everything Durrant and Marian
supposedly own is Calvert’s.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THERE was a multitude of murmuring
voices in the palm-fronds; blurred
shadows, purple and indigo, gathered at
the foot of.the hills; and the clouds, touched
by the setting sun, were flaming banners in
the sky.
Huntley lingered; at the foot of the
residency steps. A reluctance, vague, un-
defined, held him from ascending. Almost
he was grateful to the litigious pig-owners
who had kept him in court all day; almost
he would welcome any sudden emergency
which would provide him with a pretext
for evading the questions Marian would
soon be putting to him, and the explana-
tions she would surely demand. And one
couldn't explain a fellow like Calvert to a
girl like Marian. Huntley did not know
where to begin.
He understood now what was behind that
indefinable perplexity he had been nursing
all these weeks. He had known all along
that Charlie Durrant had not been quite
frank with him; always he had had a sense
of something held back. He had guessed
that Calvert had some hold over the old
man, and he had speculated as to its nature.
It had even occurred to him as a remote
possibility that Marian’s father, notwith-
standing his denials, was implicated in some
of Calvert’s dubious trading operations.
He had a sick feeling, a miserable feeling.
He was oppressed by a sense of secret
plottings, of underhand conspiracies as
difficult to define as they were to combat.
For he was infallibly convinced that Calvert
had not lied; he had no real doubt that
Charlie Durrant had got himself enmeshed
in a web of Calvert’s spinning, and that it
spelled troublous times ahead for Marian.
As he lingered at the threshold of his
house there was an odd sensation of fear
in Huntley’s heart, a bleak look upon his
face as if the knowledge of something un-
bearable were written there.
The station whaleboat, returning with
Durrant from Nataroa, was drawing in to-
wards the landing. Huntley bared his head
to the trade wind, wet with the breath of
the sea. He watched the whaleboat with
troubled eyes.
“It’s a jolly good job,” a voice said
sweetly, “that I have so many interesting
things to do; and no feelings, to speak of,
to be hurt.”
Huntley lifted his head. Marian, slim
and lissome and graceful, in a skirt of
startling brevity, stood at the head of the
steps. Her face wore a guileless little-girl
expression, but her eyes were filled with
laughter. Huntley smiled at her smile. She
would take a knock, this frank, friendly,
self-possessed little lady, he told himself
—and take it gamely. She was no tearful
kitteny little person to be shielded and
petted and coddled. She would be dazed,
bewildered, incredulous when the drab,
desolating truth of her father’s bankruptcy
was revealed to her; but she would face
things squarely, play the game, serene and
undaunted, making a gallant comedy of
whatever .the future held.
Huntley found speech difficult. There
were a hundred things he wanted to say to
her, a thousand reasons why he should not
utter them. He compromised with a ban-
ality.
“It’s been a filthy day. The mercury
touched ninety-six in the office.”
“Don’t evade the issue, dear old darling,”
Marian retorted with severity. “I spent
a delightful and diverting hour in your
kitchen, stewing over your old stove and
my new cookery-book. The result would
have been a wonderful lunch—if I’d perse-
vered. And you sent an orderly for a
tray! I was tickled to pieces.”
Huntley was confused and was uncom-
fortably aware of it.
“I say, Marian, that’s too bad. I was
tangled up in a case I simply had to
finish; but if I’d known for a second that
you were”
“Now you’re giving yourself airs, Jim.
I wasn’t thinking about you, dear old boy
—at least, not altogether.” She surveyed
him contemplatively. “I rather expected
that you would bring a guest for me to
help entertain.”
Huntley stared. “Indeed?”
“Indeed!” Marian mimicked him. Her
brows were knitted in a little frown. “Tell
me all about him, Jim. The ‘waitery’ sort
of laddie with the uncontrollable paws and
the greasy hair and the bold, bad eyes.
Where did we find him, Jim?”
Huntley looked at her and looked quickly
away.
“Ugh!” Marian shivered. “He made me
feel all funny and bothered.” She was
looking at Huntley searchingly, doubtfully.
‘Who is this friend of daddy’s, Jim? This
Calvert person? On what common ground
can daddy and that—that bounder meet?
I think he’s—he’s detestable.”
Huntley did not answer for a moment.
Charlie Durrant had stepped ashore and
was walking towards the house. To Hunt-
ley it seemed that he moved briskly, that
the slouch had gone out of his stride, that
his whole bearing was alert, assured.
“Oh, Calvert!” he returned with elabo-
rate unconcern. “Why bother your little
head about Calvert? You came, you saw
and you buzzed off—let it go at that, my
dear.”
“But where does he fit in—here?”
Huntley shrugged. “Calvert is a trader
and recruiter in a fairly big way of busi-
ness. His place is a mile or two beyond
Nataroa. I—er—don’t know him very well,
Marian. He hasn’t been in the country
very long.”
A short silence fell.
“Jim?”
“Yes, Marian?”
Keenly his gaze went over her. Marian
squared her slim shoulders and laughed.
“Oh, nothing. Let’s go down and meet
daddy.”
The tropic day was ending in a riot of
gold and fiery vermilion and vivid green.
Myriads of insects shrilled a salute to the
setting sun. Heavy and sweet the scent
of flowers rose from the garden in over-
powering waves. Marian tripped down the
steps, took Huntley’s arm and squeezed it.
“You’re a delightful old darling, Jim,”
she said. “If you are not careful, I shall
be, getting perfectly mad about you.” She
squeezed his arm again. “How well daddy
looks these days! When I first came he
was dreadfully thin a.nd hollow and withered
—the poor dear! I’ve been frightfully
good for him, don’t you think, Jim?”
Huntley huskily agreed that her effect
upon her father had been wonderful.
“DVou know, I’m getting an enormous
thrill out of New Guinea,” she rattled on.
“The magic dawns and the arrestingly lovely
sunsets and the eerily beautiful nights
compensate one for the blistering, gasping
days, don’t they? And you and Freddie
have been unbelievably jolly and sporting
about everything.”
“You’re a pukka sinabada, my dear. One
of us.”
A small wrinkle grew between the girl’s
eyes.
“I don’t think we’ll sell Nataroa, after all,”
she said. Huntley’s muscles tightened under
her hand. “Daddy would hate to be up-
rooted, and after a while the limitations
of city life would bore him dreadfully. I
see it now, Jim, but L didn’t at first. New
Guinea is in daddy’s blood. Nataroa is
part of him, because he has wrested it
from the living jungle, fought with it and
conquered it. I understand exactly how
daddy feels when I talk to him of selling
out.”
“Yes?” There was a brittle note in
Huntley’s voice.
“But he is not at all well, Jim. Anybody
can see that he requires a change. I must
get him away soon for a long, lazy holiday.
He’ll be ever so much happier down south
when he knows he has Nataroa to come
back to as soon as he is fed up.”
There was an immeasurable weariness in
Huntley’s face. He was sick with a sense
of helplessness, of defeat. He stole a covert
look at her and felt his pulses quicken.
How lovely she was! How infinitely desir-
able! The poise of her slender, boyish
body; the arrogant little head—it made him
ache to look at her. He was fumbling in
his mind for words, but they eluded him.
He tried not to listen to her voice as she
planned and schemed and reared her fairy
palace about her. He was staring blankly,
sightlessly at Charlie Durrant, now swing-
ing briskly up the path; and, before the
eyes of his soul, Roger Calvert’s sneering
boast was written in letters of fire.
They were comfortably ensconced in deck-
chairs, Huntley and Charlie Durrant. It
was a rarely beautiful night, with a gentle
moon spreading silver over the earth, and
a sky of black satin spangled with a myriad
stars. Belated crickets , raised their shrill
voices, flying-foxes thrummed, night birds
uttered their eldritch cries, and the dron-
ing rhapsody of the trade wind lulled the
senses to drowsiness.
But Huntley was wide awake. He was
glad that Marian and Freddie Chisholm
had slipped away into the cathedral vast-
ness of the palm-grove. He wished to come
to grips with Durrant, to question him
crudely, to wring something by way of ex-
planation or refutation from the old man
touching Calvert’s claim to the ownership
of Nataroa.
Before dinner no opportunity had pre-
sented itself. Marian had sung about the
house, pouting mischievously at her father,
wrinkling her brows at him, smoothing his
thin hair with a slim, white hand. Once,
while she was dressing, Huntley had put
forth tentative inquiries, but Durrant had
been evasive, uneasy, neither confirming nor
denying, showing by implication that the
subject was distasteful to him. During the
meal he had been silent and reserved, cast-
ing sidelong glances at Huntley, answering
his daughter’s airy badinage with mono-
syllables, covering his unease under a cloak
of gruffness. If Huntley was relieved when
Chisholm appeared and bore Marian away,
Durrant unmistakably was not. It was as
though some subtle instinct warned him
that Huntley would not talk in Marian’s
presence.
When they had gone, Huntley, in whose
mind the necessity for tact struggled with
a grim determination to learn the worst,
came to the point at once.
“Calvert was here to-day, Charlie.”
Durrant returned no answer other than a
nod, but Huntley sensed perturbation in
him.
“I’m asking for your confidence, Charlie,”
Huntley went on patiently. “Surely to God
you can trust me! I hate to embarrass
you. If I’m doing so, I beg your pardon;
but sooner or later you’ll be compelled to
face the situation, so why not be frank
with me now?”
He had an impression that Durrant was
keeping a grip on himself. He sat quite
still for a space; then his hands began to
fumble with his pipe.
“To what situation are you referring, my
dear boy?” He did not look at Huntley.
There was disquietude in his face.
“Why beat about the bush, Charlie?”
Huntley demanded. “You know damned
well what I’m referring to.”
“On the contrary, my dear boy. Really.”
“I had an uncomfortable five minutes
with Calvert this morning, Charlie. And,
to be candid, the whole business sickens
me. You know that Calvert is a damned
rascal” Here Durrant shook his head.
“Well, whether you know it or not, he’s
the two ends and the bight of a scamp.
What has he been putting over you? From
what he said and the way he said it this
morning, I have a horrible misgiving that
he has sold you a pup.”
He spoke decisively, with the air of one
very sure of his ground.
“If you don’t feel disposed to admit me
to your confidence,” he went on, “for God’s
sake tell Marian. She is your daughter, and
there are some things she has a right to
know. Why keep her in ignorance any
longer?”
Durrant shook his head again. “And
why, may I ask, should I go out of my
way to bother the child? I have business
worries. What planter has not, in these
days of high costs and low prices? But
really, Jim, old man, they are matters of
very trifling moment.”
“What?”
The exclamation came from Huntley like
a pistol-shot. Incredulity, amazement,
fought together in his voice.
“I’m afraid I’m losing my sense of pro-
portion,” he declared. “Or perhaps I’ve
mislaid my sense of humor. This is one
of the times when levity is not in the best
of taste, Charlie. Trifling moment! Suffer-
ing cats! Are you serious? I cannot be-
lieve that you are.”
As Huntley spoke, Durrant’s face took
on an expression of peculiar earnestness.
He leaned forward and rested a hand on
Huntley’s knee.
“In plain words, what is it that’s troub-
ling you, my boy? Forgive me, Jim, but
I have only a very confused sense of what
is agitating your mind. It is true that I
am under a certain financial obligation to
Calvert. It is not such as I am unable
to take care of. Jim.”
There was something in Huntley’s face
that pulled him up. He looked at the
younger man with a certain defiance, but
Huntley’s glance was steady in its scrutiny.
A queer, frightened look betrayed itself in
Durrant’s eyes.
“Wh-what the devil did Calvert tell you
this morning, Jim?” he querulously de-
manded.
“That he owns Nataroa, lock, stock and
barrel. That you are nothing more than
a caretaker. That he has been keeping
you; that he has been keeping Marian;
assuming the responsibility for all her ex-
penses, buying her clothes, paying her bills.
It was sickening, ghastly. I was hard put
to it to keep my hands off him.”
Durrant had slumped in his chair. His
face was white and strained; a long, shud-
dering breath whistled between his teeth.
“The fellow’s mad!” he gasped. “It’s
preposterous! It’s —it’s”- An odd look
flashed for a second across his twitching
face. He passed a shaking hand over his
forehead. And Huntley had an uneasy
sensation, all his doubts, his suspicions, his
fears crystallising into certainty.
“O my God!” Durrant choked. “Wh-
what have I done?”
He covered his face with his . hands, and
Huntley could hear the sound of his breath-
ing—sharp, low—like an animal in a trap.
Huntley pursed his lips in a soundless
whistle. There was pity and understanding
in his eyes. It was all as he had surmised;
the old story of the weakling in the hands
of an astute rascal who knew what he
wanted. The more he thought of it the
more the old man’s plight—and Marian’s
—haunted him, oppressing his soul like a
pain. Pensively he began to whistle a
doleful tune under his breath. He looked
away from the bowed figure before him, out
into the scented obscurity of the night.
He felt himself stiffening. Two figures
appeared in the narrow aisle between the
palms, walking with lagging steps towards
the house. They paused, fifty-yards away,
their heads close together, their forms fan-
tastically pied by silver moonlight and
black shadow. A low murmur of voices
came to him. He had a shamed sense of
eavesdropping, of prying and, hastily, he
made a move to efface himself. She was
going to be hurt, that child; she was going
to be hurt frightfully. His imagination
faltered when he considered her pretty
plans, her hopes, her dreams, against the
background of her father’s shipwrecked life.
It was ghastly!
Her voice drifted to him with marvellous
clearness. They were returning to the
bungalow, listlessly, reluctantly, those two
young lovers. Enchantment lurked in those
deep leafy vistas; magic was abroad under
the lustrous, tremulous sky. He was a
good kid—Freddie—clean, straight, forth-
right; a fitting mate for Maid Marian; a
dependable young buttress to stand between
her and the assailing forces of life. A
poignant emotion stirred within Huntley.
He sighed. ,
“Come Charlie,” he said, “to-morrow’s a
new day.”
But Durrant seemed dazed. He shook
his head as though it sang from a blow.
“It isn’t true, Jim,” he whispered. “It
can’t be true—can’t, I tell you. Nataroa
is worth—worth—God what a holy mucker
I am!”
“Sleep on it, Charlie. If there’s a way
out, we’ll find it.”
“I had debts to pay—debts to the stores,
to the bank—Marian—schooling,” the old
man muttered. “I had to borrow—from
Calvert—borrowed and renewed; always
borrowing—always renewing. Four hundred
acres of bearing cocoanuts is good security,
though. Damned good security, isn’t it,
Jim, eh?”
“Debts must be proved, Charlie. If you’ve
been bilked”
He was aware of Chisholm’s voice. Deep,
it sounded, vibrant, yet light-hearted and
carefree; then Marian’s laugh, melodic,
like the tinkling of a bell cutting the air.
“Let’s call it a day, Charlie. To-morrow
we’ll go into ways and means. There has
been something rotten going on beneath
the surface at Nataroa; it’s the talk of the
coast. You’ve been careless with your
signature, perhaps; too easily persuaded to
‘sign on the dotted line’; slipshod with your
books”
“There are no books, no records, nothing.”
Durrant interrupted. He laughed queerly.
“Nataroa is worth sixteen thousand pounds
of any man’s money!” The roll of the
numerals upon his tongue seemed to com-
fort him. “Calvert has been stringing you.
Jim; pulling your leg, old chap, in the
hope of getting a bite.” He laughed again,
harshly. “The fellow has been overstating
his case, as he overstates everything. Fault
of the breed, I fancy. How in hell can my
place belong to him?”
He hesitated for a second, looking out
into the compound. Then a smile of ex-
quisite pathos illuminated his face.
“She’s brought light and meaning and
beauty and the fresh fragrance of flowers
into my life, that little lass of mine, Jim.”
His face was abstracted, almost austere.
“If you asked me to join you in a night-
cap, lad, I’d turn you down—cold. Shall
we move? I fancy that we are a little—
er—conspicuous.”
And out among the palms the whole
world was bathed in alluring beauty ; close
the stars were, intimate, softly glowing;
black and soft were the shadows of the
trees, perfume-laden the motionless night
air. A night for sighing breaths and tender
thoughts; for serenades strummed to a com-
prehending moon. Pierrot! Pierrette!
Huntley felt a tightening about the
throat. He was viewing them from another
planet. In all the world to-night there were
just those two kids!


>■* )£:
m
a
9%
w..
&
m
*x
m
\±sj
Wc
r j*
/or
~ POST FREE.
Send a postal-note and your
friend’s address. Hillier’s will
pack one of their famous Red
Boxes full of freshly-made
chocolates and post them, to
arrive in time for Christmas
Day, to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Cljrislmas
The Famous Red Box of
Hf LLt id's
CHOCOLATES
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/-, 30/-,
37/6
ERNEST HILLIER, LTD.,
w
162-166 Pitt Street, Sydney; and at 199 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Hi ADS
- ' "
o --
THE
SELF-STROPPING
RAZOR
Valet halves shav-
ing time. Stropped and
cleaned in twelve seconds.
Keeps itself sharp. Nothing to un-
screw. Nothing to take apart. Smoother,
easier shaves with every Valet blade. You
need more sleep—use a Valet! Sets from
4/6 to 67/6 each. You never need remove
a blade except to change it —once in about
sixty perfect shaves! OF ALL HIGH-
CLASS DEALERS.
VALET
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
BRITISH MADE
Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
He turned away, smiling. “I’ve had the
devil of a day, Charlie,” he said. Im
going to take a bracer —a stiff one. 1 feel
that I need it.”
CHAPTER XIX.
Huntley was feeling sunk.
He had seen Marian and her father off to
Nataroa that morning. The new house was
finished. There had been an odd and eager
and tremendously hopeful look in Chis-
holm’s eyes and on his every feature as he
had arranged and re-arranged the cushions
in the whaleboat, and fussed over and tested
the fastenings of the awning. And when
he had hinted to Huntley that he would
like to go with the party and help Marian
unpack and “fix up,” Huntley had fallen
in with his ideas without demur.
But there had been a secret annoyance
in his heart of which he was not proud.
Perhaps he had imagined that about
Marian there had been an astonishing diffi-
dence when she bade him good-bye. Aston-
ishing, that is, for Marian. Perhaps it was
just fancy that something of the gaiety
had gone out of her voice; something of
the melodic ripple out of her laugh. And
so he had affected offhandedness: “The
near side of your nose, my dear, has a
slight tendency to shine. Just the sugges-
tion of a dab—the merest —that’s better.
Fine!” And very gravely he had assisted
her into the whaleboat.
But the fact remained that now he felt
flat. A wistfulness came into his eyes as
he gazed at the limpid, unflecked waters of
the lagoon. A kingfish rose and flashed
silver in the sun. Huntley did not see it.
He had a poignant sense of something miss-
ing, something lost out of his life. And he
jeered at himself because it was something
lie had never possessed.
How dreary the old barn was—silent,
forlorn, indeterminately depressing! She
had taken away her gay chintzes, her
cushions, her glassware, her china and her
brass. Already the polished floors were
marked by the white prints of bare feet;
already the flowers she had left were wilt-
ing, and almost he could see cobwebs fes-
tooning the ceilings. They would be fes-
toons to-morrow —or the day after—he
reflected. Soon the home she had made
would be a house again; a fitting abode for
a bachelor who had lost touch. Somehow
the place had become repugnant to him.
strange how he had responded to the little
niceties, the comforts she had brought
around him. He had reacted in a way he
had never suspected. She had lifted him
out of himself; given him new contacts,
new angles, companionship he never thought
he would miss so damnably. It came upon
him that he was a lonely a.nd solitary man
—and never in his life had he been lonely.
Always he had had his work with its thou-
sand and one interests and responsibilities.
It was as though his job had suddenly
failed him.
And then his eye lighted on something
of Marian’s lying at the door of the room
that had been hers; heel-less things, gay
colored, dainty; mules, he had heard her
'call them. He glanced round stealthily
as if derisive eyes observed him, picked
them up and stuffed them in his coat
pocket.
“As an utter damned fool,” he told him-
self, “you are a world beater.”
And he slammed on his helmet and
departed for his office.
It was late when Chisholm returned to
the station. He took the verandah steps at
a bound and flung himself joyously dis-
hevelled, into a lounge.
“Everything 0.K.,” he said in answer to
Huntley’s unspoken question. “Been going
like a scalded cat all the time; but every-
thing is shipshape now. And if you asked
me if I had a mouth, old chap, I should
melt into tears.”
Huntley smiled. He tapped a battered
brass gong and, when the “boy” appeared,
gave him certain instructions concerning
a bottle and a corkscrew.
“Marian asked me to tell you that she
was too worked up and excited to thank
you properly for taking them in ’n’ all that;
but she knows you’ll understand.”
Huntley nodded. So she was Marian
now, he mused. Why not? Yet, pondering
it, he found something astonishingly signi-
ficant in the fact that the two were on
such terms of intimacy. Hitherto she had
been Miss Durrant, or Miss Marian, at best,
to Freddie. The lad had been making the
running all right!
“I’ve had your dunnage removed from
your old quarters,” Huntley remarked.
“You’ll camp with me, of course? Not at
all, son. The old shack is big enough, and
I shall be glad of your company. Better
take the room Charlie occupied.”
The houseboy appeared carrying a tray.
“Good-luck to you, Chisholm,” Huntley
said gruffly, holding his glass to the light.
“Every conceivable kind of good luck, old
chap.”
The weeks drifted by. The south-east
trade wind died and the monsoon broke
in a flurry of rain and wind squalls. The
mountain tops, which for months had re-
vealed their rugged outlines against the
sky like jagged sawteeth, were hidden now
and swathed in mist. The lazy murmur of
the surf on the reef became a muttering
roll, sullen, relentless, menacing.
Nataroa Plantation was a hive of indus-
try. The village people, in a manner char-
acteristically Papuan, accepted the white
man who had been Nataroa Charlie without
curiosity or comment; and where before
they had been prone to treat him with the
easy familiarity due to one of themselves,
they now threw him salutes in imitation of
the police and called him “taubada.”
There were days when the old life called
him, and every fibre in him screamed for
the anodyne he had sworn not to touch.
He would come to the x-esidency, cringing
a little and with a whimper in his voice,
only to return to his daughter with head
up and shoulders squared and a swagger
in his walk. It was good to come to grips
with the devil that was in him. It was
better to fight it and best it. _ Gradually
his visits alone became less frequent as
the strain on his brain and body eased.
Once, thoughtlessly, Huntley left him alone
on the verandah —alone with the decanter,
temptingly full. Ten minutes later he
remembered what he had done and rushed
back in a panic. The old man had gone.
Huntley’s heart had leapt within him when
he saw that the decanter still stood on its
tray. It had not been moved by so much
as a hair’s-breadth.
There came a day, at the hour of sun-
down, when Huntley and his assistant,
bathed and changed, foregathered as was
their custom to perform their daily rite.
Charlie Durrant appeared at the foot of
the steps. Freddie Chisholm’s face ex-
pressed acute discomfort, but Huntley’s
stiffened with a great resolve.
“Have a drink, Charlie?” he invited.
Chisholm blinked as Durrant replied.
“Thanks, Jim. I think I will.”
Huntley pushed the decanter towards him.
Durrant poured out a modest nip with a
hand steady as a rock. Chisholm’s eyes
evaded Huntley’s. The three nodded to
one another.
“Good luck!” Chisholm gruffly muttered.
There was a queer smile on Huntley’s
face. He put down his glass.
“Have another, Charlie.”
But Charlie Durrant looked him squarely
in the eye. He shook his head. “You go
to blazes, Jim!” he drawled very pleasantly.
Chisholm’s wondering eyes sought Hunt-
ley’s. An exclamation leapt swiftly to his
lips, and his hand reached for the decanter.
“If you don’t mind, R.M.,” he said, “we’ll
celebrate this. It’s an occasion, by Jove!”
He turned to Durrant with an air of defer-
ence. “We’re going to drink your health,
sir. We think it’s up to us.”
And Charlie Durrant sat up very straight
and stiff, though his hands trembled a little.
His mouth was firm, his eyes bright. It"
was as though a crushing weight had been
lifted from his heart.
There ensued for Freddie Chisholm hours
of official duty that were much too long;
week-ends that were far too short. Life
to him became one protracted smile. He
could conceive of no occupation more
delectable than just being with Marian. All
his leisure he devoted to her. They swam
together in the lagoon; they went on long
expeditions into the bush, ostensibly to
take photographs; they toured the plan-
tation until they could give each palm a
name. Freddie Chisholm could not get
enough of - her. He was tremendously
earnest, tremendously eager and exultant
and completely happy.
And Huntley looked on with a protect-
ing, an almost paternal eye. There was
something attractive about Freddie’s breezy
young egotism; something a little pathetic
in the vast man-of-the-world sophistication
he was ascribing to himself; something
amusing in the boastful note that' would
come into his voice. And equally attrac-
tive, equally pathetic and amusing was
Marian’s calm acceptance of the lad’s
adoration—as if she were used to it, as if
it were no more than her- due. Great kids!
Boy-and-girl stuff. Huntley called it. If
he had been sounded on the subject he
would have declared himself as good-
humoredly amused at the whole business.
And he would have believed that he was
amused. He would not have acknowledged
that when he saw them going off together,
in the whaleboat or on foot, the sight
tightened his throat a little. There would
be an engagement soon, he supposed.
Hardly. Time enough for that when pro-
motion came Freddie’s way ; time enough
when he had a position to offer her. Some-
how he could not see Freddie Chisholm
facing the restrictions a junior patrol-
officer’s salary imposes on newly-weds. Then
Huntley remembered that the Chisholm
name and the Chisholm wealth were things
to conjure with in the world of high finance.
From Kuala Lumpur to Melbourne Freddie’s
father was “Tin” Chisholm. The clan
simply oozed wealth.
(To be continued next week.)
Last Thoughts.
When you are coming near life’s last desire
And all the little voices of dead days
Tell whom you’ve helped or hurt, and what
the praise
And what the blame that’s due to you, con-
spire
With memory for a moment to retain
The pride of having all Time’s joy defined
For one at least. Though all the rest were
blind,
For one at least you had not lived in vain.
Then let that shadow pass, and so forget
The one whose world you were—and then
renew
Your thoughts of those who made a world
for you,
Of those in whom your own delights were
met.
WKSTKALIA.
LALAGE.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles —Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock —Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane chancery House
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery nou e.
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD., Adelaide.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
ẃ
ẅ
£7,600,000
6,160,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. •• •• •• £89,228,378
General Manager 9 ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALT. CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
At Epsom (Vic.) races, which received
liberal patronage, despite the counter-attrac-
tion of Henley-on-the-Yarra, Duncan returned
to the saddle after being suspended for three
months by Bendigo stewards. Two years
ago Duncan had a bone in his neck frac-
tured in a fall at Epsom. There isn’t an
atom of superstition in Billy, and he had no
hesitation in resuming duty on the second
anniversary of his accident and on the
course where it had occurred.
Backers plunged heavily on Duncan’s
mount in the opening event, and if The
Dawn Patrol had squeezed home, instead of
losing to Emenere by a head, there would
have been tumultuous cheering. Winner is
one of the numerous good juveniles by Heroic
in training this season. He cost 160gns. as
a yearling, and belongs to H. Cousens, son-
in-law of the old-time jockey Tom Sanders.
The Brush Steeplechase was disastrous;
oniy live of the ten starters completed the
course, and Romeo (topweight and heavily
backed) broke his neck. Green Don, bearing
the Mosstrooper colors, came down at the
same fence, and his rider, Regan, was in
rather a bad way when conveyed to the
casualty-room. The race went to Ragatzky
(14 to 1), who visited Sydney in August,
1930, and won twice over hurdles at War-
wick Farm; he-lost lengths by swerving out
at the home turn, but nevertheless romped
in.
Ragatzky is the property of P. Iloysted,
whose relative, F. W. Hoysted, staged. a
mild sensation by capturing the concluding-
event with Redditch for the executors of
the late W. J. Wood. Fact of Redditch
racing over the battens recently—he won in
that department oir Williamstown Gup day—
Bert " Hallo, whats happened
to VOUR RACKET ?"
Giert ; *Our new cooks ruined
it."
Bert ''Been beating carpets
WITH .IT ?"
ẁ
put punters off him in H’ighweight Welter
company; but shrewd heads who had seen
the Red Dennis gelding working at Mentone
gave him out as a good thing. He won
attractively from the hot favorite, Lord
Whittier. Harold Badger, who piloted Red-
ditch, had landed the previous event, the
Epsom Handicap, on Galenist, a mare bred
by John Wren; the favorite, St. Frederick,
belied his Caulfield form by being second-
last throughout.
Credence (Chrysolaus—Dupe), who per-
formed with success in Queensland and N. S.
Wales before going to Victoria, outclassed
the Epsom Plate opposition. This grey
gelding is very unruly at the barrier, but
can gallop when he gets going. He was
ridden by P. Egan, and another apprentice,
H. Skidmore, was associated with the clear-
cut win of Ingoda Lassie in the Epsom
Purse. Skidmore will go far in his pro-
* *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Hurdle Race: Spear King; next, Calfly.
Fund Handicap: Thrawn; next, Darpuna.
j.. :J: ❖
Fast times are often put up at Randwick;
rarely on the Moorefield and Canterbury
Park tracks, which are among the slowest
in the Commonwealth. A sprinter must be
exceptionally slick to “break twelve-and-a-
half to the furlong” at Canterbury Park.
Trevallion did this on Saturday; with
9st 121 b. up in the Highweiglit Handicap
he sped over six furlongs in lmin. 14sec.
His victory was anticipated—he is trained by
Poison for the stable in which Matthews the
bookmaker is interested —and from threes the
price shortened to 5 to 4; Beau Dennis and
Snow Sun were the easily-defeated minor
place-getters. Trevallion, who was ridden
by Pike (as was Sunlover, winner, at evens,
of the Park Sakes), is in the Carrington
Stakes.
Trevallion has won at Randwick, and
so has Curtius, who, going out at 4 to 1,
showed the way home to a smart field in the
Flying Handicap. Curtius’s courage was
thoroughly tested by Royal Park and
Acceptor, but when Coutts called upon him
he proved equal to the emergency. Calendo,
who was specked in the clubs by customers
of “doubles” merchants, was taken out of
this race and the Highweight Handicap as
well. He is to be spelled.
The tactics adopted by the rider of
Meadowdale made the Canterbury Handicap
race a procession. Meadowvale, a gelded
son of Rossendale, was driven to the front,
and at one stage was 10 lengths ahead.
But he tired, and in the straight lie was
settled by Vertigern, another son of Rossen-
dale, who has done nearly all his racing
in Maoriland; Vertigern, in his turn, grew
weary and had to strike his colors to Warne-
ton (7 to 2), a son of Baverstock (David’s
sire), who was ridden by Knox —very suc-
cessful this season. A section of the crowd
disputed the referee’s verdict in favor of
Warneton.
Beckwith (3 to 1) gave Pike his third
winning mount in the second division of the
Highweight Handicap. Next to Greenline,
Beckwith is perhaps Greenstead’s speediest
son; but he is a bleeder, and because of his
weakness he has had to be spelled from time
to time. He returned from a recent sojourn
in the country so greatly improved that after
a few gallops—he does not require much fast
work —Williams, who owns and trains him,
advised his close friends that Beckwith was
a good thing at Canterbury. But it was only
in the last stride or so that he settled Dog-
wood.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm to-day:—
Horsley Handicap: Burracootboo; next,
Remora or Ranier.
Farm Handicap: Sunlover; next, Soulton.
Leumeah Handicap: Port Said; next,
Rosendo.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap: Gold
Digger; next, Satmoth.
Most of the horses mentioned are also
engaged on Saturday, it being a two-day
meeting. If Burracootboo misses on Wednes-
day, he should make amends on Saturday,
and Inducement may be a good bet in the
December Handicap.
* 3s * ®
“Thormanby”: Reference to Phar Lap’s
prospects in America (B. 25/11/’3l) is a
reminder that the dirt tracks will not be the
only innovation the Australian will meet
with. The starts over there are on the
“fly,” and the American racecourse mile is
shorter than the standard distance used in
Australia. These facts throw an interesting
light on American racing times, which no
American horse seems able to equal when he
crosses the Atlantic to measure strides with
the cracks of Britain and the Continent.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
As Alby Roberts had beaten Newcastle’s
Wally Maher in nine rounds at Leichhardt
some weeks ago, the. abo. was expected to
score again on Friday. Maher (10.9),
attacking from the first bell, worried Roberts
(10.9) for a time, however, and was fighting
faster than his foe when a right to the chin
upset him in the ninth round. Still suffering
from the effects of this, Maher was twice
knocked over before another right dropped
him for the full count in the tenth.
Not many good judges felt that A 1
Bourke (10.131) had a chance with Fred
ITannaberry (10.131) at Sydney Stadium
last week-end. and only about 400 saw the
fight. Hannaberry failed to strike his true
form for six rounds, and his opponent danced
away from all danger. Bourke was bowled
over three times in the eighth, however,
and a couple of lusty left swings put him
clean out when the ninth was 40 seconds
old.
“Tom Cribb”: One of the last of tlie old-
time plug-uglies went to his reward when Jem
Smith, once champion of England, died in
London at 68. Smith, who did most of his fight-
ing with the “raw ’uns,” flourished during a
period when pugilism was under a well-de-
served cloud. His principal occupation in his
prime was as a partner with the late Charley
Mitchell in the congenial duty of “minder” for
that prime blackguard the late Abingdon Baird.
Smith’s outstanding performance in the ring
was a draw with American Jake Kilrain,
the fight taking place in France. _ He is
best remembered by his showing in 1889
against Australian Frank Slavin. The fight
came off in Belgium, and Slavin, who could
have beaten his man with one hand, was
obstructed through 14 rounds by a mob of
toughs brought over by the ruffianly Baird,
who was Smith’s backer. These punched and
struck at the Australian with their sticks
whenever he came near the ropes, and finally,
when their man was half butchered, rushed
the ring, the affair ending in a draw de-
cision.
The Ins and Outs
The opening stages of the first Test match
between South Africa and Australia at Bris-
bane Cricket Ground were responsible for
patchy cricket, in which visiting fieldsmen
failed badly to make use of the opportunities
offered them. As it was, Australia, batting
first on a good wicket, was fortunate to
reach a total of 450, of which 341 were made
on the opening day for 6 wickets. Ponsford
left early, caught in the slips off Bell for
19, and Bradman, who followed him, gave
two easy chances in the slips before he
reached 20. After that he got his eye in
and was at his best until he went l.b.w. to
Vincent for 226 on the second day—the
score a record for these matches. Wood-
full had previously gone for a chanceless 76,
although he was fortunate in that a ball
which hit the stumps hard did not remove
the bails. Kippax failed to stay, and though
McCabe hit up 27, Nitsehke and Oxen-
ham could not get double figures between them.
A sound stand by Oldfield (56 n. 0.), Grim-
mett (14) and Wall (14) completed the
innings. Bell bowled splendidly to take 4
for 120 in no less than 42 overs. Quinn,
who had cruel luck with dropped catches,
finished a good bowling performance with 2
for 113, his co-lefthander Vincent taking
3 for 100. The South. Africans opened
cautiously, but Ironmonger dismissed Cur-
now when he was 11. Christy then went
for 24, and skipper Cameron had a short
life, stumped off Grimmett for 4. Mitchell,
at last among the runs, was 45 n.o. when
stumps were drawn on Saturday, his partner
being Taylor with 38 n.o. Rain prevented
play on Monday.
sfc J® 2* *B*
“5.8.”: Bradman’s first innings against
the Afrikanders in Brisbane is his 21st
shot in Test matches and brings his
averaged over the hundred. He made 1442
against England and 447 against the West
Indies.
* * * *
“Ballista”: There is an interesting
parallel in the careers of Grimmett and Iron-
monger. Both were despised and rejected of
selectors in their native land and elsewhere
whither they wandered. Grimmett left M.L.,
tried his luck and found it wanting in N.o.VY.
and Victoria, and at last achieved recognition
in South Australia. Neglected in Queensland
Ironmonger went to Victoria, and after a
succes d’estime tried again in Sydney.
Things were no better there until at last,
back in Melbourne, he made good, like Grim-
mett, a little late in the day.
>!• '•*
“Lancaster Park”: Maoriland is very keen
on a visit from the South Africans, and the
manager of the latter has cabled to the Cape
asking permission to cross the Tasman. The
Board of Control says it has no objection,
but it is by no means certain that the cricket
authorities of some of the Mates will agree.
If the visitors go to M.L. they must do so
after the fifth Test in Melbourne, which
begins on February 12. That will mean
that matches with South Australia 'and
Westralia will have to be cancelled.
“St. John’s”: After all, the sacred Oval
at Kennington is not to be handed over to
gamblers (B. 18/11/’3l). The Duchy of
Cornwall Estate Trust, which controls the
ground and much surrounding property for
the Prince of Wales, has backed down on
its arrangement with the dog interests in the
face of the furious howls of protest which
have been echoing all over the Empire, and
the tin hare will not now couch on the
hearthstone of the Surrey County Club.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The freak performances
last year in English county cricket, when
several captains agreed to close their first
innings after an over had been bowled in
order to ensure a definite decision, with its
big reward of points, in the second innings,
have aroused the wrath of Marylebone,
which has ordered the County Advisory Com-
mittee to report on the situation. The prac-
tice amounts to reducing the game to a
farce in many instances, and is one more
illustration of the modern athletic craze for
winning premierships or championships at
all costs, the matter of sport being the last
thing taken into consideration. The M.C.C.
has "determined to squelch the innovation,
but has not yet decided on ways and means.
(Continued on page 31.)
Henley-on-Yarra’s carnival was a triumph
for Victorian oarsmen in spite of the fact
that every State was represented, the locals
succeeding in all the events but the Chal-
lenge Sculls, which were easily retained by
the Sydneysider J. A. Gouhling, who beat
Beauchamp, of Tasmania, by six lengths.
The Stewards’ Cup, for fours, was won by the
Banks Club; and the Grand Challenge Cup,
for eights, by Mercantile, after a hard
struggle with Footscray City.
$ * * *
“Fitzcray”: Victoria will have a strong
entry for the Australian Games, Avhich are
to be held in Sydney in January. One new-
comer is C. E. S. Gordon, a high jumper,
who has won the British championship and
represented his country at the 1928 Olym-
piad. His winning jump in the British event
was 6ft. lin., but there are several Austra-
lian performances better than that, the best
being E. M. Davidson’s 6ft. 3|in. In the
Empire Games last year he was runner-up to
J. H. Viljoen. of South Africa, who cleared
6ft. 3in. Gordon was president of the Oxford
Athletic Club in 1930, and held the cham-
pionship of the famous Achilles Club for four
seasons, so there can be no doubt about his
quality.
® * * *
“Spike”: With the Olympiad looming on
the horizon, the Australian amateur athletic
authorities have thought it advisable to
issue a warning to athletes regarding the
Olympic rules as to amateur status. These
rules absolutely ban as an amateur any
athlete or player of games -receiving any
compensation for using goods of manufac-
turers or agents, or allowing the use of his
name as a means of advertising or recom-
mending such goods. Prompt disqualifica-
tion is the penalty.
* * * *
“Esters”: Some excitement has been
caused in Olympic Games circles by the
announcement of the French Olympic autho-
rities that unless their team is permitted to
take over supplies of wine to the land of
prohibition and synthetic hooch France will
not start. The Frenchman drinks beverage
wine as an Australian drinks tea, and it
can be understood that to be deprived of it
would be a real hardship. The incident
curiously parallels the case of another Frank,
the French racehorse Epinard. The nag
was bound for the U.S.A. to race there sonife
years ago, but as he invariably refused to
start unless he had a pint of beer, them
were difficulties in the way. In the end,
after much negotiation, his owner refused
to send him over.


XMAS BATS
Selected and autographed by Alan Kippax.
idlS-
-5
Alan Kippax Autograph .... 60/-
Alan Kippax Special Club . . 48/6
Alan Kippax Victory 39/-
Alan Kippax Star ......... 31/-
Stan McCabe X 35/ -
BOYS’—
Alan Kippax—
No. 6, 20/9; No. 5, 18/-
No. 4, 15/6
Stan McCabe—No. 6, 22/6
Somerset —No. 6, 14/6; No. 5, 13/6
No. 4, 12/6
N.S.W. Sports Store, Ltd.,
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
I
IBS ES
r«
H
31
&XAINUESS:
831
No. 1
705
831—Grained Xylonite Handle, best
hand-forged Carving Knife. Self-
acting Guard Fork, 25/- per pair.
Poultry Carver and Fork, same price.
Steels, 6/6 each.
No. I —Stainless Steel Saw Bread Knife,
Bin. Blade, highly finished Xylonite
Handle, made in Sheffield, 9/6 each.
705 —Stainless Steel, Square Xylonite
Handle, well finished. Table Knives,
16/6; Dessert Knives, 14/6 per half-
dozen.
Post Free for Cash with Order.
W. JNO. BAKER, LIMITED,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
XMAS
TABLE
CUTLERY
The Ins and Outs
The match between Queensland and South
Africa in Brisbane ended in a draw, boutn
Africa, with four wickets in hand, needing
20 to win when stumps were drawn, ine
visitors replied to Queensland’s opening
score of 202 with 195. The Northerners lost
four wickets for 9 runs in their se coud
try, but Gough (61) and Hansen (65)
raised the score to 142 before Hansen, a
lefthander still in his ’teens, was bowled by
Mitchell. Then the rot set in again and the
remaining wickets added only 14 runs.
Brown, a medium righthander, took 4 for
Quinn and Mitchell, the latter a slow leg-
break merchant, also bowling well. With
164 to get to win, the tourists found Gilbert
and Oxenliam on the spot, and in sprte ol
a good stand by Curnow (32) and Viljoen
(48) were well tied up, the later batsmen
making no attempt to force a win.
Jfc # * *
“Stanley”: Queensland cricket continues
at sixes and sevens. The latest malcontent
is the Test-match bowler Hornibrook, who
has retired from the game in a huff,
because he was not notified until the
last moment that he would be 12th man for
Queensland against South Africa. The
excuse seems a poor one, for the selec-
tion is rarely made until the last minute m
such cases. Hornibrook’s exclusion was due
to the fact that a final examination of the
wicket showed that it was hard and true,
and therefore unsuited to liis style of bowl-
ing. Had it been showing signs of rain
damage the lefthander would have been the
first man chosen.
* * * *
Cricket lost a fine exponent of the game
and N.S.W. a good citizen with the death
last w r eek of Walter Wilson Chapman,
traffic manager of the North Coast Steam
Navigation Cos. Though he never figured
in a Sheffield Shield side, “Chappy” was one
of the best club batsmen N.S.W. has seen, and
in his prime, when he was a member of the
Paddington club and a contemporary there
with Victor Trumper, Monty Noble and Jim
Kelly, he recorded some remarkable batting
performances, including several famous part-
nerships with the incomparable Victor. A
forcing batsman of a type rarely seen to-day
he once scored 34 off a single over —only
six balls in those days. In later years he
played many good innings for Mosman
before giving up the game for golf. He was
also a N.S.W. baseball representative for
several years and a tennis-player of ability.
* * * *
“Five Ways” : The aboriginal bowler Gil-
bert afforded an interesting study in psycho-
logy during the Queensland match with
South Africa. Though he had played
through the Sheffield Shield series last
season without challenge, a statement by
an unauthorised person that he was throw-
ing against N.S.W. in Brisbane recently was
taken up by Sydney papers, which worked the
accusation for all it was worth. Obviously ill
at ease, and apprehensive that lie might be
no-balled at any moment, the boy gave a
very erratic exhibition of bowling in the
first South African innings. With his mind
at ease in the second innings, Gilbert skittled
the first four African batsmen for 38 runs.
* * * *
“Hove”: The Indian cricket team for
England, which leaves the Coral Strand in
the, first week in April, had great hopes of
co-opting the services of the dashing Duleep-
iinhji. “The Tulip,” however, says he will
eonfine his cricket to his county, though he
will play in the Tests, if desired. No. 2 of
Rules for Test Matches puts him out of their
reach unless England consents.. The rule lays
down that any cricketer having played for
one country in a Test cannot play for
another, unless both sides agree on the point.
* * * *
“Hutt”: Maorilanders, like their Aus-
tralian cobbers, are getting fed up with the
persistent attempts by English cricket clubs
to induce local cricketers to transfer their
allegiance to the Cold Country. The loss
of the brilliant Dacre was a sore point, and
offers made to Merritt and Cromb have
put the lid on. Several prominent sup-
porters of Shivery Island cricket have
announced that they will subscribe no more
to funds to send M.L. teams to England, if
these are to be culled of their best players.
The M.L. cricket authorities have been asked
to find a way out of the difficulty and are
thinking hard. As Australian cases have
shown, signed agreements are of little use
in blocking intending deserters.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: Though nothing has been
heard of them on this side to date. Bill
Tilden and his circus of professional ten-
niseers were to have opened a tour of Europe
in Paris last week, going on via Brussels,
Amsterdam, Berlin and so on in a circle to
Monte Carlo for the season there. The
French Tennis Association is providing
umpires for the matches, and will confer the
world championship title on the player com-
ing out of the tests most successfully. Con-
sidering that there are no British or Aus-
tralian players appearing in these alleged
championships, the French authorities might
well cut out the “world” part of it until
entries are drawn from a wider area.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Tennis-players seem
to be a law unto themselves as regards the
conventions and courtesies common to other
sports. .English tennis journals have been
commenting on a recent happening in
America, where the British players Perry
and Hughes turned up for a match against
the Americans Lott and Shields at
the scheduled time, 10.30 a.m., and had to
kick their heels about until their opponents
casually turned up an hour late. L. and S.
were told to start at once and kicked up a
great hullaballoo because they were not
given a few minutes to “warm up,” being
supported by the crowd in this attitude. In
any other form of athletics the offenders
would have been disqualified promptly for not
toeing the mark at the scheduled time, but
they do these things differently in tennis.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: In the eight women’s cham-
pionships played in the United States during
the 1931 season four were won by English
players and four by Americans—these last
all from California. The Pacific.. State, has
been extraordinarily prolific in producing
high-class tennis exponents. Helen Wills
is a Native Daughter, while among the men
there are such outstanding perfoimeis as
William Johnston, the liard-hittine McLoug -
lin, Does: and Vincent Vines, the piesent
champion of America. The four English
winners were Mrs. Whittingstall (E lee
Bennett), Mrs. Barron and Misses Nuthall
and Mudford. The American quartette was
Mrs. Moody (Helen Wills), Mrs. Ilaipei
and Misses Jacobs and Wcissel.
* * * *
“Actuary”: Tennis is the latest held to
which the insurance fiend has extended his
energies. Companies are now issuing cover
for racquets, accessories and personal effects
to the extent of £ls against fire, burglary
or theft whilst in aiiy tennis clubhouse in
Great Britain or Ireland. Inability to the
public for personal injuries or damage to
property caused by insured is also covered
up to £SOO, the same amount being avail-
able in cases of death or permanent dis-
ablement, with a sliding scale for lesser
injuries. The costs of repairing racquets
broken in play is also insurable, though
whether this applies to racquets broken by
infuriated losers is not stated.
The Nineteenth Hole
“H’otham”: Much is expected from 16-
year-old H. L. Williams, winner this year
of the Victorian and Australian amateur
golf titles, the advent on the scene of this
player and his youthful rival Jim Ferrier,
of N.S.W., being considered a happy augury
for Australian golf in the near future. If
all goes as expected, Williams is to be early
put to a severe test, playing in the next
British amateur and open championships.
It is a far cry from even the best Australia
can offer to golf of this calibre, and it is
to be hoped that the young aspirant will be
given a chance to get acclimatised before he
is allowed to tackle his big job overseas.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: A young English profes-
sional plays exhibition matches in which he
drives off with the ball placed on a wooden
tee balanced on the forehead of his recum-
bent wife. Kirkwood used to work a joke on
the same lines when he was in Australia with
Walter Hagen, but his tee was not a. wife’s
forehead, but the face of a watch. This was
always borrowed from one of the spectators,
and, even in communities which knew Joe,
there was difficulty in getting anyone to
come forward with a watch. Perhaps if
Joe had substituted wives for watches he
would have been rushed.
“Old Q,”: Your correspondent “Gregory
Terrace” (B. 25/11/’3l) need shed no tears
because the Brisbane Council lias refused
to permit a bar on its municipal course at
Victoria Park. I was present at the open-
ing ceremony last week and can certify that
the attendant public came armed with its
own weapons wherewith to stave off dull
care. One acquaintance, whom I never sus-
pected of golf, turned up with a golf-bag
containing one rusty deck and an ancient
wooden putter of a vintage dating back to
the ’nineties. The rest of the space was
taken up with half a dozen bottles of soda
and the usual chemical mixture employed
to reduce the alkalinity of the aerated
water. There were a lot of others like him,
and as pubs in Queensland don’t shut until
8 p.m., there was no need for heartburn-
ings on the way home.
# iJj sfc
“Sandringham”: The Peninsula (Vic.)
Club’s amateur scratch event, a 86-hole
competition, was responsible for a rather
unusual finish, three lefthanders filling the
first three places. Harry Williams, the
Australian champion, returned a card of
148 ( 73-75), being 6 up on the second man,
A. J. King, of Kingston Heath, who is
a stockily-built player with a more com-
pact style than either of his rivals. Stewart
Ross, of Royal Melbourne, who filled third
place,. 3 strokes behind King, is a lengthy,
leisurely veteran with a notable swing
which is the envy of many of his golfing
brethren.
$ $ # $
“Bowen Bridge”: Brisbane’s municipal
golf course is reported to have raked in
£6O in fees for its first working week, a
sum which should satisfy even the squealers
on the City Council who bitterly opposed
the scheme. Considering that public links
of this kind give people who cannot afford
to join subscription clubs a chance to in-
dulge in one of the finest games in the
world, and one in which men and women can
take part, opposition is hard to understand.
Wherever they have been installed, municipal
links have been sure money-makers for their
inaugurators from the start. The Brisbane
venture promises to be no exception to the
rule.
* * * *
“Rose Bay”: Considering the whacking
profits Woollahra (N.S.W.) Council is mak-
ing out of its nine-hole golf links on New
South Head-road, the aldermen are display-
ing extreme ingratitude towards the players
who submit to the rather extortionate fees
charged. Certain denizens of flats border-
ing on the near-minnie course have expressed
their apprehension that a pulled shot on
one of the tees might injure tenants or break
windows. A professional expert testified that
only by a miracle could a shot be so pulled as
to do the damage indicated. It was further
suggested that if a ball did hit the wall
of the flats in question it would probably
he more of a threat on the rebound to
players than to' anyone else. One alderman
callously remarked that if players liked to
hit each other that was their funeral, and
he and his fellows decided to safeguard the
flats with wire-netting—for which the
golfers will probably have to pay in increased
fees.
* * * =!:
“Woogaroo”: One of the events of the
Queensland golfing year is the State cham-
pionship for caddies, which is conducted by
the Queensland Golf Council and carries a
cup presented by the Brisbane “Courier.”
The competition, which comes off on Decem-
ber 12, consists of a qualifying round of 18
holes sti-oke at the Brisbane club’s Yeerong-
pilly course in the morning, followed by
18 holes of match play on the Royal Queens-
land links at Eagle Farm in the afternoon.
The winner holds the cup for a year and has
his name engraved on it, in addition to
receiving a gold medal. Caddies from near
and far flock to the competition, but so
far the country representatives have not
had a look in.
sf * H= #
Toowoomba (Q.) Golf Club, which has
its course on the flanks of the Dividing
.Range some 2000 ft. above sea level, lias
issued the programme for its annual Christ-
mas carnival, which runs from December
25 to January 2. In addition to private
matches, nine events of various kinds for
men and women players will be staged, all
being open to club members and associates of
affiliated golf clubs; the handicap limit is
21 for members and 30 for associates. Post
entries will be the rule, though early appli-
cations are asked for by lion. sec. A. J. Lord,
P.O. Box 155. The golf will be reinforced
by dancing and bridge evenings in the club-
hoitke.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: So determined are the Yankees
to recover the motor-speed record from John
Bijll that no fewer than four cars designed for
the purpose are now being put together in
the States. One of the latest is described as
having a domed top with a long tail and
rear fin and covered wheels, the driver’s seat
being half-way between front and rear axles.
The car is only 700 h.p., resembling in this
respect that in which Frank Lockhart lost
his life in Daytona. In Lockhart’s case
the accident was ascribed to the car being
too light to hold the track under the speed
developed, a matter which Harlam Fengler,
designer of the new car, might think over.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: One aspect of Norman
Smith’s coming attempt on •Campbell's record
of 245.73 m.p.h. which does not seem to have
attracted general attention is that the Aus-
tralian driver has not yet driven faster than
1481 m.p.h. That was in a fit-up car, and
the specially designed one he will use on the
Ninety-mile Beach carries a super-engine
developing 300 horse-power more than
Campbell’s. Smith’s objective is 275 m.p.h.
With all his experience and confidence his job
is a formidable one, though he will have the
advantage of almost faultless running con-
ditions and ample room to move.
* * * *
“Ball Race”: Taking their annual motor
census at Melbourne Cup, Dunlop-Perd-
riau discovered that there were 3544 cars
parked in the various reserves. In 1908
when the count was first made the number
was 168, of which 23 belonged to stalwarts
who had travelled from outside Victoria.
There is interest in the list of the cars
given, many of the makes enumerated having-
passed out of existence, or vanished from the
Australian market. There w r as then only one
solitary Ford, while the list was headed by
the Clement-Talbots with 32. In all there
were 46 different makes of car, including
three steam-driven.
* * * *
“Pore du Chemin”: The French have an
open mind in the matter of fines for infringe-
ment of the motor traffic regulations.
According to a recent motoring journal the
standard rates are 6 francs for exceeding
the speed limit, 5 for driving with an open
exhaust, 3 for driving without lights, 5 for
driving without a license, 3 for not sounding
the horn at cross-roads, 3 for driving against
one-way signs, and 2 for obstruction. As
the “frog” is only worth 2d., one can thus
commit the seven deadly motoring sins in
France at a cost of about five bob.
* * * Hi
“Hotham”: Back in his native Melbourne,
Hubert Opperman lost no time gettine into
harness, winning a motor-paced event at
the Motordrome on his first appearance. His
wins in France included three important
races, the Paris-Brest-Paris (750 miles), tin;
Lyons-Gcneva and return (250 miles) and
the Circuit de Bourbonne (500 miles). The
Victorian rider goes back to France for the
next racing season, and in the meantime
will appear as a lecturer on a Melbourne
picture-theatre circuit, racing at the Motor-
drome as well.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman”: There was a sound of
revelry long after closing hours in Sydney
bowling clubs when the news came through
that N.S.W. had beaten Vic. in Melbourne.
It was a big surprise, since the side sent
away was, as is usual with touring bowling
teams, whose members have to pay all their
own expenses, a very scratch lot. However,
it seems to have caught the formidable
Cabbage Gardeners bending, and by winning
the first two matches comfortably made sure
of the rubber.
* * *
“Shrewsbury”: Though the Oxford-Cam-
bridge boatracc is not due until the end of
March, the Dark Blues are leaving no stone
unturned to break into the long list of con-
secutive wins by Cambridge. They have already
reduced training to two eights. The only
Australian included is V. R. C. Brown, of
Westralia, who is in the second boat. Cam-
bridge has four eights going, and here sieain
only one man from this side is mentioned.
This is L. Luxton, of Victoria, who is in
the first crew.
* * s= $
“Rover”: Every year Victorians resident
at Oxford and Cambridge rear the banner of
Australian Rules football and observe its
rites in exile with an annual match between
the two universities. This year’s game went
to Oxford, the Dark Blues getting home with
12 goals 11 behinds to 7 goals 6 behinds.
Evidently the cable man at the other end is
growing accustomed to the alien game. Some
years ago he cabled out that the winner had
scored 7 goals and 13 “beehives,” and quite
a lot of Australian papers let it go, at that.
* =l= * $
“Stand Off”: The Rugby-playing States
are in for a bellyful of football during the
1932 season, for, in addition to the visit of
the Rugby Union All Blacks to Queensland,
N.S.W. and Victoria, the Rugby League
players in the two first States will be enter-
taining a team from the North of England.
As both codes are running a programme of
inter-State matches as well, fitting in the
various fixtures promises to be a hard job,
especially as the League in Sydney has
climbed down from its perch and decided to
again tender for the Sydney Cricket Ground
for the big matches.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: It did not take Maoriland’s
latest Governor-General, Lord Bledisloe, long
to find a way to the hearts of his temporary
fellow-countrymen. He has established a
mighty mana by giving a cup for competition
between the M.L. and Australian Rugby
Unions. Maoriland is rather rich in vice-regal
trophies of the kind. Years ago Lord Ran-
furly instituted the shield which bears his
name for competition between the M.L.
Rugby-playing provinces. His example was
followed later by Lord Plunkett, whose
trophy is fought for between the cricketers
of the M.L. provinces on the lines of our
own Sheffield Shield competition.
* * * *
“Shinguard”: Hockey circles in Australia
have been stirred at the discovery that many
South African cricketers of note, including
several members of the side now in Aus-
tralia, play hockey as their winter game, and
a conference is to be held between some of
the visitors and the N.S.W. hockey authori-
ties when the Springboks come back from
Brisbane. There are over 150 men’s teams
in the Union, and the Australian Associa-
tion hopes to get a side of Afrikanders to
come across for an Australian tour after
the visit of the Indian Army team
next year. The Springbok skipper, Cameron,
is a keen hockey-player, and will conduct
negotiations on the other side when he goes
back.


Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil every day.
»:
0 f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, V/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
. Man®
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London ; W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
THE BEST EVER.
“The Christmas Mirror”
December 15 3d.
SERIALS SHORT STORIES
ARTICLES BETWEEN OURSELVES
PICTURES NEEDLEWORK
VERSE GIFTS IDEAS
SUPERB ILLUSTRATIONS.
SOMETHING IN IT FOR EVERY WOMAN
DECEMBER 15 3d.
AUSTRALIAN
CANNED FISH
I Tushpag
FLATHEAD or GARFISH
A NEW AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
A DELICIOUS PRODUCT.
£lb. and lib. tins.
ORDER FROM YOUR GROCER!
Canned by the
Fishpac Co., Short St., Marrickville
. - ’Phone: Ll5Ol.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
This Letter went to a tea party at Point
Piper the other day, and a breathless late
arrival flung a bomb into the cream-buns by
informing the hostess that Mr. Lang was
going to move into the house next door,
which he had bought for £60,000 cash. She
spoke with as much certainty as if sne’d
been keeping tally when the Premier counted
out the shekels. Anyway, her remark lifted
the lid, and in hushed tones every lady con-
tributed some story she had heard concern-
ing the enormities, private and political, of
J. T. Lang, Esq. It was left to the hostess’s
mother, an up-to-date young thing of 70-odd,
to defend him. H’er line of argument was
unusual: “All poppycock! Stuff and non-
sense !” she barked, pointing her stick at the
last speaker. “If the man gave so much
time to sin, what time would ho have for
politics?” Which, at least, sounds common-
sense.
Our American cousins who came by the
Malolo to look us over got a sample of
Sydney weather that California couldn’t
beat. Blue skies and bright sunshine and
days as fresh as a crisp lettuce-leaf were
served all the time their white pleasure-
boat drowsed at the Quay. But there was
no drowsing about the Malolo’s passengers.
One met them everywhere. In the hotel
lounges, admiring the full-flowered Cape
chestnut-tree up behind the Con., exclaiming
over the jacaranda in the Botanic Gardens,
out on the beaches, buying black opals,
at Government House. They were a jolly
crowd, many of the women with nails red-
dened till they seemed lacquered; and their
interests were wide. There was even a
girl artist who had been a student of
Whistler, and a lady from Ileno who spent
an hour at the Field divorce case. They
were so amiable and delighted with us that
we were delighted with them.
Sunbaking is the latest Sydney craze: at
this moment (11.40 on a sunny morning),
in 500 back yards and as many side lawns,
Jane, having finished her morning chores,
has put on her bathers, and, accompanied by
a protective gown (in case the curate should
call), is offering herself to the sun. Doctors
are raising no stormy protest; in some eases
they have even ordered a course of baking.
It’s supposed to be very soothing to the
nerves.
But all this isn’t as new as we like to
think it is. Up at Moree, where there are
baths which have long drawn the rheu-
matic as well as some run-down cases, sun-
bathing in the absolutely altogether has for
long been the practice; and the council,
which owns the bakery, has never lifted the
tiniest squeak of protest. And, of course,
there’s bathing in the nude, too. On that
point, however, the council isn’t as fussy
as the authorities at Rotorua (M.L.), where
bathers are not permitted even a strip of
adhesive plaster. As for aV, you’d wear
one under threat of suffocation. But you
can’t follow up your virginal swim with a
sun-bath in Enzed.
This Letter met ex-Justice Gordon’s wife
yesterday on her way to a dressmaking
lesson, and not ashamed of it either. This
doesn’t mean that the lady won’t circulate
her money; it means that charity, taxation
and all the ills that Lang’s subjects are heir to
have decided her to make at least her house
frocks. An untiring and idea-full worker for
the underdog, she marshalled her friends
around her at the Australia the other morn-
ing, and to a record meeting announced that
she wanted to divide a Christmas box of
£lOOO among various charities. The £lOOO
is to be raised by books of penny votes. _ A
thousand pounds is always her objective.
Once she raised it at an afternoon’s fete.
St. Pat.’s, on Church Hill, blessed the
vows between Pauline Anne Roche and
Keith Lees at nine o’clock on a sunlit morn-
ing last week. Tulle, ivory satin and water-
lilies sustained the bride, a daughter of
T. D. Roche, of Meroo, Gunning; and
Father Carson, of that parish, came to tie
the knot. The ’groom is from Gundaroo.
There were four pretty ’maids in pink
organdie frocks and picture hats, and four
upstanding ’groomsmen. Reception at the
W eutwortli.
This Letter expects some of the women
who are preparing for the State arena have
already ordered new frocks, for, of course,
they’ll be taking to the training track dur-
ing the whirlwind Federal campaign. Miss
Preston Stanley, should appear by night in
tailored black velvet, backless and very bare
of arm, and in cream or black and white by
day. Black or smoke-grey tulle with a scarf
effect would be best for Mrs. Muscio; black
and silver brocade with those open-work
back-strappings would look well on Mrs.
Ruby Duncan. Mrs. Kenneth Street and
Mrs. Albert Littlejohn will be sure to be
knee-deep among the husks and pearls of
oratory at the hustings, but their raiment
will take care of itself.
Canberra is shortly to lose its lady doctor.
Beatrice Sharwood, daughter of Crown Soli-
citor Sharwood, is about to marry Dr. Johu
Holt, practising at Brisbane; they met when
Dr. John was looking after the patients of
Dr. James when the latter was honeymoon-
ing in Europe. It is quite possible that
Beatrice’s wedding will be the first official
function in St. Andrew’s Presbyterian
Cathedral, Canberra, which is now nearing
completion. The ladies of Canberra said
their good-byes at a garden party at Can-
berra House. The function was arranged by
four close friends, the Mackenzie lady (Dr.
Winifred Smith), Mrs. Edward Knox (Dr.
Alice Thomas), Mrs. Harold Jones and Mrs.
A. J. Cahill, wife of Dr. Cahill. Professor
Mackenzie’s wife and Mrs. Knox were
students and graduates at the Melbourne
Uni. with Dr. Sharwood.
You meet these Australians everywhere.
Mary Gilmore’s brother, who used to be
British Consul in Detroit (U.S.A.), now
has the same job at Danzig, on the Baltic.
And he likes it, too, and finds the place and
its problems immensely interesting.
Another of Mary Gilmore’s long string of
relations is Mrs. Morrison Stone —the con-
necting link in their case was one of
General'Wolfe’s officers. Like many other
Canadians, she has just got acquainted with
Australian preserved fruit —peaches in her
case. “The finest I have ever tasted, ’ she
writes. “We are all crazy over them.” Her
husband is something or other in the Depart-
ment of Trade; so that may be a help.
When Mrs. David Maughan, Edmund
Barton’s daughter, takes to. public speak-
ing, you can depend there is grey mattei
behind t h e
words. Just
now her
energies are
direct e d to
building up an
ideal that
isn’t Commu-
nism. We have
too long been
“a n t i - some-
thing ” —let
us put forward
a policy that
we are for and
concentrate on
it rather
than waste
our energies
reviling the
thing we are
opposed t o.
This was the
thought
behind a
women’s rally at the Town Hall sponsored
by the Women’s Guild of Empire, of which
Mrs. Maughan is an ardent member. The
G.O.E. advocates Empire economic union, and
its great aim is to produce peace in industry.
From 1911 to 1928, Mrs. Maughan says (and
this makes wives and intending wives think
a bit), the production activities of N. S.
Wales increased only one per cent., while
in the U.S.A. the increase was 65 per cent.
Mrs. Maughan, who is the wife of the K.C.,
is active in good works as well as in the
affairs of State. Photo, from Falk.
The new dining-room of the Lyceum Club,
with its yellow lights and modernistic chairs,
seated the erudite and artistic - last week
when the United Circles of the club spread
a dinner party. President Mrs. Muscio, in
black lace, introduced the after-dinner
speakers, among whom was Paddy Nolan, a
guest of the Dramatic Circle, and a nice-
looking major named Murray-Jones, who
discoursed on flying. He was the guest
of the Aviation Circle, the baby of the club.
The presswomen of Sydney were among the
guests, and congratulations were passed to
Mrs. Horace Buck, winner of the club’s
prize-story competition, and to Winifred
Birkett, who carried off the poetry prize.
Jimmy MacDonald, of the National Gallery,
gave his candid opinions on art, especially
the modern sort which paints' ladies whose
brilliant eyes send forth long streamers into
the surrounding air, and maidens whose
cheeks blush greenly while their eyes lan-
guish in brilliant purple.
The Wentworth enjoyed a night of old-
time splendor when the Empire Society
swept down in well-dressed cohorts for the
yearly reception. The Governor and Lady
Game were the guests, and no doubt Sir
Philip would have liked to fling his hat into
the company first to see the reception it
got. However, vested (or is it divested?)
interests as represented by Hugh Denison,
the Kelso Kings and others were just as
cordial as of old. Flags struck a valiant
note in the decorations of the ballroom and
cool flannel flowers trembled on the tables.
To Lady Game went a bunch of red roses;
and as her frock was a clinging black affair
patterned in white, all things worked to-
gether for good. Miss Crowdy forsook her
usual greys for satins that were almost
the Pekin blue of this Letter’s recommenda-
tion. Commodore Holbrook and Captain
Feakes brought the tang of the sea and the
scent of the driving spray into the official
group, and Mrs. Feakes lit her surroundings
with raiment of gold. This was a relief,
for black was worn by Hugh Denison s lady,
by the wife of Acting-Chief Justice Harvey,
by Mrs Heritage and Mayoress Jackson.
Secretary W. G. Layton added his decora-
tion to the glitter.
Patricia Mead, tall and dark, was a froth
of pink frills, and Thelma McMaster, who
brought her father, was meshed in cobwebby
green lace. Father had had liis own hour
of glory earlier in the day when the Animal
Health Laboratory, his gift to the Uni. was
opened, to the accompaniment of academic
flowers of speech.
In the Women Painters’ Show this year
were s o m e
w a t e r-colors
whose fresli-
n e s s and
i m a g ination
drew the gaze
a second time.
They were the
work of Elaine
Coglilan, one
o f Sydney’s
younger
artists. Elaine
is a product
of the Royal
Art Society,
and as a stu-
dent exhibited
regularly with
that ' group.
She is now a
vital member
of the Women
Painter s'
Society, and,
in addition to lier water-colors, works in
oils and pastels. Portrait-painting is now
absorbing her attention. Picture from May
Moore.
Even evergreen poets can’t make tlie years
stand still. Here is P»anjo Paterson s
daughter, Grace, busy fixing up her wedding
for next month. The ceremony will be set
in the midst of Eadith Walker’s gardens at
Yaralla. Lieut. K. Harvie, of 11.M.A.5.
Australia, is the lucky man.
The cable announcing that the S. M.
Bruces had been bidden to lunch with the
King and Queen set some of the papers talk-
ing about what exactly happens when one
has a meal in the family manner with their
Majesties. Mrs. Theodore told this Letter
how she and E.G. lunched at Windsor
Castle. When the Australians arrived they
were shown into a suite of rooms, com-
prising at least a dressing-room and a little
sitting-room. Then they were led along
a corridor to the gold-room, where they
awaited their Majesties, who arrived almost
immediately, with the Prince of Wales.
Then the party moved in to lunch. This
was served on a polished table set about
with lace mats. Among other delicacies there
were plovers’ eggs, of which the Prince is
very fond. He . noticed that Mrs. Theodore
was only playing with hers, and he said .in
astonishment: “Yqu don’t like plovers'
eggs!” Mrs. Theodore replied that she
really didn’t like, any sort of eggs. That set
the Prince talking about plovers’ eggs—
they cost, he mentioned, five shillings each
in the beginning of the season! _ Presently
Princess Mary’s small son came in, bobbed
prettily to the visitors, had one piece of
biscuit given to him, and grabbed for the
remainder. No more than two footmen at
a time were ever on the horizon.
The Australian Fine Arts Gallery was
buzzing on Saturday afternoon when the
Women Writers got together for _ mild
revelry. There were cards and competitions
to absorb the attention of the 150 guests,
and tea for all was provided by Mrs.
A. B. Coleman, who also donated the room.
Mrs. Walder was another of the benefactors
and was responsible for chairs and tables
and cigarettes, so that the takings, which
are earmarked for a sick member, will go
to her intact.
The middle generation in The Bulletin
office sends a message of sympathy to the
widow of one of the paper’s best-known and
best-liked contributors of a few years ago,
D. P. Evans-Jones, 8.A., LL.B., its authority
on most theological questions; himself a son
of the rectory, and so High Church that
you’ll find “Requiescat in Pace” following
the advertisement of his death. Ten vears ago
his health broke down, and he has since been
invalided.
As was to be expected, Mrs. William
Macjeod’s book, “Macleod of The Bul-
letin,” is all but sold out. The author, who
before her marriage was known to all Aus-
tralia as Conor O’Brien and “Akenehi” of
this Letter, said a typically funny thing at
the Strathnaver ball. “This,” she said, look-
ing around, “is a magnificence of steel and
satinwood and tapestry. I suppose, now.
instead of bilge, it has attar of roses.”
“Try what you can do for men rather
than what you can make them do for you."
That is the keystone of the Little Citizens’
League of Westralia. The founder is Mrs.
A. E. Joyner, of Perth, and she sees in
splendid vision all the Little Citizens linked
together in chains of friendship. Each
member is bound by various promises—for
instance, to be a loyal friend and comrade
to another boy or girl and to write to him
or her on birthdays and at Christmas; to
be kind to animals and not to destroy life:
to protect trees, shrubs, plants and flowers:
not to throw about paper and orange-peel.
The League every year issues a calendar to
finance the movement. This is sold at one
shilling. The dainty 1932 production is
now available.
Dorise Hill and Phillip Lewis will direct
the Pickwick Theatre group, Sydney’s latest
little-theatre movement. The Savoy, already
made popular by the Independents’ Satur-
day nights, will house the Pickwickians on
Wednesdays. Phillip Lewis is a callable
actor, and half of the city knows Dorise,
whose book club has over 1000 members.
The first production will be Ivor Novello’s
three-act comedy “The Truth Game.”
Artist Albert Collins and his daughter
Kathleen are responsible for the illustra-
tions of “The Tale of the Little White Fox,”
a fairy story which concerns the adven-
tures of a young lady of Lapland in her
quest for the white fox, who has left his
tail in one of her father’s traps. The author
is Harold Blake, of David Jones’s advertis-
ing staff, and the book, a gay little publica-
tion, with its margin pictures and tail-
pieces and its blue and orange and green
stripes inside covers, proves how well this
sort of thing can be done in Australia by
Australians.
For those who would go a-hiking or
a-dreaming along the old roads back to the
beginning of things, Eirene Mort’s booklet
will be a happy guide. Starting at the.
obelisk in Macquarie-place, Miss Mort leads
you to Botany Bay, to the Guard House at
La Perouse, by the Old South Head-road to
Macquarie Tower, to Parramatta and Mac-
quarie’s bathhouse in the Park along the
Liverpool and Windsor roads, and into the
Bathurst Plains. On every page there is a
church or a cottage of other days reproduced
from Miss Mort’s etchings.
Not so many years, ago it was said that
tulips wouldn’t grow in Australia; in short,
that the only country in which they did
grow to perfection was Holland. Now any-
one who has been to Canberra in tulip-time
knows in what beauty the warmly-colored
flowers blow about its circular ways. At
Bowral and Moss Yale, too, they thrive.
Masses of the blooms came to town from
Mrs. Orwell Phillips’s garden, and were sold
for the benefit of Furlough House at Narra-
been.
Queensland’s budget:—
For once Ascot racecourse was put to other than
its customary uses when a benefit fete for the Creche
and Kindergarten was held there. Some eight thou-
sand persons attended. The Vice-regals were wel-
comed by the Premier and Mrs. Moore, C. A.
Morris and Mrs. Morris, Mrs. Bruce Shearer and
Kitty Hillcoat. In the evening there were dancing-
on the grass and a confetti battle. Two Melbourne
Cups in Mrs. A. H. Whittingham’s possession were
on view.
The wedding of Mamie Patricia Stokes and West
Savery took place in St. Mary’s, Kangaroo Point.
Alan Lennon gave away a bride in parchment satin,
a veil of cut tulle with a silver fillet and
hand-made orange blossoms. Misses B. and 11. Stokes
’maided in apricot and eau-de-nil organdie.
McKirnmin’s tapestry-room saw the feasting. Too-
woomba is the future home of the bridal pair.
Tom Moore’s Irish melodies sung to the harp
were a feature of Forrest-Pearson’s concert in Des-
mond Chambers. Lilian Corrigan was the harpist,
Winifred Haslarn sang contralto and Francie Francis
was the soprano. Ken Gillespie played the piano.
There was a short comedy sketch, “The Bridge
Party,” and Mrs. P. J. Syrnes gave “The Worker’’
and other poems.
Norman Clay took to wife Sybil Baldwin, in St.
John’s Cathedral. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in bridal satin and lace veil.
Her sisters, Misses D. and M. Baldwin, ’maided in
pink mariette with pink lace caps. Peggy and
Dawn Gulley were trainbearers. Rowe’s Banqueting
Hall.saw the feasting.
The Brisbane Repertory Society staged Tchekhof’s
“Uncle Vanya” in Cremorne Theatre. George Eaton
was the producer, and though the audience seemed
to have some difficulty in catching the spirit of
the Russian play, good work was done by Bob
Risson, Patricia Trace, Beryl Telford, Gwen Camp-
bell and others, The Wilston State School orchestra
rendered some good music.
Ike Delavale opened with a flourish of trumpets in
“Hello, Brisbane!” at the Royal. The Lowella
brothers, Marie le Varre, Colleen Hope and Reg
Desmond are the best offerings, along with a pretty
and agile ballet.


ŵ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauitieid,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Patents,
WHEAT SYRUP AND PROCESS OF
MAKING THE SAME.
■"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 17689/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and’ Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
° J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION: LET US BE GAY
(Commencing Saturday).
1. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS,
With GLADYS MONCRIEFF
(Commencing December 5).
The leading article in Saturday’s “Barrier
Miner” (the well-known Broken Hill Daily News-
paper) deals with the proposal to use SILVER
MONEY, OR MIXED GOLD AND SILVER, as a
cure for low prices and bad times. Some big
men seem to think silver money would be good
medicine just now for a sick world.
This Broken Hill daily newspaper,
“THE BARRIER MINER,”
is the only daily that all the Far West people
read every day in town and country. Get it!
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Saturday’s Henley-on-Yarra carnival was
favored by beautifully sunny weather and
the river was early astir with gaily-painted,
canoes and racing skiffs. Gay also was the
scene ashore. The women wore their
prettiest frocks, and avenues of oaks, elms
and plane trees made a fine background for
green lawns that dipped to the river’s edge.
At Henley moorings were tied up four house-
boats and several sailing yachts as well.
Here the grassy slopes made a grandstand
where people lounged in deckchairs. On a
rise beneath the shade of the beautifully-
foliaged trees several invalid soldiers watched
the show. In the vicinity of Prince’s Bridge,
at the lunch-hour, there was a regular crush
of humanity working its way along
Alexandra-avenue and through the gardens
to good vantage points. Pedlars purveyed
thin canes surmounted with kewpies framed
in colored fluff, balls attached to elastic, bal-
loons, and lots of glittering things intended
as mascots. At Flinders-street railway station
the verandah-posts, decked with these wares,
looked like Christmas trees. On the stream
were canoes by the dozen, propelled by flan-
nelled oarsmen with their feminine freight
dressed to match the color scheme ot the
craft. These maidens snuggled into cushions
and were shaded by parasols. First honors
went to a turn-out in old gold and pale
yellow, the girl’s attire matching, while the
man had a gold-and-yellow tassel dangling
from his cream beret. There was a huge
swan, and a young man walked the
course on bright blue and red floats, -the
Vikings’ Club of the Y.W.C.A. came forth
in costume in a prehistoric. galley. Ihe
theatrical entertainment, “Bright Side Up,
was represented and sails picked out in
white water-lilies made a nondescript boat
attractive.
On land the summer gown was everywhere
to be seen—diaphanous, long-skirted, sleeve-
less and caped. Eyelet-embroidered muslins,
flounced and frilled, and low-necked lace
gowns were popular. The bowler hat with
curling plumes had some devotees, but shady
millinery was first favorite. Sunshades were
to the fore in all sorts of material-paper,
raffia, straw, silk and lace. For the rest
the air was filled with wirelessed and ampli-
fied sound, while from the water came the
strains of gramophones.
The Lud Mayor’s houseboat wore a cubist
coat of orange and black and sported green
curtains with a dash of purple, blue and
pink. The window-boxes all round blazed
with pink and blue flowers set among foliage
plants. Among the visitors were Dr. Lotus
Coffman, of U.S.A., and his wife, who were
accompanied by Mrs. 11. Brookes. Mrs.
R G Casey was there, likewise General
Cliauvel and his lady. Lieutenant-Governor
Irvine paid visits to the various houseboats
and stayed for the afternoon tea-brew with
Lud Mayor Smith.
George Fairbairn and his wife, she in navy-
blue crepe de Chine, received on board the
president’s boat. Tomato-red flowers, bal-
loons and pennons brightened this barge,
where Colonel Semmens and the committee
were also hosts. The Henley subscribers and
the Amateur Sports Club chose blue and
primrose respectively for their houseboats,
where there were lots of guests for both
St. Catherine’s Day found the old girls
of St. Catherine’s School, Heyington-place,
holding a re-union at their Alma Mater.
Shirley Ross, secretary during the year just
concluded, was elevated to the presidency,
her pen and inkpot falling to Pat Paterson.
A cordial greeting was extended to the
former pupils by the principal, Miss Langley.
Jean Stevenson, of the Y.W.C.A., has been
given a round of farewell tea parties on the
eve of her departure to take up the Maori-
land secretaryship of Y Emma. One of
these festivities was put on by the Old
Guard —members who, prior to marriage,
worked in the interests of the association.
It was Miss Stevenson who founded this
body, and she received at their hands a part-
ing gift and many flowers.
One of the many charity flutters of the
week was a tea party at Myer’s, to which
some 300 people flocked, each with a gift
of linen for the Homoeopathic Hospital. The
affair was sponsored by the Ladies’ Aid
Association of the hospital, of which Mrs.
H. S. K. Ward is president, Mrs. E. A.
Bennett hon. sec and Mrs. W. Mackay hon.
treas.
Members of the Officer branch of the
C.W.A. took tea with their president, Ada
Armytage, at her home, Holm Park,
Beaconsfield. The Armytage Scout band
provided musical accompaniment. The
hostess’s black georgette gown was bright-
ened with white, and an ostrich plume
dangled from her black hat. Mrs. Norman
Barrett, who helped to entertain the guests,
was in a frock of mole hue topped by close-
fitting millinery of the same shade.
There was a bazaar, with a bridge party
and music as side-lines, at the home of
Mrs. Arthur Hurlstonc in aid of the
Yooralla Hospital School for Crippled
Children. Interest was taken in a stall
stocked with various little articles made by
the inmates. The institution is the only
one of its kind in Vic. and has a roll of 38
kiddies, 12 of them cot cases. W. S. Kent
Hughes launched the benefit afternoon.
Ex-students of Clyde Girls’ College had
a re-union at the Lyceum Club. The head-
mistress, Miss Tucker, wearing a frock of
geranium-red georgette, did the honors,
assisted by Marjorie Millear, of the Western
district.
There was a billy-boiling at the Grosvenor,
Toorak, to welcome Mrs. Angus Robertson
—Esna Boyd, of tennis fame, that was.
Wearing a beige frock and hat, Miss Y. C.
Anthony hostessed the party, which included
Mrs. R. R. Harper, Mrs. O’Hara Wood and
Dr. Alva Boyd. Mrs. Robertson, whose
home is in Scotland, is visiting her people
with her husband and infant. She was
smartly tailored in grey tweed with millinery
of the same shade.
The Alliance Fransaise staged its final
soiree of the year at Kelvin Hall. Play,
poetry and song made up a programme that
was concluded with dancing. The Consul
for Switzerland, H*. Bisang, with Mdlle.
Suzanne Tourniere and J. Parry, performed
the comedy “Brigitte et Gaston,” Mollie
Warden warbled Swiss and French folk-
songs and Rene Vanderkelen, Consul for Bel-
gium, who is president of the Alliance, gave
a chat on verse with some illustrations.
St. Catherine's School had the unusual
thrill of a wedding reception on Friday
night, when the bride was Audrey, only
daughter of Mrs. Basham and the late G. H.
Basham, of Perth, and the 'groom Richard,
only son of the A. S. Elfords, of South
Yarra. The bridal gown was of satin with
an embroidered net veil, a muff °f white
satin dolled up with water-lilies being car-
ried. Two 'maids sported dull-green chiffon
frocks, with matching plumes trailing from
their bowler straw hats. Water-lilies
trimmed up their green muffs, and they
wore pale-yellow mittens. Nanette Dollery,
the little trainbearer, stepped into the pic-
ture in a long frock of lemon-tinted
organdie. Mrs. Basham had the assistance
of Miss Langley, principal of St. Catherine s,
in welcoming the guests. The ceremony was
at St. John’s, Toorak.
Jean, only daughter of Mrs. Charles Clack,
of Richmond, exchanged vows at Trinity
Church, Balaclava, with Sidney, younger
son of Mr. and Mrs. George E. Brunning,
of St. Kilda. The bride dressed the part in
an ensemble gown of beige georgette with
matching fur collar and hat, and. carried a
shower bouquet of pink and white water-
lilies, Aubrey Dye was attendant maid, in
pale green frock and hat. There was a
luncheon at the Wentworth afterwards.
The Herbert Brookeses entertained Prof.
Lotus D. Coffman and his wife at Winwick,
South Yarra. Henri Penn played Chopin
and Violet Somerset sang. Mrs. Brookes
wore Lido-blue chiffon, and her daughter
Jessie, not yet grown-up, was in a dainty
frock of peach-pink satin. A lovely lace
gown of creamy tone was worn by Mrs. Coff-
man, who held a presentation posy of pan-
sies. Most of the women gathered were m
black, in most cases brightened by sprays
of white blossoms that strayed over one
shoulder and down the low-cut back. Among
the guests were Mrs. Alfred Deakin, Donald
McKinnon, Uni. Chancellor MacFarland,
Stephen Morell and his lady, Thomas Lyle
and his lady, British Trade Commis-
sioner H. L. Setchell and Mrs. betchell,
Canadian Trade Commissioner D. H. Ross
and Mrs. Ross and Consul for U.S.A. Dye
and Mrs. Dye.
Leoni Miller, pictured here by Dickinson
Monteath, is an Adelaide girl who for the
last five or six years has been a piano student
under Edward
Goll at the Uni.
Con., where
she won tue
diploma for
solo playing,
the first
awarded there.
She also plays
the tympani,
and at many
of the sym-
phony orches-
tra’s concerts
she attended
to the drums.
She is off for
further study
with George
Gruenberg, of
Berlin. At her
farewell re-
cital in the
Town Hall,
the young
player looked charming in pale pink georg-
ette with masses of wee frills about the
skirt hem.
The Authors’ Society and the Literature
Society joined forces in organising an enter-
tainment at the Playhouse for the widow of
the late Vernon Williams. The small hall
of the theatre was crowded. The programme
included the one-act plays “The Green
Parrot,” by Myra Morris. “The Nest-Egg,”
by Elvie Williams, and “The Short-Circuit-
ing of Henry,” by Bernard Cronin. Vance
Palmer and Frederick Howard furnished
readings from their own writings and Miss
Pat McLean Contributed some clever child
studies. Charlotte Malmgren spoke Myra
Morris’s “The Mahogany Ship” to Henry
Tate’s music, played by Hilda Malmgren.
“Blind Man’s Bluff,” a three-act comedy
by Dr. Cecil Finn Tucker, was performed by
members of the Proscenium Club to a full
house at the Playhouse on Fridafy night for
the benefit of the Church of England Homes
for children and babies at Brighton and
Darling. Joint secretaries of the happen-
ing were Mrs. S. Slienton Gordon and Mrs.
Norman Bell. Some charming frocks were
featured by the ladies of the cast. Zoe
Goff’s parma violet chiffon gown with a
chic close-fitting hat was outstanding. A
brown and lime patterned georgette frock,
with interludes of narrow-pleated frills, all
brown, worn by Margaret Reid, caught every
flapper’s eye, and Eileen Ragg blended rose
and red coloring in her chiffon confection.
Dr. Tucker responded to a call of “author”
and made a speech.
“Peter Pan” was produced at the Play-
house on Saturday in aid of the funds of St.
Anne’s Hall, most of the actors being child-
ren. W. P. Carr and Miss Agnes Casey
were responsible for the piece, and Mrs.
T. J. Confoy was president of the organising
committee, with Mrs. J. J. Daly and Mrs.
J. P. Casey as lion. secs. Tinker Bell, in the
person of wee Shirley McGuire, was so sweet
a sprite that there was no room for doubt
regarding fairies. Mary Hamilton made a
nice Peter, and Gloria Wiliams an equally
wee Wendy. Michael, the youngest of the
Darling family, was played by Dorothy
Smith. Ballets were daintily 'tripped by
Jennie Brenan’s pupils.
w
thorn, cut up
her day into
15-minute in-
terviews, at
which she
answered such
questions as
“Well, what
are you going
to do about
i t?” and
“What women
candidates are
going to stand
for House of
Repr esenta-
fives and
Senate ?” The
dissolution had
come too sud-
denly to en-
able compre-
hens i v e
answers to be
supplied, but
the * lady wag able to give a very elear-
cut view of the league’s intentions.
Mrs. Couchman, who has been president for
four years, has been chosen by the U.A.P.
as emergency candidate for the Senate. It
one of the sitting Senators —Guthrie, Plane
and T. C. Brennan —retires, she will stand.
She is a Victoria by birth, and a B.A. of
Melbourne Uni., having graduated m
constitutional history, logic and economics.
The Old Colonists’ Association has this
year added two more neat little cottages to
the already large area, occupied by these
homes, which form, with their gardens, a
residential section of Rushall-crescent,
North Fitzroy.
Marion Jones, of Bendigo, who went to
England on a National Gallery Travelling
Scholarship several years ago, and estab-
lished a studio in Chelsea, writes cheerily
that she is being kept busy with commis-
sions and intends revisiting her native land
in the near future.
Of the modes of wearing furs there is no
end. Every woman slings her pelt at a dif-
ferent angle. It is permitted to wear your
stone-marten, Arctic fox, shorn lamb or
Maeedon wolf (1) hanging pendent from
the right shoulder, rather like a carcase slung
over a butcher’s shoulder; (2) across the
back, the head on the right shoulder, the tail
clipped at the waist-line under the left arm;
(3) fastened up round the throat as if it
were an early-Victorian tippet; (4) across
the front, head on left shoulder, tail tucked
about waist-line under the right arm; (5) or
for warmth across the shoulders. But (5) is
merely useful and old-fashioned.
Westralia whips in:—
The Kev. Freeth tied the marriage knot for youthful
Mollie Robinson and Emile Oliver on an evening in
St. George’s Cathedral. The bride’s attire, fashioned
from her mother’s wedding garment, was of ivory
satin and Brussels lace. Attendant ’maids Doreen
Robinson and Elizabeth Kerr-Pearse, robed in two
tones of apricot georgettes and flower-trimmed white
hats, carried bouquets of golden roses. The bride
was escorted up the aisle by her brother and given
away by her mother, Mrs. R. T. Robinson. Rejoic-
ings were at Killowen.
The Ensemble Players presented their talents and
the fruits of weeks of hard practice at a recital of
trio music in the Karrakatta dub hall. The fairy
fingers of Evelyn Willis drew magic from the key-
board, David Powell caressed his fiddle like a true
artist, and Yal Robertson’s ’cello sang under his
skilful touch. Rutland Boughton’s “Celtic Prelude,”
with its rippling Irish air, made a particular appeal.
Theo Meugens sang artistically. As Miss Willis
accompanied him, she was on the platform for every
item.
Bill Hyem and Claire Sinclair decided to seal, their
engagement by special license, and telephoned their
friends to attend their nuptials in St. Mary’s, Colin-
street. The willowy, ash-blonde bride was wrapped
in milk-white laces, the yoke and sleeves of cobweb
texture. Cecelia Brennan and Edna Noble were
attendant ’maids. Hats of shell-pink net with
tumed-up brims strewn with flowers and matching
posies were features of their attire. Guests proceeded
from Mrs. M. Hyem’s home to the dance at the
Ocean Beach Hotel.
Loads of flowers were handed over the platform at
the Karrakatta Club hall during the vocal recital of
Mr. Frank Robertson’s pupils and the students’ ladies’
choir. The choir offered three artistic numbers.
Mildred Grigg, Mrs. G. R.; Graham, Ella Peterson,
Marion Field, Evelyn Pope, Mr. J. Ralph and W.
Savage figured on the long list of soloists. Mrs.
Frank Robertson, with a swinging cape to her almond-
green laces and dangly earrings, and Maritta Paskett,
in apple-green, were sympathetic accompanists.
The Repertory Club gripped its audience for three
nights with Sutton Vane’s conception of the here-
after in “Outward Bound.” Martin Ketley’s restraint
made a masterpieoe of steward Scrubby, and Norman
Wingrove added another spring to his laurels with
his elbow-bending Tom Prior. Margaret Paton and
Lennox played the scared young lovers.
The Ocean Beach Hotel dance attracted shoals of
bright young things to make merry to the tune
of a rolling surf interspersed with jazz. Supper was
a buffet and sit-down affair under canvas. Bride
of the evening, Mrs. Bill Hyem, was the cynosure
of many glances. Cecelia Brennan’s blue gown had
a dash of beige fur upon a decorative panel; Peggy
Wood’s gold lame touched the floor; Joy Latlilain
wore black-flowered taffetas; Barbara Male, com-
plete with newly-acquired fianc<§, rustled plaid taffetas
in black and shades of blue; Joan Good was in
sealing-wax chiffons; Mrs. Alan Wilson wore black
laces; Dot Kirby swung tiers of coffee laces; Pat
Savage was a youthful maid in black; Mrs. Ray
Cockbum wore green.
Two clever young Westralians, Leslie Rees and
Coralie Clark, were recently married in London.
Both studied at the Perth University, both won a
travelling scholarship, and, after they had completed
their studies at the London University, both got good
positions. Mr. Rees is on the staff of the “Era,”
the oldest theatrical weekly, while Mrs. Rees is
sub-editor of the “Children’s Sketdh,” recently
launched in Fleet-street.
South Australia's sub.: —
The Garden Fete held at St. Wilfrid’s, Aldgate,
in aid of the Stirling District Hospital felt the
effect of the weather, but in spite of that £l2if was
netted. Mrs. Lionel Hill, wearing a Lido-blue en-
semble and hat to match, was received by the hon.
secretary (Mr. A. C. Vickers) and performed the
opening ceremony.
The same afternoon the Brownies held a fete at
their headquarters, the Adelaide railway station,
in aid; of the Junior Kuitpo Colony, when* over £6O
was raised. Lady Hore-Ruthven, welcomed by several
hundreds of Brownies, who formed a guard of honor,
declared the fete open.
Toe H is ringing the changes in dances, fetes and
bridge parties, not only in the city but in every
suburb. The concert in West’s Olympia was packed,
and about £126 was raised for Christmas cheer.
Mr. Clive Carey, who with his wife is in Adelaide
on a visit, gave some folk songs.
There was a good attendance at the Australia Hall
when pupils of Miss Helen Oldfield gave several
children’s plays to raise money for the Infantile
Paralysis Fund. Lady Hore-Ruthven was present,
alto the Mayoress (Mrs. C. R. J. Glover).
The Adelaide Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club enter-
tained at afternoon tea on Wednesday, when Lady
Hore-Ruthven presented the trophies. Miss M. Turn-
bull and Mrs. T. S. Backhouse carried off the honors,
as usual; the former has been champion for years.
Dr. Arthur Savage, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. W.
Savage, of Robe (S.A.), and Lorna, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. F. Stimson, of Marli Court, St. Kilda,
Melbourne, were married at Christ Church, St. Kilda,
on November 22.
Tassie sails in :
Flags of all sorts and colors provided the deco-
rations for the Royal Yacht Club’s at-home at the
Continental. Commodore Geo. Evans and Mrs. Evans
received the guests, she in a handsome frock of gold
and black brocade. Lieut.-Gov. Nicholls and his
lady were present; their party included Commandant
and Mrs. Cox Taylor, District Naval Officer and Mrs.
Symonds, Major and Mrs. M. D. Williams. The
frocking was very dainty.
Some very smart spring frocks and lightweight
woollens in coats and skirts were to be seen at the
Hobart T. C. meeting. In the throng were Mrs.
Lloyd Oldmeadow, lately back from the Cup, ihe
Russell Ibbotts, Mrs. W. B. Propsting and Mrs.
Waldemar Wolfhagen, the Geoff Butlers, Miss Joi
Chapman, Mrs. Norman Ferguson, the St. Hills, Mr.
and Mrs. Thos. Lyons, Mrs. C. Findlay, Dr. Lindsay
Miller, Mr. and Mrs. Stacey, Jean Tinning and
Margaret Rex.
There’s an enviable trip in prospect for Mrs.
Snowdon Hay and Mrs. A. Banks-Smith, who were
nominated at the last meeting of the Nat. Council
of Women to represent the Speck at the League of
Nations Assembly in 1932.
Among homecomers from the Cold Country are the
Darcy Addisons. Mrs. Addison’s son, Alec Downer,
accompanies them.
Dr. and Mrs. Ramsay threw open their house and
grounds at Ruglen, Launceston, for the American
tea run by the St. John’s Ambulance Society. There
were life-saving exhibitions in the swimming pool,
resuscitation work, mendings of fractures, etc., with
Drs. H. R. J. Orr and C. G. Thompson as adjudi-
cators, and, finally, the presentation of first-aid
medallions to a number of candidates.


THE
PEOPLE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
are making a prosperity drive every
week of the year. Hardy pioneers of
the Golden West are creating history.*
The progress of the primary industries
is simply wonderful, and the rise in
prices of
Wheat, Wool and Gold
during recent weeks has stimulated
every citizen of the West.'
PRIMARY PRODUCTION AND
PROSPECTING MEAN PRO-
GRESS AND PROSPERITY.
Share in the wealth of Westralia by
advertising in the Perth
The finest weekly in the State, grow-
ing all the time and offering complete
coverage over the Golden West for
enterprising advertisers.
QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
Why not exploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better-
vehicle open to you than the press—
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
first choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane that has
issued a certificate of its Net Daily
circulation, and the paper that is a
proved result-getter. Rate cards, etc.,
from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON : Daily Mail Office,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St.
FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST-GLASS RETURN, £35,
' Return accommodation arranged.
* GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
•• ;• i • ' I •
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA”. . . . .". .1.'.:. 10th December
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” . ... . 7th January
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS:
First-class Return, £75; Second-class, £55.
CHRISTMAS EXCURSION TO RAROTONGA.
No Exchange.
RETURN FARES: First-class, £45; Second-class, £34.
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI,” December 24.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: 87671. Tel.: Central 8393.
A'
S^,o*
#</
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
VV. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. .Allan.
National Bank .Chambers,,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. .Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men!
Greater Brisbane Contains
Onethird of Queensland’s
Entire Population,
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
QThe Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
es%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary,
« * #
you can get more of these interest -
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marleet, from :
oThe Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREBT.
’Phone 85007. t " .
Melbourne' Representative:
L. S. MARKS, . Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe . Streets. "Phone F 3906.
London • Agents • H; C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains, everything a;iooman needs to know,
Life As We Know It.
BEING EXTRACTS FROM THE TRACK JOURNAL OF “GAD.”
Port Douglas.
30/7/’3l. —This evening in the middle of a
heavy storm three new ’boes came into the
abandoned hospital where I am camped.
They had just come olf the Cairns boat, the
skipper having given them a lift on the
understanding they would help him. to
unload. They threw their things down in
the room adjoining mine (mine teas the
kitchen. The room adjoining was the scul-
lery. There is access between the two rooms
through a doorway to which there is no
door). They boiled up at the fire in my
room; it was burning in the place where
the stove used to be. Then they ate what
scraps they had. They talked a little, then
went back to the wharf to help the skipper
with his unloading. They returned about
midnight. The only light I had was the
light from the fire, but one of the new
arrivals found a bit of candle. This lighted
them to bed.
31/7/’3l. —One of the blokes who came in
last night left this morning. He did not
like the look of the place. Another of them
is “crook.” He has got a chill as a result
of sleeping out in the wet in Parramatta
Park (Cairns). He is a boy of 31) and comes
from way down south (Victoria). He is
Snowy.
l/8/’3l. —The third of the trio who came
in the other night is Nugget, a fellow of
about 30, who has been a seafaring bloke. As
we were sitting round the fire to-night con-
versation turned on gaols. Nugget knew all
the phraseology of gaol life. He said he
had spent six months in Pentridge. He
talked well and was most amusing about his
time in the boob. A lot of the stories, of
course, were quite indecent; all these yarns
are expected to gather quality by the lurid
language with which they are invested.
While we were talking Mac reappeared.
Mac was my: sole ’ companion here until a
little while ago, when he went back to
Cairns. Now "he has come on one of the
coastal tubs as a sort of engineer. H'e had
first-hand information about the local mys-
tery, which goes this way. The boat on
which he now works came into port here the
night before last. During the early hours
of the next morning the skipper fell overboard,
and has been seen by none since. A splash
was heard, but no one bothered at the time.
Dragging revealed nothing. It is,, presumed
that the skipper’s body has been taken by
either a shark or a crocodile. Mac, I fancy,
enjoyed his privileged position of being a
sort of accessory to the mystery. “There
he was,” he said,“alive and well one night,
and I talking to him just as I’m talking to
you. And next night he’s lying out some-
where on the reef. And Pm wearing his
boots.”
4/8 /’3l. —The 17th anniversary of the out-
break of war. I celebrated it by walking
to Mossman and back (28 miles) in my bare
feet —for rations. The butcher passed me
on the road going up, in a car, about seven
o’clock this morning, and though he saw
me walking barefooted he did not offer me a
lift. I would not ask for a lift from that
sort of a man, so I did not stop him.
5/8/’3l. —Nugget left this morning. H'e
talked of going over to West Aus. (just
because it is far away, I think). He said
he was not looking for work.
7/8/’3l. —Snowy is now the only survivor
of the trio who came in the other night. lie
also has been in gaol. He got a month in
Albury for jumping the rattler —though he
did not jump at all, but merely got into a
truck hoping to jump. It, is desperately
cruel for magistrates to hand out such sen-
tences to mere boys who have had no real
chance of getting a decent start in life.
Snowy also talked of his experiences getting
up here. He is a sensitive youth to whom
track life is really hard, and he has all the
reactions typical of the underdog. lor
instance, he is pathetically afraid of ‘‘the
Johns,” though they have “nothing on him.”
His month in Albury has a great deal to
answer for.
8/8/’3l. —There was a police raid this
morning on our quarters. About daybreak
I heard a car, then talking, then footsteps.
And then two men came into the room. One
was the butcher; the other the local police-
man. The “John” said to me: “Good morn-
ing, Captain, how’s things V” I said “Good-o.”
lie said “Have you got any bread?” I said
“Yes.” He said “Where? Let’s have a look
at it.” I said “There, in the corner, in the
nosebag.” He looked and said “Oh, you’re
nearly out, are you?” I said “Yes.” Then
lie said “Have you any meat?” I said
“No.” Then they went, into Snowy’s room
and down to the other camps. But they got
nothing. It seems that the butcher’s shop
was broken into last night and meat and
bread stolen. However, they never found the
culprit, nor the goods either.
In the evening one of the fellows camped
on the beach came into talk. He is a sailor
and has been on the road twelve months.
He was talking about religion and made
one original observation. He said: “The
worst of it is with these parsons, when they
talk about God they talk about Him in such
a way that you almost feel like blushing.”
24/8/’3l. —The days slip by here. _ It is
a good camp and a man dislikes the idea of
going out on to the road again. But to-
morrow Snowy and I are to start south. The
skipper of one of the boats has promised
to give us a lift to Cairns.
At midday, while we were sitting inside
eating, a soldier of General Higgins’s Army
came over to the window. From the out-
side I suppose it looked as if we were work-
men engaged on repairs to the hospital—he
was not a local, so did not know the. hos-
pital was merely an empty shell. He rattled
a collection-box and said: “Have you a
donation for the Army, please?” We looked
so astonished, I suppose, that the man sud-
denly realised he was where angels fear to
tread. Then an indescribable look came
over his face. It was the .sort of look one
might expect to see on the face of a person
who suddenly realises lie is in a room with
a corpse. He said, very confusedly, “Oh,
you’re travelling, I see. I’m .sorry. Don’t
forget, if you are in Cairns any time, we
have a kitchen there. Good morning.”
25/8/’,31.' —We got up in the dark and
boiled up. Curious how a man gets attached
to his surroundings. Here I am, leaving
this wreck of a place where I’ve been
camped on and off for nearly two months,
and I feel as if I was leaving home for
ever and ever. Going over to the wharf in
the half-light before daybreak the little
town seemed to become suddenly endowed
with a hitherto unsuspected charm. All the
pleasant things about it crowded back into
memory; all the unpleasant things forgotten,
or seen in a new light which made their
very, unpleasantness heroic.
Thopgh the distance to Cairns by sea
is only 32 miles we took nearly six hours
to do the journey. It was a perfect day and
the view of the mainland from the coast was
very attractive. We watched the rocky
headland of Port Douglas for a long way
down the coast; then it gradually faded
away into the skyline and was lost to
view,
We got. in about one o'clock. At two
we went back to give the skipper a hand with
the unloading. And we helped him to load
again as well. We certainly worked our
passage, as it was dark by the time we
finally got away.
26/S/'3.l;—Last night we camped, near
the wharf and this morning got up with
the intention of finding a decent camping
ground so that we could pitch the fly. We
walked all over the town, but could not.
see a really suitable place. At length we
found a site which had been camped on,
so I said, “This is as good as any.” We were
•both tired and rather fed up. Perhaps it
was this, and something of the feeling of
having lost a good home and now being
vagrants again; at any rate, Snowy raised
objections. Said the police would move us
on. And that Parramatta Park was better.
I said “No,” and that I would move’ no
further. So he said: “Well; I’m 'going-to
Parramatta Park,” and I said,. “Well, go.” 1
He went away with his swag and I put
up the fly. I tried to assure myself that
I didn’t care at all, but suddenly I felt
lonely, •so I walked down to the town. I
was away about two hours and when I
returned I saw Snowy’s things in the tent.
He reappeared a little later and I greeted
him quite casually. He said all the ’boes
had been turned out of Parramatta Park.
I was glad, of course; but I didn’t tell
him so.
Gordonvalc.
4/9/’3l. —We are camped here on the bank
of the river. This morning while we were
resting after breakfast I asked Snowy why
he had never learnt a trade, and then he
told me the story of his life. It, was tragic.
He lost his mother when lie was about .thir-
teen, and his father turned him into a
sort of housekeeper. He had to do all the
cooking. His father was a tyrant, for
whom he has no affection. Even-, when he
got older he had to labor for his father (a
bricklayer) without any pay. ;He saw noth-
ing. Never got out anywhere,, and never
had a bought suit of his own until he left
his father and went to work in Melbourne.
As a result of all this he is abnormally
sensitive.
Babinda.
10/9/’3l. —To-day we . i met the sailor
bloke who had been camped up at Port
Douglas, and at his hands- I experienced
.one of those quixotic acts of generosity
which you don’t meet at any higher level.
The sailor had a camera. It was a good
camera—a new Kodak, worth pounds. Pie
had heard that I might possibly make some
use of a camera, having had some connection
with the press. He took it put of his
swag and gave it to me saying: ‘‘lt’s no use
to me. It. may be of use to you. When
you’ve done, with it you can send it back
to me.” Then he wrote out his home address
on a piece of paper and was gone.
Innisfail.
15/9/’3l. —To-day .we drew rations here
and then set about to look for a camp. We
couldn’t find anywhere suitable for putting
up the fly, and things went all wrong.
Snowy wanted one thing and I wanted
another. Gradually we reached a sort of
impasse— really over nothing at all, but
things turn out that way on the road. After
dinner I rolled up my swag, put my things
very deliberately into my nosebag and said,
“Well, I’m going on.” Snowy said nothing,
but sat there looking hurt. I walked on to
the road, and away, without ever looking
back. I covered about .sixteen miles before
nightfall, having got a lift part of the way.
That night, when I was putting up the fly
I suddenly realised that Snowy used to do
it much better.
l(>/9/’81. —At daybreak I went on.
Towards noon I. sat, downs and, looking back
along the road, I saw a bagman coming in
my direction. His walk was familiar, so I
sat looking right in front, of me until he
came alongside. Then I looked up and saw
Snowy. I think we were both glad. Then
we walked on together.
Cardwell. ,
l-9/9/’3l. —Now it’s all planned out.
Snowy wants to get to his home-town ill
Victoria by Christmas, so he has got to do
some' prodigious train-jumps .to accomplish
it.. He-expects to get work down there.
There is •no use my going with him. He
made ■ inquiries ■ about jumping to Ingham
and ; found a timber train goes to-morrow at
nine. Now that it has all been settled more
or less I think -we aid both sorry. We are
camped in the dressing-shed on the beach.
23/9/’3l.- —Up about .seven. I went over
to the - station while Snowy was packing
up. I met him later coming over. The
train was in. I showed him a truck beside
one into which two other ’boes had already
got. lie said, “Cheerio,” went over and
got into it. None of the railwaymen on the
line, or about the place, seemed at all con-
cerned. I waited on the line until the train
pulled out. and as Snowy’s truck passed I
.saw his hair blowing in the breeze
When I went back to the hut I gathered
up my things and moved away to camp
somewhere else. I felt almost as if an old,
an intimate friendship had been suddenly
sundered by death.
Silence.
The morn is dull, songbirds are still,
Eain clouds gather on the far hill,
Omens of ill weather abound;
But no small cloud is on my mind,
Circumstances to me are kind.
I miss the absence of all sound.
For I rejoice in songs of birds,
The bleating ,of sheep, lowing; of herds,
The winds a -sighing in the trees;
Yet in the .silence is there poise,
As in a cloister where no noise
Disturbs the monk upon his knees.
VICTORIA.
JOHN B. CASTIEAU.


s
TO
or. Morses
&
7
Pi
4Rt
You housewives have a strenuous life. Your duties
last from early morning till late at night. Your cares
are endless and nerve-wracking. You are so busy
thinking of others you are apt to neglect yourselves.
Your work is exhausting, but does not provide healthful
exercise.
Doctors say that housewives, more than any other
class, suffer from Constipation, Torpid Liver, and their
resultant ills—digestive disorders, weakness, dizziness,
fainting spells, sick headaches, backaches and nervous
irritability. Do not neglect these symptoms.
Regular use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as
needed, will bring about a wonderful improvement in
your condition. For cleansing the system they are
unexcelled. By using them at the first sign of irregularity
or touch of biliousness you will have more energy, feel
brighter, and ward off many of the aches, pains, and ills
common to housewives.
Dr. MORSES
M
I
Mirpil
Skin Balm
An Antiseptic, Cooling,
Soothing and Healing
Lotion
MIRPIL is scientifically: prepared to correct red
hands, chapped and chafed skin, sunburn,, wind-
burn, sore and tired feet. Will keep the skin soft,
smooth and white, and does not stimulate the
growth of hair. Dries in a few minutes without
leaving any greasy after-effect.
Hands Always Wet.—'There is probably noth-
ing more irritating to the woman who does her
own housework than the soreness and redness
caused by constantly having her hands in water.
Sometimes it may only be an embarrassment, but
more often it is a painful experience, especially
in cold weather. This can all be avoided by
keeping a bottle of MIRPIL handy in the kitchen,
and a few times daily, especially after washing
up, pouring a small quantity into the palm and
rubbing well into the hands.
Rough Hands.- -Besides frequently having them
in water, there are certain other classes of work
in the home, factory, garden and elsewhere, which
roughen the hands of both women and men. The
amount of discomfort thus caused it is unnecessary
to describe. Those who are affected know it only
too well. When such a condition arises a few
applications of MIRPIL will be found t-o restore
the natural softness.
w
To Mothers*.- —Baby has to'be bathed once or
more each day, and between times there is con-
stant washing of clothes,' which tends to chapped
hands. There is no reason why a mother should
not take care of herself as well as the baby.
Remember that broken skin provides easy access
for germs, and it is of the greatest importance
that the hands be kept healthy and free from any
eruptions that might infect the baby, either
through contact or per medium of its food. Rub
MIRPIL on the hands frequently, and results will
be found to more than compensate for this pre-
caution.
Chafed Skin. —ln cases of chafed skin, MIRPIL
will prove an efficacious emollient.
Sore and Tired Feet.— Apply MIRPIL to the
soles of your feet when sore and tired. The relief
is wonderful.
Windburn and Sunburn. —When the skin is
burned by either wind or sun, or both, one or
more liberal applications of MIRPIL will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to bear being
touched by hand, lay a clean linen or.cotton cloth,
saturated with the Balm, over the. affected part.
The ravages of the sun will be modified if MIRPIL
i.s applied generously before exposing oneself to
its rays.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—MlßPlL smeared
on face and hands at night will keep mosquitoes
away. It also soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
After Shaving. — A small quantity of .MIRPIL
rubbed on the face after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always rub MIRPIL
into the skin until dry. The cleansing and cool-
ing actions of this preparation will enhance the
comfort which powder provides.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
MIRPIL, SAMPLE
A sample Tube of Mirpil will be sent upon receipt of
a letter mentioning the name of this paper, and 3d.
in stamps to cover Postage and Packing, bv
The W. H. COMSTOCK CO., LTD.,
23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Box H ldBs G.P.O.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GE.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which I enclose £ ;.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/«
ŵ
o ofl
-&6®
"*■:
♦ ”
Arte/ #
•• ■ 4< c 6
.••• ofvo‘tH^


AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATION
without Electric Supply
■
:smwmu
T ,^n'i,|y nrifi{T~’
» a. i
1®
1
it
iii
pfHijijr
IMU.
1
K
&3!5
The “OMNISTAT”
Automatic Engine Control
An Australian invention, designed by practical electric
engineers, and built to the highest known standards of electrical
and mechanical efficiency, the OMNISI AT has been tested in
every conceivable way before release of the production models.
So varied are its applications, and so ingenious the way in
which it performs automatically any or several of a group of
related electric and mechanical control operations, that it is
impossible to describe in the space available the versatility of
this precision instrument.
Not only does it perform its functions regularly, unfailingly
and automatically, but it resets itself after each cycle of
tions. Recent tests have shown that at the conclusion of 2000
automatic engine re-starts the OMNISTAT in use. was still
functioning perfectly and unhesitatingly. A most interesting
illustrated brochure has just been prepared and is available to
enquirers desiring fuller particulars of the possibilities of the
OMNISTAT in its application to the control of internal-
combustion engines, particularly automatic refrigerating and
pumping plants.
An enquiry on your business letterhead will
bring you a copy of this publication by return post.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD.
MALLOCH HOUSE, 10-14 YOUNG ST., SYDNEY
'Phone 86095.
iffi'i s
■/tn. ?h
m
,
.
• I
sim
5-H.P. “LISTER DIESEL.”
Here is the cheapest engine-power in Australia,
Reckoning the price of crude oil at 6d, per
gallon, a “Lister Diesel” will develop 5 h.-p.
for you on full load for less than 2d. an hour,
or 9 h.-p. on full load for well under 4d. an
hour.
The “Lister Diesel” starts from cold—instan-
taneously—without the aid of heating or
igniting devices of any kind. It works on low
compression, and is therefore able to give years
of satisfactory service at a lower cost than any
other type of engine.
The thousands of Lister engines in use in
Australia are your guarantee that this new
Diesel, bearing the same proud name, will stay
on the job as long as you care to run it. No
Lister engine has ever worn out.
9-H.P. “LISTER DIESEL/'
ẁ
"'H
JisfeQ
sm
Full Particulars will be supplied on request by States Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.,
Malloch House, Young Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD.,
West Footscray.
Showroom: 596 Bourke Street.
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
HORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD.,
Victoria Street,
Mile End.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
MALLOCH BROS.,
50-54 William Street,
Perth.
