

® jgP the first-choice tyre costs no more,
atj there’s not much point in buying
the second-choice tyre, is there? Well,
Goodyear Tyres cost no more! And, as for
being first-choice, they’re that by millions-
more-sold every year. "More people ride
on Goodyear Tyres than on any other
make.” You owe it to yourself to know
the reasons* why Goodyear Tyres lead all
others so greatly.
They are the very reasons that should
prompt you also to decide "I will
buy only leading make of tyre!”
è
★ TWO REASONS
Why Goodyear is the
Leading Make of Tyre:
The famous Goodyear
All-Weather Tread
superior in traction.
Note how the deep-cut
tight-gripping blocks
placed in the centre of the
tread, where they belong.
Press the palm of your
hand upon this tread and
feel how the blocks grip
and pinch the flesh. This
illustrates the All-Weather
Tread’s hold-fast action on
city streets or country roads.
The Goodyear Supertwist
Cord Carcass is superior
in, vitality and long life.
fJA Under continued flex-
ing or sudden road-
I shock, where ordinary
cords fatigue or snap, the
extra-elastic Supertwist
Cords stretch and recover,
like rubber bands. Ask
your Goodyear Dealer to
show you on his cord-test-
ing machine the extra
stretch—up to 61% greater
—of Supertwist Cord over
the cord used in other
The Bulletin
CVv )?L(9neM #■ QtditMige, —$S
Vol. 52.—N0. 2700.
Wednesday, November 11, 1931.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
SmceJo'rt®
This
Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booldet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
M” Address .!!*'
S.B. 131 *V
Soap
For Daily Use in the
Home and
Cnlicnra
Ointment
To Soothe and Heal
Skin Troubles
Soap Ib. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Ib. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
UIICUEa ig
MEDICINAL
uticura
“THE AGE”
Established 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward —pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rales on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
TASMANIA!
AS REGARDS TASMANIA, ADVER-
TISERS SHOULD UNHESITATINGLY
CHOOSE AS A MEDIUM
the mercury
Tasmania’s Leading Newspaper
The only daily published in the South.
In Tasmania it is the National News-
paper and stands out on a unique
position of commanding power and
popularity.
Published at Hobart, the Capital, it
serves over half of Tasmania’s popu-
lation exclusively and circulates in
every corner of the State. The circu-
lation of “The Mercury’’ exceeds the
combined figures of the Dailies in
Tasmania.
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °/o
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
Foil can get more of these interest -
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marleet, from :
Che Brisbane Courier.
IJie Courier Building, Queen-Street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREIST.I
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visif the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia H’ouse, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Cbe new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up -to - the - minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the "N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
•S*A<!> S
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania,
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da> uf publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
The Mystery of Cruelty
The English are probably the most
humane people in the world to-day. They
are as renowned for their societies to protect
children, lunatics, discharged prisoners and
animals as they are for their games. Yet
in comparatively recent times they could
show Asiatic races points in barbarity.
Australia had been discovered quite a long
time when Phoebe Harris was burned at
Newgate for counterfeiting. Branding,
though discontinued in George lll.’s reign,
w r as not abolished till 1829. In the early
part of last century the great Lord
Ellenborough sentenced a blasphemer
to the pillory for two hours a month for 18
months—and dffenders were often pelted
to death in pillories. These and many
more strange facts are disclosed in Bygone
Punishments, by William Andrews (Philip
Allan; 10s. 6d.). What are the influences '
that drive the seven devils of cruelty from
a race? Not the attainment of a high level
of culture by the ruling classes. In Eng-
land’s Golden Age poisoners were boiled
alive, and in the eighteenth century when
Voltaire was eulogising the law-makers of
Westminster Britons were suffering peine
forte et dure—i.e., being pressed to death.
There were special reasons for these fright-
ful punishments. Poisoners flourished in
the Middle Ages, owing to the lack of
medical knowledge, and peine forte et dure
was ordered for persons who refused to
plead, and by so doing were able to trans-
mit property to their children on convic-
tion instead of forfeiting it to the Crown.
Not that these seem adequate reasons to
the present generation. In the Age of Faith
purloiners of ships’ stores to the value of 9d.
had their throats cut and their tongues torn
out, and in Henry VIII.’s reign there were
72,000 executions without a word of protest
from the reformed Church. Our much-abused
old friend democratic government has done
more for humanitarianism than any other
institution. It is interesting to reflect that
the Chinese, whose ruthlessness is so often
deplored in Britain, may be as merciful
as the British under their skins, and only
need universal education to prove it.
Bygone Punishments is profusely illus-
trated and well indexed, and it has a his-
torical as well as a morbid appeal.
Why not a Best-seller?
Laurence Meynell’s novels have never
crossed the mysterious line which divides
normal works of fiction from best-sellers, as
sanity is divided from madness. Why this
should be so is one ©f the mysterie's of
the book trade. His characters are pre-
occupied by sex, and frequent the same
London restaurants and night clubs as
Arlen’s; he is a snob and an emotionalist
like Arlen, and he writes much better. Per-
haps his plots are at fault. The denoue-
ment of Consummate Rose (Hutchinson;
,7s. 6d.) is far-fetched even for those who
can accept the ending of The Green Hat as
inevitable. But there is some great stuff
before you reach the nonsense. Dorothy
Trescotte is a well-bred English girl. This
kind of girl, it seems, may “hum you the
latest tunes, twist her body in the newest
negroid lasciviousness of a dance, drain her
cocktail bravely—but it is all done for the
innocent fun of the thing. Like her clothes,
her habits slip from her each night; and
there in the luminous half-shadow of her
room is her body, untouched, white,, un-
awakened.” She marries Colonel Cosgrove-
Langton, a virile rake, and presently with-
draws, horrified, to a bedroom of her own.
Chris St. Marnier falls in love with her,
she is indifferent to him, his wife is tiger-
ishly jealous, Cc:jrove-Langton takes a
mistress.
They made a noticeable party, the four of them,
sitting at the favored corner table of some smart
restaurant. “Vou knew that they had the right
friends and the right outlook on life, said the
right, things, went to the right places, turned a
blind eye at the right moment.... Four jolly people
you would have thought; and would never have
guessed (how could you?) as they sat there joking
over the menu that every one of the four was beating
helplessly against the bars of a particular private
hell.
The technique is odd, and effective. Chris
and his wife appear first in the prologue.
They are walking in Hyde Park and
Dorothy passes. Raging, Phyllis says:
“Chris, look at the color of that Peke.
Isn’t he just adorable?” And he says,
“Yes”—and to himself, “If she says a word
against her, if her lips start to curl in that
damnable way in the first syllable of a
word, I think I’ll hit her—kill her, pro-
bably here, just at this particular junction
of paths, in front of everybody. ‘Army
Officer Kills Wife in Park.’”
It is like that all
through. You get
the dramatic situa-
tion first and the I
explanation after- :
wards. The story is j
not objective, like j
so many of its type. M,r. Meynell has lived j
the life he describes, and he believes pas- ;
sionately in his people. But he doesn’t j
believe in his sensational ending, and that'
spoils what might have been a work of art. j
Escapology
Conan Doyle was convinced that Houdini
escaped from treble-locked cells and patent
safes by dematerialising himself. So were
the president of the British College of
Psychical Science and other prominent
spiritualists. It was the only explanation
they could offer, and for obvious reasons
Houdini couldn’t enlighten them in his life-
time. J. C. Cannell, who was his friend and
is a vice-president of the Magicians’ Club,
undertakes the task in The Secrets of
Houdini (Hutchins on; 12s. 6d.). He
employs the simplest language, and many
diagrams. Houdini began with great advan-
tages—phenomenal strength, a fine brain
(“he had the mental agility of ten men
and his mind never slept.”) and dauntless
courage. But he was essentially a trickster.
The success of nearly all his illusions de-
pended as much on his ability to hood-
wink the suspicious as on technical skill.
A reason why no one ever put a legitimate
rope-tie on him from which he failed to
escape was that he had fingers of steel and
knew all about knots. However:—
One of the tricks of the escape-artist—indeed
the mast important—is secretly to secure a bit of
“slack” as he is being tied up. Houdini was a
master of this art.
To get out of locked rooms, safes, etc., he
had to have a small piece of metal.
One of his smartest tricks during a medical
examination came immediately after his hands had
been examined, when he would draw the attention
of the doctors to a certain part of his body, momen-
tarily touching it with a quick movement. The
innocent-looking gesture was really Houdini’s trick
to recover some small fake placed there, usually
stuck with a piece of wax.
In short, the basis of all stage magic is
the average “expert” observer’s inability
to observe details. As for the general public,
in one of his miracles Houdini would appear
on horseback in a blue uniform. Attendants
would hold a huge fan up, and, when it was
lowered, he was found to have disappeared.
In the moment during which he was concealed
by the fan he tore off the blue uniform, specinlly
made of paper for the purpose, and pushed it
under the white uniform he was wearing under
the blue one. Then he mingled with the attendants
without being recognised, as no one had troubled
to count the attendants.
Every known illusion is dealt with in this,
fascinating book, including the “Indian Rope
Trick,” which every visitor to India hears
about but no one ever sees. As Mr. Can-
ned observes:—
The whole thing is grotesquely impossible. There
is no method of making a rope thrown into the air
in open space become taut enough for anyone to
climb it, and if it were possible the disappearance
of the boy at the top of the rope would be entirely
beyond the powers of an illusionist.
Houdini died at the height of his fame at
the age of fifty-two. He appeared on the
Tivoli circuit before the war, and many
Australians still remember him as a lovable
character, as well as something like a genius
in his line.
RED PAGE.
The White Slave Trade
“Pawang” (R.P. 14/10/’3l), as a journalist
himself, ought not to have been deceived
bv Londres’s The Road to Buenos Ayres
The familiar distortion of fact in terms of
pity, terror and fury, according to the
Yellow Press formula, is not to be taken
literally by the author’s colleagues any
more than the staff of “Truth” is expected
to take the paper’s headlines seriously The
contribution the book makes is not to know-
ledge, but to the author’s pocket, to the
joyous tune of “reprinted several times”
Some undistorted facts:—
(a ) Buenos Ayres is a young, roughish city
that has not yet learned the elder cities’
discretion in keeping her private affairs to
herself. Her press is full of bosh (pity
terror, etc.) about Latin matters that these
e id er cities have taken for granted since
the Middle Ages, and have established a
healthy, humanitarian method of regularis-
ing. This press keeps a payable blind eye
on the fact that Buenos Ayres has also 'in
u 1 , c,. ,
tipoi ation this healthy, benevolent State-
control of all conditions in all houses. Thus
it makes a useful reference for a writer
pigeon-holing his “authenticity” for a book
wmte slaves, besides being excellent
copy in a city of 100,000 bilingual English
terribly interested in this disgusting traffic.
mjnitiS" to°port7lo p’er SLf'hT/labSi
Hence the dreadful spectacle of groups of
o-j r ] s —remarkably cheerful, quiet, well-
behaved girls m the horrifying clcumstances
~en route from Barcelona or Cadiz or
I Red Pa Qe continued on page 5 .)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—
The salt 0} business.
“THE SENIOR
STORE”
Anthony Horderns'
Now for the Trout Season !
Is your Fishing Basket Complete?
Note these Values!
Trout fishing, the greatest sport of all! But for the big catch you
must have correct equipment. Let our experts advise you.
Compare our qualities and prices and you will surely replenish at
Anthony Horderns’. Write for the Fisherman’s Guide, sent post
free on request. v
7
V
A
W
r
\
M
X
*
f!
Bcv
S»
X
I
Alcock’s Imperial Split Cane Rod
©a—=B=B3C
<D«H=
1 Ift., 3 joints, lock ferrules, cork
grip, extra top, closely whipped.
Superior finish. Anthony Hor-
derns' Price
£l2/121-
Greenheart Fly Rod
Greenheart Rod, 3 joints,
raised grip, nicely finished.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, 35/-
35/-
“Kingfisher” Lines
“Kingfisher De Luxe” Flexible Enamelled
Silk Level Trout Lines. Color, light olive
mist. Its great durability, smoothness of
finish, beautiful casting qualities and
6/-
wonderful suppleness make it the most perfect of
all heavy enamel lines. Put up 25 yards in a coil,
4 connected 100 yards in a box.
Dry test 121 b. 151 b. 201 b.
Per 25 yards 6/- 6/6 7/6
Farlow’s Trout Rod
Farlow’s Paris Tourna-
ment Split Cane Trout
Rod, 2 joints, cork
grip; weight about 6oz.
£B/5/-
We believe this to be the most powerful 6oz.
rod made.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each £B/5/-
“Kingfisher” Lines
"Kingfisher” Double Tapered
Trout Lines. Made of pure silk
carefully plaited, waterproof,
with a permanent line dressing
improving with use.
25/6
Nos. 1 2 3
Per 30 yards 25/6 28/6 32/6
ê
Gunmetal and Aluminium
Trout Reels.
Prices, 17/6, 24/-, 37/6, 77/6
1716
Sentrare Quadruple Reels. 40yds. 80yds.
Prices 10/6 12 / 6
Red Loop Gut Casts, 3 yards. Price, each, 2/9
Strong Fly Cases
LULU
ë
Aluminium Fly Case, with compartments, sin.
x 3-|in. Price 16/-
Farlow’s Trout Rod
Farlow’s Antenor
Split Cane Trout
Rod, 1 Oft., 3 joints,
extra top, cork
£lO/10/
grip, with aluminium top-joint case. An ideal
dry fly rod; weight about 7oz.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... £lO/107-
Write or call re your fishing requirements.
We cater for all classes of fishermen’s
needs, at prices which are the lowest
possible.
Correct Clothing Makes Fishing More Pleasant
1
Thigh
Boots
39/6
Men's Rubber Thigh
Boots. Stout rubber
soles. The ideal
fisherman’s boots.
Available in all sizes.
Anthony Horderns’
Price, pair . . 39/6
Carriage
Paid on
Clothing
and Boots.
Quality Oilskin
Coats from 27/6
Men’s Oilskins. Absolutely waterproof and
guaranteed. Lengths, 48 to 58. Cape
shoulders, lined and guaranteed for 12
months. Anthony Horderns’ Prices,
each 27/6, 32/6, 47/6
Sou’=westers
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each, 3/11, 5/11
Oilskin Trousers
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, pair, 10/9, 18/6
Oilskin Jackets. Prices, each, 16/6, 18/6
to
6
•Phone: M 2401
Pay and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN 8C SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ē


your mirror say:
n-
CVVI
Read how others succeeded in building up
their health again by taking Sanatogen.
was beginning to get mentally
flabby, to hate the very thought of
work, when I struck Sanatogen.
For the first week I perceived no
difference, but from the end of the
second week I began to pick up.
Since then I have gained strength
rapidly.”
MR. EDGAR N. DUFFIELD, of “Golfing.”
u . . . . My husband used to come
home from work utterly tired out —
sometimes too tired to eat. Now,
after taking Sanatogen, he is ever so
much brighter in himself. Even after
the first dose of Sanatogen he noticed
the difference. He is not nearly so
tired —and his appetite has certainly
increased.”
MRS. M. O. EASTERBROOK, BECKENHAM.
i
A
w/
v
i
A
Revitalize your nerves
with
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
Take Sanatogen to build up a
reserve of bodily and nervous
strength! Take Sanatogen, and
you will forget what nerve weak-
ness means for it will restore
you to sound, lasting health.
Sanatogen provides the muscles,
nerves and blood with exactly
the right proportion of glycero-
phosphate and albumin that the
run-down system needs. Sanatogen
gives you new strength and vitality
to conquer all forms of nerve
weakness: loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness and general debility.
More than 24,000 physicians all
over the world have written
recommending Sanatogen as an
ideal nerve - strengthening food.
Why then should you not give
Sanatogen a trial?
Go to your
Chemist to-day.
ew
He sells
Sanaiogen
SANATOGEN will do you good. It will do gocd to the whole of your family.
Sanatogen builds healthy, happy home life by conquering nervousness.


1
a
i
r.
'^3 r
A Message
to Men Over Forty!
Youth Regained!
Throw off the shackles of advancing age! Step
back into youth! COLOSEPTIC will rejuvenate
you—make you virile and vigorous. COLOSEP-
TIC rekindles the energies and pleasures of
youth . . . makes every organ act as Nature
intended.
HIDDEN CONSTIPATION.
In these days of modern foods
and lack of regular exercise,
particles of decaying waste, not
properly evacuated, become en-
crusted in the creases of the
colon. This waste accumulates
and harbours disease-breeding
germs and poiso:is which enter
the system and pollute the
blood. Result is self-poisoning
(autoxima) , caused through
hidden constipation, the origin
of lassitude, headaches, back-
aches and stomach troubles.
RETURN OF YOUTH !
By washing away the germ-
laden mass COLOSEPTIC
promptly rids you of self-
poisoning. Gently, without
griping, it dissolves the en-
crusted waste from the colon
and passes it out of the body.
It banishes poisonous matter
from the system. With pure,
healthy blood pulsating through
your veins, you feel the return
of youthful vim and vigour.
THROB WITH ENERGY.
With COLOSEPTIC natural im-
pulses are renewed arteries
become supple. Your skin be-
comes fresh and clear. Weak-
ness is replaced by strength of
body and mind. You throb with
energy thrill with increased
power. For over fifteen years
COLOSEPTIC has helped thou-
sands to glorious health and
physical fitness. Start now and
join them to-day. Fill in and
post the coupon and send for
the Special Demonstration Jar.
.CUT OUT AND MAIL TO-6aY!_
Regular Full-size Jars, at
All Chemists and Stores
(29)
To Coloseptie Co. Ltd.
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I am anxious to trv COLOSEPTIC. Will ycu
please send me a Special 1/- Demonstration jar
and your free booklet, which tells how COLO-
SEPTIC renews the energies of youth. I enclose
stamps or Postal Notes to the value of 1/-.
NAME
ADDRESS
3i/H*;
Brussels for the more prosperous conditions
in Buenos Ayres. Hence the tragic bills
of lading and the cruel law of supply and
demand which so break Londres s effer\ es-
cent heart. Moreover, one of the troubles the
madainas of the houses have to contend
with is the girls’ habit of dealing out and
getting married. It is one of the induce-
ments offered to leave the older crowded
communities where the chances o)f this
destiny are fewer. But it is obviously a
nuisance to the sen ora, and it obviously
keeps those bills of lading and groups of
serene girls constantly in the yellow eye
of a globe-trotting journalist looking for a
chance to make a bit over his expenses.
(c) In the well-written quoted scene of the
waiting queue the falseness of the impres-
sion conveyed is practically incredible. The
Argentine Spaniard is rough, but he is not
so rough as that. Furthermore, he has the
Latin habit of spending an occasional half-
hour or so of his evening in the patio
of one of these houses —not necessarily as
a client, but to smoke a cigarette, meet a
friend, have' a cup of coffee, or read the
paper in an atmosphere that the tradition
in his blood has made simpatico. The man
who glanced over the company before he
unfolded La Razon and felt for his cigar-
ettes was not counting the heads between
him and his turn; he was looking for some
acquaintance to greet or yarn with in his
unofficial bachelor cl'ubroom. The madama
encourages him, be he never a client; his
invariably well-behaved presence implies
the status of discreet popularity.
In writing with bated pen of the dread
Centre, the High Control of this blot on
civilisation, Londres says, in effect, that it
recognises no authority but that of the
police. Wool, steel, beef and cement being
notoriously always shipped and unloaded to
the music of “Nearer, my God, to Thee,”
and without any attention to the applicable
police regulations, this is perhaps more a
passing salute to the obvious than a de-
batable distortion of fact.
HHARY LOFTING.
On the World’s Edge
Thirty-two years ago Walter Jeffery and
Louis Becke drew attention to what might
be termed the “naval” period of Australia’s
early days in a work of collaboration en-
titled The Naval Pioneers of Australia,
pointing out in their preface that hitherto
the historian had rather neglected the sea-
men, and that the real founders of the
Commonwealth were the four navy captains
who were in succession its first governors.
They and their kind, who did so much to
explore the coasts of the continent and
establish British settlement inside them, had
been put off with a brief chapter or two,
and it was time that they should be given a
book of their own. So we read in their
pages of Dampier, Cook, Bligh, Phillip,
Hunter, King. Flinders, Bass and other
naval worthies who sailed the South Seas
and made history on the shores of Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and the Pacific Islands.
But Thomas Dunbabin, in Sailing the
World’s Edge (Jonathan Cape; 16s. 6d.),
has 1 gone one better than Becke and Jeffery
—he writes of all the mariners of those
distant Australian days, and not only of
men who did the King’s work in the King’s
ships. He has searched the records, the
files of old newspapers, the faded corre-
spondence of long-forgotten men and
women, so that he may tell us something of
“the epics of the sea-history of Australasia,
of strange < ventures in unknown seas, of
wild doings on the Spanish Main, amongst
the islands of the South Seas or the archi-
pelagoes of the North Pacific, of voyages to
the Antipodes, to the very ends of the
earth.” And he has produced a series of
fascinating true stories about romantic
characters whose type was as distinct as that
of the buccaneers of the Caribbean Sea.
“They .were rough and largely illiterate men,” he
says, “living dangerously on the edge of the world
in an age brutal enough at the best. As they
scoured the southern seas in vessels, often home-
built, such as would now be considered fit for a
coasting trip in good weather, they sought over
nearly half the southern hemisphere for the seal-
skins, the seal, seal-elephant and whale oil, the
sandal-wood, trepang, pearls and other products that
formed the first real exports of Australia. Many of
them fell easily enough into the ways and customs
of the savages with whom they dealt. They lived
hard, drank deep and rioted when they had the
opportunity, and took the chances of battle, murder
and sudden death in many unpleasant ways as part
of the day’s work. They risked the cooking ovens
of the cannibals of New Zealand or of Fiji, the
arrows and clubs of the headhunters of Torres
Strait or of the islands of the Melanesians. They
recked little of fame or of the future, and where
their names have been preserved it has often been
by accident,
“Behind them were the shrewd and venturesome,
if occasionally little scrupulous, merchants and ship-
owners of Port Jackson who fitted Out their vessels
and received their merchandise. These, too, were
often men who had been sent to ‘Botany Bay’
under sentence of the law and had become free by
servitude. These men did their business in the
village along whose narrow twisty streets houses
of brick and stone were beginning to replace the
wattle and mud huts of the very earliest days.”
It was the sort of business that made
its backers rich, though most of the wealth
acquired by those who carried it on along
the watery frontiers of southern civilisation
was wealth of experience. This they were
able to amass in the most diversified forms
and m truly embarrassing quantity. Some
of them learned what it was like to be
rescued from the Maori cooking-pots almost
when the threatening meres were raised to
dash their brains out; some to live for
years on bleak islets in Bass Strait on seals’
flesh and mutton-birds’ eggs; some to escape
after years of servitude in the silver-mines
of Peru; some to eke out dreadful existences
m the wintry desolation of such places as
Macquarie Island, almost naked against
the weather of the Antarctic. “Some faint
traditions of those old days when Sydney
was young are still to be found in odd
corners up and down Australasia. A grave-
stone on some lonely point or long-fpr-
gotten islet of the far south, a few moulder-
ing piles in some quiet cove which once saw
strange and stirring scenes—such material
relics still survive from that dim dawn
of Australia’s history which is so near to
our own time and yet in many ways so
infinitely remote.”
There are twenty-six stories of strange
adventure, hardy villainy and heroic for-
titude in this saga of the South Pacific,
and all of them are eminently readable and
very well told. Some are classics which
have often been told before—such as the
wonderful boat-voyage of the Bryants and
their babies from Sydney to the Dutch East
Indies, the 40-year search for traces of
Laperouse, the mystery of George Bass and
the adventures of Amaso Delano. But no
one before has told them so well. It is
the simplicity of truthfulness that gives
them their greatest charm. And those that
are new to all but the deepest students of
the material whence they have been gleaned
are singularly well handled. The titles
alone are fascinating, e.g., “Yankee Skippers
and Senors of Spain,” “Amaso Delano and
his Cannibal Uncle,” “The Strange Story of
Abimeleck Riggs of Boston,” “A Servant of
Satan,” “The Sneak Thief Sailor and the
Princess” and “King Jonathan of Launces-
ton.” Each of them sustains the interest
of its heading. But the gem of them all.
to the present, writer’s idea, is “An Empire-
builder Who Went Wrong.” The story of
Charles Hart, master of the cutter Lambton,
is indeed an epic.
The book is readable, witty, terse and
always to the point, and makes so much
out of plain truth as to inspire with envy
anyone who dabbles in fiction.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
A Satchel of Books
Hoi/*' and Girin’ Hooks. From Blackies’
and Ward Locks’, London's foremost pub-
lishers of works for juveniles, comes the
usual large batch of Christmas gift-
books. The books for the older chil-
dren are crisply written, and packed
with action and robust humor, and those
for the smaller fry arc lavishly illustrated
and furnished with bindings designed to
stand any amount of knocking about.
Blackies’ output comprises “The Senior
Cadet,” by Percy F. Westerman; “The
Scouts of Windliaven,” by Geoffrey Prout;
“Through the Air and the Jungle,” by ,T. T.
Gorman, and “Some Triumphs of Modern
Exploration,” by B. Webster Smith (fine
stuff for boys still in knickerbockers) ;
“Three Girls and a Car,” by Margaret Mid-
dleton ; “The Windmill Guides,” by Violet
M. Methley, and “Two New Girls,” by
Amy E. Seymour (suitable for girls
over ten) : the three popular annuals (for
the Miss about 12, the child a little
younger, and those.around seven or eight) ;
and an assortment for the rattle-shakers,
up to those who have had a little
schooling, including: “Here You Are,”
“Alphabet Painting Book,” “The Goose
Girl,” “Mrs. Wren’s Tea Party,” “Romp-
ing Hours,” “Kitty Red Riding Hood,”
“Popular Nursery Stories,” “Frolics for All,”
“Friends.” “The Hide and Seek Story
Book,” “Fun with the Pets” and “The
Kitten’s Holiday.” Ward, Lock and Co.
offer: “Two Take the Road,” by Lilian
Turner; “Bill of Billabong,” by Mary Grant
Bruce, and “The Dwarf of Dark Mountain,”
by Isabel Maud Peacocke —all by Aus-
tralians—“A Strange Courtship,” by Amy
Le Feuvre (girls) ; and for those who can-
not master very big words, “Bully Boy,”
“Rosy Cheeks’ Story Book,” “My Picture
Book of Pets” and “My Picture Book of
the Fair.”
And a Little Verse
SYMBOLIC.
The yellow dogs of afternoon
Crouch on the hills, and claw the dells ;
The wind goes by with a huntsman’s cry.
The straining trees are tossed like bells.
The silver dogs of silent night
Lunge through the skies and spurn the
sea,
Or slip through space with a furtive grace.
Faltering from dark tree to tree.
The eager dogs of cadging Time
Strive at my heels with pealing tongue,
Or whimper to me piteously;
But I must labor, labor on,
And hurtle down the sloping stairs
With shrieking nerves and catching
breath,
Nor dare turn back to face the pack
Lest they should be lean hounds of Death.
n.s.w.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
IN A BOWER.
What is this murmuring?
Filmy flaked waterfall,
Or green-kirtled Spring
Soft touching a string
Ere she sweep all?
I will stay till it cease
In this dim. dreamy bower—■
Oh, how soothing the peace!
How I sighed for release
From the world’s power!
How I craved for the moan
Of the boughs the breeze heaves,
When green lichen is shown
’Mid white blossoms half-blown
And the young leaves!
Free at last from the street
With its startling harsh clang—
Hush! Yon bird will repeat
In loose links silver-sweet
The song he just sang.
n.s.w.
ARTHUR ALBERT BAYLDON.
Answers to Correspondents.
notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped, lame
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Regess: But why not tell your own yarn
instead of building a camp-fire and creating an Old
Alf to spin it'?.... Scrutineer: Hashed and rehashed
till it’s tatters. .. .S.H.C.: Swallowed hard, but it
wouldn’t go down. . . .L.C.H.: No; but there’s a
sense of the mind uplifted about it....11.W.: An
idea in “Waratah” ; but the second line is slovenly,
and the last not much better... . C.A.M.: Take your
ear to the tuner. “Superb—disturbed,” “stage
—wave” are shocking examples. And it’s merely
a poor catalogue, anyhow. .. .Isabella C.: Another
smile for the basket.... Marion McQ.: But it’s not
poetry XYZ: “Battle Practice” very nearly;
there is a good picture in it... .R.G.H.: That’s an
old, old trail to the w.p.b Trajan N.: Pleasant
—nothing more... .K.A.: Some of it rhymes, some
of it doesn’t; but whether it does or whether it
doesn’t, it isn't poetry... .E.J.: “Life is but pot-
pourri.” And it would make things ever so much
easier if it were Irish stew. .. .Colin B.: A poor
j0b.... C.C.: Try something else; there’s not a
blade of grass left in that paddock.... R.A.: This
paper isn’t throwing cold water on reform. But it
still has a few gallons to waste on bogus reform,
in the hope of shifting it out of the way of the
real thing.... Bellerive: Let’s show them that
rubbish sorted and sifted scientifically can make
prophetic poetry, too: —-
THE WONDERS OF MODERN SCIENCE.
From alleys, side streets
And narrow rightaways
Rubbish into vats is
Tipped from the drays.
Varied masses of litter,
Broken bottles and tins,
And other refuse from
Back-yard dirt-bins
Pass through the process,
Into swift annihilation
By machinery, the foe
Against man’s occupation.
As the wonders of science
Doth widely increase
For unskilled labor
Employment will cease.
..... .R.W.P.: Rather labored. But there are
glimpses of promise... .Joe D.: Joseph, it's doggerel.
M.C.D.: “One Short Hour” didn’t deserve to
occupy one split second.... R.G.: Make a few crisp
phrases do the work of those cumbersome sentences.
... . J.T.: Old Bill didn’t earn that beer S.W.:
Characters too conventionally drawn... .H. 5.11.: A
good many years behind O. Henry. .. .F.M.A.: Only
a. Scot would make such a fuss about a lost golf
ball N.J.: You got on pretty well till you began
tile unravelling....K.C.: Mawkish D.J,: Do you
get your plots from a dream-b00k?... .A.W.: Now
what did happen to the waitress ?.... G.S.T.: It
has so many references to milk and apples
that we suspect you of being Dr. Arthur.
. ...F.W.M.: Reads as if you tried to make a story
out of a Sankey and Moody hymn... .8.K.P.: That
eye-destroying fist won’t gain you a welcome in
any newspaper office....R.M.M.: Not a fresh idea.
... .W.S.: Found Frank a tame liar... .A.W.M.: Not
badly done, but an old p10t... .11.L.R.: Only worth
a par 8.R.: Subject too well known to be of
interest to Australian readers. Try an English
magazine... .H.C.F.: Fairly good in its way, but
it’s not our way... .A.L.T.: Drunk is now confessing
his sins to the other inmates of the w.p.b.
....Austral: The “legiondary legions,” the “pheno-
menic flora,” the “conjugate relations” —it is all
too overwhelming.... J.S.P.: Go on, you’ll get over
that. The grave of last year’s loves, etc., always
yawns at the feet of the inexperienced poet....
A.8.C.: A poor echo of what has been put in decent
verse a hundred times... . J.J.K.: Unmitigated drivel.
....C.G.: “Skyrocket’s Cup” is a sample of a
done-to-death theme... .Mintie:—
Since grim Depression gripped me fast
I grab the food inferior
And, balancing my tray, I sigh,
“Oh, blast the cafeteria.”
We humbly return thanks for the rhyme.,..
R.K.D.C.: Nothing out of the box, and it is an eye-
sight-ruining manuscript. .. .Z.V.W.: Those ducks
have been plucked already... T.C.H.: Same old good
luck turning up in the last par M.L.P.: Well,
you at least refrained from letting your mug rids
the winner. .. . J.W.: Ordinary. . . .N.S.: Turned down.
. ...E.K.P.: You got the atmosphere, but what a
plot!. .. . J.M.F.: With a stronger ending it might
have done A.E.A.: No corn in Egypt for you.
.... M.A.C.: Only thing remarkable about it is the
geography... .C.JiD.: You could improve it a lot.
. ...H.A.F.: Still gasping for breath after that
deluge of adjectives.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.11.R.: The horse is the best part of it, but
they don't favor Clydesdales in the cavalry.... J.A.GY:
You can’t draw feet —or hands... .J. 8.5.: Per-
spective is not your strong suit...A.J.F.: Bright
drawing; dull gag S.J.: Your statement that you
are “only an amateur and have never had a lesson”
is supported by convincing evidence.... K.U.F.: Horse
right in parts; jockey all wrong.. . .C.C.: The in-
stinct that prompted you to send a stamp for return
was not at fault K.A.S.: Feeble drawing; feebler
jest R.L.N.: One’s a lot better than the other,
but that’s not saying much... .A.R.: It isn’t neces-
sary to cross-hatch in nine directions to indicate
a shadow Squzz: Hopelessly amateurish....
D.M.R.: You can’t draw a flowing line in 18 dabs.


ŵ
ẁ
WHITE NOSE.
Winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1931.
Owner - - - H. P. McLachlan
Trainer- - - E. J. Hatwell
Jockey - - - N. Percival
Weight- - - 6st. 121 b.
Time- - - - 3min. 26sec.
■
■ ,
m
m
m
V
cr*f
it.
■
■
ga • n
to
m
% & f
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2700.
November 11, 1931.
ONE BORN EVERY MINUTE.
“N.S.W. militants are now trying to start a tramway strike on the rationing issue.”
COMRADE FRITZ: “Try und sell him der gold brick, Hans. Remember dere's as big mugs on der trams as ever came off der seas."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
llox 2521 S 13; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36‘ Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
0 months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Coin ' oinvealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for Goz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America; Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
MONEY AND EXCHANGE.
In ordinary times our Australian £ is worth
an English pound in London or $4.86 in
New York. Thus £lOO put up in England
or Australia in normal times pays a bill
for $486 in New York, less a small bank
charge for serving as an intermediary.
Smith of Boggabri sells £lOO worth of
frozen lambs to Jones of London, John-
son of Birmingham sells £lOO worth of
jew’s-harps to Moses A. Moss of New
York, and Hiram B. Shaddacker of Boston
sells £lOO worth of bear’s-grease to Robin-
son of Sydney. Actually no money travels
round in payment of Smith and Johnson
and Hiram; many years ago London was
made the world’s clearing-house, and a
Sydney bank with an agency in London
pays Smith of Boggabri with the money
Robinson of Sydney owes to Hiram of
Boston, Hiram himself is paid with the
money Moss of New York owes to John-
son of Birmingham, and Johnson is paid
with the money Jones owes Smith. So
everybody is satisfied and the bank gets
its few shillings per cent.
But the time maj' come when the goods
going out of, say, Australia will not meet
the bills falling due in London. Something
more than bills for goods has to be paid
there; interest has also to be provided on
the overseas debt. When there are just
enough exports to pay the interest bill and
for the imports, £lOO in Australia will “buy”
£lOO in London, less the small bank charge
previously mentioned. When exports are
not large enough to pay these two bills
(goods and interest), the balance can some-
times be made up by loans; for years we
borrowed in London to make good our
shortage. When we could no longer borrow,
three courses were open to us: we could (1)
cut down our imports, (2) increase our
exports, (3) export our gold. In fact, we
did some of all three.
As soon as loans fell off in London and
there was in consequence a demand for
money to pay Australian bills abroad, men
began to offer more than £lOO in Aus-
tralia for £lOO in London. Early this year
the rate was fixed at £l3o—that is, it re-
quired £l3O in Australia to pay £lOO in
London. It is impossible to say how that
price was fixed: it is impossible to say how
prices are fixed in general—why sausages are
Bd. to-day and will be lOd. next week, why
they are Bd. in one suburb and lOd. in
another. The most feasible explanation is
that somebody in the trade thinks Bd.
sounds possible and demands it; and it
depends mainly upon his competitors and
the public’s ability to pay whether the
Bd. is maintained or not. The chances are
that the same thing happens in regard to
exchange.
Last year the figures moved slowly
against Australia: £lOO in London cost
£lO2 12s. 6d. in Australia in January and
£lO9 in December. Then a series of rapid
changes were made, and the rate by the
ejwl of the month was £l3O 10s., at which
figure it still stands. What governed that
movement? We have seen what it is that
causes a movement from par—competition
to buy in a limited market: exports are
too little or imports too great. On that
basis it is difficult to understand the slow
movement of exchange against Australia
during 1929-30. The figure stood between
105 and 109 during the period when Aus-
tralian trade figures were positively tragic;
it looks like an amazing anomaly that the
strong upward movement did not take
place until the trade figures began to show
a marked improvement. For the first five
months of 1929-30 we had an excess of
imports over exports of 23 millions, and
the exchange was £lO2. For the first five
months of 1930-31 we had a surplus of
exports of two millions, and the cheerful
announcement was followed by the series
of rapid rises in exchange which carried it
from 109 to 130 within a few days. It is
generally said that exchange fixes itself:
it is a matter of supply and demand. In
view of the foregoing facts it is hard to
believe that it plays a lone hand. No
doubt supply and demand fixes the pay of
members of Parliament, too; but it is
possible to believe that members have a say
in the matter themselves.
Six weeks ago Britain went off the gold
standard, and that further complicated the
business. Up to that time, as we have seen,
£lOO English was worth $486; and as £l3O
Australian was worth £lOO English, £l3O
Australian was also worth $486. But,
England going off gold, 100 of the
depreciated English pounds became worth
only about s39o—the quotation varies from
day to day. Immediately £l3O Australian
ceased to be worth $486; in falling, the Eng-
lish £ dragged the Australian with it, and
£l3O Australian became worth also only
$390. Some extraordinary results follow—
among them that to pay £6 interest on our
New York loans we have to send away £9
145., although before Britain went off gold
we had to pay only £7 16s. This opens up
some interesting questions. Why should the
Australian £ have fallen further in terms
of the s—-according$—-according to ex-Chancellor of the
Exchequer Reginald McKenna, now the
world’s standard? What has the English £
got to do with the Australian £ that the
former should drag the latter with it? For
the two are not linked together; the Aus-
tralian £ can move quite independently—
while the English £ still brought $4.86 the
Australian £ brought only $3.74.
We have seen a steady rise in the price
of our staples since the English £ depreci-
ated. The English £ now being worth less
in terms of dollars or francs, British buyers
had to offer more in competition with the
foreigner for our wool, etc. The price
during the past year for a given quantity of
wool was. say, £lOO English, equal to £l3O
Australian. The Frenchman up to about
a month ago could buy £lOO English with
12,421 francs; now he can buy £lOO English
with 9800 francs. And since the £lOO Eng-
lish, though depreciated, will buy as much
Australian money as it did formerly, it fol-
lows that 9800 francs will buy as much
in Australia as 12,421 did at the old prices.
Hence the Frenchman can afford to bid
higher than he formerly did in terms of
English or Australian money; and the
British buyer has to bid higher still to
get the goods. This no doubt is a very
good thing for the Australian exporter;
but that alone does not justify it. It
leaves the question still unanswered: If
£l3O Australian was worth £lOO English
when the £ English was worth $4.86, how can
we justify a system which requires £l3O to
be paid for £lOO English when the £ English
is worth only $3.90 or less?
Suppose the London-Australian exchange
had been readjusted after the fall in sterling,
what then? If the American $ is the world’s
standard, then, on the fall in sterling, £lOO
English would have been bought with £lO4
Australian instead of the previous £l3O. In
other words, for many months the £ Aus-
tralian has been worth about $3.75; and to
make it still worth $3.75 payable through
London, £lOO English must be purchasable
now with £lO4 Australian. To maintain the
exchange at £l3O in view of the fall in sterl-
ing is equivalent to raising the exchange
to about £162.
This may be a good thing for the primary
producer. If it is, then inflation is a good
thing; and the objection to it will have to
be reconsidered. If, however, inflation is
not a good thing, if it is a dangerous thing,
then the sooner we proceed to get rid of it,
no matter under what disguise it travels,
the better. Admittedly the problem bristles
with difficulties. If we proceed to cut down
inflation we shall cut down the prices which
our primary producers are getting in Aus-
tralian money for their goods; and they
cannot carry on at lower prices unless all
costs are reduced. If we are going to give
up the struggle to reduce costs, then the
present system must continue; and that
means that the inflationists have won.
What the after results may be, if not certain,
is at least very disturbing.
THE ATTACK ON PROTECTION.
Forde, Minister for Customs, has been
making another appeal to manufacturers to
cut their costs to the bone. Certainly
everybody’s costs ought to be cut to the
bone in these days; but is it particularly
the manufacturer’s fault that Australian
prices, generally, are high?
We began badly in Australia and very
badly in N. S. Wales. This was opened up
as a country for the primary producer and
therefore for the importer and the importer’s
agent and the indentor. The latter group
naturally cultivated an inferiority complex
in the Australian: he was made to under-
stand that he was a poor creature who
could do the coolie work of the farm well
enough, but could not even squeeze out the
juice of the grape into a decent wine. The
people who made things abroad were
superior, if not godlike, and were blessed,
moreover, with better water and a favoring
climate; and some of the reflected glory
of all this naturally rested upon the im-
porter and the foreign manufacturer’s agent.
So the great importing houses built palaces;
the farmer lived in a hut and the manufac-
turer mostly occupied a ramshackle tene-
ment in a cheap suburb. Their proper
returns were fixed accordingly. The importer
had a right to be in the three-figure class,
if not a millionaire; the manufacturer had
no right ever to make a fortune, and was
often denied the right to make a living.
As for the farmer, he was a poor clod who
deserved nothing better than he got, which
was mostly very little.
In this ivay the producing interests of this
country have been loaded up not only with
parasites, but with most expensive para-
sites ; and the real prosperity of some of
them, and the apparent prosperity of many
more, and their high social position have
attracted an appalling number of men to
their callings. Worse still, the cultivation of
an inferiority complex, so far as the real
producer was concerned, has turned hun-
dreds of thousands of young men from
entirely honest productive jobs to mod-
erately honest unproductive ones. The lad
on the farm has been ashamed of his own
and his father’s dust and sweat and ragged
clothes; he has envied his cousin the city
tramdriver or insurance clerk or shop-assist-
ant. The lad in the suburb has been—
perhaps to a rather less extent—ashamed of
his grimy job in the workshop, which
spoiled his chances with the girls in com-
petition with the smooth-handed young
Treasury officer or the well-tailored boy
who was going to be a lawyer. So we have
had hundreds of thousands pressing on to
the white-collar jobs and to the tram-
conductor type of job wherein the collar is
at least cloudy, these jobs—including the
private professional job and the shop-
keeper’s job and the public-service profes-
sional job—all magnified in importance and
rank compared with those of the farmer
and the factory- and mill-worker.
Further, although the tremendous growth
in the number of unskilled laborers is not
due to any one cause, this over-valuation
of white-collar jobs along with an under-
valuation of directly productive jobs is
well in the forefront of the causes. With
the help of the class-conscious fanatics we
made the pay of the youth doing pick-and-
shovel work so much better than the pay
of the youth who is learning to be a farmer
or a foundryman that, in the absence of
any great counter-attraction to the farm or
the foundry, far too many lads drift into
wholly unskilled work, and their numbers
constitute one of the grave dangers of a
democracy.
Indeed, the vast number of this army of
non-producers is the gravest of all ” the
dangers that face our democracy. At the
moment a tremendous effort is being made
to turn the farmer into a Freetrader on
the ground that the primary producer can-
not bear the high costs which the tariff
puts upon him. But if the tariff were
whittled away to almost nothing, the farmer
would find his costs still ridiculously high.
It is not the manufacturer or the factory
operatives who consume the farmer’s sub-
stance : it is the horde of non-producers,
this army of public-service and private para-
sites, which weighs him down with taxes,
with excessive freights, with interest and
rent and commission charges. And it is not
the farmer only who is suffering. We are
all suffering. Here is an article produced
in an Australian factory for Is. 7d. and
retailed at 4s. 3d. Yet it is doubtful if the
actual retailer is making expenses. If the
article were landed from Czechoslovakia the
landed price would probably be Is., and the
other costs would not be a farthing less
than the local article has to bear. Some
of them would certainly be more.
This is not a time for the producers of
Australia to get at one another’s throats.
They have a common enemy in the para-
sites infesting them both almost equally—
and the politician can be not the least of
the invasion. Little by little this burden
upon industry must be got rid of. Un-
fortunately, mainly because of the division
among the producers, the tendency at the
moment is rather to increase it. Our latest
great affliction, the dole, is merely a burden
upon primary and secondary industry alike.
So is the N.S.W. State Lottery: an un-
productive incubus upon the country; every
clerk it employs has to be fed and clothed
by the farmers and factory-workers of Aus-
tralia. Before we shall make much progress
we shall have to cultivate a new habit of
thought: we shall have to almost instinct-
ively welcome the producer and production,
while holding the non-producer at arm’s
length as someone and something suspect
and in need of justification.
CHARTERED COS. OR NEW STATES?
The Commonwealth is divided from north
to south into three sections, nearly equal in
size, which may be described as follows:
East. Middle. West.
Area (square miles).. 1,094,971 903,690 975,920
Desert area (rainfall
JOin. per year down
to nil) .. .. 129,245 451,160 486,952
Habitable area . . 965,726 452,530 488,968
Population . . . . 5,468,683 586,743 420,606
Population per habit-
able square mile . . 5.66 1.3 .9
State capitals . . 4 1 1
Territorial capitals . . 2
The eastern division of Australia, the one
most remote from Europe, is far the most
progressive in the population sense. This
may be because it is the most reasonably
subdivided, and has four State capitals
to be centres from which population is
disseminated. Any place with reasonable
possibilities may become a brisk sort of
hamlet like Gladstone or Bowen, and if it
is made a State capital and political head-
quarters it will be a city like Hobart, to
quote the humblest example. This is per-
haps because Australia takes its politics
very seriously.
Brisbane is the .metropolis of an absurdly
cumbersome State, but still it is only half
as far as Perth is from its tropical depen-
dency in the north, and the people up there
at least hear from Brisbane occasionally.
So there are in tropical Queensland (an
area of 359,000 square miles) five towns of
over 8000 people, and two of them have
attained to 30,000 and are in good training
to be future State capitals when the States
are provided. Every existing State metro-
polis started its metropolitan career with
fewer people than Rockhampton and
Townsville possess.
Queenslanders are at the moment in a fuss
about the depopulation of the Gulf Country,
which is really too far north of Brisbane. It
is an early gold country, and the old gold-
field was apt to strike disaster because the
temporary diggers left it before the per-
manent agricultural and pastoral people
arrived. It is complained that there aren’t
so many inhabitants on Cape \ r ork Penin-
sula, and especially around Cooktown, as
there ought to be. So it is proposed to find
a sort of chartered company with British
capital to take the matter up. It is sug-
gested that the company should have made
available to it 6400 square miles of coun-
try, which seems very little when one con-
siders the records of the East India Co. and
the British South Africa Co., and institu-
tions of the sort. And to attract that
kind of company it is generally necessary
that it should be the lawmaker of the
country, and control the police and the
military, and be to some extent the ground
landlord, and do all manner of things.
There seems a. minimum hope of attract-
ing British capital if the co. is to be con-
trolled by the State Government and the
Federal Government and the trade-union
bosses, and if its tenants are to have votes.
It might be better, since management
from Brisbane seems not quite perfect, to
make a new State in Northern Queensland,
and for Australians to declare themselves
capable of handling the situation without
any British chartered company. There are
precedents to go on. Klondykc is a decayed
goldfield like Charters Towers and the
Palmer, and, considering the weather, it has
less chance of a new life. It and its sur-
roundings have been turned into the new
State of Yukon, a member of the Canadian
Federation, with 206,000 square miles of
territory, with 4157 people, a capital con-
taining 975 people, an Excellency (he is
styled Commissioner), and a Parliament
of three (3) elected members. It may be
ridiculous, but the people stand the ridi-
cule. Southern Rhodesia, which has a better
climate than Yukon, got rid of its Chartered
Co. about eight years ago, and started a
separate self-governing existence with about
35,000 white inhabitants.
Australia isn’t wildly experimental in
such matters, but if it founded a new
State in North Queensland the capital of
that State would probably attract much
more population than would any chartered
wild cat with its shareholders in London
(if such a cat was procurable). A legis-
lature on the spot with local knowledge—
not an absent-minded concern in Brisbane—
might do a lot for the top part of Queens-
land.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Still Making Some Progress.
In spite of great handicaps Australia makes
definite progress towards solvency. The
following statement shows the trade (mer-
chandise) movements for the first three
months of the past three financial years (all
stated in sterling) :
.July- Imports Exports
Sept. (Goods). (Goods).
1929- .. £37,751,088 £20,284,042
1930- .. 20,295,000 16,017,000
1931- .. 10,232,000 12,230,000
So we get this comparison:—
July-Dee.,
1929- . . Excess imports .. £17,467,046
1930- . . „ „ . . 4,278,000
1931- . . ~ exports . . 1,998,000
No reliable estimate of the figures for the
full year can be made from those of the
first three months, inasmuch as hardly any
wool a.nd wheat is exported in this quarter.
Nevertheless, this fact is absolute; in the
first three months of 1929-30 Australia sent
away 17 millions too little to pay its foreign
bills for goods alone; this year in three
months we have paid our greatly reduced
bills for goods and put up two millions
towards our interest and other debt charges.
In fact, we have done rather better than
that; for we have probably increased our
shipments of new gold by 50 per cent., and
that adds three-quarters of a million to
the credit established this year in London.
This, then, is the position. With mer-
chandise exports £4.278.000 less than our
imports at the end of the first quarter, we
wound up last financial year with exports
£15,461,000 in excess of imports. That
showed a surplus of £19,739,000 in the last
nine months of the year. It is quite im-
possible on the figures to say what we are
likely to do in the balance of the current
financial year; but on present appearances
and the figures thus far, our merchandise
exports ought to be in the neighborhood of
20 millions in excess of our imports. To that
can be added probably 2\ millions of gold
production. As our interest and debt
charges amount to over 30 millions, we
shall thus still be something like eight
millions short of paying our way.
Improvements in prices of our staples
may, of course, tremendously affect these
calculations; as The Bulletin showed last
week, exports which in 1924 were valued at
161 millions would have been worth no
more than 57 millions in 1901. We can.
however, reasonably assume that prices will
not get worse; on the assumption that
they will do no better than hold, we reach
the conclusion that, whereas in 1929-30


there was a.n excess of imports of 33 millions
and in 1930-31 a surplus of exports of
15 millions, in 1931-32 we may look forward
to a surplus of probably 22 millions. Any
real improvement in prices will better those
figures; and a real improvement includes
any improvement in terms of sterling, since
it is in sterling that we have to pay 90
per cent, of our foreign interest bill.
The New Aristocracy
How the politician looks after himself and
his friends of the public service! When the
ghost ceased to walk in the N.S.W. Govern-
ment departments and Lang dropped his
bundle, and also his Plan, “the leader of the
great Labor movement” (as he calls him-
self and it) undertook in common with the
other Premiers to effect
A reduction of 20 per cent, in all adjustable
Government expenditure, as compared with the year
ending 30th June,. 1930, including all emoluments,
wages, salaries and pensions paid by the Govern-
ments, whether fixed by statute or otherwise, such
reductions to be equitably effected.
But, payments having been resumed with
Commonwealth money obtained at the
price of utter humiliation, Richard felt
that he was himself again. He said it would
be a shame to apply a 20 p.c. cut to a
section whose pay had already been reduced
5 p.c. by his unemployment-relief tax. One
of his obsequious followers said it would
be an outrage to extort 20 p.c. from them.
So the 5 p.c. tax was taken into account
in dealing with Comrade Percy (workers not
in Government employ are assured that it
is no reduction of wages, the theory being
that they can be fooled all the time), and
the Assemblymen came out with a salary
of £706 p.a.—£lo6 p.a. more than they got
from July 1, 1922, to July 1, 1925. Actual
reductions, according to the Prime Minis-
ter’s statement in the House of Reps, on
Sept. 25, work out at 12.8 p.c. instead of the
20 p.c. of the Melbourne agreement, which
the Vic. and South Aus. Labor Governments
have scrupulously, observed.
Meanwhile the federal Labor Govern-
ment was not idle. When Lang was threat-
ening to smite the N.S.W. people and
demoralise the Commonwealth finances with
a special tax of ss. in the £, the Scullidores
had a law passed limiting State taxa-
tion on the incomes of Commonwealth
politicians and employees to the rates in
force on June 30, 1930—and the N.S.W.
unemployed-relief tax was 3d. in the £
then. By an amendment of this measure
the Government has prescribed the N.S.W.
relief-tax rates that may be imposed on
Commonwealth politicians and employees at
3d. to 6d. in the £, according to salary—
still without extending any consideration to
private taxpayers, though it knows that
Lang’s agents are trying to extort relief
tax at 7id. in the £ on income from other
States which has already borne the ordinary
Federal income tax, the special Federal tax
on property income (now 10 p.c.), local
income tax and local relief tax in those
States. Belonging to the favored section
are the members of those Federal public-
service organisations which did so much to
put Lang where he is. The Lord only
knows why they shouldn’t have to contri-
bute at the same rate as other people to the
cost of keeping him where he is.
Now Mr. Scullin announces, to the addi-
tional gratification of this section of the
new aristocracy, that the cost-of-living reduc-
tions for the September quarter are not
to be applied to the wages of Common-
wealth employees who are working under
awards of the Arbitration C<?urt. He
asserts that to apply these reductions would
be “unfair,” though not to apply them, in
addition to violating a well-recognised rule
of the industrial arbitration for which he
says his party stands, is monstrously unfair
to the private taxpayer. The private tax-
payer with few exceptions has suffered far
more drastic cuts than the Government
employees whom he maintains in steady
jobs, and he still has to contribute heavily
to their superannuation funds—in one Lang
twelvemonth his enforced contribution in
N. S. Wales amounted to £696.000. Lang,
for his part, ignores cost-of-living reduc-
tions and Federal awards and is giving the
employees on his bankrupt railways pay at
48-hour rates for 44 hours’ work. He is
also, by denying employers the right to
approach his Industrial Commission, main-
taining the State basic wage at an inflated
level—£4 2s. 6d. a week, with child endow-
ment added—while compelling them to pay
a child-endowment tax (really another unem-
ployed-relief tax) of £2 in the £IOO of wages.
He thinks in his fat-headed way that this
trickery is clever, though the effect is to
keep thousands of honest fellows on the
dole. In short, the new aristocracy is re-
ceiving special privileges while private tax-
payers are being robbed right and left,
and industrial arbitration has become an
unmitigated swindle.
♦
Wheat and Wheat Prices.
There were hallelujahs last week when new
wheat was sold in Australia at 3s. 9d., “the
best price the farmer had got since 1929.”
It is a shame to have to say that the
hallelujahs showed a very imperfect under-
standing of the facts. On the same day
it was also announced—almost as though
it were a matter for more hallelujahs—that
eager buyers were paying 30s. 6d. for the
sovereign; as a matter of fact, it was
possible to get more than that. What this
meant was that the 3s. 9d. which the farmer
is getting for his wheat—or which one
farmer got for his wheat on one day—is
paid to him in depreciated currency. It is
no longer any use turning to the English
£ as a standard: the English £ is depreciated
too, being worth about 15s. lOd. in the cur-
rency of countries which remain on a gold
basis. And, as it still takes 130 Australian
pounds to equal 100 English pounds, the
Australian pound is now worth 12s. 2d. On
this basis, therefore, the 3s. 9d. for wheat
is no more than 2s. 3d. on a gold basis.
As always happens when inflation is prac-
tised, the exporter is the immediate gainer.
But, as the very eminent Professor Cassel
has said, “it is quite absurd to assume that
a country could gain lasting advantage for
her producers, in the competition with
other countries, by such an extremely un-
sound measure as the destruction of her
own currency by aid of inflation.” Results
soon begin to show up. On the very day
when wheat reached 3s. 9d. it was an-
nounced that the Sydney Water and Sewer-
age Board had been heavily hit by
exchange. That means, of course, higher
water and sewerage rates. We cannot have
it both ways: if we get more through de-
preciation of our currency, we must pay
more. For a quantity of American or
French or Italian goods for which we paid
£lO two years ago we must pay £l6 ss. to-
day, though the goods are exactly the same
price in their home market as they were
then.
Still, there is always a lag in these things:
wages, for example, do not move up as
quickly as prices. What, in fact, is happen-
ing in this case is that inflation is being
used to restore prices to about where they
were when present wages were fixed. And
that, in effect, was what Theodore proposed
to do with his fiduciary note issue: he pro-
posed to regulate the issue of notes so as
to maintain prices at somewhere about the
1929 level. If the workers can be per-
suaded to go on accepting for their services
the same number of pounds now worth
12s. 2d. as they' formerly accepted when
pounds were worth 205., of course the
primary producers and other exporters will
be in clover. But gradually we shall find
costs mounting. We have seen already what
is happening in the Sydney Water Board.
We have seen that every article of foreign
production formerly landed here at 20s.
must now cost over 30s. And we shall see
that, because of the further charges on our
foreign debt, the general tax burden on
Australians will grow still heavier.
All this is not to say that there is no
actual improvement in the wheat market.
There is. Chicago quotations, though they
may be affected by the villainies of
“operators,” are at least not affected^ by
fluctuations of exchange, since the U.S.A.
still stands on a gold basis; and the trend
at Chicago over a longish period may be
taken as the true trend. For December
and May delivery prices have moved this
way: —
December. May.
August 31 .. .. 49 cents 54J cents
September 30 1 . . 48 ~
October 13 .. .. 30£ >, 54J ~
October 31 . . . . 57f „ 62| „
November 5 .. 62 „ 66| ~
That rise (Dec. delivery) is equal to a
shade under 6d. per bushel since the middle
of October or 6id. since the end of August.
That may be accepted as the true rise,
apart from inflationary influences.
Old and TWrauded.
This is the sort of letter The Bulletin
receives by every post—2o a week at least:
I am 70 years old and have £350 in the old
Government Savings Bank. I also took £SOO in
the last loan, which they converted to £2OO in
1938 and £3OO in 1941. I had saved this money
for my old age, and if I can’t get it now they
might just as well confiscate it altogether. I should
be satisfied with 30s. a week.
Or this, from Victoria:—
Has the law been passed which will allow me to
get the amount of the old age pension out of the
Government Savings Bank? I was for many years
in N. S. Wales, and when I came over to Victoria. l
was persuaded to leave my savings behind. It is
all I now have to fall back upon.
At latest a sub-committee representing Com-
monwealth Bank and G.S.B. had been
appointed to discuss the position and “for-
mulate a scheme.” How much more time
is to be wasted? How much longer are
these poor, old defrauded people to be kept
hungry? The only way to “merge” is to
“merge.” A “scheme” by which all the
depositors may get 10 or 20 or even 25 p.c.
is not wanted. Nineteen-twentieths of the
depositors don’t want their money—or
wouldn’t if they knew they could get it.
The other one-twentieth want not a few
pounds now and then, but either the lot
quickly or regular payments. Only the
Commonwealth Bank can retain the
19-20ths by establishing confidence, and nay
the l-20th out of its ample resources.
Realisation of assets need not then be hur-
ried; and, even though the guarantee of
the Government of N. S. Wales to make
good any losses might not be worth very
much to-day, very soon it will be as good
as ever it was. <
Patching Up Labor Troubles.
In the so-called settlement of the shipping
hold-up last week it was agreed, as usual,
that there would be “no victimisation,” and
that all the old hands would be re-engaged
except Mr. Schelley, the eminent sailor who
goes to sea about as often as a goanna, and
then apparently with the object of making
an occasion for a quarrel. Now. this is very
friendly and forgiving and all that; but
is it playing the game with the public?
There is only one sound reason for giving
preference to unionists —only one sound
reason, in fact, why the law should recog-
nise unionists at all —and that is that they
offer something in return. The public, in
short, makes a bargain with them: for
their part they undertake not to do any-
thing in the nature of a strike without first
submitting their dispute to the authorised
tribunal, in consideration for which the
public agrees to compel the employers to
give them preference. And that is quite
a good arrangement, so long as the union
makes itself responsible for any breach of
the contract. The moment that a union
ceases to hold itself so responsible, it ceases
to have any claim upon the public for
preference.
If, therefore, the unions want to retain
this great privilege, they must show them-
selves both strong and willing enough to
discipline the insurgents within their ranks.
This is not so much a matter between the
employers and the unions as, between the
unions and the public; it is the public which
makes the bargain with the unions, not the
employers. And the public’s representatives
in the matter are or ought to be the Indus-
trial courts and other tribunals. But in nine
cases out of ten they do nothing to protect
the public; in common with Cabinet Minis-
ters they seem to think their whole duty
is done when they patch up the trouble.
The unions will be the sufferers in the
inevitable reaction. If they cannot or will
not discipline their members, if they can-
not or will not guarantee the public against
unauthorised hold-ups, then there is no
earthly reason why they should be given
preference or any other recognition.
Armistice Day, 1931.
If we could know how they went out,
By morn or noon or night,
For whom there beat at Heaven’s gate
The prayers of those who could but _wait,
I think the wondering heart would find
That Death was good to them, and kind,
Who did not fear his might.
Perchance for some in long white wards,
Before his summons sped,
The heart went back to green aiid gold
Of some remembered path of old,
Or with the one beloved kept tryst
Where poppies burned through morning mist,
Like many points of flame.
And some there were who found their souls
In battle’s scorching breath •
For pain and strife and deep duress
Boused up the hidden nobleness
No human force could ever stir
Until they met God’s Messenger
Whose splendid name is Death.
n s w. Nellie A. Evans.
*
Phan Lap and an old Law.
There was a race in Melbourne the other
day and a horse named Phar Lap started at
3 to 1. Actually the event was won by
White Nose, which started at 8 to 1 and
had been 100 to 1 a few days before. This
seems to throw some light on our old friend
the law of supply and demand. Obviously
there was a much stronger demand for
Phar Lap than there was for the nasal
albino; yet the strength of the demand
was just as obviously far greater than the
merits warranted. It looks, therefore, as if
the old law is not to be depended on lo do
the fair thing. Nor is the case any different
away from the racing track. The law does
not fix the right price: the most it can do
is to fix what fools and others think is the
right price—and not even that always;
often a price they are grudgingly prepared
to accept from rogues.
So far as a favorite is concerned, the
chances are that it rarely is the right price.
It may be so at the outset; but the pres-
sure to “get in” shortens the odds, and the
price becomes less favorable than the facts
warrant. But that again is no more than
happens in connection with every boom —
in land, in shares or in prima donnas.
What other law should take the place of
supply and demand The Bulletin con-
fesses it does not know; but common-
sense and a cool head may help people to
avoid some of its worst results.
—♦
The Kylsant Trial.
Commander F. G. Cooper, R.N.R., writing
to The Bulletin from London:—
“The offence of which you have been found guilty
. [the issue of a misleading prospectus] is one which
cannot be regarded as other than very grave and
very serious.... The sentence of the Court is that
you shall be kept in prison in the second division
for 12 months.”- — Mr. Justice Wright, sentencing
Lord Kylsant, at the Central Criminal Court, London,
July 30, 1931.
The scales of Justice have been balanced, and
retribution has overwhelmed the shipmonger Lord
Kylsant; but “the evil that men do lives after
them,” and so this criminal leaves behind him ruin
and chaos among several of this nation’s old
established shipping companies, and a track of
broken careers.
Anatole France has written, “Pity is the widow’s
mite: it is the incomparable offering of the poor
man, who, with generosity exceeding that of all the
wealthy in this world of ours, gives with the gift
of his tears a piece torn from his heart.” There
will be few sailormen who will bestow upon Lord
Kylsant the gift of their tears; his offence was
too rank. It is gratifying to reflect that a jury
was not deterred from performing its duty by the
glamor surrounding the bearer of so great a name.
His attitude towards the officers of the Merchant
Service is reflected in these words, spoken at Livei-
pool a couple of years ago at a function at which
he was the guest of honor: “These officers are
getting too big for their boots; after all, what are
they? I regard them as I regard van-drivers.”.
In an article which appeared in the “Nautical
Magazine” for September, 1929, the writer discussed
the findings of the Court of Inquiry which investi-
gated the loss of the steamship Vestris, and re-
marked: “As was anticipated by seamen generally,
the owners of the Vestris were exonerated from
wrongful act or default, despite the evidence that
their ships were dispatched on their lawful occa-
sions from foreign ports in an overloaded and un-
seaworthy condition.” The Lord Kylsant was the
head of the company whose house flag was displayed
by the ill-fated Vestris, and the New, York “Herald”
remarked: “The report appears to squirm a bit in
an effort to be gentle with its own.”
From the seaman’s point of view, the great question
which suggests itself is: Are not such men too com-
pletely absorbed in matters of high finance and
commercial strategy to interest themselves in the
inconsequent affairs of those who are “getting too
big for their boots” —the passive and disregarded
bearers of the burden ? These magnates of finance
and shipping have such immense power that sub-
missive subordinates reflect their policy and play
the “sedulous ape” to their inclinations, and on
their advice masters and officers are cast aside,
obscure and well-nigh inarticulate victims, without
redress, and without hope of further employment
in the world of ships, so closely allied are the
interests of “big business.’’
Incidentally, Kylsant’s appeal against his
conviction came before the English Court
of Appeal last week, and was unanimously
dismissed.
♦
The Gods of Gallipoli.
“Gad”: Suppose this advertisement were
to appear in an Australian daily—
Lonely Digger bagman, on the back tracks of
Queensland, would welcome correspondence, comforts,
etc., from one or two of those thousands of indefatig-
able war-workers (ladies) who got such a kick out of
doing things for soldiers (1914-18) —
how many, do you think, would reply?
Would he be rushed? Would they knit him
socks? Would they send him smokes?
Would they walk about with a new glint
in their eyes, telling their friends—“Dearie,
I’ve adopted a Digger bagman. He tells
me he gets all lousy in some of the camps.
And he laughs about it. Isn’t it splendid
the way these boys are starving for their
country?”
Many of the gods of Gallipoli are walk-
ing the back tracks. Some of those very
men who inspired Masefield with the glori-
ously sentimental idea of calling them
“godlike.” They are very weatherbeaten
gods now, but they are the same men who
captured the romantic notions of the lady
war-workers of the 1914-18 era, galvanising
them into stupendous action on the home
fronts.
Could not some of the Judges’ ladies come
together and do another bit for the “dear
Diggers”? Could not some of the bishops’
ladies band together and adopt a few dere-
lict ones? Could not some organisation
stretch out its alms from the city to alleviate
the distress of the five-bob-a-week Digger
bagmen out back?
But I don’t think it could be done. To
throw a bridge across the chasm which
separates us from those mad years we
should, first of all, have to face the vast
psychological difference between a soldiers’
buffet and a soup kitchen. But at least
the R.S. and S.L. might get busy and pre-
pare little placards for its vagrant members
to display on their blueys. For example
| THIS SWAG IS BEING CARRIED 1
] BY AN EX-SERVICE MAN !
I 1
That, possibly, might ensure him a decent
hand-out sometimes when he is in most
devilish need of it.
S.A.’s German Colonists —and a Moral.
“Larrapinta” : Last month I took a 600-mile
road trip through South Australia, and gave
lifts to at least 50 swaggies. And, though I
made careful inquiry, I did not find one
bearing a German name! I discovered the
reason when I came to a well-known Ger-
man cocky district, and one case is. typical
of the lot. Beside a well on a station was
a two-roomed hut, made of split timber and
pugged with clay to make it weather-tight.
The roof w r as thatched, and before it was
a quarter-acre plot with a brush fence, in
which fine, healthy crops of vegetables were
coming on. A man of 40, with a wife and
young family, had built the hut out of
material from the near-by scrub with only
an axe and saw for tools, and the owner of
the land was letting them have a half a
sheep a week in return for looking after
10 miles of fencing and three windmills.
They were keeping fit and healthy on a
diet of wheatmeal porridge, milk, eggs,
rabbit and onions, with the mutton once
a week as a change; their keep wasn’t cost-
ing the taxpayer a penny, and they were
buying all the clothes they needed with
rabbit-skins. Otto Daencke the man’s name
was, and he came there with his goods and
family in a spring dray.
Literally hundreds of young Australians
are tramping past examples like that, look-
ing for non-existent jobs, “humming”
tobacco, drawing 6s. worth of rations a
week, and degenerating into men with a
grudge against the world. One man told
me he was longing for the summer to
come, because then “These cockies will
listen to reason when I pull out me match-
box and say how dry the grass is!”
Scores of landowners known to me per-
sonally have no objection to any decent
man who is careful about fires, and who
wouldn’t mind doing a day’s work now
and then, camping on their land. I know
a district where good water lies from six
feet to twenty from the surface. More
than half of that district is still original
scrub. One M.P. told me the idea was
all right, but the Government had no
money with which to repurchase land. Rub-
bish! I am just going to put my bees on
to a 26,000-acre scrub block, owned bv a
man who cannot obtain capital to work it
and cannot find a buyer for it. He is
willing to lease the whole lot to the Crown
for £IOO a year and freedom from rates
and taxes. And there are dozens of pro-
perties like this in S.A.. each capable of
supporting scores of families who are will-
ing to take their coats off in the German
cocky style.


REDUCTION IN CHRISTMAS TARIFF
AT MT. BUFFALO
The tariff at The Chalet, Mt. Buffalo National Park
(Vic.), for the coming Christmas-New Year vacation
fortnight has been reduced from 17s. 6d. to 15s. a
day.
Combination tickets are on issue at the Sydney
and Melbourne Tourist Bureaux, for the Christmas
fortnight, covering first-class return rail and road
travel to Mt. Buffalo, and one week’s accommodation
at The Chalet.
From Sydney, £ll
From Melbourne, £6/15/*
Diamond Engagement Kings
<#©ls**%
.£3O
£25
£2O
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are. guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at. pre-tariff prices, and repre-j
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
I 1 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET'.,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Commonwealth Parliament last week
finally dropped the cant and humbug which
it had kept up for four months, and passed
the law making loan conversion compulsory.
Of course it always was compulsory: the
voluntaryism was eyewash for the benefit
of tlie foreign creditor, who was expected to
say that we were a fine, self-sacrificing chap.
What remains now to be done is to deal
liberally with the poor people, mostly
advanced in years, who were persuaded to
take their few pounds out of the savings bank
and hand it over to the Government for a
short term —mostly after Lyons’s appeal.
The sinking fund, largely built up out of
Commonwealth Bank profits, is to be used
to repay these people to the extent of a
couple of millions. But more than that will
be called for—or could honestly be called
for if it were known to be available.
The illegal shipping strike has ended
after lasting three weeks and costing a lot of
money. There is to be no “victimisation” of
the strikers, but the Communist leaders, who
mostly stay ashore and call themselves sea-
men, don’t disguise the fact that the men
who opposed the strike will be “victimised”
as much as possible. Said leaders also state
AFTER THE DEPORTATION.
YACOB: “Yoseph, I’m as strongly opposed to
going to sea as ever I vas.”
that. another strike will happen as soon as
possible, for no particular reason except
their desire to do all possible damage to the
country that tolerates foreigners of their
stamp. Lang was evidently in favor of the
strike. Scullin was against it in a faint
and ghostly fashion. The best idea would be
to get a Federal Ministry that would cancel
the naturalisation of Schellcy, the German
strike manufacturer, and send him home,
along with a number more of the kind.
The Hogans have decided not to com-
promise on the question of rates of pay
in the Vic. Unemployment Relief Bill. They
cling to the hope that rather than throw
out the bill and cause confusion, including
probably a political crisis, the Leg. Council
will reluctantly accept the ragged remnants
of the original measure.
The annual report -of the Queensland
Public-Service Commissioner confirms the
popular impression that N. S. Wales has
the best-treated civil servants in Australia,
although their organisations complain a lot.
On an average they work 36J hours per
week for £353 p.a. The South Australians
are next as regards pay, £352 p.a., but their
week lasts 38 hours. In Queensland the
averages are 394 hours and £305 ; in Westralia,
38 hours and £333; in Victoria, 38 hours
and £320. The Commonwealth men get £297
p.a. for a week of 36J hours. In Tassy 38
hours have to flit by before the week-end
comes; what the reward is is not disclosed.
Australia's trade returns for July-August-
September had an air of consistent cheerful-
ness which is unusual. It exported enough
to pay for its imports, and enough over
to pay most of the quarter’s interest on its
overseas debts. And during the quarter it left
off looting the banks of their accumulated gold
and shipping it abroad to pacify the foreign
creditor, nor did it float a single overseas
loan to make a sham prosperity. Australia
has done the only possible thing by cutting
down its imports, and if it keeps them down
and if the value of exports goes up somewhat,
it may have something to spare for public
works. It would be pleasant if this great
country conld make a dam or a culvert with-
out going down on all fours to the capitalist
for accommodation.
This year’s appropriation for the eight
A’ic. Cabinet Ministers (£7709) is the
smallest since Federation. The eight do
not receive pay as members, and have to
find .something for the four honorary
Ministers out of their £7769. By contrast,
the N.S.W. Misgovernment, so many mem-
bers of which run away from their offices
to other States to spout for the Gang Plan,
holds out its hands for £17,603 —£3823 more
than Holman and his Cabinet drew ire 1919.
There were 10 Ministers in that boom year;
there are 12 in this year of slump, though
nine would be sufficient. Certainly a Minis-
try of nine could doi no worse than the
Ministry of 12 is doing.
McPhee miscalculated badly when he
estimated a small surplus on Tasmania’s
financial twelvemonth; all the same, worse
guesses were made by other Treasurers. The
actual deficit was £245,104, bringing the
deficiency for the McPhee regime to
£475,000, with a prospective further increase
by June, 1932 (another McPhee guess), of
£179,000. Income-tax revenue fell £25,000.
stamp duties (mostly Tatt.’s) £52,000, and
railway earnings £lOO,OOO. Unemployment
relief (£50,000) and exchange (£134,000)
were unexpected costs. Expenditure is to be
cut a further £225,000, and the wages
tax is to be increased from 3d. to 4d.; also
a trifle more is to be got from the enter-
tainments tax.
By 13 votes to 1 the Council of the League
of Nations passed a resolution instructing
the parties to the quarrel in Manchuria to
resume the status quo. The dissentient was
Japan, and the Japanese vote makes the
resolution invalid; unanimity is necessary.
Still, J,apan has already voted for League
intervention in 24 disputes involving war in
Europe and elsewhere—in eight of them hos-
tilities had actually begun. If it insists
on its right of independent action against
China, it loses all claim to a seat on the
League Council. And if the League caves in
because it has struck its first tough cus-
tomer it will lose all claim to being the
arbiter between the weaker nations.
Japan’s response to the League’s efforts
at pacifism is the occupation of Tsitsihar,
midway between Harbin, the Manchurian
capital, and the Siberian border. Tsitsihar is
an important commercial centre, the capital
of an area of 190.000 square miles of forest,
pasture and agricultural country, bordered
by the Sungari, Amur and Aigun Rivers, ail
navigable and carrying a large traffic. In
Czarist days this would have meant war
with Russia, but the new Russia has no use
for war (except, of course, the class war)
when the other party is anywhere near its
size.
The final result of the British elections
is that the Conservatives, who include all
the Protectionists, have 470 members, and
the Liberals, who put Freetrade first, have
seven. The four parties which make up the
Government following number 553; the
three or four which make up the Opposition
count 62. MacDonald has 13 direct fol-
lowers, and he is Prime Minister; Baldwin
has 470, and he holds a subordinate office.
The position may be too complicated
to last —the Baldwinites are dissatisfied,
however content their placid chief may
be —but it is a staggering instance of
putting the public interest before party, and
a throwing overboard of the doctrine that
the victors should grab the spoils with both
hands.
The British Liberals made their first
appearance in 1852, when they had a majority
of 13. Now they are in a minority of 608,
and have probably made their last appear-
ONE WELSHMAN TO ANOTHER: “Sorry, old
man, but you don’t know how to handle
these situations. Now if you’d only
asked my advice!”
ance. There were five consecutive Liberal
Ministries in the 22 years between 1852,
when the Whigs appeared under a new name,
and 1874, and it became the fashion to think
that the new party was fixed. There were
six more, including the one which the Irish
party kept in office for a year, scattered
between 1880 and 1918. when Liberalism
fell into obscurity. Perhaps Lloyd George
will quit the party before it dies and join
the Laborites (51 strong) who left Ramsay
MacDonald, preferring national bankruptcy
to Protection for British industry.
The “safety” blade carried in the palm
was a handy weapon for spoiling the other
gang’s beauty, but it wasn’t much chop for
serious business. The pictures which the
Censor doesn’t censor pointed to the “gun”
as something much more effective, and its
“You better leave that at home, Bill.”
“No, I"ll take it. It might come in handy
and if I’m copped with it I’ll only get
fined ’arf a quid.”
growing use is alarming the police heads in
every Australian city, Sydney especially. The
increase in the number of “guns” carried
without license is the worst feature: no
constable can approach a man under sus-
picion these days without risking a bullet.
Carrying an unlicensed weapon is neverthe-
less still regarded as something to be met
with a fine of 10s. or thereabouts.
A cable from Moscow states that two
Soviet police officials named Unpronounce-
ableoff and Incomprehensibleski, or sounds
to that effect, have been executed for misuse
of their authority, “including the execution
of 18 innocent persons.” Stories like that
are not uncommon in Russia, where capital
punishment is said to be abolished, and they
would be common in any country where
anybody can be whizzed off to death or to a
century in gaol on so little evidence. It is
best to shed a silent tear on spec over the
two defunct polysyllables. Probably they
have been scragged from mercenary motives
on a false charge of killing 18 innocent
persons, some of whom are still alive while
the rest were confirmed malefactors, and
the reputations of the deceased will be
cleared by 17 perjured witnesses, or more if
required.
The Westralian State Savings Bank
changed its sign at the beginning of
November. Its business hasn’t been inter-
rupted, but it now appears as the Common-
wealth Savings Bank. The depositors can
get their money when they want it. This is
different from the case of the N.S.W. Savings
Bank, where the old depositors get nothing
after half a year’s stoppage, and some of
them are starving, and some are on the
dole, and some are committing suicide. But
then Lang waited till his bank was burst
before he asked the Commonwealth to take it
over. Then he hadn’t a going concern to
offer, and as he was still rather haughty
about his terms the negotiation came to
nothing. He has started a new State
Savings Bank —a very small concern with
the gigantic paraphernalia of the old
one, and it is significant that interest
on old deposits has been reduced to 3 p.c.
Some of the officials of the new bank (for-
merly officials of the old bank) bear public
testimony to the remarkable soundness of
the institution, but what else could they
bear?
Melbourne has made the unpleasant dis-
covery that it is possible for a child admitted
to Fairfield Infectious Diseases Hospital to
recover from scarlet fever, be reinfected with
diphtheria, get over that and then catch
whooping cough, all from other patients.
In normal times, two per cent, of patients
acquire cross-infection; the rate has gone
up to 10 per cent., and the hospital’s accom-
modation is so taxed that it is impossible to
close and fumigate a ward after a patient
has departed. Cutting down Dr. Health’s
wages is tantamount to subsidising General
Bacteria.
Australian imports in the last three months
before the crash amounted to 38 millions;
and exports fell 17 millions short of paying
for them, though wheat was then ss. 2d.
a bushel. Pearce and his Freetrade followers
in the Federal Parliament are demanding
that Customs duties shall be abolished so
that foreign goods may flow in again and so
replace the allegedly high-priced local
articles. What they don't explain is how
the foreign article is to be paid for. Even
with the heavy duties and the prohibitions
we are still importing so much that we can’t
pay for the goods and the interest, bill, too:
so we are still pushing some of the interest
bill into the future for the next generation
to wrestle with. Freetrade is magnificent in
theory, and mean in practice.
Lang’s agents soon get into the way of
talking like Lang himself. In one act the
new Transport Board stopped the Sydney
'bus services, delivered a staggering blow to
the outer suburbs and Parramatta (to which
the 'buses and the lorries gave a new lease
of life) and reduced hundreds of farmers
to despair; and it complimented itself as
follows: —
Financial interests have told the Government that
revenue must be increased if the State is to return
to solvency, but immediately the Government put
into action a scheme whereby the State finances
were to benefit by the elimination of private enter-
prise we have heard nothing but vehement protests.
The only way in which State activities can be boosted
is by the cutting out of the activities of private
enterprises which compete with the State. In (his
instance the State has very courageously undertaken
to cut out all unnecessary competition. There can
be little doubt that this first attempt of the new
board to procure the equilibrium of tramways and
railways expenditure promises to be a great success,
r... If the board continues as it has commenced
the balancing of the budget in the railways and
tramways can be accepted as near attainment.
An odd commentary on this fatuous rubbish
was the rushing of a body of police to
Lang’s farm on the Hawkesbury and the
stopping of a protest meeting of 'busmen and
farmers at Windsor. Someone’s “courage”
evidently failed him.
Don Cameron, J. Sheehan and A. R.
Wallis are to be the Vic. Labor team for
the Senate; barring accidents and expulsions.
They have had no Parliamentary experi-
ence. Blakey, who used to be a Senator,
was beaten for third place in the ballot by
Wallis. Findley, another ex-Senator, had
to retire before the final count was reached.
If the industrial and political wings of the
A.L.P. split, the eligibility of Wallis may
be questioned.
While six of Lang’s Ministers were
descending on Adelaide to bellow for the
Lang candidate in the Leg. Council by-elec-
tion, the executive of the South Aus. Labor
organisation issued this ukase: —
That a member of the party opposing a selected
Labor candidate, or acting as secretary for such can-
didate, or occupying a position on his committee; or
publicly speaking on his behalf, shall automatically
cease to be a member of the party.
So the six Ministers may consider them-
selves expelled, as far as South Aus. Labor
is concerned. The same with Bardolph, the
candidate, and his local platoon of Lang-
planners. Of course, all the State Labor
Ministers and two of the South Aus. Labor
Senators had been expelled already. It will
be a pity if the organisation should have
to be wound up because everyone has ex-
pelled everyone else.
“The sovereign is now worth over 305.”
WEARY WALTER: “I’ve come for the rest of
the beer, Matilda.”
MATILDA: “What beer?”
WEARY: “I paid yer a sovereign once and
got only 20s. for it; and now I want
the other ten.”
Passenger fares on Queensland railways
have been reduced 10 per cent., workmen's
and weekly tickets included. It is hoped
that the cuts will induce people to use the
rail more and the speedway less; if they
do there will, it is promised, be further
reductions. These are the first since 1914.
A Labor Government arrived in 1915, and
ushered in 14 years of steep charges and
colossal deficits.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
_ . .
“I. Temple” : When Ilrgh-Commissioner
Ryrie introduced the eminent .T. .0. Squire
at the exhibition of Australian literature in
London as “Mr. .1. Dwyer,” he perpetuated
a hilarious tradition. An Aussie lI.C. rather
disappoints a London audience if he opens
his mouth without putting his foot in it.
mi 1 . /» /~vi 1 T) • «• /»
1 lie malapropisms of the Old Brig form
the subject of scores of yarns 111 the City,
rT (, J rue ’ * na "y ben trovato, a few unpub-
lishable. I heard him drop one of Ins
weightiest bricks myself. It was at an enter-
tainment designed to give a boost to British
cars in the Dominions. Ihe ‘Brigs contn-
button to the propaganda was a racy speech
in winch he mentioned that he had always
used American cars on his station, and, please
God, always would, as British cars were
rotten—or words to that effect. It brought
down the dining-room, and satisfied me
once and for all that the English are the
world’s best sports. George Reid originated
the convention, or whatever it is, at a Royal
Academy banquet, shortly after his arrival
in London. lie gave “The King” in a long
and flowery oration! Old stagers were as
staggered as they would have been if he
had prefaced liis remarks by lighting a clay
pipe. But the gaffe only added to his popu-
lanty in the long run. They love to have
someone to laugh at in London.
“Percy Pawnticket”: There was a rumpus
in and outside of a matrimonial agency, and
an interested crowd was watching develop-
ments. The heated gentleman who was the
centre of the disturbance had, it appeared,
called at the office on the preceding morn-
ing, met a lady who answered all his re-
quirements for a life-partner, and arranged
to meet her again on the premises for the
hitching-up ceremony. Il'c had duly returned
after having a few drinks; his complaint was
that he woke next morning to discover that a
substituted bride had been “rung in” on him
when he wasn’t in a condition to detect the
fraud. As far as could be gathered the
agency admitted tin* substitution, but con-
tended that the angry man had agreed to it.
the first lady having withdrawn at the last
moment; but this the customer vehemently
denied. What sort of reparation he wanted
wasn’t quite clear, but seemingly he had
hopes that the office might be able to effect
some sort of exchange. He surged upstairs
at intervals, accompanied by joyful strangers,
and Avas methodically hurled down again,
the office having obviously mobilised its
forces to resist invasion. Noav and then a
policeman would arrive on the scene, and
with a “Move on, please,” push the argument
a little way along the street, but it always
returned. It only faded out at dark, when
the agency people had departed, presumably
by a back entrance
“Ephesus” : Surely, of all the incongruous
and despiteful fates that have overtaken
shrines, that of the huge amphitheatre erected
at Balmoral Beach (Sydney) in anticipation
of the Second Coming of Christ is the sad-
dest. For years visitors were admitted for
sixpence to admire the seascape and scan
the names of the devotees who had paid good
money to ensure front seats for themselves
or their legatees at some shadowy event
vaguely due on some date impossible to
guess at. But bad times came, and the
executors of the woman responsible for the
amazing project that wasn’t to fulfil its
purpose until the end of the world decided
to wind up the estate. By way of a start
the “Temple” Avas leased for miniature golf,
but. that craze having proved a^srngularls
short-lived one, the opr fetor of J* bl
songandance show arrives on the scene and
acquires the outfit for a or
two. The next lot of
have the advantage over the last in know-
ing that what they pay for will be delivered
promptly.
* * *
“Aehtung”: The second volume of Prince
von Bulow’s memoirs promises to create
an even greater fuss than the first, which
roused tho Earl of Lonsdale to such a pitch
Biat bo R iroa tened to prosecute the pub-
]isilors unless they suppressed portions of
r. This time, the'author tilts at easy-going
King Ned. whom Paris knew and loved as
“Jo bon Juif. Billow says that the rate
was m the habit of . borm’rng mil-
lions from tlio wonivn\ commonois with
whom be Avas f ond 0 f associating, and
instances Lipton. Groundless or not. such
s tories were common enough 40 years ago when
Edward was still Prince of Wales and find-
ino, it diffiplllt to ma ke ends meet. Club
ffo “ gip mado him a heavy leaner on “Colonel’
the Nitrate King, and the Austrian-
Jew b ’ ankpr B aron Hirsch.
... ... . : . ...
" . ' .
“Britannia”: Rear-Admiral Dewar ran
true to type when he stood at the recent
British elections as a Socialist, and issued
dodgers that nearly got him prosecuted for
sedition. He was captain of the Royal Oak
in 1928 when the row with Admiral Col-
lard occurred. It was interesting because
it revealed the presence of 110 fewer than
three cranks in high positions on the same
ship. Collard. who was flying his flag
on the Royal Oak, swore at a bandmaster
with the preposterous name of Percy
Barnacle, his rage having been inspired by
the alleged awfulness of Barnacle’s music.
Dewar objected : so did Daniels, liis second
in-command. To the stupefaction of the
R.N. (which was unable to visualise a band-
master, or any other rating, with . feelings
capable of being ruffled, much less lacerated,
by anything an admiral might say), the dis-
pute ied to a court-martial, which ended in
JUDGMENT.
“I believe your hubby’s a wonderful judge of women.”
“Yes, I suppose he is. He’s certainly a trial to me.”
Dewar leaving his ship and Daniels the
service. Collard, who had been involved
in a disciplinary row earlier in his career,
lost any remaining popularity he might have
enjoyed at. the Admiralty.
* * * *
“Pusing Kepala”: The famous Brooke
was not the only white rajah the Malay
Archipelago has seen. An Australian once
filled the role for 48
hours in a Javanese
town. The regent, or
native chief, of a large
residency in the south-
east of Java began to
show anti-Boer tenden-
cies during the South
African War, so the
Dutch thought it ex-
pedient to remove him.
He was a native Javan-
ese and a direct descen-
dant of the semi-Indian
rajahs who ruled there
before the advent of the
Hollander. The Govern-
ment installed in his
stead a Madurese; that
is, a prince of the reign-
ing house of Madura,
an island off the east
coast with a population
of 4,000.000. A Javan-
ese spits when he
speaks of a Madurese —
they are only fit to cut
gras s. Consequently
sedition broke out, and
tlTe populace marched in
a body into the com-
pound of the Australian,
a highly respected mer-
chant, elected him
“Rada” by unanimous
vote and insisted on in-
stalling him on the spot.
Much against his will
he ruled for 48 hours.
Then the Government
told him it would be for
tile good of everybody’s health if he took a
holiday. He informed his devoted subjects
that liis teeth needed attending to and the
nearest dentist was at Surabaya. When he
returned the crisis was over and all was
peace. He now owns a pub on the. Sydney-
Melbourne line.
* * *
“F F.” • A weird feature of the movie trade
is its disregard of audiences as such. Sydney
State, f’rinstance,
which has a fashion-
able clientele, re-
cently staged two
musical items. One
was a number from
“Samson and Deli-
lah,” rendered in the
classical manner by
a young woman with
a voice that would
have done credit to
a concert hall. The
Wurlitzer supplied
the melody for the
other. The words,
which were thrown
on the screen, accom-
panied by villain-
ously drawn “stills
in crude colors, con-
sisted of doggerel
about a prisoner in
a “hoosegow.” In
nasal sing-song tones
the screen voice re-
tailed charnel-house
jokes: how a pris-
oner said he was
leaving next day
(“I'm going to be
hung”) ; how an-
other prisoner said
he was always polite
—would any lady
take his chair (the
electric-chair), and so on. They never
showed nerforming fleas and Wagner on the
same bill in the days of the theatre.
“Road Hog”: At the local garage we were
discussing the merits of various cars. An
American make was mentioned and evoked
the remark: “Jones has got one of them;
and he reckons lie’s been driving it for seven
years without spending a penny sor repairs.
Do you believe that?” Before anyone could
venture an opinion the grease-marked tace or
Sliellplume, the garage proprietor, appeared
at the window of bis office, "100 right,
corroborated. “And I ought ter know,
because I've done all the flaming repairs.
“Qis": At least one
Australian aviation com-
pany lias done a bit ot
pioneering in other than
aerial realms. This is
“Qantas” —the word being
thrown together on the
same principle as “Anzac”
and “Bawra.” How gro-
tesquely impossible the
“u”-less “Q” looked at
first, and how the regis-
tered name must have
bothered compositors and
set the teeth of school-
masters on edge! Yet
we have soon got used to
it. And if “Qantas" why
not “Qeensland” or “qid”
or the obliteration of a
useless letter —as useless as the appendix in
human anatom}' —in hundreds of other
words? It’s an economy surely worth a
trial.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The. iron road in Melbourne
described by “Chevroford” (B. 21/10/’3l)
was not built for motor-cars, baby or other-
wise. Long before the petrol engine was
thought of it was laid down for the market-
gardeners’ waggons, whose ironshod wheels
were murder to the old macadamised sur-
face. There is another double set of rails
exactly similar at Centre-road, Bentley.
* * *
James Edmond sends a Biblical note: —
A few weeks ago Tub Bulletin published a polite
letter by Mr. E." H. B. Lefroy, of Westralia, about
how his State is wrecked for want of Secession and
Freetrade. I wrote a reply, and my reply aroused
the “Sunday Times” (Westralia), which is even
more heated than Mr. Lefroy in its craving for
Secession and Freetrade, to great anger. In its
warmth it drew a comparison between me and
Ananias —“the most brazen Ananias” was the term it
use d—and it apparently meant the name in a hostile
sense. For a good many years the name has mostly
been used in a hostile sense by wooden-headed
people who accept their opinions ready-made. Ananias
has been an Aunt Sally till the name has become
a weariness.
In the Scriptural story Ananias isn’t charged
with any crime whatever, and he isn’t even accused
of being a liar, though that is the offence of which
manufactured public opinion holds him guilty. It
was a passing frenzy with the Early Church for
believers to throw their assets, or part of them,
into a common fund. The brief record goes, “Neither
was there any among them that lacked” ; and while
the process of living on their capital lasted it was
natural that they shouldn’t lack; How far this
communistic movement spread, or how long it lasted,
or how it ended, doesn’t appear. Probably embezzle-
ment finished it. But Ananias sold a “possession,”
or a “piece of land” in the Douay version, and gave
part of the proceeds to the Church. It isn’t stated
that other enthusiasts gave all ,to the Church, or
that there was any law demanding that they
should part up the whole lot, or that Ananias told
a lie and said he had given the lot, or that there,
was any statute human or divine which made lying
a capital offence. At that time Peter was at the
head of affairs, Paul not having yet arrived. Peter
was a. hasty man with three previous convictions for
inaccuracy. He is supposed to have possessed the
power of knocking people down dead and to have
used it on Ananias and his wife; at all events, they
both died in his presence after he had reproached
A BRIEF FLOWERING.
“So she was married the year she came out ?"
“Yes! What you might call nipped in the bud."
them bitterly about their failure to hand over all
the money. It is giving them the benefit of the
doubt to assume that they were a bright and happy
young pair who had a useful Christian life before
them if they, hadn't met Peter, though that apostle
occasionally required the benefit of the doubt him-
self. But the Church made it so dangerous for
many years to express any doubts about Peter that
Ananias will probably have to remain in the old
discredited state.
TLL SAY.
I'll say it’s fallen, swift and' dread,
The axe on Labor’s gizzard,
From John o’ Groats to Beachy Head,
The H’nmber to the Lizard.
I'll say the lesson bore a pang
That's rendered Scullin pensive
Beyond his wont, and roaring Lang
A trifle apprehensive.
I’ll say, no matter what their scopes,
That trouble waits in wedges
For all whose paths with blasted hopes
Are strewn, and broken pledges.
I'll say to those who windows dress
With goods that gleam and glitter,
You'd best deliver them, unless
You want a reckoning bitter.
I’ll say there’s been another Cup
November in to usher,
And leave the punters harder up
The pencillers the flusher.
I’ll say there’s flutters, stacks and stocks,
To put a crown or quid on,
And some stay broke by backing crocks
And some by bucking Whiddon.
I’ll say the Harbor bridge may show
Some decades hence a profit,
With millions crossing to and fro
For one who topples off it.
I’ll say it saddens thinking souls,
What ev’ryono discusses,
The poor exchange that drawing doles
Affords from driving ’buses.
A LESSON LEARNED.
THE PHILOSOPHER-FATHER: “Nature, my boy, everywhere gives people compensations.
That blind man, now, has a marvellous sense of direction; he never loses Ins
way, he recognises his friends by their voices. And that man with the short
leg”
THE COMING-ON SON: “I know, Dad—he has the other leg a bit longer to mate up
for it.”
I’ll say, although I wouldn’t dare
To hint depression’s lifting,
That there’s a feeling in the air
The clouds may soon be rifting.
I’ll say that Britain’s hit the spot
And hazard we should be as
Determined, if the chance we got.
To clear the board and “sack the lot”
Of broken reeds as she has.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Runa”: For variety in sea travel the tiny
saloon of the little M.L. steamer Rimu
would be hard to beat. The Rimu
in all weathers ventures in or out of the
port of Manukau over the treacherous
bar which many years ago wrecked
11.M.5. Orpheus. The saloon has bunks
all round, and in rough weather any-
thing is liable to happen there. I recall
one trip when a large consignment of fowls
escaped in a heavy roll and invaded the
refuge, where they perched forlornly on
bunks and furniture and cackled their woes,
But it remained for a westerly buster to
make things really merry. It released seven
pigs which had been penned on deck and
THE GUILE OF THE SEX.
“Do boys always find it so hard to win a kiss from you?”
“Well, they think they do.”
swept them into the compartment. Swirling
round in the tossing brine the distracted
animals squealed wildly, while oaths and
screams came from drenched passengers who
found themselves disputing with swine the
right to the P®S e r bunks. Nobody employed
to thtf ragrngk storm, and the commotion com
tinned until pigs and passengers had sorted
tnemscives ou . __ ...
“\rrs». Tl,n TCildi rvie A Gouneil
AI.G.S. • Ihe St.Lvilda (Vic.) uouncii
has just erected new -baths at great expense
on the s ■ " ‘ -i Lj’
examined the edifice recovered from
the_ first shock, Ica -- • ~• A
saying that it has - , h
architecture as an 111 If®
S “Tinnlmusei” for the Wurlitzer lias to
music. Even the Victorian Institute of
Architects, which can put up with a great
deal, describes it as appalling. ? ssl a
the council, now that it is confronted
with the full horror of its finished work,
is as shocked as anybody. Heavy seas
often lash the foreshore, but there is
little probability of a gale strong enough to
wash the building seawards. It might be
cheaper to mine it or bomb it from the air
than cart it away piecemeg.l; or the Navy
might be invited to use it as a target dur-
ing gunnery manoeuvres. There are practical
and financial objections to all these proposals,
however, so I suggest that the structure be
enclosed in a high fence and kept as a warn-
ing to councillors not to meddle in matters
that are beyond their powers of compre-
hension, such as taste in the fine arts.
“Clarence Cafeteria”: Vic. Public Health
Commission is agitated at the thought that
citizens are in course of being debauched by
chocolates with alcohol in them, sundry
specimens having been examined and found
to contain more than 3 per cent, of inebriat-
ing spirit. The spectacle of a houseful of
first-nighters rolling out drunk after munch-
ing their way through a performance of
“The Merry Widow” is certainly terrible to
contemplate, but confectioners regard the pos-
sibility as remote, seeing that not more than
two in a box of 20 chocolates have liqueur
in them. It is estimated that on this basis
it would be necessary to consume 100 choco-
lates in order to arrive at the same degree
of intoxication as would be given by one
whisky and soda. The modern flapper is
a practical person, and, if confronted with
the alternative, would probably prefer to
carry a hip flask, as being less bulky. One
of the complainants reports a more serious
objection. An ardent proliibitionst, he inad-
vertently devoured one of the loaded sweets.
He had no option but to break the pledge,
as it was in a lighted theatre.
“Talord”: Early the other morning I
asked the time of a Hyde Park seat-warmer,
and was promptly told it was
“twenty to six.” “Where’s the
clock?” I queried. “No clock,
mate,” was the reply. “Here’s
‘Twenty to Six’ coming now,” and
a middle-aged workman carrying
his lunch “kitty” walked past Cap-
tain Cook. “Never misses,” vol-
unteered my informer. “I can
give you the time within a few
seconds up to seven forty-five—-
after that they get a bit thick.”
I stuck around and was optically
introduced to “Quarter to Six,”
“Five to Six,” “Ten Past Six” and several
other sure-timers. As I left “Half-past
Seven,” in the shape of a pert flapper, came
swinging along the footpath.
* * * *
“Walk-about”: Touching those almost
deserted mining towns of North Queensland
(B. 14/10/31), I knew one a couple of
years back that still sported a pub. The
owners, wine- and spirit-merchants, hoping
that one day the old tinmines would again
be worked, decided to keep the license going,
and accordingly offered the place as a home
to an old fossicker provided he would carry a
small liquor stock. The fossicker agreed,
and the rental charged was one shilling a
week, the owners to pay all rates, etc. The
pub still stands, and so does its license, but
it must be a red-letter day when there is a
customer to serve.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The notion of erecting
cairns to Australian explorers and pioneers
is in danger of being
overdone. It is diffi-
cult to journey any-
where in N. S. Wales
or Victoria and get
10 miles out of reach
of a commonplace
memorial to Burke,
Strzelecki, Henty, A.
L. Gordon or some
other distinguished
man of letters or
action. Where it is
an explorer who is
being memorialised
every township feels
obliged to record in
imperishable rein-
forced cement that
here lie boiled his
billy, or here he
gazed ' first on the
blue waters of the
Indian Ocean, or
here he merely
paused in passing on
a tortuous journey of
1000 miles or so.
Consequently, em-
blems are so frequent
that few travellers
ever stop nowadays
to examine them.
An example is a
cairn recently un-
veiled at Portarling-
ton by the indefatig-
able James Barrett.
It records the spot
where Matthew
Flinders landed on
the western shores of
Port Phillip Bay,
and is the 107 th
memorial to Flinders
in Victoria. If the
money expended on
all these uninterest-
ing pieces of architecture went into one good
piece of statuary art. national amour propre
and Flinders would be equally served there-
by.
* * * *
« Atticus „. The ]ate Paddy Glynn took
a reputation for dry humor as well as
sa When the conditions under
which old-age pensions were to be granted
were being outlined, somebody asked if mental
disabilities Woll i d be treated in the samo way
ag physical ones> an . d the Minister said they
would be. Paddy had not been participating
. r th<j but at this hi R eyes swept
over the House reflectively, finally coming to
rest on the packed Ministerial benches. “In
that case there should be plenty of eligibles
iere ’” was his contribution to the debate,
* * * *
“Centurion”: Kipling’s medieval soldier
who bewailed having to “scuffle ’mid un-
.,„ , . c
cleanly din as a result of the coming of
gunpowder would have something mterest-
ing to say could he revisit the glimpses of
the moon and see the latest British tank at
work. Known as “the Garden Lloyd light
amphibious battleship,” recent tests have
shown it as able to swim wide rivers,
climb out on boggy banks and hit up to
40 miles an hour on good level going,
It was also tested against wind and
current in the Thames and easily beat
them both. Water speed is six knots,
and the gadget can take to or leave the
water as its driver likes, fighting all the
time. With such things about, the next
war ought to breed a race of heroes. Even
the most conscientious objector would realise
the futility of trying to dodge such com-
parted inevitability.
WHAT KEPT HIM SO LATE.
“And what excuse did he give you for
coming home at two?”
“He said he’d been waiting outside shivering
for two hours, trying to think up one
for coming home at twelve.”
“Lipstick” : Aus-
tralians who served
in Egypt with the
A.I.F. will hear
with interest that
the Sphinx has had
her face “lifted.”
The venerable
figure literally
showed signs of
cracking up, and
the Gyppo depart-
ment of archaeology
was called in for
first aid. Treat-
ment took the form
of trimming the
ragged edges and filling the cracks with
modern cement, with the result that the in-
scrutable monument looks younger than ever.
Incidentally, the whole of the sand has been
cleared away from the figure, which now,
for the first time in modern history, can
he seen in its entirety.
* * * *
“Esters”: That great Australian wine
expert Leo Buring, lecturing in Melbourne
the other day, declared with a sigh
that the wine industry was hampered
by the existence of millions of Buddhists,
Hindus, Moslems and American's committed
to a non-alcoholic policy. Still, things are
not so bad as they seem. Most followers of
the Buddha tackle hard stuff of some sort or
other. So does practically every Hindu of
whatever caste. In Islam, the Shiites, who
are mostly Persian, countenance the use of a
spot, while nearly all other Moslems I have
met have never frowned on die offer of one
under the lap. As for the Americans—well,
there doesn’t seem any need for Buring to
despair.
% * ❖
“Massingberd” : The. latest
wandering Englishman who
woke up ohe fine morning to
find himself a peer of the
realm seems to have struck
a peck of trouble along with
the title. He is one Clot-
worthy Rowley, who dis-
appeared from his ancestral
haunts eight years ago and
zigzagged about the face of
the earth until he received
word in Victoria that his
uncle’s death had made him
Baron Langford. The case
received extra publicity in
the London papers owing to
some enterprising reporter
discovering the new baron-
ess, whom Rowley had mar-
ried before he left. England
and who had only the hazi-
est notion of his whereabouts,
earning her living as a
waitress in a teashop, She
wanted to stick to her job.
but so many people flocked
to the place to enjoy the sen-
sation of being served - with
buns and things by a live
baroness, spending little and
staying long, that the man-
agement decided their custom
wasn’t worth all the fuss
and feathers, and sacked
her. One result was that
when the long-lost nobleman
arrived home he was met by
a squad of reporters and a
battery of press photo-
graphers, whom he consigned
to blazes. And now he is
being sued for maintenance
by . the sometime teashop
lady, and more hard things
are being said of him, in-
cluding some unkind refer-
ences to a bigamous mar-
riage, and what the end of
it shall be God knows, 'as Pepys might have
put it.
“Bloggs”: The Sydney daily that lias
been starring photographs of lasses, flat-
faced and otherwise, who imagine they look
like Norma Shearer struck a great stunt.
Minny golf-courses may become weed-choked,
beach and other “wars” may be armisticed by
their own inanity, but the pathetic convic-
tion of millions that they are indistinguish-
able as regards appearance from the great
or notorious ones of the earth goes on for
ever. The response would have been even
more satisfactory if the paper had called for
Greta Garbos. Every Sydney suburb con-
tains dozens of females between 16 and 60
with drooping, slab-sided figures, haggard,
pashun-ravaged eyes and Garbo haircuts.
They resemble the charmer superficially in
almost everything but charm ; and some might
well be mistaken for her at close quarters
if seen from behind in a dim light by a suf-
ferer from astigmatism. Men are just as
liable to this trouble as women. I have
known scores of Napoleons, complete from
scowling brow sunk in mighty thoughts to
hand thrust into open vest in the neighbor-
hood of the midriff. 1 once knew a Napoleon
who was over six feet tall and bandylegged—
a plumber by trade. I have also known a
couple of A. J. Balfours, several Lloyd
Georges and about a dozen George V.’s.
Few Sydney golf clubs are without a Prince
of Wales, a Buddy Rogers or a- fat pest who
apes the humor of Mr. Hardy, of Laurel and
Hardy. You find allied delusions in certain
Government institutions.
* * * *
“Gad”: Two miles out of Rockhampton
are botanical gardens, and there one finds
the war memorial. If one were to photo-
graph the war memorials of coastal Queens-
land towns the result would be a series of
almost identical pictures—a squat little
Digger standing with upside-down rifle on
top of a column, with the usual hackneyed
words engraven on it. The Rockhampton
memorial, however, shows a departure from
this standard type. It is an obelisk, with
isolated words —“Unity,” “Sacrifice,” etc.—
arranged around it, giving an impression
that here, at least, someone tried to be
daringly original. Up at Halifax (near
Ingham) I saw Queensland’s most impres-
sive war memorial. It was a tree, and under
its spreading branches was a headstone with
the one word, Anzac. I fancy that some
use will still be found for that tree after
all these other memorials have been moved
to make room for something else. “Rocky, ’
so far as bagmen are concerned, owes its
chief claim to distinction to being the head-
quarters of Sergeant O’Grady. Some little
time ago, when a brand of ration card was
in vogue upon which there was little check
(and rations could be drawn at any station
on any day of the week), there was a con-
ANY EXCUSE FOR A HOLIDAY.
MRS. FENCINGWIRS (driven off the farm by hard times ):
“You back from school already — what’s this for?”
THE ELDEST. “It’s Arbor Day, Mum.”
MRS. FENCINGWIRE : “Wot! A holiday for their
beautiful bloomin’ ’arbor, too!”
siderable amount of “doubling’’ and even
“trebling up.” Some fellows had three or four
tickets, all in different names. But when they
came into “Rocky” they were all O’Briens,
Murphys and O’Connors, because they felt
that the sergeant kept a warm corner of
his heart specially for the sons of Erin.
One day a fellow, bolder than the rest,
thinking to merit some special mark of
favor, presented a card at the station in
the name of O’Grady. “What’s this?” cried
the sergeant. “O’Grady? There’s never been
an O’Grady on the track yet, and I’m
damned sure there’s not now. Go away,
man, and get some other name.” And
he did.
THE APPEAL OLFACTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas Kipling predicated “smells are surer
Than sounds or sights to make your heart-
strings crack,”
A proposition probably securer
Than most poetic fancies from attack.
I’ve noticed it in mignonette and wattle,
Heath from the moor and lilac from the
groves,
And even felt it hang about a bottle
That’s carried gin and cloves.
A truth commanding feminine reliance
It’s been, along the rolling centuries;
For witness, take the latest finds of science
At Lnxor and at Ur of the Chaldees.
The perished perfumes that their frames they
bore on,
Long dead and buried beauties, search
reveals—
Clear proof they set considerable store on
Olfactory appeals.
Be sure, from Babylonian times and Coptic
Down to our own, the pulse of love has
stirred
At something subtler than enchants the
optic
And more persuasive than the ear has
heard ;
That swains inhaled with rapture some-
thing sniffy
With deft and gentle artifice applied
On Nilus banks, as by the Thames and
Liifey,
Or on the Yarra’s side.
But steady, Phyllis, with the scent and
powder,
Your sex’s immemorial aid to charm!
A hint of fragrance is enough : a louder
Hum may repel and prove less help than
harm.
A whiff of patchouli too boldly smacking,
An overplus of overpowering scent,
Occasionally sets my heartstrings cracking—
Though not as Kipling meant.
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


EXPLOSIVES
all kinds stocked.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
iO-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
ST. LAWREMCE ROUTE
DUCHESS STEAMER
tsLgga.<f,
C.P.R. Steamers take
the sheltered St. Law-
rence seaway, and cut
two days off the open
Atlantic crossing.
THE Regal Duchess Ships of the
Canadian-Pacific Atlantic Fleet give
a new conception of ocean travel, and a
fitting finish to a journey of delight from
Australia to England. They have speed, of
course; lots of space for recreation; de-
lightful appointments and comforts, and
the renowned C.P.R. cuisine and personal
aervice. C.P.R. travellers enjoy the
luxury of these vessels on the short
Atlantic seaway to England. Write for
literature tc
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. g^3l 2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Zfhe Wor/c/s Greatest Grovel System
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
One result of the British elections and
the composition of the new Cabinet is that
f.ang Government loses the serAices ot
Sir John Simon to argue its appeal before
the Privy Council in the N.S.W. Upper
House case. Simon, being iioav a Minister,
has returned his brief, and whoever is
retained in his place will .probably come a lot
cheaper. The distinguished K.C., noAV 58,
has had a seat in the Commons for 25 years,
with a single break,_and has long been the
foremost, pleader at the Bar. Still, even
Simon can’t work miracles: in his very last
case he failed to convince the Appeal Judges
that Lord Ivylsant had been wrongly con-
victed.
Jacob Garrard, who died at Hornsby
(N.S.W.) last, week, was a trade-union
M.L.A. 11 years before the Labor party Avas
born. Yet he wasn’t the first of the group:
he Avas the second; Angus Cameron, returned
for West Sydney in 1874, was the first;
Ninian Melville, Avhom Northumberland
elected in 18S0, was the third. Angus was a
carpenter, Jacob an engine-fitter, Ninian an
undertaker. There was no payment of
members in those days; but their unions
save them some assistance, and, as the
House had no day sittings, they were gener-
ally able to hold their jobs. The first
dyed-in-the-wool Labor Electoral League
Parliamentary candidate was Frank Cotton,
still living, and, curiously enough, for years
past a neighbor of Jacob Garrad’s. Cotton
aa as put up at a by-election in East Sydney
a fcAV months before the general election of
1891, which sent the first more or less organ-
ised Labor party into the N. S. Wales
Parliament. He was one of the winners at
NewtoAvn. Few of that first 36 remain; the
only one who is -still a Labor M.P. is
Arthur Rae.
Professor Charteris is the genial soul who
teaches international law to Sydney law
students, the “S. M. Herald,” the League of
Nations Union, “Pleasant Sunday After-
noon” meetings and any others who will
listen. He has been eating and drinking and
dreaming international law ever since he
Professor CHARTERIS.
grew up in Glasgow; he was only 26 when
he began to lecture about it at the Univer-
sity of his grimy old native city, where his
father was a professor in the medical school.
He has been in Sydney for six years.
Edward Tregear, Avho drafted most of
the Labor legislation sponsored by Seddon
arid made a name for himself as an ethnolo-
gist by his studies of the Polynesian races, is
dead, at 85. Born in England, he arrived
in ML. as a youth of 17. The son of a
military officer, he had a bent towards
soldiering, and saw service in the Maori
wars. He joined the civil service later and
became a goldfields surveyor. Ballance, with
whose democratic notions Tregear was
heartily in sympathy, made him Secretary
of the Bureau of Industries; under Seddon
he became Secretary of Labor, an office in
Avhich Tregear’s burning zeal for reform
found extensive scope. His most important
literary work was “The Maori-Polynesian
Comparative Dictionary,” and he also created
some stir in ethnological circles with his book
“The Aryan Maori.”
Australia loses another soldier of proved
Avorth in Brigadier-General Cass, comman-
dant of the Third Military District (Vic.),
Avho died at South Yarra last Aveek. A
native of Albury, Cass served in the Boer
War with the sth Vic. Mounted Rifles. A
few years later he joined the permanent
forces and Avas attached to the General Staff
n India. The Great War saAV him at the
Gfallipoli landing as a brigade'-major in the
Ist Australian Division ; v/ounded at Krithia,
he won his colonelcy st Lone Pine. He
commanded the 54th Battalion in Egypt, and
was wounded again in 1916. After being
invalided home a year later he held appoint-
ments at Adelaide and Hobart, and was in
his second term of his present office when
death came after an operation. He was
only 55.
Adelaide has
an operatic co.
(Inc.) whose
job is to amuse
itself and raise
funds for nine
well-known local
causes hospi-
t a 1 is mostly.
Its latest enter-
prise, “The
Sunshine Girl,”
which ran from
Oct. 31 to Nov.
7 at the Adel-
aide Roy a 1,
owed most to
three men, Roth
Martin, stage
director; Gus
C a av t h o r n e,
house manager;
and Seymour
Pank, musical
director. Bufi-
i, Et i n artists
have already
done their worst,
with Pank and
Cawthorn e,
Maegraith now
adds Martin to
the gallery.
Maurice Black-
burn, M.L.A.,
reminded Vic.
Laborite com-
rades last week
that it was
Charles Gavan
Duffy, dad of
the C.J. of Aus-
tral i a, av h o
ROTH MARTIN.
granted the site for the Melb. Trades Hall
when he was Minister for Lands under John
O’Shanassy in 185 S-59.
F. Sinclaire, who goes from Perth (W.A.)
to Canterbury College, Christchurch (M.L.).
to succeed Arnold Wall as Professor of
English, is one of many fine scholars turned
out by the Auckland Grammar School. The
succession of scholarships he gained there
took him to Auckland University College.
He finished at Oxford, came back to Mel-
bourne as a Unitarian minister, left the
vineyard for a post at Melbourne University,
and a few years ago Avent to Perth as an
assistant to Professor Walter Murdoch. Sin-
claire is one of several Maorilanders with
English training who have been appointed
to M.L. University Chairs in recent years.
One of the several Australians returned
at the British elections is William Pomeroy
Greene, who has sat for Worcester since
1923. Greene was born in N.S.W. 47 years
ago ; his father whs “Baron” Greene, a some-
time M.L.C., who introduced share-farming.
When George Greene built his homestead at
landra, near Young, his idea was a baronial
hall, with a church and little village attached,
and a share-farming tenantry-—hence his title.
The English manor idea didn’t catch on:
but the share-farming principle has extended
very considerably. The present M.P. was a
keen polo-player in his day at Grenfell; he
saAv several years’ Avar service.
The Scot mostly keeps a warm corner in
his heart for his birthplace. Dr. Gordon
MacDonald, who died recently at Dunedin
(M.L.), left £5OOO to Glasgow University,
half of which is to be devoted to the educa-
tion of Gaelic-speaking students.
L. S. Bagster, appointed Professor of
Chemistry at Queensland University, is a
South Australian who graduated at Adelaide
Uni. in 1909. Later he was a Government
research scholar in Melbourne, and when his
chief, Dr. Steel, transferred to Queensland
Uni. as Professor of Chemistry his pupil fol-
lowed him as lecturer and demonstrator. Dr.
Steel retired at the end of last year, and
there was never any doubt about who would
be his successor.
Harry C. Davies, avlio recently returned
to his desk at the'“West Australian” office
from a round-the-world trip, has been in
close touch with Westralian mining since the
early days of Coolgardie and in the thick of
its journalism for nearly as long. He is one
of the very few links left between the hectic
Vosper-“Smiler” Hales era and the decorous
present. For a dozen years he Avas the
“West’s” Kalgoorlie representative and
Golden Mile recorder ; for 20 years he has
been the paper’s financial editor. The only
people who have ever cherished a fleeting
grievance against him are mining speculators.
One excited person affixed a rope to Harry’s
office and made a melodramatic attempt, to
drag it from its moorings in the roaring
days; 20 years later, during the deplorable
Hampton Plains boom, there was some talk
of effigy-burning by the exuberant souls who
objected to the truth being told. But Davies
has always gone his oAvn w|iy unperturbed.
His very first experiences of mining were
gained as a youth on the N.S.W. opal-
fields.
“S.T.S.” : Paddy Glynn was probably the
last man in Australia to quote Greek —•
copiously and in private, and especially AVlien
swimming—for the sheer love of the sonorous
syllables. When he grew olu, his talk always
came round to Goethe and Shakspeare,
wherever it might have started.
The death at 93 of Mrs. Martin Kerr, one
of the pioneers of the Girilambone district,
brings to mind an atrocious crime of 31
years ago. One of the old lady’s daughters
was the schoolteacher at Breelong. She
Avas at the home of the Mawby family on
the night in July, 1900, when Jimmy and
Joe Governor and Underwood descended on
it; the blacks battered to death the school-
mistress, Mrs. Mawby and her sister and a
couple of the Mawby children. There are
many alive in N.S.W. to-day Avho helped to
hunt doAvn the murderers.
Harry Musgrove, passed out in Sydney
at 70, was one of five brothers all avoll
known in the theatrical Avorld and connected
Avith the Williamson and Musgrove firm,
of which he was at one time business
manager. As a side-line, H'arry Avas a
cricketer of some note in his day, he played
for Victoria in several inter-colonial games
and figured in one Test (1885) against a
visiting English side. In 1896 lie went to
England wth Trott’s Australian team as
manager, and a year later accompanied an
Australian baseball team to America in the
same capacity.
Maoriland’s Rhodes scholars this year are
G. S. Cox, a native of Palmerston North,
educated in Dunedin and Southland and at
Sydney C. of E. Grammar School: and
J. M. Bertram, the son of a Presbyterian
parson in Auckland, Avho previously iabcrcd
in the vineyard at Praliran (Melbourne) and
at St. Peter’s, North Sydney. Bertram,
in 1925, while at Waitaki H.S., won the boys’
section of the British Empire essay com-
petition, promoted by the Society of Women
Journalists in London and open to all the
schools of the Empire.
Arthur Dudley Dobson, of Christchurch,
is a Londoner by birth but a MaOrilander
of 80 years’ standing. His father was
Edward Dobson, a civil engineer, brought
from England by the Canterbury Associa-
tion to shape the new settlement. Arthur
followed in his da'd’s footsteps, and helped
to design the Lyttelton tunnel. In the course
of his duties as a surveyor he discovered
Arthur’s Pass (named after him), the easiest
route over the Southern Alps between Can-
terbury and Westland, and the site of the
present-day railway tunnel. He was chief
surveyor of the Public Works Department in
the ’seventies, and later conducted a private
practice that took him to various parts of
A. D. DOBSON, Knight.
Australasia. He constructed the breakwater
at Warrnambool. For many years Dobson was
municipal engineer of Christchurch, Avliich
he has seen grow from a few huts huddled
on a swamp to a thriving modern city; he
is a link with a past of which the province
is proud, as it shoAved recently when he had
his 90th birthday.
F. W. Clements, who steps into John
Monash’s place as chairman of Victoria’s
vast State electricity undertakings, hails
from Essex, but got the equipment of a first-
rate electrical engineer in more than one
country. He was educated in England and
Germany and supervised electrical projects
in Austria, Russia, Italy and the Balkan
States. He came to Melbourne 31 years ago
F. W. CLEMENTS.
to serve the Melbourne Electric Supply Co.
When that concern was absorbed in the State
enterprise Clements went with it and was
Monash’s chief of staff until the General
died.
John Robert Cooke, who died at Tumut
(N.S.W.) at 80, was the son of a Waterloo
veteran. Cooke the elder arrived in Aus-
tralia 95 years ago to take up land; he
brought, among other things, a letter from
the Duke of Wellington to the N.S.W.
Government of that day. The son spent his
earlier years in the Bank of N.S.W., rising
to be manager at Adelong.
Thring felt that he had no need to import
a cameraman for his movie studios while
Arthur Higgins was available. The keen-
eyed little man with the profile like the
famous bust of Julius Caesar has turned
the handle on numerous successful Austra-
lian motion pictures. His first was ‘'Odds
On,” which was shown in England. Il'e was
also the man behind the gun in “Fellers”
(which landed first prize in the Federal Gov-
ernment’s film competition), “The Senti-
mental Bloke,” “Fisher’s Ghost,” “The
Bushwhackers,” “The Blue Mountain
Mystery,” “The Adorable Outcast,” “The
Fatal Wedding” and many others.
“Feng-Shui”: The reappearance of Eugene
Chen is the most important bit of news from
China at the moment. Chen is a British
subject, born in Trinidad. He practised law
in London, joined the moderate revolutionary
Government in Peking in 1912, edited a
hotly Liberal newspaper there, went over
to the Southern rebels in 1918, attended the
Paris Peace Conference, decided that
China’s hopes lay outside the European sys-
tem, where she Avas a pawn between Ameri-
can and Japanese- imperialism, and emerged
as Foreign Minister at Hankow in 1927
when the Cantonese were using Bolshevik
assistance to conquer the North. He cannot
speak Chinese, but uses English better than
many of the British diplomats who tried
their Avits against his. He poured out state-
ment after statement, any one of which
might have come from Moscow. When
Chiang-lcai-shek ousted Borodin and his
fellow-Gommunists Chen disappeared with
them, being lucky to save his head. His
resurrection marks a definite slide of the
Kuomingtang towards Communism again,
brought on by Japan’s action in Manchuria.
Neville Chamberlain, who has returned to
the job of Chancellor of the Exchequer,
which he held in 1924-25, is six years
younger than brother Austen, and may yet
reach the Prime Ministership which his
father and his elder brother both narrowly
missed. Joseph, the Radical leader of the
’eighties, was already marked doAvn as Glad-
stone’s successor Avhen he split with his
chief over the Irish Home Rule question,
and though he held high office afterwards on
the Conservative side he Avas never again
in the running for the highest of all. Austen
Avas within an ace of being selected for the
Conservative leadership when Balfour re-
tired some 20 years ago; Bonar Law Avas
preferred to him, and his chance never came
again. But, Neville, at 62, is, still regarded
as one of the keenest brains in the party and
the House of Commons. There can hardly
be another instance in British politics of a
father and tAvo sons who have all been within
grasp of the blue riband at one time or
another.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.B.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts oi
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars or
Safe Rentals on application.
Here’s the Belt for
Difficult Drives
Chromol Leather Belting will soon
tame that troublesome drive in
your plant. It has no equal for
long and dependable service under
constant shock loads; it is
weatherproof, steamproof and does
not slip. Let us show you how
to get more efficient transmission
for every type of drive with
CHROMOL
THE SUPER DRIVING BELT.
Manufactured and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Sept., ’2l. .206,201 9.37p.c.=121,875 34,326 669,636
Mur., ’22. .245,990 124 „ 162,500 83,490 753,126
Sept., ’22. .247,195 124 „,, 162,500 84,695 837,521
Mar., ’23. .251,195 124 „ ~ 162,500 88,895 926.716
Mar., ’24+ .673,639 10 ~ „ 446,875 220,764 1,153,480
Sept., ’24. .324,978 10 ~,,243,750 51,228 1,234,708
Mar., ’25. .435,676 124 „ 304,688 130,987 1,365,695 '
Sept., ’25. .404,628 124 „ ~ 304,688 99,940 1,465,635
Mar., ’26. .396,104 124 ~ ~ 304,657 91,417 1,557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 124 ~ ~ 304,688 103,756 1,660,809
Mar., ’27. .424,353 124 „ „ 304,687 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 805,475
Sept, ’27. .476,516 124 p.c.=:365,625 110,891 916,366
Mar., ’2B. .490,112 12J „ „ 365,62,5 124,487 1,040,853
Sept.,’2B. .469,157 124 ~ „ 365,625 103,532 1,144,385
Mar., ’29. .507,149 124 „ „ 365,625 141,524 1,285,909
Sept., ’29. .465,492 124 „ ~ 365,625 99,867 1,385,776
Mat, ’3O. .445,337 124 „ „ 365,625 79,712 1,465,488
Sept., ’3O. .350,727 124 „„ 365,625 1,450,590
Mat, ’3l. .384,097 124 „ „ 365,625 18,472 1,469,062
Sept.,’3l. .373,812 124 ~ ~ 365,625 8,187 1,477,249
•Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
fPeriod covered 12 months. Fiji and Maoriland cos.
in process of liquidation. No Sept, balance-sheet
issued.
There were gains due to reductions in wages
and the fall in prices; but net savings in
these respects are to be passed on to the
Queensland Sugar Board. It is tlie co.’s
agreement with the Queensland Government,
under which it receives £1 18s. 7d. a ton for
refining (£1), financing (6s. 7d.) and selling
(75.) a lion's share of the Australian crop,
that puts the stiffening into earnings. The
net return from this allowance accounted
for about txvo-thirds of tlie co.’s Australian
profits (£581,120) for 12 months to the
close of accounts in 1929. The source of
earnings has not been since disclosed in
tlie sheet. Fluctuations are due mainly to
variations in seasonal and world market con-
ditions, which affect the. eo.’s extensive Fiji
growing and milling interests and its milling
activities in Australia.
Sugar is now £G ss. a ton in London,
which is below even the 1901 figure; the
Fiji crop has not yet fully recovered from
last summer’s hurricane, and there lias been
a falling-off in Australian consumption.
About 50 p.c. of tlie current season’s output
in Australia will have to be exported as
against about 40 p.e. of recent years; and
that means a lower average price to the miller
and grower. Nevertheless the co. was able to
repeat the usual 124 p.c. div., and openly
send £SIB7 to reserves; and that was after
£55.224 net had been dropped into the depre-
ciation fund, raising it to £2,450.805 at Sept.
80. There was another £2.907.268 in sus-
pense accounts, which are largely provisions
for contingencies.
The next table slioaa’S hoiv the co. employs
its funds
Refineries —Australia and Maoriland ..£2,990,951
Sugar mills and plant, etc.—
Commonwealth .. .. .. 2,388,233
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve) .. 1,287,648
Ocean steamers .. .. .. .. 100,000
Distillery .. .. .. .. .. 120.423
Office premises .. .. .. .. 56,011
Stocks and some book debts .. .. 2,758,023
Other book debts, investments, etc. .. 1,671,994
Cash, deposits, etc. .. .. .. 2,650,970
£14,024,253
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors ..£770,680
Suspense accounts .. 2,967,263
Interim div., 1931 ' 365,625
4,103,568
Net assets .. £9,920,685
There were no movements of importance in
the figures during the last six months. For
many years additions to fixed assets have
been paid for out of earnings, and then
written down severely from the same, source.
The more or less liquid surplus (£8.348,044)
improved £227,821 during the six months
covered by the last accounts ; that is treat-
ing the suspense accounts Avholly as
liabilities. Since March, 1927, the net
improvement amounts to £1,453,967, not-
withstanding the erection of a pew refinery
at Perth meanwhile.
Though the co. enjoys a highly protected
market and an assured return on a large part
of its output, its charges for refining, etc.,
amount to only slightly more than £d. per
pound. However, the price of sugar locally
comes up for revieiv again in 1933, and
maintenance of the present selling price can-
not be depended upon. Meanwhile. however,
the world price of the commodity is expected
to improve following an agreement amongst
the principal producers to ration exports.
Also, British and Canadian preferences
remain ; together with the exchange premium
they provide a nice bonus on our export
surplus.
On the market the eo.’s £2O shares ad-
vanced from £3S 17s. 6d. early in October to
£4O 10s. at the close of the month, and
then rose sharply to £4l 10s. following pub-
lication of the accounts. At £4l 10s. the
return is 6 p.c. on a 121 p.c. div. basis.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept,, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ ■ £ £
1921.. 9,528 6 p.c.= 6,600 2928 5,858
1922.. 14,104 9 ~ „ 9,900 4204 10,062
1923.. 12,512 74,, ~ 8,250 4262 14,324
1924.. 14,025 71 „ „ 8,250 5775 20,099
1925.. 14,558 8 „ „ 8,800 5758 25,857
1926.. 15,572 9 ~ ~ 9,900 5672 31,529
1927.. 16,333 9 „ „ 9,900 6433 37,962
1928.. 13,686 9 „ ~ 9,900 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 „ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ „ 11,000 4441 50,730
1931.. 11,675 7 ~ ~ 7,700 3975 54,705
Difficulties associated with the administra-
tion of assets, including complications aris-
ing from taxation and other legislation, are
driving more business into the care of the
trustee cos. On the other hand, their corpus
and other earnings have been affected by
the shrinkage in values,, etc.; also, the N. S.
Wales Moratorium Act and the lifeless state
of the property market have delayed, tne
winding up of many estates.
In its last year this co. added £801,435
net to the book value of trusts in hand, but
that was less than half the previous year’s
addition :
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. v Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920 . 6,349,568 24,948 15,089 62.9 „
1924.. 8,955,624 39,584 24,921 63.0 „
1925 . . 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1926.. 10,850,424 47,654 31,462 66.0 ~
1927 . 11,712,983 51,168 34,235 66.9 „
1928.. 12,873,589 25,374 38,088 72.5 „
1929.. 14,364,553 59,104 42,963 72.7 ~
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931.. 16,777,007 61,944 49,009 80.2 „
Thus the extra cost of handling the addi-
tional business was £3Bll. exes, making oft
with 80.2 p.e. of the gross earnings, which
improved only £45. So there was a slip of
£37o® in the net result, which was 10.6 p.c.
on capital as against 14. 14.1, 12.4. 14.->
and 14.1 p.c. back to 1020. The div. was
kept steady at 6 p.c.. but three points were
knocked off the bonus, reducing it to 1 p.c.,
making 7 p.c. in all.
Of course, the reduction in interest and
rents and growth in taxation will affect net
returns from the co.’s own funds (capital
and reserves combined), which are invested
in this way:— ... „„
1920. .1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £109,945 £llO,OOO £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Liabilities .. 933 7,400 7,584 7,600
Treasury deposit 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages, etc. 26,804 84,316 86,762 84,709
Premises .. 66,271 60,921 60,321 59,721-
Sundry debtors 858 67 53 183
Cash .. .. 3,996 6,686 9,478 12,692
Government securities and mortgages are
lumped in one entry in. the sheet; together
with the Treasury deposit they accounted for
03 p.e. of shareholders’ funds at Sept. 30.
Still, the £164,705 belonging to shareholders
at that date need turn in only a Avink over
4 p.c. to pay a 0 p.c. div. '; and an average
gross return of only 6s. per cent, on trust
funds would more than cover the whole of
last year’s exes. So the 7 p.c. distribution
may not be interfered Avitli; apart from the
chance the co. takes when iimisting its own
funds, it does not have to risk much. As
the business continues to expand and funds
accumulate, better returns can be expected.
On the market the £5 shares paid to Us.
are priced at 355. The return at that figure
is 5.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis; variations
of 3 p.c. in the div. would affect the return
by .7 p.c. The backing amounts to 16s.
sd. per share in net tangibles.
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends >,
r —Prefs. —
Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
July, £ £ £ £
f 185,799 14,000 8,496 71 p.c.=45,678 393,647
1921 i Provision for depreciation of stock,
£300.000 93,647
1922.. 35,457 14,000 20,204 5 p.e.=30,452 64,448
Inner reserves disclosed, £30,452.. 94,900
1923. .141,458 14,000 20,000 10 p.c.=60,903 141,455
1924.. 99,676 14,000 20,000 10 „ „ 60,903 146,228
1925.. 76,730 14,000 20,000 7 „ „ 36,542 152,416
Inner reserves disclosed. £15,226 .. 167,642
1926. . 41,780 14,000 20,000 5 p.c. =30,452 144,970
1927 . 66,453 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,971
1928.. 64,240 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,759
1929.. 44,673 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 126,980
June,
1930*. 30,577 13,272 18,972 Nil 125,313
Loss.
1931.. 88,845 14,000 15,000 Nil 7,468
*ll months, 12 days.
With the groAvth of the Australian textile
industry and the development of the
specialty bouse, chain store and other retail-
ing methods, the softgoods Avholesaler lias
seen much of his business slip aw.ay, To
make up his volume of trade lie has had to
gather a multiplicity of small orders, thus
increasing overhead as avcll as credit risks.
Also, recent casualties in the rag trade
flooded the market with stocks at cut prices.
Last year’s developments made the break
with the past more complete. There was an
abrupt contraction of turnover, exchange
made London credits expensive, tariff adjust-
ments added to landed costs, price reces-
sions gobbled up profit margins and bad
debts exceeded expectations. Thus a trading-
loss of £88,845 showed up in Robert Reid’s
accounts, a swing of £119,422 compared with
the previous year. To pay the first pref.
div. and £15,000 on the seconds —there is
another £5OOO to come—reserves were tapped
for a further £29,000, reducing them to
£7468 at June 30. In addition there is a
pensions reserve (£58,443) and depreciation
fund (£44,685).
Paid capital is £1,059,035, including
200,000 7 p.c. first and 250.000 8 p.c. second
prefs.; and there is £150,000 of 6 p.c. first-
mortgage debenture stock. The pref. and
mortgage money was got in when head-
quarters were transferred from London to
Melbourne 12 years ago. But the co. is no
longer able to employ all these funds with
satisfactory results, and there is little pros-
pect of it being able to do so in the future.
So stocks have been worked down (a pre-
carious procedure on a slilggish and falling
market), and deposits and overdrafts re-
duced ; the debentures are to be repaid at
the end of next month. After that proposals
for the reorganisation of the capital account
are to be submitted to shareholders.
The position as balance L sheet figures dis-
close it is as follows:—
1927. 1930. 1931.
Ord. capital .. .. £609,035 £609,035 £609,035
Pref. capital . . . . 450,000 450,000 450,000
Debentures and interest 150,469 150,000 150,000
Mortgages . . . . 83,652 77,286 77,287
"Deposits and overdraft 410,189 156,973 107,292
Creditors . . .. 320,787 138,928 145,484
Properties .. .. 235,233 232,761 232,802
Plant, etc 78,654 74,097 70,697
Stocks 1,212,452 787,447 499,507
Book debts . . .. 666,221 615,474 562,162
Investments, cash, etc... 93,424 102,445 284,525
The year’s reduction of £287,940 in the
stocks item and of £53,312 in debtors’ bal-
ances enabled £49,681 of deposits, etc., to be
repaid, £163.256 to be added to the cash
holding (£196,238) and £18,824 to invest-
ments (£88,287), which include £46,962 of
the co/s debentures at cost. The net reduc-
tion in the outside debt was £43j124; but
the more or less liquid surplus was £116,048
lighter at £866,131. Allowing for repayment
of the balance of the debentures, there were
more or less liquids with -a book value of
about £1,202,000 to cover floating debts of
£252,776 and mortgages of £77,287, both of
which call for reduction. Much depends on
the soundness of debtors’ balances and the
valuation of stocks.
The co.’s future will largely depend upon
the extent to which it is able to work in
with Australian industries. On the market
the first prefs. fetch 14s. ; there has been
no business in the seconds for months. Ex-
cluding the depreciation, -etc., reserves, the
firsts were covered by net tangibles with a
book value of £5 6s. 9d.; ditto seconds,
£3 9s. 4d. The ords. are held privately.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd.
i — Divide* (Is
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. 1 Ord. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. 74 p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
Aug-., £ £ £ £ £ £
1921.. 58,820 9,000 11,431 '20,000 15,071 141,600
1922.. 50.060 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,131 144,404
1923.. 55,879 9,000 13.125 20,000 5,485 152,673
1924 .. 69,976 10,723 13,125 " 22,861 4,982 170,958
1925. . 70,496 12,000 13,125 ’25,000 4,980 186,349
1926. . 67,826 12,000 13,125 25.-000 5,126 198,924
1927. . 77,998 15,647 13,125 32,195 5,668 210,287
1928. .. 78,002 17,507 1.3,125 34,532 5,732 217,393
1929.. 76,468 18,000 18,507 .-'38,312 8,135 210,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3” p.c.
1930. . 37,427 .18,000 21,508 -12,223 10,278 194,349
Loss.
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil . Nil 10,311. 137,968
The loss is due mainly to a crop of bad
debts, which come to all traders during hard
times, and to the fall in stock values. Few
have been hit harder than that section of
the furniture and furnishing-drapery trade
whose turnover lias been built up on a
t.-p. basis. A recent amendment to the
N. S. Wales Moratorium Act has extended
for two years payment of practically every
secured account, thus making the recovery
of old debts and the granting of fresh
credits a perplexing problem. Also, tile co.
lias gone. substantially into debt to finance
the erection of new premises which are in
excess of trade requirements at the moment;
the old building, which remains on the
board’s hands, is a drag on earnings.
After taking stocks and debtors’ balances
into the sheet at £39,254 and £44,730 respec-
tively below the 1930 figures, there was a
gross trading loss of £5102, a swing of
£116,821 over the last two years. Divs., etc.
(£9398) were £9391 lighter; management
charges, etc. (£50,366), were got back only
£834; so, after allowing £10,311 for deprecia-
tion, the year’s net loss was £56,381. That
reduced book reserves to £137,968 at Aug. 1.
For tlie 13 years to the close of accounts in
1929 it had been a steady 10 per cent, pro-
position, with a bit extra in 1920.
Ihe future is obscure. The inevitable cur-
tailment of credit will restrict turnover,
while the pressure of the debt and of rates
and taxes will continue to make themselves
felt. Also the subsidiaries have become a
sick lot, and may take a while to recover —
the co. owns all the £lOO,OOO of ord. capital
in Bon Marche and most of the 320,000 £1
ords. in Marcus Clark (Vic.), Ltd., which
controls Craig Williamson (Melbourne) and
Miller Anderson (Adelaide). When things
settle down it is reasonable to expect that
credit buying will revive, but not to the
extent practised of recent years. Mean-
while, much will depend upon the co.’s ex-
perience in connection with bad debts;
recent developments should tend to ease the
pressure in this connection.
Last year the co. borrowed from Peter to
pay Paul. This, the brisk growth of the
business in past years and how it has been
financed are seen in the next table:—
1920. 1924. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 437,500 625,000 1,035,077 1,035,369
Mortgages . . 70,1)00 51,500 287,500 463,938*
Other debts.. 213,710 210,553 304,195 110,714
Stock.. .. 228,475 228,385 246,584 207,330
Book debts.. 304,735 445,621 565,325 520,595
Freeholds .. 123,189 170,069 560,889 560,989
Leaseholds .. 68,738 57,377 59,970 57,768
Plant, etc. . . 22,860 19,948 91,418 85,336
Shares in other
cos 120,493 149,310 310,519 310,519
Cash, etc. .. 19,533 11,994 6,447 5,452
*lncludes overdraft secured by mortgage.
Thus the year’s net reduction in the outside
debt was £17,043. But the more or less
liquid surplus (£158,725, including stocks
but not shares) slipped £67,936. Incident-
ally, there is a contingent liability of £45,000
uncalled capital on shares in other cos.,
which appear at par, though their market
value is considerably less.
The Sydney co. has issued 300,000 first
and 297,848 second prefs. and 439,580 ords.
The prefs. rank in the order stated, have
priority as to capital, and carry a fixed
cumulative 6 p.c. and p.c. respectively.
On ’Change there has been no business in
the prefs. for several months. The ords.
are priced at 3s. 9d. On paper the net
asset backing is £3 18s. 3d. firsts, £2 18s.
lid. seconds and 265. 3d. ords.
United Provisions, Ltd.
• To Re- Re-
Profits. , Dividends s serves, serves.
£ Pref. Old. £ £ £
1928. .123,466 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 100,854 22,612 628
1929. .112,094 8 „ 8 „ „ 112,000 94 722
1930. .102,964 8 „ 7 „. ~ 102,500 464 1186
1931. .'36,205 8 ~ Nil = 36,000 205 1391
In 1927 .T. C. Hutton and Foggit Jones,
the well-known ham, bacon and food-can-
ning people, decided to end the old compe-
tition and go on the market together. To
bring the businesses under one control the
present holding co. was formed. It bought
the £716,700 of scrip in the two operating
concerns on a “net tangibles” basis for
£1,355,008. The difference (£638,308) in-
cluded £463,000 of inner reserves, disclosed
by a revaluation of the assets. But the
assets were not written up in the. books of
the operating cos., whose combined net
profits for the three years before the merger
averaged £131,043 p.a.
The aggregate trading figures of the pair
have since moved in this way:—
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Gross profit. . . £465,342 £447,158 £434,424 £254,173
Exes... .. 326,957 328,295 321,770 229,364
Net profit . . £138,385 £118,863 £112.654 £24,809
Divs 127,335 112,600 103,500 42,379
The creditable performance in 1928 gave
rise to hopes of better than an 8 p.c. div.:
but trading became increasingly, difficult and
margins narrowed. Last year, of course,
there was an abrupt contraction in turn-
over, and the debts question became more
perplexing. So the board decided to shorten
sail—stocks, debtors’ balances and the
outside debt were all substantially reduced,
though prices had to be cut to do it. Gross
profits slipped £180,251; exes, were got
back £92,406. leaving the net result £87,845
lighter at 3.4 p.c. on the combined capitals
(£716,700) compared with 15.7, 16.5 and
19.2 p.c. in the three preceding terms. So
to pass on £42,879 in divs., reserves were
•tapped for £18.070, reducing them to
£174,581 at June 30. There was a further
£40,834. earmarked for taxation and con-
tingencies, and £116,623 for depreciation.
The holding co., after paying its own
exes. (£308) and providing for taxation
(£6366), was left only £205 more than its
own pref. requirements.
The year’s difficulties again show in the
next comparison, which deals with the
operating cos’, balance-sheet figures:—
Operating Cos.’ Combined Figures.
1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £716,700 £716,700 £716,700
Overdraft .. .. 98,239' 153,08 4 8,506
Creditors . . .. 171,705 172,854 134.691
Premises, plant, etc. . . 514,996 593,342 601,368
Stock 344,954 362,550 233,786
Debtors . . . . . . 366,310 388.869 288,805
Shares in other cos. . . 94,506 90,179 89,629
Cash, etc 4,936 6,162 4,808
The reduction of £128,764 in stocks and of
(Continued on page 16.)


mm
m
mm
■tall
sii mmßhfi
illll
Jill
■Uli
■
.
'
!!■
■
"•■ g pppi ■ | hi
n
n
.
»§«
.
■
-
n
■Hv \
■ M
■■'■■■■:■■. ■ • ■ ■ ... : ■■ ■: ■ ■ ■'•'."•■
mu
n||
■
Jllllilli
mn
*
■
■ 1 ::
■ .
H
■
s&smmm
H
■
M
HHH
jpEM?
; .t*
n
1
> : i ; .
9
B
'■ '■.
ill
:
HH
H
f
■
HH
■.
:
BB
1
■
■
m
am
m
■
■
BH
<%he
■
Because Johnny Walker is bottled
IN BOND under Common-
wealth Customs’supervision, you
KNOW you are getting the same
fine, old Whisky which has made
Johnny Walker the most popular
Whisky in the world.
Si
D
T
A
O
N
O
H
N
W
K
dc
O
N
M
A
K
D
N
Y
D
O
A
N
Y
M
O
U
N
O
N
D
N


The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
FOR NOVEMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, llassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advi.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Of the many types of conduit available for water
supply, none possess such outstanding advantages as
Pioneer Wood Pipe. Light, strong and extremely
durable, Pioneer Wood Pipe is easily handled and
laid, is definitely noncorrosive and ' unaffected bv
heat, frost or electrolysis. In addition, Pioneer Woo'd
Pipe is considerably lower in initial cost and incurs
practically no upkeep charges. Many important
installations of Pioneer Wood Pipe bear out the
claims made for this conduit —its efficiency, relia-
bility and durability. Full particulars will gladly
be forwarded to those interested. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtrec
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray,
Victoria.— Advt,
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores*
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Itefined Gold, 'Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, send* your gold by post (insured) to any of our offices.
The Company will realise it on your account at current London prices plus
exchange.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire. v.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Pynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Detonators
Cartridges
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 45 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
£100,064 in debtors* balances enabled the
overdraft to be reduced by £144,578, almost
wiping it out, and the amount coming to
sundry creditors to be lightened by £38,163.
The more or less liquid surplus (£384,202,
including stocks but not shares) was
£47,441 less than at the previous balance.
The United Co. has £1,400,000 of capital
to feed, including 450,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
At 18s. lid. the prefs. return- 5.4 p.c. They
are visibly covered by £1 19s. 7d. in net
tangibles ; ditto ords. 9s. 3d. The ords. fetch
10s. 6d.; at that figure the return would
be 6.7 p.c. on a 34 p.c. div. basis. To enable
the holding co. to pay its own pref. div. plus
34 p.c. on the ords., the operating cos. need
to pass on £69,250, equal to 9.7 p.c. on their
combined capitals, or not much more than
half the amount netted in 1928.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 42,626 Nil 1
Written off, £16,898 $ 25,(28 ilb,3<l
1921.. 21,430 Nil I
Written off. £13,300 $ 8,130 (24,501
1922.. 53,504 Nil 53.504 778,006
1923.. 304,980 30 p.c. = 180,000 124,980 902,985
1924.. 736,066 40 „ „ 340,000 396.006 |.299.051
1925.. 939,262 75 „ „ 525,000 414,262 1,713,313
1920.. 782.106 95 „„ 665,000 ). nn R 1
Written off £16,493 $ 100 - 613 1,813,626
1927.. 529,038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928.. 369,882 40 „ „ 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
1929.. 528,646 424,, „ 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930.. 275,663 50 „ ~ 350,000 2,064,655
1931.. 103,571 8| „ „ 61,250 42,321 2,106,976
For the 12 months to June 30 the exchange
premium made £lOO in London, where most
of the metal is sold, worth on the average
£ll7 11s. 7d. in Australian notes; also,
there were substantial reductions in costs,
metal recoveries were higher and the grade
of concentrates improved. Yet the North, now
the principal mine of the big Barrier group,
was . unprofitable. That was because prices
collapsed and the market was unable to ab-
sorb the whole of a reduced output. The
co. hauled 157,332 tons less crudes from
the stopes, due to suspension of operations
at the British, where milling of the lower-
grade fine-grained ore ceased when lead
dropped below £23 per ton. Hence the pro-
duction of concentrates fell away sharply:—
Ore f— Concentrates ,
Treated , Lead—— N , Zinc
Tons. Tons. Assay. Tons. Assay.
1930.. 452,295 94,330 64.0 p.c. 75,916 49.3 p.c.
1931.. 293,069 59,990 72.5 „ 13,730 51.6 „
London average spot prices for lead (£ll
16s. Id.), spelter (£l3 13s. 3d) and silver
(15.8 d.) were £6 3s. 5d., £7 2s, 3d. and 7.1 d.
respectively below the previous year’s figures.
Zinc became a drug in the market, and for
nine months of the year only lead and
silver were extracted from the sulphides ; not
until freights were reduced and sales secured
by contract did the co. consider it worth
going to the small expense (2s. 11.9 d. per
ton) of recovering the zinc content.
Thus mining operations resulted in a loss
of £43,843 as against a profit of £128,343
in the previous term. Exes. (£528,805) were
£441,030 lighter, but sales plus products on
hand (£484,062) slipped £613,216. Still, the
co.'s £1,000,730 of investments, mainly in
associated enterprises, brought in £158,772,
or an extra £11.720. So, after taking into
the reckoning an unexplained reduction of
£11,358 net in reserves, £103,571 of profit
remained. Two small divs. (together Is. Od.
per share) were paid, and the £42,321 that
remained lifted the lay-by to £2,106,976 at
June 30.
The improvement in the net asset position,
apart from the mine and plant, was £27!,110:
1928. 1930. 1931.
Assets othei- than
mine and plant £1.702,970 £1,817,864 £1,774,579
Liabilities . . 132,687 167,184 101,789
Net liquid assets £1,570,283 £1,650,680 £1,672,790
In addition the book value of the mine and
plant (£1,134,180) increased by £20.206,
mainly on account of the new shaft, which
is expected to take another two years to com-
plete. It is being put down to cheapen extrac-
tion of ore from the big body, proved but not
yet opened up, between 1700 ft. and 2150 ft.
at the northern end of the lode. The present
estimate of ore reserves in the North mine
(3.200,000 tons) excludes anything below
1700 ft. There is another million tons at
least in the British, Junction and Junction
North sections awaiting treatment when
metal prices make stone averaging 11.8 pc.
lead, 6.70 z. silver and 8.6 p.c. zilic profitable
to the co.
Savings in costs and better recoveries
followed the closing of the British and intro-
duction of the “all-flotation” process:—
1929. 1930. 1931.
Crudes, raised, tons.. 422,423 450,157 292,825
Mining . . . . 245. 8.4 d. 245. 8.2 d. 18s. 9.9 d.
Development. . .. 2s. 2.0 d. 2s. 2.7 d. 2s. 0.3 d.
Milling .. . . 10s. B.Bd. 10s. 9.3 d. 10s. l.Od.
Total . . . . 375. 7.2 d. 375. 8.2 d. 30s. 11.2 d.
Last year’s crudes assayed 15.6 p.c. lead,
lOoz. silver and 12.4 p.c. zinc. When com-
pleted, the new mill will have a capacity
of 10,000 tons of ore per day.
At last week-end London spot quotes
were lead £l3 17s. 6d., spelter £l3 7s. 6d.
and silver (fine) Is. 7d.; the equivalents in
Australian currency were £l7 195., £l7 6s.
and 2s. 3d. respectively. At these prices
oi’e from the North mine can be treated at
a profit, so a 2s. div. is to go out on Dec.
14—last year’s return from investments alone
was over 22 p.c. on the £700,000 of capital.
Much will depend upon what happens in
connection with the exchanges.
On the market the pound shares fetched
£6 6s. two years ago. Twelve months later
they were priced at 275.; the figure had
risen to 455. early in September, and to
675. 3d. at last week-end. The investor at
675. 3d. who looks for liis money back
plus an average of 8 p.c. p.a. over 20 years
counts on divs. averaging 43 p.c.
Mount Isa’s production of silver-lead bul-
lion during October topped 3000 tons, a
decided improvement upon the figures for
September. Messrs. McElvenny and Mee,
the two American Smelting and Refining Co.
specialists, are gradually tuning up the
smelting section, but appearances suggest
that some extensions at the smelter end will
be necessary to bring the production to 5000
tons a month. The mine and the mill can
readily do their part in such an output, but
the furnaces cannot get the stuff through
at the required pace. The recent rise in the
price of both lead and silver has put fresh
heart into the shareholders, and, as time
goes on, increased production can be looked
for.
❖ * & ❖
After investigating properties in Alaska
and Columbia, Placer Development, a pros-
pecting concern established by Sydney in-
terests and registered as a dollar co. in
Vancouver in 1926, turned its attention to
New Guinea and Maoriland. Then Bulolo
Gold Dredging was thrown off to take over
and Work part of the New Guinea property,
estimated to contain over 40,000,000 p.y.
of 2s. Id. dirt. The consideration to the
parent was 605,000 dollars cash and 224,000
fully-paid five-dollar shares. Of the latter
70,000 go to Guinea Gold, who was vendor
to Placer. At Oct. 1 Placer held 151,745
of Bulolo’s 700,000 issued shares; so, if the
subsidiary’s prospectus estimate of net
profits aggregating 13,644,000 dollars is
realised, the parent’s proportion would be
2,998,061 dollars. That would be suffi-
cient to cover a return of Placer’s capital
and provide divs. averaging 5 p.c. p.a. for
13 years (the estimated life of Bulolo’s
area) at the current price of 935. (=22.62
dollars at par) for Placer’s five-dollar
shares. Placer’s other New Guinea interests
include the Bulowat area, estimated to con-
tain 40,000,000 c.y. of 30-cent. dirt, and the
Burnside area and Arnold’s leases, two com-
paratively small blocks adjoining Bulolo. The
co. also holds an option in Maoriland from
Clutha Development, and is interested in a
small dredging proposition at Lewiston,
California.
* * * .j.
When Tauri and Tiveri goldfields in
Papua were located there were glowing
accounts of their richness, but these were
not borne out by subsequent prospecting.
Recently B. Dunstan, one time Chief Gov-
ernment Geologist of Queensland, visited the
country, which lies west of the old Lakekamu
field, and found gold everywhere, but nothing
extensive: no big reef bodies, but plenty
of small leaders shedding gold into the creeks.
So far as he could judge the country and
the gold formations are very similar to those
at Edie Creek, on the other side of the
island. Some of the lower flats on the Tiveri
seem likely dredging propositions. There
must be an aerial service before the field can
be worked on an extensive scale.
* =:= * *
Discovery of a large gold-bearing reef is
reported on the Ravenswood field, s.-e. ( of
Charters Towers. In the early ’seventies
and later Ravenswood was a very con-
siderable gold producer; it is about 50 miles
from the Towers, and the country surround-
ing both towns has been mined and pros-
pected over very large areas for many years.
The show is described as a large outcrop
18ft. to 26ft. thick in black ironstone for-
mation and carrying high values. Bulk
samples have been sent to iCloncurry.
* * * *
The latest find to rouse interest in the
upper Clarence country of N.S.W., where
there has been . a lot of fossicking lately,
is a show quite close to the old Penrose
formation at Yugilbar. The Hodgetts family,
who are opening it up, have reported surface
assays of 3oz. to the ton w r ith free gold
showing at 10ft. The reef runs the whole
length of a 25-acre reserve, about 50 miles
from Grafton. The Penrose w T as one of the
richest mines of its day, something like
£200,000 w T orth of gold being taken out,
though it was never worked deeper than
50 feet.
=i= * * *
Herman Mandelstam, formerly of Perth
and now in London, has promised to raise
sufficient capital by January next to re-open
the old Tindals mine at Coolgardie (W.A.).
This show, which was one of the first
worked on that field, lias changed hands
several times; some of the vendors made
money, others didn’t. Fast-dipping shoots,
inconsistent values and high costs caused
trouble at depth, and ultimately the shutters
were put up. Subsequent diamond drilling
under Government supervision disclosed good
values in new ground. It is on the strength
of this that Mandelstam and his friends
have decided to have a go.
* jJj sj s
Golden Horseshoe is .steadily increasing
its cash resources by decreasing its moun-
tainous heap of tailings. Good profits have
been won since treatment started 19
months ago; for the last 12 of them the
average has been £3OOO a month. The
directors are holding up distributions until
all the tailings have been treated. Mean-
while they have used some of the surplus
to buy shares in the Gold Mines of Aust.,
and also to assist a well-known Westralian
gold-mining co. which recently got into a
tight corner.
* * !|!
Associated Northern is considering a
scheme for re-opening its old mine at Ora
Banda (W.A.) at a cost of £lO,OOO. The
co. has £28,000 in hand. It will depend
largely on the report of director Newton
Moore, who is about to visit the property,
whether anything will be done or not.
Recently a number of influential share-
holders clamored for liquidation, but they
were outvoted.
* * * *
Lake View and Star, Ltd. (W.A.), which
continues to spend money freely on new
plant and development, says the monthly
tonnage treated will be increased from
15.000 to 40,000 before long. When every-
thing is in full swing costs are expected
to be got back to 20s. per ton; it looks
optomistic. Nothing is saiu about divs.
* V !i: Si
Hansel Mundy, after drawing many
blanks in Westralia and elsewhere, is now
trying its luck at Mongalata (S.A.). The
co.’s holdings are said to be “well situated”
and adjoin others that “are yielding high
values.” The directors urge shareholders
to hope for the best and frown on critics
who warn them to expect the worst.
S: Si Sc S:
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) has successfully
bored for water at the new site in Kimber-
ley, and is now preparing to drill for oil.
The co. has had many reverses in the past,
but with the assistance of more modern
plant and more favorable indications it
hopes for better things.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I bought a motor-car under a hire-purchase
agreement in April, 1931. What reduction
of interest am J entitled to, and from what
date?—- 6783.
If a specific rate of interest has been
charged you are entitled to a reduction of
4s. 6d. in the £ on the original rate as from
October 1, with the proviso that the new
rate is not to be reduced below 5 p.c. p.a.
If no rate of interest is specified in the agree-
ment, the whole of each instalment being
thus a moiety of the purchase price, you are
not entitled to the reduction mentioned.
However, if the principal sum and/or
interest charged is thought to be excessive
or harsh, application may be made to the
Court for relief.
(1) I pay £2 2s. interest half-yearly on a
£7O loan. What benefit have I under the
Reduction of Interest Act? (2) Last instal-
ment of interest was due 1/10/1931. Am 1
entitled to statutory reduction on that pay-
ment ? —(>722.
(1) Provided the rate has not been pre-
viously reduced under the Moratorium Act.
you are entitled to a reduction to 5 p.c.;
and 5 p.c. is 365. half-yearly on £7O. (2)
Not unless the payment is made in advance.
Reduction of Interest Act operates in respect
of interest accruing on and after October 1.
In April, 1931, a haul: draft was sent
from England to my father for £lOO. He
took it to the bank and paid it into his
account and the bank credited him with
£lOO. Should he not have received exchange?
Please explain the operation. —6766.
If the draft was payable in Australia, no.
In that case, of course, less than £lOO would
have been paid in in London —at that time
approximately £76. If, however, £lOO was
actually paid in there, £l3O should have
been paid out here. Vice versa, when an
Australian has a bill for, say, £lOO to pay
in London, he asks for a draft for £lOO on
London and pays in here £l3O 10s. —or what-
ever other amount he can arrange with the
bank to do the business for.
(1) What gold are Tibooburra and Mil-
pa rinka districts (N.S.W. ) producing? (2)
What alluvial fields in Australia are worth
a trial? (3) Any market for 0pa1? —6595.
(1) A few (25-30) men, mostly from
Broken Hill, are scattered over the district;
some are reported to be making a fair liv-
ing. (2) Queensland seems to be offering
the best chances; the Mines Department
will advise (no general advice can be given,
as conditions—as to water, etc.—change
quickly). (3) First quality always saleable
and is bringing very good prices at present:
market for lower grades very limited and
slack.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
8.5.: Don’t regard either lot as an invest-
ment ; don’t think much of them even as a gamble.
. ...W.C.R.: Apply sec. of the Treasury, Canberra,
for relief under the scheme to assist necessitous bond-
holders. He will advise procedure. .. .C.S.R.: Should
be inclined to drop No. 1 and either No. 2 or
No. 4. Yet if safety is important, both those are
surer than the others... .H.T.H.: The leases are
still held by the B. 11. Prop. Co. Communicate
with R. N. Kirk, O’Connell-street, Sydney H.E.A.:
An English co, is shaft-sinking- prior to testing the
old Clunes field at depth east of the Pt. Phillip
mine. Australian agent: L. C. Trist, 95 Queen-
street, Melbourne. .. .J.J.1.: Kramut, Changkat,
Kuala Kanipar and Larut are worth consideration.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Queensland Tobacco and Prices
Dear Bulletin, —Interest in Queensland
tobacco-growing quickened some two years
ago, and various factors such as competi-
tive buying, high tariffs, etc., gave returns
beyond the wildest dreams. The result is
chaos. Land values have soared from a
few shillings per acre to as much as £2O,
and buyers are still to be found, much to'
the delight of landholders. Thus in place
of a steadily expanding industry, all sorts
and types of men are speculating in tobacco
on the Cairns hinterland, mortgaging their
assets on a hypothetical future. The influx
is so considerable that departmental re-
sources are quite unable to cope with the
instructional requirements of the growers,
while many are the prey of the inevitable
go-getter.
The point to be stressed is that the
present chaos has been caused by the ex-
cessive prices paid for the leaf last year,
averaging 3s. 6d. to 4s. per lb. Only the
high tariff permits tobacco manufacturers
to pay such a price; hence this apoplexy in
the young industry. A tariff of ss. 2d. on
an - article worth Is. 6d. on the world’s
market is patently absurd. The present
policy threatens to put the industry on a
fictitious basis, and the ultimate readjust-
ment will be very painful to growers who
have entered the tobacco venture late under
the Weight of high land values. —Yours,
Dunelm.
Cocky and His Methods
Dear B., —“Gad” says (B. 4/11/’3l) no
body of men in business manage their affairs
quite so badly as the average cocky or
squatter. To the casual observer Cocky’s
methods seem slipshod ; but, after all, results
are the surest test. The fact that Aus-
tralia is carried on the sheep’s back simply
indicates that the grazier, at least, has made
an outstanding success of his business, what-
ever his methods.- Wo lead the world both
as to quantity and quality of wool produc-
tion. As for the wheatgrower, this country,
on the whole, is not notably suited for wheat
production. Yet Australia is amongst the
foremost growers in the world, indicating
that Cocky’s methods are, after all, effective.
“Gad” declares that the man on the land
is an inveterate cadger after subsidies, and
so forth. Certainly we have become a nation
of cadgers, but Cocky cadges less assidu-
ously than anyone else. The parasitically
inclined people gravitate naturally to the
great cities, where parasitical occupations
are to be found. Thus by a process of
natural selection, bush dwellers are sturdy
of spirit.
As .to “Gad’s” objection to working for
eight ! bob a day during this lean period,
there are graziers and cockies known to me
who made their start on less than eight bob
a day, and (presumably through those rotten
business methods that “Gad” condemns)
travelled onwards to independence. •
“Gad” considers that if a cocky is able
to offer only eight bob a day to an out-of-
work at the present time, it indicates that
he has mismanaged his business. What it
does indicate is the condition of the world’s
wheat market.—Yours sincerely, T. Jasper.
Some Are Going Scot-free
Dear Bulletin,— A witness before the
Arbitration Court said she was employed
in a South Melbourne factory making frocks.
She got Is. 9d. each. She had seen them
in a Bourke-street emporium window marked
295. lid. each; and she had herself bought
the crepe de Chine of which they were
made,: retail, at another Bourke-street shop
for 2s. lid. per yard. The material cost
her employer no more than 10s.; add 15.,9d.,
plus 9d. for pressing, packing and trans-
port—l2s. 6d. altogether. And the retailer
sold them for 295. lid. She was earning an
average of 16s. 6d. a week, and the con-
sumers, who paid more than twice as much
as they should for the frocks, wrnre obviously
untouched by any depression. Other wit-
nesses told similar tales.
Until the depression strikes harder and
more generally, the buyers of such things will
continue to spend recklessly and extrava-
gantly. I know fully two dozen women just
outside Melbourne who are to-day baking
their own bread and giving their families
a better article than the bakers’ at less
than half the cost. It is the same with
vegetables and with many other necessaries.
They are doing these things because they
have to; their incomes have been reduced
to near the vanishing point. Those Mel-
bourne slaughtermen who went on strike the
other day were earning from £ll to £l2 a
week apiece. It is heavy betting that not
one in a hundred of the men who raised
the lambs they should have slaughtered w r ere
getting anything like that. It is the same all
through the chapter. The depression has
got to be a good deal more general before
we get down to bedrock and start to build
up again fairly, so that the real worker
shall get a good reward, and the loafer, the
unnecessary middleman, the parasite of any
sort, shall find himself on the wrong side of
the fence. —Yours. Elgar.
Free Education
Dear Bulletin, —The question of free
secondary education needs to be approached
from an angle different from a high-school
teacher’s (B. 28/10/’3l). Education beyond
the age of 14, so far from being a luxury, is
necessary for the members of a democracy—
we need more of it for more people, not
less for fewer. Privilege is the death of
democracy-; and, where all arc not educated,
education is a privilege. For the man with-
out education lacks (1) the ability to
analyse his experience and to see it in per-
spective, and (2) the power to give it adequate
articulation. In other words, you will never
approach the fundamental conditions of the
democratic life while you have people with
'll da’s views of trigonometry and ’llda’s
mother’s inadequacy of expression. And
you will continue to have all too many
’lldas and ’Arolds so long as you treat
secondary education as a luxury.
The question of the type of education
best, fitted to induce the desiderated attitude
of mind—the mind that can examine its
own experience and comprehend that of
others: the attitude of scepticism and tolera-
tion —and the problem of the relation of
secondary education to vocational training,
both need reviewing; but neither invali-
dates the case for universal (and prolonged)
secondary education.—Yours, etc., C. L. D.
Are We All Worth the Same?
Dear Bulletin.— l cannot get your
article “Are We All Worth the Same?” (B.
12/8/’3l) out of my head- But it still
looks to me too much like a plausible de-
fence of a powerfully situated minority. You
answered the question with a decided no, and
cited Alexander MacCormick, who might
make ten thousand a year, though he merely
charged what the public demand warranted
for his services. May I have a talk with
the esteemed surgeon :
Elby : “Frankly, sir, I see no justification for the
exorbitant price which you demand of the public
for your services.”
McC.: “Well, here is my justification, Elby. I
am pre-eminent in my profession—so much so that
I have no occasion to solicit the patronage of the
public. They, if in need of my services, must come
to me and be treated on my own terms. The whole
medical profession started off on the same footing
as I, and underwent the same course of training;
but I, by an inherent superiority, forged to the front,
and you censure me, Elby, merely for one of nature’s
monopolies!”
Elby: “I do not, sir. Nature has no monopolies.
You merely take advantage of your favorable posi-
tion to monopolise and exploit one of nature’s gifts.
Granted that the inherent ability or natural gift is
yours, can you exploit it for a selfish purpose un-
aided? No, sir. Without the scalpel your gift
would be useless. That instrument is a triumph of
metallurgy, fashioned by a master craftsman. It
is the work principally of two men, who, if utterly
selfish and determined, could monopolise and exploit
their natural gifts to the point of forcing you
completely beyond the sphere of lucrative usefulness.
No man has a natural monopoly; but if utterly
selfish and favorably situated, he can merely mono-
polise a gift of nature.’’
Thank you, dear Bulletin —we are finished,
Sir Alexander and I.—Yours, Elby.
The Gold Standard
Dear B., —Why must gold be the standard?
If some one substance bo arbitrarily taken
by the nations as a fixed measure for com-
modities, why not some material other than
gold? Why not cockle-shells or bricks, for
example? Any statesman proposing such a
thing would be locked up, but his logic would
be perfectly sound.
The truth is that the gold standard, which
was founded in the mists of antiquity, is
based upon the
ancients’ love of dis-
play and adornment.
Gold, in those times,
had a real intrinsic
value, and its use as
money was merely a
convenient deve 1o p-
ment of the use of
cattle as a standard
of wealth. Money, in
its true sense, signifies
something which is of
value in itself and
ministers to the grati-
fication of the desires
and senses of mankind.
The ancients’ appetite
for golden adornment
was very nearly as
strong as that for
meat and drink; but
as the mind of man
has progressed, it has
largely lost its love of
display, and the raison
d’etre for gold being
the measure of meat
and drink has disap-
peared.
The trouble now is
that, although man-
kind does not really
want the gold, it is
nevertheless under the
illusion that it does.
Instead of regarding
gold coins as merely
tokens, which ad-
mittedly are capable of
performing a useful
function, men insist
on attaching some
supers titi o u s and
wholly unreal value to
the yellow metal.
Consequently, there is
a universal desire to
possess gold in prefer-
ence to commodities,
and the French and
Americans, through
force of circumstances,
have found themselves
in a better position
than others to secure
the bulk, of the world’s
stock.. Now having
got it, they don’t
know what to do with
it. They won’t sell it
or lend it for fear of
not getting value in
return, and they won’t
use it for its original
and proper purpose—
ornament. And thus
just so much of man-
kind’s energy as is
symbolised by this
gold remains immobil-
ised and frozen. The
greatest good that
could happen just
now would be a revival
of the use of gold in
jewellery and orna-
mentation amongst the
peoples of the world,
especially the French
and Americans. Then
there might be some
excuse for gold being
the standard. But
under present condi-
tions there is no valid
reason why it should
be so rather than any
other substance —indeed there would be more
justification for employing bricks —and any
attempt to bolster up a system which has
no reason behind it must surely fail. —Yours,
A. L. 11.
The Bengali
Dear Bulletin, —As a British woman I
was amazed to read the paragraph (B.
28/10/’3l) referring to Sikhs and Bengalis.
Sikhs, although a great asset to the British
as fighters, are not particularly intellectual.
What have they contributed to art or science,
and what high administrative posts do they
hold under the British? On the other hand
the Bengalis, whom the writer derides, are
small physically as a rule, and not useful
as soldiers, but contribute largely towards
the intellectual side of life. The extremists
in Bengal do not represent the whole popula-
tion, and there are extremists in all coun-
tries, are there not? It is excessive nation-
alism. I recall the great Bengali scientist,
Sir Jagadis Bose, and the Bengali High
Court Judges who occupy positions in other
parts of India besides Bengal.—Yours faith-
fully, Dorothea Chaplin.
Our Overseas Bills
Dear B., —From your “Soap Box” you dis-
cuss Australia’s high exchange rate, remark-
ing that it jumped when Britain went off
gold. You picture a father and son in busi-
ness, far apart, and argue: “The ohl man
gets into difficulties; but that is no reason
why the son’s cheques should be refused.”
But the creditor in this case does not refuse
the son’s cheques, because he never gets
the chance. The son pays the old man, and
the old man in turn presents his own cheque
to the son’s creditor for the soil’s debt; and
the creditor, having a surfeit of the old
man’s paper already, is justified in wanting
something extra for the risk. If the old
man does not present a cheque he sends goods
paid for in his own factories with inflated
money, or he sends gold which he has
received from abroad for similar goods.
If Australia were able to pay its interest
bill direct to Uncle Sam instead of clearing
through London, it would not cost us £167
to pay 456 dollars of interest. But we
have not the gold to send, and he will not
take our goods. He would not even take
back the flood of automobiles that we
mostly bought with the loans he made us. —
Yours, P. G.
Preference to Unionists
Dear Bulletin,—-I told of a friend who,
long unemployed, got a job, but was not
allowed to take it because the union organ-
iser objected. “John McD.” (B. 9/9/'3l)
replied that this was quite right, because
the organiser’s duty was to see that pre-
ference was given to a unionist. But pre-
ference does not give a union secretary the
right to constitute himself a court of law.
The controller of the Labor Bureau was
appointed by the Government to execute
the law concerning the allotment of relief
work. He l'epresented, at that bureau, the
Government elected by the people. The
union secretary stepped in and over-ruled
the Government. I ask again—who governs
this country? My friend was a non-unionist
because misfortune had rendered him un-
financial. He was refused a job, not
because he was a non-unionist, but because
he, unemployed for many months, was un-
financial. When he agreed to pay most of
the £2 he earned, he got the job. Preference
to unionists did not enter into the matter,
but preference to paid-up union dues
governed the whole issue. Unionism has
done much for the worker and Australia.
Unionism run riot has undone, and is un-
doing, much of that good. On the ground
of humanity alone it is hard to understand
that this was the attitude of a man who is
paid “to guard the interests of the workers.”
He rather seems to have guarded the finan-
cial interests of the union from which ho
drew his salary. I belong to the 8.M.A., and
intend to continue my membei’ship, because
I believe in unionism. But I have never
seen the B.M.A. deny a man the right to
earn a livelihood merely because lie did not
choose to join the association. The myth
about death resulting from refused consul-
tations was exploded before either “John
McD.” or I was born. —Yours, Quack.
Lamb—and Wolves
Dear B., —I have just come. from the tree-
stumps and sliprails after 2-J years on a
station in the heart of the primest lamb-
raising country of N. S. Wales, where stiff
luck and hard times rubbed my job off the
slate. Landed a job in Darling Point.
A descent from the Gorblime to the
Sublime, as it were. At Gorblime a first-
class lamb, killed and dressed, was worth
about lid. per lb. In Darling Point, where
the naiccst people like lamb and green peas
and spuds on Sundays, the price goes up to
10id. per lb. (and what you can buy for
that might sometimes have been lamb six
months ago). It didn’t pay my late boss
an ordinary working-man’s wage to grow
prime fats for the Sydney market. Where
did all the difference in prices go? Isn’t it
plain that we are overloaded with distribu-
tion costs? If they were cut in halves, my
old boss would have been able to carry on.
I would work for country folk every time
for preference, but they are forced to do
without help and comfort because of the
rotten prices they are handed. —Yours,
Rolling stone.
DIRECT ACTION.
YOUNG RED (the adopted child): “I tell you I’m boss here, and you all gotter do what I order
AUSTRALIAN SEAMAN (to his wife): “I begin to think, Missus, it’s about time I gave this kid
a dam’ good hiding.”


IF 7 r * %: v ‘* '
1 WBmm I
wiPi
■■. s
. >
„ '
i
.
■
;D£a
y— >
1
c<
e£]
-ia
[[=□
-if*
SPEED COMFORT SERVICE
For Descriptive Pamphlet, etc,, apply to
Adelaide Steamship Co., all Ports
A.U.S.N. Co „
Howard Smith, Ltd ~ ~
Huddart Parker, Ltd ~ ~
Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd. ~ ~
Melbourne Steamship Co. . . .
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Her Majesty's (coni. Saturday)' .... “Ruddigore”
Criterion “As Husbands Go"
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOAVS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Royal (coni. Saturday) “Oh, Lady, Lady!”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes: —
Well, I went to the Palace on Saturday
and I think it is the duty of any girl worth
her salt to warn any gentleman Avlien she
sees him running into grave danger. I mean,
1 really do think Air. Rolls means avoll and
that he is not only Ernest by name but
earnest by nature and that he really is out
to serve the Public but one doesn't like to
see a gentle-
man like Mr.
Rolls making
himself a
Marter Avitb
his eyes shut.
I mean, it is
obvious what
happened to
Mr. Rolls was
that he read
about the
Melbourne
bay-side coun-
cils refusing
to allow the
Nude cult on
their beaches
under any cir-
cumstances or
in any amount
of clothing or
even inside a
high board
fence and so
he rushed his
company to-
gether a n d
“Weren’t wearing them in
their usual places.”
said to them,
ladies and gentlemen (or something like
that), much as it may go against the grain,
avo have a sacred trust to discharge and you
know what that is, it is the Moral Uplift of
the people and as you know, there is noth-
ing so uplifting as purity and could you get
anything in the world as pure as a newborn
babv. and as you probably have read, when
babies are born they are born with no clothes
on, which shows that purity is inseparable
from nudity, and look at the flowers, do they
Avear clothes, and trees, I ask you, not a
stitch, and the birds, too, and consider those
fellow creatures of ours which avo in our
vanity call the lower animals, are they
ashamed to bo seen going about with no
clothes on, not a bit, so to cut a long story
short, we will all go to Melbourne and come
rain, come hail, you will all take your
clothes off or as many of them as the law
allows, and start a crusade for purity.
Well, the result Avas “Bright Side Up,”
and believe me, and I know, because I have
been studying the subject in a German maga-
zine, it Avas the Nude cult carried quite as far
as it lias gone in any English-speaking
country. I mean, I wouldn’t have been a
bit surprised to see Jennie Benson come out
wrapt in little but her usual woe and Gus
Bluett in a fig leaf. I mean, there were
ladies posing in the very latest thing in
corsets and there were others stripped to
tlieir brassies and panties and even the
male sex ivas not forgotten, for there were
the three Marbellos, absolute Adonises, all
three of them, in loincloths and a sprink-
“Goaded to the verge of revolution.”
ling of powder. It was true that some of the
girls had more clothes on than they’d wear
in Collins-street but they weren’t wearing
them in the usual places.
Well, Avliat 1 mean to say is that this sort
of thing can't go on for ever. You’ve only
got to walk round Melbourne on a reallv hot
day to realise that, however the women may
feel about it, the menfolk are being goaded
to the verge of revolution. I mean, there
was the audience, slowly dissolving inside its
underclothing, watching the people on the
stage thoroughly enjoying themselves, and
there ivas no doubt they heartily approved
of Mr. Rolls’s attempts at Moral Uplift. I
mean, I have never heard applause that AV-as
so unstinted. Well, what does that mean?
Well, Ave all know what a powerful force
for good or ill Propaganda is. I mean, look
at tlie success of the Conversion Loan for
instance, and that meant per cent, off
thousands of people’s income. Well, Mr.
Rolls’s propaganda is even better. It means
95 per cent, off everybody's dress bill. I
mean, as things are going, we’ll soon have
the audiences in loincloths and brassieres.
Well, the question arises, Avill an audience
in loincloths and brassieres pay to see a
company of actors similarly accoutred, when
they can see the same thing, more or less,
in the foyer for nikko? According to the
Dramatic Critic, it would be Unpresidented
in theatrical history. In fact, it Avould
be Unthinkable. Because, as the D.C. says,
audiences will only pay to see something
Different. And that would mean that Mr.
Rolls would have to start dressing everybody
up again. And then they Avould have to Do
something Avortli Hearing, as in the Good
Old days, instead of just having to Be some-
thing Avorth Watching.
So that’s what I meant when I said that
Mr. Rolls was in danger of becoming a
public Marter. I mean, he is running a risk
of destroying his own Livelihood.
“So This Is Love,” which opened at Syd-
ney’s Grand Opera House on Saturday under
George MarloAv’s aegis, is strong in action
of a kind. There is a pugilistic peer, played
by Joe Shriller, who seems to be actuated
by extremely powerful Springs. Clem
I)awe, as a .stockbroker of a sort previously
unknown even to the stage, exhibits ante-
lopian agility, and as
the stockbroker’s wife
Rene Riano gives con-
tinual imitations of a
Catherine-wheel. An
American “domestic
fixer” (Eric Edgeley)
is almost equally
dynamic. Miss Riano,
Elsie Parkes, Dawe
and John Woods
supply most of the
songandance turns.
Some minor parts are
played . with great
physical force. A
well-filled house
roared itself hoarse
with merriment and
appreciation on the
first night.
Marguerite R. Sliir-
law produced her own
three-act play, “A
Limitless Risk,” at
“As in the Good
Old Days.”
Sydney Savoy, and
credibly played the lead, Mrs. Armstrong,
too. Mrs. Armstrong is happily mar-
ried to a Digger (L. Hay Simpson). He
had refused to listen when she tried to tell
him that she already had a son. This son
(R. Gibson), who has been adopted by her
brother and has in some inexplicable fashion
inherited a Scottish peerage, visits the Arm-
strongs at their Rose Bay (Sydney) home.
In a long speech Mrs. Armstrong confesses
to the youth that she is his mother. This
arouses his affection for her, and they are
later overheard by her husband seemingly
making love in a Palm Beach house. Then
Mrs. Armstrong Tells All, and her husband
Nobly Forgives her (not overlooking the fact
that he himself philandered with the gover-
ness). Carolyn Forsythe gives to Phemie,
the Scotch nurse, a native naturalness and
burr-rr.
# # *
An event of some importance in the musical
history of Sydney was the performance at
the Con. Hall of Schubert’s Octet. No com-
poser lived more closely or continuously in
touch with the source of inspiration than
the great Viennese, whose consummate
mastery of harmony was a matter of instinct
rather than of training, and in the six
movements of the octet there are combined
such beautv and originality as would keep
alive the tradition of the composer’s great-
ness were his 1400 other works lost and
forgotten. The audience was wretchedly
small, but the performance, in which G.
Walenn and Lloyd Davies (violins), A.
Hill (vio-la), Gladstone Bell (’cello), L.
Blitz (double bass), C. Sammul (bassoon),
R. H. L. Toole (French horn) and J. C.
Browne (clarionet) participated, was a
worthy tribute. Dr. Orchard conducted. An
attractive trio by the Con. director and
Dvorak’s E flat Quartet also figured on the
programme.
1 * * *
Beresford Fowler prides himself on being
a purveyor of the intellectual drama, and it
is seldom that his goods fail to come under
that category.. The package may not <be en-
closed in an elegant bandbox and tied up with
silk ribbon, but it does turn out more or less
to specification. In his latest season at
the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne. Fowler revived
Noel Coward’s
“Fallen Angels,”
and the same
playwr iglit's
"The Queen
Was in the
Parlor” w a s
performed for
the first time
in Melbourne;
also I b s e n’s
“The Pillars of
Society” made
a first appear-
ance. Of chief
interest w a s
“A Shillings-
worth,” by Mrs.
Marjorie .Mc-
Leod, the one-
act e r which
scored first
prize in the
Aus. Lit. Soc.’s
“bee the same thing for
nikko hi the foyer.”
c o m p e t ition.
This was a realistic study of the strang-
ling of a Melbourne family by the ten-
tacles of the Depression. Dad, the son
and the daughter are all out of jobs and
Mum, having no money for the gas-meter,
keeps the home fires burning with the paper
she picks up in a neighboring park under
the pathetic pretence that she is doing it
because she cannot bear to see the public
playground untidy. The story ends in
blackest tragedy. Daughter joins forces
with proprietor of corner house, a criminal;
brother goes off to intervene, with borrowed
gun in pocket; father attempts to follow
and dies of heart attack; lady of dubious
virtue from next door hears mother’s call for
help and rushes in with whisky and shilling
to get brandy; puts shilling on table while
she answers the door; messenger says son
shot; daughter arrested with her criminal.
Lady of dub. virt. returns and tells mother;
then departs for home, leaving shilling on
table; mother sees shilling, puts it in gas-
meter —curtain. Mrs. McLeod has made her
story so inherently probable, and Albert
Watkins, Agnes Casey, Harold Millane,
Adeline Strain and Nancy Fryberg acted
it with such naturalness, that nobody seemed
to notice the absence of a happy ending.
* * *
If life could be induced to follow the tra-
ditions of the theatre the Australian people
could solve their present problems by electing
a bachelor with a taste for girls to the Prime
Ministership supplying him with a sec-
retary with a passion for matrimonial
intrigue and sending him to New York to
marry a widow with a dot of £50,000, ouO.
Unfortunately these solutions of the pressing
difficulties of States are reserved exclusively
for the writers of musical comedies, which
explains why revivals of “The Merry Widow”
invariably meet with the popular approval
accorded to the latest resurrection of the
charming creature at Melbourne Royal on
Saturday night. Present critic has no objec-
tions to the present performance, although it
has a widow (Dot Brunton) with more per-
sonality than voice, and some of the musical
numbers which were cut in the original
production have been restored when they
would have better been left in oblivion.
The piece wears extremely well. Arthur
Stigant is once more a tower of strength
as Baron Popoff, and Frank Bradley gives
“An audience in loincloths.”
new significance to General Novikovich.
The poor besotted wretch Prince Danilo
is made even more of a nitwit than usual by
Frank Leighton, whose manner is too
monotonously tragic. That the fool should
take three acts to discover that Sonia is in
love with him and that she should take a
similar period to discover that he is in love
with her passes comprehension; but it makes
a pleasurable evening's entertainment. “Oh,
Lady, Lady,” will be the bill on Saturday.
* # *
At the last concert of the Vic. Prof.
Orch. at Melb. Town Hall, a new conductor.
Albert Cazabon, set out to break speed
records with Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony
and finished several bars ahead of all pre-
vious competitors. More consideration was
shown to “Autumn Nocturne,’ possibly
because Cazabon himself wrote . it. The
Bach-Elgar fugue and some of Rimsky-Kor-
sakoff’s dainty bric-a-brac filled up the
programme.
* * #
No fewer than seven composers mounted
the rostrum at Melb. Auditorium the other
night to conduct the Vic. Postal Institute
choir and the Prof. Orch. through specimens
of their own work. The quality of the
music indicated that Australian composers,
like Australian authors up to a couple of
years ago, appear to be in the short-story
stage of their art. One of the most vital
and original pieces was Alfred Hill s brief
lyric "Waiata Poi.” When the audience,
in a decided tone of voice, asked for it
again, the composer turned housewards and
shouted angrily “Funny how the people
love the rubbish,” and after the orchestra
had got half-way through the encore lie threw
down his baton and stalked off the stage.
This Showman .isn't always in sympathy
with encore-demanders, but in this case there
was much to be said for them. The nrst
movement of Mr. Hill’s symphonic poem
“Te Eauparaha” may be more involved
technically, but it is doubtful if the com-
poser was as continuously inspired by the
story of the bloody old savage who used to
carry his commissariat in the shape of pris-
oners and kill them off on the hoof, so to
speak, as he was when In; wrote “M aiata
Poi.” William James’s ballet suite "By
Candlelight” had freshness and charm, but
was also too long for its slender theme.
Louis Lavater’s “Hornpipe” was a jolly
little thing, and more than matched Percy
Grainger’s latest ebullition of youthful
spirits, “Lord Peter’s Stable Boy,” which
required six pianos, some xylophones and
other additions to the normal orchestral
palette. Fritz Hart’s fantasy on the sea
chanty “Shenandoah” was heard again. It
improves on acquaintance. On the choral
side was “Gallery Rowers,” by Esther Rofc,
in which the character of Masefield’s poem is
not very clearly defined. William James s
“The Sun God” gave Alan Eddy an excellent
opportunity to display the cellar tones of his
magnificent organ voice. In “Bush Night
Song” the same composer came down from
his Olympian heights with a tender slumber
song. ' The programme concluded with a
choral setting by George English to Adam
McCay’s “Melba in Paradise.” Mr. Eng-
lish’s setting sounded spontaneous and tune-
ful, but Mr. McCay]s words carry more than
a suspicion of journalese about them.
Orpheus, Apollo and Triton, having pre-
sumably settled inter-denominational diffi-
culties, are sitting with St. Cecily in Para-
dise when their singing is stilled by a new
note —the note of the bellbird —and Melba
takes her place amongst the Immortals.
Apart from the fact that Beethoven put the
bellbird into music, though he couldn’t pos-
sibly have heard the creature (see his
Quartet, Op. 131, last movement), the great
Australian diva sang French and Italian
music almost exclusively, so Mr. McCay’s
assertion that “the grand choir was silent
that it might listen to this new song of
strange delight” is more a tribute, to his
patriotism than to his passion for historical
accuracy. One of the best things of the
evening was Louis Hattenbach’s “Dawn,” a
sincere attempt by a sympathetic and com-
petent musician to express the color of the
Australian sunrise.
* ¥ *
Bernard Heinze’s last “celebrity” concert
of the season attracted a full house to the
Town Hall, Melbonrne, the two draws being
Balokovic in Mendelssohn’s Violin Concerto
in E minor and Honegger’s “Pacific 231”
(for the first time in Australia). Last-
named caused as much excitement as a show
of futurist painting and seemed to belong
to the same school of creative effort. Accord-
ing to the programme, the composer confesses
to “a passion for locomotives, which are to
him living beings, whom he loves as others
love women or horses.” It is the sort of
confession that one expects to hear made in
a high tenor voice. A passion for locomotives
as against human beings is' understandable
in a person of tender years. The piece pur-
ports to express the emotions roused by con-
templation of an engine used for heavy loads
tearing across the countenance of America,
and such emotions are a perfectly respectable
subject for a work of art; it all depends on
what artistic use you make of them. Honeg-
ger has obviously studied with care the
actual noises made by the contraption which
he finds more interesting that a woman,
though a Fox sound-truck could do that better;
and he has woven the noises into an intricate
orchestral structure. But whether the shape
of the structure is pleasing or whether it
has any shape at all was difficult to discern
at a first hearing, so Prof. Heinze obliged
with an encore, when it still remained largely
a mystery. Melbourne ought to be obliged
to the professor for giving it the oppor-
tunity of hearing the work, since, according
to some authorities, it is an example of what
music will all be like in the future.


m
m
m
■Hr
w
$ /
8
:
I
: si
■
«*K
r
qPggP
WiflC cPreJ-entJ.. *
THE NEW
HOSIERY
Grenadine Stockings are
made of fine tightly
twisted silk.
4
Ordinary stockings are
made of this loose
juzty silk.
THE NEW PRESTIGE
PATENT HEEL
fits instantly and snugly
to the curve of the heel
without a trace of pucker
or wrinkle.
ueiiuine. grenadine sheers
DULL SHEER smoothness with an elusive bloom, moulding
with just a cloud of silk every movement of the limb,
giving the subtle touch of quality and beauty which brings to
your mind that oft-framed remark, “ How lovely are her
stockings!” That subtlety and beauty is now available to you
in Grenadine by Prestige.
No. 505 GRENADINE. —This new stocking is of extraordinary fine
gauge. Finer than anything previously knit in Australia and of
exquisitely dull and sheer True Grenadine Pure Silk from top
to toe. Though sheer, the special yarn from which it is knit gives
such service that, when combined with its moderate price, women
can wear the latest in hosiery creations without being unduly
extravagant. Much hosiery sold as Grenadine is not Genuine Grena-
dine. When purchasing Grenadine Hosiery insist on Genuine
Grenadine by Prestige. It comes to you in all the new season’s ton-
ings with a dainty green and black French Picot Edge. Price per pair
«l
No. 404
POWDERBLOOM-
A beautiful Dull Silk Stock-
ing built with all the qualities
of Prestige No. 505, butslightly
heavier, a service sheer weight
with a charming
green Picot Edge and
super. mer cerised
lisle heel and toe.
_
Price per pair. . .
9ii
>1 \
QUALITY HOSIERY.,... FULLY
FASHIONED


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
10,000 tons, Dec. 1
Dec. 9
Jan. 18, ’32
*Anchises . .
. .
*Ascanius . .
tThemistocles
*Nestor . .
JCeramic . .
15,000 „
10,000 „
12.500 „
14.500 „
18.500 „
Feb. 9, ’32
Mch. 8, ’32
Mch. 15, ’32
‘First class only. fFivst and third class.
JCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. |
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. j
Joint
Agents
m
\w]
S'*
s a
theai^l
m
I
Two Exclusive Features.
First: the perfect site, the convenience of which
contributes so much to the comfort of our
guests. Second:
Reduced Tariff —“Room Only” Rates.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room from 20/- per day
Breakfast,
2/- and 3/6; and a la carte.
Light Luncheon,
in the Winter Garden, 2/-
Telepraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney
■■■■ETheJ
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
MOVES WATER RAPIDLY
But Without Shock or Jar
because each size is geared to give 30-33
strokes per minute, the maximum output pace
for windmill pumps.
UNSURPASSED QUALITY AND DURABILITY
Twin Machine-cut Gears (true within l-1000th
of an inch) work under oil in a jointless bowl.
Bearings (split for easy renewal) of best
quality bronze, machined true —2 polished steel
motion guides. Oil-circulation to every work-
ing part and back into sump without loss.
Ball-bearing turntable and all enclosed parts
accessible us never before .
Catalog free —torite note.
SKY WINDMILL CO.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
FREIGHT FREE INTERSTATE.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Honi Pikau” : With 30 seconds’ start in
the wood-chopping contest, old Henare
Waipire, a noted axeman in his day, made
valiant efforts to beat the scratch man, but
finished second. The prowess of the winner,
however, left Henare unimpressed. “No
proomin’ wonder tat ferrer win, elioa,” he
confided to me, indignantly. “I te tired man
pefore he make te start.”
“Taltingan”: You can’t hit a place so
early that you won’t meet somebody who
will want to tell you about its real early
days. Looking back now it seems that before
THE MIDNIGHT COMMUNISTS.
FIRST MOSQUITO: “Don’t these nets make you sick?”
SECOND MOSQUITO: “Yes, they’re enough to turn a chap off his dinner.”
1889 Broken Hill must have consisted chiefly
of mulga and wallabies; yet in that year
the camp’s first little book-publishing job
was done—the then newly-born “Barrier
Miner” turned out a pamphlet written by
W. R. Thomas and called “In the Early
Bays.” “Bicky” could speak with some
authority, too ; he was the first surveyor on
the Hill, before there was more than a tent
there. When it grew into a camp it was
Bicky, too, who made a plan of a township ;
and it was a man named Mullins who sold
the first allotments —they had to be held
under miner’s right. They had to give the
new place a name, of course, so Bicky
printed “Mullinsville” on the plan. But
“Mullinsville” didn’t stick; and, though the
Government tried to make it call itself Willy-
ama, it soon settled down to plain Broken
Hill. Incidentally, Thomas, that early sur-
veyor, died a few weeks ago near Mary-
borough (Q.). He was connected with the
“Register” Thomases, of Adelaide, and at
one time had visions of himself becoming a
newspaper proprietor. Anyway, he once got
as far as designing the title headline of his
journal—“ The Blowpipe.” He was an
original soul, as the name suggests.
H: * , H= V
“B. Sneeze”: Bave and MacTavish, the
newchum, were travelling to town. To
while away the time Mac suggested a now
sort of game. “I’ll ask you a question,” he
suggested, “and if I can’t answer it myself
I’ll pay for the drinks. Then you ask me
a question, and if you can’t answer it your-
self it’s your shout.” “Righto,” said Bave.
“Go on and ask your question.” After trav-
elling a little further, Mac, noticing some
rabbit burrows, propounded his problem :
“Why doesn’t the rabbit leave a pile of dirt
around the entrance to his burrow when
ho digs it?” Bave pondered for a long
while and finally gave up. “Answer it your-
self,” he demanded. “Oh, that’s easy,” replied
Mac. “The rabbit starts from the bottom
and digs upwards, leaving the dirt below.”
Bave snorted. “How the hell could the
rabbit get to the bottom without digging?”
he asked. Mac grinned: “That’s your ques-
tion,” he said. “I give in. Now answer it
yourself.”
“Tyke” : Another canine V.C. has been
earned near Inverell (N.S.W.). A bush-
worker some miles from his camp cut his
foot so badly lhat it took him all night to
crawl back to his tent. Weak with loss of
blood he wrote a note, tied it to his doa’«
collar, and told her to go “home” to Bed-
well Bowns station. The four-footed mes-
senger reached the station at midday, hav-
ing had to climb over two “dog-proof”
fences on the way. A party came out to
the rescue and Bavis was lodged in hospital,
Die dog having, in the opinion of the medico
there, uixleubtedly saved its boss’s life.
“Belia” : King Solomon, who was full of
wonder about the ,way of a serpent upon a
rock, would have enjoyed a new thrill if
he had been in Byron Bay (N.S.W.)
recently. A housewife in that locality was
AS HIS WORSHIP MIGHT KNOW HIMSELF.
MAGOSTRATE: “You are accused of being drunk and disorderly. What about it?”
ACCUSED: “I ask for leniency, your Worship. I backed a winner, and it mightn’t happen
again in a lifetime.”
about to polish the floor of her sitting-room,
the glossy surface of which is the pride of
her heart, when she was amazed to see a
five foot tiger-snake doing what appeared to
be a contortion act in the middle of the
floor. The more she waved and “shoo’d”
the more frantic became the serpent’s expo-
sition of eurhythmies, and it was not until
help arrived and the beast was slain that
an explanation offered itself. The floor was
so slippery that the First Co-re. found it
almost impossible to progress on it. Had
he gone slow, he might have negotiated it.
The lady’s arrival, however, caused him to
do his block completely, and the more
strenuous his efforts to : get a grip of things
the less his "success.
H: * * *
“The Eldest Oyster”: What with foot-
ball clubs and roads boards, Westralian
Binghi is fast learning the means whereby
Australia is governed. “Which one king
belonga you?” I asked a gathering of clans
and dogs under the pandanus. L’oiice-ooy
Charlie looked at me pityingly. “No more
bin havem king,” he told me, and then,
pointing out an old white-head hitting two
tins together—“this pfella tcheketary.”
:|s * *
“Bill Ion”.: When instructions were given
to all created things to increase and mul-
tiply Mr. and Mrs. Mouse took the injunc-
tion to heart. A very reliable authority has
estimated that a respectable married couple
of mice, given an undisturbed spin and a
sufficiency of tucker, could easily provide a
family of a million inside a year, allowing
for deaths by misadventure. Suppose
you or I started a mouse farm, and
allowed one mouse to the square foot of
grazing land, we’d need 18 acres the first
year and 15,625 sq. m. the second year. At
the end of the third year there wouldn’t be
standing room in Australia for the herd,
and the continent would be piled a foot deep
with mice—every square inch of it. The
Mouse Census would disclose a population
of 250,000 million million. Now bring on
your rabbits!
“Avon”: The Maorilanders are very
determined people. At the village of Bar-
field, which lies in the middle of the vast
Canterbury plains, entirely surrounded by
miles of flatness, the great event of the year
is the flower show. The inhabitants rejoice
in the fertility of the soil and are strongly
addicted to horticulture as a light relief
from the more serious business of growing
wheat and breeding horses. This year
the show eclipsed all previous records in
the number, size and general magnificence
of exhibits, and Barfield felt that it had
amply justified its existence. But just as
the prolonged speechifying that preludes the
show was in full swing there came a mighty
gale; driving so steadily from the nor’-west
that it brought with it a spatter of rain, a
thing not known in mortal memory. The
gale grew and grew. Outside the hall
shingles were flying from roofs; tall trees
were being uprooted or broken in twain,
and telegraph posts were collapsing. The
roof of the hall, the largest structure in
the hamlet, creaked ominously, and seemed
to flap up and down. But were the men
of Barfield daunted? They were not. The
end of the earth might come and civilisa-
tion go down in wrack and ruin, but the
Barfield Flower Show mustn’t be disturbed.
So they rushed out and returned in a jiffy
with coils of rope, plough chains, dog chains
and wire clothes-lines, and with these and
strong stakes firmly beaten into the ground
with sledge hammers they firmly tied the
roof on and went back to ponder on the
gladioli and narcissi. The roof gave no
further trouble, which was just as well, for
the flowers in the hall were all that were
spared by the hurricane throughout the
countryside.
s»s He
“Yiveur” : Those American privates who
were so delighted to find a pondful
of frogs in France that they fell upon
and devoured their favorite delicacy (B.
21/10/’3l) must have been recruited
from the ranks of the millionaires in their
homeland. In all countries the plat is a
most expensive one, and in any first-class
American restaurant —no others would serve
it—would cost anything up to five dollars a
portion. Furthermore, only one special
variety of frog is bred and used for the
purpose. If the Americans mentioned had
struck one of these breeding ponds, the
Flemish proprietor's bill would have been
one of the most disastrous experiences en-
countered by the A.E.F. in France.
Hr Sr Hr Hr
“Boca Tigris”: Many racing ponies are
being exported to Eastern Asia, especially
Singapore. The other day a shipment of 21
left Sydney for Hong Kong, the pioneers of
their type there, though the racing of the
gallows-headed, savage-tempered brutes
known as Mongolian ponies has been flour-
ishing for years at the Happy Valley race-
course. The men in charge of the emi-
grants will see something new in their racing
experience when they first strike that pretty
little course. Behind it is a vast cemetery,
in which lie Europeans of all sects, Jews,
Moslems of various varieties, and many
other folk of assorted race and religion. The
cemetery is screened with bamboos from the
view on those on the course, but everyone
knows it is within a stone’s-throw. To the
newcomer the effect is rather disturbing.
MEETIN' TILLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Trailin’ down the fallows,
Wheelin’ in a dream;
Wadin’ through the shallows,
Fetchin’ ’ome the team ;
Actin’ kinder silly
(Dad’ll smell a rat) ;
Got a date with Tilly,
Down at Rogan’s Flat.
Couldn’t bear the ’urtin’,
Thought me ’eart was broke
When she took to flirtin’
With that city bloke;
Now she’s been an’ writ me,
Jist to make it right.
Sez she can’t fergit me—•
Meetin’ ’er to-night.
Got the note she writ me
Crinkled in me elo’es;
Sez she can’t fergit me—
Walkin’ on me toes.
Seems I’m goin’ dilly—
Talkin’ through me ’at—
Got a date with Tilly
Down at Rogan’s Flat.
N.S.W.
TAL ORDELL.


HAMMOCKS
JFfe
"RE ST WELL”
Every home should have a
“Restwell” Hammock. Ideal
for slinging on the verandah
or under the trees in the
garden. Gaily colored with
pleasing stripe effects, head
and foot rest. Strongly
made, will last for years.
Ready for use.
Price
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Toowoomba, Longreach and
Townsville.
BRITAIN —MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —SI hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply jor full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
“QUALCAST” lawn mowers
ŵ
Qualcast Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray, W. 12, Melbourne.
Model “H” MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUITABLE FOB ALL LAWNS
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
SPARE PARTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prices in Capital Cities and principal
Seaport Towns.
12in. 14in.
Each. Each.
Bronze beatings 50/- 53/-
Ball bearings 57/6 59/6
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING
HARDWARE STORES.
ẁ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union dub and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“Mundowie”: The “calamity circle”
travelled by a man lost in the, bush has
puzzled bushmen for generations, and there
is not yet any acceptable explanation. Some
ascribe the divergence to one leg being a
trifle longer or stronger than the other. But
there were two one-legged men on the Dar-
ling—Crutehie Kearney and Ned Swain;
they got lost a couple of times and both
boomeranged. Another fact that rules the
uneven-leg theory out is that the wanderer
COULDN'T FOOL THE OLD MAN.
JIMMY CORNCOB: “The English bloke who's took the
next place ter me reckons his fam'ly’s as old as
William the Conqueror.”
OLD MAN BUTTERFAT: “Don’t you believe ’im — he’s
pullin’ yer leg, boy. Why, he ain't more'n about
fifty himself, is he?”
goes round just the same when riding or
driving. Then there is the suggestion that
one eye is focussed differently to the other.
Against this, a man who strikes a visual
line from stage to stage can keep straight
if he is cross-eyed or lias only one eye. The
bushed man seldom fixes his eye on an object
ahead, and circles unconsciously. Day or
night makes no difference. A coaclidriver
on a north-western plain on a dark night
found himself back at a gate that he had
passed through more than an hour before.
The track was invisible, and he thought he
was keeping the straight line he had driven
over a hundred times.
❖ ❖ ifc ❖
“Irawuni”: Shark Bay, the tiny pearl-
ing port on the Central Westralian coast, a
couple of months ago found the most valu-
able pearl in its half-century of history—
a double button of white lustre that has
been valued by Ellies, the Broome expert,
at a round £3OO even in the present state of
the pearl market. Shark Bay pearls, small
and inferior when compared with the
beauties of Broome, have rarely reached the
£lOO mark, and £2OO was the previous
record.
* * * *
“E.S.”: How’s this for an architectural
curio? A fossicker in the Mount Browne
(N.S.W.) district built
himself a hut known as
Bottle House, the walls
of which were composed
of bottles and cement
and the fireplace of
stone. It was a neat
and attractive domicile,
of which he was im-
mensely proud. An
artistic effect w a s
obtained by putting in
a layer of white bottles
and then a layer of black ones. The hut
was Rift, x 14ft.. and was calculated to
contain 1X)00 bottles.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: My bungalow in Singapore
was situated near the Seaview Hotel, a happy
hunting-ground for fakirs of all descriptions.
A performance of theirs which always inter-
ested me was the basket trick, in which a
small boy is doubled up and levered into a
wickerwork basket. The lid is closed
and the basket securely tied up with strips
of cloth ; the fakir then throws a sheet over
the basket, uttering incantations. The sheet
is removed, and sharp swords are thrust
through the basket in every direction. The
swords are withdrawn, each blade dripping
an ominous red. Then the magician, throwing
off the lid of the basket, reveals it empty.
With a clap of the hands he draw’s the
attention of the audience to the boy, who is
several yards away, walking towards liis
master. I asked Ahmat, my Malay boy, how
this trick was performed. He advised me
to keep out of sight next time the fakirs
arrived, and to watch the performance from
a room adjoining the balcony. Some weeks
later we heard the chanting and ringing of
bells that denoted the magicians’ approach,
and I took up my position in the room and
watched proceedings from the shelter of the
door-shutters. I was about 20 feet away from
the fakir. I saw the trick exactly as I had
seen it previously. But Ahmat, who was
concealed with me, was positive that when
the basket was opened the boy, instead of
getting into it, walked down the steps of
the hotel verandah and took up his position
in the drive preparatory to making his drama-
tic reappearance. In my opinion the fakir
was able to exercise group hypnotism.
PUTTING PA IN HIS PLACE.
MODERN OFFSPRING: “All very well saying if I don't do my lessons I won’t have a
career. What did you do for a career?”
MA: “Well, my dear, I met your father and married him.”
MODERN OFFSPRING: “Gee, I think I’d sooner ha’ done me lessons.”
“Yamilla”: In the far North-West they
don’t gauge time by our standards. Days
scarcely matter, and it’s always “Koolindas”
and “wets” instead of months and years,
the Koolinda being the
faithful little State ship
that brings stores once a
month. “I saw him in
I )erby two Koolindas
ago,” you will hear; or
"The house has been up
for three wets.” At the
Margaret station, in
Ea s t Kimberley, the
manager told me he
hadn’t bothered about a
watch for eight years,
but what with all these
new bores and the timing
of engines he’d have to
look it out again. Stations
along the Territory bor-
der have a varying stan-
dard : Territory time,
W.A. time, which is hours later, and
sun-time—any old time you might reckon
it. is. Travellers never know whether they’re
arriving late for lunch or just in time for
morning tea.
* * * *
“Moschus”: “W.P.T.” himself errs as to
the source of the musk of commerce (B.
28/10/’3l) when he says it is derived, not
from the musk plant, but from the “evil-
smelling musk rat.” The purveyor of the
valuable stuff is the musk deer, a little chap
chiefly confined to Thibet and Nepaul. The
musk is a secretion contained in two small
sacs, and these when dried are known in the
trade as “pods” and are literally worth their
weight in gold. The collecting is entirely
in the hands of native hunters, and the dis-
tribution is chiefly through China and North-
ern India. Perfumers of all nationalities are
the buyers, though the stuff is esteemed
among the wealthy Chinese and Indians, both
Hindu and Moslem, as an aphrodisiac.
“Mundowie”: No part of Queensland has
seen greater changes in half a lifetime than
the Burnett River country. Once a domain
of wide cattle-runs and crack horsemen, it is
now nearly all small farms and milk buckets.
Auburn to-day is the biggest holding. Its
neighbor, Cadarga, was once known as “the
home of the 15 esquires,” the esquires being
young jackeroos gaining colonial experience.
Jackeroos were numerous then, but I don t
think any other station ever had as many as
Cadarga.' When I was there, some years
ago, it was under the care of an abo. couple
—a bit of a crash from the grand times of
the esquire days. I called for matches, but was
told by the black lady of the house that Mr.
Ringhi had taken the last box with him on
the run. “Firestiek do?” she inquired.
“Righto,” I .said. She brought one from
the kitchen, and I set off swinging it in abo.
style to keep it alight. A hundred yards
away a yell pulled me up. Mrs. Charcoal
was flourishing a fat arm on the verandah.
“You be careful of the grass with that fire-
stick,” she called. “You scatter sparks like
a pliirry chackeroo.” So the jackeroos aren’t
forgotten.
“Kuranda”: Recent reference to the
newly-established trout-hatcliery on Lake
Barrine in North Queensland reminds me that
the experiment has provided an entirely new
experience for the experts in charge, and
one that has not been noted in fish hatch-
eries elsewhere. When the fry were being
fed in tins gauze-screened boxes in the lake,
it was noticed that swarms of small local
fish known as minnows used to surround
the boxes to pick up stray crumbs of food
falling outside the screens, attending punc-
tually at feeding-time. A few of the trout
fry were released among the minnows, and
watch was kept to see if they reported regu-
larly for the dole like the others. It was
found that they did so, sheltering among the
minnow shoals. The experiment of using
the minnows as shelter shoals for the young-
fry has solved the problem of releasing the
trout fry into the lake.
* * * *
“Scopax” : Ants aren’t: —-no pun intended —
the only members of the animal kingdom to
set limbs and conduct other surgical opera-
tions. It has long been accepted that the
snipe and his cousin the woodcock are past-
masters at setting legs and wings broken by
shot, the birds having been found later to
have encased the broken part in a cement
of down and blood with saliva, which sets
hard in the same way as a plaster of Paris
casing on a broken human’s leg. Many
animals, notably dogs, will perform drastic
amputations on themselves or their friends
as a means of release from traps.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”; Talking of lost reefs, I
found a great show myself once —the bed of
a little sandy creek that glittered like a
jeweller’s shop. I didn't know anything
about gold then, but after I had done some
digging my thoughts kept wandering to that
little creek. At last. I went back, and found
it still as I had first seen it —glittering with
mica.
“THESE ARE MINE"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There was a time I kept a pub,” said Joe,
“and might have made a hit,
Like lots of other fellows did, and sat
behind a tidy bit.
’Twas in the roaring goldfield days, when
thirst was thirst and biz was fine;
The only thing that queered my pitch was
that infernal ‘These arc mine.’
“I s’pose I always must have been an easy-
going sort of. cow.
And that’s the reason why,” said Joe, “you
see me trapping rabbits now.
I'll bet that many a chap has come a gutser
in the beer-pump line
Who didn’t promptly put his foot upon that
careless ‘These are mine.’
“It’s not as if you dealt in bread or meat,”
said Joe, “or kept a store.
It’s at your blooming risk (not his) you let
a bloke run up a score.
Some debts are good and some are bad, and
others you can’t quite define.
Rut anyone can whistle down the wind liis
cheery ‘These are mine.’
“I should have known there always comes
a time,” said Joe. “in mining camps
When richest claims will peter out and ever
slower grind the stamps.
Yet foaming pots and heartening nips it’s
none too easy to decline
To chaps who’ve spent their money free and
come at you with ‘These are mine.’
“Some poet laid it down,” said Joe, “the
saddest words he’d ever seen
In print or heard consisted of that little
phrase ‘It might have been.’
But had he been a struggling Bung who
toiled beneath a tavern sign
It might have wrung his heartstrings worse,
that even briefer ‘These are mine.’
“And when I gave it best at last and took
the knock,” concluded Joe,
“My lawyer had a dozen reasons why I
couldn’t make a go.
Bad times, bad debts and dwindling trade
had made me my estate assign,
He told the (Court. But, spare me days!
it all began with ‘These are mine.’ ”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAX. General Secretary; R. V. BOOTH.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
w
6
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dihectors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. llyan, Esq. I
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.11.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House.
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD.. Adelaide.
SMOKE-OH!
RECIPE.
“If the Australian gill wore more wool the nation
would benefit.”
This cure has been frequently mooted before.
It has always been perfectly clear
That the problem of keeping the wolf from
our door
Means keeping the wool on our dear,
ft- ft-
“ Given sufficient funds, scientists engaged in re-
search work would ultimately conquer every pest
that attacks the primary producer.”
Money being the rout of all weevils.
PARADISE LOST.
FIRST COMRADE: “Wouldn’t it be terrible if the Capital-
ists gave us everything we wanted without a fight!”
SECOND COMRADE: “Yes, and that’s just the sort of dirty
trick the swine would do!”
“The Federal Treasurer Is understood to be inter-
ested in ‘The World.’ ”
The people of Australia stopped him print-
ing money, but no one can stop him putting
money into printing.
ff- ft
CONSISTENCY.
“The coolie reported that the village shrew had
been eaten by a jungle tiger, but it turned out
that the animal was one of the Rajah’s pets.”
—“World’s News.”
Right to the last the shrew displayed
The ways in which her life was set.
The village life a Hell she made,
And then she vanished in a pet.
ft- ft-
“ Australia is getting its desserts.” — “Age.”
Well, it’s about time. We’ve been in
the soup long enough.
ft- ft
ANNOUNCING OUR NEW FEATURE.
The “Daily Moron” Scores Again.
The “Moron” —first in enterprise as in
news services, as per usual—-has pride and
pleasure in announcing the importation from
the U.S.A. of a mammoth consignment of
interrogation-marks. They are of the latest
design. (“The Yellowpress”) and are almost
imperceptible. The deal will enable us to
do justice to our exclusive sensations on
lines which were impossible while we
labored under the handicap of a limited
supply of these useful' adjuncts to deception.
As showing how the “Moron’s” latest ser-
vice to its readers will work out, an exclu-
sive story recently reached us from Poland
via Tokio (the item was originally lifted
from one of A 1 Capone’s Chicago papers)
to the effect that King George had had
influenza. Our headings almost write
themselves ■: —•
GEORGE Y. DYING?
Grave News from London.
Our brilliant article begins with a series of
interviews with Macquarie-street doctors on
the expectation of life of one of his
Majesty’s age (with photo, of typical royal
tomb inset). A history of plague epidemics
through the ages follows, the whole con-
cluding on a note of loyal optimism with
a stinging rebuke to foreign sensation-
mongers who would capitalise our beloved
sovereign’s afflictions for sordid gain.
An item that will interest another section
of our multifarious admirers concerns no
less a personage than the Supreme Pontiff.
Its authenticity is vouched for by an
anonymous stranger whom a member of
our staff chanced across in a bar.
RELIGIOUS SENSATION.
Pope Abandoning Vatican?
The exclusive story contains a thrilling
description by an eye-witness of the his-
toric Tiber-side fane (with photo, of Musso-
lini taking the salute from Fascisti at
Naples), and a special article (“Are the
Drains to Blame?”) by an ex-member of the
Water and Sewerage Board.
And now for a striking local example of
the enterprise for which the
“Moron” is renowned. Too
long has our Premier been the
butt of carpers. The time has
come, in the interests of the
“Moron’s” circulation in
N.S.W.’s Red Belt, to “give
him a show.” In proof of our
sincerity we have decided to
resort to an unusual device.
SUCCESS OF THE LANG
PLAN?
Moscow’s Idol Raises That
£100,000, 000?
The Double Cross, as it is
sometimes known (i.e., the
employment of no less than
two interrogation marks), is
rarely resorted to even in
stunt journalism. There is
justification for it on the
present occasion. The article
features (in addition to rak-
ing exposures of several citi-
zens previously unknown) ex-
clusive photos of our Premier
and tenants taken at his pala-
tial country seat, of dole and
lottery queues and typical
dole-drawers and lottery-in-
vestors, and of Comrades
Garden, Schelley and Johan-
son, with sub-titles in Gaelic,
German and Dutch—all com-
bining to make a truly
memorable display.
Watch out for our great
“Double Cross Issue” !
It will strike a new and
dignified note in Aussie jour-
nalism.
“A goat-owner in Cessnock has been fined for
allowing his goats to stray, and assaulting the pound-
k eeper. ’ ’ —“Su n.”
Evidently the poundkeeper got his goat.
SIGHTS OF SYDNEY.
The visitor was being shown round. “Ah,”
he said, “so this is your famous lottery
queue?”
“No!” explained the guide; “our lottery
queue is on the other side of the street.
This is the queue that has queued up to
watch the lottery queue.”
REGRET.
Her launch broke down. The maiden could
not win
4 kick from it, and so I towed her in.
That’s how we met. Since she has put to
rout,
My bank account I wish I’d toed her out!
ft ft
FROM THE DEPOSITIONS.
John Woop, 05, no occupation, was charged
with begging for rent-money.
Police-Constable Huddle said: “I saw
accused in George-street and. said to him,
‘This man (indicating prosecutor) informs
me that you have been pestering him for
rent-money.’ Accused said, ‘Well he owes
it to me.’ Prosecutor said, ‘Plow can I
owe you money for rent when I’m your
tenant?’ Accused made no reply, and, as
the crowd wms hostile, I arrested him for
his own protection. At the police station
I found a penny in his inner vest pocket.
In an outer coat pocket I found some rate
notices, a number of judgment summonses
and a Government Savings Bank book (old
deposit) showing a credit of £497 3s.
Percy Dole (prosecutor) said: “I am a
bookmaker’s clerk by vocation, but ceased
living by my wits some years ago when the
Child Endowment Act became law. I have
been accused’s tenant for over two years, and
have never given
him permission to
ask me for money,
lie owns other houses
in my street and is a
nuisance to the
neighborhood, always
passing the time of
day with people, and
coming into pubs
after a bit of coun-
ter-lunch when they
want to have a quiet
talk about the races,
and asking for what
he calls ‘a bit on
account.’ ”
To the Bench : “Yes,
your Honor, I have
smelt food on him on
numerous occasions.
I have seen his wife
in the butcher’s try-
ing to get dog's meat
on credit. I know
that lie has no dog.
I have never seen
him eating anything,
but it is common
knowledge that he is
a secret eater.”
Accused pleaded
guilty, and said he
was sorely tempted owing to hunger.
The P.M. said : “I take a serious view of
this case. If men cannot assemble in bars
and at the State Lottery office .without being
annoyed by the presence of landlords and
other undesirables, capital will be. diverted
from profitable industries and the economic
fabric of the country undermined. The
sentence will be six months’ hard labor, sen-
tence to be remitted if £lOOO is paid into the
State Treasury by the end of the week.”
* *
FORGE OF HABIT.
“Witness, who said she did washing for the
parties, admitted to having lost the cheque.”
From careless habits few arc free.
This laundress did not reck
About the money. In fact she
Went off and blued the cheque!
WITH HONORS.
Winning paper of a lad who sat for his
intermediate certificate: —
N. S. Wales lies on the E. coast of Aus-
tralia ; its politicians lie right and left.
The population is dense in the County of
Cumberland and a darned sight denser in
Ooulburn-street. Coal exists in many places
and is chiefly used as fuel for arguments
over wages. Engineers have succeeded in
throwing a bridge across Sydney Harbor, and
the cost has begun to make the taxpayers
wish they could find an expert to throw
it somewhere else. Canberra, originally in
New- South Wales, was built on the banks
of the Cotter River and the credit of-various
other banks. It is noted for its great
variety of trees, saps and Waterside Regu-
lations. N.S.W. exports wool, wheat, meat
and cricketers, when permission is given by
the Seamen’s Union. It is the oldest settle-
ment in the Commonwealth, and the most
reluctant of all to settle. Transport is
entirely controlled by a Trust under a set
of rules drafted by a man named Rafferty.
ft- ft
POLITICAL ECONOMY.
“I still bliv that th position can b retrieved.”
— “Sun” report of Scullin’s G.S.B. speech.
There seems to be scope for economy on
these lines :—-
P.M.: “Hon. mems. w’l c th’ Mins,
sinc’re in’ts eff’rts in st’nd’ng 4 sq. b'h’nd
f’rm’s. In m’k’ng 3 mil. £ avaTbl’ 4 d’str'sd
pr’m’ry pr’d’cs pres. Gov. d’m’nstr’t’d ’ts
reg’rd 4 w’lfre of b’ckb’ne c’nt’y. C’n
pr’v’s Gov. po’nt t rec’rd l’ke?”
Dr. E. P’ge: “Y’s ’n b’tt’r!”
P.M.: “C’nt!”
Dr. E. P.: “Can.”
J. Beas.: “U ouglit’r t’lk! Y d’d Br’ce
rush t L’nd’n w’n sto’sli’d t c’nsp’re w’itli
b’nk’rs ’n’ cap’tl’sts t h’mstr’ng Aus.”
Dr. E. P.: “Bli’ld le’dr p’rty 1. P» p’rty
n’l n’xt eleesh.”
J. Beas.: “As 4U, P’ge, b’g’st m’g tre’s’r’r
Aus. w’s ev’r curs’t w’th!”
Spcak’r : “Ord’r ! Unp’l’t’y lang. H’n
mem. m’st w’tlidr’w an’ apol.”
if. Beas.: “Sh’tup ! W’ut!”
Sp’k’r: “R’m’ve hon. mem.”
J. Beas.: “D’mn’bl c’nsp’rcy .sil’nce vo’ce
d’moc’sy. U R afr’d t h’r L’ng Pl’n. b’t ’CI
y’t swe’p Aus. oc’n oc’n. L’go arm, bl’sty’!”
“Plenty of good literature has been written in
prison.”
Naturally, the sentence being the basis
of all literary composition.
3f»
“Halfway through the operation the great surgeon
coolly paused, quenched his thirst with a limejuice
and then resumed his work on the unconscious
woman.” — “World’s News.”
In short, had a limejuice and sewed her.
STOP ME IF YOU’VE HEARD IT.
“Late again—same old tale!”
“No, late again—but new tale!”
“Tennis courts marked.”— Advt.
That’s only a side-line though.
V *
THE LAST SHOUT.
“English doctors advocate a law permitting volun-
tary euthanasia.”- — Cable.
“The wife’s worse than ever,” complained
the worried suburbanite. “Drove me half-
mad this morning with her nagging. I'll
have to have a drink.”
“Have one with me,” said his friend.
They had a couple. “Talk about your
wife!” groaned the friend. “Why mine
Here, have another, and I’ll tell you about
her.” So they had several.
Towards evening, as they .staggered home-
wards, they found themselves outside an
imposing building.
“I hate to think of the wifesh,” groaned
the worried one. “I’ll get hell to-night—
hie.”
“So will I,” said the other. Suddenly his
eye lighted up. “Why, we are right oppo-
site the Euthanasia Department-—inehi—
hie—tuted to shave —hie —needless human
slniff’ring; let’s have one.”
“You have—hie —one with me,” said the
sympathetic friend.
So they had one each.
NO HALF-MEASURES.
GRAND-DAD ( angrily ): “If you don’t wanter
listen ter me you kin leave the room!"
ARCHIBALD : “I am listenin’.”
GRAND-DAD: “Oh you are, are you? Then
you’re listenin’ wid wan car, an’ ’atin'
tart wid th’ other!”
IN GLOVES.
“Costs in the Field v. Field divorce suit are
expected to approach £40.000.’’
The sheep who browse on law will cat
Their full before this suit is over.
Rarely have they the lack to meet
With Fields that are so rich in clover.
CUP DAY, 1931.
Boldly he struts inhere others feebly grope,
His faith a torch that burns like flaming
youth;
Heart blithe and gay and bosom puffed with
hope —
An optimistic seeker after Truth.
■The meeting ends. There trudges slowly
back
.To his hotel a wiser, sadder bloke.
One without _ faith, hope, laughter or a sack —
A pessimistic punter, stony-broke!
H- ft-
Another name for it is Loonyfication.
ft- V-
“Stocks of wool held in Victoria at present amount
to 20,469,9551 b.”
So the politicians should have quite enough
to pull over our eyes again at the next
elections.


ŵ
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
(GERMANY)
CONCESSIONS TO AUSTRALIAN
BUYERS.
As a special inducement to Australian Buyers deciding to visit
this world-famed centre of 10,000 exhibitors, the Trade Fair
Authorities are offering a substantial rebate on all travelling
expenses to Leipzig. It is worth your investigation.
SPRING TRADE FAIR, embracing SAMPLES FAIR (Ceramics, Textiles,
China, Glass, Toys), ENGINEERING and BUILDING FAIRS, Commence
March 6, 1932.
Visitors will not experience the slightest difficulty with the language, matters of freight,
duties and banking. The Authorities of the Fair are always at hand to help courteously
and efficiently in business negotiations.
Full details gladly given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
For Economical Buying—go to Leipzig!
Missing Friends.
l_l AROLD DAGLEY GIBBS or D. SNOW-
DEN, of W.A., lately in Sydney, write
W. M. Nairn, Canberra, for money
held.
ELIZABETH ANNE GARD’NER, Deceased
MILNE, formerly a taxidriver
in Melbourne, or any person knowing
bis whereabouts, or that of liis next-of-kin,
is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
Re L. J. E. CUNNINGHAM, Deceased.
YY/’ILL DAVID RUTTER, the husband of
the late Harriett Rutter, formerly Cun-
ningham, or any of his children, please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hobart.
REYNOLDS.—IThe 1 The two children of KATH-
iV MRINE REYNOLDS, of Melbourne
(married name unknown), formerly of
County Clare, Ireland, will hear something
to their advantage if they eommuncatc with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY. 113
Queen Street, Melbourne.
tits®
t tf
f
&
v-<
4
m
§
I jess than 500 years ago,
everyone believed the earth
was jlat. They had been told
this so frequently that no one
thought there was any reason
to deny it ... Until 1497, when
two brothers named Cabot —
good men, and clear-headed
enough not to be bound by
prejudice or misled by unsup-
ported statements—were brave
enough to express their doubts.
So John and Sebastian Cabot
decided to settle the matter.
Says John, "It is no proof that
the earth is flat merely because
everyone says it is."
"No proof at all,” says Seb-
astion, "let's do a little ex-
ploration and find out for
ourselves” ....
So away they sailed from Bristol
and soon proved the popular
belief to be wrong.
• •
(6
let’s go and prove
that’s the spirit!
IT is surprising that, there are Still men and women in
Australia with the firm belief that this or that brand of
foreign petrol has some mysterious and unique quality
which makes it particularly suitable for their particular cars.
Yet they have never taken the trouble to put their belief to
the teSt of actual experiment. They go on using foreign motor
spirits, when one test of C.O.R would open for them a new field
of motor enjoyment and satisfaction . . . Why not make your
test to-day. Fill your tank with C.O.R and prove for yourself
that there is no finer motor spirit .... And remember that
every gallon of C.O.R you buy is another Step towards helping
Australia through. For C.O.R is half owned by your own
Commonwealth Government — you , as an Australian citizen,
are a shareholder.
It
99
MOTO
PIRIT
A fine Spirit . . and your own
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Victoria: Poolman Street, Port Melbourne, 5.C.7. Phone M 3261. Refinery: Laverton, Vic.
Sydney: 117 Pitt Street. Agents for Queensland, South Australia and Country Districts of New South Wales. DALGETY & CO. LTD.
C.1.15/3fi/31
SHADOW SHOWS.
The honest critic was placed in an ex-
ceedingly pleasant situation at the premiere
of Thring’s first all-Australia programme at
Melbourne Plaza last week. H'e had no need
to stint himself in the matter of approving-
adjectives. At. one shot the ex-purveyor of
American products has equalled if not bet-
tered his instructors. The notion that mak-
ing ffims is an esoteric mystery, the key to
which is held exclusively by the high-piiests
of Hollywood, was dispelled as soon as it
was seen that on the technical side there
was nothing to cavil at. Ihe pliotogiaphy
was excellent, the sound reproduction start-
lingly better than the American average, and
the Australian voices, whether they spoke
with the accent of culture or .colloquially,
seemed invented especially for the talkie
medium. It was a pleasure to listen to them.
The programme began with a native-bear,
Efftce Film’s sign manual, climbing up a
tree-trunk to eat gum-leaves. The quaint
creature received a popular ovation. The
shorts which followed were conventional
but technically flawless. In fact, present
writer has never heard mechanical music as
good as that provided by the Strad trio.
Australia’s most eminent writer of song-
hits, Jack O’Hagan, was then heard in some
of his own free adaptations of old masters.
The two big pictures were “The Co-re-
spondent’s Course” and “Diggers.” The
first-named, for which the scenario was
written by Monty Grover, editor of Sydney’s
new Labor paper, was an entertaining farce
in which sweethearts and wives get mis-
taken for each other, a despairing lover
attempts to throw himself into the sea,
private detectives burst into wrong rooms
and virtue ultimately triumphs. Donalda
Warne looked her part of a beautiful fiancee
arid acted well, and John D’Arcy was the
handsome hero. The lesser roles, taken by
well-known mummers, were admirably done,
and without the self-consciousness associated
with similar roles on the legitimate stage.
The audience was so unused to hearing
places like Flindcrs-street station, Franks-
ton and Portsea mentioned by the phantoms
of the screen that it was tickled beyond
description. “Diggers,” in which Pat Hanna
and George Moon, as Australian soldiers
mainly occupied in purloining rum and slap-
sticking the P>ritish Army, is good fun and
without sentiment, unless the rendering of
“Mademoiselle from Armentiferes” comes
under that category. The tail-end of this
picture struck a serious note and the photo-
graphy rose to the occasion. Thring’s next
tries will be awaited with interest.
* * *
Sydney Capitol has two R.K.O. pictures
this week. “Sweepstakes” stars Eddie
Quillan, who, in this critic’s opinion, is
capable of spoiling most good films—and
“Sweepstakes” is an exceptionally stupid
one. He alternates wide, boyish smiles with
glycerine tears and lugubrious voice and eye
effects, after the A 1 Jolson manner. As Bud-
die Doyle, jockey, he gets warned off for foul
riding. Courted in his heyday he becomes a
blubbering outcast after his fall. Only James
Gleason, his trainer, and Marion Nixon, his
girl, remain true. He comes‘down to being a<’
whispering tenor-waiter in a restaurant
where all the patrons are drunks; rehabili-
tates himself by riding a winner, and when
last seen is supervising his infant son’s
efforts on a rocking-horse. How the .firm
that perpetrated this rubbish came to turn
out “Kisses by Command,” which follows,
is a mystery. Ivan Lebedeff is a Czarist
officer who has been brought back from
the front to catch a female spy. He falls
in love with Genevieve Tobin, and is pursued
amorously by others before bowling out
Betty Compson, who, with a gang of assas-
sins, has been trying to rob him of the usual
papers. The merit of the picture is its
imaginativeness as a production. A whirl-
ing- phantasmagoria, representing the impres-
sion of a battlefield registered on the brain
of a charging cavalryman just before he
gets wounded, is masterly. Lebedeff repre-
sents a gigolo without giving offence. He
is put forward as another Valentino, and
there is something in the claim; he has a
poker face and he can smile at a female
admirer without simpering. Betty Compson
is a great little adventuress, as usual.
* # #
Maurice Chevalier is at Sydney Prince
Edward in “The Smiling Lieutenant.” The
music is by the “Chocolate Soldier” Straus
and very pretty. Chevalier makes play with
his smile and other attractions, and Claudette
Colbert, as Franzi, a Viennese orchestra-
leader, provides the remaining 'one-tenth
of the interest. Most of the flushes of
salacity which must originally have adorned
the talkie have been ironed out by the
censor, and what is left is very puerile
musical comedy. The lady-killing Chevalier
in the middle of an affair with Franzi gets
married by mishap to a rather unattractive
princess (Miriam Hopkins). Learning that
the titled lady reahlly luvs Chevalier, Franzi
virtuously gives him up, and, to boot,
instructs the wife in the art of sex appeal,
so that the latter towards the end of the
film bursts forth like a butterfly from
a cocoon of primness and captivates her
recently-acquired spouse. Staging is good,
photography is perfect, and Chevalier, the
complete answer to the flapper’s prayer, is
alone well worth the price of admission.
# * *
“The Spider’’ (Fox; Sydney Regent) tells
the story of a _ murder committed in the
course of a magician’s turn in a Broadway
music hall. The magician’s assistant,
a mind-reader who has lost his memory,
is accused of the crime. All looks black
against him—the victim is his hated uncle.
But his sister believes him innocent, and
the magician (Edmund Lowe) sets out to
prove him so. A seance is well done, and
there is some good character-acting by El
Brendel and Ruth Donnelly; but Lowe’s
commonplace voice is a weak point. The
mystery is solved in a long-drawn-out scene
which is saved from dulness by a clever
portrayal of emotion on the part of Howard
Phillips as the accused man. The episode
closes with the sister (Lois Moran) archly
hinting that Lowe has only to pop the
question and she’ll nab him.


EXHILARATING ADVENTURE
IN MODERN AMERICA!
ẁ
Right— Boarding one
of America's great
trains.
Abov New York’s 86-story Em-
pire State Building...tallest in the
world today.
Above —Fifth Avenue, New York
...fashion's boulevard, teeming with
the life of the giant metropolis!
M ASSES IN
people... masses in architec-
tural triumphs... America’s
cities offer absorbing Specta-
cles of new world life. Rival-
ing them in allurement are
scenic marvels that hold you
spellbound.
Bringing every point of inter-
est within easy reach, Amer-
ica’s railways make travel
simple to arrange, delight-
fully comfortable, most inex-
pensive. They provide a serv-
ice that is unsurpassed in all
the world.
Plan your visit to England to
include America... reached
on swift Matson Liners via
New Zealand ...Fiji...Samoa
and Hawaii to San Francisco.
A free illustrated booklet
will be gladly sent upon re-
quest. May we help you plan
your itinerary?
ẃ
to
:w«s
VV'fc, °
"•sV
"a,
s>x
» • ' S ■*••
V / A
*NSv‘
sfflwgSss^
ZEAL or GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTII
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vix
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE DY THE PRENCH
COVERNMENT
The jGnarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen-
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS it the
NAME or THE SPRINO
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
following statement defies contradiction ;
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
' complaints.
Stocked by all Leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the .eorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Sxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes*
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iV.S.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Cureier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd, 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
“Not a bite in
a bottle
McCaLlunts for t
me every time!''
(DTcdlums
(tliuskv
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROtIOH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSOIt & SON, Fremantle.
MACEARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is aiualgahiated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ẅ
£7,600,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON,
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world,
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN, £35,
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 12th November and 7th January
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 10th December
EXCURSIONS
To Honolulu, Rarotonga and Tahiti.
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING At
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: 87671. Tel.: Central 8393.


QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
no t . cx Ploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better
vehicle open to you than the press—
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
hrst choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane that has
issued a certificate of its Net Daily
circulation, and the paper that is a
proved result-getter. Bate cards, etc.,
from ’ ’
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON: Daily Mail Office,
t j _ Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St.
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
w
BRAKE
LINING
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
ŵ
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Full board from
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling
wm
mHmhmi
teams, sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SHORT-SIGHTED SHEEPMEN.
“Albyn”: A series of visits to shearing-
sheds has left me astounded at the careless-
ness with which wool is handled. Growers
will tell you : “It’s worth next to nothing, so
why trouble about it?” Worth next to
nothing! Rightly considered, it was never
more valuable to the country, and we should
not let a pound of it go to waste. “Don’t
class!” is even . advocated. “Roll up the
fleeces and pop them into the bales 'all in.’ ”
Perhaps this would be better than the slap-
dash, hurry-scurry methods now all too
common; but it would not be the right way.
It is not enough to blame the woolclasser,
where one is employed. Often his hands
are tied. Working for a shearing contractor,
he is not in touch with the owner of the wool,
and it is not his place to point out where
the owner is losing. It might be said that
at times the classer’s work consists of get-
ting up the clip well enough to keep the
shed in the contractor’s hands and his own
position safe.
At one shed I found the owner wearing a
pre-depression smile. He and his contractor
had been reading the tally board. “Best
shearing I ever had,” he told me. “Ten men
doing 1(100 a day ; 26 bales to the thousand ;
no-wool about, and only nine shed-hands at
that!” I followed him into the wool room.
He had not exaggerated. The wool was being
kept away, all right. It was flying right
and left, anyhow. I should have dispersed
that smile.
At another shed I asked permission of
the classer to examine the wool. “You’ll be
disappointed,” he said, giving it readily. His
fleeces were perfect, but when I moved down
to the pieces and belly wools I ceased to
wonder. “Doesn’t the owner care?” I asked.
“He might; but I can’t very well tell him.
The contractor is my boss, and I don’t want
to lose my job.” As we talked he drew
my attention to his four wool-rollers. They
had a lot. of fleeces awaiting their attention,
but were obviously doing their best. “They’ll
never get on this run again,” the classer
told me. “They try to do their work well,
not just to keep the wool away. The con-
tractor scowls whenever he passes their
tables. He hates to see a fleece on the floor.
It looks bad. for him.”
Of course I saw wool being handled credit-
ably ; in fact, in nearly every shed efforts,
sometimes very forlorn, were being made to
do the best job possible in the time allowed.
But why limit the time so mercilessly? And
this impression that wool is no longer worth
bothering about Accentuates the difficulty
of treating every section of tlie clip
thoroughly. Not unnaturally, a contractor
takes advantage of it further to deplete his
staff of shed-hands. It doesn't pay, they tell
you, to handle the wool thoroughly. One
may be sure that someone, probably a
foreigner, is going to profit by this careless-
ness.
PRAISE FOR THE BLUE LUPIN.
“W.P.E.” : Our district (Geraldton, W.A.)
has a better opinion of the blue lupin
(Lupinus pilosus ) than “Bad Australian”
(B. 30/9/’3l) expresses. It is not con-
sidered of much value as a green fodder, but
as a summer feed it is unsurpassed when
the plant is dry and the seeds are shedding.
Local instances have been recorded of 100
acres of lupins carrying 1000 sheep for
three months in the hottest period of the
year. Stock will not eat the lupin until it
is perfectly dry; then they will leave noth-
ing of plant or seeds. I have seen sheep
burrowing with their noses and scratching
with their feet in search of the seeds, and
for quality and condition you couldn’t beat
their mutton.
“Bad Australian’s” friend may have sown
another variety of blue lupins, Lupinus
angustifolius, which Westralians have found
totally unsuitable as a fodder. It is
ploughed in as a green manure. So keen
were sheep-farmers to get the blue lupin
proper that about three seasons ago the price
of a three-bushel bag wont beyond £5, and
hard to get at that. Lupins seem to do
best on medium-class land and require
little or no cultivation; in fact, the best
samples here can be seen growing on the
roadside. The method used in sowing is
to plough a strip of land about half a chain
Wide and leave a strip of the same size un-
ploughed and unplanted; and so on through-
out the field. When the pods burst the
seeds fly out a great distance and cover the
uncultivated area. Stock tread them into
the ground; they germinate the following
season, and so the whole area becomes self
sown.
Curiously enough, for many years the blue
lupin was gazetted as a noxious weed in
W.A. I know of a farmer who was in the
habit of pulling every lupin plant out of
his wheat crop. He has come to the con-
clusion that he should have destroyed the
wheat instead. The “West Australian,” to
encourage lupin-growing, offered prizes
amounting to £l5OO for the best results
obtained by growers, adopting an ingenious
points system. The competition was started
two years ago; names of winners and parti-
culars are to be announced shortly.
ENSILAGE IN W.A.
“Wescocky”: Most cereals and grasses
make excellent ensilage, and with increase of
stock ensilage is becoming more and more im-
portant in the Westralian wheat belt, if only
for weed-eradication purposes. On many
farms the Spanish radish has become a curse.
This pest quickly achieves maturity, and by
hay-cutting time is ready to scatter its seeds
in all directions. Wild oats is another early
seeder; this, like the radish, can only be
coped with by ensilage.
Expensive .silos are not necessary. Fodder
can be stored in a pit, a disused underground
tank or in a stack in the open; though,
these methods mean a little more loss
through wastage. Important points in mak-
ing ensilage are cutting the crop while it
is green and succulent, and speed in cart-
ing. Moreover, weights should be added
immediately. Stone is best, but sandbags
or stacked timber will serve.
BETTER SURFACE DRAINAGE.
“Agrarian”: Much of the soil of s.-w.
Victoria is of a close, puggy character, and
water does not pass through it readily.
Instead of draining away from considerable
areas which haven’t much fall the soil mois-
ture evaporates, and in places this has
caused the forming of hard-pans at about
Sin. to 32in. below the surface. On other
parts wo have the peculiar “Biscay” land, or
so-called crabholey country. The bumps and
hollows are certainly not due to action of
crabs. The lack of drainage causes the rise
of minerals to the surface, and their nature
is such that a fermentation takes place and
the ground swells and bursts; the crown of
the swellings is loose and open, having been
pushed up through surrounding clay. Small
bits of dolomite are to be seen.
In wet periods there are stagnant pools
which are quite milky in appearance. This
excess of magnesia is not wholesome for
stock. The correction, can be made only by
improving surface drainage. Careful shap-
ing of the lands is essential. Recently I
saw Tom Peach, of Elderslie, aged 73, using
a d.-f. mouldboard, and we agreed that it was
madness to have big disc ploughs go round the
field and leave no drainage ways, as many of
the younger men are doing. Tom’s four
sons went to the war. One returned. He
secured a settlement block, and then went
west to join his brothers, leaving Dad to
carry on; and so I found Dad ploughing.
Though he does not appreciate any lecture
from me about ill-ventilated soils causing re-
duction processes to occur, instead of oxida-
tion, and thus the formation of sulphides
from sulphates, he does know from actual
and long experience that a water-logged
soil gives bad crops and unhealthy pas-
tures.
In connection with the failures of super,
it seems to be forgotten that super, is as
much sulphate _as phosphate; if it is re-
duced to sulphide, which is toxic, then we
have an explanation of infertility. Apart
from conserving moisture, fallowing aims at
improving soil ventilation, but the principal
need of very large areas at present is better
surface drainage.
PULLING POWER OF DRAUGHTS.
“Booraby”: Draught-horses in the show
ring are judged on their points and general
appearance, never on their pulling power.
Yet pulling power is all important. Often an
ugly horse that would fetch but a small price
in a salcyard is worth more to a farmer than
the best-looking animal in his paddock. The
draught of good appearance, always easy to
sell, may not be worth his feed as a puller.
It is claimed that in a demonstration of
pulling the dynamometer at Wembley, Eng-
land, a shire horse recorded 50001 b.. and
that a pair attached to the instrument pulled
it to its maximum registering capacity of
over 80001 b. If some of the ribboned plough-
horses in our show rings were asked to
demonstrate their pulling power, they would
disappoint their admirers.
I remember when pulling contests were
common where teamsters gathered—horse
against horse and bullocks against bullocks;
and the champion pullers brought fancy
prices. Sometimes there was a contest in
pulling weighed loads, and the rivalry in
the wool and wheat seasons showed the
power and stamina of many a good team. In
Dec., 1922, Hugh Damont, with 14 horses,
drew 354 bags of wheat to Girral siding,
West Wyalong. The net weight was
29 tons 13cwt. 2qr., and the gross weight
(with waggon) 33 tons Gcwt., equalling
53251 b. per horse, which beats the Wembley
‘‘world’s record” pull. It must be remembered
that this feat was not an effort of a few
seconds but a sustained pull over miles of
bush roads. This is the nearest I have been
able to get to the actual pulling power of our
horses, and apparently the best of them,
tested on the machine, could more than hold
their own with the best in other parts of
the world. Probably not one of Lament's
splendid team would have got a place among
draughts in the show ring.
PIG-FARMING IN QUEENSLAND.
"Longo”: Whatever the case may be in
N. S. Wales (B. 21/10/'3l), pig-farming is
making real progress in Queensland. Rail-
way returns show that during the year
ended June 30 last there were trucked to
bacon factories from the South Burnett
district (Theebine-Nanango-Tarong-Proston
lines) 69,968 pigs, as compared with 58,949
the previous year—and it is quite safe to say
that not one per cent, of them had ever seen
any hotel or restaurant refuse. Why should
they when they are all bred and fattened on
dairy farms where there is ample separated
milk available and maize is grown in pro-
fusion?
Particulars of the number of pigs
treated in Queensland by United Provisions,
Ltd., are not obtainable, but the .Co-
operative Bacon Association treated 57,313
pigs in 1928-29, 58,743 in 1929-30 and 52,737
in 1930-31; the Darling Downs Co-opera-
tive Bacon Co. 69,438 in 1928, 75,162 in
1929 and 80,000 in 1930. In addition
Queensland meatworks have this year treated
85,064 carcases for export. Throughout the
coastal and semi-coastal areas dairying
and pig-raising are the mainstay, the output
of both showing consistent increase—and
are likely to continue doing so. Pig-farming
does prosper.
COPING WITH NUT GRASS.
“Kariboe”: In the Lockyer district (Q.)
a more drastic method of overcoming the
nut-grass trouble is employed than that out-
lined in B. 14/10/’3l. There the nut
grass penetrates to a depth of over two feet.
Harrowing will not shift the curse, and
ploughing only cultivates it; after a shower,
or if the ground is wet, the grass comes
through again next day. The Lockyer
method is to dig out the patch of nut grass
to a depth of about three feet and cart the
lot to the river. If a farmer sees nut grass
appearing in a neighbor’s paddock lie pre-
vents future trouble by digging a trench
about three feet deep along the edge of his
cultivation to act as a break.
Two youths set to dig out nut grass and
heave it into the river evolved an easier
way. Instead of carting the earth they used
a scoop. They shifted the patch of nut
grass right enough—but not far. Where
the earth had fallen off the scoop on each .
side a thick strip of grass sprang up. When
Dad saw the result he said —well, it doesn’t
matter what he said.
HARVESTING THE FRUIT CROP.
“Disc Harrow”: Preparations should be
made in good time. Excellent picking-bags
are made from bran-bags; they should be
open top and bottom, w’ith a stout strap
attached to the top two corners to go over
your shoulder. The bottom corners are
equipped with at stout wire hook, and when
in, use are hooked up to the straps. This
gives a half-bag size for picking into, wiiich
is quite large enough; when the fruit is
transferred to the cases the hooks are let
down, and the apples rolled out as gently
as required without taking the bag from
the shoulder.
When fruit is being picked to go straight
into market the same night, labor in many
cases can be saved by running up a packing-
shed somewhere in the orchard. In some
places all fruit has to be carted up to the
sheds beside the house, which, apart from
taking extra time, entails extra handling;
and that should be avoided. In the packing-
shed itself the benches should be looked at,
and re-lined if necessary with soft bags as
a protection against bruising. If there is
likely to be a large quantity of fruit passing
through, a simple grader working on the
gravity system is easy to instal and is well
worth while.
PASSION-FRUIT IN NORTHERN
N.S.W.
“Azac” : Passion fruit-growing on the North
Coast of N. S. Wales is just as profitable
as banana-growing—and that’s saying a heap.
The Sydney market is practically bare of
locally-produced passion-fruit from October
to December, and from May to July, and
as those are the seasons when the main
summer and winter crops ripen on the far
North Coast growers in those parts have
the Sydney market to themselves. The
highest prices realised throughout the year
are for passion-fruit marketed in early sum-
mer. The demand is greater then than
during the winter months, so growers would
be wise to devote most attention to the crop
that matures between October and December.
Pruning before the flowers appear will induce
a summer setting of fruit. Another point in
favor of the summer crop is that it is less
subject to “woodiness” disease —the bugbear
of passion-fruit production in recent years.
Nothing like full profits are being reaped
from passion-fruit on the North Coast at
present, mainly because it is almost invari-
ably treated as a side-line, chiefly by banana-
growers, whereas for best results passion-fruit
requires just as much attention as bananas.
Vines not given this requisite attention pro-
duce only partial crops of poor-quality fruit.
Earlincss in ripening should bo aimed at,
and the main factors affecting this point
are a sheltered northerly or easterly aspect
free from frosts, with relatively high and
uniform day and night temperatures. Good-
class sandy soils that arc well drained also
favor earliness.
Planting can be done on the North Coast
at the present time, although it might be
wise to wait till the dry conditions that have
prevailed for the past couple of months show
definite signs of breaking up. If irrigation
facilities are available, go straight ahead.
Plant out only disease-free, sturdy plants
and place them 20 feet apart ‘ in the
rows, which should be S feet apart.
Plant directly under the previously erected
trellis wires, using light sticks to lead the
vines up to the wires, which, on the North
Coast, should be six feet above ground level,
as the vines grow luxuriantly under the
semi-tropical conditions of those parts. Keep
all laterals pruned off till the vines reach
the trellis wires, and then allow one leader
to go along the wires in each direction until
it meets the leader from the adjoining vine,
when it should be “stopped.” Laterals will
then be thrown out all along these leaders
and will soon reach the ground. Spraying
and pruning for the control of brown spot
disease is very necessary.
The production of quality fruit is only half
the job. Portion of the profits is often
allowed to slip through the grower’s fingers
because of neglect to harvest his fruit at the
proper stage of maturity, or to grade and
attractively pack his produce.
TWISTED GREENHIDE ROPES.
“The Breaker”: They are easily made, and
if looked after will outlast plaited ones.
Here’s a simple way of making one with
three st. r.nds; four- or five-stranded ropes
can be improvised in the same manner.
Cure the hide, scrape all the hair off and
then cut out the strands—carefully, of
course. The strands ready, soak them in the
creek all night so that they will get
thoroughly soft. Meantime, pull up the dray
or buggy alongside something substantial —
a tree is all right—and jack up one of the
back wheels so that it will spin freely. Tie
the other back wheel to the tree to keep the
dray from being pulled away when twisting
the rope. Get the butt-end of a petrol-case
or other suitable timber, and bore three holes
the same distance apart and in a circle, and
large enough to admit of the strands pass-
ing through. Now get the softened strands
and tie one (so as to avoid slipping) to
one of the wheel spokes; the other end, with
the strand pulled fairly tight, will be fixed
to a weight—a coil of wire or a bag of
dirt. Now spin the wheel clockwise until
the strand is twisted as much as possible.
This done, take the strand off again, and,
without losing any of the twist, tie it to the
front wheel. Treat the other two strands
in the same manner.
Now remove the strands singly, and run
each through the holes in the ' board and
attach back on to the spinning wheel. By
spinning the wheel clockwise in the opposite
direction to the previous one, it will be
found that the strands will twist in together.
Twist well; in fact, twist until it is almost,
impossible to do so without unnecessary
exertion; and your rope is made. Allow it
to stay there all night and grease; a ring
can then be spliced on one end. If the
rope is stretched out and greased after use
it will last for years and stand all the
strain required.
THE USEFUL PEANUT.
“H.U.G.”: Peanut-growing as a side-line
should have the earnest consideration of
farmers where soil and climatic conditions
are favorable. Australia consumes more
nuts than it grows, and these are export-
trade possibilities. Under the new Canadian
trade treaty Australian-grown nuts are to be
admitted duty free, as against 2d. per pound
on all foreign-grown nuts, conditionally upon
Australia supplying Canadian requirements.
For the 12 months ended March, 1030,
(Continued on page 26.)


m ;
mm
■ ■
Tough....
Light
Resilient. . . .
Yielding elastically with every move-
ment of the foot. . . .close, but easy
fitting.... scfftly lined with leather
. . . .the Abbey Riding Boot
passed for hard wear and extra com-
fort. It has the Abbey curved upper
.... fitting over your instep arch with-
out any downward-dragging strain.
The insets at ankle are of stout elastic.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF... 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 254
e itol Bills
PETROL
1
L
'Perhaps You
Need New Plugs
Old or inefficient
plugs mean in-
complete combus-
tion wasted
power and petrol.
Fit a new set of
Pyrox-—note the
difference they’ll
make! Pyrox
Plugs are made in
Australia by
Bosch methods
and machinery.
You can buy no
better!
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly- Robert Bosch Supply and
Service Co. Pty.j Ltd.)
MELBOURNE.
FARMERS
F
o o o
RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stock breeding. Poultry.
Horticulture . Veterinary
... Notes Etc .... All in ..
THE AUSTRALASIAN
i ON SALE ALL STATES <3-
I
WII
...enjoy the voyage
on a fast 3Matson
liner from Sydney
ou
NEW ZEALAND
0-4 A
The three and a half
day run to Auckland
is made enjoyable
with music...dancing
...varied deck sports
...movies. Meals are
justly famous...state-
rooms commodious
and immaculate.
Fares are moderate.
Early Sailing Dates
Nov. 17, Dec. 8, Dec. 29
Ask for Information
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
/WATSON
LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Tel. 87981-8
Keep hopping md hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w
ẁ
THE
IIMITCn INSURANCE
U 11 1 IE U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsuranceseffected oil all classes of
— Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks Wool Merchandise,
■■ < Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Legal Notice.
TO ARTHUR LEE A BROTHER OF FLORENCE
MtJNDAY WHO DIED INTESTATE AT
CHRISTCHURCH IN NEW ZEALAND ON THE
28th NOVEMBER 1929 AND TO HIS CHILDREN
AND TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY THROUGH
OR UNDER HIM OR THEM.
PURSUANT to an order made on the 25th Sep-
tember 1931 by the Supreme Court of New Zealand
you are hereby called Upon to send in to the
undersigned on or before the 31st December 1931
your CLAIMS to the estate of the abovehamed
Florence Mundav failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 2Sth day of September,
1931.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
The Problem of Our
SURPLUS SHEEP
is being solved in
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
In 30 years the number of sheep in W.A. ha c
increased from 2,434,311 to 9,871,000 last
year. Our annual sheep surplus is roughly
820,000, and the export market in the United
Kingdom for lambs of a suitable type is
receiving the attention of breeders. Western
Australia has an advantage over the rest of
the Commonwealth competitors in this market
because our season is earlier and the distance
from the market shorter; in consequence, the
State is very favorably situated to attack the
market when its imports are at' the lowest.
Overseas export of our primary
products is helping the State to
prosperity all thfe time.
ADVERTISERS CAN COVER THE WHOLE
STATE BY USING THE COLUMNS OF THE
PERTH
big in size, circulation and
OUTLOOK.
imports of peanuts into that country totalled
26,035,'3851b., valued at £310,033.
Apart from market prospects, the peanut
is a useful fodder crop, particularly to the
dairy-farmer. The tops make good hay and
the nuts arc fine fattening food for pigs.
For the table the nuts, baked in the oven,
hulled. ,passed through a mincer two or
three times and salted, furnish a paste which,
when eaten with bread, has the same sus-
taining qualities as a meat diet.
The bulk of our peanuts are grown in
Queensland and the N. Territory, but I cau
see no reason why they should not be grown
in the coastal and irrigation areas of N.S.W.
or parts of Victoria. They do best on a
light sandy loam with good moisture-retain-
ing capacity. The soil should not be ploughed
too deeplysix or seven inches is ample.
Keep it loose, and hill up slightly when
flowers are well set. Harvesting should
take place in about four months. The best
indication of maturity is when the leaves
discolor and show black spots. Virginia
Bunch is the best variety to grow, as there
is no digging required, the plant being pulled
up with the nuts in a cluster underneath.
They should remain out on the field for
three or four days to dry, being either stacked
round stakes or hung on wires, and then
removed to the barn ; here a vigorous shake
will remove the mature or saleable nuts, the
immature nuts remaining on the plant.
Before bagging, they should be spread out
in the sun for another three days to remove
surplus moisture.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Treatment for greasy It evils just develop-
ing in a dranght-liorse? —6s72.
This is frequently very difficult to treat.
Consult, a vet. or communicate with the
Stock Branch, Department of Agriculture,
Sydney, stating whether the skin in the area
is soft, wet and red, or whether it is hard
and thickened. Also whether the horse is
working on the land or accustomed to road
work.
(1) Porkers weighing 60 lb. to 90 lb. are
selling here at 4i \d.' per Ih. What, would he
a fair price per lb. to the grower for slips
30 lb. to 40 lb. (2) lam feeding pigs on
boiled, arrowroot bulbs, molasses and milk,
and a bit of cow-cane for green feed. What
would help this ration? Would kale be good
for green feed, and sweet potatoes better
than arrowroot? (8) What is the feed
value of marigolds?— 636o.
(1) Ten shillings to 12 shillings per head,
with a shilling or two more for outstanding
quality. (2) Kale is a good green food.
Sweet potatoes are somewhat similar to
arrowroot in feeding value, but there is no
necessity to boil them, so there is a saving
of labor and fuel. (3) They have a good
value when fed with grain or milk.
Best way of fattening turkeys? —6396.
In addition to wheat or wheat and maize,
it is a good plan to give a bran-and-pollard
mash mixed with skim milk for three or
four weeks before the birds are sent to
market. The inclusion of maize-meal or
wheat-meal in mash to the extent of 15 or
25 per cent, is also beneficial when these
foods can be obtained at prices comparable
with wheat offal.
What N.S.W. wood is suitable for making
wine-casks, in 'which J intend to keep a small
quantity of home-made wine? —6465.
No suitable N.S.W. timber is known The
only Australian timber used is Tas. black-
wood, but more often oak imported from
Europe.
Can a tabic pepper be made from the com-
mon peppercorn-tree? If so, when should
the berries be picked and method of treat-
ment?—6472. .
No. Table pepper is made from the dried
fruits of Piper nigrum, a tropical climbing
shrub. Our pepper-trees are a totally dif-
ferent kind of plant, and are not true pep-
pers. Their fruits possess properties very
different from pepper, and unpleasant results
might follow their use as a condiment.
(1) Prospects of a job as dairy Supervisor
in Vic.? (2) Any school in Melbourne that
coaches for exams.? (3) Fees? (4) Any
likelihood of exam, being held this year■
(5) lloic long would it take an experienced
dairyman to prepare for exam,? —6553.
(i) Very slight at present, owing to finan-
cial position. (2) Central Business College,
151 Collins-street. (3) £2O. (4) No. De-
partment says exam, unlikely for a long
time to come. (5) Four to six months.
HINTS FOR TITE FARM.
“Junee” : Many an unexplained bush-fire
may be traced to that stump or tree you
left burning at the end of winter. The roots
often burn underground for several weeks;
should one of them run to the surface in
dry grass, away goes the fire. It will pay
to* flood these holes and quench a possible
fire.
“H.W.M.”: If you are a Queensland
sheepman or cattleman, and _ you want a
cheap and efficient firebreak in large pad-
docks, take a mob of your best-conditioned
stock —something over 100 head of steers or
300 wethers the more the better —and give
them two rounds of the paddock when grass
is green, keeping them well in on the fence
(there is no need to do it all in one day).
You can drop your match about a week later
when the trodden grass is dry, and you have
a good break. Another tried method is to
give a dressing of super, to the boundaries,
and thus encourage stock to make the break
unaided. „
“Valerin”: The boom in the fat-lamb
industry is bringing a lot of mongrel-bred
rams into the saleyards. I was at. a Riverina
sale when a pen of Dorset Horns was put
up. An old Victorian breeder said to me:
“I’ve been breeding Dorsets for nearly 20
years, and if these things are purebred, I
wonder what the blazes I’ve been breeding!”
Buyers should insist on guarantee of purity
from the selling agents.
“Golightly”: The early autumn lamb
stands alone as a fat sucker, but in my part
of N. 8. Wales it is a fortunate farmer who
can get his first-cross ewes to mate in
Nov.-Dee. Though my trials in this have
been persistent, I have not had much suc-
cess, so I adopt this plan. Always having
on hand a flock of crossbred ewes. I buy
off shears five-year-old plain-bodied merino
ewes, and join Dorset Horn rams with them
on November 1. These sheep give a big per-
centage of early-autumn lambs. In July I
truck both mothers and lambs to market.
They always show a good profit, and their
disposal clears the paddocks for the cross-
bred ewes, which in July are lambing freely.
“Reefo”: Barbed-wire is bad stuff to
handle in a fence. It takes a lot of strain-
ing by hand to ensure a taut wire. Here’s
a safe method of taking up the slack without
danger to the hands. With pliers catch hold
of the wire between the barbs and give a
half-turn. Do this along the nanel until
the wire is sufficiently tight. Barbed-wire
in a fence treated in this manner will keep
taut for ages, unless interfered with by stock
or the posts rot out.
“H.11'.W.”: Touching lucerne dust. <B.
29/7/’3l). The Americans have a process
of grinding the cured hay. when dry. into
a fine meal resembling pollard. In this
form lucerne hay can be, economically fed
to pigs—probably the only form of livestock
that would repay the expense of grinding.
“Dimon”: Graziers who arc usually hard
hit by droughts should take a hint from
Buttabone and Bundemar stations (N.S.W.),
which are famous for their myall plantations ;
and from Mungeribar, where large plots have
been planted with kurrajong.
“Mulgo”: Kangaroo greenhide is useful
for many purposes for which cowhide is too
heavy. To prepare it, roll the skin into a
tight bundle and bury it in sand. In a
couple of days the hair will scrape off easily.
Then peg out, and brush over now and again
with vinegar, using about a pint altogether.
Afterwards hang the hide in a shed for two
or three months before using.
“Disc Harrow”: The planting of orna-
mental hedges along the frontage of the
orchard may give the place a better look, but
in several cases I know the fruit trees next
to them are suffering. Some ornamental
trees are great robbers of moisture. If you
decide to plant one of these luxuries, be
prepared to dig a trench and keep the roots
cut on the orchard side.
“Karaway” : Some farmers when selecting
seed maize pick the grain that is grown on
red cobs or cores, but in the crop there seems
to be the same proportion of whites as when
no selection is made. Apparently, there is
no superiority in the red over the white, and
plant food is the determining factor in the
color, even though both colors occur in the
same stool.
“Esau”: Directions for making the best,
plant insecticide I know. In a kero.-tin
heat 41b. common soap (cut into small
pieces) with a gallon of water until a
perfect solution is obtained. Into another
tin pour 2gal. of kerosene, and into this
slowly pour the soap solution, churning all
the time with a flat stick; the result will
be a perfect emulsion. For use on scale
insects dilute with nine parts of water; on
ordinary insects, 15 parts of water; on soft
insects like plant lice, 20 to 25 parts of
water.
. “Emerald (C.Q.)”: Dry pentoxide will kill
the zamia-tree, which in Queensland and
W.A. causes rickets; but many cattle have
died from pentoxide poisoning. After rain,
the dead damp leaves give off a smell which
attracts cattle; they eat the branches
and lick out the stumps where the poison has
been placed. Stock should not be allowed to
graze in any paddock where pentoxide has
been used, either for zamia-tree or pear or
burr, until a fire has cleaned up any chance
of poison being left.
“Bufforp”; After the incubator equip-
ment is finished with for the season, give, it
a scrubbing out with brush, soap, and disin-
fectant. The machirfe should then be left
open for a month to dry off and let the
odor escape. Prior to starting again, place a
saucer of Condy’s crystals in it, wetting
them with formalin and shutting it up for a
day. Wash out with pure water before the
eggs go in. Leaving or restarting a dirty
maclxihe is folly. Don't forget to boil the
lamp-burner as well; clear burhing ensures
even heating.
“Small Cocky”: The use of fair-quality
bags should be insisted upon. I lately
bought a ton of pollard and bran, and lost
the best part of 10 bushels between truck
and feed bins; there wasn’t one sound bag.
Wheat for the poultry now comes in mended
and threadbare bags that lose grain at every
movement. Even the cliaffbag is weak and
patched. Admittedly the product does not
bring its old price, but careless packing
methods are not fair to buyers. My
second-hand bags used to bring a fair price;
now the “baggy” won’t look at them —they re
not safe for potatoes even.
“Pick”: Carefully stripped and prepared,
any gum-tree bark makes good roofing or
wall material for the shed. Loosen the
bark on the log or tree-trunk by tapping it
all over with the maul or back of the
axe; then shove it off without undue force.
While it is quite green scorch the sappy
side over a fire till a charcoal is formed on
the inner surface and the sheet flattens out.
They will not curl afterwards, but to pre-
vent warping should be packed and weighted
until well seasoned.
“Karaway”: Here is a simpler way of
fitting the ends of rafters than “Pick” de-
scribes (P». 21./10/’3l). Say the building is
24ft. wide, height of ridge-pole 6ft. Take a
straight-edged board, and, using a 4ft. to lin.
scale, draw a Gin. line across it with a square,
and from the centre of that line a 14in.
vertical line. Then draw a line, representing
the rafter, from the top of the vertical line
to the end of the base line. AH that is
necessary then is to set your bevel by the
angles at top and bottom and cut the rafters
by the bevel.
“Geoloin”; When stuck for a packing-
needle, try the key used for opening pre-
served-meat tins. Cut off the shank and
sharpen the point; the eye of the key is the
eye of the needle. The key also makes an
excellent bodkin, and at a pinch can be used
as a fish-hook.
“Sheepo”: Drenching will cope with
worm trouble in sheep; but keep at least one
paddock free from stock and_ when the
grass is drv enough burn it. Give the pad-
dock a spell then for 12 months and turn
in the jumbucks. Treat the other paddocks
in the same manner. Worm trouble will
then b‘c reduced to a minimum.


Our Service Department
r l his page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
\\ anted to Sell’’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Stenograplier-typi>t, Sydney, wants position in
offlce, or as secretary-companion. —6631.
Returned soldier, Sydney, married, commercial
exp., wants employment.—6632.
Frenchman, Sydney, married, carpenter and joiner,
.vants employment town or country.—662o.
To buy books or correspondence courses on window-
dressing and ticket-writing.—6697.
To buy first edition of Kipling’s “Departmental
Ditties.” —6635.
Words of poem written about Donn Byrne shortly
after his death.—6636.
Words of “A Gentleman of France” and “Devil
May Care.” —6622.
Information Sought.
Where a dispute arises betivcen two coun-
tries which are not members of the League of
Nations could the League insist that they
refer the dispute to it? Is it possible that
the League would intervene?— 6s43.
The League has no power to intervene in
disputes between nations that are not
members. The International Court of Justice
is open to States not members of the League
on condition that they deposit with the
Registrar a declaration accepting the juris-
diction of the Court, and undertaking to
carry out in good faith its decision, also to
pay a share of the expenses involved.
How much would it cost to have a deed of
gift drawn up by a Sydney solicitor? Would
such a deed have to be registered? Cost
of registration ? —6540.
Costs depend on work done, and stamp
duty on the value of the property, if realty.
If the gift is one of personalty, say a motor-
car or'furniture of a house, registration is not
needed.
A father and two sons are thinking of
starting a small tannery in a N.S.W. coun-
try town. What do you think of their pros-
pects?—6462.
Entirely a matter of capital, knowledge of
tanning and of the requirements of the dis-
trict, and of the possession of business
ability. In a way the small country tannery
is much more difficult to run than a big city
one, and £2OOO will not go far in the pur-
chase of plant.
(1) Did Governor Macquarie have any
children? (2) If so, did any of them settle
in Australia? (3) Did any of them achieve
any distinction? —64s3.
(1) One son, born in Sydney, 1814. (2) No.
On Macquarie’s return to England, the son
entered the Army. (3) In a. paper read
before the lioyal Australian Historical
Society, Sydney, some few years ago, he is
described thus: “Of young Lachlan, Mac-
qunrie’s heir, the less said the better for
his memory. He was blind to the bright
example of proud parents; obstinate and
wilful, he incurred parental displeasure; his
dissipated career as a young man broke a
mother's heart; his graceless drunken bouts
terrorised a young wife; he met with death
one night after a carouse witli Lord Strath-
allan, a partner in his debaucheries, by fall-
ing from the landing down a staircase in
his own house.”
I am considering starting a typewriting
bureau and school of typing in Melbourne.
(1) Chances of success? (2) llow many
bureaus are there in Melbourne? (3) What
are the necessary steps to be taken to ensure
a solid foundation for such a business ? (4)
Would we be permitted: to type our own
advertising matter? (5) Amount of capital
required? —6292.
(1) Depends on personal qualities. It
is important to acquire a reputation for
reliability, speed, quality of work and abso-
lute discretion. (2) At least 19 schools and
bureaus. (3) Thorough and constant
canvass of the immediate neighborhood, cir-
cularising, studying tho market, ascertaining
every single type of organisation that has
stencilling or typing work done and going
after it—sports clubs of all kinds, big and
small; social and political organisations of
every type. Get the work, and do it so
that they will come again. (4) Can't say.
It is possible the use of a machine such as
the niultigraph would bring you under the
printing trades awards. (4) About £lOO,
apart from plant, such as niultigraph, type-
writers, addressing machine, etc.
My Chrysler 1927 model car ceased firing
due to a faulty condenser. I disconnected
the condenser and the car runs just as well
icithout. (1) Why use a condenser? (2)
lhe actual purpose of it? (3) Will it do
any harm to run without? —6429.
n, • (**) condenser is necessary on
the ignition circuit to act as a brake on the
now of current flowing- through the ignition
points, otherwise it would arc across the
points causing them to pit and burn. The
now- ot current, instead of being wasted by
arc-ing, is diverted into the condenser, which
acts as a small storage battery. (3) Yes.
he car will run better and your expendi-
ture on plugs will be smaller if you instal
a condenser.
Many Australians hare held the
n°i.i aeavyweight boxing championship,
. 11 },ot Australians have held the
-—6540 m ™dkweight boxing championship?
K.. B ' ,l L Fit^immons ’ bor)1 >" Cornwall and
Drought up in Maoriland and Australia, was
the only boxer from this end of the world
• graduate as a world’s champion. He held
Um middleweight title from 1891 to 1897.
J eaiyw eight honors from 1597 to 1899 and
iQo- IS T ie ?^ y "eight crown from 1903 to
P, V;,. iXi s 'Darcy defeated McGoorty, Chip,
', an . <l -Murray— representative Anieri-
s- during the war years, hut overseas
authorities declined to recognise his right
to the middleweight title.
(1) What family do the orioles belong to?
(2) flow many species are there in Aus-
tralia? (3) What arc their habits? —6618.
(1) Oriolidw. (2) Two: the green oriole,
found in the eastern and northern parts of
the continent, and the yellow oriole, con-
fined to the North. (3) They frequent forest
country, and live principally on bush fruits,
but also devour insects. Their notes are
varied and melodious, and they imitate the
songs and calls of other birds. Their nests
are neat, cup-shaped structures suspended
from the forks of horizontal or drooping
boughs. The eggs are from two to four in
number, white, with dots and blotches of
various shades of brown.
(1) What duty is payable on books im-
ported from overseas by a bookseller for sub-
sequent sale? (2) Can, an importer of boons
demand that a parcel confiscated for alleged
obscenity be destroyed in his presence? (3)
Can he arrange to have the books returned
to the firm from which he purchased them?
—ii493.
(1) Ten per cent, primage and 6 per cent,
sales tax. (2) No legal right, but it is not
likely that the department would object. (3)
Such applications are dealt with on their
merits.
In 1024 I advanced £2OO as second mort-
gage on a N.S.W. property for three years.
At the termination of that period 1 verbally
agreed to continue to accept the same rate
of interest (10 p.c. ) without renewing the
mortgage. The interest for last quarter is
not paid. / am out of employment and hard
up, and the mortgagor is a civil servant with
a good salary. What is my position under
the ~N.fi. 11'. Moratorium Acts? —6443.
You can do practically nothing. The effect
of the recently-passed Moratorium (Amend-
ing) Act has been, according to a legal
authority, to “abolish the right to sue for
interest.”
I have a life-insurance policy, and have
been paying premiums for five or six years.
To date I have not received a bonus, and
wanting, to place the money to better advant-
age I recently wrote the company asking
for information as to the surrender value of
the policy or its value as a fully-paid-up
policy on which I would have no further
premiums to pay. It replied stating that
until I had attained the age of 21 it could
not advise me. I have my parents' permis-
sion to surrender the policy, and should like
to know where I stand. —6557.
The co.’s attitude is legally correct, pro-
vided that it was not one of the provisions
of the policy that, you could at any time
surrender it at a stipulated value. If that
is the case the co. must carry out that
undertaking.
A youth interested, in zoology would like
an appointment as a cadet in an Australian
zoo. Would he have to work as a keeper?
How arc Australian curators .of zoos
appointed? Are they university-trained or
do they graduate in practical zoo. work? —
6537.
The practice at Taronga Park, Sydney,
is to select suitable youths, aged about IS,
and train them to become officers. A uni-
versity training would assist so far as the
treatment of animals is concerned, but it is
found that it is best to give officers prac-
tical training. Keepers and gardeners are
also appointed, generally at the age of 16
or 17, and go through a full course of five
years’ training in gardening and the care
and attention of animals. No vacancies
exist in either branch at present.
I am an Australian buekjump rider
and a boomerang-thrower. Would I be per-
mitted to enter the U.S.A. for exhibition
purposes, and if so under what conditions?
—6477.
You would have to show that you have
an unabandoned home outside the U.S.A.,
and that your visit is of a temporary nature.
Call at American (Consulate, Brook House,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Is it possible to photograph a scene lit up
by sheet lightning? If so, how should I set.
al ou t it ? —6479.
Yes. The most satisfactory method is to
place the camera on a tripod, focussed on
the .scene t 0 be photographed. The shutter
is left open, and impressions from several
flashes are collected.
(1) Tinder wliat conditions may an Aus-
tralian enter the American Samoan Islands?
(2) Is landing money or proof of having
obtained employment there necessary? (3)
Fares, and how often do boats sail? —6497.
(1) and (2) No documents are required,
or proof of means. (3) Matson liners call
there regularly. Get, in touch with the Syd-
ney agent.
What is the legal status of tenants in
common ? —6451.
A tenancy in common arises where two
or more hold the same land under (o) dif-
ferent titles, ( b ) under the same title, but
at different periods, (c) or conferred by
words to the effect that the shares are to
he distinct. There is unity of possession
hut not of ownership, thus enabling one
holder to dispose of his share irrespective
of the other holder or holders.
I wish to hawk fruit in a Sydney suburb
using a horse and cart. Must I secure a
license? Cost and conditions? —64s4.
The State law requires no license, but the
municipal authority of the district in which
you intend to trade may do so. Consult it.
I wish to make a design and stencil it all
round the trails of a room. (1) How is it
done? (2) What materials shall I need?
—6579.
(1) A design is cut in oiled stencil paper,
or stencils can be bought ready cut. The
design should be cut with au overlap so
that it will repeat exactly. (2) In addition
to stencil paper and a knife, about half a
dozen different-sized stencil brushes, oil
colors to carry out the design chosen, some
turps and a fitch brush to touch up small
details.
Would the F. and O. co. accept tico un-
accompanied children us- passengers to Eng-
land in one of its liners? —048(1.
Yes, provided it can be proved to the
satisfaction of the London office that the
children will be met and cared for on arrival
in England.
Is it harder to drive an eight-blade lawn-
mower than a ten-blade one of the same
width and make?- —038!).
No extra power is required, but the user
of the eight-blade machine must walk a little
tfaster to run the machine at its most efficient
speed. The accurate adjustment of the
mower is the main factor of importance.
What wage is a general mechanic doing
all classes of repairs and maintenance work
in a Sydney suburban garage entitled to?
He is over 21 years , of age and teas never
appren tiecd. —oso2.
Motor mechanics in N.S.W. are covered
by the Engineers’ State Award, under which
the wage is £5 4s. Od. per week. Clause
10 of the award as varied June 20. 1080,
exempts a member of the Metal Trades
Employers’ Association or of the Motor
Traders’ Association of N.S.W., condition-
ally on his observing any Federal award
applying to bis employees.
(1) Can the art of story-writing be
■acquired? (2) What course of study and
training is necessary? (2) Is such a course
available for home study? —o434.
(11 Given natural aptitude, yes. (2)
The only way to learn any art is, to practise
it. Extensive general reading is usually a
help, but the main thing is to write, and
keep on writing. (3) Almost everv corres-
pondence school conducts a course in short-
story writing, and there are various books on
the subject. These are more of a help in
marketing than in writing.
(1) What country is foremost in the use
of wind for power? (2) Has any serious
attempt been made to use wind for power,
apart from pumping, in Australia? (8)
Names of books on the subject? —63B7.
(1) Holland and Germany. (2) Very
little has been done. One or two firms, how-
ever, have pi’oduced apparatus. (3) Refer-
ences are scattered throughout engineering
literature. See also “The Use of Windmills
for the Generation of Electricity,” Oxford
Clarendon Press (1926).
(1) Who named the Yarra? (2) What
does “ Yarra ” mean? —6619.
(1) John ITelder Wedge, surveyor. (2)
It was Wedge’s belief that it meant “flow-
ing” in abo. dialect. Recent research shows
that the native name of the river was Birar-
rang. Among the Upper Murray tribes
“Yarra” meant “gum-tree”; in Gippsland,
on the lower Lachlan, and in some S.A.
areas, words containing “yar” mean “water”
or “creek.”
(1) Will a pass in English, mathematics I
or 11, mechanics, physics and chemistry in
the N.S.W. leaving-certificate cram, entitle
me to enter the faculty of engineering at
London Uni.? (2) Is it necessary to pass
in a second language such as French for an
engineering matriculation? —6446.
(1) That’s a matter for decision by the
Uni. London recognises the Adelaide senior,
the Melbourne leaving and W.A. leaving certi-
ficates, but makes no mention of N.S.W. (2)
The Uni.’s regular matriculation standard is
a pass at one and the same sitting in Eng-
lish, mathematics, Latin or Greek or science
and two further subjects. If neither Latin
nor Greek has been taken one of the other
subjects must be a language other than
English.
I am having a motor-caravan made in
N.S.W. to be used by me for holiday and
camping pur poses and not for trade. (1)
Registration fee? (2) Must I comply with
any special set of regulations? —64o9
(1) Ordinary motor registration fee. £l,
and tax at the rate of 2s. 9d. per half-
hundredweight if the chassis is foreign and
2s. 3d. if the chassis is British. (2) Con-
ditions in Schedule F of the N.S.W. Motor
Traffic Regulations.
I am thinking of making my lad a com-
mercial traveller. What qualifications and
training should he have? —6501.
He must possess salesmanship, ability and
personality, and a good knowledge of ware-
housing, marketing and finance, and, most
importantly, a thorough knowledge of the
goods he is selling. Usually a traveller
begins his career in such capacity after hav-
ing spent .some years inside the warehouse
of a wholesale distributor.
(1) What wages does a weighbridge clerk
at a N.S.W. wheat-silo receive? (2) When
do they start such work and how long does
the work last? (3) Are vacancies filled from
within the railway service or from without?
•—-6505.
(1) 13s. 9d. to 14s. 3d. per day. (2) The
season covers November to February. At
individual stations the work lasts' about six
weeks. (3) Railway porters are employed,
and requirements are being met from the
existing staff.
(1) What are cost accounts? (2) Is the
service of a cost accountant necessary to a
large manufacturing business? (3) At what
age can persons sit for the examinations con-
ducted by the Australasian Institute of Cost
Accountants? (4) Would persons of the
necessary educational qualification be exempt
from, sitting for the preliminary exam.? (5)
Dates of exams.? —66l7.
(1) They deal with the direct administra-
tion of manufacturing and retailing, and
though partly based on trading records and
accounts are distinct therefrom. The object
is to show clearly whether a particular
department or class of product is profitable
or unprofitable, and where there are leak-
ages of profit. (2) The advice of a com-
petent cost accountant is invaluable to pro-
prietors in forecasting the future activities
of the business and eliminating guess-work
in quoting prices and assessing manufactur-
ing costs. (3) Eighteen for the entrance
exam; 21 for the membership exam. (4)
Yes. (5) The intermediate and final exams,
are held in March and September, commenc-
ing approximately on the first Monday of
each month.
Brief Answers.
W.H.H.: Tt would bo more satisfactory if
you got in touch with the Dept, of Agriculture,
Port Moresby, Papua K.M.A.: (1) The set of
“Apostle” silver spoons which changed hands at
Christies’ a while ago were of figures other than
the apostles, representing the Lord, St. Peter, Queen
Elizabeth, David, Judas Maccabteus, Joshua, Alex-
ander the Great, Charlemagne, Hector of Troy, Julius
Osar, King Arthur and Guy of Warwick. (2) 1582.
. ...P.W.: (1) A kind of pencil fitted with a shaft
of silver instead of the usual one of lead. (2) In
exactly the same way as an ordinary pencil drawing,
only they are more delicate and hate a soft greyish-
silvery finish. ... J.D.: The A'.S.W. Moratorium
Act applies only to “a lease of land containing an
optional or compulsory purchasing clause.” It is
possible that provisions of the Agricultural
Lessees’ Relief Act 1931, which could be obtained
from the Govt. Printer, Sydney, might help you.
. ...W.G.E.: Little, if any, chance. The provision
referred to was not made, specifically, retrospective.
. ...L.S.: He could sue for the rent. In the event
of judgment being given in his favor and execution
following, but failing to satisfy the debt, an act of
bankruptcy would be constituted... .G.H.M.: In the
case of lands and buildings not leased on June 30,
1930, the Act docs not apply unless the lease was
entered into earlier than three months before its
commencement N.L.W.: (1) See St al l's “Cement,
Concrete and Bricks” (355. (id. posted) and Dobson's
“Bricks and Tiles” (Bs. posted), X.S.W. Bookstall
Co., Sydney. (2) From £2 Bs. to £3 per 1000
plus (i per cent, sales tax, ex yard CAE.U.: Gold
was discovered at Mt. Browne (X.S.W.) in February,
1881. T. H. Browne was not Warden at Wilcannia.
Mt. Browne appears to have been named after Dr.
J. H. Browne, by Sturt.... J.B. : Reynolds, florist,
Rowe-street, Sydney, 4s. per pound, postage extra.
They are made of paper, and a large number run
to the pound. . . .D. 8.: There are two sorts of tomato
wilt—spotted, or bronze wilt, and fusarium. Diff-
erent methods must be used in their prevention.
Leaflets are obtainable free from the Agriculture
Dept., Sydney N.H.: Write T. and B. Co., 05
Johnston-street, Annandale; or Manley, Ferrari and
Co., Newtown-street, Alexandria—both Sydney.. . .
T.R.: The only detinning works we know of are
those of Detinning, Ltd., Park-street, Alexandria
(N.S.W.), and Vic. Rolling Mills, Gcelong-road,
Brooklyn (Vic.) ... .S.M.E.: Vic. Premier Hogan
was born at Wallace, near Ballarat (Vic.) on Dec.
12, 1884. .. .R. J.N.: Scrub-robins build open, cup-
shaped nests of sticks, barks and leaves on the
ground, at the foot of a tree or bush, and lay two
or three white or greyish eggs, blotched with brown.
. ...F.F.: “Geoffry Hamlyn’’ was written by Henry
Kingsley, a younger brother of Charles Kingsley, the
preacher and novelist. The novel is a valuable
record of the palmy days of Squatterdom, before the
gold discoveries G.F.: The Asalariado party in
Chilean politics is an off-shoot of the Democratic
party, which champions the cause of the working-
class. The Asalariado party has not yet developed
a definite programme. It carries very little weight.
. ...A.J.J.: No, the N.S.W. Moratorium (Amend-
ment) Act has suspended the operation of the
personal covenant in mortgage deeds.... H.J.S.: It
is a rubber paint, manufacture of which is beyond
any amateur. .. .M.E.: Vic. prolate duty on an
estate between £2OOO and £3OOO, is 31 per cent.
plus super-taxes, which increase the amount by 21
per cent. Federal duty is 14-15ths of 1 per cent,
of the value of the estate. .. .8.D.: No female short-
hand writers are employed in N.S.W. as official court
reporters.... P. 8.: (1) B must not remove the wood-
work of the well if built into the land; it passes
to the landlord. (2) B must not interfere with the
dividing fence without A’s authority. If he does
so, A can compel him to close the gate.
... .P.C.: (1) Not obliged to pay Vic. unemployment
tax. (2) Consult Taxation Dept., Perth, regarding
hospital tax and W.A. income tax. Salary is classi-
fied as being earned and paid in W.A H.A.A.:
Use ferric chloride —lib. to 3000 gallons of water.
Dissolve ferric chloride in sufficient water and throw
the solution evenly over the surface of the dam.
Then stir the surface layers gently with a long pole.
. ...W.M.Q.: So far as we can trace, the lathe is
not on the Australian market. It would cost at least
£l2 to land here... .L.E.W.: Advice regarding
marketing of ambergris can be obtained from the
Director, Sydney Technological Museum, Harris-
street, Sydney. .. .T.R.R.: The earth spins on its
own axis, making a complete turn every 24 hours.
It is also pursuing a circular track round the sun,
the circuit taking a year. It is sustained, during
these activities, principally by the gravitational
attraction of the sun, which is exactly counter-
balanced by the centrifugal force of the earth’s
rotation round that centre. Earthquakes are mani-
festations of adjustments which are continually being
made in the earth’s crust, due, it is generally
believed, to the slow cooling of the planet....
0.J.F.: Write Public Monuments Advisory Board,
Dept, of Local Government, Sydney... .H.M.: Sydney
Technical College conducts a five-year course, com-
prising a three-year lower couvse and a two-year
higher course, for apprentices or those connected with
shipbuilding. Students are required to attend three
nights each week. Fees are £2 10s. p.a. for seniors
and £1 ss. p.a. for those under 21 earning less
than 30s. per week... .W.E.8.: Write N.S.W. Agri-
culture Dept, for pamphlet “Fat Lambs”. . . . A.L.:
The last total eclipse of the sun in Australia took
place* on September 21, 1922. The next is due at
the end of 1932... .Depositor: Such assistance is
granted to applicants who have money in the G. 5.8.,
provided they are otherwise eligible and they
sign an undertaking to repay the value of relief
issued when their funds in the bank become available
to them. The undertaking would be necessary irre-
spective of whether the account was in the name of
the husband or wife. . . .T.K.: A. G. Pritchard,
Wakefleld-street, Adelaide. .. .T.D.C.: N.S.W. un-
employment relief tax is payable in the case of all
persons whose income for the year ended June 30,
1931, derived from sources other than from employ-
ment, amounted to £lOO and upwards... .L.P.B. :
“Blow the Man Down,” “Spanish Ladies,” “Sally-
Brown” and “Billy Boy” are contained in Herbert’s
“Sea Shanties,” 9s. 6d., Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .H.A.S.: Vacancies on the staff of Sydney
Municipal Library are advertised. Applicants must
be under 19 and have passed the intermediate or
leaving-certificate exam N.C.: Write Secretary,
Air Board, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne, Vic
T.D.: (1), (2) and (3) Shipping cos. engage elec-
tricians only through their trades unions. Trades
Hall, Melbourne, could give further details. (4)
Apply Overseas Shipping Representatives’ Assoc.,
Ilenty House, Little Collins-street, Melbourne (Vic.).
. ...A.E.W.: Properties of a value greater than
£1250 are outside the scope of the Q’land Act
and you are entitled to payment of instalments.
. ...G.R.S.: (1) No. (2) If you legally adopt the
child you will stand in loco parentis to it as if it
were in fact your child. (3) Legally it is entitled
to the surname of the mother only. .. . W.11.W.: (1)
Burbank Cheese Co., 20 King-street, Melbourne. (2)
Lithgow Brewery Co., Lithgow, N.S.W. (3) Craig
and Aitken, 054 George-street, Sydney... .R.G.T.:
Chances are practically hopeless.... l-1.M.A.: Weapons
and curios of aboriginal inhabitants are subject to
10 per cent, primage duty and 0 per cent, sales
tax only. ... (Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
Synopsis : During the absence of Jim
Huntley, Resident' Magistrate of
Aikoroa, Papua, on sick leave, the
natives get out of hand. Huntley,
returns, and, accompanied by Sergeant
Gibara. warns them that in “twelve
sleeps” he will come to collect their
tax-money. Going on to Nataroa.
Plantation Huntley delivers a letter
to the dipsomaniacal owner, Charlie
Durrant, on whom Huntley siispects
Roger Calvert, trader, is battening. It
is from Marian, Durrant's young
daughter, whom Huntley met on ship-
board and has fallen in love with. It
tells her father that, as he had always
put her off when she wrote of return-
ing from “down south,” where she had
been brought up, she is paying Mm a
surprise visit. This news plunges
Durrant, who had “gone native,” into
despairing remorse. Bringing him to
the residency, Huntley grimly fights to
reclaim him for Marian's sake.
Marian arrives in the Maipua from
Baramata, where she was delayed;
but Huntley has Durrant sober, and
she docs not suspect his terrible weak-
ness. The dilapidated house at
Nataroa is burnt down — accidentally,
Marian believes, but really by Freddie
Chisholm, Huntley's young assistant
and hem friend. She too is invited to
live at the residency. Huntley's sus-
picions are forming that Calvert, for
his own profit, with the sorcerer
Maragi, is causing the native unrest.
The twelve days have passed. Order-
ing Chisholm, indignant at being left
behind, to folloio slowly with the
police detachment. Huntley, with
Gibara only, goes to collect the tax-
money.
CHAPTER XIII ( Continued).
THEY walked quickly and in dead
silence, Huntley in the lead, Gibara a
pace or two in the rear. A tiny jewelled
kingfisher flashed like a darting blue flame
across their eyes; a flock of scarlet-breasted
parrakeets circled, cheeping, overhead; far
away, a bird of paradise uttered its harsh
incongruous cry, and the noise of insects was
unceasing.
They were but a quarter of a mile on
their journey when heavy clouds began to
gather before the face of the sun, foretell-
ing a change of weather. There was a
sudden crash of thunder. A rain-squall, as
torrential as it was brief in duration, hurled
itself upon them, and they took shelter
under the dripping, wide-spread branches
of a giant bendora-tree. Then, swiftly, the
sun emerged from behind the obscuring
clouds; the rain ceased, the air became
steamy, breathless, the winding track a
quagmire.
As they drew near to Aikoroa they heal'd
the rolling, sinister beat of drums; slowly,
steadily they throbbed their sullen menace,
pounding relentlessly, hatefully, a message
of defiance Huntley could not misunder-
stand. Anon they discerned an armed
native skulking furtively in the under-
growth. He carried a throwing-spear with
the barb turned outwards, and his carved
comb, adorned with white cockatoo feathers,
was worn jauntily on the side of his head.
Gibara was instantly alert. “Bad signs,
Taubada,” he muttered, “the spear-point and
the wearing of the comb.” He unslung
his carbine, and there was a faint click as a
cartridge was slipped home. “These Aikoroa
cockroaches look for fight, sah.”
They pressed forward. The drums rolled
high on the still air, now rising, now falling,
with a pulsing cadence of savage emotion.
Voices came to them—half animal, half
human —chanting an untuneful dirge.
There were no women in the garden plots
to straighten their toil-bent backs and give
them shy greetings; no awestruck children
to follow them at a respectful distance.
“Bad signs, sah.” Gibara declared—“sure
and certain signs of trouble.” And he
loosened the bayonet in its scabbard.
They came to the village clearing over
which the grim bulk of the long-house
brooded. The wide space in front of the
building was packed with armed and painted
men. The village elders squatted in their
accustomed places on the platform. They
wore dogs’-teeth frontlets on their brows,
head-dresses of gaudy feathers strung on
greasy twine, half-moon shell ornaments on
their chests. Their faces were streaked with
alternate lines of white marl and yellow
ochre; their eyes, red-rimmed and blood-
shot, spoke of a betel-nut debauch, long
continued.
There were no grass-kilted women in
sight; no pot-bellied, naked children, nor
pigs, nor mongrel dogs.
Gibara’s eyes narrowed. “Ia!” he
grunted, and his right hand caressed the
trigger-guard of his carbine.
Huntley hesitated. It came to him with
vivid conviction that he had underrated
the Aikoroans and his own possible danger.
A sudden qualm of nervousness assailed
him, a chill tormented his spine. Momen-
tarily he regretted the impulse that had
led him to fling his insolent challenge in the
teeth of the bucks of Aikoroa. He knew
that he and his henchman were at the
mercy of any one of these painted and
bedizened savages if the “luck of the
Service” failed to hold.
He squared his shoulders, braced himself
and moved steadily forward. Gibara
stepped to his side with a swagger, his
carbine at the ready. Huntley’s right hand
was hidden beneath his shirt; his head was
up, his helmet tilted at a cocky angle;
he was carrying himself with an air of
faintly contemptuous superiority.
The village elders glared defiance. Hunt-
ley recognised Kadoa, the village constable,
through his disguise of paint and grease
and feathers. Instantly, as though by a
pre-arranged signal, the drums were silenced,
the moaning chant of the warriors ceased.
Their spears rattled menacingly as they.
sprang to their feet. Murmurs rose from
the crowd —awed murmurs, incredulous mur-
murs—as Huntley and the sergeant marched
jauntily forward.
Huntley glanced at Gibara. The old war-
dog’s face was impassive, his eyes were
bright, only his quivering nostrils betrayed
the tension of his nerves. A quixotic thrill
swept over Huntley. “You are indeed a
man, my friend,” he said.
They pressed on. A wave of excitement
surged over the spearmen. Their close-
packed ranks wavered, then broke and
parted, and Huntley and Gibara were face
to face with the little group on the plat-
form of the long-house.
“I am here, Kadoa,” Huntley announced
easily.
An evil grin distorted Kadoa’s paint-
bedaubed countenance. In the trappings of
his sept and supported by the warriors of
his tribe, he was disconcertingly different
from the goggle-eyed, slightly ludicrous
creature whom Gibara had kicked so
heartily a scant two weeks ago.
“The ridge-pole of the long-house has
been bare of the trophies of war these many
years,” Kadoa breathed, “and thereby are
the spirits of our ancestors moved to anger.
Who knows—perhaps the head of a white
man may pacify them, and the head of a
bush pig of a Kiwai wearing the Gavamani
clothes.” And he spat contemptuously at
Huntley’s feet.
The warriors were teetering on their toes,
rattling their spears, uttering short bark-
like cries.
Huntley sensed that this was the turning
point. It was now or never. He must act
quickly else they were lost. He put out a
hand and vaulted lightly upon the platform.
Like lightning Kadoa reached for a club,
and Huntley’s fist thudded upon his jaw.
Kadoa staggered, tried to save himself, and
tottered over the edge of the platform.
The next moment he was on his back in
the mud, his arms were twisted behind his
back, and he screamed as he felt the point
of Gibara’s bayonet between his shoulder
blades.
The spearmen let out a yell of mingled
rage and amazement. Huntley whirled, his
eyes aflame, and his automatic described
queer little circles as it swept every man
in sight. A spear fell between his knees and
he fired coolly over the heads of the mob.
The sudden turn of the wheel had baffled
the men of Aikoroa.
Huntley glanced below. Kadoa, his
hands manacled behind his back, his face
in the mud, was writhing impotently under
the weight of Gibara’s powerful body.
Then, quite casually, Huntley leaned
against the round mangrove story-post.
“Throw away your spears,” he ordered
curtly.
They shrank back and seemed stricken
by sudden panic.
“Throw them away!”
One man, who wore a. hornbill’s grotesque
beak jutting from his forehead, lifted his
spear and swung it in futile bravado. Hunt-
ley eyed him disdainfully and swung his
automatic upward. The native flinched;
then, -uttering a howl of fear, flung his
spear into the bush.
That was the end. Sullenly, silently, the
bucks of Aikoroa cast their weapons from
them, cowed and beaten.
Huntley’s luck had held.
“0 fools,” he jeered, “to think that you
by the beating of many drums and the
flourishing of spears could strike fear into
the belly of the 'Gavamani’ which has
always been your friend!”
Kadoa’s mates on the platform had
quickly and unostentatiously melted into
the crowd. Huntley seated himself on the
platform, his legs dangling.
“First,” he commanded, “let four young
men go to the house whereof you know,
and take away the body of him who is
now long dead to the place appointed for
lawful burial.”
Four stalwart young bucks detached them-
selves from their friends and edged sheep-
ishly away.
“Now, let the women be sent for, and
the children also, that they, too, may hear
my words.”
He glanced down at Gibara who, sitting
on the small of his captive’s back, was
nonchalantly fashioning a cigarette from
a shred of trade tobacco and a strip of
newsprint.
“Let that fool go, Sergeant,” Huntley
said. “It is not with him, nor the likes
of him, that our business lies.”
Gibara produced a key from his pouch
and unlocked the handcuffs. Kadoa stood
erect, his head hanging.
“When you come to serve your sentence,
bring with you plenty of betel-nut,” Gibara
observed amiably. “I think, maybe, you’ll
get twelve moons. Always the police are
short of betel-nut —and I also, Kadoa.”
CHAPTER XIV.
By twos and threes the women began to
drift in. There were wrinkled beldames,
pendulous-breasted, bitter-tongued, who spat
betel-nut, scratched themselves and railed
at the menfolk in language unrestrained.
There were upstanding young matrons with
infants at the breast or straddled on the
hip; bold-eyed, firm-bosomed belles who
giggled unceasingly and who, when Hunt-
ley’s eye fell upon them, dug their bare
toes into the earth and squirmed in
exquisite agonies of embarrassment. 1 here
were tiny girls, round-eyed, wondering, who
flaunted wispy grass kilts in imitation of
their elders; small boys, mother-naked,
spindle-shanked, carrying mimic spears.
Miraculously the scavenger pigs reappeared
and rooted among the garbage or drowsed
placidly in the sunshine; pariah dogs yelped
and snarled, and over all rose the pungent
smell of sweat-soaked humanity, long un-
washed.
Huntley filled his pipe as the newcomers,
human and animal, settled themselves
among the scowling, shamefaced men.
Sergeant Gibara averted his head and
expectorated a half-chewed betel-nut. This
was a ceremonial occasion. It was like being
in court or on parade. There were times
when the inhibitions of official decorum
chafed the soul of Sergeant Gibara; times
when the craving for betel-nut became an
insupportable torment. This was one of
them, he reflected with great bitterness,
and he stiffened to attention and frowned
belligerently, contemptuously, upon the men
of Aikoroa.
Huntley cleared his throat. He affected
a bored interest in a colony of spine-billed
honey-eaters who fluttered and quarrelled
among their pendant nests high in the
branches of a tall ilivio tree.
The women nudged one another and
giggled; but the men stared sulkily at the
ground.
“It, is fitting,” Huntley began in a voice
coolly conversational, “that there should
now be a breaking of spears. Is not this the
old-time token of peace?”
A very old, blear-eyed man whose skin
hung in loose folds upon his stomach be-
stowed upon Huntley an amiable, but
toothless grin.
“Most fitting, indeed —he-he—Taubada,”
he quavered. He spat into the dust. “These
many days my eax - s have been deafened
by. the empty boasting of young men with
the skins of women”-
“Peace, old one!” someone angrily inter-
jected. “Your voice is the voice of a
cockatoo!”
“Say your say, 0 Akodari,” Sergeant
Gibara boomed, “that fools may yet learn
wisdom.”
“la, Sergeant,” the old fellow mumbled.
“I, Akodari, have seen the day when one
white man with a small gun, and a Kiwai
with a large one, would have caused the
tears to come into my eyes, so great would
have been my laughter.”
He rose totteringly to his feet. His voice
became clearer, firmer. “Assuredly let there
be a breaking of spears as a token of peace,
Taubada,” he declaimed vehemently. “These
soft-bellied braggarts who are my sons and
grandsons do not understand the old-time
customs as we understand them, Taubada.”
He blinked in friendly fashion at Ser-
geant Gibara, and they exchanged approv-
ing, measuring grins.
The men muttered sulkily one to an-
other, they moved restlessly on their
haunches, casting angry looks upon Huntley
and his new-found ally. A woman’s voice
rose, quivering with rage:
“0 that there were men in Aikoroa! My
belly is sick with the shame of it!”
But the old lady’s bitter gibe went un-
heeded. Presently a spear was passed from
hand to hand and eventually reached Hunt-
ley. Others followed until there was a
dozen or more, heavy-shafted, murderously
barbed, leaning against the steps.
Huntley sat immobile, still occupied with
the noisy little birds in the treetop. An
enormous hawk with a creamy white head
sailed overhead, and the clamor became
deafening. There was a muttering among
the crowd. Then, urged by their mates,
two young bucks rose sheepishly. They
stood for a moment uncertainly, staring
vaguely at the spears. It was obvious that
both fear and shame dominated their emo-
tions. Then they gritted their teeth,
marched determinedly to Huntley and there
was a rending, snapping sound as they broke
the spears one by one.
Thus was peace made at Aikoroa.
Akodari blinked derisively, rubbing his
hands upon his wrinkled stomach. Huntley
struck a match and applied it to his pipe.
‘‘There is one among you,” he remarked
between puffs, “who wears the outward
tokens of the killer, that some foolish
woman may look upon him with eyes of
love. Let him who has slain his enemy
and thus entered upon his manhood come
forward.”
A gratified expression came over the
paint-bedaubed countenance of the wearei
of the hornbill’s beak. He stood up im-
portantly and swaggered forward in leisurely
fashion. He was enjoying himself im-
mensely. A quivering sigh ran through the
women and girls like the first, faint stirring
of a breeze. It changed to a gasp ol
amazement, to a wild gust of hysterical
laughter. Sergeant Gibara had grasped the
formidable fellow by the scruff of the neck
and the slack of his string girdle, and
thrown him unceremoniously upon his
face.
“It is in my mind, my friend,” Huntley
gently jeered, “that' you are a liar and a
cheat, the beak of the hornbill being to
you but the symbol of a young fool’s
vanity.”
“Not so, Taubada,” the young naan raved.
There were tears of mortification in his
eyes. “Dohugu is my name, and to-day a
woman of Agunari blackens her skin and
mourns because of a husband slain. ’
“My skin creeps for Dohugu,” Huntley
drily commiserated him. “Five years in
leg-irons in the Port Moresby road gang is
a High price to pay for a woman’s smiles.
Hold him, Sergeant.”
The sun was climbing to the zenith, beat-
ing down out of a sky oi molten brass.
The natives were perspiring profusely;
obscene odors from the burial party pol-
luted the air.
“There still remains,” Huntley calmly
announced, “the matter of the poll-tax, now
these many moons in arrear.”
Instantly there arose a clamor of dis-
senting voices. Women yelled shrilly,
children screamed, dogs yapped and there
was a rumbling undernote of deep, bass
masculine voices.
“Apparently,” Huntley remarked to
Gibara in English, “this has torn it;
shredded it to bits.”
He signalled forcibly to old Akodari, his
ally, who, to his surprise, was adding his
shrill treble to the clamor of dissent.
“No pay takkis, Taubada!” the old man
howled in English. “No more takkis. We
finish altogether ’long takkis, Taubada.”
The crowd rose as one man to the old
fellow’s fervid declaration. The noise in-
creased; it culminated in a yell of enthusi-
astic approval. Then quite suddenly, the
row died down, then ceased altogether.
Huntley was amazed. It was as though a
smothering blanket of silence had settled
upon the crowd. The very air seemed sur-
charged with a tension that was almost
tangible;
Sergeant Gibara spoke. His voice was
thick, throaty:
“la! Here is Maragi of the One Eye!
Maragi the Sorcerer!”
Huntley’s mouth hardened, but there was
an odd gleam in his eye, an expression that
spoke of an inward satisfaction.
“Ah,” he breathed, “now things begin to
move!”
Maragi’s lean and sinewy body glistened
with cocoanut oil. He was stepping minc-
ingly, trippingly, between the now recum-
bent forms of the villagers. A murderous
dagger fashioned from the thigh-bone of a
cassowary dangled- from his wrist; his face
would have expressed a simpering satisfac-
tion had it not been for his dead-white
eye. He paused and carefully adjusted his
feather head-dress. Huntley made a pre-
tence of studying his notebook, but from
under lowered lids he was watching the
One-Eyed Sorcerer as a cat watches a
mouse.
Maragi shifted hi s netted bag so that it
hung on his hip and came on. There was
something hateful, menacing, devilish in his
unhurried progress through the throng.
Again, as at Nataroa, an inexplicably creepy
feeling came over Huntley. It was as it
something infinitely evil was toward.-
The women crept closer to their cowering
lords, the children hid behind their mother’s
grass skirts. Even Sergeant Gibara who.
by reason of his Government uniform
scorned, or affected to scorn, the supersti-
tions of his people, was manifestly ill at
ease.
Huntley was thinking quickly lest Maragi
of the One Eye should rob him of the
fruits of his victory over the Aikoroa
people. In Papua belief in sorcery is deep-
rooted, universal, ineradicable. No death
is ever attributed to natural causes; no
misfortune, great or trivial afflicts the com-
munity or the individual save only by the
machinations of malignant spirits-dominated
and directed by the black art of the sor-
cerer. He is the real ruler of the land, the
One Who Goes by Night, working in secret,
plying his hateful trade of murder, extor-
tion and terrorism; the pourri-pourn tauna
at whose command strong men wither up
and die; pestilence, drought, famine stalk
abroad; from whom the stoutest warrior
quails and women flee as from the Evil
One Flummery! Of course. Childish
nonsense! What else? Yet Huntley knew
that to every man. woman and child m
Aikoroa these things were very real.
A grin of great satisfaction spread over
Maragi’s face. His carefully calculated,
carefully belated entry had had an effect
beyond his most sanguine expectations. Not
often did the hated “Gavamani” give him
such a golden opportunity to demonstrate
the practical effect of his influence over the


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere,
including New Books of startling fact
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Mai vied Love, bv Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by I)r. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4 ; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex
1 actor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3; Plain Facts on Syx Hygiene, by Howard, 7/-;
Hygiene of Marriage, by Isabel Hutton, 5/-; Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4;
Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by Dr.
G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4 ; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6 ; The Perfect Wife,
by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; Women and Love, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; The Complete
Husband, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; Marriage Before and After, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale,
1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth Control, bv J.
Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 10/3 ; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4 ; Physical Culture Simplified—A
Complete Course of Physical Culture, 6/3 ; Better Sight Without Glasses, by H. Benjamin, 6/4;
The Culture of the Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn
Brown, 5/5 ; Sexual Science, by Dr. A. A. Philip, 4/6 ; Knowledge a Young Husband Should
Have, by Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Man Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6 ; Knowledge a Young
Woman Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6 ; The Book of Nature, 3/9 ; Contract Bridge, by Ely Cuthbertson,
8/6 ; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an Effective Public Speaker, 2/2;
THE BRIDGE SOUVENIR.
The Wonderful Structure is depicted in photographic studies from its
beginning to the completion of the great arch. A three-color picture
of the bridge is included, and full particulars of structural details, written
by Dr. Bradfield, are given in the letterpress.
PRICE 1/-, Postage 2d. extra.
Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4 ; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/11 ; Aust. Nute
and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4 ; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4 ; Ten Best Card
Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A.. 3/1; Official
Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card Games and How to Play and
Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short
Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 8/4; Table Rapping, 2/6; Practical
Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; 12 Best Indoor Games for
Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The
Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8; How to Read the Hand, by Karma,
4/- ; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11 ; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs,
1/11; Furniture Repairing- for Amateurs, 1/11; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do
at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/2; Painting, Irqnwork, Steel and
Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Every Man Ilis, Own Mechanic, 9/-; What to Draw and llow
to Draw It, 4/10 ; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1 ; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches
and Toasts, 3/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11: Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed
Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/- ; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes,
21/- ; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 8/4 ; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4 ; Cheiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1 ; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3 ; Universal Trade Reckoner,
4/3; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold
(Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/6; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of
Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/-; Diesel Engine,
by Jones —Special Price—ls/- ; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3 ; 1001 Riddles, New and
Old, 2/2 ; Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3 ; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6 ; Chess Lessons
for Beginners, 2/6; Chess and Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis
Racquets, 3/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. First.
WRITE FOR LISTS OF ROOKS O.V SUEJECTS IN WHICH YOU ARE INTERESTED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
1
Wl
A
&
m
sll
s park m MG
HGEK
Ss
V
*s
HAR-DT'S
SPARK.LIJVG
village people. He nodded familiarly-
almost condescendingly to Huntley and
moved on, slowly and carefully, through the
panic-ridden crowd.
4s he drew nearer a suggestion ot inso-
lence insinuated itself into his bearing, but
his eye had the unblinking rigidity of a
snake’s. , . . .
"Goo’-day, Mister!” he smirked.
Huntley choked. He put away his note-
book. He was aware of a battery of curious
eyes upon his face.
“Sergeant!” His voice sounded cold and
threatening. ~0 , ...
Sergeant Gibara became rigid. bah!
“Arrest that man.”
The natives muttered inarticulately, and
involuntarily their eyes moved swiftly to
the sergeant. Gibara’s eyes boggled. He
came of a race to whom belief in things
beyond sight and sound and touch is a
deep-seated instinct; a race which, within
the memory of living men, has offered
human sacrifice to the Powers of Darkness;
a race which believes, as a matter of course,
in the puissance of a destroying curse; in
malevolence as a living force to be con-
trolled and directed for harm. Nevertheless,
though the blood in Gibara’s veins ran
cold and a dreadful fear filmed his eyes,
he thrust out his chest with an assumption
of bravado that was wholly unconvincing,
saluted stiffly, and advanced upon Maragi.
From the villagers arose a muffled ex-
clamation of wonder, of admiration. An
odd, surprised look shot across Maragi’s
face. Momentarily he glanced over liis
shoulder as though to see how near he was
to escape. Then faith in his own omni-
science and contempt for the white man
and his black henchman reasserted itself.
Gibara was indubitably a fool, but surely
not such a fool as to lay hands upon him
—Maragi of the One Eye! But although
Gibara’s lean, brown face was tinged with
grey, and there was a tightness about his
mouth, he was approaching resolutely, un-
hesitatingly. A sudden misgiving assailed
Maragi. He pulled up, half turned.
“Grab him, Sergeant!” barked Huntley.
Panic seized Maragi and he pivoted on
his heel. He heard the villagers give a
long-drawn-out sigh, felt their amazed eyes
boring into him, but he was oblivious of
everything save panic. Gibara’s last doubt
left him. It was Maragi of the One Eye—
not he, Gibara, who was afraid! He leapt.
A squeal of mingled pain and fear came
from the sorcerer. The next second he was
threshing about on the ground with the
sergeant on top of him. He yelped, again.
The cry became a scream of frantic rage.
There was a gleam of steel, a metallic
click and Gibara dispassionately kicked him
to his feet.
Sobbing with anger and bitter humilia-
tion, Maragi of the One Eye stood ashamed
before the people.
Sergeant Gibara stepped back and saluted.
“Prisoner arrested, Sah,” he said.
Huntley’s heavy boots, as a. result of the
morning’s downpour, were caked with mud.
He looked down at them with an air of
thoughtful deliberation. Maragi struggled
silently against the bands of steel that
encircled his wrists. His face, with its hor-
rible sightless eye, was a writhing mask
of malevolence.
Huntley gave a short laugh. Maragi was
feared by the people of Aikoroa, feared as
the Government had never been feared. It
came upon him that he might turn that
fear into something else—into ridicule. He
began slowly to unlace his boots. Again
there was a sibilant sound caused by a
multitude of quick-drawn breaths. The
natives were tense with excitement, watch-
ing his every movement with wondering
eves. '
Huntley took off his boots and, holding
them up, examined them critically. Then
lie tossed them casually at Maragi’s feet.
‘‘Clean ’em,” he ordered briefly.
Maragi winced. His sound eye looked
dangerous. The muscles of his mouth
twitched, and his lips moved soundlessly.
The villagers looked on breathless, uttering
no sound.
“Savee, Maragi?” Gibara politely in-
quired. There was a broad grin on his
tace as he drew his bayonet with a flourish.
He, at least, was relishing to the full the
rich savor of Huntley’s jest.
First take away the bag that contains
his ‘medicines,’ Sergeant,” Huntley com-
manded. “I have a mind to examine it.”
The villagers shivered and hid their faces.
Gibara handled the bag as though it were
a sacred relic. An excited woman began to
whisper shrilly between chattering teeth,
and an uncertain masculine voice bade her
be silent.
Huntley thrust his hand into the sor-
cerers bag and began to draw forth the
contents. Maragi’s animosity showed
violently in his contorted face. There were
wisps of human hair caked with native gum,
pmceg of bark, a mummified human finger;
there were shells from the reef, bundles of
aromatic grasses, weeds that smelled most
i llely; there were teeth and bones—animal
an ° human, feathers, bits of colored glass
and balls of a wax-like substance that had
a stink all its own.
Maragi trembled as if trying to keep
himself under control. Once he ripped out
a pungent “white man’s” oath, but the
point of Gibara’s bayonet silenced him. He
ooked around in helpless fury as his price-
ess treasures were unfeelingly exposed to
vulgar view.
r . Gavamani has given an order.”
Gibara reminded him pleasantly. “It would
be as well to obey. You are become a
houseboy, my friend. A washer of clothes
and a cleaner of boots.”
He chuckled mockingly, but the villagers
were ominously silent. There was no mis-
taking the look of compassion they gave
Gibara. It w T as as though, any moment,
they expected something dreadful to happen
to him.
Maragi’s sullen, angry eye fell before the
sergeant’s jeering grin. He saw the naked
Steel in his enemy’s hand and a shiver
shook him; he saw the people cowering
away like harried sheep, but the sight
brought him no satisfaction; he saw the
detested “Gavamani” laying polluting hands
on his sacred possessions and a bitter word
escaped him.
“Come, my friend,” Gibara enjoined him
severely. “Have sense! The ‘Gavamani’
talks but once.”
Maragi acknowledged defeat. He cursed
bitterly under his breath, but his manacled
hands reached out for Huntley’s boots.
The handcuffs were a handicap, but
Maragi was a native and his toes were pre-
hensile. He set to work madly, dribbling
explosive words, manipulating the boots
between his feet and scraping frantically
with the husk of a cocoanut Gibara had
thoughtfully provided. The dried mud fell
away in cakes. Sweat burst out on Maragi’s
forehead. Inwardly he was a seething mael-
strom of hate.
Huntley took not the slightest notice of
him. He was occupied wholly with the
bag. He drew out a handful of vari-
colored seeds, examined them and tossed
them away. He was aware that the village
people were watching him with strained
attention. He heard their nervous breath-
ing, sensed their little frightened move-
ments. He fumbled for and drew forth a
piece of bamboo. It was about a foot long
and was intricately smoke-pvtterned after
the manner of a native pipe. The natural
joint closed one end. the other was sealed
with a dab of clay. Huntley wondered what
he had found.
A whistling breath came from Maragi.
Huntley lqpked coldly at him and then
averted his head. The fellow’s unblinking
eye, the surveillance to which he was being
subjected was uncanny. lie held the bam-
boo upright a.nd reached for his knife.
He had a mind to discover what the
curious cylinder contained. He knew,
though he did not look up,.that Maragi’s
eye was glued to his face.
Huntley’s lips were pursed in a soundless
whistle. And all the while he was conscious
of Maragi’s unblinking eye regarding him
with intent fixity. Suddenly his nerves
quivered. An unpleasant feeling took hold
of him. What damned flummery was this?
It was—he could swear—that a queer, dart-
ing thrill had run up his hand and arm,
that the innocent-looking piece of bamboo
had moved in his hand. He regarded it
anew; shook it. The clay stopper was
working loose; again he was aware of an
eerie, twitching movement, and always he
was conscious of Maragi’s intent, sidelong
scrutiny.
Then Gibara gave a kind of gasp. His
voice boomed out in English.
“By Krise. Taubada! T’row’m away!
Quick time!”
The bamboo cylinder dropped from Hunt-
ley’s hand. He stared at Gibara in a
paralysed way as though he had been struck.
A prickling sensation ran alopg his scalp
and he had a moment of heart-shaking
terror. For Sergeant Gibara had a discarded
stone club in his hand, and, as the bamboo
hit the ground, he struck at it with all his
strength.
“I—I—God Almighty 1” Huntley said hus-
kily and with a tremor in his voice.
There was something among the split
fibres—a sinuous something with a red-
speckled belly and a wicked head—a hor-
rible head shaped like a flat diamond out
of which a darting tongue shot in and out.
Gibara struck again and Huntley felt sud-
denly faint, deadly sick.
“Hell’s blazes!” he gasped.
He had a sudden nauseating memoiy of a
brown, naked body—incredibly swollen,
horribly blotched—he had dragged from a
native hut a year or more ago. So this was
how it was done! The man had been
bewitched, the village constable told him;
sorcery had killed him—black magic; pourri-
pourri. Huntley choked, fishting off the sick-
ness in his stomach. There had been a
peculiar bamboo cylinder on the floor of
the dead man’s hut—like this! He thought
of his own blundering hands groping care-
lessly, clumsily in Maragi’s horrible bag—
of the frail clay stopper that could be
flicked off with the thumb. His brain
reeled and a wave of fear and nausea swept
through him anew.
Jim Huntley’s face was strained, grey.
There was horror in his eyes. For he knew
that the Angel of Death had fanned him
with his wings.
(To be continued next week.')
To Bob.
There’s nothing on earth so hypocrisy-free
In its love and its faith in the great
As the look that my sad little dog gives
to me
When he sees me come in at the gate.
I can be footling and futile and mean.
Pass for a fool or a snob ;
I could grow old or deformed or obscene —
And still remain godlike to Bob.
QUEENSLAND.
JOYCE STIRLING.


ŵ
QUADffIfP/g
Built on the quadruple com-
pression principle, this re-
markable British Pump is
double-acting and delivers
far more air per stroke than
many other pumps with
larger diameters.
Made by Sheffield engineers, of
the finest materials, the Renrut
Quadruple gives lasting and
efficient service.
md
and
mt
Price 60/-
(With gauge, 5/- extra.)
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
The New WINCHESTER Single Shot Rifle, Model 60
ẁ
For .22-cal. Short, Long or
Long-rifle Rimfire Cartridges.
23in. round steel barrel, one-piece pistol-grip stock. Bolt action, sporting
rear- and gold bead fore-sight; weight about 4^lb.
sOPp£
xJQad
Price ----- 35/-
Postage: N.S.W. 2/-; Other States 3/6.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
White Nose’s victory in the Melbourne
Cup strikingly recalled that of King Ingoda
in 1922. He, too, was a lightweight owned
in South Aus., had shown little form and
was at a long price before the first day of
the meeting, won the Hotliam Handicap in
smashing style and the Cup just as easily,
going out at eights—though there were
punters on each occasion who got better
odds. Percival, the Westralian jockey, who
has done more travelling than any horseman
of his generation, never had occasion to be
uneasy on White Nose, who, first or second
(to Aleman) for a mile and a half, came
away from the field at that stage and never
looked like being passed again. At the end
of the two miles, run in 3min. 26sec., he was
two lengths ahead of Shadow King, the
second horse, and could evidently have trav-
elled another mile at much the same pace;
Concentrate, faltering a bit at the finish—
he has had a hard season —was half a neck
behind Shadow King and another neck in
front of Carry On; then came Veilmond,
Prince Dayton, Koomeela and Phar Lap.
White Nose is trained by E. J. Hatwell
for 11. P. McLaclilan (brother of Senator
McLaclilan), who bred him. A four-year-
old brown stallion, he is by tough little
Paratoo, winner of many races in South
Aus. and Vic., out of Telleramana, a mare
by Hapsburg—Rameldry, bought by McLacli-
lan as a yearling in England and retired to
his Paratoo stud after a few races in Adel-
aide. Hapsburg won the Eclipse Stakes as
a three-year-old and was second in the Derby
to Durbar II.; one of his sons, Noble Star,
won the Cesarewitch last month. Paratoo
is a son of Pistol, son of Carbine; so no
GIERT'. THAT JUST TOO BAD-
A LADDER IN ONE OF MY STOCKINGS,
Bert‘/What did vou pay for'&vj T"
G|ERT *. "SEVEN AND Sl*"
Bert‘/w hot dVou want for seven *nd
Si*, A MARBLE STAIRCASE V'
wonder White Nose can stay. He did not
appear again at the meeting.
Pliar Lap failed to live up to the oft-
expressed opinion of his press champions
that he is “better than Carbine.” He is
not; and this paper, which was the first
to tip him for an important race —the
Chelmsford Stakes, in which he ran a close
second, at 15 to 1, to the late Mollison—
questions whether he is better than Windbag,
lie has never had horses like Heroic, Spear-
felt, Manfred and Limerick to meet at the
top of their form; the form in his three
seasons of dazzling success has been dis-
tinctly poor. And though he carried 101 b.
more in last year’s Cup than Windbag did in
1925 he took ssec. longer. This is not written
with any notion of carping at a very fine
horse, but a great deal of nonsense has been
written about Phar Lap, and it is time he
was viewed in proper perspective.
The defeat of Phar Lap was foreshadowed
by his easing from 7 to 4 to 3 to 1 on the
course. A similar thing happened when he
lost the C. M. Lloyd Stakes to Waterline,
who, by the way, went completely to pieces
after an early victory this spring and has
been turned out for a spell at his owner’s
property in the Goulburn Valley district.
Phar Lap was withdrawn from the Linlith-
gow Stakes and the C. B. Fisher Plate.
Telford announced on Saturday that the
chestnut was under treatment for dental
trouble. The project of taking him to Mexico
in the near future has been revived, but so
many conflicting reports have been published
in that connection that it is idle to speculate
on what will be decided upon.
Chatham, Windbag’s son, has been the
unlucky horse of the season. But for the
cold which laid him aside for three weeks
he might have carried off both Derbies and
the Cup as well; as it was, he should have
been first instead of second in the Victoria
Derby. The bay made hacks of his three
opponents in the Linlithgow Stakes, running
the mile in lmin. 37isec. —and Cook said to
the owner afterwards “He was only canter-
ing.” He will be bothering Phar Lap before
both are much older.
Chatham was relieved of his Batman
Stakes and Williamstown Stakes engage-
ments, and has gone to Bacchus Marsh for
a holiday preparatgry to being taken in
hand for the autumn. He is on furlough on
the site of the Lerderderg stud, to which
Carbine retired when his turf career ended.
Heroic’s reputation as a sire was added
to by Gallantic, who, backed from tens to
fours, had a runaway win in the Oaks. C.
B. Ivellow bought her as a yearling for
200 guineas, and the filly probably turned
him in more on this race than lie ever got
out of Heroic, for whom he paid 16,000
guineas—at least, that was the published
price.
So far as three-year-olds are concerned,
N. S. Wales has completely overshadowed
Victoria. Not only did Johnnie Jason and
Chatham run first and second in the Derby
at) Flemington, but Dermid appropriated the
rich Cantala Stakes and the Batman Stakes,
the latter event being confined to tliree-year-
olds. Jack Donahoe showed wisdom in
steering clear of Ammon Ra and other stars
in the Derbies. Up to a mile Dermid has
exceptional speed, and he may prove his
worth over a longer distance when the
opportunity comes.
Jim Pike won six races at Flemington,
where his easiest ride was on Vcilmond in
the C. B. Fisher Plate. With only Idle
Banter to dispose of, he could afford to keep
a good hold of Ned Moss’s stallion practically
all the way. Liberal, winner of the juvenile
event last Saturday, was bred in N. h.
Wales by Percy Miller, and is by Windbag.
Cheaply bought at 225 guineas he promises
to do high credit to A. G. Hunter m tne
autumn. Hunter bought Windbag from
Miller, and installed him at the Northwood
Park stud, Seymour.
* * * *
Williamstown Cup will be the big racing
attraction in Melbourne next Saturday. The
de i d ougbt to be one of the best on record ;
likely to include the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cup winners (Denis Boy and White
vjose), Second Wind, Spearman, Carry On.
cimbrian, Shadow King, Johnnie Jason and
jvidaides. Some of these horses will have
been rehandicapped. Form points to Spear-
mail j) en i s Boy and Johnnie Jason fighting-
out the finish. ’ Selections: —
t•
Two-year-old Handicap. Sweet Lyra,
next. K. Cid.
Williamstown Cup: Spearman, 1; Denis
Hoy, 2; Johnnie Jason, o. „ .
Ozone Welter; Umbertana; next, Domi-
nant.
*_* * *
George Price’s trip to Melbourne with
Veilmond, Carry On and Caramba was
scarcely fortunate, but the stable lias mean-
while been showing a profit on its Sydney
operations. It picked up another race at
Rosehill on Wednesday with Remora, and
though raised 91b. for her Moorefield success
the robust-looking daughter of Rossendale
—Demeter won just as decisively. Again the
backing of a Maoriland horse—Bayacre, on
this occasion—enabled backers of Remora
to get an unexpectedly good price, 7 to 2.
J. E. Brien, who owns Remora, pinned
his faith to Rosendo in the Clyde Handicap
at Rosehill on Saturday, but third was the
Black Dina
")• “will improve.
Until Wednesday Cathmar had been a
lioonnnJntmont- this suHuo- thonsh he
looked fit enough for anything. In the
Club Handicap at Rosehill Darby Munro
let the handsome little stallion go to the
r4XgUen C LoU“fo2fcnre\fum U wi;i.
a late run that was good, but not good
enough. This sister to Windbag has never
returned to her form of two years ago, when
she beat Nightmarch in the Metrop.
Nash, a winner at Canterbury, was fourth
in Cathmar’s race, and in the November
Handicap on Saturday he beat a pretty
good field (it included Cathmar) at sixes,;
Sunder Lee—a warm favorite defeated, per-
haps unluckily, on the first day—was second.
Nash is by Magpie, one of the best English
racehorses ever brought to Australia, and. a
great. success at the stud. Third to Nash and
guilder Lee was Vertigern, who, after having
been backed three times for big money, as big
money goes nowadays, was allowed to run
loose. The Vertigern people must regret
that they ever shipped the brother to
Panola and Tenterden across the Tasman,
* * * *
For Randwick on Saturday;—
“ p: Jolly ~
next a ßayacre.
I„dn«±t r ' ' H ” dIC * P: Sm ' loVn:
Handicap: Rosendo; nest '
John Grisdale, who saw the barrier go
up for the last time at Newcastle (N.S.W.)
last week, was one of the best-known and
most widely-respected of Australian racing
officials. Sixty-nine at the finish, he had
been associated with the Newcastle Jockey
Club for over 40 years, filling the position
of secretary for the last 30 of these. When
he took up the reins the club was racing on
leased property. As a result of his efforts, it
became owner of its own course at Broad-
meadows one of the best extra-metropolitan
tracks in Australia. Grisdale dabbled in
racing himself—the best, perhaps, of the
horses he was 1 interested in was honest
Tibbie, whom he raced in conjunction with
,T. G. Cameron, chairman of the N.J.C.
-s * H=
“Blah”: The nauseating blither about
Pliar Lap which has filled the Australian daily
press for weeks is a poor advertisement for
Australian commonsense. but it would seem
that the Yanks can still give _us points in
the cult of horse worship. Writer the other
day got an American paper telling of
a dinner given in New York by a “million-
aire racing enthusiast.” The room was
got up to resemble the saddling paddock of
a local course, and 25 neddies in loose boxes
down one side of the room were “given their
dinner” before the guests were served. The
room was on the 19th floor and the .prads
had to be carted up there one by one in the
luggage lift. The guests, by the way, dined
at an elaborately decorated table represent-
ing a racecourse. A trough would have been
more appropriate.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Abo. Alby Roberts has been a consistent
performer at Leichhardt, but his succes-
sion of victories was stopped by W ally Han-
cock on Friday night. Roberts (16-6)
might have won if he had taken the initia-
tive, but Hancock (10.7) was allowed to
lead with either hand almost from start to
finish. White always beat black to the
punch, but could not knock him out. Wally
Maher (10.10), with a chin-cracking right-
cross, sent Tommy Gibbs (10.11) to sleep
in the sixth round of Saturday night’s head-
liner.
* * * *
Two contenders for the flyweight cham-
pionship, Ron Leonard (5.14) and Teddy
Lawler (7.8), threw padded fists about
briskly in their 12-round tussle at Sydney
Stadium. Lawler looked like outspeediug
the opposition early, but lie was not as
sturdy as the other fellow, and Leonard s
extra stamina earned him the decision.
The Ins and Outs
Early critics of the South African bowl-
ing strength are beginning to hedge in view
of the team’s excellent showing against
South Australia and in the game against a
strong Victorian batting side in Melbourne.
Opening on an easy wicket the Cabbage
Gardeners, with the exception of Woodfull,
did nothing to write home about. The \ic-
torian skipper made a masterly 121 before
Cameron stumped him off McMillan; Pons-
ford (37), O’Brien (33) and Oakley (28)
were other contributors to the score of 284.
Left-hand bowler Quinn was the successful
trundler for the tourists on this occasion,
taking 4 for 36, while Vincent and Bell
each bagged a pair. Cameron outed three
batsmen and allowed only 3 byes. When
Africa had hoisted 181 for one wicket. Cur-
now going for a steady 50, things looked
gloomy for the Yarrasiders. However,
Christy was bowled by the veteran Iron-
monger for a glorious 119, and the scene
changed, 4 more wickets going for 31 runs,
when bad light closed the innings on Satur-
day at 6 for 212 —increased to- 230 the
second day on a bad wicket. A good per-
formance was fast-bowler McCormick s. the
St. Kilda youngster taking 5 for 65; Iron-
monger got 5 for 87. \Y oodfull went for a
duck in the second innings and Ponsford
for 4.
* * * *
The Queenslanders made a poor opening
in their match with N. S. Wales on Brisbane
Cricket Ground, and evidently are in sore
need of a couple of opening batsmen ot
the Leo O’Connor and Thompson type. The
N.S.W. bowling is probably the poorest in
Australia, yet the home side could only
scratch up a miserable 109. The only man
who shaped like a batsman was Mossop, who
played a fine shot for 44. Amos, who lias
hitherto performed poorly in his Shemeld
Shield games, so much so that the Queens-
land selectors regarded him coldly while he
was in that State, had his revenge by tak-
ing 5 for 22. There was still hope when
N.S.W. lost three good wickets for 52 at
stumps on the first day, the slain including
Bradman (0) and Fairfax (5), both dis-
missed by the abo. bowler Gilbert, and
Ivippax, who went off wutli a bad knock in
the face. Fingleton plodded on while McCabe
attacked the bowling, and the pair were the
chief factors in raising the N.S.W. total to
432, McCabe contributing a smashing 2LJ
n.o. and Fingleton 93. Oldfield helped with
46, and good old Sundries was next highest
scorer with 31. Gilbert finished with 4 for
74, good fast-bowler’s figures, Oxenham and
Hurwood, with two apiece, dividing the
balance. The Queensland fielding was the
worst seen for years and many chances were
missed.


'A
r
r
wm
pwi
THE -
SELF-STROPPING
RAZOR IJ y 1 :-.;-;
1
When you take out
your Valet —the blade is
in place. Always sharp—strop-
ped in ten seconds, cleaned in two
seconds. Nothing to screw up. Nothing
to adjust. Save time, save your face—
and save the bacon, with a Valet! Sets
from 4/6 to 67/6 each. You never need
remove a blade except to change it—once
in about sixty perfect shaves ! All high-
class dealers sell Valet razors and blades
and their essential adjunct —Auto Strop
Shaving Cream.
« 14
Ail
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
BRITISH MADE
Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
The Ins and Outs
South Africa, after a rather shaky start
against South Australia, ran cut a comfort-
able winner by 192 runs, the slow leg-
break bowler McMillan taking 9 for 50.
With 299 to get to win, Victor Richardson
and Nitschke opened convincingly, runs
coming fast until Richardson (36) went
to a catch in the deep field at 71. The left-
hander (30) soon followed him. lainergan
(17) looked for a moment like staying, but
when he went with three down for 82 the
rest were routed. McMillan’s performance is
a record in its way, and one of the best
things done by a visiting bowler since
Larwood scared the Victorians with his 7
for 51. The Afrikander had hard luck in
not getting Tobin, who succumbed to- left-
hander Vincent. With him in the bag Mc-
Millan would have emulated George Giffen,
tne only bowler to take all 10 wickets in
a big match in Australia.
* * * *
“Blah”: Well, thank heaven, that's settled,
like Phar Lap and the Cup—that entirely
estimable young Australian Don Bradman
will positively not desert his native shores
for the somewhat dubious delights of Accring-
ton (Lancs.). It is true that calamity still
hovers o’er our housetops, since it is stated
in the least-informed circles of the daily
press that Messrs. Fairfax and Jackson are
in danger of being lured away at any
moment. Frankly, and I think I speak
for the great majority of cricket-lovers in.
Australia, I am deadly sick of the fulsome
press limelight cast upon these gladiators.
Admirable youths all, without doubt, but
otherwise persons of no real importance
to the community, too much given over as
the latter is already to bread and circuses.
!|: Sc :!: *
“Stoush”: A cheerfully frank article in
one of the Sydney papers the other day
advised fast bowlers, if they wished to
succeed, to bump them down short on the
leg stump. It may be true, as the writer of
the advice stated, that Larwood “badly
rattled” Ponsford by such tactics. But I
can recall how the late Ken Hutchings, that
incomparable English amateur, once dealt
with Tibby Cotter, who tried the trick on
him at Brisbane Cricket Ground. Cotter
was bowling at a tremendous pace, but three
times in one over Hutchings flicked the ball,
off his eyebrows, so it seemed, over the chains
which then marked the boundary near the
entrance gates—a .sixer on each occasion.
“Five Ways”: Queensland cricket has lost
one of its stalwarts with the retirement of
Cecil Thompson. The big fellow was rather
unfortunate in being a Queenslander, for
had lie been in Sydney or Melbourne he
would probably have been in the Australian
eleven till his teeth dropped out. In his 49
matches for Bananaland Thompson has
scored 3757 runs, while his 275 n.o. is a
record for his State in Sheffield Shield
cricket. In the Shield games alone he
scored 2249 runs for an average of 54.85,
and as a change boAvler took 24 wickets for
an average of 47.29.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : In these days of whole-
sale deliveries on the hoof to English buyers
of antipodean cricketers and footballers it
is refreshing to read that W. E. Merritt, the
successful googly bowler of the last two All
Black cricket teams in England, is not for
sale. It was rumored some time ago that he
was engaged to play for Rushton, one of
those Lancashire League clubs. Merritt
says that business will take him to the North
Country next cricket season, and it is pos-
sible that while there he will play for Rush-
ton, provided the M.L. cricket authorities
are agreeable. Whether he will collect any
brass for playing is not stated, but in any
case there has been no question of a deal.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Australian tennis
authorities, who have their headquarters in
Melbourne and regard the game from a
characteristically Victorian outlook, resolved
last week to ease up the treadmill tour of
the Japanese tennis-players, of which “Rev.
Knucklebone” (B. 4/11/’3l) complains.
The tourists who land in Brisbane will
not be required to play there as originally
intended. Instead, they will go straight on
to Sydney. This means that Brisbane, which
contributes to the fund which lias brought
out the Japanese players, will be rooked of
a chance to get its money back, while the
bloated crowd in Sydney and Melbourne
will be raking in the cash. How good that
will be is seen from the announced charges
of 7s. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
* * * if
“Rev. Knucklebone”: I don’t think the
Melbourne and Sydney crowd lias much
chance of altering things now, but I am
game to wager that both are eagerly watch-
ing for a chance to have the Australian
championships transferred from Adelaide to
their own middens. What with the Japan-
ese players and a Maoriland invasion, this
year’s tourney should be an attractive one.
Being in Adelaide it cannot, of course, be
expected to drag in the cash that would come
in if the venue were Melbourne or Sydney.
The two States have managed to sneak a
Japanese match off Queensland. They would
cheerfully pinch the Australian fixtures from
South Australia, given the excuse.
The Watermen
; Adelaide rowing men, with the
King’s Cup race to be staged in Victoria
next May, are busy setting their houses
in order. The season got a good kick-off
the other day with the opening of the
Adelaide Rowing Club’s new boatshed by the
Governor. Last year a fire wiped out the
club s old shed and fleet of boats. Ken
Milne, a prominent Adelaide architect and
oarsman, designed the new building, which
ls cHißuxl to be the finest in Australia. In
addition to the usual facilities for the oars-
men, there is a large main hall for dancing,
and the building is surrounded with a wide
verandah, which gives every opportunity for
watching the races and the work of the
crews on the water. The boats have been
replaced, and the way that members have
come up to the scratch in t*iis and other
respects is beyond all praise.
Hotham” : In spite of “Fitzcray’s” fore-
bodings (B. 4/11/’3l) there will be at least
one crew from outside Victoria rowing at
Henley-on-Yarra at the end of this month.
This is a four from Wide Bay in Queens-
land, a _ club which has more than once
figured in the big Melbourne annual car-
nival. Wide Bay club, which has its head-
quarters at Maryborough, has won many
Queensland championships, and its eight has
represented the State. This year the crew
for Henley finished third in the Queensland
fours championship. The Stewards’ Chal-
lenge, which is its special objective, is only
a mile spin, and as the Maryborough men
are famous for striking a fast rate they
should stand a very good chance.
* * * *
“Black and Red”: “Tamboon” (B.
28/10/’.‘>l), refer ring to the Queensland
eight's win in 1891, stated that the crew was
coached in Melbourne by Stanley Gollan and
that the latter rowed at Cambridge. It is
true that he rowed at Camoridge, but not
in his college first boat or in the Cambridge
crew. That an undistinguished oarsman may
make a good coach is not unusual. It is
recorded that about 1885 the Trinity Hall
(Cam.) boat club gave a man named Treavor
.Jones the right to wear the first-boat colors
as a reward for his coaching of the lower
boats, though he was never a first-crew man.
By the way, Gollan nearly “outed” Steve
Fairbairn at Cambridge. They were sculling
in opposite directions and in a collision the
iron on the bow of Gollan’s boat was driven
ifito Fairbairn’s back, narrowly missing the
spine. He was laid up for a considerable
time.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie” : Losh me, Ah’ve had an afu’
nicht since Jeemes McPhairson. holed in yin.
The fiery cross at yince w r as licht, and
scarce the messenger had gone but rin-
nin’ ten tac twalve abriest the clans
came gatherin’ tae the feast. The nicht
McPhairson holed in yin will aye be recol-
lect by me. Ah threw cauld caution tae
the sin, and sang, and quaffed the barley
bree. A bonnie cheque McPhairson wrote—
ill fa’ the day Ah backed it, tae. It was
returrent “N.S.F.” and it was me that had
tae pay.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: What are known as
“local rules” add a good deal to the com-
plexity of golf. All Queenslanders will
remember the early days of the Indooroo-
pilly course, up the river from Brisbane,
when the predatory habits of goannas made
it necessary to have a special rule allowing a
player to drop a new ball without penalty
when the first one had been swallowed by
a lizard, which usually followed-up by
swarming up one of the many gigantic gum-
trees in that neighborhood. The recently-
formed club at Jerusalem has also been
compelled by necessity to introduce a
“local.” According to this “no ball shall
be deemed to be lost until it stops rolling.”
The why and the wherefore of this I can-
not fathom. Perhaps some of the many
Yidden readers of The Bulletin will be
able to help me out.
* * * *
“Sandringham” : As a Victorian golfer I
am mildly interested in a statement of case
in golfing law which has been referred to
me from N.S.W. (The McH'aggis is under-
going his annual cure, so the matter has
been transferred across the Murray.) It
is really quite a simple issue which
cropped up at Pymble—anything, of
course, might happen at a place with a
name like that. A player took a short pitch
for the green, and the ball lodged in the
pocket of an opponent’s caddie who was on
the green holding the pin. The usual argu-
ment ensued, and the player of the shot,
being thirsty, I suppose, waived the ques-
tion and let the opposition have the hole.
He was wrong. Under law 18 it is clearly
laid down that when a player’s ball is
interfered with by an opponent or his caddy
the hole is his. The moral is to avoid
employing caddies with pockets. Balls are
a costly item in modern golf—and caddies
are caddies.
* * * #
“Brassey”: Walter Hagen, who finds him-
self nowadays unable to win big golf
matches, is clinging to publicity by every
means in his power. He has recently
started a campaign in America declaring
that he intends, before retiring, to emulate
Harry Vardon’s feat of winning six
British open championships. That means
that the American has two more wins to
go before he can equal the record of the
famous Englishman. He has announced, too
—apropos des bottes —that his philosophy
of life is founded on that of the bumble
bee; either it stings him or it doesn’t. The
entomologists tell us that the bumble bee
doesn’t sting at all. Those who have parted
up as much as half a guinea to watch
Walter serving up a sometimes very in-
different brand of golf will realise that he
has little in common with the bumble bee.
:|c * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne golfers staged an
interesting show the other day when teams
picked from the leading amateurs and pro-
fessionals were pitted against each other at
Metropolitan. The morning was devoted to
individual matches, and the titbit of this sec-
tion was the game between H. L. Williams
and W. Fowler, who won the Victorian pro-
fessional championship this year. The match
was well contested, Fowler beating the
youngster 4 and 3, while the professional side
generally came out well with 8 wins to 4.
In the foursomes, after lunch, the amateurs
got something of their own back, being
beaten by only one match.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: Now that we have done
with the Cup for another year, attention
may be turned to a much more important
event which can claim some connection with
sport—the attempt by Norman Smith on
the world’s motor-speed record, which is to
come off in Maoriland early next mouth.
Smith, who has Malcolm Campbell’s 245.73
m.p.h. to beat, left Sydney last week. He*
intends to put in his spare time in looking
over the famous beach on which he is to
run, and making sure that all the arrange-
ments will click. The survey and marking
of the course depend on the effect of the
king tides prevailing this week. Don Hark-
ness, designer of the car in which Smith
will make hi£ attempt, and others interested
in the essay, including F. 11. Stewart, will
sail for the Shivery Isles on November 20.
* * * *
“Methuselah”: That reference to the old
law which demanded that any power-driven
vehicle on the high roads must be preceded
by a flag-bearing pedestrian (B. 4/11/’3l)
recalls some evidence given by one of
Britain’s greatest civil engineers before a
Royal Commission on motor traffic held
only 25 years ago. His conclusions were.
that no one should drive faster than 15
m.p.h, and that offenders should not be
fined, but have their cars confiscated—not
a bad idea when it comes to dealing with
the modern speed-hog, by the way. Only
solid tyres should be allowed, as they raised
less dust, and the hooting of horns should
be suppressed, since it was “an impertinence
to the public to fell everybody to clear out
of the way.” V T e have changed in those
25 years, but all my pedestrian friends will
join with me in cordially agreeing with that
last dictum.
* =i ! * • *
“Buzz”: Those American States which
have made .slow driving illegal (B.
4/11/’3l) are hanging back in the breech-
ing, so to speak. Indiana has recently
passed a law which compels all drivers to
maintain a speed of at least 40 miles per
hour on the public highways. Police on
fast motor-cycles watch the traffic, and,
while taking the- names and addresses of
loiterers, also see that they and their effete
vehicles are drafted off on to side roads
with others of their kind.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Unless the cableman has
erred grievously, there is nothing to frighten
Australian followers of cycling in the state-
ment that one Como Manera, “the long-
distance cycling champion,” has established
a world’s record by covering 49 miles in the
hour. Hubert Opperman did 59 miles 269
yards in Melbourne last year, while the Bel-
gian Vandestuyft has 76 miles 503 yards to
hi- credit
n/r- ,
Miscellaneous
“Rottnest”: Westralia amused itself
recently with a novel air race on a principle
which might be applied to other forms of
sport. There was a new aerodrome to be
opened at Katanning, 180 miles from Perth,
and competitors were allowed to leave Perth
for the ’drome at ally time they liked. The
prize was to go to the pilot who passed
over the ’drome nearest to noon. The stunt
called for keen judgment and air know-
ledge. It was won by J. J. Thorpe in a
Gypsy Moth, which crossed the appointed
spot at six minutes before the hour.
* * * *
“Dedans”: Melbourne’s aristocracy, in
spite of the counter-attraction of certain
sports at a place called Flemington last
week, rallied as one nobleman to the annual
tennis championships at the Royal Mel-
bourne Club’s court—the only one on the
mainland of Australia. The final for the
gold racquet went to the holder of the
amateurs’ trophy, E. K. Tolhurst, who beat
F. Strachan by three sets to two. W. Stone
and P. Finch fought out the deciding round
for the professional title, the latter winning
2-1. The tennis referred to, by the way, is
not the pat-ball game beloved of curates
and their coteries, but the strenuous amuse-
ment played within walled and covered
courts which has descended to us from our
forebears.
“Blade Sight”: Racing does not mono-
polise all the ringtailing. When the big
camp for the N.S.W. National Rifle Associa-
tion’s meeting was being dismantled, under
the wooden floors of tents were found
wrappers showing that “packet” ammuni-
tion had been fired. The rule is that all
competitors must use only the ammunition
issued by the authorities on the ranges. This
varies in quality, as all cordite ammunition
does, and every shooter has to chance his
luck and hope that lie’ll get a fair average
issue—which he usually does. Packet
ammunition from private makers is usually
brand-new, and invariably loaded in new
cartridge cases, whereas the “issue” variety
is often “refilled.” In any case every rifle-
man is convinced that the packet stuff gives
a shooter an advantage. At future meet-
ings it is likely that ammunition will be
inspected at every range before the men go
down on the mounds.
* * * *
“Stand Off” : King George, who certainly
stands up to his job, slipped a bit the other
day when receiving the South African foot-
ballers. De Yilliers, one of the scrum-halves,
is not remarkable for size, and George Rex
asked in amazement if he really went in
for Rugby. It is a common error to suppose
that a man must necessarily be in the prize-
bullock class to play Rugby. A few hefty
forwards, given the brains and agility so
many giants lack, are certainly useful in a
side, but the great majority of first-class
players are rarely out of the middle and
lightweight classes. The finest scrum-half
the writer ever saw was A. L. Humphries.
He weighed only 9st. 71b., but it is doubtful
if the Shivery Isles ever produced a better
in his possie.
* * * *
“Splash”: South and West Australian
swimming folk are not pleased at the
decision that the Australian swimming
championships will not be held this year.
They _ were to have been divided between
Adelaide and Perth, and the swimming world
in those centres was looking forward to a
visit from the topnotcliers from the Eastern
States. Queensland and N.S.W. were to
blame for letting their western cobbers down.
Both ukased that swimmers who took part
in the championships instead of the Olympic
trials, which clash with them, would not be
considered for Los' Angeles by the State
selectors. This meant, of course, that the
best swimmers of the two States had no
other recourse but to drop out of the cham-
pionships.


5^
Ijlllf
wkt, Ribbons
wash with
the Garment,
Cash’s Ribbons arc
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are *ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
washing
RIBBONS
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable in a variety of
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash’s
T.&. J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. l J ty. Ltd.
Rxhmond, Melbourne.
TO-DAY — TO-MORROW
Yesterday does not matter any more, but what you do to-day may
make or mar to-morrow. It is of no use repining about what should
have been done—it is what lies to our hands now that really counts.
To an extent contemplation of yesterday may help, for everyone made
mistakes then, especially the errors of omission. Whatever of hardship
or disappointment they may have brought they have at least pointed a
lesson for us. To-day, now, is the time to do things, and this applies
especially to the thrifty accumulation of money. We cannot read our
needs for to-morrow but we can begin to provide for them.
There is no easier, better plan than the Commonwealth Savings Bank
provides.
(Hbmmoiiwcaltb Savings Bank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
Amusements. „
C/Y DNEV ' S CHIEF THEATRES-
J. o. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tail.
HER MAJESTY’S: RUDDIGORE
(Commencing November 14).
CRITERION: AS HUSBANDS GO.
i C. WILLIAMSON, LTD..
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL : OH, LADY, LADY!
(Commencing November 14)
With DOROTHY BRUNTON and All Star Cast.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life.
Probably the greatest thrill of the week
for Sydney girls who stayed _at home
from the Cup was meeting Maurice Cheva-
lier as the Smiling Lieutenant at the Prince
Edward. Old Vienna is the scene of the
whole effervescent brew, and once again
Chevalier plays with kings and princesses
and such. The king has a small kingdom
with a very long name, as is the way ot
these small kingdoms, and because of his
smile that haunts her still, and the most
wicked wink the screen ever registered,
Maurice marries Anna and becomes the royal
son-in-law. The Prince Edward was crowded,
with dutiful and undutiful wives, daughters
and best girls, each dreamily fancying her-
self in the dual role of the princess-wife and
the lady-friend. It's a funny thing, too, how
a Maurice .Chevalier picture speeds up the
Locking and the complexion. This Letter
saw a grandmother of 70-odd and her
youngest married daughter entranced in the
audience. Grandmother later confided that
she never missed a Chevalier opening, and
that she always got a marcel and a massage
for the occasion.
Johnny Gonsalves, who handed over the
Clerk of the Peace’s pen the other day,
quipped as merrily as ever at his send-off.
One after another, friends and admirers
arose at the call ot Davie Hall and sang
their song of praise of Johnny. Then it
was Johnny’s turn. “I wish my wife was
here to-day,” he said. “For three-quarters
of an hour I have been listening to the
things I have been telling her about her
husband for the past 40 years, and I could
never get her to believe them.”
Any old gold? Any precious sovereigns
put away in the toe of a stocking? Any
foreign note left over after that long-ago
tour which begins to be like a dream
journey? One used to be lucky to get
£3 17s. Od. an ounce for one’s old gold:
that mysterious alchemist Exchange makes
it now worth anything up to £0 10s. For
the sovereign there’s 30s. 6d. or more wait-
ing for you almost anywhere, and even
English silver (205.) is worth 235. Od.
Women who served in the W.R.N.S.,
W.A.A.C.. W.R.A.F. and other official war-
service units are invited to a reunion at the
Allora on Nov. 12. For details, ’phone
U 2700.
Lionel Lawson, whose violin has a haunt-
ing tone, has agreed to wield his bow for the
upkeep of actress Queenie Ashton. Queenie
is an English girl tyho came to Australia to
play in “Sunny” at the Empire; she also
understudied Gladys Moncricff in “Rio Rita.”
Lionel is on the. Con. staff.
Mrs. A. T. Anderson is lending her home.
Ball Green, at Turramurra, for a show of
the work of a group of modernists. The
exhibitors are Roland Wakelin, Grace Cos-
sington Smith and Gwen and Jean Ramsay.
To give the show a good send-off, Mrs.
Anderson is surrounding the opening with an
outsize party, and Sir Hugh Poynter is to
make the introductory speech. Twenty or
the pictures by Grace Cossington Smith will
be shown in London early next year; some
of Roland Wakelin’s, which were at Ball
Green last year and are now on exhibition
in London, have interested the “Studio,
which is reproducing “The Sewing Machine,
and “Cannas.” . .
Mrs M. Shirlaw, who very sportingly
produced her own play, “A Tamil!ess Risk,
last week at the Savoy, was rewarded with
a comfortably filled house. Mrs. Shirlaw, first
in a blue morning frock, then in a black even-
ing frock with cascades of green, and lastly in.
a suit of peacock satin pyjamas, carried most
of the burden of the acting. Her nonchalance
when she discovered her husband kissing
the pretty governess must have made every
man in the audience feel that he’d found
the ideal wife. No post-mortems, no sack-
ing the girl, just unruffled pleasantness.
Monogamy would cease to be the white
man’s burden if all wives were as reason-
able.
What a wonderful change has taken place
in the work of hospitals these last fetv years!
There was a time, and not long ago either,
when a hospital was a place where you
were taken when you were ill. To-day the
hospital is liable to be an organisation which
goes to you xvlien you take to your bed.
This is especially true so far qs women arc
concerned. St. Margaret s in its past year
visited 232 S patients in their own homes,
and that was in addition to a multitude of
out-patients who came up for treatment.
George Fitz Patrick, the hospital’s campaign
director, blushed like a rose when the presi-
dent of the women’s committee, Mrs. W. u.
Langton, cast a bouquet to his powers at
the annual meeting.
It’s an old theatregoer who remembers
Alice Deorwyn in the days when she was
better known as Mrs. Charles Holloway.
Forty years ago she was one of a remark-
able family: “Plain Bill” and Charles; an
Mrs. William J. and Mrs. Charles; W. J.s
step-daughter, Essie Jenyns; Constance, who
was Mrs. Charles’s sister; and presently
Beatrice, who was Mrs. Charles s daughter.
All the Holloways and the Deorwyns, too,
had big, rich voices, the old hands remem-
ber; and at Alice Deorwyn’s funeral, at
South Head, one could still hear the fine
voices of later generations of the truitru
Holloways. in
Always a string to it! The same lus
season that gave us fine oranges at a boo
a bucket,” and now has filled the bush with
darning gumtips, sent us the tlirip to ruin
our early roses (and alas, also our next
prune crop !) and follows it with a plague
of flies. And with the fly plague comes
always a spring in the deaths from epidemic
diseases. In Sydney last month these deaths
were exactly twice as many as m October
two years ago; and at Broken Hill the
worst outbreak of typhoid for 30 years is
being fought. So up and down through the
land rings the voice of the doctor to guard
all food against the beastly little filth-carrier.
In York-strcet they are still guessing what
took ex-Prime Minister Bruce back to Lon-
don so soon. Already there have been
several amalgamations among the hard-hit
wholesale softgoods houses; and the favorite
guess is that Mr. Bruce —in business life,
head of Paterson, Laing and Bruce— went
off to London to discuss still another.
Louise Lightfoot, the subject of this pic-
ture, lias all
the lithe
srace that
you associ-
ate with the
artist of the
classic ballet.
She has al-
ways been a
dancer, and
when Pavlova
was here she
had lessons
daily from
Pianowski and
the handsome
Hun g a r ian
Ivan Sergieff,
both members
of Pavlova’s
c o m p a n y.
From Sergieff
she learned
thfe intricacies
of the dash-
ing chardas, tlic Hungarian folk dances.
Last week, with her partner, Misha Bur-
lakov, Louise presented the first ballet pro-
duced in Australia. This was the story of
Coppelia, which Genee had made so beloved
in Sydney that the Savoy was packed for
the performance. Jessie Cree, as Swan-
hilda, the belle of the Galician village, was
a fluff of pink ballet skirts, and the little
girl with the long Russian name who was
the doll that came to life wore long dia-
phanous pink pantalettes below a very
spreading blue tulle ballet skirt. These two
pirouetted, pointed, disdained, threatened
and were wooed against a background of
blue- and red-clad village lads, maidens
dressed in rhythmic white muslins, Cauca-
sian dolls, Mexican dolls, Moorish dolls and
Court ladies. The whole vivacious flutter of
color and steps was served to the orchestra
accompaniment of Delibes music that
rippled and sparkled under the direction of
Carl Sauer.
At the National Gallery they have been
making room for a Streeton show, and when
this Letter looked in attendants wore still
mopping their necks after driving the big
bronze “Mare with Foal” from the Centre
Court into an inner stall. “They ought to
have engaged Pike to ride her!” one atten-
dant suggested.
This Letter had really strayed in to take
a look at the pictures presented during the
year by Howard Hinton. A canal at Bruges
in winter seems to emanate a glittering
cold; but how do the Lowland “boys” keep
schnapps and canals from clashing? In a
Moorish garden at Granada, by Lord Leigh-
ton, a white and a multi-colored peacock
occupy the foreground further back a dark
mysterious avenue leads to a doorway—
perhaps the door of the harem. But of
all the gift pictures, and there are many, the
one with the greatest immediate interest is
the pencil sketch by Orpen of Charles
Conder, obviously at the time a very sick
man. This week the Centre Court is hung
with Streetons, so the sons of Clovis and
other old inhabitants have been moved from
their possies. Maybe the change of scene
will give the boys something to talk about
on their never-ending journey.
Sydney Hospital lost a good friend when
Mrs. Alfred Winn died last week; she had
been the president of its auxiliary for seven
years, and was a keen worker, too, for the
Far West Children’s Health Scheme and
for the deaf and dumb.
Wherever English is sung, “Red Rosebud"
is known A ballad of gentle sentiment, it
expressed the nature of its composer, Murray
Gibbes who died last week through a motor
accident while he was on his way to Parkes
with a concert company. In his young days
he was a member of the J.C.W. opera com-
pany • later he studied with Bouhy, and later
still ’ioined George Edwardes’s London
Gaiety Company. For the last few years he
had been teaching. Another member of the
ill-starred little concert party, Maiy
McNamara, a well-known violinist, is dead
as a result of the same accident.
Norah Snelling, in her ivory satin and
froth of Chantilly and Brussels lace, was last
week’s pretty bride from Cronulla. Kenneth
Lane of Mosman, had the good luck to claim
her as his at St. John’s in Darlinghurst.
Five ’maids, all pink and blue and silver, like
a sunset fantasy, stepped in the procession.
After the ceremony the party took the long
trail back to Cronulla, where bride’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Snelling, did the honors
at Coombe Grange.
The people who went to the dance on
the Nieuw Zeeland in aid of the Dalwood
Homes got their money’s worth. To begin
with the night was one of those that should
be immortalised in song; the ship s decks
were brilliant with floodlights, with red,
white and blue electrics thrown in for good
measure; there were films and a collection
of Oriental art; there were bridge in the
music-room and speed-boat daslies across Cir-
cular Quay for the tired dancer. The ship
was lent' by the Packet Company, and
general-manager Bakker was one of the
night’s important people; the Nieuw Zee-
land’s captain was another. Mrs. Feakes,
who was aboard with her captain, wore a
shimmering gold frock, one of the nicest at
the party. Mrs. D. Lammers and organising
secretary Mrs. Hamilton Lewis both wore
daffodil-hued chiffons, and Mrs. FitzPatnck.
in black chiffons and black lace, hostessed a
large party. Treasurer Theodore came with
his wife and daughters, Senator Carroll
brought his wife, and May Sheehan, Phyllis
Crossley, actresses Marie Bremner and Ethel
Morrison w r ere others who helped.
The children’s party for the Adult Deaf
and Dumb Society has become an annual
holiday fixture. This year, as usual, it will
be on a- ship. The Orient Co. has lent the
Orford and will also provide the refreshments.
Tuesday, December 1, is the date. Lady
Isaacs and Lady Game are both on the
committee.
Artist Nevill Smith lias packed _ a few-
more adventures into his paint-box since his
show in Sydney early this year. From here
he went to Tahiti, and got some sketching,
and visited, among others, the island where
the movie “Tabu” was made. The result
of these wanderings will be shown at
Gumps’s, in San Francisco, in January.
Nevill has a job, too, on the singing staff of
the Los Angeles Conservatory of Music.
The girl of the picture is violinist Kath-
1e e n Logue,
one of Lionel
Lawson’s most
talented
pupils. The
Queen Vi c-
toria Club is
taking a
special inter-
est in a recital
she’s giving
at the Con-
serva torium
on November
17. Her aunt,
Mrs. Francis,
was a vice-
president of
this music
club in the
days, when ex-
Justice Gor-
don’s lady was
its president,
Photo, from
Falk.
Mrs. Foster Mattei, one of the most popu-
lar secretaries among the many the Lyceum
Club lias had, is resigning her job. This
is not a case of hard times or retrenching,
because the position is always an honorary
one. Mrs. Mattei has been feeling the strain
of family bereavement —her favorite brother
died some little time ago, and rest is the
doctor’s order. Curl Curl will be her address
during part of the summer.
Mrs. Albert Littlejohn has come back to
Sydney full of beans and . chat, and has
already sown the seed of discontent among
the women working on the auxiliaries ot
charity organisations. Whether the seed is
merely scattered by the way time will tell,
but she called to nearly 300 women at
David Jones’s to be done with auxiliaries,
her objection being that auxiliaries, though
they gather .so much money for the chanties
to which they are attached, have no say m
the spending of it. She herself will give,
she said, to no organisation that has not
a woman on its committee. Thirteen asso-
ciations, committees and unions publicly
welcomed-home the traveller. David Stead, ot
the League of Nations Union, got m the
first greeting, and 13 of the city’s women
of affairs and two reverends, Canon Howard
Lea and Padre J. N. Cocks, contributed to
the stock-pot. Mrs. Littlejohn faced them
in grey chiffons patterned in black, its coat
sleeves bordered in fur. Her hat was black
and wore white gardenias beneath its up-
turned brim.
Sydney Girls’ High has a mortgage on
the Campbells. Florence is the brilliant
head, who is beloved by all the girls ; Lnglish
is taught by Isabel, whilst botany students
have Frances and Lilian to help them with
their studies. The amazing part is that these
Campbells are not even cousins.
Queensland’s quota: —
Harrow, the home of the W. F. Lloyds, where
Sir John and Lady Goodwin have been staying, was
once part of Eton Vale, which was taken up in
1840 by Arthur Hodgson, whose wife was the second
white woman to come to the Darling Downs. Many
well-known racehorses have been bred there. There
is a big swimming pool in front of the house, and
a fine garden surrounds it.
The Girls’ Sunshine Club had a Hallowe en party
for the club funds, at which Gwen James was
responsible for the decorations of cats and owls,
skeletons and amazing witches. Masks and fancy
dress were worn by most of the guests. Marigolds
and Hallowe’en symbols decorated the supper-tables
in St. Andrew’s Hall, and a witch’s cauldron bubbled
over a fire in mid-stage.
The wife of Canon Thompson, of St. Michael’s and
All Angels, is dead. She was daughter of the late
Edward Bor Hopkins, well known in old days in
connection with Yandilla and Gooda stations, he
married Blanche Eglinton, daughter of one of Aus-
tralia’s earliest clergymen and sister of Dudley
Eglinton the astronomer. Lorna Hopkins married
the Rev. Walter Thompson in 1912, after spending
her girlhood in Toowoomba, where her widowed
mother had become the wife of George Essex Evans,
the Queensland poet.
A scheme for training 500 girls in housework has
been arranged. Unemployed women are also to be
taught how to cook; the building lately used as the
Lady. Lamington hospital will be utilised for the
purpose. The women will also learn to make clothes
and trim hats. A scheme for training boys in
manual work has been in progress for some weeks.
At the third annual show of the Aquarium and
Terrarium Society of Queensland, Sir John Goodwin
won a prize for the best comet goldfish. All kinds
of queer and beautiful fish from all over the world
were shown; fierce battlers some, others gorgeous m
coloring. A John Dory from the Brisbane River,
a mudskipper from the North which has legs in
lieu of fins, the Chinese paradise fish, the dainty
calico goldfish from Japan and salamanders from
Central Europe all had their admirers.
In the Carlton Cabaret, a Cup Day benefit was
held for the Limbless Soldiers’ Association. The
Mayoress, who is president of the committee, wore
burgundy maroeain and a brown hat. Mesdames
R D. Eve and Grave were the organisers, the former
in rose pink linen, with a black-and-white hat, the
latter in pretty white ’broidered voile worn with
a pale pink hat. There were bridge, music,
elocution and dancing, and the results of the big
race over the wireless.
Wilfred Ernest Butler, Leyburn, married Norma
Frederick in the Albert-street church. The bride,
who was given away by her mother, Mrs. Gorman,
was in ivory bridal satin with Brussels-net veil.
Ada Wilmot ’maided in buttercup and Joy Finch,
in pink, was flower girl.
David Williams and Ivy Levina Boddington were
made one in St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Kirk The
bride was in ivory satin with ’broidered tulle veil.
Frances Boddington ’maided in shell pink; T. Mc-
Donald was best man. The feasting was at the
bride’s home.
Tassie’s tattle.: —-
The Committee dance, with Phyllis Swan and
Stella Stone as joint secs., was quite a bright affair.
Town and country matrons and girls figured on the
long list; the Continental was crowded and the
supper tables were rosy with an all-pink scheme of
decoration. The frocking was unusually pretty.
Nancy Ades, eldest daughter of the A. C. Halls,
became Mrs. Cyril Page at St. John’s C. of E.,
Devonport, in a frock of corn-yellow chiffon velvet,
with hat and long feather in the same sunshiny
color. Sister Beatrice ’maided in two shades of
vellow, and carried a bouquet of red and yellow-
tulips. Friends were entertained after the ceremony
at Kiama, the home of the bride’s parents. The
going-away frock was black and beige floral crepe
de Chine, under a smart all-black coat.
The T.R.C. Show race meeting and the opening
of the sailing season fell on the same day, which
rather affected the attendance at the foimer, ow
ever many country folk stayed on after the Show
for ’an afternoon’s punting. Mrs. Tom Lyons was
in a three-piece frock and coat of dull blue .with
blue and white hat. Her sister, Mrs. T. »■ “■
Clarke (Quorn) was there; among others notice
were the Russell Ibbotts, Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell
(Fed. Malay States), Mrs. Angus Butler, the Howard
Buchanans, Capt. and Mrs. Breadmore (India), Mrs.
Geoff Chapman, the W. B. Propstings, Capt. and
Mrs. Strutt, the Francis Fosters, Capt. and Mrs.
A. M. Stoyles and Mrs. Cottrell Dormer.
The Tas. women’s golf championship matches
were held at Launceston; Beatrice Perry carried oil
the honors, with Enid Reid as runner-up. Mft.
Bob Hawker, wife of the Launceston Golf Cluas
president, teaed a crowd on the Fiiday a
club-house, where the tables were decorated with
pale lilac and deep crimson roses.
Broadland House School, Launceston, will nau
Marjory L. Rooney, 8.A., for its next hea-
mistress. Miss Rooney has a fine scholastic record
and is strong on games as well; * she has bee
school-marming in AV.A. since 1927, when she gradu-
ated at the AV.A. University. ,
Details and photos are to hand from England ot
the marriage of John Hood, the Speck’s Rhode
scholar for 1926, to Margaret, daughter of m
James and Lady MacLeod, at St. Mary’s VVunbledon.
The bridegroom is on the staff of the Times.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
THE only simple, straight way in which to do
justice to the depositors in the shut-up
of New South Wales is set out
in the Barrier Miner” leader of Thursday
last week. As usual, this live newspaper,
published at Broken Hill twice a day for the
past 43 years, gets right on to the spot with
its judgment Thus all the people in the Far
nest naturally look to it for their information
as well as for their news. It’s a great
newspaper for advertisers who want to talk
to the Broken Hill miners, or the pastoralists
out there beyond the Darling.
m
■RBHiU'jatPF
■■■
• *? ••
'
Wmmmm
TEL
@?4*
m
A
l*
\\
*? .V
?
a
f 1
IP
m
Tt
•■ ■
m
iM
K-
. •' .':.»
m
The
122-132
Most Modern Hotel
Hotel Alexander
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE (opp. Railway Station)
200 Rooms t 200 Baths
TARIFF PER pAY:
Room and Meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast f rom 12 / 6
Telephone: F 4141 (10 lines)
One of the Richardson Chain of Residential Hotels
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The right sort of Cup Week weather post-
poned its arrival till Oaks Day, which was
gloriously fine—the air dry and warm and
the sunlight almost visibly exhibiting violet
rays. Late in the afternoon came a cool
breeze that swayed frills and feathers. From
the stand the lawns looked like a design in
a kaleidoscope, except that it wasn’t sym-
metrical. In the feminine attire there was
a larger spattering than usual of scarlet.
Frocks were worn long, .save in the case of
tailored suits and ensembles. Lace and
diaphanous materials were first choice, with
flowered and figured muslins and chiffons
next and the black-and-white contrasts third.
There were several all-white turnouts, a
welcome revival of the cool-looking mode of
long-past summers. Large shady hats were
in the majority, the bowlers, forage caps
and other small millinery being merely also-
rans. The picture hat came into its own
again and almost obscured the landscape;
in some c.ases the wearers secured them with
wide ribbons tied beneath the chin. Parasols
and sunshades had a great outing, and
several of them were traced with gold or
crystal beads. There were blacks lined with
white, and a white brolly with a red interior.
A dainty golden-brown sa/nple, all fluffy with
chiffon frills, matched a small plumed hat
that belonged to a white silk gown.
There was the usual vice-regal roll-up, the
Federal and State v.-r. boxes being well
tilled most of the three hours and a bit. The
G.-G. and the Isaacs lady, she in del-
phinium-blue gown and hat, and the Lieut.-
Governor and the Irvine lady (she wore
black chiffon figured in blue and pink, and
a black hat) entertained guests at luncheon
and afternoon tea. Mrs. lan Hayward, from
Adelaide, featured vivid pink eyelet-em-
broidered Shantung and a black and white
chip-straw hat. Of those who partook of
v.-r. hospitality were Major-General Bruclio
and Mrs. Bruche, who was in flowered rai-
ment in autumn tonings and a mushroom-
colored hat; the Alister Clarks, Commander
Langford and daughter Molly and Mrs. A. V.
Kewney. Mrs. K. Bellew, lately returned
from overseas, had a Parisian touch in her
fine black net embroidered in posies of
flowers in wool; filmy lace was her black
hat. Mrs. George Russell’s georgette gown
was topped by a small plumed straw hat
and a sunshade of the same line —Pervenche
blue. Mrs. Robert Knox sported beige and
black figured draperies; and Mrs. lan
Currie, of Seven Creeks, came in a black and
white check and a white hat. Mrs. R, G.
Casey, Mrs. George Chirnside, Mrs. W.
Rogers Thompson (in black and white) and
Mrs. W. R. Burston were others who fre-
quented the members’ stand. Anne Outli-
waite, who has a distinctive style, looked
smart in hailstone-spotted fawn muslin with
wee val. lace frills, a brown hat wreathed
with beige and brown flowers, and mittens.
Mary Stuart Murray was in ninon in rosy
shades, with a black hat. Brown with a
dash of biscuit tint were Noel Clapp’s frock
and matching hat, that was perched upon her
reddish hair at a fetching angle. Jacqueline
Mackinnon, from the Upper Murray. Nancy
Hewlett and Kathleen Ahern were others in
the garden of girls.
Among Tasmanian visitors were the Jones
lady, who, with a gown of tabac-brown
georgette and lace and wide-leafed matching
straw hat, wore kolinsky furs; Mrs. Tom
Lyons, in black, with her daughter Sibyl,
arrayed in pale pink; and Mrs. Lloyd Old-
meadow, who topped a black lace gown with
a chiffon cape, sprinkled in bead-embroidered
flowers. Mrs. T. A. Frankcomb’s ensemble
of brown and white flecked marocain was
topped with a small brown hat. Prin-
cess Melikoff had a touch of red about her
grey and white ninon frock, and her black
hat was an o.s. Representing Adelaide were
Wallace Bruce’s lady, whose white gown,
shoes, hose and gloves were contrasted with
a black straw hat with a white wing; the
Ilackett Aloulden lady, in chiffon which
mingled tints of brown and beige; and Dr.
and Airs. C. V. Hallett. Pale blue was very
popular with the Sydney contingent, which
was numerous.
The sultry weather of Saturday brought
a much-varied mixture of feminine attire to
klemington. Almost to a woman patrons
came with coats ready for expected rain,
m{! lc V!n rived at the finish of the last race.
Ine G.-L. and the Isaacs lady having re-
turned to Canberra the Irvines were the only
' ]f ', e P s - Present. The lady dressed her-
seir m brown crepe romaine with beige spots
okk! 1 i a Slafy fan straw hat. Some remark-
, . y . patterned georgettes, ninons and
Chiltons figured in the dressing. Vera de
Lavays pale primrose chiffon bore a huge
design in pink. The Moulden lady was
another who went in for a large-scale
floral effect. Valeries Purves mixed biscuit-
browns and blue in her light frock topped by
black millinery; and Mrs. Fred Thiel, who
had a bottle-green feather curled about her
small black hat, mingled rust hues and greens
in her cool-looking gown. Sprays of lily
ot the valley on a navy-blue ground appeared
in Mrs. Len Buxton's attire. Mrs. Eric
Harrison looked cheery in a red-and-wliite
traced frock and red shoes and nat. Mrs.
ri' i^L^ ogan ’ V l>s - D. P. Mackey and Mrs.
Hallott put their faith in black and white.
Mrs. Colin Fraser was in blacK.
On Cup Day at Flemington the sun flooded
the scene, bringing out the brightness of
flower-beds and boxes, and tanning the faces
ot those who wore Avee hats. .Lieut.-Gov.
Irvine and his lady, aa-lio Avas in sapphire-blue
georgette Avith a straw hat of the same shade,
came ahead of the Federal Government House
folk. The band stationed at the side of
the members’ stand played the Anthem there,
then hurried to the front to do an encore
performance for the G.-G. as he drove along
the straight with his guard of lancers,
pennons flying. Her Ex.’s saxe-blue georg-
ette gown was worn Avith a coatee trimmed
with squirrel fur, and her lace straw hat Avas
matching. In the State v.-r. box were Mr.
and Mrs. ,T. Morristm, Mrs. lan Hayward,
of Adelaide, who wore brown cheered Avith
biscuit color, and Mr. and Airs. W. Irvine,
she wearing a white satin coat with black
skirt and small black hat. AGsitors to the
Lieut.-Governor’s reserve were Captain and
Airs. Cyril Benson, she in black georgette
with a becoming toque of velvet; Premier
Hogan; Airs. Hogan, in black with cowl
collar of white, and Mrs. Cameron, of Alona
Vale, Tasmania, Avith her daughter Cynthia.
The Lud Alayoral Luxtons, the Gavan Duffys
and Rear-Admiral Hyde arid his wife
had luncheon Avith the. G.-G. and the Isaacs
lady. Airs. Hyde wore an unusual coated
frock of shot raspberry and mole marocain,
with a berry-red hat.
The dressing was a mixture of summer
and autumn modes, for out of the sun the
wind was cool. The plain tailored suits were
much worn, and almost every style of gar-
ment had as accessory a jacket or coat of
some sort. There were more flimsy frocks
and shady hats than on Derby Day and
there was a run on organdie. Mrs. M. L.
Baillieu looked pretty in green and white
figured chiffon and green hat. Alary
Hordern, of Sydney, who was with her, Avore
reseda-green .ensemble and a matching bowler
hat. Zlatko Balokovic Avas there with his
Avife, she in a beige ensemble with a match-
ing feather-trimmed hat.
This is Princess Alelikoff—Pauline Curran,
of Tasmania, that Avas. Her people Avere con-
• nected with
the founding
of Tattersall’s
sweeps. With
her mother,
Airs. Curran,
the princess
has arrived
from Europe
after five
years' ab-
sence, mainly
passed in Lon-
don and on the
Riviera; her
prince was un-
able to accom-
pany her to
Australia. On
Cup Day the
princess wore
an ensemble
suit of lime-
green hue
topped by a
small felt hat ot the same color, trimmed
with a rust-red winding quill.
There were sounds of revelry around
Blythswood, Kew, when the Geoffrey Svmes
staged the coming-out of their (laughter
Felicity. Heaps of flowers and gold and green
fairy lights figured in the setting. Airs. Syme’s
black lace gown was relieved Avith faint pink
ninon. and the debutante’s white satin frock
was fashioned Avith a cape. Joan Syme’s
pale green chiffon was patterned in russet
hues, and another sister, Airs. Geoffrey Hag-
gard, chose Avliite satin. Other wearers of
white satin were Alorna MaeCormick, from
Sydney, Mrs. Dermot Casey, Airs. M. L.
Baillieu and Joan Chirnside. Rose Hayne,
just back from European travel, chose deep
parchment satin, which Avent well with her
Titian locks. # Anne Gordon, of Sydney,
looked cool in white organdie over nale
green.
The Oswald Symes staged a dance at their
Alacedon home to plunge into the social
whirl their younger daughter, Alargaret.
Elyne, daughter of General Chauvel and his
lady, was a co-deb. _ The hop had a pink
and white floral setting, in which gorgeous
rhododendrons, lilies of the valley and
azaleas ran riot. The hostess in her chiffon
attire blended two tones of blue; and her
elder chick, Nancy, sported cherry-red ninon.
White lace with a touch of green in har-
mony with the lilies of the valley slit'
carried was the coming-out frock of Mar-
garet, and the handsome Chauvel miss wore
a robe of mushroom-pink lace. Her mother
was a slim girlish figure in pale rose chiffon.
The Animal Welfare League’s ball at the
Rex was' largely attended, and the organiser.
Mrs. Lort Smith, and her aiders rejoiced.
Mrs. Norman Brookes, the president, wore
primrose-colored satin that blended with Inn-
sun-tan. The duties of ticket secretary wen-
shared by Mrs. Fred Krcrouse, who danced
in black lace, and Cynthia Brookes, who
sported flounces of filmy white lace. Mrs.
James Purves. lion, treas., wore chiffon of
rose-red tint. On the committee were Mrs.
Frank Andrew, Mrs. Simon Fraser and
Marion Montgomery, all in black satin. Joan
Chirnside, in red-and-wliite flowered ninon,
and Betty Fairbairn, in parchment-toned
satin, dispensed cocktails. Among the
dancers were Mrs. Fleming, wife of Lt.-Com-
ma-nder Fleming of the Canberra, whose
chiffon draperies were flowered in vivid rose
and green; Mrs. Rupert Fanning, tall and
fair, whose lily-green tulle was allied to
a long glistening bodice, and Mrs. W. Fan-
ning, in white satin with which were con-
trasted some red roses. Others there were
the Chauvel lady and daughter Elyne, the
W. M. Robins, the Jim Fairbairns, Mrs. Rus-
sell Gabb, in white satin ; Mrs. Ken Reid, of
Brisbane; Mrs. Warwick Fairfax, of Sydney,
in white net flounces: Elaine and Horsey
Brookes; and Betty Wilkinson, in powder-
blue taffeta fashioned in bustle mode.
Among the best-dressed women at Fleming-
ton on Derby
Day wei’e New-
to n Moore's
lady and her
d aughter
Mollie. Both
were remark-
able not only for
the elegance of
their dress but
for the way
they wore it.
Lady Moore
married her
Newton when
he was a young
West r al ian
snrv eyor to
whom the Pre-
miership was
the most dis-
tant of dreams.
She was Isabel
Lowrie, sister
of Prof. Low-
rie, the agricultural expert. Mollie is one of
three daughters; there is also a son.
Ella Payne and her brother Neville gave
a hop at No. 9 on Friday night to guests,
who included several country and inter-
state visitors. The rendezvous was decked
with rhododendrons, irises and other flowers
in great quantities. Powder-blue lace was
worn by the hostess, and her mother Mrs.
T. H. Payne had some gold and platinum
embroidery upon her amber-satin gown.
Mrs. R. G. Casey, in black lace ; Mrs. Dcr-
mot Casey, and Mrs. H. 11. Dulton, from
Adelaide, in white net with a scattering of
silver pailettes. were there. Mrs. Neville
Fraser wore pale-pink lace, and Jacqueline
Maekinnon’s brunette coloring was set off
by her lime-green gown of the material with
the fascinating title of “angel’s skin.” Mrs.
Ellis Fielding Jones, of Sydney, wore a
frock of the same suede-finished fabric, in
blue.
Scotch College chapel was the scene of
the linking of James, son of Robert Fraser,
of Malvern, and Mena, youngest daughter
of the A. H. Williams, Hawthorn. Moire
satin of pale-grey tone with a velvet toque
of the same shade was worn by the bride.
The Lyceum Club was the location of re-
joicing after the wedding of Elfrida, daugh-
ter of the F. L. Bakers, of Camberwell, and
Donald Arthur Stuart. Lace of the hue
of ripened corn with a bordering of brown
fur, which matched a straw hat, made the
bridal array with a posy of crimson roses.
The bride’s sister Beverley in her chiffon
frock mingled russet and golden tints, her
hat and the Duchess of York pansies she
carried being all in the color scheme.
Leg. Council President Clarke handed over
his daughter Margaret to the safe-keeping
of John E. Oldham at Melbourne Grammar
School chapel. Over the bride’s white
satin gown flowed a veil of lace-edged tulle,
and she carried a sheaf of orange blossoms.
Pat and Valerie Clarke, sisters of the prin-
cipal lady, her cousins Rosemary Knox,
Marjorie Clarke and Janet Landale, and
Dorothy Krcrouse, the ’groom’s cousin, were
the ’maids, attired in pink silk net, much
befrilled. The Governor-General attended
the reception at the Clarke home, where the
Clarke lady extended a greeting hand, in a
gown of pale grey satin and lace with a
large crinoline hat.
Scotch College chapel saAV the knot-tying
of Kathleen, elder daughter of Colonel and
Mrs. T. Murdoch, of Elsternwick, and Archi-
bald, son of the Archie Lloyds, of Bairns-
dale, Gippsland. Deep vellum-tinted satin
with a suggestion of pink graced the bride,
and her veil of lovely old lace descended from a
coronet of pearls. Enid Murdoch, her sister,
and Gladys Toyne, of Geelong, the attendant
’maids, held pink-and-white posies against
their pale-green organdie frocks, and real
lilies-of-the-valley clustered round their coif-
fures. There were rejoicings at the Windsor
afterwards.
The party of English public-school boys
spent crowded days here. They week-ended
at Balnarring, and they were able to malm
comparisons between the similar holiday
camp for hoys, established in England by
the Duke of York, and that founded by
Lord Somers.
For Balokovic’s concert on Friday night
the weather was hot, and bare shoulders
rose from gay gowns in which red, green and
rose pink wore predominant. It is a long
time since the civic hall held so smart a
concert gathering. At the interval many of
the listeners wandered into the vestibule or
into the .street, seeking a breath of fresh
air, and wishing the city fathers had tin'
forethought and enterprise to run a soda
fountain on nights like these. Medical-
knight James Barrett and his lady. Robert
Best and his lady, the Herbert Brookses, the
Rene Vanderkelens and the Charlie Taits
were in the large audience.
To aid St. Vincent’s Hospital a Tulip-
time Cabaret was put on at the Green Mil!.
Rhododendrons and pink and white azaleas
figured in the decorative scheme. The
Premier and Mrs. Hogan were there, she
in black cire lace.
Westralia’s notes —
A record crowd rolled up to the inter-school
sports. The last race, in which C.B.C. won the
cup by two points from Hale School, was full of
thrills. Mrs. Buntine was in the throng, also Mrs.
Freeth and most of the Anderson girls. Among
the neatly frocked was Mrs. McWhae, who topped
tier figured silk with a flecked straw hat. Mrs.
Archie Burt wore navy; Mrs. P. G. Hampshire’s
white crepe had a speckled jabot; Mrs. Kay Cock-
burn wore one of her trousseau frocks and a big
cream hat; Mrs. Tom Moore wore pink and her
long bob curling up over the back of her hat brim :
petunia shades i-an riot on Mrs. Harry Vincent’s
coat, worn with a green skirt and hat; Doreen
O’Hara, in shell-pink, carried a white sunshade;
Dot Solomon’s blue silk was penny-spotted with
white; Mrs. Jack Clark wore navy and a little
black hat; blue was Mrs. K. T. Robinson’s choice,
and her daughter’s sherry-red costume was fanciful
with white kilted trimmings; Jean Lang wore a
sulphur-shaded garment; Bonnie Spencer’s raspberry
satin was topped with a little shiny black hat;
Mrs. C. M. R. Sinclair was in almond-green; and
black with white reliefs was chosen by Mollie
McGibbon.
After five years abroad Dr. Jean Hamilton has
returned to have a look round the city of her early
girlhood. A Modern School-girl, she won her arts
degree here and a parcel of scholarships took her
to Europe. Languages are her forte. She has been
studying in Germany.
There’s a flavor of romance about buried treasure,
even if it be only of the baser metal. The Historical
Society twittered with excitement at its last meeting
over the news of a discovery at Success Springs,
Bassendean, of copper coins over 100 years old.
The Guy MacLeods’ beautiful house in Mount-
street has been leased as a guest home for bachelors.
Mr. MacLeod bought the house from Mr. W. J.
Butcher three years ago.
South Australia's mail:—
The banks of the Torrens recalled pre-war days
when the Governor performed the opening ceremony
and christened the boats at the new A.R.O. sheds.
Old oarsmen were there in full force, and a crew
of veterans, .whose sons are now prominent in the
rowing world, engaged in a sprint coxed by his Ex.
At the Mount Osmond clubhouse the women!
members entertained the vice-captain (Mrs. David
Wighton) and the house committee secretary (Mrs.
John O’Brien). Mrs. H. J. Lipman organised the
affair, and the beautiful floral decorations were
carried out by Mrs. Pittman.
The trip to the Angorichina Hostel made
by Lady Hore-Ruthven and friends has roused
renewed interest in the tubercular patients.
Two of the party, Mesdames Lavington Bonython
and Fred Cornell, are organising a large bridge
party to be held next week at the Palais Royal in
aid of the Angorichina Hostel.
Lady Hore-Ruthven, who is a member of the
Adelaide Women’s Club,' was entertained by the
committee and members, when a musical programme
was rendered. Miss Amy Tomkinson, vice-president,
received the guest of honor.
At a cabaret evening to be held in the cloisters
at the ’Varsity on December 11, the girl students
will appear as waitresses in gay-hued beach pyjamas.
Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters are the presidents of the
shivoo.
There was bagpipe music at the marriage of Mr.
C. H. Herring and Margaret, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. Mulholland, at Scots’ Church. Pipe-Major
W. Niven and Sergeant D. McGregor piped the
bride up the steps, and there was more playing
when the party left the church.


(onstipation
means the end
oj" Health
w
CONSTIPATION is the beginning
of countless ills, many of them
very serious ones. You cannot
afford to ignore it.
There is a simple, safe and comfort-
able way to treat it. Make Figsen
your protector. This unusual laxative
works in the most natural manner.
Its action is gentle but thorough.
There is no purging or griping, no
troublesome after effect, no habit form-
Jng worries. Figsen is an ideal laxa-
tive for all types of people. Small
children, aged persons, athletes and
average people all find it equally good
for combating disorders of the elimin-
ation system. Your chemist sells it.
fIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail
ment . • • • •
Sold only by
Chemists
'4
r 2
3
V
dujjno^uo
j/dddpffsii//'
/*7
juog
WHEN IT'S AN...
Start on your trip with a feeling of con-
ficence in your battery. Be sure that it
will not let you down in the traffic or
miles away from home. The reserve
power built into every Exide is ample to
supply all needs of your starter, your
light-, and all the other equipment that
depends on your battery.
Whatever the conditions —wet or fine, hot
or cold — when it’s an Exide you start.
The Long Life Battery
FOR CARi. RADIO >1 HOMf RIGHTING
OBTAINABLE FROM: Brisbane —Exide Battery
Service (Q.). Ltd.; Sydney—Exide Battery Service
(Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd.) ; Melbourne—A. P.
Sutherland; Adelaide —Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd. ;
Perth- —M. J. Bateman, Ltd. ; Hobart —Medhurst and
Sons Pty., Ltd. C 26
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH"
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane ’Telegraph” i« re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-*
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Fairy Gold.
WALTER E. WYNNE TELLS THE TRAGIC STORY OF HOW HE AND
HIS MATE COULDN'T SELL A BAR OF GOLD.
YOU have heard of flic sage who failed
to sell genuine sovereigns for twa shil-
lings apiece on Westminster Bridge a
while back. Ilis failure was a poor thing
compared with what happened to ns after the
Main Reef Extended gdldroom robbery, " hat
business taught me more about psychology
than all my previous experiences in life.
Simon’s greatest relaxation was to read
the Mint returns each month. I have seen
his sensitive mouth quiver like a womans
as he studied figures of bullion received, total
sovereigns issued and the like. After dwell-
ing on those poignant passages until then-
first sting abated, he would often drag me
out of town to the mines, to torture liimselt
further by proximity to the unattainable.
We were browsing around the Main Reef
Extended one morning when we saw some
of the staff come out of the goldroom and
throw seven bars of bullion, valued at about
£14.000, on to the floor of a waiting car-
jus: like so many bathbricks. I looked
quickly at Simon to see the effect on him.
There were tears in his emotional eyes.
“My friend,” he said brokenly, “we’ll have
to do something.”
“You’re right.” I agreed. “Were just
about broke. In this morning’s paper there was
an advertisement for men to barrow concrete.’
“You fool! I don’t mean work. What
we want to do is lay in a substantial gold
reserve. The press is full of gold reserves and
their bearing on public and private finance.
Just look at that little lot! Now, if we
could get our hands on something like that.! -
From the way his voice trailed off and the
glassy look that came into his eyes I knew
that his thoughts had taken a sentimental
turn. That meant he was concentrating his
single-track mind on the acquisition of new
wealth. He was poor company at such
times, amusing me only by disjointed mut-
terings and convulsive twitchings in his lank
frame. I had to watch him during these
periods of preoccupation, else in. his un-
seeing way he would blunder down open
slopes, still muttering and jerking.
“Should be possible,” he mumbled. “Supply
.. . .demand. ... Great unswerving laws
Let me see.” Suddenly he became normal
and snapped at me. “We’ll look around
here. See if there’s any opening to get
the stuff. Easily take it off them now, or
on the road to town, but too much bustle.
And probable recognition. Perhaps scrim-
mage. Too much bustle all round. Peace
is what we want. We’ll look around.”
I realised he was serious.
“Curse it!” I protested. “What’s the use of
bullion? You can’t spend it. You can’t bank
it. You can’t sell it. You can’t even pawn it!”
“Sell it easily enough. Supply and
demand. World in general, everybody in par-
ticular, wants gold.”
“Who’d buy bullion, though?”
“Black Snowy.”
“Black Snowy?”
“Acquaintance of mine. Reasonable rates
with allowances for exchange premium. Good
business at the back of his pub any time.
We’ll look around here.”
There and then we reconnoitred the mine.
The Main Reef Extended was a high-grade
proposition, built in the Pre-Gold-Bonus
style, standing in its own grounds and
approached by a good road from town. It
was too big for even both of its to surround
and capture, so that guile was indicated to
be the keynote of our campaign.
Simon vetoed anything in the way of
violence. He was so lazy that merely to
contemplate the exertion of swatting any-
body behind the ear made him perspire. I
had dutifully thought of all possible methods,
and cheerfully condemned them when Simon
clutched my arm. We had just about com-
pleted a circuit of the property.
“Look!” lie said. “Boiling water for
men's tea!” , .
lie pointed to a row of converted petrol-
tins full of water on a lire. They were
tended by a weary stoker. The practice ot
detailing one man to boil water tor the mine
had .saved the company a great deal of its
employees’ time. It was shortly to lose
the company a lot of its own money.
While we watched the stoker poked the
lire, and the water tried to leap out of the
tins. At a few minutes before midday a
horde of workers from all points of the mine
bore down on the boiling water and trans-
ferred it to scores of billycans.
“The crux of the position! said bimon.
“Dope that water. Entire mine soon suc-
cumbs to drugged sleep. Clean-up at our
mercy. Wait. 1 ? 11 polish up details. jLhis
will be our debut.”
Again the glazed look and erratic wander-
ings. In the intervals between guiding him
past obstacles I, too, ruminated on the project.
At first I was against putting poison m
the men’s tea, but Simon assured me later
on, when he was again rational, that the
drug he proposed using was quite harmless
with only a temporary effect. The secret of
its preparation had been yielded to a rela-
tive of his who had eased the last moments
of a dying pagan soldier.
Simon speedily perfected his plans. He
calculated the capacity of the tins we had
seen on the fire, and weighed out capsules
of the drug. We then prepared to wait for
the next clean-up day on the Mam Beet
Extended, with no doubts as to the success
of our venture.
There was never any uncertainty m
Quartzite as to what day was clean-up day
on the Main Reef Extended. A smelt ot
two bars in the goldroom was smelt six miles
around it. The stink of sulphuretted hydro-
gen was something indescribable. It per-
meated the atmosphere to _ the complete
exclusion of ozone and such inert gases; so
rich was it that enterprising motor-car sales-
men from town would drive prospective buy-
ers in demonstration models around the
fringe of that smell and get 45 miles to the
gallon in a heavy car. When English mail day
coincided with clean-up day the mail ’plane
would make a detour round the aureola, or
climb to 20,000 feet when passing over it.
So when we observed the “Shut this Door”
signs on the shop-fronts in town, and saw
the demonstration cars heading for the Main
Reef Extended, we knew it was clean-up
day on the mine, apart from the evidence of
our sense of smell. We throttled our repug-
nance to the stink and made the first move
towards laying in our gold reserve. .
At a quarter to twelve midday we arrived
at the mine in a fast car, and, approaching
the weary stoker, bade him the time of day.
I engaged him on the chances of Impecuni-
ous in the Hurdles, while Simon dropped
the capsules of drug into the boiling water.
Then we drifted off to watch developments.
At ten minutes to twelve there was a con-
certed rush on the boiling water by mine
employees armed with billies of all sorts
and sizes, ranging from jamtins to axle-
grease cans. Within five minutes there was
less than a pint of boiling water left. It
was almost possible to hear the crunch of
champing jaws above the roar of the mill.
At a quarter past twelve I heard a dron-
ing sound and looked upwards. There was
nothing in the sky but the queer tint usual
around the mine on clean-up days.
“I could have sworn that I heard the mail
’plane,” I remarked to Simon.
“You fool!” he said tensely. “That’s not
an aeroplane engine. That's men sleeping! ’
He was right. There was a great deal of
slumber going on—noisy slumber. We
advanced towards the mill, and saw that
wherever there was any shade men .slept in
all sorts of positions. It looked like the
buck yard of the Telluride Hotel on a Satur-
day night. It must have been a .potent ding
to * make men forget their dignity so com-
pletely They reclined on their backs and
on each other’s stomachs. They sat, leaned
and sprawled. The weary stoker had evi-
dently dozed off on a sort ot platform
arrangement, rolled, and fallen into a barrel
of grease There he was wedged in a sit-
ting posture, with arms and legs dangling
by the sides of the barrel, and Ins head
thrown back. lie gargled rendingly through
the remains of a sandwich still in his mouth.
“Won’t he choke?” I asked anxiously of
Simon. , ~ ~ , T ,
“No, you fool; lie s all right, out I m wor-
ried about that chap over yonder.”
The object of Simon's worry had been
working while having lunch, lie had sipped
his tea, gone into the trance, tumbled down
a shoot, and was being fed slowly towards a
gyratory rock-breaker. I pulled him out and
thereafter lost a quarter-hour rescuing sleep-
sodden workers from motors and belts and
mills. , ,
“We’ll have to hurry, and get on with the
real work,” said Simon. “We haven’t got
much time. Only gave them a weak dose.
In the gold room the same siesta condi-
tions prevailed. The complete staff was
asleep at its post. Our first, job on going m
was to pull the metallurgist out of a heap
of hot slag and put him under a hydrant to
quench him. The amalgamator had to be
pulled out of an acid bath and transferred to
a trough of water. *
Simon had timed things wonderfully. The
pouring of the gold was just finished. There
were two bars on the floor. I grabbed one
in both hands and inserted its forty pounds
of weight into my coat pocket. It continued
straight through, taking the tail of the
coat with it, so I found a strong sack and put
both bars into it. There was another bar
still in a mould. I could see the heat waves
radiating from it, although apparently Simon
could not. He grasped hold of it, said
“Hell 1” passionately, flipped the skinned
hand and threw a pail of water on the bar.
We searched the surrounding bodies for
keys of the strong room and brought out
two more 500 oz. bars from inside. Within
a few minutes we discovered that 801 b. was
as much as each of us could carry singly in
the shape of bullion. Sadly we left the fifth
bar in the strongroom, locked it and returned
the keys.
In such manner did we take £BOOO worth
of bullion from under their very eyes. It
but remained for Black Snowy to appre-
ciate Simon’s interpretation of the laws gov-
erning supply and demand.
As I did not desire to give the Press time
to apprise the mine of its loss and hound the
authorities on to us, and a§ Simon was
apprehensive lest the exchange rate should
drop, we drove immediately to Black Snowy’s
headquarters. It was the Neapolitan Hotel,
in the centre of the town.
Simon went through the necessary for-
malities in the front bar and we were directed
into a private back parlor, each carrying his
two bars in a bag. Business was brisk.
Black Snowy sat at a small table peering
through a lens at various items un for sale.
There were several sellers in the room, com-
prised mostly of underground workers off
shift and a mine manager or two. All
showed a supreme indifference to the exist-
ence of our Goldstealing Detection Staff.
The official in charge had evidently taken
one half of his name from the darkness of
his skin. The only peg on which to hang
the “Snowy” part was the appearance of a
perpetual moisture on his face, that might
have reminded the christener of the rivulets
running from the Jungfrau.
Customers were attended to strictly m
rotation. While waiting, Simon and I watched
the Underground men tender 2oz. tobacco-tins
containing telluride scraps. Black Snowy
paid deposits of several shillings on some
of them pending more accurate determina-
tion of the gold value. Il'e paid one of the
managers £1 cash for a nice-looking .specimen
of free gold. As he deliberated on paying
Ts. (Jd. or 10s. for a pill-box of concentrates,
Simon grew restive, and, extracting one of his
500 oz. bars, slammed it down on the table.
“Look at that!” he invited.
Black Snowy dropped his lens. The dark-
ness of his complexion decreased. The moist-
ure was augmented. His mouth opened
widely. Then it appeared that he saw the
joke. lie grinned depreciatingly at Simon.
“Ah. you would not frighten Black Snowy
with a gold brick?” he asked reprovingly.
With his smile gaining ground, lie drew from
his pocket a tremendous clasp-knife, opened
it, and stabbed the bar in the middle. Then
lie surveyed his handiwork. Instead of the
sheen of fresli-cut lead, there was the lustre
of clean bullion.
Had the cut in the bar displayed pro-
nounced signs of arterial haemorrhage, Black
Snowy could not have registered more horror.
AH excuse for the “Black" portion of his
name disappeared, but was more than made
up for by the increase of humidity 011 his
face. Ho rose shakily to his feet, muttering
inarticulately in a voice whose sound
reminded me of an overloaded grit mill.
Simon grew more impatient. He deposited
his second bar on the table beside the first.
Black Snowy groaned. The table squeaked
protest iugly.' Simon waved me up with my
offering. I added my two 500 oz. bars to the
other exhibits. Black Snowy and the over-
taxed table collapsed to the floor simul-
taneously. The four bars struck the boards
with a reverberation like cannon.
In an agony of soul Black Snowy moaned,
“Oh, take them away from here! • II Ducc!
I will be execute’ if the Goldstealing Detec-
tives fall on them in the Neapolitan ! Take
them away, please! Ah, Benito!”
Simon and I were the sole survivors 011
the scene. The other sellers’ mediocre
peddlers that they were, had cleared out at
sight of the first bar. Black Snowy had lost
consciousness at sound of the last.
“It would appear that the register has
ticked up ‘No Sale,’ ” I said icily to Simon.
“There are other markets,” he breathed
heavily.
We tried them all. In each case the pros-
pect of buying from us a couple of ounces
of auriferous material produced a naughty,
expectant delight. The sight of even one of
our bars provoked all mental disorders, from
delirium tremens to common idiocy. But
there were no buyers. We approached the
second-hand shops and pawnshops, where they
bought anything and sold everything. The
proprietors did not in a single instance
retain sanity long enough to make a quote.
An Oriental merchant, with the reputation of
a wholesale receiver, unloaded on us a batch
of Cantonese profanity, but could not be
induced to offer so much as sandal-wood rates.
Very shortly only the banks and Mints
remained to be approached. Tentative ad-
vances to those institutions secured for us
such searching forms to be filled in that we
thought they would suspect the origin of the
bullion if the queries were answered.
The horrible thought struck us both at
last that we might be unable to get rid of the
stuff at all. And the prospect of each carry-
ing around 801 b. of bullion for the rest of
his life was not to be tolerated.
“AVe’ll take them back to the Main Reef
Extended,” said Simon shakily. “The mine
will have to take delivery of them! They
produced the damn stuff. I don t see how
they can avoid it!”
So that they couldn’t avoid it, we returned
the bars before daybreak one morning. We
left them in front of the goldroom door where
somebody would surely fall over them. Then
we waited till eight o’clock and approached
the construction boss with a newspaper-
cutting advertising for men to barrow con-
crete. The labor was not much heavier than
carrying 801 b. of bullion about on one’s person,
and was a great deal more remunerative.


DONT GROPE IN DARKNESS
The veil of ignorance has been lifted
AT LAST YOU CAN BUY THE WONDER BOOK
“SAFE COUNSEL”
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. L. Nichols, A.M.; Dr. Emjma F. A. Drake,
M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your very door for £1
Must every woman pay the price of a moment’s happiness in bitter tears
and years of regret? Must millions of homes be ruined—marriages totter
to the brink of divorce? YES—just as long as men and women remain
ignorant of the simple facts of life.
The Greatest Sin of all is total IGNORANCE of the most important subjects
in the life of every man and woman.
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY
Let us face the facts of life fearlessly and frankly, sincerely and scientifically. Let us teat
the veil of shame and mystery from life and build the future of the race on a new know-
ledge of all the facts of life as they are laid bave in plain, wholesome words and frank
pictures in the huge new book entitled “Safe Counsel,” which contains—
ŵ
ẁ
■SECRETS
FOR MEN AND
WOMEN: AND
OVER 100 ILLUSTRATIONS.
This volume abounds in truthful illustrations and pictures of scientific interest that one seldom, if ever,
finds outside of the highly-technical medical books which laymen fail to understand. Every picture is
true to life.
IF YOU ARE GOING TO BE MARRIED,
CAN YOU ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS?
ARE YOU FIT TO MARRY? DO YOU KNOW HOW TO CHOOSE A MATE?
DO YOU WISH YOUR MARRIAGE TO BE HAPPY? DO YOU KNOW THE
PERILS OF BEING UNPREPARED? “SAFE COUNSEL” answers all these questions
—and more!
Many a marriage has been wrecked on the shoals of ignorance. Many a beautiful love has been
killed by carelessness and a lack of frankness. Are you going to take the chance that your mar-
riage will be one of the unhappy ones?
This book contains good, sound advice to those contemplating matrimony and those already married.
It tells you how to prepare for marriage, and how to insure your future happiness. Intimate details
of a successful wedded life are fully explained.
DON’T DELAY
ORDER TO-DAY
Save time by filling in this form and posting
it together with money order, cheque, batik
note or postal note for £l,
NEW ZEALAND READERS and those in
British Possessions and Colonies, send your
own bank note by registered mail, if possible.
ẃ
it*
SS
_^7
cq
OR
c#OR4 Afe
v
?
“SAFE COUNSEL”
WILL TELL YOU
EVERYTHING A WOMAN
SHOULD KNOW
How to hold a husband: how to preserve
youth; warding off other women; keep-
ing yourself attractive; why husbands
tire of wives; dreadful diseases due to
ignorance; diseases of children; family
health guide; change of life—hygiene;
why children die young; inherited traits
and diseases; what will you tell your
growing girl ?; hundreds of valuable
remedies.
GIRLS, DO NOT MARRY
BEFORE YOU READ
“SAFE COUNSEL"
It will save you from Life’s pitfalls
'and disasters.
SECRETS FOR MEN
Mistakes of early marriages; secrets
of fascination; bringing up healthy
children; fevers and contagious dis-
eases ; accidents and emergencies;
hygiene in the home; how to care
for invalids ; warning to young men ;
dangerous diseases ; anatomy and phy-
siology ; the reproductive organs;
education of the family.
§
Containing; 16 Exquisite Reproductions of Beautiful Un-
draped Photographs of the World’s Loveliest Girls and
Models. The pictures are 12in. x 10in., and are enclosed
in a Handsome Portfolio, which can l»e untied so that
each picture can be framed for your private den. Nothing;
so beautiful has ever been sold. You get the whole 16
pictures with calendar for 1932 carefully packed in heavy
cardboard so that they will not be damaged in transit.
Price, 5/-. We pay postage.
NEW CHRISTMAS CARDS
The London Book Co., special assortment of real Xmas
Greeting Cards. Hundreds of different designs—l 2 for 3/-,
24 for 5/-. W r e pay postage.
“MARRIED LOVE
New Edition. By
Dr. Marie Stopes.
“MARRIED LOVE” will save you from life’s pitfalls and
dangers. All about to marry and married people should
read this hook for true happiness. Not a cheap, trashy
edition, but the authentic publication with charts. Price, 5/-.
ẅ
War, Women
and Wine
The greatest war book
ever written. By Wilfred
Saint-Mande.
Price (inc. postage), 15/-
Practical
Birth Control
The best book of all.
Price 2/- inc. postage.
LOVE
By Elinor Glyn
8/6 includes postage.
CATALOGUE FREE.
Send for list of Unusual Books.
You get it FREE.
SALOME GIVEN AWAY
A copy of “SALOME” (Illustrated), Oscar Wilde’s fascinating
drama of human, emotions, will be given away free to those who
order any of the following books : “MAOISMOLSKLLE DE MAUPIN,”
by Theophile Gautier. Translated from the French. Price, 4/-. “A
PASSION OF THE SOUTH,” by Alphonse Daudet. Trans-
lated from the French.- Price, 4/-. “A MODERN MAN’S CON-
FESSION.” by Alfred and Paul de Musset. Price, 4/-. “THE
RIVAL, ACTRESSES,” by Georges Ohnet. Price, 4/-. “THE
RED SPIDER,” by S. Baring Gould. Price, 4/-. “DOPE,” by
Sax Rohmer. Price. 4/-. “PARISIAN LOVE,” by L. H. Bren-
ning. Price. 4/-. “TALES OF CHINATOWN.” by Sax Rohmer.
Price, 4/-. “UNFORBIDDEN FRUIT.” by Warner Fabian. Price,
6/-. “WOMEN AND WIVES,” by Harvey Fergusson. Price 4/-.
“THE DWELLER IN THE DESERT,” by Arthur Weigall. Price,
3/-. “KIMONA,” by John Paris. Japan with the Lid off.
Price, 4/-. The NORMAN LINDSAY edition of “ART IN AUS-
TRALIA,” containing over thirty studies by the greatest artist
of our time. Price, 10/-. “LADY OF LIES,” by Paul Bourget.
Price, 4/-. “A WOMAN’S SOUL,” by Guy de Maupassant. Price,
4/-. “HELL’S PLAYGROUND,” by Ida V. Simonton. Price,
6/-. We pay postage on all books.
ALL THE ABOVE
ONLY OBTAINABLE
LONDON BOOK CO. LTD.
Send Postal Notes with orders.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 38, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
N.Z.
ers send Bank Notes.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —-12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
w
0°
i\e^. 3 A c
■
*
.•• .^V 9
•• tffV ol


FILL WITH THE WORLD’S
NEWEST, FINEST FUEL AND
9
mm
#
m
■ ;
wkmMc
UNION
WHITE
FLASH
The NEW super - fuel sold at regular price
With Union White Flash in your tank
you can leap to the lead like a hound
unleashed —ten . . . twenty . . . thirty-
five. .........
Along you breeze with the nimble
sweep of a startled deer. Hill ahead-
up, up, up you go with undiminished
speed. For under the bonnet is a pur-
ring giant, in whose veins flows the
world’s newest and finest motor spirit
UNION WHITE tf-LASH.
Here is the latest achievement of one
of the oldest and msost progressive re-
finers. Not new in name alone but in
formula ... a truly better motor fuel,
with extra power, new 7 ease of starting,
extra flexibility, non-detonating all
without extra price.
Pull up at the Union pump and say
“ White Flash.” Then skim over those
former second-gear hills in high. Show
your heels to the field.
Union WHITE FLASH is crystal
clear. You can see its natural purity
. . . feel its flashing pick-up . . . sense
its tremendous power. Fill up with
White Flash and watch that road
ahead .
USE ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
ONLY Pure Paraffin Base Motor Oil that COSTS NO MORE than ordinary oil
W.F. 18-62
